Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2014 1 https://archive.org/details/b20417287SCHEMATIC ANATOMY; DIAGRAMS, TABLES AND NOTES TREATING OF THE ASSOCIATION AND SYSTEMATIC ARRANGEMENT OF STRUCTURAL DETAILS OF HUMAN ANATOMY. BY WILLIAM P. HEARS, M.B., CO-LECTUEER OX ANATOMY, SUPEEVISOK OP DISSECTIONS AND MEDICAL TOTOB AT THE UNIVEESITY OF DUEHAM COLLEGE OF MEDICINE, NEWCASTLE-UPON-TYNE, LONDON: EAILLIERE, TINDALL, AND COX, 20, KING WILLIAM STREET, STRAND. 1882.PEEFACE. This scries of Tables and Diagrams was originally devised by the Author for the use of Students in his own Classes at the University of Durham College of Medicine, to supplement his Lectures delivereil during the Winter Session of 1880—1881 by supplying notes of greater accuracy on important details than might else have been collected by the Students themselves. The work, therefore, makes no pretension to being a complete descriptive Manual of Anatomy ; to have made it so would have defeated the aim kept in view in its compilation, which is to afford, as its title expresses, a series of systematic and associated Schemata. For a considerable period the Author has found the system here adopted of the utmost service, alike to the Teacher whilst demonstrating and to the Student whilst learning. By its aid the multitude of otherwise unassociated anatomical facts are docketed, as it Avere, and arranged for immediate use when required; and details, classified in their proper relation, are more readily retained in the memory. When fully worked out, it renders the omission of any one of the facts under consideration impossible, thus also tending to remedy the fault most frequently deplored by Examiners in Anatomy. It is essential for the Reader to understand, that as the Tables and Diagrams cannot be used without reference to the full descriptions and representations given in the various Text-books of Anatomy, the former arc in no way intended to take the place of the latter; still less are they intended to supplant the only method of obtaining a real knowledge of Anatomy, viz., actual work in the Dissecting-Eoom. They are meant rather to supplement those means of study. Their presumed value lies in the clearer knoAvledge to be obtained by comparing them with the dissected part: the Diagram is thus imprinted, as it Avere, upon the Region, and a more lasting mental impression is carried away by the observer. The facts to be noted are first displayed on the dead subject, and then fixed in the memory by means of the corresponding Schema or Diagram.iv PREFACE. It is the disappointing experience of every Medical Student, in consequence of the enormous amount of material with which he is now obliged to overload his memory, that facts such as those Avith which Anatomy deals, being as they are isolated and independent, hung together by no uniting bond, and amenable ai^parently to no law, are speedily crowded out l^y fresh matter and forgotten, or, at the best, left before the mind as dim and blurred pictures, intermingled and confused. That there is often, however, some method of associating together such details—as, for example, by their analogies and dissimilarities, their points of agreement or antithesis—it is the object of the present volume to show. In it the design above indicated will be apparent, both in the Diagrams, where for a numljcr of ideas one idea is generally substituted, and also in the Text, where common or opposite characteristics of facts or groups of facts are used for the purpose of classification. In the present volume the Bones, Ligaments, Muscles, Vessels and Nerves only are treated of, since they Avcre more esj^ecially dealt with by the Author last Winter. The remainder of the series he hopes to complete later on. Of the many shortcomings of the book as it is he is deeply conscious, especially in regard to the Diagrams, which, in order to ensure accuracy and to keep the price of the book within reasonable limits, have been for the most part home-drawn. Whether any of the analogies or homologies hinted at (some of which certainly appear to be remarkable,) have a wider or deeper meaning, the Author cannot at present undertake to say; but l^clieving that much more may be done in the same direction, and trusting that what has been done may perhaps prove of some little service to others, he has ventured to bring the suljject forward, although it is by no means so fully worked out as he hopes it may in time become. University of Durltam Collage of Medicine, October, 1881.LIST OF DIAGRAMS. BONES. TO FACE PArit: 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. 9. 10. 11. 12. 13. 14. 15. 30. 31. 32. 33. 34. 39. 40. 41. Occipital Bone - - - - - - 10 Parietal Bone - - - - - - II Temporal Bone (External Aspect) - - - - 12 Petrous Part of Temporal Bone - - - - 13 Hyoid Bone and Inferior Maxilla - - - - 18 Base of Skull- - - - - - - 19 Foramina on Anterior Surface of Splienoid - - - 20 Orbital Fossa and Nasal Fossa - - - - 21 Sternum and First Eib - - - - - 22 Clavicle - - - - - - - 24 Humerus - - - - - - - 25 Ulna 28 Radius - - - - - - - 29 Grooves on lower ends of Eadius and Ulna, and Carpal Bones (Articular Surfaces) - - - - 30 Metacarpal Bones (Bases), and Phalanges of Hand - - 31 TO KACE FACE Pubes and Ischium (External Surfaces) Diameters of Pelvis - Femur (Muscles on posterior aspect) Great Trochanter (Lines and Muscles of) P.atella—Articular Surface Tibia (Upper Surface of Head) Tibia and Fibula (Muscles on posterior aspect) Fibula, transverse section—Tibia and Fibula (Grooves on Lower Extremities) . - . - . Tarsus and Metatarsus - . . - . Ossification of Vertebrn?, Atlas, Axis and Sacrum - ,, „ Coccyx, Occipital and Sphenoid Bones ,, „ Sternum, Clavicle and Scapula ,, ,, Humerus, Radius, Ulna and Carpus „ „ Os Innominatum, Femur, Tibia, Fibula and Tarsus LIGAMENTS. Ligaments of Vertebras - - - - - 52 Atlo-axoid and Occipito-atloid Ligaments - - - 53 Ligaments of Clavicle - - - - - 54 Shoulder Joint - - - - - - 55 Radio-ulnar .Joints, etc., and Carpo-metacarpal Ligaments 56 35. Hip-joint ...... 36. Knee-joint (Ligaments) . . . . 37. Knee-joint (Bursre and Cartilages) - 38. Tibio-tibular Ligaments and Tarso-metatarsal ments ...... Lis MUSCLES. Muscles of Face ...... Origins of Recti Oculi, and Relation of Muscles to Orbit, etc. Layers in Upper Eyelid, and Relation of Obliqui to Recti Oculi ...... Muscles of Pterygo.maxillary Space and i External Pterygoid Muscle (relation to Nerves ' G8 70 43. Longus Colli and Muscles of Posterior Triangle 44. Hyoid Muscles and Submaxillary Region (Section) 45. Constrictors of Pharynx . . . . 4(i. Soft Palate and Tongue (Muscles of) 47. Longissimus Dorsi, etc. . . . - 48. Muscular attachments at Back of Neck 34 35 36 37 38 3D 40 41 41 45 46 47 43 CO 61 02 63 73 76 77 SO 82 83vi List of Dia,gra,m.s—coniinucd. Muscles—continued. DIAGEAJt TO FACE PACE 49. Muscles of Abdominal Wall and of Thoracic Wall - 80 50. Pelvic attachments of Lateral Muscles of Abdomen - 87 51. Muscles acting on Shoulder-joint and Shoulder-girdle - 92 52. Muscles of .Shoulder-girdle - - - - - 93 53. Muscles of Shoulder and Elbow - - - - 94 54. Muscles of Forearm - - - - - 95 55. Muscles of Hand (relative positions) - - - 98 56. Muscles of Hand (transverse section) - - - 99 61. Intercostal Arteries, Posterior Mediastinum and Arteries ------ 65. Piclations of Abdominal Aorta 66. Bi-anches of Aorta - - - - - 67. Cosliac Axis and Diaphragmatic Arteries - „„ 1 Relations of Common Iliac Artery and I Blanches of Internal Pudic Artery and Pudic NerV' 69. Relations of Femoral Artery . - - 70. Anastomoses around Hip - . - - 71. Anastomoses around Knee - - - . 72. Dorsal Arteries of Foot and Hand - 73. Lingual, Facial and Pharyngeal Arteries - 74. Internal Maxillary Artery (Branches) 86. Deep Nerves of Neck, Diagram A - 87. Deep Nerves of Neck, Diagram B - 88. Cardiac Plexus (Deep and Superficial) 89. Solar Plexus - - 90. Hypogastric and Pelvic Plexuses - 91. Cutaneous Nerves of Head and Neck and of Arm 92. Cutaneous Nerves (Posterior Aspect of Body) 93. Cutaneous Nerves (Anterior Aspect of Body) 94. Intercostal Nerves, and Ilio-liypogastric and Ilio-inguiu Nerves 95. Nerves of Orbit ----- 57. 58. 59. 60. 61. 62. 63. TO FACr: PACE . 100 - 101 - 102 Section of Thigh - . . . Psoas Magnus (relation to Nerves) - Muscles in relation with Neck of Femur and Muscles arising from Tuber Ischii Muscles of Front of Leg and of Back of Leg - - 104 Section above Ankle and at middle third of Leg - - 105 Muscles of Foot (relative positions) - - - 106 Section of Foot - - - - - - 107 VESSELS. Spinal al 75. 118 76. 119 77. 120 121 78. 124 79. 80. 125 81. 128 82. 129 83. 130 84. 136 85. 137 NERVES. IGO 96. 161 162 97. 163 164 98. 165 99. 168 100. 169 101. 102. 170 103. 171 104. 105. Arteries of Cerebrum . - . . . 140 Axillary Artery (Relation to Nerves and Branches) - 141 Anastomoses of Scapular Arteries and Anastomoses round Elbow ------- 142 Arteries of Forearm (relative positions) - - - 143 Arteries of Scalp and Arteries of Nose - - - 146 Arteries and Nerves of Eyelids - - - - 147 Arteries and Nerves of Teeth and Arteries of Stomach - 148 Arteries and Veins in rehation with Pancreas - - 149 Arteries of Trunk-walls - - - - - 1.50 Veins of Neck ------ loi Azygos Veins, etc. ------ 154 Superior Maxillary Nerve, Meckel's Ganglion, and Nerves of Nose ------- 172 Inferior Maxillary Nerve, Ganglia of Fifth Nerve and Tympanic Plexus - - - - - 173 Nerves of Submaxillarj' Region - - - - 17(5 Cervical Plexus - - - - - - 177 Brachial Plexus, Diagram A - - - - 178 Brachial Plexus, Diagxam B - - - - 179 Lumbar Plexus - - - - - - 180 Anterior Crural Nerve and Obturator Nerves - - 181 Sacral Plexus - - - - - - 184 Nerves over Ischial Spine and Plantar Nerves - - 185ADDENDA. RADIAL AND POSTERIOB, INTEROSSEOUS NERVES - (terminal branclies of Musculo-spiral IServe). \ Radial passes dowii outer side of Forearm in front under cover of the Supinator Longus. j Post. Interosseous ,, ,, to back ,, „ tlirough the fibres „ ,, Brevis. ( Radial supplies iSl:in on outer side of back of Hand and dorsal aspect of 85 outer Fingers. ) TP 1. T■nfQ•^/^c.<!Q<^^lC! j Af(/.sc?es of the wliole „ ,, „ Forearm, except those supplied by Musculo-spii-al. ! rosz. xnterosseous „ | j^-^^^^ Carpus by ganglionic terminal branches. * Omitted on page ISO. EERAT A. PAGE LINE 11 7 Jbr " Supereilll " irnt^'■ Suijereilii." 12 15 i<l9/'" Sterno-niastoid "'/-ead " Mastoid." r.l 4 i^o)'" Frontal " rfni! " Frontal witli Nasal." 27 13 Insert a comma heticeen " behind " and " Triceps." S(j 2 J^V))'" in childhood " rearf " after childhood." 41 13 ^/fcT " External Lateral Ligament " "Ankle." 41 20 For " upper and outer " read " upper and inner." 44 5 For " eacli transverse process " read " transverse processes." 45 15 i<'or " 2nd to 3rd" 7'ca(i " 23rd." 5(5 15 /-'or " Trapezoid ")•««'" Trapezium." 59 7 i'or " 3rd Lumbar V." rcnii " 5tli." 71, 72 Title For " Temporo-maxillary " read " Ptevygo-maxiUary." ^S3 9 j</'(t')'" Semispiualis " otdZ " Colli." 91 2 F'or " f " read " i\ " in each case. 101 0 For insertion of Adductor Miignvi&" see Diagram of Fcimtr, 104 13,14 Transpose " and " ;(is(." 106 Transpose insertions of " Abductor" and " Adductor PoUicis." PAGE LINE lOv) 16, 18 For " Biceps " read "Triceps. 129 8 For " Slip. Ext. Artie. Art." read " Sup. Arlic. Arts. 170, last line, Fnj' " Tliyro-hyoid " read " Sterno-hyoid." 178 24 I'or " Suprascuplar " read " Suprascapular." Flutes. Base of Skull, For " e Palatine Foramina " read " d and d' Pal.atine Foramina. Muscles of Hand, opp. p. 99, Transpose numbers " 14 " and " 16 " in Plate. Psoas Magnus, etc., y^(:^((Z " 3— ,, lower ,, ." Muscles in relation with Neck of Femur, Tremspose "a" and " b " in Plate. ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, For "2—Semimembranosus" read " 2—ScmitendiiKsus." Section at middle third of Leg, opp. p. 105, Transpose "5" and "0."B o ]sr E s.VERTEBRA. 5 BODIES. Structure Size Form. Upper. Lower. Lateral. Anterior and Posterior. Special Points. PEDICLES. Like that of short bones,—Cancelli increase in size from above downwards. Increases from above down. ( Cervical,—quadrilateral, broadened transversely, as line of centre of gravity falls within them. < Liimhar,— oval, ,, transversely, ,, ,, „ within ,, {Dorsal, —heart-shaped, ,, antero-posteriorly, ,, „ „ in front of them. ( Cervical,—bevelled in front, lipped at sides and behind, to limit movement. < Lumbar,—slightly concave opposite centre of Intervertebral Disc, to allow free movement. ( Dorsal, —flattened, movement being very limited. I Cervical,—obverse of upper. < Lumbar,—similar to ,, (Dorml, — ,, ,, ,, ( Cervical,—flat. < Tjumbar,—much constricted. ( Dorml, —slightly ,, f Cervical,-—of equal depth, curve being formed by Intervertebral Discs. \ Lumbar,—anterior deejier than posterior, ,, ,, Bodies and Intervertebral Discs. \ Dor/^al, —posterior deeper than anterior, ,, ,, Bodies chiefly, j In the cervical the anterior surfaces are at a lower level than the posterior. I In the dorsal and lumbar they are at the same level. I Cervical,-—side of Body bears anterior root of Transverse Process. ) Lumbar,— ,, „ continued into margin of ,, ,, 'i Dorsal, — ,, ,, bears facet for Rib. ' In all there are foramina for vessels on lateral and posterior surfaces. ( Increase in size from above downwards. 1 Cervical,—run backwards and outwards, placed between roots of Transverse TProcesses. \ Lumbar,— ,, „ directly, and carry Transverse Processes. [Dorsal, — „ lowest three bear facets for Eibs.Vertebrae— continued. LAMINiE. SPINOUS PRO- CESSES. TRANSVERSE PROCESSES. ARTICULAR PRO- CESSES (Sup.) SPINAL FORA- MEN. INTERVERTE- BRAL FORAMEN. Cervical,—thin, narrow, slender, not imbricated, to permit movement. Lumbar,—short, broad, strong, ,, ,, „ ,, ,, Dorsal, — ,, ,, „ imbricated, to protect spinal cord. ( Cerv'ical,— bifid for muscular attachment, short and horizontal to permit movement. ^ Lumbar,—tubercular ,, ,, ,, quadrilateral, horizontal ,, ,, ,, (Dorsal, — ,, „ ligamentous ,, prismoid, directed downwards and backwards to prevent movement. ( Cervical,—situated between Intervertebral Foramina, iu front of Articular Processes. Lumbar,— ,, behind ,, ,, ,, ,, J Dorsal, — ,, behind „ ,, behind ,, 1 Cervical,—short and slight, with 2 roots, bifid extremity, directed outwards, forwards and downwards. Lumbar,—long and slender, ^^■ith 1 root/' bearing 2 tubercles, ,, ,, [^Dorsal, — ,, strong, ,, t clubbed extremity, ,, ,, backwards and upwards. Cervical,—oval, flat, looking backwards and upwards, to permit flexion and extension. I Lumbar,— ,, concave ,, ,, inwards, ,, ,, I Dorsal, — ,, flat, ,, ,, outwards, ,, rotation. The Inferior Processes are obverse of Superior, in the Lumbar region they are closer together than Superior. Cervical,—large, triangular, to allow free movement without injury to cord. Lumbar,—medium-sized, ,, ,, „ „ ,, Dorsal, —small round, movement being limited. Cerrical,—formed chiefly by Pedicle of lower of the two Vertebras which bound the Foramen. Lumbar,— „ „ „ upper „ ,, ,, Dorsal, — „ „ „ „ * Con-espouding to anterior root of cervical Transverse I'rocess. t J, posterior „CERVICAL. Atlas Axis Anterior Arch Posterior ,, Lateral Mass SPECIAL VERTEBRA. Anterior xurfare,—tubercle for Longus Colli. Posterior ,, —facet ,, Oilontoid Process. J PoMerior { Upper —tubercle ,, Piectus Capitis Posticus Minor. —groove ,, Vertebral Artery and 1st Cervical Nerve, close to Lateral Mass. Inner edge —tubercle for Transverse Ligament. Outer side ■—Transverse Process. The mass itself is wedge-shaped, base outwards, and is situated nearer front than back of the bone, hence Upper surface —looks upwards, backwards, inwards ; is oval, and deeply concave. ( Under ,, — ,, downwards ,, „ ,, circular, and flattened. Under Surface similar to typical Cervical Vertebra. Upper Special Points Body is prolonged upwards as Odontoid Process. ^ A -f In f f ( \ \ supported on lateral part of Body, Pedicle and root of Transverse Process. I ? icu rjacct ^sup.) | circular and flattened, looking upwards, forwards aud outwards, on Lamina behind Articular facet, is the Superior Intervertebral Groove. Bodi/.—Eidge on front for Longus Colli. Pedicles.—Laminre and Sjiinous Process are broad and strong. I cdiove, pointed for Check Ligament. ^Odontoid Process } ¥°J"' constricted for Transverse Ligament. J in front bearmg facet tor Atlas. ( behind ,, ,, Transverse Ligament. 7tli Cervical Spinous Process 1st ,, Transverse ,, 2nd „ 7th „ long, thick, not bifid, horizontal. ,, large, ,, perforated by Vertebral Foramen, short, small ,, ,, ,, ,, long, large ,, ,, „ ,, sometimes. DORSAL. 9tli presents demi-facet for Rib on Body above, none below. 10th ,, whole ,, ,, Pedicle chiefly. llth „ ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, no facet on Transverse Process. 12th. ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, „ ,, ,, Lif. Articular Process like Lumbar, 1st ,, ,, ,, ,, Body above, demi-facet below : Body like Cervical.LUMBAR. SACRUM. Special Vertebrae —continued 4th Transverse Process directed, upwards as well as outwards. g. \ Body much thicker in front than behind. \ Spinous Process small. (Inferior Articular Processes more widely separated than Superior. ( in centre > la Anterior Surface laterally ( intermediately —5 Bodies coalesced, separated by ridges. —5 Anterior Transverse Processes coalesced, separated by grooves. —0 Pedicles distinct, separated by Anterior Sacral Foramina. Posterior Lateral in mid-line external to Spines ,, Laminae —3 Spines —3 Lamince —5 Articular Processes 1st distinct, 2nd and 3rd united, 4th and 5th delicient. 1st „ 2nd ,, 3rd „ 4th ,, 5th 1st ,, 2nd ,, 3rd tubercular, 4th and 5th form [Cornua. , Artie. Process —4| Post.-Sacral Foramina , Foramina —o Post.-TransverseProcesses 1st attaching Ilio-lumbar Ligament, 2nd and 3rd Sacro- iliac Ligaments, 4th and 5th Sacro-sciatic Ligaments. I upper end —formed by 1st piece rough for Ilio-lumbar Ligament. ^ Auricular Surface — ,, 2nd & 3rd pieces smooth for articulation with Ilium. ( lower part — ,, 4th & 5th ,, sharp for Sacro-sciatic Ligaments. Muscles on Anterior Surface ( Pyriformis j Coccygreus Tj J. • c c \ Erector Spinas. I Posterior hurlace ^ t ivr • ( Ulut.'Bus Maxiij COCCYX. 1st Piece Note that the parts of the 1st piece are distinct, that those of the '2ud are associated with those of the 3rd, and those of the 4th with those of the 5th. ( Rudimentary Body. < Articular Processes (Cornua) behind, joining Cornua of Sacrum to complete 5th Posterior Sacral Foramen. ( Ti-ansverse „ at side, ,, 5th Sacral Transverse Processes „ 5th Anterior „ „ 2nd, 3rd and 4th Pieces are blended, separated by ridges on back and front. Muscles on Anterior Surface | JJ;®'^'^*''"' ■'^"^ ( CoccygKus v> , . 1, f \ Sphincter Am. on Posterior ourface j ,A . ^I ■ ' CUitKus Maximus.OCCIPITAL BONE. Consists of four parts, each having two surfaces, and presents four borders and four angles. External Surface ( at about centre ) frorn Protuberance to Foramen Magnum Occipital Part (single) I Internal f I Condyloid „ (double) J External Internal Basilar (single) External Internal Lateral Angle Crest (mid-point) parallel to Superior Line External Occipital Protuberance. „ Crest. Superior Curved Line. Inferior ,, !at about centre from Protuberance to Foramen Magnum „ ,, Lateral Angle ,, ,, Superior ,, f Condyle nearer front than back of Foramen Magnum I to inner side of Condyle „ outer ,, ,, in front of ,, I, at back of ,, on upper surface of Jugular Process I in front ,, ,, I to inner side ,, ,, on outer side of Foramen Magnum at mid-point in mid-line Internal Occipital Protuberance. ,, ,, Crest. Groove for Lateral Sinus. ,, Superior Longitudinal Sinus. Tubercle for Check Ligaments. Jugular Process for Rectus Lateralis. Ant. Condyloid Foramen for 9th Nerve. Post. ,, ,, for Emissary Vein. Groove for Lateral Sinus. Jugular Notch. Posterior Condyloid Foramen. Anterior ,, ,, on lateral margin Pharyngeal Spine. Basilar Crest. Groove for Medulla Oblongata. ,, Inferior Petrosal Sinus.10 Occipital Bone—continued. Muscles attached. Articulations. il Line " To Sup. Curve Between Curved Lines On Basilar Process On Jugular Process To inner third or half outer ,, ,, J ,, ,, end above ( ,, ,, ,, below ,, inner side ,, outer „ next to mid-line externally and behind To Inf. Curved Line \ ^''*'^™'''l'y next to mid-hne Trapezius, covering back of Neck. Occipito-Frontalis, ., „ Head. Sterno-mastoid, passing to mid-line in front (Sternum). Splenius ,, ,, behind (Spine). Complexus Superior Oblique Rectus Capitis Anticus Major. )! II II Minor. Rectus Capitis Lateralis. Piectus Capitis Posticus Major. II II II Minor. the chief extensor of the Head. „ rotator „ ,, By Superior Borders with Parietals,—by Inferior Borders with Temporals,—by Inferior Angle with .Sphenoid. Note correspondence of points on the External and Internal Surfaces of the Occipital Part and their symmetry on each of the Parts. PARIETAL BONE. On outer Surface Borders. Angles. Parietal Eminence. Temporal Eidge. on inner Surface Depressions for Convolutions and Pacchionian Bodies. Grooves for Arteries of Dura Mater. A nterior (for Frontal) bevelled externally above, internally below. fn/erhr („ { TempTal) " " '° " '^'^'^"'"^ Siqm ior (,, opposite Parietal) and Posterior (for Occiiiital) dentated, not bevelled. I pSwor''''^"' an obtuse | '"^'"''^'^ internally by a groove for Superior Longitudinal Sinus. I Antcr'wr-infcr'tor, an acute „ ,, „ „ Poxterior „ a truncated „ „ „ „ Middle Meningeal Artery. Lateral Sinus.OCCIPITAL BONE.PARIETAL BONE. (jravvc for ^up'^ J.mgitujinal ^inusFRONTAL BONE. 11 VERTICAL POR- TION HORIZONTAL PORTION Outer surface f 4 Eminences 2 Processes 2 Foramina, for Frontal Eminence ) \ Supra-orbital Arch. Superciliary llidge ( | Temporal Ridge. External Angular, at outer end of Supra-orbital Arch. Internal „ inner „ ,, „ { Supra-orbital Artery and Nerve on ,, „ ( Frontal Vein from Diploe „ „ „ Orbicularis Palpebrarum \ Occipito-frontalis. 5 Groove for Superior I^ongitudiual Sinus in mid-line above. ( Foramen Caecum „ below. Inner ^ Under „ \ Upper „ 4 Muscular attach- J Corrugator Supercilli, | Temporal ^ ments -------- f 2 Depressions -J 2 Prominences Markings for 2 Depressions for ilarkings for above Foramen Ciecum. below Edge of ElA^moidal Notch I i Depre Articulations. Vertical Portion with Parietal \ Frontal Crest ( „ Spine Arteries of Dura Mater. Convolutions of Brain and Pacchionian Bodies. Lachrj'mal Gland, externally. Pulley of Superior Oblique, internally. Convolutions, Vessels. i Opening of Frontal Sinus. ) Ethmoidal Cells. \ Anterior Ethmoidal Canal, for Anterior Ethmoidal Artery and Nasal Nerve. ( Posterior „ „ Posterior ,, I Nasal on inner side. Orhital Plate with \ \ and \ SupeHor Maxillary „ \ Sphenoid „ J Lachrymal ' Ethmoid12 TEMPORAL BONE. Surfaces SaUAMOUS PART | Borders Articulations MASTOID PART J Surfaces Borders Articulations External Temporal Ridge Internal Inferior Superior, Anterior, by Superior Bordc „ Anterior „ Outer - Inner Superior Posterior Grooves for Convolutions Eminentia Articularis Glenoid Fossa bevelled internally with Parietal „ Sphenoid ( Surface mark above for I Groove below „ ISurfaceintermediately,, Groove for Orifice of bevelled externally for serrated ., and Zygomatic Process. „ Meningeal Artery. „ Tubercle for Ligament. „ Glaserian Fissure. for Parietal. above and externally below for Sphenoid. by Glenoid Fossa with Inferior Maxilla. ,, Zygoma „ Malar. Retrahens Aurem passing to Ear. Digastric „ Larynx, Sterno-mastoid „ Splenius ,, Trachelo-mastoid „ Lateral Sinus. >-Mastoid Foramen. mid-line in front. „ behind, side of Spine. Parietal Bone. Occipital „ by Superior Border with Parietal Bone. „ Posterior ,, „ Occipital „TEMPORAL BONE. EXTERNAL ASPECT. \Tvnforctl \ Moustier, { JttgUntiA Tui erui \ Tn</i-ntrvUa A. (Glenxiid Foisa. " {Aota(UxiryT'rOC£.SS . Va-^uuU. /'roeess \StyLruL process- (RelraJuru Auwcrn.j Tosfu»y rdcdcons oftht ih/td^ parts, of the 3{sn£.PETROUS PART OF TEMPORAL BONE. UPPER SiJrt"AC£S LOWER SURFACE, Lfrvoye nesimScof ojTijmjian'. 5 "Emm. ^ - Qxk lea Jf-lktires---]{sl-i:bulL /C. Acjuaducbis Kstiiu/i li~.VoU:, fo;- JJara. McUer. BiLrj' lilrcsal $inics ^,-I>if' Jilrc^al £>in.ng 10 -Auruidajc Jlssure Z-i-Otulo mt^tcid Jimmin Sir fiti^loid Jrocesi }S "iclguia/ Traces^. tF,iutackj.aji xi<J}c i ,, v. /J-JUCULAR SURfACE llf-Cana.1 far AnnoldiJim ■'5:(!cLnol' for Jacaiisim s N. /.(JUGULAR FOSSA ifrCaroLd Cajial S-Aifuixtliictuf, Cocklecf. ^-SURrACE jor'MiiSclei 9Temporal Bone—continued. 13 Base Apex f Posterior (3 points) Anterior (G points) J 3 Depressions (D) & I 3 Elevations (E). External Auditory Meatus. Carotid Canal. I Inferior (12 points) Borders Articulations pierced by j on same level i above intermediately ( externally and behind, Roof of Tympanum (D), with Ridge for Sup. Semicirc. Canal (E) int. to it. < ill front of Sup. Canal, „ Vestibule (D), „ „ ,, Cochlea (E) anterior to it. ( int. and in front, Fossa for Gasserian Ganglion (I)) with Roof of Carotid Canal (E) ext. to it. near apex, quadrilateral surface, rough for Tensor Tympani and Levator Palati. „ base, ,, „ smooth (.Jugular Surface) for Artie, with Occipital, intermediately, oval depression, large ,, (Jugular Fossa) for Lateral Sinus, etc. ( AqueductusVestibuli forVeinfromVestibule. ( Internal Auditory Meatus for | Avi't^j^o^y Art Notch for attachment of Dura Mater. in front of Jugular Fossa, two cann/s within ,,■ „ „ near anterior end of outer border a double orifit „ posterior ,, I along mid-part „ „ ( Carotid Canal for Carotid Artery. ( Aqueductus Coohleai for Vein from Cochlea. \ for Jacobson's Nerve on ant. border of Fossa. ( ,, Arnold's ,, at outer side ,, ( Canal for Eustachian Tube. ( ,, Tensor Tympani. f •/? \ Stylo-mastoid Foramen for Facial Nerve. two onjices | ^urig^i^r Fissure „ Arnold's „ / \ Styloid Process. two processes i ,r • 1 ' Vaginal „ ( Superior presents < Posterior „ ( Anterior „ \ by Posterior Border with ( „ Anterior „ „ Groove for Superior Petrosal Sinus. i „ Inferior „ „ [Suture. Hiatus Fallopii internal to Squamo-petrosal Occipital Bone. Sphenoid ,,u BODY SPHENOID BONE. Cuboidal iu form, presenting six Surfaces :—■ (quXikteral plate) ^"'^ depressions and One Eminence o • o Middle Part Superior Surface j ^^^^^ depression) Anterior Inferior Poxfcrior Part (fjuadrilateral plate) One Depression and Two Eminences Posterior Lateral Conjoined with Prolonged into ( Groove for Olfactory Nerve. ] „ „ Optic „ ( Olivary Eminence. Sella Turcica. Groove for Cavernous Sinus. Middle Clinoid Process. f Notch for Sixth Nerve. < Groove for Pons Varolii. ( Posterior Clinoid Process. ( Ethmoidal Spine. < Lamella for Vertical Plate of Ethmoid. ( OiJeuing of Sphenoidal Siuus. ( Rostrum. < Vaginal Process. ( Pterygo-palatine Canal. Basilar Process of Occipital Bone. ji Lesser Wing above and in front. ( Greater „ below „ behiud. O-KEATEB. WINGS First run horizontally outwards, then curve upwards, forwards and outwards. • Pterygoid Process. Spinous „ forjKaLSTS^ent. Horizontal Por- \ Sup. (Cerebral) Surface ) ■ i m t. tion I Inf. {Zygomatic) „ \ Foramina and Two Processes Foramen Rotundum for Sup. Maxillary Nerve „ Ovale „ Inf. „ „ „ Spinosum ,, Great Meningeal Art. ,, Vesalii „ Emissary Vein.15 Sphenoid Bone—coniimied. f Podcrior Surface (Cerebral) Vertical Portion Ejclcrnal Surface (Temporal) one Eminence and two Surfaces ^Internal Surface (Orbital) Depressions LESSER WINGS connected with the Body by two Roots, having two Surfaces, sup and presenting duo Eminences and one Depression PTERYGOID PROCESS united together by anterior margins to form posterior wall of I separated behintl to form I perforated at ha.^e by split apart at extremities by notch for Formed by two Plates External Plate Internal broad, directed backwards and outwards, attaching ( attaching narrow, presenting Anterior Surface of Body articulates with three Orbital Plates is in relation with six Foramina Grooves for Convolutions and Vessels. ( Pterygoid Ridge. < Surface for Temporal Muscle above Ridge. ( „ Ext. Pterygoid „ below „ ( Ext. Orbital Foramina for small vessels. ^ Notch for branch of Lachrymal Art. ) onnost. ( Spine „ outer head of Ext. Rectus \ edge. and inferior, ( Anterior Clinoid Process, behind. < Tubercle for Orbital Muscles, on lower Root. ( Optic Foramen between Roots. Spheno-maxillary Fossa. Pterygoid Fossa. Vidian Canal. Tuberosity of Palate Bone. ( External Pterygoid on outer surface. ( Internal ,, „ inner „ j Tensor Palati ,, outer „ ( Sup. Constrictor „ posterior border. 5 Scaphoid Fossa at base. ( Hamular Process ,, extremity. f Orbital Plate of Frontal by upper edge. I „ Process „ Ethmoid „ lateral „ „ „ „ Palate below. (The Vertical Plate of Ethmoid articulating in mid-line.) [each side. (Opening of Sphenoidal Sinus centrally on j Optic Foramen ~) circum- l Foramen Lacerum Anterius I feren- j „ Rotundum )■ tially ! Ant. end of Vidian Canal | on each I „ Pterygo-palatineCanal J side.16 SUPERIOR MAXILLA. SURFACES (4) Superior (Orbital) presents oiw Elevation and one Depression Posterior (Zygomatic) Anterior (Faeial) Internal (Nasal) two Depressions three four PHOCESSES (4) Alveolar Malar Nasal Palatine* forming lower margin of Body situated above and to outer side j)resentin<; along inner surface near lower border i Infraorbital Canal along mid-line. ( Lachrymal Tubercle on anterior border. \ Posterior Dental Canal at mid-point. I Half of Posterior Palatine Canal on posterior border. Tuberosity of Superior Maxilla at posterior inferior angle. 1 Incisive Fossa. • Canine „ ' Opening of Infraorbital Canal. Canine Eminence. ( Opening of Antrum, centrally. ) Portion of Ethmoidal Cells, along upper edge. j Lachrymal Groove near anterior border above. ' Maxillary Fissure ,, posterior ,, below. Inferior Turbinated Crest. for Teeth. separating Facial and Zygomatic Surfaces. no mark in front. Lachrymal Groove behind. ( Superior Turbinated Crest ) • ^ 1 Anterior Ethmoidal Cells \ °" '"''f*^'^ !Maxillary Crest along inner edge. Anterior Nasal Spine at anterior end of „ Palatine Fossa „ „ under surface. Groove for Ant. Palatine Nerve on post, part of „ „ * Compare with horizontal pUito of Palate Bone.PLATES Horizontal PALATE BONE. inner ed<je ( raised to form „ „ ( prolonged backwards as posterior „ marked by Vertical Internal Surface j)resents froai below upwards External Anterior border i Poderior „ f Sphenoidal a curved plate PROCESSES a hollow cube L Orbital ^wi' th six Surfaces below and in front smooth, 1 above ,, behind ,, , . intermediately rough, 17 Crest for Vomer. Posterior Nasal Spine. „ Palatine Canal. Accessory „ Canals. ( Inferior Meatus (part of). I „ Turb. Ci'est for Inf. Turb. Bone, -j Middle Meatus (part of). I Superior Tiirb. Crest for Mid. Turb. Bone, t „ Meatus (part of) covering opening of Antrum behind, forming inner wall of Spheno-maxil. Fossa. articulating with Superior Maxilla, marked by Posterior Palatine Canal. prolonged forward over Antrum as Maxillary Process. „ back between Pterygoid Plates as Pterygoid ,, or Tuberosity. directed upward and inward to under surface of body of Sphenoid. „ „ „ outward to posterior inferior angle of Ethmoid, turned so that anterior surface looks downwards and outwards as well as forwards, and the other surfaces in corresponding directions. (Inferior connected with Sup. or Orbital forming ] £Jxt. „ Zijijomatic „ 1 Ant. ,, Maxillaru articulating with I Poxt. „ Sphenoidal ,, „ {_Int. „ Ethmoidal „ „ Vertical Plate of Palate. Floor of Orbit (back part). Zygomatic Fossa (part of anterior wall). Superior Maxilla. Anterior surface of Body of Sphenoid. Lateral Mass of Ethmoid.INFERIOR MAXILLA. 18 BODY (12 points) RAMUS {6 Points) Surfaces (Processes LSurfaces On Body Muscles attached \ °/, ! and (jtreat Cornu I On Great Cornu three Eminences (External I Internal i, tlireePepressions three Eminences L three Depressions on upper border eacli with a depression in front of it Infernal, with tn^o Dejiressionfi External, showing no special marking. HYOID BONE. ( Ridge of Symphysis vertically in nii<l-line. •' Mental Process at lower end of Symphysis. ( Ext. Oblique Line from Mental Process to llamus. ( Incisive Fossa below Incisor Tooth. •J Mental Foramen ,, second Bicuspid ,, ( Groove for Facial Artery, at junction with Eamus. ( Genio-hyoid Tubercle I i i • i o — i. • 1 ri ■ 1 1 f behind Symphysis. ■I Genio-hyo-glossus ,, \ j f j - ( Int. Oblique Line from Symphysis to last Molar. [ Digastric Fossa, near Symphysis, below Tubercles. Sublingual ,, above Mylo-hyoid Eidge. ( Submaxillary ,, below ,, ,, \ Coronoid, grooved anteriorly for Temporal Muscle. ( Condyloid, hollowed ,, ,, Ext. Pterygoid „ \ Inferior Dental Foramen. ( Mylo-hyoid Groove. Four Hyoid Muscles. Three j Tn-o iGenio-hyo-glossus to upper border of anterior surface. Genio-hyoid ,, chief part ,, ,, Mylo-hyoid ,, lower ,, ,, ,, Sterno-hyoid „ ,, border ,, ,, i Stylo-hyoid. Aponeurosis of Digastric above Stylo-hyoid. (Omo-hyoid below „ „ \ Hyo-glossus above, extending also to Body and Small Cornu, ( Thyro-hyoid below One Pharyngeal Muscle. Middle Constrictor, extending to Small Cornu along upper edge.8ASE OF SKULL. V.rJugulajr Iravtsi, Jf.' Troce-ssJar Lv^^. !Jf~ nMri.Culoi.r'Kssiur . !Sri^lc-ma^toi^ tarajne.n. ■/Q.'lisC. CffnJulnd Hr-amtn, 20.-Tm ^. 'Jugular Ib^sa, yyitn 6 ' Glerwul lossoi. niX- ■iO.-Ccu-ctiJ. Canal■ s-j ■/6.~]Vajal Tirssu.. I2-i.-Jim.in^rdtJX ArUaAans ■?-i.'purf.fcrr Ilhsct'- 7^/njjuni ~ lera.rtun. 2(i rkrain^n Sijinnain, 'cryatntn Z,ac£rum Mtdcum, U. (Jlajenan Kssu-re h.CanaJjcr ArruUs M. C. Cunal Jar JaciriscnsN (. Jalallnt Araminu.FORAMINA OF CRANIUM. 19 f ^ Third Foramen Lacerum Anterius (in Middle Fossa) transmits six Nerves, two Arteries and owe Vein • Foramen Lacerum Medium Foramen Lacerum Posterius (in Posterior one Artery and two Veins Foramen Magnum ( Spinal Cord and oif pair of Nerve ^.four pairs of Arteries and ( one pair of Veins ) of Ophthalmic Division ( of fifth Nerve. of Sympathetic. Nerve. Fourth ,, j Lachrymal ,, Frontal-uiti I Sixth ^f^„ ■ I Sympathetic Root of Lenticular Ganglion. ( Orbital Branches of Middle Meningeal Art. \ Recurrent Branch of Lachrymal ,, Ophthalmic Vein, ( Vidian Nerve. < Carotid Division (Cavernous ,, 1 Carotid Artery. Meningeal Branch of Ascending Pha- ' ryngeal Artery. Emissary Vein from Cavernous or Petrosal Sinus. [ Glosso-pharyngeal Nerve. Pneumogastric ' Spinal Accessory „ Meningeal Branch from Occipital Artery. Lateral Sinus ) , . , , • T t ■ T) J. ic>- > termmal portions. Inferior Petrosal Sinus ) ^ ( Spinal Cord. \ RightandLeft Spinal Accessory Nerves. „ „ Vertebral Arteries. „ „ Meningeal Branches of Ver- tebral Arteries. Right and Left Anterior Spinal Branches of Vertebral Arteries. Right and Left Posterior Spinal Branches of Vertebral Arteries. Right and Left Spinal Plexus of Veins.20 Foramina of Cranium—fo)!//;;*;/'*/. Lamina Cribriformis Foramen Opticum Ovale (in Anterior Fossa) transmits ?i(o Nerves and I \ Olfactory XiTve. ... 1 I Nasal „ l,ro Arteries j ,^„terior Ethmoidal Artt ry. ( ( Posterior ,, (inMiddle ,, ) Meatus Auditorius Internus (in Posterior „) Hiatus Fallopii (in Middle ,, ) Foramen Spinosum ,, ,, ,, Rotundum ,, ,, „ Condyloid. Anterius (in Posterior „ ) onf Nerve 1 (Optic Nerve. ,, o»''Artery. ' | Sympathetic on Ophthalmic Artery. ( Ophthalmic Artery. Inferior Maxillary Nerve. Small Petrosal „ „ Meningeal Artery. Facial Nerve. Auditory „ ,, Branch of Basilar Artery. Great Superficial Petrosal Nerve. Branch of Great Meningeal Artery to Ear. ^ Sympathetic twigs on Great Meningeal Artery. \ Great Meningeal Artery. Superior Maxillary Nerve. Hypoglossal Nerve. Foramina for Emissary Veins. One in each Bone of the Cranium, except Ethmoid. In Frontal, —Foramen Cceaim, for Emissary Vein to Nose „ Parietal, —Parietal Foramen, ,, „ „ join Occipital Vein „ Occipital, —Post CondiiJokl „ „ „ ,, „ „ „ Temporal,—Mastoid „ ,, ,, „ ,, ,, „ Sphenoid,—Foramen of VesaVtm, „ „ ,, Pterygoid Veins ^ „ „ —Sphenoidal Fissure, for Ophthalmic Vein opening into Superior Longitudinal Sinus. „ ,. Lateral „ Cavernous ,,ORBITAL FOSSA. BONES. ROOF . N FRONTAL y / Spheiund-iJjessRr Wingj j S P H E N 01D ^Grcai Winjf) opkenmj. (BoUt^) | OUTER I ETHMOID, j INNCK WALL \ LoicJiriimai''. \Malcu- Sup^'MuJulia.. ROOF. W4LU FORAMINA. b'upra^bUalToramat' OUy^^ ^il-'^OrbjialTai-amina | ZihjiiciJ^ALForum.iyuA INNER WALL [Sp/uuui/najaiLiuyFLSSure^ ^ Lackri/maLJ)u/^ ) WALL IrL'-ZroyorbdMl' uxn^ FLOOf^ NASAL FOSSA. BON ELS. V2/ct-ckry/naZ, Ieth OUTER ROOF, I'rmicU iSjoinc) AcU^ -^phorwidi WALL. / / FkOOR.21 ORBITAL FOSSA. Two Bones form the Uoof, two the Outer Wall, three the Floor, and four the Inner AVall: form Foramina, etc. The Frontal Palate Lachrymal ) Ethmoid ^ Superior Maxilla forms ,, Malar „ „ Sphenoid „ „ in Roof Supraorbital Foramen „ Floor Infraorbital Canal forms part of Eoof only. ,, Floor only. Inner Wall only. ,, and Floor. Outer Wall „ ,, „ Roof and Inner Wall. n + \\T ^^ S External Orbital Foramina, uuter \^ all | Spheno-maxillary Fissure. in Inner I Ethmoidal Foramina, i Lachrymal Canal. NASAL FOSSA. Five Bones form the Roof, six the Outer Wall, stvea the Inner Wall, and two the Floor. The Vomer forms part of the Inner Wall only. „ Lachrymal ,, ,, Outer ,, ,, „ Sphenoidal Turbinated „ ,, Roof ,, ,, Frontal ,, ,, „ and Inner Wall. „ Nasal J „ Ethmoid [ form „ ,, „ and Outer Wall. ,, Sphenoid ) ,, Superior Maxilla i „ Palate \ " " ^loor „ I in Floor Anterior Palatine Foramina. I „ Roof Foramina in Cribriform Plate. Foramina, etc. f in Sup. Meatus (which is of one-third the length of Outer Wall) three lin Outer Wall j ^ „ two=thirds „ „ „ ) two L„ Inferior „ ( ,, nearly the same length as ,, Compare with Diagram. ) one SOrifice of Sphenoidal Sinus. ,, Post. Ethmoid Cells. Splieno-palatine Foramen. Orifice of Antrum. ,, Infundibulum. ,, Lachrymal Canal,22 RIBS. ( a Posterior Extremity, comprising a Head, Neck and Tuberosity. A Hib consists of < an Anterior „ ( a Shaft, and presents two Surfaces, two Borders and five Curves. f A short curve corresponding to the Posterior Extremity. I A long ,, „ „ Shaft. Curves -| An upward ,, „ „ Posterior Extremity. I A downward ,, „ ,, Anterior ,, LA twist of the Bone upon its own axis, the outer surface looking upwards in front, and downwards behind. The junction of the short and long curves is indicated on the outer surface by a ridge,—the Posterior Amjle. The same point marks the beginning of the upward Curve, and is the point round which the bone is twisted. The junction of the downward curve with the shaft is indicated by the Anterior Angle. The first Pdb has only one curve, its Posterior Angle coinciding with its Tubercle. The last „ „ „ „ falling upon its Anterior Extremity. The Curves and Angles are all most marked in the seventh Rib, thence upwards and downwards becoming less distinct. The distance between the Posterior Angle and the Tubercle increases from above downwards. The Posterior Extremities (Heads and Necks) increase in size from above down, being small and rounded in the upper, large and flattened in the lower Ribs. The Anterior Extremities and Tubercles diminish in size from above down, being largest in the first Rib. The Tubercle consists of an articular and a non-articular portion, the articular portion in the upper Ribs is oval with the long diameter transverse, and is convex, „ ,, „ lower ,, ,, „ „ vertical „ flat. In the eleventh and twelfth Ribs the Tubercle is wanting. The Intercostal Groove narrows from above down, being indistinguishable from its breadth in the first Rib, and being obliterated in the last Rib. This table refers only to the general oharacteristics of the Ribs.STERNUM Jfckhjorjirsl CtrltloL^c Mich/uf ffdrU- Cctriila^e-. 2/e)tf.Jv fwJmuth {^u/-eifft.^\'£ ENS I FORM CARTIL/tGET' Of — 1 ic \ nil 1- I 0 > -MANUBRIUM. d'ta'fu) Va/roLol- Gladioll/s, FIRST RIB. UPPER surface: far tUV I'd/ICLAVICLE. 23 Shaft. Outer third flattened, presenting two Surfaces | j^^^Jq^' and two Borders | pog^erior I anterior [ anterior. Inner two-thirds prismatic, „ three „ ] posterior ,, three „ } posterior. ( inferior ( superior. The Anterior Border of the outer part is continued into the Anterior Border of the inner, and presents the Deltoid Tubercle. „ Posterior „ „ „ divides ,, Post, and Sup. Borders „ ,, , Conoid „ „ Anterior Surface of the inner part is convex, and is continuous with the Superior Surface of the outer part. „ Posterior „ „ ,, flat , „ ,, Posterior Border ,, ,, „ Inferior „ ,, „ concave „ „ „ Inferior Surface „ „ Attachment of Muscles, etc. Sterno-mastoid ) to middle third in front— To outer third of Bone in front, Mitsdes— | pgi^^f^"^ | to inner third in front, Mmdes— | Igctoralis Itfijor Integuments. On „ ,, ,, behind, Ligament—Conoid on „ „ behind, Muscle— Sterno-hyoid in middle third behind- Nutrient Foramen. „ „ „ „ below. Ligament—Trapezoid „ „ „ below. Ligament,— Rhomboid to middle third below- Subclavius. The Inner Extremity (Sternal) is triangular, with concavo-convex articular facet over lower part, prolonged round lower border. The Outer Extremity (Acromial) is oval, „ flat ,, ,, limited to Extremity. The Inner Extremity looks inwards, the Outer outwards, both look forwards and downwards. 4—224 SCAPULA. Surfaces Borders Angles Processes Consists of a Body, having two Surfaces, three Borders, three Angles and three Processes, Anterior presents Posterior „ Subscapular Fossa, from joosterior two-thirds of which arises the Subscapularis. \ Supraspinous „ ,, ,, ,, ,, „ „ Supraspinatus. ( Infraspinous „ „ ,, „ ,, ,, ,, Infraspinatus. ' Superior Posterior ^External shortest and thinnest, presenting Scapular Notch, attaching part of Omo-hyoid longest. Levator Auguli Scapuhv. attaching I Khomboideus Major and by anterior lip Serratus Magnus. ,, Minor. thickest, Triceps (long head). Teres Major and by post, lip below, Latissimus Dorsi. „ Minor. Superior, Inferior and Anterior, the last supporting the Glenoid Fossa. (with apex at Posterior Border of Scapula, and base behind Glenoid Fossa, projecting up and back from Posterior Surface of Scapula, attachine \ "PP^f surface Supraspinatus, by upper Border Trapezius, o ) Inwpr Tnfra«ninatns. Inwpr Dcltoid. I „ lower „ Infraspinatus, t continued externally into Acromion Process. Acromion Proeess Coracoid Process 1 directed from outer end of Spine, first outwards, then upwards and forwards, j I by inner border Trapezius, by tip Coraco-acromial Ligament, mg I outer „ Deltoid, by inner margin Acromio-clavicular „ directed from outer end of Sup. Border of Scapula, first upwards, then outwards and forwards. three muscles round upper surface I, three ligaments by tip Coraco-brachialis. „ ,, Biceps (short head). „ ant. border (outer half) Pectoralis Minor. i „ ,, {inner half) Trapezoid. < „ inner side of root Conoid. ( ,, posterior border Coraco-acromial. I by root on inner side. Scapular Ligament, with Omo-hyoid in connection with it. „ outer „ Coraco-humeral „ „ Biceps (long head) below it.3 I; |< o r- m25 HUMERUS. UPPER EXTREMITY. Head liemisplierical, directed inwards and also iTp%yards and backwards. Necks, Tuberosities ■ Small LOWER EXTREMITY. !Anatomical, a groove separating Head and Tuberosities. Surgical, immediately below „ „ „ ( Supraspinatus. Chreat on outer side of Extremity, square, with 3 facets for < Infraspinatus. ( Teres Minor. in front ,, „ pyramidal, „ 1 facet ,, Subscapularis. Articular Sur- faces Fossae Condyles SHAFT, Borders Surfaces j Capitdlum, to outer side and in front, convex, looking forwards, for Radius in flexion. \ TrocJilea, ,, inner ,, in front and behind, concavo-convex, directed from behind forwards and inwards, for Ulna. Coronoid F., in front, above Trochlea, deep, for Coronoid Process in flexion. Olecranon F., behind, ,, ,, ,, ,, Olecranon „ extension. Radial F., in front, ,, Capitellum, shallow, ,, Head of Radius in flexion. Internal, prominent, projecting on inner side of Trochlea, attaching Flexors of Forearm and Int. Lat. Ligament. External, flattened, situated behind Capitellum ,, Extensors ,, ,, ICxt. ,, ,, Anterior, from front of Great Tuberosity to Coronoid Fossa. External, ,, back ,, ,, ,, External Condyle. Internal, ,, below Small ,, ,, Internal ,, ( External, looking outwards above, outwards and forwards below, marked by Bicipital Groove. < Internal, ,, forwards ,, forwards and inwards ,, Nutrient Foramen. (Posterior, ,, back and in ,, back and out ,, ,, Musculo-spiral Groove.HmnerVLS—contimted. 26 MUSCLES ATTACHED. ^ i. ■ cj r \ below Musculo-spiral Groove On posterior Suriaoe j g^i^^yg Above Inner Head of Triceps, below Small Tuberosity (to inner lip of Bicipital Groove) „ Outer ,, „ ,, Great ,, (to lowest facet and bone below) Teres Major ,, Minor to Small Great (and bone below) (to middle facet) Triceps, Inner Head. ,, Outer Teres Major. „ Minor. Subscapularis. Infraspinatus. Intermediately I In front of Behind {,, highest Supraspinatus. Humerus, to lower half of Ext. and Int. Surfaces, connected with Anterior Ligament of Elbow Brachialis Anticus. ,, at lower end of Posterior Surface ,, ,, Posterior ,, ,, „ Subanconeus. To outer side of ,, inner ,, ,, middle of External Internal over triangular impression along linear ,, Deltoid. Coraco-brachialis. In front of to outer lip of Bicipital Groove ,, floor of Pectoralis Major. Latissimus Uorsi. To External Condyle, at back, „ Internal ,, in front, Anconeus and Extensors of Hand. Pronator Teres and Flexors of Hand. „ External Supracondyloid Ridge j;°«PXr%Sl^^^^^^^^ Supinator Longus. Extensor Carpi Radialis Longior.ULNA. UPPER EXTREMITY (having two Processes and two Cavities). Olecranon Process, cxuadrilateral, with .Coronoid Process, wedge-shaped, with posterior surface, triangular and subcutaneous. I anterior concave, smooth, forming upper part of Great Sigmoid Cavity. I superior ,, square and flat, for Triceps behind and Bursa in front. lateral surfaces flattened, for muscular attachments. upper surface, concave, smooth, forming lower part of Great Sigmoid Cavity. \ under ,, ,, rough for muscles, continued into Tubercle. I external ,, presents Lesser Sigmoid Cavity. , internal ,, ridged for muscular attachments. Greater Sigmoid Cavity, concave from above down, divided by ,. , ., • . ( larger inner part, concave, vertical ridge into ^ n,-,iJr^^rt. fl.t. Lesser Muscles at- tached smaller outer part, flat, transverse notch into upper and lower parts, before back, narrow and oblong. To under surface of „ upper „ „ „ outer side of „ inner ,, Coronoid Process, beIov\', Brachialis Anticus, Olecranon behind^ Triceps, Flexor of Forearm. Extensor ,, Anconeus, ,, ,, Plexor Profundus Digitorum, Flexor of Fingers. 27 ,, ridge on inner side of Coronoid ,, depression on outer side of „ „ tubercle on inner ,, „ „ impression on under surface ,, Pronator Teres, Supinator Brevis, Rotator in of Forearm. „ out ,, above, Flexor Sublimis Digitorum, Flexor of Fingers, below, Flexor Longus Pollicis, „ Thumb.28 Ulna -continued. LOWER EXTREMITY (having two Processes and two Depressions), j Head, rounded, convex, articular, for j |j^°1d t^vftf o\^ RaSs'^externally. ' Styloid Process, ( Depression, ( Groove, SHAFT Borders Surfaces situated at posterior and inner side of Head, attaching Internal Lateral Ligament of Wrist between Head and Styloid Process, for attachment of Triangular Cartilage, on back of Head, ,, tendon ,, Extensor Carpi Ulnaris. convex behind and externally, prismatic above, rounded below, tapering from above down. Anterior, extending from inner angle of Coronoid Process to front of Styloid Process. Pouter ior, „ „ lower ,, Olecranon ,, back ,, ,, Ext. {or Interosseous) „ „ outer side of Coronoid ,, middle of Head. The Oblique Line on posterior surface runs from Lesser Sigmoid Cavity to posterior border of Ulna. ,, ,, down from middle of Oblique Line. Brachialis Anticixs (where continued into Coronoid Process). Flexor Profundus Digitorum (to upjjer three-fourths). Pronator Quadratus (to lower fourth). Flexor Profundus Digitorum (to upper three-fourths and posterior border). ,, Carpi Ulnaris (to upper three-fourths, posterior border only). Extensor „ >> ( >i u » n )• Lower fourth is subcutaneous. Vertical 'Anterior, concave, attaching Internal, convex, {icith Post. Border) Posterior, flattened Extensor Ossis Metacarpi Pollicis, „ Secundi Internodii ,, „ Indicis, overlapping each other.cz r- >UPPER EXTREMITY. Head, disc-shaped concave above, flattened laterally, RADIUS articular for Capitellum Lesser Sigmoid Cavity and Orbicular Ligament. Neck, Tuberosity, LOWER EXTREMITY cylindrical, constricted and smooth. , J J. • • 1 c -NT 1 1 i rough for insertion of Biceps tendon behind, below and to inner side of Neck, oval j 3^ Bursa under „ „ in front. Inferior, Internal, External, Anterior, Posterior, triangular, concave, articular divided into continued outer triangular part for Scaphoid, inner rectangular ,, Semilunar. on to Styloid Process (inner aspect) externally, into Sigmoid Cavity (for Ulna) internally. oval, „ „ forming Sigmoid Cavity. grooved for Extensors of Thumb, prolonged down into Styloid Process. rough ,, Anterior Ligament of Wrist. grooved ,, Extensor Tendons, rough for Posterior Ligament of Wrist. SHAFT (prismoid, convex outwards, tapering upwards). o (Anterior, < Internal, o (Posterior, (upper half forming Oblique Line) from front of Tuberosity to front of Styloid Process. (or Interosseous) bifurcating below ,, back ,, ,, extremities of Sigmoid Cavity. ,, „ of Neck „ back of Styloid Process. Anterior, concave, attaching three Flexors and three Rotators f Biceps Supinator Brevis Flexor Sublimis Digitorum Pronator Teres above Oblique Line to External, convex. Posterior, flattened. three Rotators Flexor Longus Pollicis ^Pronator Quadratus Supinator Brevis, Pronator Teres, Supinator Longus, ( Supinator Brevis, < Ext. Ossis Metacarpi Pollicis, to rniddle ( ,, Primi Internodii ,, in loiver 29 I below ,, ,, over tipper third, in middle „ to loioer end (root of Styloid Process), to upper third. (for 1 to 2 inches). 530 RADIUS AND ULNA There are six Grooves on the Lower Extremities of the Radius and Ulna, time for muscles of the Thumb and Little Finger, alternating with three for the other Fingers and Hand. On Styloid Process, On back of Radius, on outer side, a double groove for \ Extensor Ossis Metacarpi Pollicis. ° ( „ rrimi Internodu ,, on outer side, a ,, - at middle, a Hvigle ■ ,on inner side, a double Between Radius and Ulna, On back of Ulna, a single a „ Of the six Grooves ,, Carpi Radialis Longior. » » i> Brevior. „ Secundi Internodii Pollicis, ,, Communis Digitorum. „ Indicis. „ Minimi Digiti. „ Carpi Ulnaris. the ou/e)- tivo are double. „ viner ,, ,, single. „ middle ,, j external, single. ( internal, double. As regards the Radius, Ulna and prismatic portion of the Clavicle, one of the three surfaces in each case is flat, one convex and one concave.Composed of eight Bones in fivo Bows Of all the Bones of both Rows the first Row „ second ,, „ first ,, „ second ,, „ the terminal Bones of the first second ,, both Rows „ the Os Magnum „ „ two Bones internal to Os Magnum „ „ Semilunar Bone CARPUS. in the upper Row in the lower „ the posterior surfaces are „ anterior ,, ,, „ posterior ,, ,, „ superior (except Os Magnum) „ inferior 31 Scaphoid and Semilunar. Cuneiform ,, Pisiform. Trapezium „ Trapezoid. Os Magnum ,, Unciform. flattened and rough for Ligaments, tubercular „ ,, smaller than the anterior, larger ,, „ convex, articular for Radiusor Ulna, saddle-shaped, „ „ Metacarpus. I of the IS™ superior \ Trapezoiti Os Magnum „ ,, Unciform ,, ,, 1 SSi i" „ Scaphoid. ,, Semilunar. concave, „ Cuneiform, reduced to rough grooves. 4 Trapezium j Unciform „ anterior ,, „ lateral free ,, 1: lateral ,, carry „ inferior surface is prolonged into hooked processes, tubercular. <!fniarp facptq \ ext. below and in front, square tacets | ^^^^^^ hehmA. sinuous, articular. Cuneiform Unciform conthjuous surfaces are !Trapezoid ) Trapezium \ " „ external surface is „ internal „ is semilunar square Scaphoid. Cuneiform. 5—232 Carpus—continued. SPECIAL POINTS. Of the Scaphoid, the lotcer part of inner surface is Semilunar „ inner ,, lower ,, Cuneiform Trapezium Trapezoid Os Magnum Unciform Pisiform deeply concave for Os Magnum, marked by a narrow facet for Unciform. ,, ,, anterior ,, ,, ,, square ,, Pisiform. lower „ inner „ ,, small ,, Second Metacarpal. superior, lateral, and inferior surfaces are articular and continuous with each other. lateral borders of loiver surface are binder surface is outer ,, marked by narrow facets for second and fourth Metacarpals, subdivided into two facets for fourth and fifth Metacarpals, convex,—the inner concave. METACARPAL BONES—distinctive characteristics. First Bone—short, broad, having no lateral facets on Base and no ridge on Posterior Surface. Head broader from side to side. 2 Facets on Carpal Surface for j 'r,^ff/^^^.\ Second Third Fourth Fifth -longest of all. Base deeply concave from side to side, with i 1 Facet externally 1 ,, internally —Base prolonged upwards on radial side only —Base small and cuboidal -Base small, Post. Surface marked by single oblique line I 1 ,, on Carpal Surface 1 ,, externally 2 Facets intertially 2 ,, on Carpal Surface 2 „ externally 1 Facet internally on Carpal Surface „ externally „ Tubercle internally j Os Magnum. Trapezium. 3rd Metacarpal. Os Magnum. 2nd Metacarpal. 4th Os Magnum. Unciform. 3rd Metacarpal. 5th Unciform. 4th non-articular. PHALANGES. Of first row, —SvjKrior Surface of Base oval and concave, ,, second „ third subdivided by antero-post. ridge,- -Distal Exiremity condyloid. rough and pointed. Notice the arrangement of both the Carpal and the lateral facets on the Metacarpal Bonts.33 OS INNOMINATUM. ILIUM. External (^Internal ( Superior Curved Line from upper part of Great Sciatic Notch to Crest 2in. from Posterior Superior Spine. \ Middle „ ,, „ „ ,, ,, ,, ,, „ ,, Anterior. [Inferior ,, ,, „ front ,, ,, „ back of Notch between Anterior Spines. !The Surface behind the Superior Curved Line is irregular for the | Qj^^^^j^^xinms above ,, ,, between „ „ and Middle Lines „ concave ,, Glutfeus Medius. „ ,, ,, „ Middle and Inferior ,, convex ,, Gluteus Minimus. ,, beloio ,, Inferior Line ,, irregular ,, Rectus (reflected head). ( In front smooth and concave for Iliacus presenting nutrient foramen below. ( Behind rough and irregular „ Sacro-iliac Ligs. above ,, Auricular Surface for Sacrum below. ( Tensor Vag. Femoris Transversalis. Superior (Crest) to outer lip I Obliquus Externus—to inner Up \ Quadratus Lumb.—intermediatehj—Obliquus Internus. f Latissiraus Dorsi Anterior .Posterior ISCHIUM. S [External 3 Internal CQ L Posterior Posterior u o Inferior Internal above, below, above, below. Anterior Superior Spine attaching ,, Inferior ,, ,, with notch between. Erector Spinte, Sartorius Rectus (straight head) Posterior Superior „ ,, Sacro-iliac Lig. „ Inferior ,, entering into ,, Joint. The Ilium forms rather less than ^ of the Acetabulum, above forms lower and back part of Acetabulum (rather more than | of cavity). below presents groove for Obturator Externus Tendon. are smooth and broad above, narrow beloiv, the Internal attaching part of Obturator Internus. about centre—Spine of Ischium attaching above spine—Great Sacro-sciatic Notch transmitting Pyriformis with Mlow Spine—Small Sacro-sciatic Notch transmitting Obtur. Int. with thick, continuous with Tuberosity. thin, forming posterior margin of Obturator Foramen.' Gemellus Superior externally. Levator Ani and Coccyga;us internally. Small Sacro-sciatic Lig. at tip. Glutjeal Vessels and Nerve. Sciatic ,, ,, Nerves. Pudic(Int.),, ,, Nerve ^ , \ Obturator Internus. iNerves to j Q^j^gHj ^^^i Quadratus. Nerve to Obturator Internus. Internal Pudic Vessels and Nerve.Os Innominatum—continued. 34 Tuberosity Ramus,— PUBES. Extremities „„ „„,^„ j;„ t Adductor Magnus, on outer Up- ^ q^^^^^^us Femoris, ,. j Transversus Perinei | ( Ridge for Great Sacro-sciatic Lie. "■P I Erector Penis S I Groove for Int. Pudic Vessels. <ij <^ I 'Superior surface \ *° "PP®"^ ^^'^^ outer part Semi-membranosus. •' \ ,, lower ,, inner ,, Biceps with Semi-tendinosus, l„ ?y3perpa?-<—at junction with Body—Gemellus Inferior. see Pubes and Diagram. outer, triangular, smooth and concave, entering into Acetabulum, forming -J of Cavity, wmc)-, oval, rough ,, flat, „ Symphysis. the 2Msterior harder forms Ilio-pectineal Line, continued outwards between Ilium and Ischium, on anterior harder, near Symphysis,—Sj)iue of Pubes, ,, inwards to Symphysis as Crest of Pubes, near outer end, —Ilio-pectineal Eminence, at inner ,, —Angle of Pubes (between Crest and Symphysis). intermediate surface, triangular in form, attaches Pectineus. Inferior ( externally, forms Obturator Groove. ( internally, enters into Obturator Foramen. Muscles attached to Body of Pubes, and Rami of Pubes and Ischium. S To Crest of Pubes, Externally Internally Spine „ Body „ Ramus „ Rami ,, Body „ Tuber Iscliii and Ilio-pectineal Line, below Crest, and Ischium, Internal, smooth, forming Anterior wall of Pelvis. External, rough, for Muscular attachments. —Rectus Abdominis, Pyramidalis and Conjoined Tendon, —External Oblique, Internal Oblique and Transversalis, —Adductor Longus. — ,, Brevis. —Gracilis (to margin of Pubic Arch). (upper surface), (outer ,, ), and Tuber Ischii,—Adductor Magnus, on inner side of Obturator Foramen, Edge of Foramen (anterior half ), ,, „ ,, (except above and in front) Body of Ischium ( ,, below ,, behind) Rami of Pubes and Ischium, -Pectineus above —Quadratus Femoris, below „ „ —Obturator Externus, centrally over „ ,, -Obturator Internus. -Compressor Urethrse, Transversus Perinasi and Erector Penis.TherelaJ:i>>e SLtuati(m& oj the Mtucular- Attackntents mL^ art skaym.DIAMETERS Of PELVIS.PELVIS. 35 Base of Sacrum Apex of Coccyx, Axis of Inlet „ Outlet Special Charac- ters is situated opposite a point taken 4 inches above Symphysis Pubis. „ ,, „ „ „ „ 2 i'lch below „ ,, corresponds to a line drawn from middle of Coccyx to Umbilicus. ,, „ „ ,, „ Base of Sacrum at right angles to plane of Outlet. in Male „ Female „ Infant Bones thick, strong and well marked. I Sacrum more curved than in Female, Pubic Arch narrow. I Cavity narrow and deep. Diameters less than in Female. Obturator Foi'amen large and oval. Bones thinner, weaker and less marked than in Male. I Sacrum less curved, Promontory less projecting, Coccyx more movable, Pubic Arch wider and everted. I Cavity broader and shallower, Ilia being more apart, and Spines of Ischium less projecting. Obturator Foramen smaller and triangular. Bones soft and semi-cartilaginous. I Sacrum and Pubes narrow. I Cavity very narrow, sides being almost parallel, Transverse diameter at brim the shortest. ^ Obturator Foramen small and rounded. Diameters,— see Diagram. The Diagram shows the average lengths of the three chief diameters at the Inlet, in the Cavity and at the Outlet in the Female, The lines indicate the diameters which are about equal in length. ■36 FEMUR. UPPER EXTREMITY. Head, —directed forwards as well as upwards and inwards. Neck, —less oblique ■m childhood, iu old age and in the female. Great Trochanter,-Muscles attached i " f;^^'; ^''''f'"'"' *° Pblique Line r on Anterior Border, to facet Glutseus Minimus. Posterior ,, below (to Ijinea Quadrati) Quadratus Femoris, J ,, Outer Surface, to Oblique Line Glutteus Medius. 1 ,, Inner „ „ Digital Fossa i ,, Ui)per Border, „ two Facets Obturator Externus. \ Obturator Int. with Gemelli iu front. ( Pyriformis behind. Small Trochanter,— ,, ,, Anterior Intertrochanteric Line Posterior ,, Spiral Line Quadrate „ ,, Summit to triangular sjxice helow and in front ,, linear ,, ,, ,, hehind Psoas Magnus. Iliacus. Pectineus. l uns in front between Trochanters, marked above by Tubercle of Femur. ,, hehind „ ,, ,, at middle ,, Quadrate Tubercle. •,, from middle of Ant. Intertroch. Line to Line between Small Troch. and Linea Aspera. ,, ,, ,, Post. ,, ,, vertically downwards for two inches. The Spiral Line above described is commonly called the Anterior Intertrochanteric, and this latter, as indicated above, is unrecognised. SHAFT. Borders Surfaces External from Great Trochanter to Anterior part of External Condyle. Internal ,, Small ,, „ ,, Internal ,, ■D J, • ,T • A V ^ besrins above bv two lines, one from the back of each Trochanter. Posterior (Lmea Aspera) L„l Mow \. .. .. to Condvle. The inner root of the Linea Aspera above is by some said, to pass into, not the Small Trochanter, but the Spiral Line. For Muscles attached to Linea Aspera, etc., see Diagram. ( External, smooth and convex, attacliiag Crursus. < Internal, ,, ,, ,, ,, Vastus Internus. (Anterior, ,, ,, ,, ,, Crura3us and Subcruraeus.FEMUR. MUSCLES ON POSTERIOR ASPECT.GREAT TROCHANTER. LINES LEADING FROM IT, MUSCLES ATTACHED ROUND IT. -JriiTlnittroch Zme UriUi, Toiiej'cU^ ctf lemur Tiifie /rom (rrt. Tr<^cA AIiinea.J]sp&ra. (J'osVBcrrder o/^Te^,^ur Obi. Jni.pvU/,. GumeZU. inth. QucLoCrocie TuiercZo. T/us border ts no{ aZiva^J d&6crc6e<i.Femur—conthmed. 37 LOWER EXTREMITY. External Condyle Internal Condyle is more prominent than the Internal, in front. I presents circumferentially a broad, articular surface, of which the axis runs directly backwards. I ( one above for Gastrocnemius (outer head). „ externally, External Tuberosity and 3 Depressions in middle below External Lateral Ligament. Popliteus. ( is more prominent than the External both below and internally. I presents cirmmferentlaUij a, narrower articular surface than the External, of which the axis is directed first inwards, j then backwards. I „ internaJhj, Internal Tuberosity for Internal Lateral Ligament. ahove and hek'tnd, \ externally, a depression for the Gastrocnemius (inner head). \ internally, a tubercle „ Adductor Magnus tendon. • The artindar surfaces of the Condyles are continuous in front, presenting trochlear surface for Patella. „ ,, „ „ „ „ separated b<dund by the Intercondyloid Notch. „ „ surface ,, Internal Condyle presents below, on its ozifer edije, a small facet for the Patella in extreme flexion. ,, ,, „ ,, External ,, is prolonged wi/roMi, further wpwmZs than that of the Internal. Anterior Crucial Ligament (to External Condyle). Posterior ,, (,, Internal ,, ). contiguous surfaces Condyles attach Anterior Surface Posterior Surface PATELLA. edge bevelled above and on sides for Tendon of Quadriceps Extensor. „ below „ Ligamentum Patelke. subdivided by a vertical ridge into two divisions, in xijyper tliree-qiiarters presenting oval articular facet \ marked along lower edge by narrow facet. in Imver quarter Of the Articular Surface rough surface „ ,, mner „ „ ,, _„ attaching Ligamentum Patellre near tip. ( the two divisions* are for the Condyles of the Femur in flexion I ,, narrow facet below ( ,, ,, ,, internally,, ■ Tho External is Hie larger. in extreme extension. Internal Condyle ,, ,, flexion.38 TIBIA. UPPER EXTREMITY is expanded laterally into two Tuberosities. T-ha T,iV.av/-.cn'-Hi>c! ( continuous in front forming triangular surface prolonged below into Tubercle. are ] separated Lehind by Popliteal Notch. ( ,, above ,, ?-oi(i//t (^'p;-es.sions in front and beliind the jS'_^ji/ie. The External is The Internal is latermediatehj above are 7 points from before back SHAFT. Borders Surfaces ahorv articular for External Condyle of Femur. Surface is nearly circular and flattened. hi'ldnd ,, Head of Fibula by small facet. ,, „ ,, ,, ,, .above ,, ,, Internal Condyle of Femur. ,, ,, oval and concave. ^<£7(/;!cZ grooved ,, insertion of Semi-membranosua. ' for attachment of Internal Semilunar Cartilage—anterior end. ,, ,, ,, Anterior Crucial Ligament. ,, ,, ,, External Semilunar Cartilage— ,, „ Spine of Tibia. for attachment ,, ,, ,, ,, ■—posterior „ ,, ,, ,, Internal ,, . ,, ,, ,, Posterior Crucial Ligament. The extremities of tlio External Cartilage are fixed immediately in front and behind the Sjiino. II „ „ Internal ,, alternate with those of the Crucial Ligaments. ^n^f'Cior,—from Tubercle to anterior border of Internal Malleolus. ' Interna!,— ,, back of Internal Tuberosity ,, posterior ,, ,, ,, ,, External,— ,, ,, External ,, ,, borders of surface for Fibula (bifurcating below). External Internal concave above for origin of Tibialis Anticus. convex below,—crossed by tendons of Extensors, convex above,—attaching Sartorius, Gracilis and Semitendinosus, ,, below,—subcutaneous. , r\^^■ t ■ -ii I Vertical Line running down from it. ( presents Oblique Line with | Medullary Foramen fmmediately below it. Posterior flattened -j ( Popliteus Soleus attaches above to Oblique Line. Flex. Longus Digitorum, internal to ) Vertical Tibialis l^osticuss external ,, ) ' ' "PATELLA. ARTICULAR SURFACE. TIBIA. UPPER SURFAC£ Of HEAD.'39 Tibia—coniinued. LOWER EXTREMITY. Surfaces ' Anh-iior, —crossed by Extensor Tendons, attaching Anterior Ligaments of Ankle. Poderior,—grooved for Flexor Longus Pollicis Tendon, ,, Posterior ,, ,, „ 77 , 7 1 1 r ^ articulation with Fibula below. Jixtenal, —concave and rousli for i ,, i j c t i. r • j. i ' *= ( attachment of Interosseous Ligament above. Inferior, —articular for Astragalus, ridged in mid-line antero-posteriorly. f articular for Astragalus on outer side. subcutaneous ,, inner ,, ^Internal, —prolonged into Internal j\IalleoIus -| attaching Interior Lateral Ligament by tip. I grooved posteriorlyfor tendons of j ilS'LngS D?gito GROOVES ON LOWER EXTREMITIES OE TIBIA AND FIBULA. On posterior border of Internal Malleolus,-Groove for j SS^L^Sus^Digitorum. )) I) )) ), External „ Oh back of Tibia midway between Malleoli, — Peroneus Longus, Peroneus Brevis, Flexor Longus Pollicis. 6-2FIBULA. 40 HEAD presents LOWER EXTRE- MITY f rough impression e.vtcrnalh/ for Biceps, and for Long External Lateral Ligament. I ,, ,, ^)os<er(0)-/y „ Soleus and Posterior Tibio-fibular Ligament. ,, ,, anteriorhj „ Peroneus Longiis and Ant.- ,, ,, prolonged upwards hi'hind into Styloid Process for Short External Lateral Ligament. articular ahove for Tibia,—Facet looks upwards and inwards. External Surface subcutaneous, attaching Middle Fasciculus of Ext. Lateral Ligament below. Internal „ articular in front for Astragalus, ,, Posterior ,, ,, ,, behind. External Malle- \ Anterior Border olus. SHAFT. Borders Surfaces Posterior rough grooved Anterior ,, ,, ,, ,, for Peroneus Brevis and Peroneus Longus tendons. Anterior from front of head, bifurcating below to enclose outer surface of Malleolus. I/H<er«a?{Interosseous) ,, „ „ „ ,, ,, ,, inner ,, ,, ,, ] Poaterior ,, Styloid Process ,, posterior border ,, ,, Oblique Line ,, inner side of Head to join Internal Border in its lower half. Internal (^^J^^-) j "PP^ ( „ lower External \ " "PP"' ( „ lower \ „ upper attaches Soleus. (in inncr\ ™' i ii ^ part ) " "I'ddle -J Internal /inantcr.X \ part / Flexor Lougns Pollicis. Peroneus Longus. ,, Brevis. Extensor Longus Digitorum. Peroneus Tertius. Extensor Proprius Pollicis. Tibialis Posticus. on opposite sides of Interosseous Mem- brane. When the Fibula in held with its anterior surface dirootod towards the oteorvor, the throe borders and the oblique lire are all in view (see Diagram),TIBiA ANo FIBULA. FIBULA. TRANSVERSE S£CTiON. about M.oDi.t. INTERNAL SURFACE.- post, part. (FoK Muscles a-ttccchcd sec p J^O,) GROOVES ON. LOWER EXTREMITIES.TARSUS To show ecrirtlahon of Ant' and Tost- Sou-facts af'Bones j r of inner portion of Tarsus. METATARSUS. 7o_sAo>y arh'cuiar faceis .41 OALOANEUM. f posteriorhj, Superior Surface -J in middle, ^anteriorly, Inferior External podcriorly, I IntcrmediaieUj, y,anteriorly, concave, for fat under Tendo Acliillis. ( external,—large, convex, looking forward and upward, presenting two facets for Astragalus < internal,—small, concave (upper surface of Lesser Proce ss). ( separated by rough groove for Interosseous Ligament, rough for Ligaments, etc. (superior surface of Greater Process). presenting two Tubercles for origins of rough for presenting Tubercle for i above, ) intermediately, I in front of tubercle, rough for presenting tubercle for , two Grooves „ ' Abductor Pollicis. ,, Minimi Digiti. Flexor Brevis Digitorum. Long Plantar Ligament. Outer head of Accessorius, Short Plantar Ligament. Calcaneo-astragaloid ,, External Lateral ,, (^/^^(middle part). Peroneus Brevis Kgndons. ,, Longus \ ( bdow, smooth and concave for Flexor tendons and vessels,—attaching Accessorius (inner head). Internal ,, ^ above, presenting Lesser Process (Sustentaculum Tali). ( iuiea^/t Lesser Process,—grooved for Flexor Longus Pollicis tendon. Anterior Posterior ^ concavo-convex, smooth, articular for Cuboid. ( overhung by tubercle at upper and satsF part. \ convex rough below for ( smooth above „ bursa under Tendo Achillis.( posteriorly, Superior Surface < Uitermediatehj, ( anteriorly, Inferior External Internal Posterior Anterior ASTRAGALUS. rongli for posterior part ot External Lateral Ligamentj smooth, forming trochlear surface for Tibia, wider in front than behind. rough for Anterior Ligament of Ankle. ( posteriorly andextcrnaUy T^rcsenis large, concave facet for Os Calais. < anteriorly (uul internally ( intermediately behind in. front ahore below small, convex ,, ,, ,, ,, and Calcaneo-scaphoid Ligament, groove for Interosseous Ligament. triangular facet, base upwards for External Malleolus.* rough impression for External Lateral Ligament (anterior part). pear-shaped facet, base forwards for Internal Malleolus, rough impression for Internal Lateral Ligament (middle part). grooved for Flexor Longus Pollicis tendon. convex, articular for Scaphoid, continuous with smaller facet on Inferior Surface. '* The facet for the External Malleolus is larger and more posterior than that for the Internal Malleolus. CUBOID. Superior Surface rough for Ligaments. External Inferior Posterior Anterior Internal notched by Peroneal Groove ( ,inn irtirulav \ presenting m front groove for Peroncus Longus tendon i I ,, behind ridge for Long and Short Plantar Ligaments ) triangular, sinuous, wholly articular for Os Calcis. subdivided by vertical ridge „ „ „ 4th and 5th Metatarsal Bones. ■] . , J above, presenting articular facet for External Cuneiform (and sometimes Scaphoid), qua ri aterai | jjejo^^ rough for Interosseous Ligaments.SCAPHOID AND CUNEIFORM BONES. Scaphoid ! Posterior Surface, Anterior Facets on Anterior ,, Posterior Surface of Scaphoid— Surfaces,, Cuneiform Bones, concave and articular for Astragalus, presenting three facets for the Cuneiform Bones. Internal convex, — Middle sinuona,—• External concave. -On ,, ,, —On ,, ,, —On ,, (Sup.) 1st, 2nd and 3rd Metatarsals,— 1st concdve,- 2nd 3rd Internal Internal External Internal External Internal External External Surface of Scaphoid ,, „ Internal Cuneiform External Middle tubercular for insertion of Muscles. faceted along both superior and posterior border for | ^ Met^^*^"^^^^^^^ j 2nd Metatarsal in front. " " / MiddJe Cuneiform behind. External „ Scaphoid Sup. and Inf. Surfaces „ all the Cuneiform ,, at superior anterior angle and ,, ,, correspond to surfaces of Internal and External Cuneiform contiguous to them faceted in front and behind for rough for Ligaments. 4th Metatarsal in front. Cuboid behind. METATARSALS. First, - Second,- Third, — Fourth,— Fifth, — -Shortest -Longest Bafte having concave ,, ,, sinuous tarsal facet, but no lateral facets. and quadrilateral triangular InternaUi), single facet for cxterncMij, 2 double facets intcrnalhj, double facet exferncdlij, single ,, internalli/, double ,, externcdlij, single ,, hiterncdbj, „ ,, externcdlij tubercular for insertion of Muscles. The PHALANGES resemble those of the Hand, but those of the second row are very small and short. Internal Cuneiform. 3rd Metatarsal in front. External Cuneiform behind. 2nd Metatarsal. 4th 3rd ,, in front. External Cuneiform behind. 5th Metatarsal. 4thOSSIFICATION OF BONES. 44 Vertebrae, 3 Primary 4 Secondarij 2 AddUioiud, Atlas, 3 Pr'mary Axis, 3 Primary —each by nine Centres, I One for right Lamina, ] „ left ,, Two ,, Transverse Process^ ,, ,, the Spinous Process \ for iSuperior and Inferior Siirfaces of Eoilj', appearing at Gth to 8th week ,, ,, 8 th week ,, 16th to 18th year ,, SOth year uniting in 1st year } uniting in \ 3rd year ^ 1 uniting in I SOth year. -by three Centres. One for right Lateral Mass, left „ „ ,, ,, Anterior Arch ■—by six Centres. 5 One for each Lateral Mass I „ „ Body 3 Special Seventh Cervical,- Lumbar Vertebrge, Sacrum, 15 Primary 6 Secondary, 14 Additional Two „ Base of Odontoid Process One ,, Apex „ ,, ,, appearing before birth )» j» )» ,, in 1st year early in foetal life 6th month 6th month uniting in 3rd year uniting in 1st to 2nd year united by 6th year uniting in 3rd year -centres as in other Vertebrpe, with, in addition, Two Special Centres, one for anterior part of each Transverse Process appearing in 6th month and uniting in 6th year. —centres as in other Vertebrte, with, in addition. Two Special Centres, one for each Mamillary Process. -by tldrty-five Centres. One for each Body, ,, ,, ,, Lamina, • ,, ,, ,, Lateral Mass of each of the first three pieces One for each Sup. and Inf. Surface of Bodj-, Two,, Lateral Margin of Sacrum, appearing at 8th week ,, ,, 6thto8thmontli ,, Gth to 8th month 118th to 20th year uniting from 2ud to Gth year^ I ossification completed { from 18th to 30th year.OSSIFICATION. Ini/i& ^UvjruT^ Thb^es i/io^l'l(.m^e-rs frhicA/ciro prini^ci' crh block/ fyp€y l/i£/ frwcy b&' ih& bcii&r sce?^. - CENTRES. UNION. VERTEBR/E { . _ ^J^ 2jo< ZOij ATLAS. AXIS. ^nv ^^--ly SACRUM, ] q]^ i8t^-2^?yCENTRES UNION COCCYX. 1' I BONES OF SKULL. OCCIPITAL. I 2 3 2 ryi/ 4 7^ SPHENOID. 2.rry 2 — 3 ^ 3m/ 4 S m/ ay45 Ossification of Bones—continued. Coccyx, 4 Primarij Occipital (Four Centres) —by four Centres, f In lirst Piece, about birtli I ,, second ,, from 5th to 10th year unite first I third I ,, fourth 10th „ 15th 15th „ 20th xt \ unite last of all. One for Occipital part, formed in membrane,about 1st or 2nd month, unitcswith Condyloid part about 4th year. ,, ,, each Condyloid „ „ „ cartilage, ,, 2nd „ 3rd ,, _ , ) Occipital and Condyloid parts 3rt^ " 4th „ „ „ I about 6th year. The Occipital ,, ,, Sphenoid from 20th to 25th yr. 6th week. Basilar Parietal [One Centre) Frontal {Two Centres) One for each lateral half, membrane uniting shortly after birth. Temporal (Four Centres) Sphenoid, Ten Centres (Five on each side) Ethmoid (Time Centres) Sup. Maxillary (Four Centres) One for Squamous and Zygomatic Parts, appearing first (about 8th week) ) \ „ „ Auditory Part „ next after Squamous \ \ ,, ,, Petrous and Mastoid Parts „ ,, „ Auditory „ Styloid Process last uniting about 1st year. { One for Great Wing and External Pterygoid Plate—at 2nd month I ,, „ Internal Pterygoid Plate —,, 2nd—3rd ,, \ ,, „ Lesser Wing and Body anteriorly I „ „ Body posteriorly L ,, „ Sphenoidal Turbinated Bone — „ 3rd „ — „ 4th—5th ,, .— „ 3rd year uniting about middle of fuetal life. ,, shortly after birth. ,, just before birth. ,, about 20th year. One for perpendicular plate, appearing about 4th or 5th month (middle of fu;tal life). „ „ each lateral mass ,, ,, 1st year (shortly after birth). One for Nasal and Facial Parts \ I „ „ Orbital „ Malar ,, f I „ „ Incisive Part ( , ,, „ Palatine Process, less the Incisive Part ; appearing early in fcet.xl life.from 22nd to 25th year. 4(5 Palate, Malar, Lachrymal, Nasal, Inferior Tui-bi- ) nated bone \ Vomer, Inferior Maxilla, Hyoid Bone (Fire Centres) Ossification of Bones—couHiiucd. By one Centre, appearing about 8th week. !t J) )) )) )) )) )) ?» )3 !> )) J) ,, „ „ „ niiJJle of fecial life. „ tico lateral centres, separated by a plate of cartilage, appearing about 8tli week—uniting after puberty. „ „ centres, ap)pearing very soon after that for the Clavicle. One for Body appearing before birth. „ „ each Great Cornu „ ,, ,, ,, ,, „ Small Cornu ,, shortly after birth. Gterni^in {Siu: Cen- ( One for 1st piece I „ „ ^nd ,, I „ „ Srd ,, i „ „ 4th ,, I „ „ 5th „ L „ ,, Xijjhviid appearing about 5th to 6th month. „ 6th „ 7th ,, ,, 7tli „ 8th „ „ 8th „ 9th 1st „ 2nd year, from 2nd „ 18th ,, uniting rarely. I from 3.5th to 40th year. ) „ „ 20th „ -IMi „ ,, soon after puberty, remaining cartilaginous. Hibs {Three Cen- ties) Clavicle (7'icoCen- tres) Scapula {f'evcn Centres) One for Shaft appearing „ ,, Tubercle (except in 11th & 12th Bibs) I ,, „ Posterior Extremity ,, \ " at Gth week, from 16th to 20th year. (| One for Shaft, ) ,, „ Sternal End, f One for Body I ,, ., Coracoid Process (Body) I „ „ „ _ „ (Root) 1 ,, „ Acromion Process (Base) j ,, ,, Inferior Angle of Scapula „ ,, Acromion I'rocess (Extremity) I ,, „ Base of Scapula appearing at The Clavicle is the e;irUcit bone to ossify. appearing about 5 th week 20th year 8th week 1st year \ '] 15 th , 15th—16th „ 17th „ uniting about 2oth jxar. ,, at 25th year. about 15th year,CENTRES UNION STERNUM. < o „ } ) 35 40 \5 _ 20 J' Scapula. CLAVICLE. \ 2o'y \ y 8 ^CENTRES UNION HUMERUS. 1-2^ ^ 3 - 4 V S 12' BONES OF FOREARM. ULNA 10 -44 Ca r pus. CUNEIFORM. 8 PISIFORM UNCIFORM 2 SEMILUNAR 'SCAPHOID TRAPEZIUM. OS MAGNUI 1 TRAPEZOID 7Ossification of Bones—conUimed. 47 f Head appearing 1st— 2nil year Great Tuberosity „ 2nd—3rd year Humerus {Seven or E'kjJU Centres) Small Shaft External Condyle Trochlea Capitellum I Internal Condyle (sometimes) (3rd—4th year) 5th week ) uniting at 5th year 13th—14th year 12th year ) Snd—3rd year ) uniting at 16th year' 5th uniting at 20th year. at 18th Xote that the dates at the upper pnrt and lower part of the table are similar, whilst those intermediately correspond to the even nuruhcrs from twelve to twenty. Uniting at 16th year ,, „ 20th year Carpus Kadius. 6th year — Upper Extremity 5th week — Shaft Snd year — Lower Extremity Ulna. — 4th year Compare the Radius and Ulna with the Tibia and Fibula in regard to Ossification. 10th year ) .,- i. 5th week I ^ wnitmg at IGch year. ,, „ 20th year. Os Magnum Unciform Scaphoid in 1st year — Cuneiform in 3rd year — femilunar in 6th year — Trapezoid in 8th year — Pisiform in 5th year. from 10th to 12th year. Note that the first bone to ossify is the central bone of the Carpus—the Os Magnum ; and that ths second is its neighbour, the Unciform — both in the first year ; that the third bone to ossify, ossifies in the third year ; the fourth and fifth in the fifth, and the sixth in thi sixth year. Note also the order as shown in the Diagram, and the sequence of the numbers. Metacarpus Phalanges ^ One Centre for Shaft } „ ,, ,, Head appearing about 6th week ,, 3rd year i;niting at 20th ye.ir. ,, ,, Shaft ,, ,, 1st to 2nd month 1 ■o ( in bones of 1st row, ,, 3rd ,, 4th year \ „ at 20th year. " " J^ase^ „ 2nd and 3rd rows, „ 4th „ 5th „ ) 7-2Os Innominatum (Eight Centres) Femur Patella Uuiting at 25th year „ „ 20th year Tarsus Ossification of Bones—contimied. (Rami join at 7th year) ^ One for Ilium appearing about 1st or 2nd month „ Ischium „ ,, 3rd „ „ Pubes „ ,, 4th or 5th ,, „ Crest of Ilium ,, Anterior Inferior Spine | ,, Symphysis Pubes }■ appearing at puberty „ Tuber Ischii j „ Y-shaped piece in Acetabulum , Lower Extremity appearing just before birth (beginning of 1st year) Head Great Trochanter „ Shaft Small Trochanter ,, appearing about 3rd year. Tibia. At birth—(1st year) — \ 5 th week — \ Snd year — end of 1st year ( 2nd 4th ) 5th week—ossifying next after Clavicle at puberty Astragalus Calcaneum Cuboid 6tli month. Upper Extremity — Shaft — Lower Extremity — External Cuneiform Internal ,, — 7th ., — 9th ,, Middle Scaphoid —4th to 5th year Tubercle on Os Calcis — 10th „ 4th [ uniting at puberty. with other parts by 25th year Fibula. 4th year 5th week I \ 2nd year 1st year. 3rd ,, uniting at 20th year. ,, 18th ,, [ uniting at 25th year. „ 20th „ Compare with the Carpus, ami see DiagTam. Metatarsus and Phalanges. Tliese Bones ossify similarly to, but a little later than the corresponding Bones in the Hand, the first Metatarsal is like a Phalanx in development. N.B.—The numhers in'intcd in Block Type have in each case some relation to one another.UNION. CENTRES. OS INNOMINATUM. FEMUR. 1 — 2m/ 4 — 6 m/ ^^-IS y 4>^- 15, 16^ BONES OF LEG.— Tl BIA FIBULA, TARSUS:- /CALCAN EUM ASTRAGALUS Tost.yar, CUBOID MID CUNEIFM EXT. CUNEIFM. INT CL/NElF'r*51 LIGAMENTS OF VERTEBRA. There are tliree groups, each sub-divisible into ihrci?. { Supraspinous (a)—over Spinous Processes, attached to I Post. Common (b)— „ Bodies posteriorly „ „ I Ant. Common (c)— „ „ anteriorly „ „ ( (a)—broader hclo)v than above ^ \ (b)— „ ahoni ,, below .■ consisting of . ( (c)— „ below ,, above ) COMMON LIGA- MENTS Three,—each sin(]lc from Sacrum to 2nd Ccrv, ,, „ „ Occipital. r INTERVERTEBRAL Three | 'tingle Ug. ( „ of Ligs. ^ Intervertebral Disc (a)—between contiguous Bodies ( Two Ligamenta Subflava (b) — ,, ( (a)—adherent to surrounding Ligaments (b)-attached to \ "PP^"^ "^f of Lamina below ] ( inner surjace ,, „ above \ a} arcs, margins of Bodies and Intervertebral Discs ditto „ Sacrum to 2nd C'erv. superficial fibres joining several Vertebrre. intermediate ,, „ two or three „ deep ,, ,, contiguous „ increasing in thickness from above downwards, of uniform depth in the Dorsal Region. ( deeperin front than behind in the other Regions. , Laminic, increasinri vn strength from above downwards. ■ ,. c \ circumferential concentric fibrous lamina:, consistmg ot ^ globular elastic pulp. elastic tissue with fibres vertical. LIGAMENTS OF PROCESSES Three pairs Movements ( Interspinous, rudimentary in the Cervical Region, narrow in the Dorsal, broad and strong in the Lumbar, •j Intertransverse, ,, ,, ,, „ baud-like „ ,, membranous ,, „ (Capsular, long and loose „ ,, „ shorter and firmer in the Dorsal and Lumbar. I Flexion is most free in the lower Lumbar Region, less so in the Cervical, nearly impossible in the Dorsal. ) Extent' \ Lateral morement Rotation upper Cervical ,, Dorsal Lumbar, Cervical, Lumbar. OCCIPITO-ATLOID AND ATLO-AXOID LIGAMENTS. ( Anterior Occipito-atloid, —from Anterior Arch of Atlas to Anterior Margin of For. Magnum / „„ i i 11 \ cord-like in mid-line. I Anterior Atlo-axoid, — ,, ,, „ ,, „ „ ,, ,, Body of Axis \ eacn aouuie | membranous laterally. J Posterior Occipito-atloid,— ( Posterior Atlo-axoid, — Posterior ,, lor. Mamum , , \ u f A ■ ' } each membranous. ,, Arch ot Axisy ) ,, „ Posterior ,, „ Superior ^ Capsulai l^^j^^^^^^^^^*^^ I surrounding each pair of Articular Processes, thin, loose, and strong externally. 2 Lateral Occipito-atloid,—cord-like, from root of Transverse Process of Atlas to Jugular Process of Occipital Bone. Rotation of the Head is produced by movement of the Atlas on the Axis. Movements { Nodding „ „ „ „ „ „ „ Occipital Bone „ Atlas. Lateral Movement ,, ,, „ ,, „ „ „ Cervical Vertebra'.OOOIPITO-AXOID LIGAMENTS. 52 Four in number, lying superposed in the Spinal Canal, over the posterior surface of the Odontoid Process. hdow to Body of Axis Post. Common, Occipito-axoid, Transverse, Odontoid, —broad, attached —cord-likc ,, —cruciform „ —triple ,, laterally „ Atlas beloiv „ Odontoid Process (lower border of posterior surface), (upper part „ „ ,, ). (to Tubercles on Lateral Masses ), by transverse part, („ root), ,, vertical „ („ apex), ,, central fasciculu?. („ sides of apex), ,, 2 lateral fasciculi. Above all four arc attached to the Basilar Process and the margin of the Foramen Magnum, the lateral Odon- toid bands being fixed to special depressions on the sides of the Foramen. The Transverse Ligament is separated from the facet on the posterior surface of the Odontoid Troccss by-a synovial mcrabnmc. It also aids in uniting the Atlas and Axis. VERTEBRO-COSTAL LIGAMENTS. , p., ,. , , Uiy its Head with the Bodies of two contiguous Dorsal Yertebne and the intermediate Intervertebral Disc. A iviD aiucmaccb | „ Tubercle „ „ extremity of the Transverse Process of the lower of the two Vertcbnu. In each joint it is retained by three Ligaments. LIGAMENTS UNITING HEADS OF RIBS AND VERTEBRiE. Stellate, * —triple, attached exter. to front of Head of Rib, and inter, to Intervertebral Disc and Bodies of contiguous Vertebrw. Interarticular, * —short ,, ,, „ ridge on „ „ ,, ,, „ ,, „ Capsular, —thin and loose, surrounding joint. LIGAMENTS UNITING RIBS AND TRANSVERSE PROCESSES OF VERTEBRiE. Ant.Costo-transverse—broad, strong,attached to upper border of Neck of Rib, and to lower border of Transverse Process above. Middle Posterior -.«hort „ posterior surface „ ,, non-articularpart „ Tubercle „ anterior surface apex adjacent. The Anterior Ligament is deficient in the case of the 1st Rib. The j\Iiddle and Posterior Ligaments are ,, ,, „ „ 11th ,, All three Ligaments ,, ,, ,, „ „ 12th ,, A Capsular Ligament is also described as surrounding the Joint. In the case of those Joints in which the Rib articulates with one Vertebra only, the Stellate Lkjamcni consists of but two parts (one connected with the articu- lating Vertebra, the other with the Vertebra above), and the Inle.rarticv.lar lijament is absent.LIGAMENTS OF VERTEBR/E..ATLO-AXOID LIGAMENTS OCCIPITO-ATLOID LIGAMENTS. ArvUrvOT PostC'riarCOSTO-STERNAL LIGAMENTS. 53 Anterior, —like Stellate, radiating over Sternum from front of Cartilage. Posterior, — ,, ,, ,, „ back „ „ Capsular, —very thin, surrounding the Joint. Synovial Cavities — The 1st Cartilage is continuous with the Sternum without intervening Cavity. „ 2nd ' articulates „ ,, ,, by a double Joint, with Interarticular Cartilage. „ Cartilages from the 3rd to the 7th articulate ,, „ ,, ,, .s/^j/Ze Joints, without „ ,, The 3rd Articulation is sometimes double. In old .ige the Synovial cavities disapj^ear. The Costo-xiphoid Ligament unites the 7th Costal Cartilage with the Xiphoid Cartilage anteriorly, INTEROHONDRAL AND STERNAL LIGAMENTS. The Cartilages of the last true Rib (the 7th) and of the Eibs on either side of it (the 6th and 8th) articulate with each other by small synovial joints midway between their extremities. The Ribs and Cartilages are directly continuous with each other. The Sternum „ Xiphoid Cartilage „ ,, ,, ,, ,, „ The 2nd piece of the Sternum is usually united with the 1st by a fixed Joint. 854 LIGAMENTS OF CLAVICLE. STEBNO-CLAVICULAR LIGAMENTS. Anterior, —broad, attached to contiguous anterior surfaces of Sternum and Clavicle. Posterior, — „ posterior ,, „ ,, ,, ,, ( above to upper part of articular surface of Clavicle. Interartic. Fibro-cart.—a flat disc „ Jbelovj ,, junction of Cart, of 1st Rib and Sternum, front andbehind ,, Ligaments of Joint. ACROMIO-CLAVICULAE, LIGAMENTS. Interartic. Eibro-cart.,—a flat disc, attached by circumference to Ligaments of Joint only, often imperfect. Superior, —broad to contiguous upper surfaces of Acromion and Clavicle. Inferior, _ „ lo^er „ Compare xVcromio- and Stcrno-clavicular Ligaments. INTEECLAVICULAR LIGAMENT, Interclavicular, —a strong band attached \ extremities to non-articular surfaces of Sternal Ends of Clavicles, ' (intermediately ,, upper edge of Manubrium Sterni. COSTO-CLAVICULAR LIGAMENT. Rhomboid, -short and strong, attached 1 ^f"'" *° Cartilage of 1st Rib. ( above ,, Rhomboid Depression on Clavicle. CORACO-CLAVICULAR LIGAMENTS. Trapezoid, -quadrilateral, horizontal, attached \ *° ^^,1^ °^ anterior border of Coracoid Process -quadrilateral, horizontal, attached ''T"' *° ° '^o™"' Process ( above ,, oblique line on under suriace oi Clavicle externally. Conoid, conical vertical \ apex, to inner side of base of Coracoid Process. ' " ( above to Conoid Tubercle and contiguous border of Clavicle. CORACO-ACROMIAL LIGAMENT. Coraco-acromial, -triangular, with thick edges, attached \ *° of Acromion Process. o ) " j jjf^gf posterior border of Coracoid ,,LIGAMENTS OF CLAVICLE. CORACO-ACROMIAL — ACROMIO-CLAVIC CORACO-CLAVIC C03T0-CLAVIC STERNO" CLAVIC INTERCLAVIC. (Stif^er/or \ (y/n-trr/cr \ FISRO-CARTILAGES. Of Acromial/ Joini,. OfSicrnaic/oCnf. Jntu-ccri- FcSro-Citri, Acre Jrderarl.Tibro. Cart Carl. fWjiii ATTACHMENT OF LIGAMFNTS ETC; round CQRACOID PROCESS. .Co/wld Li^fSHOULDER-JOINT RELATION or LIGAMENTS ETC. RELATION OFBURS/E.LIGAMENTS OP SHOULDER JOINT. 55 —pvlindrioal loose thin attached \ "^"""^ *° margin of Glenoid Cavity external to Glenoid Ligament. —cylmdrical, loose, thm, attached | j^^^^^ Anatomical Neck of Humerus. outer side of root of Coracoid Process, upper edge „ Gt. Tuberosity of Humerus. 6e?02t', united with „ ,, Triceps. Capsular, Cor aco-humeral, —a thickened band in Capsule above, lying over long head of Biceps, attached to Inferior, Glenoid, —a cartilaginous ring within ,, ,, ,, ( One in front, under Subscapularis Tendon, ctlwayit Bursas (three), < ,, behind, ,, Infraspinatus „ sometimes { „ above, ,, Deltoid Muscle, never ,, Biceps, attached to margin of Glenoid Cavity, communicating with Joint. ,, ,, ,, separated by Supraspinatus. There is also an opening in the Capsule for the Tendon of the Biceps, which latter is surrounded by a reflection of Synovial Membrane. Movements, —in every direction, supplemented by movements of the Scapula, regulated chiefly by Muscles (which see). LIGAMENTS OP ELBOW JOINT. Anterior, !, , •!./-< -i-n iTj. ) the swBsr/icia^ fibres are oblique. aJoyetomargmofCoronoidFossa and Interna Condyle „ intermediate „ „ transverse. below „ „ „ Process and Orbicular Ligament | ^| ^^^^^^ 'J^ vertical. Posterior, — „ loose above ,, upper part of Olecranon Fossa below „ margin ,, ,, Process „ superficial ,, transverse. Internal Lateral,—triangular External Lateral,— „ narr( above „ Internal Condyle of Humerus below, ant. to Coronoid Proc., post, to Olecranon Proc., intermediately tofibrous band between them. above to External Condyle of Humerus. below „ Orbicular Ligament and outer margin of Ulna. The Synovial Membrane is prolonged into Radio-nlnar Joint. 8-256 LIGAMENTS OP RADIO-ULNAR JOINTS. SUPERIOK, AK.TICULATION. , . 1 fi + 1 1 j attached by finds to extremities of Lesser Sigmoid Cavity, uroicuiar, --a nat oaiKi ^ gj,gij,gii„g ^^^^ Radius—more tightly below than above—lined by Synovial Membr. of Elbow-joint. MIDDLE ARTICULATION Round Ligament—cord-like Interosseous Membrane fibrous passing from Tubercle of Ulna doim and oid to Radius just below Tuberosity, having Tendon of Biceps above it, and Posterior Interosseous Vessels heloio it. passing from the bone more supported below (Radius) down and in to the bone less supported below (Ulna).' I united by margins to Interosseous Borders of Radius and Ulna. I The Anterior Interosseous Artery perforates it helon\ „ Posterior „ ,, passes backwards above between its upper border and the Round Lig. INFERIOR ARTICULATION Anterior, —narrow, Posterior, — ,, passing from anterior margin of Sigmoid Cavity of Radius to anterior surface of Head of Ulna. ,, „ x>osteriov ,, ,, „ „ „ posterior ,, ,, „ bi/ apex to depression in front of Styloid Process of Ulna. „ base „ ridge between Ulnar and Carpal articular surfaces of Radius. The Synovial Memljrane (Meml)rana Sacciformis) is distinct from (sometimes continuous with) that of Wrist Joint. Triangular Car- ) -s ^ tilage i ^^"achcd LIGAMENTS OP WRIST JOINT. Posterior | '"e™^i'2^"0i^'s> passing from Radius and Fibro-cartilage down and in to Bones of 1st Row of Carpus. External Lateral—short, strong ,, ,, Styloid Process of Radius to Scaphoid and Trapezs^'and to Anterior Annular Ligament. Internal Lateral— „ „ „ „ „ „ „ Ulna „ Cuneiform „ Pisiform „ „ „ The Synovial Membrane is single, and sometimes continuous with Membrana Sacciformis. The chief hbres of the Anterior Ligament of the Elbow Joint and those of the Round Ligament are directed down and out, whereas those of the Interosseous Membrane and the Anterior and Posterior Ligs. of Wrist ,, ,, ,, ,, in. • As ill lower Extremity.RADIO -ULMAR JOINTS.ETC. JJireUurrt yf Tibizs of Lig'^ o Inse-rtbon- of ^icc/os - a. lost. I''Ji^-<rsse.-aits Art ~ L. ArJ. Jnt&i'css&r^s Arl~ c. T /- M ' jnicycrsscaocj iKt/npra.ne CARPO-METACARPAL LIGTl UI reckon fff l^Lres. PAL.VIAR LIGTS-. DORSAL LIGTS-.CARPAL LIGAMENTS, Etc. 57 LIGAMENTS OF EACH ROW. Palmar Dorsal short bands passing between contiguous bones. _ , ( 2 in 1st Row, one on each side of the Semilunar Bone, passing to Scaphoid and Cuneiform, interosseous | ^ gnd „ „ „ „ Os Magnum „ „ Trapezoid ,, Unciform. The Pisiform Bone is united to tlie Cuneiform by a Capsule lined by synovial membrane. EEN THE TWO BOWS. I short bands, passing between contiguous bones. LIGAMENTS BETWEEN THE TWO BOWS Palmar Dorsal Lateral External, the stronger ,, ,, Scaphoid and Trapezium. Internal, ,, weaker ,, ,, Cuneiform ,, Unciform. The Common Synovial Membrane, between the 1st and 2nd Rows, sends prolongations between the contiguous bones in each Row, and is prolonged below into the four inner Carpo-metacarpal Joints. LIGAMENTS OF OABPO-METACARPAL JOINTS. The First Joint (that of the Thumb), is a Special Joint witli its own Capsule and Synovial Membrane. In the other Carpo-metacarpal Joints, the Ligaments are as follow : the 2nd from \ Trapezoid!' Os Magnum. Unciform. The other Bones each receive one fasciculus, the 3rd from Os Magnum, the 5th from Unciform. Palmar, —as in Dorsal, except that the 3rd has two extra bands, one from Trapezium, the other from Unciform. Dorsal ( the 2nd from j Trapezoid^ The 2nd and 4th Metacarpal Bones each receive two fasciculi < ; ^a^nur I ' " " I Unciform. ( single, between contiguous inferior margins of Os Magnum and Unciform, and Ulnar side of Base of 3rd Metacarpal. Interosseous < This Ligament sometimes isolates the cavity of the Joint between Unciform and 4th and 5th Metacarpals ( from the Common Synovial Cavity.58 Carpal Ligaments, etc.—continued. LIGAMENTS OF INTERMETACARPAL JOINTS. The Bases are united by Dorsal, Palmar and Interosseous Ligaments. '„ Digital Extremities ,, „ by the Transverse Ligament, which is connected with ant. surfaces of Metacarpo-phalangealJoints LIGAMENTS OF METACARPO-PHALANGEAL AND INTERPHALANGEAL JOINTS. ... I Fibre-cartilaginous, connected with Base of Bone beloiv, free over head of Bone above. Anterior | grooved in front for Flexor tendons, united laterally with Lateral Ligaments. Posterior, —deficient, its place being taken by Extensor Tendon. Lateral, —strong, cord-like, between lateral surfaces of contiguous bones In the Hand, the smaller Member, there are 5, sometimes 6 Synovial Cavities. ,, Foot „ larger ,, „ 6 „ 7 ,,ARTICULATIONS OP THE PELVIS. 59 LIGAMENTS OF THE SACRO-ILIAC JOINT. Anterior, —thin, irregular, connecting contiguous anterior surfaces of Sacrum and Ilium. Posterior, —strong „ ,, surface of Ilium above Auricular Facet with the 1st, 2nd and 3rd Posterior Transverse Processes of Sacrum. A special band frem the Post. Sup. Spine of Ilium to the .3rd Post. Transverse Process of Sacrum is caUed the Oblique Sacro-iliac Ligament. There is no joint cavity, the apposed surfaces being united by fibro-cartilage. Lumbo-sacral, —horizontal, triangular, between Transverse Proc. of Jwi Lumbar Vertebra to Ant, Sacro-iliac Lig. and side of Sacrum. Ilio-lumbar, —oblique, „ „ „ „ ,, „ ,, „ „ „ „ contiguous part of Crest of Ilium. Great Sacro-sciatic-triangular j attached i»/roni hy apex to Tuber Ischii (inner margin). ^ . t ^ x,- o • ° ( ,, behind ,, base „ margins oi 4th & 5th Pieces of Sacrum and Coccyx, & Post. Inf. Iliac Spine. Small \ " in frontapex ,, Spine of Ischium " " " ( )) behind ,, base with Great Sacro-sc: behind ,, base with Great Sacro-sciatic Ligament. LIGAMENTS OF SACRO-COCCYGEAL JOINT. ^''^^'terioT'^ i ^'^1^ interposed Fibro-cartilage. LIGAMENTS OF SYMPHYSIS PUBIS. Anterior ( Irregnilar, passing between corresponding surfaces of Pubic Bones, united with Cartilage of Joint. The Anterior Posterior ligament is strong, blended with the Aponeuroses of the Oblique Muscles; the others are weak, with Superior ( scattered fibres, Sub-pubic, —thick, triangular, yellowish, attached lateralhj to margins of Pubic Arch, and above to Fibro-cartilage. Fibro-cartilaee \ ^^^^ between apposed surfaces of Symphysis Pubis ; coir.posed of two layers, separated belorv and in front by fibrous ° \ tissue, above and behind by a rudimentary Synovial Cavity.LIGAMENTS OF HIP-JOINT. 60 CAPSXTLAR, —attached C Ilio-trochanteric—very strong, Ilio-femoral, —Y-sliaped Pubo-femoral, —narrow, Ischio-capsular, —semicircular superiorly, round Acetabulum, to margin below and | inch beyond margin above, wferiorly, to Ant. Intertrochanteric Line in front „ to middle of Neck of Femur behind. connected with reflected head of Eectus int., and tendon of Gluteus Minimus andGt. Trochanter ext. attached to the Anterior Inferior Spine above, and to the Anterior Intertrochanteric line below. the upper edge being blended with the Ilio-trochant. Lig., and the lower edge with the Pubo-femoralLig. attached to Pubes in front of Ilio-pectinealEminence aSore, and to Femur in front of Small Troch. beloiv. I inch wide, in lower edge of Capsule posteriorly. I united by extremilies with the Pubo-femoral band below, and the Ilio-trochanteric above. I „ „ lower border loosely with mid-line of Neck of Femur behind, „ „ upper „ with Capsule and Ischium. COTYLOID, Transverse, LIGAMENTUM TERES -fibro-cartilaginous, attached round margin of Acetabulum within Capsule. -crossing Cotyloid Notch, being a continuation of Cotyloid Ligament, supported by ligamentous fibres. Y-shaped, attached by apex to Notch on Head of Femur, by base to opposite sides of the Fossa in the floor of the Acetabulum. The Synovial Membrane covers the internal surface of the Capsule and the Neck of Femur as far as the attachment of Capsule, and is reflected over both surfaces of the Cotyloid Ligament, the Ligameutum Teres and the Gland of Havers, MOVEMENTS (Extension is limited by Ilio-femoral Ligament. I Abduction ,, „ „ Pubo-femoral „ I Adduction ,, „ „ Ilio-trochanteric „ "'i Flexion is not limited, except by meeting of soft parts. I Rotation out is limited by front of Capsule. I „ in „ „ „ back „ „HIP-JOINT.KNEE -JOINT. POSTERIOR LIG"^, ETC Adductor Mci^is—1^ VloLniouis I (dirtsfnn ' StrnUTUmLn ^emi ttniiirvcsi CAPSULAR LIGAMENT, ETC. ■Plourdajri-s. (jcbstroQ . ( OulerlleaJ). TojoLleccs (jdr&s from, Li^ 1)1 l~]niej-nod Lot Lig- IfOjptt jrom Ca^trot {IruvrJJ&cui). 5 "To^tericrr Xigamenc, 6. ' e -Ca^sulocr -Ligaynenl. k' Ant. C'Vycui-l Zu^^ ^.'AroUriirr . l.'Fhsl. ,. .r grPcsUnar Tn-Int. Ala^ >• i.-Exl ., Li^anunts o.~ MucousLIGAMENTS OF KNEE-JOINT. 61 EXTERNAL LIGAMENTS. Internal Lateral, —a flat band, External Lateral, —a round cord ,,11 { above to Internal Tuberosity of Fumur. below „ „ ,, „ Tibia, and to contiguous part of Bone. Short Ext. Lateral,—(posterior to Long Ext. Lat.) „ above ,, External ,, ,, Femur, below „ ,, side of Head of Fibula. above ,, Outer Head of Gastrocnemius, below „ Styloid Process of Fibula. Under the Internal Lateral Ligament are the Tendon of the Semi-membranosus and the Int. Inf. Articular Artery. ,, „ External ,, „ ,, Popliteus ,, ,, Ext. ,, ,, Over ,, Internal ,, ,, „ Tendons „ Sartorius, Gracilis and Semitendinusus. In front and behind the attachment of the Long Ext. Lateral Ligament is inserted the Tendon of the BicciJS. Anterior Posterior, (Ligamentum PatelUe or I Tendon of Quadriceps Extensor/ ^.plpjg \ 2 lateral parts, vertical " ( 1 central part, oblique attached above to Apex of Patella and contiguous part of Posterior .Surface. ' „ heloiij ,, lower part of Tubercle of Tibia. above „ Heads of Gastrocnemius, it/oio to Tuberosities of Tibia posteriorly ,, outer head of „ „ „ Tendon of Semi-membranosus. Capsular The intervals between the parts arc closed by irregular fibres. To the Posterior Ligament are attached the I'lantaris and Popliteus Muscles. Fills intervals between the other External Ligaments, and is strengthened by reliections from Fascia Lata and sur- rounding Tendons, continuous with anterior border of Internal Lateral Ligament, closely connected with anterior surface of Anterior ,, passing free over outer ,, „ External Lateral Ligament, and continued into „ border ,, Posterior Ligament. The Capsule with the Posterior Ligament thus makes one turn of a spiral. Between the inner border of Posterior Lig., and the posterior border of Int., Lateral Lig t)ie tendon of Senii'mcilibl'anosus is inserted. INTERNAL LIGAMENTS. Anterior Crucial, —oblique, attached below to surface in front of Spine of Tibia, above to inner surface of Outer Condyle of Femur. Posterior Crucial,—vertical „ „ ,, Popliteal Notch of Tibia „ „ outer ,, „ Inner „ „ „ 902 Ligaments of Knee-Joint—continued. Semilunar Cartilages ( attached on opposite sides of Spine of Tibia. External, —nearly circular •! connected antertorli/ with Internal Semilunar Cartilage by Transverse Ligament. ( „ posterloiiij ,, Posterior Crucial Ligament by a single or double band. Internal, -semicircular ( attached anterioiiij to Tibia in front of origin of Anterior Crucial Ligament. \ ,, posteriorly ,, „ ,, „ ,, Posterior ,, ,, Both Cartilages are connected laterally with the margins of Head of Tibia by Coronary Ligaments. ( Suprapatellar Pad under Extensor Tendon. THE FAT round the Patellais dividedinto < Infrapatellar ,, ,, Patellar Ligament, prolonged beyond margins of Patella, chiefly on ( inner side. SYNOVIAL MEMBRANE f lines Capsule and subjacent Fat and is prolonged into six pouches. I beneath Tendon of Quadriceps Extensor above and in front. I ,, Aponeuroses of Vasti laterally. 1 ,, Heads of Gastrocnemius above and behind. ! ,, Tendon of Popliteus below and externally. [^investi also Semilunar Cartilages and Crucial Ligaments. A fold of synovial membrane reflected from over Infrapatellar Pad, round a small vessel to the front of the Intercondyloid Notch, Folds of synovial membrane extending transversely, one inwards and one outwards, over the Infrapatellar Pad beyond margins of Patella. The Internal is the larger. ( Flexion and Extension are the chief movements. Towards the end of Extension tliere is Rotation out,in consequence of theCnrve of the Articular surf, of Int. Condyle. In Semiflexion, Rotation in and out are allowed in consequence of relaxation of Ligaments. The Patella, during Flexion, is sunk in the Intercondyloid Notch, on the lower and outer part of the Joint ; during MOVEMENTS -I Extension it moves upwards and inwards, becoming prominent above the articular surface of Femur. I The Crucial Ligaments limit flexion and extension, and prevent displacement forwards and backwards. The Anterior Crucial Ligament limits Rotation in. The Internal Lateral „ ,, „ out. All the Ligaments, except the Anterior, are made tense in Extension. The Semilunar Cartilages follow the Tibia, moving forwards in Extension, backwards in Flexion. Ligamcntum Muco3um Alar Ligaments (3)KNEE-JOINT.Ligaments of K-nee-Joint—continued. 63 Bursa Patellae, superficial, over lower half of Patella and upper half of Ligamentum Patellte. Infrapatellar Bursa, deep, between Ligamentum Patellae and upper part of Tubercle of Tibia, separated from Joint by Infrapatellar Pad of Fat. BURSiE (6 or 7) -; Bursa over Internal Lateral Lig., between it and the Tendons of Sartorius, Semitendinosus and Gracilis. ,, under External „ „ „ » Tendon of the Popliteus, communicating with .Joint. I A Bursa anteriorly, under Tendon of Quadriceps, frequently communicating with Joint.* [TvroBvLVSse posteriori)/ „ Heads of Gastrocnemius, generally ,, ,, ,, ■ This Bursa often blends witli the Pouch of Synovial Jlembrane prolonged ui^wards from the Joint. The number of Bursse corresponds to the number of Synovial Pouches. In each of the pairs of structures connected with the Knee-joint the inner structure is the larger, except in the case of the pair most superficial (the lateral parts of the Capsule or the Pietinacula) and the pair most deep (the articular surfaces of the Condyles of the Femur). LIGAMENTS OF TIBIA AND FIBULA. UPPER ARTICULATION. Anterior and Posterior, —broad bands between corresponding surfaces of upper ends of Tibia and Fibula. A single Synovial Membrane lines the Joint, ■which is often continuous with that of Knee-Joint. MIDDLE ARTICULATION. ( between Interosseous Borders of Tibia and Fibula. ) -n t i- Interosseous Membrane ] Fibres pass claim and out from Tibia, the bone most supported below. / Memtoane of Forcaniil)"^ ( Perforated above for Anterior Tibial Artery, hdow for Anterior Peroneal Artery ) INFERIOR ARTICULATION, Anterior and Posterior, —between corresponding surfaces of lower ends of Tibia and Fibula. Inferior, —transverse— „ pit on inner side of External Malleolus and lower margin of Tibia posteriorly. Interosseous \ "• apposed rough surfaces of lower ends of Tibia and Fibula, ' \ continuous with Interosseous Membrane. 9-264 LIGAMENTS OF ANKLE-JOINT. Anterior, —membranous, between lower edge of Tibia and upper surface of neck of Astragalus. Posterior, ■—transverse, Y-shaped, from pit on inner side of External Malleolus to posterior margins of Tibia and Astragalus. Internal Lateral,—(Deltoid), from border of Internal Malleolus to Scaphoid, Os Calcis (Lesser Process) and Astragalus. Deeper fibres pass from the apex of the Malleohis to the hmer surface of the Astragahis. ( Anterior Fasciculus, slioiiest, from anterior margin of Ext. Malleolus to Astragalus in front of ext. Facet. External Lateral—triple ^Middle ,, lotige.^t ,, apex ,, „ ,, ,, Os Calcis, about middle of ext. surface. (Posterior ,, strongest ,, pit on int. surf. ,, ,, ,, ,, Astragalus (posterior border). ( above, Posterior Inferior Tiliia-fibular Ligament. Four bands cross the back of the Joint < te/oiy ,, Fasciculus of External Lateral „ (intermediatelij, the two bands of Posterior Ligament of Ankle. The Synovial Membrane is single, and is prolonged slightly between the apposed surfaces of Tibia and Fibula. TARSAL LIGAMENTS, Etc. CALCANEO-ASTRAGALOID LIGAMENTS. External and Posterior,—connecting the contiguous surfaces of Bones. Interosseous, —very strong, attached to the groove on each Bone between the articular surfaces. LIGAMENTS between CUBOID, SCAPHOID and CUNEIFORM BONES. Dorsal, Plantar and Interosseous passing between the contiguous surfaces of the Bones. CALCANEO-CUBOID and CALCANEO-SCAPHOID LIGAMENTS. [Metatarsals. \ Inferior Calcaneo-Cuboid (Long Plantar) passes from Os Calcis (under surface) to Cuboid (ridge) and to bases of 2nd, 3rd and 4th ( ( ,, ,, ,, (Short Plantar) ,, ,, „ (depressioninfrontof Ant. TubercIe)toCuboid(depressionbehindridge). ( J Superior ,, ,, ,, between the contiguous surfaces of the Bones. I Internal ,, ,, (Interosseous) ,, from Cuboid (inner side) ) , rv/-^i-/ crni.-r> \ l l\ ^ :i ;> V V '/to Os Calcis (upper surf, of Greater Process) together (Superior „ Scaphoid „ „ Scaphoid (outer side) ( forming a Y-shaped Ligament. (Inferior „ ,, „ ,, „ (undersurf.)toOsCalcis(LesserProc.)andsupport3Headof Astragalus. LIGAMENTS OF TARSO-METATAKSAL JOINTS. Dorsal, Plantar and Interosseous,—see Diagram for attachments, etc. Ligaments of Intermetatarsal, Metatarso-Phalangeal and Interphalangeal Joints. These are arranged in the same manner as in the Hand. In the Foot, the larger Member, there are 6 sometimes 7 Synovial IVZembraues ,, ,, Hand ,, smaller ,, ,, ,, 5 ,, ijMUSCLES.67 MUSCLE OF SCALP. OCCIPITO-FRONTALIS. Occi]oitalis, —strong, armng from outer frds of Sup. Curved Line of Occipital Bone, and sometimes Mastoid Process. Frontalis, —weak ,, ,, Internal Angular Process of Frontal ,, ,, „ Ext. Ang. ,, Epicranial Aponeurosis Both parts are inserted into tlie Epicranial Aponeurosis, above Orbit, The Frontalis at its origin is blended with the Muscles f connected behind with Occipitales, and with Superior Curved Lines between them. I ,, in front „ Frontales, filling up the angular space between them. „ laleralli] „ Zygoma, extending over Temporal Fascia. „ mperficialli] „ the Skin, by dense fibro-cellular tissue. I „ deeply „ Pericranium ,, loose ,, ,, ,, MUSCLES OF FACE. Three Muscles are connected with the Orbit. I Six ,, ,, ,, )) ,j Nose. Nine ,, converge towards „ Mouth, around the orifice of which there is an additional circular muscle. MUSCLES AROUND ORBIT, Orbicularis Palpebrarum, consisting of three parts :— ( Internal Angular Process. ( Orbital, composed of coarse, red fibres which form complete ellipses, attached to < Tendo Oculi. Palpebral ,, tine, pale ,, ,, half Margin of Orbit internally. Tendon Oculi ,, Ext. Tarsal Ligament externally'. V Ciliary ,, ,, a small bundle of ,, ,, ,, complete ,, unattached to Bone, encircling Margins of Eyelids. Corrugator Su- J attached to inner end of Superciliary Ridge of Frontal Bone internally. percilii ( blended with Orbicularis Palpebrarum opposite middle of Orbital Arch externally. Tensor Tarsi \ ^^^^'^■^^^ *° Crest and contiguous sui-face of Lachrymal Bone internally. \ blended with Orbicularis Palpebrarum in each lid opposite Punctum Lachrymale externally.G8 - Muscles of Face—continued. MUSCLES OF THE NOSE. f Pyramidalis, —(the only Face Muscle unattached to Bone) blended with Occipito-frontalis above and Compressor Naris Mow. ■{ Compressor Naris, —triangular, attached by apex to Canine Fossa externalli), and by base to opposite Muscle internalbj. I I Depressor Alse Nasi,—quadrilateral ,, „ Incisive ,, below., ,, to Sejitum and Ala of Nose aJovc. I Dilatator Naris Anterior^ | attached to Sesamoid Cartilages and Cartilage of Ala aboce, and to Skin of Ala bdoic. Levator Labii Sup. Alasque Nasi (see Muscles of Mouth), MUSCLES OF MOUTH. Orbicularis Oris, —consisting of two parts :— \ Labial, —composed of fine, pale fibres, forming ellipses round the aijerfcure, unattached to Bone. I Facial, — ,, „ coarse, red ,, blending with Muscles ,, ,, ,, attached ,, ,, asunder. \ in Upper Lip by tiro slips on each side, one from the Canine Eminence, the other from the Nasal Septum. \ „ Lower ,, ,, one slip ,, ,, „ „ „ „ only, ( three pass from above to blend with the Orbicularis in tlie Upper Lip. Of the other 9 Muscles < „ ,, „ beloiv „ „ Lower ,, ( „ ,, obliqvehj ,, „ ,, at the Angle of the Mouth. AH, with the exception of the Levator Menti, blend more or less at their insertion with the Orbicularis. Muscles of the Upper Lip. Levator Ateque Nasi, -arising from Nasal Process of Superior Maxilla, giving off two slips j V^^^ !°iirof°N^se."^''^''"°"'' !above with Orbicularis Palpebrarum, JSS:: z^g^miiiS^^r' beloio „ Orbicularis Oris, „ Anguli Oi-is, — „ Canine Fossa, continued below into Depressor Anguli Oris partly.MUSCLES OF FACE ^l~Corni^aior fSupercilii. X'Crhiculayts TcLlpearar'uni Ten,sar Tccrsi 5 "(xm^ressoT Ncu-is 6. -Repressor Alee Nasi yrJJdahlwr ]\LrLs Ard. " Tc,i. ^. -L er Loan Sup. A Icecp^ y^ks i. ^0- lur. LaLiL Superi oris ■/'/.'2.er. Aizcfull 0ns ■13. ~ 7,if^(rmaJ:u:.u,s Miner. /S. -jJ&/sre^Sirr A/iOf. 0ns /i5 ' JJeprosscrr Acchii Inf. 'h.-lcyat<rr Menti M. 'Ath-akens (to tassa ajUelU) ■If.-ktCclhn^ (Ar^t.ka) 20 -TlttrcJt^nS ( ■■ Ccmcli^) Z^r GrfjLCulcu-ii Oris69 Muscles of Face—coniimicd. Muscles of the Ansrle of the Mouth. Zygomaticus Minor, ,, Major, Erisorius, -arising from anterior part of Malar Boim—innei-ted with Levator Labii Superioris. - „ „ posterior „ „ _ „ ^ Orbicularis Oris. Masseteric Fascia I Depressor Aiiguli Oris. Muscles of the Lower Lip. Levator Menti, Depressor Labii Inf., -conical, urliiiKj from Incisive Fossa Inserted into Integuments of Chin, -quadrilateral ,, Ext. Oblique LinebelowMentalForamen, blending with. Orbicularis Oris&Platysma. Anguli Oris,—triangular ext. to Muscles of Angle of Mouth, overlapping Depressor Labii Inferioris. Under the Depressor Anguli Oris are the Labial Branches of the Inferior Dental Vessels and Nerve. Over ,, Levator ,, ,, Facial „ ,, Infraorbital ,, ,, ,, ' Orbictdaris Palpehrarur. Actions The Orbital Part acts in forcible contraction, rolling up the Skin round the Orbit. ,, Palpebral „ „ ,, ordinary winking, closing and drawing in the Eyelids. ,, Ciliary „ „ by slightly elevating the Eyelashes. Tensor Tarsi draws the Puncta Lachrymalia inwards and backwards, and compresses the Lachrymal Sac. Orbicularis Oris The Facial Part protrudes the edges of the Lipa. ,, Labial „ turns in ,, ,, ,, ,, and diminishes the aperture between them, . The Actions of the other Muscles may be understood from their names or positions. id70 MUSCLES OF ORBIT. f Superior Rectus,—narrowest, arising from iqjjK-v part of Optic Foramen aud Sheath of Optic N. by common tendon. Internal ,, —broadest, ,, ,, I Inferior ,, ,, ,, loieer ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, „ » I ( by Upper Head ,, ,, upper and oilier ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, „ ,, ,, >, -J External ,, < I lo'ivr „ ,, ,, ,, ' ,, ,, ,, „ „ „ ,> ( ,, Lower ,, < spine on outer margin of Sphenoidal Fissure. I ( fibrous band between points of origin from bone. I,The Recti are inserted into the Sclerotic at equidistant points, | in. from the Cornea. ( Superior Oblique,—arising from Roof of Orbit above and internal to Common Tendon, inserted into upper, back and outer part of Sclerotic. I Inferior ,, — „ ,, Floor,, ,, at inner side, ant. to Lachrymal Groove ,, close to Superior Oblique. The Oblique Muscles cross helow the corresponding Recti. ,, Superior Oblique passes between the Superior Rectus and the Eyeball. ,, Inferior ,, ,, ,, ,, Inferior „ „ „ Floor of the Orbit, (,, also „ ,, External „ „ „ Eyeball). Levator Palpebrse Superioris,—arising from Roof of Orbit in front of Optic Foramen, inserted into anterior surface of Tarsal Cartilage ( The External and Internal Recti turn the Eyeball in corresponding directions. Actions ^ " 'S^P^""' " Inferior ,, ,, „ ,, „ ,, ,, and also inwards. ) ,, ,, Oblique turns,, ,, down and out, acting with Inferior Rectus. ( ,, Inferior ,, ,, „ ,, u^s ,, ,, ,, Superior ,, EYELIDS, In the Upper Lid there are seven layers from before back as follows :— 1. Skin. •2. Orbicularis Palpebrarum (Palpebral portion) Muscle. 3. Tarsal Ligament. 4. Levator Palpebrce Superioris Tendon. 5. Tarsal Cartilage. 6. Layer of Meibomian Glands. 7. Conjunctiva [Mucous Membrane). Each of these hiyel's is different in nature froiii the others, Tho Tendon formifg the Central Layer is absent in the Lower Lid, otherwise the hiyere in that Lid are tho same as in the Upper Lid.ORIGINS or RECTI FROM WALL OF ORBIT. Ar Optic Jorc I F^^t Ri^ohLe -{l^jaer ffeaJ). 3-Sup. J, RELATION or MUSCLES TO AXES or ORBiT AMD EYEBALL. J 'Internal Rtctu. ij-'BufieruLAYERS IN UPP£R EYELID.MUSCLES OP THE E^^^^-MAXILLARY REGION. 71 The Relations of the chief structures in and near the Region are as follows :— Internal to Ramus of Inferior Maxilla. Posterior to Rann^^s of Inferior Maxilla. ^ Internal Jfaxillary Artcrii and Branches. I External Pterygoid Muscle ( Parotid Gland Inferior Maxillary i\' rix and Branches. Internal Pterygoid Muscle Aiier'ieii of Pharynx (see Arteries.) '(^Pharynx (Superior Constrictor Muscle chiefly) t E.clcrdal Carotid Artery, containing-( „ Jugular Vein. (Facia Nerve. Styloid Process C Internal Carotid Artery, overlying • ,, .Jugular Vein. ( Deep Nerve.s of Keck. Pharynx (Superior Constrictor chiefly). The most superficial of the Muscles, viz., the Masseter, is inserted into the outer surface of the Piamus, and the rfeepps< „ „ ,, „ Internal Pterygoid ,, ,, ,, ,, inner ,, ,, „ ,, They are both four-sided, and parallel in direction, and they act by ckratinr/ the Jaw. Of the two intermediate Muscles :—• The Temporal triangular, is inserted into the Coronoid Proc. chiefly, and acts by ekntthuj the Jaw, and retracting it. ,, External Pterygoid ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, Condyloid ,, ,, ,, ,, projectiwj ,, ,, The Temporal aids in elevating the Jaw, and is itself assisted by the deeper fibres of the Masseter in retracting it. ,, External Pterygoid is aided in projecting the Jaw by the Internal Pterygoid and by the superficial fibres of the Masseter, The fifth Muscle, the Buccinator, anterior to the others, forms the lateral wall of the Mouth, and aids in mastication by helping to keep the food between the teeth, Origins of the Muscles. Temnoral from the \ temporal Fossa (except the posterior surface of the Malar Bone), ^ \ „ Fascia. Masseter \ ^^^^^'^ Process of Superior Maxilla, and anterior 3 of lower edge of Zygomatic Arch by superficial part, " " I Inner surface of Zygomatic Arch „ posterior A,, „ „ „ „ „ „ deep ,, Ext. Pterygoid „ „ j 1^ JfeJg^f^PlS ioufcT "t") I ""^'^^ Heads, between which passes the Int. Maxillary Art. 10-2Mviscles of the -maxillary Region—continued. 7-^4. TDj-,, f 4.1 S External Pterygoid Plate (inner surface). Xnt. Pterygoid, from the | Tuberosities of Palate Bone and Superior Maxilla. Buccinator ,, Insertions of the Jluscles. \ Temporal, ( External Pterygoid, Masseter, Internal Pterygoid, Buccinator, ( outer edge of the Alveolar Process of both Jaws opposite the Molar Teeth. ( Pterygo-maxillary Ligament. —into the Coronoid Process, and Anterior Border of the Eamus of the Jaw. — „ ,, Condyloid „ (neck) ,, luterarticular Fibro-cartilage ,, ,, Joint. — ,, ,, outer surface of the Piamus. — „ ,, inner „ ,, „ ,, (below Dental Foramen). — ,, „ Muscles at Angle of Mouth, some of its fibres from above decussating with some from below. There are Jive muscular attachments to the Lower .Jaw, of which the limit is marked by the Last Molar Tooth. On Oiiiei- Surface Masseter, Buccinator, IniermedkUehj,—Temporal (on anterior margin of Ramus). On Inner Surface \ ^fP^™'' Constrictor. Mylo-hyoid. ( Appearing above its upper border Eelation of External Pterygoid J to Nerves 1 helow „ lower in front, between Heads of Origin, Deep Temporal Nerves. Masseteric Nerve !Inferior Dental „ Gustatory ,, Buccal Nerve (which usually supplies it). behind, posterior to tendon of Insertion, Auriculo-Temporal Nerve.LONGUS COLLI. MUSCLCS OF POST. TRIANGLE. arbvltnius ''I'' Cerr.Vert.PLEXORS OF NEOK. The Flexors of the Neck are the Three Scalenes, the Three Recti, and the Longus Colli, )■• i Tubercle on Anterior Arch of Atlas. I upper Oblique portion ^ Transverse Processes of Middle three Cervical Yertebr;e (3rJ, 4th andSth). Longus Colli, at-J , J„ „ ,, „ lower ,, „ ,, [{except 7th). tached by ^ " " -'^ T. , ^median vertical „ Bodies of upper three Dorsal VertebrsB. „ ,, ,, ,, and lower three Cervical Vertebrre. „ three Cervical Vertebraj next below the 1st (2nd, 3rd and 4th) Recti—Origins. R. Anticus Major,—from middle three Cervical Vertebrre (.3rd, 4th, 5th) and also the 6th—(anterior Transverse Processes). Si. ,, Minor,— ,, Atlas—(anterior margin of Lateral Mass and root of Transverse I'rocess). E. Lateralis, — ,, —(upper surface of Transverse Process). Recti—Insertions. In the order of insertion before back on the Occipital Bone in the case of the Recti Antici and Postici the Major Muscle comes first, Rectus Lateralis being intermediate between the two sets. Thus :— The Rectus Anticus Major is inserted close by the mid-line on the Basilar Process, ,, ,, „ Minor,, ,, behind and external to it, ,, ,, Lateralis „ ,, on the under surface of the Jugular Process, ,, ,, Posticus Major,, ,, „ „ outer part of the Inferior Curved Line, ,, ,, Minor,, ,, close by the mid-line behind (the Occipital Crest). Sec Diagram of the Occliiital Bone. Scaleni—Origins. S. Anticus, —from First Rib near anterior end (from Tubercle on Inner Border, between Subclavian Groove). S. Medius, — ,, ,, „ „ posterior „ (along a line from the Tubercle to Groove for Subclavian Artery). S. Posticus, — ,, Second,, „ „ „ (between attachments of Serratus Magnus and Serratus Post. Sup.). Scaleni—Insertions. S. Anticus, — to middle three Cervical Vertebra and also to the 6th —(Anterior Tubercles of Transverse Processes). S. Medius, — ,, lower six „ ,, (exc. last sometimes)—(Posterior „ „ „ „ ). S. Postzcus, — , „ three „ ,, —( „ „ „ „ „ ).74 Plexors of l^eck—conHmied. The Longus Colli and Recti Antici enter into the floor of the Anterior Triangle, ,, Scalene Muscles „ ,, ,, „ ,, Posterior in front the Internal Jugular Vein. behind „ Vertebral Artery. to outer side „ Occipital ,, ,, timer „ „ Anterior Division of 1st Cervical Nerve. Kelations of Rectus Lateralis The four muscles entering into the floor of the Posterior Triangle, viz. : Splenius, Levator Anguli Soapulie, Scalenus Medina and Scalenus Anticus, overlap each other near the Vertebrse, but diverge as they pass outwards, so as to clear one another below. The uppermost, the Splenius, is fixed by its highest point of attachment to the Slull. ,, next ,, Levator Anguli Scapula^ „ „ „ ,, ,, ., ,, ,, „ 1st Cervical Vertebrte. ,, ,, ,, Scalenus Medius ,, „ „ ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, „ ,, 2nd ,, ,, „ lowest ,, ,, Anticus „ „ ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, „ ,, 3rd ,, ,, I SoTAnguli Scapuh-e i ^''^ » tl^eir„ „ „ „ „ 3rd „ J Scalenus Medius ) o.i ) ,, Anticus { " " ' " == " " M " ' The first two , ,, otherFlexors of 'i^eck—confimied. 75 STERNO-CLEIDO-MASTOID. Origin Insertion i by inner Head, round and tendinous, from upper and outer part of anterior surface of Manubrium. ( „ outer ,, flat „ muscular ,, inner half or third „ ,, ,, „ Clavicle. „ aponeurosis, „ tendon on outer ,, ,, ,, ,, Superior Curved Line of Occijjital Bone. „ Surface of Mastoid Process. f by superfckd surface, with Integuments, External Jugular Vein, and Superficial Branches of Cervical Plexus. delations , ,, deep ( below, < above, ( intermeclkUehj, ( above, I beloiv, ( intermedlaleJij, g ( above, I below, K" (intennecUately, -Sterno-hyoid, Sterno-thyroid and Omo-hyoid. -Splenius, Digastric „ Tracbelo-mastoid. -Lev. Ang. Scap., Scalenus Ant. ,, Scalenus Medius. -Occipital, with its Sterno-mastoid Branch. • -Suprascapular and Transverse Cervical. - Asc. Cerv.from Inf. Thyroid ,, Sterno-mastoid from Sup. Thyroid. -Occipital. -Anterior Jugular. -Ascending Cervical. I along inner edge, —Sheath of Carotid Vessels. I across loicer part, —Subclavian Vessels (the Artery being crossed by Scalenus Ant.). ! above, —deep part of Cervical Plex. ; below,—upper part of Brachial Plex. intermediateli/, —Descendeus Noni and Communicans Noni. jnercinrj the Muscle,—Spinal Accessory ,, Branch of 2nd Cervical. ■a ^ ( above, § < below, O ( intermediateli/, —Process of Parotid Gland. —Thoracic Duct on left side, and Right Lymphatic Duct on right. —Glandulre Concatenates.76 HYOID MUSCLES. These are divisible iuto three Groups, eacli consisting of three Muscles. THREE VEKTICAL DEPRESSORS. Sterno-hvoid \ "'■'!/'" —Posterior Surfaces of Manubrium, Cartilage of 1st Rib and Clavicle (inner end). \ insertion —Hyoid Bone—lower edge of Body. Thvro-Hvoid \ —Thyroid Cartilage (Oblique Line), some fibres being continued from Sterno-thyroid. with ' insertion —Hyoid Bone—loiver edge of Great Cornu. Sterno-thyroid \ —Posterior Surfaces of Manubrium and Cartilage of 1st Eib, below and behind Sterno-hyoid. j insertion —Thyroid Cartilage (Oblique Line), some fibres being continued into Thyro-hyoid. Omo-hvoid \ —Transverse Ligament of Scapula and contiguous part of Superior Border of Scapula. ' I insertion —Hyoid Bone—lower edge of Body at jnnclion icith Great Cornu. THREE VERTICAL ELEVATORS. fMylo-hyoid, -arising from Lit. Oblique Line of Inf. Maxilla H°''"i"Si'apte in middm^ ( inserted into Hyoid Bone (into Body below Geiuo-liyoid). Genio-hyoid, — ,, „ Geuio-liyoidTubercle,, „ „ ,, „ „ „ ( ,, Centre of Body). .Genio-hyo-glossus,— „ Genio-hyo-glossus ., „ , \ " ^' ^, - < " upper edge of Body). ' ( ,, „ Tongue (under surface close to mid-hne). THREE OBLiaUE ELEVATORS. r Stylo-hyoid, -arising from Styloid Process (outer side of base) j ^^P^'* "'^f ^tion by tendon of Digastric '(inserted into Hyoid Bone (at junction of Boay & GreatCoriiu). DifyiaCitrip ( Temporal Bone (Digastric Groove) ) i. i -ti 10 i -i \ idgaswic, — ,, „ I jnfeiior Maxilla ( „ Fossa) | " " by Supra-hyoid Aponeurosis. I Hvo-elossus - ^ Side of Tongue \ Stylo-glossus &)•,,., ) f'^^^ '."5" '^^^f'' myo giossus, - „ „ . ,3,tween Lingualis inserted mto „ „ by special Small Cornu ° ' ( slips into j Body of Hyoid Bone. As regards^ the attachment of the Muscles to the Hyoid Bone :— The Vertical Elevators are all fixed one above another to the Body of the Bone, The Depressors arc attached side by side—one to the Body, one near the junction of the Body and Great Coniu, and one to the Great Cornu, The Oblique Muscles are attached, two near the junction of the Body and Great Cornu, and one to the Great Cornu. See Diagram of the Hyoid Bone.SUBMAXILLARY REGION. HYOm MUSCLES JNES OF ACTION ET(\ ■1."iSit&rroo ■ li,tfOi^cl Zt 0/1 CO - ^Ufoiil. 4-~ Mylo -kifoi-d. 6' Gfeiuo -htjo -^Ins '^'Dtg-ojtrLc. VERTICM SeCTION.* h'M^fo-glassiesCONSTRICTORS OF PHARYNX. A rSi^ji- Ccnstnctar. B~ Mid. CenstrLdtrr Cr In^. Cmistriolor. -/. ' LcyoutorJiLlodi. Z.~ Te-nsarlaloilc 3. ~ B^t^lo -Toharifn^eu-s. Jp. ~Glosso ■j^ka^ri^n'ge-al N. e.- CnMifujroidM 6- .. „ Art. h ' Mijlo-kifOKl „ li.' TAi^ro-hi/Old „ N. Art.SUBMAXILLARY REGION, Hyoid Muscles—coniinued. Relations of Parts. On Inner Side of Space, from before backwards. Digastric Muscle (antei-ior belly) ) Mylo-hyoid ,, (inner part) 1 Genio-hyoid ,, (whole length) ' Genio-hyo-glossns ,, (inferior border) Crossing over the Mylo-hyoid Muscle are | ^^e^NerTO^^ ^^'^ under the Mylo-hyoid over „ Hyo-glossus Hyo-glossus In Outer Part of Space, from bfore bachcardts. r Submaxillary Gland (below Jaw). I Mylo-hyoid Muscle. -{ Sublingual Gland (below Mucous Membrane). I Hyo-glossus Muscle. L Tongue. Mylo-hyoid Artery, from Inferior Dental, „ „ Nerve „ „ ,, ( Submental Artery „ Facial. ( Gustatory Nerve, above (with Submaxillary Ganglion). ■< Hypo-glossal „ below, giving branches. ( Wharton's Duct (with deep part of Submaxillary Gland). ( Lingual Artery. < Glosso-isharyngeal Nerve. ( Stylo-hyoid Ligament. Two Nerves and One Duct ( One Artery, < One Nerve and ( One Ligament * The Facial Artery rests on the Submaxillary Gland.ar MUSCLES of pharynx, Etc. Superior Constrictor, origin linear, from 6 points Internal Pterygoid Plate—lower J of Posterior Border (bone), Tendon of Tensor Palati } , ct. i i \ Pterygo-maxillary Ligament \ structures). Alveolar Process of Lower Jaw, opposite last Molar Tooth internally (bone) Mucous Membrane of Mouth ) , r. t . s Side of Tongue (soft structures). Middle Constrictor ,, pointed Inferior Constrictor ,, linear ( Hyoid Bone (upper border of Great Cornu). I „ ,, (posterior „ ,, Small ,, ). ( Stylo-hyoid Ligament (lower end). Thyroid Cartilage (surface behind Oblique Line). ,, ,, (Inferior Cornu). Cricoid ,, (lateral surface). Each Muscle unites with its fellow in a raphe at the mid-line behind. The lower fibres of the Inferior Constrictor are directed transversely, and united with the fibres of the CEsophagus. ( Superior < and Middle upper , ,, ,, obliquely down, and are overlapped by the Muscle below. Superior ,, ,, up ,, ,, united* to * By Aponeurosis of Pharynx, whicli, becoming thiiiner below, Invests the inner surfaces of the Museles. Crossing upper border of Superior Constrictor are Entering between origins of Sup. and Middle Constrictors are j |\2oSyngeaSt; ,, ,, Middle and Inf. I Petrous Bone. I Pharyngeal Spine or Basilar Pr. Levator Palati Muscle, entering Pharynx, over upper border of Constrictor. Tensor ,, ,, ,, ,, round ant. „ ,, ,, Superior Laryngeal Artery from Superior Thyroid. ,, ,, Nerve ,, Vagus. under the lower border of Inferior Constrictor Inferior Artery Nerve Inferior Thyroid. Vagus (Recurrent). There are thus two Palatine structures entering above Superior Constrictor, two Pharyngeal between Superior and Middle Constrictors, two Superior Laryngeal between Middle and Inferior Constrictors, and two Inferior Laryngeal below Inferior Constrictor.Muscles of Pharynx, Etc.—contimied, 79 Palato-pliaryngeus —see Muscles of Palate. e,„, . „ „i,„„,^«,«„» ( arising ahove from Cartilage of Eustachian Tube. Salpmgo-pharyngeus | blending below with Palato-pharyngeus. Stvlo nTiarvriP-pus \ arising above from inner surface of Base of Styloid Process of Temporal Bone. OTjyiO-pna y ge | inserted below with posterior border of Tliyroid Cartilage, blending with Palato-pharyngeus. All three Muscles are more or less united below, as indicated. Of the Muscles connected with the Styloid Process :— The Stylo-hyoid arises from the outer side of the Base, and crosses over the External Carotid Artery. TheStylo-pharyngeus „ „ „ inner,, „ „ „ „ j "ver"" internal The Stylo-glossus ,, ,, ,, Apex, and from the Stylo-maxillary Ligament, and is not in relation with either vessel. Of the Ligaments connected with the Styloid Process : — The Stylo-maxillary gives origin to the Stylo-glossus Muscle by its upper end. The Stylo-hyoid „ ,, „ Middle Constrictor ,, lower ,, MUSCLES OF THE SOFT PALATE. Of the five muscles of the Soft Palate :— two, the Levator and Tensor Palati, descend from above ; t2vo, the Palato-glossus and Palato-pharyngeus, ascend from below; and one, the Azygos, lies horizontally in the Palate itself. Attachments of the muscles externally to the Soft Palate :— \ Levator Palati, —to Apex of Petrous Part of Temporal Bone, and to inner and back part of Eustachian Tube. (Tensor ,, —„ Scaphoid Fossa and Spine of Sphenoid ,, outer „ fore ,, ,, „ Azygos, —,, Posterior Nasal Spine and contiguous Aponeurosis, t Palato-glossus, — ,, Tongue (lateral surface and dorsum) in union with Stylo-glossus. I Palato-pharyngeus, —,, Thyroid Cartilage (posterior border) and contiguous portion of Pharynx. Connection of the Muscles with the Soft Palate :— !-D^T^4-^ „T,„™_™„,,-, i. i.r. T> 1 J. • i j; • T i one lying next the mucous membrane on surface of Palate. Palato-pliaryngeus enters the Palate m two fascicuh j ^j^^ intermediately between the Levator and Tensor Palati. Palato-glossus ,, ., „ one fasciculus ,, next the mucous membrane on twi«!er surface of Palate, Azygos, —lying next to mid-line of Palate, is connected laterally with the Levator Palati. ^MUSCLES OP THE BACK. 81 The Muscles of the Back form four Groups—three consisting each of three pairs of muscles or sets of muscles, and one of three double muscles. In addition there are the four single muscles of the Suboccipital Triangle, viz. | Obliquf'^*^*^' The muscles of each Group are more or less related to each other in position and fiinction. ,, „ ,, pair „ „ „ „ ,, ,, ,, and attachments. The FIHST GROUP—Muscles of Upper Extreniityand Thorax—consists of threepwrs of muscles, which pass more or less transversely outwards. { The muscles of the first pair connect one the Head and Spine the other the Pelvis and Spine with the Upper Extremity. ■| „ ,, „ second ,, „ the Spine with the Scapula (posterior border). ( „ „ „ third ,, ,, ,, „ „ i?i6s external to the Angles. ( inner ^ or J of Superior Cm-'Kil Line of Occipital Bone ( the outer J of the ant. surf, of the Clavicle. Trapezius, Origin I By Lig. Nucha; (Aponrurosis) from Cervical Spines,—Insertion I „ inner edge of Acromion Process. ( Spines of all the Dorsal Kerte6?'fe (with the 7th Cervical) ( ,, upperborder&Tubercle of Spine of Scapula. Latissimus Dor si „ posterior \ or J of Crest of Ilium. By Aponeurosis of Erector Spinc-e, from Lumbar and Sacral Spines,—Insertion—the floor of the Bicipital Groove. Spines of the six lower Dorsal Vertebra—and by special slips from Lower two or three Ribs, and Inferior Angle of Scapula. Both muscles are flat and triangular, having their fibres converging towards the Shoulder, and they cover between them all the deeper parts of the Back, except a small portion of the Ehomboideus Major Muscle. Compare Origins and see 'Muscles of Shoulder.' \ Lev. An^uli Scapulae, —Origin —first three Cerv. Post. Transv. Proc. —Insertion—Fo&i. Border of Scapula above Spine. ( Kihomboideus Major 1 i below " with \ „ —7th Cerv. and upper five Dorsal Spines — ~ !> » » \ Rhomboideus Minor ) ( opp. to The Lev. Anguli Scapulse is attached to about the upper th rce Cervical Vcrtebr;e. ,, Rhomboidei together arc ,, ,, „ ,, ,, six. Dorsal „ j Serratus Posticus B^XV.,-Origin- j g^'^^'^*"'" ^C^'^^nA upper 3Dorsal Spines | -I^^^>-tion-\JvV^, 4 Ribs ext. to Angles (exc. 1st). (Serratus Posticus Inf. \,i:,J^ltSi^i^l^l^ \ „ -Lower,, „ „ „82 Muscles of the Ba,ck—continued. The SECOIfD GROUP (Extensors of the Back) consists of three jmbs of Muscles, which pass vertically upwards, the whole series forming a somewhat cylindrical column occupying the groove between the Spines and Laniiuas. The Muscles of the first pair connect the Pelvis with the Dorsal Vertebras and Ribs. „ ,, second „ ,, „ Dorsal Vertebrse and Ribs with the Cervical Vertebrae. „ „ „ third „ ,, „ Cervical „ with the Head. The two Muscles of each pair lie side by side, one externally, the other internally, and the pairs succeed each other in a zigzag fashion (see Diagram). The lowest pair spring opposite the last Rib from the Erector Spin£e by subdivision of its fibres. (cxternnlhj —Post i of Iliac Crest—exc. opp. Posterior Superior Spine. 1internally —Spines of Lumbar and Sacral Vertebrae by Aponeurosis. jj. i}^yx3 attached on 7,„r7^^n S Posterior Surface of Sacrum (upper part). \ .n <,;,lpc ' by deep sinj. j Lumbar Transverse Processes. „ super/. ,, —Aponeurosis strengthened by posterior reflection of Fascia Lumbar. J T • • • • r T' J. o • - • 1. T ■ I. \ all the Dorsal Transverse Processes (apices). I Longissimus Dorsi -arising from Erector Spinaj, is inserted into | ^^.^^ ^^^^^ Tubercles {Ixcepi first lico). ■ ( IliO-COStalis — „ ,, „ „ ,, the lower six Ribs (at tlieh-angles). The slips of insertion _ of the Ilio-costalis ) ^^.^ , by slipsof insertion with all the Ribs at the Angles, with ,, ,, ,, origin and insertion „ Acoessorius > 4. i i r,^;r,,r. +rv u^.^ ] " " " r> • T A J ( nected ( „ ,, origin ,, ,, ,, int. to ,, (except first two). and ,, ,, „ origin „ Cervicalis Ascendens ) ^ >; u o ,j \ 1 , Thus the attachments of the Longissimus Dorsi are symmetrical with those of the Ilio-costalis combined with the Acoessorius and the origin of the Cervicalis Ascendens. The Accessorius is described as arising from the lower six Ribs internal to the Angles, and inserted into ,, upper ,, ,, at the Angles. The Longissimus Dorsi and Ilio-costalis muscles lie parallel to each other. I Cervicalis Ascendens —arising from the Ribs from the 3rd to 6th int. to the Angles, is inserted from the 4th to the 6th Cerv. Transv. Proc. ( Transversalis Colli — ,, ,, ,, upper six Dorsal TraHsversc Processes ,, ,, ,, 2nd ,, 6th ,, „ ,, These muscles converge above. !m I, i« • • c ( upper six Dorsal ^Tmnsverse Processes, is inserted into the Mastoid Process posteriorly. Trachelo-mastoid -arising from {J^,.«;c«?nr ( upper six Dorsal Transverse Processes. [internally. Complexus — ,, ^ from 3rd to 7th Cervical ^rfiraZar „ „ ,, „ Occipital Bone, between curved lines ( lower three (often 1 or 2) Cervical Spines. These muscles diverge .above.4. 'Kr-KtarSp^n'Os-. I'lh 'o ■ ccitalbs. 5. 'Access or I us 4'Ctryicalvs Asc. 6r TransrersalLt. J' Irackelo - mashtJ. T/ie cloited lin&s -/■ec&oTt- of the muscles LONGISSIMUS DORSI.bc. 6'^ 9^. m. / -^^^Uors Trans Y. Tiro if 5* / 6'MUSCULAR ATTACHMENTS at BACK or NECK. o^.-Cery'icalis Asc. j8. Iran'Sverjala. Y 'ImcJvJo-masbid Cla. e' ^ 3 A S * 6 i RJ d. Z 3 u 5 e a/ i. i 3 6 1 a □ X 3 5 6 CJ c. 3 A. ' J p./ a. z 3 S Q-lh. „ - „ Aiia. .. D./.e. ., ,. D<3rs. Tmnsy.Bac^ C./.c. 1. ., - » Spinous „ DJ.e. ., „ „ Sjiii83 Muscles of the Back—continued. The THIKD GROUP (Rotators) consists of three double Muscles. \ Splenius Capitis ( Splenius Colli J Spinalis Colli ( Spinalis Dorsi I Semispinalis Colli - ( Semispinalis Dorsi- Origin upper six Dorsal Spines Lig. Nuchas as high as 3rd Cervical Spine —last two Cervical and first two Dorsal Spines — ,, ,, Dorsal ,, ,, ,, Lumbar „ \ lov/er three Cervical Articular Processes \ upper six Dorsal Transverse „ —from sixth to tenth Dorsal Transverse Processes Insertion Mastoid process. ' I Sup. curved line of Occipital Bone. S. Colli, upper three Cerv. Post. Trans. Proc. S. Cap. Spine of Axis. upper eight Dorsal Spines. from second to fifth Cervical Spines. upper four Dorsal and lower two Cervical Spines. The Semispinalis Dorsi is connected with four Transverse Processes and six Spines, tlie Somispinali.s Colli with six Transverse Processes and four Spines, Of these three Muscles,—the Splenius passes over the column of Extensors from Transverse Processes to Spines. ,, Spinalis „ parallel to ,, ,, „ ,, ,, Spines to Spines. ,, Semispinalis „ beneath ,, ,, ,, „ ,, ,, ,, Transverse Processes. The FOURTH GROUP (Intervertebral Muscles)—consists of six muscles or sets of muscles, of which the fibres pass between contiguous Vertebra;. Multifidus Spinse —Origin Rotators Dorsi (11) — I Post. Surf, of Sacrum, as low as 4th Vert. ) ,, Sup. Spine of Ilium. j ,, Sacro-iliac Ligaments, and ( Aponeurosis of Erector Spina;, I All the Lumbar Articular Processes, < ,, „ Dorsal Ti-ansverse ( Lower five Cervical Articular ,, -Lower 11 Dorsal Trans. Proc, one from each —Insertion Spines and Neural Arches of all the Vertebrse from the 2nd Cervical to the 3rd Sacral. Upper 11 Dorsal Lamince, one to each. Supraspinales —rudimentary, found upon Cervical Spinous Processes. Interspinales — ,, in Dorsal Region, thin and flat in Lumbar Region, double in Cervical Region. Intertransversales— ,, „ ,, ,, ,, ,, „ „ „ ,, „ Extensor Coccygis—passing from last piece of Sacrum over back of Coccyx (often absent).Muscles of the Back~conii7med. If the attachments of the muscles situated in the upper part of the Dorsal Eegion and at the back of the Neck be examined in relation to each other as indicated in the Diagram, the following points may be noticed :— The Spines of the Cervical Vertebrfe are seen to be in the same line with the Spines of the Dorsal VertebrK. „ Articular Processes „ ,, „ ,, ., ,, ,, Transverse Processes ,, „ ,, i, Transverse ,, „ ,, ,, ,, „ „ ,, „ „ Angles of the JRibs. To each set of Processes in the Neck 4 Muscles or parts of Muscles of the Back are attached, excluding the more superficial muscles {those of the First Groixp) which are attached to the Spines; thus :— f J Cervicalis Ascendens (Insertion) f J Trachelo-mastoid (Origin) fSplenius (Cap.) (Origin) To the Trans- | j Transversalis ( ,, ) To the I ( Complexus ( ,, ) Xo the I Complexus ( ,, ) verse Articular ] Snines I processes ( Splenius (Colli) ( „ ) Processes I ( Semispinalis (Colli) ( ,, ) | Semispinalis Colli (Insertion) L ( Lev. Anguli Scapulre (Origin) t (Multitidus Spiuse { ,, ) IMuItitidus Spinas ( ,, ) Of these muscles, two of those attached to the Transverse Processes (Splenius and Levator Anguli Scapula?) and two of those attached to the Spines (Semispinalis and Multifidus Spinte) are not symmetrical with the rest. The remaining muscles are attached to t/iree and Jive VertebrDc alternately. Of these remaining muscles the outermost, Cervicalis Ascendens, is attached below as low as the 6th Rib. „ innermost, Splenius, ,, „ ,, ,, ,, Dorsal Spine. „ rest, Complexus, Trachelo-mastoid and Transversalis, are ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, Transverse Process. The Transversalis is attached to Transverse Processes onlj'. ,, Trachelo-mastoid ,, „ ,, ,, and Articular Processes. „ Complexus „ ,, ,, ,, Articular and Spinous Processes. The Origins of the Semispinalis Colli and Multifidus Spinte in the Neck are similar to those of the Trachelo-mastoid and Complexua in the Neck respectively. Besides the/o!h- Groups of Muscles above described, there are four single Muscles—special Extensors and Rotators of the Head—situated immediately below the Occiput, Rectus Posticus Minor,—Or;^;?i, Tubercle on Posterior Arch of Atlas ; Insertion, Inferior Curved Line of Occipital Bone internally. Rectus Posticus Major,— „ Spine of Axis „ „ ,, „ externally. Obliquus Inferior, — „ „ „ „ Transverse Process of Atlas. Obliquus Superior, — „ Transverse Process of Atlas „ Interval between Curved Lines externally.85 MUSCLES OP ABDOMEN. Six Muscles on each side enter into the formation of the Wall of the Abdomen :— Three broad, transverse Muscles,—External Oblique, Internal Oblique, and Transversalis,—laterally. Two narrow, vertical ,, —Rectus and Fyramidalis, —in front. One „ ,, Muscle, —Quadratus Lumborum, •—behind. The fibres of the Ext. Oblique run down and in, parallel to those of the Ext. Intercostal, hence its orhjin is said to be above. „ ,, ,, hit. „ ,, up „ ,, „ „ „ „ Int. ,, ,, ,, „ below. ,, ,, ,, Transversalis „ transversely in, ,, ,, behind. The following Table gives the attachments of these Muscles :— Common Points of Attachment. External Oblique. Internal Oblique. Transversalis. Ribs, Lower eight (ext. surfaces) inter- digitating I SerratusMagnum. with 1 Latiss. Dorsi. Lower four (edges of Cartilages) continuous with lowest two In- ternal Intercostals. Lower si.c (under surfaces of Cartilages) interdigitating with Diaphragm. Crest of Ilium. Anterior ^- of outer Lip. Anterior § of space between Lips. Anterior | of inner Lip. Poupart's Ligament. Whole length. Outer half. Outer third. Spine of Pubes and Ilio-pectineal Line. 1 Spine only. J inch of Ilio-pectineal Line. 1 inch of Ilio-pectineal Line. Front of Symphysis Pubes. Linea Alba, 1 Both. Both. Both. Special Points of Attachment. Pectoralis Major above. Fascia Lumborum behind. Fascia Lumborum behind. On reference to the Diagram it will be seen, as regards the attachments of the Muscles to the Iliac Crest, to Poupart's Ligament and to the Ilio-pectineal Line, that in each case the Transversalis is attached most externally, the External Oblique most internally, and the Internal Oblique intertnediatcly. Anteriorly each Muscle becomes aponeurotic, and the Aponeuroses, crossing in front and behind the Eectus, join those of the opposite side to form the Linea Alba. 1286 Muscles of Abdomen—continued. The Aponeurosis of the External Oblique is broader beloiv than above. ,, „ Internal ,, „ „ above ,, below. ,, „ Transversalis ,, ,, beloiv ,, above. ,, Linea Alba itself „ ,, above ,, below. As regards the relation of the Aponeuroses to the Rectus :—• ( the External Oblique Aponeuroses passes in front of it. For the upper jths of the Rectus < ,, Transversalis ,, ,, behind it. ( „ Internal Oblique ,, splits, half passing in front, half behind it. For the lower |th „ ,, —all three Aponeuroses pass in front of it. Posteriorly, the posterior border of the External Oblique is usually free. „ „ ,, ,, Internal ,, and Transversalis are continued into the Fascia Lumborum. , , , ,• ,1 ■ 1 1 ( Quadratus Lumborum and \, t u m -n i ■ \ hj central portion (lying between | ^ Erector Spina; to Lumbar iransverserrocesses (apices). ant. reflection (covering ant. surf, of Quadratus Lumborum),, ,, ,, „ (ant. surfaces post. ,, { ,, post. ,, Erector Spina; ) „ ,, Spines (apices). For Abdominal Rings, Cremaster, etc., see 'Hernia.' Fascia Lumborum is attached ( Origin, by two Heads \ ^''""^ Symphysis Pubes (anterior surface), rRectus Abdominis " .", ^ ;.' / In-^ertion narts " ^'^^^ Ensiform Cartilage. [inseitwn,, „ parts ^ Cartilages of lower three true Ribs. ( one opposite the Umbilicus. Linese Transversae,—three < ,, ,, Ensiform Cartilage. ( ,, intermediately between the other two. Pyramidalis, —Origin, Front of Symphysis Pubes; Insertion, Linea Alba, half way between Pubes and Umbilicus. All five of the above-described muscles are more or less attached to the front of the Symphysis Pubis. As regards the attachment to the Ribs—note that the External Oblique is fixed to eight, the Internal ObUque is fixed to half of that number, „ four, the Transversalis „ „ ,, the sum of the preceding „ six, and the Rectus ,, „ ,, of that number, „ three. f>,io/)v.o+,,= T ^w,!,^-^,,™ n ■ ■ ( Ilio-lumbar Ligament, r .,• , ( Lumbar Transverse Processes (Apices). Guadratus Lumborum-Ons^i« | ^^^^^ Ilium for 1 inch external to Ligament -^"^"■'"'^ j j-ast Rib, inner half of lower border. An Accessor// Part is sometimes found on the anterior surface of the Quadratus, connected above with the last Rib, and below with the apices of the lower two or three Lumbar Transverse Processes.MUSCLES o.ABDOMINAL WALL ano or THORACICIC WALL.PELVIC ATTACHMENTS or LATERAL MUSCLtS Of ABDOMEN. T." Trcuvsyersa-lis. {rlrdernxii Oklique^.. All'CLckmenh to Cesiof ILum. " AtliLckm&nts &>Rujoofls Lig^ f-f~ Kttaukmejtts la llio-ptctiruclLin£, etc.87 MUSCLES OF THORAX. Six Muscles or sets of Muscles enter into the formation of the Thoracic Wall. ■ Two lateral sets Tioo posterior between Ribs, ( superficial to ,, / beneath ,, Tivo anterior Muscles •External and Internal Intercostals. Levatores Costarum. Infracostales. in front of Sternum,—Rectus Sternalis (rudimentary), behind ,, —Triangularis Sterni. Ext. Intercostals (11) I,Int. Intercostals (11) attached to contiguous margins of the Ribs, from Tubercles to Anterior Angles. extending further forwards below than above, reaching to end of Cartilages in lower two Spaces, fibres are directed downwards and forwards. attached to contiguous margins of Ribs and Cartilages, from ant. extremities of Cartilages to Post. Angles of Ribs. extending further backwards above and below than intermediately. fibres are directed downwards and backwards. (In loiL'er two spaces continuous with Internal Oblique). arising, the first from the Transverse Process of 7th Cer v. Vert., the others one from each Dorsal Transverse Proc, Xievatores Costarum (12) \ inserted, one into the upper border of each Rib, between the Tubercle and Posterior Angle. fibres directed parallel to those of External Intercostals—longer in lower than in upper spaces. , Infracostales (10 or less) attached to inner surfaces of contiguous Ribs between Tubercles and Posterior Angles. fibres dii-ected parallel to those of Interned Intercostals—stronger in loicer than in upper spaces. Rectus Sternalis Triangularis Sterni lying along lateral portion of anterior surface of Sternum. united above with Sterno-mastoid, below with Rectus Abdominis. . . { from under surface of Ensiform Cartilage and Cartilages of lower three true Ribs. •' I „ side of Sternum as high as 3rd Cartilage. inserted into all the true Ribs (except the last two and the first) at the Costo-chondral Joints. Those portions of the Muscles which are external (viz., the External Intercostals, Levatores Costarum and the parts of the Internal Inter- costals between the Cartilages), are Muscles of Inspiration. Those portions of the Muscles which are internal (viz., the Infracostales, the parts of the Internal Intercostals between the Ribs and the Triangularis Sterni), are Muscles of Expiration, 12—2Muscles of Thorax—continued. by special fasciculus to the posterior surface of the Ensiform Cartilage. ,, six fasciculi „ under „ „ six lower Costal Cartilages on each side. DIAPHRAGrM—f(««c7(e(? -I to the Ligamenta Arcuata—Internum and Externum on each side between Bibs and Vertebrse. L J by the right Crus (the larger) to Bodies of 1st, 2nd, and 3rd Lumbar Vertebrse. I „ „ left (the smaller) „ „ 1st and 2nd ,, ,, Of the Central Tendon, —the rigid leaflet is the largest, the left is the smallest, and the middle one is of medium size. IiiffamentaArouata \ the£5«<e?-»a?,overlyingtheQuadratusLumborum,isattachedto the last Eib & the lstor2nd Lumbar Trans. Proc. " » S ^ c aia I Internal „ ,, Psoas ,, „ ,, CrusofDiaph. ,, „ „ „ „ The Ligamenta Arcuata are formed by a thickening of the upper part of the anterior layer of the Fascia Lumborum. the outer fibres in each case pass into the corresponding side of the Diaphragm. Of the Crura \ „ inner „ ,, ,, decussate with those of the opposite side, and curve round the opposite side of the Oesophageal opening. Openings For Vena Cava, ( situated in front and to right side of Aortic opening, between right and middle leaflets of Tendon, quadrilateral ( transmitting the Vena Cava only. {One Vessel.) ForOSsophagus, ( situated in front and to left side of Aortic opening, between fibres of Crura after decussation, oval j transmitting Oesophagus and Pneumogastric Nerves. (One Tube and one pair of Nerves.) „ . , ( situated in front of the Vertebrae, between Crura before decussation. Aorta I transmitting Aorta, Vena Azygos Major and Thoracic Duct. (One Artery, one Vein and one Duct.) The right and left Splanchnic Nerves and the Vena Azygos Minor pass through the corresponding Crus. The right and left Sympathetic Cords pass under the Ligamenta Arcuata Interna, but the right cord sometimes perforates the right Crus.MUSCLES OP PERINEUM. IN MALE Sphincter Ani Ext. Levator Ani .2 i Transversalis Perinsei* ( behind, tip of Coccyx and Superficial Fascia on eacli side. -Attachments < m/;-o«#, Central Point of Perinfeum „ ,, ,, „ (intermediately its fibres split to enclose the Anus. ^Coccygeus ' Ischio-eavernosus* (Erector Penis) Bulbo - cavernosus* (Ejaculator TJrinse) j Origin I -! I L Insertion Origin Insertion / Origin ( Insertion iOrigin Insertion Deep Transverse M.-j- Constrictor Urethrsef ^Circular Eibrest !in front, Body of Pubes near Symphysis (lower part of inner surface). 6e/«"ncZ, Spine of Ischium ( „ „ ,, „ ). intermediately. Pelvic Fascia immediately below White Line. Some of the most anterior fibres are connected with the Triangular Ligament. !behind, side of last piece of Coccyx. in front. Central Point of Perinteum. intermediately, lower part of Rectum. Between tlie fixed points of insertion it forms a raphd with its fellow. —Spine of Ischium and Small Sacro-sciatic Ligament. —Side of Coccyx and lower part of Sacrum. Inner surface of Tuber Ischii behind attachment of the Crus. „ ,, Pubic Arch on each side ,, ,, —by Aponeurosis into inner and outer surfaces ,, ,, -Central Point of Perin£eum and median raph(5. by posterior fibres to Triangular Ligament. ,, anterior „ ,, Corpus Cavernosum in front of Ischio-oavernosus. middle ,, with its fellow in the median raphi^ on dorsum of Corpus Spongiosum. Origin —Inner surface of Pubic Arch near Ischial Tuberosity. Insertion —Central Point of Perineum. —Origin —Pubic Arch close to Transversalis —Insertion, Central Point of Perinseum, —Origin — ,, ,, above the Deep Transverse Muscle united with its fellow around Urethra. —surrounding Urethra within the Constrictor, continuous behind with the circular fibres of the Prostate. * Superficial to Triangular Ligament. ^ t Between layers of „ ,,90 Muscles of Ferinevtm—conimied. IN FEMALE, —the Muscles are arranged as in the Male, except in the points indicated below :— Levator Ani invests the Vagina as in the Male it invests the Prostate. Erector Clitoridis is smaller than the Erector Penis. ( heldnd is connected vrith the Central Point of the Perinaeum, Sphincter Vaginae {representing the Bulbo-cavernosus) < in front is reflected round the Corpora Cavernosa of the Clitoris, ( iniermediate/y surrounds orifice of Vagina and invests Bulb of Vestibule. MUSCLES OP THE UPPER EXTREMITY. MUSCLES OF THE SHOULDER. Three pair^ of Muscles (A) are specially concerned in the movements of the Shoulder-joint, and these are supplemented by three other pairs (B) which act upon the Shoulder-girdle (the Scapula and Clavicle). Lastly there is a third group of three single Muscles (C) whose chief function it is to retain the Head of the Humerus firmly against the Glenoid Fossa. The Muscles of each pair present many analogies in origin, course of fibres, insertion and action. The attachments, etc., as given on succeedhig pages should he cempared line hy line. A.—The muscles acting specially on the Shoulder-joint move the Humerus in six chief directions (see Diagram) thus :— j Pectoralis Major moves the Humerus doionwards, forwards and «/nt)a?-fZs across front of Thorax. ( Latissimus Dorsi „ ,, ,, ,, backwards „ „ „ back „ ,, ( Coraco-brachialis „ ,, ,, upwards, forwards „ „ towards the Pace. ) Deltoid (post, fibres)* „ ,, ,, ,, backwards „ „ „ ,, Occiput. ( Teres Major rotates „ ,, inwards round its longitudinal axis. ( Teres Minor „ ,, ,, outivards ,, ,, ,, ,, " The other portions of the Deltoid draw the Humerus directly upwards.Muscles of Upper Pectoralis Major. !Inner ^ or | of Clavicle (anterior surface). Aponeurosis of External Oblique. Cartilages of lower six true Ribs, and side of Sternum. !Outer lip of Bicipital Groove. ( one to Capsule of Shoulder, sending three reflections < ,, over Bicipital Groove, ( „ to Fascia of Arm. Course of \ "^^^^ Sternal portion is twisted on itself, so that its Fibre/ ) fibres become highest at insertion. ( Edge forms anterior fold of Axilla. Beneath is found Accessory Muscle—the Pectoralis Minor, AUachments \ ^"^^^"^^ t^^ee true Ribs, ( above „ Coracoid Proc. of Scapula (outer ^ of ant. border), In action giving increased security to the Joint by causing the Scapula to follow the movement of the Humerus produced by the Pectoralis Major. Coraco-brachialis. Origin —Coracoid Process (tip). !0n Inner Surface of Humerus about middle to a linear impression. Aponeurotic slip is reflected upwards to Capsule of Shoulder-joint, ■—continued. 91 Liatissimus Dorsi. !Posterior -| or | of Iliac Crest (outer lip). Aponeurosis of Multifidus Spina;. Spines of lower six Dorsal Vertebra, and Supraspinous Liga- ment. ( Floor of Bicipital Groove (next Pectoralis Major). < ( united below to lower edge of Teres Major. ( < separated above from Teres Major by a bursa, ( „ from long Head of Biceps by a synovial iJouch. ( The whole muscle is twisted on itself round Teres Major, so < that the lowest fibres become highest at insertion. ( Edge forms posterior fold of Axilla. Beneath are found Accessory Fibres, ( heloio from lowest three Ribs, ( above „ Inferior Angle of Scapula. Jn action giving security to the movement by steadying and retaining the Inferior Angle of the Scapula under cover of the Latissimus Dorsi. (Those from Inf. Angle only so act.) Deltoid. ( Acromion Process (Outer edge). < Clavicle (outer ^ of anterior surface). ( Spine of Scapula (lower border). ( On Outer Surface of Humerus about middle to a triangular < impression. ( Separated by a large bursa from the Shoulder-joint.Muscles of the Upper E-Ktremitj—cojiUmied. Teres Major. Teres Minor. ( Outer Border of Scapula (lower S) and posterior surface i n i -o ^ c o i / ■>^ Origin \ of Inferior Angle. ^ ^ Outer Border of Scapula (upper 3). ( Intermuscular siptum. ' Intermuscular Septum. I Immediately below Small Tuberosity to inner edge of ( Lowest Facet of Great Tuberosity, Insertion < Bicipital Groove (for 2 inches). I and bone below „ ,, for 1 inch. ( Immediately above Inner Head of Triceps. ( Immediately above Outer Head of Triceps. In addition to these six Muscles, the long Heads of the Biceps and Triceps assist in raising and depressing the Humerus. ^Lon'^Head | ^^oi'tl'li^s and tendinous—lying above Head of Humerus within Capsular Ligament, giving fibres to the Glenoid Ligament. ''^^ong Head I ^^'^ ^^'"''"^"^'^^''''''^ —" below ,, ,, outside ,, ,, ,, ,, Capsular ,, Of these Muscles, the/rs( ^)«ir—Pectoralls Major and Latissimus Dorsi—pass from the front and back of the Chest respectifely in the anterior and posterior folds of the Axilla, and after twisting more or less on themselves, are inserted side by side into the Bicipital Groove. The second jjair—Coraco-braehialis and Deltoid—arise, the former from the Coracoid Process, the latter by its chief part from (he Aci'oniion Process, and passing, one to the outer and the other to the iuner side of the Shoulder-Joint, are inserted half way down the corresponding side of the Humerus. The third pair—Teres Major and Teres Minor—arise from equal lengths of the outer border of the Scapula, and are inserted, the former below the small Tuberosity above the Inner Head of the Triceps, the latter below the large Tuberosity above the Outer Head of the Triceps. —The movements of the Humerus at the Shoulder-joint are supplemented by movements of the Scapula, produced by a second group of th7-ee pairs of Muscles connected with the Scapula and Clavicle. As regards their attachments they may be grouped as follows :— ^""^ t (b) Trrpeziur'*°'*^ connect the Shoulder-girdle with the Head. ( (c) Levator Anguli Scapulas two < (d) Rhomboideus Major ,, „ ,, ,, ,, Spine. two with Rhomb. Minor (e) Serratus Magnus TfV.o (f) Subclavius " » " " " And as regards their action, as follows :— tico (a and b) raise the Shoulder-girdle and one (f) depresses it, two (c and e) draw the Scapula forwards and rotate it, and one (d) draws it backwards and rotates it. The Scapula in its movements is not only drawn dh-ectly forwards, backwards or upwards, but is also rotated round a point situated a short distance behind the Glenoid Fossa.MUSCLES ACTING ON SHOULDER-JOINT SHOULDER-GIRDLE, DCLTOtD TERES MINOR LATISSLMUS DORSl JUiamhouis BICE PS DELTOID 0temo rnastoid THICEPS ^uhcLouyiLLS. CORACO -BRA.CHIALIS Serrahcs MoffniLs. (lower pad). y TERES MAJOR. PECTORALIS MAJOR ThltiTfadii Mirror Tke names m co^UaL rt.j&r ta MuscIm of tkt SLulcUr, tiwsc ith ita2u-s h Musclts of tL ^tundau -girdlelo shoty line€ of cjotum^ of MvusoUs.Muscles of the Upper Extremity—con^miwd 93 'The Sterno-mastoid raises the Clavicle directly (though slightly). The Trapezius raises the Acromion (directly by its upper fibres, indirectly by its lower fibres). Both Muscles, acting together (assisted by the Levator Anguli Scapula;) shrug the shoulder, that is, raise the whole shoulder-girdle directly. Both Muscles also act on the Head as well as on the Shoulder-girdle, and are supplied by a Cranial Nerve, the Spinal Accessory, and by special branches of the Cervical Plexus. The Subclavius directly depresses the Shoulder. ( by its upper fibres, turns the Acromion Process downwards and foncards. C The Serratus Magnus, acting ^ „ ,, lower ,, „ „ „ upwards ,, ,, I ( ,, all its ,, draws the Scapula directly forwards. J The Levator Auguli Scapuh-e is allied in action to the upper fibres of the Serratus Magnus. (It also raises the Superior Angle of the Scapula, thus indirectly depressing the Acromion.) The Ehomboids, drawing up and back the posterior border of the Scapula, indirectly depress the Shoulder ; acting with the Trapezius (lower fibres) they draw the Scapula directly harlcwards. Sterno-mastoid, —arising from the Occipital and Temporal Bones, is inserted into the inner end of Clavicle and the Sternum. Trapezius,* — „ „ „ Bone and Cerv. Dor. Spines „ ,, outer ,, ,, ,, theSpineof Scapula. * For full origins and insertions sec Muscles of Head and Back.^ Subclavius, —Origin —1st Costal Cartilage at junction with Rib. Insertion —under surface of Clavicle between markings for Ligs. ( Origin, by nine slips from upper eight Ribs—two slips being connected with the 2nd Rib. Serratus Magnus < l upper angle of Scapula (by fibres from Ist and 2nd Ribs). (insertion, „ </(rce parts, into ant. surface of ] post, border „ ,, ( ,, ,, ,, 2ud, 3rd and 4th ,, ). (lower angle „ ,, („ ,, „ 5th, 6th, 7th and 8th ,, ). Levator Anguli Scapulae and Rhomboids—see Muscles of Back. -The third group of Shoulder Muscles consists of three muscles, which, arising from the three fosste of the Scapula, and lying in close relation with the Shoulder-joint, act as Ligaments retaining the Head of the Humerus in its socket. Subscapularis, —Origin—Subscapular Fossa (inner f) and Fascia. Insertion—Small Tuberosity and bone below for 1 inch. Supraspinatus, — „ —Supraspinal ,, ( ,, „) „ „ —Great ,, " highest facet. Infraspinatus, — ,, —Infraspinal ,, ( „ „) „ „ — „ middle „ There are three Bursas in connection with these Muscles :— One under the Subscapularis ahcays communicating with the Joint. >> !) )i Infraspinatus sometimes ,, ,, ,, ,, over „ Supraspinatus never „ ., 13Muscles of the Upper Extremity—coniinued. 94 MUSCLES OP ELBOW. There axe four Muscles acting specially on the Elbow-joint, two. Flexors —Biceps and Brachialis Anticus, lying in front of the Joint, <wo, Extensors—Triceps „ Subanconeus „ behind ,, ,, Of these the Biceps and Triceps act also on the Shoulder, and are connected with the Ligaments 0/Shoulder-joint, the Brachialis Anticus &Subanconeus „ only ,, Elbow „ „ ,, its Ant. and Post. Ligaments. Biceps Origin Insertion i Long Head, round tendon, from upper margin of Glenoid Cavity, in connection with Glenoid Ligament, ■j Short ,, flattened ,, ,, apex of Coracoid Process ,, ,, „ Coraco-brachialis. ( a third ,, muscular, in connection with insertion of Coraco-brachialis (frequently). ( Tubercle of Radius, posterior part (separated from anterior part by a bursa). / Deep Fascia of Forearm, over Pronator Teres, by Bicipital or Semilunar Fascia. Triceps Brachialis Anticus Origin Insertion Long Head, flattened, from outer border of Scapula just below Glenoid Cavity for 1 inch, connected with Capsule. Outer ,, muscular „ post. surf, of Humerus above Musculo-spiral Groove, as high as insert.of Teres Minor. Inner ,, ,, „ ,, „ ,, below „ ,, ,, „ „ ,, „ Major. Olecranon Process of Ulna, posterior part of upper surface (separated from anterior part by a bursa). Deep Fascia of Forearm over Anconeus by a special aponeurosis. Origin —External and Liternal surfaces of Humerus (lower half), and Intermuscular Septa. Insertion—Coronoid Process, lower and inner part of under surface. It is closely connected with the A nterior Ligament of the Elbow-joint. Subanconeus Origin —The posterior surface of the Humerus above Olecranon Fossa. Insertion —Closely connected with the Posterior Ligament of the Elbow-joint. The Biceps and Brachialis Anticus are supplied by the Musculo-cutaneous Nerve. ,, Triceps ,, Subanconeus ,, ,, „ „ spiral ,, The Brachialis Anticus also receives a branch from the „ ,, ,, Compare Origin and Insertion of Biceps and Triceps point by point.MUSCLES or FOREARM. JrThm-cdor Teres. ZrTiexarljirpL Hujdudis. 3r Hhdmari-s. J-ongus ^ brTiex^-Lcmgu!; TollieiS. Jr Flexor Thf. Tji^i l\ S.lS'upinai'or JLon^ocs SECTION AT MIDDLE. 2~IExt CorrimuruS JJii^iioriuri,. 3 '^oct. 'Nlinunc DcgUh. Jl'£loct. Carpi Ulnwrus 6~Hxt. OssLsMeicuccupi~Rilli<us. J'. ~^xt. SecMvdiInlarrvodiildll. Bve^Hxi. JndlLds sitvuded tb tie ulnoj-siok. cj i)'ctnd J'rcs/sectCvzlif, hub oTLSe-leloY the. Uyel'Tf tke. sechon95 Muscles of the Upper E^KtremitY—contimied. MUSCLES or FOREARM. On the Front of the Forearm there are eight Muscles ,, ,, Back ,, ,, ,, twelve ,, On the Front Back Origins Front Back Front & Back six Flexors and two Pronators, -ten ,, ,, ,, Subspinators. Both on the Front and Back the Muscles may be arranged in a Superficial Group, and a Deep Group. ' the Superficial Group consists of one Pronator and three Flexors of the Wrist. ,, Deep ,, „ „ „ „ „ „ ,, Fingers. „ Superficial ,, ,, „ Supinator ,, five Extensors Wrist and Fingers. ,, Deep ,, „ „ Special Extensors, the Muscles of the Superficial Group arise from the front of the Internal Condyle of Humerus. „ ,, ,, „ „ „ ,, hack „ External ,, „ ,, ,, ,, „ Deep „ „ ,, Bones of the Forearm. !exc]udingtheo2(<e)-i«)osuper.Muscles,viz. | ^'^^ j^xtensor^ | —the?*e»?awii«[|f/ot(rresemblethefoursuper.Muscleson the Front. , i ,, Supinator / ^ „ vpper „ deep „ „ | - Extensor j " " " " " " *^^«P (The two Muscles of each of the pairs excluded bear some analogy to each other.) Front & Back—Of the four corresponding muscles of the Superficial Groujj:— [arm. The outermost and innermost arise each by two heads, one from the Common Tendon, the other from one of the Bones of the Fore- „ other two arise each by one head, from the Common Tendon only. Front & Back—Of the four correspionding muscles of the Deep Group :— One arises from the Radius, one from the Ulna, one from both Bones, and one is irregular. Superficial Muscles on the Front of the Forearm. Origins a K Pronator Teres. Internal Condyle. Side of Coronoid Proc. of Ulna. Median Nerve passes between Heads. Flexor Carpi Radialis. Internal Condyle. Palmaris Longus. Internal Condyle. Superficial Muscles on the Back of the Forearm.* Ext. Carpi Radialis Brevior. Ext. Communis Digitorum. Ext. Minimi Digiti. m I External Condyle. External Condyle. External Condyle. 1 1 Ext. Lateral Lig. of Elbow, and \ Orbic. Lig. (over Head of (jq ' Badixis). These muscles are also connected with the Intermuscular Septa. * Excluding the outer two, viz. Supinator Longus and Extensor Carpi-Radialis Longior. Flexor Carpi Ulnaris. Internal Condyle. Side of Oh era n on Proc. and posterior border ' Ulnar Nerve passes betweeii Heads. of Ulna. Ext. Carpi Ulnaris. External Condyle. Posterior border of Ulna (middle J). 13—296 Muscles of the Upper 'Extremity—continued. Origins ■ Pronator duadratus. f Radius I Ulna (lower 2 inches of each). Deep Muscles on the Front of the Forearm Flexor Longus PoUicis f Radius (anterior surface). Flexor Profundus Digi- torum. Aponeurosis over it. Interosseous membrane. (Special Slip sometimes from Coronoid Pr.) ( t//rtn (ant. & int. surf.,upper|) I „ (post, border „ „) I Interosseous membrane. Flexor Sublimis Digitorum. ' Int. Condyle of Humerus. Inner side of Coronoid Pr. of Ulna,. ' Oblique Line of Radius. Internal Lateral Ligament and Intermuscular Septum. Deep Muscles on the Back of the Forearm. Origins Extensor Ossis Metacarpi PoUicis. Radius (middle J). I Ulna (for 2 or 3 inches below I Anconeus). Interosseous Membrane. Extensor Primi Inter- nodii PoUicis. Radius (below Extensor Ossis | I Metacarp.) InterosseousMenibrane. I Extensor Secundi Inter- nodii Pollicis. Extensor Indicis. jj, /2 or 3 in. below & behind W rr; /2 or 3 in. ^ VExt. Ossis Metacarp. / ) ^VExt. Seo" Interosseous Membrane for j Interosseous 1 inch below. below & behind Secundi lnteino( Interosseous Membrane for 1 inch below. * Excluding the upper two, viz., the Supinator Brcvis and the Anconeus. The Insertions of the Muscles are given on the next page. Compare together, first the Muscles in each Group, and then each Muscle of each Group with the corresponding Muscle of the con-esponding Group. The two remaining superficial Muscles of the Back of the Forearm are attached as follows :— Origin —External Supracondyloid Ridge (upper g) and Intermuscular Septum. Insertion—Base of the Styloid Process of the Eadius. Supinator Longus Extensor Carpi Radialis Longior Origin —External Supracondyloid Ridge (lower J) and Intermuscular Septum. Insertion —Base of the 2nd Metacarjial Bone. The two remaining deep Muscles on the Back of the Forearm are attached as follows :— ( External Condyle of Humerus ( Radius (post., ext., & Supinator Brevis, —Origin < External Lateral Ligament of Elbow —Insertion \ ant. surfaces above I (Ulna below Lesser Sigmoid Cavity for 1 or 2 inches ( Oblique Line). Ulna (post, surface above Oblique Line). The two former Muscles have somewhat similar origins, the two latter somewhat similar insertions. Anconeus, —External Condyle (by distinct Tendon) The relative and analogous positions of the Muscles at about the Middle of the Forearm are shown in the Diagram.Muscles of the Upper "Extremity—continued. 97 Muscles on the Front of the Forearm {Inset-tious, etc.). o Pronator Teres, Pronator Q,uadratus, -Flexor Carpi Radialis Palmaris Longus Flexor Carpi Ulnaris Flexor Sublimis Digitorum Flexor Profundus Digitorum -inserted into middle of outer border and contiguous surfaces of Radius, -attachments given above. passing between outer attachments of Annular Ligament (viz., | "j^^^^y^ | of Trapezium), is inserted into Bases of 2nd and 3rd Metacarpal Bones. passing over Annular Ligament, ends in Palmar Fascia, by which it is connected with Phalanges of Fingers. {falling short of Annular Ligament, is inserted into Pisiform Bone, sending on fibres to Bases of ( 4th and 5th Metacarpal Bones. Its four Tendons pass under Annular Lig. in pairs { ^'^"^"^ °J iSr*^'"^,'' (2nd 5th) bdlinJ" Each Tendon, dividing opposite 1st Phalanx to transmit tendon of Deep Extensor, is ins(-rl'.d upon sides of 2nd Phalanx of Finger. Its four Tendons pass under Annular Ligament beneath those of Flexor Sublimis, and are inserted into Bases of last Phalanges of Fingers after perforating Tendons of Flexor Sublimis. \ Tendon passes under Annular Ligament, and between Heads of Flexor Brevis PoUicis, and is I inserted into Base of last Phalanx of Thumb. ^ I Flexor Longus Pollicis Muscles on the Back of the Forearm [Insertions, etc.). For Supinators Longus and Brevis and Anconeus, see above. [ Extensor Carpi Kadialis Longior,—passing heneath Ext. Tendons of Thumb, is inserted into Base of 2nd Metacarpal Bone (outer side). -j Extensor Carpi Radialis Brevior,— ,, „ ,, ,, ,, „ ,, „ ^ lExtensor Carpi XJlnaris, —is inserted into Base of 5th Metacarpal Bone (inner side). 3rd98 Muscles of the Upper "Extremity—continued. 'Extensor Communis Digitorum, —divides into three Tendons, the inner one subdividing later into two :— ( becomes aponeurotic over the 1st Phalanx and unites with tendons of | Ljj^^ibric'ales''^ Each Tendon < c i -di i -in ( the middle piece ending on base of 2nd Phalanx, ( divides over head of 1st Phalanx mto three I , ^ lateral pieces „ „ „ 3rd „ ° Extensor Indicis, —joins tendon of Extensor Communis to Index Finger. Extensor Minimi Digiti, —tendon divides into two portions, which join tendon of Ext. Communis to Little Finger. S (Extensor Ossis Metacarpi PoUicis,—passing over Extensores Carpi Eadialis, ends on Base of 1st Metacarpal of Thumb. I ^Extensor Primi Internodii Pollicis— ,, ,, ,, „ „ 1st Phalanx ,, ° "S lExtensorSecundilnternodiiPoUicis— „ ,, ,, ,, „ ,, „ 2nd ,, „ ,, W There are thus on the Back of the Forearm one Extensor of the Forearm and two Supinators, t/iree Extensors of the Wrist, three Extensors of the Thumb, and three Extensors of Fingers. The Synovial Sheaths at the back of the Wrist correspond with the Grooves on the Bones, for which see 'Radius ' and ' Ulna.' MUSCLES OF THE HAND. There are three Flexors and three Extensors of the Thumb. ,, „ four „ ,, tivo „ ,, Little Finger. ,, tvjo ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, Index „ ,, ,, „ „ one Extensor ,, 3rd and 4th Fingers. The Thumb and the Little Finger have each a special Abductor, and the Thumb has also a special Adductor. The Index, Middle, and King Fingers have each two Interossei attached to them, which act, the one as Abductor and the other as Adductor. The 3rd Palmar Interosseous is the Adductor of the Little Finger. Muscles of the Thumb. The Extensors of the Metacarpal Bone and of the 1st and 2nd Phalanges, and the Long Flexor, have been mentioned previously, C Abductor, —Origin —Trapezium (ridge) and Annular Ligament Insertion,—1st Phalanx (outer side of base), j Flexoi^Ossi^^Metacarpi | _ —Metacarpal Bone (front and outer border). Flexor Brevis — i Trapezoid and ,, „ j one with Abductor, riexor jsrevis, „ | Os Magnum and bases of 2nd & 3rd Metacarpals " "^^^^ | one with Adductor. .Adductor, — „ —3rd Metacarpal (lower g of Shaft) „ —1st Phalanx (inner side of base).MUSCLES or HAND. rMeta.c<x-rpctI JBone'S I: ' A 'holu^tor ToIIims /'- ,. Min.Diq. 1. - Tl&xer Brens Tolhas 1'- „ ' „ M.nUig. .p'I?ex.OssMdppp) Toll. J.'- „ . „ „ MmDi Ji-'AoLdiM^arTudixbs J^~3 '^Talinaj-Intsi'ossiAcli. f-r^Darsal „ (AldJnol). S~ Z "Dorsal IrUenrsseoue 10.- 0 //■ 'Tl&x. LoTigus JolluLS. IZrKxt.Trnm Internodii Toll. I5r „ Se^- „ „ I5r „ Minimi Bicfiti. Ibr „ (^mmumsTligibrrum' /S.~ „ buLhrrus „Muscles of the Upper Extremity—continued. 99 Muscles of the Little Finger. The Extensor Minimi Digiti, Extensor Communis, Flexor Sublimis and Flexor Profundus Digitorum have been mentioned previously, f Abductor, —Orhjin | XendoTof Flex. Carpi Ulna lnsertion~\st Phalanx (inner side of base). -I Flexor Ossis Metacarpi ( Unciform Process of Unciform , ,-p „ ■ \ I (Opponens) - " j Annular Ligament » -Metacarpal Bono (inner margm). LFlexor Brevis, — ,, —Annular Ligament „ —with Abductor. The Jirtit two (outer two) Muscles of the Thumb have a common origin, as have also the last two (outer two) Muscles of the Little Finger. All four arise from the Annular Ligament. Overlying the Muscles of the Little Finger is the Palmaris Brevis \ -^^^ f^rir^^^:!^tl^'"" ted into skin of Ulnar side of Palm. The liUmbricales are connected with the Tendons of the Flexor Profundus Digitorum. 1 the 1st and 2nd arising from radial sides of the tendons to the Index and Middle Fingers respectively. \ /in, ^■ \ Middle and Ring „ I „ 3rd „ 4th „ „ contiguous „ „ „ „ j Ring ^nd Little Passing to the radial side of the corresponding finger, each ends in the Extensor Aponeurosis. Interossei. ( Oriijln —one in each Intermetacarpal Space, from the contiguous sides of the Metacarpal Bones. Dorsal (4) { , -^^^^^ Phalanges of the Middle three Fingers, two being fixed to the Middle Finger, thus : - - ( Insertion \ the 1st on outer side of Index Finger, the 4th on inner side of Ring Finger, the 2nd and 3i-d on opposite sides of Middle Finger. A few fibres from each join the Extensor Aponeurosis over the 1st Phalanx. Palmar (3) \ ^'"^fi"" —Metacarpal Bones of Index, Ring and Little Fingers. ^ '(Insertion—Bases of 1st Phalanges „ „ ,, „ „ ,, the 1st on the inner side, the 2nd and 3rd on the outer side of the Fingers to which they belong. The Lumbricales pass from the Flexor Tendons to the Extensor Aponeuroses. „ Interossei „ ,, Metacarpal Bones ,, ,, ,, and the 1st Phalanges.100 MUSCLES OF LOWER EXTREMITY. MUSCLES ACTING UPON THE HIP AND KNEE-JOINTS. The Muscles acting upon tlie Hip-joint may be divided into six Groups ; four of these Groups are specially concerned with the movements of the Hip, the other two chiefly with those of the Knee. In each of two Groups of the former set there are six ilusdes, in each of the other tu-o Groiqos there are three. One of the muscles of each of these four Grouj^s extends below the Knee and acts upon it as well as upon the Hip. The other ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, are attached to the Femur and act only upon the Hip. As in the Upper Extremity, the movements produced by the Muscles of each of these four Groups are compoimd, thus :— The First Group consists of three Plexors (a), which also rotate out(b) and adduot slightly (c). ,, Second „ „ „ six Adductors (c), „ „ flex (a) ,, rotate out (b). ,, Third „ „ „ three Rotators in (b'), „ „ abduct (c') „ flex (a). ,, Fourth „ „ „ six Rotators out (b),^ „ „ abduct (c') „ extend (a'). FLEXORS—three—two acting on the Hip and one on the Hip and Knee. lliapu"? \ ^"ff"* —Iliac Fossa intermediately, Ilio-lumbar Ligament hehiiid, and Capsular Ligament of Hip in front. ( I Insertion—Small Trochanter [lower edge) and surface of Femur below and in front of it. Psoas Magnus \ ^'''"J"^ \ Roots"of Transv erse Processes of ,, „ and fibrous arches over lateral surfaces Contiguous borders of Bodies of last Dorsal and all the Lumbar Vertebra; and intermediate Intervert. Discs. Insertion—Small Trochanter [apex). [of Bodies. {Psoas Parvus arises with the 1st slip of origin of Psoas Magnus, and ends below in the Ilio-pectineal Eminence and Iliac Fascia.) Sartorius \ ^"V''* —Anterior Superior Spine of Ilium and half the Notch below it. ( Ins/'rtion —Tibia, inner suiface for H in. by the side of Tubercle, giving expansions to Fascia of Leg and Int. Lateral Lig. In front of the Ilip-joint the Psoas is tendinous and is Sfpc'rcited from the Capsule by a bursa, whilst the Iliacua is mascidar and is united to the Capsule by muscular fibres. These Muscles are the outer three of the six entering into the formation of Scarpa's Triangle, and are supplied by special branches of the Lumbar Plexus or of the Anterior Crural Nerve.SCCTION OF THIGH To indccat& relcdiye p<Kiit-<7ns of MuscLm ukoid middU T cf ikigk.PSOAS MAGNUS,ETC. /" Ilu) -kijpogcLstrioN. Xrl^octcrnal CutizneousAf. 3,'-Anie-ri-cT /~ Ilio- irv^vdr^cclIV. 2. ~ C&nd-da - crural N. yOkuratorM. RELATION TO NERVES. ll' ntoir ujsper md oi^r td^ of Soot. r, ?nid-poini „ „ „ ^ ] //~ at ou-lfyr LtjraUr of T^oa^ cJocrve ' t2 - iLrou^ ant.surf „ iniumediaielij Tor oiker Helahoru see Lufnittr PUjcus.Muscles of Lower Extremity—coiUimicd. 101 ADDUCTORS, iix—five acting on the Hip and one on the Hip and Knee. Triangular Surf, on Pubes, ant. to (Pectineus —0. ■KJtIi Adductor Brevis, — ^ Adductor Longus, — I Adductor Magnus, — I L Obturator Externus — Gracilis, — Ilio-pectineal Line -Ramus of Pubes -Body ,, „ below Crest Rami of Pubes and Ischium, and Tuber Ischii Inner ^ of m argin of Obturator Foramen „ ,, Obturator Membrane •—Rami of Pubes and Ischium \ Femur behind and below Small Trochanter. I Upper-iof linefromLiueaAsjicrato „ ,, —Line from „ ,, ,, —Linea Aspera (inner lip). —Interspace between upper divis. of Linea Aspera. —Digital Fossa on inner surface of Great Trochanter. 5 Tibia, for inch, behind upper part of Tendon of ( Sartorius. These Muscles are supplied by the Obturator Nerve. The first throe are the inner three of the six entering into the formation of Scarpa's Triangle. At their Origins the attachments of the Pectineus, Arid. Jlagnus and Quadratus Feraoris surround circumfercntially that of the Obtvn'ator Extenius, whilst those of the Add. Longus, Add. Brevis and Gracilis overlap along the margin of the Pubie Arch. At their Imertions the attachments of the Iliacus, Pectineus and Add, Brevis overlap. "'■ See Diagram and Description of Innominate Bone for this and succeeding Muscles, t ,1 Femur ,, ,, ,, ,, ROTATORS IN, threc- !Gluteus Medius Gluteus Minimus Tensor Vaginsa Fem, -two acting on the Hip and one on the Hip and Knee. Insertion —Oblique Line on external surface of Great Trochanter. Origin —Concave surface between Superior and Middle Curved Lines of Ilium and Gluteal Aponeurosis. ,, —Convex ,, Middle ,, Inferior ,, ,, ,, - Insertion —Rough facet on anterior surface of Great Trochanter. Origin —Outer lip of Iliac Crest for anterior two inches. Insertion—Ilio-tibial band of Fascia Lata three inches below and in front of Great Trochanter. These Muscles are supplied by the Superior Gluteal Nerve. ROTATORS OUT AND EXTENSORS, six—five acting ou the Hip and one on the Hip and Knee, I Orin'in \ ^^^^'^^^ three pieces of Sacrum, between anterior Sacral Foramina, Pyriformis \ >i n. .. . . . _ "S"'* I ^l)Qi,Q from mai'gin of Sacro-sciatic Foramen, and heIo>p from Sacro-sciatic Ligaments. Insertion—Post Facet on upper border of Great Trochanter, sejxirated from Capsule of Hip by Obt. Int. Tendon. Obturator Internus Oriijiii Insertion- Obturator Membrane and margin of Obturator Foramen, except above and in front. Pelvic Fascia, and inner surface of Body of Ischium ,, below „ behind. -Anterior Facet on upper border of Great Trochanter along with Gemelli. 14102 Muscles of Lower "EKtremity—continued. Gemellus Superior, —Or/ijin Gemellus Inferior, — ,, Cluadratus Femoris,— ,, -Outer surface of Spine of Ischium - ,, border „ Tuber. ,, (upper part) InscrlioH—with. Obturator laternus. „ —Linea Quadrati. Gluteus Maximus Posterior J of Urest of Ilium and Bone below it. (Bone). I Aponeurosis of Multitidus Spinai {Aponeuronii). I Back of lowest piece of Sacrum and back of Coccyx {Bone). Great Sacro-sciatic Ligament (outer surface) (Ligament). nseiiion upper § of muscle and lowest fibres intermediate „ into Fascia Lata (Ilio-Tibial Band). ,, Lino leading from Great Trochanter to Linea Aspera. Relation of Muscles to the Hip-joint. The Muscles specially in relation with the Capsule of the Hip-joint are arranged as follows : Behind and below the Capsule—Obturator PJxternus Tendon. In front of ,, —Psoas and Iliacus, Above ,, —Obturator Internus Tendon with Gemelli. Above and behind ,, „ —Pyriformis Tendon separated from Capsule by Obturator Internus Tendon. Behind ,, ,, •—Quadratus ,, „ „ „ ObturatorExternus „ The Muscles lie in one turn of a spiral round the Capsule (see Diagram). Fasciculi are sent into the Capsule above and in front | the Kectus^(Reflectod Head) mtern^^^^^^ The remaining two Groups (the Fifth and Sixth) which act on the Hip, act also and chiefly on the Knee. The Fifth. Group consists of //;;-ce Muscles which supplement the Extensors of the Hip and are also Flexors of the Knee. ,, Sixth ,, „ one Muscle „ supplements ,, Flexors ,, „ ,, is „ an Extensor „ ,, In addition to these there arc one Flexor and three Extensors of the Knee only, and two Flexors of the Knee and Extensors of the Ankle. EXTENSORS OF HIP AND FLEXORS OF KNEE. Short Head, Linea Aspera (outer lip) Lomj ,, Zower&i;!«c')'facetonTuberIschii f Biceps, —Origin j Semi-membranosus,— - .Semi-teudinosus, — „ . Insertion Upper k outer -with Long Head of Biceps Fibula, outer side of Head by double tendon, in front and behind the Long Ext. Lateral Lig. Tibia, Groove on back of Internal Tuberosity. ( Internal Lateral Ligament of Knco. giving 3 offssts to ■< Posterior Ligament ,, ( Fascia over l^opliteus. Tibia, for ^ in. behind lower part of insertion of Sartoriua.MUSCLES, IN RELATION WITH NECK or FEMUR. /■ Tenlm^ cf Ohhu-ator^xi- 1r Is crocs %, III Circus. 3r GUuraior Int. rnhk demilli SrOjjjei Jrovn Glu bxus Mtn. To incLc-octe- relaJxineposihon, of tlie Muscie^s in. relahon, wdh, tke Joini'-Ca-psuJe oui stem cm tran^yersc stctom. it fa) cirtd oj the Neck erf ike Temurfla) MUSCLES ARismc PROM TUBER ISCHII. To show relahon, <f tkeMascle^ ai^ju^t aft&f onqiri-103 Muscles of Lower Extremity—continned. FLEXOR OF KNEE. Popliteus —Origin Groove on outer side oi External Condyle Posterior Ligament of Knee-joint Insertion Tibia, posterior surface above Oblique Line. FLEXOR OF HIP AND EXTENSOR OF KNEE. Rectus Femoris —Origin EXTENSORS OF KNEE. Straight Head Ant. Inf. Spine of Ilium Reflected „ rough, groove above Acetabulum ( Root of Great Trochanter, ant. and ext. Vastus Externus —Origin I Line from „ „ to Linea Aspera ( Linea Aspera (upper half) and Ext. Intermusc. Sept. Vastus Internus with Crureus Ant. and lat. Surf, of Shaft of Femur (upper j) Both Intermuscular Septa Subcrureus, — ,, —Femur, anterior surface (lower ^) FLEXORS OF KNEE AND EXTENSORS OF ANKLE. Gastrocnemius —Origin Plantaris —Patella (upper border) with the Vasti, — „ (external border). — „ (internal ,, ). —Synovial Membrane of Knee-joint. by Inner Head, from upper& o«<f?' part of Int. Condyle ,, Outer „ ,, „ part of OKiersurf, of Ext. „ External Supracondyloid Ridge Posterior Ligament of Knee-joint The Heads of the Gastrocnemius both arise from the outer side of the corresponding Condyle. T)ie fibres of the inner head of tlie Gastrocnemius descend lower than those of the outer head. ,, „ ,, Vastus Internus „ ,, ,, ,, ,, Vastus Externus The Plantaris and Popliteus both arise from the Posterior Ligament of the Knee-joint. —Os Calcis by Tendo Achillis. —with Tendo Achillis. There are thus in all fourteen Muscles acting on the Knee-joint, - EigJd Four Two Biceps I Semi-tendinosus ( Semi-membranosus Rectus Femoris Vastus Internus Vastus Externus [ Gastrocnemius, ( Plantaris \ wi ith the with the Sartorius Gracilis Tensor Vag. Fem. Gluteus Max. Subcrureus Popliteus through Ilio-tibial Band acting on Hip and Knee, Knee only. Knee and Ankle. The three Muscles attached by the side of tlie Tubercle of the Tibia (Sartoriiis Gracilis and Semitendinosus) arise from the most prominent i oints of the Ilium, Tubes and Ischium respectively. 14—2101- Muscles of Lower Extremity—conUnned. MUSCLES OP THE FRONT OF THE LEG. Of the four Muscles ou the front of the Leg (Flexors of Ankle and Extensors of Toes) two, Tibialis Anticus and Extensor Longus Dic;itorum, are long, attached, the former to the Tibia, the latter to the Fibula chiefly. two, Extensor Propriua Pollicis and Peroneus Tertius ,, short, and alternate with the others, both being attached to the Fibula. S Tibialis Anticus, —Orir/!n —Outer surface (upper §) and outei- Tuberosity of'Tibia, Interosseous Membrane & Fascia, j ( Ext. Longus Digitorum,— ,, —Ant. „ (upper i') of Fibula „ ,, ,, „ „ ,, ,, „ „ I (Ext. Proprius Pollicis,— ,, — ,, ,, (middle^),, „ and Interosseous Membrane. I Peroneus Tertius, — ,, — ,, ,, (lower |)„ „ „ ,, ,, i Tibialis Anticus, —Inftrrtion —Base of first Metatarsal Bone, and Internal Cuneiform, j j Peroneus Tertius, — ,, — „ „ ,, „ / J Ext. Longus Digitorum,— ,, —by four tendons into Bases of 2nd and 3rd Phalanges of four outer toes, as in the Hand. (Ext. Proprius Pollicis, — ,, — ,, one tendon ,, Base of 2nd Phalanx of Great Toe. MUSCLES OF THE OUTER SIDE OF THE LEG. Peroneus Brevis, —Orhjhi —Fibula, lower § of outer surface and Fascia Inserlion—Base oi/StM. Metatarsal Bone. Peroneus Longus, — ,, — „ upper,, „ ,, „ „ „ — ,, „ ,, „ The tendons lie in the aauite groove behind the External Malleolus, and are invested by a common Synovial Sheath, but lie in separate grooves on the outer side of the Os Calcis, lined by prolongations from the common Sheath. The tendon of the Peroneus Longus is invested by a special Synovial Sheath as it lies in its canal In the Solo of the Foot. MUSCLES ON THE BACK OF THE LEG. Of the six Muscles on the Back of the Leg, two, the Plantaris and Gastrocnemius, are Flexors of the Knee and Extensors of the Ankle, two, the Soleus and Tibialis Posticus ,, Extensors of the Ankle only. ftpo, the Flexor Longus Digitorum and Flexor Longus Pollicis „ ,, ,, ,, and Flexors of the Toes. The attachments of the first two have been already mentioned : the remaining four arise from the bones of the Leg ; the Soleus and Tibialis Posticus from both, the Flexor Longus Pollicis from the Fibula, and the Flexor Longus Digitorum from the Tibia. (Tlie Muscle passing to the iancr side of the Foot arises from the outer Bone of the Leg, and vice vcrsd.)MUSCLES or FRONT OF LEG. MUSCLES OF BACK OF LEG. 3.' Soot.Trap. ToIIlus . ; M- ~ Jihuzlis Anlccus 5TTlescoT Jion^i^s JJcffit. To uvJcxxxi^ rtlati-ve- jjosUum^; Ln^tL.SECTION ABOVE ANKLE. /~ TihuzlLS Ardicus. ^~ Tl&yurr Xon^i^s Dig-it. 2~^xJe^<Tr Jroprius Tdlluus. Q. ~ nJiUlUs ~Rrsilcu<S br^xhmor Lcmgws Uigil. lOrTeJvIo Ack tills Jtrlerorvcus Jeriiocs. 11 .--'Plaji2ei.rU [Ve«seZr«i>. 6.- ,. IBreris. \rMroneal ^ ■].AnfEroneal SECTION „ MIDDLE THIRD or LEG, il."Sole^cs Tkt vlker re-fererux^s are. lJi£ scune in. the hvo DiagramsMuscles of Lower EKtremity—continued. 105 The attachments of these four Muscles taken together extend much nearer the Knee and Ankle on the outer than on the inner side of the Leg, thus :—■ S \ Flexor llongus PoUicis | ^'""^ upper and lower half respectively of the outer part of the post. surf, of the Fibula. 'H^ 1 Tibialis Posticus, — ,, ,, middle of the contiguous portions ,, ,, surfaces of Fibula and Tibia. O (Flexor Longus Digitorum,— ,, ,, ,, i ,, outer part ,, ,, surface of the Tibia. Solous is also attached to the Head of the Fibula, to the Oblique Line on the Tibia, and to a fibrous arch between them. Tibialis Posticus is attached ,, posterior surface of the Fibula iiiterual to the Oblique Line, to the post, surface of the Tibia external to the Vertical Line, and to the Interosseous Membrane. Flexor Longus Pollicis is attached to within 1 inch from the Ankle, the Tibialis Posticus to within S inches, and the Flexor Longus Digitorum to within 3 inches. Soleus, —by Tendo Achillis to lower half of posterior surface of Os Calois. The muscular portion of the Gastrocnemius ends in tendon a little below the middle of the Leg, that of the Soleus just above the Ankle. Tibialis Posticus, —Tuberosity of Scaphoid, giving special offsets to all the Bones of the Tarsus and Metatarsus, except the extremes, viz., the Astragalus and the first and last Metatarsal Bones. Flexor Longus Digitorum, —Last phalanges of four outer Toes, as in Hand, joining Flexor Aceessorius and perforating Flexor Brevis. .Flexor Longus Pollicis, — ,, phalanx „ Great Toe ,, ,, passing between Heads of Flexor Brevis Pollicis. In its course the Tendon of the Flexor Longus Digitorum crosses that of the Tibialis Posticus behind the Internal llallcolus, and that o£ the Flexor Longus Pollicis in the Sole of the Foot, sepai-ated from the former by Synovial Membi-ane, but receiving from the latter a special slip. The Tendons crossing behind the Ankle have the following relations to each other :— In the Groove behind the Internal Malleolus lies the Tibialis Posticus with the Flexor Longus Digitorum superficial to it. ,, ,, ,, External ,, ,, Peroneus Brevis ,, ,, Peroneus Longus ,, ,, ,, ,, on Tibia midway betw. Malleoli „ Flexor Longus Pollicis, grooving also the post, border of the Astragalus. The tendons behind each Malleolus have a common Synovial Sheath, the middle tendon has a special Sheath. For Diagrams of the attachment of Muscles to the Bones of the Leg, see pp. 38 and 00.106 MUSCLES OF THE FOOT. The Great Toe Las two Extensors and two Flexors, a special Abductor and a special Adductor. „ Little „ „ one Extensor ,, three ,, ,, ,, ,, a Plantar Interosseous as ,, ,, other Toes have each two Extensors ,, ,, ,, and two Interossei as Abductor and Adductor. Ext. Brevis Digit.—0?ii/m Flexor Brevis Digitorum Flexor Acces- l sorius Digit. Flexor Brevis PoUicis / Adductor Pol- \ licis Superior Surface of Great Process of Os Calcis Inferior border of Anterior Annular Ligament Inner Tubercle of Os Calcis Fascia and Intermuscular Septa i7ec«?, fleshy, from inner surface of Os Calcis Outer tendinous i outeredgeof Inf. surf, of ,, ,, " "I and Long Plantar Ligament Cuboid and External Cuneiform Bones Ligaments between them Bases of 2nd, .Srd and 4th Metatarsal Bones Sheath of Peroneus Longus I Abductor Pol- ) ( Inner Tubercle of Os Calcis licis \ " ( Internal Annular Ligament and Fascia * The Ile.ids contain Sesamoid Bones, and are sex^arated by the Tendon of the Flexor Longn.s rollici Base of 5th Metatarsal Bone Sheath of Peroneus Longus " j by four tendons \ and three «iHe?-tendonsof Ext. Long. Digit. ( by four tendons into ,, < 2ud Phalanges of four outer Toes ( like Fle.xor Sublimis Digitorum of Hand. ,, —Tendon of Flex. Long, Digit.,outer border. 5 by two Heads into 1st Phalanx " ( with Abductor and Adductor Pollicis. ,,.^^lst Phalanx, inner side of Base. outer (Flexor Brevis I Min. Digiti I Abductor Min. L Digiti Outer and Inner Tubercles of Os Calcis Fascia and Intermuscular Septa TransversusPedis— of Great Toe, with Adductor Pollicis. \ Head of 5th Metatarsal Bone j Transverse Metatarsal Ligament " ( Of the three Muscles connected with the Tubercles of the Os Calcis, one the Abductor of the LtttU Toe, arises from both Tubercles, the others from the Inner Tubercle only. Each of the above Muscles is connected at its origin partly with Bone, partly with Ligament or Fascia, and at its insertion (excluding the common Muscles of the Toes) with the Base of a lat Phalanx, Notice the grouping in sets of three, each consisting of a pair and a single Muscle,MUSCLES OF FOOT , ~ ftelative: positioSECTION or FOOT.107 Muscles of the Foot—contiimcd. Lumbricales Interossei f • „v ( connectins; the Tendons of tlie Flexor Longus Digitorum ) • u i /o«r m number j^^i^j^ _ „ „ Extensor „ m Hand. The innermost is attached to the inner border of the 1st Tendon. The other three are ,, „ contiguous borders of the other Tendons. {four Dorsal Abductors from, and three Plantar Adductors to, the mid-line. ri ■ ■ • +1 w -1 5 the Dorsal, one in each interspace, from the contiguous surfaces of the Metatarsal Bones urirjui —as in tne nana | piantar, each from the Metatarsal Bone of the Toe to which it belongs. ( The Dorsal into the middle three Toes, two ending on the 2nd Toe. I The 1st and 2nd are connected with opposite sides of the base of the 1st Phalanx of 2nd Toe. Insertion'\ The 3rd „ 4th ,, ,, „ the outer „ „ bases „ „ Phalanges „ 3rd&4th Toes. I The Plantar into the outer three Toes (inner „ „ ,, „ ,, iFrom the insertion of each Interosseous Muscle an offset is sent to each Extensor Tendon. The Lumbricales and Plantar Interossei are more simple in arrangement in the Foot than in the Hand, thus ; In the Hand the two outer Lumbricales arise each from a single Tendon, in the Foot only the innermost (which cannot arise from two). ,, ,, ,, Palmar Interossei are inserted into the '2nd, 4th and 5th Fingers ,, ,, (Plantar Interossei) into the oiucr throe Toes. The Dorsal Interossei in the Foot are attached to the middle three Toes (as in the Hand). Layers of Muscles, etc., in the Foot. (1) Integuments and Plantar Fascia with Superficial Vessels and Nerves. ( Abductor Pollicis, on inner side. (2) Muscles I Abductor Minimi Digiti ,, outer ,, ( Flexor Brevis Digitorum, intermediatelij. (3) Tendons, rri 3 e\ Plexor Longus Digitorum „ ■,, ( Flexor Accessorius. -iendons of ] ^^^^^^ ^-^^.^.^ with | L^„,i,,i,aies. (4) Muscles Flexor Brevis Pollicis. I Flexor Brevis Minimi Digiti. I Adductor Pollicis. Transversus Pedis. (5) Bones and Ligaments, Interossei Muscles, and Tendons of Peroneus Longus and Tibialis Posticus. For layers of Veesels and Nerves see ' Arteries of Foot.'FASCIA. 108 Temporal Fascia, attached as ( Infcriorly, between the two layers are From behind forwards a s/iujle layer to the Temporal Ridge bounding the Temporal Fossa. two layers ,, inner and outer borders of the Zygomatic Arch. an Orbital twig from the Temporal Artery (Anastomotic Br.). a Temporal ,, ,, „ Orbital Nerve (from Superior Maxillary). iThe superficial surface of the Fascia is covered by the Epicranial Aponeurosis. „ deep „ ,, „ attaches fibres of the Temporal Muscle, except below and in front. Immediately above the Zygoma anteriorly there are seven layers overlying the Temporal Muscle. 1. Skin, 4. Outer layer of Temporal Fascia, 2. Superficial Fascia and Vessels, 5. Fatty tissue, 3. Epicranial Aponeurosis, 6. Inner Layer of Temporal Fascia, 7. Loose tissue over tendon of Temporal Muscle. Deep Cervical Fascia. is attached posiej'io)'?)/ to Spines of Vertebra3 and Ligameutum Nuchte, splits into two layers to enclose Trapezius, forms a single layer over the Posterior Triangle, splits into two layers to enclose the Sterno-mastoid, forms a single layer over the Anterior Triangle, splits to enclose the Depressor Muscles of the Larynx, blends anter/orli/ with the corresponding Fascia of the opposite side. 1 Zygoma posteriori//. Connected above with < Body of Jaw anteriorly. ( Angle of Jaw and Styloid Process intermediately, by a special layer forming Stylo-maxillary Ligament. Clavicle externally. Anterior surface of Sternum internally. [gland. Posterior „ ,, „ by a distinct layer, separated from that attached to front of Sternum by fat and a ( Hyoid Bone. ( Sheath of Carotid Vessels. Parotid Gland (viz., Parotid Fascia). Masseter Muscle (viz.. Masseteric Fascia). Subclavian Artery externally. Great Vessels passing into Thorax interncdly. f The sheath of the Subclavian Artery is connected with the Fascia of tlie Arm. I ), II Thoracic Vessels ,, ,, ,, the fibrous layer of the roricardium. ( Develops a special hand above by which the Sterno-mastoid is held forward towards the Angle of the Jaw. ( 1) » II ,1 below,, „ „ Omo-hyoid „ bound down to the 1st Kib. below intermediately Gives investments above to Forms sheaths below for109 Fascise—contimied. Vertebral Aponeurosis (Sheath of Extensors of Back) blended below with Aponeurosis of Erector Spinee, Latissimus Dorsi and Serratus Posticus Inferior. above ,, Deep Cervical Fascia, beneath Splenitis (unconnected with Serratus Posterior Superior), ,, , J ( internally to Spinous Processes of Lumbar and Dorsal Vertebrae, attached / ( Crest of Ilium Ribs. ( external/^ „ ^^^^.^ Lumborum ^""'^ *° Intercostal Fascia. FASCIA OF UPPER EXTREMITY, ( split Costo-coracoid Mem- brane below to enclose Pectoralis Minor and to form sheath of Axillary Vessels on inner side, above ,, „ Subclavius ,, join Anterior and Posterior Borders of Clavicle. ,, . J j internally to upper two Ribs and Intercostal Fascia, attachea | Coracoid Process „ Fascia of Arm. I trans- mitting -( f always (^sometimes ( Acromio-thoracic Artery. < Cephalic Vein. ( External Anterior Thoracic Nerve. Branch of Superior Thoracic Artery. Acromio-thoracic Vein. Branch of Internal Anterior Thoracic Nerve. !Ext. Intermuscular Septum Int. Intermuscular Septum Fascia of Forearm. ( Anteriorly \ Posteriorly thin strong J Brachialis Anticus ire/roni andSiceps behind ■ -.t ( Superior Profunda Artery, attacning Supinator Long. & Ext. Carpi Rad. Lobs, lalerallii Pierceaoy Musculo spiral Nerve. pinator Long. & Ext. Carpi Rad. Long, laterally Brachialis Anticus in front and ^ceps behind spiral'. Inferior Profunda Artery. Ulnar Nerve and Post, branohof Anastomotic Art. —thick above, receiving fibres from Biceps and attaching Superficial Flexors, thinner JeZow, joining Ant. Ann. Lig. — „ „ „ „ ,, Triceps „ „ „ Extensors „ „ „ Post. „ „ I Anterior Annular Iiig.—fibres pass transversely from Scaphoid and Trapezium externally, to Unciform and Pisiform internally. I Posterior Annular Lig.— „ „ obliquely „ Radius a6oi'e, downwards and inwards* to First Row of Carpal Bones iefcia. In same direction aa fibres of Anterior and Posterior Ligaments of Wrist Joint. 15110 FaSCiSB—continued. , connected above with Palmaris Longus Tendon, and by deep surface with Ant. surface of Ant. Annular Lig. Palmar Fascia | ^^^j^ ^^^^^^ -^^^ ^^^^^ ^-^^^^^ ^^^^ subdivided near fingers into j P'-o^esses passing ^^^^^^^^ The Conunon S'jnovial liti mhrane beneath the Anterior Annular Ligament is distinct from the Membranes of the Sheaths of the Tendons, except in the case of the Thimib Tendon usually, and the Little Finger Tendon sometimes. There is a separate Si/nocial Membrane within each of the six Compartments of the Posterior Annular Ligament. <?Vi a tin a nf Tonrlnnci \ strong and Complete opposite shafts of 1st and 2nd Phalanges, thin and weak over corresponding Joints, sneatns OI xenaons | j Synovial Membranes, (/inn;/ slender vascular folds here and there to Tendons (Vincula Vasculosa). ' " Flexor Tendons, each at its insertion giriiiij an offset to the head of the bone above that into which it is inserted (Ligamentum Breve). FASCIiE OF LOWER EXTREMITY. attached \ prominent points round Pelvis, f' *■ I below „ ,, ,, Knee. Fascia Lata .1 perforated in/rout and abovehj Saphenous Opening (for which see "Femoral Hernia"), of Thigh I I [behind „ ,, over Gluteus Medius, giving origin to it, /o)-TO»(r/Gluteal Fascia, thickened I'm front „ heloio „ QuadricepsTendon,blendingwith Apons. of Vasti ,, Retinaculaof Patella. ( externallij by the insertion into it of Gluteus Max. and Tens. Vag. Fern. ,, Ilio-tibial Band, j Ext. Intermuscular Septum, strong, separating Vastus Externiis and Biceps (short Head). (Int. Intermuscular Septum, thin ,, „ Internus ,, Adductor Muscles. f anteriorlij, strongest above, connected above with Tibia, etc. ; continued below into Anterior Annular Lig. Fascia of Leg I ' (continuous „ „ Fasciaof Thigh, and „ with Internal „ ,, (posteriorJi/ ,, ,, < ,, exiernallt/ „ „ on Front of Leg. ( attached internally to Internal Margin of Tibia. A deep layer of the Fascia o^i the back of the leg between the superficial and deep Muscles Is strongest below.FascisB—continued. Ill < the superior, a broad band between the Tibia and Fibula just above the Malleoli. Ant. Annular Lig. —in two parts ^ ( attached w<er/(a% to upper surface of Os C'alcis. ( ,, inferior „ Y-shaped „ < „ internally ,, Int. Malleolus and Tuber, of Scaphoid. ( attaching by lower edge the Extensor Brevis Digitorum. The whole Ligament is thus Z-shaped (see Diagram). Tlie upper piece has one Synovial Membrane for the Tibialis Aiiticiis, the other Muscles being uninvested. , J. T. • * Ti II' ■ 1 (Extensor Longua Digitorum. „ lower ,, ,, thvfc ,, Membranes „ ., „ ,, Extensor PropriuS PoUicis and| p^j.^jj^^^^ rj^^.j^^^g^ ^ attached ahove to Internal Malleolus and to Os Calcis (inner surface) beloiv. ^continuous ,, with Fascia of Leg ,, attaching iffo?;; the Abductor Pollicip Muscle. Int. Annular Lig. I having separate Synovial Sheaths for Tibialis Posticus, Flexor Longus Digitorum and Flexor Longus PoUicis. ( [ covering the Posterior Tibial Vessels and Nerve in their jjassage to the Foot. ( pierced by branches of the Posterior Tibial Artery and Nerve (Cutaneous to Heel). The Posterior Tibial Nerve divides opposite the upper border of the Ligament. 1. II M Artery „ ,, lower ,, ,, (Similarly tho main Nerve of the back of the Log, the Great Sciatic, divides higher up than the main Artery, the Popliteal.) Ext. Annular Lig. ( attached to External Malleolus above and to Os Calcis (outer surface) below. ( having one Synovial Sheath for the Peronei, which subdivides to accompany each tendon. ( attached behind to Tubercles on Inferior surface of Os Calcis. I central part, strong, triangular < subdivided in front for the Toes (like Palmar Fascia). f consists of 1 ( covering Flexor Brevis Digitorum. I Pouter ,, ,, band-like ,, Abd. Min. Dig., attached ant. to Base of 5th Met. Bone. Plantar Fascia -{ [inner ,, thin and weak ,, ,, Pollicis. Isends Intermuscular Septa on either side of Flexor Brevis Digitorum, which become united below it. The Sheaths of the Tendons are like those of the Hand, but are not so distinct. « 15-2VESSELS.THORACIC AORTA. Thoracic Aorta ARCH OF AORTA I commences opposite the lower border of the joint between the 3rd Left Costal Cartilage and Sternum. ends at the Aortic opening of the Diaphragm, [ and is subdivided into the Arch and the Descending Aorta. Ascending Part, runs from 3rd Left Cai-tilage, Zoioer border to 2nd Right Cartilage {upper border). Transverse ,, „ ,, 2nd Cartilage on right side ,, 2nd Dorsal Vertebra on its A/< side (or 3rd, or 4th). Descending ,, „ „ 2ltd Dorsal Vertebra „ 3rd „ ,, (or 4th, or 5th). ( first from Cartilage to Cartilage, then from Cartilage to Vertebra, and then from Vertebra to Vertebra. 1 ,, ,, 3rd to 2nd ,, „ ,, 2nd ,, ,, 2nd ,, ,, ,, ,, 2nd to 3rd ,, ( The Ascending part and the first portion of the Transverse are separated from the Sternum only by fat and remains of Thymus. Thus the Arch passes Descendmg Ascending Part -j last ,, ,, ,, deeply placed in the Thorax under cover of the Left Lung. C in front, at origin, Eight Auricular Appendage and Pulmonary Artery. I behind „ ,, Left Auricle, and higher up Eight Branch of Pulmonary Artery. Relations J to left side Pulmonary Artery and Anterior Coronary Artery. I „ right ,, Vena Cava Superior ,, Phrenic Nerve. [ invested by the same reflection of Serous Pericardium as the Pulmonary Artery. I Branches —The two Coronary Arteries. Transverse Part I" Relations I J ( Left Vagus Nerve and Left Phrenic Nerve, separated by in front (5) < Sup. Card, of Left Symp. ,, Inf. Card, of Left Vagus (the roots of Super. Card. Plex.) ( Left Superior Intercostal Vein. ( Deep Cardiac Plexus and Left Recurrent Laryngeal Nerve. behind (5) < Trachea ,, GLsophagus. ( Thoracic Duct. cdong upper edge, Left Innominate Vein. ,, lower „ „ Branch of Pulmonary Artery. in concavity, lies the Superficial Cardiac Plexus. Jhrough „ passes the Left Bronchus. I Branches, etc. \ ^''^'^ "PP''' margin are the j Lef° Carotid and Left Subclavian. ( connected with the ?o?oer ,, is „ Ductus Arteriosus (to left side).Thoracic Aorta,—continued. 116 Descending Part j Relations behind, —Vertebral column with Ligaments. \ to left, —Left Lung ,, Pleura. J to right,—Esophagus ,, Thoracic Duct. ( !»/ro«^—Root of Left Lung ,, Posterior Pulmonary Plexus. DESCENDING AORTA. Course etc ^ commences at left side and lower border of 3rd (or 4th or 5th) Dorsal Vertebra, Relations and ends in mid-line at 12th Dorsal Vertebra. ' Lies in Posterior Mediastinum, hehind Pericardium, resting on Vertebrte and Ligaments. OLsophagus is at first to right side, then in front, and lastly a little to left side. ( Vena Azygos Minor is hehind in lower part. < „ „ Major and Thoracic Duct are to right side. . ( Left Lung and Pleura are to left side. The Branches of the Thoracic Aorta, like the branches of the Abdominal Aorta or the Internal Iliac Artery may be arranged in three Groups, each consisting of three Vessels or sets of Vessels. The First Group comprises three single Arteries, which supply parts external to the Thorax. ,, Second „ ,, ,, sets oi ,, ,, ,, the walls of ,, ,, „ Third „ „ ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, viscera,. FIRST GROUP. Innominate Left Common Carotid at origin rests on Trachea to right side of mid-line, close to Left Common Carotid Artery. next-gdisaes to right ,, ,, rest on the Longus Colli Muscle. ( at origin rests on ,, to left side of mid-line, close to Innominate Art. < next passes to left of ,, ,, rest on (Esophagus and Thoracic Duct. (lastly ,, ,, „ Oesophagus „ ,, Longus Colli Muscle. ^ (the Sternum and the Muscles attached to it, In front of both Vessels are \ ''lernum ana tne Muscles attacned to it _ •' (the remains of the Thymus Gland and the Left Innominate Vein. Alongside ,, ,, lie the Cardiac Nerves. On outer side of Innominate is the Eight Innominate Vein separating it from the Phrenic Nerve. >. 11 >> Left Carotid ,, Left Pneumogastrio Nerve „ „ Left Subclavian Artery. (The two Vessels would have similar relations if the (Esophagus did not lie somewhat to the left side of the Trachea at the top oi the Thorax)Thoracic Aorta—continued, 117 J at frd rests on Qisopliagus ami Thoracic Duct, lying to left of Left Carotid Artery. ^ ( ufA'i passes ^0 A//! of ,, ,, „ to rest on Longus Colli Muscle. Left Subclavian \ , in j-^.^i^^ ^^.^ ^^j^^ Lgft- inuomlnate Vein and the Left Lung, the former crossing it, the latter overlapping it. ' to the rhjlit ,, ,, Pneumogastric ,, „ Cardiac Nerves, separating it from the Left Carotid Art. ( >! •> ^''fi )) J! Lung and the Pleura. Compare the Relations of the Innominate, Left Carotid and Left Subehivian as given above. SECOND GROUP, —tlirve sets of Vessels supplying the imlh of the Thorax. Intercostal, —10 pairs, one pair opposite each of the 10 lower Dorsal Vertebrce. f, ( between Pleura and External Intercostal Muscle as far as Angles of Ribs. \ „ Internal „ „ „ Muscles „ ,, Anterior i ,, „ ( Each gives off Posterior or Dorsal Branch between Transverse Processes of Vertebra?, Branches, etc. < divides opposite the Angles of the Ribs bounding the space into two parallel branches, which ( end near the Anterior Extremities of Ribs by joining corresponding Branches of the Internal Mammai-y. Ill eaeh Space the Artery lies between the Vein above and the Nerve below (except iu the upper spaces where the Nerve is at first above the Aitery). (See p. 118.) ( passes back across inner edge of Anterior Costo-Transverse Ligament, Dorsal Branch I gives off Spinal Branch opposite Intervertebral Foramen, ( ends in two offsets to Muscles and Skin of Back, which accompany corresponding Nerve. Sinml Branch divides iu Intervertebral Foramen into | branch to Bodies of Vertebr*. ^ in,, Spinal Cord. .Branch to Bodies- „ on their posterior Aspect „ * Ascondmg Twig j which join slmaar V j 1 i :> (Descending ( to form longitudinal Vessel on each side. ■) f offset on Anterior Nerve Root, which -\ jo"?« it? fellow of opposite side, and ^ Branch to Cord „ into J ( assists m forming Anterior bpinaliVrtery. I „ „ Posterior „ „ „ I ^"ides into { ( assists in forming Posterior Spinal Artery of same side. The same arrangement of Vessels in the Canal and on the Cord is found also in the Cervical and Lumbar Regions, where Spinal Branches are sent through tlie Inter* vertebral Foramina by the Vertebral, Ascending Cervical, and Superior Intercostal zVrteries in the former case, and by tlio Lumbar, Uiu-Lumbar, and Lateral Sacral Arteries in the latter. There are time longitudinal Arteries in relation with the Vortebi'fe, one, the Aorta, in front, and two, the Vertebral Twigs of the Spinal Arteries behind. ,, ,, I, ,1 I, ,1 ,, I, „ Spinal Cord „ ,, Ant. Spinal,, „ ,, ,, Posterior Spinal behind. Mediastinal (Posterior),—Small irregular offsets to Fat, etc., of Mediastinum. Pericardiac, — „ ,, „ „ Pericardium and Pleura. 16Thoracic Aorta—continued. 118 N.B.—111 the case of the three chief Vessels, etc., in the five following successive positions from above down, viz. :—(1) in an Intercostal Space, (2) in the Root of the Lung (right side), (3) in the Transverse Fissure of the Liver, (4) in the Root of the Kidney, and (5) in relation with the Internal Iliac Artery,—the Artery lies in each case between the other two, and the Vein alternates in position with the third structure, thus :— From below upwards. Intercostal Space. Nerve Artery Vehi Vein Artery Bronchus From before backwards. Koot of Right Lung. Root of Liver. Duct (Hepatic) Artery ( ,, ) Vein (Portal) Root of Kidney. Vein Artery Ureter Relations of Int. Iliac. Ureter Artery (Iiit. Iliac) Vein ( ) THIRD GROUP, Two, Coronary —three sets of Vessels supplying the Viscera of the Thorax. !arises from commencement of Arch of Aorta, appears to riijht of Pulmonary Artery, and curves round the right border of the Heart, lying in the groove between the Bight Auricle and Ventricle, and giving off a branch toward the Apex in the right (or Posterior) Interventricular Sulcus. [ £g£j. ( takes a course similar to that of the Right, ' left' being substituted for ' right' and ' anterior ' for / ' posterior ' in the above description. 7Vircc, Broncliial Two passing to the Left Lung (the smaller Lung) and one to the Eight Lung (the larger Lung). Arising directly from the Aorta from termination of Arch or from one of the Intercostal Arter.e? lying on the deep aspect of the Bronchi and Root of Lung. oSe GEsophageal small, oblique, arL-iing from Descending Aorta, passing at once to QCsophagus.INTERCOSTAL ARTERIES. CLrSkuv.etx. h.-TfoLpeziua. CrJ-OnffissDarsieh. . d'llio -ccrstalis elt Q-'X'Xi. IntercostalM. j-Inllrvt^roa^talM. Cf- Hd'orcdis Major. Ji - 'Phu.roL . I -B terruun. I,' AcTtXc Jjd&rcost Art. 2rJ)arsal Sr. of da. S.'^pirud Offset- jfda. ij.. Lateral£r. cf do. 5.' lermctvod Srs. of do. b.-JrUMcunmarii Art J. ~Jnt&rc<Tstal J3rs. of do. d.'Tirfarcdinq^ Sr cf do. A-:DIACRAM (^3rs. c(f Spirud Offset, l-^pinal Offjd. ^^^^ I'Br to Tasl^ VertdrcdArt af^ 3.' n hjdBpincdArt irst <• i< of same PARTS IN POST. ME.DIASTINUM. (X.-Descmdiru; Aorta.. [^taf). 3.' Vena Az!/JOSMcyor. (Vein. ) ^ ' Tlcoroucu. Duct. (Iic"?^'^ {£- Irachza. (tt!,f$>ft). t" Ya^i-J^'^L^' (Ortlw-sf.nalj. d.' Mcdto^tuiat Glcmds&'J':) 7j.-^ploiochntcs cS^)mi.at(.ttit). Corut&cttye lissoce iiFat.RELATIONS OF ABDOMINAL AORTA.ABDOMINAL AORTA. 119 Course, etc. Lies between J continuous above with Thoracic Aorta at Aoo-tic opening in Diaphragm, lying in mid-line. ( bifurcates below into common Iliaos opposite 4th Lumbar Vertebra, Ij'ing a little to left of mid-line. in the upper half of its coiarse ,, lower ,, „ ,, the right and left Crura of the Diaphragm. ,, „ ,, Azygos Veins (V. A. Major and V. A. Minor) „ ,, „ Cords of the Sympathetic. vpon ( Anterior Common Ligament of Vertebra?. < Eeceptaculum Chyli above. ( Left Lumbar Veins (4) lower down. Stomach r <. Transverse Colon I ( Small Intestine tenec( i i'Solar Plexus, at commencement I I Aortic just before termination [ J Pancreas * j Splenic Vein ! Duodenum (3rd part) I Left Eenal Vein > separated from them hy folds of Peritoneum, being immediately in relation with them, intermediately * Two Plexuses, two Veins and two Viscera. The Vena Cava Inferior lies to its right side below, but is separated from it above by the Ptight Crus of the Diaphragm. Only one of the Veins opening into the Vena Cava Infei'ior crosses the Aorta (viz., Left Renal). , Branches of the Abdominal Aorta ,, ,, Vena Cava Inferior (viz., Right Spermatic). The Branches of the Abdominal Aorta, like those of the Thoracic, may be arranged in three Groups, each consisting of tJiree Vessels or sets of Vessels. The First Group com-prises three single Arteries which supply the ^//wicMto?"?/ Viscera. ,, Second „ ,, ,, pairs of ,, ,, ,, ,, Non-alimentary ,, ,, Third „ ,, ,, sets „ ,, ,, ,, ,, Abdominal Parietes. FIRST GROUP. the Cieliac Axis \ inch below Diaphragm. Three single Vessels, arising from the front of the Aorta { „ Sup. Mesenteric h „ lower down. , Inf. ,, 2 inches above bifurcation, 16—20 Cceliac Axis, Gaatfic, Hepatic Abdominal Aorta—continued. —appears at upper border of Pancreas, runs forwanl for J inch, and divides into 3 branches :— —runs up & to the li'ft on to CEsophagus, & curving on itself runs down, & to right along upper border of Stomach. ( Course, —passes to right along upper border of Pancreas, then curves upwards to enter Transverse Fissure of Liver. I L Branches Pyloric, to upper border of Stomach, joins termination of Coronary Artery. Post. Pt/Ioric „ posterior surface ,, small end of Stomach. Oastro-duodenaV^ „ lower border of Stomach, and to Duodenum and Pancreas, joins branches of Splenic. Terminal Branches (2) to Liver Right, giving off Cystic Artery to Gall Bladder. Left ,, „ Spigelian ,, ,, Spigelian Lobe. For the relative position of the Structures in tlie Transverse Fiss\ire see ' Intercostal Arteries,' p. IIS. Subdivided into Right Gastro-epiploic and Superior Pancreatico-duodenal. Course, —runs directly to the left along the upper border of the Pancreas in a sinuous manner. Splenic Branohos ( Vasa Brevia, to the large end of the Stomach. < Left Gastro-epiploic „ ,, lower border „ „ ( Pancreatic (and Pancreatica Magna) ,, ,, left end „ Pancreas. Terminal Branches {'i ov 5) „ ,, Spleen. Thus the Brandies of the Hepatic correspond to tliose of the Gastric and Splenic together, except in the fact that the Branches of the Hepatic to the Pancreas and the lower border of the Stomach arise by a common trunk instead of as separate offsets. See also ' Arteries of Stomach and Pancreas.' Superior Mesen- ( appears at the lower boi-der of the Pancreas, runs down towards the Right Iliac Fossa, and teric Branches gives off six Branches or sets of Branches (3 to Small Intestine and 3 to Large Intestine) as under :— To 3rd part of Duodenum and right end of Pancreas,—Inferior Pancreatico-duodenal. ,, Jejunum and Ileum, —Intestinal Branches (12 to 15}. ,, lower end of ,, —Terminal Branch. ,, Ileo-crecal valve and Crecum, ,, Ascending Colon, ,, Transverse ,, -Ileo-colic -Right Colic -Middle „ The Inferior Pancreatico-duodenal joins the Superior from the Hepatic. ,, Intestinal and Terminal Branches join with one another to form before distribution 4 or 5 series of Arches. ,, three Ai'teries to the Colon ., 1 ,. 2BRANCHES OF AORTA 5^ »- THORACIC AORTA, l~Infi.of7unaic. Art. '^7 l^tjt Commcm- Car olid, 3r Suhclixnan Art. I .li-TInterestedArh.-'R^^U-^. f \6-'Meclia^tmct,lSrs. 6. ~ Ttn-ca^rdi^cLc S.~IE)roncAuilr .• . s 6'' -5 .ABDOMINAL AORTA. 3 / / - Cceluxc Adcus. \\ Z'/'^up. M&stnteroc Art. sa [ / s / JJiajakroLqmalxc „COELiAC AXIS. DIAPHRAGMATIC ART^Abdominal Aorta—conilmicd. 121 Inferior Mesen- teric IDasses downwards and a little to the left to enter the Pelvis, and gives off three Branches to the Larse Intestine as under :— ( To the Descending Colon,—the Left Colic Branch. Branches ] ,, ,, Sigmoid flexure, —,, Sigmoid „ (double or triple). ( ,, ,, Eectum, — ,, Superior HEemorrhoidal „ (double). The Left Colic and Sigmoid Brandies anastomose like the Cohc Branches of the Superior Mesenteric. ,, Superior Hsemorrhoidal gives its two terminal branches to the sides of the Rectum. J Each of the Branches of the Abdominal Aorta above-named is accompanied by a corresponding Plexus of Sympathetic Nerves. • ( The Corresponding Veins (except the Hepatic) are directly or Indirectly oonuocted with the Portal Vein (see Veins). SECOND GROUP. Three jiairs of Vessels arising from the sides of the Aorta, as under :—• Suprarenal, —Right and Left,—arise opposite Superior Mesenteric, and pass directly to the Suprarenal Capsules. (The Suprarenal Capsule aLso receives twigs from the Diaphragmatic and Renal Arteries). Renal, -Eight and Left,—arise i an inch below the Superior Mesenteric, the Right lower than the Left. f i or 5 terminal branches to the Kidney, ■r, , J fa small branch upwards to the Suprarenal Capsule, israncnes < ) ^ downwards „ Ureter. L (a few twigs outwards ,, fat behind the Kidney. i arise from the forepart of the Aorta -J inch below the Renal, Spermatic, Right 1 pass obliquely downwards to the Psoas Muscle, the Right Artery crossing the Vena Cava Inferior, and Left, Ovarian, Right and Left cross the L^reter, rest on the External Iliac Artery, and enter the Spermatic Cord in the Internal Abdominal Ring, \ become tortuous behind the Testis, supply it and join the Artery of the Vas Deferens. ( correspond to the Spermatic Arteries as far as the Margin of the Pelvis. •< They then turn down and in, into Broad Ligament, become tortuous, and enter attached margins of Ovaries. ( Each Artery gives twigs to the Fallopian Tube, to the Round Ligament, and to join the Uterine Artery. The Right Artery thus crosses a Vein, an Artery and a Duct,—the Left an Artery and a Duct only. J Each of the above Arteries is accompanied by the corresponding Plexus of Sympathetic Nerves. "( The Suprarenal and Renal Arteries have each a corresponding Vein ; the Spermatic have each two Venre Comites.122 Abclominal Aortd^—mitimicd. THIRD GROUP. Three sets of Vessels, as under : — Middle Sacral \ ^"^^^ ^i'"™ bifurcation of Aorta, (sini'le) ] passes vertically downwards along mid-line of Sacrum to Coccyx, ( gives twigs to Sacrum and Rectum, and joins the Lateral Sacral. Diaphragmatic i ^^'^^ separately or together from Abdominal Aorta at its commencement, or from Cteliac Axis, (two) ) P'^^® thence on Diaphragm, the Eight towards the Vena Cava, the Left towards the Oesophagus, ( each dividing behind the corresponding tube into two terminal branches. Tcrm'uial B/O/ic/ifsf include tlie corresponding Opening (for Vena Cava or (Esophagus) in the angle Ijetwccn them, of each '| ^^^^^ nass ' forwards to the Sternum to join Phrenic Branches of Internal Mammarj'. ( outwards ,, Hibs ,, ,, Musculo-plu-enic ,, ,, ,, and Intorcostals. Tlie Right Diaphragmatic supplies twigs to the Vena Cava, the Left to the (Esophagus. Each gives offsets to the corresponding Suprarenal Capsule. I arise, one pair opposite each of the upper 4 Lumbar Vertebras, Lumbar (4 pairs) I pass under Psoas Muscle between points of attachment to Vertebrfe, ( divide into Abdominal and Dorsal Branches. Abdominal Branch'-s i ^'"^^^ behind Quadratus and Transvorsalis, { anastomosing with the other Arteries of the Abdominal Parletos. Dorsal resemble closely the corresponding branches of the Intercostal Arteries. The Abdominal Branches arc separated from the Abdominal Cavity chiefly by 3 successive Muscles, viz., the Psoas, Quadratus and Transversalis. Course Relations COMMON ILIAC ARTERIES. from bifurcation of Aorta to Lumbo-sacral Joint, where each Vessel divides into Ext. and Int. Iliac Arts, of same side, indicated on the surface by a line drawn from left of Umbilicus towards middle of Poupart's Ligament. Both A-'essels lie between the Vertebral Ligaments and the Peritoneum. 1 Eight Common Iliac Vein crosses heldnd it below, and the Left behind it above. Right < ,, Ureter and Eight Eoot of Hypogastric Plexus cross in front of it. I ( The Common Iliac Veins unite to form the Vena Cava Inferior on the right of the Artery at its commencement. Left Left Common Iliac Vein lies on its right side. ,, Ureter, Left Eoot of Hypogastric Plexus and Supei'ior Ha?morrhoidal Artery cross in front o/it. There are thus four Structures in relation with each Vessel:— On the right side two cross in front and two behind. „ ,, left ,, three ,, „ one lies on the I'ight side (none being behind).INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. 123 Course ^ rims from Lumbo-sacral Joint to upper border of 8acro-sciatic Foramen, ( ends by subdividing into two trunks, Anterior and Posterior. Relations, —in front the Ureter, behind the Internal Iliac Vein (separating it from the Lumbo-sacral Cord). Fur other parts with analogous relations see ' Intercostal Arteries,' p. US. The Branches, like those of the Thoracic or Abdominal Aorta, may be arranged in three Grouji,?, each consisting of three Vessels or sets of Vessels. The First Group comprises three Arteries, which supply parts external to the Pelvis. Seeoncl ,, Third „ FIKST GROUP. Three aiwjle Vessels Pudic sets of the imlls of viscera . two terminal branches of the Anterior Division branch Posterior of the Internal Iliac, Relations Branches, six (all primary) Sciatic Braachts !leaves Pelvis through the Great Sacro-sciatic Foramen lying on Ischial Spine internal to Sciatic Artery, etc. re-enters ,, ,, ,, Small ,, ,, ,, below ,, ,, between accompanying Nerves, runs along outer wall of Ischio-rectal Fossa in aponeurotic Canal superficial to Pudic Nerve, enters between layers of Triangular Ligament, and piercing the anterior, divides into 2 terminal branches. ( lies first on Pyriformis and Sacral Plexus of Nerves, separated from them by Pyriformis Fascia. < ,, next,, Spine of Ischium between Pudic Nerve on inner and Nerve to Obturator Internus on outer side. ( !> )) )) Obturator Internus Muscle „ ,, ,, above „ Perinoeal Branch of Pudic Nerve below. ( tiro in Ischio-rectal Fossa, —Inferior Hfemorrhoidal and Superficial Perineal. -'Av)o ,, relation with Triangular Lig.,—Transverse Artery ,, Artery of Bulb. ( IKO terminal, —Dorsal Artery and Artery of Corpus Cavcrnosum. Compare with the Branches of the Pudic Nerve. Passes out of Pelvis along with and on outer side of the Pudic Artery, having similar relations. ,, down between Tuber Ischii and Great Trochanter to end opposite lower border of Gluteus Maximus. / one vpicanls to join Gluteal, I ,, fomards (.Vnastomotic) towards upper border of Great Troch.anter. I ,, backwards (Coccygeal) througli Great Sacro-sciatic Ligament to back of C'occy.K. I downiixi.nh (Comes Nervi Ischiatici) to substance of Great Sciatic Nerve. Small twigs are given to the Hip-joint, and to the Muscles and Skin behind it.124 Internal Iliac Artery—continued. Gluteal, SECOND GKOUP Ilio-lumbar, Branches Lateral Sacral Both Vessels Obtvirator Bro.nches —Leaves Pelvis at upper border of Pyriformis, and divides at once into terminal branches. I one oulmurds (Superficial Branch) to supply Gluteus Jlaxlmus. J ,, forwards (Deep ,, ) double to accompany the Superior Gluteal Nerve, "j ,, dovmwardi, to communicate with the Sciatic xVrtery. \ backicards (Sacral) over Sacrum, to communicate with the Coccygeal Branch of the Sciatic. The Deep Branch supplies offsets to the Hip-joint. \ One single Vessel and one pair of Vessels from Posterior Division ) r Tjj+gj.jj j l\[a,c \ One ,, ,, ,, Anterior ,, J —passes beneath Psoas to margin of Iliac Fossa, and divides into Lumbar and Iliac Divisions. / Lumbar Division (iliac /passes vpwards and turns outvmrds opposite the last Lumbar Vertebr.a, beneath the Quadratus, 1 and gives branches like a Lumbar Artery, passes directly outvtards and gives branches to Iliacus Muscle and Ilium. the upper Vessel (the larger) ends over the upper part of the Sacrum. the lower ,, ,, lovper „ ,, descend obliquely, supplying the subjacent structures, and give Dorsal offsets through the Sacral Foramina to the Spinal Cord and Back of Sacrum. passes directly forward to Obturator Groove at upper and outer part of Obturator Foramen. lies in Sub-peritoneal tissue below Obturator Nerve, and divides beneath Obturator Externus Muscle into two terminal branches. Wltliui p , . (offsets to Iliacus Muscle and Iliiun, joining Branches of Ilio-lumbar. ™ I ,, „ Pubes and Bladder (Pubic) „ „ „ Epigastric. I p-/^ 1^ j External TerminalBranchjWiudmgext.round Obturator For.,supplj'ingmusclesandHip-jointl-^.j^jj^,,,,! ^ \ii.airnai lo | j^ternal ,, „ „ int. „ ,, ,, „ only J J THIBD GROUP, —One single, one double and one triple Vessel from the Anterior Division of the Internal Iliac. Middle Hsemorrhoidal,—passes direct to Rectum (often from Inferior Vesical). Uterine Vaginal enters Uterus at Neck and passes upwards tortuously, gives twigs to BLT,dder and Ureter, and joins offset from Ovarian. sujjplies Vagina, and gives twigs to contiguous parts of Bladder and Rectum. Superior Vesical—(lower part of obliterated Hypogastric Artery) supplies summit of Bladder. Middle ,, —(given oft" from Superior Vesical) supplies sides of Bladder, Vas Deferens and Ureter (lower end). Inferior ,, —generally arising separately ,, Base ,, „ Prostate and Vesicula; Seminales.RELATIONS OF COMMON ILIAC ART^ CUr Acrrtcc- /| /'" Conwum^Iluic- Kins H^l^W It..- pUfMeJTWrrkovciodATC, BRANCHES or INT' PUDIC ARTamoPUDIC S 6 / 5 6 V INT. PUDIC ARTERY /. Irvj-.^emoTrkoidod Arb. drArt.Lo Corpus Ca,Yernaiu.m'. 67Dorsal Art. of 'Bnis. PUDIC NERVE. /. "■ Jnf. SemcrrrkoLoial Ae^rm'. CL'Hrin&czlJJii/ost-on/. ^icpcrjicuil HrLneal. i'- -Muscular (Ue&p. ). /(■'- Sr to Corp. 0p<m^!" (Bull)- 5~ " Caye.rn^iim'. 6 ■ Dorsal Nerye^ of Uru^ ,J.-Nerve-Id Mdirvcua. II -Jictu^-ux^. RELATIONS OF FEMORAL ARTERY. B. C. ^fRidaiiye^ tiOsUian-O^ArtLnitslorreri,^ Quadruiejos Exit " * — l'^-^-— ~j ^. — ^r'RelaUian ajArltrij to Ncri'&s Gr .. „ „ Ve-sseJs ir <• "V&in/- I. - Jnlertval iSaJoli4.nA7usN. .tnsoy: 3~ $ccrtorius. Ur AddiMolor MuscI2^. ■ ' Nervo to Iastu6 Jy^^rrvus drTa^cLou erf Sunt&r's Canol. lOr Uutcu^ 6.'Ant. Crural Nerve-. II.' Jiazcs MoL^nus.ARTERIES OF LOWER EXTREMITY. 125 FEMORAL ARTERY. ( Enters Thigh beneath mid-point of Poupart's Ligament, resting on the Psoas, the middle Muscle of Scarpa's Triangle. 1 Lies at first superficially beneath Integuments in Scarpa's Triangle, then deeply beneath Sartorius in Hunter's Canal. I Is enclosed at first \n Crural Sheath in Scarpa's Triangle, then is covered hy fibrous reflection in Hunter's Canal. Becomes continuous below with Popliteal Artery at opening in Adductor Magnus Muscle. Course, etc. Relation to Vessels, Nerves, and Mvscks ( The Profunda Artery is at first to its outer side, and next (at Apex of Triangle) beneath it, separated by Fern. & Prof. Veins. ~ " " ■ " and lastly (in Hunter's Canal) to [its outer side. Femoral Vein Ant. CruraliVfj-rc „ un. inner outer and gives branches round it, thus :— the Artery transversely above. longitudinally below. Nerve to Pectineus crosses beneath Int. Saphenous Nerve lies over Nerve to Vastus Internus ,, to outer side of Int. Cutaneous N. (post, div.) ,, ,, imicr ,, ,, The Obturator Nerve gives a branch to supply the Artery from its Superficial Division. { As compared with the Profunda Femoris its relations are as follows :—• I The Femoral rests successively on the Psoas, Pectineus, Adductor Brevis and Adductor Longus. \ The Profunda ,, ,, ,, Iliacus ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, Magnus. The Femoral is separated from the Adductor Brevis by a little fat, and it may rest on the Adductor Magnus at its tei'minatioii; tlio lower- L most fibres of the Adductor Longus, however, are often blended with those of the Adductor Magnus. f Near the Base of Scarpa's Triangle the chief structures lie side by side from without inwards as follows : Iliacus Psoas Pectineus supporting Anterior Crural Nerve. supporting Femoral Vein supporting Profunda Artery, i supporting Femoral Artery. Crural Canal [i.e., inner side of Crural Sheath). At the Apex of Scarpa's Triangle the chief structures lie superposed from before backwards in the following order :— Femoral Artery, Femoral Vein, Profunda Vein, Profunda Artery. I At the upper part of Hunter's Canal the chief structures are from before backwards in the following order Sartorius- \ ^e^noral Artery and Vein \ t..„„„._. i Profunda Artery and Vein_ ( Internal saphenous Nerve In the last-named situation the Femoral Artery lies in a position as regards the Muscles similar to that of the Carotid in the Neck i.e., la the Anglo between two sets of Muscles covered by a third Muscle (see Diagram). -Adductor Longus- j C^ranXofoirurltor Nerve \ -^^'^^^'^^ ^^S^-126 Arteries of Lower Extremity—continued. There are/we named BrailCheS Of the Femoral Artery, th ree arising close together, and two at a distance apart. „ ,, ,, ,, ,, Profunda ,, /i''o ,, ,, „ „ three „ ,, „ A sii'fh set of unnamed Muscular Branches also arises from each Vessel. I Superficial Ext. Pudic, Superficial Epigastric and Superficial Circumflex Iliac, the three contiguous Branches of the Femoral, are all superficial, radiating from the upper part of the Femoral Artery to supply the Integuments of the lower part of the Abdomen and (iroia. The Profunda, tlie/oiirth branch, arises from the Femoral li in. below Poupart's Ligament (see above). The Anastomotica Magna ,, ,, ,, ,, at the Opening in the Adductor Magnus, and / one nimiiiig down to timer side of Knee superficialh/, accompanying the Internal Saphenous Nerve, divides into three Brauchos „■[,•", 'i . ''''■/''i', accimpanyiug branch to Knee froni Nerve to Vastus lute^^ " i 'y^^S 'iioug tendon of Adductor Magnus m substance of Vastus Internus. I ,, crossing transversely above the Knee to jo join Superior Estornal Articular Artery beneath Quadriceps Extensor, The Muscular Branulios have no definite arrangement. The two contiguous Branches of the Profunda arise near its origin, and are distributed as follows :— External Circumflex Internal Circumflex) passes Old wants beneath the Sartorius and Piectus, and supplies, by Ascending, Transverse and Descending Branches, the whole of the outer side of the Thigh, passes backwards \ Psoas and ,, , , v.„.,„„„„ ipectineus,"^^'^'^''*^*^^'^ between and supplies Adductor Brevis and ) & appears at back ( Adductor Magnus & Obturator Externus, between ( Quadratus Femoris. the Adductor Muscles and Hip-joint, giving a special branch to the Great Trochanter which appears above the Quadratus. m. CI niT'jji 1 T J? T> 1- a ,1 , •■ ^ , ,. r 1 s ^ arise at intervals from the Profunda, the The Sup. Middle and Inf. Perforating* (the other threen^med Branches of the Profunda) j j^jj^j^^i^ supplying a branch to the Femur. „ Muscular* Branches of the Profunda (five in number) pierce the Adductor Magnus a little internal to the Perforating. For termination see p. 128,Arteries of Lower "Extremity—continued. 127 POPLITEAL ARTERY. Course Relation to Muscles, etc., OhUquehi downwards and outwards in vpper part of Popliteal Space. Vertkallij downwards „ loiver „ ,, „ (Beneath it successively are Covering in iij^iJer tliird, the lower end of Femur {Done). ,, Posterior Lhjament of Knee. ,, Poplitcus Aluscle. middle „ lower „ upper „ middle „ lower TT 1. ■ ir 7 ( Semimembranosus. Hamstring iluseles | gemitendinosu^. ,, Interjument ,, Muscles of Calf | pj Gastrocnemius. Plantaris. and Vessels and Nerves \ !> upper The Popliteal Vein and Int. Popliteal Nerve He < „ middle ( ,, lower to Older side of the Artery, directly over „ ,, to inner side of „ ,, I The Deep Division of the Obturator Nerve sends its terminal branch on to the Popliteal Artery, supplying it. I.(The Superlicial ,, „ ,, ,, ,, „ „ „ Femoral „ ,, ,,) There are Jiuc named BrailcheS of the Artery, and a sixth set of unnamed Muscular Branches (as in the case of the Femoral and Profunda Arteries). [ Superior External Articular passes outwards above Outer Condyle of Femur, beneath Biceps Tendon, to end in Vastus Externus. I Superior Internal Articular ,, inwards ,, Inner ,, ,, „ ,, Adduc.Magnus „ ,, ,, ,, Internus. -j Inferior External Articular ,, outwards ,, Head of Fibula ,, Ext. Lateral Lig. ,, beneath Lig. Patella?. I Inferior Internal Articular ,, inwards 6etow Inner Tuberosity of Tibia ,, Int. „ ,, ,, „ ,, ,, i. Middle or Azygos Articular pierces the Posterior Ligament to supply the internal structures of the Joint. Muscular Branches supply the Muscles bounding the Space above and below (the lower set being named Sural). 17—2128 Arteries of Lower 'Extremity—contiimed. ANASTOMOSES ROUND THE HIP-JOINT. In front. The Deep Epigastric ,, Obturator Internalhj Externally Iliac) communicates with the Obturator (ofIliac) by its Pubic Branches. ,, ) „ „ ,, Int. Circumflex (of Deep Fern.) „ ,, Terminal ,, ,, ) „ ,, ,, Gluteal („ Int. Iliac) over Crest of Ilium. ,, ) ,, „ ,, Ext.Circumflex (,, DeepFem.) ,, Ant. Border ,, ,, *.The Deep Circumflex Iliac also joins directly some of the Ascending branches of the E.\;temal Circumflex. In this Anastomosis branches of the Internal and External Iliac and Profunda Femoris are associated. Behind (and at back of Thigh). The Deep Circumflex Iliac and the Ilio-lumbar form an arterial arch along the Crest of the Ilium. (of Ext. ( ,, Int. Deep Circumflex Iliac* (,, Ext. Gluteal („ Int. Deep Circumflex Iliac Ilio-lumbar Each Vessel Gluteal Sciatic Internal Circumflex three Perforating Branches & Terminal Branch of Profunda Sup. Branches of Popliteal Art. communicates in front with the Ascending Branches of the External Circumflex. heldnd ,, „ Dorsal Branches of the Lateral Sacral by its Lumbar Division. below ,, „ Gluteal, ( in front ,, „ Ascending Branches of the External Circumflex. < behind ,, „ Dorsal Branches of the Lateral Sacral by its Sacral Branch. ( below ,, „ Sciatic. {externalhj ,, „ AscendingBrauchesof Ext. Circumflex byits Anastomotic Branch. i. internally „ Sacral Branch of Gluteal by its Coccygeal Branch, f inferiorly ,, „ Internal Circumflex.* , ^-^f^^.^.r,?!,, \ Ascending Branches of Ext. Circumflex above Great Trochanter. \ >' j iransverse ,, ,, „ below „ ,, i internally ,, „ External Branch of the Obturator. ( inferiorly „ „ 1st Perforating Braucli of the Profunda. I above &, below „ one another. < externally ,, the Descending Branches of the External Circumflex. (internally ,, ,, corresponding Muscular Branches of the Profunda. i externally ,, „ lowest Descending Branches of the External Circumflex. < internally „ ,, Branches of the Anastomotica Magna. I above ,, ,, terminal Branch of the Profunda. ' The Sciatic joins al.so the External Terminal Branch of the Obturator. There are thus three parallel and longittidinal acts of Arteries on the Back of the Tliigh, one central and two lateral, anastomosing longitudinally and transversely. The External Circumflex suijpliea the whole of the outer side of the Thigh. The Hip-joint is supplied by/o((r Arteries a,bove by the Gluteal below ,, Int. Circumflex in front by the Obturator. behind ,, Sciatic.ANASTOMOSES AROUND HIP. IN FRONT. AT BACK. C!.,^-> E.l.- Exi. Iliac. Krl^rij. \:\rlrd. „ „ . Pr. - Tr-oJiMndoi, Jlrnaris. D.E:. ~J)ezp lEpo^astnc. C.I. ~ „ CcrcLcnvflex:Iliac. 0. ~ Ohlicrator: Gl. ~ Qlut&ocL. 1. e." Int-Circunt'lix, \.L.-Ilio -lumJiou- Arl&rLf. \~-'^.~Lat&rad _Sau>ra^„ . M. ~ Micsculcor 3irs. of- Trafunoloc^. I^R - Brjaratino; Arteries . J+'*R -Jertrunul3r. cflrafundd A. ~ Anastamolxca, I/lci^na. Pof^'0up'Muscular fff H-plitml. Ascenclin^, l-lraruwerst % SrJJescenc^in^^rs. 'aJ-IE'xJr.d'r-aocmfieac..ANASTOMOSIS AROUND KNEE 3up' Ext. Articular ExierncU CLrcumj^Uoc. - Irif. Hod. Articular. 0u^^ Int.Articula^r I?if. Ini. Articular. Hecurrmt TiLial:Course Relation to Muscles, etc. Arteries of Lower Eidremity—contimied. 129 ANASTOMOSES ROUND THE KNEE-JOINT. The Arteries wliicli anastomose round the Knee-joint also supply it, thus :— ( The two Ext. Articular Branches of the Popliteal ramify one at the ujijxr, the other at the lorvev parts of the Joint externally. \ ,, two Int. Articular „ ,. ,, ,, ,, „ „ „ ,, ,, ,, internally. [ ,, Middle or Azygos Branch „ ,, enters the Joint at the Back fe«ir«%. iThe External Circumflex (by Descending Branches) supplies the outer side of the Joint and joins the External Articular Arteries. Anastomotica Maffna H'^y ^^^''^'''^'^S Branch) „ „ inner „ „ „ „ „ ,, Internal ,, " ( ( » Transverse Branch) communicates at the ttpper part of the Joint with the Sup. SaA Artie. Art<J, „ Recurrent Tibial ,, „ lower ,, „ ,, „ Inf. Artie. Arts. ANTERIOR and POSTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERIES. Anterior Tibial,—from inner side of Head of Fibula to mid-point between Malleoli. Posterior Tibial,— „ „ „ „ „ „ Internal Malleolus and Os Calcis. Anterior Tibial,—is continuous with the Dorsal Artery of the Foot under the Anterior Annular Ligament. Posterior Tibial,—divides into the Plantar Arteries at the to;wr* border of ,, Internal „ „ ( Anterior Tibial in its upper two-thirds lies cZccp?)/on the Interosseous Membrane & in its lower third lies on the Tibia super/, I Posterior Tibial ,, ,, ,, „ ,, between Superf. & Deep Muscles ,, lowest part ,, ,, ,, „ I between Tibialis Anticus and Ext. Long. Digitorum for an inch or two at first, then ■ Anterior Tibial lies < ,, ,, „ ,, Prop. Pollicis ,, the greater part of its course, and lastly I ( ,, Ext. Long. Digit. ,, ,, „ „ (tendons),, an inch or two at the lower end. Posterior Tibial \ '^^ Tibialis Posticus first, then on Flex. Long. Digit., and lastly on Tibia for an inch or two. " ( beneath Gastroc. & Soleus first, „ beneath Integuments to inner side of Tendo Achillis. and Nerves —The Anterior and Posterior Tibial Nerves lie to the outer side of the corresponding Arteries. * The Posterior Tibial Nerve diTidea at the upper border of the Internal Lateral Ligament, just as the main nerve to the back of the Limb (the Sciatic) divide e liighe than the m.ain Artery (the Popliteal). Branches of Anterior Tibial. ( Recurrent to Knee-joint, above, piercing the fibres of the Tibialis Anticua. < Malleolar (Ext. and Int.) to'Ankle, beloiv, running transversely and joining Arteries on corresponding sides of Foot. ( Muscular and Cutaneous twigs, intermediately, the largest accompanying the Musculo-cutaneous Nerve. Branches of Posterior Tibial. 1 Muscular, to Muscles on inner side and f Cutaneous to Skin of lower half of back of Leg. < Nutrient (largest in the Body), to Tibia. } Articular twigs to Ankle-joint. ( Communicating with Peroneal, two inches above the Ankle. ( Peroneal, (collateral,) to outer side of back of Leg (see p. 130).Arteries of Lower EKtremity—conftinier?. 130 Peroneal, arising H in. below origin of Posterior Tibial, and ending behind External Malleolus. „ , , ■ ( Lies first on Tibialis Posticus, tlien in substance of Flexor Longus PoUicis, and lastly on Tibia above Ankle. "1 ,, ,, beneath Gastrocnemius and Solous ,, ,, „ „ ,, ,, „ „ beneath Integuments. C 31IIsen!til' to Jhiselcs on outer side of Leg. Branches -iNntrimi ,, Fibula. Conimwnimfrai; to Posterior Tibial two inches above Ankle. (Anterior Peroneal, passing through Interosseous Membrane below, to front of External Malleolus. Compare with the Posterior Tibial Artery. DORSAL ARTERY OF THE FOOT. Course etc ^ continuous with Anterior Tibial Artery above, entering Sole of Foot through first Interosseous Space below. ■ ' I resting on uiner Bones of Tarsus, crossed by inner tendon of Extensor Brevis Digitorum. The Branches must be distinguished from those of the Eadial and Carpal on the back of the Hand. The Tarsal Branch is not represented in the case of the Hand. ,, Metatarsal resembles the Posterior Carpal Arch, but gives off three Dorsal Interosseous Branches instead of two. ,, 3rd and 4th Dorsal Interosseous resemble ,, the two Dorsal Interosseous Branches of the Posterior Carpal Arch. ,, 2nd ,, ,, resembles ,, Metacai-pal Branch of the Badial Artery. ,, 1st Dorsal Interosseous resembles ,, Dorsalis Pollicis together with the Dorsalis Indicis. ,, Plantar Branch, supplies the inner side of the Great Toe; the 2nd Plantar supplies the contiguous sides of the Great and 2nd Toes ;—as distinguished from the Eadial, which gives off the Princeps Pollicis to both sides of the Thumb, and the Radialis Indicis to the radial side of Second Finger. PLANTAR ARTERIES. The Internal, small, —ends on inner side of Great Toe, & curves out beneath Fascia to give branches to join Digital Arts, of 32 inner Toes. ( first oz(i!W(rf7sandforwardsbetween Flexor BrevisDigit. and Accessorius towards base of 5th Metatarsal Bone, „ External, larrjc \ i^''^'*'^'' j then inwards obliquely beneath Flexor Tendons on bases of Metatarsal Bones. ( supplies 4 Digital Branches to outer Toes, joining Dorsal Artery of Foot in 1st Interosseous Sjiace, Each Artery gives off Muscular Branches, similar to those of the corresponding Nerve. t> ■P/^ Av+o /Ati+ X T>/^<^4• ^ S On Dorsuffl,—both sets are connected with the Dorsal Interosseous Arteries. Jr-erioratmg A.rzs. (^.m,. & irosz.) | g^j^^ Posterior joins the Plantar Arch; the Anterior, the Plantar Digital Arteries. In the Foot, —The Externa.! Arterij supplies 31 outer Toes, The External iVeri'e 1^.—The Dorsal Artery I JiHHej-, The Internal Nerve 3?,. ,, „ Hand,— „ /«^(Ulnar) ,, „ ,^ ?»;ierFiugers, ,, /)!<.(Ulnar) „ „ — ,, Radial(.Ert.) „ „ outer, „ Median (£!»,■);.) „ ,, LAYERS IN SOLE. (1) Interjuments and Fascia. (4) Main Trunks of Ext. Plantar Artery and Neri-e. (2) Terminal part of Int. Plantar .^rter?/(see above). (5) Tendons oi Flexors with Accessorius. (3) Superficial Muscles. (6) Plantar Arch of Arteries, etc. (7) Bones and Interosseous Muscles.DORSAL ARTERIES OF TOOT AND HAND.ARTERIES OF NEOK. 131 The Subclavian supplies the lower and posterior parts of the Neck; the External Carotid the upper and anterior. The Common Carotid and Internal Carotid Arteries give no branches in the Neck. ( commences its course in the Neck at the upper border of the Sterno-clavicular Articulation, SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY ] terminates „ „ lower border „ „ 1st Rib, and ( arches intermediaiehj over the Apex of the Lung. It is thus subdivided into three Parts, 1st or Ascendbnj, •2nd or Transverse, and 3rd or Descendiitg. Relation to Muscles, etc. !In the First and Second Parts it rests on the summit of the Pleura, and in the Third Part on the 1st Rib. ,, „ Second ,, Third ,, ,, /ie.s/H//'o/i< of the Scalenus Medius „ „ First ,, in front of the Longus Colli. ,, „ First ,, Second ,, ,, lies beneath „ Sterno-mastoid „ Third ,, beneath the Integuments. The First Part is also covered by the Hyoid Depressors, the Second by the Scalenus Anticus, and the Third is overlapped by the Clavicle. ( The First and Third Pcu-ts are each inrtsted by a Sheath of Deep Cervical Fascia. The Sheath on the Third Part is continued on the Axillary Vessels into the Axilla and is connected with the Costo-coracoid Membrane. ( ,, ,, ,, First ,, ,, „ Great ,, ,, Thorax „ ,, Pericardium. Relation to Vessels and Nerves.—Considerable analogy may be noticed in the relations of the 1st and 3rd Parts of the Subclavian, and of the three Carotid Arteries, thus :—the Arteries in relation with them are in multiples of two ; the Veins in each case are four in number, one being parallel to the Vessel and three crossing it, or three being parallel and one crossing it; the Nerves are in pairs, two being usually in front and two behind. First Part. to \fottr Branches are given off. Arteries (4) ( (usually three only on right side). I Subclavian, below, lying parallel. to ) Internal Jugular ^ Veins (4) \ Anterior Jugular* > crossing, transversehj. [ Vertebral ) i Nerve to Subclavius, crossing to ) Lowest Cord of Brachial Plexus lying parallel Nerves (4) ) Desc. Cut. Ns. of Cerv. Plex. in Integuments ' Long Thoracic N. of Brach. Plex. in Seal, Med. behind * Generally separated by Ilyold Muscles, in front behind in front | i (2) (4) (4) Third Part. (i Transverse Cervical \ Suprascapular / External Jugular, j Suprascapular ) 1 Transverse Cervical \ ' ( Subclavian i A'agus ) Cardiac of Sympathetic i Sympathetic (r Recurrent of Vagus (on right side only) \ t Forming a Plexus over the Artery. crossing, crossing transv. lying jiarallel. crossing i')!yVo)(/. crossing behind.Arteries of Ne ck—continued. 132 The Second Part, lying behind the Scalenus Anticus, has no Vessels or Nerves immediately in relation with it. On the Anterior Surf.ee of the Sealenus Anticus Iie{ ^^^"^So nSJ^I^S^""' The Branches are described later on. COMMON CAROTID ARTERY. ( Commences its course in the Neck opposite the upper harder of the iSterno-clavicnlar Articulation, •J becomes comparatively superficial ,, „ ,, ,, Cricoid Cartilage, and ( divides into Ext. and Int. Carotid ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, Thyroid ,, Longus Colli 6eZoi« and Rectus Anticus Major above, being separated by them from the Vertebri-e. Sterno-mastoid (covered by it below, overlapped by it above), and also beneath Hyoid Depressors below. 1 the structures in mid-line of Neck on inner side, viz.— \ J^^"^^^^ '"V^i/^'^^ I with Thyroid Body. ) ' ( Irachea (55 (Lsophagus ^ ■' i ,, „ under the Sterno-mastoid ,, outer ,, viz.— Glandulre Cuncateuata;. a Sheath of Deep Cervical Fascia together with Int. Jugular Vein and Vagus Nerve (both to its outer side), Course Relation to il/«.S( ?e.s, etc. ( Lies upon I ,, hcneath again.tt ivitlt'in to Arteries (2) Main trunk of In ferior Thyroid crosses leneath it belotv. i rn, -d u • • ~ t •* I.,, I. ■ T T> t V ■ ; f —There are no Branches arising from it. Sterno-mastoid Br. of (S/7>cri!or ,, ,, over „ above. ' ° to Veins (4) Internal Jugular, Superior Thyroid Middle • „ Anterior .Jugular* lying parallel on outer side, crossing transversely. I Descendens Noni over Sheath ) to 1 Pneumogastric in „ \ lying parallel. Nerves (4) ] Sympathetic beneath „ ) ( Recurrent Laryngeal erossinj beneath it below. " Separated by Muscles. EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. Course Relation to Muscles, etc. Lies at first internal to the Internal Carotid, but is afterwards superficial to it. Its Course may be divided, like that of the Internal Carotid, into titree Pai-ts. (In its Jirst part it is comparatively superficial, and rests against the Pharynx. I serond passes ^ ^'''^'^'^^'^^ ^'^^ Stylo-hyoid and Digastric Muscles. { " " ' !i II 1 \ over „ Stylo-pharyngeus and Styloid Process.* I ,, „ third ,, ,, lies in the substance of the Parotid Gland, parallel to the Ramus of the Jaw. I * The Stylo-glossus arising from the tip of the Styloid Trocess in too far forward to be in relation with the Artery,133 Arteries of Neck—con/mzjcd to Alicrics (8) Eiijht Brandies are given ofi',—four funcards, two hackwanh and two vpwardu (sec p. 135). to Veins (4) Ext. Jugular, lyingpai'allel£mA superf. to it in its 3rJ jjart, I Commun. Br. betw. Ext. & Int. Jugular ) I Facial , crossing Lingual (mnsoersdi/. to over it 7th (Facial) c/hove Digastric. 9th (Hypoglossal) ic/oeo ,, Glosso-ijharyngeal ( between it and Pharyngeal of Vagus j Int. Carotid. INTERNAL CAROTID (In the Neck), Passes up to Carotid Canal in the Angle between the Picctus Capitis Anticus Major behind and Pharynx internally. Course I At first it is superficial, or is overlapped by Sterno-niastoid, next it lies beneath Styloid Process and Stylo-pharyngcus Muscle, and lastly beneath Parotid Gland. Relation to Ai-tarics (4) to Nerves (8) Asc. Pharyngeal, on inner side, lying parcdlel. Post. Auricular, above Digastric Occipital, below Sterno-mastoid Br. of Occipital Glosso-pharyngeal Pharyngeal of Vagus ,, ,, Sympathetic Sujierior Laryngeal of Vagus transversely. to Veins (4) Internal Jugular, on inner side, \y\ng jmrallel. Communicating betweenlnt. c&Ext. Jugular ) „_„c!o;-irf TTi • 1 ( crosbiii^ T-, i transvcrseli/. Lingual ) crossingoi'Ci' it beneath „ and Hypoglossal Vagus Synipatlietic (main trunk) Loop between 1st and 2iid Cervical lying payallcl. Lines of Direction of the chief Vessels of the Neck, as indicated on the Surface. Int. Carotid and Common Carotid, from mid-point between Angle of Jaw and Mastoid Process to Sterno-clavicular Articulation. ^External Jugular Vein ,, ,, „ „ „ Middle of Clavicle. . External Carotid front of External Auditory Meatus to Cricoid Cartilage. (Steno's Duct ,, „ „ „ Mid-point between Nasal and Oral Apertures). Note that the mid-point between the Jaw and Mastoid Process marks the upper end ol two of these lines, and the front of the External zVuditury Meatus the upper "'1 ■ Tho Cricoid Cartilage (opposite 5th Cervical Vertebra) marks the point at which the Trachea iuid (Esopliagus commence, opposite to '"<^°^™"" Carotid becomes superficial, opposite to which the Inferior Thyroid Artery crosses inwards behind its Sheath, and opposite to which tho Middle Cervical tranglion of the Sympathetic is situated. It also indicates tho lower end of tho line of the External Carotid as shown above. The named Branches of all the main Arteries of the Head and Neck may be grouped in sets of two or four. 18]3i Arteries of Neck—continued. uaAirciiEs OF ths subclavian artery. ( due (Vertebral) passes vptuards to the Skull, oHe (Internal Mammary) passes downwards to the Thorax. ( One (Sup. Intercostal) „ backwards „ back of Neck, and one (Thyroid Axis) ,, forwards to lower part of Neck. Vertebral (in Neck) Branch'Sj Int. Mammary BrancTtc passes up through Foramina in Cerv. Trans. Proe. (from 6th upwards) to enter Spinal Canal over Arch of Atlas, accompanied by Vertebral Vein (which is in front of it) & by Vertebral Plexus of Sympathetic Nerves (which is upon it). lies at first be/tind Int. Jugular Vein, between Scalenus Anticus externally and Longus Colli internally. , • J- , J. ri • 1 -Kr -ii 1 J.1 ^ the Anterior Division of 2nd Nerve on its outer side, t ,, next i«/ro)i^ o/Cervical Nerves, with lastly j , , . , ( )) ») 5> )> -ist ,, ijiner -Spinal inta-nalh/ through Intevvertebval Foramina to Bones and Cord; and Muscular external!!/ to Posterior Triangle. For Course and Branches witliin Cranium see 'Vessels of Brain,' p. 1:39. ' rims parcdlel to and J in. from border of Sternum beneath Cartilages of Ribs. I close to origin, crosses over Subclavian Artery and under Subclavian V^ein, and is crossed by Phrenic Nerve, I intermediately ties bcttoeen Pleura and Cartilages, and lower down between Cartilages and Triangularis Sterni, and finally terminates by joining Deep Epigastric hi substance of Rectus Muscle. /'The/rsi (Conies Kervi Plirenici) accompanies the Phrenic Nerve and supplies centre of corresponding side of Diaphragm. I The last (Musculo-phrenic) leaves trunk at 6th Intercostal Space and supplies | "ndTwer Intercostal Spaces. " Thyroid Axis, - Inferior Thyroid,- The intrrmediaic Brandies resemble the Parietal Brs. of the Thoracic Aorta : thus ffericardiao and Mediastinal twigs supply the Membranes and fat in the front of the Thoracic Cavitj'. Anterior Intercostal Arteries (each double) pass outw,ard3 in upper 5 or 6 sjiaces to join terminal bnanches of Aortic Intorcostals. I,Perforating' Branches (like Dorsal of Aortic Intercostals) pass one in each space to Muscles and Integuments by side of Sternum. in. long, giving off Inferior Thyroid inwards, Suprascapular and Transverse Cervical outwards. -passes first up to 5th Cervical Vertebra, then inwards to Thyroid Body behind Carotid Sheath and Middle Cervical Ganglion. Branches ( Ascendine Cervical - P^^^*"S vertically upwards between Scalenus Anticus and Rectus Anticus Major, J ( supplying neighbouring Muscles, Vertcbraa and Spinal Cord. (Inferior Iiaryngeal, Tracheal and fflaoph.ag'eal. over Scalenus Ant. and 3rd Part of Subclavian Art. Si,prascaindar\ ^^^^"'S transversely outwards J ^^j^j^^^ ^.j^^.^j^ Subclavius Muscle ' { ^° ""^ "P^'^ ^^"^ °f ■^^'H'"'^^' (gives Supra-aoromial, Articular, Infrascapular and lufraspiuous Branches, for which sec 'Arteries of Shoulder.' * See note on Profunda Ccrvicis, p. 135. t See ' Suprascapular Nerve and Artery,' in Appendix.135 Arteries of 'Neck—continued. Transverse Cervical passes transversely outwards, parallel to but liiglier than Suprascapular Artery as far as Trapezius, then divides into Superficial Cervical Artery, which supplies structures in lower part of Posterior Triangle, Posterior Scapular ,, * runs down x^osterior border of Scapula beneath attached Muscles. * For distribution see ' Arteries of Scapula.' arises from First Part of Subclavian on the left side, and from Second Part on the right side. Sup. Intercostal I passes backwards and downwards behind summit of Pleura in front of Neck of 1st Rib to end in 1st Intercostal Space. ' gives off between Neck of 1st Rib and 1st Cervical Transverse Process the Profunda Cervicis. Profunda Cervicis J ascends between Complexus and Semisplnalis to Sub-oceipital Triangle, (to anastomose with Prineeps Cervicis from Occipital and Muscular twigs from Vertebral (sec Diagram). There are thus three Arteries in the Neck which pass up parallel to the Transvei-se Processes, viz., the Ascending Cervical in front of the Processes, the Deep Cervical behind them (separated by Muscles), and the Vertebral within them. The three corresponding Veins unite at the lower jiart of the Neck to enter the Subclavian as the Vertebral Vein. BRANCHES OF THE EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. ( the_/?r.s< (Sup. Thyroid), —structures connected with the Larynx, The Four Anterior Branches (see p, 133) supply - Jl;3f' " '"'h'"'" ^^'^^^T"" ^ j » I'lird (tacial) ,— „ m the supcrhcuil parts oi the 1<ace, ' ,, fourth (Int. Maxillary),— ,, ,, deep ,, ,, ,, * * In addition each Vessel gives offsets to structures connected with tlie Pliarynx. Superior Thyroid ( arises ,?i/.9< helow Great Cornu of Hyoid Bone, and running downwards by side of Thyroid Cartilage ( ends in the upper and anterior ^lart of the Thyroid Body, giving t\\'igs also to the Inf. Constrictor of the Pharynx. Artery Lingual Artery f (1) Hyoid .and (2) Crico-tliyroid lying transversely on Thyro-hyoid and Crico-thyroid Membranes respectively. t (3) Sup. Laryngeal accompanying Sup. Laryngeal Nerve to Larynx, & (4) Sterno-niastoid crossing Carotid Sheath to Sterno-mastoid. arises ojjposite Great Cornu of Hyoid Bone, and passes in its 1st part upwards and forwards, in its 2nd forwards, in its 3rd upwards and forwards. [Genio-hj'O-glossus. lies in its 1st part superficially, in its 2nd between Hyo-glossus and Middle Constrictor, in its 3rd on outer surface of Branch(s Its course is parallel to that of the Faci;il xVrtcry on the Face. f(l) Hyoid, Iransrcrse, along upper border of Hyoid Bone. (2) Dorsal of Tongue, vertical, beneath I and Tonsil." . I (4) Banine, ?0Hji(<!i?i«n/ ,, under surface of Tongue, parallel (3) Sublingual ,, superfcial to L to FrKUum. Gland and Mucous Membrane. * See ' Arteries of Pharynx.' Hyo-glo>sus, to Tongue „ S\Lbliug. 18—2Arteries of 'Neck—continued. Facial Artery. , ( arises jntit ahove Great Cornu of HyoiJ Bone, and passes upwards and forwards to the Lower Jaw. Jii A eck I YiQs. at fist (1) superficially, then passes (2) under Digastric and Stylo-liyoid, and Imthj (3) into Submaxillary Gland.- * Compare with relations of External Carotid. r(l) Asceucling Palatine, rtWira?, between { stylo-|hai^^geus. (3) Glandular, <lr,p, to Submaxillary Gland. [ (2) Tonsillar „ „ { intmSmSj^oid. Submental, supa-Jldal, to parts below Ramus of Jaw. readies Face anterior to insertion of Masseter, passes first upwards a.ndforward.i to Angle of Moutli, f. p , \ I then directly/o)7('o?-(/.>( above Upper Lip, and lastly ?(/)iWfnY?s and/orit'a/-(?.s towards inner angle of Orbit. '"'^ \ \ is at first covered by Platysnia, tlten crossed by Zygomaticus Major, and luMy overlapped by Levator Alipque Nasi, ,, ,, rests upon Buccinator „ on Levator Anguli Oris ,, ,, on Levator Labii Superioris. For relation to Facial Vein, see ' Veins of Head and Neck.' Blanches Branch'is { The/our named Branches are all dii-ectod inwards, tu-n hclow and Imo ahnee the Mouth. Unnamed branches pass outwards, a) inferior Labial, betw. | gSJr^^[^ii;:Xf } 'o structures of Chin. (2, Inferior Coronary, betw. { } to Lower Lip. (4) Lateral Nasal „ { ^^^^^Sf' }'°'^'^c5?"""" (3) Superior Coronary „ { Sj^'^mi!;,^ [ ^n&J:^ By Artery of Septum. The terminal part of the Facial Artery, named ' Angular,' joins the Nasal Branch of the Ophthalmic of the Internal Carotid.LINGUAL, FACIAL and PHARYNGEAL ARTERIES. Irlnt&rrLoX Cci/rotioL. ZrExiemal br'^ytjoe-i'Lor TJufrQuci. 4" Ascendinq T'karijfigeal. 5' Kxl. ^rs. cf do-. 6." 'Phaunjn^&odSrs.aj do- )~ M&?un^ealBr .. St Iodaivne K: DcrsalA. of Tongue. ■ Jh T(anin& A. Tke dolied- lines L?idixcdt' Arts, dj- "Pko/njrLx. [see.p. IWJ] J2.~ ^uJ)Iing-ua,[ A. /5~21'Term.Brs. Int.li^cLxdhrij (Be&!o/3J Jot rixmts) . ' 7iX.cudArtertf. 2/)~. jf\sc r Tala-Hne.. Ton^iLLar K: IJr ^uLmenbil K. 7S~2'^ - 0up. ^ InJ. C&roTKirLf. 30. - . Ir^J-.LaJoiod k. 31. - LouhraZ Nasal.INTERNAL MAXILLARY ART. ~ BRANCHES. .A. ■10 /2 or FIRST AND SECOND PARTS:- I.-^(Xierrvod Carvticl. Z~ IniernaJ Maotlllarif. 6.' In^e.ncrr3)enial. ).~ Miflo-kyoid. S.~ (jU'Slciiory. Cj.- Masseteric. 10. -Deep 'Je.ynpora2. 11. ' Sucaxl. 11: T'terij^oid. or THIRD PART;- I3.~ ^Ujoerurr Nusa-l. fjf,.' Nce^o ■valoC'ttrve. 15. - Orktcd. /6.- Jh^raorloitotl. // - Alyeolco: IS ■ ~JJ&scencltn^ J^laime. iq.- Vidian.. ,■20r T^teri^^o-jocdatinc. II.~ Jid^in&^r.ofNoLSO-pcd. 21- Ani.Ikn&dBr. 23.- In/feruv Zk~ EwsloLckianSr.Arteries of Neck—confimted. 137 Internal Maxillary Artery. ( arises in Parotid Gland opposite neck of Condyle of Lower Jaw. nehirio)i!>,etc. La^opc,i„:t<,i,ti)rtr/bpfw S Neck of Condyle & p,,,i hptw i Ext. Pterygoid . betw. Heads of Ext. Pterygoid, ( passesm its Istpaj t betw. | ^^^.^ Lateral Lig. ^'^^ '^'^'^ \ Coronoid Proc. ^^^"^"^ | into Spheno-Maxillary Fossa. n, 7 (In its 1st part it gives off tivo ; in its 2nd jxirt, four ; and in its 3rd part, ehjJit {or six). tanc les | r^-^^^ Brandies of the 1st and .Srd parts all^jass through bony Canals, those of the 2nd part are all Muscular. 0/ First Pari (2) rdre't Menins-eal' ' P'"*^^^^ vertkallij upwards on Int. Lateral Lig. between Roota of Auriculo-teniporal NerTe to Foramen Spinosum. j urenii meniug^eai ^ giygg off bacJcwards the Tympanic Brancli to enter Glaserian Fissure, & forwards Small Meningeal to enter Foramen Ovale. (Inferior Upntalt ^ passes vertically downwards on Internal Lateral Lig. with Inferior Dental Nerve to Dental Canai in Lower Jaw. xmerior ue laiT | gjyes off inwards the Mylo-hyoid Branch, nrvi forwards a Branch to accompany the Gustatory Nerve. For Distribution see ' Meningeal Arteries.' t For Distribution see ' Arteries of Teeth.' ne 7 I fA.\ f Temporal (Deep), with Deep Temporal Nerve, , ( Masssteric, with Masseteric Nerve. uj iceoaa fa, t WBuccal, with Buccal Nerve, ( Pterygoid twigs to Pterygoid Muscles. (twoforwards to Orbit, —Orbital* and Infraorbital. Of Third Part CR1 J " '""^«''(fs ,, Nose, —Superior Kasal „ Naso-palatine. VI iinia ran ya) ■ downwards „ Mouth, —Sup. Dental ,, Descending-(Great) Palatine. \ „ hackmards „ Pharynx, —Pterygo-palatine ,, Vidian. * Frequently not described as special branches. The Branches forwards and downwards correspond with branches of the Superior Maxillary Nerve. ,1 1. backwards „ inwards ,, ,, ,, Meckel's Ganglion (see ' Meckel's G.anglion'). In the case of each of these pairs one of the Vessels is simple in its distribution, whilst the other gives off a special secondary branch to some other Region; thus : rTlie Orbital Branch accompanies the Temporo-malar Nerve and is distributed with it. J The Sup. ITasal Branches accompany the Superior Nasal Nerves to the upper and back part of the Nose, j ,, Sup. Dental (Alveolar) Branch accompanies „ ,, Dental ,, „ „ Teeth and Gums, l „ Pterygo-palatine ,, „ ,, Pterygo-palatine Nerve „ Roof of the Pharynx. ( " I' 11 1) Infraorbit.al Nerve to the Face, and gives a branch to the upper Incisors and Canines.'' J ,, Naso-palatiue ,, ,, Naso-palatine Nerve ,, Septum Nasi ,, ,, ,, ,, Mouth through the Ant. Palatine Foramen, j " Descending Palatine ,, Ant., Post, and Ext. Pal.atine Nerves to Palate and Tonsil, and gives inf. Nasal to lower and back part of Nose. V „ Vidian ,, ,, ,, Vidian Nerve to the Pharynx, and gives a branch to the Tympanum.138 Arteries of Neck—conllnued. Thfi Two Pncifprior ■Rrnnphpc, =;iin„lv \ Occipital, the posterior part of the Scalp and the Dura Mater, ine iwo rosterior j^rancnes supply I p^g^^ ^ _ Posterior Auricular \ arises just above Digastric Muscle, is crossed by the Facial Nerve, and Artery ( ends superficially over the Mastoid Process with and like the Posterior Av^ricular Nerve. i? ■«»(•/(•' (2) Stylo-mastoid, thi'ough Stylo-mastoid Foramen to Tympanum. See'Arteries of Tymi^auum.' " ^ ' i (2) Anrioular, tbrougli or over margin of Cartilage of Auricle to supply anterior surface. Occipital \ ''^'"'^^^ i^^^*" below Digastric, hooks round the Ninth Nerve, & passes deeply beneath Mastoid Process & Muscles attached to it. AyFarv ) restsy(V.s< on Carotid Sheath, ne.rt in Occipital Groove, and lastli/ upon the Superior Oblique and Oomplexus. ^' ( finally pierces the Trapezius to ramify over the posterior part of the Scalp. , ((1) Sterno-mastoid, crossing Carotid Sheatb. ("3) Auricrilar, to back of Auricle, etc. ' '((2) Meningeal (Post.), accompanying Int. Jugular Vein. (4; Princeps Cervicis, to vipper and back part of Neck. Compare the Occiiiital and Posterior Auricular Arteries. The Two Ascending Brandies arise, one from the ht'i/'ninini/, the other from the end of the External Carotid. \ one, the Ascending Pharyngeal, ends (hep}// in the upper jjart of the Pharynx and base of Skull, ( the other ,, Temporal, ends giiperjicialtij on the lateral and anterior part of the Scalp. Ascending 1 Arises just above origin of External Carotid, and passes up to the Base of the Skull parallel and internal to Internal Pharyngeal I Carotid, Artery ( ends opposite the upper border of Superior Constrictor in branches to Pharynx and Eustachian Tube. 7j 7 J (1) External, to Recti Autici, etc. (3) Pharyngeal, to Constrictors. ' ((2; Meningeal, through Foramen Lacerum Modi\;m. (4) Palatine, to Soft Palate and Tonsil.'* Passing over margin of Superior Constrictor, and subdividing to form with its fellow two arches in the Soft Palate, near the upper and lower borders respectively. Temporal ( passes upwards superficially in the line of External Carotid, and divides 2 in. above Zygoma into Anterior and Posterior Artery \ Branches. /(l) Transverse Facial i Zygoma, ,3., j^^^^ Temporal, runs transverschj forwards, an inch above Orbit. ' (passing forwards above Parotid Duct. ^ ' xr > Branches J j^.^^j^ Temporal | pl^i^JI/'^nto^TempOTin ^"^t. Temporal „ rerlkaVi, vpuarO.s, in front of Pinna of Ear X5) Parotid, (6) Articular, (7) Auricular, (8) Anastomotic (joining with Branch of Lachrymal between layers of Temporal Fascia).ARTERIES OF BRAIN, ETC. INTERNAL CAROTID. enters the Skull tliroiigli the Carotid Canal, with Carotitl and Cavernous Plexuses of Nen-cs. lies next in the Cavernous Sinus witli the Nervrs passing through the Sphenoidal Fissure external to it. divides opposite Anterior Clinoid Process, lying between the 2ud and 3rd Nerves. 139 Course, etc., in Cranium Branches Ophthalmic J Two in Carotid Canal, viz. : —Art. Pveceptaculi and Branches to Tympanum, j Four in Cranial Cavity, viz. :—Ophthalmic, Post-Communicating, Ant. and Middle Cerebral. ( passes into Orbit through Optic Foramen on outer side of Optic Nerve, < next crosses orer the Nerve, and ( tinally runs along the inner side of Orbit to end on the Face. It gives off three Sets of Brandies, one on the oider side, one over, and one on the inner side of the Optic Nerve. The First Set comprises two Arteries, the Second three, and the 7hird four. The first and last Sets supply parts external to the Orbit, and the other parts within it. p. , o , f Iiachrymal, accompanying Lachrymal Nerve, and anastomosing with Great Meningeal through Sphenoidal Fissure. j-H5(occ "(Supraorbital, ,, Frontal Nerve. Sicond Set Third Stt r Central of Retina, runs in the substance of the Optic Nerve to innermost coat of Eyeball, viz., the Retina. ^ Ciliary S/m/-< (12) and io/jr/(2), lie closely round ,, ,, and pass to the middle ,, ,, ,, Choroid. LMuscular, ramify in the fat, etc., ,, ,, ,, ,, give off ^«(a-!Oi-Ciliary Brs. to front of Eyeball, viz., the Iris, etc. / Ethmoidal (iwo) inwards, through Ethmoidal Canals to Cranial Cavity and Nose. ' Palpebral ( ,, ) ovtmards, Superior and Inierior, to Eyelids and Conjunctiva. I Prontal {nm) upwards, witli Supraorbital Nerve. I ITasal VERTEBRAL. Course, etc., in Cranium Branches (4) BASILAR ART. Branches (4) ( ,, ) downwards, to join termination ot Facial Artery. See also 'Arteries of Dura Mater,' '^Vi-teries of Nose,' and ' Arteries of Eyelids.' For Cerebral Arteries, etc., see p. 1-40. winds to Anterior surface of Medulla between Roots of Suboccipital and Hypoglossal Nerves, joins with its fellow at the lower border of the Pons to form the Basilar Artery. Anterior and Posterior Spinal (See 'Intercostal Arteries ' p. 117). Posterior Meningeal and Posterior Inferior Cerebellar (see p. 140). extends from lower to upper border of Pons in mid-line, parallel to the Gth Nerve. Anterior Inferior Cerebellar and Superior Cerebellar ) Transverse Arteries of Pons* and Posterior Cerebral ( • One of these accompanies the Auditory Nerve to the Ear.UO Arteries of Brain, etc.—continued. THE CEKEBHUM is suppUed by Branches from three Vessels j two Internal Carotids auUriorJ./, ( „ Basilar'postcriorli/. Each Carotid, sujiplies the Cerebrum by tico Branches, viz., the Anterior and Middle Cerebral. The Basilar ,, ,, ,, four ,, „ Posterior Cerebral and Superior Cerebellar on each side. ( Anterior Cerebral winds round the Corpus Callosum in the Median Fissure to supply the ant. and bd. aspects of the Hemisphere. / ] Middle Cerebral ,, ,, Island o£ Rail „ Sylvian ,, ,, ciienial aspect ,, ,, ) ( Posterior Cerebral ,, Crns Cerebri parallel to the Transverse ,, ,, ,, posterior ,, ,, ,, I c? ■K.Q •/^ r- >, lid ( parallel to the Post. Cerebral Art. (separated ) ( a twig to Z^^erio;'of Cerebrum. { ouperioi oeieoeiiar „ ,, ^ at first by 3rd Nerve) \ " ( branches to upper surface of Cerebellum. Each Vessel gives ofT special twigs into the substance of the Hemisphere ; thus :— \ The Anterior and Middle Cerebral give branches to the Anterior Perforated Spot. ( „ Middle ,, Posterior ,, „ „ Choroid Plexus of the Lateral Ventricle. ( ,, Posterior Cerebral gives twigs to the Posterior Perforated Spot (floor of Third Ventricle). ( „ Superior Cerebellar ,, ,, Velum Interpositum (roof .,,,). CIRCLE OF WILLIS. J The Anterior Cerebral are connected with one another by the Anterior Communicating and spring from the Internal Carotids, j The Posterior ,, ,, ,, ,, the Int. Carotids „ Posterior „ „ ,, „ Basilar (See Diagram). THE CEREBELLUM is supplied by branches from three Vessels, viz., | ^^^^ Basil^r^a/^eWor/*/''*''^' Each Vertebral supplies the Cerebelkim by owe Branch, ,, ,, Posterior Inferior Cerebellar. The Basilar ,, /o«j'Branches ,, ,, Anterior, Inferior and the Superior Cerebellar on each side. Hence there are two Branches for the upper surface of the Cerebellum, and four for its lower surface. Of these Arteries, one, the Anterior Inferior Cerebellar, is unimportant. ( The Superior Cerebellar winds round the Crus Cerebri behind the 3rd Nerve, parallel to the 4th, to Superior Surface of Cerebellum. ( Tlic Inferior ,, (Post.) „ ,, Kestiform Body between the Vagus and Spinal Acc. Nerves to Inf. ,, ,, Each gives off a special Choroidal Branch ; thus : \ Superior Cerebellar to Choroid Plexus of Third Ventricle (as above mentioned). ( Inferior „ ,, „ Fourth „ t'ompare the arterial svipply of the Cereljrum and Cerebellum as indicated above. There are four Choroid Arteries on each side. /,„^ „„„„■„„ 4.„ j-i „ T J- , 1 1. • 1 \ one from the Anterior Cerebral. ) two passing to the Lateral Ventricle I i, i. • f ( ,, ,, Posterior ,, ) one ,, ,, Third ,, ,, Superior Cerebellar. one ,, ,, Fourth ,, „ Inferior ,, (Post.).ARTERIES or CEREBRUM. B A. ARTERIES ON BASE OF CEREBRUM. B. CIRCLE OF WILLIS (Ri^Jtlkodj). C. ARTERIES ON BASE( Jiry oiojiraw. 1^1 - Iniernal CLrotCds-B- S^Z'^^ JS^S'- 'Rrst^run' m'-MuUle . .. .. ..l^t. .. . .. „/." Outtr Cord erf ^rcukoal PUxus. 1 ~ Inntr 3: Muddle.. • 4/" Nerye, li> /Strraius Magnus 3r Eie2. AnJ:. Thcraczc N. (>.- Int. .. "J.' M&dict^n. Nerve.. 8.' Uirvar 9-" Muse, -spiral „ 10. - Int. Cu,tcm. .. 11. - MuiSC-dcioM,. ,. IZ: Nerve of Wrisfi&rff'. IbrA cromio -ilzcracu Arte.ru. Ilfr Supe^rurr 16.' ^uhscajjiclar /y ^ I J'- Ant. ^Po^t. drcvo.-. ;//ex, Arh. /& ^ J8'- Aloor TkcrcuLc ^ ppcj-. Aiammarij Arts.ARTERIES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. Ul AXILLARY ARTERY. Course f Commences at the loicer border of the 1st Pv,ib and ends at the loicer border of the Teres Major. and I I In its first iMrt it rc.sf.s upon the 1st Intercostal Space (wall of Thorax) and upon the Serratus Magnus (1st Digit.). Relations -! < ,, second ,, ., ,, ,, „ fat, etc., of upper part of Axilla. to 1 ( !> third ,, „ „ againd „ Coraao-brachialis close to Humerus,, crosses Subscap., Lat. Dorsi & Teres Major. Muscles, etc, L ,, first and third parts it is covered by Pectoralis Major ; and in the second both by it and Pectoralis Minor. The first part is also invested by the Sheath prolonged from the Cervical Fascia, and by the Costo-coracoid Membrane. ,, third ,j ,, covered „■ Skin and Axillary Fascia below the lower Ijorder of the Pectoralis Major. *° I In its imwr 8 the Axillarv Vein lie^ to its inner side \ * Comites accompany it. Vessek \ '-'^ "-P^^' 3 Axillary Vein lies to its innei siae, | nj^per^ „ Cephalic Vein crosses it. to , In its first part, tioo Cordsof theBrachialPlexus lie to its outer side, Long Thoracic N". behind, and Ext. Ant. Thoracic N. in front. Nerves \ ,, second „ three „ „ „ „ „ one on each side and one behind, and the Int. (4 in each J • ? j- -d i i. i? Median, to outer side, Musculo-spiral helund, i\ ( I. third „/oir Branches' ,, „ to Forearm j tti • t ^ in j. ■ j- , part) V '• "J " » " j Ulnar, ,, inner ,, Internal Cutaneous m front. * Tho other two descending Branches are separated from the Artery I Musculo-cutaneous by the Coraco-brachialis Mnsclc. ° ' i „ Nerve of Wnsbcrg by the Axillary Vein or Veins. Branches,—fe,* One, Acromio-thoracic, passes/orioartZs from/i-on< of Artery, above Pectoralis Minor, to supply «»^ wall of Axilla. One, Subscapular, „ bacJcwards ,, back ,, below ,, ,, „ post. „ ,, m „ ( Sup. or Short Thoracic ) . , I the Sup. Thoracic above www edge of „ ,, tolstor2ndIntercostalSpace. I Inf. or Long Thoracic j P^^^ | „Long „ along toiler „ „ „ „ 5thor6th „ ,7,^,,^ ( Anterior Circumflex ) , 1 ^ ,, Ant. (small)&e?oiuPect.Min.,crossingbeiieathBiceps toDelt.&Slioulder-joint. I Posterior „ | » ^"'"'"'''^^ | .i Post, (large) „ „ „ ,. Triceps,, „ „ „&Skin. * All the structuvea in connection with the Axilla may bo grouped in sets of three or sU (.see 'Muscles of Shoulder ' and ' Brachial Plexus '). Alar Thoracic, beneath Pectoralis Minor There are occasionally t.o other Branches j ^^^.tn^^^^^^^'X'CZ^^^^ Axilla ( ^^-^^ ^P^^ 19142 Arteries of the Upper Extremity—continued. ANASTOMOSES OVER THE SCAPtFLA. Suprascapular Artery, along Siiperior Border of Bone, ends on the Posterior Surface, giving Infrascapular Branch to Anierwr Surface Subscapular ,, ,, External „ ,, „ ,, Anterior „ „ Dorsalis ScapuliE „ Poderior „ Post. Scapular ,, ,, Internal „ ,, ,, both Surfaces ,, Branches equally to each ,, These Arteries communicate with each other on both surfaces, forming two sets of Anastomoses, one in the Muscles and the other on the Bone. BRACHIAL ARTERY. from the lower border of the Teres Major to a point half an inch below the bend of the Elbow. the surface line being drawn from mid-point between folds of Axilla externally to mid-point between Condyles of Humerus. is covered by the Integuments, etc., in its whole course, and is crossed just before termination by the Bicipital Fascia, lying first on the Triceps, lastly against the Biceps (Tendon), intermediately on the Coraco-brachialis and Brachialis Anticus. resting in the upper part of its course against Coraco-brachialis and Biceps, and in the last part in the space between Supinator Longus and Pronator Teres. to Veins (4) Two Ven;e Comites accompany it, the Basilic lies superficial to it, and the Median Basilic crosses it below. ( the Median Nerve lies in front of it in its upper part, and crossing it superficially lies on its inner side below, to ATej-yes (2) < ,, Musculo-sjiiral ,, ,, behind „ ,, ,, piercing the Triceps reajspears ,, outer ,, ,, ( " The Internal Cutaneous and Ulnar Nerves leave it close to its commencement. Branches {four)* ( Superior Profunda! arising near the commencement of the Artery accompanies the Museulo-spiral Nerve to Ext. Condyle of Humerus, j Inferior Profunda!' >> about the nuVWe ,, ,, ,, „ Ulnar „ Int. „ ,, J Nutrient ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, enters the Humerus near insertion of Coraco-brachialis. ( Anastomotict ,, yigav lower end ,, ,, (an inch above Condyle) passes down and in to Int. Condyle. * Tlie Structures lying round about the Elbow may be grouped in sets of two or four (pee ' Muscles of Elbow '). t For termination of these Branches see ' Anastomosis round Elbow-joint' (p. 114). Relation to Muscles, etc.ANASTOMOSES ROUND ELBOW. J.Srcuikcctl Arte-rif. J-Suzi 'Irafu.nctayArlcn/. Z:7fcc<lutl .. „ S.'Anccstomoiu- Jp-Ani Int&rcss -„ /Orfosl. d-Tost IJ-HoAloI (i'ln- Jriyfunda. J2 - Tirsi. Irda-ots.ARTERIES or FOREARM. RELATIVE POSITIONS.Arteries of the Upper Extremity—coiiiinued. 143 ULNAR AND RADIAL ARTERIES. The Ulnar, tlie larger, lies deeply above but siiperjicialli/ below, and in the Hand forms Superficial Palmar Arch. ,, Radial,, snudler, ,, super/icialhj ,, deeply ,, ,, „ ,, Deep ,, ,, ( beneath Muscles arising from Int. Condyle'above, and overlapped by Flexor / Ulnar passes downwards and inwards \ Carpi Ulnaris. In Forearm ' ' resting on the tliree Muscles attached to Ant. Surface^of Ulna (see ' Ulna'). \ Radial o t ards 1 beneath the Integuments, overlapped by Supinator Longus. " i> M I resting on the six Muscles attached to the ant. surf, of Kadius (sec ' Radius'). Each Artery is accompanied by VeiiK; Comitcs. The Ulnar is accompanied by tlie Ulnar Nerve in its lower §, the Radial by the Radial Nerve in its middle J only. The Ulnar and Radial Nerves lie to the inner and outer sides of the Ulnar and Radial xVrtcries respectively. Just above Wrist both Arteries lie superficially on the outer sides of the Flexor Carpi Ulnaris and Flexor Carpi Radialis respectively. At Wrist \ "^^^^^ v\xn& superficially over Annular Lig. beneath Integuments to pass into Palm beneath Palmaris Brevia. (Radial,, deeply ,, Ext. Lateral „ ,, Extensors of Thumb „ „ „ through 1st Dorsal Interosseous. The Ulnar Nerve accompanies the Ulnar Aj-tery over the Annular Ligament, to end on the inner side of the Palmar surface of the Hand. „ Radial ,, passes away from „ Radial „ beneath the Supinator Longus Tendon ,, ,, outer ,, ,, Dorsal ,, ,, ,, In Hand Ulnar curves outwards, resting on Flexor Tendons beneath Palmar Fascia, forming Superficial Palmar Arch. Radial ,, inwards beneath ,, ,, resting on Metacarpus ,, Deep „ „ The Superficial Arch is completed by joining externally a branch of the Radial, viz., Superficialis Vo1;e (or Radialis ludicis) -Deep ,, ,, „ internally „ „ Ulnar, „ Deep Palmar Branch. BRANCHES IN FOREABM Radial f Radial Recurrent to anterior aspect of External Condyle of Humerus, supplying Elhoic-Joiitt. J Jluscular Branches, unnamed, to outer Muscles of Forearm anteriorly. I Anterior Carpal to anterior aspect of lower end of Radius, supplying Wrist-joint. [, J/iisciiiai-Branch (Superficialis Volse) to outer Muscles of Palm (Muscles of Thumb).144 Arteries of the Upper "Extremity—continued. ' (Anterior Ulnar Recurrent, to anterior aspect of Internal Condyle of Humerus. (Posterior ,, „ ,, posterior ,, ,, ,, ,, Ulnar I Unnamed Muscular Branches, to muscles on inner side of Forearm anteriorly. '• Interosseous Artery ( by Anterior Interosseous Div. to deep Muscles on front of Forearm and to Bones of Forearm, ( ,, Posterior ,, ,,^11 ,i liack ,, ,, ,, Elbow and Wrist-joints. ( Anterior Carpal, to join Anterior Carpal of Radial, across lower margin of anterior surface of Radius (above Wrist). (Posterior ,, „ Posterior ,, ,, ,, tlie back of the Carpus {below ,, ). f Superficial Branch, to form Superficial Palmar Arch, .and to supply parts on inner side of Palm of Hand. I, (Deep ,, (Communicating Braiich) to join Deep Palmar Arch. Thus for every Branch of the Radial Artery in the Forearm there are two somewhat similar Branches of the Ulnar Artery. ANASTOMOSIS BOUND ELBOW-JOINT. I The Superior Profunda divides above tlie External Condyle into two branches, one going in front of it and one behind it. ) ,, Aiiastomotica ,, ,, Internal „ „ ,, „ „ ,, ,, ,, i, j ,, Anterior and Posterior Ulnar Recurrents pass up to the Internal Condyle, the Anterior ,, ,, ,, the Post. „ ( ,, Radial and ,, Interosseous,, ,, ,, External ,, „ former „ ,, ,, the latter ,, ,, Inferior Profunda ends behind the Internal ,, ,, Arteries in front of and behind each Condyle anastomose with each other. ( ,, Superior Profunda forms an arch above the Joint posteriorly with the Anastomotica and Inf. Profunda ) the arteries behind the beloT Posterior Ulnar Recurrent Condyles. j ,, Posterior Interosseous INTEROSSEOUS ARTERIES. Common Interosseous, an inch in length, arises from Ulnar near its origin and divides opposite upper border of Interosseous Membrane. Anterior i runs down deepli/ on anterior surface of Interosseous Membrane to supply the deep Muscles and both Bones of Forearm. I Interosseous ( passes through the lowermost part ,, „ „ „ end with Post. Interosseous in Post. Carpal Arch. A Special Branch accompanies the Median Nerve beneath the Annular Ligament to the Superficial Palmar Arch. -\ Thu.s, of three Ai-teries to the Palm, one (Ulnar) passes over the Annular Ligament, one (Median) beneath it, and one (Radial) outside it. I Posterior Interosseous passes backwards above upper border of Interosseous Membrane to appear at back between | £xt"os3 ""Met^Po runs down superficially along outer edge of Extensor Carpi Ulnaris to end in Posterior Carpal Arch. The Anterior Interosseous thus lies as deeply as possible, -whilst the Posterior lies superficially. Both end together in Posterior Carpal Arch. Compare with the ' Interosseous Nerves."Arteries of the Upper "Extremity—continued. U5 CARPAIi ARCHES. ( Anterior, lies just above Wrist-joint along lower edge of Pronator Quadratus, resting on Radius. \ r>n + y-,^v h J S receivinq above two Interosseous Arteries, viz., the Anterior and Posterior Interosseous, ^ii-osterior „ „ moio „ " \ cjiving 6Shelovf ., „ ,, ,, the 2nd and 3rd Dorsal PALMAR ARCHES. For their formation and relation see Radial and Ulnar Arteries in the Hand. Branches. / Superficial Arch— Four Digital to 3| inner Fingers, lying sui^crflcial to Digital Nerves in Palm but beneath them on Fingers. ■j „ ( Three Palmar Interosseo\i3 to 3 inner tipaccs, joining Digitals at olctts of Fingers. P " \ Recurrent Branches to Wrist and Superior Perforating to join 1st Dorsal Interosseous. ne ti „ f „ A t,„„ 1, , „j f the Anterior Carpal and Deep Palmar (the two intermediate) lie the one above and the other below the Wrist-ioint. Of the four Arches above mentioned | Superficial pfdmar and Posterior Carpal (the mostanterior and most posterior) lie „ „ ,, The Superior .and Inferior Pcrfor.iting Arteries are both connected with the Dors.al Interosseous Arteries of the corresponding Spaces, but not with the Palmar Interosseous Arteries. The Superior joins the Deep Palmar Arch, and the Inferior the Palmar Digital Branches. RADIAL ARTERY IN HAND. On Dorsum gives four Branches \ Posterior Carpal to Posterior Carpal Arch, and Metacarpal to 2nd Interosseous Space,* ° •' { Dorsalis Foliicis and Dorsalis Indiois. In Palm „ two „ Princeps ,, ,, Eadialis „ * Compare with Foot.146 ARTERIES OF REGIONS, ETC. ARTEEIES OF SCALP [Four). One, Ophthalmic, sends branches backwards from the front, One, Occipital „ „ forwards ,, behind. Tico, Temporal and Posterior Auricular, are placed laterally, one in front and one behind Pinna of Ear (see Diagram). N.B.—The Frontal Artery accompanies the Suprati"Ochlear Nerve.—The Frontal Nerve is accompanied by the Supraorbital Artery. MENINGEAL ARTERIES. In each of the three Fossfc of the Skull there are two small Meningeal Arteries on each side which supply the Dura-mater, etc., of the contiguous part of the Base of the Skull. In the Middle Fossa is also on each side a single large Artery, which supplies the Dura-mater, etc., of the Vault of the Skull. ( In the Anterior Fossa are twigs from the Ant. and Post. Ethmoidal Arteries, entering through the Ant. and Post. Ethmoidal Canals. < „ ,, Middle ,, ,, the Small Meningeal & Meningeal of Ascend. Pharyngeal ,, ,, ,, For. Ovale, and For. Lacerum Med. ( „ ,, Posterior ,, ,, „ Mening. of Vertebral & ,, „ Occipital ,, „ ,, „ Magnum,, ,, ,, Postic. „ ,, Middle ,, is the Great Meningeal, lying in the Meningeal Groove ,, „ ,, ,, Spinosum, Tim r"(- •iur«>i-i<virY.«oi n„ n„t„, • „n c!i 11 ■ at T> 1 1-11 ( owten ri^s to Dura Mater, etc. (/"orwanZs to join Lachrymal through Sphenoid. Fiss\U'e. The Gt. raening-eal on entenug the Skull, gives off/owr Branches radially | oasserian GaxigMonX backwards to enter Tyripanum „ Hiatus Fallopii. It thus gives a branch to the ouUr wall of the Tympanum just before entering the Skull, and a branch to the inner wall just after entering it. ARTERIES OF NOSE. Three distinct Arteries supply the Nose ; one (Internal Maxillary), from leJdnd, one (Ophthalmic) from above, and one (Facial) from the front ; each Artery giving two Branches. Behind are I ^"P^'"'*''' Nasal, entering through Splieno-palatine Foramen, ramifying over Superior and Middle Turbinated Bones. (Inferior „ (branches of Descending Palatine) ,, „ Inferior ,, ,, ,, „ 7„ f,.^,,i S Twigs from Lateral Nasal. ( Anterior Ethmoidal ) , • „, j. •„„ Jnfront aie | ^ ^^^^^^^ ^^^^^ Coronary Artery). ^^'"''^ \ Posterior „ j ^'"'"'''''^ ^^'^s- Compare with Nerves of Nose. ARTERIES OF TYMPANUM. On Oraer Wall (around Membrana Tympani) there is a circle, formed by j fy^^^,^'^'^' ^Z^"^ inj^o^r' r\„ T u / iu T> I \ i. • 1 1. \ Branch of Great Meningeal through Hiatus Fallopii. On//i/(fM^ all (over the Promontory) „ „ sn anastomosis between | „ Vidian Artery „ Eustachian Tube. A small twig or two from the Internal Carotid enters the Tympanum in front through the Carotid Canal,ARTERIES or SCALP. ARTERIES or NOSE, SI 6^6- 0iifi <f /n^- Nasal Arie^ies. '■jl)'- Ant. \ Bst. ItkrruoicLd Arte.n&i. S\8'- IBr. oflai.Na£ai Art ^ Art 0^Septum. /5ee ciLso ^tx^p .Mo/xillan^ Ne.ry&. etc.ARTERIES or EYELIDS. NERVES or EYELIDS. /. -^-uprourrliLtal Art- 2: Tramtal 2: Ncosal afOphtk... Iri/JroLOrJoital Arl. 5.' X.aycJ%njmod. - . 6^6- $u,j>. <f Inf. Talp. Ariz. ; - CL - ^uprourrb ital N. d. ~ Irofrcurrhital J\I. Jar ^upratrochl&ar - & r l^obckrurrux.1 IR (Midou-Bri). /Sue, also " ddan&Tus N&yv&'S of Seoul ^ hl&ck'. Tar ARTERIES OF PHARYNX S&& J)j}lli.'^. Orid llf-S .Arteries of Regions, etc.—conUmml 147 ARTERIES OF EYEBALL. The Short Ciliary Brandies (8 or 10) enter closely round the Optic Nerve and form a plexus tlirougliout the Choroid. ,, Long „ ,1 (2) „ one on each side oi „ „ ,, ,, ,, circle round the Iris.* ,, Anterior „ ,, (4 or 5) ,, on^er/or/^ close to the Cornea ,, join the „ ,, ,, * Prom this Ch'cle Branclioa are sent into the Iris, which reunite to form a circular vessel round the Pupil. ARTERIES OF EYELIDS. Four in each Lid, two in each case being limited to the Lids. In the Upper Lid is au Arch upon the anterior surface of the Cartilage formed by Sup. Br. of Lachrymal externalhj, and Sup. Palpebral inter. ,, „ Lower ,, „ ,, ,, ,, _ >, >, I"f. ,, Inf. ,, „ ,, „ Tipper ,, intermediatehj are descending twigs of Supraorbital, wliilst ahove its inner extremity are twigs of the Frontal, „ Lower ,, „ „ ascending ,, „ Infraorbital ,, hdow ,, ,, ,, „ Nasal. Compare with Nerves of Eyelids. ARTERIES OF PHARYNX, Etc. On the Outer Surface of the Superior Constrictor are four Arteries (three supplying it), viz :— Internal Carotid, in Sheath posteriorhj, passing upwards to enter the Carotid Canal in Petrous Bone. 'Ascending Pharyngeal (main trunk) ,, ,, ,, for whole of breadth of Sup. Constrictor close to Carotid Sheath. Asc. Palatine (of Facial) intermediately ,, „ ,, | ,, ,, „ ,, between Stylo-pharyngeus and Stylo-glossus. Tonsillar („ ,, ) anteriorly ,, „ ,, g „ „ „ ,, „ Internal Pterygoid and . Stylo-glossus. The Roof is supplied by two Arteries, viz. :— Vidian and Pterygo-Palatine (the former sending a branch to the Eustachian Tube). The Hard Palate is supplied by two, viz. :—■ Descending Palatine and Uaso-palatine (Artery of Septum from Internal Maxillary). The Soft Palate (with Tonsil) is supplied by four, viz. :— Descending Palatine and Ascending Pharyngeal from ahove. Ascending Palatine and Tonsillar of Facial from hclow. The Tonsil also receives a branch from the Dorsal Artery of the Tongue (from the Lingual), The Tongue is supplied by tu-o, viz. :— The Dorsal of the Tongue and the Ranine (both from'the Lingual). Twigs may also reach it from the Tonsillar of the Facial.148 Arteries of Regions, etc—contkned. The Middle and Inferior Condrictorx are supplied by two, viz. : The Ascending Pharyngeal and the Superior Thyroid. The QiJsophagvn in the Neck is supplied by two, viz. :— The Superior and Inferior Thyroid. ARTERIES OF TEETH. J Upper Molars and Bicuspids"- are supplied by the Alveolar ; (Sup. Dental) —Caninea and Tiiriaors by Anterior Dental. I Lower ,, „ ,, „ ,, ,, Inf. Dental (main trunk);— ,, ,, „ „ Incisor Branch of Inf. Dental. The Inf. Dental Nerve supplies the lower Teeth in the same way as the Artery. „ Sup. „ „ (Alveolar) differs from the Inf. and from the Arts, in supplying only the upper Molars, the Ant. Dental supplying the other Teeth. ARTERIES OF SUBOCCIPITAL TRIANGLE. The Princeps Cervicis (of the Occipital) passes doumivards and inwards from above, ) uniting over the Triangle with twigs of the „ Profunda Cervicis („ ,, Sup. Intercostal) „ vpwards ,, below \ Vertehral. ARTERIES OF LUNGS. ( arises from Right Ventricle in front of origin of Aorta, and runs upwards to the left, on left side of Aorta, for 2 in. Pulmonary Artery | ^^^^ coucavityof the Arcli of the Aorta into j ^^^^'''"''^''^^^''^^^e^^^^^ ( on either side at its origin are the Auricular Appendages and the Coronary Arteries, delations <. behind it „ ,, is ,, Left Auricle. (around „ ,, ,, ,, „ Sheath of Serous Pericardium, common to it and to Aorta, Since the Right Bronchus is more horizontal than the Left, it lies above the corresponding Branch of the Pulmonary Artery in the Root of the Lung, whereas the Left Bronchus lies below the level of the Left Branch. For comparative Relations of the Structures in the Root of the Lung, see ' Intercostal Arteries' (p. 117). For Bronchial Arteries sec ' Thoracic Aorta ' (p. 118). ARTERIES OF STOMACH. Three Vessels enter the walls of the Stomach at each end, viz. :—one on each border and one intermediately. Upper Border,—Tyloric of Hepatic from Right Side,—Coronary (Gastric) of Celiac Axis from left side. Lower ,, —Rt. Gastro-epiploic ,, „ „ „ „ —Left Gastro-epiploic of Splenic „ „ „ /HiermecZia^eZ;/,—posteriorly, Post, Pyloric at Pyloric End, —Vasa Brevia „ ,, at Cardiac End.ARTERIES or STOMACH. ARTERIES ANo NERVES or TEETH. 2 ' „ ,. hle-rve. d. - M&ntoul .. , Arl /" ^up. De-nJ:od Art&rLf. 1 ~ , Ntyve- I-Anl. .. A or In}. Dental Ne, U ■' Incis<n-S>r. ojIntD-Art. h'- ^ y- .. ,. NvARTERIES AND VEINS IN RELATION WITH PANCREAS. / " Acn-ta^. 3.~^jjlart^vo A.rle,rLf. 6.^0 - T^ri^crexxioc^rs.'ii^la^ 'f. - SevaUio Artarif. U ' 0>ycv. layru:^e^uic -duovl&ruu Art. /O-I4 //.- ^l/y^enar Mesetvteric ArleA-ij. yia^J'l~ Tirst Sr. & ^rno-LL JrU'eslan^. ^ee also p^z^ss 120 | 165, /If- - TartaZ Ve^ufv. 10." ^u.p. M66 enteric J'e . /Sr Uf. .■ /S ' l/euis frcrm CxroliM Ilnd ^tdmaxJv.Arteries of Regions, Qtc—continued. 149 20 ARTERIES OF PANCREAS. As in the case of the Stomach, Arteries lie along each border and intermediately. I Above the Upppr Border the Cceliac Axis arises from the Aorta. \ Below „ Lower ,, „ Sup. Mesenteric ,, „ „ Along „ Upper ,, „ Hepatic runs from the Cceliac Axis to the riyht and the Splenic to the left. „ „ Lower ,, „ Inf. Pane.-duod. of Sup. Mesenteric runs ,, „ „ first Artery to Small Intestine to the J^/il. Intei-mediately „ Sup. Pane. -duod. of Hepatic sends branches inwards from the riijht & the Pancreatic of Splenic from the left. See also ' Veins of Pancreas,' p. 155. ARTERIES OF RECTUM. The Superior Hsemorrhoidal divides at upper end of Rectum into two Branches running longitudinally one on each side. Two Middle joining with Superior form with it Jive or six ,, ,, ,, on Rectmn iiiterynediateli/. Two Inferior ,, ,, „ the last-named Branches form foo^w at of Tieotum opposite Internal Sphincter.GENERAL VIEW OF THE ARTERIES OF THE TRUNK-WALLS. Running longitudinally downwards in the niid-Unc of the Trunk in front of the Spine is the Aorta. rrom the lower end of the Aorta come off on each side the main trunks for the Pelvis and Lower Limbs. ,, upj^er part. „ ,, ,, ,, ,, „ „ Head and Neck and Upper Limbs. The former (the Internal and External Iliacs) arise from the Aorta by a common trunk, the Common Iliac, as do also the latter (the Carotid and Subclavian) on the right side by the Innominate Artery. The Left Carotid and Left Subclavian are unsymmetrical, arising directly and separately from the Aorta. Springing from Artery for Upper Limb (Subclavian) is a Branch (Int. Mammary) which turns longitudinaUy down near mid-line in front. „ ,, ,, Lower ,, (Ext. Iliac) ,, ,, (Epigastric) ,, ,, „ upwards,, „ „ Within the Rectus Muscle the Internal Mammary and Epigastric join. There are thus three longitudinal Vessels in the wall of the Ti'uuk, one in the mid-lme behind, and two, one on each side of the mid-line in front. Connecting the Aorta behind with these Vessels in front are on each side a series of arterial arches, one opposite each Dorsal Vertebra except fhejirgf, and each Lumbar Vertebra except the last. These arches are formed by the Intercostal and Lumbar Arteries poateriorlij and outgoing Branches of the Internal Mammary and Epigastric Arteries anteriorly in the Dorsal and Lumbar Regions respectively. The place of the Intercostal Arch opposite the 1st Dorsal Vertebra (1st Intercostal Space) is taken by the Superior Inter- costal, a branch from the Subclavian, the outer of the two main trunks for the Head and Upper Limb. The place of the Lumbar Arch opposite the last Lumbar Vertebra is taken by the Ilio-lumbar, a branch from the Internal Iliac, the inner of the two main trunks for the Pelvis and Lower Limb. Springing from these Arches posteriorly, anteriorly, and laterally are perforating branches which supply the Integuments, etc,ARTERIES or TRUNK-WALLS. /." Aartoi. Z'.Z ~ Cymmcn Iliaxs, H^^U^ 5 '3 ' InL'e'mayl „ . 'Common/ Gx-rotuis., Arh. .. % Int.Mamrmx,ri^Arh -J^^l^l jOrlO,-Suf}.Inte,rcastal .. Ilrlh Ilu>-lurrvhour Ct'InZlzrcostal Arh. lirAwnJoar One. ordij of the Iniercaslzd ^Lumhcv ArcAes IS in-cLtx-attoL.23.' De^p VEINS or NECK. I~ ^uJjclcLi^Lari I'ecn.. II- TouivaZ ' ^LLp- Thotjnjici- /If-MvdMe .. .. 2/- VsjhJora^l Vein,. 16. 6r Iylj. Jeb-ozod ,■ drini MoMctllM-ij . li' 'Jast. ALcrbcuLo-r I. ,'6.'Lorrunun. iyiik/nt.Ju^' I J- Jest. lL<ct. Jtufu/a-y. IS r Arvbt-rio-r - 1'^■-TrcuT/Su^se. CervicaL V. ZOr jSu^jrasaa^jula.)' ,. . 2Z: Ascending Cerytcocl J ■VEINS OP HEAD AND NECK. 151 ti \ { crosses inwards transversely at the root of the Neck under cover of the Clavicle. The Subclavian Vein < 1 External Jugular, at the outer border of the Sterno-Mastoid, (receives ttree veins from above •< Vertebral „ Inner „ „ Scalenus Anticus, ( Internal ,, forming with it the Innominate Vein. The External and the Internal Jugular Veins are each formed by the union of two Vessels, and each receives six Tributaries. The Vertebral Vein is supplemented by its union with two collateral Vessels. External Jugular is formed in the Parotid Gland by the union of the Temporal and Internal Maxillary Veins, passes thence downwards superficiallij to the Cervical Fascia over the Sterno-mastoid, and ends beneath Fascia at lowermost part of Posterior Triangle, after crossing the 3rd. Pari of the Subclavian Art. f Communicating from Internal Jugular. f Anterior Jiigular (usually). Tributaries, a&ove^ Posterior Auricular. Idovj -< Transverse Cervical ), . , c i. i • . i_ 1 Posterior Ext. Jugular (from Post. Triangle). [Suprascapular | forming a plexus over Subclavian Artory. (is formed below Foramen Jugulare by union of Lateral and Inferior Petrosal Sinuses. Internal Jugular < passes thence downwards heneafh Cervical Fascia, under Sterno-mastoid, ext. to Int. and Common Carotids. ( ends at the lowermost part of the Anterior Triangle, after crossing the 1st Part of the Subclavian Artery. {Occipital. CSuperior Thyroid. Facial. hdoto < Middle Thyroid. Lingual. (Pharyngeal. The upper end of the Internal Jugular and the lower end of the External, are each somewhat expanded. Compare the Jugular Veins as above described. ( commences in Muscles, etc., below the Occiput, and receives twigs from the Spinal Canal, etc. Vertebral Vein < descends through the Foramina in Cervical Transverse Processes in front of Vertebral Artery and crosses 1st ( part of Subclavian Artery. _ . . (a vein from the front of the Spine (Anterior Vertebral) which accompanies the Ascending Cervical Artery. Tritiutn,i-ic= I j^^^j. (Deep Cervical) „ „ Deep ,, „ Thus the Veins which correspond to the three Arteries which ascend icitJdn, in front of, and behad the Cervical Transverse Processes (see Subclavian Artery, p. 134) unite, and empty themselves by a common trunk. Facial Vein The Facial Vein receives blood from the Regions which lie around that supplied by the Facial Artery. 1 Its,Tribiitaries are the Frontal, Supraorbital and Palpebral Veins, corresponding to Branches of the Ophthalmic Artery. < ,, last Tributary is the Ranine Vein >> a Branch ,, Lingual ,, (infemectoe/t/it receives the Ant. Int. Maxill. V. from the Pterygoid Plexus ,, „ Branches ,, Int. Maxillary ,, The other Tributaries correspond to the Branches of the Facial Artery. 20-2152 Veins of Head and Neck—continued. CRANIAL SINUSES. There are two Sets of Sinuses B. the Posterior comprising/oio- single Sinuses and one pair. t\\Q Anterior ,, two ,, „ „ three i>Mrs. A.- B. -One Sinus -One ,, C. —The other Sinuses ,, of each Set receives Veins from the neighbouring parts of the Encephalon only. ,, „ ,, „ special ,, „ ,, also. receive „ „ neighbouring ,, „ ,, and communicate in addition with Veins on the exterior of the Skull. Inferior Longitudinal S. Transverse S. ( Straight S. ( Circular S. ( Superior Longitudinal S. < Lateral S.* ( Occipital S. ( Cavernous S.* Superior Petrosal S. (Inferior Petrosal S. posteriorly | receive any special offsets, anteriorly ) ■' '• posteriorly receives the Veins of Galen from the interior of the Cerebrum, anteriorly ' -. . _ - posteriorly anteriorly the Pituitary Body. ,, Emissary Veins through the Parietal Foramen and Foramen Cajcum (often). ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, Mastoid „ „ Posterior Condyloid Foramen. Branches from the Plexus of Veins in the Spinal Canal. [For. Vesalii. ,, Ophthalmic Vein through Sphen. Fiss. and a vein from Pterygoid Plex. through a Vein from the Internal Ear. an Emissary Vein through the Foramen Basis Cranii. The Blood from the posterior Sinuses is entirely conveyed out of the Cranial Cavity by the Lateral Sinus. I The partly vnd partly Ijy the Inferior Petrosal Sinus. f The Inferior Petrosal Sinus joins with the Lateral Sinus below the Foramen Jugulare to form the Internal Jugular Vein. ( ,, Superior ,, ,, ,, ,, within the Skull. See ■ Emissary Veins,' p. 20.VEINS OP THORAX. 153 STrPEBIOR VENA CAVA ( commences by the union of the Innominate Veins just below Cartilage of 1st Rib, on right side and ends at upper part of Base of Heart, \ lies between the Aorta on the left, and the Right Phrenic Nerve on the right (by which it is separated from the Right Lung), I „ in front of the Root of the Right Lung and idthin a special sheath of the Serous Pericardium. { Pericardiac ly^^^^^ The Tributaries correspond to the Parietal Branches of the Thoracic Aorta-; Mediastinal ( ^ , „ . ^ (. Azygos Major Vein (receiving Intercostal Veins). T^^T^TmlTTAT Arrx- rrvTsra \ commence by the union of Subclavian and Internal Jugular Veins behind Sternal End of Clavicle, and IJVNOMXWAIJ!, VJiiJMb | ^^^^^ joining to form the Vena Cava Superior just below Cartilage of 1st Rib on the right side. I Right, 11 in. long, lies bdiueenthe Innominate Artery on the left & the Rt. Phrenic Nerve on the right (by which it is separated from Rt ° ; ^ ^ the Manubrium (upper half) a?o«5f the upper edge of Transv. Part of Arch of Aorta. [Lung). ( l.ett 42,, „ I resting the three large Branches of, and the Nerves crossing the ,, I Internal Mammary, double, accompanying Internal Mammary Artery. The Tributaries correspond to the Branches of the Subclavian Artery (except Vertebral) Ii-firior ^f'-'^''*'''^''^^^^^^^ Vein). *• -f"'"-"'*"'i ,, crossing Arch of Aorta. AZYGOS VEINS. J V. A. Maj or (Right) commences below from the Right Ascending Lumbar Vein, & enters Thorax through Aortic opening (or Rt. Crus sometimes). I V. A. Minor (Left) ,, „ ,, Left „ „ „ ,, „ ,, Left Crus (or Aortic opening sometimes). Each passes up on its own side of the Bodies of the Dorsal Vertebrte receiving Intercostal Veins on its way, The Minor opposite the 6th (or 7th) Vertebra crosses beneath the Thoracic Duct to enter the Major, „ Major ,, ,, 3rd Intercostal Space, curves over the Root of the Rt. Lung,, ,, ,, Vena Cava Superior. ■n«;'k'...+o'»;»c {The Mhoi'receives the Intercostal Veins of the lower 5 or 6 Spaces on the left side, Tributaries J 9 jO ^.^^^ " " (. (Esophageal twigs, the right Bronchial Vein,* the Vena Azygos Minor and Vena Azygos Minima. V. A. Minima is formed by the union of two or three Left Intercostal Veins just above those entering the Vena Azygos Minor, and opens directly into the Vena Azygos Major. The upper two or three Right, and the upper three or four Left Intercostal Veins unite to form the Right and Left Superior Intercostal Veins respectively. * The Left Bronchial Vein generally enters the Left Superior Intercostal.Veins of Thorax-rcontimied. 154 VEINS OF HEART. !Great Cardiac Vein Post. Cardiac Veins Oblique Vein Coronary Sinus Venae Cordis Parvee SPINAL VEINS. ( Vense Basis Vertebrae - (Dorsal Spinal Veins ( Ant. Longitudinal Veins- ( Post. Longitudinal Veins- commencing on the front of the Heart near the Apex, winds over the Left border of the Heart, and running in the Left Auriculo-ventricular Groove becomes continuous with the Coronary Sinus. —commence on the back of the Heart near the Apex, and run upwards to join „ „ —runs obliquely across the back of the Left Auricle to enter „ „ „ —thus receives three sets of Veins, one from the front and one from the back of the Left Ventricle chiefly, and one from over the Left Auricle. —a few small vessels chiefly over the Right Ventricle anteriorly, opening directly into Right Auricle. ., 1 1 T c IT i 1 • • • ( anteriorhi veins on the anterior surfaces of the Vertebra;, -passing through bodies of Vertebrae, joining | p^^t^^^Jy^^^ Anterior Longitudinal Spinal Veins. , , y . ( anteriorly ,, Posterior ,, ,, ,, — „ between Laminre „ „ ,, j ^,osfeTO)-/y veins of Muscles, etc., of Back. -(two) running vertically behind Bodies of Vertebra, irregular and tortuous, giving branches outwards through Intervertebral Foramina. -forming a close plexus on anterior surfaces of Lamince, joining branches of Anterior Veins throngh Inter- vertebral Foramina. The Veins of the Cord—forming a plexus over the Cord, small and tortuous, communicating with Spinal Veins and Cranial Sinuses. VEINS OF UPPER EXTREMITY. !Radial Vein —commences on back of radial side of Wrist forming arch on Dorsum with Post. Uhiar V. Post. Ulnar Vein— „ „ „ „ ulnar „ ,, „ ,, „ „ Radial V. Ant. Ulnar Vein— ,, „ front „ ,, „ ,, joining Post. Ulnar V. at bend of Elbow. Median Vein — ,, „ „ of Wrist and Palm & is joined by Br. from Deep Veins „ „ ,, ( Median Vein -divides at bend of Elbow into j JJ^^^^"^ S^^l^'^'- ^^'Se', shorter, and more oblique. ; _ / Median Cephalic ,, smaller, longer „ less „ y Radial Vein —unites with Med. Ceishalic V. to form Cephalic V. which joins the Axillary Vein near its termination. [Vein. (Ulnar Veins —unite ,, Med. Basilic V. ,, „ Basilic V. „ „ ,, Brachial Venas Comites to form AxillaryAZYGOS VEINS, ETC. /~ Vena- Ccxya^u^. Innu-rrvLna-ie J/^ 3 -L&fl Inrurmcn-aie V. or. 5~ 1/ Aiij^os MirKTr. e: '.~ 'Ric^lhl ^ixp. Irde,rcosta l V. 'S.'l-.eji ^U'p. Irht&rcastal V, 10 -Le/rt Inhrco^tal H.VEINS OF ABDOMEN. 155 INFERIOR VENA { '^^ right side of 5th Lumbar Vertebra by the junction of the two Common Iliac Veins. CAVA J ascends ,, „ „ Aorta, but is separated from it above by the Right Crus of the Diaphragm. ( becomes embedded in the posterior border of the Liver and passing through Diaphragm ends in Eight Auricle. It rests on all the right lateral branches of the Aorta except the Spermatic (or Ovarian) which crosses it. Its Tributaries correspond to the Branches of the Abdominal Aorta which pass to the non-alimentary Viscera, and to the Abdominal Parietes. It also receives the Hepatic Veins. On the left side the Suprarenal and Spermatic Veins open into the Renal Vein, but on the right side into the Vena Cava directly. The Middle Sacral Vein generally ends in the Left Common Iliac Vein. ILIAC VEINS, —For relations, etc., see 'Iliac Arteries,' p. 122. Tributaries f The Common Iliac Vein receives the Ilio-lumbar and Lateral and Middle Sacral Veins. \ „ Ksternal and Internal Iliac Veins receive Branches corresponding to the Branches of the Arteries which they accompany. The Visceral Veins in the Pelvis form a series of Plexuses from before backwards around or below the Viscera, ( anterior!!/ with the veins external to the Pelvis by the Dorsal Vein of the Penis, communicating < above and behind „ „ Portal Vein by the Superior Heemorrhoidal Vein. ( below ,, ,, „ ,, Int. Iliac Vein ,, direct branches. ( 3 inches long, commences by union of Superior Mesenteric and Splenic Vein, over Inf. Vena Cava, beneath Pancreas. PORTAL VEIN < passes up beneath Hepatic Duct and Hepatic Artery,—-the former being to the right of the latter. ( divides in Transverse Fissure of Liver into right and left Branches for corresponding Lobes. For Relations in root of Liver see ' Intercostal .Vrterics,' p. US. ( Running from left to right beneath the Pancreas is the Splenic Vein, •p«»^n+;/^»,/^*Tr„:..,„ 4. ■ t, t.u ■^ i i i ( the Inf. Mesenteric to the fr/i; on its way to ioin with the Splenic. to PanSyas i " " ''^^^'^ " to form with Splenic the Portal I „ ,, ,, upper ,, on the left side, are branches from the large end of the Stomach. [Vein, (.emerging from ,, ,, ,, „ right ,, is the Portal Vein, See ' Arteries of Pancreas,' p. U9. Tlie Intercostal veins have complete valves ; the Azygos veins have imperfect valves ; the left Spermatic has one valve at its junction with the Kenal; and the Inferior Vena Cava has an imperfect one at its point of entry into the Eight Auricle, The other veins of the Thorax and Abdomen have no valves.6 VEINS OF LOWER LIMB. For Relations of Femoral and Popliteal Veins see ' Femoral' and ' Popliteal Arteries,' pp. 125 and 127. The main vein crosses the Artery twice, lying first to its inner side, then behind it, then to its outer side, then (in Popliteal Space) crossing behind again, and lastly (at termination of Popliteal), lying at its inner side once more. The Saphena Veins in their course correspond with the Saphenous Nerves (which see); they commence in a transverse arch on the Dorsum of the Foot. THORACIC DUCT. Course, etc. Belations Tributaries f I Commences in Abdomen oppositeLumbar Vertebra, and ends in Neck opposite lant Cervical Vertebra. ' Passes up intermediatdij through Aortic Opening in Diaphragm and through Posterior Mediastinum in Thorax, At its commencement (as the Eeceptaculum Chyli) it receives the Lumbar Lymphatics. ,, termination it opens into the outer angle of union of the Left Internal Jugular and Subclavian Veins. LAt its loicer end it is largest, at its upper end it is also enlarged, intermediately it is narrowest or subdivided. In Abdomen, it lies upon Ant. Common Lig. of VertebriB, beneath Aorta, between the Vena Azygos Major and Vena Azygos Minor. ., ,. . r. , 7 . A J. (i_-vT A nT • • ( opposite 6th Dorsal Vert, ot'er the V.Azygos Min. Li Thorax \ ^'^^ ^^'^ ^""^^^ ^ ^^"^ ^^ygos Major, crossing | ^^^^ ^^^^ of Aorta. ( ,, ,, higherup „ Oesophagus and Left Pleura. T -KT J Tj. i. J -J. fTi.1. r< ■ 1 tr X u \ from under Carotid Sheath, resting upon Longua Colli, InNech It curves outwards opposite 7th Cervical Vertebra I ^^,^,.g^,,^l^^j^^^^^ (3^,^^p4t) J Scalenus Anticus. The Duct receives Lymph from all parts of the Body except the following:— • Right Side of Jlead and Neck, \ Eight Side of Thorax, _ _ _ p^^^.^ ^^^^^^^ ^^^^^ g^^^ g^^f^^^ Liver, Upper Extremity, „ Heart &Rt. Lung The Lymphatics from these parts unite to form the Right Ljmiphatic Duct, which after a course of about half an inch at the Root of the Neck, opens into the outer angle of union of the Right Internal Jugular and Right Subclavian Veins.N E H "V E S. 2iGANGLIA (Branches, etc.) / Jugular Gangl. DEEP NERVES OF NECK (DIAGRAM A). ■No Branches arise from it. 159 Glosso-pharyngeal Pneumogastric . Petrous Gangl. Gangl. of Root Gangl, of Trunk f forwards ) baclcwards \ doivnwards {outwards ( outwards 1 downwards 1 backwards \ forwards heliind, 2 Boots —Jacobson's Nerve (see 'Tympanic Plexus"). —Communicating Branch to Vagus (Ganglion of Root). — „ ,, ,, Sympathetic (Superior Cervical Ganglion) — ,, „ ,, Arnold's Nerve. —Arnold's Nerve. —Communicating Branch to Sympathetic (Sup. Cervical Ganglion). — ,, ,, ,, Spinal Accessory Nerve. — )) II Glosso-pharyngeal ,, . from Loop between 1st and 2nd Cervical Nerves. „ Sympathetic (Superior Cervical Ganglion). . . , n n J \ Pharyngeal Branch (to Pharyngeal Plexus). m front, 2 Branches | g^pg^jo? Laryngeal Branch. Sympathetic—Sup. Cervical Ganglion above below behind, 4 Boots continuous with main trunk of Vagus, receiving Accessory Part of Spinal Accessory. continuous with main trunk of Vagus. —from First, Second, Third and Fourth Cervical Nerves. !Communicating Branch to Hypoglossal and Vagus. Nervi Molles (to External Carotid Artery), Pharyngeal* (to Pharyngeal Plexus). Superior Cardiac Nerve. cdjove {.below \ continuous with main trunk of Sympathetic. ( giving Communicating Branch to Petrous Gangl, and Gang!, of Root. continuous with main trunk of Sympathetic. In the communications above mentioned between the Pneumogastric, Hypoglossal, Sympathetic and Loop between 1st and 2nd Cervical Nerves, each Nerve com- municates with the other three. Compare the Branches of the Petrous Ganglion and the Ganglion of the Root, and also those of the Ganglion of t)ie Trunk and the Superior Cervical Ganglion as indicated above. " The Laryngeal offset of the Sympathetic is generally blended with the Laryngeal of the Pneumogastric. 21-2160 Deep Nerves of Neck (Diagram K)—continued. PLEXUSES (Branches, etc.) 'Cavernous Plexus —forwards, 4 Branches Sympathetic - To join Third Cranial Nerve. ,, Fourth. „ „ ,, Fifth ,, ,, (Ophthalmic Div.). „ Lenticular Ganglion. Carotid Plexus —radlatehj, 4 Branches ,, Fifth Cranial Nerve (Gasserian Ganglion). ,, Sixth ,, ,, ,, Great Superficial Petrosal Nerve to form Vidian Kerve. To supply Dura-Mater. Terminal Brandies , . 1 n T, 7 \ !, Eye-ball. (forfcards, 2 Branches | Ophthalmic Artery. I J n 7} 1 \ >> Pia- Mater. ( vpu-ards, 2 Branches | (.^^^^^^.^i Arteries. For Pharyngeal Plexus, etc., see Diagram B.DEEP NERVES OF NECK (DIAORAM B). RIGHT SIDE. 'Superior Cervical Ganglion, see Diagram A. 161 Middle '-Inferior from 5tli Cervical Nerve. „ 6th „ „ _ to Thyroid Plexus, along Inferior Thyroid Artery. Middle Cardiac Nerve, ^ receives from 7tli Cervical Nerve. „ 8th „ „ to Vertebral Plexus on Vertebral Artery.* Inferior Cardiac Nerve. Compare the tliree Ganglia. Each Ganglion gives off a Cardiac Nerve and a Branch to a Plexus, Compare the Thyroid and ^harJ^lgeal Plexuse.s as indicated in the Diagram. ( from External Laryngeal. / receives 4 Branches < Superior Cardiac Branch of Sympathetic Superior Cardiac of Vagus. ,, Recurrent Laryngeal. ,, Middle Cardiac of Sympathetic. to Thyroid Plexus. from Inferior Cardiac of Vagus. ,, Recurrent Laryngeal. „ Inferior Cardiac of Sympathetic. Branch Communicating with Superior Cardiac of Sympathetic, from Cardiac of Vagus in Thorax, „ Recurrent Laryngeal. Branch Communicating with Middle Cardiac of Sympathetic. LEFT SIDE. The arrangement is the same as on the right side, except that the Inferior Cardiac of the Vagus does not join the Middle Cardiac of the Sympathetic, but enters the Superficial Cardiac Plexus separately, as does also the Superior Cardiac of the Sympathetic, and that the Middle Cardiac of the Sympathetic joins with the Inferior of the same to enter the Deep Cardiac Plexus. The lowest Cardiac Branches of the Vagus are absent. * The Plexus on the Vertebral Artery is not to be taken as if analogous to the Thyroid and Pliaryngeal Plexuses, although it is represented in a similar form in the Diagram, Middle Inferior rjives ■ receives 3 Brandies gives ^ receives 2 Branches I r/ives162 CARDIAC PLEXUSES. A. DEEP PLEXUS. The Deep Plexus is divided into a Right and a Left Part. The Eight Part receives 2 Truiihs :— \ Eight Superior Cardiac of Sympathetic. ■( „ Middle ,, The U'ppcr comprising 4 Nerves Superior Inferior Vagus. The Left Part also receives 2 Trunlcs:— The Upper comprising 3 Nerves The Right Part ti'ives 4 Branches Left Middle Cardiac of Sympathetic „ Inferior „ „ ,, „ Superior „ „ Vagus To Eight Anterior Pulmonary Plexus. I „ ,, Auricle. I ,, ,, or Anterior Coronary Plexirs. „ Posterior Coronary Plexus. The Lower . From Eight Recurrent and adjoining part of Vagus, oomprismg > ^j^^ inferior Cardiac of Sympathetic. The Lower ) comprising > From Left Recurreirt Laryngeal only. 1 Nerve ) The Left ( '^'^ ^^^^ Anterior Pulmonary Plexus. Part (j'tves < Superficial Cardiac Plexus. ^ urancnes ^ Posterior Coronary Plexus. Notice the numerical composition of the Roots, and the analogous distribution of the Branches, B. SUPERFICIAL PLEXUS. deceives 2 Roots j ^^^^ ^"f^"?"" ^^^'^^^^^ 7^8"^ . ( „ Superior . Sympathetic [ "^'"'*> '^^^ ^ special offset from the Deep Plexus below. Gives 2 Branches All the Cardiac Nerves end in the Deep Plexus, except the Left Superior or Superficial Cardiac of the Sympathetic and the Left Inferior Cardiac of the Vagus. To „ Anterior Pulmonary Plexus. „ Eight or „ Coronary ,, the latter receivingSOLAR PLEXUS. 163 The Central shaded part of the Diagram represents the Right and Left Semilunar Ganglia with the intervening Solar Plexus, and the small circle in the centre represents the Cceliac Plexus. The radiating lines represent the main offsets from the central Plexuses, the other lines the communications of those oflfsets ; the interrupted lines show where branches are wanting ; the dotted lines mark out the special nerves joining the Plexus. It will be noticed that the main offsets correspond to lines drawn so as to bisect the sides and angles of an imaginary square described about the figure representing the Plexus, and that the chief communications may be shown by ti'iangles erected upon the sides and over the angles of such a square. The lines converging on the Hepatic, Splenic and Renal lines are sides of the triangles erected on the sides of the squ;n-e. BRANCHES. All the radiatbuj branches, except the Hepatic, join one or other of the Semilunar Ganglia. The Cceliac_ Plexus gives ofiF the Coronary, Splenic, Hepatic and part of the Superior Mesenteric Plexuses. The Coronary has no other origin. The Splenic joins only the Left Semilunar Ganglion, being itself joined by the Right Vagus. The Superior Mesenteric receives a root from the left side of the Solar Plexus. The Hepatic receiver from the Diaphragmatic and Rt. Suprarenal, and gives to the Right Suprarenal. The Kight Suprarenal „ „ „ Rt. Renal, Hepatic and Diaphrag. „ „ ,, Right Renal and Hepatic, Left Renal and Diaphragmatic ,, ,, ,, Left Renal. Suprarenal and Aortic ,, ,, both, and to the Spermatic. Aortic and Renal. Left Suprarenal Renal (Right or Left) Spermatic ( ,, ,, ,, ) Aortic Diaphragmatic gives to the Hepatic and to both Suprarenals Renal (right and left) ,, ,, both Reuals and both Spermatics. ROOTS. The Phrenic Nerves join the .Diaphragmatic Plexus ; the Right through the Ganglion of Swan, sending on filaments to the Right Suprarenal and Hepatic ; the Left sending only to the Left Suprarenal. The Right Vagus joins the Cceliac Plexus {k/i side) and Splenic; the Left Vagus joins the Hepatic. The Great Splanchnic ends in the Semilunar Ganglion, and joins the Suprarenal and Renal. ^t'l^^llL. " " " ^celiac Plexus," „ „ Renal. The Smallest (3rd) „ „ „ Renal „ " .' cojliac. N.B.—Primary or direct communications only are reproseiiied.164 HYPOGASTRIC AND PELVIO PLEXUS. f Bootn from Hypogastric Plexus- Pelvic Plexus L Branches f Hoots from (ill Male I aiiches ill Femah Aortic Plexus. Lumbar Ganglia. Sacral „ (1st and 2nd). Uterine Plexus (Fibres chiefly stjmpatlietic). Root of Right Pelvic Plexus. ,, Left Hypogastric Plexus. .3rd, 4th, 1st and 2nd Sacral Nerves (especially .3rd). Sacral Ganglia. f Inferior H;rmorrhoidal Plexus (Fibres mixed). ^ Prostatic Plexus, continued to | Cavernous ^erve^ | ^.j^jgAy spinal). I Vesical Plexus „ | Vas deferens_ ^ , L )) J) I V esicula seminalis ^ " " ' ( Inferior Hemorrhoidal Plexus (Fibres mixed). < Vaginal Plexus (Fibres chiefly spinal). I Vesical ,, „ ,, ,, 111 the Diagram tho Boots are represented by licavy lines, the Branches by light ones.CUTANEOUS NERVES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. On the Scalp Branches of the Facial Nerve alternate with Branches of the 1st, 2n<l and 3rd Divs. of the 5th Xerve successively. On the Face ,, „ ,, ,, ,, and decussate with Branches of the same. In the Diagram the Branches of the Facial Xerve are represented by dotted lines, and those of other Nerves by continuous lines. ON THE SCALP there are from before backwardu the following Nerves :— Supraorbital (1) from the Fird JDiohion of the 5th Nerve. Malar Branches {a) of Facial Nerve. Temporo-malar (Temporal Branch) (,.') from the Second Division of the 5th Nerve. Temporal Branches (b) of Facial Nerve. Auriculo-temporal (3) from the Third Division of the 5th Nerve. Posterior Auricular (Auricular Branch) (o) of Facial Nerve. Small Occipital (c') from Anterior Branch of 2nd Cervical Nerve. Posterior Auricular (Occiisital Branch) {d) of Facial Nerve. Great Occipital (c") from Posterior Branch of 2nd Cervical Nerve. ON THE FACE there are from above downwards the following Nerves :— Malar {a) of the Facial and Supraorbital Branches, etc. (I) of the First Division of the Fifth. Infraorbital (e) ,, „ ,, Infraorbital Bi-anch (II) „ Second „ ,, „ Supramaxillary (/) ) \ Labial (III) and ) i m ■ i with Buccal Branch (3) 1 " " " | Buccal {./) ^ branches „ Ihrd „ „ „ . BELOW THE INFERIOR MAXILLA there are from cd}ove downwards the following Nerves : — Inframaxillary of the Facial (h) with the first of the following Nerves, viz., the Superficial Cervical (c'"). The former ramifies chiefly under the Platysma, the latter over it. The three Superficial Ascending Branches of the Cervical Plexus, viz. :— the anterior —the Superficial Cervical (c'") passing transversely toward the most anterior branch (/;) of the Faci , p)oslerior — „ Small Occipital (<-') ,, vertically ,, ,, ,, posterior „ (rf) „ ,, , intermediate— ,, Great Auricular (c"") ,, obliquely „ ,, main trunk „ The three Superficial Descending Branclies of the Cervical Plexus, viz. :— anterior —the Sternal Branch (c') (the shortest) passing down and in towards Sternum close above Clavicle. ,, posterior — ,, Acromial (c') ( „ longest) ,, down and out over Deltoid across Acromion Process. ,, intermediate— ,, Clavicular (c"") (of mid. size) ,, downwards ,, Peotoralis Major across Clavicle. 22Cutaneous Nerves of the Head and Neck—continued. 166 NEHVES OF EYELIDS. Tlie Upper Eyelid is supplied by four sensor^/ Nerves, viz, J Supraorbital (1) j ^j^^yg ] Lachrymal j Supratrochlear (1") (1') ou outer siile. Infratrochlear (1"') „ inner „ The Lower Eyelid is supplied by one sensory Nerve only, viz. :— Infraorbital (II)—(generally by a double twig). Eoth Eyelids receive branches from the Facial Nerve (motor). The Nasal Branch (1"") of the First Division of the Fifth ramifies on the Nose below the Inner Canthus of tUe Eyelids. „ Malar „ (2') „ Second „ ,, „ over ,, Malar Bone „ „ Outer Canthus „ „ Compare the Nerves of the Eyelids with the Arteries (See p. 147). KEHVES OF PINNA OF EAR. Great Auricular over the Lobule and lower part of Concha. ( one branch bfiluw External Meatus. Auriculo-temporal giving \ ,, above ,, ,, and to Tragus. ( ,, to ujjper part of Piuna and Skin above it. Small Occipital above, —Great Auricular below. Auricular Branch of Vagus over Concha,—Posterior Auricular of Facial. Ou External surface (S) On Internal surface (4) OVES, SCALP OYEPo BACK CUTANEOUS NERVES ON POSTERIOR ASPECT OF BODY. —see Diagram of Cutaneous Nerves of Head and Neck. 1st Cervical (Suboccipital) by tindivid-d Posterior Division supplying Muscles of Suboccipital Triangle. 2ud ,, (Great Occipital) ,, internal hrmch of ,, ,, ,, Skin of Scalp. 3rd, 4th and 5th Cervical ,, ,, branches,, ,, „ ,, ,, „ Back of Nock. 1st to 6th Dorsal -I 7Lh „ 12th 1st ,, 3rd Lumbar 1st ,, 3rd Sacral external Back. Back & Gluteal Eegion. Gluteal Ilegiou. The Nerves and Branches not indicated above supply the deeper strnctm-cs. The lateral asptct of the Back is supplied by the posterior twigs of the Lateral Branches of the lutcrcostal Nerves. The fh\-e Cervical b-jlow the Second and the upper six Dorsal supply the Skin by their Internal Branches, the lower six Dorsal, upper three Lumbar and upper three Sacral ly their External Brauehes.167 Cutaneous Nerves on Posterior Aepect of Body—continued. OVER ARM OVER FOREARM OVER HAND OVER GLUTEAL REGION OVER THIGH OVER LEG Acromial Branches of the Cervical Plexus (6) ) Posterior Cutaneous Branch of Circumflex (7) > externcdhj one below another. Posterior External Cutaneous of Musculo-spiral (8) ) Internal Cutaneous Branch of Musculo-spiral (0) ^ Intercosto-humeral (iQ) > internally ,, „ „ Small Internal Cutaneous (Nerve of Wrisberg) (11) ) Posterior Division of Musculo-cutaneous (12) on ojrfer side. Posterior Plxternal Cutaneous of Musculo-spiral ( 8) intermediately. Posterior Division of Internal Cutaneous Radial to 3J outer Digits Ulnar (Dorsal branch) to IJ inner Digits Last Dorsal (lateral branch Ilio-hypogastric ( „ ,, Lumbar, 1st to 3rd (posterior divisions ( 1st (posterior division -J Sacral \ 2nd ( ! (3rd ( I Branches of External Cutaneous L „ „ Small Sciatic ( External Cutaneous I Small Sciatic / Internal Cutaneous Cutaneous of External Popliteal External Saphenous Internal^Cutaneous (Posterior Division) [ Calcaneo-plantar OVER SOLB OF FOOT \ Internal Plantar (13) on inyier side. (14) on outer side. (15) „ inner „ (17) lonfj, at front of Crest. (10) short, at middle „ „ long, at back „ ,, shortest, close to Posterior Superior Spine of Ilium. lo)ig, ,, ,, Coccyx. short, intermediately. (18) round anterior border of Region. (19) ,, posterior ,, „ „ (20) on outer side. (19) intermediately. (21) on inner side. (22) on outer side. (23) intermediately. (24) on i)iner side. (25) posteriorly over Heel. anteriorly to 3-^ iniier Toes. ,, 1-i outer ,, (External Plantar Notice the arrangenient of tl:e Nerves in sets of three, and compare each set as given above with the'corresponding set on pp. 16S and 1G9. 22—2168 CUTANEOUS NERVES ON ANTERIOR ASPECT OP BODY. Intercostals OVER HEAD AND NECK—see Diagram of Cutaneous Nerves of Head and Neck. 12 Ant. Cutaneous Nerves (1-12)—terminal branches of the Intercostals— emerging close to mid-line beside Sternum or through Rectus Abdominis ; diminishing in size from above downwards, the 2nd being the largest. ^ 10 Lateral Cutaneous Nerves (Ant. Brs.) (3'-12')—lateral ofifsets of lower 10 Intercostals— emerging between digitations of Serratus Magnus or External Oblique ; increasing in size from above downwards. There is no Lateral Branch from the First Intercostal; that of the 2nd, the largest of the series, is undivided and passes to tlie Arm as the Intercosto-humeral. The Lateral Branch of the last (12th Dorsal) is also undivided, and is the Jirst from before backwards of the Nerves crossing the Crest of the Ilium. Ilio-h.ypog'astric (24) emerging above the External Abdominal Ring, turning upwards. Ilio-inguinal (25) ,, through „ ,, ,, ,, ,, downwards. OVER TRUNK OVER ARM OVER FOREARM OVER HAND OVER THIGH -! Acromial Branches of Cervical Plexus (13) Anterior Cutaneous Branch of Circumflex (14) Anterior External Cutaneous Branch of Musculo-spiral (15) Bicipital Branch of Internal-cutaneous Anterior Division ,, ,, ,, Posterior ,, ,, ,, ,, Anterior Division of Musculo-cutaneous „ „ ,, Internal-cutaneous Cutaneous Branch of Median Digital Branches of Median ,, „ ,, Ulnar Cutaneous Branch,, Posterior Division of External Cutaneous Ilio-inguinal Crural Branch of Genito-crural Anterior Division of External Cutaneous „ „ „ Internal ,, Middle Cutaneous (10) (17) (18) (19) (17) (20) (22) (23) (21) (27) (25) (2C) (28) (30) (29) externallij, one below another. • internally, side by side. on Older side. „ inner ,, interrnediatehj below. to 3J outer Digits. „ H inner ,, ,, Palm superiorhj. on outer side ) inner ,, > over Scarpa's Triangle. intermediately ) on Older side ) „ inner ,, >i intermediately ) on outer side ) „ inner ,, > over lower |rds of Thigh.Cutaneous Nerves on Anterior Aspect of Body—continued. 169 TO INNER SIDE OF KNEE OVER LEG OVER FOOT (on Dorsum) ( Patellar Branch of Internal Saphenous < Internal Saphenous (main trunk) ( Posterior Division of Internal Cutaneous ( Cutaneous of External Popliteal < Internal Saphenous (Musculo-cutaneous Terminal Branches of Anterior Tibial ,, „ „ Musculo-cutaneous. ,, Branch „ External Saphenous. (31) above Patella. (32; (33) below side by side. (34) on outer side above. (32) „ inner „ (35) iiitermediately below. (36) . Nute that the Sartoriiis (represented by parallel interrupted lines in the Diagi'am) is in relation with six Superficial Nerves, of which two (27 and 30) appear over its upper border, and two (2ii and 31) ji/crcr it, whilst the other tv:o (32 and 33) lie beneath it in the greater part of its length and emerge behind the posterior border of its tendon. The Nerves of the first pair alternate with those of the second. Note also that the two parts of the Internal Saphenous Nerve appear between the two parts of the Internal Cutaneous (31 and 32 between 30 and 33). Note in regard to the two Saphenous Nerves (Internal and External) that the Nerve which arises i,i front and hiijher up than the other (viz., the Internal) passes in front of the Internal Malleolus and ends hif/hcr up than the other on the Foot (viz., about the ball of the Great Toe), whereas the Nerve which arises behind and lower down (viz., the External) passes behind the E.xtern.d Malleolus and ends loiccr down on the Foot (viz. on the outer side of the Little Toe). Note in regard to the Nerves on the Dorsum of the Foot that the Branches of the Musculo-cutaneous alternate with those of the other Nerves, thus from within outwards there are first the Branch of the Musculo-cutaneous to the inner side of the Great Toe, next the Branch of the Anterior Tibial to the First Interosseous Space, then Branches of the Musculo-cutaneous to the other spaces, and lastly the Branch of the External Saphenous to the outer side of the Little Toe.170 INTERCOSTAL NERVES, ETC. (Cutaneous Nerves of Trunk.) A. INTERCOSTAL NERVES OF WALL OF THORAX (Upper Sh-). The Intercostal Nerve lies at first between the Pleura and the External Intercostal Muscle, then ,, ,, Internal Intercostal Muscle ,, ,, „ ,, then „ ,, ,, „ ,, „ Pleura, lastly, piercing the Internal Intercostal and the Pectoralis Major close to the Sternum, it ends as an Anterior Cutaneous Nerve of the Thorax Halfway between the Spine and the Sternum it gives off through the External Intercostal Muscle a Lateral Cutaneous Nerve of the Thorax, which on becoming superficial, divides at once into an Anterior and a Posterior Branch. The Skin between the end of the Posterior Branch and the Siiine is supplied by the Posterior Primary Division of the corresponding Intervertebral Nerve. The First Iiilercosial has no Lateral Branch, the Second lias only the posterior division of one. B. THE INTERCOSTAL NERVES extending into the WALL OF THE ABDOMEN (Lower Six). These Nerves exactly resemble those higher up whilst they lie between the Eibs, and like them give off Lateral Cutaneous Branches which are similarly distributed. On reaching the Cartilages they pierce the Internal Intercostal, and thence run forward between the Internal Oblique and Transversalis till they reach the Piectus. This they perforate, and appear on the surface as Anterior Cutaneotis Nerves. The L iteral Branch of the last is single, see ' Nerves of Posterior Aspect of Body. 0. ILIO-HYPOGASTRIC AND ILIO-INGUINAL NERVES. iwithin the Abdominal Cavity lies higher than the Ilio-inguinal Nerve and crosses the Quadratus Lumborum only, pierces \ Transversalis near the had- of the Iliac Crest, the Int. Oblique near the front of the Iliac Ci'est and ^ I the External Oblique above the Pubic Crest, turning iipivards under the Skin, half-way along Iliac Crest gives off the Lateral Branch through both Obliques to Gluteal Region. !within the Abdominal Cavity lies lower than the Ilio-hypogastric N. and crosses hoth the Quad. Lumbor. and Iliacus. pierces \ Transversalis near outer end of Poupart's Ligament, the Int. Oblique opposite middle of Ligament, and ^ \ the Ext. Oblique (through Ext. Abd. Ring) over the inner end of the Lig. turning downwards under Skin, near the Ant. Sup. Spine of Ilium gives a branch to join Ilio-hypogastric and lower down Branches to Int. Oblique. Note that the Ilio-hypogastric Nerve pierces the three broad Muscles at points in relation with the Iliac and Pubic Crests, whereas the Ilio-inguinal pierces them at points in relation with Poupart's Ligament.>CUTANEOUS NERVES OP ARM. SURROUNDING THE ARM are tile following Nerves :— 171 Bicipital Branch of Internal Cutaneous - Anterior Division ,, ,, ,, Posterior „ „ Small Internal Cutaneous (N. of Wrisberg)- ' Intercosto-humeral Internal Cutaneous of Musculo-spiral Anterior Division Posterior ,, f Circumflex (1) — superficial to Biceps in mid-line anteriorly. (2) — by side of ,, internalhj. (3) — „ ,, wj/ro«< o/Internal Intermuscular Septum. (4) — „ ,, Triceps heliind ,, ,, ,, (5) — „ ,, ,, internalhj. (6) — superficial to ,, in mid-line posteriorly. (7) — by side of Biceps externalbj. (10) — „ „ Triceps „ (8) — „ ,, Biceps in front of External Intermuscular vSeptum. (9) — „ ,, Triceps 6?/w«(Z ,, ,, ,, -| External Cutaneous of ( Anterior Branch I Musculo-spiral ( Posterior ,, L(Acromial Branches of Cervical Plexus descend over the upper part of the Deltoid.) SURROUNDING THE FOREARM are the following Nerves :— Cutaneous Branch of Median — in mid-line in front below. Posterior External Cutan. of Musculo-spiral— „ „ „ behind. Internal Cutaneous S ri""^ division - on inner side anteriorly. { Posterior „ —■ ti i> posteriorly. Musculo-Cutaneous ( Anterior „ — „ outer „ ayiteriorly. (Ext. Cutan.) ( Posterior „ — „ ,, „ posteriorly. NERVES OF ORBIT. Note in explanation of Diagram— In the outer wall of the Cavernous Sinus the Nerves are in their numerical order from above dovs^n. In the Sjjhenoidal Fissure the 4th is highest, and the 6th lowest, whilst intermediately the upper and lower branches of the Ophthalmic Division of the 5th and the 3rd alternate. In the Orbit there are three single Nerves laterally one above another, and three double Nerves intermediately one above another. Note the relation of the Norvea to the Heads of the External Rectus and to the Optic Nerve.172 SUPERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE, ETC. SUPERIOE, MAXILLARY NERVE.—BRANCHES. Spheuo-pala- tine ■SownKarJs to Month j posterior Dental V (.Alveolar) I Antrrior [ Posterior ( Anterior ^ Posterior \ Branches ! ^Infraorbital •< idterior Dental Braiieh ■ Ant. Branch (through Meckel's Ganglion to Palatine Nerves, ( forming Sensory Root of Ganglion. f to supply Gums and 1 ,, ,, Buccinator Muscle. ■ Post. , join the Anterior Dental Nerve above the Teeth and , supply the Molar Teeth. „ „ Mvicous Membrane over Inferior Turbinated Bono. ,, Incisor and Canine Teeth. , join the Posterior Dental Nerve. , supijly the Bicuspid Teeth. \_Forwards to Orbit ^ Facial Branch „ J, , ( Palpebral Branch, to supply parts in Lower Eyelid. S»;).Branclacs.-^j^T^g^j „ „ „ on side of Nose. ^ /«/. I Orbital y ,1/-, mporal Branch (Labial ,, of Upper Lip. "( Branch to communicate with the Infraorbital Branch of the Facial. ( ,, „ ,, Lachrymal Nerve in tlie Orbit. "( Superficial Branch to the Skin above the Zygoma. {fnten"af ^""^^f"''''^ ^''^"'^l to the skin over the Malar Bone. Notice the mode of division of the Nerve. The Branches come off in paii-s, and subdivide into pairs of Secondary Branches, from which again pairs of Tertiary Branches arise. The two Sets correspond to the Anterior and Descending Branches of the Internal Maxillary Artery, which see. MECKEL'S GANGLION".—BKANCHES. C To lower and back part of Nose (Inferior Nasal Branches). -' ,, supply the Mucous Membrane of the Hard Palate. ., ('Anterior Palatine ^Downwards to Xouth, Forwards to Orf/it, Inwards to Nose, -Palatine Branches i^Tlii ■ External Palatine ^Posterior Palatine -Orbital Branches (Three) —Hasal Branches (Two) i „ Soft ( the Tonsil. 1 supply the Mucous Membrane of the Soft Palate. ^ „ ,, Uvula. C ,, the Tonsil. ■ ,, supply the Mucous Membrane of the Soft Palate. ( „ Uvula. ( ,, Periosteum of the Orbit. ,, join the Lenticular Ganglion. ( ,, ,, Sixth Nerve. J NnsaJ, to supply the Mucous Membrane on Superior and Jliddle Turbinated Bones. ( To join the Ganglion of Bochdalek, on Anterior Dental Nerve, above Canine Tooth. j Nasal, to supply the Mucoxis Membrane on the Septum Nasi. \ Naso-palatine proper, joining the Anterior Palatine Nerve on the Hard Palate. KBaelcwards to Pliarynx,- -Pharyngeal Branches (Two) ^ Stiperior ITasal ^ BTaso-palatine / TTiiHan /Motor & SympatlieticX f Nasal, to supply the Mucous Membrane on posterior part of Roof of Nose. J "^'"^"Utoot of Ganglion ^ j Vidiai .... - ...... ... . _ .... Vidian proper, derived from Gt. Superficial Petrosal Nerve,& Sympathetic on Int. Carotid. (•p+ov-irwn vioio+itia i ^asal, to s\ipply Mucous Membrane on posterior part of Roof of Nose, i-ieryg-o-paiatine | Pterygo-palatine, to supply the Roof of the Pharynx. Note that there are three Branches downwards, each triple, and three forwards, with two inwards and two backwards, each double. Of the two Branchci inward.^, twig.? from each i)ass to supply structures connected with the anterior pai-t of the Roof of the Mouth. Of the two Branches backwards, twigs from each pass to siipply structures connected with the posterior part of the Roof of the Nose. The Interior and Posterior Sets resemble the corresponding Branches of the Internal Naxillary Artery, which see.173 Superior Maxillary Nerve, Etc.—coiitinued. NERVE SUPPLY OF THE NOSE (excluding the Olfactory Nerve, the Special Nerve of the Nose). To supply the Mucous Membrane on the Superior Turbinated Bone. !> )i i> ,1 Middle On Outer Wall, posteriorly Superior Nasal Inferior Nasal, of Great Palatine Infrr'ior ^ anteriorly Middle Inferior Nasal of Ophthalmic of 5tli N. Nasal of Anterior Dental ,, „ ,, ,, „ ,, Anteriorly \ ^"^^^^ "\ Oplitli'ilaiic of 5th Nerve, ( JNaso-palatme. On Hoof from behind forivardx, Pterygo-palatine, Vidian, Superior Nasal and Nasal of Ophthalmic of 5th Nerve. N.B.—Compare with ' Arteries of Nose,' p. 146. On Inner Wall, ^^o.^eno./, j f-J-^^ 23INFERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. 174 BRANCHES.* The Branches come off close together from the Nerve as soon as it appears below the Foramen Ovale. ( Upwards pass the Anterior \ Downwards „ ,, Inferior Dental „ Gustatory I Upwards and outwards ■pa.sses ,, Masseteric and ^Outwards in conjunction with the Buccal passes the and Posterior Temporal Nerves, and forioards the Buccal. ,, ,, backivards doumicards and inwards Auriculo-temporal. Internal Pterygoid Nerve. External ,, The Internal Ptertignid Nerve is conuected at its root with the Otic Ganglion. For the Inferior Dental and Gustatory Nerves see ' Nerves of Submaxillary Kegion,' p. 1T6. The AURICULO-TEMPORAL NERVE K arises close to the Foramen Ovale by two Boots, and ( ends opposite the upper part of the Pinna of the Ear in two Branches. Intermediatelii it gives ofif six, BraneJies, three single and three double alternating. (1) A Branch to Otic Ganglion (Sensory Root of Ganglion). (2) Two Branches round External Carotid Artery, to join Facial Nerve. (3) A Twig to the Temporo-JIaxillary Articulation. h) Two Branches to the Auditory Meatus, passing between Cartilage and Bone. (5) A Branch to the Parotid Gland. (6) Two Auricular Branches! ''^ Pinna below Meatus and to Sympathetic on Internal MaxUlary Artery. I II above ,, ,, Tragus. ( Between the Boots passes the Great Meningeal Artery. \ The posterior terminal branch ends in \ Attrahens Aurem and I . ( the Skm of upper part of Pinna. \ The anterior ,, ,, ,, over the course of the Posterior Superficial Temporal Artery. * In the Diagram the continuous lines represent motor, and the dotted lines sensory branches.175 GANGLIA OP FIFTH NERVE. Each Ganglion (except Meckel's*) has tliree RootS, one of which is Motor, one Sensory and one Sympathetic, thus :— Lenticular Ganglion. Submaxillary Ganglion. Otic Ganglion. Motor Root from—Inf. Div. of Third Nerve. Sensory „ ,, —Nasal Br. ,, 1st Div. of 5th N. Sympathetic „ ,, —Cavern. PI. on Int. Carot. Art. Chorda Tympani of Facial Nerve. Gustatory of 3rd Div. of 5th N. Symp. PI. on Facial Art. Each Ganglion (except Meckel's*) gives off two Branches, thus :— Submaxillary G. Lenticular G. j {^PP^J ^'^'^'^ To Submaxillary'Gland, etc. ,, Muc. Memb. of Mouth Small Petrosal of Facial Nerve.f Auric-temp. ,, 3rd. Div. of 5th N. Symp. PI. on Grt. Meningeal Art. Otic G. To Tensor Palati. Tympani, * For Meckel's Ganglion see ' Superior Maxillary Nerve,' p> 172. t Some motor fibres are said to be derived from the Nerve to the Internal Pterygoid Muscle. TYMPANIC PLEXUS AND JAOOBSON'S NERVE. BRAN'CHES are distributed as follows :— To Mucous Membrane of Tympanum (2) ( To Foramen Rofcundum (4) \ To Sympathetic on Internal Carotid (3). „ „ „ „ Eustach. Tube (1) \ ,, ,, Ovale (5) \ ,, Great Petrosal Nerve (6). The uppermost Branch is prolonged as the Small Petrosal (7), joining the Facial by a special twig. 23—2176 NERVES OP THE SUBMAXILLARY REGION. appear ia the Neck between 1 the Hypoglossal crosses over ( Glosso-pliar. „ ,, In connection with the Submaxillary Region there are four chief Nerves, viz. :—the Inferior Dental, Gustatory, Hypoglossal and Glosso-pliaryngeal. These four Nerves lie in similar curves and give off Branches in a similar manner. The first two Nerves have analogous REliATIONS, as have also the last two, thus :— Tlie Inferior Dental and Gustatory are Brandies of the Inferior Maxillary Nerve and descend side by side, fi,.,f k<.fT„oo„ \ tli*^ Ext. Pterygoid Muscle and ) , i . \ the Internal Lateral Ligament and lymg fir.t between | | and then between j Ramus of the Jaw. The Inferior Dental then enters its Canal in the Jaw to supply the Teeth and Skin, etc., of Lower Lip. ,, Gustatori/ „ runs on the Muo. Memb. louZer ,, „ ,, ,, Tongue,, Mucous Membrane of Mouth. The Hypoglossal and Glosso-pharyngeal arise directly from the Medulla and the Internal Cai-utid Art. and ) ■ c ji „ Jugular Vein \ ^^^'^^^ '="'^''''^8 External Carotid Art. and ) , , , ( the Mylo-hyoid and Occip. Art. (at origin) i P^^'^°^ between | jj^^.^j ossus Internal Carotid Art. and i i ,, „ ,, and Ascending Pharyngeal \ " " " \ ,, Mid. Constrictor ' BHANCHES. Each Nerve first receives or gives a special Branch, then gives off a double Branch or two sets of Branches, both upwards and downwards, and finally ends in a double Branch or two sets of Branches, thus :— Special Branch. Brandies upwards. Branches dov/nwards. Terminal Branches. to end in Muscles of Tongue, to end in 3Iiicous Mem- brane of Tongue. Inf. Dental Gustatory Glosso-pharyn- geal Hypoglossal Mylo-hyoid Branch, to Mylo-hyoid Muscle & ant. belly of Uigastrlc. Chorda Tympani N., from Facial N. through Tympanum cSt Glaserian 1' iwsurc. Brs. to Int. Carotid, joining Sympathetic on Artery. Dcscendens Noni, to Omo hyoid, Thyro- hyoid & Sterno-thyroid To Lower Molars and ,, ,, Bicuspids. ,, Muc. Memb. of Mouth ,, Sublingual Gland. ,, Tonsil. ,, Soft Palate. ,, Stylo-glossus, ,, Hyo-gloss'us. ( To Skin, etc., of Lower Lip. Inf. Labial* ^ ,, join Supramaxillary ( Br. of Facial Nerve. To Submaxillary Ganglion. ,, join Hypoglossal on Hyo-glossus. „ Stylo-pharyngeus. „ Pliaryngeal Plexus. „ Thyro-hyoid (special branch). „ Genio-hyoid. Incisor Br. To Incisor Teeth. ,, Canine Tooth. To ant. §rds of surf, of Tongue. Commun. with 9th N. in Tongue. Lateral Br. ) to post. J of surf, of Median Br. \ Tongue. To Intrinsic Muscles of Tongue. ,, Genio-hyo-glossus. * The Inferior Labial passes outwards not downwards. For further Belatious see ' Muscles of Submaxillary Region,' p. 77.o I -< s o B CO m CO o -n CO CD 3> OCERVICAL PLEXUS. 177 The Cervical Plexus is formed by the union in loops of the Anterior Divisions of the first three Cervical Nerves and part of the fourth in front of the corresponding Transverse Processes of the Vertebrre. The 5B/ANCHES come ofF both from the Nerves themselves and from the Loops between them, and may be divided into Cutaneous, Muscular and Communicating Nerves. The Cutaneous Branches arise one from each Loop and one from each Nerve, except in the case of the fiist and last Nerves. Muscular Communicating' onlv. 1st Cervical Nerve Loop between 1st and 2nd Nerves 2nd Cervical Nerve Loop between 2nd and 3rd Nerves 3rd Cervical Nerve Loop between 3rd and 4th Nerves 4th Cervical Nerve Muscular. To llectus Lateralis (1) „ Recti Antici (2) „ Steruo-mastoid (3) „ Lev. Ang. Scap. (4) ,, Scalenus Med. (5) „ Diaphragm (Phrenic N.)f (6) Cutaneous. Mastoid Branch* (7) Small Occipital (8) Great Auricular (9) Superficial Cervical (10) f Sternal 1 Desc. Cut. Clavicular Ull) I Acromial J middle Loop. Communicating. ( Pueumogaatric) With ] Hypoglossal \ (12) (. Symijatlietic ) ,, Descendens Noni Nerve. (13) ,, With Spinal Accessory N. (14) * The Mastoid Branch is frequently undeveloped. t The Phrenic Nerve derives its main Root from the 4th, a second Boot from the 5th, and a third from the Srd Cervical Nerve. The Branches of the Plexus are usually divided into Superficial and Deep Sets. ! The Superficial Set consists of Cutaneous „ Deep Branches grouped as \ r> r ° ( Descending Muscular and Communicating ^'""''^i-.'^,.^'''^ j Nerves. Internal and ExternalBRACHIAL PLEXUS. 178 FORMED by the union of 6 Nerves at the lower part of the Neck, 'jii'inrj off 6 Branches above the Clavicle and 6 below, and ending in 6 terminal Branches. Formation as frequently described .-— The 5th Nerve joined by the 6th near the Vertebrse and by the 7th near the 1st Rib forms an outer ,, 8th ,, „ part of the 1st Dorsal, near the Vertebrae „ ,, inner A Branch from the outer Cord joins a Branch from the inner to form a j>osterior Formation as sometimes descrihed and usually found:—• Each Nerve near its origin divides into an Anterior and a Posterior Division. The Anterior Divisions of the 5th, 6th and 7th Nerves unite to form an outer ,, Posterior „ ,, 5th, 6th, 7th and 8th ,, „ ,, a posterior ,, Anterior ,, ,, 8th Cerv. and 1st Dors. ,, ,, „ an inner Cord (r). (/3). Cord (y). See Diagrams. BRANCHES given off above the Clavicle (6) :— ( From 5th and 6th (generally also 7th and 8th) twigs to the Muscles closing Summit of Thorax, viz. :—Scalenes(and Longus Colli) (1). Muscle forming Base Muscles joining Shoulder-girdle to Trunk Muscle ,, ,, ,, „ „ Muscles 5th (before union with twig of 4th) branch 5th (after ,, „ ,, ,, ) ,, 5th and 6th (by separate roots ) ,, 5th ,, 6th (at point of union ) ,, 5th ,, 6th (from common trunk ) ,, The Brs. to the Scalenes (1) turn inwards deeply Br. „ ,, Diaphragm (2) turns „ „ Rhomboid Nerve (3) -pierces Middle Scalene transversely & passes outwards Nerve to the Serratus (4) ,, ,, ,, obliquely „ downwards Nerve to the Subclavius (5) runs downwards superficially over 3rd part of Subclavian Art. Suprascapular Nerve (6) ,, outwards „ with Suprascapular Artery Diaphragm posteriorly laterally „ anteriorly Humerns posteriorly (2) . (3) . (4) . (5) . (6) . to end in Scalenes & Longus CoUi. ,, join Phrenic N. [Rhomboidei. deeply „ supply Lev. Anguli Scapulaj and „ Serratus Alagnus. ,, Subclavius. [spinatus. ,, Supraspinatus and Infra- BRANCHES given off below the Clavicle (6). (from Cord \ ( ling it' ( Highest ( 7 ) to Subscapularis (upper part). Middle (8a) „ Subscapularis (lower part) and Teres Major. Lowest (8b) ,, Latissimus Dorsi. External (9a) „ Pectoralis Major. Internal (9b) „ ,, ,, and Pectoralis Minor. Shoulder-joint. Teres Minor. Deltoid and Skin over it, Thoso Norvoa adso-one from the Ouler Cord, ono from the Inner Cord, aud the rest from the Postcnor Cord. Compare with ' Axillary .U'tery,' p. 141. Two forwards One outwards —Circumflex Post. or Trunks forming -Ant. Thoracic ("'^e from and) ^one from Int. Cord' (from Posterior Cord) -by 3 sets of Brs. (10)179 Brachial Flexas—continued. ESANCHES given off terminally (6) ( N. of Wrisberg (11) to Skin of inner side of Arm. Three internally —term. brs. ofCord (chiefly Cutaneous) < Int. Cutaneous (12) „ ,, „ ,, ,, Forearm, (Ulnar (13) „ ,, and Muscles „ ,, ,, Hand. Tivo intei'med lately One externally (14) „ ,, ,, „ ore/roHiof Forearm and Hand. Musculo-spiral (15) „ ,, ,, „ ,, iacZ; ,, Arm, Forearm & Hand. Muscular and \ Musculo-cuta- nri 5 " -'^1"^'^'^^ ,,/roH< of Arm and Cutaneous ( neous ^ ' ( „ Skin of outer side of Forearm. Of these Nerves the external jjassea dowu'on the outer side of the limb ; the middle two pass down more or less centrally, one on the front, the other ou the back ; the three internal run on the inner side. formed from Int. and Ext. Cord (chiefly J Median Muscular) -term. br. of Ext. Cord DISTRIBUTION JF TERMINAL BRANCHES. Median {Twelve Branches). In Forearm [>sh:]. i To Pronator Teres. Four Muscular Branches ) " ^f""" P^P^ Kadialis. 1 ,, Palmans Longus. One Ant. Interosseous Br, ,, Flexor Sublimis Digitorum. ,, Pronator Quadratus. ,, Flexor Longus Pollicis. ,, half of Flexor Prof undus Digitorum. Owe Cutaneous ,, —Palmar Cutaneous. Musculo-cutaneous {six Branches). ( To Biceps. T/iree MuscularBranches ] „ Coraco-brachialis. ( ,, Brachialis Anticus. Two Cutaneous „ j interior, to Forearm. ( Posterior „ „ One Articular Branch —To Elbow-joint, Five Digital Branches One Muscular Branch In Hand [six). To contiguous sides of 3rd & 4th Fingers „ „ 2nd & 3rd „ ,, radial side „ 2nd Finger. ,, ulnar „ „ Thumb. ,, radial » ,i ,, ,, Abductor Pollicis. ,, Opponens ,, ,, half of Flexor Brevis Pollicis. Three Two Musculo-spiral (nine Branches). ( One —Internal Cutaneous. Three Cutaneous Branches | rp^^ S Short External Cutaneous. Six Muscular Long f To Triceps j ,, Subanconeus J ,, Anconeus " I ,, Brachialis Anticus ,, Supinator Longus K L ,, ExtensorCarpiRadialisLongior ) ' Extensors of Forearm. t Muscles attached to External Intermuscular Septum.Brachial Tlexas—continued. 180 Ulnar Nerve. In Forearm {Six Brandies). 1 Internal Cutaneousto Forearm. 2Viree Cutaneous Brs. < Palmar ,, „ Palm of Hand. [Digits. (Dorsal ,, „ Back of Hand and H inner Two Muscular ,, One Articular Branch To Flexor Carpi Ulnaris. ,, half of Flexor Profundus Digitorum. - Elbow-joint. Internal Cutaneous {three Branches). ( Bicipital Branch to Skin over Biceps. < Ant. Division „ ,, „ front of inner aspect of Forearm, (Post. „ „ ,, ,, back ,, „ „ „ „ Three Sets of Mus cular Branches In Hand {six sets of Branches). To Abductor Minimi Digiti. Opponen-i ,, ,, Flexor Brevis „ ,, the seven Interossei. two Inner Lumbricales. Adductor Pollicis. [licis. Inner half of Flexor Brevis Pol- f Three 4 A'iiie One ct' la half TICO Superficial Palmar Branches To inner side of Little Finger. ,, contiguous sides]of Little&King Fingers.* One Articular Br.— ,, Wrist-joint. * Supjiljing ulso the Palmaris Brevis. The N. of Wrisberg ends betu-een Int. Condyle and Olecranon. The Intei'costo-humeral ,, over the Olecranon. The Internal Cutaneous crosses over the Internal Condyle.LUMBAR PLEXUS. 181 THE LUMBAR PLEXUS is formed by the union of the upper three Lumbar Nerves and is supplemented by part of the 12th Dorsal and part of the 4th Lumbar. The rcniaindor of the 4tli, together with the 5th, forms the Lumbo sacral Cord, which goes on to the Sacral Plexus. BKANCHES. Twigs to the Psoas from the 1st, 2nd and 3rd Nerves near their commencement. ■ From the 1st Nerve are given off the j i „ loop between 1st and 2nd is „ ,, Genito-Crural. ) „ ,, ,, 2nd and 3rd ,, „ ,, External Cutaneous. ^ \ Obturator and Accessory Obturator. ej:tre7nify of Plexus are „ „ | ^^.terior Crural. The Anterior Crural forms the continuaJion of the Plexus in the direct line, the other offsets forming hmnclies. Apart then from the direct continuation of the Plexus there are given oS six lateral Branches, two of which are accessory to the main continuation. Compare with the Saeral Plexus and Diagram B of the Brachial Plexus. At first the Nerves are contained in the substance of the Psoas Magnus. The Ilio-hypogastric and Ilio-inguinal emerge through oifier edge of Muscle near tlia top. ,, External Cutaneous emerges ,, ,, ,, ,, at the middle. ,, Anterior Crural ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, below. ,, Obturator and Accessory Obturator emerge ,, inner ,, ,, ,, ,, Genito-crural emerges ,, anterior swrince »ertr ?/(e ^ojj and lies throughout on that surface. See Diagram of ' Relations of Psoas Magnus,' p. 101. Note that tho/)-sf branch of the Plexus (Ilio-hypogastrio) emerges through the outer edge of the Psoas, the third (Genito-crural) through the anterior surface, and the//(/i (Obturator) through the inner edge. The other branches appear through the outer edge one abocc, one biJotr, and one intermediatelii. In their Course outwards the Nerves lie as follows : The Ilio-hypogastric on the Quadratus Lumb. only. The Ilio-inguinal first on the Quadratus, then on the Iliacus. „ External Cutaneous on the Iliacus only. „ Anterior Crural Ijetween the Iliacus and Psoas. [turator Int.). „ Genito-crural on the Psoas only. „ Obturator and Accessory Obturator to inner side of Psoas (over Ob- Kote that the Nerves lie on one Muscle and ou or between tu-o alternately. ( Ilio-bypOgastric and Ilio-inguinal, see ' Intercostal Nerves,' p. 170. For the Distribution oi the < Genito-crural* and External Cutaneous, „ 'Cutaneous Nerves of Body,'pp. 167 and 168. ( Anterior Crural and Obturator „ 'Anterior Crural Nerve,'p. 182. ■ The Genito-crural sends a special branch to the Cremasteric coTcring of the Cord through the Internal Abdominal Ring and another twig to the Femoral Artery. 24Lumbar Flexas—continued. 182 ANTEKIOE. CBUIIAL NERVE. The Branches of the Nerve are grouped in three Sets of four Branches each ; the First Set being muscular, comprising two Branches above Poupart's Ligament and two below, all short; the Second Set, forming the Svperficial Division of the Nerve, consisting of 3 cutaneous branches and one muscular, all long; the Tliird Set, forming the Deep Division of the Nerve, consisting of 4 muscular branches, two short and tico long. First Set To Iliacus (within Pelvis). I ,, Femoral Artery. I „ Iliacus (external to Pelvis) ,, Pectineus. Second Set Middle Cutaneous (double). Nerve to Sartorius. Third Internal Saphenous. Set Internal Cutaneous (double). To Eectus Femoris. I „ Crurseus. I ,, Vastus Fxt. (giving br. to Knee-joint). . ij !> lit. ( ,, „ „ ,, ), OBTURATOR NERVE. The Obturator Nerve just before emerging from the Pelvis splits into two Divisions, Superficial and Deep. The Superficial Division passes out cdjoi'e the Obturator Externus, and lies orer the Adductor Brevis; the Deep Division emerges through the Obturator Externus and runs beneath the Adductor Brevis. The Branch.es are as follows : Superficial Division* to Superficial Adductors Hip-joint. Femoral Artery. 1 Mid-femoral I Plexus botw. ' Pectineus. I Gracilis. I Adductor Longus. „ Brevis. Int. Cutaneous and ,, Saphenous. Deep Adductors Adductor Brevis. ,, Magnus. Deep Division to J Knee-joint I Popliteal Artery. ^Obturator Externus. ACCESSORY OBTURATOR NERVE. Passes out from Pelvis over Pubic bone and divides at once into 3 Branches :— 1. To Pectineus. 2. To Hip-joint. 3. To Superficial Division of Obturator Nerve. « Three of the Branches of each Division are similar to tliree of those of the other. The remaining Branch of tlie Superficial Division goes to the Skin and tha of the Deep Division to a Muscle. The corresponding Branches of each Division are put first in the above table.SACRAL PLEXUS. 183 THE SACRAL PLEXUS is formed by the union of the upper three Sacral Nerves, and is supplemented by part of the 4th Sacral below, and by the Lumbo-sacral Cord (composed of the 5th and part of the 4th Lumbar) above. The remainder of the 4th SACRAL is subdivided as follows :—A triple Muscular Branch supplies the Levator and the Sphincter Ani and the Coccygeus,—a Pelvic Branch joins the Pelvic Plexus to end in the Pelvic Viscera,—and a Coccygeal Branch joins with the 5th Sacral and the Coccygeal to form a Plexus over the Coccyx.—The fourth Sacral thus gives four Branches. BRANCHES. From the 2nd and 3rd near their origin are given off special Branches to the Pyriformis. „ ,, Lumbo-sacral Cord is ,, ,, the Sup. Gluteal. ) „ ,, Loop between 1st and 2ad „ ,, ,, ,, N. to the Obtur. Int. ) !> )) 1st ,, 2nd „ ,, ,, ,, ,, „ Sup. Gemellus. „ ,, „ ,, 2nd ,, 3rd „ ,, ,, ,, „ „ Inf. Gemellus and Q,uadratus. T ^„T^„ „„ 1 „f J.1 -Ri \ „ „ Pudic and Small Sciatic. ) „ „ Lower end of the Plexus are „ „ j„ Great Sciatic. \ The Great Sciatic forms the direct continuation of the Plexus, the Pudic and Small Sciatic being accessory to it. As in the case of the Lumbar Plexus there is thus one terminal Branch and six lateral.—Compare with the Lumbar Plexus and Brachial Plexus, Diagram B. Note that excluding tlio three terminal Branches, the lateral Bi-anohes supply the Muscles attached round the Groat Trochanter from before back, and that they come o£E from the Plexus in the order in which those Muscles are fixed to the Trochanter. BRANCHES OF SACRAL PLEXUS—DISTRIBUTION. The Nerves to the Pyriformis enter the anterior surface of the Muscle within the Pelvis. The Superior Gluteal Nerve emerges from the Pelvis through the Great Sacro-sciatic Foramen, above the Pyriformis, and divides into two Branches. The Upper Branch, the smaller, supplies the two superior or anterior Glutnei, viz. :—the G. Medius and G.'_Minimus. Lower ,, „ larger „ ,, same muscles together with the Tensor Vaginas Femoris. The Superior Gluteal Nerve thus supplies the three Rotators in of the Hip-joint. ( emerges from the Pelvis through the Gt. Sacro-sciatic Foramen, below the Pyriformis, over the Ischial Spine, The N. to the Obturator Int. < and re-enters ,, ,, „ „ Small ,, ,, ,, with the Ubt. Int. Tendon to pierce the / inner surface of the Muscle. 24— 2184 Sacral Ple'SMS—contimied. The N". to the Gemellus Sup. —passes out of the Pelvis -n'ith the preceding to enter the superficial surface of the muscle. Tl "NT +n tTio i Gemellus Inf. and ( I dvep surface of the muscle, and usually ^^^'^ j Quadratus Fern. I " " " " " " " ( to supply the Hip-joint. rr\ -o A- Tcr \ accompanies the Nerve to the Obturator Internus out of, and back into the Pelvis, and then ihe Jfuaic iMerve ^ Internal Pudic Vessels through the Perineum. (firsthj, at had- of hcluo-rectal Fossa, the Inferior HEemorrUoidal Nerve, accompanying Inf. H;«moiThoid Artery to Ext. Spliinctcr, lutcgumcnts, etc., Branches < lasUy, in front of I'riangnlar Ligament, the Dorsal Nerve of the Penis and the Nerve to the Corpus Cavernosum. {intcrmediatcli/, at front of Ischio-rectal Fossa, the Perineal Nerve. [ Two Superficial Perineal, Anterior and Posterioi'. The Perineal Uerve gives off secondary Branches^' Musadar Nerves to Muscles of Anterior part of Perineum. ( Nerve to tlie Corpus Spongiosion (Bulb). Compare with tlie Internal Pudic Artery, p. 123. The Branches of the Artery are all primary, the intermediate Branches of the Nerve arc secondary. Relations of Werves, etc., at lower part of Great Sacro-sciatic Foramen (see Diagram). Externallii are the Great and Small Sciatic Nerves and the Sciatic Artery, the two latter resting on the former, Jnternalli/ „ ,, Pudic ,, Internal Obturator ,, ,, ,, Int. Pudic ,, ,, „ ,, ,, „ either side of the „ Intermediate!u „ „ Nerve to the Superior Gemellus aud the Nerve to the Inferior Gemellus and Quadratus. Two Nerves and an Artery lie on either side, aud two Nerves intermediately. Small Sciatic Nerve. In Gluteal Region it lies upon Gi. Sciatic N., heneath Gluteus Maximus, supplying | to^GJi^teus^ M^^^^^ Athaeh of Thirih\i\es,ves ,, ,, ,, & runs ,, Fascia Lata ,, C'«/n«eo!/.s Brs., Int. and Ext. At back of Leg it pierces Fascia Lata opposite lower part of Popliteal Sjjace, and joins E.\ternal Saphenous Nerve. Piclatlons nr +1 p ,t ,110^110 Tivon/^iina ' o"*^ ^^'^ lutemal set, the Inferior Pudendal, passes to Perineum to join the superficial Perineal Nerves. Ul tnc i^ataneous uiancnes j ^^^^^^ External „ turn upwards over the Gluteus Maximus, becoming recun-ent. Great Sciatic Nerve. I Continuous above in Pelvis with Sacral Plexus, bifurcating below, at upper part of Popliteal Space, into Popliteal Nerves. Relations I In Gluteal Region it rests ujion the Muscles at the back of the Hip-joint, beneath Gluteus Maximus (see above). { At back of Thigh „ ,, ,, ,, Adductor Magnus, 6(?i!(t,'ee« Biceps and Semi-membranosus. Branchi-s ' -'^''tlcidar to Hip-joint (often derived from the Sacral Plexus). ' \ Muscular „ Hamsti'ings and to Adductor Magnus (Posterior Fibres)Sacral TleKVLS—confmued. 1 Internal Popliteal Nerve. Course t S Accompanies the Popliteal Artery, lying first on its outer side, then over it, and lastly to its iiuier side. ' ■ (Is continuous at the lower part of the Popliteal Space with the Posterior Tibial Nerve. C 'JVircc Arliadar to Knee-joint, one with cacli Internal Articular Artery and one with tlic Azj'gos Articular Artery. Brandies (Nine) ■( Om Cutaneous, External Saphenous (see ' Nerves of Anterior and Posterior Aspeets of Body,' and Note on p. lljU). {I'ifc Muscular, to each Head of Gastrocnemius, to Soleus, to Plantaris and to Popliteus. External Popliteal Nerve. Course —Accompanies the tendon of the Biceps to end below Head of Fibula, between Bone and Peroneus Longus Muscle One Articular, with Superior External Articular Artery, sending a branch with the Inferior External Articular Artery. Two Cutaneous | """^ ^ ConimunToans Fibularis, to join External Saphenous at middle of back of Leg I une Articular, witii buperior External Articular Artery, senamga Drancn witn tne inieri f Three lateral | j,^^ Cutaneous -i ^^^^ twigs to the Skin over the outer head of the Gastrocnemius Branches f Articular llecurrent, accompanying Recurrent Articular Artery of Anterior Tibial. I r/irce terminals Musculo-cutaneous, to Peronei Muscles and Skin of front of Leg. ( Anterior TibLal Nerve. All the structures connected with the Popliteal Space may be grouped iu sots of three or multiples of three. I" Anterior Tibial Nerve. I Course —Passes under Extensor Longus Digitorum, and accompanies Ant. Tibial Artery in its lower §, lying to its outer side J C ^^uscnlar) In Leu, to the four muscles on the front of the Leg. Branches I Articular f ,, Eoot ,, Extensor Brevis Digitorum and Tarsal Joints. ( Cutaneous, to contiguous sides of 1st and 2nd Toes. Posterior Tibial Nerve. ri ., \ Accompanies Posterior Tibial Artery, lying first to its inner side, then over it and at ankle to its outer side. ooiM-se I dividing at upper border of Internal Annular Ligament into the External and Internal Plantar Nerves. Branches ' Muscular, to the three deep muscles on the back of the Leg. 1 Cutaneoui (Calcaneo-plantar), through the Internal Annular Ligament to Skin of Heel, etc.186 Sacral PlexMS—continued. Plantar Nerves. { Internal, before dividing, supplies the two Muscles between wbicli it lies, viz. :—Flexor Brevis Digitorum and Abductor PoUicis. ( External ,, „ ,, ,, ,, ,, „ ,, „ „ Acoes. ,, ,, „ IMiuimi Dig. ( by the 1st the Flexor Brevis Pollicis and the inner side of the Great Toe. T„i. 1 T • 1 • J. r -r.- -i IT) 1 • ) II )> 2nd ,, 1st Lumbrical ,, „ contifruous sides of 1st & 2nd Toes. ^Internal divides into four Digital Brs. supplying < " " " " » ^^^^ g^,j ( „ ,, 4th a branch to join Ext. Plantar ,, „ ,, ,, „ 3rd „ 4th ,, ( + "D" 't 1 T! S >i >; 1st the Flex. Brev. Min. Digiti ,, „ outer side of the Little Toe. „ , , two Uigital m-s. „ I 2nd a br. to join br. of 4th Digital of Ext. Plantar, & contiguous sides of the -Jixternai ,, < and a 4th and 5th Toes. ^ Deep Branch ,, all the Muscles of Foot except those above-mentioned accompanying Ext. Plant. Art. Note that each Nerve supplies two lluscles, one a Flexor of the Toes, the other a special Abductor, by its midividod trunk, and that each supplies a special branch from each of its digital divisions. N.B.—The Internal Plantar Nerve supplies 6 muscles and the External Plantar 14. In the Hand, the Median Nerve „ 4j „ „ Ulnar Nerve 14i.APPENDIX. EXTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY.* Course Eelations Branches Epigastric (Deep) Circumflex (Deep) From Lumbo-sacral Articulation to lower border of Poupart's Ligament, indicated by a surface line drawn from left side of Umbilicus to middle of Poupart's Ligament. Lies at first alonr) inner margin of, and near its termination upon anterior surface of Psoas Magnu?. ,, beneath Peritoneum, upon Fascia lliaca, and is invested by Subperitoneal Fascia, is accompanied by the FiXternal Iliac Vein, which lies to its inner side below and behind it above,t I _ ( Spermatic Ai-tery, Us crossed near its termination by the < Circumflex Iliac Vein, (Genito-Crural Nerve. t Lymphatics aud Lymphatic Glands also lie alongside the Ai'tery. —(both arising near its termination). f Runs first fo7-uxirds to Poupart's Ligament, then vpncards and imvards to pass over the Fold of Douglas, I and lastly upwards in the substance of the Rectus to join the Internal Mammary Artery. I Near its origin it passes upwards by the inner side of the Internal Abdominal Ring, and -I sends its Pubic Branch sXong „ ,, „ Crural „ ,, ,, ,, Cremasteric ,, into „ Inguinal Canal to supply the coverings of the Cord. Its other Branches are the Perforating forwards through the Rectus, and the Lateral, outwards to join the latera arteries of the Abdominal Wall. !Passes outwards in the Subperitoneal Fascia to the anterior end of the Iliac Crest, where it gives off a Muscular Branch upwards through the Transversalis to the Abdominal Muscles, perforates the Transversalis near the viiddle of Crest, anastomoses with the Ilio-lumbar Artery, and gives Branches outwards to the Gluteal Region and imvards to the Iliac Fossa, - Omitted from p. 12j.188 Appendix— continued. INTERAKTICULAR FIBRO-CABTILAGES. There a.re Jive Joints on each side of the Body which contain more or less freely moveable Interartioular Fibro-Cartilages, viz. : — One in the Head, —the Temporo-maxillary Joint. ,, ,, ,, Upper Extremity, — ,, Inferior Radio-vilnar ,, (Wrist). ,, ,, Lower „ — ,, Knee-Joint. ., at each end of the Clavicle,— „ Sterno-clavicular and Acromio-clavicular Joints. NUTRIENT FOKAMINA. Wlien the Body is semi-recumbent and when all the Joints are semi-flexed, the Nutrient Foramen in each bone will be found to be directed more or less toward the ground. SUPBASCAPTJLAR ABTEBY AND NERVE (p. 134), ETC. In the case of these structures, as in most oases where an Artery and a Nerve take similar courses, the Artery takes the course which appears to render it less liable to compression than the Nerve, e.g., Naso-palatiae Nerve and accompanying Artery in the Anterior Palatine Foramen, Hj'poglossal Nerve and Lingual Artery in relation with Genio-hyo-glossus, etc. Nerves on the left side of the Body generally lie more anteriorly than those on the rifiht side, e.g., the Naso-palatine Nerves in the Ant. Palatine Foramen, the Phrenic Nerves and the Pneumogastric Nerves. Muscles ami Aponeuroses, on the other hand, are more developed on the right side than on the left, e.g , the Right Crus of Diaphragm, the Right Platysma and the Right External Oblique (which overlap the Left), etc. When two aftnocieded sfruefiires lie one above another, the lower is generally the larger, e.g., the two sets of Branches of the Lenticular Ganglion, the two Branches of the Superior Gluteal Nerve, the Pudic Nerve and the JMerve to the Obturator Internus on the Ischial Spine, etc.I N D E X. BONES. Descrip- Articula- Ossifi- Structvires in Descrip tion. tion. cation. relation. tion. PAGE PAGE PAGE PACE. PAGE Astragalus 42 W, 40, 41, 43 48 04, 105 Phal.angcs of Foot . 43 Atlas 7 il, 52 44 51, 52, 73, 84, 134 Phalanges of Hand . 32, 43 Axis 7 "il, 52 44 51, 52, S3, 84 Pisiform Bone . 51, 32 Calcaueiim 41 42 48 64, 103-100, 111, 129 Pubes .... 34 Carpus .... 31, 32 47 56, 109 22, 84 Clavicle .... 23, 30 4(i 23, 54, 55, 75, 70, 81, 90-93, lOS, 109,131, 134, 151, 153, 105 Ribs S, 35 45 59, 83, 89, 102, 122, 107, 183 Cuboid Boiie 42 41, 43 48 64, 100 Cuueif orm Bone of Carpus 31, 32 47 56, 57 Sacrum .... S, 35 Cuneiform Bones of Tarsus 43 42, 43 48 04, 104-106 Ethmoid Bone . 14, 20, 21 11, 15, 17 45 Scaphoid Bono of Carpus 31, 32 Femur .... 36, 37 38 48 60-62, 100-103, 125- Scaphoid Bone of Tarsus 43 128 Fibula .... 40 38, 39 48 01-04, 102, 104, 105, 111, 129, 130, 1S5 Semilun.ar Bone 31, 32 Frontal Bono . 11, 20, 21 10, 11, 15 45 67 Spheuoid Bone. 14, 15, 20, Humerus .... 2. J 47 20, 55, 90-96,141,142 Sphenoidal Turbinated Hyoid Bone IS 40 76, 78, 80, 108 33, 59, 60, 81, 83, 100, 101, 103, 128 Bone .... 21 Ilium .... 33 48 Sternum .... Innominate Bone 33, 34 48 34, 100-103 Ischium .... 33, 34 48 33, 34, 59, 60, 89, 101-103 Tarsus .... Temporal Bone. 41-43 12, 13, 20 Lachrymal Bone 21 11 4(5 67 Tibia 38, 39 Milar Bone 21 U, 12 41) 69, 71, 172 Maxillary Bone, Inferior. 18, 77 12 40 71, 72, 76, 78,108,132, Ti-apezium 31, 32 133, 135-137, 176 Trapezoid .... 31, 32 Maxillary Bone, Superior 10, 21 11, 17 45 08, 71, 72 Turbinated Bones . 27, 28, 30 Metacarpal Bones . 32 31, 32 47 57, 58, 90-99, 143-145 Ulna Metatarsal Bones 43 42, 43 48 64, 104-107, 130 Nasal Bone 21 11 40 Unciform . . . • 31, 32 Occipital Bone . 9, 10, 20 12-14, 51, 52 45 51,07,73,75,81-84,93 Vertebras .... 5-S, 84 Os Magnum 31, 32 47 57, 98 Palate Bone 17, 21 15, 17 40 72 Patella .... 37 48 62, 63, 100, 103 Parietal Bone . 10, 20 10-12 45 Vertebrte, Special . 7, 8 Pelvis .... 35 59 81, 82, 110 Vomer .... 17, 21 tion. cation. 25, 31 2, 53 10-15, 17 10, 12, 13 40, 42 17 25, 29, 31 51, 52 pAGE 48 47 47 48 47 46 47 48 46 47 45 48 45 48 47 47 46 47 47 44 44 40 relation. PAGE 64, 104-107 58, 97-99 56, 57, 97, 99, 109 6, 34, 59, 85, 80, 89, 101, 103 55, 56, 94-90, 109, 143-145 29, 52, 53, 73, 81-S8, 91-93, 108,109,117, 122, 131, 134, 135, 141, 170 51, 59, 82, 83, 89,101, 102, 122 56, 57, 109 64, 111 , 70, 81, 90-94, 131, 135, 142 57 14, 15, 71, 79 53, 54, 75, 76, 87, 91, 93, 108, 122, 134, 153, 165, 168, 170 04, 105, 130 70, 78, 79, 93 61-64, 100-105, 110 111, 129, 130 56, 57, 97, 98, 109 57, 98 172, 173 7, 28, 55, 56, 94-90, 143-145 57, 99, 109 51, 52, 59, 73, 81-84, 86-88, 91, 93, 100, 108, 109, 115-117, 132,134,135,150,154Index—continued. 190 CANALS. Position. Structiires m relation. PAGE PAGE 13 133, 139, 146, 147 18 137 13 79, 137-139, 146, 175 11 146 Infra-orbital 1(5, 21 137 Meatus Auditorius Extenms 13 20, 133, 166 Meatus Auditorius Interims 13 ■20 10, 17 137 Pterygo-palatine 14, 15 137 15 137 CRESTS, Etc. Iliac Crest Pubic Crest . Superciliary Ridge Temjioral Eidge . 33 S4 11 10-12 CARTILAGES. Costal Cricoid . Interartieular of Jaw Thyroid . Triang:ular of Wrist Xiphoid 28, 5G 59, 82, 85, 86, 91, 101, 102, 167, 170, App. 170 108 53, 54, 76, 85-8S, 91, 93, 115, 134, 153, 170 78, 132, 133 72 76, 78, 79, 132, 135J 53, 86-88 FORAMINA. Position. Ciecum of Frontal Bono Carotid . Cond^doid, Anterior Condyloid, Posterior Dental, Inferior . Ethmoidal Hioatus Fallopii Glaserian Fissure. Lacerum, anterius Lacerura, medium Lacerum Posterius (Jugular Magnum Mastoid Mental . Obturator Optic . Ovale . Parietal . Ilotundum , Kacro-sciatic . Sphenoidal Fissure Si^heno-palatine Spinosum Stylo-mastoid Supra-orbital Vcsalii . Acetabulum , Antrum Ischio-rectal . Meatuses of Nose Nasal . Orbital . Poiiliteal Notch Spheno-maxillary Sphenoidal Sinus Bicipital Groove Lachrymal Groove Musciilo-spiral Groove 11 12 9 9 IS, 72 21 13 12 15, 19 19 19 9, 19 18, 09 33-35 15 14 14, 15 33 15, 19 21 14 12, 13 21 14 FOSSiE, Etc. 33, 34 16, 21 17, 21 21 21 38, 01 15, 17 14, 15, 21 25 16 25 Structures in relation. PAGE 20, 152 146 20, 152 20 137 146 20, 146 137 20 138, 146,152 14, 151, 152 51, 52, 146 20, 152 101 20, 70 20, 137, 146, 173 20, 152 20 101, 123, 183, 184 20, 70, 139, 171 137 20, 137, 146 13S 11 20, 152 60 123, 184 07 137 20, 81, 91, 92, 91 70 2SIndex—continued. 191 PROCESSES. Descrip- tion. Articula- tion. Ossifi- cation. Structures in relation. Descrip- tion. Articula- tion. Ossifi- cation Structures in relation. PAGE I'AGE PAGE PAGE PACE PACE PAGE PAGE Acromion .... 2i 46 54, 81, 91, 92, 1C5 Mastoid .... 45 67, 75, 82, 83, 133, Angular .... 10 11, 67 138 Basilar .... 0, 14 45 52, 73, 78 Odontoid .... 7 44 52 C'linoid .... 14, 15 139 27, 28 25 27, 55, 94, 95 Condyloid of Lower Jaw. IS 71, 72, 137 Pterygoid of Sphenoid . 14 45 71, 72, 78 Coracoid .... 24 40 54, 55, 91, 94, 109 Tuber Iscliii 34 48 59, 89, 101, 102, 123 Coronoid of Lower Jaw . 18 71, 72, 137 Styloid of Fibula 40 61 Coronoid of Ulna 27, 2S 25 27, 55, 94, 95, 90 Styloid of Temporal. 13, 79 45 61, 71, 76, 79, 108, Jugular .... a 51, 73 132, 133 Malleolus, Internal . 38, 39 42 64, 104, 105, in, 129, Styloid of Ulna 23 56 130 Styloid of Radius . 29, 30, 40 56, 96 „ External . 39, 40 42 63, 64, 104, 111, 129, /iygomatic 13 45 67, 71, 108, 138, 172 130, 169 Acromio-clavicular . Ankle .... Anterior Ligament External lateral ,, Internal lateral ,, Posterior ,, Atlo-axoid Calcaueo-astragaloid Calcaneo-cuboid Calcaneo-scaphoid . Capsular, of Knee . „ of Hip . ,, of Shoulder Carpo-metacarpal Clitvicular.... Carpal .... Cteck Ligaments Descrip- tion. Attacli- ments. JOINTS structures in relation. AND Use. LIGAMENTS. Descrip- tion. Attach- ments. Structures in relation. Use. PAGE PAGE PAGE PAGE PAGE PAGE PAGE PAGE 54 24 Conoid .... 54 23, 24 64 Costo-transverse 52 117 ■j9, 42, 64 39, 42 Elbow .... 55, 142-144 25, 94, 96 26, 56, 94, 143-145, 39, 42, 64 170, 180 40-42, 64 39-42 Glenoid .... 55 92, 94 a9, 64 . 39, 42 Hip 60 100,101,102,182,1S4 51 Ilio-lumbar 8, 59, SO, 100 64 41, 42 Intervertebral . 51, 100 52 64 61 64 42 Posterior Ligament . 61 102, 103 127, 182, 185 62 61 02 02 Lateral Ligaments . 61 37, 40, 100, 102 63, 127 02 60 100-102 Crucial ,, 61 37, 38 62 62 55 92 Ligamentum Patellae 61 37 03, 127 62 57 Lumbo-sacral . 59 122, 123, App. 54 Metacarpal . ... 57, 58 57 Metatarsal 64 7, 9 Nuchaj Ligamentum 81, 83, 108 25—2Index—continued. 192 Joints and Ligaments—coHiiwwed Occipito-atloid . Occipito-axoid . Orbicular . Phalangeal of Foot ,, „ Hand Plantar Poupart's . Pterygo-maxillary Pubic Radio-ulnar Sacro-iliac . Saoro-sciatic, Greater ,, Lesse Shoulder . Sterno-clavicular Sternal Stylo-hyoid Stylo-maxillary Vertebro-costal. Tarsal Temporo-maxillary Internal Lateral Trapezoid . Transverse, of Hip Transverse, of Knee Vertebral . Triangular Wrist Sescrip- tiOIL. Attacii- meuts. Structures in [ relation. PAGE PAO E PAt.;E 51 52 56 29 58 64 41, 42, 100 So, 80 122, 125, 120, 1(0, App. 72, iS 59 56 59 S, 33, S3 h, o4, Oi)) lUi, 102 S, 38, SO, 101, 102 55, 141 94 90-93, liS 54 131, 132, 133 53 /S, /9 / 7 79, lOS 52 64 70, 185 174 137, 170 54 23, 24 60 51 51, 52 52, 91 SI, 115, 1,19, 122 89 123 Use. 143-145 2S, 29 llOii, ISO SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES AND BURS^. Of Ankle Of Annular Ligaments of Hand Of Annular Ligaments of Foot Atlo-axoid. Of Carpus . Costo-sternal Of Elbow . Of Foot . Interchondral . Of Knee Of Hip Radio-ulnar Of Shoulder Tibio-Fibular . Of Wrist . 64 110, 9S 104, 105, 111 52 57, 68 52 55, 56 64 52 62, C3, 1(13 60, 100 55, 06 55, 63 56, 98 Figures in block type indicate the page on which the structure to which they refer is more fully treated of.193 Index—continued. MUSCLES. Adductors (of Thigh) Anconeus . . . . Bice]ps (of Ann) „ (of Leg) Brachialis Anticus . Buccinator Cervicalis Ascendens Coccygeus. . . . Complexus Constrictor Inferior. „ Middle . ,, Superior Coraco-brachialis Crureus . . . . Deltoid . . . . Diaphragm Digastric . . . . Erector Spinfe, etc. . Extensor Carpi Radialis Brevior Extensor Carpi Radialis Longior Extensor Carpi Ulnaris . Extensor Cora. Digitorum ludicis Lougiis Digito- rum I^Iinimi Digiti . OssisMetac.PoU. Primi Intern, Poll. . ( Secundi Intern, ( Poll. . I Descrip- tion. P.iCE 101 98 94 102 94 71, 72 82 89 82 78 78 78 91 103 91 73 82 95, 97 96, 97 95, 97 95, 98 96, 98 104 95, 98 96, 98 96, 98 Attachments. Origin. Inser- tion, P.WE .34 2G 2- 1, 5.5, 02 3- 1 2C. lO'J S, 33 .S4 I 18, 70 15, 72 24 23, 24 IS S, 33, lOLi 2G, 109 2S 2,3 10 :S, 29 40, 61 Relations. PAGE 110, 125-127,182 184 9-1, 95, 179 55, .56, 91, 141 142, 171, 179 103,110, 127, 184 185 142, 179 136, 172 84 183 84, 135, 138 135 176 71, 80, 138, 147 92, 94, 141, 142 179 1S2 55, 92, 141, 105, 171, 178 119, 122, 154-156, 177 12, 75, 132, 135, 138, 176 83, 86 30 30, 95, 179 30, 144, App. 30, 99, App. 30, 95, App. 111, 129, 185 SO, App. 30, 95, 143, 144, App. 'so, 95, 143, App. Action. PAGE 100 92 103 Extensor Proprius Pollici; Flexor Accessorius . ,, Carpi Radialis ,, ,, Ulnaris ,, Brevis Digitorum ,, ,, PoUicis (of Hand) ,, Brevis PoUicis (of Foot) . . ,, Longus Digitorum ,, ,, PoUicis (of Hand) ,, Longus PoUicis (of Foot) . , Profundus Digito- rum . ' ,, SublimisDigitorum Gastrocnemius . Genio-hyo-glossus . Genio-hyoid Gluteus Maximus ,, Medius ,, Minimus Gracilis .... Hyo-glossus Iliacus .... Infraspinatus . Intercostals Interossei of Foot . , . Interossei of Hand . Latissimus Dorsi Levator Angidi Scapul:e ,, Ani Longus Colli . Masseter .... Descrip tion. PAGE 104 106 95, 97 95, 97 106 98 106 105 95, 97 103 95, 97 95, 97 103 76 76 102 101 101 101 76 100 93 87 107 99 81, 91 81 89, 90 73 71,72 Attachments. 104 3S, lot 27, 29 33 110 PAGE 106 Relations. 18, SO IS 36, 110 36 36,60,102 33 80 36 25, 26 98 33,103 26 84 24 SO PAGE 111, 129, 185 10.5, 107, 130, IS; 143, 179 N3, ISO 105, 107, 111, 130 18a 97, 179, ISO 105, 107, 186 39, 104, 106-107, 111, 129, 185 95, 179 39, 41. 42, 107, 111, 1S5 115, 99, 179, 180 95, 179 62, 03, 105, 127, 129, 130, 185 SO, 135, 176, App. 176 103, 1S4 183 102, 183 61, 63, 103, 1S2 80, 135, 176 102, 125, 170,181, 182 55, 142, 178 117, 170 130, 186 107, 143-145, ISO S5, 92, 141, 178 3,75,84, 177,178 183 131,132, 134, 156. 178 8, 136 Action. 104, 130 7 77 100, 103 100 100 100, 103 77 101 90 92, 93Index—continued. 194 ^Iiiltifidus Spin?e Mylo-hyoid Obliqui Abdominis Capitis. „ Oculi . Obturator Externus ,, luternus Occipito-froutalis Omo-liyoid Pectineus . I'ectoralis Major Peronei Minor Plantaris . Popliteus . Pronator Quadratus ,, Teres Psoas Magnus . Pterygoideus Ext. Int. PjTiformi.s yuadratus Femoris „ Luraborum Quadriceps Ext. (Tendon) Rectus Abdominis . Recti Capitis Antici. ,, Postici Rectus „ Lateralis Rectus Femoris Recti Oculi Rhomboidei Sartorlus . MviSCles—continued Attachments. Descrip- tion. Selations. Origin. Inser- tion. Acti< pac;e PAGE PAGE PAGE I'AG 83 84, 91 84, 91 • 84, 102 76 18, 72 IS 176 77 85, 86 33, 91 34, 59, Ql 168, 170 81, 84 10 IBS 70 101 3-1 30 33, 103, 124, 126, 182 100 101 33, 34 30 102, 123, 181, 183 100 67 10, 11, CS 76 24 18 75, 108, 131, 132, 176 101 125, 126, 182 100 91 •23, 34, 85 26, 30 92, 109, 141, 105, 170, 178 90 91 21 rii, 17S 104 40 39, 40-42, 104- 107, 111, 185 103 61 127, 185 101 103 37 38 61-03, 127, 185 96, 97 •2S 21) 95, 145, 179 95 95, 97 ■2ti 27, 29 94, 142, 179 100 102, 121, 122, 125, 126, 181, App. 71, 72 15 IS, 176 71, 72 15 136, 147, 176 101 33 30 33, 102, 123, 183 100 102 34 30 101, 126, 183, 184 100 86 :13 37, 110 85, 1£2, 170, 181 02, 63, 126 86 34 85,131, 16S App. 74] 132-134', 177 ' 73, SI 10 84 10, 73 73 9, 10 74, 177 103 3.3, 00 37, 102 102, 126, 182 70 171 81 24 17S 92, 100 33 38 61, 63, 101-103, 125,126,169, 1S2 103 Scalenus Anticus ,, MediusandPost. Semi-membranosus. '(^ Semi-tendinosus . ^ Serratu.? Magnus Serrati Postiui . Soleus Splenius . Steruo-cleido-mastoid Sterno-hyoid . . ^ Sterno-thyroid . . ) Stylo-glossus . Stylo-hyoid Stylo-pharyngeus Subclavius Subscapularis . Sujiinator Brevis ,, Longus . Supraspinatus . Temporal . Tensor Palati . Tensor Vaginae Femoris Teres Major and Minor Tibialis Anticus „ Posticus Traclielo-mastoid Transversalis Abd. . TraiDozius . Trieeiis (of Arm) Va.sti, Ext. and Int . Descrip- tion. 73 73 102 93 81 105 83 75 76 76 79 93 93 9S 96 93 71,72 79, 80 101 92 104 105 82 85, 86 81 94 103 Attachments. 34 3 38,40,104 84 24 27 26, 109 24 11,15,108 15 33 24 38 38,40,104 84 33 10, 92, 93 24, 26, 55, 92 36 10, 74, 84 10, 23, 93 23 2.5, 20 29 29 25, 26 IS 25, 2G 34, 23, 24, 92, 93 27, 109 delations. Action PAGE 74, 75, 131, 132, 134,151,1.56,178 74, 75, 131, 177, 178 61, 103, 127, 184 85, 141, 168, 178 109 129, 130, 185 12, 74, 7.5, 84 12, 108, 131-133, 135, 151, 177 75, 131, 132, 176 79, SO, 136, 147. 176 79, 132, 136 78, 132, 133, 136, 147, 176 109, 134, 178 55, 141, 143, 17S 95, 144 95, 143, 179 55, 142, 178 18, 108, 138 78, 175 103, 183 94, 178 111, 129, 185 39, 107, 111, 129, 185 12, 75, 84 122, 170, App. 108, 135, 138 55, 92, 141, 142, 171, 179 62, 110, 120, 127, 182 103 92 104 02, 93Index—continued. 195 ARTERIES. Acromio-tlioracie Anastoraotica (of Arm) Anastomotica Magna (o: Leg) ... Aorta, Arch of . Thoracic ,, Abdominal . Articular of Knee . Auditory Arteries . Auricular, Posterior Axillary . Basilar Brachial . Bronchial . Carotid, Common . „ External . ,, Internal Carpal Arch, Anterior ) ,, ,, Posterior f Cerebellar . Cerebral . Cervical Ascending . ,, Transverse. Cervicis Princeps ,, Profunda . Choroid Ciliary . . . . Circumflex, Ant. and Post Circumflex, Ext. and Int Circumflex Iliac, Superf and Deep . Coccygeal. . . . Colica Dextra, Media, and Sinistra Coeliac Axis Coronary of Heart . ,, „ Lips . Dental Origin, Course. Distribu- tion. delations. riGE PAGE PAGE PAGE 141 109 142 109, HI 144 144 126 128, 129 115 116-118, 153 148, 150, 153,150 115 116-118, 153 116 116, 150, 153, 156 119 SS 120-122, 155 150. 155 127 fil 126-129 61, 185 13, 20 146 133 141 139 20 143 140 142 118 lis, 116, 132, 133 131 117, 132, 130, 131 V.ii 132 123 131, 135-138 71, 79, 159, 174, 176 132 13, 10, 133, 131, 139 71, 79, 138-140, 139, 147 147, 151, 176; 143-145 130 139 140 139 140 160 134 75, 135, 131 131 135 75, 131, 132 138, 148 133 135, 148 131 140 139 147 147 141 126 128, 129 App. 128 123 123, 128 120, 121 120, 121 119 120 148 149 115, 118 120 113 136 137 69, 77, 148^ Diaphragmatic. Dorsalis Lingufe ,, Pedis . Epigastric Arteries . Ethmoidal ,, Of Eyelids . Facial Femoral Frontal Gastric Gluteal Hoemorrhoidal . Of Hard Palate . Hepatic Iliac Arteries . Ilio-lumbar Infra-orbital Innominate Intercostal ,, Superior Interosseous, Ulnar. ,, of Foot and of Hand Intestinal . Lachrymal Laryngeal Lingual Lumbar . Of Lungs Mammary Internal . Maxillary Internal . Mediastinal, Posterior Meningeal, Anterior. „ Middle . ,, Posterior. Mesenteric, Inferior. ,, Superior Origin. Course. Distribu- tion. delations. PAGE PAGE PAGE PAGE 122 121 135 147 129 130 126, App. 128, 134, 150 150 139, 146 11, 20 146 147 136 18 139, 146, 147 77, 136, 151 125 126, 128, 129 127, 182 139 147 120 148 148 124 33 123, 128 121, 124 121 122,149, 184 147 120 148 118, 149, 153 122 App., 123 123, 121, 128, 118, 121, 123 150 150 124 128, App. 150 137 69, 147 113, 116 150, 133 116, 117 122 lis, 150 135 134, 148 150 144 36 145 56 130 120 120 139 13 19, 138, 147 134, 135 78 135 147 77, 131 122 130 148 134 117, 122, 150, 130 App. 137 146 71, 131, 172 116, 117 117 146 137, 145 10,12,14,19, 19, 20, 139 138, 174 20 138, 139, 19 146 119 121 119 120 149 149196 Index—continued. Arteries—continued. Metacarpal and Metatarsal Musculo-phrenic Mylo-hyoid Nasal of (Jphtlialmlc ,, Internal Maxil- lary . „ (Lateral) of Facial . Of Nose Obturator .... Occiiiital .... OEsoph.ageal Ophthalmic Orbital .... Ovarian .... Palatine, Ascending. „ Descending Palmar Arches. Palpebral .... Pancreatic Paucreatico-duodenalis . Perforating of Hand of Foot. ,, of Thigh Plantar .... Pericardiac Peroneal .... Pharyngeal, Ascending . Popliteal .... Profunda, of Ann . ,, of Thigh . Pterygo-palatino Pudic Internal. Pidmonary Pyloric .... Radial .... ,, Recurrent Ranine .... Of Rectum. Renal .... Origin. Course. Distribu- Kelations. PAGE PAGE PAOE 130 134 122 137 -7-7 139 i.jO, 14/ 137 ]-to * 136 11*^ 140 124 1 ^ft Xoo 1 • i JO 1.', ioJ, 1-iOj (4, (iooj loOj li G 118 V.l\ 1 AC I4(j lul, ItiO 1 J.O i ... l.j;j 135 147 147 147 137 147 139 120 1 on 1AQ 140 120 1"'0 I4y 145 130 126 L Jo 12'J 110 117 117 130 138 147 lo3, 1(0 125 127 1'''7—I""! IS'' 185 142 10'' 144 144 ' 144 12i> 125 1 Oil 1 1 on iZO, IJOj iil' 125 137 147 123 :13, 34 1S4 148 115, lis 120 148 143 loO 143 144, 145 135 147 14'J 121 lis Sacr.al Lateral . „ Middle . Of Scalp . Scapular Posterior Sciatic Of Soft Palate Spermatic. Of Spinal Cord Sx^inal Arteries. Splenic Sterno-raastoid, of pital . Sterno-mastoid, of thyroid Stylo-mastoid . Subclarian Sublingual Of Suboccipital Tr Subscapular Supra-orbital . Supra-scapular. Temporal Superficial Thoracic . Thyroid Axis . ,, Inferior „ Superior Tibial Arteries . Of Tonsil . Tympanic . Ulnar ,, RecuiTcnt Uterine, etc. Vasa Brevia Vertebral . Vesical Vidian Occi Sup' iangle Orig-in. Course. tion. Kelations. r VPE ■ ^'' PACE I'AGE 1 OA 122 l''S 122 146 133 135 142 123 3:i 128 184 147 155 Vnn 117 10 117, 139 1"'0 14S 149 loo 75, 133 loO 75 132 146 IXJ, ±Ol 73 117 iqj. iQi; iF^A lO*, lOtJj AiJUj 75 116 134 150 153 151, 150 ±60 1 Aft 141 1 I7 139 134 142 75 131 132 loo IDS 140 174 1 A1 1^1 TOO 134 1 QA la's "5 "8 13*' 101 109 75 7S 132 14S 1 00 lZi7 (13 111 130 185 1'i5-l37 140 143 130, 143-145 144 124 121 120 120 14S 134 7, If, SI, 10, 135, 130, 7, 74, 135, 130, 139 148 liO, 151, 100 124 124 137 140 147Index—contin uecl. 197 VEINS. Axillary Azygos Veins . Basilic Cardiac Cava Superior . Cava Inferior . Cephalic . !Eniissary . Facial Femoral . Iliac Veins Innominate Intercostal, Superio Jugular, Anterior ,, External ,, Internal Lingual Median Veins . Mescntorio Veins Occipital Veins Ophlh;ihuic Pelvic Popliteal . Portal Pterygoid Plexus Radial Eenal Origin. Courss. Distribii- tioii. iSslations. PAGE PACE PACE PACE 1.54 Ml 153 ss ll'>, 119, 155,156 154 112 154 153 115 12-', 155 SS, 119, 121, 122 154 ;oo 141 11,1-1,19, 20, 152 151 151 1".;) 158 125 155 US, 122, App. 151, 153 115, lid, 117 115, 153 151 75, 131, 132 151 133 71, 75, 131, ISS 151, 152 71, 74, 131, 132, 133, 134, 133, 17(5 151 133 154 1!2 155 151 20 75 19, 20, 152 155 15S 155 lis 20, 151 154 121 155 lis, 119, 121 Saphena Veins . Sinuses Cranial Sinus Cavernous . ,, Lateral ,, Longitudinal Su- perior ,, Petrosal Inf. ,, ,, Sup. Spermatic. Spinal Splenic Subclavian Suprascapular . Thyroid Veins . Transverse Cervical. Ulnar Vertebral . Hepatic Duet . Lymphatic Duet (right) Receptaculum Chyli Steno's Duet Thoracic Duct . Wharton's Duct Origin. Course. Distribu- tion. delations. PAGE 156 PAGE 14 9, 10, 12, 13, 19, 151 P.iCE 152 20 20 PACE 139, 171 9 9, 10 9, 13, 19, 151 20 9 3 154 151 154 151 13 121 155 151 151, 153 151 135 110 131, 132, 134 131 132, 153 131 13:, 134 DUCTS. 156 156 133 SS, 150 156 US, 155 75 118 138 75, 115, 116, 117, 153 77 26198 Index—continued. NERVES. Arnold's . Auricular, Posterior Gruat Auriciilo-temporal . Buccal Cardiac Nerves. Carotid of Sympathetic Cavernous of Sympatheti' Corvioal, 1st 2nd . Anterior . ,, Posterior . ,, Superficial. Chorda Tympani Circumflex Crural, Anterior Cutaneous,Internalof Arnj ,, External, „ Middle , Dental, Inferior ,, Posterior Descendens Noni Dorsal Spinal . „ last Facial Fifth Cranial . Fourth „ Frontal Gcnito-crural . Glosso-pliaryngeal Gluteal, Supeiior Gustatory . Hypoglossal Ilio-hypogastrio llio-inguinal Infra-orbital Infra- trochlear. Intercostal , Leg Origin. rAnii lb'.) 165 177 165,174 165, 174 177 166 177 17ij 178 181, 1S2 179 1S2 176 165 181 176 183 176 176 181 181 165 Distribu- tion. ^^GlSitiOHS. Origin. TAUE PAGE PAGE 13 Intercosto-humer.il . 1«G 138, 166 .Tacobson's. 159 165 KJG 166 Lachrymal 166, 175 72, 137, 166 Laryngeal,Recurrent (Inf.) 174 72, 137, 174 ,, Sui3crior. 159 IPl, 162 115, 116, 117, 131 Lumbar, Posterior . 166 19 139 Lumbo sacral . 181 19 139 JIasseteric 7 7, 74 Maxillary, Inferior . * :a 159, 160 75 134, 177 ,, Suijerior. Median .... 179 165 177 170 175 Musculo-cutancous of Arm 179 171 167, 168, 171 171 ,, ,, ,, Leg Musculo-.spiral. 100, 182 125 179 171, ISO 168,171,172 137,141, 142, 171, 180 180 Nasal, of Ophthalmic 167-169 125 ,, from Meckel's Ganglion . 167-169 181 168, 169 Naso-p.alatine . 174 69, 77 72, 137, 174 (Obturator .... 181 172 137 Occipital, Great 165, 166 ,, Small Olfactory .... 165,177 i 70 170 167, 1X1 Ophthalmic 13, 20, 165, 174, 175 71, 133, 138 166 Optic 165, 106 160 Palatine .... 13, 171 160 140 Perineal .... 18^ 19 139 Petrosal, Great 103 168, App. "7 133 ,, Small "Pli n wn CP; 11 J. iitij J'. « • 19, 78 159 1)9 ■Xi 101 Phrenic .... 177, 178 174 175 72, 77, 137, 174 ' Plantar .... 9, 20 159, 177 "7, 133, 138 Pncumogastrio. lOS, 170 167, 168 167, 16S liiS, 170 ICS 166, 172 168 Popliteal .... Pterygo-palatine 185 59, 166, 172 Pudic .... 1S3 168, 170 Kadial .... Course. PAGE 171 13 19, 171 78 78 167 174 14, 20, 165 14, 20, 165 166 171 169 109 0, 171 14, 20 155, 166, 171 1-1, 20 16 20 20 19, 88 33. 184 Distribu- tion. PAGE 167 175 Iii6, 172 161, 162 175, 170 172 130, 168,171, ISO 94, 167 M, 167, 168, 171, 180 166, 173, 175 172, 173 172,173 101, 182 106 175 172 160, 172, 175 175 163 130, 167, ISO 169, 161, 163, 166, 171 167, 169 172, 173 167 Relations. 139, 171 115, 131, 132 133 71 137 141, 111', 111 141. 171, 185 129 141, 142 137 137 124, 125, 127 139, 171 137 123 133 115, 116, 132, 153 115, 116,117, 131 132, 140 127 137 123 143199 Index—continued. Nerves—continued. Origin. Course. _. . tl021. delations. oixcriil, xo&tGrior < IGl SiiplieiiouSj Longf or Int. 182 169 12d, IJO Short ov lijxt. 1S5 Sciatic, Great . 1S.3 33, 184 ,, Small . 183 33, 184 167 167 Sixth Cranial . 14, 19, 171 160, 172 139 Spinal Accessory 19 93, 159, 177 75, 140 Splanchnic 88 103 Suboccipital 166 51 Subscapular 178 Supra-orbital . 165 11,166, 171 139, 171 Supra-scapular. 178 Supra-trochlear 166, 171 171 SjTnpatlietic Temporal, Deep Temporo-malar Third Cranial . Thoracic, Posterior ,, Anterior Tibial, Anterior ,, Posterior Ulna Vidian Of Wrisborg Origin. Course. Distribu- tion. SelSitions. V\GY. PAGE PAGE ss 19, 20, 159- 115, 119, 121, 164, 175- 177 131-133 72, 137, 174 165 171 166, 172 137, 166, 171 19, 171 160, 170 139, 140 178 131 178 109 141 185 169 129 185 111 129 129 109 130, 167,168, 141-143 186 100 19 172 137 179 171, ISO 167 141, ISO ■26—2Index—continued. 200 GANGLIA. Position. Cervical, Inferior „ Middle Superior Gasserion . Jugular Lenticular Lumbar . Meckel's . Koots. Branches. Relations. r Ad E PAG E TAGE 161 104 161 133, 134 159 160 159 Ifl,175 160, 172 104 172 137 Otic . Petrous Of Root of Vagus Sacral Semilunar Submaxillary . Of Trunk of Vagus Of Wrisberg Position. Boots. Brandies. Hel itions. FACE PAGE TAOE 174,175 159 159 16-t 163 175, 176 159 1*32 PLEXUSES. Descrip- tion. Branches. Boots. Relations. r.4GE PAGE PAGE PAGE Aortic .... 103, 104 103 119 Lumbar . Brachial .... 17S-1S0 178-lSO 75, 131, 141 Mesenteric, Cardiac, Deep . 162 161 115 Pelvic ,, Superficial. 162 101 115 Pharyngeal ,, Superior 109 Prostatic . Carotid .... 100 Pulmonary Cavernous.... 160, 175 Renal Cervical .... 177 165 Sacral Coebac .... 163 Solar . Coronary, of Heart . 102 Spermatic. ,, of Stomach Diaphragmatic. 163 Suprarenal 163 Thyroid . Hcemorrhoidal, Inferior . 164 Uterine Hepatic .... 163 75, 1.31 Vaginal Hypogastric 164 122 Vesical r LIBRARY °\ion.^' Branches. Boots. PAGE ISl, 182 lS.3-186 163' PAGE 100,181-182 163 164 159 164 163 183-186 163 163 163 160 164 164 164 1S3 170 Belations. 123 110A FEW OF THE WORKS FOR PRACTITIONERS AND STUDENTS PUBLISHED BY BMLLIERE, TINDALL, & COX, H-ant's Science and Practice of Surgery. By F. J. Gant, F.B.C.S,, rresidcnt of the Jlcdical fSociety of London, Senior Surgeon to the Roj'al Fi*ec IIosi")ital. With Chapters on Special Subjects by Drs. RocT. BAKNiis, MoiiELL, JLk'kenzie, JIahomed, Purvus, Messrs. \V. Adams, P.U.C.S., Hv. Power, F.Il.C S., C. S. Tomks, F.fl.S., Sir Erasmus Wilson, F.R.S. New Fdition in 2 vols., 31s. 6d., entirely rewritten and enlarged, with nearly lOUO Original Illustrations. " May be safely recommended to students."—Bi'ifis/t Medical Jonrnal. "We shall be much surprised if it does not become one of the most popular surgical text-books in the I-;ngUsh language."—Medical Pf^^. "A very complete and trustworthy guide to practice."—iL dirid Timat. " One of the best, if not llic best, of surgical text-books."—S/ci/tHAs' Journal. "A sound and complete exposition of Modern Surgery, combining the merits of a Text-book with the advantages of a system."—/niZi'a/i Medical Gazette. Sext Book of Operative Surg'ery. From the French of Professors Claude Bernard and Hjette. Illustrated with eighty-eight hand-coloured plates. Edited and re-written by Arthur Teehern Norton, F.R.C.S., Surgeon to, and Lecturer on Surgery at, St. Mary's Hospital. Price 20s. plain, hand- coloured, 50s. Folitzer's Text Book of Attral Stirg-ery, inohiding the Anatomy and Physiology of the Orgaii of Hearing: the causes, symptoms, and treatment of ear diseases. Authorised translation by Dr. PATrEES,ON Cassells. Price £1 Is. (Skortli/.) He-Kt Book of Anatomical Plates, designed under the direction of Pro- fessor Masse, with descriptive Text. By E. Bellamy, F.R.C.S., Professor of Anatomy, Government Science and Art Department, Lecturer in Anatomy and Operative Surgery, Charing Cross Hospital. 2nd Edition, plain, 21s., hand-coloured, 42s. " With these plates, the Student will be able to read up his anatomy almost as readily as with a recent dissection before him.."—Students' Journal. Bssentials of Anatomy. Designed as a Text-book for Students, and as a book of easy reference for Practitionei's on a new and more easily eompre- hcnsible basis. By W. Darung, M.D., F.R.C.S. Eng., Professor of Anatomy in the University of New York, and Ambrose Ranney, A.M., M.D., Adjunct Professor. Price 12s. Gd. " The methods of memorising are peculiar to the authors, and are the results of long experience in the teaching of students. ... Of much value to the st\ident and i^ractitioner."—Xeir Yorl: Mi dical Record. Osteology for Students, with Atlas of Plates. By Arthur T. Norton, F.R.C.S,, Surgeon to, and Lecturer on Surgery at, St. Mary's Hospital. 2nd E^litinn in one vol. 7s. 6d., two vols. Ss. (id. " The handiest and most complete hand-book of Osteology."—Xanccf. EEanual for the Physiolog-ical Laboratory. By Vincent Harris, M.D. Loud., Demonstrator of Pliysiology at St. Bartholomew's Hospital; and D'Arcy Power, B.A. Oxon., Assistant-Demonstrator. Price 3s. 6d. "A book that should be in every student's hands."—Medical Press. A Guide to tlie Examinations at the College of Surgeons of England for the Diplomas of Membar and Fellow, ■with the Examination Papers from 1869 to 18S0. By Frederick J. Gant, F.R.C.S., Piesident of the Medical Society of London, Senior Surgeon to the Royal I'ree Hospital. 4th and Enlarged Edition, price 4s. Od. The Pocket Gray; or. Anatomist's Vude Mecum. Compiled especially for Students, from the Works of Gray, Ellis, Quain, Heath, and Leonard. I'rice 2s. Od. Anatomography ; or. Graphic Anatomy. By W. Daulikg, M.D., F.R.C.S., Eng. I'l-ice Is. Ehe Student's Case Book : Practical Instructions, and all the Necessary Iii- fonuation f<_tr Clinicil Work and Systematic Case-taking, with Ruled Sheets for recording particulars of cases as seen. By George Brown, M.R.C.S. 2ud l-:dition, enlarged. Is. Materia Medica and Pharmacy: For the use of Medical and Pharma- ceutical Students preparing for Examination. By W. Handsel Griffiths, Ph.D., P.C.S., L.R.C.P. Edin., etc. Edited by George F. Duffey, M.D. Dub., Fellow and Examiner K.Q.C.P., Examiner in Materia Medica, Queen's Uni- versity of Ireland, Lecturer on Materia Jledlca in the Carmicliael College of Medicine, etc. Svo., jjp. 809, with numerous Tables, 9s. " A standard text-book on Materia Medica."—Edin. 3Sed.. Joiirn. " Conveys a large amount of reliable information in a clear and attractive forai. —Babtiii Journed of dL diral .sw'- nre. A Key to Organic ESateria Medica. By .John JIuter, Ph.D., M.A., F.C.S., President of the Society of I'ublic Analj'sts. 3rd Edition, 123. Gd. An Introduction to Analytical Chemistry for Laboratory Use. By the same Author. 7s. Ud. : also An lutrodtiotion to Pharmacetitical and XsHedioal Chemistry, Theo- retical and Practical. Vi'ith Analytical Tables and copious Index. Sam^ Author. 10s. Gd. An Introduction to Practical Histology. By George Tihn, M.D. Crown Svo., price 5s. " No more valuable Text-book for the Student will be found, nor one contain- ing a gi-eater amount of useful information in the most convenient f urm."—Medical Press. BSodern Medic lil Therapeutics. A compendium of recent Formula and Specitic Thur.ipuutical directions, from the practice of eminent contempoi-ary Phv.sicians, EnL,dish, American, and Foreign. Edited by G. H. Naphevs, A.M., Jl.U. 7th Edition, price ISs. Eflodern Siirgical therapeutics. By the same Author. 7th Edition price ISs. "No one who carefully peruses this work can feel surprised at the demani fi>r it; edition after edition sells with great rapidity."—Medical Press. " A summary of the best modes of treatment."—Practitioner. " 'file volume will supply what many practitioners are often anxious to xiossess for reference in the practice of their art."— Glasgow Jledical Journal. LONDON: BAILLIERE, TINDALL, AND COX, PARLS AND MADRID.FuUications hij UaHlicre, Tlmlall, and Cox. A Manual of ST aval Hygiene. By J. Wilson, M.D., Medical Director of the United States Navj-. 2ad Edition, price 10s 6d. " Xo ship should leave port vfitliout this valuable manual; yachtsmen will rdso find it a most readable and-useful companion."—Medical Press. Manual of S lamination ot the Eyes. By Professor Landolt. Trans- lated by Swan M. Burnett, M.D. Revised by the Author. Demy Svo., illustrated, price Via. Cd. " For examining eyes this "will prove most helpful."—The Lancet. Briglxt's Disease of the Kidneys. By Professor Chaecot. Translated by Dr. Millard. Revised by the Author. With coloured plates, price 7s. Od. '* We doubt if there exists in tire English language any monograiA in which the various forms are so accurately and concisely desci-ibed."—lledical Press. THE STUDENTS' AIDS SERIES. Sixciatli/ clcs'i'jned to assist Students in coiiviuitting to mcmoiy, and grovping tlic subjects upon which they arc to he examineel. Aids to Anatomy. By GEOiiaE Bkown, M.R.C.S. Fifth Thousand. Price Is. Cd. cloth. Is. paper wrapper. Aids to Surgery. Part I. By the same Author. Price Is. 6d. and Is. „ ,, Part II. Price Is. 6d. and Is. Aids to Bot?.,ny. Brief Outlines of the Elementary Facts of the Science. By C. E. Armand Semrle, B.A., M.B. Cantab., M.R.C.P. Lond. Examiner in iU*ts at the Apothecaries' Hall. 2nd Edition in preioaration. Aids to Chemistry. By the same author. Third thousand. Part I.—Inorganic ; Non-Metallic Substances. Is. (Id. and Is. Part II.—Inorganic. The Metals. Double part. Price, 2s. 6d. and Ss. Part III.—Organic. Double part. Price 2s. 6 1. and 2s. Aids to Materia Medica and Therapeutics. By the same author. Part I. Price, Is. e.l. and Is. „ Part II. Double part. Price 2.'!. Od. and 2s. Aids to J.2edioia.3. Same author. Part I. Double p.art, price 23. Gd. cloth, 2s. paper. „ ,, ,, Part It. Price Is. (id. and Is. „ ,, ,, Part III. Price Is. Gd. and Is. Aids to Forensic Bffedicine and Sosioology. By W. Douglas Hemming, M.ll.C.S. Second Tliousaud. Price Is. Gd. cloth. Is. paper wrapper. Aids to Examinations; being Questions and Answers on Materia Medica, Jledicine, Midwifery. By the same author. Price Is. Gd. cloth, Is. paper wrappier. Aids to Physiology. By B. Thompson Lowne, F.R.C.S., E.^aminer in Phy- siology, and Arris and Gale Lecturer, Royal College of Surgeons. Double Part. Price 23. 6d. cloth, 2s. paper. The Students' Aids Qenes—amtlnuad. Aids to Dla.g'nosis. Part I.—Semeiolog'ical. By'J. Milner Fotheecili , M.D., M.R.C.P. Lond. Price Is. Gd. and Is. Part II.—Physical. By J. C. Tiiorowgood, M.D. and F.R.C.P. Lond., Lecturer on Materia Medica, Middlesex Hospital. Price Is. Gd. cloth. Is. paper wrapper. Part III.—What to Ask. By J. Milner Fothergill, M.D., M.R.C.P. Lond. Price Is. Cd. and Is. Aids to Eational Therapeutics, with forms of Prescriptions. By J. Milner Fotueroill, M.D., M.R.C.P. Lond. Double Part. Price 2s. Gd. cloth, 2s. paper wrapi^cr. Aids to Dental Surgery. (In preparation.) Aids to IiSechanics. (In preparation.) Aids to OlJStetrics and Diseases of Women. (In prepar.ition.) HUMAN ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. Illustrated by a scries of Movable Atlases of the Uuman Pndu, xJ.nirl,!;/ tlf rrhilin positions of the several piarts hy means of Superposed Coloured I'lnt, frmn the designs of Prof. G J. Witkowski, M.D. The Only Authorised Engli.s], Edilion. P.vET 1.—The Human Body (Neck and Trunk). Text by Robt. Hunter Semple, M D., F.R.C.P. Lond. Price 7s. Cd. Part II.—Throat and Tongue, Showing the Mechanism of Voice, Speech, and Taste. Text by Lenno.x Browne, F.K.C.S., Edin,, Senior Surgeon to the Central London Throat and Ear Hospital. Price 7s. Gd. Part III.—The Female Organs of Generation and Reproduction. Text hy James Palfuev, M.D., iVf.R.C.P., Lond., Senior Obstetric Physician to and Lecturer on Midwifery and Diseases ot Women at the London Hospital. Price 7s. Cd. Part IV.—She Eye and the Apparatus of Vision. Text by Eenry Power, F.R.C.S., Senior Ophthalmic Surgeon to, and Lecturer on Ophth.al- mic Surgery at, St. Bartholomew's HosiJital, Surgeon to the Royal Westminster Ophthalmic Hospital. Price 7s. Gd. Part "V.—The Ear and Teeth. Text of the Ear by Lennox Browne, F.R.C.S., Edin., Senior Surgeon to the Central London Throat and Ear Hospital; .Text of the Teeth by Henry Sewill, M.1'..C.H. Price 7s. Gd. P.vrt VI.—The Brain (Cereeru.m, Ci;!:i:i'.r:r.LLM, and Medulla Oblongata). By T. Stretch Dowse, M.D., F.R.(J.I'. lidin., formerly Medical Supcriuteu- dent of the Central Loudon Sick Asyliun. Price 7s. Gd. Part VII.—The Male Organs of Generation. Text by D. Campbell Elack, M.D., F.H.C.S. E. Price 7s. Cd. LONDON: BAILLIERE, TINDALL, AND COX, PARIS AND MADRID.■ 11 il I I 1 I I 1 i 1 i