571 MUCOUS MEMBEANE OF THE TONGUE. tory branch of the inferior maxillary is distributed to the papillae, and is the nerve of common sensation and taste ; the glosso- pharyngeal is distributed to the mucous membrane, glands, and papillae circumvallatse; and the hypoglossal, the motor nerve of the tongue, is distributed to the muscles. The Mucous membrane which invests the tongue is continuous with the derma along the margin of the lips. On either side of the frsenum linguae it may be traced through the sublingual ducts into the sublingual glands, and along Wharton'sf ducts into the sub- maxillary glands ; from the sides of the cheeks it passes through the opening of Stenon'sJ ducts to the parotid glands: in the fauces, it forms the assemblage of follicles called tonsils, and may thence be traced downwards into the larynx and pharynx, where it is continuous with the general gastro-pulmonary mucous membrane. Beneath the mucous membrane of the mouth are a number of small glands, which pour their secretion upon the surface. A considerable number of these bodies are situated within the lips, in the palate, and in the floor of the mouth. They are named according to their position, labial glands, palatal glands, and buccal glands. * The tongue with its papillae. 1. The raphe, which sometimes bifurcates on the dorsum of the tongue, as in the figure. 2, 2. Lobes of the tongue; the rounded eminences on this part, and near its tip, are the papilla? fungiformes. The smaller papilla?, among which the former are dispersed, are the papilla? conica? and filiformes. 3. Tip of the tongue. 4, 4. Its sides, on which are seen the lamellated and fringed papilla?. 5, 5. The A-shaped row of papilla? circumvallata?. 6. Foramen ca?cum. 7. Mucous glands of the root of the tongue. 8. Epiglottis. 9,9. Fra?na epiglottidis. 10, 10. Greater cornua of the os hyoides. t Thomas Wharton, an English physician, devoted considerable attention to the anatomy of the glands; his work, entitled " Adenographia," &c, was published in 1656. X Nicholas Stenon, a Danish anatomist: he was made Professor in Copen- hagen in 1672. Fig. 215 * 3