651 STRUCTURAL ANATOMY OF THE LIVER. pigment granules, and one or more globules of fat. The hepatic cells are arranged in the form of a network, the meshes of the net- work corresponding with the vascular plexus, and the columns or solid portions of the network constituting the secretory portion of the gland. The lobules are, therefore, composed of cells and capil- lary vessels, closely applied to each other, and the secretion of bile is effected by the exudation of the fluid elements of the bile from the vessels into the cells. The biliary ducts originate by csecal ex- tremities among the hepatic cells of the exterior of the lobule, and the next step in the process of secretion is the transmission of the bile from the hepatic cells to the biliary ducts. Glisson's capsule is the areolar tissue which envelopes the hepatic artery, portal vein, and hepatic duct, during their passage through the transverse fossa, and which continues to surround them to the interlobular fissures. It connects all the lobules together, and constitutes the proper capsule of the entire organ. Grlisson's capsule " is to the liver what the pia mater is to the brain ; it is a cellulo-vascular membrane, in which the vessels divide and sub- divide to an extreme degree of minuteness ; which lines the portal canals, ;forming sheaths for the larger vessels contained in them, and a web in which the smaller vessels ramify;"* and which enters the interlobular fissures. Hence arises a division of the capsule into two portions, vaginal and interlobular. The vaginal portion is that which invests the hepatic artery, hepatic duct, and portal vein, in the portal canals; in the large canals it completely surrounds these vessels, but in the smaller is situated only on that side which is occupied by the artery and duct ; while the interlobular portion occupies the interlobular fissures and spaces. The Portal vein, entering the liver at the transverse fossa, rami- fies through its structure in canals, which resemble, by their sur- faces, the external superficies of the liver, and are formed by the capsular surface of the lobules. These are the portal canals, and contain, besides the portal vein with its ramifications, the artery and duct with their branches. In the larger canals, the vessels are separated from the parietes by a web of Grlisson's capsule ; but in the smaller, the portal vein is in contact with the surface of the canal for about two-thirds of its cylinder, the opposite third being in relation with the artery and duct and their investing capsule. If, therefore, the portal vein were laid open by a longitudinal incision in one of these smaller canals, the coats being transparent, the outline of the lobules, bounded by their interlobular fissures, would be as distinctly seen as on the external surface of the liver, and the smaller venous branches would be observed entering the interlobular spaces. * " The Anatomy and Physiology of the Liver," by Kiernan," Phil. Trans." 1833, from which this and the other paragraphs within inverted commas, on the structure of the liver, are quoted.