MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN. 228 part of the rectus, and pyramidalis. The spermatic cord and oblique inguinal hernia pass beneath the lower border, but have no direct relation with it. The upper border is continuous with the diaphragm and triangularis sterni. To dissect the rectus muscle, its sheath should be opened by a vertical incision extending from over the cartilages of the lower ribs to the front of the os pubis. Fig. 120. The sheath may then be dis- sected off and turned aside:; this is easily done excepting at the linese transverste, where a close adhesion sub- sists between the muscle and the external wall of the sheath. The sheath con- tains the rectus and pyra- midalis muscle. .The Rectus (sterno-pu- bius) arises by a double tendon from the front and crest of the os pubis, and is inserted by three broad digi- tations into the cartilages of the fifth, sixth, and seventh ribs. It is traversed by several tendinous intersec- tions, called licese trans- versa (inscriptiones tendi- ness). One of these is situ- ated at the umbilicus, one over the ensiform cartilage, and one midway between these points; when a fourth exists, it occurs below the umbilicus. The lineee trans- * Lateral view of the trunk, showing its muscles, particu- larly the transversalis abdomi- nis. 1. Costal origin of the latissimus dorsi. 2. Serratus Upper part of the external oblique, divided in the direction best calculated to show the muscles beneath without interfering with its indigita- tions with the serratus magnus. 4. Two of the external intercostal muscles. 5. Two of the internal intercostals. 6. Transversalis. 7. Its posterior apo- neurosis. 8. Its anterior aponeurosis forming the posterior layer of the sheath of the l'ectus. 9. Lower part of the left rectus with the aponeurosis of the transversalis passing in front. 10. Kight rectus muscle. 11. Arched opening left between the lower border of the transversalis muscle and Poupart's liga- ment, through which the spermatic cord and oblique inguinal hernia pass. 12. Tensor vaginae femoris, gluteus medius and maximus invested by fascia lata. magnus.