533 DEEP CARDIAC PLEXUS. and recurrent nerve, and descends to the bifurcation of the trachea, to join the deep cardiac plexus. The Inferior cardiac nerve (nervus cardiacus minor) arises from the inferior cervical ganglion, communicates with the recurrent laryngeal and middle cardiac nerve, and descends to the front of the bifurcation of the trachea, to the deep cardiac plexus. The Superficial cardiac plexus is situated immediately beneath the arch of the aorta and in front of the right pulmonary artery. It receives the superior cardiac nerve of the left side and the in- ferior cardiac branch of the left pneumogastric nerve, both of which cross the arch of the aorta between the left phrenic and pneumo- gastric nerve. It receives besides several filaments from the deep cardiac plexus, and sometimes a cardiac branch from the right pneumogastric nerve. Connected with the plexus is a small gan- glion (sometimes wanting), the cardiac ganglion of Wrisberg, which lies close to the right side of the fibrous cord of the ductus arteri- osus. The superficial cardiac plexus gives off filaments which pass along the front of the left pulmonary artery to the root of the left lung, where they communicate with the anterior pulmonary plexus ; while the principal part of the plexus descends in the groove between the pulmonary artery and aorta to the anterior longitudinal sulcus of the heart, where it comes into relation with the anterior coro- nary artery, and becomes the anterior coronary plexus. At the base of the heart, the anterior coronary plexus receives several fila- ments from the deep cardiac plexus. Its branches are distributed to the substance of the heart in the course of the left or anterior coronary artery. The Deep or Great cardiac plexus is situated on the bifurca- tion of the trachea, above the right pulmonary artery and behind the transverse portion of the arch of the aorta. It receives, on the right side, the three cardiac nerves of the sympathetic of the same side, and the cardiac branches of the right pneumogastric and right recurrent nerve. On the left side it receives the middle and infe- rior cardiac nerves of the sympathetic of the left side ; the cardiac branches of the left pneumogastric (excepting the inferior), and several cardiac branches from the left recurrent nerve. In other words, it receives all the cardiac filaments of the sympathetic, pneumogastric, and recurrent nerves, with the exception of the left superior cardiac of the sympathetic (neiwus superficialis cordis) and the inferior cervical cardiac of the left pneumogastric, these two nerves being destined to the superficial cardiac plexus. The branches of the deep cardiac plexus, proceeding from its right and left division, pass downwards to join the coronary arteries, and outwards to the pulmonary plexuses. From the right division of the plexus the branches proceed before and behind the right pulmonary artery. Those which pass in front descend upon the trunk of the pulmonary artery to the left coro- nary artery, and help to form the anterior coronary plexus ; those