196 MUSCLES OF THE NECK. The Styloglossus arises from the apex of the styloid process and from the stylo-maxillary ligament; it divides on the side of the tongue into two parts, one transverse, which passes transversely inwards between the two portions of the hyo-glossns, and is lost among the transverse fibres of the substance of the tongue—the other longitudinal, which spreads out upon the side of the tongue, and is prolonged forwards with the lingualis as far as its tip. Professor Hyrtl of Prague has described a fasciculus of this muscle, which arises from the outer side of the styloid process, and is inserted into the cartilage of the meatus amis, under the name of stylo-auricularis. He states that it occurs once in every six bodies. Relations.—By its external surface with the internal pterygoid muscle, gustatory nerve, parotid gland, sublingual gland, and mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth. By its internal sur- face with the tonsil, superior constrictor of the pharynx, and hyo- glossus. The Palato-glossus passes between the soft palate and the side of the base of the tongue, forming a prominence of the mucous membrane, which is called the anterior pillar of the soft palate. Its fibres are spread out superiorly among the muscular fibres of the palato-pharyngeus, and inferiorly among the fibres of the stylo- glossus upon the side of the tongue. This muscle with its fellow constitutes the constrictor isthmi faucium. Actions.—The genio-hyo-glossus muscle effects several movements of the tongue. When the tongue is steadied and pointed by the other muscles, the posterior fibres of the genio-hyo-glossus would dart it from the mouth, while its anterior fibres would restore it to its former position. The whole length of the muscle acting on the tongue, would render it concave along the middle line, and form a channel for the current of fluid towards the pharynx, as in.sucking. The apex of the tongue is directed to the roof of the mouth, and rendered convex from before backwards by the linguales. The hyo- glossi, by drawing down the sides of the tongue, render it convex along the middle line. It is drawn upwards at its base by the palato-glossi, and backwards or to either side by the stylo-glossi. Thus the whole of the complicated movements of the tongue may be explained, by reasoning on the direction of the fibres of the muscles, and their probable actions. The palato-glossi muscles, assisted by the uvula, have the power of closing the fauces completely, an action which takes place in deglutition. Fifth Group.—Muscles of the Pharynx. Constrictor inferior, Stylo-pharyngeus, Constrictor medius, Palato-pharyngeus. Constrictor superior, Dissection.—To dissect the pharynx, the trachea and oesophagus