199 MUSCLES OP THE SOFT PALATE. vein, superior constrictor, palato-pharyngeus, and mucous mem- brane. Along its lower border is seen the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, which crosses it opposite the root of the tongue, to pass between the superior and middle constrictor and behind the hyo-glossus. Associated in function with the preceding is a small muscle, not always present, the salpingo*-pharyngeus (levator pharyngeus in- ternus), which arises from the lower border of the Eustachian tube near its aperture, and passes down upon the inner surface of the side of the pharynx, where it becomes united with the palato-pharyngeus. The palato-pharyngeus is described with the muscles of the soft palate. It arises from the soft palate, and is inserted into the inner surface of the pharynx, and posterior border of the thyroid cartilage. Actions.—The three constrictor muscles are important agents in deglutition ; they contract upon the morsel of food as soon as it is received by the pharynx, and convey it downwards into the oeso- phagus. The stylo-pharyngei draw the pharynx upwards, and widen it laterally. The palato-pharyngei also draw it upwards, and with the aid of the uvula close the opening of the fauces. The salpingo-pharyngei are elevators of the upper part of the pharynx. Sixth Group.—Muscles of the soft Palate. \ Levator palati, Palato-glossus, Tensor palati, Palato-pharyngeus. Azygos uvulae, Dissection.—To examine these muscles, the pharynx must be opened from behind, and the mucous membrane carefully removed from off the posterior surface of the soft palate. The Levator palati, a moderately thick muscle, arises from the extremity of the petrous bone and from the posterior and inferior aspect of the Eustachian tube, and passing down by the side of the posterior nares spreads out between the fasciculi of origin of the palato-pharyngeus ; it is inserted into the middle line, where it is continuous with the muscle of the opposite side, and is overlaid by the azygos uvulae. Relations.—Externally with the tensor palati and superior con- strictor muscle ; internally and posteriorly with the mucous mem- brane of the pharynx and soft palate ; interiorly it passes between the two fasciculi of origin of the palato-pharyngeus to reach its insertion. This muscle must be turned down from its origin on one side, and removed, and the superior constrictor dissected away from its ptery- goid origin, to bring the next muscle into view. The Tensor palati (circumnexus) is a slender and flattened muscle ; it arises from the scaphoid fossa at the base of the internal * o-aKinyil, a tube.