TEMPORAL.—INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY. * 331 the parotid gland. They are distributed to the structure of the gland, their terminal branches reaching the integument of the side of the face, and masseter muscle (rami masseterici posteriores). The Temporal artery (temporalis) is one of the two terminal branches of the external carotid. It ascends over the root of the zygoma ; and, at about an inch and a half above the zygomatic arch, divides into an anterior and posterior temporal branch. The anterior temporal (temporalis superficialis anterior, vel frontalis) is distributed over the front of the temple and arch of the skull, and anastomoses with the opposite anterior temporal, and with the supraorbital and frontal artery. The posterior temporal (tempo- ralis superficialis posterior, vel occipitalis) curves upwards and backwards, and inosculates with its fellow of the opposite side, with the posterior auricular and occipital artery. The trunk of the temporal artery is covered by the parotid gland and attrahens aurem muscle, and rests on the temporal fascia. The Branches of the temporal artery are, some small offsets to the parotid gland and articulation of the lower jaw, and the fol- lowing : Anterior auricular, Transversa faciei, j Orbital, Middle temporal. The Anterior auricular branches (auriculares anteriores), two in number, are distributed to the anterior portion of the pinna. The Orbital branch (zygomatico-orbitalis; supra-orbitalis ex- terna) passes forward immediately above the zygoma, between the two layers of the temporal fascia, and inosculates beneath the orbi- cularis palpebrarum with the lachrymal branch of the ophthalmic artery. The Transversa faciei arises from the temporal immediately below the zygoma, and runs transversely across the face, resting on the masseter muscle, and lying parallel with and a little above Stenon's duct. It anastomoses with the facial and infraorbital artery. The Middle temporal branch (temporalis media) passes through an opening in the temporal fascia immediately above the zygoma, and supplies the temporal muscle inosculating with the deep tem- poral arteries. The Internal maxillary artery (maxillaris interna), the other terminal branch of the external carotid, has next to be examined. Dissection.—The internal maxillary artery passes inwards be- hind the neck of the lower jaw to the deep structures in the face; we require, therefore, to remove several parts for the purpose of seeing it completely. To obtain a good view of the vessel, the zygoma should be sawn across in front of the external ear, and the malar bone near the orbit. Turn down the zygomatic arch with the masseter muscle. In doing this, a small artery and nerve will be seen crossing the sigmoid notch of the lower jaw, to enter the