WHITE FIBROUS TISSUE. 122 The development of cartilage is the same as that of cartilage of bone, the different forms of cartilage resulting from subsequent changes in the intercellular substance and cells. Thus in articular cartilage the cells undergo the lowest degree of development, are very disproportionate to the intercellular substance, and the latter remains for the most part homogeneous. In reticular cartilage the cells possess a more active growth, and surpass in bulk the inter- cellular substance, while the latter assumes a fibrous character. In fibrous cartilage, development is most energetic in the inter- cellular substance ; this is converted into fasciculi of fibrous tissue, while the interspaces are filled with cells and imperfect fibrous tissue in every stage of development. Fibrous tissue is one of the most generally distributed of all the animal tissues ; it is composed of fibres of extreme minuteness, and presents itself under two elementary forms ; namely, white fibrous tissue, and yellow fibrous or elastic tissue. In white fibrous tissue (connective tissue), the fibres are cylin- drical, exceedingly minute (about l5Q00th of an inch in diameter), transparent and undulating ; they are collected into small fasciculi (from-ginnyth *° loooo^h °f an i-ncn)> an(i these latter form larger fasciculi, which, according to their arrangement, give rise to the production of thin laminse, membranes, ligamentous bands, and tendinous cords. The connecting medium of the fibres in the for- mation of the primitive fasciculi is a transparent, structureless, interfibrous substance or blastema, to which in most situations are added numerous minute dark filaments of elastic tissue. The elastic filaments are sometimes wound spirally round the fasciculi, or inter- lace with their separate fibres ; at other times they are variously twisted, and run parallel with the fasciculi. The fasciculi are con- nected and held together in the formation of membranes and cords by loose fibres interwoven between them, or by mutual interlace- ment. White fibrous tissue is converted by boiling into gelatine. Examples of white fibrous tissue are met with in three principal forms ; namely, membrane, ligament, and tendon. The membranous form of white fibrous tissue is seen in the com- mon connecting medium of the body, namely, cellular membrane, fibro-cellular, cellular, areolar, or filamentous tissue, in which the membrane is extremely thin, and disposed in laininse, bands, or threads, leaving interstices of various size between them. It exhibits two principal forms, in one of which it is lax and serves to connect organs or parts of organs, or establish a medium of sepa- ration between them ; in the other it constitutes the condensed covering of various organs, as the periosteum, perichondrium, capsulse proprise of glands, membranes of the brain, sclerotic coat of the eyeball, pericardium, fascia ; sheaths of muscles, tendons, vessels, nerves, and ducts ; sheaths of the erectile organs, serous membrane, and the corium of the dermal and mucous membrane.