MUSCLES OF THE BACK. 210 inferior upwards beneath the serratus posticus superior to the neck, where it is lost in the cervical fascia. It is attached along the middle line to the spinous processes of the dorsal vertebrae, externally to the angles of the ribs, and forms the posterior boundary of a triangular sheath, which contains the erector spinse and deep muscles of the back. The other two boundaries of the triangular sheath, are the ribs and vertebrae in front and the spinous processes of the vertebra? at the middle line. The serratus posticus superior must be removed from its origin and turned outwards, to bring into view the whole extent of the splenius muscle. The Splenius muscle is single at its origin, but divides soon after into two portions, which are destined to distinct insertions. It arises from the lower half of the ligamentum nuchae, the spinous process of the last cervical, and spinous processes and interspinous ligaments of the six upper dorsal vertebrae ; it divides as it ascends the neck into the splenius capitis and splenius colli. The splenius capitis (cervico-mastoideus) is inserted into the rough surface of the occipital bone between the two curved lines, into the mastoid portion of the temporal bone, and posterior border of the mastoid process. The splenius colli (dorso-trachelius) is inserted into the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the three upper cervical vertebrae. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the trapezius, sterno- masboideus, levator anguli scapulae, rhomboideus minor and major, and serratus posticus superior. By its deep surface with the spinalis dorsi, longissimus dorsi, semi-spinalis colli, complexus, trachelo-mastoideus, and transversalis cervicis. The tendons of insertion of the splenius colli are interposed between and united with the tendons of the levator anguli scapulae in front, and the transversalis cervicis behind. The splenii of opposite sides of the neck leave between them a triangular interval, in which the complexus is seen. Fourth Layer. Dissection.—The two serrati and two splenii muscles must be removed by cutting them away from their origin and insertion, and the vertebral aponeurosis laid open, to bring the fourth layer into view. Three of these muscles: viz., sacro-lumbalis, longissimus dorsi, and spinalis dorsi, are associated under the name of erector spinae. They occupy the lumbar and dorsal portion of the back. The remaining four are situated in the cervical region. The Sacro-lumbalis and longissimus dorsi arise by a common origin from the posterior third of the crest of the ilium, the oblique