ELEVATORS OP THE OS HYOIDES. 193 gland, and submaxillary gland. By its deep surface with the styloid muscles, hyo-glossus, mylo-hyoideus, external carotid artery, lingual and facial artery, internal carotid artery, jugular vein, and hypoglossal nerve. The digastric muscle forms the two inferior boundaries of the submaxillary triangle, the superior boundary being the side of the body of the lower jaw. In the posterior half of the submaxillary triangle are situated the submaxillary gland and facial artery. The Stylo-hyoidetjs is a small and slender muscle situated in immediate relation with the posterior belly of the digastricus, by which it is pierced. It arises from the middle of the styloid process, its outer side, and is inserted into the body of the os hyoides near the middle line. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the posterior belly of the digastricus, parotid gland and submaxillary gland ; its deep relations are similar to those of the posterior belly of the digastricus. The digastricus and stylo-hyoideus must be removed from their connexion with the lower jaw and os hyoides, and turned aside in order to see the next muscle. The Mylo-hyoideus (/AtiXv, mola, i.e., attached to the molar ridge of the lower jaw) is a broad and triangular plane of muscular fibres, forming, with its fellow of the opposite side, the inferior wall or floor of the mouth. It arises fleshy from the molar ridge of the Jower jaw as far back as the last molar tooth, and proceeds inwards and backwards to the middle line, where its fibres are con- tinuous with those of the opposite side, the posterior fibres being inserted into the lower border of the body of the os hyoides. At the middle line the union is tendinous on the upper surface in front, on the lower behind, the rest being fleshy. Relations. —By its superficial or inferior surface, with the pla- tysma myoides, digastricus, supra-hyoidean fascia, submaxillary gland, and submental artery. By its deep or superior surface with the genio-hyoideus, genio-hyo-glossus, hyo-glossus, stylo-glossus, gustatory nerve, hypoglossal nerve, Wharton's duct, sublingual gland, and mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth. After the mylo-hyoideus has been examined, it should be cut away from its origin and insertion, and completely removed. The view of the next muscles would also be improved by dividing the lower jaw a little to the side of the symphysis, and drawing it outwards ; or removing it altogether if the ramus have been already cut across in dissecting the internal pterygoid muscle. The tongue may then be drawn out of the mouth by means of a hook. The Gtenio-hyoideus (yeveiov, the chin) arises from a small tubercle on the inner side of the symphysis of the lower jaw, and is inserted into the body of the os hyoides. It is a short and slender muscle, closely connected with its fellow and with the border of the following. o