563 INTERNAL EAR OR LABYRINTH. 3. In the Posterior wall are the— Opening of the mastoid cells, Pyramid, and opening for the stapedius, Opening for Jacobson's nerve, Apertura chordse (entrance). 4. In the Anterior wall are the— Eustachian tube, Fissura Glaseri, Opening for laxator tympani, Apertura chorda? (exit). The tympanum is lined by a vascular mucous membrane, which invests the ossicula and chorda tympani, and forms the internal layer of the membrana tympani. From the tympanum it is reflected into the mastoid cells, which it lines throughout, and it passes through the Eustachian tube to become continuous with the mucous membrane of the pharynx. In the Eustachian tube its epithelium is furnished with vibratile cilia. Vessels and Nerves. — The Arteries of the tympanum are derived from the internal maxillary, internal carotid, and posterior auricular. Its Nerves are—1. Minute branches from the facial, distributed to the stapedius muscle. 2. The chorda tympani, which leaves the facial nerve near the stylo-mastoid foramen, and arches upwards to enter the tympanum at the root of the pyramid; it then passes forwards between the handle of the malleus and long process of the incus, to its proper opening in the fissura Glaseri. 3. The tym- panic branches of Jacobson's nerve, which are distributed to the membranes of the fenestra ovalis and fenestra rotunda, and to the Eustachian tube, and form a plexus by communicating with the carotid plexus, otic ganglion, and Vidian nerve. 4. A filament from the otic ganglion to the tensor tympani muscle. Internal ear.—The Internal ear is called labyrinth, from the complexity of its communications ; it consists of a membranous and an osseous portion. The osseous labyrinth presents a series of cavities, which are channeled through the substance of the petrous bone, and is situated between the cavity of the tympanum and the meatus auditorius internus. It is divisible into the— Vestibule, Semicircular canals, Cochlea. The Vestibule is a small three-cornered cavity, compressed from without inwards, and situated immediately within the inner wall of the tympanum. The three corners, which are named ventricles or cornua, are placed, one anteriorly, one superiorly, and one posteriorly. The Anterior ventricle receives the oval aperture of the scala o o 2