472 CRANIAL NERVES. Two other lines are observed on the medulla, the anterior and posterior lateral sulci, corresponding with the attachment of the anterior and posterior roots of the spinal nerves. The anterior lateral sulcus is a mere trace, marked only by the attachment of the filaments of the anterior roots ; the posterior lateral sulcus is some* what more evident. These fissures and sulci indicate a division of the spinal cord into three pairs of columns, namely, anterior, lateral, and posterior ; or, as they are frequently described, into antero- Fig. 189.* lateral and posterior. The anterior and part of the lateral columns are the columns'of motion ; the posterior part of the lateral, and the pos- terior columns, the columns of sensation. If a transverse section of the spinal cord be made, its internal structure may be seen and examined. It will then appear to be com- posed of two hollow cylinders of white sub- stance placed side by side, and connected by a narrow white commissure. Each cylinder is filled with grey substance, which is connected by a commissure of the same matter (grey commissure). The form of the grey substance, as observed in the section, is that of two irregularly curved or crescentic lines joined by a transverse band. The extremities of the curved lines corresponding with the sulci of origin of the anterior and posterior roots of the nerves, are termed cornua ; the anterior corny, is short and thick ; the posterior cornu, long and slender, reaches nearly to the surface of the sulcus lateralis posterior. CRANIAL NERVES. The pairs of cranial nerves are nine or twelve in number, ac- cording as the arrangement of "Willis or Soemmering is adopted ; the former has been generally used in this country ; but is greatly inferior to the latter, which is universally employed on the con- tinent. Willis numbered the pairs of nerves in correspondence with the openings in the base of the cranium, and included amongst them, as the tenth pair, the suboccipital or first cervical nerve, now considered as a spinal nerve. Soemmering, more properly, treats the facial and the auditory nerve as separate pairs, under the name of seventh and eighth ; the glossopharyngeal as the ninth pair; the pneumogastric the tenth; the spinal accessory the * Section of the spinal cord made between the third and fourth cervical nerves. 1. Anterior median fissure. 2. Indentation corresponding in situa- tion with the posterior median fissure, which latter is not distinguishable at this part of the cord. 3, 3. Antero-lateral columns of the spinal cord. 4, 4. Posterior columns. 5. Anterior cornu of grey matter. 6. Posterior cornu, terminating at 7, sulcus lateralis posterior. 8. Isthmus or commissure connecting the grey matter of the two sides of the cord.