LIGAMENTS OF THE RIBS. 135 process immediately above. This ligament separates the anterior from the dorsal branch of the intercostal nerve. The middle costo-transverse ligament (lig. cervicis externum) is a strong interosseous ligament passing directly between the posterior surface of the neck of the rib, and the transverse process against which it rests. It is absent in the first and two inferior ribs. The posterior costo-transverse ligament (lig. transversarium ex- ternum) is a small but strong fasciculus, passing obliquely from the tubercle of the rib to the apex of the transverse process. The articulation between the tubercle of the rib and the transverse process is provided with a small synovial membrane. There is no anterior costo- ^ transverse ligament to the first *9j or last rib ; and only rudi- mentary posterior costo-trans- verse ligaments to the eleventh and twelfth ribs. Several ac- cessory bands (ligamenta ac- cessoria) are found passing between the transverse pro- cesses and the ribs ; a broad band of this kind connects the last rib with the transverse process:of the first or second lumbar vertebra. A ctions.—The movements permitted by the articulations of the ribs are upwards, down- wards, and slightly forwards and backwards; the move- ment increasing in extent from the head to the extremity of the rib. The forward and backward movement is trifling in the seven superior, but greater in the inferior ribs ; the eleventh and twelfth are very movable. 7. Articulation of the Ribs with the Sternum, and with each other.—The ligaments of the costo-sternal articulations are— Anterior costo-sternal, Superior costo-sternal, Posterior costo-sternal, Inferior costo-sternal, Synovial membranes. The anterior costo-sternal ligament (lig. costo-sternale radiatum) is a thin band of ligamentous fibres, passing in a radiated direction from the extremity of the costal cartilage to the anterior surface of * Posterior view of part of the thoracic portion of the vertebral column, showing the ligaments connecting the vertebrae with each other and the ribs with the vertebrae. 1,1. Supra-spinous ligament. 2, 2. Ligamenta subflava, connecting the laminae. 3. Anterior costo-transverse ligament. 4. Posterior costo-transverse ligaments.