URINARY BLADDER. 689 vesica?, and are then continued onwards around the prostatic urethra. The internal layer (submucous layer ; Ellis*), thinner than the preceding, is composed of fibres which are oblique and scattered in the fundus and body of the bladder, but become longitudinal in its lower part and base, and are continued through the cervix and along the urethra to its termination at the meatus urinarius. At * "An Account of the Arrangement of the Muscular Substance in the Urinary and certain of the Generative Organs of the Human Body," by George "Viner Ellis, Professor of Anatomy in University College. Medico-Chirurgical Trans- actions, vol. xxxix., 1856. Mr. Ellis's description is so clear and apparently faithful, that I have not hesitated to adopt his views. t Side view of the viscera of the male pelvis, in situ. The right side of the pelvis has been removed by a vertical section made through the os pubis near the symphysis; and another through the middle of the sacrum. 1. "Divided surface of the os pubis. 2. Divided surface of the sacrum. 3. Body of the bladder. 4. Its fundus; from the apex is seen passing upwards the urachus. 5. Base of the bladder. 6. Ureter. 7. Neck of the bladder. 8, 8. Pelvic fascia,- the fibres immediately above 7 are given off from the pelvic fascia, and represent the anterior ligaments of the bladder. 9. Prostate gland. 10. Membranous portion of the urethra. 11. Triangular ligament. 12. One of Cowper's glands lying beneath the membranous portion of the urethra. 13. Bulb of corpus spongiosum. 14. Body of corpus spongiosum. 15. Right crus penis. 16. Upper part of first portion of the rectum. 17. Recto-vesical fold of peritoneum. 18^. Second portion of rectum. 19. Right vesicula semi- nalis. 20. Vas deferens. 21. The rectum covered by the descending layer of the pelvic fascia, just as it is making its bend backwards to constitute the third portion. 22. Part of the levator ani muscle investing the lower part of the rectum. 23. External sphincter ani. 24. Interval between the superficial perineal fascia and triangular ligament: they are seen to be continuous be- neath the figure.