BRAIN.—MEMBRANES. 443 processes of which unite with each other ; while in the trunks of the nerves, the tubules attain a large size and their contents be- come split up into a fasciculus of fibres, as occurs in the develop- ment of muscular fibre. In the cerebro-spinal centre, nerve-fibres are first perceptible in the embryo at the end of the second month, at which time they are intermingled with an abundance of fusiform cells with fine lengthened ends. At the fourth month the grey and the white substance are distinct; but dark contours to the fibres do not make their appear- ance until the mid-period of foetal life, and are first discoverable in the spinal cord. The subsequent changes are, increase of size of the fibres, the number of primitive fibres existing in the foetus being as great as in the adult. Vessels.—The brain and spinal cord are very moderately supplied with blood by small arteries which enter their substance from the pia mater, and divide into branches at acute angles. In the medullary substance they form a network of fine capillaries with wide meshes ; but the network is closer and the capillaries more abundant in the grey substance. The ganglia of the nerves possess a delicate capillary plexus which pervades their structure, encircling each cell in a special web; the arteries of the nerves are more scanty and for the most part longitudinal, forming an open network with elongated interstices, which invests the fasciculi but does not penetrate to the nerve-fibres. In the Pacinian corpuscles, blood- vessels reach the interior of the central cavity. The Nervous system may be divided for convenience of descrip- tion into, 1. The brain. 2. The spinal cord. 3. The cranial nerves. 4. The spinal nerves. 5. The sympathetic system. THE BRAIN. The brain is a collective term which signifies those parts of the nervous system, exclusive of the nerves themselves, which are con- tained within the cranium ; they are, the cerebrum, cerebellum, and medulla oblongata. * These are invested and protected by the mem- branes of the brain, and the whole together constitute the ence- phalon (iv KecpaXr), within the head). MEMBRANES OE THE ENCEPHALON. Dissection.—To examine the encephalon with its membranes, the upper part of the skull must be removed, by sawing through the ex- * The average weight of the human brain is three pounds for the male, and four or five ounces less for the female; the medium weight for the male ranging between forty-six and fifty-three ounces, and for the female between forty-one and forty-seven. Cuvier's brain weighed sixty-four ounces, and Dupuytren's sixty-three and a half.