PELVIS RENALIS. URETER. 666 the red particles of blood. ' Respecting the capillary venous plexus, we have proof that the principal proximate constituents of urine, such as urea, lithic acid, &c, are, like the bile, derived from venous (portal) blood. The Veins of the kidney commence at the surface by minute con- verging venules, the stellated vessels, in the cortical substance where they form the interlobular veins, and in the pyramids of Malpighi, where they constitute the venulce rectce; proceeding from these three sources, they unite to form the branches of the renal vein, which terminates in the vena cava by a single large trunk at each side ; the' left renal vein receiving the left spermatic vein. Injec- tions thrown into the renal artery, and returning by the tubuli uriniferi, make their way into those tubes by rupture. The lym- phatic vessels accompany the deep blood-vessels, and terminate in the lumbar glands. The Nerves are derived from the renal plexus, which is formed partly by the solar plexus, and partly by the third splanchnic nerve. The renal plexus gives branches to the spermatic plexus, and branches which accompany the ureters: hence the morbid sympathies which exist between the kidney, ureter, and testicle : and by communications with the solar plexus, with the stomach and diaphragm, and indeed with the whole system. In the inti- mate structure'of the kidney, the nerve-fibres are, according to Toynbee, continuous with the nucleated cells of the parenchyma of the organ. The cavity of the Tcidney is occupied by a membranous bag, the pelvis renalis, which gives off three processes, the infundibula, one for each extremity, and one for the middle of the organ ; and the infundibula give off smaller processes termed calices, which embrace the papillse and form a separate pouch around each ; the calyx being firmly attached to the base of the papilla and con- tinuous with the fibrous capsule. Externally the sac of the pelvis renalis contracts into its excretory duct, the ureter. •The Ureter (odpov, urine ; rripetv, to keep) is a membranous tube, of about the diameter of a goose-quill, and nearly eighteen inches in length, continuous superiorly with the pelvis of the kidney, and constricted inferiorly, where it lies in an oblique direc- tion between the muscular and mucous coat of the base of the bladder, and opens on its mucous surface. Lying along the pos- terior wall of the abdomen, it is situated behind the peritoneum, and is crossed by the spermatic vessels ; in its course downwards it rests against the anterior surface of the psoas, and crosses the common iliac artery and vein, and then the external iliac vessels. Within the pelvis it crosses the hypogastric cord and vas deferens in the male ; and runs by the side of the cervix uteri and upper part of the vagina in the female. There are sometimes two ureters to one kidney. The ureter, the pelvis, the infundibula, and the calices are composed of three coats, external or fibrous, middle or