POSTERIOR FEMORAL REGION. 278 angular muscle, forming a septum of division between the muscles situated on the anterior and those on the posterior aspect of the thigh. It arises by fleshy fibres from the ramus of the pubes and ischium and from the side of the tuber ischii; and radiating in its passage outwards, is inserted into the whole length of the linea aspera, and inner condyle of the femur. The adductor magnus is pierced by five openings; the three superior, for the three per- forating arteries ; the fourth, for the termination of the profunda. The fifth is the large oval opening, in the tendinous portion of the muscle, that gives passage to the femoral vessels. Relations.—By its anterior surface with the pectineus, adductor brevis, adductor longus, femoral artery and vein and profunda artery and vein, with their branches. By its posterior surface with the semi-tendinosus, semi-membranosus, biceps, and gluteus maxi- mus. By its inner border with the gracilis and sartorius. By its upper border with the obturator externus, and quadratus femoris. The Gracilis (slender; rectus internus) is situated along the inner border of the thigh. It arises by a broad but very thin tendon, from the body of the os pubis along the edge of the sym- physis, and from the margin of the ramus of the pubes and ischium ; it is inserted by a rounded tendon into the inner tuberosity of the tibia, beneath the expansion of the sartorius. Relations.—By its inner or superficial surface with the fascia lata, and below with the sartorius and internal saphenous nerve ; the internal saphenous vein crosses it lying superficially to the fascia lata. By its outer or deep surface with the adductor longus, brevis, and magnus, and the internal lateral ligament of the knee- joint, from which latter it is separated by a synovial bursa common to it and the tendons of the gracilis and semi-tendinosus. . Actions.—The iliacus, psoas, pectineus, and adductor longus muscles bend the thigh upon the pelvis, and at the same time, from the obliquity of their insertion into the lesser trochanter and linea aspera, rotate the limb outwards ; the pectineus and adductors adduct the thigh powerfully, and from the manner of their inser- tion into the linea aspera, assist in rotating the limb outwards. The gracilis is an adductor of the thigh; but contributes to the flexion of the leg, by its attachment to the inner tuberosity of the tibia. Posterior Femoral Region. Biceps femoris, Semi-tendinosus, Semi-membranosus. ♦ Dissection. —Eemove the integument and fascia from the posterior part of the thigh by two flaps, as on the anterior region, and turn aside the gluteus maximus from the upper part; the muscles may then be examined. The Biceps femoris (bis, double, K€<pa\r), head; flexor cruris externus vel fibularis) arises by two heads, one (caput longum) by