643 SEROUS COAT OF THE INTESTINE. most numerous along the free border of the intestine ; and the circular fibres are more or less oblique in direction. At the termi- nation of the ileum the circular fibres are continued into the two folds of the ileo-csecal valve, while the longitudinal fibres pass onwards to the large intestine. In the Large intestine, the longitudinal fibres commence at the appendix vermiformis, and are collected into three bands, anterior, broad ; and two posterior and narrower bands. These bands, the ligamenta coli, are nearly one-half shorter than the intestine, and serve to maintain the sacculated structure of the caecum and colon. In the descending colon the posterior bands usually unite and form a single band. From this point the bands are continued down- wards upon the sigmoid flexure to the rectum, around which they spread out and form a thick and very muscular longitudinal layer. The circular fibres in the caecum and colon are thin ; in the rectum they are thicker, and near its lower extremity are aggregated into the thick muscular band which is known as the internal sphincter ani. Between the latter and the mucous membrane are several narrow fasciculi of longitudinal muscular fibres, somewhat more than an inch in length, which have been described by Horner of Philadelphia. The muscular fibres of the alimentary canal are of the smooth kind, excepting at the commencement and termination, where they are striated ; the striated fibres form the chief bulk of the muscular coat of the oesophagus, as far as the thorax, they then become smooth, first in the circular and then in the longitudinal layer. In the lower fourth, the smooth muscular fibres predominate, but a few isolated striated fibres are met with as low down as the cardia. In the lower part of the rectum, the striated fibres again make their appearance, and increase in numbers to its extremity. Serous coat.—The pharynx and oesophagus have no covering of serous membrane, but in its place a strong fibrous membrane com- posed of areolar tissue and elastic fibres. The alimentary canal within the abdomen has a serous layer, derived from the peri- toneum. The Stomach is completely surrounded by peritoneum, excepting along the line of attachment of the great and lesser omentum. The first or oblique portion of the duodenum is also completely included by the serous membrane, with the exception of the points of attach- ment of the omenta. The descending portion has only a partial covering on its anterior surface, derived from the right meso-colon. The transverse portion is also behind the peritoneum, being situated between the two layers of the transverse meso-colon, and has but a partial covering. The rest of the small intestine is completely invested by it, excepting along the concave border, margo mesen- terialis, to which the mesentery is attached. The cazcum is more or less invested by the peritoneum, the more frequent disposition t t 2