326 SUPERIOR THYROID ARTERY. Branches.—The branches of the external carotid, ten in number, may be arranged into three groups, anterior, posterior, and ascend- ing. They are as follow : A nterior. Posterior. Superior thyroid, Sterno-mastoid, Lingual, Occipital, Facial. Posterior auricular. Ascending. Ascending pharyngeal, Temporal, Parotidean, Internal maxillary. The anterior branches arise from the commencement of the ex- ternal carotid, within a short distance of each other. The lingual and facial bifurcate, not unfrequently, from a common trunk. The Superior thyroid artery (thyroidea superior), the first of the branches of the external carotid, arises from that trunk just below the great cornu of the os hyoides, and curves downwards to the thyroid gland. It is distributed by several large branches (rami thyroidei) to the anterior part of the gland, and anastomoses with its fellow of the opposite side, and with the inferior thyroid arteries. In its course it passes beneath the omo-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and sterno-byoid muscle. Branches.—Hyoid, Inferior laryngeal, Superior laryngeal, Muscular. The Hyoid branch passes forward beneath the thyro-byoideus, and is distributed to the depressor muscles of the os hyoides near their insertion. The Superior laryngeal (laryngea superior) pierces the thyro- hyoidean membrane, in company with the superior laryngeal nerve, and supplies the mucous membrane and muscles of the larynx, sending a branch upwards to the epiglottis. The Inferior laryngeal (crico-tbyroidea) is a small branch which crosses the crico-thyroidean membrane along the lower border of the tbyroid cartilage. It sends branches through tbat membrane to supply the mucous lining of the larynx, and inosculates with its fellow of the opposite side. The Muscular branches (rami musculares) are distributed to the depressor muscles of the os hyoides and larynx. One of these branches crosses the sheath of the common carotid to the under surface of the sterno-mastoid muscle. The Lingual artery (lingualis) ascends obliquely from its origin; it then passes forwards parallel with the great cornu of the os hyoides ; thirdly, it ascends to the under surface of the tongue ; and