552 MEIBOMIAN GLANDS. its looseness and absence of adipose substance; it is particularly- liable to serous infiltration. The fibres of that portion (palpebralis) of the orbicularis muscle which covers the eyelids are thin and pale. The Tarsal cartilages are two thin lamellae of fibro-cartilage about an inch in length, which give form and support to the eyelids. The superior is of a semi- Fig. 208.* lunar form, about one-third of an inch in breadth at its middle, and tapering to each extremity. Its lower border is broad and flat, its upper thin and gives attachment to the levator palpebrse and to the fibrous membrane of the lids. The Inferior Hbro-carti- lage is an elliptical band, narrower than the superior, and situated in the sub- stance of the lower lid. Its upper border is flat, and corresponds with the flat edge of the upper cartilage. The lower is held in its place by the fibrous membrane. Near the inner canthus, the tarsal cartilages terminate, at the commencement of the lacus lachrymalis, and are attached to the margin of the orbit by the tendo oculi. At their outer extremity they terminate at a short distance from the angle of the canthus, and are retained in position by means of a decussation of the fibrous structure of the broad tarsal ligament, called the external palpebral or external tarsal ligament. The Fibrous membrane of the lids is firmly attached to the peri- osteum, around the margin of the orbit, by its circumference, and to the tarsal cartilages by its central margin. It is thick and dense for the outer half of the orbit, but becomes thin to its inner side. Its use is to retain the tarsal cartilages in their place and give sup- port to the lids ; hence it is named the broad tarsal ligament. The Meibomian glands^ are embedded in the substance of the cartilages, and are distinctly seen on examining the inner aspect * Appendages of the eye. 1. Superior tarsal cartilage. 2. Lower border of the cartilage on which are seen the openings of the Meibomian glands. 3. Inferior tarsal cartilage; along the upper border of this cartilage the openings of the Meibomian glands are likewise seen. 4. Lachrymal gland; its superior or orbital portion. 5. Inferior or palpebral portion. 6. Lachrymal ducts. 7. Plica semilunaris. 8. Caruncula lachrymalis. 9. Puncta lachry- malia of the lachrymal canals. 10. Superior lachrymal canal. 11. Inferior lachrymal canal. 12. Lachrymal sac. 14. Dilatation of the nasal duct, where it opens into the inferior meatus of the nose. 15. Nasal duct, t Henry Meibomius " De Vasis Palpebrarum Novis," 1666.