421 LYMPHATICS OP THE VISCERA. pelvis, and loins, terminate by several large trunks in the recepta- culum chyli. LYMPHATICS OP THE VISCERA. Lungs.—The Lymphatic vessels of the lungs, of large size, are distributed over every part of the surface, unci through the texture of those organs : they converge to the bronchial glands, ten or twelve in number, situated around the bifurcation of the trachea and roots of the lungs. Some of these glands, of small size, may be traced in connexion with the bronchial tubes into the substance of the lungs. The efferent vessels from the bronchial glands unite with the tracheal and oesophageal glands, and terminate principally in the thoracic duct at the root of the neck, and partly in the ductus lymphaticus dexter. The bronchial glands, in the adult, present a variable tint of brown, and in old age a deep black colour. In in- fancy they have none of this pigment, and are not to be distinguished from lymphatic glands in other situations. Heart.—The Lymphatic vessels of the heart originate in the subserous areolar'tissue of the surface, and in the deeper tissues of that organ, and follow the course of the vessels, principally, along the right border of the heart to the glands situated around the arch of the aorta and to the bronchial glands, whence they proceed to the root of the neck, and terminate in the thoracic duct. The cardiac glands are three or four in number. The pericardiac and thymic lymphatic vessels proceed to join the anterior mediastinal and bronchial glands. ^ Liver.—The Lymphatic vessels of the liver are divisible into, deep and superficial. The former take their course through the portal canals, and through the right border of the lesser omentum, to the lymphatic glands situated in the course of the hepatic artery and along the lesser curve of the stomach. The superficial lym- phatics are situated in the ai'eolar structure of the proper capsule, over the whole surface of the liver. The lymphatics of the convex surface are divided into two sets :—1. Those which pass from before backwards ; 2. Those which advance from behind forwards. The former unite to form trunks, which enter between the folds of the lateral ligaments at the right and left extremities of the organ, and of the coronary ligament in the middle. Some of these pierce the diaphragm and join the posterior mediastinal glands ; others con- verge to the lymphatic glands situated around the inferior cava. Those which pass from behind forwards consist of two groups : one ascends between the folds of the broad ligament, and perforates the diaphragm, to terminate in the anterior mediastinal glands ; the other curves around the anterior margin of the liver to its concave surface, and from thence to the glands in the right border of the lesser omentum. The lymphatic vessels of the concave surface are variously distributed, according to their position ; those from the right lobe terminate in the lumbar glands ; those from the gall-