113 METATARSAL BONES.—PHALANGES. prismoid, and compressed from side to side; the posterior extremity, or base, is square-shaped, to articulate with the tarsal bones, and with each other ; the anterior extremity presents a rounded head, circumscribed by a neck, to articulate with the first row of the phalanges. Peculiar Metatarsal Bones.—The first is shorter and larger than the rest, and forms part of the inner border of the foot; its posterior extremity presents only one lateral articular surface, and an oval rough prominence beneath, for the insertion of the tendon of the peroneus longus. The anterior extremity has, on its plantar surface, two grooved facets, for sesamoid bones. The second is the longest and largest of the remaining metatarsal bones ; it presents at its base three articular facets, for the three cuneiform bones ; a large oval facet, but often no articular surface on its inner side, to articulate with the metatarsal bone of the great toe, and two externally, for the third metatarsal bone. The third may be known by two facets on the inner side of its base, corresponding with the second, and may be distinguished by its smaller size. The fourth may be distinguished by its smaller size, and by having a single articular surface on each side of the base. The fifth is recognised by its broad base, and by the large tube- rosity at its outer side. Development.—Each bone by two centres ; one for the body and one for the digital extremity in the four outer metatarsal bones ; and one for the body, the other for the base, in the metatarsal bone of the great toe. Ossification appears in these bones at the same time as in the vertebrae ; the epiphyses commencing with the great toe and proceeding to the fifth, appear towards the close of the second year, consolidation being effected at eighteen. Articulations.—With the tarsal bones by one extremity, and first row of phalanges by the other. The number of tarsal bones with which each metatarsal articulates from within outwards, is the same as between the bones of the metacarpus and carpus, one for the first, three for the second, one for the third, two for the fourth, and one for the fifth, forming the cipher 13121. Attachment of Muscles.—To fourteen: to the first, peroneus longus and first dorsal interosseous ; to the second, two dorsal interossei and transversus pedis ; to the third, two dorsal and one plantar in- terosseous, adductor pollicis and transversus pedis ; to the fourth, two dorsal and one plantar interosseous, adductor pollicis and trans- versus pedis ; to the fifth, one dorsal and one plantar interosseous, peroneus brevis, peroneus tertius, adductor minimi digiti, flexor brevis minimi digiti, and transversus pedis. Phalanges.—There are two phalanges in the great toe and three in the other toes, as in the hand. They are long bones, divisible into a central portion and extremities. i