452 LATERAL VENTRICLES. is grey on the exterior, and of a pyriforni shape. The broad end, directed forwards, rests against the corpus striatum of the opposite side : the small end, backwards, is separated from its fellow by the interposition of the thalami optici. The corpora striata are the superior ganglia of the cerebrum. The Tenia semicircular is (tenia, a fillet) is a narrow band of medullary substance, extending along the posterior border of the corpus striatum, and serving as a bond of connexion between that body and the thalamus opticus. It is transparent and dense at the surface, and received from Tarinus* the name of horny band. The tenia is partly concealed by a large vein (vena corporis striati), which receives numerous small veins from the corpus striatum and thalamus opticus, and terminates in the vena Graleni of its own side. The Thalamus opticus (thalamus, a bed) is an oblong body, having a thin coating of white substance on its surface ; and has received its name from giving origin to one root of the optic nerve. It is the inferior ganglion of the cerebrum. Part only of the thala- mus is seen in the floor of the lateral ventricle; we must, therefore, defer its further description until we can examine it in its entire extent. The Choroid plexus (xo/nof, elbos, resembling the chorion)f is a vascular fringe extending obliquely across the floor of the lateral ventricle, and sinking into the middle cornu. Anteriorly, it is small and tapering, and communicates with the choroid plexus of the opposite ventricle, through a large oval opening, the foramen of Monro, or foramen commune anterius. This foramen may be seen by pulling slightly on the plexus, and pressing aside the septum lucidum with the handle of the knife. It is situated between the under surface of the fornix, and the anterior extremities of the thalami optici, and forms a communication transversely between the lateral ventricles, and perpendicularly with the third ventricle. The choroid plexus presents on its surface a number of minute vascular processes, which are termed villi. They are invested by an epithelium consisting of a single layer of nucleated polygonal cells surmounted by cilia, which have been seen in motion in the embryo. Besides the nucleus the cells contain numerous yellow granules and one or two dark oil drops ; and, according to Henle, give off from their angles spine-like processes, which are connected with the bed of homogeneous areolar tissue on which they rest. The vessels composing the plexus are connected by a transparent interstitial substance without areolar tissue ; and the latter is often interspersed with calcareous particles. Sometimes the plexuses pi-esent on their surface an assemblage of small serous cysts. * Peter Tarin, a French anatomist; his work, entitled "Adversaria Anato- raica," was published in 1750. t See the note appended to the description of the choroid coat of the cy ball.