531 CERVICAL GANGLIA. cavernous sinus ; it communicates with the facial and auditory- nerve, through the medium of the petrosal branch of the Vidian ; and with the glossopharyngeal by means of two filaments to the tympanic nerve. CERVICAL PORTION OP THE SYMPATHETIC NERVE. The superior cervical ganglion is long and fusiform, of a reddish- grey colour, smooth, and of considerable thickness, extending from within an inch of the carotid foramen in the petrous bone to oppo- site the lower border of the third cervical vertebra. It is in relation, in front, with the sheath of the internal carotid artery and internal jugular vein ; and, behind, with the rectus anticus majur muscle. Its branches are divisible into superior, inferior, external, and internal; to which may be added, as proper to this ganglion, anterior. The superior (carotid nerve) is a single branch which ascends by the side of the internal carotid, and divides into two branches ; one lying to the outer, the other to the inner side of that vessel. The two branches enter the carotid canal, and, by their communications with each other and with the carotid branch of the Vidian, consti- tute the 'carotid plexus. The inferior or descending branch, sometimes two, is the cord of communication with the middle cervical ganglion. The external branches are numerous, and may be divided into two sets; those which communicate with the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumogastric, and hypoglossal nerve ; and those which communi- cate with the first four cervical nerves. The internal branches are three in number ; pharyngeal, to as- sist in forming the pharyngeal plexus ; laryngeal, to join the supe- rior laryngeal nerve and its branches ; and, superior cardiac nerve, or nervus superficialis cordis. The anterior branches accompany the external carotid artery with its branches, around which they form plexuses, and here and there small ganglia ; they are named, from the softness of their texture, nervi molles, and from their reddish hue. nervi subrufi. The branches accompanying the facial artery are conducted by that vessel to the submaxillary ganglion, and those which accompany the internal maxillary artery reach the otic ganglion through the medium of the arteria meningea media. The Middle cervical ganglion (thyroid ganglion) is small, and sometimes wanting. It is situated opposite the fifth cervical ver- tebra, and rests against the inferior thyroid artery. This relation is so constant, as to have induced Haller to name it the '' thyroid ganglion." Its superior branch, or branches, ascend to communicate with the superior cervical ganglion. Its inferior branches descend to join the inferior cervical ganglion; m m 2