STRUCTURE OF MUSCLE. 168 ration of the ultimate fibre into fibrils, it breaks when stretched, into transverse segments, corresponding with the dark lines of the striae, and consequently with the constrictions of the fibrillae. amount of adhesion, endways or sideways, existing between the segments. Generally, in a recent fasciculus, there are transverse striae, showing divisions into disks, and longitudinal striae, marking its composition by fibrillae." Bowman has observed that in the substance of the ultimate fibre there exist minute '1 oval or circular disks, frequently concave on one or both surfaces, and containing, somewhere near the centre, one, two, or three minute dots or their number, relatively to the bulk of the fasciculi, at these two epochs, remains nearly the same," Bowman believes that, " during development, and subsequently, a further and successive deposit of corpuscles " takes place. The corpuscles are bi'ought into view only when the muscular fibre is acted upon by a solution of "one of the milder acids, as the citric." * Ultimate fibre, in which the transverse splitting into disks, in the direction of the constrictions of the ultimate fibrils, is seen. After Bowman. t Mass of ultimate fibres from the pectoralis major of the human foetus, at nine months. These fibres have been immersed in a solution of tartaric acid, and their " numerous corpuscles, turned in various directions, some presenting nucleoli," are shown. After Bowman. Fig. 103* Where this division occurs with the greatest facility, the longi- tudinal lines are indistinct, or scarcely perceptible. "In fact," says Bowman, "the primitive fas- ciculus seems to consist of primi- tive component segments or par- ticles, arranged so as to form, in one sense, fibrillae, and in another sense, disks: and which of these two may happen to present itself to the observer, will depend on the Fig. 104.t granules." Occasionally they pre- sent irregularities of form, which he regards as accidental. They are situated between and connected with the fibrils, and distributed in pretty equal numbers through the fibre. These corpuscles are the nuclei of the nucleated cells out of which the muscular fibre was originally developed. Observ- ing, however, that their "abso- lute number is far greater in the adult than in the foetus, while