485 GUSTATORY NERVE. directly backwards behind the articulation of the lower jaw. It then ascends between that articulation and the meatus auris, and, escaping from beneath the parotid gland, divides into two temporal branches. While behind the temporo-maxillary articulation, it forms a kind of plexus, and sends off several branches. Its branches are, a small branch to the temporo-maxillary articu- lation ; two or three to the parotid gland ; two to the meatus auris, which enter the canal between the fibro-cartilage and processus auditorius ; two aux-icular branches to the pinna ; a communicating branch to the otic ganglion ; two communicating branches to the facial nerve, and the temporal branches. The auricular branches, superior and inferior, are distributed to the pinna above and below the meatus. The inferior branch communicates with the sympathetic. The branches which communicate with the facial nerve embrace the external carotid artery in their course. The temporal branches are anterior and posterior ; the anterior accompanies the anterior temporal artery, and supplies the integu- ment of the temporal region, communicating with branches of the facial, supra-orbital, subcutaneus malse and lachrymal nerve; the posterior is distributed to the upper part of the pinna, attrahens aurem muscle, and integument of the posterior part of the temple. The Inferior dental nerve, the largest of the three branches of the internal division of the inferior maxillary, passes downwards with the inferior dental artery, at first between the two pterygoid muscles, then between the internal lateral ligament and ramus of the lower jaw, to the dental foramen, next it runs along the canal in the inferior maxillary bone, distributing branches (inferior maxil- lary plexus) to the teeth and gums, and divides into two terminal branches, incisive and mental. The branches of the inferior dental nerve, besides those given to the teeth, are the mylo-hyoidean and the two terminal branches. The Mylo-hyoidean branch leaves the nerve just as it is about to enter the dental foramen ; it then pierces the insertion of the inter- nal lateral ligament, and descends along a groove in the bone to the inferior surface of the mylo-hyoid muscle, to which, and to the anterior belly of the digastricus, it is distributed. The Incisive branch is continued forward to the symphysis of the jaw, to supply the incisor teeth. The Mental or labial branch emerges from the jaw at the mental foramen, beneath the depressor anguli oris, and divides into branches which supply the muscles and integument of the lower lip and chin, and communicate with the facial nerve. The Gustatory nerve descends between the two pterygoid muscles, and makes a gentle curve forwards to the side of the tongue, along which it takes its course to the tip. On the side of