354 ULNAR ARTERY. the interosseous muscle by the perforating branch fror .he deep palmar arch. . , The Dorsales pollicis are two small branches which run along the sides of the dorsal aspect of the thumb. The Dorsalis indicis is a very small branch which runs along the radial border of the metacarpal bone and phalanges of the index finger. The Princeps pollicis, the great artery of the thumb, passes along the metacarpal bone of the thumb, between the first dorsal interosseous (abductor indicis) and flexor brevis pollicis to the base of the first phalanx ; and, between the two heads of the latter muscle, in the groove of the tendon of the flexor longus, it divides into two collateral branches for the palmar borders of the thumb. The Radialis indicis, the digital branch of the radial side of the index finger, is directed inwards, between the abductor indicis and flexor brevis and adductor pollicis, to the side of the finger, along which it runs, forming its radial collateral artery. Near its origin it gives off a small branch (more frequently a direct branch of the radial), which inosculates with the superficial palmar arch. The Inter ossece palmares, three or four in number, are branches of the deep palmar arch ; they pass forward upon the interossei muscles, and inosculate with the digital branches of the superficial arch, opposite the heads of the metacarpal bones. The P erf or antes, three in number, pass directly backwards between the heads of the dorsal interossei muscles, and inosculate with the dorsal interosseous arteries. The Recurrent branches of the deep palmar arch pass upwards in front of the wrist-joint, and inosculate with the arterial arch formed by the anterior carpal arteries. ULNAR ARTERY. The Ulnar artery (ulnaris; cubitalis), the other and larger division of the brachial, crosses the forearm obliquely to the com- mencement of its middle third ; it then runs down the ulnar side of the forearm to the wrist, crosses the annular ligament into the hand, and forms the superficial palmar arch (arcus volaris superfi- cialis), which terminates by inosculating with the superficialis VOl 86. Relations.—In the upper or oblique portion of its course it lies upon the brachialis anticus and flexor profundus digitorum, and is covered in by the superficial layer of muscles of the forearm and median nerve. In the second part of its course, it is placed upon the flexor profundus and pronator quadratus, lying between the flexor carpi ulnaris and flexor sublimis digitorum. While crossing the annular ligament it is protected from injury by a strong ten- dinous arch, thrown over it from the pisiform bone ; and in the palm it rests on the tendons of the flexor sublimis, being covered