32 TEMPORAL BONE. than its tipper wall, and directed obliquely inwards and forwards. The canal is narrower at tympani. The Petrous portion of the temporal bone is named from its ex- treme hardness and density. It is a three-sided pyramid, project- ing horizontally forwards into the base of the skull, the base being applied against the internal surface of the squamous and mastoid portions, and the apex being received into the triangular interval between the spinous process of the sphenoid and the basilar process of the occipital bone. For convenience of description it is divisible into three surfaces, anterior, posterior, and basilar ; and three bor- ders, superior, anterior, and posterior. The anterior surface, forming the posterior boundary of the middle fossa of the interior of Fig 21 f the base of the skull, 6 presents for examina: * Section of the temporal bone, right side, showing the curved direction of the meatus auditorius externus. 1. Edge of the processus auditorius. 2. Groove into which the membrana tympani is inserted. The obliquity of the line from 2 to 3 indicates the oblique termination of the meatus, and the consequent oblique direction of the membrana tympani. 4, 4. Cavity of the tympanum. 5. Opening of the Eustachian tube. 6. Part of the aquseductus Fallopii. 7. Part of the carotid canal. t Left temporal bone, seen from within. 1". Squamous portion. 2. Mastoid Fhj. 20* the middle than at the extremities, is broadest in its horizontal diameter, and terminates at the outer wall of the tympanum by an abrupt oval border. Within the margin of this border is a groove for the insertion of the membrana tion from base to apex, firstly an eminence caused by the projec- tion of the perpendicu- lar semicircular canal; next, a groove leading to an irregular oblique opening, the hiatus Fallopii, for the trans- mission of the petrosal branch of the Vidian nerve; thirdly, another and smaller oblique foramen, immediately beneath the preceding, for the passage of the