127 LIGAMENTS OF THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN. Fig. 75.* the imbricated position of the The Intervertebral substance (ligamentum intervertebrals) is a lenticular disk of fibrous cartilage, interposed between the bodies of the vertebrae from the axis to the sacrum, and retaining them firmly in connexion with each other. It varies in thickness in different parts of the column, and at different points of the same disk, being thickest in the lumbar region, deepest in front in the cervical and lumbar region, and behind in the dorsal region ; and contributes to the formation of the natural curves of the vertebral column. The aggregate thickness of the intervertebral substance has been esti- mated at one-fourth that of the entire vertebral column, exclusive of the sacrum and coccyx. When the intervertebi al substance is bisected either horizontally or vertically, it is seen to be composed of a series of layers of dense fibrous tissue, separated by interstices filled with the softer kind. The central part of each intervertebral disk is wholly made up of this softer fibrous cartilage, which has the appearance of pulp, and is so elastic as to rise above the level of the section as soon as its division is completed. Examined from the exterior, the layers •are found to consist of fibres passing obliquely between the two ver- tebrae, in one layer passing from left to right, in the next from right to left, alternating in each successive layer. Arches.—The ligamenta subflava are two thin planes of yellow fibrous tissue, situated between the arches of the vertebrae, from the axis to the sacrum. From laminae, they are attached to the posterior surface of the vertebra below, and the ante- rior surface of the arch of the vertebra above, being sepa- rated from each other at the middle line by a slight inter- space. They counteract, by their elasticity, the efforts of the flexor muscles of the trunk; and, preserving the upright position of the spine, limit the expenditure of muscular force. They are longest in the cervical and thickest in the lumbar region. The ligamenta subflava are in relation by both surfaces with the meningo-rachidian veins, and, internally, are separated from the dura mater of the spinal cord by those veins and some loose cellular and adipose tissue. * Internal view of the arches of three vertebrae. To obtain this view the laminae have been divided through their pedicles. 1. One of the ligamenta subflava. 2. The capsular ligament of one side.