614 PERITONEUM. Meso-rectum, Recto-vesical fold, False ligaments of the bladder. And. in the female, the— Broad ligaments of the uterus. The ligaments of the liver will be described with that organ. The Lesser omentum (gastro-hepatic) is the duplicature which passes between the liver and the upper border of the stomach. It is extremely thin, excepting at its right border, where it is free, and contains between its layers, the— Hepatic artery, Portal vein, Ductus communis choledochus, Lymphatics, Hepatic plexus of nerves. These structures are enclosed in a loose areolar tissue, called Glisson's capsule* The relative position of the three vessels is, the artery to the left, the duct to the right, the vein between and behind. If the finger be introduced behind this right border of the lesser omentum, it will be situated in an opening called the foramen of Winslow. f In front of the finger will lie the right border of the lesser omentum ; behind it, the diaphragm, covered by the ascend- ing or posterior layer of the peritoneum ; below, the hepatic artery, curving forward from the coeliac axis; and above, the lobus Spigelii. These, therefore, are the boundaries of the foramen of Winslow, which is nothing more than a constriction of the general cavity of the peritoneum at this point, arising out of the necessity for the hepatic and gastric arteries to pass forwards from the coeliac axis to reach their respective viscera. If air be blown through the foramen of "Winslow, it will descend behind the lesser omentum and stomach to the space between the descending and ascending pair of layers, forming the great omentum. This is sometimes called the lesser cavity of the peri- toneum, and that external to the foramen the greater cavity; in which case the foramen is considered as the means of communi- cation between the two. It may be objected to this division that it tends to lead the inexperienced to believe that there are two cavities, while, in reality, there is but one, the foramen of Winslow being merely a constriction of that one, to facilitate the communi- * Francis Glisson, Professor of Medicine in the University of Cambridge. His work," De Anatomia Hepatis," was published in 1654. t Jacob Benignus Winslow: his " Exposition Anatomique de la Structure du Corps Humain" was published in Paris in 1732.