HYPOGASTRIC PLEXUS. 536 and part of the spermatic plexus, and terminates below in the hypogastric plexus. It likewise distributes branches on the inferior vena cava. The Spermatic plexus is derived from the renal plexus, but re- ceives filaments from the aortic plexus. The Inferior mesenteric plexus is derived chiefly from the aortic plexus. LUMBAR PORTION OP THE SYMPATHETIC NERVE. The lumbar portion of the trunk of the sympathetic is situated on the vertebral column, close to the anterior border of the psoas magnus muscle. It is continuous above, under the edge of the diaphragm, with the thoracic portion of the nerve, and below it descends upon the sacrum, in front of the anterior sacral foramina, to the coccyx. It presents four small ganglia and an intermediate cord. The Lumbar ganglia, four in number at each side, of a pearly grey colour and fusiform shape, are situated on the anterior part of the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae. The branches of the lumbar ganglia are branches of communica- tion and branches of distribution. The external or communicating branches, two or three in number from each ganglion, and longer than in the other regions, commu- nicate with the lumbar nerves. The internal or visceral branches consist of two sets; the upper pass inwards in front of the abdominal aorta, and join the aortic plexus; the lower cross the common iliac arteries, and unite over the promontory of the sacrum, to form the hypogastric plexus. The Hypogastric plexus is formed by the termination of the aortic plexus, and by the union of branches from the lower lumbar ganglia. It is situated over the promontory of the sacrum, between the two common iliac arteries, and bifurcates inferiorly into two lateral portions, inferior hypogastric plexuses, which communicate with branches from the third and fourth sacral nerves. It distri- butes branches to the viscera of the pelvis, and sends filaments which accompany the branches of the internal iliac artery. SACRAL PORTION OF THE SYMPATHETIC NERVE. The Sacral ganglia are four or five in number at each side. They are situated on the sacrum, close to the anterior sacral foramina, and resemble the lumbar ganglia in form and mode of connexion, although much smaller in size. The external or communicating branches are two from each ganglion, which pass outwards to communicate with the anterior sacral nerves and with the coccygeal nerve. The internal or visceral branches communicate very freely with