ELBOW JOINT. 145 Anterior, Internal lateral, Posterior, External lateral. The anterior ligament is a broad and thin membranous layer, descending from the anterior surface of the humerus immediately above the joint, to the coronoid process of the ulna and orbicular ligament. It is connected on each side with the lateral ligaments; and is composed of Fig. 88.* fibres which pass in three different directions, vertical, transverse, and oblique, the latter being extended downwards and outwards to the orbicular ligament, into which they are inserted inferiorly. This ligament is covered in by the brachial]'s anticus muscle. The posterior ligament is a broad and loose layer passing between the posterior surface of the humerus and the anterior sur- face of the base of the olecranon, and con- nected at each side with the lateral liga- ments. It is covered in by the tendon of the triceps. The internal lateral ligament (brachio- cubitale)is a thick triangular layer, attached above, by its apex, to the internal condyle of the humerus; and below, by its expanded border, to the margin of the greater sigmoid cavity of the ulna, extending from the coro- noid process to the olecranon. At its in- sertion it is intermingled with some trans- verse fibres ; and posteriorly is in relation with the ulnar nerve. . The external lateral ligament (brachio- radiale) is a strong and narrow band, which descends from the external condyle of the humerus, to be inserted into the orbicular ligament and the ridge on the ulna with which the posterior part of the latter ligament is connected. This ligament is closely united with the tendon of origin of the supinator brevis muscle. The synovial membrane is extensive, and is reflected from the cartilaginous surfaces of the bones upon the inner surface of the ligaments. It surrounds inferiorly the head of the radius, and forms an articulating sac between it and the lesser sigmoid notch. The muscles immediately surrounding, and in contact with, the * Ligaments of the elbow joint; inner side. 1. Anterior ligament. 2. In- ternal lateral ligament. 3. Orbicular ligament. 4. Oblique ligament. 5. Inter- osseous ligament. 6. Internal condyle of the humerus, which conceals the posterior ligament. L