Flexor brevis pollicis.—flexor brevis minimi digiti. 291 nected with them must be removed, to see clearly the attachments of the third layer. The F lexor brevis pollicts arises by a pointed tendinous pro- cess from the side of the cuboid, external cuneiform bone, and expanded tendon of the tibialis posticus ; it is inserted by two heads into the base of the first phalanx of the great toe. Two sesamoid bones are developed in the tendons of insertion of these two heads, and the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis lies in the groove between them. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the abductor pollicis, tendon of the flexor longus pollicis, and plantar fascia. By its deep surface with the tarsal bones, metatarsal bone of the great toe, and insertion of the tendon of the peroneus longus. By its inner border with the abductor pollicis ; and by its outer border with the adductor pollicis; with both of which muscles it is blended near its insertion. The Adductor pollicis arises from the cuboid bone, the sheath of the tendon of the peroneus longus, and the base of the third and fourth metatarsal bones. It is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the great toe, in conjunction with the outer head of the flexor brevis pollicis. Relations.—By its superficial surface with, the tendons of the flexor longus ajnd flexor brevis digitorum, musculus accessorius, and lum- bricales. By its deep surface with the tarsal bones and ligaments, external plantar artery and veins, interossei muscles, tendon of the peroneus longus, and metatarsal bone of the great toe. By its inner border with the flexor brevis pollicis; with which its fibres are blended. The Transversus pedis arises by fleshy slips, from the heads of the metatarsal bones of the four lesser toes. It passes transversely inwards to be inserted, into the base of the first phalanx of the great toe, its tendon being blended with that of the adductor pollicis. The transversus pedis is regarded by some anatomists as a short head of the adductor pollicis; in its action it is obviously an ad- ductor ; while the adductor pollicis is as much a flexor as an adductor. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the tendons of the flexor longus and flexor brevis digitorum, and lumbricales. By its deep surface with the interossei and ligaments of the metatarso- phalangeal articulations. The Flexor brevis minimi digiti arises from the base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe, and the sheath of the tendon of the peroneus longus. It is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the little toe at its outer side. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the tendons of the flexor longus and flexor brevis digitorum, the fourth lumbricalis, abductor minimi digiti, and plantar fascia. By its deep surface with the plantar interosseous muscle of the fourth metatarsal space, and the fifth metatarsal bone. u 2