VESSELS OP THE KIDNEYS. 665 part of the cortical substance, surrounding each of the pyramids of Malpighi with a fine ramification of small vessels. From this rami- fication are given off small arteries which pass outwards between the cortical fasciculi, and have received the name of interlobulares ; and from the interlobular arteries the small afferent arteries pro- ceed, which enter the Malpighian bodies and constitute the glome- rulus. In the Malpighian body the afferent artery divides into from five to eight branches, and each of these branches into a bundle of capillaries, and the latter, re-uniting in the same manner, con- stitute the efferent vessel. The efferent vessel, quitting the Malpighian body by the side of the afferent artery, divides into capillary vessels, which form a rich capillary plexus throughout the whole of the cortical substance, and eventually terminate in the renal veins. Those efferent vessels which are nearest to the base of the pyramids take a straight course (arteriolar rectce) between the tubuli recti, and giving off but few branches in their course, also pass into a capillary plexus which surrounds the tubuli and terminates in the venulce rectce. Bowman, who regards the efferent vessels, not as arteries, but as veins, remarks that "there are in the kidney two perfectly distinct systems of capillary vessels, through both of which the blood passes in its course from the arteries into the veins ; the first, that" which forms the vascular tuft in the Malpighian bodies, and is "in immediate connexion with the arteries ; the second, that enve- loping the convolutions of the tubes, and communicating directly with the veins. The efferent ves- sels of the Malpighian bodies, that carry the blood between these two systems, may collectively be termed the portal system of the kidney." The inferences drawn by Bowman from his investigations are, that the capillary tufts of the Malpighian bodies are the part of the kidney specially acted on by diuretics; that they are the medium by which water, certain salts, and other sub- stances, pass out of the system ; that they are, moreover, the means of escape of certain morbid pro- ducts, suGh as sugar, albumen, and * Plan of the renal circulation; after Bowman, a. Branch of the renal artery giving off several Malpighian twigs. 1. An afferent twig to the capillary tuft contained in the Malpighian body, m; from the Malpighian body the uriniferous tube is seen taking its tortuous course to t. 2, 2. Efferent vessels; that which proceeds from the Malpighian body is smaller than the correspond- ing artery, p, p. The capillary plexus, ramifying on the uriniferous tube. This plexus receives its blood from the efferent vessels, 2, 2, and transmits it to the branch of the renal vein, v. Fig. 267.*