SEMI-TENDINOSUS. 279 Fig. 134. a common tendon with the semi-tendinosus from the upper and back part of the tuber ischii; the other (caput breve) muscular and much shorter, from the lower two- thirds of the external border of the linea aspera. The biceps forms the outer hamstring, and is inserted by a strong tendon into the head of the fibula; one portion of the tendon being continued downwards into the fascia of the leg, and another being attached to the outer tuberosity of the tibia. Relations.—By its superficial or posterior surface with the gluteus maximus and fascia lata. By its deep or anterior surface with the semi-membranosus, adductor mag- nus, vastus externus, from which it is separated by the external inter- muscular fascia, great ischiatic nerve, popliteal artery and vein, and near its insertion the external head of the gastrocnemius, and plantaris. By its inner border with the semi- tendinosus, and in the popliteal space with the popliteal artery and vein. The Semi-tendinosus, remarkable for its long tendon, arises in common with the long head of the biceps, from the upper and back part of the tuberosity of the ischium : the two muscles being closely united for se- veral inches below their origin. It is inserted into the inner tuberosity of the tibia, immediately below the insertion of the tendon of the graci- lis, and sends an expansion to the fascia of the leg. Relations. — By its superficial swface with the gluteus maximus, fascia lata, and at its insertion * Muscles of the posterior femoral and gluteal region. 1. Gluteus medius. 2. Gluteus maximus. 3. Vastus externus covered in by fascia lata. 4. Long head of biceps. 5. Short head. 6. Semi-tendinosus. 7, 7. Semi-membranosus. 8. Gracilis'. 9. Part of the inner border of the adductor magnus. 10. Edge of sartorius. 11. Popliteal space. 12. Gastrocnemius; its two heads. The tendon of the biceps forms the outer hamstring; the sartorius with the tendons of the gracilis, semi-tendinosus, and semi-membranosus, the inner hamstring.