PALATE BONES. 48 It is divisible into an external and internal surface, and four pro- cesses, frontal, orbital, maxillary, and zygomatic. The external surface is smooth and convex, and pierced by several small openings, which give passage to filaments of the temporo-malar nerve and minute arteries. The internal surface is concave, partly smooth and partly rough; smooth where Fig. 3i .* it forms part of the temporal fossa, and rough where it ar- ticulates with the superior maxillary bone. Thefrontalprocess ascends perpendicularly to form the outer border of the orbit, and articulate with the external angular process of the frontal bone. The orbital process is a thick plate, which projects inwards from the frontal process, and unites with the great ala of the sphenoid to constitute the outer wall of the orbit. It is pierced by several small foramina for the passage of temporo- malar filaments of the superior maxillary nerve. The maxillary process is broad, and articulates with the superior maxillary bone. The zygomatic process, narrower than the rest, projects backwards to unite with the zygoma of the temporal bone. Development.—By a single centre ; in rare instances by two or three. In many animals the malar bone is permanently divided into two portions, orbital and malar. Ossification commences in the malar bone soon after the vertebrae. Articulations.—With four bones; three of the cranium, frontal, temporal, and sphenoid; and one of the face, superior maxillary. Attachment of Muscles.—To five: levator labii superioris pro- prius, zygomaticus minor and major, masseter, and temporal. Palate Bone.—The palate bones are situated at the posterior part of the nares, where they enter into the formation of the palate, side of the nose, and posterior part of the floor of the orbit; hence they might be named the palato-naso-orbital bones. Each bone re- sembles in general form the letter L, and is divisible into a hori- zontal plate, a perpendicular plate, and a pterygoid process or tuberosity. * Malar bone of the right side. 1. External surface. 2. Opening for an artery and nerve. 3. Frontal process. 4. Outer border of the orbit. 5. In- ferior border of the orbit. 6, 6. Maxillary process. 7. Zygomatic process. 8. Sweep to which the temporal fascia is attached. 9, 9. Lower border of the bone, from which the deep portion of the masseter muscle arises.