LIGAMENTS OF THE LARYNX. 596 The Cuneiform cartilages are two small cylinders of yellow fibro-cartilage, about seven lines in length, and enlarged at each extremity. By the lower end, or base, the cartilage is attached to the middle of the external surface of the arytenoid, and by its upper extremity forms a prominence in the border of the aryteno- epiglottidean fold of membrane. They are sometimes wanting. In the male, the cartilages of the larynx are more or less ossified, particularly in old age. The Epiglottis (e7n.y\a}TTi.s, upon the tongue) is a fibro-cartilage of a yellowish colour, studded with a number of small mucous glands, which are lodged in shallow pits on its surface. It is shaped like a cordate leaf, and placed immediately in front of the opening of the larynx, which it closes completely when the larynx is drawn up beneath the base of the tongue. It is attached by its point to the receding angle of the thyroid cartilage. Ligaments.—The ligaments of the larynx are numerous, and may be arranged into four groups : 1. Those which articulate the thyroid with the os hyoides. 2. Those which connect it with the cricoid. 3. Ligaments of the arytenoid cartilages. 4. Ligaments of the epiglottis. 1. The ligaments which connect the thyroid cartilage with the os hyoides are three in number. Two Thyro-hyoidean ligaments pass between the superior cor- nua of the thyroid and the extremities of the greater cornua of the os hyoides : a sesamoid bone or cartilage is found in each. The Thyro-hyoidean- membrane is a broad membranous layer, occupying the entire space between the upper border of the thyroid cartilage and the upper and inner border of the os hyoides. It is pierced by the superior laryngeal nerve and artery. 2. The ligaments connecting the thyroid to the cricoid cartilage are also three in number :— Two Capsular ligaments, with their synovial membranes, which form the articulation between the inferior cornua of the thyroid and the sides of the cricoid ; and the crico-thyroidean membrane. The Crico-thyroidean membrane is a fan-shaped layer of yellow elastic tissue, thick in front (middle crico-thyroidean ligament) and thinner at each side (lateral crico-thyroidean ligament). It is at- tached by its apex to the lower border and receding angle of the thyroid cartilage, and by its expanded margin to the upper border of the cricoid and base of the arytenoid cartilages. Superiorly it is continuous with the inferior margin of the chords vocales. The front of the crico-thyroidean membrane is crossed by a small artery, the inferior laryngeal, and is the spot selected for the operation of laryngotomy. Laterally it is covered in by the crico-thyroidei and crico-arytenoidei laterales muscles. 3. The ligaments of the arytenoid cartilages are eight in number :— Two Capsular ligaments, with synovial membranes, which arti-