305 FASCIiE OP THE UPPER EXTREMITY. the chief cause of its advance into the scrotum and lower part of the abdomen. The posterior portion of the perineal fascia (fascia analis ; ischio- rectal, Velpeau) lines the deep fossa (excavatio perinei) which surrounds the anus and levator ani muscles, and is bounded exter- nally by the ischia and internal obturator muscles, and behind by the glutei maximi, the ischio-rectal fossa. The ischio-rectal fascia is continuous with the anterior portion of the fascia perinei in front; invests the levatores ani as high as their origin, and the ob- turator fascia at each side, and is attached to the tuberosities of the ischia and great sacro-ischiatic ligaments. In the ischio-rectal fossa the two layers of the superficial fascia are separated by the masses of fat which fill that cavity. The deep perineal fascia (ligamentum triangulare ; perineale ; Camper's ligament) is a thin layer of aponeurosis stretched across the anterior portion of the outlet of the pelvis; it is attached at each side to the pelvic border of the ramus of the pubes and ischium as far back as the origin of the erector penis muscle. Anteriorly, it is convex and closely connected with the subpubic ligament; while, posteriorly, it is concave, and turns forward around the pos- terior border of the transversi perinei muscles, to become conti- nuous with the superficial perineal fascia. At its middle, it is about an inch and a half in depth ; at one inch below the pubic arch, it is pierced by the membranous portion of the urethra, and nearer the pubic arch, by the dorsal vein of the penis and internal pudic arteries. Directly behind the triangular ligament are situated the compres- sor urethrse muscle, the arteries of tbe bulb, and Cowper's glands, and more deeply the pelvic fascia, which has been described as a posterior layer of the deep perineal fascia. FASCIJ3 OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. The superficial fascia of the upper extremity contains between its layers the superficial veins and lymphatics, and superficial nerves. The deep fascia is thin over the deltoid and pectoralis major muscle, and in the axillary space, but thick on the dorsum of the scapula, where it binds down the infraspinatus muscle. It is at- tached to the clavicle, coracoid process, acromion process, and spine of the scapula, and forms separate sheaths for all the muscles of the scapula and shoulder. In the upper arm (fascia brachialis) it is somewhat stronger, receives fibres from the lower border of the tendon of the pectoralis major, latissimus dorsi, as also from the costo-coracoid membrane and deltoid, and forms an anterior and posterior sheath for the muscles lying in front of and behind the humerus. It is attached to the condyloid ridges, by means of the internal and external intermuscular septum (ligamenta intermus- x