FASCIA TRANSVERSALIS.—OBLIQUE INGUINAL HERNIA. 299 becomes thinner as it ascends, and is gradually lost in the sub- serous areolar tissue. It is attached inferiorly to the reflected margin of Poupart's ligament and to the crest of the ilium ; inter- nally, to the pectineal line and border of the rectus muscle ; and, at the inner part of the femoral arch, is continued beneath Poupart's ligament, and forms the anterior segment of the crural canal, or sheath of the femoral vessels. The internal abdominal ring (annulus inguinalis internus, vel posterior) is situated in this fascia, at about midway between the symphysis pubis and anterior superior spine of the ilium, and half an inch above Poupart's ligament; it is oval in form, and bounded on its inDer side by a well-marked falciform border, but is ill- defined around its outer margin. From the circumference of this ring is given off an infundibuliform process which surrounds the testicle and spermatic cord, constituting the fascia propria of the spermatic cord, and forms the first investment to the sac of oblique inguinal hernia. It is the strength of the transversalis fascia, in the interval between the tendon of the rectus and the internal abdominal ring, that defends the parietes against the frequent occurrence of direct inguinal hernia. Inguinal hernia.—Inguinal hernia is of two kinds, oblique and direct. In oblique inguinal hernia the intestine escapes from the cavity of the abdomen into the spermatic canal (canalis inguinalis) through the internal abdominal ring, pressing before it a pouch of peritoneum which constitutes the hernial sac, and distending the infundibuliform process of the transversalis fascia. After emerging through the internal abdominal ring it passes firstly beneath the lower and arched border of the transversalis muscle ; then beneath the lower border of the internal oblique muscle ; and finally through the external abdominal ring (annulus inguinalis externus, vel anterior) in the aponeurosis of the external oblique. From the transversalis muscle it receives no investment; while passing be- neath the lower border of the internal oblique it obtains the cremas- ter muscle ; and on escaping at the external abdominal ring, receives the intercolumnar fascia. So that the coverings of an oblique in- guinal hernia, after it has emerged through the external abdominal ring, are, from the surface to the intestine, the Integument, Cremaster muscle, Superficial fascia, Transversalis, or infundibuliform Intercolumnar fascia, Peritoneal sac. fascia, The spermatic canal, which in the normal condition of the abdo- minal parietes serves for the passage of the spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament with its vessels in the female, is