159 ANKLE JOINT. of the fibula, and are crossed at an acute angle by a few fibres taking the opposite direction. The ligament is deficient above, leaving a considerable interval between the bones, through which the anterior tibial artery takes its course forward to the anterior aspect of the leg; and perforated belovj, near its lower third, for the anterior peroneal artery and vein. The interosseous membrane is in relation, in front, with the tibialis anticus, extensor longus digitorum, extensor proprius pollicis, anterior tibial vessels and nerve, and anterior peroneal artery; behind, with the tibialis posticus, flexor longus digitorum, and posterior peroneal artery. The inferior interosseous ligament consists of short and strong fibres, which hold the bones firmly together inferiorly, where they are nearly in contact. This articulation is so firm, that the fibula is broken when an attempt is made to rupture the ligament. The anterior inferior tibio-fibular ligament is a broad band, con- sisting of two fasciculi of parallel fibres which pass obliquely across the anterior aspect of the articulation of the two bones at their in- ferior extremity, from tibia to fibula. The posterior inferior tibio-fibidar liga- Fig. 96.* ment is a similar band on the posterior sur- face of the articulation. Both ligaments project somewhat below the margin of the bones, and serve to deepen the cavity of arti- culation with the astragalus. The transverse ligament is a narrow band of ligamentous fibres, continuous with the preceding, and passing transversely across the back of the ankle joint between the two malleoli. The synovial membrane of the inferior tibio-fibular articulation, is a duplicature of the synovial membrane of the ankle joint, reflected upwards for a short distance be- tween the two bones. Actions.—Between the tibia and fibula there exists a slight degree of movement, which is calculated to enable the latter to resist injury by yielding for a trifling extent to forcible pressure. 4. Ankle Joint.—The ankle is a ginglymoid articulation ; the surfaces entering into its formation are the under surface of the tibia with its malleolus and the malleolus of the fibula, above ; and * Posterior view of the ankle joint. 1. Lower part of the interosseous membrane. 2. Postero-inferior ligament connecting- the tibia and fibula. 3. Transverse ligament. 4. Internal lateral ligament. 5. Posterior fasciculus of the external lateral ligament. 6. Middle fasciculus of the external lateral ligament. 7. Synovial membrane of the ankle joint. 8. Posterior tuberosity of the os calcis.