524 ANTERIOR TIBIAL NERVE. placed between the abductor pollicis and flexor brevis digitorum ; it then enters the sheath of the latter muscle, and divides opposite the base of the metatarsal bones into three digital branches ; one to supply the adjacent sides of the great and second toe ; the second the adjacent sides of the second and third toe ; the third the cor- responding sides of the third and fourth toe. This distribution is precisely similar to that of the digital branches of the median nerve in the hand. In its course the internal plantar nerve gives off cutaneous branches to the integument of the inner side and sole of the foot; muscular branches to the muscles forming the inner and middle group of the sole ; a digital branch to the inner border of the great toe ; and articular branches to the articulations of the tarsal and metatarsal bones. The External plantar nerve, the smaller of the two, follows the course of the external plantar artery to the outer border of the musculus accessorius, beneath which it sends several deep branches to supply the adductor pollicis, interossei, transversus pedis, and the articulations of the tarsal and metatarsal bones. It then gives branches to the integument of the outer border and sole of the foot, and sends forward two digital branches to supply the little toe and half the next. The External popliteal nerve (n. peroneus) one-half smaller than the internal, passes downwards by the side of the tendon of the biceps, and crosses the inner head of the gastrocnemius and the head of the soleus, to the neck of the fibula, it then pierces the peroneus longus muscle, and divides into two branches, anterior tibial and musculo-cutaneous. The Branches of the external popliteal nerve are,, communicans peronei, cutaneous, and articular. The Communicans peronei, proceeding from the external pop- liteal near the head of the fibula, crosses the external origin of the gastrocnemius muscle, and, piercing the deep fascia, descends to the middle of the leg, where it joins the external saphenous nerve. It gives off one or two cutaneous filaments in its course. The Cutaneous branch passes down the outer side of the leg, supplying the integument. The Articular branches follow the external articular arteries to the knee-joint. The Anterior tibial nerve (n. interosseus, vel peroneus profun- dus) commences at the bifurcation of the external popliteal on the neck of the fibula, and passes beneath the upper part of the exten- sor longus digitorum, to reach the outer side of the anterior tibial artery, just as that vessel has emerged through the opening in the interosseous membrane. It descends the leg with the artery ; lying