CORPUS LUTEUM. 692 cular, is connected to the stroma of the ovary by means of a loose areolar tissue, and is composed of condensed immature areolar tissue. Externally, it is whitish and firm ; internally, reddish and soft. The epithelium consists of round or polygonal cells with large nuclei, and a greater or less number of fatty granules ; the cells quickly lose their definition after death, and then the epithe- lium assumes the appearance which has gained for it the name of membrana granulosa, namely, a granular layer with numerous nuclei. The membrana granulosa forms an uniform lining to the ovisac, excepting on the side nearest the surface of the ovary, where the cells are accumulated into a small eminence, termed cumulus proligerus or germinal eminence. This germinal emi- nence contains a minute globular nucleated vesicle, the ovulum. The fluid contents of the ovisac, liquor folliculi, are a clear yellowish fluid resembling serum, and a few free nuclei detached from the membrana granulosa. The ovulum or future ovum, measuring in its mature state about Y^jo- of an inch in diameter, is a globular vesicle consisting of a cell membrane, the membrana vitellina, a yelk or vitellus, and a vesi- cular nucleated nucleus, the vesicular nucleus being the germinal vesicle, and the nucleolus the germinal spot. The cell membrane is clear and transparent, and has received the name of zona pellu- cida, and the yelk yellowish and viscid, consisting of numerous minute granules intermingled with fat granules ; the fluid of the germinal vesicle is clear and colourless. As the ovisac attains maturity, it approaches nearer and nearer the capsule of the ovary, and pressing against the capsule renders it so thin that moderate pressure, such as that made by' the fimbriated extremity of the Fallopian tube, causes the protrusion and rupture both of the ovisac and the capsule of the ovary. By this rupture the ovulum is expelled, carrying with it the germinal eminence and part of the membrana granulosa, which in its new relation is termed the germinal disk, discus proligerus. The ovisac now emptied of its contents, is quickly filled with a san- guineous fluid, resulting from the tearing of its vessels, the internal portion of the tunica fibrosa becomes thickened and plicated, and converted into a yellow vascular tissue, while the external layer of the tunic retains its character of a white fibrous membrane. This is the corpus luteum, a yellowish mass with fast diminishing cavity, plicated structure, vascular, and enclosed in a thin fibrous layer. It retains these characters up to the second or third month of pregnancy, and then slowly diminishes in size, being gradually lost some months after parturition is complete, or reduced to a small whitish or dark coloured mass, corpus albicans vel nigrum. The corpora lutea, which are independent of pregnancy, false cor- pora lutea, disappear in the course of one or two months, and leave behind them a scarcely perceptible trace of their existence. Vessels and Nerves.—The Arteries of the ovaries are branches