227 TRANSVERSALIS. Poupart's ligament below. It should be divided behind by a vertical incision extending from the last rib to the crest of the ilium, as its lumbar attachment cannot at present be examined. The muscle is then to be turned forwards. Some degree of care will be required in performing this dissection, from the difficulty of distinguishing between this muscle and the one beneath. A thin layer of cellular tissue is all that separates them for the greater part of their extent. Near the crest of the ilium the circumflexa ilii artery ascends be- tween the two muscles, and forms a guide to their separation ; but just above Poupart's ligament they are so closely united, that sepa- ration is impossible. The Transversalis (lumbo-abdominalis) is the internal flat muscle of the abdomen ; and is transverse in the direction of its fibres, as implied in its name. It arises from Poupart's ligament, somewhat less than the outer half, from the anterior two-thirds of the internal lip of the crest of the ilium ; from the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae through the medium of the posterior aponeurosis, and from the inner surface of the six inferior costal cartilages. The superior fibres, proceeding from the cartilage of the seventh rib, are inserted into the ensiform cartilage ; the inferior fibres, proceeding from Poupart's ligament, curve down- wards to be inserted by means of a tendinous expansion common to it and ihe internal oblique, the conjoined tendon of the internal oblique and transversalis, into the pectineal line of the pubes; while the fibres intermediate between these points terminate near the outer border of the rectus in an aponeurosis, which is continued onwards to the linea alba. The upper portion of the aponeurosis, closely united with the posterior lamella of the aponeurosis of the internal oblique, assists in forming the posterior wall of the sheath of the rectus, while the inferior portion, commencing at a point midway between the umbilicus and pubes, is continued with the undivided aponeurosis of the internal oblique in front of the rectus. The posterior aponeurosis of the transversalis divides into three lamellae, anterior, middle, and posterior, which constitute the fas cia lumborum. The anterior lamella, thin and membranous, is attached to the base of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebra?; the middle lamella, of considerable thickness, to their apices ; the posterior layer receives the attachment of the posterior aponeurosis of the internal oblique, and farther back, near the border of the erector spina?, becomes united with the aponeurosis of the latissimus dorsi. Between the anterior and middle lamella is lodged the quadratus lumborum ; and between the middle and pos- terior layer, the erector spina? and multifidus spina?, which are thus furnished with aponeurotic sheaths. Relations.—By its external surface with the internal oblique, the internal surface of the six lower ribs, and internal intercostal muscles. By its internal surface with the transversalis fascia, which separates it from the peritoneum, with the psoas magnus, the lower q2