SPINAL COSD. 471 having the vertebral artery and hypoglossal nerve passing in front and the spinal accessory nerve behind it, and the last opposite the first or second lumbar vertebra. Below this point the membrana dentata is lost in the filuin terminale of the pia mater. The use of this membrane is to maintain the position of the spinal cord in the midst of the fluid by which it is surrounded. The Spinal cord of the adult, somewhat less than eighteen inches in length, extends from the pons Varolii to opposite the first or second lumbar vertebra, where it terminates in a conical point, retained in position by the filum terminale ; in the child, at birth, the cone reaches the middle of the third lumbar vertebra, and in the embryo is prolonged as far as the coccyx. It presents a difference of diameter in different parts of its extent, and has three enlarge- ments. The uppermost of these is the medulla oblongata ; the next corresponds with the origin of the nerves destined to the upper extremities (brachial); and the lower enlargement (lumbar) is situ- ated near its termination, and corresponds with the attachment of the nerves which are intended for the supply of the lower limbs. The brachial enlargement is flattened from before backwards, and extends from the third cervical vertebra to the first dorsal; the lumbar enlargement is flattened from side to side, and is smaller than the brachial. . The spinal cord gives off near its termination that assemblage of nerves which has received the name of cauda equina ; the cauda equina being the roots of the lumbar and sacral nerves elongated by the growth of the spine, the ganglia of the posterior roots being held in connexion with the intervertebral foramina through which the nerves pass. In form, the spinal cord is a flattened cylinder, and presents on its anterior surface a fissure, which extends into the cord to the depth of one-third its diameter. This is the anterior median fissure. If the sides of this fissure be gently separated, they will be seen to be connected at the bottom by a layer of medullary substance, the anterior white commissure. In the middle line behind and corre- sponding with the fissura anterior is the posterior median fissure, which exists as a fissure only in the upper part of the cervical and in the lumbar portion of the cord. Between these points its place is occupied by a series of perforations which transmit the blood- vessels to the grey substance. It extends more deeply into the cord than the anterior fissure, and reaches the grey substance of the interior. These two fissures divide the medulla spinalis into two lateral portions, which are connected to each other by the white commissure which forms the bottom of the anterior fissure, and by a commissure of grey matter situated behind the former. On either side of the posterior median fissure is a slight line which bounds on each side the posterior median columns. These columns are most apparent at the upper part of the cord, in the medulla oblongata, where they have received the name of posterior pyramids, or funi- culi graciles.