366 INFERIOR MESENTERIC ARTERY. The Inferior mesenteric artery (mesenterica inferior), smaller than the superior, arises from the abdominal aorta, about two inches below the origin of the latter vessel, and descends between the layers of the left mesocolon, to the left iliac fossa, where it divides into three branches : Colica sinistra, Sigmoidea, Hsemorrhoidalis superior. The Colica sinistra (superior) is distributed to the descending colon ; it passes upwards and outwards behind the peritoneum, and divides into two branches, one of which (ramus anastomoticus) ascends to inosculate with the colica media, while the other descends to communicate with the sigmoid branch. The inosculation of the colica sinistra with the colica media is the largest arterial anasto- mosis in the body. The Sigmoid artery (colica sinistra inferior) passes obliquely outwards behind the peritoneum and divides into branches which form arches, and are distributed to the sigmoid flexure of the colon. The superior branch inosculates with the colica sinistra, the inferior with the superior hemorrhoidal artery. The Superior hemorrhoidal artery is the continuation of the inferior mesenteric. It crosses the ureter and left common iliac artery, and descending between the two layers of the mesorectum, is distributed to the rectum as far as its middle, anastomosing with the middle and inferior hemorrhoidal arteries. The Supra-renal (suprarenales; capsulares) are two small vessels which arise from the aorta immediately above the renal arteries, and are distributed to the supra-renal capsules. They are sometimes branches of the phrenic or of the renal arteries. The Renal arteries (renales ; emulgentes) are two large trunks given off from the sides of the aorta immediately below the superior mesenteric artery; the right is longer than the left, on account of the position of the aorta, and passes behind the vena cava to the kidney of that side. The left is somewhat higher than the right. They divide into several large branches previously to entering the kidney, and ramify very minutely in its vascular portion. The renal arteries supply several small branches to the supra-renal capsules, and one to the ureter. The Lumbar arteries (lumbales) correspond with the inter- costals in the chest; they are four or five in number at each side, curve around the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae beneath the psoas muscles, and divide into two branches ; one, dorsal branch, passes backwards between the transverse processes, and is distributed to the vertebras and spinal cord and muscles of the back ; the other, parietal branch, taking its course behind the quadratus lumborum, supplies the abdominal muscles, and inosculates with branches of the internal mammary and epigastric artery. The first lumbar