330 POSTERIOR AURICULAR.—ASCENDING PHARYNGEAL. the temporal bone. It then ascends between tbe splenitis and com- plexus, pierces the trapezius, and is distributed to the back of the head (ramus occipitalis), anastomosing with the opposite occipital, posterior auricular, and temporal artery. The hypoglossal nerve curves around this artery opposite the angle of the jaw and near its origin from the external carotid. Branches.—It gives off several muscular branches (cervicales) to the sterno-inastoideus, digastricus, stylo-hyoideus, and deep muscles in its course, a small branch to the external ear, and two larger branches, inferior meningeal and princeps cervicis. The Inferior meningeal ascends by the side of the internal jugular vein, and passes through the foramen lacerum posterius, to be distributed to the dura mater. The Arteria princeps cervicis (cervicalis profundus superior) is a large and irregular branch. It descends the neck between the com- plexus and semi-spinalis colli, and inosculates with the cervicalis profunda of the subclavian and with branches of the vertebral. This branch is the means of establishing an important collateral circulation between the branches of the carotid and subclavian, after ligature of the common carotid artery. The Posterior auricular artery (auricularis posterior) arises from the external carotid, above the level of the digastricus and stylo-hyoideus muscle, and ascends by the side of the styloid pro- cess and behind the parotid gland, to the back part of the concha. It is distributed by two branches, to the external ear ramus auricularis, and side of the head ramus occipitalis, anastomosing with the occipital and temporal artery; some of its branches pass through fissures in the fibro-cartilage, to reach the anterior surface of the pinna. The anterior auricular arteries are branches of the temporal. Branches.—The posterior auricular gives off a branch to the digastricus muscle, and several branches to the parotid gland; it then gives off the stylo-mastoidea, which enters the stylo-mastoid foramen to be distributed to the aquaeductus Fallopii, labyrinth, mastoid cells, and tympanum; a twig accompanies the chorda tympani under the name of tympanica superior. The Ascending pharyngeal artery (pharyngea ascendens), the smallest of the branches of the external carotid, arises from that trunk near its origin, and ascends between the internal carotid and side of the pharynx to the base of the skull, where it divides into two branches; meningeal (meningea posterior), which enters the foramen lacerum posterius, to be distributed to the dura mater; and pharyngeal. It supplies the pharynx, tonsils, soft palate, and Eustachian tube. The Parotidean arteries (parotidese) are four or five large branches which are given off from the external carotid whilst in