SUPERIOR REGION OF THE SKULL. 57 angle of the parietal bones, the lambdoidal suture is continued on- wards in a curved direction to the base of the skull, and serves to unite the occipital bone with the mastoid portion of the temporal, under the name of adclitamentum suturce lambdoidalis. It is in the lambdoidal suture that ossa triquetra occur most frequently. The squamous suture (fig. 37) unites the squamous portion of the temporal bone with the greater ala of the sphenoid, and with the parietal, overlapping the lower border of the latter. The portion of the suture which is continued backwards from the squamous portion of the bone to the lambdoidal suture, and connects the mastoid portion with the posterior inferior angle of the parietal, is the additamentum suturce squamosce. The additamentum suturse lambdoidalis, and additamentum suturse squamosse, constitute together the mastoid suture. Across the upper part of the face is an irregular suture, the transverse, which connects the frontal bone with the nasal, superior maxillary, lachrymal, ethmoid, sphenoid, and malar bones. The remaining sutures are not sufficiently important to deserve parti- cular names or description. REGIONS OP THE SKULL. The1 skull, considered as a whole, is divisible into four regions : a superior region or vertex ; a lateral region; an inferior region or base ; and an anterior region, the face. The superior region, or vertex of the skull, is bounded ante- riorly by the frontal eminences ; on each side by the temporal ridge and parietal eminence : and behind by the superior curved line of the occipital bone and occipital protuberance. It is crossed trans- versely by the coronal suture, and marked from before backwards by the sagittal, which terminates posteriorly in the lambdoidal suture. Near the posterior extremity of the region, and on each side of the sagittal suture, is the parietal foramen. On the inner or cerebral surface of this region is a shallow groove extending along the middle line from before backwards, for the superior longitudinal sinus : at either side of this groove are several small fossae for the Pacchionian bodies, and further outwards, digital fossae corresponding with the convexities of the convolutions, and numerous ramified grooves for lodging the branches of the arteria meningea media. The lateral region of the skull is divisible into three portions ; temporal, mastoid, and zygomatic. The temporal portion, or temporal fossa, is bounded above and behind by the temporal ridge, in front by the external angular process of the frontal and by the malar bone, and below by the zygoma. It is formed by part of the frontal, great wing of the sphenoid, parietal, squamous portion of the temporal, malar bone,