124 ADIPOSE TISSUE.—SYNOVIAL. MEMBRANE. with each other by means of short oblique bands which unite with adjoining fibres at acute or obtuse angles without any enlargement of the fibre with which they are joined. This circumstance has given rise to the idea of the fibres giving off branches, an expression derived from the division of blood-vessels, and another term bor- rowed from the same source has been applied to their communication with each other, namely, inosculation ; but both these expressions in their literal meaning are incorrect. When yellow fibrous tissue is cut or torn, the fibres, in consequence of their elasticity, become clubbed and curved at the extremity, a special character of this tissue. Adipose tissue is composed of minute cells, aggregated together in clusters of various size within the areolae of common cellular tissue. The cells of adipose tissue are identical in manner of formation with other cells, being developed around nuclei, and increasing in size by the formation of fluid in their interior. In adipose cells, this fluid, instead of being albuminous as in other cells, is oleaginous, the oil at first appearing in separate globules, which subsequently coalesce into a single drop. The size of adipose cells at their full development is about -5^5-th of an inch in diameter; when isolated they are globular in form, but are hexagonal or poly- hedral when compressed. They are perfectly transparent, the cell- membrane being structureless and their nucleus disappearing as they attain their full size. Synovial membrane is a thin membranous layer, investing the articular extremities of bones, and the surface of the liga- ments which surround and enter into the composition of a joint. It resembles the serous membranes in being a shut sac (capsula synovialis), and secretes a transparent and viscous fluid, which is named synovia. Synovia is an alkaline secretion, contain- ing albumen and mucus, the albumen being coagulable at a boiling temperature. In some joints the synovial membrane is pressed into the articular cavity by a cushion of fat: this mass was called by Havers the synovial gland, from an idea of its being the source of the synovia ; it is found in the hip and knee joint. In the knee, moreover, the synovial membrane forms folds, which are improperly named ligaments, as the mucous and alar ligaments, the two latter being an appendage to the cushion of fat. Besides the synovial membranes entering into the composition of joints, there are numerous smaller sacs of a similar kind interposed between surfaces which move upon each other so as to cause friction ; they are often associated with the articulations. These are the bursas mucosa; they are shut sacs, analogous in structure to synovial membranes, and secreting a similar synovial fluid. The epithelium of synovial membranes is of the kind termed tesselated or pavement epithelium; it is developed in the same manner as the epithelium of other free surfaces, but presents only a single stratum of cells.