555 ORGAN OP HEARING. a valvular semilunar fold of the lining membrane. The superior duct at first ascends, and then turns suddenly inwards towards the sac, forming an abrupt angle. The inferior duct forms the same kind of angle, by descending at first, and then turning abruptly inwards. They are dense and elastic in structure, and, being con- stantly open, act like capillary tubes in absorbing the tears from the surface of the eye. The two fasciculi of the tensor tarsi muscle are inserted into these ducts, and serve to draw them inwards. The Lachrymal sac is the upper extremity of the nasal duct, and is scarcely more dilated than the rest of the canal. It is lodged in the gi'oove of the lachrymal bone, and is often distinguished inter- nally, from the nasal duct, by a semilunar or circular valve. The sac consists of mucous membrane, but is covered in and retained in its place by a fibrous expansion, derived from the tendon of the orbicularis, which is inserted into the ridge of the lachrymal bone ; it is also covered by the tensor tarsi muscle, which arises from the same ridge, and in its action on the lachrymal canals makes pressure on the lachrymal sac. The Nasal duct is a short canal, about three-quarters of an inch in length, directed downwards, backwards, and a little outwards to the inferior meatus of the nose, where it terminates by an expanded orifice. It is lined by mucous membrane, which is continuous with the conjunctiva above, and with the pituitary membrane of the nose below. Obstruction, from inflammation and suppuration of this duct, constitutes the disease termed fistula lachrymalis. Vessels and Nerves.—The lachrymal gland is supplied with blood by the lachrymal branch of the ophthalmic artery, and with nerves by the lachrymal branch of the ophthalmic nerve. ORGAN OF HEARING. The apparatus of hearing is composed of three parts, external ear, middle ear or tympanum, and internal ear or labyrinth. The External ear consists of two portions, the pinna and meatus ; the former representing a kind of funnel which collects the vibrations of the atmosphere producing sounds, and the latter a tube which conveys the vibrations to the tympanum. The Pinna presents a number of folds and hollows on its surface, which have different names assigned to them. Thus, the external folded margin is the helix a fold). The elevation parallel with and in front of the helix is the antihelix (clvtl, opposite). The pointed process, projecting like a valve over the opening of the ear, from the face, is the tragus (epdyos, a goat), probably from being sometimes covered with bristly hair like that of a goat ; and, a tubercle opposite this, is the antitragus. The lower dependent and fleshy portion of the pinna is the lobulus. The space between the helix and antihelix is named the fossa innominata (scaphoidea).