248 ACROMIAL REG-ION. with the subscapularis, latissimus dorsi, coraco-brachialis, short head of the biceps, axillary vessels, and nerves of the brachial plexus. By its upper border it is in relation with the teres minor, from which it is separated by the scapular head of the triceps; and, by the lovjer, forms, with the latissimus dorsi, the lower and posterior border of the axilla. A large triangular space exists between the two teres muscles, which is divided into two minor spaces by the long head of the triceps. Actions.—The supra-spinatus raises the arm from the side ; but feebly, from the disadvantageous direction of its force. The infra- spinatus and teres minor are rotators of the head of the humerus outwards. The most important use of these three muscles is the protection of the joint, and defence against displacement of the head of the humerus, in which action they co-operate with the subscapularis. The teres major combines, with the latissimus dorsi, in rotating the arm inwards, and at the same time carrying it towards the side, and somewhat backwards. . * A cromial Region. Deltoideus. The Deltoideus (A, delta ; eldos, resemblance ; attollens humeri; sub-acromio-humeralis) is the large triangular muscle which forms the convexity of the shoulder ; it arises from the outer third of the clavicle, from the acromion process, and from the whole length of the spine of the scapula. The fibres from this broad origin converge to the middle of the outer side of the humerus, where they are inserted into a rough triangular elevation. In structure the deltoideus is composed of seven fasciculi, four of which are fleshy above and tendinous below ; and three tendinous above and fleshy below. To bring the muscles beneath it into view, the deltoid must be cut away from its origin, and turned down ; in so doing, a large bursa will be seen between its under surface and the head of the humerus. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the brachial fascia, a few fibres of the platysma myoides, the superficial fascia, and integument. By its deep surface with the shoulder-joint (from which it is separated by a thin tendinous fascia and a synovial bursa), the coraco-acromial ligament, coracoid process, pectoralis minor, coraco-brachialis, both heads of the biceps, tendon of the pectoralis major, tendon of the supra-spinatus, infra-spinatus, teres minor, teres major, scapular and external head of the triceps, circumflex vessels anterior and posterior, and humerus. By its anterior border with the external border of the pectoralis major, from which it is separated by a cellular interspace, lodging the cephalic vein and descending branch of the thoracico-acromialis artery. Its posterior