416 LYMPHATICS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. tion appears to be composed of round, ovate, apparently glandular bodies, while the alveolar spaces of the medullary portion are filled with a greyish white alkaline pulp, containing free nuclei with homogeneous contents, pale nucleated cells, and larger cells with vesicular nuclei and nucleoli, and occasionally some fat granules. The areolar structure of the gland is traversed by vessels, which frequently enter its substance through a hilum-like spot, and di- viding into a capillary plexus in the walls of the alveoli, constitute, with the globular bodies of the cortex and the cells of the medulla, a porous glandular tissue, through which the lymph or chyle makes its way in its passage through the gland, and finally escapes by the vasa efferentia, carrying with it part of the cellular contents of the alveoli. * At their entrance into the gland the vasa inferentia ter- minate abruptly, and their contained fluid is emptied into the alveoli; and as the alveoli communicate freely with each other, forming so many fine anastomosing canals, it is enabled to make its way to the vasa efferentia, probably undergoing some important nutritive change in its course, and receiving the nuclei and nucleated cells of the pulp as its future lymph corpuscles, f The bronchial glands differ in appearance from other lymphatic glands, as being more or less mottled with black, and sometimes filled with a black pigment. Lymphatic glands are larger in the young subject than in the adult, and are smallest in old age ; they, as well as their A^essels, are supplied with arteries, veins, and nerves, like other structures. The vasa vasorum of lymphatics are the same as those of veins; but they are deficient of nerves. I shall describe the lymphatic vessels and glands according to the arrangement adopted for the veins, commencing with those of the head and neck, and proceeding next to those of the upper extremity, lower extremity, and trunk. LV/MPHATICS OP THE HEAD AND NECK. Glands.—The Superficial lymphatic glands of the head and face are small, few in number, and isolated ; they are, the occipital, which are situated near the origin of the occipito-frontalis muscle ; posterior auricular, behind the ear ; parotid, in the parotid gland; zygomatic, in the zygomatic fossa; buccal, on the buccinator muscle, and sub-maxillary, beneath the margin of the lower jaw. There are no deep lymphatic glands within the cranium. The Superficial cervical lymphatic glands are few in number and small; they are situated in the course of the external jugular vein, between the sterno-mastoid and trapezius muscle, at the root of the neck, and about the larynx. The Deep cervical glands (glandulse concatenatse) are numerous and of large size; they are situated around the internal jugular * Ludwig and Noll. t Briicke, 1853.