197 MUSCLES OF THE PHARYNX. are to be cut through at the lower part of the neck, and drawn upwards by dividing the loose cellular tissue which connects the back of the pharynx with the vertebral column. The saw is then to be applied behind the styloid processes, and the base of the skull sawn through. The vessels and loose structures should be removed from the preparation, and the pharynx stuffed with tow or wool for the purpose of distending it, and rendering the muscles more easy of dissection. The pharynx is invested by a proper pharyngeal fascia. The Constrictor inferior, the thickest of the three constrictor muscles, arises from the cricoid cartilage, and the oblique line of the thyroid. Its fibres spread out, and are inserted into the middle line of the pharynx, the inferior fibres being almost hori- zontal, the superior oblique and overlapping the middle constrictor. Relations.—By its external surface with the vertebral column, longus colli, sheath of the common carotid artery, sterno-thyroid muscle, thyroid gland, and some lymphatic glands. By its internal surface with the middle constrictor, stylo-pharyngeus, palato-pha- ryngeus, and mucous mem- brane of the pharynx. By its lower border, near the cricoid cartilage, it is in re- lation with the recurrent nerve ; ^nd by the upper border With the superior la- ryngeal nerve. The fibres of origin of this muscle are blended with those of the sterno-thyroid, thyro-hyoid, and crico-thyroid, and it frequently forms a tendi- nous arch across the latter; inferiorly it is blended with the circular fibres of the oesophagus. The muscle must be re- moved before the next can be examined. The Constrictor medius arises from the great cornu of the os hyoides, and from the lesser cornu. It radi- Fig. 113. * Side view of the muscles of the pharynx. 1. Trachea. 2. Cricoid carti- lage. 3. Crico-thyroid membrane. 4. Thyroid cartilage. 5. Thyro-hyoidean membrane. 6. Os hyoides. 7. Stylo-hyoidean ligament. 8. (Esophagus. 9. In- ferior constrictor. _ 10. Middle constrictor. 11. Superior constrictor. 12. Stylo- pharyngeus, passing down between the superior and middle constrictor. 13. Upper concave border of superior constrictor; at this point the muscular fibres of the pharynx are deficient. 14. Pterygo-maxillary ligament. 15. Buc- cinator. 16. Orbicularis oris. 17. Mylo-hyoideus.