142 SCAPULOCLAVICULAR LIGAMENTS. cartilage of the first rib. It is placed obliquely between the rib and under surface of the clavicle ; and is in relation, in front, with the tendon of origin of the subclavius muscle, and behind with the subclavian vein. The rupture of the rhomboid ligament in dislocation of the sternal end of the clavicle gives rise to the peculiar deformity of that ac- cident. The interarticular fibro-cartilage is nearly circular in form, and thicker at the edges than in the centre. It is attached above, to the clavicle ; below, to the cartilage of the first rib ; and throughout the rest of its circumference to the anterior and posterior sterno- clavicular ligament. It divides the joint into two cavities, which are lined by separate synovial membranes; is sometimes pierced through its centre, and not unfrequently deficient, to a greater or less extent, at its lower part. Actions.—The movements of the sterno-clavicular articulation are, a gliding movement of the fibro-cartilage with the clavicle, on the articular surface of the sternum, in the directions, forward, backward, upward, and downward; and circumduction. This articulation is the centre of the movements of the shoulder. 2. Scapuloclavicular Articulation. — The ligaments of the scapular end of the clavicle are, Superior acromio-clavicular, Inferior acromio-clavicular, Coraco-clavicular (trapezoid and conoid), Interarticular fibro-cartilage, Two synovial membranes. The superior acromio-clavicular ligament is a moderately thick plane of fibres passing between the extremity of the clavicle and the acromion, on the upper surface of the joint. The inferior acromio-clavicular ligament is a thin plane situated on the under surface. These two ligaments are continuous with each other in front and behind, and form a capsule around the arti- culation. The coraco-clavicular ligament (trapezoides, conoides) is a thick fasciculus of ligamentous fibres, passing obliquely between the base of the coracoid process and under surface of the clavicle, and hold- ing the end of the clavicle in firm connexion with the scapula. Seen from before, it has a quadrilateral form ; hence its name trapezoid; examined from behind, it is triangular, the base being upwards; hence its other name, conoid. The interarticular fibro-cartilage is often indistinct, from having partial connexions with the fibro-cartilaginous surfaces of the two bones between which it is placed ; and is not unfrequently absent. When partial, it occupies the upper part of the articulation. The