186 MUSCLES OF THE FACE. to be inserted into the ramus and angle of the lower jaw: it re- sembles the masseter in appearance and direction, and was named by Winslow, internal masseter. Relations.—By its external surface with the external pterygoid, inferior maxillary nerve and branches, internal maxillary artery and branches, internal lateral ligament, and ramus of the lower jaw. By its internal surface with the tensor palati, superior constrictor and fascia of the pharynx ; by its posterior border with the parotid gland. A ctions. —The maxillary muscles are the active agents in masti- cation, and form an apparatus admirably fitted for that office. The buccinator circumscribes the cavity of the mouth, and with the aid of the tongue keeps the food under the immediate pressure of the teeth. By means of its connexion with the superior constrictor, it shortens the cavity of the pharynx from before backwards, and be- comes an auxiliary in deglutition. The temporal, the masseter, and the internal pterygoid are the bruising muscles, drawing the lower jaw against the upper with great force. The two latter, from the obliquity of their direction, assist the external pterygoid in grinding the food, by carrying the lower jaw forward upon the upper ; the jaw being brought back again by the deep portion of the masseter and posterior fibres of the temporal. The whole of these muscles, acting in succession, produce a rotatory movement of the teeth upon each other, which, with the direct action of the lower jaw against the upper, effects the mastication of the food. 8. Auricular Group.— Attollens aurem, Attrahens aurem, Eetrahens aurem. Dissection.—The three small muscles of the ear may be exposed by removing a square of integument from around the auricula. This operation must be performed with care, otherwise the muscles, which are extremely thin, will be raised with the superficial fascia. They are best dissected by commencing with their tendons, and thence proceeding in the course of their radiating fibres. The Attollens aurem (superior auriculae), the largest of the three, is a thin triangular plane of muscular fibres, arising from the lateral portion of the galea aponeurotica and aponeurosis of the occipito-frontalis, at about the middle of the temporal ridge, and inserted into the convexity of the fossa triangularis of the pinna. It is in relation by its external surface with the integument, and by the internal with the galea aponeurotica and temporal fascia. The Attrahens aurem (anterior auriculae), also triangular, arises from the lateral portion of the aponeurosis of the occipito- frontalis above the zygoma, and is inserted into the spine of the helix. It is in relation by its external surface with the integument; and by the internal with the galea aponeurotica, temporal fascia, and temporal artery and veins.