470 SPINAL CORD. of its pointed extremity, to the coccyx. In the rest of its extent it is comparatively free, being connected, by a loose areolar tissue, to the walls of the spinal canal. In this areolar tissue there exists a quantity of reddish, oily, adipose substance, somewhat analogous to the marrow of long bones. On either side and below, the dura mater forms a sheath for each of the spinal nerves, to which it is closely adherent. Upon its inner surface it is smooth, being lined by the arachnoid ; and on its sides may be seen double openings for the two roots of each of the spinal nerves. The Arachnoid is a continuation of the serous membrane of the brain. It encloses the cord very loosely, being connected to it only by long slender filaments of areolar tissue, and by a longitudinal lamella which is attached to the posterior aspect of the cord. The areolar tissue is most abundant in the cervical region, and dimi- nishes in quantity from above downwards ; and the longitudinal lamella is complete only in the dorsal region. The arachnoid passes off from the cord on either side with the spinal nerves, to which it forms a sheath ; and is then reflected on the dura mater. A con- nexion exists in several places between the arachnoid and dura mater. The space between the arachnoid and the spinal cord is identical with that already described as existing between the same parts in the brain, the sub-araclinoidean space. It is occupied by a serous fluid, sufficient in quantity to expand the arachnoid, and fill completely the cavity of the dura mater. The sub-araclinoidean or cerebrospinal fluid keeps up a constant and gentle pressure on the entire surface of the brain and spinal cord, and yields with the greatest facility to the various movements of the cord, giving to those delicate structures the advantage of the principles so usefully applied by Dr. Arnott in the hydrostatic bed. The Pia mater is the immediate investment of the cord ; and, like the other membranes, is continuous with that of the brain. It is not, however, like the pia mater cerebri, a vascular membrane ; but is dense and fibrous in structure, and contains but few vessels. It invests the cord closely, and sends a duplicature into the anterior median fissure, and another, extremely delicate, into the posterior median fissure. It forms a sheath for each of the fasciculi of the nerves, and for the nerves themselves ; and, inferiorly, at the conical termination of the cord, is prolonged downwards as a slender liga- ment (filum terminate), which descends through the centre of the cauda equina, and is attached to the dura mater lining the canal of the coccyx. This attachment is a rudiment of the original extension of the spinal cord into the canal of the sacrum and coccyx. The pia mater has, distributed to it, a number of nervous plexuses. The Membrana dentata (ligamentum dentatum) is a thin process of pia mater sent off from each side of the cord throughout its entire length, and separating the anterior from the posterior roots of the spinal nerves. The number of serrations on each side is about twenty, the first being situated on a level with the occipital foramen, and