TRANSVERSA COLLI ARTERY. 345 The Supra-scapular artery (transversa scapulae ; scapularis superior) passes obliquely outwards behind the clavicle, and over the ligament of the supra-scapular notch, to the supra-spinatus fossa. It crosses in its course the scalenus anticus muscle, phrenie nerve, and subclavian artery ; is distributed to the muscles of the dorsum of the scapula, and inosculates with the posterior scapular, and beneath the acromion process with the dorsal branch of the sub- scapular artery. At the supra-scapular notch it sends a large branch outwards, which pierces the trapezius muscle, and becomes cutaneous at the tip of the shoulder (acromialis). The supra- scapular artery sometimes arises directly from the subclavian. Fig. 153. The Transversa colli artery (scapularis posterior) passes transversely across the subclavian triangle at the root of the neck, to the anterior border of the levator anguli sca- pula?, where it divides into two terminal branches, the cervicalis superficialis and posterior scapular. In its course it lies above the supra-scapular artery, and crosses the scaleni muscles and brachial plexus of nerves, often passing be- tween the latter. At its bifurcation it is covered in by the edge of the tra- pezius. The Cervicalis superfi- cialis artery (cervicalis posterior), its ascending branch, passes upwards under cover of the anterior border of the trapezius, and is distributed to the superficial muscles of the neck and deep cervical glands. The Posterior scapular artery (dorsalis scapulas, Tiedemann), the proper continuation of the transversa colli, passes backwards to the superior angle of the scapula, and then descends along the pos- terior border of that bone to its inferior angle, where it inosculates with the subscapular artery. In its course it lies under cover of the levator anguli scapulae and rhomboidei muscles, distributes branches * Branches of the right subclavian artery. 1. Arteria innominata. 2. Eight carotid. 3. First portion of the subclavian. 4. Second portion. 5. Third portion. 6. Vertebral artery. 7. Inferior thyroid. 8. Thyroid axis. 9. Cer- vicalis ascendens. 10. Cervicalis profunda. 11. Transversa colli. 12. Supra- scapular. 13. Internal mammary artery. 14. Superior intercostal.