696 MAMMARY GLANDS. The Mammae are situated in the pectoral region, and are sepa- rated from the pectoralis major muscle by a thin layer of super- • ficial fascia. Their base is somewhat elliptical, the long diameter corresponding with the direction of the fibres of the pectoralis major muscle ; and the left mamma is generally a little larger than the right. They exist in the male, but in a rudimentary state, unless excited into growth by some peculiar or morbid action, such as the loss or atrophy of the testes. Near the centre of the convexity of each mamma is a small pro- minence of the integument, called the nipple (mamilla), which is surrounded by an areola having a coloured tint. In females of fair complexion before impregnation, the colour of the areola is a delicate pink ; after impregnation, it enlarges and assumes a brownish hue, which deepens in colour as pregnancy advances ; and after the birth of a child, the brownish tint continues through life. The areola is furnished with a number of sebiparous glands, which secrete a peculiar fatty substance for the protection of the delicate integument around the nipple. During suckling these glands increase in size, and have the appearance of small pimples, projecting from the skin. At this period they serve by their secre- tion to defend the nipple and areola from the excoriating action of the mouth of the infant. In structure, the mamma is a compound racemose or conglome- rate gland, consisting of lobes, lobules, and gland-vesicles. The lobes, from 15 to 25 in number, have each a separate system of lobules and gland-vesicles, and a distinct excretory duct; hence, the mamma may be regarded as being composed of a number of separate glands, their excretory ducts converging to the mamilla, and terminating at its extremity by distinct apertures. The lobes are irregular in size and form, flattened, and bounded by rounded angles; they are made up of smaller lobes or lobules, and the lobules of other lobules still more diminutive, the smallest lobules consisting of round or pyriform gland-vesicles. The gland-vesicles, about of an inch in diameter, are com- posed of a structureless membrane, or membrana propria, lined with an epithelium of spheroidal nucleated cells. The gland-vesicles communicate with an excretory duct, and the excretory ducts of all the lobules unite to form a common excretory duct or canal for each lobe, ductus lactiferus, ductus galactophorus. The ductus lactiferus taking its course beneath the areola, dilates into an elongated sac or ampulla, sacculus vel sinus lactiferus, and reach- ing the base of the mamilla, contracts in size and bends outwards into that process to terminate at its extremity by a small aperture. At the point of escape from the lobe, the lacteal duct measures from one to two lines in diameter ; the lacteal sac is double that size : within the mamilla the duct measures between half a line and