CARDIAC VEINS. 409 receive the returning blood from the dorsal muscles and surrounding • structures, and transmit it, in part to the meningo-rachidian, and in part to the vertebral, intercostal, lumbar, and sacral veins. The Meningo-rachidian veins are situated between the dura mater spinalis and the vertebrae. They communicate freely with each other by means of a complicated plexus. In front they form twjo longitudinal trunks {longitudinal spinal sinuses), extending the whole length of the column on each side of the posterior common •ligament, and are joined on the body of each vertebra by transverse trunks, which pass beneath the ligament, and receive the large basi-vertebral veins from the interior of each vertebra. The meningo-rachidian veins communicate superiorly through the ante- rior condyloid foramina with the internal jugulars ; in the neck they pour their blood into the vertebral veins ; in the thorax, into the intercostals ; and in the loins and pelvis into the lumbar and sacral veins, the communications being made through the interver- tebral foramina. The Medulli-spinal veins are situated between the pia mater and arachnoid; they communicate freely with each other to form plexuses ; and send branches through the intervertebral foramina with each of the spinal nerves, to join the veins of the trunk. CARDIAC VEINS. The veins (cardiacse vel coronarise cordis) returning the blood from the substance of the heart are, the Great cardiac vein, Anterior cardiac veins, Posterior cardiac vein, Vense Thebesii. The Great cardiac vein (vena cordis magna ; coronaria magna) commences at the apex of the heart, and ascends along the anterior ventricular groove to the base of the ventricles; it then curves around the left auriculo-ventricular groove to the posterior part of the heart, where it terminates in the right auricle. It receives in its course the left cardiac veins from the left auricle and ventricle, and the posterior cardiac veins from the posterior ventricular groove. The Posterior cardiac vein (vena cordis media), frequently two in number, commences also at the apex of the heart, and ascends along the posterior ventricular groove, to terminate in the great cardiac vein. It receives the veins at right angles from the poste- rior aspect of the two ventricles. The Anterior pardiac veins (vense parvse), collect the blood from the anterior surface of the right ventricle ; one larger than the rest runs along the right border of the heart and joins the trunk formed by these veins, which curves around the right auriculo-ventricular groove, to terminate in the great cardiac vein near its entrance into the right auricle; others cross the groove, and open directly into the auricle. * The Vence Thebesii (vense niinimse) are numerous minute venules