SUPERIOK MAXILLARY BONES. 40 forms the lateral boundary, and articulates with the frontal and nasal bone. By its external surface it gives attachment to the levator labii superioris alseque nasi, and to the orbicularis palpe- brarum muscle. Its internal surface contributes to form the outer wall of the nares, and is marked transversely by a horizontal ridge (crista turbinalis superior), which divides it into two portions, one above the ridge irregular and uneven, for giving attachment to and completing the cells of the lateral mass of the ethmoid ; the other below, smooth and concave, corresponding with the middle meatus. The posterior border is thick and grooved for the nasal duct; while the prominent margin in front of that groove is continuous with the lower border of the orbit; this margin is marked by a small tubercle, which serves as a guide to the introduction of the knife in the ope- ration for fistula lachrymalis. The malar process, large and irregular, is situated at the angle of separation between the facial and zygomatic surface, and presents a triangular surface for articulation with the malar bone. The alveolar process forms the lower margin of the bone ; it is spongy and cellular in texture, and excavated into deep holes for the reception of eight teeth. The palate process is thick and strong, and projects horizontally inwards from the inner surface of the body of the bone. Superiorly, it is concave and smooth, and forms the floor of the nares; in- feriorly, it is also concave, but uneven, and assists in the formation of the roof of the palate. The latter surface is marked by a deep groove, which lodges the anterior palatine nerve and superior pala- tine artery. Its internal edge is raised into a ridge (crista nasalis), which, with a corresponding ridge in the opposite bone, forms a groove for the reception of the vomer. The prolongation of this ridge forwards beyond the level of the facial surface of the bone is the nasal spine. At the anterior extremity of its nasal surface is a foramen^ which leads into a canal formed conjointly by the two superior maxillary bones, the anterior palatine canal. The termi- nation of this canal is situated immediately behind the incisor teeth, hence it is also named the incisive foramen. Associated with the incisive canal are two smaller canals, the naso-palatine, which transmit the naso-palatine nerves. The naso-palatine canals are situated in the walls of the incisive canal, and terminate inferiorly in that canal, either by separate openings or conjoined. Development.—By four centres: one for the anterior part of the palate and incisive portion of the alveolar process (the permanence of this piece constitutes the intermaxillary bone of animals) ; one for that portion of the bone lying internally to the infraorbital canal and foramen ; one for that portion lying externally to the infra- orbital groove and canal; and one for the palate process. The superior maxillary bone is one of the earliest to show signs of ossifi- cation, this action beginning in the alveolar process, and being associated with the early development of teeth. The early develop-