283 POSTERIOR TIBIAL REGION. Posterior Tibial Region. Superficial Group. Gastrocnemius, Plantaris, Soleus. Dissection.—Make an incision from the middle of the popliteal space down the 136.* middle of the posterior part of the leg to the heel, bounding it inferiorly by a trans- verse incision passing between the two malleoli. Turn aside the flaps of integu- ment and remove the fasciae from the whole of this region : the gastrocnemius muscle will then be exposed. The Gastrocnemius (yavTpoKvriiAiov, the bellied part of the leg ; gemellus surse) arises by two heads (gemellus externus et internus) from the upper part of the two condyles of the femur, the inner head being the longest. They unite to form the beau- tiful muscle so characteristic of this region of the :limb. It is inserted, by means of the tehdo-Achillis, into the lower part of the posterior tuberosity of the os calcis, a synovial bursa being placed between the tendon and the upper part of the tuberosity. The gastrocnemius must be removed from its origin, and turned down in order to expose the next muscle. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the deep fascia of the leg, which separates it from the external saphenous vein, and with the external saphenous nerve. By its deep surface with the lateral portions of the posterior ligament of the knee-joint, the popliteus, plantaris, and soleus. The internal head of the muscle rests against the posterior surface of the internal condyle of the femur ; the external head against the outer side of the exter- nal condyle. In the latter a sesamoid bone is sometimes found. The Plantaris (planta, the sole of the * Superficial muscles of the posterior aspect of the leg. 1. Biceps, forming the outer hamstring. 2. Tendons forming the inner hamstring. 3. Popliteal space. 4, Gastrocnemius. 5,5. Soleus. 6. Tendo-Achillis. 7. Posterior tuberosity of the os calcis. 8. Tendons of the peroneus longus and brevis passing behind the outer ankle. 9. Tendons of the tibialis posticus and flexor longus digitorum passing into the foot behind the inner ankle.