618 TONSILS.—MUCOUS GLANDS OF THE MOUTH. mouth. It is continuous, superiorly, with the hard palate, and is composed of mucous membrane, palatine glands, and muscles. Hanging from the middle of its inferior border is a small rounded process, the uvula; and passing outwards from the uvula at each side are two curved folds of the mucous membrane, the arches or pillars of the palate. The anterior pillar (arcus palatinus inferior ; glosso-palatinus) is continued downwards to the side of the base of the tongue, and is formed by the prominence of the palato-glossus muscle. The posterior pillar (arcus palatinus superior ; pharyngo- palatinus) is prolonged downwards and backwards into the pharynx, being formed by the convexity of the palato-pharyngeus muscle. These two pillars, closely united, above, are separated below by a triangular interval or niche, in which the tonsil is lodged. The space included between the soft palate and the root of the tongue is the isthmus of the fauces. It is bounded above by the soft palate ; on each side by the pillars of the soft palate and tonsil; and below by the root of the tongue. It is the opening between the mouth and pharynx. The Tonsils (amygdalse) are two glandular organs, about half an inch in length, shaped like almonds, and situated between the anterior and posterior pillar of the soft palate, at each side of the fauces. They are composed of an assemblage of mucous follicles, which open on the surface by twelve or fifteen apertures. Exter- nally, they are invested by the pharyngeal fascia, which separates them from the superior constrictor muscle and internal carotid artery, and prevents an abscess from opening in that direction. In relation to surrounding parts, each gland corresponds with the angle of the lower jaw. The Mucous glands of the mouth (orales) are racemose or lobu- lated glands ; they are yellowish or whitish in colour, rounded or multangular in form, and situated in the submucous areolar tissue. The labial glands vary in size from half a line to one line and a half in diameter, and form an almost continuous layer around the mouth. The buccal glands are numerous, but smaller than the labial; a few of larger size being located near the aperture of Stenon's duct. The molar glands are placed between the masseter and buccinator, and pierce the latter with their ducts opposite the molar teeth. The palatine glands are situated in the posterior half of the hard palate and in the soft palate ; in the latter forming a layer several lines in breadth. They are also numerous but small on the posterior part of the soft palate. The lingual glands form a thick stratum in the sub-mucous tissue beneath the mucous follicles at the root of the tongue ; this layer extends completely across the tongue, and their ducts, several lines in length, open by infundi- buliform expansions, some into the mucous follicles, others into the foramen csecum, others into the fossse of the papilla? circumvallatee, and others between the papillae. Mucous glands of the same kind are also dispersed on other parts of the tongue, but are smaller and