PUDIC NERVE. 521 with the gluteal artery, through the great sacro-ischiatic foramen, and divides into a superior and an inferior branch. The superior branch follows the direction of the superior curved line of the ilium, accompanying the deep superior branch of the gluteal artery, and sends filaments to the gluteus medius and minimus. The inferior branch passes obliquely downwards and forwards between the gluteus medius and minimus, distributing numerous filaments to both, and terminates in the tensor vaginae femoris muscle. The Pudic nerve arises from the lower part of the sacral plexus and passes out of the pelvis through the great sacro-ischiatic foramen below the pyriformis muscle. It crosses the spine of the ischium, and re-entering the pelvis through the lesser sacro-ischiatic foramen, accompanies the internal pudic artery along the outer wall of the ischio-rectal fossa, lying inferiorly to the artery and enclosed in the same sheath. Near its origin it gives off the inferior hemorrhoidal nerve, and in the ischio-rectal fossa divides into a superior and in- ferior branch. The Inferior hemorrhoidal nerve, often a branch of the sacral plexus, passes through the lesser sacro-ischiatic foramen, and de- scends to the termination of the rectum to be distributed to the sphincter ani and integument. The Dorsalis penis nerve, the superior division of the internal pudic, ascends along the posterior surface of the ramus of the ischium, pierces the triangular ligament, and accompanies the arteria dorsalis penis to the glans, to which it is distributed. At the root of the penis the nerve gives off a cutaneous branch which runs along the side of the organ, gives filaments to the corpus cavernosum, and with its fellow of the opposite side supplies the integument of the upper two-thirds of the penis. The Perineal nerve, or inferior terminal branch, larger than the preceding, pursues the course of the superficial perineal artery in the perineum and divides into cutaneous and muscular branches. The cutaneous branches (superficial perineal), two in number, posterior and anterior, enter the ischio-rectal fossa and pass forward with the superficial perineal artery to be distributed to the integu- ment of the perineum, scrotum, and under part of the penis. The posterior superficial perineal nerve sends a few filaments to the in- tegument of the anus and sphincter ani; while the anterior gives off one or two twigs to the levator ani. The muscular branches proceed from a single trunk, which passes inwards behind the transversus perinei muscle; they are distributed to the transversus perinei, accelerator urinse, and erector penis. The perineal nerve also sends two or three filaments to the corpus spongiosum. In the female the pudic nerve is distributed to the parts analo-