BRACHIAL PLEXUS. 503 the internal, is distributed to the muscles of the outer portion of the vertebral groove. The posterior cord of the first cervical nerve (sub-occipital), larger than the anterior, escapes from the vertebral canal through the opening for the vertebral artery, lying posteriorly to that vessel, and emerges in the triangular space formed by the rectus posticus major, obliquus superior, and obliquus inferior. It is distributed to the recti, obliqui and complexus, and sends a branch down- wards to communicate with the second cervical nerve ; it has no external branch. The posterior cord of the second cervical nerve is three or four times larger than its anterior cord, and exceeds in size the other posterior cervical nerves. Its internal branch is the occipitalis major nerve. The posterior cord of the third cervical nerve is smaller than the second, but larger than the fourth ; its internal branch gives off a cutaneous branch to the back of the cranium. The posterior cords of the remaining cervical nerves go on pro- gressively decreasing in size to the seventh. The 'internal branches of the second, third, fourth and fifth nerve lie on the semispinalis colli muscle, and are closely connected with a fascia which separates that muscle from the complexus. The second and third, with a branch from the first, constitute the pos- terior cervical plexus; and all the branches in their course to the surface pierce the complexus and trapezius and some the splenitis. The internal branches of the sixth, seventh, and eighth nerve pass beneath the semispinalis colli, and are lost in the muscles without reaching the integument. The Occipitalis major nerve, the internal branch of the posterior cord of the second cervical nerve, ascends obliquely inwards between the obliquus inferior and complexus, pierces the complexus and trapezius after passing for a short distance between them, and ascends the posterior aspect of the head in company with the occipital artery. Soon after its escape from the trapezius, it receives a branch from the third cervical, and divides into numerous branches, which are distributed to the occipitalis muscle and to the integument as far as the summit of the head. It communicates with the occipitalis minor nerve, and sends an auricular branch to the back of the ear. BRACHIAL PLEXUS. The Brachial or axillary plexus of nerves is formed by commu- nications between the anterior cords of the four lower cervical nerves and first dorsal. These nerves are alike in size, and their mode of disposition in the formation of the plexus as follows : the fifth and sixth unite to form a common trunk ; the last cervical and first dorsal also unite to form a single trunk ; the seventh cervical nerve lies for some distance apart from the rest, and then divides into two branches, which join the other cords. At the point of