ULNA. 86 _ The superior extremity presents a semilunar concavity of large size, the greater sigmoid notch, for articulation with the humerus ; and on the outer side a lesser sigmoid notch, for the head of the radius. Bounding the greater sigmoid notch posteriorly is the olecranon process; and, overhanging it in front, a pointed eminence with a rough triangular base, the coronoid process. Behind the lesser sigmoid notch, and extending downwards on the side of the olecranon, is a triangular uneven surface, for the anconeus muscle; and on the posterior surface of the olecranon a smooth triangular surface, which is subcutaneous. The shaft is prismoid in form, and presents three surfaces, anterior, posterior, and in- ternal ; and three borders. The anterior surface is occupied by the flexor profundus digitorum for the upper three-fourths of its extent; and below, by a depression for the pronator quadratus muscle. A little above its middle is the nutritious foramen, directed upwards. On the posterior surface, at the upper part of the bone, is the triangular un- even depression for the anconeus muscle, bounded inferiorly by an oblique ridge which runs downwards from the posterior extremity of the lesser sigmoid notch. Below the ridge, the surface is marked into several grooves, for the attachment of the extensor ossis meta- carpi, extensor secundi internodii, and ex- tensor indicis muscle. The internal surface is covered in for the greater part of its extent by the flexor profundus digitorum. The anterior border is rounded, and gives origin by its lower fourth to the pronator quadratus. The posterior is prominent, and affords attach- ment to the flexor carpi ulnaris and extensor carpi ulnaris; expanding at its upper ex- tremity into the triangular subcutaneous surface of the olecranon. The external or radial border is sharp and prominent, for the attachment of the interosseous membrane. The lower extremity terminates in a small rounded head, capi- * The two bones of the fore-arm seen from the front. 1. Shaft of the ulna. 2. Greater sigmoid notch. 3. Lesser sigmoid notch, with which the head of the radius is articulated. 4. Olecranon process. 5. Coronoid process. 6. Nutritious foramen. 7. The sharp ridges upon the two bones to which the interosseous membrane is attached. 8. Capitulum ulnse. 9. Styloid process. 10. Shaft of the radius. 11. Its head surrounded by the smooth border for articulation with the orbicular ligament. 12. Neck of the radius. 13. Its tuberosity. 14. The oblique line. 15. Lower extremity of the bone. 16. Styloid process.