275 INTERNAL FEMORAL REGION. The Vastus internus (extensor cruris internus), broad below and narrow, above, arises from the anterior intertrochanteric line, inner surface of the femur, inner lip of the linea aspera and intermuscular fascia, and is inserted into the inner border of the patella. By its mesial border it is blended with the crureus. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the psoas and iliacus, rectus, sartorius, femoral artery and vein and saphenous nerve, pectineus, adductor longus, brevis, and magnus, and fascia lata. By its deep surface with the crureus and femur. The Crureus (crus, the leg), arises from the anterior intertro- chanteric line and anterior surface of the femur to within two inches of the patella. It is continuous by its inner border with the vastus internus, and is inserted into the upper border of the patella ; its tendon occupying its cutaneous aspect. When the crureus is divided from its insertion, a small muscle is seen upon the lower part of the femur ; it generally consists of two fasciculi, external and internal, which are inserted into the pouch of synovial membrane that extends upwards from the knee-joint, behind the patella ; and is named, from its situation, sub-crureus. It would seem to be intended to support the synovial membrane. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the external circum- flex vessels, rectus, vastus internus and externus. By its deep surface with the femur, sub-crureus, and synovial membrane of the knee-joint. Actions.—The tensor vaginse femoris renders the fascia lata tense, and slightly inverts the limb. The sartorius flexes the leg upon the thigh, and, continuing to act, the thigh upon the pelvis, at the same time carrying the leg across that of the opposite side, into the position in which tailors sit ; hence its name. Taking its fixed point from below, it assists the extensor muscles in steadying the leg, for the support of the trunk. The other four muscles have been collectively named quadriceps extensor, from their similarity of action. They extend the leg upon the thigh, and obtain a great increase of power by their attachment to the patella, which acts as a fulcrum. Taking their fixed point from the tibia, they steady the femur upon the leg, and the rectus, being attached to the pelvis, serves to balance the trunk upon the lower extremity. Dissection.—These muscles are exposed by the removal of the inner flap of integument recommended in the dissection of the an- terior femoral region. The iliacus and psoas arising from within Internal Femoral Region. Iliacus internus, Psoas magnus, Pectineus, Adductor longus, Adductor brevis, Adductor magnus, Gracilis. t 2