CARPAL ARTICULATIONS. 149 of the os magnum and unciforme, which is received into a cup formed by the scaphoid, semilunar, and cuneiform bone, and con- stitutes an euarthrosis. The ligaments are, The dorsal ligaments are ligamentous bands that pass trans- versely and longitudinally from bone to bone oh the dorsal surface of the carpus. The palmar ligaments are fasciculi of the same kind, but stronger than the dorsal, having the like disposition on the palmar surface. The interosseous ligaments are fibrocartilaginous lamellae situated between the adjoining bones in each range : in the upper range they close the upper part of the space between the scaphoid, semilunar, and cuneiform bones ; in the lower range they are stronger than in the Upper, and connect the os magnum on the one side to the unciforme, on the other to the trapezoides, leaving intervals through which the synovial membrane is continued to the bases of the meta- carpal bones. The proper annular ligament (lig. carpi volare proprium) is a firm ligamentous band, which connects the bones of the two sides of the carpus. It is attached by one extremity to the tra- pezium and scaphoid, by the other to the unciform process of the unciforme and base of the pisiform bone, and forms an arch over the anterior surface of the carpus, beneath which the tendons of the long flexors and the median nerve pass into the palm of the hand. The articulation of the pisiform bone with the cuneiform is pro • vided with a separate synovial membrane, protected by fasciculi of ligamentous fibres, which form a kind of capsule around the joint; they are inserted into the cuneiforme, unciforme, and base of the metacarpal bone of the little finger. Synovial Membranes.— There are five synovial membranes enter- ing into the composition of the articulations of the carpus :— The first is situated between the lower end of the ulna and the interarticular fibrocartilage ; it is called sacciform, on account of forming a sacculus between the ulna and radius. The second is situated between the lower surface of the radius and interarticular fibrocartilage above, and the first range of bones of the carpus below. The third, the most extensive of the synovial membranes of the wrist, is situated between the two rows of carpal bones, and passes between the bones of the second range, to invest the carpal extre- mities of the four metacarpal bones of the fingers. The fourth is the synovial membrane of the articulation of the metacarpal bone of the thumb with the trapezium. The fifth is situated between the pisiform and cuneiform bone. Dorsal, Palmar, Interosseous fibro-cartilages, Annular.