OPENINGS OP THE VESTIBULE. 564 vestibuli; the superior, the ampullary openings of the superior and horizontal semicircular canal ; the posterior, the ampullary opening of the oblique semicircular canal, the common aperture of the oblique and perpendicular canal, the termination of the horizontal canal, and the aperture of the aquseductus vestibuli. In the ante- rior ventricle is a small depression, which corresponds with the posterior segment of the cul de sac of the meatus auditorius inter- num ; it is called the fovea hemispherica, and is pierced by a cluster of small openings, the macula cribrosa. In the superior ventricle of the vestibule is another small depression, the fovea elliptica, which is separated from the fovea hemispherica by a projecting crest, the eminentia pyramidalis. The latter is pierced by nume- rous minute openings for the passage of nervous filaments. The posterior ventricle presents a third small depression, the fovea sulciformis, which leads upwards to the ostium aquseductus vesti- buli. The internal voall of the vestibule corresponds with the bottom of the cul de sac of the meatus auditorius internus, and is pierced by numerous small openings for the transmission of nervous filaments. In the external or tympanic wall is the reniform open- ing of the fenestra ovalis (fenestra vestibuli), the margin of which presents a prominent rim towards the cavity of the vestibule. The openings of the vestibule may be arranged, like those of the tympanum, into large and small. The Large openings are seven in number : viz., the— Fenestra ovalis, Scala vestibuli, Five openings of the three semicircular canals. The Small openings are the— Aquseductus vestibuli, Openings for small arteries, Openings for filaments of the auditory nerve. The fenestra ovalis has already been described ; it is the opening from the tympanum. The opening of the scala vestibuli is the oval termination of the vestibular canal of the cochlea. The aquwductus vestibuli (canal of Cotunnius) is the commence- ment of the small canal which opens under the osseous scale on the posterior surface of the petrous bone. It gives passage to a small vein and to a process of membrane which is continuous internally with the lining membrane of the vestibule, and externally with the dura mater. The openings for arteries and nerves are situated in the internal wall of the vestibule, and correspond with the termination of the meatus auditorius internus. The Semicircular canals are three bony passages communi-