144 SHOULDER JOINT. but strong fasciculus which crosses the notch in the upper border of the scapula, from the base of the coracoid process, and converts it into a foramen. The supra-scapular nerve passes through this foramen, the artery over it. 4. Shoulder Joint. — The scapulo-humeral articulation is an enarthrosis, or ball-and-socket joint; its ligaments are, Capsular, Coraco-humeral, Glenoid. The capsular ligament encloses the articulating head of the scapula and head of the humerus, and is attached to the neck of each bone. It is thick above, where resistance is most required, and strengthened by the tendons of the supra-spinatus, infraspina- tus, teres minor, and subscapularis, muscles : below it is thin and loose. The capsule is incomplete at the point of contact of the tendons, which consequently obtain on their inner surface a lining of synovial membrane. The coraco-humeral ligament is a broad band which descends obliquely outwards from the border of the coracoid process to the greater tuberosity of the humerus, and serves to strengthen the superior and anterior part of the capsular ligament. The glenoid; ligament is the prismoid band of fibro-cartilage, which is attached around the margin of the glenoid surface for the purpose of protecting its edge and deepening its cavity. It divides superiorly into two slips which are continuous with the long tendon of the biceps; hence the ligament is sometimes described as being formed by the splitting of that tendon. The cavity of the articulation is traversed by the long tendon of the biceps which is enclosed in a sheath of synovial membrane in its passage through the joint. The synovial membrane of the shoulder joint is extensive; it communicates anteriorly through an opening (foramen ovale) in the capsular ligament with a large bursal sac, which lines the under surface of the tendon of the subscapularis muscle. Superiorly it frequently communicates through another opening in the capsular ligament with a bursal sac belonging to the infra-spinatus muscle ; and it moreover forms a sheath around that portion of the tendon of the biceps which is included within the joint. The muscles immediately surrounding the shoulder joint are, the subscapularis, supra-spinatus, infra-spinatus, teres minor, long head of the triceps, and deltoid ; the long tendon of the biceps is within the capsular ligament. Actions.—The shoulder joint is capable of every variety of mo- tion, viz., of movement forwards and backwards, of abduction and adduction, of circumduction and rotation. 5. Elbow Joint.—The elbow is a ginglymoid articulation; and its ligaments four in number, namely,