574 DEVELOPMENT OF EPIDERMIS. are termed cell-germs or cytoblasts. By endosmosis, these cytoblasts imbibe serum from the plastic lymph and adjacent tissues, and the outermost layer or pellicle of the cytoblast becomes gradually dis- tended by the imbibed fluid. The cytoblast has now become a cell, and the solid portion of the cytoblast, which always remains adhe- rent to some one point of the internal surface of the cell-membrane, is the nucleus of the cell. Moreover, within the nucleus one or several nuclei are formed, which are termed nucleoli. By a con- tinuance of the process of imbibition, the cell becomes more or less spherical; so that, after a time, Fig. 217.* every part of the surface of the papillary layer of the derma is coated by a thin stratum, con- sisting of spherical cells lying closely pressed together, and corresponding with every irre- gularity of the papillae. But, as this production of cells is a function constantly in opera- tion, a new layer is formed be- fore the first is completed, and the latter is separated by subse- quent formations farther and farther from the surface of the papillary layer. As a conse- quence of loss of contact with the derma, the vital force is progres- sively diminished ; the cell becomes subject to the influence of physical laws, and evaporation of its fluid slowly ensues. In con- sequence of this evaporation, the cell becomes collapsed and flat- tened, and assumes an elliptical form ; the latter is by degrees converted into the flat cell with parallel and contiguous layers, and an included nucleolated nucleus ; and lastly, the flattened cell de- siccates into a thin membranous scale, in which the nucleus is scarcely apparent. My own investigations + have shown that, after the original granules of the liquor sanguinis have become aggregated into a granular nucleus, other granules are formed in successive circles, around the circumference of the nucleus, until the entire breadth of the epidermal scale is attained ; that the cell never acquires a greater thickness than that of the original nucleus, and, that the * Diagram illustrative of the development of the epidermis and of epithelia in general, according to the theory of Schwann. 1. A granule or cytoblast. 2. The cell seen rising on the cytoblast; the latter is now a nucleus, and a nucleolus may be detected in its interior. 3. The spheroidal cell. 4. The oval cell. 5. The elliptical cell. 6. The flattened cell; which, by contact of its walls, is speedily converted into a scale in which the nucleus is lost. 7. A nucleated scale as seen on its flat surface. 8. A cluster of such scales. t Diseases of the Skin.