STEKNO-MASTOID.—OCCIPITAL. 329 The Submaxillary (submaxillares) are four or five branches which, supply the submaxillary gland. . The Submental branch (submentalis) runs forward on the mylo-. hyoid muscle, under cover of the body of the lower jaw, and anastomoses with branches of the sublingual and inferior dental artery. The Muscular branches (musculares) are distributed to the mas- seter, pterygoideus internus, digastricus, and stylo-hyoideus. The Buccal branches (buccales), eight or ten in number, are given off upon the face, and are distributed to the buccinator, mas- seter, muscles of the upper lip, orbicularis palpebrarum, and in- tegument of the cheek. They anastomose with the buccal branch of the internal maxillary, the transverse facial, and infraorbital. The Inferior labial branch (labialis inferior) passes forward be- neath the depressor anguli oris muscle, and is distributed to the muscles of the lower lip, inosculating with the labial branch of the inferior dental, and the inferior coronary. The Inferior coronary branch (coronaria labii inferioris) is given off at the angle of the mouth, and passes inwards near the edge of the lower lip, lying between the orbicularis and mucous membrane : it inosculates with its fellow of the opposite side. The Superior coronary branch (coronaria labii superioris), arising close to, or in common with the preceding, takes its course in the same manner along the upper lip, inosculating with its fellow of the opposite side. At the middle of the lip it sends a small branch upwards to the septum of the nose (arteria septi). The Lateral nasal branch (nasalis lateralis vel externa) is given off near the ala nasi, and passes beneath the levator labii superioris alseque nasi, to be distributed to the nose. It inosculates with the nasal branch of the ophthalmic artery. The Inosculations of the facial artery are numerous, namely, with the sublingual branch of the lingual, ascending pharyngeal artery, descending palatine artery, inferior dental at its escape from the mental foramen, infraorbital at the infraorbital foramen, trans- verse facial on the side of the face, and nasal and frontal branch of the ophthalmic artery at the angle of the eye. The facial artery is subject to variety in length : it not unfre- quently terminates at the angle of the nose or mouth, and is rarely symmetrical on both sides of the face. The Sterno-MASTOid artery turns downwards from its origin, to be distributed to the sterno-mastoid muscle, and lymphatic glands of the neck ; sometimes there are two branches. The Occipital artery (occipitalis), smaller than the anterior branches, passes backwards behind the parotid gland and beneath the posterior belly of the digastricus, trachelo-mastoideus, and sterno-mastoideus to the occipital groove in the mastoid portion of