334 INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. The Infraorbitalis appears, from its size, to be the proper con- tinuation of the artery. It runs along the infraorbital canal with the superior maxillary nerve, sending branches upwards into the orbit, and downwards, through canals in the bone, to supply the mucous membrane of the antrum and the teeth of the upper jaw, and emerges on the face at the infraorbital foramen. The branch which supplies the incisor teeth is the anterior dental artery; on the face the infraorbital inosculates with the facial and transverse facial artery. The Pterygo-palatine (pharyngea suprema vel descendens) is a small branch which passes backwards through the pterygo-palatine canal, and supplies the mucous membrane of the posterior part of the nares, upper part of the pharynx, Eustachian tube, and sphenoidal cells. The Spkeno-palatine, or posterior nasal (nasalis posterior; spheno-palatina), enters the superior meatus of the nose through the spheno-palatine foramen, in company with the nasal filaments of Meckel's ganglion, and divides into two branches; one branch, arteria septi, is distributed to the mucous membrane of the septum, and inosculates in the anterior palatine canal with the terminal branch of the descending palatine ; the other, nasalis posterior externa, supplies the mucous membrane of the lateral wall of the nares, antrum, and sphenoid and ethmoid cells. The Superior or descending palatine artery (palatina superior vel descendens) descends along the posterior palatine canal, in company with the palatine branches of Meckel's ganglion, to the posterior palatine foramen; it then bends forward, lying in a groove of the bone, and is distributed to the palate. While in the posterior palatine canal it sends several twigs backwards through the small posterior palatine foramina to supply the soft palate; anteriorly it distributes a branch, palatina anterior, to the anterior palatine canal, which reaches the nares and inosculates with the arteria septi. The Vidian or pterygoid branch passes backwards along the pterygoid canal, and is distributed to the sheath of the Vidian nerve, the Eustachian tube, and mucous membrane of the upper part of the pharynx. INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. The internal carotid artery (carotis interna) curves slightly out- wards from the bifurcation of the common carotid, and ascends nearly perpendicularly by the side of the pharynx, to the carotid foramen in the petrous portion of the temporal bone. It next passes inwards, along the carotid canal, forwards by the side of the sella turcica, and upwards by the anterior clinoid process, where it pierces the dura mater, and divides into three terminal branches. The course of this artery is remarkable for the number of angular curves which it forms ; one or two of these flexures are sometimes