VISCERA OF THE PELVIS, 667 muscular, and internal or mucous. The fibrous coat consists of condensed areolar tissue, intermingled with fine elastic fibres. The muscular coat is made up of muscular fibres of the smooth kind, disposed in two layers, external longitudinal, and internal circular ; while towards the bladder there are besides internal longitudinal fibres. The muscular coat is thick in the ureter and pelvis renalis, thia on the calices, and ceases altogether at the attachment of the latter to the papillae. The mucous coat is thin, vascular, and with- out villi ; on the papillae it is connected with the substance of the pyramids, and is continuous with the uriniferous tubuli, while infe- riorly it becomes blended with the mucous membrane of the bladder. The epithelium of the mucous coat is thick, and composed of several layers of nucleated cells, which are small aud round next the mem- brane ; of larger size and cylindrical or conical in the middle ; and large and spheroidal at the surface, sometimes measuring of an inch in breadth, and not unfrequently containing two nuclei. PELVIS. The 'cavity of the pelvis is that portion of the great abdominal cavity which is included within the bones of the pelvis, below the level of the linea-ilio-pectinea and the promontory of the sacrum. It is bounded by the cavity of the abdomen above, and by the peri- neum below ; its internal parietes are formed, in front, below, and at the sides, by the peritoneum, pelvic fascia, levatores ani and obturator muscles ; and behind, by the coccygei muscles, sacro- ischiatic ligaments, pyriformes muscles, eacral plexus of nerves, sacrum and coccyx. The Viscera of the pelvis in the male are, the urinary bladder, prostate gland, vesiculoe seminales, and rectum. The Bladder is a hollow membranous viscus, triangular and flattened against the pubes when empty, ovoid when distended, situated behind the pubes and in front of and upon the rectum. It is larger in its vertical diameter than from side to side ; and its long axis is directed from above, obliquely downwards and back- wards. It is divided into body, fundus, base, and neck. The body comprehends the middle zone of the organ ; the fundus, superior fundus, its upper segment; the base, inferior fundus, the lower broad extremity which rests on the rectum ; and the neck, the nar- row constricted portion which is applied against the prostate gland. It is retained in position by ligaments which are divisible into true and false ; the true ligaments are five in number, two ante- rior, two lateral, and the cord of the urachus ; the false ligaments are folds of the peritoneum, and are also five in number, two pos- terior, two lateral, and one superior. The anterior ligaments are formed by the recto-vesical fascia in