PROFUNDA FEMOEIS ARTERY. 379 The External circumflex artery (circumflexa femoris externa) passes outwards beneath the sartorius and rectus and in front of the crureus muscle, crossing between the divisions of the crural nerve, and divides into three sets of branches ; ascending, which pass upwards beneath the sartorius, rectus, and tensor vaginae femoris, and inosculate with the terminal branches of the gluteal artery ; descending, which pass downwards beneath the rectus muscle to inosculate with the superior articular arteries of the popliteal; and middle, which continue the original course of the artery around the thigh, pierce the vastus externus, and anastomose with branches of the ischiatic, internal circumflex, and superior perforating artery. • It supplies the muscles of the anterior and outer side of the thigh. The Internal circumflex artery (circumflexa femoris interna) winds around the inner side of the neck of the femur, passing be- tween the pectineus and psoas, and over the upper border of the adductor brevis to the tendon of the obturator externus, which it accompanies to the space between the quadratus femoris and upper border of the adductor magnus. While on the obturator externus it gives off a branch which is distributed to that muscle, the ad- ductor brevis, and gracilis, and anastomoses with the obturator artery. It next gives off an articular branch, which enters the hip-joint through the notch in the acetabulum ; and terminates in several branches which inosculate with the ischiatic, external cir- cumflex, and superior perforating artery. The Superior perforating artery passes backwards near the lower border of the pectineus, pierces the adductor brevis and magnus near the femur, and is distributed to the posterior muscles of the thigh ; inosculating with the circumflex, ischiatic, and middle perforating artery. The Middle perforating artery pierces the tendons of the ad- ductor brevis and magnus, and is distributed like the superior ; inosculating with the superior and inferior perforating. From this branch is given off the nutritious artery of the femur. The Inferior perforating artery is given off below the adductor brevis, and pierces the tendon of the adductor magnus, supplying it and the flexor muscles, and inosculating with the middle perforat- ing artery above, and the articular branches of the popliteal below. It is through the medium of the branches of the profunda which inosculate above with branches of the internal iliac, and below with those of the popliteal artery, that the collateral circulation is main- tained in the limb after ligature of the femoral artery. The Muscular branches are given off by the femoral artery throughout the whole of its course. They supply the muscles in immediate proximity with the artery, particularly those of the an- terior aspect of the thigh. One of these branches, larger than the rest, arises from the femoral immediately below the origin of the profunda, and passing outwards between the sartorius and rectus,