493 rNEUMOGASTRIC NERVE. the superior ganglion one or two branches pass to the spinal acces- sory ; one or two to the superior ganglion of the sympathetic ; and one to the inferior ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal. From the inferior ganglion there pass on0 branches to the hypoglossal; branches to the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, and branches to the loop between the first and second cervical nerve. The Branches of distribution are— Auricular, Pulmonary anterior, Pharyngeal, Pulmonary posterior, Inferior or recurrent laryngeal, The Auricular nerve is given off from the lower part of the jugular ganglion, or from the trunk of the nerve immediately below it, and receives immediately after its origin a small branch of com- munication from the glosso-pharyngeal. It then passes outwards behind the jugular vein, and at the outer side of that vessel enters a small canal (page 35), in the petrous portion of the temporal bone near the stylo-mastoid foramen. Guided by that canal it reaches the descending part of the aqueductus Fallopii and joins the facial nerve. In the aqueductus Fallopii the auricular nerve gives off two small filaments, one of which communicates with the pos- terior auricular branch of the facial, while the other is distributed ( to the pinna. The Pharyngeal nerve arises from the upper part of the superior ganglion and crosses behind the internal carotid artery to the upper border of the middle constrictor, upon which it forms the pharyn- geal plexus assisted by branches from the glosso-pharyngeal, superior laryngeal, and sympathetic. The pharyngeal plexus is distributed to the muscles and mucous membrane of the pharynx. The Superior laryngeal nerve arises from the inferior ganglion and descends behind the internal carotid artery to the opening in the thyro-hyoidean membrane, through which it passes with the supe- rior laryngeal artery, and is distributed to the mucous membrane of the larynx and arytenoideus muscle. On the latter, and behind the cricoid cartilage, it communicates with the recurrent laryngeal nerve. Behind the internal carotid it gives off the external laryn- geal branch, which sends a twig to the pharyngeal plexus, and then descends to supply the inferior constrictor, crico-thyroid muscle and thyroid gland. This branch communicates inferiorly with the re- current laryngeal and sympathetic nerve. The Cardiac branches, two or three in number, arise from the upper and lower part of the cervical portion of the nerve. Those from above communicate with cardiac branches of the sympathetic. One large branch {inferior cardiac) is given off just before the nerve enters the chest; on the right this branch descends by the Superior laryngeal, Cardiac, (Esophageal, Gastric.