276 INTERNAL FEMORAL REGION. the abdomen can only be seen in their entire extent after the re- moval of the viscera from that cavity. The Iliacus internus is a flat radiated muscle. It arises from the fossa of the ilium, the internal lip of the crest, and anterior border of the bone ; and after escaping beneath the crural arch and joining the tendon of the psoas, is inserted into the trochanter minor of the femur. A few fibres of this muscle are derived from the base of the sacrum, and others from the capsular ligament of the hip-joint. Theile, with several other anatomists, regards the iliacus internus and psoas magnus as a single muscle arising by two heads ; it has no proper tendon, its muscular fibres being inserted into that of the psoas. He describes the combined muscle under the name of flexor femoris. Relations.—By its anterior surface, within the pelvis, with the external cutaneous nerve and iliac fascia, which latter separates it from the peritoneum, on the right from the caecum, and on the left from the sigmoid flexure of the colon ; externally to the pelvis, with the fascia lata, rectus, and sartorius. By its 'posterior sur- face with the iliac fossa, margin of the pelvis, and capsule of the hip-joint, a synovial bursa of large size being interposed. This bursa sometimes communicates with the synovial membrane of the ilio-femoral articulation. By its inner border, with the psoas magnus and crural nerve. The Psoas magnus (\pba, lumbus, a loin), situated by the side of the vertebral column in the loins, is a long fusiform muscle. It arises from the bodies and bases of transverse processes of the last dorsal and all the lumbar vertebrae. It also-takes its origin from the intervertebral substance, and from a series of tendinous arches attached to the vertebrae, and intended for the protection of the lumbar vessels and branches of the sympathetic nerve in their pas- sage between the muscle and the bone. From this extensive origin the muscle passes along the margin of the brim of the pelvis, and beneath Poupart's ligament, to its insertion. The tendon of the psoas magnus is joined by the iliacus, and inserted into the poste- rior part of the trochanter minor, a bursa being interposed. Relations.—By its anterior surface with the ligamentum ar- cuatum internum of the diaphragm, kidney, psoas parvus, genito- crural nerve, sympathetic nerve, psoas fascia, peritoneum, colon, and along its pelvic border, the common and external iliac artery and vein. By its posterior surface with the lumbar vertebrae, lumbar arteries, quadratus lumborum (from which latter it is sepa- rated by the anterior layer of the aponeurosis of the transversalis), and crural nerve, which, near Poupart's ligament, reaches its outer side. The lumbar plexus of nerves is situated in the substance of the posterior part of the muscle. In the thigh the muscle is in re- lation with the fascia lata in front; the border of the pelvis and hip-joint, from which it is separated by the synovial membrane,