677 URETHRA. the veru montanum, or caput gallinaginis, formed by a fasciculus of the longitudinal muscular fibres of the urethra ; and at each side of the veru, a shallow fossa, the prostatic sinus, in which are seen the numerous openings (15 to 20) of the prostatic ducts. The veru montanum is most prominent in the centre; and im- * Longitudinal section of the bladder, prostate gland, and penis, showing the urethra. 1. TJrachus attached to the upper part of the fundus of the bladder. 2. Recto-vesical fold of peritoneum, at its point of reflection from the base of the bladder, upon the anterior surface of the rectum. 3. Opening of the rig'ht ureter. 4. A slight ridge, formed by the muscle of the ureter, and extending from the termination of the ureter to the commencement of the urethra. This ridge forms the lateral boundary of the trigonum ve'sicse. 5. Commencement of the urethra; the elevation of mucous membrane imme- diately below the figure is the uvula vesica?. The constriction of the bladder at this point is the neck of the bladder. 8. Prostatic portion of the urethra. 7. Prostate gland; the difference of thickness of the gland, above and below the urethra, is shown. 8. Isthmus, or third lobe of the prostate; immediately beneath which the ejaculatory duct is seen passing. 9. Right vesicula semi- nalis; the vas deferens is seen to be cut short off, close to its junction with the ejaculatory duct. 10. Membranous portion of the urethra. 11. Cowper's gland of the right side, with its duct. 12. Bulbous portion of the urethra; throughout the whole length of the urethra of the corpus spongiosum nume- rous lacunae are seen. 13. Fossa navicularis. 14. Corpus cavernosum, cut somewhat obliquely to the right side, near its lower part. The character of the venous-cellular texture is well shown. 15. Right crus penis. 16. Near the upper part of the corpus cavernosum, the section has fallen a little to the left of the middle line; a portion of the septum pectiniforme is consequently seen. This figure also indicates the thickness of the fibrous investment of the corpus cavernosum, and its abrupt termination at the base of (17) the glans penis. 18. Lower segment of the glans. 19. Meatus urinarius. 20. Corpus spongiosum. 21. Bulb of the corpus spongiosum.