RIGHT AURICLE. 583 structure of the auricle. To facilitate remembrance they may be thus arranged :— Superior cava, Relicts of ( Annulus ovalis, Inferior cava, foetal structure ( Fossa ovalis. Coronary vein, Foramina Thebesii, / Tuberculum Auriculo-ventricular. Structure of 1 Loweri, Eustachian valve, the auricle 1 Musculi pectinati. Coronary valve. \ The Superior vena cava returns the blood from the upper half of the body, and opens into the upper and back part of the auricle. The Inferior vena cava returns the blood from the lower half of the body, and opens through the lower and posterior wall, close to the partition between the auricles (septum auricularum). The direction of these two vessels is such, that a stream forced through the superior cava would rush towards the auriculo-ventricular opening. In like manner, a jet issuing from the inferior cava would dash its stream against the septum auricularum; this is the proper direction of the two currents during foetal life. The Coronary vein returns the venous blood from the substance of the heart; it opens into the auricle between the inferior cava and auriculo-ventricular opening, under cover of the coronary valve. The Foramina Thebesii* are minute pore-like openings of small veins (venae minimae) which issue directly from the muscular structure of the heart, without entering the venous current. These openings are also found in the left auricle, and in the right and left ventricles, but, in the latter, are generally believed to be mere caecal depressions. The Auriculo-ventricular opening is the large opening of com- munication between the auricle and ventricle. The Eustachian^ valve is a part of the apparatus of foetal circu- lation, and serves to direct the placental blood from the inferior cava, through the foramen ovale into the left auricle. In the adult it is a mere vestige and imperfect, though sometimes it remains of large size. It is formed by a fold of the lining membrane of the auricle, containing some muscular fibres, is situated between the aperture of the inferior cava and the auriculo-ventricul^j opening, and is generally connected with the coronary valve. The Coronary valve is a semilunar fold of the lining membrane, * Adam Christian Thebesius. His description of the openings now known by his name is contained in his " Dissertatio Medica de Circulo Sanguinis in Corde," 1708. f Bartholomew Eustachius, born at San Severino, in Naples, was Professor of Medicine in Rome, where he died in 1570. He was one of the founders of modern anatomy, and the first to illustrate his works with good engravings on copper. Openings.