LYMPHATICS OP THE TRUNK. 419 that name, above and below the pyriformis muscle at the great ischiatic foramen. Vessels.—The Superficial lymphatic vessels are divisible into two groups, internal and external; the internal and principal group, commencing on the dorsum and inner side of the foot, ascend the leg by the side of the internal saphenous vein, and, passing behind the inner condyle of the femur, follow the direction of that vein to the groin, where they join the saphenous group of superficial inguinal glands. The greater part of the efferent vessels from these glands pierce the cribriform fascia of the saphenous opening and the sheath of the femoral vessels, to join the lymphatic gland situated in the femoral ring, which serves to establish a communication between the lymphatics of the lower extremity and those of the trunk. The other efferent vessels pierce the fascia lata to join the deep glands. The vessels which pass upwards from the outer side of the dorsum of the foot ascend along the outer side of the leg, and curve inwards across the front of the leg just below the knee, to unite with the lymphatics of the inner side of the thigh. The external group consists of a few lymphatic vessels which commence on the outer side of the foot and posterior part of the ankle, and accompany the external saphenous vein to the popliteal region, where they enter the popliteal glands. The Deep lymphatic vessels accompany the deep veins, and com- municate with the various glands in their course. After joining the deep inguinal glands they pass beneath Poupart's ligament, to communicate with the numerous glands situated around the iliac vessels. The deep lymphatics of the gluteal region follow the course of the branches of the gluteal and ischiatic veins. The former join the glands situated on the upper border of the pyriformis muscle, and the latter, after communicating with the lymphatics of the thigh, enter the ischiatic glands. LYMPHATICS OP THE TTUJNK. The lymphatics of the trunk may be arranged under three heads, superficial, deep, and visceral. The Superficial lymphatic vessels of the upper half of the trunk pass upwards and outwards at each side, and converge, some to the axillary glands, otherg to the glands at the root of the neck. The lymphatics from the mammary glands follow the lower border of the pectoralis major, communicating, by means of a chain of lym- phatic glands, with the axillary glands. The superficial lymphatic vessels of the lower half of the trunk, gluteal region, perineum, and external organs of generation, converge to the superior group of superficial inguinal glands. One or two small glands are situated at each side of the dorsal vein of the penis, near the suspensory ligament; from these, as from the superficial lymphatics, the efferent vessels pass into the superior group of superficial inguinal glands. E E 2