GROWTH OF TEETH. 72 position which they occupy at the eighth and ninth month of foetal life. In the infant of seven or eight months, the jaws have grown in length, and the first permanent molar returns to its proper posi- tion in the dental range. The cavity of reserve, which has been previously elongated by the upward movement of the first permanent molar, now dilates into the cavity which that tooth has just quitted; a papilla is developed from its fundus, the cavity becomes con- stricted, and the dental sac of the second molar tooth is formed, still leaving a portion of the great cavity of reserve in connexion with the superficial side of the sac. As the jaws continue to grow in length, the second permanent dental sac descends from its elevated position and advances forwards into the dental range, following the same curve as the first permanent molar. The remainder of the cavity of reserve, already lengthened backwards by the previous position of the second molar, again dilates for the las* time, de- velopes a papilla and sac in the same manner as the preceding, and forms the third permanent molar or wisdom tooth, which, at the age of nineteen or twenty, on the increased growth of the jaw, follows the course of the first and second molars into the dental range. From a consideration of the foregoing phenomena, Goodsir divides the process of dentition into three natural stages : follicular, saccu- lar, and eruptive. The first, or follicular stage, he makes to in- clude all the changes which take place from the first appearance of the dental groove and papillse to the closure of their follicles ; occu- pying a period which extends from the sixth week to the fourth or fifth month of intra-uterine existence. The second, or saccular stage, comprises the period when the follicles are shut sacs, and the included papillse, pulps; it commences at the fourth and fifth months of intra-uterine existence, and terminates, for the median incisors, at the seventh or eighth month of infantine life, and for the wisdom teeth, at about the twenty-first year. The third, or eruptive stage, includes the completion of the teeth, the eruption and shedding of the temporary set, the eruption of the permanent, and the neces- sary changes in the alveolar process. It extends from the seventh month to the twenty-first year. " The anterior permanent molar," says Gfoodsir, " is the most remarkable tooth in man, as it forms a transition between the milk and the permanent set." If considered anatomically, that is, in its development from the primitive dental groove, by a papilla and follicle, "it is decidedly a milk tooth ;" if physiologically, " as the most efficient grinder in the adult mouth, we must consider it a permanent tooth." " It is a curious circumstance, and one which will readily suggest itself to the surgeon, that laying out of view the wisdom teeth, which sometimes decay at an early period from other causes, the anterior molars are the permanent teeth which most frequently give way first, and in the most symmetrical manner, and at the same time, and frequently before the milk set." Growth of Teeth.—Immediately the dental follicles have been