462 CEREBELLUM. stance, the former occupying the surface, the latter the interior, and its surface is formed of parallel lamellae separated by sulci, and here and there by deeper sulci. In form, the cerebellum is oblong and flattened, its greater diameter being from side to side, its two surfaces looking upwards and downwards, and its borders being anterior, posterior, and lateral. In consideration of its shape the cerebellum admits of a division into two hemispheres, into certain prominences termed processes and lobules, and into certain divisions of its sub- stance called lobes, formed upon the hemispheres by the deeper sulci above referred to. The two hemispheres are separated from each other on the upper surface of the cerebellum by a longitudinal ridge, which is termed the superior vermiform process, and which forms a commissure between them. On the anterior border of the organ there is a semilunar notch, incisura cerebelli anterior, which em- braces the corpora quadrigemina. On the posterior border there is another notch, incisura cerebelli posterior, which receives the upper part of the falx cerebelli: and on the under surface of the cere- bellum is a deep fissure corresponding with the medulla oblongata, and termed the vallecula (valley). Each hemisphere of the cerebellum is divided by means of a fissure (sulcus horizontalis) which runs along its free border, into an upper and a lower portion, and upon each of these portions certain lobes are marked out. Thus on the upper portion there are two such lobes separated by a sulcus, somewhat more strongly marked than the rest and extending deeper into the substance of the cerebellum ; they are the lobus superior anterior and lobus superior posterior. On the under portion of the hemisphere there are three such lobes, namely, lobus inferior anterior, medius, and posterior, and two additional ones of peculiar form, the lobus inferior internus or tonsil, and the flocculus. The tonsil (amygdala) is situated on the side of the vallecula, and projects into the fourth ventricle. The flocculus or pneumogastric lobule, long and slender, extends from the side of the vallecula around the corpus restiforme to the crus cerebelli lying behind the filaments of the eighth pair of nerves. The commissure between the two hemipheres is termed the worm (vermis), that portion of the worm which occupies the upper surface of the cerebellum as far back as the horizontal fissure being the pro- cessus vermiformis superior, and that which is lodged within the vallecula being the processus vermiformis inferior. The superior vermiform process is a prominent longitudinal ridge, extending from the incisura anterior to the incisura posterior. In imitation of the hemispheres, it is divided into lobes, of which three have received names, namely, the lobulus centralis, a small lobe situated in the incisura anterior ; the monticulus cerebelli, a longer lobe, having its peak and declivity ; and a small lobe near the incisura posterior, the commissura simplex. The lobes of the inferior vermiform process are four in number, namely, the commissura brevis, situated in the incisura posterior, below the horizontal fissure ; the pyramid,