POSTERIOR CERVICAL NERVES. 502 Deep Branches.—The communicating brandies are filaments which arise from the loop hetween the first and second cervical nerve, and pass inwards to communicate with the sympathetic, pneumo- gastric, and hypoglossal nerve. The first three cervical nerves send branches to the first cervical ganglion ; the fourth sends a branch to the trunk of the sympathetic, or to the middle cervical ganglion. From the second cervical nerve a large branch is given off, which joins the spinal accessory nerve. The Communicans noni is a long and slender branch of communi- cation between the cervical plexus and descendens noni ; it is formed by filaments from the second and third cervical nerve ; descends at the outer side of the internal jugular vein, and forms a loop with the descendens noni over the sheath of the carotid vessels. The Muscular branches of the cervical plexus are distributed to the muscles of the front of the vertebral column and side of the neck. From the loop, between the first and second nerve, branches are given to the anterior recti; from the second cervical nerve a branch proceeds to the sterno-mastoid ; from the third and fourth nerve branches are distributed to the trapezius, levator anguli scapula?, scalenus medius, and scalenus posticus. The branch to the trapezius communicates with the spinal accessory nerve. The Phrenic nerve (internal respiratory of Bell) is formed by the union of filaments from the third, fourth, and fifth cervical nerve, and one from the sympathetic. It descends to the root of the neck, resting on the scalenus anticus muscle, crosses the first portion of the subclavian artery, and enters the chest between it and the sub- clavian vein. Within the chest it passes downwards through the middle mediastinum, lying between the pleura and pericardium, and in front of the root of the lung, to the diaphragm ; near the diaphragm it divides into branches which pierce that muscle, and are distributed on its under surface. Some of its filaments reach the abdomen through the openings for the oesophagus and vena cava, and communicate with the phrenic and solar plexus, and on the right side with the hepatic plexus. The left phrenic nerve is longer than the right, from the inclination of the heart to the left side, and crossesthe arch of the aorta. The right nerve is situated more deeply n the upper part of the chest than the left, and lies in contact with the right vena innominata and superior vena cava. Both nerves cross in front of the origin of the internal mammary artery at their entrance into the chest. Posterior cervical nerves.—The posterior cords of the cervical nerves issue from between the transverse processes; and divide into an internal and external branch. The internal branch is directed inwards towards the middle of the spine, and, becoming cutaneous near the spinous processes of the vertebra?, is then reflected out- wards to supply the integument. The external branch, smaller than