TRAPEZIUM. 91 The trapezium (os multanguluiu majus) is too irregular in form to be compared to any known object; and may- be distinguished by a deep groove, for the ten- don of the flexor carpi radialis muscle. It is somewhat compressed, and may be divided into two surfaces which are smooth and articular, and three rough borders. One of the articular surfaces is oval, concave in one direction, and convex in the other (saddle-seat shaped) ; the other is marked into three facets. One of the borders presents the groove for the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis, which is surmounted by a prominent tubercle for the attachment of the anterior annular ligament; the other two borders are rough, and form the outer side of the carpus. The grooved border is narrow at one extremity and broad at the other, where it presents the groove and tubercle. If the bone be held so that the grooved border look upwards while the apex of this border is directed forwards, and the base with the tubercle backwards, the concavo-convex surface will point to the hand to which the bone belongs. Articulations.-—With, four bones : by the concavo-convex surface, with the metacarpal bone of the thumb ; and by the three facets of the other articular surface, with the scaphoid, trapezoid, and second metacarpal bone. * Bones of the carpus of the left hand, separated so as to show the form of the particular bones. S. Os scaphoides: the letter is placed over the surface which articulates with the radius. 1. Its dorsal surface. 2. Surface to articu- late with the trapezium and trapezoides, the two facets divided by a ridge. 3. Concave articulating surface for the head of the os magnum. L. Os semi- lunare : the letter is placed over the surface which articulates with the radius. 4. Surface to articulate with the scaphoides. 5. Surface to articulate with the head of the os magnum. 6. Border of the surface which articulates with the unciforme. C. Os cuneiforme. 7. Surface to articulate with the semilunare. 8 Surface to articulate with the unciforme. P. Os pisiforme. 9. Articular facet. T. Os trapezium: the letter is placed on the surface which articulates with the scaphoides. 10. Surface to articulate with the trapezoides. 11. Ar- ticulating surface for the metacarpal bone of the index finger. 12. Articulating surface for the metacarpal bone of the thumb. T z. Os trapezoides. 13. Ar- ticulating surface for the scaphoides. 14. Articulating surface for the os magnum. M. Os magnum: the letter is placed on the head of the bone. 15. Rough surface of the dorsum of the bone. 16. Articulating surface for the unciforme. 17. Articulating surface for the metacarpal bone of the middle finger. U. Os unciforme: the letter is placed on the surface which articulates with the semilunare and cuneiforme. 18. Articulating surface for the ring- finger. 19. Articulating surface for the little finger. 20. Rough point, forming part of the free border of the carpus. Fig. 57*