ABDOMINAL PLEXUSES. 535 The Lesser splanchnic nerve is formed by filaments which issue from the tenth and eleventh ganglia ; it pierces the crus of the dia- phragm, and joins the solar plexus near the middle line. The Third or renal splanchnic nerve proceeds from the last thoracic ganglion, and, piercing the diaphragm, terminates in the renal plexus. When absent, the place of this nerve is supplied by the lesser splanchnic. The Semilunar ganglion is a large, irregular, gangliform body, pierced by numerous openings, and appearing like the aggregation of a number of smaller ganglia, having spaces between them. It is situated by the side of the cceliac axis and root of the superior mesenteric artery, and extends outwards to the supra-renal capsule. The ganglia communicate both above and below the coeliac axis and form a gangliform circle, from which branches pass off in all direc- tions, like rays from a centre. Hence the entire circle has been named the solar plexus. The Solar or epigastric plexus receives the great and lesser splanchnic nerves ; the termination of the right pneumogastric nerve; some filaments from the right phrenic nerve; and sometimes one or two from the left. It sends forth numerous filaments which accompany, under the name of plexuses, all the branches given off by the abdominal aorta. Thus we have, derived from the solar plexus, the— Phrenic, or diaphragmatic Renal plexuses, Supra-renal plexuses, In connexion with the phrenic plexus of the right side, there is described a small ganglion diaphragmaticum, which is situated near the supra-renal capsule. In this ganglion branches of the right phrenic nerve communicate with those of the sympathetic. The Supra-renal plexuses are remarkable for their large size, and for a ganglion, which has received the name of ganglion supra- renale. The Renal plexuses are large, and receive the third splanchnic nerve. The Superior mesenteric plexus has several small ganglia at the root of the artery ; and its nerves, which are whiter than those of the other plexuses, form a kind of nervous sheath to the artery and its branches. The Aortic plexus is a continuation of the solar plexus down- wards on the aorta, for the supply of the inferior branches of that trunk ; it receives also branches from the renal plexuses and lumbar ganglia. It is the source of origin of the inferior mesenteric plexus plexuses, Superior mesenteric plexus, Aortic plexus, Spermatic plexuses, Inferior mesenteric plexus. Gastric plexus, Hepatic plexus, Splenic plexus,