PATELLA. TIBIA. j»' 105 V * } r ,* •• -,\ »' Patella.—The patella is a sesamoid bone, developed" iii* tite ten" don of the quadriceps extensor muscle, and usually describecLas bone of the lower extremity. It is heart- shaped in figure, the broad end being Fig. 63.* directed upwards, the apex downwards ; the external surface is convex, and the internal divided by a ridge into two smooth surfaces, to articulate with the condyles of the femur. The external articular surface, corresponding with the external condyle, is the larger of the two, and serves to indicate the leg to which the bone belongs. Development.—By a single centre, at about the middle of the third year. Articulations.-—"With the two condyles of the femur. Attachment of Muscles.—To four; rectus, crurseus, vastus in- ternus, vastus externus ; and to the ligamentum patellae. Tibia.—The tibia is the inner and larger bone of the leg ; it is prismoid in form, and divisible into a shaft, an upper and lower extremity. The upper extremity, or head, is large, and expanded laterally into two tuberosities. On the upper surface the tuberosities are smooth, to articulate with the condyles of the femur ; the internal articular surface being oval and oblong, to correspond with the in- ternal condyle ; the external, broad and nearly circular. Between the two articular surfaces is a spinous process ; and in front of and behind the spinous process a rough depression, giving attachment to the anterior and posterior crucial ligament. Between the two tuberosities on the front aspect of the bone is a prominent elevation, the tubercle for the insertion of the ligamentum patellae, and imme- diately above the tubercle a smooth facet, corresponding with a bursa. Upon the outer side of the external tuberosity is an arti- cular surface, for the head of the fibula ; and upon the posterior part of the internal tuberosity a depression, for the insertion of the tendon of the senii-membranosus muscle. The shaft of the tibia presents three surfaces ; internal, which is subcutaneous and superficial; external, concave and marked by a sharp ridge, for the insertion of the interosseous membrane ; and posterior, grooved, for the attachment of muscles. Near the upper extremity of the posterior surface is an oblique ridge, the popliteal line, for the attachment of the fascia of the popliteus muscle; and immediately below the oblique line, the nutritious canal, which is directed downwards. * Patella of the right side. 1. Surface of articulation with the external condyle of the femur. 2. Surface of articulation with the internal condyle. 8. Apex of the bone.