27 FRONTAL BONE. convolutions of the brain. Along the upper border is part of a shallow groove, completed by the opposite parietal bone, which serves to contain the superior longitudinal sinus. Near this groove, some slight pits, which lodge the glandulse Pacchioni, are also observable. The anterior inferior angle is thin and lengthened, and articu- lates with the greater wing of the sphenoid bone. Its inner surface is deeply grooved for the trunk of the arteria meningea media ; the groove being frequently converted into a closed canal. The poste- rior imferior angle is thick, and presents a broad and shallow groove for the lateral sinus. Development.—By a single centre. Ossification commences in the parietal eminence at the same time as in the bodies of the ver- tebrae. Articulations.—With Jive bones; with the opposite parietal, occipital, frontal, temporal, and sphenoid. Attachment of Muscles.—To one only, the temporal. The apo- neurosis of the occipito-frontalis glides over its upper surface. Frontal Bone.—The frontal bone bears some resemblance in form to the under valve of a scallop-shell. It is situated at the anterior part of the cranium, forming the forehead, and assisting in the; construction of the roof of the orbits and nose. Hence it is divisible into a superior or frontal portion, and an inferior or orbito- nasal portion. Each of these portions presents for examination an external and internal surface, borders, and processes. External Surface.—At about the middle of each lateral half of the frontal portion is a projection, the frontal eminence. Below these points are the superciliary ridges, large towards their inner termination, and becoming gradually smaller as they arch outwards : they support the eyebrows. Beneath the superciliary ridges are the sharp and prominent arches which form the upper margin of the orbits, the supraorbital ridges. Externally the supraorbital ridge terminates in the external angular process, internally in the internal angular process; at the inner third of this ridge is a notch, sometimes converted into a foramen, the supraorbital notch, which gives passage to the supraorbital artery, veins, and nerve. Between the two superciliary ridges is a rough projection, the nasal tuberosity; this portion of the bone denotes by its prominence the situation of the frontal sinuses. Extending upwards and back- wards from the external angular process is a sharp ridge, the com- mencement of the temporal ridge, and beneath the ridge, a de- pressed surface, forming part of the temporal fossa. The orbito-nasal portion of the bone consists of two thin pro- cesses, the orbital plates, which form the roof of the orbits, and an intervening notch which lodges the ethmoid bone, and is called the ethmoidal fissure. The edges of the ethmoidal fissure are hollowed into cavities, which, by their union with the ethmoid bone, com-