STRUCTURE OF THE LUNGS. 606 Structure.—The lungs are composed of the ramifications of the bronchial tubes (bronchia), which terminate in intercellular pas- sages and air-cells, of the ramifications of the pulmonary arteries and veins, bronchial arteries and veins, lymphatics, and nerves ; the whole of these structures, being held together by areolar tissue, constitute the parenchyma. The parenchyma of the lungs, when examined on the surface or by means of a section, is seen to consist of small polyhedral divisions, or lobules, which are connected to each other by an interlobular areolar tissue. These lobules again consist of smaller lobules, and the latter are formed by a cluster of air-cells, in the parietes of which the capillaries of the pulmonary artery and pulmonary veins are distributed. Each lobule, taken alone, is provided with its separate bronchial tube, pulmonary artery, and vein, and is isolated from surrounding lobules by a process of areolar membrane derived from the subserous tissue ; the entire lung is an assemblage of these lobules, so separated and so connected, held together by the pleura. The serous investing membrane of the lungs or pleura is con- nected with the surface of the lobules by means of a subserous areolar tissue, which forms a distinct layer, and being prolonged between the lobules, is the bond of adhesion between them. This layer contains elastic tissue, and is a chief source of the elasticity of the lungs ; its interstices are moistened by a serous secretion, and are unincumbered with fat. Bronchial Tubes.—The two bronchi proceed from the bifurcation of the trachea opposite the third dorsal vertebra to their cor- responding lungs. The right, about an inch long, takes its course nearly at right angles with the trachea, and enters the upper part of the right lung ; while the left, two inches in length, and smaller than the right, passes obliquely beneath the arch of the aorta, and enters the lung at about the middle of its root. Upon entering the lungs they divide into two branches, and each of these divides and subdivides dichotomously to their ultimate termination in the inter- cellular passages and air-cells. According to Rainey,* the bronchial tubes continue to diminish in size until they attain a diameter of gV to ^ of an inch, and arrive within \ of an inch of the surface of the lung. They then become changed in structure, and are continued onwards in the midst of air-cells, under the name of intercellular passages. Lastly, the intercellular passages, after several bifurcations, terminate each by a csecal extremity or air-cell. The intercellular passages are at first cylindrical, like the bronchial tubes, but soon become irregular in shape from the great number of air-cells which open into them on all sides. The air-cells in the adult lung measure between -2^-5- and TV of an inch, they are irregular in shape, and, most fre- quently, four-sided cavities, separated by thin septa, and commu- * Medico-Chirurgieal Transactions, vol. xxviii.