103 FEMUR. Fig. 61. and the posterior, broad and strongly marked, ascends to the base of the tro- chanter major. Towards the lower ex- tremity of the bone the linea aspera divides into two ridges, which descend to the two condyles, and enclose a triangular space upon which rests the popliteal artery. The internal condyloid ridge is less marked than the external, and presents a broad and shallow groove, for the passage of the femoral artery. The nutritious foramen is situated in or near the linea aspera, at about one-third from its upper extremity, and is directed obliquely from below up- wards. The lower extremity of the femur is broad and porous, and divided by a smooth depression in front, and by a large fossa (fossa intercondyloidea) behind, into two condyles. The external condyle is the broadest and most prominent, the internal the nar- rowest and longest; the difference in length depending on the obliquity of the femur, in consequence of the separation of the two bones at their upper extremity by the breadth of the pelvis. The external con- dyle is marked on its outer side by a pro- minent tuberosity, which gives attachment to the external lateral ligament; and im- mediately beneath this is the fossa which lodges the tendon of origin of the popliteus. By the internal surface it gives attachment to the anterior crucial ligament of the knee-joint; and by its upper and posterior part, to the external head of the gastro- cnemius and plantaris. The internal con- dyle projects on its inner side into a tuberosity, to which is attached the internal lateral ligament; above this tuberosity, at the ex- tremity of the internal condyloid ridge, is a tubercle, for the insertion of the tendon of the adductor magnus ; and below the tubercle, on the upper surface of the condyle, a depression from * The right femur, seen on its anterior aspect. 1. The shaft. 2. The head. 3. The neck. 4. Great trochanter. 5. Anterior intertrochanteric line. 6. Lesser trochanter. 7. External condyle. 8. Internal condyle. 9. Tuberosity for the attachment of the external lateral ligament. 10. Fossa for the tendon of origin of the popliteus muscle, lis Tuberosity for the attachment of the internal lateral ligament.