670 VISCERA OF THE PELVIS. the base of the bladder this layer is strengthened by the longitudinal fibres of the ureters, which, after perforating the external and middle muscular layer, spread out in a radiated manner and are continuous with the internal longitudinal layer, the increment of fibres in this situation constituting the muscles of the ureters of Sir Charles Bell. The three muscular layers communicate with each other by means of a frequent interchange of fasciculi, and are thus enabled to act in unison as a single muscle. In the trigonum, the radiating fibres of the ureters have a transverse direction, and the muscular structure is intermingled with areolar and elastic tissue. The Areolar or submucous coat is the thick layer of areolar tissue interposed between the mucous and muscular coat, and forming the bond of union between them. The Mucous coat is thick and smooth, of a pale rose colour, and exactly moulded on the muscular coat, to which it is connected by the areolar coat; it has no papilla?, but numerous mucous glands which are most abundant in the cervix and fundus, and are either simple pyriform follicles or small aggregations of follicles constituting small racemose glands. The mucous membrane is continuous through the ureters with the lining membrane of the uriniferous ducts, and through the urethra with that of the seminiferous ducts, prostate gland and Cowper's glands. It is provided with a lami- nated epithelium, the deeper cells of which are conical or fusiform ; the superficial, spheroidal or flattened, and of unequal size. In the mucous glands the epithelium is columnar. The mucous mem- brane is rich in vessels, which are most abundant, as are the nerves, in the cervix and fundus ; the nerves are not numerous. On the internal surface of the base of the bladder is a triangular smooth plane, the trigonum vesicae or trigone vesicale (fig. 271), on which the mucous membrane is paler and thinner than the rest. Calculi resting on this part give rise to much suffering on account of the greater number of nerves distributed to the cervix vesicae. The trigonum is bounded at each side by the raised ridge, corresponding with the muscles of the ureters, at each posterior angle by the openings of the ureters, and, in front, by a slight elevation of the mucous membrane at the entrance of the urethra, called uvula vesicoz. The external surface of the base of the bladder corresponding with the trigonum is also triangular, and separated from the rectum bv a thin layer of areolo-fibrous membrane, derived from the recto- vesical fascia. It is bounded behind by the recto-vesical fold of peritoneum; and at each side by the vas deferens and vesicula seminalis, which converge almost to a point at the base of the pro- state gland. It is through this space that the opening is made in the recto-vesical operation for puncture of the bladder. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries of the urinary bladder are the superior vesical, three or four small branches which proceed from the commencement of the hypogastric artery, previously to its