KNEE JOINT. 155 Fig. anterior slip of the semimembranosus tendon and the inferior in- ternal articular artery. External lateral ligaments.—The long external lateral ligament is a strong and round cord, which descends from the posterior part of the tubercle on the external condyle of the femur to the outer part of the head of the fibula. The short external lateral ligament is an irregular fasciculus situated be- hind the preceding, arising from the external condyle near the origin of the head of the gastrocnemius muscle, and inserted into the posterior part of the head of the fibula. It is firmly connected with the external semilunar fibro-cartilage, and appears princi- pally intended to connect that carti- lage with the fibula ; sometimes it is lost superiorly in the capsular liga- ment without reaching the femur.f The long external lateral ligament is covered in by the tendon of the biceps, and has passing beneath it the tendon of origin of the popliteus muscle, and the inferior external arti- cular artery. The true ligaments within the joint are the crucial, transverse, and coronary. The anterior, or external crucial ligament, arises from the de- pression on the head of the tibia in front of the spinous process, and passes upwards and backwards to be inserted into the inner surface of the outer condyle of the femur, as far back as its posterior border. It is smaller than the posterior. The posterior, or internal crucial ligament, arises from the de- pression on the head of the tibia behind the spinous process, and passes upwards and forwards to be inserted into the inner condyle of the femur. This ligament is less oblique and larger than the anterior. * Posterior view of the ligaments of the knee joint. 1. Fasciculus of the ligameutum posticum Winslowii, derived from 2, the tendon of the semi- membranosus muscle; the latter is cut through. 3. The process of the tendon which spreads out in the fascia of the popliteus muscle. 4. The process which is sent forwards beneath the internal lateral ligament. 5. Posterior border of the internal lateral ligament. 6. Long external lateral ligament. 7. Short external lateral ligament. 8. Tendon of the popliteus muscle cut through. 9. Postei o-superior tibio-fibular ligament. t Professor Retzias considers the short external lateral ligament as part of the tendon of origin of the popliteus muscle.