OS CALCIS. 109 and is rough and concave in front. Fig. 66 * The anterior extremity presents a rounded head, encircled by a con- striction somewhat resembling a neck; the posterior extremity is narrow, and marked by a deep groove, for the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis. Hold the astragalus with the broad articular surface upwards, and round- ed head forwards ; the triangular lateral articular surface will point to the side to which the bone belongs. Articulations.—With four bones: tibia, fibula, os calcis, and scaphoid. The Os calcis may be known by its large size and oblong figure, by the massive portion which forms the heel, and by two articular sur- faces, separated by a broad groove, upon its upper side. The os calcis is divisible into four surfaces, superior, inferior, external and internal; and two extremities, anterior and posterior. The su- perior surface is convex behind and irregularly concave in front, where it presents two and sometimes three articular facets, divided by a broad and shallow groove (sulcus calcanei), for the interosseous ligament. The inferior surf ace is convex and rough, and bounded posteriorly by the two inferior tuberosities, of which the internal is broad and large, the external smaller and prominent. The ex- ternal surface is convex and subcutaneous, and marked towards its anterior third by two grooves, often separated by a tubercle, for the tendons of the peroneus longus and brevis. The internal surface is concave and grooved, for the tendons and vessels which pass into the sole of the foot. At the anterior extremity of this surface is a projecting process (sustentaculum tali), which supports the anterior articulating surface of the astragalus, and serves as a pulley for the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum. At the anterior extremity of the bone is a flat articular surface, * Dorsal surface of the left foot. 1. Astragalus; its superior quadrilateral articular surface. 2. Anterior extremity of the astragalus, which articulates with (4) the scaphoid bone. 3, 3. Os calcis. 4. Scaphoid bone. 5. Internal cuneiform bone. 6. Middle cuneiform bone. 7. External cuneiform bone. 8. Cuboid bone. 9. Metatarsal bones of the first and second toes. 10. First phalanx of the great toe. 11. Second phalanx of the great toe. 12. First phalanx of the second toe. 13. Second phalanx. 14. Third phalanx.