2 GENERAL ANATOMY OF BONES. Bones are divisible into three classes :—Long, flat, and irregular. The Long bones are found principally in the limbs, and consist of a shaft and two extremities. The shaft is cylindrical or prismoid in form, dense and hard in texture, and hollowed in the interior into a medullary canal. The extremities are broad and expanded, to articulate with adjoining bones ; and, in internal structure,' are cellular or cancellous. Upon the exterior of the bones are processes and rough surfaces for the attachment of muscles, and, foramina for the transmission of vessels and nerves. The character of long bones is, therefore, their general type of structure and their divisibility into a central portion and extremities, and not so much their length ; for there are certain long bones, as the second phalanges of the toes, which are less than a quarter of an inch in length, and which, in some instances, exceed in breadth their longitudinal axis. The long bones are, the clavicle, humerus, radius and ulna, femur, tibia and fibula, metacarpal bones, metatarsal, phalanges, and ribs. Flat bones are composed of two layers of dense bone with an inter- mediate cellular structure, and are divisible into, surfaces, borders, angles, and processes. They are adapted to inclose cavities : have processes upon their surface for the attachment of muscles ; and are perforated by foramina, for the passage of nutrient vessels to their cells, and for the transmission of vessels and nerves. They articulate with long bones by means of smooth surfaces plated with cartilage, and with each other, either by fibro-cartilaginous tissue, as at the symphysis pubis ; or by suture, as in the bones of the skull. The two condensed layers of the bones of the skull are named, tables ; and the intermediate cellular structure, diploe. The flat bones are, the occipital, parietal, frontal, nasal, lachrymal, vomer, sternum, scapulae, and ossa innominata. The Irregular bones include all that remain after the long and the flat bones have been selected. They are essentially irregular in their form, in some parts flat, in others short and thick ; and are constructed on the same general principle as other bones ; they have an exterior dense, and an interior more or less cellular. The bones of this class are, the temporal, sphenoid, ethmoid, superior maxil- lary, inferior maxillary, palate, inferior turbinated, hyoid, vertebrae, sacrum, coccyx, carpal, tarsal, and sesamoid bones, the latter in- cluding the patellae. Structure of Bone.—Bone is a dense, compact, and homogeneous substance (basis substance) filled with minute cells (corpuscles of Purkinje), which'are scattered numerously through its structure. The basis substance of bone is subfibrous and obscurely lamellated, the lanjellae being concentric in long and parallel in fiat bones ; it is traversbd in all directions, but especially in the longitudinal axis, by branching and inosculating canals (Haversian canals), which give passage to vessels and nerves, and in certain situations the lamellae separate from each- other, and leave between them areolar spaces (cancelli) of various magnitude. The lamellae have an average