492 PNEUMOGASTRIC NERVE. of the pneumogastric and sympathetic nerve to form the pharyngeal plexus. The Tonsillitic branches proceed from the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, near its termination ; they form a plexus (circulus tonsil- laris) around the base of the tonsil, from which numerous filaments are given off to the mucous membrane of the fauces and soft palate. These filaments communicate with the descending palatine branches of Meckel's ganglion. The Lingual branches enter the substance of the tongue beneath thehyo-glossus and stylo-glossus muscle, and are distributed to the mucous membrane of the side and base of the tongue, and to the epiglottis and fauces. Pneumogastric or Vagus nerve ; par vagum; tenth pair of Soem- mering.—The pneumogastric is the nerve of the respiratory organs and upper part of the alimentary canal, supplying branches to the larynx, trachea, lungs, pharynx, oesophagus, and stomach, and also giving branches to the heart. It arises by ten or fifteen filaments from the groove between the corpus olivare and corpus restiforme, or rather from the anterior border of the latter, immediately below the glosso-pharyngeal, and passes out of the skull through the inner extremity of the jugular foramen, enclosed in a sheath of dura mater common to it and the spinal accessory. The nerve then takes its course down the side of the neck, lying at first between the internal jugular vein and internal carotid artery, and lower down behind and between that vein and the common carotid artery and enclosed in the same sheath. At the root of the neck the course of the nerve on the two sides is different. The right nerve enters the chest by passing between the subclavian artery and vein, and de- scends by the side of the trachea to the posterior part of the root of the right lung ; it then proceeds as a double cord along the posterior aspect of the oesophagus to the corresponding side of the stomach; the two cords reuniting at the lower part of the oesophagus. The left nerve enters the chest between the left common carotid and subclavian artery lying behind the left vena innominata; it then crosses the arch of the aorta, and reaches the posterior part of the root of the left lung, whence it descends, by one or two cords, along the anterior aspect of the oesophagus to the front part of the stomach. In the jugular foramen, the pneumogastric nerve presents a small round ganglion, the superior or jugular ganglion ; and immediately at its exit a gangliform swelling, nearly an inch in length, the inferior ganglion (plexus gangliformis). The fibres of origin of the pneumogastric nerve, like those of the glosso-pharyngeal, maybe traced through the fasciculi of the corpus restiforme to the grey substance of the floor of the fourth ventricle. The branches of the pneumogastric nerve are branches of commu- nication and branches of distribution. The branches of communication proceed from the ganglia ; from