MUSCLES OF THE NECK. 202 trunk of the sympathetic nerve, pneumogastric, and spinal acces- sory nerve. By its posterior surface with the rectus anticus minor, and superior cervical vertebrae ; internally with the longus colli, and externally with the scaleni. The Rectus anticus minor arises from the anterior border of the lateral mass of the atlas, and is inserted into the basilar process ; its fibres being directed obliquely upwards and inwards. Relations. —By its anterior surface with the rectus anticus major, and superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. By its posterior surface with the articulation of the condyle of the occipital bone with the atlas, and anterior occipito-atloid ligament. The Scalenus anticus (costo-trachelius) is a triangular muscle, as its name implies, situated at the root of the neck, and appearing like a continuation of the Fig. 115.* rectus anticus major ; it arises, by a flat and narrow tendon, from the upper and inner border of the first rib ; and is inserted into the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrse. Relations.—By its an- terior surface with the sterno-mastoid, omo-hyoid, suprascapular and trans- versa colli artery, phrenic nerve, and subclavian vein, by which latter it is sepa- rated from the subclavius muscle and clavicle. By its posterior surface with the pleura, the nerves which form the brachial plexus, and below, the sub- clavian artery. By its in- ner side with the longus colli, being separated by the vertebral artery ; by its outer side with the scalenus medius. Its relations with the * Prevertebral group of muscles of the neck. 1. Eectus anticus major. 2. Scalenus anticus. 3. Lower part of the longus colli of the right side; it is concealed superiorly by the rectus anticus major. 4. Rectus anticus minor. 5. Upper portion of the longus colli. 6. Its lower portion; the figure rests on the seventh cervical vertebra. 7. Scalenus medius; behind which is seen the scalenus posticus. 8. Rectus lateralis, left side. 9. One of the inter- transversales.