ANTERIOR BRACHIAL REGION. 254 noid process of the ulna, and oblique line of the radius. The median nerve and ulnar artery pass between its heads. It divides into four tendons, which pass beneath the annular ligament, and are inserted into the base of the second phalanges of the fingers, splitting at their termination to give passage to the tendons of the deep flexor; hence its designation, perforatus. In the thecse of the fingers several small tendinous fasciculi are found, which pass from the phalanges to the edges of the tendons; these .have been termed the vinculo, accessoria. Relations.—In the forearm; by its anterior surface with the pronator radii teres, flexor carpi radialis, palmaris longus, flexor carpi ulnaris, and the deep fascia. By its posterior surface with the flexor profundus digitorum, flexor longus pollicis, ulnar artery, ■veins, and nerve, and median nerve. This muscle frequently sends a fasciculus to the flexor longus pollicis or flexor profundus. In the hand : its tendons, after passing beneath the annular ligament, are in relation superficially with the superficial palmar arch, and palmar fascia; and deeply with the tendons of the deep flexor and lumbricales. The Flexor carpi ulnaris arises by two heads, one from the inner condyle and intermuscular septa, the other from the olecranon and by means of a strong aponeurosis from two-thirds of the inner border of the ulna. Its tendon is inserted into the pisiform bone and base of the metacarpal bone of the little finger. Relations.—By its anterior surface with the deep fascia of the forearm, with which it is closely united superiorly. By its pos- terior surface with the flexor sublimis digitorum, flexor profundus, pronator quadratus, ulnar artery, veins, and nerve. By its radial border with the palmaris longus, and in the lower third of the forearm, the ulnar vessels and nerve. The ulnar nerve, and the posterior ulnar recurrent artery, pass between its two heads of origin. Deep layer. Flexor profundus digitorum, Flexor longus pollicis, Pronator quadratus. Dissection.—This group is brought into view by removing the flexor sublimis, and drawing aside the pronator radii teres. The Flexor profundus digitorum (perforans) arises from the upper two-thirds of the ulna, its anterior and inner surface and posterior border, from the inner side of the olecranon, where it is connected with the aponeurotic expansion of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and from the ulnar half of the interosseous membrane. At the middle of the forearm it divides into four tendons which pass beneath the annular ligament, and along the fingers, between the two slips of the tendons of the flexor sublimis, to be inserted into the base of the last phalanges. In the groove of the carpus the