KNEE JOINT. '156 The transverse ligament is a small slip of fibies which extends transversely from the external semilunar fibrocartilage, near its anterior extremity, to the anterior convexity of the internal car- tilage. The coronary ligaments are the short fibres by which the convex borders of the semilunar cartilages are connected to the head of the tibia and ligaments surrounding the joint. The semilunar fibrocartilages are two falciform plates of fibro- cartilage, situated on the head of the tibia around its margin, and serving to deepen the surface of articulation for the condyles of the femur. They are thick along their convex border; thin and sharp along their concave edge. The internal semilunar fibrocartilage forms an oval cup for the reception of the internal condyle of the femur ; it is connected by its convex border with the head of the Fig.94>* tibia and internal and posterior liga- ments, by means of its coronary liga- ment ; and by its two extremities is firmly implanted into the depression before and behind the spinous process. The external semilunar fibrocartilage bounds a circular fossa for the external condyle ; it is connected by its convex border with the head of the tibia, and to the external and posterior ligaments by its coronary ligament; by its two extremities it is inserted into the de- pression between the two projections which constitute the spinous process of the tibia. The two extremities of the external cartilage being inserted into the same fossa, form an almost complete circle, and the cartilage being somewhat broader than the internal, nearly covers the articular surface of the tibia. The external semilunar fibrocartilage, besides giving off a fasci- culus from its anterior border to constitute the transverse ligament, is continuous by some of its fibres with the extremity of the anterior * The right knee joint laid open from the front, in order to show the in- ternal ligaments. 1. Cartilaginous surface of the lower extremity of the femur with its two condyles; the figure 5 rests on the external; the figure 3 on the internal condyle. 2. Anterior crucial ligament. 3. Posterior crucial ligament. 4. Transverse ligament. 5. Attachment of the ligamentum mu- cosum; the rest has been removed. 6. Internal semilunar fibrocartilage. 7. External fibrocartilage. 8. Part of the ligamentum patellar turned down. 9. Bursa situated between the ligamentum patella?, and head of the tibia; laid open. 10. Antero-superior tibio-fibular ligament. 11. Interosseous mem- brane; the opening above this membrane is for the passage of the anterior tibial artery.