FCETAL LIVER. 708 supply the newly-formed alimentary canal of the embryo. From them, as from a centre, the general circulating system is produced. After the establishment of the placental circulation they cease to carry blood, and dwindle to the size of mere threads, which may be easily demonstrated in the early periods of uterine life ; but are completely removed, excepting under peculiar circumstances, at a later period. The Alimentary canal is developed from the inferior and middle layer of the germinal membrane; the former, producing the mucous membrane with its epithelium and glands ; the latter, the muscular and serous coat, together with the vessels and nerves. The Stomach is of small size, and the great extremity but little developed. It is also more vertical in direction the earlier it is examined, a position that would seem due to the enormous magni- tude of the liver, and particularly of its left lobe. The Appendix vermiformis cceci is long and of large size, and is continued directly from the central part of the cul-de-sac of the caecum, of which it appears to be a constricted continuation. This is the character of the appendix cseci in the higher quadrumana. The large intestines are filled with a dark green viscous secretion, called meconium (fjbrjKwv, poppy), from its resemblance to the inspissated juice of the poppy. The Pancreas is comparatively larger in the foetus than in the adult. The Spleen is comparatively smaller in the foetus than in the adult. It is developed at the end of the second month in the foetal mesogastrium, from the middle layer of the germinal membrane ; it is somewhat lobulated at first, and whitish in colour, but soon becomes red and abundant in vessels. FOETAL LIVER. The Liver is the first formed organ in the embryo, consisting primarily of two small masses of cells, appertaining, the one to the epithelial, the other to the fibrous coat of the intestine. The cells rapidly increase in number, the epithelial cells forming solid cylin- ders which ramify and anastomose with each other, and finally con- stitute the secretory portion of the gland ; the other cells, included within the network of the former, constituting the areolar and vas- cular structure of the organ. Subsequently the solid cylinders are hollowed in their interior, and form the biliary ducts. Dr. Hand- field Jones considers the liver to take its origin independently of the intestine, namely, from the gall bladder, which is at first solid, like the columns of cells above described, and gives off two branches, one to join the intestine, while the other is developed into the liver. At the third week the liver fills the whole abdomen, and is one-half the weight of the entire embryo. At the fourth month the liver is of immense size in proportion to the bulk of the foetus. At birth,