664 STRUCTURE OF THE KIDNEYS. which they form plexuses and anastomoses with similar tubuli, ter- minate in small globular bodies, the corpora Malpighiana. The tubuli uriniferi vary somewhat in size in their Fig. 266.* course ; they are largest in the papillae, dimi- nish in size towards the base of the pyramid in consequence of giving off branches, and en- large in the pyramids of Ferrein and tubuli contorti, to become again constricted imme- diately before joining the corpora Malpighiana. The tubulus is cylindrical and composed of two layers, a thin homogeneous and elastic mem- brana propria, and an epithelium consisting of a single layer of polygonal nucleated cells. The epithelium is equal in thickness to two-thirds the diameter of the tubulus, the remaining third representing its area. The cells of the epithe- lium contain a finely granular substance occa- sionally intermingled with fatty and pigmentary granules ; and near the Malpighian body are furnished, according to Bowman, with vibratile cilia. The corpora Malpighiana are small globular bodies about of an inch in diameter, situated on the branches of small arteries, like fruit upon its stalk, in the vascular portion of the kidney immediately around the pyramids of Ferrein and in the septa renum. Each Malpighian cor- puscle consists of a capsule, the expanded ex- tremity of the uriniferous tubule, and contains in its interior a plexiform tuft of minute vessels, the glomerulus Malpighianus, embedded in epithelium ; the cells of the epithe- lium being smaller than those which line the tubule. The Mal- pighian corpuscle is therefore the origin of the uriniferous tubule, which is remarkable for its contorted course, first passing outwards and then suddenly bending inwards before joining with the cortical fasciculus ; and the glomerulus is the vascular source of the urinary secretion. The renal artery, derived from the aorta, divides into several large branches, which, entering the hilum, make their way into the vascular substance of the septa renum and thence to the peripheral * Plan of the structure of the kidney; after Kolliker. 1, 1. Tubulus rectus, dividing into branches as it ascends. 2, 2. Pyramid of Ferrein; with the tubuli contorti. 3. Origin of two tubules from their respective Malpighian bodies. 4, 4. Branch of an artery. 5, 5. Three interlobular arteries giving off afferent twigs to the Malpighian bodies, 6, 6. 7. Capillary plexus formed by the efferent vessels, of which one is seen at 8. 9, 9. Efferent vessels, proceed- ing to the tubular structure of the pyramids and constituting the arteriole recta*. 10. Capillary plexus of the tubular structure of the pyramid. 11. One of the venulse rectee.