430 STRUCTURE OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. Fig. 173. The grey substance is composed of nerve-cells and transverse fibres ; the latter, of medium size and fine, extending into the lateral halves of the cord constituting the posterior commissure. The nerve-cells of the grey substance present three principal forms, namely, cells of the central grey substance ; cells of the substantia gelatinosa; and large pigmentary cells. Between the two former, every possible gradation of size and form is also met with. The cells of the central grey substance are pale, finely granular, contain several nuclei, and give off pale branching pro- cesses. The cells of the substantia gelatinosa have a yellowish colour, contain single nuclei, and give off smaller processes, from one to three in number. The pigmentary cells are of large size, and are multipolar or many-rayed cells, giving off numerous, from two to nine or more, branched processes, which terminate in fine fibrils. They are fusiform or polygonal in shape, contain a brown pigment, and are found in the anterior and posterior cornua of the grey substance; in the former compos- ing two groups, which are traversed by the internal and external division of the anterior roots of the spinal nerves. The processes of the cells are fine pale fibrils, resembling axis-fibres of the finest kind. The nerve fibresof the grey substance of the spinal cord constitute about half its bulk, and are referrible to three sources, namely, to the roots of the spinal nerves, to the grey substance itself, and to the processes of the nerve- cells. The fibres of the roots of the spinal nerves may be traced through the longitudinal fibres of the white substance into the grey ; they diminish in size as they enter the grey, and become still smaller in the grey substance, being re- duced to half their former size; leaving the grey substance, they Fig. 174.t * Multi-nucleated cells from the central grey substance of the spinal cord; magnified 350 times; after Kolliker. These cells measure between -^qq and y/oo of an inch in diameter. t Cells from the substantia gelatinosa of the posterior horn of the spinal cord; magnified 350 times; after Kolliker.