693 MONS VENERIS.—LABIA MA JOB A. of the uterine ; the spermatic or ovarian artery being distributed to the broad ligaments, according to Weber, and not specially to the ovaries. The arteries enter the ovary along its inferior border by numerous minute trunks, which pass in a serpentine course through its stroma, to be distributed chiefly to the walls of the ovisacs, forming an exterior coarse and interior fine capillary plexus. The veins constitute an ovarian plexus, which terminates in the uterine plexus. The lymphatics, few in number, terminate in the pelvic and lumbar glands. The nerves are derived from the spermatic plexus, and take the course of the arteries. The Round ligaments are two musculo-fibrous cords between four and five inches long, situated within the layers of the broad ligaments, and extending from the upper angles of the uterus, and along the spermatic canals to the labia majora, in which they are lost. They are composed of smooth muscular fibre and areolar tissue, but towards the internal abdominal rings, have also nume- rous fasciculi of striated muscular fibres. The round ligaments are accompanied by a small artery, by several filaments of the sper- matic plexus of nerves, by a plexus of veins, and by a process of the peritoneum which represents the serous membrane investing the spetmatic cord in the male. In the young subject, this process extends for a short distance along the spermatic canal, and is denominated the canal of Nuch: it is sometimes pervious in the adult. The plexus of veins occasionally becomes varicose, and forms a small tumour at the external abdominal ring, which has been mistaken for inguinal hernia. The round ligaments serve to retain the uterus in position in the pelvis, and, during utero- gCstation, to draw the anterior surface of the organ against the abdominal parietes. EXTERNAL ORGANS OP GENERATION. The female organs of generation are divisible into internal and external; the internal are contained within the pelvis, and have been already described ; they are, the vagina, uterus, ovaries, and Fallopian tubes. The external organs are the mons Veneris, labia majora, labia minora, clitoris, meatus urinarius, and opening of the vagina. The Mons Veneris is the eminence of integument, situated on the front of the pubes. Its areolar tissue is loaded with adipose substance, and the surface covered with hairs. The Labia majora are two large longitudinal folds of integument, containing areolar tissue, fat, and a tissue resembling the dartos. They enclose an elliptical fissure, the common urino-sexual opening or vulva. The vulva receives the inferior opening of the urethra and vagina, and is bounded anteriorly by the commissura superior, and posteriorly by the commissura inferior. Stretching across the posterior commissure is a small transverse fold, the frcenulum