461 LINING MEMBRANE OF THE VENTRICLES. out, and at the lower part of the ventricle forms several eminences or nuclei, from which, according to Stilling, the eighth and ninth nerves, and probably also the fifth, take their^prigin. Higher up, the fasciculi teretes are crossed by several white strise (lineas trans- versa), the origin of the auditory nerves. Upon the lower part of the floor" of this ventricle is an impression resembling the point of a pen, and hence named calamus scriptorius; the lateral boun- daries of the calamus are the processus clavati of the posterior pyramids. Above, the fourth ventricle is bounded by the corpora quadrigemina and aqueduct of Sylvius ; and beloio by a layer of pia mater and arachnoid, called the valve of the arachnoid. Beneath this valve a communication exists between the ventricles of the brain and the subarachnoidean space. Within the fourth ventricle, and lying against the uvula and tonsils, are two small vascular fringes formed by the pia mater, the choroid plexuses of the fourth ventricle. LINING MEMBRANE OF THE* VENTRICLES. The lining membrane of the ventricles, ependyma ventriculorum, is a serous layer distinct from the araehnoid ; it lines the whole of the interior of the lateral ventricles, and is connected above and below with the attached border of the choroid plexus, so as to ex- clude all communication between the lateral ventricles and the exterior of the brain. From the lateral ventricles it is reflected through the foramen of Monro on each side into the third ventricle, which it invests throughout. From the third it is conducted into the fourth ventricle, through the iter a tertio ad quartum ventri- culum, and after lining its interior becomes continuous inferiorly with the subarachnoidean space of the spinal cord. The lining membrane of the ventricles is provided with a ciliated epithelium, and is the source of the secretion which moistens and lubricates their interior. The fifth ventricle has a separate lining membrane. The epithelium of the ependyma ventriculorum is for the most part bedded on the medullary substance, but where a substratum of areolar tissue exists, as in the walls of the lateral ventricles, and on the septum lucidum, and particularly where the sub-ependymic tissue is thickened, certain small bodies, corpuscula amylacea, are found as a pathological formation. These bodies resemble starch- granules, are round and biscuit-shaped, yellowish in colour, and marked by concentric strise. CEREBELLUM. The Cerebellum (figs. 184, 186, 188), seven times smaller than the cerebrum, is situated beneath the posterior cerebral lobes, being lodged in the posterior fossa of the base of the cranium, and protected from the superincumbent pressure of the cerebrum by the tentorium cerebelli. Like the cerebrum, it is composed of grey and white sub-