642 MUSCULAR COAT OF THE INTESTINE. reached the surface of the mucous membrane, the capillaries become increased in size, and form a horizontal plexus around the aper- tures of the glands, and these larger capillaries taking a retrograde course, unite to form small venous trunks, by which the blood is returned to the venous circulation. Hence the glands are provided for their secreting function with fine capillaries, while the capil- laries which contribute to the nutrition and secretion of the surface of the mucous membrane are of a coarser kind. Muscular, coat.—The muscular coat of the pharynx consists of five pairs of muscles, which have been already described. The muscular coat of the rest of the alimentary canal is composed of two planes of fibres, external or longitudinal, and internal or circular. The (Esophagus is very muscular ; its longitudinal fibres com- mence by three fasciculi, two lateral, which are continuous with the inferior constrictor, and one anterior which is attached to the ver- tical ridge of the cricoid cartilage. The circular fibres are attached superiorly to* the cricoid cartilage ; they are transverse in their arrangement above and below, but spiral in the middle of the oesophagus. Below, both sets of fibres are continued upon the stomach. In addition to the proper muscular fibres of the oesophagus, Hyrtl has described two special muscles in connexion with this tube, broncho-oesophageal and pleuro-oesophageal. The Broncho-oeso- phageal muscle arises as a broad fasciculus from the posterior sur- face of the left bronchus, and is lost, after a course of two or three inches in length, among the longitudinal fibres of the left side of the oesophagus. The Pleuro-oesophageal muscle arises from the left wall of the posterior mediastinum behind the commencement of the descending aorta, and curves around that vessel to mingle its fibres with the longitudinal fibres of the oesophagus. On the Stomach, the longitudinal fibres, descending from the oesophagus, spread out in a radiated manner around the cardiac orifice and great end of the organ, and take their course towards the lesser end ; they are most apparent along the lesser curve. The circular fibres are most abundant at the lesser end, and at the pylorus are aggregated into a thick circular ring, which, with the spiral fold of mucous membrane found in that situation, constitutes the pyloric valve. At the great end of the stomach a new order of fibres is introduced, having for their object to strengthen and com- press that extremity of the organ. They are directed more or less horizontally from the great end towards the lesser end, and are generally lost upon the sides of the stomach at about its middle ; these are the oblique fibres. They are the most internal of the three layers, and most numerous at the upper part of the cul-de-sac, near the cardiac orifice. In the Small intestine, the muscular coat is thicker in the duo- denum and jejunum than in the ileum ; the longitudinal fibres are