SUBMAXILLARY GANGLION. 529 palatine ganglion, through the pterygoid or Vidian canal to the foramen lacerum basis cranii, where it divides into two branches, carotid and petrosal. The carotid branch (n. petrosus profundus) crosses the foramen lacerum, surrounded by the cartilaginous sub- stance which closes that opening, and enters the carotid canal to join the carotid plexus. The petrosal branch (n. petrosus superfi- cial major) enters the cranium through the foramen lacerum basis cranii, piercing the cartilaginous substance, and passes backwards beneath the Casserian ganglion and dura mater, embedded in a groove on the anterior surface of the petrous bone, to the hiatus Fallopii. In the hiatus Fallopii it receives a branch from Jacobson's nerve, and terminates in the intumescentia gangliformis of the facial nerve. The pharyngeal nerve is a small branch which passes backwards through the pterygo-palatine canal with the pterygo-palatine artery, to be distributed to the mucous membrane of the Eustachian tube and neighbouring part of the pharynx. The Otic ganglion (Arnold's)* is a small oval-shaped and flat- tened ganglion, lying against the inner surface of the inferior maxil- lary nerve, close to the foramen ovale ; it is in relation, externally, with the trunk of that nerve, just at the point of union of the motor root; internally it rests against the cartilage of the Eustachian tube and tensor palati muscle ; and posteriorly is in contact with the arteria meningea media. It is closely adherent to the internal pterygoid nerve, and appears like a swelling on that nerve. The branches of the otic ganglion are six in number ; two of dis- tribution, and four of communication. The branches of distribution are, a,small filament to the tensor tympani muscle, and one or two to the tensor palati. The branches of communication are, one or two filaments from the inferior maxillary nerve (short root) ; one or two filaments from the auriculo-temporal nerve ; filaments from the nervi molles of the arteria meningea media, and the nervus petrosus snperficialis minor (long root). The latter nerve ascends from the ganglion to a small canal situated between the foramen ovale and foramen spinosum, and passes backwards on the petrous bone to the hiatus Fallopii, where it divides into two filaments. One of these filaments enters the hiatus and joins the intumescentia gangliformis of the facial ; the other passes to a minute foramen nearer the base of the petrous bone, and enters the tympanum, where it communicates with a branch of Jacobson's nerve. The Submaxillary ganglion is a small round or triangular ganglion situated on the submaxillary gland, in close relation with * Frederick Arnold, "Dissertatio Inauguralis de Parte Cephalica Nervi Sympathetici." Heidelberg, 1826; and " Ueber den Ohrknoten," 1828. M M