ZONULA CILIABIS. 548 This artery may be seen by making a transverse section of the eye- ball. Its branches are continued anteriorly into the zonula ciliaris. The vascular layer forms distinct sheaths for the nervous papillae, which constitute the inner surface of the retina. In the centre of the Fig. 207.* posterior part of the globe of the eye, the retina presents a circular spot, which is called the fora- men of Soemmering ;f it is surrounded by a yellow halo, the limbus luteus, and is frequently obscured by an elliptical fold of the retina, which has been regarded as a normal condition of the membrane. The term foramen is misapplied to this spot, for the vascu- lar layer and the mem- brana Jacobi are conti- nued across it ; the ner- vous substance alone appearing to be deficient. It exists only in animals having the axes of the eyeballs parallel with each other, as man, quadrumana, and some saurian reptiles, and is said to give passage to a small lymphatic vessel. The Zonula ciliaris (zonula of Zinn)J is a thin vascular layer, which connects the anterior margin of the retina with the anterior surface of the lens, near its circumference. It presents at its sur- face a number of small folds corresponding with the ciliary pro- cesses, between which they are received. These processes are arranged in the form of rays around the lens, and the spaces be- tween them are stained by the pigmentum nigrum of the ciliary processes ; they derive their vessels from the vascular layer of the * Posterior segment of a transverse section of the globe of the eye, seen from within. 1. Divided edge of the three tunics. The membrane covering the whole internal surface is the retina. 2. The entrance of the optic nerve with the arteria centralis retinae piercing its centre. 3, 3. Eamifications of the arteria centralis. 4. Foramen of Soemmering, in the centre of the axis of the eye; the shade from the sides of the section obscures the limbus luteus which surrounds it. 5. A fold of the retina, which generally obscures the foramen of Soemmering after the eye has been opened. t Samuel Thomas Soemmering is celebrated for the beautiful and accurate plates which accompany his works. The account "De Foramine Centrali Eetinse Humanse, Limbo Luteo cincto," was published in 1779, in the Com- mentationes Soc, Meg. Scient. Gottingensis. % John Gottfried Zinn, Professor of Anatomy in Gottingen; his "Descriptio Anatomica Oculi Humani," was published in 1755; with excellent plates. It was republished by Wrisberg in 1780.