IRIS.—CILIARY PROCESSES. 546 In animals, the pigmentum nigrum of the posterior wall of the eyeball, is replaced by a layer of considerable extent, and of metallic brilliancy, called the tapetum. The Ciliary ligament, or circle (annulus albidus), is the bond of union between the external and middle tunic of the eyeball, and serves to connect the cornea and sclerotic, at their line of junction, with the iris and external layer of the choroid. It is also the point to which the ciliary nerves and vessels proceed previously to their distribution, and it receives the anterior ciliary arteries through the anterior margin of the sclerotic. A minute vascular canal is situ- ated within the ciliary ligament, called the ciliary canal, or canal of F on tana,* after its discoverer. The Iris (iris, a rainbow) is so named from its variety of colour in different individuals : it forms a septum between the anterior and posterior chamber of the eye, and is pierced somewhat to the nasal side of its centre by a circular opening, which is called the pupil. By its periphery it is connected with the ciliary ligament, and by its inner circumference forms the margin of the pupil; its * anterior surface looks towards the cornea, the posterior towards the ciliary processes and lens. The iris is composed of two layers, an anterior or muscular layer, consisting of ra- Fig. 206.f diating fibres which converge from the cir- cumference towards the centre, and have the power of dilating the pupil; and circular fibres, which surround the pupil like a sphinc- ter, and by their action produce contraction of its area. The posterior layer is of a deep purple tint, and is thence named uvea, from its resemblance in colour to a ripe grape. The Ciliary processes (corpus ciliare) may be seen in two ways, either * Felix Fontana, an anatomist of Tuscany. His "Description of a New Canal in the Eye," was published in 1778, in a Letter to the Professor of Anatomy in Upsal. t Anterior segment of a transverse section of the globe of the eye, seen from within. 1. Divided edge of the three tunics; sclerotic, choroid (the dark layer), and retina. 2. Pupil. 3. Iris, the surface presented to view in this section being the uvea. 4. Ciliary processes. 5. The scalloped anterior border of the retina.