PERITONEUM. 611 stomach). The two lateral regions being under the cartilages of the ribs, are called hypochondriac (virb xovdpoi, under the cartilages). The middle region of the middle zone is the umbilical; the two lateral, the lumbar. The middle region of the inferior zone is the hypogastric (vird yacrT7]p, below the stomach) ; and the two lateral, the iliac. In addition to these divisions, we employ the term inguinal region, in reference to the vicinity of Poupart's ligament. Position of the Viscera.—In the upper zone will be seen the liver, extending across from the right to the left side ; the stomach and spleen on the left, and the pancreas and duodenum behind. In the middle zone is the transverse portion of the colon, with the upper part of the ascending and descending colon, omentum, small intestines, mesentery, and, behind, the kidneys and supra-renal capsules. In the inferior zone is the lower part of the omentum and small intestines, the csecum, ascending colon, descending colon with the sigmoid flexure, and ureters. The smooth and polished surface, which the viscera and parietes of the abdomen present, is due to the peritoneum. i PERITONEUM. The Peritoneum (irepiTelveiv, to extend around) is a serous membrane, and therefore, a shut sac : a single exception exists in the human subject to this character, viz., in the female, where the peritoneum is perforated by the open extremities of the Fallopian tubes, and is continuous with their mucous lining. The simplest idea that can be given of a serous membrane, which will apply equally to all, is, that it invests the viscus or viscera, and is then reflected on the parietes of the containing cavity. If the cavity contain only a single viscus, the consideration of the serous membrane is extremely simple. But in the abdomen, where there are a number of viscera, the serous membrane passes from one to the other until it has invested the whole, before it is reflected on the parietes. Hence its reflexions are a little more complicated. In tracing the reflexions of the peritoneum, in the middle line, we commence with the diaphragm, which is lined by two layers, one from the parietes in front, anterior, and one from the parietes behind, posterior. These two layers of the same membrane, at the posterior part of the diaphragm, descend to the upper surface of the liver, forming the coronary and lateral ligaments of the liver. They then surround the liver, one going in front, the other behind that viscus, and meeting at its under surface, pass to the stomach, forming the lesser omentum. They then, in the same manner, surround the stomach, and meeting at its lower border, descend for some distance in front of the intestines, and return to the trans- verse colon, forming the great omentum; they then surround the transverse colon, and pass directly backwards to the vertebral column, forming the transverse meso-colon. Here the two layers R R 2