150 CARPOMETACARPAL ARTICULATIONS. Actions.—Very little movement exists between the bones in each range, but more is permitted between the two ranges. The motions of the latter, are those of flexion and extension. 9. Carpo-metacarpal Articulations.—The second row of bones of the carpus articulates with the metacarpal bones of the four fingers the index finger, one each from the trapezium and trapezoides ; to the middle finger, one each from the trapezoides and os magnum ; to the ring finger, one each from the os magnum and unciforme ; and to the little finger, one from the unciforme. The palmar ligaments are thin fasciculi arranged according to the same plan on the palmar surface. The synovial membrane is a continuation of the great synovial membrane of the two rows of carpal bones. The capsular ligament of the thumb is one of the three true * Diagram showing the disposition of the five synovial membranes of the wrist joint. 1. Sacciform membrane. 2. Second synovial membrane. 3, 3. Third, or large synovial membrane. 4. Synovial membrane between the pisiform and cuneiform bone. 5. Synovial membrane of the metacarpal articulation of the thumb. 6. Lower extremity of the radius. 7. Lower extremity of the ulna. 8. Interarticular fibro-cartilage. S. Scaphoid bone. L. Semilunare. C. Cuneiforme; interosseous ligaments are seen passing between these three bones and separating the articulation of the wrist (2) from that of the carpal bones (3). P. Pisiforme. T. Trapezium. T 2. Trapezoides. M. Os magnum. 77. Unciforme; interosseous ligaments are seen connecting the os magnum with the trapezoides and unciforme. 9. Base of the metacarpal bone of the thumb. 10,10. Bases of the other metacarpal bones. Fig. 91 * \ V by dorsal and palmar ligaments; and the me- tacarpal bone of the thumb with the trape- zium by a capsular li- gament. There is also in the carpo-metacarpal articulation a thin in-, terosseous band, which passes from the ulnar edge of the os magnum to the base of the third and fourth metacarpal bones at their point of connexion. The dorsal ligaments are strong fasciculi which pass from the second range of carpal to the metacarpal bones; with the exception of the little finger there are two fasciculi to each bone, namely, to