438 STRUCTURE OP THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. in the posterior or sensitive roots ; they are invested by a thin sheath of pia mater in their course across the sub-arachnoidean space, and the pia mater not only gives them an external sheath, but penetrates into their substance, and forms septa between their individual fasciculi; moreover, at their escape from the dura mater they receive an ad- ditional sheath or neurilemma from that membrane. On each of the posterior roots, at a short distance from the spinal cord, and for the most part externally to the dura mater and vertebral canal, is situated a swelling or ganglion, and beyond this ganglion the an- terior and posterior root are united, the fibres of both being collected together into the same sheath. After the union of the two roots, the fibres run parallel with each other without division, exchanging fasciculi and fibres so as to form plexuses where they are associated in the supply of a separate region, as the neck, the upper and lower extremity, and finally terminating in loops, in free extre- mities, and in reticular anastomosing plexuses. In the roots of the nerves, the nerve-fibres are various in size, some being large and some small, and beyond the ganglion of the posterior root their number is augmented by the addition of ganglionic fibres. They maintain a general uniformity of bulk and are undulated in their course, and, in their peripheral termination, no difference of size is perceptible between the fibres of the motor and sensitive roots. It is, further, to be remarked that communications are not infre- quent between the posterior roots pf the nerves, and especially in the cervical region. The sheath of the nerve, or neurilemma, is a firm membranous layer of areolar tissue which encloses the nerve and sends septa into its interior, forming sheaths for its separate fasciculi and fibres ; in the smallest branches the neurilemma becomes homogeneous and nucleated, and in the large nerves the areolar tissue assumes a fibrous character and is intermingled with simple and reticulated filaments of elastic tissue. In the smaller fasciculi the neurilemma is remarkable for its smooth and polished appearance, and is marked by a peculiar oblique or zig-zag line. The connexion of a nerve with the cerebro-spinal axis is called, for convenience of description, its origin; this term must not, however, be taken literally, for each nerve is developed in the precise situation which it occupies in the body, and with the same relations that it possesses in after life. Indeed, we not unfrequently meet with instances in anencephalous foetuses, where the nerves are completely formed, while the brain and spinal cord are wanting. In their distribution the spinal nerves for the most part follow the course of the arteries, particularly in the limbs, where they lie almost con- stantly to the outer side of and superficially to the vessels, as if for the purpose of receiving the first intimation of danger, and com- municating it to the muscles, that the latter may instantly remove the arteries from impending injury. The cerebral nerves, from the third to the hypoglossal, resemble