710 DESCENT OP THE TESTES. canal, which it serves to distend for the passage of the testis. It is attached by its superior and larger extremity to the lower end of the testis and epididymis, and by the inferior extremity to the bottom of the scrotum. The gubernaculuin is surrounded by a thin layer of muscular fibres, the cremaster, which pass upwards upon this body to be attached to the testis. Inferiorly the mus- cular fibres divide into three processes, which,- according to Curling,* are thus attached : "The external and broadest is connected to Poupart's ligament in the inguinal canal; the middle forms a lengthened band, which escapes at the external abdominal ring, and descends to the bottom of the scrotum, where it joins the dartos ; the internal passes in the direction inwards, and has a firm attachment to the os pubis and sheath of the rectus muscle. Be- sides these a number of muscular fibres are reflected from the internal oblique on the front of the gubernaculum." The Descent of the testicle is gradual and progressive. Between the fifth and sixth month it has reached the lower part of the psoas * "On the Structure of the Gubernaculum," &c, by Mr. Curling, Lecturer, on Morbid Anatomy in the London Hospital. Lancet, vol. ii. 1840-41, p. 70. f Diagram illustrating the descent of the testis. 1. Testis. 2. Epididymis. 3, 3. Peritoneum. 4. Pouch formed around the testis by the peritoneum, the future cavity of the tunica vaginalis. 5. Pubic portion of the cremaster at- tached to the lower part of the testis. 6. Portion of the cremaster attached to Poupart's ligament. The mode of eversion of the cremaster is shown by these lines. 7. Gubernaculum attached to the bottom of the scrotum, and becoming shortened by the contraction of the muscular fibres which surround it. 8, 8. Cavity of the scrotum. % in this figure the testis has completed its descent. The gubernaculum is shortened to its utmost, and the cremaster completely everted. The pouch of peritoneum above the testis is compressed so as to form a tubular canal, z. A dotted line marks the point at which the tunica vaginalis will terminate superiorly; and the figure 2 its cavity. 3. Peritoneal cavity. Fig. 279.f Fig. 280.J \ ■0