386 PERONEAL ARTERY. and is distributed on the front of the outer malleolus, anastomosing with the external malleolar and tarsal artery. Fig. 164 The Posterior peroneal continues onwards along the posterior aspect of the outer malleolus to the side of the os calcis, to which and to the muscles arising from it, it distri- butes external calcanean branches. It anastomoses with the anterior peroneal, tarsal, external plantar, and posterior tibial artery; with the latter by means of a small transverse branch (ramus anasto- moticus transversus). The Nutritious artery (nutritia tibise) of the tibia arises from the . trunk of the posterior, tibial, fre- quently above ,the origin of the peroneal, and proceeds to the nutri- tious canal, which it traverses ob- liquely from below upwards. The Muscular tranches of the posterior tibial artery are distrir buted to the soleus and deep mus- cles of the posterior aspect of the leg. One of these branches is deserving of notice, a recurrent branch, which arises from the pos- terior tibial above the origin of the peroneal artery, pierces the soleus, * Posterior view of the leg, showing the popliteal and posterior tibial artery. 1. Tendons of the inner hamstring* 2. Tendon of the biceps, forming the outer hamstring. 3. Popliteus muscle. 4. Flexor longus digitorum. 5. Tibialis posticus. 6. The fibula; immediately below the figure is the origin of the flexor longus pollicis; the muscle has been removed in order to expose the peroneal artery. 7. Peronei muscles, longus and brevis. 8. Lower part of the flexor longus pollicis muscle with its tendon. 9. Popliteal artery giving ffS and muscular branches; the two superior articular are seen m the upper part of the popliteal space passing above, thetwo heads of the gas- t^cSius muscle, which are cut through near their origin The two inferior are^Sion with the popliteus mnscle. 10. Anterior tibial artery passing through hangular interspace between the two heads of the tibialis posticus 2 11. Posterior tibial artery. 12. The relative position of the tendons and artery at the inner ankle from within outwards, previously to their pass- xng beneath the internal annular ligament 13 Peroneal artery, dividing, a Utile below the figure, into two branches; the anterior peroneal is seen pierc- ing the interosseous membrane. 14. Posterior peroneal.