DOKSALIS PEDIS ARTEltY. 384 Plan of the Relations of the Dorsalis Pedis Artery. In Front. Integument, Deep fascia, Inner tendon of extensor brevis digitorum. Outer Side. Tendon of extensor longus digitorum, Border of extensor brevis digitorum. Inner Side. Dorsalis Pedis Tendon of extensor Artery, proprius pollicis. I Behind. Bones a- " gaments of the tarsus. Branches.—The branches of this artery are, the Tarsea, Dorsalis hallucis, Metatarsea, Magna pollicis. The Tarsea (externa) arches transversely across the tarsus, beneath the extensor brevis digitorum muscle, and supplies the articulations of the tarsal bones and outer side of the foot: it anas- tomoses with the external malleolar, peroneal arteries, and external plantar. The Metatarsea forms an arch (arcus tarseus vel dorsalis' pedis) across the base of the metatarsal bones, and supplies the outer side of the foot; anastomosing with the tarsea and external plantar artery. From its convex side the metatarsea gives off three branches, interossece, which pass forward upon the dorsal interossei muscles, and divide into branches (dorsal collateral) for the supply of the sides of the toes between which they are placed. At their commencement these interosseous branches receive the posterior perforating arteries from the plantar arch, and opposite the heads of the metatarsal bones are joined by the anterior perforating branches from the digital arteries. The interosseous artery of the fourth interosseous space, in addition to the two dorsal collateral branches into which it bifurcates, sends a third branch to the outer side of the little toe. The Dorsalis hallucis (interossea dorsalis prima) runs forward upon the first dorsal interosseous muscle, and at the base of the first phalanx divides into two branches, one of which passes inwards be- neath the tendon of the extensor proprius pollicis, and is distributed to the inner border of the great toe, while the other bifurcates into two dorsal collateral digital branches for the adjacent sides of the great and second toe. The Arteria magna pollicis arises from the dorsalis pedis, while in the metatarsal space and just before its inosculation with the external plantar artery. It sends a digital branch to the inner border of the great toe on its plantar aspect, and bifurcates tc supply the plantar collateral digital branches of the great and second toe.