568 MEMBRANOUS LABYRINTH. along the aqueducts of the vestibule and cochlea to the internal surface of the dura mater, with which they are continuous. These processes are the remains of a communication originally subsisting between the dura mater and the cavity of the labyrinth. * The Membranous labyrinth is smaller in size, but a perfect counterpart with respect to form, of the vestibule and semicircular canals. It consists of a small elongated sac, sacculus communis (utriculus communis) : of three semicircular membranous canals, which correspond with the osseous canals, and communicate with the sacculus communis ; and of a small round sac (sacculus pro- prius), which occupies the anterior ventricle of the vestibule, and lies in close contact with the external surface of the sacculus com- munis. The membranous semicircular canals are two-thirds smaller in diameter than the osseous canals. The membranous labyrinth is retained in position by means of the numerous nervous filaments which are distributed to it from the openings in the inner wall of the vestibule, and is separated from the lining membrane of the labyrinth by the aqua labyrinthi. In structure it is composed of four layers ; an external or serous layer, derived from the lining membrane of the labyrinth ; a vas- cular layer, in which an abundance of minute vessels are distri- buted ; a nervous layer, formed by the expansion of the filaments of the vestibular nerve ; and an internal and serous membrane, by which the limpid fluid which fills its interior is secreted. Some patches of pigment have been observed by Wharton Jones in the tissue of the membranous labyrinth of man. Among animals such spots are constant. The membranous labyrinth is filled with a limpid fluid, the liquor Scarpaef (endolymph, vitreous humour of the ear), and con- tains two small calcareous masses, called otoconites. The otoconites (ods, <hrbs, nbvis, ear-dust) consist of an assemblage of minute crystalline particles of carbonate and phosphate of lime, held together by organic substance, and probably retained in form by a reflection of the lining membrane of the membranous labyrinth. They are found suspended in the liquor Scarpas; one in the sacculus communis, the other in the sacculus proprius, from that part of each sac with which the nerves are connected. * Cotunnius regarded these processes as tubular canals, through which the superabundant aqua labyrinthi might be expelled into the cavity of the cranium. Wharton Jones also describes them as tubular canals terminating beneath the dura mater of the petrous bone in a small dilated pouch. In the ear of a man deaf and dumb from birth, he found the termination of the aqueduct of the vestibule of unusually large size in consequence of irregular development. f Antonio Scarpa is celebrated for several admirable surgical and anatomical monographs; as, for example, his work on " Aneurism," " De Auditu et Olfactu," &c. An account of the aqua labyrinthi will be found in his anatomical observations " De Structura Fenestra? Rotunda?, et de Tympano Secundario."