BASE OF THE BRAIN. 464 pia mater, and the circle of Willis, must be carefully cleared away, in order to expose all the parts to be examined. These he will find arranged in the following order from before backwards :— The Longitudinal fissure is the space separating the two hemi- spheres ; it is continued downwards to the base of the brain, and divides the two anterior lobes. In this fissure the anterior cerebral arteries ascend towards the corpus callosum ; and if the two lobes be slightly drawn asunder, the anterior border (genu) of the corpus cal- losum will be seen descending to the base of the brain. Arrived at the base of the brain, the corpus callosum terminates by a concave border, which is prolonged to the commissure of the optic nerves by a thin layer of grey substance, the lamina cinerea. The lamina cinerea is the anterior part of the inferior boundary of the third ventricle. On each side of the lamina cinerea the corpus callosum is continued into the substantia perforata and crura cerebri, and, upon the latter, forms a narrow medullary band lying externally to, and slightly overlapping, the optic tract, the medulla innominata. On the under surface of each anterior lobe, on either side of the longitudinal fissure, is the olfactory nerve, with its bulb. The Fissure of Sylvius bounds the anterior lobe posteriorly, and separates it from the middle lobe; it lodges the middle cerebral artery. If this fissure be followed outwards, a small isolated cluster of five or six convolutions (gyri operti) will be observed ; these constitute the island of Reil. The island of Reil, together with the substantia perforata, forms the base of the corpus striatum. The Substantia perforata (locus perforatus anticus) is a triangular plane of white substance, situated at the inner extremity of the fissure of Sylvius. It is named perforata from being pierced by a number of openings for small arteries, which enter the brain in this situation to supply the grey substance of the corpus striatum. Passing backwards on each side beneath the edge of the middle lobe, is the commencement of the great transverse fissure, which extends beneath the hemisphere of one side to the same point on the opposite side. A probe passed into this fissm-e between the crus cerebri and middle lobe will enter the middle cornu of the lateral ventricle. The Optic commissure is situated on the middle line ; it is the point of communication between the two optic nerves. The Tuber cinereum is an eminence of grey substance situated im- Longitudinal fissure, Olfactory nerves, Fissure of Sylvius, Substantia perforata Corpora albicantia, Locus perforatus, Crura cerebri ; Commencement of the transverse Optic commissure, [fissure, Tuber cinereum, Infundibulum ; Pons Varolii, Crura cerebelli, Medulla oblongata.