FASCLffi OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. 307 is attached to the annular ligament and receives the insertion of the tendon of the palmaris longus, and broad over the heads of the metacarpal bones, where it divides into four processes, each of which subdivides to embrace the root of the corresponding finger. These processes are attached at the middle line to the sheath of the tendons, and at the side of each finger to the lateral and transverse ligament. The fascia is strengthened at tbis point of division by- strong fasciculi of transverse fibres; the arched interval caused by the bifurcation of each slip gives passage to the tendons of the flexor muscles, while the greater arches between the fingers transmit the digital vessels and nerves, and lumbricales muscles. FASCTiE OP THE LOWER EXTREMITY. The superficial fascia contains between its two layers the super- ficial vessels and nerves of the lower extremity. At the groin these two layers are separated from each other by the superficial lymphatic glands, and the deep layer is attached to Poupart's ligament, while the superficial layer is continuous with the superficial fascia of the abdomen^ The deep fascia of the thigh is named, from its great extent, the fascia lata; it is thick and strong upon the outer side of the limb, and thinner at its inner and posterior side. That portion of the deep fascia which invests the gluteus maximus is very thin, but that which covers in the gluteus medius is excessively thick, and gives origin, by its inner surface, to the superficial fibres of that muscle. The fascia lata is attached superiorly to Poupart's ligament, the crest of the ilium, sacrum, coccyx, tuberosity of the ischium, ramus of the ischium and pubes, body of the pubes, and pectineal line; it has also a deep attachment (ligamentum iliacum) to the anterior border of the ilium, tendon of origin of the rectus muscle and border of the acetabulum. It forms sheaths for the muscles of the thigh and femoral vessels, and is connected with the linea aspera by means of two intermuscular ligaments, external and internal; the former extending from the insertion of the gluteus maximus to the external condyle, and separating the vastus externus from the biceps muscle; the internal being attached to the inner branch of the linea aspera for a short distance above the internal condyle, and separating the vastus internus from the adductor magnus. The fascia lata receives the attachment of two muscles, tensor vaginse femoris and gluteus maximus, and glides over the trochanter major on a bursa. Inferiorly it is inserted into the head of the tibia, and forms a bridge across the popliteal space (fovea poplitea), being con- tinuous between its points of attachment with the fascia of the leg. In addition to the smaller openings in the fascia lata which trans- mit the small cutaneous vessels and nerves, there exists at the x 2