CARPAL ARTICULATIONS. 148 posterior surface of the radius, and the posterior surface of the semilunar and cuneiform bone. The internal lateral ligament extends from the styloid process of the ulna to the cuneiform and pisiform bone. The external lateral ligament is attached by one extremity to the styloid process of the radius, and by the other to the side of the scaphoid bone, some of its fibres being prolonged to the trapezium. The radial artery rests on this ligament as it passes backwards to the first metacarpal space. The synovial membrane of the wrist joint lines the under surface of the T*adius and interarticular cartilage above, and the first row of bones of the carpus below. The relations of the wrist joint are, the flexor and exten- of the lateral ligaments of that articulation. 12. Anterior ligament of the metacarpo-phalangeal articulation of the index finger; this ligament has been removed in the other fingers. 13. Lateral ligaments of the same articulation: the corresponding ligaments are seen in the other articulations. 14. Trans- verse ligament connecting the heads of the metacarpal bones of the index and middle finger; the same ligament is seen between the other fingers. 15. An- terior and one lateral ligament of the phalangeal articulation of the thumb. 16. Anterior and lateral lig-aments of the phalangeal articulations of the index finsrer; the anterior ligaments are removed in the other fingers, but the lateral ligaments remain. sor tendons, by which it is surrounded, and the radial and ulnar artery. Actions.—The movements of the wrist joint are, flexion, ex- tension, adduction, abduction, and circumduction. In these motions the articular surfaces glide upon each other. 8. Articidations betiveenthe Carpal Bones.—These are am- phi-arthrodial joints, with the exception of the conjoined head 0J * Ligaments of the anterior aspect of the wrist and hand. 1. Lower part of the interosseous membrane. 2. Anteroinferior radio-ulnar liga- ment. 3, Anterior ligament of the wrist joint. 4. External lateral liga- ment. 5. Internal lateral ligament. 6. Palmar ligaments of the carpus. 7. Pisiform bone, with its ligaments. 8. Ligaments connecting the second range of carpal bones with the me- tacarpal, and the metacarpal with each other. 9. Capsular ligament of the carpo-metacarpalarticulation of the thumb. 10. Anterior liga- ment of the metacarpo- phalangeal articulation of the thumb. 11. One