ARTICULATIONS. 117 faces partly coated with cartilage lined by synovial membrane, and partly connected by interosseous ligaments, or by the intervention of an elastic fibro-cartilage which adheres to the ends of both bones. Examples of this mode of articulation are seen in the union between the bodies of the vertebra, the sacrum with the coccyx, the pieces of the sternum, the sacro-iliac and pubic symphysis (aiiv <pveiv, to grow together), and according to some, the necks of the ribs, with the transverse processes. Diarthrosis (5c&, through, apOpwcns) is the movable articula- tion, which constitutes by far the greater number of the joints of the body. The degree of motion in this class has given rise to a subdivision into three genera, Arthrodia, Gfinglymus, and Enar- throsis. Arthrodia is the movable joint in which the extent of motion is slight and limited, as in the articulations of the clavicle, ribs, arti- cular processes of the vertebra?, axis with the atlas, radius with the ulna, fibula with the tibia, carpal and metacarpal, tarsal and meta- tarsal bones. Ginglymus (yiyyXvfibs, a hinge), or hinge-joint, is the movement of bones upon each other in two directions only, viz., forwards and backwards ; but the degree of motion may be very considerable. Instances of this form of joint are numerous ; they comprehend the elbow;, wrist, metacarpo-phalangeal, and phalangeal joints in the uppei" extremity ; the knee, ankle, metatarso-phalangeal, and pha- langeal joints in the lower extremity. The lower jaw may also be admitted into this category, as partaking more of the character of the hinge-joint than of the less movable arthrodia. The form of the ginglymoid joint is somewhat quadrilateral, each of its four sides being provided with a ligament, which is named from its position, anterior, posterior, internal lateral, or external lateral. The lateral ligaments are thick and strong, and the chief bond of union between the bones. The anterior and posterior are thin and loose in order to permit the required extent of movement. Enarthrosis (iv, in, apdpwais) is the most extensive in its range of motion of all the movable joints. From the manner of connexion and form of the bones in this articulation, it is called the ball-and- socket joint. There are two instances in the body, namely, the hip and the shoulder. We may add to the preceding the carpo-metacarpal articulation of the thumb, although not strictly a ball-and-socket joint, from the great extent of motion which it enjoys, and from the nature of the ligament connecting the bones. As far as the articular surfaces are concerned, it is rather a double than a single ball-and-socket; and the whole of these considerations remove it from the simple arthro- dial and ginglymoid groups. The ball-and-socket joint has a circular form ; and, in place of the four distinct ligaments of the ginglymus, is enclosed in a bag of ligamentous membrane, called, capsular ligament.