33 TEMPORAL BONE. nervus petrosus superficialis minor, a branch of Jacobson's nerve ; and, lastly, a large foramen near the apex of the bone, the termi- nation of the carotid canal. The posterior surface forms the front boundary of the posterior fossa of the base of the skull; near its middle is the oblique entrance of the meatus auclitorius interims. Above the meatus auditorius internus is a small oblique fissure, and a minute foramen ; the former lodges a process of the dura mater, and the foramen gives passage to a small vein. Further outwards, towards the mastoid portion of the bone, is a small slit, almost hidden by a thin plate of bone, this is the aquceductus vestibuli, and transmits a small artery and vein of the vestibule and a process of dura mater. Below the meatus, and partly concealed by the margin of the posterior border of the bone is the aquozductus cochlea, through which passes a vein from the cochlea to the internal jugular vein, and a process of dura mater. The meatus auditorius internus is about one-third of an inch in depth, and pursues a slightly oblique course in relation to the petrous portion of the temporal bone, but a course directly outwards in relation to the cranium. At the bottom of the meatus, and upon its anterior aspect, is a reniform fossa, the con- cave border of which is directed towards the Fi9- 22 •* entrance of the meatus. The reniform fossa is divided into an upper and lower compartment by a sharp ridge, which is prolonged for some dis- tance upon the anterior wall of the meatus, and sometimes as far as its aperture ; this ridge marks the situation of the two nerves of the portion. The cipher is placed immediately above the inner opening of the mastoid foramen. 3. Petrous portion. 4. Groove for the posterior branch of the arteria meningea media. 5. Bevelled edge of the squamous border of the bone. 6. Zygoma. 7. Digastric fossa, immediately internal to the mastoid process. 8. Occipital groove. 9. Groove for the lateral sinus. 10. Elevation on the anterior surface of the petrous bone, marking the situation of the per- pendicular semicircular canal. II. Opening of termination of the carotid canal. 12. Meatus auditorius internus. 13. A dotted line leads upwards from this cipher to the narrow fissure which lodges a process of the diira mater. Another line leads downwards to the sharp edge wliich conceals the opening of the aquseductus cochleae, while the cipher itself is situated on the bony lamina which overlies the opening of the aqussductus vestibuli. 14. Sty- loid process. 15. Stylo-mastoid foramen. 16. Carotid foramen. 17. Jugular process. The deep excavation to the left of this process forms part of the jugular fossa, that to the right is the groove for the eighth pair of nerves. 18. Notch for the fifth nerve on the upper border of the petrous bone, near its apex. 19. Extremity of the petrous bone, this part gives origin to the levator palati and tensor tympani muscle. * Reniform fossa of the meatus auditorius internus; right temporal bone. 1. Ridge dividing the reniform fossa into two compartments. 2. Opening of the aqussductus Fallopii. The openings following that of the aquseductus Fallopii in a curved direction require no reference. 3. Cluster of three or four oblique openings on the posterior wall of the meatus. 4. The spirally-grooved base of the cochlea. t