VEKTEBRAL ARTERY. 340 triangle, and is more superficial than the rest. In front it is covered by the integument, platysma, and deep fascia, and crossed by the supraclavicular nerves. Lower down it is crossed by the suprascapular artery and vein, and gets behind the subclavius muscle and clavicle. Behind, it has the scalenus medius ; above, the brachial plexus ; and below, the first rib and subclavian vein. Plan of the Relations of the third portion of the Subclavian Artery. Above. Brachial plexus. In Front. Integument, Platysma, Deep fascia, Supraclavicular nerves, Suprascapular vessels, Clavicle, Subclavius. Subclavian Artery. Third portion. Behind. Scalenus medius. Below. First rib, Subclavian vein. Branches.—The branches of the subclavian artery are four, and sometimes five in number. Three are given off by the first portion of the artery ; one, the superior intercostal, by the second portion; when a fifth artery exists, it arises from the third portion, and is the suprascapular. In a tabular form the branches are as follow : Vertebral, Internal mammary, ( Inferior thyroid, Thyroid axis < Suprascapular, ( Transversa colli. Superior intercostal,—Cervicalis profunda. The Vertebral artery (vertebralis), the first and largest of the branches of the subclavian artery, arises from the posterior aspect of that trunk ; it ascends through the foramina in the transverse processes of all the cervical vertebras, excepting the last; then winds backwards around the articulating process of the atlas ; and, piercing the dura mater, enters the skull through the foramen magnum. The two arteries unite at the lower border of the pons Varolii, to form the basilar artery. In the foramina of the trans- verse processes of the vertebras the artery lies in front of the cervical nerves, and, on the left side, it is crossed by the thoracic duct. Dr. John Davy*" has observed, that when the vertebral arteries differ in size, the left is generally the larger; thus in ninety-eight cases he found the left vertebral the larger twenty-six times, and * Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, 1839.