238 MUSCLES OP THE PERINEUM. perineum ; * where it is connected with the accelerator urinse and sphincter ani. A small slip of muscle is sometimes found in front of the trans- versa perinei : this is the transversus perinei alter. By its inner end it is continuous with the accelerator. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the superficial perineal fascia, and superficial perineal vessels and nerves. By its deep sur- face with the triangular ligament and internal pudic artery and veins. By its posterior border it is in relation with that portion of the superficial perineal fascia which passes upwards to become con- tinuous with the triangular ligament. To dissect the compressor urethra, the three preceding muscles should be removed, so as to render the glistening surface of the triangular ligament apparent. This ligament should then be care- fully dissected away, and the corpus spongiosum penis divided through its middle, separated from the corpus cavernosum, and drawn forwards in order to put on the stretch the membranous por- tion of the urethra, with which the compressor muscles are con- nected. The compressor urethrse is, however, better seen in a dissection made from within the pelvis, after having turned down the bladder from its attachment to the os pubis, and removed a plexus of veins together with the pelvic fascia. The Compressor urethra (constrictor urethrse membranacese, constrictor isthmi urethrae) directed transversely across the peri- neum above the triangular ligament arises from the ramus of the pubes and ischium, their point of union, and from the anterior ligament of the bladder and prostate gland. Proceeding inwards it divides into two fan-shaped fasciculi, superior and inferior, which embrace the membranous portion of the urethra, and are continuous with the muscle of the opposite side. The superior fasciculus is continued forward to the junction of the crura penis, and backwards to the prostate gland ; on the upper surface of which it is spread out. The inferior fasciculus is attached to the bulb of the urethra in front, and extends to the prostate gland behind. A third fasci- culus, closely united with the two preceding, consists of circular fibres, which enclose and form a muscular sheath for the mem- branous part of the urethra. Under the name of Wilson's muscles, a fourth fasciculus has been described as descending vertically from the body of the pubes, near the symphysis, to unite with the superior fasciculus of the com- pressor urethraa. This fasciculus is inconstant and its existence doubtful. * I have twice dissected a perineum in which the transversus perinei was of large size, and spread out as it approached the middle line so as to become fan-shaped. The posterior fibres were continuous with those of the muscle of the opposite side; but the anterior were prolonged forwards upon the bulb and corpus spongiosum of the urethra as far as the middle of the penis, form- ing a broad layer which usurped the place and office of the accelerator urinae.