387 PLANTAR ARTERIES. and is distributed on the inner side of the head of the tibia, anas- tomosing with the inferior internal articular. The Internal calcanean branches, three or four in number, pro- ceed from the posterior tibial artery immediately before its division; they are distributed to the integument, to the inner side of the os calcis, and^to the muscles which arise from its inner tuberosity ; and anastomose with the external calcanean branches of the poste- rior peroneal, and with all the neighbouring arteries, forming around the heel a network of inosculations, rete calcaneum. PLANTAR ARTERIES. The Internal plantar artery (plantaris interna) proceeds from the bifurcation of the posterior tibial at the inner malleolus, and passes along the inner border of the foot beneath the abductor pol- Fi3-165-* licis, supplying the'inner border of the foot and great toe. The External plantar artery (plantaris externa), much larger than the internal, passes obliquely outwards between the first and second layer of the plantar muscles £o the fourth metatarsal space. It then turns transversely inwards be- tween the second and third layer, to the first metatarsal space, where it inosculates with the dorsalis pedis. The transverse portion of the artery describes a slight curve, having the convexity forwards; this is the plantar arch (arcus plantaris). Branches.—The branches of the external plantar artery are, the Muscular, Articular, * . , j collateral, Digital, j anterior perforating. Posterior perforating. The Muscular and Articular * Arteries of the sole of the foot; the first and part of the second layer of muscles having been removed. 1. Under and posterior part of the os calcis; to which the origins of the first layer of muscles remain attached. 2. Museu- ms accessorius. 3. Long flexor tendons. 4. Tendon of the peroneus longus. 5 Termination of the posterior tibial artery. 6. Internal plantar. 7. Ex- ternal plantar artery. 8. The plantar arch giving off four digital branches, which pass forwards on the interossei muscles. Three of these arteries are seen dividing, near the heads of the metatarsal bones, into collateral branches for adjoining toes. c c 2