129 LIGAMENTS OF THE ATLAS AND AXIS. Of the two anterior ligaments, one is a rounded cord, situated in the middle line, and superficially to the other; it is attached above to the basilar process of the occipital bone ; below, to the anterior tubercle of the atlas. The deeper ligament is a broad membranous layer, attached above to the margin of the occipital foramen, be- tween the two condyles ; and below, to the whole length of the anterior arch of the atlas. It is in relation in front with the recti antici minores, behind with the odontoid ligaments. The posterior ligament is thin and membranous ; attached above to the margin of the occipital foramen, between the two condyles; and below, to the posterior arch of the atlas. It is Fig. 77.* closely adherent to the dura mater, by its inner surface ; and forms a ligamentous arch at each side, for the passage of the vertebral artery and first cervical nerve. It is in relation posteriorly with the recti postici minores and ob- liqui superiores. The lateral ligaments are strong fasciculi of ligamen- tous fibres, attached below to the base of the transverse process of the atlas at each side ; and above, to the transverse process cf the occipital bone. With the assistance of a ligamentous expansion derived from the vaginal process of the temporal bone, these ligaments form a strong sheath around the vessels and nerves which pass through the carotid and jugular foramen. The capsular ligaments (condylo-atloidea) are the thin and loose ligamentous capsules which surround the synovial membranes of the articulations between the condyles of the occipital bone and the superior articular processes of the atlas. The ligamentous fibres are most numerous on th e anterior and external part of the articulation. The movements taking place between the cranium and atlas are those of flexion and erection, giving rise to the forward nodding of the head. When this motion is increased to any extent, the whole of the cervical region concurs in its production. 3. Articulation of the Axis with the Occipital bone.—The liga- ments of this articulation are three in number, Occipito-axoid, Two odontoid. * Posterior ligaments of the oecipito-atloid and atlo-axoid articulations. 1. Atlas. 2. Axis. 3. Posterior ligament of the occipito-atloid articulation. 4, 4. Capsular and lateral ligaments of this articulation. 5. Posterior ligament of the atlo-axoid articulation. 6, 6. Its capsular ligaments. 7. The first pair of ligamenta subflava; passing between the axis and third cervical vertebra. 8, 8. Capsular ligaments of those vertebrae.