589 STRUCTURE OF THE HEART. lines in thickness, those of the right ventricle being about two lines and a half. It presents for examination, in its interior, two openings, two valves, and the tendinous cords and muscular columns ; they may be thus arranged : Auriculo-ventricular opening, Mitral valves, Aortic opening. Semilunar valves. Chordae tendineae, Columnae carneae. The Auriculo-ventricular opening is a dense fibrous ring, covered by the endocardium, but smaller in size than that of the right side. Its fibrous structure is closely connected with that of the right auriculo-ventricular and aortic rings ; at the junction of the three there is a fibro-cartilaginous mass, and, in some animals, a portion of bone. The Mitral valves are attached around the auriculo-ventricular opening, as are the tricuspid in the right ventricle. They are thicker than the tricuspid, and consist of two segments, of which the larger is placed between the auriculo-ventricular opening and the commencement of the aorta, and acts the part of a valve to that foramen during the filling of the ventricle. The difference in size of the two valves, both being triangular, and the space between them, has given rise to the idea of a "bishop's mitre," after which they are named. These valves, like the tricuspid, are furnished with an apparatus of tendinous cords, chorda teiidineos, which are attached to two very large columnce carnece. The Columnar camem admit of the same ai*rangement into three kinds, as on the right side. Those which are free by one extremity, the colunma? papillares, are two in number, and larger than those on the opposite side ; one being placed on the left wall of the ventricle, the other at the junction of the septum ventriculorum with the posterior wall. The Semilunar valves are placed around the commencement of the aorta, like those of the pulmonary artery ; they are similar in structure, and are attached to the scalloped border by which the aorta is connected with the ventricle. The nodule in the centre of each fold is larger than those of the pulmonary valves, and it was these that Arantius particularly described ; but the term '' corpora Arayitii," is now applied indiscriminately to both. The fossae between the semilunar valves and the cylinder of the artery are larger than those of the pulmonary artery ; and are called the " sinus aortici" (sinuses of Valsalva). STRUCTURE OF THE HEART. The arrangement of the fibres of the heart has been made the subject of careful investigation by Air. Searle, to whose article,