420 LYMPHATICS OF THE TRUNK. Glands.—The Deep lymphatic glands of the thorax are, the intercostal, anterior mediastinal, and oesophageal. The Intercostal glands, of small size, are situated on each side of the vertebral column, near the articulations of the heads of the ribs, and in the course of the intercostal arteries. The Anterior mediastinal glands are situated along the course of the internal mammary arteries ; they are six or seven in number at each side, and receive the lymphatic vessels from the anterior wall of the chest, the mediastinum, thymus gland, and peri- cardium. The (Esophageal glands, fifteen or twenty in number, are situated in the course of the oesophagus, and receive the lymphatics of that tube ; they communicate above with the deep cervical glands, on each side with the intercostal, and below with the abdominal glands. Vessels.—The Deep lymphatic vessels of the thorax are, the intercostal, internal mammary, and diaphragmatic. The Intercostal lymphatic vessels follow the course of the veins of the same name ; and reaching the vertebral column, curve down- wards, to terminate in the thoracic duct. The Internal mammary lymphatics commence in the parietes of the abdomen, communicating with the epigastric lymphatics. They ascend by the side of the internal mammary vessels, being joined in their course by the anterior intercostals, and terminate at the root of the neck, on the right side in the tributaries of the ductus lymphaticus dexter ; on the left, in the thoracic duct. The dia- phragmatic lymphatics pursue the direction of their corresponding veins, and terminate, some in front, in the internal mammary vessels, and some behind in the posterior mediastinal lymphatics. Glands.—The Beep lymphatic glands of the abdomen are the lumbar glands ; they are numerous, and seated around the common iliac vessels, the aorta, and vena cava. The deep lymphatic glands of the pelvis are the external iliac, internal iliac, and sacral. The External iliac are placed around the external iliac vessels, being in continuation, by one extremity, with the femoral lymphatics; by the other, with the lumbar glands. The Internal iliac glands are situated in thf course of the internal iliac vessels, and the sacral glands rest on the concave surface of the sacrum. Vessels.—The Beep lymphatic vessels are continued upwards from the thigh beneath Poupart's ligament, and along the external iliac vessels to the lumbar glands, receiving in their course the epi- gastric, circumflexa ilii, and ilio-lumbar lymphatic vessels. Those from the parietes of the pelvis, and from the gluteal, ischiatic, and obturator vessels, follow the course of the internal iliac veins, and unite with the lumbar lymphatics. And the lumbar lymphatic vessels, after receiving all the lymphatics from the lower extremities,