641 VESSELS OP MUCOUS MEMBRANE. alveolus is longer than usual, there may be two glands and two excretory apertures. The gland fills the alveolus, rising almost to the level of its brim, and thereby rendering the cavity of the alveolus shallow; the excretory aperture is surrounded by a pro- tuberant lip. The Muciparous glands of the small intestine seem to exist chiefly in the lamellated mucous membrane, and especially on the valvulse conniventes, where they ap- pear to take the place of simple fol- licles. They occur in patches as large as a lentil, but perfectly flat and iden- tical in structure with the mucous membrane of the large intestine, con- sisting of a reticular framework and alveoli. The septa, somewhat thicker than those of the large intestine, mea- sure about -g-jj-g- of an inch in breadth, and contain from two to four rows of minute capillaries, which form a plexus with clbse meshes. The alveoli are polygonal, for the most part hexagonal inform, and somewhat larger than those of the large intestine, measuring between and -^j- of an inch in longest diameter. Each contains a muciparous gland, which forms its floor, and the gland is furnished with a central excretory opening. Around the circumference of the glan- dular patch the reticular structure is imperceptibly lost in the lamellated villi of the mucous membrane. Vessels.—The distribution of the finer arterial vessels and capil- laries in the mucous membrane of the intestinal canal, in relation to the glands, is worthy of attention. The small arteries divide into fine capillaries in the sub- 256-t mucous coat; these fine capillaries enter the spaces between the tubular glands, and form by their communications a plexus around the glands, in their course to the surface. Having * Portion of the free border of one of the valvule conniventes of the jejunum, magnified 19 times, show- ing an alveolar and glandular structure. The mode of transition of the lamellated into the alveolar struc- ture is seen. The alveoli measured ^ of an inch by 3^0, being as large as those of the stomach, and somewhat larger than those of the large intestine; the septa measured between rJ-^ and ^ of an inch in width; the alveoli were shallow, and contained in their floor a mucous gland with an excretory opening. t Circulation in the mucous membrane of the in- testine; after Kolliker. 1. Artery. 2. Fine capillary network, proceeding from the artery and surrounding the tubular glands. 3. Superficial capillary network around the mouths of the tubular glands. 4. Vein formed by the union of capillaries returning the blood of the super- ficial capillary network. T T Fig. 255.