495 SPINAL ACCESSORY NERVE. nerve. As it curves around the subclavian artery and aorta it gives branches (cardiac) to the heart and root of the lungs ; and as it ascends the neck it distributes filaments to the oesophagus and trachea, and communicates with the extei-nal laryngeal nerve and sympathetic. The Anterior pulmonary branches, two or three in number, are distributed upon the anterior aspect of the root of the lungs, form- ing, with branches from the cardiac plexuses, the anterior pul- monary plexus. The Posterior pulmonary branches, more numerous and larger than the anterior, are distributed on the postei-ior aspect of the root of the lungs ; they are joined by filaments from the third and fourth thoracic ganglia of the sympathetic, and form the posterior pulmo- nary plexus. (Esophageal branches are given off by the pneumogastric nerves above the root of the lungs ; below that point, the trunks of the nerves, divided into several cords, form a plexus around the oeso- phagus, the right and left nerves communicating with each other. This plexus accompanies the oesophagus to the stomach, and is the esophageal plexus (plexus guise). The Gastric branches are the terminal filaments of the pneumo- gastric nerves ; they are spread out upon the anterior and posterior surface of the stomach, and are likewise distributed to the omentum, spleen, pancreas, liver, and gall-bladder. The branches of the anterior aspect of the stomach proceed from the left nerve and com- municate with the hepatic plexus in the lesser omentum ; those of the posterior aspect are derived from the right nerve and communi- cate with the solar plexus. Spinal accessory nerve ; eleventh pair of Soemmering.—The spinal accessory, a nerve of motion, arises by several filaments from the side of the spinal cord as low down as the fifth or sixth cervical nerve, and ascends behind the ligamentum dentatum, and between the anterior and posterior roots of the spinal nerves, to the foramen lacerum posterius. It communicates in its course with the posterior root of the first cervical nerve, and, entering the foramen lacerum, becomes applied against the posterior aspect of the superior ganglion of the pneumogastric, being contained in the same sheath of dura mater. The nerve then passes outwards and downwards, behind and sometimes in front of the internal jugular vein, to the upper and under part of the sterno-mastoid, pierces that muscle obliquely, and descends across the posterior triangle of the neck to the under surface of the trapezius to which it is distributed, its branches being continued downwards to near the lower border of the muscle. The Branches of communication of the spinal accessory are one or two small branches from the superior ganglion of the pneumo- gastric, and a large branch which joins the pneumogastric between the two ganglia.