MUCOUS GLANDS. 640 of these sacculi in each patch, in some as many as fifty or sixty; they are embedded in the mucous membrane and submucous tissue, and are bounded externally by the muscular coat of the in- testine ; generally producing a prominence on the exterior of the intestine. Peyer's glands are richly supplied with capillary vessels and lymphatics, which form a plexus around the sacculi, the lymphatics, or rather lacteals, being probably associated with them in function. The racemose or lobulated glands are small yellowish and flat- tened glands, each surrounded by a small capsule of areolar tissue, and situated in the submucous coat of the alimentary canal. They are identical in structure with the racemose glands of the mouth (page 620, figs. 233, 234), and open on the surface of the mucous membrane by means of an excretory duct. They are met with abundantly in the upper part of the pharynx and posterior surface of the soft palate, and around the apertures of the Eustachian tubes, and measure from one-third of a line to a line in diameter. In the oesophagus they are isolated and smaller, and, with the exception of the duodenum, are wanting in the rest of the intestinal canal, namely, the stomach, small intestine, and large intestine. In the duodenum, however, they are very numerous, extending from the pylorus, where they are most abundant, to the entrance of the ductus communis choledochus. Von Brunn compared them to a second pancreas, and after him they have been named Brunner's glands or duodenal glands. They are situated in the submucous coat of the intestine, immediately beneath the mucous membrane, and each gland is enclosed in a separate capsule of areolar tissue. Their average size is a quarter to half a line, and they secrete a clear alkaline mucus, in which no formed elements, such as cells or nuclei, are present. They take no part in digestion. Besides the above, which are the usually recognised racemose glands of the intestine, I have found others in the small intestine and large intestine, which have hitherto apparently escaped obser- vation. The glands in question are distinctly racemose, have an excretory duct, and are placed so near the surface of the mucous membrane as to be seen distinctly through it; moreover the thin layer of mucous membrane which immediately covers them is non- vascular, or at any rate remained uninjected in the highly injected preparations on which my observations were made. In the large intestine these glands, which I have termed muciparous, occupy the area? of the reticular surface of the mucous membrane (fig. 246), and in the small intestine they are found in patches, in which a similar reticular structure prevails. The muciparous glands of the large intestine occupy the alveoli of the mucous membrane, and constitute the floor of those cavities. They are white, semi-transparent, obscurely lobulated, and pro- vided with an excretory aperture. Commonly, each alveolus has its separate gland; but occasionally, and especially where the