290 MUSCLES OF THE SOLE OP THE FOOT. Second Layer. Musculus accessorius, Lumbricales. Dissection.—The three preceding muscles must be divided from their origin, and anteriorly through their tendons, and removed, in order to bring into view the second layer. The Musculus accessorius arises Fig. 139.* by two slips from either side of the under surface of the os calcis; the inner slip being fleshy, the outer ten- dinous and blended with the liga- mentum longum plantse. It is inserted into the outer side and upper surface of the tendon of the flexor longus digi- torum; of which muscle it may be regarded as a second and short head. It has been named "jnassa carnea Jacobi Sylvii" and " caro quadrata Sylvii." Relations.—By its superficial sur~ face with the three muscles of the superficial layer, from which it is separated by their fascial sheaths, and with the external plantar vessels and nerve. By its deep surface with the under part of the os calcis and long calcaneo-cuboid ligament. The Lumbricales (lumbricus, an earthworm) are four little muscles arising from the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum at their point of bi- furcation, and inserted into the expan- sion of the extensor tendons, and the base of the first phalanx of the four lesser toes on their tibial side. They pass between the digital slips of the plantar fascia to their inser- tion. The innermost lumbricalis is connected with only one tendon. Third Layer. Flexor brevis pollicis, Transversus pedis, Adductor pollicis, Flexor brevis minimi digiti. Dissection.—The tendons of the long flexors and the muscles con- * Third and part of the second layer of muscles of the sole of the foot. 1. Divided edge of the plantar fascia. 2. Musculus accessorius. 3. Tendon of the flexor longus digitorum. 4. Tendon of the flexor longus pollicis. 5. Flexor brevis pollicis. 6. Adductor pollicis. 7. Flexor brevis minimi digiti. 8. Transversus pedis. 9. Interossei muscles, plantar and dorsal. 10. Convex ridge formed by the tendon of the peroneus longus in its oblique course across the foot.