INFERIOR LABIAL AND MAXILLARY GROUPS. 183 where it is continuous with the levator anguli oris, zygomaticus major, and upper segment of the orbicularis. Near its insertion it is joined by the following muscle. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the integument; by its deep surface with the depressor labii inferioris, buccinator and branches of the mental nerve and artery. The Bisorius Santorini is a thin and triangular muscle, con- sisting of a few scattered fasciculi of fibres which arise from the fascia covering the masseter muscle, and converge to the angle of the mouth, where they become connected with the outer border of the depressor anguli oris, and continuous with the zygomaticus major. This muscle is generally regarded as a part of the platysma myoides. The Levator labii inferioris (levator menti) is a short but strong muscle arising from the incisive fossa of the lower jaw, and inserted into the integument of the chin. It is in relation with the mucous membrane of the mouth, with its fellow, and with the de- pressor labii inferioris. Actions.—The depressor labii inferioris draws the lower lip directly downwards, and at the same time a little outwards. The depressor anguli oris, from the radiated direction of its fibres, will pull the angle of the mouth either downwards and forwards, or downwards and backwards, and be expressive of grief; or acting with the levator anguli oris, zygomaticus major, and risorius San- torini, will draw the angle of the mouth upwards and backwards or directly backwards. The levator labii inferioris raises and pro- trudes the integument of the chin. 7. Maxillary Group.— Masseter, Buccinator, Temporalis, Pterygoideus externus, Pterygoideus internus. Dissection.—The masseter has been already exposed by the pre- ceding dissection. The Masseter (/nao-ado/mac, to chew,) is a short, thick, and some- what quadrilateral muscle, composed of two planes of fibres, super- ficial and deep. The superficial layer arises by a strong aponeurosis from the malar process of the superior maxillary bone, lower border of the malar bone and zygoma ; and passes downwards and back- wards to heinserted into the ramus and angle of the inferior maxilla. The deep layer arises also from the zygomatic arch but extends farther back upon the zygoma, and passes downwards and forwards, to be inserted into the upper half of the ramus. This muscle is tendinous and muscular in structure ; and covered in by a fascia (fascia parotideo-masseterica) which is connected with the zygomatic arch above, and encloses the parotid gland behind. Relations.—By its external surface with the zygomaticus major,