175 OCULAR GROUP. it is in relation with the broad tarsal ligament and tarsal cartilages, and by its upper border is connected with the occipito-frontalis. The Corrugator SUPBRCILII is a small, narrow, and pointed muscle, situated immediately above the orbit and beneath the upper segment of the orbicularis palpebrarum. It arises from the inner extremity of the superciliary ridge, and is inserted into the under surface of the orbicularis palpebrarum. Its connexion with the orbicularis commences near the supraorbital foramen and is con- tinued outwards to the external angular process. Relations.—By its superficial surface, with the pyramidalis nasi, occipito-frontalis and orbicularis palpebrarum ; by its deep surface, with the supraorbital vessels and nerve. The Tensor tarsi (Horner's* muscle) is a thin plane of muscular fibres, about three lines in breadth and six in length. It is best dissected by separating the eyelids from the eye, and turning them over the nose without disturbing the tendo palpebrarum oculi; then dissect away the small fold of mucous membrane called plica semi- lunaris, and some loose cellular tissue under which the muscle is concealed. It arises from the orbital surface of the lachrymal bone, and passing across the lachrymal sac, divides into two slips, which are continuous with the margin of the ciliaris along the edges of the lids ;+ some few of its fibres being attached to the lachrymal canals as far ap the puncta. According to some anatomists the tensor tarsi is a process of the orbicularis consisting of two small fasciculi which enclose the lachrymal canals, and then spread out on the aponeurosis of the lachrymal sac to be inserted into the crest and orbital surface of the lachrymal bone. Actions.—The palpebral portion of the orbicularis acts involun- tarily in closing the lids, and from the greater curve of the upper lid, upon that principally. The entire muscle constitutes a sphincter, drawing at the same time, by means of its osseous attachment, the integument and lids inwards towards the nose. The corrugatores superciliorum draw the eyebrows downwards and inwards, and produce the vei'tical wrinkles of the forehead. The tensor tarsi, or lachrymal muscle, is an auxiliary to the orbicularis, and draws the extremities of the lachrymal canals inwards, so as to place the puncta in the best position for receiving the tears. It serves also to keep the lids in relation with the surface of the eye. Dr. Horner is acquainted with two persons who have the voluntary power of drawing the lids inwards by these muscles so as to bury the puncta in the angle of the eye. 3. Ocular Group.— Rectus internus, * W. E. Horner, M.D., Professor of Anatomy in the University of Penn- sylvania. The notice of this muscle is contained in a work published in Phila- delphia in 1827, entitled "Lessons in Practical Anatomy." t Haynes Walton, loc. cit. Levator palpebrae, Rectus superior, Rectus inferior, Rectus externus, Obliquus superior, Obliquus inferior.