MUSCLES OF THE FOOT. 288 side of the os calcis, crosses the foot obliquely, and terminates in four tendons, the innermost of which is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the great toe, and the other three into the side of the long extensor tendons of the second, third, and fourth toe. Relations.—By its upper surface with, the tendons of the extensor longus digitorum, peroneus brevis, and the deep fascia of the dorsum of the foot. By its under surface with the tarsal and metatarsal bones. Its inner border is in relation with the dorsalis pedis artery, the innermost tendon crossing that artery just before its division, The Interossei dorsales (bicipites) are placed between the meta- tarsal bones ; they resemble the analogous muscles in the hand in arising by two heads from the adjacent sides of the metatarsal bones ; their tendons are inserted into the base of the first phalanx, and the digital expansion of the tendons of the long extensor. The first dorsal interosseous is inserted into the inner side of the second toe, and is therefore an adductor: the other three are inserted into the outer side of the second, third, and fourth toe, and are consequently abductors. Relations.—By their upper surface with a strong fascia which separates them from the extensor tendons. By their under surface with the plantar interossei. Each of the muscles gives passage to a small artery (posterior perforating) which communicates with the external plantar artery. And between the heads of the first inter- osseous muscle the dorsalis pedis artery takes its course. Plantar Region. First Layer. Abductor pollicis, Abductor minimi digiti, Flexor brevis digitorum. Dissection.—The sole of the foot is best dissected by carrying an incision around the heel, and along the inner and outer border of the foot, to the great and little toe. This incision should divide the integument and superficial fascia, and both together should be dis- sected from the deep fascia, as far forward as the base of the phalanges, where they may be removed from the foot altogether. The deep fascia should then be raised, and the first layer of muscles will be brought into view. The Abductor pollicis (vel hallucis) lies along the inner border of the foot; it arises by two heads, between which the tendons of the long flexors, arteries, veins, and nerves, enter the sole of the foot. One head proceeds from the inner tuberosity of the os calcis, the other from the internal annular ligament and plantar fascia ; it is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the great toe, and into the internal sesamoid bone. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the internal portion of the plantar fascia. By its deep surface with the flexor brevis pollicis, musculus accessorius, tendons of the flexor longus digi-