501 CEEVICAL PLEXUS. The Superficialis colli is formed by communicating branches from the second and third cervical nerves ; it curves around the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid and crosses obliquely behind the ex- ternal jugular vein to the anterior border of that muscle, where it pierces the deep cervical fascia and divides into an ascending and a descending branch. The ascending branch passes upwards to the submaxillary region, and divides into four or five filaments, some of which pierce the platysuia myoides, and supply the integument as high as the chin and lower part of the face ; while others form a plexus with the inframaxillary branches of the facial nerve beneath the platysma. One or two filaments from this branch accompany the external jugular vein. The descending branch pierces the platysma and is distributed to the integument of the front of the neck as far downwards as the sternum. The Auricularis magnus, the largest of the three ascending branches of the cervical plexus, also proceeds from the second and third cervical nerve ; it curves around the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid, and ascends upon that muscle, lying parallel with the external jugular vein, to the parotid gland, where it divides into an anterior and a posterior branch. The anterior branch is distributed to the integument over the parotid gland, and to the gland itself, communicating with the facial nerve. The posterior branch ascends behind the ear where it divides into auricular branches, supplying the pinna ; and a mastoid branch which communicates with the posterior auricular branch of the facial and is distributed to the integument behind the ear. The auricular branches communicate with the auricular offsets of the facial nerve, pneumogastric nerve, and occipitalis minor. The Occipitalis minor arises from the second cervical nerve ; it curves around the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid above the preceding, and ascends upon that muscle, parallel with its posterior border, to the lateral and posterior aspect of the cranium. It is distributed to the integument, to the occipital portion of the occipito-frontalis and attollens aurem, and communicates with the occipitalis major, auricularis magnus, and posterior auricular branch of the facial. Superficial descending branches.—The Acr'omiales and Clavicu- lares are two or three large nerves which proceed from the fourth cervical nerve, and pass downwards in the posterior triangle of the neck ; they pierce the deep fascia, and, crossing the clavicle, are distributed to the integument of the front of the chest from the sternum to the acromion : hence their designation, clavicidares and acromiales. The most anterior of the branches is named sternal, from its destination, and the outermost branch passes over the clavicular attachment of the trapezius, to reach the shoulder.