STRUCTURE OF MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 630 lining membrane of the parotid, submaxillary and sublingual duets, forms the fraena of the lips, tongue, and epiglottis, lines the folli- cular glands of the tongue and tonsils, and is continuous with the mucous membrane of the pharynx. The mucous membrane of the pharynx is pale in its lower or alimentary part, but red and thick in its upper or respiratory portion ; the division of the two parts corresponding with the lower border of the soft palate ; the respiratory portion, moreover, is more thickly studded with glands, but is divested of papillae. The mucous membrane of the pharynx is continuous with the mucous lining of the Eustachian tubes, nares, mouth, larynx, and (esophagus. In the oesophagus, the mucous membrane is pale red above and whitish below. It has but few papillae, is loosely connected with the muscular coat by means of the submucous coat, and is disposed in longitudinal plicce. In the stomach the mucous membrane is soft and loose, thinner at the cardiac than at the pyloric end, and of a greyish or reddish grey colour, heightened to a bright red during digestion. It is redder in infancy than in the adult, and least red in old age. It is disposed on the surface in plaits or ruga?, which around the cardiac orifice have a radiated arrangement, take a longitudinal direction in the body of the organ, and at the pylorus form a circular or spiral fold, which constitutes with the muscular coat the pyloric valve. The rugae are most numerous and largest at the pyloric end of the stomach. In the small intestine the mucous membrane is thinner than in the stomach ; it is smooth in the upper fourth of the duodenum, but raised into crescentic folds, valvular conniventes, in its lower three-fourths ; the valvulae conniventes being continued throughout the jejunum, and extending as far as the middle of the ileum. On the posterior and inner side of the descending portion of the duo- denum is a longitudinal ridge or crest, plica longitudinalis, about an inch in length, caused by the oblique passage through the walls of the intestine, of the ductus communis choledochus ; and at the lower and most prominent part of this crest is the aperture of ter- mination of that duct and the ductus pancreaticus. The valvulae conniventes are narrow at their commencement, but quickly become larger, and at the lower part of the duodenum and upper part of the jejunum, where they are largest, have a breadth of several lines. In the lower part of the jejunum and upper part of the ileum they become narrower and more scanty, and are finally lost altogether at about the middle of the latter. Each fold or valve extends for about one-half or three-fourths around the cylinder of the intestine ; and as they spring from all sides of its circumference, have the appearance of circular septa. The jejunum owes its con- siderable thickness to these valves ; and as they are small in the upper half of the ileum and wanting in its lower half, the thinness of the ileum is due to their absence.