GLANDULE SOLITARIES. 638 cuius, or vesicle, globular or lenticular in shape, composed of a thick and moderately strong coat of nucleated areolar tissue, and contain- ing in its interior a soft greyish pulp, consisting of nucleated cells, cell-nuclei, and a small quantity of fluid ; to which may be added, the probable existence of a plexus of flue capillary vessels ; a structure, in fact, very closely resembling that of a lymphatic gland. These sacculi are embedded in the substance of the mucous membrane, by which they are surrounded on all sides, and they form a prominence on the surface, which in the small intestine is studded with villi, and surrounded by a zone of simple follicles. The glandulce solitarice, under the name of lenticular glands, are more commonly found in the stomach of children than in the adult; and in the small intestine are also most frequent in children. They 'are met with in every part of the cylinder of the bowel, sometimes singly and sometimes in groups, and more numerously Fig.252.f in the jejunum than in the ileum. In the large intestine, they are grouped closely together in the appendix vermiformis, and are abundant in the csscum and rectum, but less numerous in the colon ; they are larger in the large than in the smal] intestine. The glandulce agminatce (aggregate ; Peyer's glands) are oval and oblong patches of lighter colour than the surrounding mucous * Solitary gland from the colon of a child, as shown in a section of the intestine. 1. Tubular glands. 2. Depression on the surface of the membrane corresponding with the central prominence of the gland. 3. The gland. 4. Muscular layer of the mucous coat. 5. Submucous coat. 6. Muscular coat. 7. Serous coat. After Kolliker. t Prominence of the mucous membrane of the large intestine produced by a solitary gland, magnified 19 times. The alveoli are deep and large, measuring Tfg of an inch by ^lo* and the septa narrow, ^The alveoli within the crater are smaller and the septa thicker. In the floor there is a vascular network, and the openings of simple follicles.