CIRCUMFLEXA ILII. 374 peritoneum, and a thin layer of fascia, derived from the iliac fascia, which surrounds the artery and vein. At its commencement it is crossed by the ureter, and near its termination by the genital branch of the genito-crural nerve and the circumflexa ilii vein. Externally it lies against the psoas muscle, from which it is sepa- rated by the iliac fascia ; and 'posteriorly it is in relation with the external iliac vein, which, at the femoral arch, becomes placed to its inner side. The artery is surrounded by lymphatic vessels and several glands. Branches.—Besides several small twigs which supply the lym- phatic glands and psoas muscle, the external iliac gives off two branches, the Epigastric, Circumflexa ilii. The Epigastric artery (epigastrica) arises from the front of the external iliac near Poupart's ligament; and passing inwards between the peritoneum and transversalis fascia, ascends obliquely to the sheath of the rectus. It enters that sheath near its lower third, passes upwards behind the rectus muscle, to which it is distributed, and, in the substance of that muscle, inosculates, near the ensiform cartilage, with the termination (superior epigastric) of the internal mammary artery. It lies internally to the internal abdominal ring and immediately above the femoral ring, and is crossed near its origin by the vas deferens in the male, and the round ligament in the female. The branches of the epigastric artery are, A cremasteric branch (spermatica externa) which accompanies the spermatic cord, and after supplying the cremaster muscle inosculates with the spermatic artery. A pubic branch which is distributed behind the pubes, and sends a small branch of communication downwards to the obturator artery. Muscular branches which pass outwards between the abdominal muscles, and inosculate with the circumflexa ilii, lumbar, and in- ferior intercostal arteries. Superficial branches which pierce the rectus muscle, and are dis- tributed to the integument of the abdomen. The epigastric artery forms a prominence of the peritoneum, which divides the inguinal fossa into an internal and external por- tion ; it is from the former that direct inguinal hernia issues, and from the latter, oblique inguinal hernia. The Circumflexa ilii arises from the outer side of the external iliac, a little below the epigastric artery. It ascends obliquely along Poupart's ligament, and curving around the crest of the ilium, inosculates with the ilio-lumbar and inferior lumbar artery. In its course the artery pierces the crural sheath and then lies between the transversalis muscle and fascia; near its termination it pierces the