SUPERIOR INTERCOSTAL ARTERY. 346 to them and neighbouring muscles, and inosculates with the arteries of the scapula and branches of the intercostal arteries. The cervicalis superficialis and posterior scapular artery some- times arise separately, the former from the thyroid axis, the latter from the third portion of the subclavian. By means of its nume- rous inosculations the transversa colli artery maintains an important anastomotic communication between the branches of the external carotid, subclavian, and axillary arteries. The Superior intercostal artery (intercostalis suprema) arises from the upper and back part of the subclavian artery behind the scalenus anticus, and, descending in front of the necks of the first two ribs, sends intercostal branches to the first two intercostal spaces, and dorsal branches to the muscles and integument of the back. The artery lies behind the pleura, to the outer side of the sympathetic nerve, and in the second intercostal space inosculates with the first aortic intercostal. It gives off the cervicalis pro- funda. The Cervicalis profunda artery (profunda cervicis) arises by a common trunk with the preceding, or, more properly, is a branch of the superior intercostal, corresponding with the posterior branch of the other intercostal arteries. It passes backwards between the transverse processes of the seventh cervical and first dorsal vertebra, and ascends the back part of the neck, between the com- plexus and semispinalis colli muscle. It inosculates with the princeps cervicis of the occipital artery, and with branches of the vertebral. Varieties of the subclavian arteries.—Varieties in these arteries are rare ; that which most frequently occurs is the origin of the right subclavian from the left extremity of the arch of the aorta, below the left subclavian artery. The vessel, in this case, curves behind the oesophagus and right carotid artery, and sometimes be- tween the oesophagus and trachea, to the upper border of the first rib on the right side of the chest, where it assumes its ordinary course. In a case of subclavian aneurism on the right side above the clavicle, which happened during the summer of 1839, Mr. Liston proceeded to perform the operation of tying the carotid and subclavian arteries at their point of division from the innominata. Upon reaching the spot where the bifurcation should have existed, he found that there was no subclavian artery. With his usual self- possession he continued his dissection more deeply, towards the vertebral column, and succeeded in securing the arteiy. It was ascertained after death, that the arteria innominata was extremely short, and that the subclavian was given off within the chest from the posterior aspect of its trunk, and pursued a deep course to the upper margin of the first rib. In a preparation which was shown me at Heidelberg, some years since, by Professor Tiedemann, the right subclavian artery arose from the thoracic aorta, as low down