OPENINGS OF THE TYMPANUM. 561 vel structura stapedii inferior. Arnold adds as a fourth, a suspen- sory ligament of the incus. The Muscles of the tympanum are four in number, the— Tensor tympani, Laxator tympani minor, Laxator tympani, Stapedius. The Tensor tympani (musculus internus mallei) arises from the spinous process of the sphenoid, the petrous portion of the temporal bone and the Eustachian tube, and passes forwards in a distinct canal, separated from the tube by the processus cochleariformis, to be inserted into the handle of the malleus, immediately below the root of the processus gracilis. The Laxator tympani (musculus externus mallei) arises from the spinous process of the sphenoid bone, and passes through an opening in the fissura Grlaseri, to be inserted into the neck of the malleus, just above the root of the processus gracilis. This is re- garded as a ligament (anterior ligament of the malleus) by some The Laxator tympani minor (posterior ligament of the malleus) arises from the upper margin of the meatus, and is inserted into the handle and processus brevis of the malleus. This is regarded as a ligament by some anatomists. The Stapedius arises from the interior of the pyramid, and escapes from its summit to be inserted into the neck of the stapes. Foramina.—The openings in the tympanum are ten in number, five large and five small; they are— Large Openings. Small Openings. Meatus auditorius, Entrance of chorda tympani, Fenestra ovalis, Exit of chorda tympani, Fenestra rotunda, For the laxator tympani, Mastoid cells, For the tensor tympani, Eustachian tube. For the stapedius. The opening of the meatus auditorius has been already described. The Fenestra ovalis (fenestra vestibuli) is a reniform opening, situated at the bottom of a small oval fossa (pelvis ovalis), in the upper part of the inner wall of the tympanum, directly opposite the meatus. The long diameter of the fenestra is horizontal, and its convex borders directed upwards. It is the opening of commu- nication between the tympanum and vestibule, and is closed by the foot of the stapes and by the lining membrane of both cavities. The Fenestra rotunda (fenestra cochleae) is somewhat triangular in form, and situated in the inner wail of the tympanum, below o o