OPHTHALMIC GANGLION. 52 6 trunk are supplied with branches from the sympathetic, and some of them exclusively ; hence it is denominated the nerve of organic life. It is called the ganglionic nerve from being constituted of a number of ganglia; and from the constant disposition which it evinces in its distribution, to communicate and form small knots or ganglia. There are four sympathetic ganglia in the head ; namely, the ophthalmic or lenticular, the spheno-palatine or Meckel's, the otic or Arnold's, and the submaxillary ; three in the neck, superior, middle, and inferior cervical; twelve in the dorsal region; four in the lumbar region ; and four or five in the sacral region. Each ganglion may be considered as a distinct centre, receiving and giving branches in four different directions, viz., superior or ascending, to communicate with the ganglion above ; inferior or descending, to communicate with the ganglion below; external, to communicate with the spinal nerves; and internal, to communicate with the sympathetic filaments of the opposite side, and be distri- buted to the viscera. As regards the spinal nerves it receives as well as gives, the white fibres of the sympathetic being derived from the cerebro- spinal nerves. CRANIAL PORTION OF THE SYMPATHETIC NERVE. Cranial Ganglia. Ophthalmic, or lenticular ganglion, Spheno-palatine, or Meckel's ganglion, Otic, or Arnold's ganglion, Submaxillary ganglion. The Ophthalmic ganglion (ciliary ; lenticular) is a small qua- drangular and flattened ganglion situated within the orbit, between the optic nerve and external rectus muscle; it is in close relation with the optic nerve and generally with the ophthalmic artery; and is surrounded by adipose tissue, which renders its dissection some- what difficult. It is of a reddish-grey colour, like other sympa- thetic ganglia. Its branches of distribution are the short ciliary nerves, which arise from its anterior angles in two groups ; the upper group con- sisting of about four filaments ; the lower, of five or six. They accompany the ciliary arteries in a waving course, and divide into filaments which pierce the sclerotic around the optic nerve, to sup- ply the tunics of the eyeball. A small filament is said, by Tiede- mann, to accompany the arteria centralis retinse into the centre of the globe of the eye. Its branches of communication are three : one, the long root,