Fig. 84.* gament. The anterior LIGAMENTS OF THE PELVIS. 138 which is thicker on the The surfaces of the two bones forming the sacro-iliac articulation are partly covered with cartilage, and partly rough and connected by the interosseous li- or auricular half is coated with cartilage, sacrum than on the ilium. The surface of the cartilage is un™ even, and provided with a delicate syno- vial membrane, not demonstrable in the adult, but apparent in the young subject and in the female during pregnancy. 2. Between the Sa- crum and Ischium.— The anterior or lesser sacro-ischiatic liga- ment (sacro-ischiadi- cum minus) is thin, and triangular in form ; it is attached by its apex to the spine of the ischium ; and by its broad extremity to the side of the sacrum and coccyx, interlacing its fibres with the greater sacro- ischiatic ligament. The anterior sacro-ischiatic ligament is in relation, in front, with the coccygeus muscle ; behind, with the posterior ligament, with which its fibres are intermingled. By its upper border it forms part of the lower boundary of the great sacro-ischiatic foramen, and by the lower, part of the lesser sacro-ischiatic foramen. The posterior or greater sacro-ischiatic ligament (sacro-ischia- dicum majus), larger, thicker, and posterior to the preceding, is narrower in the middle than at each extremity. It is attached, by its smaller end, to the inner margin of the tuberosity and ramus of the ischium ; where it forms a falciform process, which protects the internal pudic artery, and is continuous with the obturator fascia. By its larger extremity it is inserted into the side of the coccyx, sacrum, and posterior inferior spine of the ilium. The posterior sacro-ischiatic ligament is in relation, in front, * Ligaments of the pelvis and hip-joint. 1. Lower part of the anterior common ligament of the vertebrse, extending downwards over the front of the sacrum. 2. Lumbo-sacral ligament. 3. Lumho-iliac ligament. 4. Anterior sacro-iliac ligament. 5. Obturator membrane. 6. Poupart's ligament. 7. Gim- bernat's ligament. 8. Capsular ligament of the hip-joint. 9. Uio-femoral or accessory ligament.