244 MUSCLES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. Anterior Thoracic Region. Dissection.—Make an incision along the line of the clavicle, from the upper part of the sternum to the acromion process ; a second along the lower border of the great pectoral muscle, from the lower end of the sternum to the insertion of its tendon into the humerus; and connect the two by a third, carried longitudinally along the middle of the sternum. The integument and superficial fascia are to be dissected together from off the fibres of the muscle, and always in the direction of their course. For this purpose the dissector, if he have the right arm, will commence with the lower angle of the flap ; if the left, with the upper angle. He will thus expose the pectoralis major muscle in its whole extent. Pectoralis major, Pectoralis minor, Subclavius. The Pectoralis major (sterno-humeralis) arises from the sternal half of the clavicle, from half the sternum its whole length, from the cartilages of all the true ribs, excepting the first and last, and from the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen. From this extensive origin the fibres converge to be inserted by a broad and folded tendon into the anterior bicipital ridge of the humerus. The pectoralis major admits of a division into three portions, clavicular, sternal, and costal; the two former are separated from each other by a well-marked cellular interspace; the latter is dis- tinguished not only by its origin, but also by forming a fold beneath the sternal portion, and lying behind it at its insertion. At the latter point the three portions are superimposed, the clavicular being in front, the sternal next, the costal behind; the clavicular portion being prolonged at its insertion to the lower extremity of the bicipital ridge, the costal portion to its upper end. Relations.—By its external surface with the fibres of origin of the platysma myoides, mammary gland, superficial fascia and in- tegument. By its internal surface, on the thorax, with the clavicle, sternum, costal cartilages, intercostal muscles, subclavius, pectoralis minor, and serratus magnus; in the axilla, with the axillary vessels and glands. By its external border with the deltoid, from which it is separated above by a cellular interspace lodging the cephalic vein and descending branch of the thoracico-acromialis artery. Its lower border forms the anterior boundary of the axil- lary space. The pectoralis major is to be removed by dividing its fibres along the lower border of the clavicle, and then carrying the in- cision perpendicularly downwards, parallel to the sternum, and at about three inches from its border. Divide some loose cellular tissue, and several small branches of the thoracic arteries, and re- flect the muscle outwards. We thus bring into view a region of