553 CONJUNCTIVA. of the lids. They have the appearance of parallel strings of pearls, about thirty in number in the upper cartilage, and somewhat fewer in the lower ; and open by minute foramina on the edges of the lids. They correspond in length with the breadth of the cartilage, and are consequently longer in the upper than in the lower lid. Each gland consists of a single lengthened follicle or tube, into which a number of small clustered glan- dular vesicles open ; the latter being so numerous as almost to conceal the tube by which the secretion is poured out on the mar- gin of the lids. Occa- sionally an arch is form- ed between two of the follicles, and produces a graceful appearance. The edges of the eyelids are furnished with a triple row of long thick hairs, which curve upwards from the upper lid, and down- wards from the lower, so as not to interlace with each other in the closure of the eyelids, and prove an impediment to the opening of the eyes. These are the eye-lashes {cilia), important organs of defence to the sensitive surface of so delicate a structure as the eye. Their follicles are supplied with sebiparous glands like those of other hairs. The Conjunctiva is the mucous membrane of the eye. It covers the whole of its anterior surface, and is then reflected upon the lids so as to form their internal layer. The duplicatures formed between the globe of the eye and the lids are called the superior and inferior palpebral sinuses, the former being deeper than the latter. Where it covers the cornea, the conjunctiva is thin and closely adherent, and no vessels can be traced into it. On the sclerotica it is thicker and less adherent, and on the inner surface of the lids is very closely connected, and exceedingly vascular. It is continuous with the general gastro-pulmonary mucous membrane, and sympathizes in its affections, as may be observed in various diseases. From the surface of the eye it may be traced through the lachrymal ducts into * Meibomian glands, as seen upon the inner side of the eyelids; after Arnold. 1. Upper lid. 2. Lower lid. 3, 3. Conjunctiva. 4. Apertures of the Meibomian glands, forming a row along the free border of each eyelid. 5, 5. Papillae lachrymales. 6, 6. Puncta lachrymalia. 7. Apertures of the efferent ducts of the lachrymal gland.