255 FLEXOR LONGUS POLLICIS. tendons are enclosed in a synovial membrane and the three outer tendons communicate with each other by means of small slips, the tendon of the index finger remaining distinct. In the hand, the tendons give origin to the lnmbricales muscles, and on the second phalanges, are retained in position by two little tendinous slips, the vincula Fig. 128.* accessoria. | Relations.—In the forearm : by its \ anterior surface with the flexor sub- \ limis digitorum, flexor carpi ulnaris, median nerve, and ulnar artery, veins, and nerve. By its posterior surface with the ulna, interosseous membrane, pronator quadratus, and wrist-joint. By its radial border with the flexor longus pollicis, the anterior interosseous artery and nerve being interposed. By its ulnar border with the flexor carpi ulnaris. In the hand : its tendons are in rela- tion superficially with the tendons of the superficial flexor; and deeply with the interpssei, adductor pollicis, and deep palmar arch. The Flexor longus pollicis arises from the anterior surface of the ra- dius for two-thirds of its extent, and from one-half the interosseous mem- brane. Its tendon passes beneath the annular ligament to be inserted into the base of the last phalanx of the thumb. Relations.—By its anterior sur- face with the flexor sublimis digito- rum, flexor carpi radialis, supinator longus, and radial artery and veins. By its posterior surface with the ra- dius, interosseous membrane, pronator quadratus, and wrist-joint. By its ulnar border, it is separated from /|[J !|$ the flexor profundus digitorum by the anterior interosseous artery and nerve. In the hand: after passing * Deep layer of muscles of the forearm. 1. Internal lateral ligament of the elbow-joint. 2. Anterior ligament. 3. Orbicular ligament of the head of the radius. 4. Flexor profundus digitorum. 5. Flexor longus pollicis. 6. Pro- nator quadratus. 7. Adductor pollicis. 8. Dorsal interosseous of the middle, and palmar interosseous of the ring-finger. 9. Dorsal interosseous muscle of the ring-finger, and palmar interosseous of the little finger.