VOMER. 52 Fig. 35.* attached to the superior maxillary bone, advances forward nearly to the anterior margin of the nares. The posterior angle, sharp and pointed, is prolonged backwards on the internal pterygoid plate. The superior angle, more or less rounded, gives origin to three thin and laminated processes. The most anterior of these processes, processus lachrymalis, derived from the upper extremity of the anterior border, articulates with the lachrymal bone, and. assists in completing the nasal duct; the posterior process, pro- cessus ethmoidalis, derived directly from the superior angle or border, often from both, articulates with the ethmoid bone ; the middle process, processus maxillaris, proceeding also from the superior border, is reflected downwards, and assists in completing the inner wall of the antrum, articulating with the superior maxil- lary and palate bone. Development.—By a single centre, which appears at about the middle of the first year. It affords no attachment to muscles. Articulations.—With four bones : ethmoid, superior maxillary, lachrymal, and palate. Vomer.—The vomer is a thin, quadrilateral plate of bone, form- ing the posterior and inferior part of the septum of the nares. The superior border is broad and expanded, to articulate, in the middle, with the under surface of the body of the sphenoid, and on each side (ala) with the processus vaginalis of the pterygoid pro- cess. The anterior part of this border is hol- lowed into a sheath for the reception of the rostrum of the sphenoid. The inferior border is thin and uneven, and is received into the grooved summit of the crista nasalis. The posterior border is sharp and free, and forms the posterior division of the two nares. The anterior border is more or less deeply grooved for the reception of the central lamella of the ethmoid and the cartilage of the septum. This groove is an indication of the early constitution of the bone of two lamellse, united at the inferior * The vomer viewed on its left aspect. 1,1. Its superior border, with the two alas. 2, 2. Inferior border. 3. Posterior border. 4, 4. That portion of the anterior border which articulates with the central lamella of the ethmoid. 5, 5. Inferior portion of the anterior border, which unites with the cartilage of the septum. 6, 6. An elevation on the bone marking its point of separation into two layers; the two layers are seen along the whole length of the anterior border from 4 to the lower 5.