176 MUSCLES OF THE FACE. Dissection.—To open the orbit (the calvarium and brain having been removed) the frontal bone must be sawn through at the inner extremity of the orbital ridge; and, externally, at its outer ex- tremity. The roof of the orbit may then be comminuted with the hammer ; a process easily accomplished, on account of the thinness of the orbital plate of the frontal bone and lesser wing of the sphenoid. The superciliary portion of the orbit may next be driven forwards by a smart blow, and the external angular process and external wall of the orbit outwards in the same manner ; the broken fragments of the roof of the orbit should then be removed. By this means the periosteum will be exposed unbroken and undisturbed. Remove the periosteum from the whole of the upper surface of the exposed orbit, and examine the parts beneath. The Levator palpebr^e is a long, thin, and triangular muscle, situated in the upper part of the orbit on the middle line ; it arises from the upper margin of the optic foramen, and from the fibrous sheath of the optic nerve ; and is inserted into the upper border of the superior tarsal cartilage. Relations.—By its upper surface with the fourth nerve, supra- orbital nerve and artery, periosteum of the orbit, and, in front, inner face of the broad tarsal ligament. By its under surface it rests on the superior rectus, globe of the eye, and conjunctiva ; it receives its nerve and artery by this aspect. The Rectus superior (attollens) arises from the upper margin of the optic foramen, and from the fibrous sheath of the optic nerve; and is inserted into the upper surface of the globe of the eye at a point somewhat more than three lines from the margin of the cornea. Relations.—By its upper surface with the levator palpebrse muscle ; by the under surface with the optic nerve, ophthalmic artery and nasal nerve, from which it is separated by the adipose tissue of the orbit, and, in front, with the globe of the eye, the tendon of the superior oblique muscle being interposed. The Rectus inferior (depressor) arises from the inferior margin of the optic foramen by a tendon (ligament of Zinn) which is com- mon to it and the internal and external rectus, and from the fibrous sheath of the optic nerve ; it is inserted into the inferior surface of the globe of the eye, a little more than two lines from the margin of the cornea. Relations.—By its upper surface with the optic nerve, inferior oblique branch of the third nerve, adipose tissue of the orbit, and under surface of the globe of the eye. By its under surface with the periosteum of the floor of the orbit, and inferior oblique muscle. The Rectus internus (adductor); the thickest and shortest of the straight muscles, arises from the common tendon, and from the fibrous sheath of the optic nerve ; and is inserted into the inner surface of the globe of the eye at two lines from the margin of the cornea.