LIGAMENTS OP THE LOWER JAW. 133 of the external pterygoid muscle ; internally the ligament is in relation with the internal pterygoid muscle. The capsular ligament (membrana maxillse articularis) consists of numerous irregular ligamentous fibres, which pass from the edge of the glenoid cavity to the neck of the lower jaw, and surround the articulation; on the inner side of the joint they form a pretty strong fasciculus. The interarticular fibrous cartilage (cartilago intermedia) is a thin oval plate, thicker at the edges than in the centre, placed horizontally between the head of the condyle of the lower jaw and the glenoid cavity. It is connected by its outer border with the external lateral ligament, and receives in front some fibres, of in- sertion of the external pterygoid muscle. It divides the joint into two cavities, one being above, the other below the cartilage; but it is occasionally incomplete in the centre. The synovial membranes are situated, one above, the other below the fibrous cartilage, the former being the larger of the two. When the fibrous cartilage is perforate, the synovial membranes com- municate. Besides the lower jaw, there are several other joints provided with a complete interarticular cartilage, and, consequently, with two synovial membranes ; they are, the sterno-clavicular, acromio- clavicular, and the articulation of the ulna with the cuneiform bone. 'The interarticular fibrous cartilages of the Jcnee-joint are partial, and there is but one synovial membrane. The articulations of the heads of the ribs with the vertebrae have two syno- vial membranes separated by an interarticular ligament without fibrous cartilage. Connected with the lower . jaw, though not with the joint, is the stylo-maxillary liga- ment, a process of the deep cervical fascia extended be- tween the point of the styloid process and the angle of the jaw. It is attached to the jaw between the insertions of the masseter and internal ptery- goid muscle, and separates the parotid from the sub- maxillary gland. * In this sketch, a section has been made through the joint, to show the position of the interarticular fibro-cartilage, and the manner of its adaptation to the articulating surfaces. 1. Glenoid fossa. 2. Eminentia articularis. 3. Interarticular fibro-cartilage. 4. Superior synovial cavity. 5. Inferior synovial cavity. 6. An interarticular fibro-cartilage, removed from the joint, in order to show its oval and concave form; it is seen from below. Fig. 82*