593 ENDOCARDIUM. surface a single or double lamina of tesselated epithelium. Beneath the pericardium, especially in the grooves of the heart, is more or less adipose tissue, which is sometimes distributed more extensively over the surface of the organ. The Endocardium, or lining membrane of the heart, is also thin, but thicker in the auricles than in the ventricles, and especially in the left auricle. It consists of three layers, namely, 1, a thin stratum of white fibrous areolar tissue, which connects it to the muscular structure : 2, a middle layer, composed of elastic tissue, which is so abundant in the auricles as to constitute a thin elastic membrane possessed of several laminae : and, 3, an epithelium, consisting of a single or double layer of more or less elongated or polygonal, flattened nucleated cells. The surface of the middle layer, on which the epithelium is embedded, presents a smooth stratum of fine elastic Fiff- 222.* fibres, arranged longitudinally, while the chief thickness of the layer is made up of fine and aiiXW coarse elastic networks, connected by a matrix of areolar tissue, in the meshes of which are numerous scattered nuclei. In the ven- tricles the endocardium is transparent; _in the auricles, particularly the left, it istfpaK] and white, and continuous with the rnnlg membrane of the vessels which open into the heart. The muscular fibres are more slender and friable than those of the rest of the muscular system ; the sarcolemma is more delicate ; the longitudinal markings and nuclei more appa- rent ; the fibres, more closely united together, have less intervening areolar tissue, are in- extricably interlaced, and form innumerable anastomosing plexuses, a character peculiar to the muscular structure of the heart. The nuclei are placed in the axis of the fibre and in the same situation are found rows of minute fatty granules, which are excessively mul- tiplied in fatty degeneration of the heart. The auriculo-ventricular valves are composed of two layers of endocardium, connected in the body of the valve by areolo-fibrous tissue, mingled with a network of elastic fibres ; towards the edges of the valve, the two layers become blended with each other, and form a single membrane. The chorda? tendinem consist of a fasci- culus of tendinous fibres invested by a thin layer of endocardium. The semilunar valves are composed of a thin stratum of elastic and areolar tissue, the elastic tissue forming a fine network in the sub- * Epithelium of the endocardium; 1. Nucleated cells assuming the fusiform figure. 2. Polygonal nucleated cells. Magnified 350 times. After Kolliker. Q Q