439 NERVOUS GANGLIA. Fig. 178.; (flHf& in histological characters the spinal nerves, the motor nerves corre- sponding with the anterior roots, the sensitive nerves with the pos- terior roots ; but it is to be remarked that the motor nerves receive sensitive fibres from the nerves of sensation previously to their escape from the cranium. The fifth, glosso-pharyngeal and pneumo- gastric nerves have both a motor and a sensitive root with a ganglion on the latter like the posterior root of the spinal nerve. The ganglion of a spinal nerve is formed by the accumulation of nerve-cells (ganglion-cells, or globules) around and between the nerve-fibres of the posterior root. The ganglion-cells are round, a little flattened by mutual compression, elongated or pyriform in shape, and enclosed in a thin layer of imperfect areolar tissue which forms a sheath for the ganglion, and septa for the gan- glion-cells, frequently supplying the latter with individual sheaths. The nerve-fibres take their course through the ganglion in one or several plexiform fasciculi, and are joined on their escape from its substance by the ganglionic fibres derived from the ganglion-cells. The ganglion-cells are composed of an outer coat, consisting of two layers, a fine granular matrix substance con- taining yellowish or brownish pigment cells in greater or less number, and a nucleolated nucleus; besides which they give off for the most part one, and frequently two, pale processes, the com- mencement of the ganglionic fibres, a few of the cells appearing to have no processes. The external portion of the coat of the ganglion-cell is a thick nucleated layer, composed of a more or less homogeneous or fibrous and im- perfect areolar tissue, and continued on the ganglionic fibre to its point of exit from the ganglion ; the internal layer is a thin proper membrane. The pigment cells are frequently aggregated into a rounded mass near the nucleus and deepen in colour with age. The ganglionic fibres are pale, consisting of tubular prolongation of the nucleated and proper coat of the ganglion-cell, enclosing a granular substance identical with that of the cell-matrix. They * A lumbar ganglion of a puppy, made transparent by soda; after Kolli- ker. a. Posterior root. b. Anterior root. c. Ganglion on the posterior root. d, e. Junction of the fibres of the anterior and posterior root, with those coming from the ganglion; <2,is the posterior trunk of the spinal nerve; e, its anterior trunk.