VEINS OF THE NECK. 399 the latter. Besides the ophthalmic vein the cavernous sinus receives the cerebral veins of the under part of the anterior lobe, a vein from the posterior border of the orbit (sinus spheno-parietalis) and the vein of the middle fossa of the cranium. The cavernous sinuses communicate by means of the ophthalmic with the facial veins, by the circular sinus with each other, and by the superior petrosal with the lateral sinuses. The Inferior petrosal sinuses are the continuations of the cavern- ous sinuses backwards along the lower border of the petrous portion of the temporal bone at each side of the base of the skull, to the foramina lacera posteriora, where they terminate with the lateral sinuses in the commencement of the internal jugular veins. The Circular sinus (sinus of Ridley ; ellipticus) is situated in the sella turcica, surrounding the pituitary gland, and communicating on each side with the cavernous sinus. The posterior segment is larger than the anterior. The Superior petrosal sinuses pass obliquely backwards along the attached border of the tentorium, on the upper margin of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and establish a communica- tion between the cavernous and lateral sinus at each side. They receive one or two cerebral veins from the inferior part of the middle lobes, and a cerebellar vein from the anterior border of the cere- bellum. Near the extremity of the petrous bone these sinuses cross the oval aperture which transmits the fifth nerve. The Transverse sinus (basilaris; occipitalis anterior) passes transversely across the basilar process of the occipital bone, forming a communication between the two inferior petrosal sinuses. Some- times there are two sinuses in this situation, or, more properly, a plexus. The veins of the neck which return the blood from the head are, The External jugular vein, the continuation of the superficial division of the temporo-maxillary, augmented by the junction of the posterior auricular, and sometimes of the occipital, commences at the lower border of the parotid gland, in front of the sterno-mastoid muscle. It descends the neck in the direction of a line drawn from the angle of the lower jaw to the middle of the clavicle, crosses the sterno-mastoid, and terminates near the posterior and inferior attachment of that muscle, in the subclavian vein. In its course downwards, it lies on the anterior lamella of the deep cervical fascia, which separates it from the sterno-mastoid muscle, and is covered in by the platysma myoides and superficial fascia ; at the root of the neck it pierces the deep cervical fascia. It is accoru- VEINS OP THE NEtJK. External jugular, Anterior jugular, Internal jugular, Vertebral.