262 MUSCLES OF THE HAND. flexor ossis metacarpi may now be divided from its origin and turned aside, in order to show the next muscle. The Flexor bee vis pollicis consists of two portions, between which lies the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis. The external portion arises from the trapezium and annular ligament; the internal portion from Fig. 131.* the trapezoides and os magnum. They are both inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the thumb, having a sesamoid bone in each of their tendons to pro- tect the joint. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the external portion of the palmar fascia. By its deep surface with the adductor pollicis, tendon of the flexor carpi radialis, and tra- pezo-metacarpal articu- lation. By its external swr/acewith the flexor ossis metacarpi and metacarpal bone. By its inner surface with the tendons of the long flexor muscles and first lumbricalis. The Adductor pol- licis is a triangular muscle ; it arises by a broad origin from the metacarpal bone of the middle finger; the fibres converge to its insertion into the base of the first phalanx of the thumb, where it is united with the inner head of the flexor brevis. * Muscles of the hand. 1. Annular ligament. 2, 2. Origin and insertion of the abductor pollicis muscle; the middle portion has been removed. 3. Flexor ossis metacarpi, or opponens pollicis. 4. Superficial portion of the flexor brevis pollicis. 5. Deep portion of the flexor brevis pollicis. 6. Ad- ductor pollicis. 7, 7. The lumbricales muscles, arising from the deep flexor tendons, upon which the figures are placed. The tendons of the flexor sublimis have been removed. 8. One of the tendons of the deep flexor, pass- ing between the two terminal slips of the tendon of the flexor sublimis to reach the last phalanx. 9. The tendon of the flexor longus pollicis, passing between the two portions of the flexor brevis to the last phalanx. 10. Ab- ductor minimi digiti. 11. Flexor brevis minimi digiti. The edge of the ad- , ductor ossis metacarpi is seen projecting beyond the inner border of the flexor brevis. 12. Pisiform bone. 13. First dorsal interosseous muscle, the abductor indicis.