INFERIOR VENA CAVA. 406 and entering the pericardium terminates in the upper part of the right auricle. It is in relation in front with the pericardium ; behind with the right pulmonary artery ; internally with the ascending aorta ; ex- ternally with the pleura and right phrenic nerve. Immediately before entering the pericardium it receives the vena azygos major. INFERIOR VENA CAVA, WITH ITS FORMATIVE BRANCHES. The External iliac vein lies to the inner side of the corresponding artery at the os pubis ; but gradually gets behind it as it passes upwards along the brim of the pelvis ; it terminates opposite the sacro-iliac symphysis by uniting with the internal iliac, to form the common iliac vein. Immediately above Poupart's ligament it re- ceives the epigastric and circumflexa ilii vein ; it has no valves. The Internal iliac vein is formed by vessels which correspond with the branches of the internal iliac artery; it receives the re- turning blood from the gluteal, ischiatic, internal pudic, and obturator vein, externally to the pelvis ; and from the vesical and uterine plexuses within the pelvis. The vein lies to the inner side of the internal iliac artery, and terminates by uniting with the external iliac vein, to form the common iliac. The vesical and prostatic plexus is an important plexus of veins which surrounds the neck and base of the bladder and prostate gland, and receives its blood from the great dorsal vein of the penis and the veins of the external organs of generation. It is retained in connexion with the sides of the bladder by a reflection of the pelvic fascia. The uterine plexus is situated around the vagina, and at the sides of the uterus, between the two layers of the broad ligaments. The veins forming the vesical and uterine plexus are peculiarly subject to the production of calcareous concretions termed phlebolites. The Common iliac veins are formed by the union of the external and internal iliac vein at each side of the pelvis. The right com- mon iliac, shorter than the left, ascends obliquely behind the corresponding artery; and on the intervertebral substance of the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebra, unites with the vein of the opposite side, to form the inferior cava. The left common iliac, longer and more oblique than the right, ascends behind and a little internally to the corresponding artery, and passes beneath the right common iliac artery, near its origin, to unite with the right vein in the formation of the inferior vena cava. The right common iliac vein has no branch ; the left receives the vena sacra media. These veins have no valves. INFERIOR VENA CAVA. The inferior vena cava is formed by the union of the two common iliac veins, on the intervertebral substance of the fourth and fifth