THYMUS GLAND. 706 of the fluid contained sixteen parts of solid matter, sisted of,— Incipient fibrine, Albumen, Mucous and muco-extractive matter, which Muriate and phosphate of potass, Phosphate of soda, Phosphoric acid, a trace. Fig. 278. The Arteries of the thymus gland are derived from the internal mammary, superior thyroid and inferior thyroid. The Veins terminate in the left vena innominata, and some small branches in the thyroid veins. The Nerves are minute, and derived chiefly, through the internal mammary plexus, from the superior thoracic ganglion of the sympathetic. Sir Astley Cooper also saw a branch from the junction of the pneumogastric and sympathetic pass to the side of the gland. The Lymphatics terminate in the general union of the lymphatic vessels at the junction of the internal jugular and subclavian vein. Sir Astley Cooper injected them once only in the human fetus, but in the calf he finds two large lymphatic ducts, which commence in the upper extremities of the glands, and pass downwards to terminate at the junction of the jugular and sub- clavian vein at each side. These ves- sels he considers to be the '' absorbent ducts of the glands, 4 thymic ducts / they are the carriers of the fluid from the thymus into the veins." Sir Astley Cooper concludes his ana- tomical description of this gland with the following observations :—"As the thymus secretes all the parts of the blood, viz., albumen, fibrine, and par- ticles, is it not probable that the gland is designed to prepare a fluid well fitted for the fcetal growth and nourishment * Course and termination of the " absorbent ducts" of the thymus of the calf; from one of Sir Astley Cooper's preparations. 1. Internal jugular veins. 2. Superior vena cava. 3. Thoracic duct, dividing into two branches, which reunite previously to their termination in the root of the left jugular vein. 4. The two thymic ducts; that on the left side opens into the thoracic duct, that on the right into the root of the right jugular vein.