OBTURATOR NERVE. 516 the external iliac artery to the internal abdominal ring, and descends along the spermatic canal, lying behind the cord, to the scrotum, where it distributes twigs to the spermatic cord and cremaster muscle. In the female it gives twigs to the round ligament and external labium. At the internal abdominal ring this nerve sends off a branch, which, after supplying the lower border of the inter- nal oblique and transversalis, is lost in the integument of the groin. The crural branch (lumbo-inguinalis), the most external of the two, descends along the outer border of the external iliac artery, and, crossing the origin of the circumflexa ilii, enters the sheath of the femoral vessels in front of the femoral artery. It pierces the sheath below Poupart's ligament, and is distributed to the integu- ment of the anterior aspect of the thigh as far as its middle. This nerve communicates with the middle cutaneous branch of the crural nerve, and is often very small. The External cutaneous nerve (inguino-cutaneus) proceeds from the second lumbar, and from the loop between it and the third. It pierces the posterior fibres of the psoas muscle ; and crossing the iliacus on the iliac fascia, to the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, passes into the thigh, beneath Poupart's ligament, where it divides into two branches, anterior and posterior. The posterior branch crosses the tensor vaginae femoris muscle to the outer and posterior side of the thigh, and supplies the integu- ment in that region. The anterior nerve, after passing for three or four inches down the thigh in a sheath formed by the fascia lata, becomes superficial, and divides into two branches, which are distributed to the integu- ment of the outer border of the thigh, and to the articulation of the knee. The Obturator nerve is formed by a branch from the third, and another from the fourth lumbar nerve, and is distributed to the obturator externus and adductor muscles of the thigh, the hip and knee joint, the femoral and popliteal artery, and sometimes to the integument of the upper and inner part of the leg. From its origin it takes its course among the fibres of the psoas muscle, through the angle of bifurcation of the common iliac vessels, and along the inner border of the brim of the pelvis, to the obturator foramen, where it joins the obturator artery. Having escaped from the pelvis, it divides into an anterior and posterior branch. The anterior branch passes downwards in front of the adductor brevis, supplies that muscle together with the pectineus, gracilis, and adductor longus, and at the lower border of the latter unites ■with the internal cutaneous and long saphenous nerve, to form a plexus. It then passes onwards to the femoral artery, to which it distributes filaments. In its course this nerve gives off an articular branch to the hip-joint; and a cutaneous branch, which pierces the fascia lata at the knee, communicates with the long saphenous