INTERCOSTAL NERVES. 512 lower, after supplying the same muscles, piece the serratus posticus inferior and latissimus dorsi in a line with the angles of the ribs, and becoming cutaneous, are directed downwards and forwards over the side of the trunk. Intercostal nerves.—The anterior cords of the dorsal nerves, twelve in number at each side, are the intercostal nerves. Each intercostal nerve passes outwards in the intercostal space in com- pany with the intercostal vessels, below which it lies; at the com- mencement of its course it rests on the external intercostal muscle, further outwards it is placed between the two planes of intercostal muscles ; beyond the middle of the rib it enters the substance of the internal intercostal and reaches its inner surface, being in contact with the pleura; finally, at the anterior extremity of the intercostal space, it crosses in front of the triangularis sterni and internal mammary vessels and piercing the internal intercostal muscle and pectoralis major, is distributed to the integument of the front of the chest and mammary gland, under the name of anterior cutaneous. The intercostal nerve, near its origin, sends one or two filaments to the neighbouring dorsal ganglion of the sympathetic, and midway between the vertebral column and sternum, while situated between the intercostal muscles, gives off a lateral cutaneous branch which pierces the external intercostal muscle and divides into an anterior and posterior twig for the supply of the integument of the side of the thorax. This description applies in full only to the six upper intercostal nerves ; the six lower, with the exception of the last, cross the car- tilages of the ribs where the thorax is deficient and take their course between the internal oblique and transversalis muscle to the sheath of the rectus, and, after supplying that muscle, to the linea alba, by the side of which they reach the integument constituting the an- terior cutaneous nerves of the abdomen. The first and the last intercostal nerve are exceptions to this general scheme of distribution. The first ascends over the first rib to join the brachial plexus, and gives off only a small branch, to take the usual course of the other intercostal nerves. The last or twelfth nerve lies below the last rib, and after crossing the quadratus lumborum takes its course between the internal oblique and trans- versalis muscle like the other inferior intercostals. Near its origin it sends a branch, the clorsi-lumbar, downwards to join the first lumbar nerve. The branches of the intercostal nerves are, muscular, lateral cutaneous, and anterior cutaneous. The muscular branches are small twigs distributed to the inter- costal and neighbouring muscles. The Lateral cutaneous nerves, given off from the intercostals at about the middle of the lateral half of the thorax, pierce the ex- ternal intercostal muscle and pass between the fibres of the serratus