FEMALE PELVIS. 684 the lower extremity, the globus minor. The tubuli are connected together "by filamentous areolar" tissue, and are enclosed by the tunica vaginalis. A small convoluted duct, of variable length, is generally con- nected with the duct of the epididymis, just at the commencement of the vas deferens. This is the vasculum aberrans of Haller ; it is attached to the epididymis by the areolar tissue in which that body is enveloped. Sometimes it becomes dilated towards its ex- tremity, but more frequently retains the same diameter throughout. The Vas deferens maybe traced upwards, from the globus minor of the epididymis along the posterior part of the spermatic cord, and along the spermatic canal to the internal abdominal ring. From the ring it is reflected inwards to the side of the fundus of the bladder, and descends along its posterior surface, crossing the direc- tion of the ureter, to the inner border of the vesicula seminalis. In. the latter situation it becomes somewhat larger in size and saccu- lated, and terminates at the base of the prostate gland, by uniting with the duct of the vesicula seminalis, and constituting the ejacu- latory duct. The ejaculatory duct, which is thus formed by the junction of the duct of the vesicula seminalis with the vas deferens, passes forwards in the outer wall of the sinus pocularis, and termi- nates by a slit-like opening close to or just within the aperture of the sinus. FEMALE PELVIS. The peculiarities in form of the female pelvis have already been examined with the anatomy of the bones (p. 101). Its lining boun- daries are the same as those of the male. The contents are the bladder, vagina, uterus with its appendages, and rectum. Some portion of the small intestine also occupies the upper part of its cavity. The Bladder is in relation with the pubes in front, with the uterus behind, from which it is usually separated by a convolution of small intestine, and with the neck of the uterus and vagina be- neath. The form of the female bladder corresponds with that of the pelvis, being broad from side to side, and often bulging more on one side than on the other. This is particularly evident after parturition. The coats of the bladder are the same as those of the male. The Urethra, about an inch and a half in length, is lodged in the upper and anterior wall of the vagina, in its course downwards and forwards, beneath the arch of the pubes, to the meatus urinarius. It is composed of three coats, mucous, submucous, and muscular; the mucous coat is vascular, and disposed in longitudinal folds, and is continuous internally with the mucous membrane of the bladder and externally with that of the vulva. It is provided with a squa- mous epithelium, having a deep stratum of elongated cells, like the