131 LIGAMENTS OF THE ATLAS AND AXIS. the synovial membrane usually communicates with the synovial cavity between the transverse ligament and odontoid process. The transverse liga- ment is a strong liga- 79 * mentous band, which arches across the area of the ring of the atlas from a rough tubercle on the inner surface of one articular process to a corresponding tubercle on the other; and serves to retain the odontoid process of the axis, in connexion with the an- terior arch of the atlas. As it crosses the neck of the odontoid process, some fibres are sent downwards to be attached to the body of the axis, and others pass upwards to be inserted into the basilar process of the occipital bone ; hence the ligament has a cross-like appearance, and is termed cruci- form. A synovial membrane is situated between the transverse ligament and odontoid process ; and another between that process and the anterior arch of the atlas. Actions.—It is the peculiar disposition of the transverse ligament in relation to the odontoid process, that enables the atlas, and with it the entire cranium, to rotate upon the axis ; the perfect freedom of movement between these bones being ensured by the two synovial membranes. The lower part of the ring, formed by the transverse ligament with the atlas, is smaller than the upper, while the sum- mit of the odontoid process is larger than its base; hence the process is retained in its place by the transverse ligament, when the other ligaments are cut through. The extent to which rotation of the head upon the axis can be carried, is determined by the odontoid or check ligaments. The odontoid process with its ligaments is covered in by the occipito-axoid ligament. 5. Articulation of the Lower Jaw.—The lower jaw has properly but one ligament, the external lateral; the ligaments usually de- * Posterior view of the ligaments connecting the atlas, axis, and occipital bone. The posterior part of the occipital bone has been sawn away, and the arches of the atlas and axis removed. 1. Superior part of the occipito-axoid ligament, which has been cut away in order to show the ligaments beneath. 2. Transverse ligament of the atlas. 3, 4. Ascending and descending slips of the transverse ligament, which have obtained for it the title of cruciform ligament. 5. One of the odontoid ligaments; the fellow ligament is seen on the opposite side. 6. One of the occipito-atloid capsular ligaments. 7. One of the atlo-axoid capsular ligaments.