483 SUPERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. The Branches of the superior maxillary nerve are divisible into three groups : namely, those given off in the spheno-maxillary fossa ; those given off in the infra-orbital canal; and those given off on the face. They may be thus arranged : ( Orbital, or temporo-malar, Spheno-maxillary fossa, •< Spheno-palatine, { Posterior dental. The Orbital or temporo-malar branch enters the orbit through the spheno-maxillary fissure, and divides into two branches, tem- poral and malar ; the temporal branch ascends along the outer wall of the orbit, and after receiving a branch from the lachrymal nerve, passes through a canal in the malar bone, and enters the temporal fossa ; it then pierces the temporal muscle and fascia, and is distri- buted to the integument of the temple and side of the forehead, communicating with the facial and anterior temporal nerve. In the temporal fossa it communicates with the deep temporal nerves. The malar, or inferior branch (subcutaneus malee) takes its course along the lower angle of the outer wall of the orbit, and emerges on the cheek through an opening in the malar bone, passing between the fibres of the orbicularis palpebrarum muscle. It communicates with branches of the infra-orbital and facial nerve. The Spheno-palatine branches, two in number, pass downwards to the spheno-palatine or Meckel's ganglion. The Posterior dental branches, two in number, pass downwards upon the tuberosity of the superior maxillary bone, where one enters a canal in the bone, and is distributed to the molar teeth and lining membrane of the antrum, and communicates with the anterior dental nerve ; while the other, lying externally to the bone, is distributed to the gums and buccinator muscle. The Middle and anterior dental branches descend to the corre- sponding teeth and gums ; the former beneath the lining membrane of the antrum, the latter through distinct canals in the walls of the bone. Previously to their distribution, the dental nerves form a plexus (superior maxillary plexus) in the outer wall of the superior maxillary bone immediately above the alveolus. From this plexus filaments are given off which supply the pulps of the teeth, gums, mucous membrane of the floor of the nares, and palate. Some gangliform bodies have been described in connexion with this plexus, one being placed over the canine, another over the second molar tooth. The Muscular and cutaneous branches are the terminating fila- ments of the nerve ; they supply the muscles, integument, and Infra-orbital canal . . . On the face Middle dental, Anterior dental. i i 2