324 COMMON CAROTID ARTERIES. which ascends along the middle of the trachea to the thyroid gland. This branch was described by Neubauer, as the thyroidea ima (lowest thyroid artery), and Dr. Harrison names it the middle thyroid artery. A knowledge of its existence is important in per- forming the operation of tracheotomy. COMMON CAROTID ARTERIES. The common carotid arteries (carotis communis vel primitiva ; Kapa, the head) arise, the right from the bifurcation of the arteria innominata opposite the right sterno-clavicular articulation, the left from the arch of the aorta. It follows, therefore, that the right carotid is shorter than the left ; it is also more anterior; and, in consequence of proceeding from a branch instead of from the main trunk, is larger than its fellow. The Eight common carotid artery (Fig. 150, 5) ascends the neck perpendicularly by the side of the trachea and larynx, from behind the right sterno-clavicular articulation to a level with the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, where it divides into the external carotid and internal carotid. TheLeft common carotid (Fig. 150,11)passes somewhat obliquely outwards from the arch of the aorta to the side of the neck, and thence upwards by the side of the trachea and oesophagus to a level with the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, where it divides like the right common carotid into the external carotid and internal carotid. Relations.—The common carotid artery, in the neck, is enclosed in a fibrous sheath, which also contains the internal jugular vein, lying to the outer side of the artery, and the pneumogastric nerve, which lies between and behind both. The sheath rests on the vertebral column, having interposed the sympathetic nerve and anterior muscles of the vertebral column, namely, longus colli and rectus anticus major ; and being crossed behind by the inferior thyroid artery and recurrent laryngeal nerve. To the inner side of the carotid is the trachea, recurrent laryngeal nerve, and larynx ; to its outer side, and enclosed in its sheath, the jugular vein and pneumogastric nerve ; and in front, the sterno-thyroid, sterno- hyoid, sterno-mastoid, omo-hyoid, and platysma muscles, and the descendens noni nerve. The left common carotid, in addition to the relations just enumerated, which are common to both, is crossed near its commencement by the left vena innominata, and supports the remains of the thymus gland : it lies on the trachea ; then gets to its side, and is in relation with the oesophagus and thoracic duct : to facilitate the study of these relations, I have arranged them in a tabular form.