ABDOMEN. 609 fold is the broad ligament of the lung, ligamentum latum pul- monis. On its external surface, where the pleura is connected with sur- rounding parts, it is rough ; on its inner surface, smooth. At the right side, where the diaphragm is pressed upwards by the liver, the pleura is shorter than on the left, but it extends higher into the neck; while the left pleura, in consequence of the encroachment of the heart on the left side of the chest, is narrower than the right. MEDIASTINUM. The approximation of the two reflected pleurae in the middle line of the thorax forms a septum, which divides the chest into the two pulmonary cavities. This is the mediastinum. The two pleuras are not, however, in contact with each other at the middle line in the formation of the mediastinum, but have a space between them which contains all the viscera of the chest with the exception of the lungs. * The mediastinum is divided into an anterior, middle, and posterior portion. The Anterior mediastinum is a triangular space, bounded in front by the sternum, and at each side by the pleura. It contains a quantity of loose areolar tissue, in which are found some lymphatic vessels passing upwards from the liver, the remains of the thymus gland, the origin of the sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and left trian- gularis sterni muscle, and the left internal mammary vessels. The Middle mediastinum contains the heart enclosed in its peri- cardium ; the ascending aorta; superior vena cava ; pulmonary arteries and veins ; bifurcation of the trachea ; and phrenic nerves. The Posterior mediastinum is bounded behind by the vertebral column, in front by the pericardium, and at each side by the pleura. It contains the aorta; the greater and lesser azygos vein, and superior intercostal veins; the thoracic duct ; oesophagus and pneumogastric nerves ; and the great splanchnic nerves. ABDOMEN. The abdomen is the inferior cavity of the trunk of the body ; it is bounded in front and at the sides by the lower ribs and abdominal muscles ; behind, by the vertebral column and abdominal muscles ; above, by the diaphragm ; and, below, by the pelvis ; and contains, the alimentary canal, the organs subservient to digestion, viz., the liver, pancreas, and spleen ; and the organs of excretion, the kidneys, with the supra-renal capsules. Regions.—For convenience of description of the viscera, and of reference to the morbid affections of this cavity, the abdomen is divided into certain districts or regions. Thus', if two transverse lines be carried around the body, the one parallel with the cartilages R R