SACRAL PLEXUS. 520 The fourth sacral nerve divides into two branches, one of which assists in forming the sacral plexus, the other separates into three branches : a communicating branch to unite with the fifth sacral nerve ; a visceral branch, to join with the hypogastric plexus and supply the bladder and prostate gland, and in the female, the vagina; and a muscular branch which sends filaments to the levator ani and coccygeus and a hcemorrhoiclal branch to the sphincter ani and integument behind the anus. The fifth sacral nerve, issuing from between the sacrum and coccyx, pierces the coccygeus muscle, and receives the communi- cating branch from the fourth ; it then communicates with the coccygeal nerve, and piercing the coccygeus a second time, is distri- buted to the integument over the dorsal surface of the coccyx. The coccygeal nerve pierces the coccygeus muscle, and unites with the fifth sacral nerve, in which it is lost. Each of the anterior cords of the sacral nerves communicates with the sympathetic at its point of escape from the sacral canal. Sacral plexus.—The Sacral plexus is formed by the union of the lumbo-sacral and the anterior cords of the three upper sacral nerves and one-half the fourth. The plexus is triangular in form, its base corresponding with the whole length of the sacrum, and its apex with the lower part of the great ischiatic foramen. It is in relation behind with the pyriformis muscle ; and in front with the pelvic fascia, which separates it from the internal iliac vessels and the viscera of the pelvis. The Branches of the sacral plexus are, The Visceral nerves are three or four large branches derived from the fourth and fifth sacral nerves : they ascend by the side of the rectum and bladder ; in the female by the side of the rectum, vagina, uterus, and bladder ; and interlace with branches of the hypogastric plexus, sending in their course numerous filaments to the pelvic viscera. The Muscular branches are one or two twigs to the levator ani ; an obturator branch, which curves around the spine of the ischium to reach the internal surface of the obturator internus muscle; two twigs to the pyriformis j a branch to the gemellus superior ; and a branch of moderate size, which descends between the gemelli muscles and the ischium, and is distributed to the gemellus inferior, quadratus femoris, and capsule of the hip-joint. Visceral, Muscular, Superior gluteal, Pudic, Lesser ischiatic, Greater ischiatic. The Superior gluteal nerve arises from the lumbo-sacral near its junction with the first sacral nerve ; it passes out of the pelvis