556 MUSCLES OF THE PINNA. Another depression at the upper extremity of the antihelix, pro- duced by a bifurcation of that ridge, is the fossa triangularis (ovalis) ; and the large central space, to which all the channels con- verge, the concha, which opens directly into the meatus. The pinna is composed of integument, fibro-cartilage, ligaments, and muscles. The Integument is thin, contains an abundance of sebiparous glands and is closely connected with the fibro-cartilage. The Fibro-cartilage gives form to the pinna, and is folded so as to produce the various convexities and grooves which have been described on its surface. The helix begins in the concha, and par- tially divides that cavity into two parts; on its anterior border, where it commences its curve upwards, is a tubercle or spine, and a little above this a small vertical fissure, the fissure of the helix. The termination of the helix and antihelix forms a lengthened pro- cess, the processus caudatus, which is separated from the concha by an extensive fissure. On the anterior surface of the tragus is another fissure, the fissure of the tragus; and, in the lobulus, the fibro-cartilage is wanting. The fibro-cartilage of the meatus is divided from the concha by several fissures (fissures of Santorinus), and at the upper and anterior part of the cylinder is a considerable space, which is closed by muscular and ligamentous fibres; it is firmly attached at its termination to the processus auditorius. The Ligaments of the external ear are those which attach the pinna to the side of the head, viz., anterior, posterior, and ligament of the tragus ; and those of the fibro-cartilage, which serve to pre- serve its folds and connect the opposite margins of the fissures. The latter are two in number, the ligament between the concha and processus caudatus, and the broad ligament which extends from the upper margin of the fibro-cartilage of the tragus to the helix, and completes the meatus. The proper Muscles of the pinna are, the— Major helicis, Antitragicus, Minor helicis, Transversus auricula?, Tragicus, Obliquus auris, Dilatator conchse. The Major helicis is a narrowband of muscular fibres situated on the anterior border of the helix. It arises from the spine of the helix and is inserted into the anterior border of that fold. The Minor helicis is placed upon the anterior extremity (cms) of the helix, at its commencement in the fossa of the concha. The Tragicus is a thin quadrilateral layer of muscular fibres, situated on the tragus. The Antitragicus arises from the antitragus, and is inserted into the posterior surface of the processus caudatus of the helix.