619 MUCOUS GLANDS OF THE MOUTH. few in number ; a small group is found between the vertical folds on the sides of the tongue and a considerable group on its under / surface near the tip and on either side of the frsenum linguae. In minute structure the glandular organs of the mucous mem- brane of the mouth are divisible into follicles or follicular glands ; and racemose or lobulated glands. The follicular glands are simple, as those of the root of the tongue ; or compound, like the tonsil, which is merely an aggregation of simple follicular glands. The ' racemose or lobulated glands may be of the simplest construction, consisting of from four to eight lobules, which open directly into an excretory duct like the smaller oral glands, or of an aggregation of smaller and larger lobules, forming primary and secondary lobes, and finally a gland of considerable size, as the salivary. The follicular gland, in external appearance, is a mere crypt or pouch of mucous membrane, but the wall of the pouch is thickened, and presents two layers, superficial and deep, with an intermediate fibro-vascular matrix, in which are lodged a number of closed vesicles or capsules. These Fig. 232.* capsules are round or oblong, and whitish, from y-l^ to -^5- of an inch in diameter, and composed of an external coat of homogeneous areolar tissue, containing a greyish-white pulpy substance, consisting of small nu- cleated cells (3016Tr °f an inch), free nuclei, and a small quantity of alkaline fluid. The follicular glands of the root of the tongue form a continuous layer, stretching from the papillse circumvallatse backwards to the epiglottis, and from the tonsil on one side to that on the other side of the fauces. They are lenticular and globular in figure, from half a line to two lines in diameter, and placed superficially so as to form prominences on the surface of the membrane. Each gland is furnished with a central aperture which opens into its cavity; the cavity being lined with mucous membrane and epithelium, and containing a greyish mucus. The deep layer of the follicular gland is firmly adherent to the submucous tissue, and overlies the proper mucous glands, which form a stratum beneath the follicular glands. The tonsil is a compound follicular gland, consisting of an aggregation of fifteen or twenty simple follicular glands, inti- mately united and held together so as to constitute a single organ. * Follicular gland from the root of the tongue; after Kolliker. 1. Epithe- lium. 2, Papillse of the mucous membrane. 3. Cavity of the follicle. 4. In- vesting coat of the gland, composed of areolar tissue. 5. Fibro-vascular matrix, forming the parenchyma of the gland; and containing, 6, 6, the closed capsules.