OPHTHALMIC NERVE. 479 into a single nerve and connected with the motor root by a sheath of arachnoid membrane. The nerve then passes through an oval opening in the border of the tentorium, near the extremity of the petrous bone, and spreads out into a large semi-lunar ganglion, the Casserian. If the ganglion be turned over, it will be seen that the anterior root lies against its under surface without having any con- nexion with it, and may be followed onwards to the inferior maxil- lary nerve. The Casserian ganglion divides into three branches, ophthalmic, superior maxillary, and inferior maxillary. Following the nerve to its deep origin, the posterior root may be traced between the transverse layers of the pons Varolii, behind the corpus olivare, and between the corpus restiforme and fasciculus innominatus to the grey substance of the floor of the fourth ven- tricle ; the anterior root being lost among the longitudinal fibres prolonged upwards from the corpus pyramidale, or, according to Stilling, also pursuing its course to the grey substance of the floor of the fourth ventricle. When the posterior root is torn from its attachment a cone of medullary substance is left behind, occasioned by the deeper embrace of the filaments by the pia mater at the periphery than in the centre of the fasciculus. The Ophthalmic nerve is the nerve of sensation of the eyeball, lachrymal gland, mucous membrane of the eye and nose, integument of the forehead and nose, and muscles of the eyebrow and forehead. It arises from the upper part of the Casserian ganglion by a short trunk, about three quarters of an inch in length ; passes forwards in the outer wall of the cavernous sinus, lying externally to the other nerves, and divides into three branches. Previously to its division it receives several filaments from the carotid plexus, and gives off a small recurrent nerve, which passes backwards with the recurrent branch of the fourth nerve between the two layers of the tentorium to the lining membrane of the lateral sinus. The Branches of the ophthalmic nerve are, the— Frontal, Lachrymal, Nasal. The Frontal nerve enters the orbit immediately to the outer side of the fourth nerve, and passing forwards, for some distance, upon the levator palpebrss muscle, divides into a supra-orbital and supra- trochlear branch. The supra-orbital branch, the proper continuation of the nerve, passes out of the orbit through the supra-orbital notch, in company with the supra-orbital artery, and after giving filaments to the upper eyelid, muscles of the forehead and pericranium, divides into two cutaneous branches, internal and external. The internal branch pierces the occipito-frontalis and is distributed to the integument as far as the summit of the head. The external branch of larger size