TRAPEZOIDES.—OS MAGNUM. UNCIFORME. 92 Attachments.-—To three muscles, abductor pollicis, flexor ossis metacarpi, and flexor brevis pollicis ; and by the tubercle to the anterior annular ligament. The T.RA.PEZOIDES (os multangulum minus) is a small, oblong, and quadrilateral bone, bent near its middle (bean-shaped). It pre- sents four articular surfaces and two extremities. One of the sur- faces is concavo-convex, i. e., concave in one direction, and convex in the other ; another, contiguous to the preceding, is concave, so as to be almost angular in the middle, and often marked by a small rough depression, for an interosseous ligament ; the two remaining sides are flat. One of the two extremities is broad and of large size, dorsal; the other, palmar, is small and rough. If the bone be held perpendicularly, so that the broad extremity be upwards, and the concavo-convex surface forwards, the angular concave surface will point to the hand to which the bone belongs. Articulations.—"With four bones : by the concavo-convex surface, with the second metacarpal bone ; by the angular concave surface, with the os magnum ; and by the other two surfaces, with the tra- pezium and scaphoid. Attachments.—To the flexor brevis pollicis muscle. The os magnum (capitatum) is the largest bone of the carpus, and divisible into a body and head. The head is round for the greater part of its extent, but flattened at one side. The hody is irregularly quadrilateral, and presents four sides and a smooth extremity. Two of the sides are rough, the one being square and flat, dorsal; the other rounded and prominent, palmar ; the two remaining sides are articular, one being concave, the other convex. The extremity is a triangular articular surface, divided into three facets. If the bone be held perpendicularly, the articular extremity look- ing upwards, and the broad dorsal surface backwards (towards the holder), the concave articular surface will point to the hand to which the bone belongs. Articulations.—"With seven bones : by the rounded head, with the cup formed by the scaphoid and semilunar bone ; by the side of the convex surface, with the trapezoides ; by the concave surface, with the unciforme ; and by the exti'emity, with the second, third, and fourth metacarpal bone. Attachments.—To the flexor brevis pollicis muscle. The unciforme is a triangular-shaped bone, remarkable for a long and curved process, which projects from its palmar aspect. It presents five surfaces ; three articular, and two free. One of the articular surfaces is divided by a slight ridge into two facets ; the other two converge, and meet at.a flattened angle.* One of the free surfaces, the dorsal, is rough and triangular; the other, palmar, also triangular, but somewhat smaller, gives origin to the unciform process. * When the unciforme does not articulate with the semilunare, this angle is sharp.