95 PELVIS AND LOWER EXTREMITY. fourteen in number, three to each finger, and two to the thumb. In conformation they are long bones, divisible into a shaft, and two extremities. The shaft is compressed from before backwards, convex on its posterior surface, and flat with raised edges in front. The meta- carpal extremity or base in the first row, is a simple concave arti- cular surface ; that in the other two rows a double concavity, sepa- rated by a slight ridge. The digital extremities of the first and second row present a pulley-like surface, concave in the middle, and convex at each side. The ungual extremity of the last phalanx is broad, rough, and expanded into a semilunar crest. Development.—By two centres ; one for the shaft, and one for the base. Ossification commences in the third or ungual phalanges, then in the first, and lastly in the second. The period of com- mencement corresponds with that of the metacarpal bones. The epiphyses of the first row appear during the third or fourth year, those of the second row during the fourth or fifth, and of the last during the sixth or seventh. The phalanges are perfected by the twentieth year. Articulations.—The first row, with the metacarpal bones and second row of phalanges ; the second row, with the first and third ; the third, with the second row. Attachment of Muscles,—To the base of the first phalanx of the thumb four muscles, abductor pollicis, flexor brevis pollicis, adduc- tor pollicis, and extensor primi internodii; to the second phalanx, two, flexor longus pollicis, and extensor secundi internodii. To the first phalanx of the second, third, and fourth fingers, one dorsal and one palmar interosseous ; to that of the little finger, abductor minimi digiti, flexor brevis minimi digiti, and one palmar interos- seous. To the second phalanges, flexor sublimis and extensor com- munis digitorum ; to the last phalanges, flexor profundus and ex- tensor communis digitorum. PELVIS AND LOWER EXTREMITY. The bones of the pelvis are the two ossa innominata, the sacrum, and the coccyx ; and-those of the lower extremity, the femur, pa- tella, tibia and fibula, tarsus, metatarsus, and phalanges. Os innominatum.—The os innominatum (os coxse) is an irregular, flat bone, consisting in the young subject of three parts, which meet at the acetabulum. Hence it is described in the adult as divisible into three portions, ilium, ischium, and pubes. The ilium is the superior, broad, and expanded portion which forms the prominence of the hip, and articulates with the sacrum. The ischium is the inferior and strong part of the bone on which the body rests in sitting. The os pubis is that portion which forms the front of the pelvis, and gives support to the external organs of generation.