627 LARGE INTESTINE. abdominal parietes ; they are retained in position by the mesentery, which connects them with the posterior wall of the abdomen ; and below they descend into the cavity of the pelvis. At about the lower third of the ileum a pouch-like process or diverticulum of the intestine is occasionally seen. This is a vestige of embryonic struc- ture, and results from the obliteration of the omphalo-mesenteric or vitelline duct at a short distance from the cylinder of the intes- tine. LARGE INTESTINE. The large intestine (intestinum crassum vel amplum) five or six feet and sometimes more in length, prismoid in form, sacculated and thicker than the small intestine, tapers gradually from above downwards, and is divided into, caecum, colon, and rectum. The Ccecum (caput coli) is the blind pouch, or cul-de-sac, about two inches and a half in length, situated at the commencement of F'fJ- 23?-* the large intestine. It is lodged in the right iliac fossa, and re- tained in its place by the perito- neum which passes over its ante- rior surface ; its posterior surface is connected by loose areolar tissue with the iliac fascia. At- tached to its extremity is the appendix vermiformis, a long worm-shaped tube, the rudiment of the lengthened csecum found in all mammiferous animals except man and the higher quadrumana. The appendix varies in length from one to five or six inches ; it is about equal in diameter to a goose-quill, and is connected with the posterior and left aspect of the caecum near the extremity of the ileum. It is usually more or less coiled upon itself, and re- tained in that coil by a falciform duplicature of peritoneum. Its canal is extremely small, and the orifice by which it opens into the caecum not unfrequently provided with an incomplete valve. Occa- * The caecum, showing its appendix, entrance of the ileum, and ileo-caeeal valve. 1. Caecum. 2. Commencement of colon. 3. Ileum. 4. Aperture of entrance of the ileum into the large intestine. 5, 5. Ileo-csecal valve. 6. Aper- ture of appendix vermiformis caeci. 7. Appendix vermiformis. 8, 8. Sacculi of the colon, separated by valvular septa. 9. Falciform frsenum of appendix vermiformis. S s 2