PALATE BONES. 50 Fig. 33* constitute the inner boundary of the spheno-maxiliary fossa. This smooth surface terminates inferiorly in a deep groove, which, being completed by the tuberosity of the superior maxillary bone and pterygoid process of the sphenoid, forms the posterior palatine canal. Near the upper part of the perpendicular plate is a large oval notch completed by the sphenoid, the spheno-palatine foramen, which transmits the superior nasal and naso-palatine nerves and spheno-palatine artery, and serves to divide the upper extremity of the bone into two portions, an anterior or orbital, and a posterior or sphenoidal portion. The orbital portion is hollow within, and presents five surfaces externally, three articular, and two free ; the three articular are, anterior, which looks forward and articulates with the superior maxillary bone, internal with the ethmoid, and posterior with the sphenoid. The free surfaces are, superior or orbital, which forms the posterior part of the floor of the orbit, and external, which looks into the spheno-maxillary fossa. The sphenoidal portion, much smaller than the orbital, has three surfaces, two lateral and one superior. The external lateral surface enters into the formation of the spheno- maxillary fossa ; the internal lateral forms part of the lateral boundary of the nares ; the superior surface arti- culates with the under part of the body of the sphenoid bone, and assists the sphenoidal spongy bones in closing the sphenoidal sinuses. This portion takes part in the formation of the pterygo-palatine canal. The pterygoid p>rocess or tuberosity of the palate bone is the thick and rough process which stands backwards from the angle of union of the hori- zontal with the perpendicular portion of the bone. It is received into the angular fissure, which exists between the two plates of the pterygoid process at their inferior extremity, and presents three surfaces : one concave and smooth, which forms part of the ptery- * Perpendicular plate of the right palate bone, seen on its external or spheno-maxillary surface. 1. The rough surface of this plate, which articulates with the superior maxillary bone and bounds the antrum. 2. Posterior pala- tine canal; completed by the tuberosity of the superior maxillary bone and pterygoid process. The rough surface to the left of the canal (2) articulates with the interna] pterygoid plate. 3. Spheno-palatine notch. 4, 5, 6. Orbital portion of the perpendicular plate. 4. Spheno-maxillary facet of this portion.; 5, orbital facet; 6, maxillary facet, to articulate with the superior maxillary bone. 7. Sphenoidal portion of the perpendicular plate. 8. Pterygoid process or tuberosity of the bone.