506 INTERNAL CUTANEOUS NERVE. and passes between the biceps and bracbialis anticus to the outer side of the bend of the elbow, where it perforates the deep fascia, and divides into an anterior and posterior branch. These branches pass behind the median cephalic vein, the anterior the larger of the two, taking the course of the radial vein and communicating with the radial nerve on the back of the hand ; the posterior and smaller following the direction of the supinator longus, communi- cating with the internal cutaneous, and at the lower third of the forearm sending off an arterial twig, which accompanies the radial artery to the wrist, and distributes filaments to the synovial mem- branes of the joint. The musculo-cutaneous nerve supplies the coraco-brachialis, biceps, and brachialis anticus in the upper arm, and the integument of the outer side of the forearm as far as the wrist and hand. The Internal cutaneous nerve, one of the internal and smaller branches of the axillary plexus, arises from the plexus in common with the ulnar and internal head of the median, and passes down the inner side of the arm in company with the basilic vein, giving off several cutaneous filaments in its course. At about the middle of the upper arm it pierces the deep fascia by the side of the basilic vein and divides into two branches, external and internal. The external branch, the larger of the two, divides into several branches which pass in front of, and sometimes behind, the median basilic vein at the bend of the elbow, and descend in the course of the palmaris longus muscle to the wrist, distributing filaments to the integument in their course and communicating with the anterior branch of the musculo-cutaneous on the outer side, and its own internal branch on the inner side of the forearm. The internal branch sends off several twigs to the integument over the inner con- dyle and olecranon, passes behind the inner condyle, and descends the forearm in the course of the ulnar vein as far as the wrist, supplying the integument of the inner side of the forearm, and communicating with the external branch of the same nerve in front, and the dorsal branch of the ulnar nerve at the wrist. The Lesser internal cutaneous nerve or nerve of Wrisberg, the smallest of the brachial nerves, arises with the preceding from the inner cord of the plexus, and issuing from beneath the axillary vein descends the inner side of the arm, to the middle of its poste- rior aspect, where it pierces the fascia and is distributed to the integument of the lower third of the upper arm as far as the ole- cranon. While in the axilla, the nerve of Wrisberg communicates with the intercosto-humeral nerve, and sometimes its place is taken by the latter. The Median nerve, named from its median position in the arm