HUMERUS. 84 Fig. 52 * Humerus.—The humerus is a long bone, and is therefore divisible into a shaft and two extremities. . The superior extremity presents a rounded head ; a constriction immediately around the base of the head, the neck; a greater and a lesser tuberosity. The greater tuberosity is situated most externally, and is separated from the lesser by a vertical furrow, the bicipital groove, which lodges the long tendon of the biceps. The edges of this groove below the head of the bone are prominent and rough, and called the anterior and posterior bicipital ridge; the former serves for the insertion of the pectoralis major muscle, the latter for the tendon of the latissimus dorsi and teres major. The constriction of the bone below the tube- rosities is the surgical neck, and is so named, in contradistinction to the true neck, from being the seat of the accident called by surgi- cal writers fracture of the neck of the humerus. The shaft of the bone is prismoid at its upper part, and flattened from before backwards be- low. On the outer side, at about its middle, is a rough triangular eminence, which gives inser- tion to the deltoid ; and immediately on each side of this eminence is a smooth depression, J* corresponding with the two heads of the brachialis anticus. On the inner side of the middle of the shaft is a ridge, for the attach- ment of the coraco-brachialis muscle ; and behind, an oblique and shallow groove, which lodges the musculo-spiral nerve and superior profunda artery. The foramen for the medullary vessels is situated on the inner surface of the shaft of the bone a little below the coraco-brachial ridge; it is directed downwards. The lower extremity is flattened from before backwards, and terminated inferiorly by a long articular surface, divided into two parts by an elevated ridge. The external portion of the articular surface is a rounded protuberance, eminentia capitata, which articulates with the cup-shaped depression on the head of the radius; the internal portion is a concave and pulley-like surface, trochlea, for articulation with the ulna. Projecting beyond the articular surface at * Humerus of the right side; its anterior surface. 1. Shaft of the boue. 2. Head. 3. Anatomical neek. 4. Greater tuberosity. 5. Lesser tuberosity. 6. Bicipital groove. 7. Anterior bicipital ridge. 8. Posterior bicipital ridge. 9. Eough surface into which the deltoid is inserted. 10. Nutritious foramen. 11. Eminentia capitata. 12. Trochlea. 13. External condyle. 14. Internal condyle. 15. External condyloid ridge. 16. Internal condyloid ridge. 17. Fossa for the coronoid process of the ulna.