171 MUSCLES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. The voluntary, or system of animal life, is developed from the external or serous layer of the germinal membrane, and comprehends the whole of the muscles of the limbs and trunk. The involuntary, or organic system, is developed from the internal or mucous layer, and constitutes the thin muscular structure of the intestinal canal, urinary passages, and internal organs of generation. Near the com- mencement of the alimentary canal at the middle of the oesophagus, and near its termination at the anus, the muscular coat is formed by a blending of the fibres of both classes. The heart is developed from the middle, or vascular layer of the germinal membrane ; and although involuntary in its action is composed of ultimate fibres, having the transverse striae of the muscle of animal life. Striated muscle is also found around the venae cavse near the heart, in the upper half of the oesophagus, and in the round ligaments of the uterus. The muscles may be arranged in conformity with the general division of the body into—1. Those of the head and neck. 2. Those of the trunk. 3. Those of the upper extremity. 4. Those of the lower extremity. The muscles of the head and neck admit of subdivision into those of the head and face and those of the neck. Muscles of the Head and Face.—These muscles may be divided into groups corresponding with the natural regions of the head and face ; the groups are eight in number, namely, 1. Cranial group. 5. Superior labial group. 2. Orbital group. 6. Inferior labial group. The muscles of each of these groups may be thus arranged— MUSCLES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 3. Ocular group. 4. Nasal group. 7. Maxillary group. 8. Auricular group. 1. Cranial group. Occipito-frontalis. Pyramidalis nasi, Compressor naris, Dilatator naris, 4. Nasal group. 2. Orbital group. Orbicularis palpebrarum, Corrugator supercilii, Tensor tarsi. Depressor alae nasi. 5. Superior labial group. 3. Ocular group. Levator palpebrae, Rectus superior, Eectus inferior, Rectus internus, Rectus externus, Obliquus superior, Obliquus inferior. Levator anguli oris, Zygomaticus major, Zygomaticus minor. (Orbicularis oris), Levator labii superioris alaeque nasi, Levator labii superioris proprius,