FOURTH PAIR. FIFTH PAIR. 477 stance of the crus cerebri,* into the longitudinal fibres of the pons Varolii or motor tract, f into the corpora quadrigemina and valve of Vieussens, and to a grey nucleus in the floor of the aqueduct of Sylvius. X In the cavernous sinus it receives one or two filaments from the carotid plexus, and one from the ophthalmic nerve. Fourth pair. Pathbtici (trochlearis).—The fourth is the smallest cerebral nerve ; it arises from the valve of Vieussens close to the testis, and winding around the crus cerebri to the extremity of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, pierces the dura mater below the third nerve, and passes forward in the outer wall of the cavernous sinus to the sphenoidal fissure. In its course in the outer wall of the sinus it is situated at first below the motor oculi, but afterwards ascends and becomes the highest of the nerves enter- ing the orbit by the sphenoidal fissure. On entering the orbit the nerve crosses the levator palpebrse muscle near its origin, and is distributed on the orbital surface of the superior oblique or tro- chlearis muscle ; hence its synonym trochlearis. The fibres of origin of the two nerves communicate with each other forming a kind of commissure, while those of the deep origin of the nerve may be traced in two fasciculi to a grey nucleus in the floor of the aqueduct of Sylvius in front; and to a similar nucleus in the floor of the fourth ventricle behind. Branches.—While in the cavernous sinus the fourth nerve gives off a recurrent branch, and sends a branch of communication to the ophthalmic nerve ; the recurrent branch, consisting of sympathetic filaments derived from the carotid plexus, passes backwards be- tween the layers of the tentorium, and divides into two or three filaments, which are distributed to the lining membrane of the lateral sinus. This recurrent nerve is sometimes a branch of the ophthalmic, and occasionally proceeds directly from the carotid plexus. Sometimes the communication with the ophthalmic takes place in the orbit, in which case the lachrymal nerve has the appear- ance of arising by two roots. Fifth pair. Trifacial (trigeminus).—The fifth nerve, the great sensitive nerve of the head and face, and the largest cranial nerve, is analogous to the spinal nerves in its origin by two roots from the anterior and posterior columns of the spinal cord, and in the exis- tence of a ganglion on the posterior root. It arises, or rather makes its appearance at the surface of the brain, on the anterior part of the lateral and constricted portion of the pons Varolii, and consists of a large and small fasciculus, separated by a narrow inter- space, the larger fasciculus being the posterior or sensitive root; the smaller one, the anterior or motor root. The sensitive root is * Mayo. t Solly. Stilling.