623 PHARYNX.—(ESOPHAGUS. point corresponding with the cricoid cartilage in front, and the fifth cervical vertebra behind. It is composed of mucous mem- brane, muscles, and a strong aponeurosis ; and communicates in front with the cavity of the nose, mouth, and larynx. Above it is attached, partly by muscle, bub chiefly by aponeurosis, to the basilar process of the occipital bone and petrous portion of the temporal bone, and below it is continuous with the oesophagus. At its anterior part it has opening into it seven foramina, viz.— Posterior nares, two, Eustachian tubes, two, Fig. 235.* Mouth, Larynx, (Esophagus. The Posterior nares (choanse narium) are the two large openings at the upper and front part of the pharynx. On each side of these openings, and parallel with the posterior termination of the infe- rior turbinated bone, is the slit- like opening in the mucous mem- brane, marking the aperture of the Eustachian tube. Beneath the posterior nares is the isthmus faucium, the large opening into the mouth, partly veiled by the soft palate ; and beneath the root of the tongue, the cordiform open- ing of the larynx, aditus ad glos- sidem. The oesophageal opening is the lower constricted portion of the pharynx. (Esophagus.—The oesophagus (oteiv, to bear, <payeiv, to eat) is a slightly flexuous canal, inclining to the left in the neck, to the right in the upper part of the thorax, f and again to the left in its course through the posterior mediastinum ; it commences at the termina- tion of the pharynx, opposite the lower border of the cricoid carti- lage and fifth cervical vertebra, and descends the neck, behind and * Pharynx laid open from behind. 1. Section carried transversely through the base of the skull. 2, 2. Walls of the pharynx drawn aside. 3, 3. Posterior nares, separated by the vomer. 4. Extremity of one Eustachian tube. 5. Soft palate. 6. Posterior pillar of the soft palate. 7. Anterior pillar; the tonsil is seen in the niche between the two pillars. 8. Eoot of the tongue, partly concealed by the uvnla. 9. Epiglottis, overhanging (10) the cordiform opening of the larynx. 11. Posterior part of the larynx. 12. Opening of the oesophagus. 13. (Esophagus. 14. Trachea. t Cruveilhier remarks that this inflexion explains the obstruction which a bougie sometimes meets with, in its passage along the cesopbagus, opposite the first rib.