319 AORTA. lungs, liver, kidneys, and other secreting glands, also in the skin and mucous membrane, where a secreting function has to be per- formed ; and least abundant and smallest in the muscles, nerves, organs of sense, serous membranes, and tendons, where nutrition only has to be accomplished. In the bones the capillaries are large, but the plexuses scanty. The arteries in their distribution through the body are in- cluded in a loose areolo-fibrous investment, which separates them from surrounding tissues, and is called a sheath. Around the principal vessels the sheath is an important structure; it is composed of areolar tissue, intermingled' with aponeurotic fibres, and is continuous with the fascise of the region in which the arteries are situated, as with the thoracic and cervical fascia in the neck, transversalis and iliac fascia, fascia lata in the thigh, &c. The sheath of the arteries contains also their accompanying veins, and sometimes a nerve. The coats of arteries are. supplied with blood like other organs of the body, their vessels proceed from the neighbouring small branches, and are named vasa vasorum. The vasa vasorum or vasa nutritia are distributed in the external coat, some few making their way among the external layers of the middle coat. They are met with even on the smallest arteries, and form a rich capillary network with rounded meshes. The small veins which return the blood from the capillaries, open into the companion veins of the artery. The nerves, like the vasa vasorum, are found only in the external coat, and are wanting altogether in many arteries, as in those of the cerebral and spinal substance, the choroid membrane of the ovum, the placenta, and also in the arteries of some muscles, glands, and membranes. In the consideration of the arteries, we shall first describe the aorta, and the branches of that trunk with their subdivisions, which together constitute the efferent portion of the systemic circulation ; and then the pulmonary artery as the efferent trunk of the pul- monary circulation. AORTA. The Aorta arises from the base of the left ventricle, at the middle of the root of the heart, and presents at its commencement an enlargement (bulbus aortse) caused by three dilatations of the walls of the vessel, the sinus aortici (sinus Valsalvae) and corre- sponding with the three semilunar valves. It ascends at first forwards and to the right, then curves backwards and to the left, and descends on the left side of the vertebral column to the fourth lumbar vertebra. Hence it is divided into, the arch, and descend- ing aorta. The Arch op the aorta (arcus aortse), commencing at a point corresponding with the articulation of the cartilage of the fourth rib with the sternum on the left side, crosses behind and near the