70 DEVELOPMENT OF TEETH. behind forwards ; this is the rudiment of the external alveolus ; and the arrangement of the appearances from without inwards at this period is the following : Most externally, and forming the boun- dary of the mouth, is the lip ; next we find a deep groove, which separates the lip from the future jaw ; then comes the external alveolar ridge ; fourthly, another groove, in which the germs of the teeth are developed, the primitive dental groove ; fifthly, a rudi- ment of the internal alveolar ridge ; and sixthly, the rudiment of the future palate bounding the whole internally. At the seventh week the germ of the first deciduous molar of the upper jaw has made its appearance, in the form of a '' simple, free, granular papilla" of the mucous membrane, FigAI* projecting from the floor of the pri- mitive dental groove ; at the eighth week, the papilla of the canine tooth is developed ; at the ninth, week, the papillae of the four incisors (the middle preceding the lateral) appear ; and at the tenth week, the papilla of the second molar is seen behind the anterior molar in the primitive dental groove. So that at this early period, the tenth week, the papillae or germs of the whole ten deciduous teeth of the upper jaw are quite distinct. Those of the lower jaw are a little more tardy ; the papilla of the first molar is merely a slight bulging at the seventh week, and the tenth papilla is not apparent until the eleventh week. From about the eighth week the primitive dental groove becomes contracted before and behind the first deciduous molar, and laminae of the mucous membrane are developed around W' ' the other papillae; the laminae increase in growth, and enclose the papillae in follicles with' open mouths. At the tenth week the follicle of the first molar is completed, then that of the canine ; during the eleventh and twelfth weeks the follicles of the incisors succeed, and at the thirteenth week the follicle of the posterior deciduous molar. During the thirteenth week the papillae undergo an alteration of form, and assume the shape of the teeth they are intended to repre- sent. And at the same time small membranous processes are de- veloped from the mouths of the follicles ; these processes are intended to serve the purpose of opercula to the follicles, and they correspond in shape with the form of the crowns of the appertaining * Figs. 42 to 45, after Goodsir, illustrate the development of the teeth. a, a. Mucous membrane, b. Papilla of the mucous membrane, the tooth- germ. t Follicular stage of dentition, a. Mucous membrane of mouth, b. Pa- pilla, c. Follicle, d. Secondary dental groove, c being the primitive dental groove, e, e. Opercula, which by their growth close the follicle e, and separate the primitive from the secondary dental groove.