428 STRUCTURE OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. tute colourless nerve-cells. At other times the granules have a brownish or blackish tint, and have mingled with them others of a darker and larger kind ; these are the coloured or pigmentary nerve- cells. Occasionally, the coloured granules are diffused equally- through the mass of the contents, while, in other cells, they are con- gregated near the nucleus, and form a considerable mass. The nucleus is a clear spherical vesicle with a distinct membrane and transparent contents, with one and sometimes two or more large opaque nucleoli. The soft elastic contents of the nerve-cells are a protein compound, analogous to that of the central filament of the nerve-fibres; the opaque granules consisting chiefly of fatty matter and pigment. Nerve-cells present some variety in structure and form ; they may have thin walls, like the cells above described, found in the brain and spinal cord ; or thick walls as in the cells of ganglia. They may be independent cells, or they may be furnished with pale filamentary processes, and be termed according to the number of such processes, unipolar, bipolar, or multipolar cells, the cells without processes being apolar. The processes given off by these cells resemble the non-medullated nerve-fibres, and are sometimes continuous with the medullated fibres; at other times they are branched. The finely granular pale matrix substance is found chiefly in the grey matter of the brain and spinal cord ; it is identical with the contents of the nerve-cells. The free cell-nuclei correspond with the nuclei of the nerve-cells, and in certain situations are ac- cumulated in considerable number. These being the elementary constituents of the nervous system, we may now proceed to inquire into their mode of distribution in the spinal cord, the brain, the cerebro-spinal nerves, and sympa- thetic system. Spinal cord.—In the spinal cord the white or medullary-substance occupies the exterior of the organ, while the interior is composed of grey substance. The spinal cord is divided into two lateral halves, by an anterior and posterior fissure, and each lateral half is marked into three parts or columns (funiculi) by an anterior and posterior lateral groove corresponding with the line of attachment of the anterior and posterior roots of the spinal nerves. At the bottom of the anterior fissure the white substance of one half is continuous with that of the other, constituting the anterior or white commissure. Behind, at the posterior fissure, the white substance of the two halves is in apposition, the fissure being in- dicated, for the greater part of its extent, by the perforations of blood-vessels merely, and existing as a distinct separation only in the upper part of the cervical and in the lumbar region. The grey substance (nucleus), occupying the interior of the spinal cord, con- sists of a transverse portion, which crosses from one half into the other, and two processes which project from the transverse portion