ABDOMINAL AORTA. 321 of the body of the third dorsal vertebra, and at the lower border of the latter vertebra becomes the thoracic aorta. The first or ascending portion of the arch (aorta ascendens), a little more than two inches in length, is almost wholly contained within the pericardium. It is crossed in front by the pulmonary artery ; on its left side it has the left auricle and pulmonary artery; on its right the right auricle and superior vena cava ; and behind the right pulmonary artery and veins. The second or transverse portion of the arch is crossed in front by the left phrenic nerve, left nervus superficialis cordis, left in- ferior cardiac of the pneumogastric, and left pneumogastric nerve. Behind it is in relation with the trachea, oesophagus, thoracic duct, nerves to the deep cardiac plexus, and left recurrent nerve. Above it gives off the arteria innomihata, left carotid and left subclavian artery, and supports the left vena innominata ; and below is in re- lation with the superficial cardiac plexus, bifurcation of the pulmo- nary artery, cord of the ductus arteriosus, left bronchus, and left recurrent nerve. The third or descending portion of the arch lies against the third dorsal vertebra, and is partially covered by the left pleura. Aorta descendens.—The descending aorta is subdivided in cor- respondence with the two great cavities of the trunk, into the thoracic and abdominal aorta. Aorta thoracica.—The thoracic aorta commencing at the lower border and left side of the third dorsal vertebra curves gently towards the right as it descends, and as it passes through the aortic opening of the diaphragm lies on the middle line of the vertebral column. It is in relation behind, with the vertebral column and lesser vena azygos ; in front, with the oesophagus and right pneumogastric nerve ; to the left side, with the pleura; and to the right, with the thoracic duct. Aorta abdominalis.—The abdominal aorta enters the abdomen through the aortic opening of the diaphragm, and between the two pillars of that muscle. In its course downwards, it lies on the vertebral column to the left of the middle line, and terminates on the fourth lumbar vertebra, by dividing into the two common iliac arteries. It is crossed in front by the left renal vein, pancreas, transverse duodenum, and mesentery, and is in relation behind with the thoracic duct, receptaculum chyli, and left lumbar veins. On its left side is situated the left semilunar ganglion, supra-renal cap- of the ductus arteriosus. 14. Left pulmonary artery. 15. Eight pulmonary arta-y. 16. Trachea. 17. Eight bronchus. 18. Left bronchus. 19,19. Pul- monary veins. 17, 15,19, on the right side, and 14, 18, 19, on the left, consti- tute the roots of the corresponding lungs, and the relative position of the vessels is preserved. 20. Bronchial arteries. 21,21. Intercostal arteries; the branches from the front of the aorta above and below the number 3 are peri- cardiac and oesophageal. Y