107 FIBULA. The superior extremity or head is thick ^9- 6o- and large, and depressed at the upper part by a concave surface, which articulates with the external tuberosity of the tibia. Externally to this surface is a thick and rough prominence, for the attachment of . the external lateral ligament of the knee- joint, terminated behind by a styloid pro- cess, for the insertion of the tendon of the biceps. The lower extremity is flattened from ■without inwards, and prolonged downwards beyond the articular surface of the tibia, forming the external malleolus. Its ex- ternal side presents a rough and triangular surface, which is subcutaneous. On the in- ternal surface is a smooth triangular facet, to articulate with the astragalus; and a rough depression, for the insertion of the interosseous ligament. The anterior border is thin and sharp ; the posterior, broad and grooved, for the tendons of the peronei muscles. To place the bone in its proper position, and ascertain to which leg it belongs, let the inferior or flattened extremity be directed downwards, and the narrow border of the malleolus forwards ; the triangular subcu- taneous surface will then point to the side corresponding with the limb of which the bone is part. The shaft of the fibula is prismoid, and presents three surfaces ; external, internal, and posterior ; and three borders. The external surface is the broadest of the three; it commences on the anterior part of the bone above, and curves around it so as to terminate on its posterior side below. This surface is completely occupied by the * Tibia and fibula of the right leg- articulated and seen from behind. 1. Articular depression for the external condyle of the femur. 2. Articular depression for the internal condyle; the prominence between the two is the spinous process. 3. Fossa and groove for the insertion of the tendon of the semi-membranosus. 4. Popliteal plane, for the support of the popliteus. 5. Popliteal line. 6. Nutritious foramen. 7. Surface of the shaft on which the flexor longus digitorum rests. 8. Broad groove on the back part of the inner malleolus, for the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum and tibialis posticus. 9. Groove for the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis. 10. Shaft of the fibula. The flexor longus pollicis lies on this surface of the bone; its superior limit being marked by the oblique line immediately above the cipher. 11. Styloid process on the head of the fibula for the attachment of the tendon of the biceps. 12. Subcutaneous surface of the lower part of the shaft of the fibula. 13. External malleolus formed by the lower extremity of the fibula. 14. Groove on the posterior part of the external malleolus for the tendons of the peronei muscles.