482 SUPERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. above the upper border of the external rectus muscle, and in com- pany with the lachrymal artery to the lachrymal gland, where it divides into two branches, superior and inferior. The superior branch passes over the gland which it supplies on the upper surface, and traversing a foramen in the malar bone, communicates with the subcutaneus malse and facial nerve. The inferior branch sup- plies the under surface of the gland, upper lid, and outer angle of the eye. The lachrymal nerve sometimes receives the branch of the fourth nerve destined for the ophthalmic, and appears to arise by two roots. The Nasal nerve (naso-ciliaris) enters the orbit between the two heads of the external rectus and between the two branches of the third nerve. It crosses the optic nerve in company with the oph- thalmic artery, and, passing over the internal rectus, enters the ante- rior ethmoidal foramen, by which it is conducted to the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. It then passes through the slit-like opening by the side of the crista galli, and descends into the nose, where it divides into an internal and external branch. The internal branch is distributed to the mucous membrane; the external branch, passing outwards between the nasal bone^nd cartilage, supplies the integument of the exterior of the nose as far as its tip. The Branches of the nasal nerve are, ganglionic, ciliary, and infra-trochlear. The ganglionic branch, about half an inch in length and of small size, enters the upper angle of the ophthalmic ganglion, and consti- tutes its superior or long root. The long ciliary branches are two or three filaments given off from the nerve as it crosses the optic nerve. They pierce the sclerotic coat near the short ciliary nerves, and passing through the globe of the eye between the sclerotic and choroid, are distributed to the iris. The infra-trochlear branch is given off close to the anterior eth- moidal foramen. It passes forward along the upper border of the internal rectus to the inner angle of the eye, where it communicates with the supra-trochlear nerve, and is distributed to the lachrymal sac and inner angle of the orbit. The Superior maxillary nerve, larger than the preceding, is the nerve of sensation of the teeth of the upper jaw, the hard and soft palate, tonsils, antrum maxillare, and muscles and integument of the lower eyelid, cheek, and upper lip. Proceeding from the middle of the Casserian ganglion, it passes forward through the foramen rotundum, crosses the spheno-maxillary fossa, and enters the canal in the floor of the orbit, along which it runs to the infra- orbital foramen. Emerging on the face, beneath the levator labii superioris muscle, it divides into a number of branches, wThich form a jjlexus with the facial nerve.