VEINS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. 401 vena innominata, just at its union with the superior cava; the left in the left vena innominata. VEINS OP THE UPPER EXTREMITY. The veins of the upper extremity are deep and superficial. The deep veins accompany tbe branches and trunks of the arteries, and constitute their vence comites. The vense comites of the radial and ulnar artery are enclosed in the same sheath with those vessels, and terminate at the bend of the elbow in the brachial veins. The brachial venae comites are situated one at each side of the artery, and open into the axillary vein ; the axillary becomes the subcla- vian, and the subclavian unites with the internal jugular to form the vena innominata. The Superficial veins of the arm are, the Anterior ulnar vein, Cephalic vein, Posterior ulnar vein, Median vein, Basilic vein, Median basilic, Radial vein, Median cephalic. The Anterior ulnar rem collects the venous blood from the inner and palmar border of the hand and ascends along the anterior as- pect of the inner side of the forearm to the bend of the elbow, where it receives the median basilic, and becomes the basilic vein. The Posterior ulnar vein commences on the dorsum of the hand by the ulnar termination of the venous arch which receives the digital veins from the fingers, and, after being joined by a large vein, the vena salvatella, from the little finger, ascends along the posterior aspect of the forearm to the bend of the elbow, where it turns forward and terminates in the anterior ulnar vein. The Basilic vein (/3acn\i/eds, royal, or principal) ascends from the common ulnar vein formed by the two preceding, along the inner side of the upper arm, and near its middle pierces the fascia ; it then passes upwards to the axilla, and becomes the axillary vein. The Radial vein commences on the dorsum of the hand, by the radial termination of the venous arch, which receives the veins of the fingers. This origin is increased by the junction of some small veins from the thumb. The radial vein ascends the dorsal side of the forearm to a little below its middle, then lies on its anterior aspect to the bend of the elbow, where it receives the median cephalic, and becomes the cephalic vein. The Cephalic vein (K€<pa\i], the head) ascends along the outer side of the upper arm to its superior third ; it then enters the groove between the pectoralis major and deltoid muscle, where it is in relation with the descending branch of the thoracico-acromialis artery, and terminates beneath the clavicle in the axillary vein. A large communicating branch sometimes crosses the clavicle between D D