CUBOIDES. 112 wards, and sharp extremity downwards. It presents for examina- tion five surfaces, and a superior and inferior extremity. The upper extremity is flat, of an oblong square form, and bevelled posteriorly, at the expense of the outer surface, into a sharp edge. If the bone be held so that the square extremity look upwards, and the sharp border backwards, the bevelled surface will point to the side to which the bone belongs. Articulations.—With six bones : scaphoid, middle cuneiform, cuboid, and second, third, and fourth metatarsal bone. Attachment of Muscles.—To the flexor brevis pollicis. The Cuboid bone is irregularly cuboid in shape, and marked on its under surface by a deep groove, for the tendon of the peroneus longus muscle. It presents for examination, six surfaces, three ar- ticular, and three non-articular. The non-articular surfaces are, superior, which is slightly convex, and assists in forming the dorsum of the foot; inferior, marked by a prominent ridge, the tuberosity, and a deep groove for the tendon of the peroneus longus ; and ex- ternal, the smallest of the whole, and deeply notched by the com- mencement of the peroneal groove. The articular surfaces are, posterior, of large size, and concavo-convex, to articulate with the os calcis ; anterior, of smaller size, divided by a slight ridge into two facets, for the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones ; and internal, a small oval articular facet, upon a large and quadrangular surface, for the external cuneiform bone. If the bone be held so that the plantar surface, with the peroneal groove, look downwards, and the largest articular surface back- wards, the small non-articular surface, marked by the deep notch, will point to the side to which the bone belongs. Articulations.—With four bones : os calcis, external cuneiform, fourth and fifth metatarsal bone, and sometimes the scaphoid. Attachment of Muscles.—To two: flexor brevis pollicis, and adductor pollicis. Upon a consideration of the articulations of the tarsus it will be observed, that each bone articulates with four adjoining bones, with the exception of the calcaneum which articulates with two, and the external cuneiform with six. Development.—By a single centre for each bone, with the exception of the os calcis, which has an epiphysis for its posterior tuberosity. The centres appear in the following order ; calcanean, sixth month; astragalan, seventh month; cuboid, tenth month ; external cunei- form, end of the first year ; internal cuneiform, during the third year; middle cuneiform and scaphoid, during the fourth year. The epiphysis of the calcaneum appears at the ninth year, and is united with the diaphysis at about the fifteenth. The Metatarsal bones, five in number, are long bones, and di- visible therefore into a shaft and two extremities. The shaft is