362 SPLENIC ARTERY. duodenum, partly concealed by the attachment of the pancreas, and is distributed to the pancreas and duodenum. It inosculates infe- riorly with the inferior pancreatico-duodenalis and pancreatic branches of the superior mesenteric artery. The Cystic artery, generally a branch of the right hepatic, is of small size, and ramifies between the coats of the gall-bladder, pre- viously to its distribution to the mucous membrane. The Splenic artery (splenica; lienalis), the largest of the three branches of the coeliac axis, passes horizontally to the left along the upper border of the pancreas, and divides into five or six .large branches (r. splenici), which enter the hilum of the spleen, and are distributed to its structure. In its course the vessel is tortuous and serpentine, frequently making a complete turn upon itself. It lies in a narrow groove in the upper border of the pancreas, and is accompanied by the splenic vein which lies beneath it, and by the; splenic plexus of nerves. * The Branches of the splenic artery are, the Pancreaticse parva?, Vasa brevia, Pancreatica magna, Gastro-epiploica sinistra. The Pancreatica? parvce are numerous small branches distributed to the pancreas, as the splenic artery runs along its upper borden One of these, larger than the rest, follows the course of the pan- creatic duct, and is called pancreatica magna. The Vasa brevia (gastricse breves) are five or six branches of small size which pass from the extremity of the splenic artery and its terminal branches, between the layers of the gastro-splenic omentum, to the great end of the stomach, to which they are dis- tributed, inosculating with branches of the gastric artery and gastro- epiploica sinistra. The Gastro-epiploica sinistra appears to be the continuation of the splenic artery; it, passes forwards from left to right, along the great curve of the stomach, lying between the layers of the great omentum, and inosculates with the gastro-epiploica dextra. It is distributed to the greater curve of the stomach and great omentum. The Superior mesenteric artery (mesenterica vel mesaraica superior), the second of the single trunks, and next in size to the coeliac axis, arises from the aorta immediately below that vessel, and behind the pancreas. It passes forwards between the pancreas and transverse duodenum, and descends within the layers of the mesentery, to the right iliac fossa, where it terminates, much reduced in size. In its course it forms a curve, the convexity being to the left, the concavity to the right; is in relation near its com- mencement with the portal vein; and is accompanied by two veins, and the superior mesenteric plexus of nerves.