80 CLAVICLE. / the central part, one for the head, and one for the tubercle. The last two have no centre for the tubercle. Ossification commences in the body somewhat before its appearance in the vertebrae ; the epiphysal centres for the head and tubercle appear between sixteen and twenty, and are consolidated with the rest of the bone at twenty-five. Articulations.—Each rib articulates with two vertebras and one costal cartilage, with the exception of the first, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth, which articulate each with a single vertebra only. Attachment of Muscles.—To. the ribs and their cartilages are attached twenty-three pairs, and one single muscle. To the carti- lages, the subclavius, sterno-thyroid, pectoralis major, internal oblique, rectus, transversalis, diaphragm, triangularis sterni, inter- nal and external intercostals. To the ribs, intercostal muscles, scalenus anticus, medius, and posticus, pectoralis minor, serratus magnus, obliquus externus, obliquus internus, latissimus dorsi, qua- dratus lumborum, serratus posticus superior, serratus posticus in- ferior, sacro-lumbalis, longissimus dorsi, cervicalis ascend ens, leva- tores costarum, transversalis, and diaphragm. Clavicle.—The clavicle is a long bone, shaped like the italic letter/, and extended across the upper part of the side of the chest from the upper piece of the sternum to the point of the shoulder, where it articulates with the scapula. In position it is slightly oblique, the sternal end being somewhat lower and more anterior than the scapular, and the curves are so disposed that at the sternal end the convexity, and at the scapular the concavity, is directed forwards. The sternal half of the bone is rounded or irregularly quadrilateral, and terminates in a broad articular surface. The scapular half is flattened from above downwards, and broad at its extremity, the articular surface occupying only part of its extent, The upper surface is smooth, convex, and partly subcutaneous ; the under surface rough and depressed, for the insertion of the subclavius muscle. At the sternal extremity of the under surface Fig. 49.* * Clavicle of the right ride; its upper and anterior face. 1. The sternal end. 2. The portion which articulates with the first rib. 3, 3. Ridge of attachment of the pectoralis major. 4. Scapular end. 5. Surface of articulation with the acromion. 6, 6. Eidge for the attachment of the deltoid. 7, 7. Line of origin of the trapezius. 8. Line of origin of the sterno-mastoid.