99 OBTURATOR FORAMEN. ligament, and transmits the nutrient vessels of the joint. At the bottom of the cup, and communicating with the notch, is a deep circular pit (fundus acetabuli), which lodges a mass of fat, and gives attachment to the broad extremity of the ligamentum teres. The obturator or thyroid foramen is a large oval interval be- tween the ischium and pubes, bounded by a narrow rough margin, to which a ligamentous membrane is attached. The upper part of the foramen is increased in depth by the groove in the under surface of the os pubis, which lodges the obturator vessels and nerve. Development.—By eight centres: three principal, one for the ilium, one for the ischium, and one for the pubes; and five secondary, one, the Y shaped piece for the interval between the primitive pieces in the bottom of the acetabulum, one for the crest of the ilium, one (not constant) for the anterior and inferior spinous process of the ilium, one for the tuberosity of the ischium, and one (not constant) for the angle of the os pubis. Ossification commences in the primitive pieces, immediately after that in the vertebrae, firstly in the ilium, then in the ischium, and lastly in the pubes; the first ossific deposits being situated near the future acetabulum. At birth, the acetabulum, crest of the ilium, and ramus of the pubes and ischium, are cartilaginous. The secondary centres ap- pear at puberty, the entire bone not being completed until the twenty-fifth year. Articulations.—With three bones ; sacrum, opposite innomi- natum, and femur. Attachment of Muscles and Ligaments.—-To thirty-three muscles : to the ilium thirteen ; by the outer lip of the crest, obliquus ex- ternus for two-thirds its length, latissimus dorsi one-third, and tensor vaginae femoris its anterior fourth ; by the middle of the crest, internal oblique three-fourths its length, erector spinge the remaining fourth; by the internal lip, transversal is three-fourths, and quadratus lumborum the posterior part of its middle third. By the external surface, gluteus medius, minimus, -maximus, and one head of the rectus ; by the internal surface, iliacus ; by the anterior border, sartorius,. and the other head of the rectus. To the ischium fourteen; by its external surface, adductor magnus and obturator externus; by the internal surface, obturator internus and levator ani; by the spine, gemellus superior, levator ani, coc- cygeus, and lesser sacro-ischiatic ligament; by the tuberosity, biceps, semi-tendinosus, semi-membranosus, gemellus inferior, quadratus femoris, erector penis, and great sacro-ischiatic ligament; by the ramus, gracilis, and transversus perinei. To the os pubis sixteen : by its upper border, obliquus externus, obliquus internus, transversalis, rectus, pyramidalis, pectineus, and psoas parvus ; by its external surface, adductor longus, adductor brevis, gracilis, and obturator externus ; by its internal surface, levator ani and obtu- rator internus ; and by the ramus, adductor magnus, erector penis, and accelerator urinae. h 2