678 UKETHRA. mediately in front of the prominent part is the opening of a small csecal sac, the sinus pocularis, or utriculus prostaticus. This sac is the analogue of the uterus ; it is nearly half an inch in length, ex- tends back beneath the third lobe of the prostate, and by its approach to the surface contributes to the prominence of the veru montanum. Its walls, of a yellowish-white colour, are composed of areolar and elastic tissue, mingled towards its fundus with smooth muscular fibre, and it is lined within by a columnar epithelium. The ejacu- latory ducts, enveloped in longitudinal smooth muscular fibre, take their course forward by the side of the sinus pocularis, and terminate within its aperture by slit-like openings. The prostatic portion of the urethra, when distended, is the most dilated part of the canal ; but, excepting during the passage of urine, is completely closed by its muscular tissue. In the contracted I state of the urethra, the veru montanum acts as a valve, being pressed upwards against its roof; but, during the action of the detrusor muscle of the bladder, the canal is dilated. The Membranous portion, the narrowest part of the canal, mea- sures about three lines in dia- meter, and is somewhat less than an inch in length. It extends from the apex of the prostate gland to the bulb of the corpus spongiosum, and passes through the triangular ligament. Its coats are, the mucous membrane, longitudinal muscular coat, and compressor urethral muscle. The submucous tissue is richly supplied with vessels. The spongy portion, about six inches in length, forms the rest of the extent of the canal, and is lodged in the corpus spongiosum from its commencement at the * The bulbous, membranous, and prostatic urethra, with part of the bladder. 1. Part of the urinary bladder: its internal surface. 2. Trigonum vesica?. 3. Openings of the ureters. 4. Uvula vesica?. 5. Veru montanum. 6. Open- ing of the sinus pocularis. 7, 7. Apertures of the ejsculatory ducts. 8,8. Open- ings of the prostatic ducts. The figures 7,7, and 8, 8, are placed on the cut surface of the supra-urethral portion of the prostate gland. 9, 9. Lateral lobes of the prostate gland, a. Membranous portion of the urethra, b, b. Cow- per's glands, c, c. Apertures of the excretory ducts of Cowper's glands. d. Commencement of the bulbous portion of the urethra, e, e. Upper sur- face of the bulb of the corpus spongiosum. /,/. Crura penis, g, g. Corpus cavernosum. h. Spongy portion of the urethra.