SCAPULA. 81 is ,a very rough, prominence, which gives attachment to the rhom- ^ bofo)*ligament; and at the other extremity a rough tubercle and ridge, for the coraco-clavicular ligament. The opening for the nutritious vessels is seen at the under surface of the bone. Development.—By, tv)0 centres ; one for the shaft and one for the sternal extremity; the former appearing before any other bone of the skeleton, the latter between fifteen and eighteen. Articulations.—With the sternum and scapula. Attachment of Muscles.—To six: sterno-cleido-mastoid, trape- zius, pectoralis major, deltoid, subclavius, and sterno-hyoid. Scapula.—The scapula is a flat triangular bone, situated on the posterior aspect and side of the thorax, and occupying the space from the second to the seventh rib. It is divisible into an anterior and posterior surface ; superior, inferior, and posterior border; an- terior, superior, and inferior angle ; and processes. The anterior surface, or subscapular fossa, is concave and uneven, and marked by several oblique ridges which have a direction up- wards and outwards. The whole concavity is occupied by the sub- scapularis muscle, with the exception of a small triangular portion near the superior angle. The posterior surface, or dorsum, is convex, and unequally divided into two portions by the spine ; that portipn above the spine is the supra-spinous fossa ; and that below, the infra-spinous fossa. f The superior border is the shortest of the three ; it is thin and concave, terminated at one extremity by the superior angle, and at the other by the coracoid process. At its humeral end, and formed partly by the base of the coracoid process, is the supra-scapular notch, for the transmission of the supra-scapular nerve. The inferior or axillary border is thick, and marked by several grooves and depressions ; it terminates superiorly at the glenoid cavity, and inferiorly at the inferior angle. Immediately below the glenoid cavity is a rough ridge, which gives origin to the long head of the triceps muscle. On the posterior surface of this border is a depression for the teres minor ; and on its anterior surface a deeper groove for the teres major; near the inferior angle is a pro- jecting lip, which increases the surface of origin of the latter muscle. The posterior border or basegihe longest of the three, is turned towards the vertebral cokynn. It is intermediate in thickness between the superior and inferior, and convex. The anterior angle is the thickest part of the bone, and forms the head of the scapula ; it is immediately surrounded by a constricted portion, the neck. The head presents a shallow pyriform articular surface, the glenoid cavity, having the pointed extremity upwards ; and at its apex is a rough depression, which gives attachment to the long tendon of the biceps. The superior angle is thin and pointed. The inferior angle is thick, and smooth upon the i Gt