SYMPATHETIC NERVES. 525 at first to its outer side, then in front of it, and near the ankle be- coming again placed to its outer side. Reaching the ankle it passes .beneath the annular ligament ; accompanies the dorsalis pedis artery, supplies the adjacent sides of the great and second toe, and communicates with the internal division of the musculo-cutaneous nerve. The Branches given off by the anterior tibial nerve are, muscular to the muscles in its course ; and at the ankle a tarsal branch which may be considered as one of the terminal divisions of the nerve. This branch passes outwards upon the dorsum of the foot, becomes ganglionic like the posterior interosseous nerve at the wrist, and supplies the extensor brevis digitorum muscle and the articulations of the tarsus and metatarsus. The Musculo-cutaneous nerve (n. peroneus superficialis) passes downwards along the fibula, in the substance of the peroneus longus ; it then gets between the peroneus longus and brevis, next between the peronei and extensor longus digitorum, and at the lower third of the leg pierces the deep fascia, and divides into the internal and external cutaneous nerves of the foot. In its course it gives off several branches to the peronei muscles. The internal branch, the smaller of the two, is distributed to the inner side of the foot and great toe, and communicates with the anterior tibial and internal saphenous. The external, or larger branch, supplies the adjacent sides of the second and third, third a,nd fourth, and fourth and fifth toes, and communicates with the external saphenous. SYMPATHETIC NERVES. The Sympathetic consists of a vertebral and prevertebral portion ; the vertebral portion is composed of a series of ganglia united by a longitudinal cord, it descends along each side of the vertebral column from the head to the coccyx, communicates with the cranial and spinal nerves, and distributes branches to the internal organs and viscera. The 'prevertebral portion is that part of the sympa- thetic which appertains to the viscera, comprising the numerous ganglia and plexuses of the head, chest, abdomen, and pelvis. The sympathetic nerve communicates with the cerebro-spinal nerves immediately at their exit from the cranium and vertebral canal. With the fourth and sixth nerve, however, it unites in the cavernous sinus ; with the olfactory in the nose; and with the audi- tory in the meatus auditorius internus. The branches of distribution accompany the arteries which supply the different organs, and form communications around them which are called plexuses and take the name of the artery with which they are associated ; thus we have the mesenteric plexus, hepatic plexus, and splenic plexus. All the internal organs of the head, neck, and