LIGAMENTS OF THE STERNUM. 136 the sternum, and intermingling its fibres with those of the ligament of the opposite side, and with the tendinous fibres of origin of the pectoralis major muscle. The posterior costo-sternal ligament, much smaller than the anterior, consists of a thin fasciculus of fibres, situated on the posterior surface of the articulation. The superior and inferior costo-sternal ligaments are narrow fasciculi corresponding with the breadth of the cartilage, and con- necting its superior and inferior border with the side of the sternum. The synovial membrane is absent in the articulation of the first rib, its cartilage being usually adherent to the sternum ; that of the second rib has an int,erarticular ligament, with two synovial mem- branes ; the synovial membranes of the other costal cartilages are single. The sixth and seventh ribs have several fasciculi of strong liga- mentous fibres, passing from the extremity of their cartilages to the anterior surface of the ensiform cartilage, which latter they are in- tended to support. They are named the costo-xyphoid ligaments. The sixth, seventh, and eighth, and sometimes the fifth and the ninth costal cartilages, have articulations with each other, and a synovial membrane for each articulation. They are connected by ligamentous fibres (ligamenta corruscantia), which pass from one cartilage to the other, external and internal ligaments. The ninth and tenth are connected at their extremity by liga- mentous fibres, but have no synovial membrane. Actions.—The movements of the costo-sternal articulations are very trifling, being limited to a slight degree of sliding motion. The first rib is the least, the second the most movable. 8. Articulation of the Sternum.—The pieces of the sternum are connected by means of a thin plate of interosseous cartilage placed between each, and by an anterior and posterior ligament (membrana ossium sterni). The fibres of the anterior sternal ligament are longitudinal in direction, but so blended with the anterior costo- sternal ligaments and tendinous fibres of origin of the pectoral muscles, as scarcely to be distinguished as a distinct ligament. The posterior sternal ligament is a broad smooth plain of longitudinal fibres, placed on the posterior surface of the bone, and extending from the manubrium to the ensiform cartilage. These ligaments contribute very materially to the strength of the sternum and elasticity of the front of the chest; their continuation down- wards on the ensiform cartilage constitutes the sterno-xyphoid ligaments. 9. Articulation of the Vertebral Column with the Pelvis.—The last lumbar vertebra is connected with the sacrum by the same ligaments as those with which the various vertebrae are connected to each other ; viz., anterior and posterior common ligament, inter-