328 FACIAL ARTERY. The Hyoid branch (hyoidea) runs along the upper border of the os hyoides, and is distributed to the elevator muscles of the os hyoides near their insertion, inosculating with its fellow of the opposite side. The Dorsalis lingua ascends along the posterior border of the . hyo-glossus muscle to the dorsum of the tongue, and is distributed, to the tongue, fauces, and epiglottis ; anastomosing with its fellow of the opposite side. The Sublingual branch (sublingualis) runs forward on the genio- hyo-glossus muscle, and is distributed to the sublingual gland and muscles of the tongue. It is situated between the mylo-hyoideus and genio-hyo-glossus, generally accompanies Wharton's duct for a part of its course, and sends a branch to the frsenum linguae. The latter branch affords the considerable haemorrhage which sometimes follows the old operation of snipping the fraenum in children. Facial artery.—The facial artery (maxillaris externa ; labialis) arises immediately above tbe lingual and a little above the great cornu of the os hyoides, and passes forwards to the submaxillary gland, in which it lies embedded. It then curves around the body of the lower jaw, close to the anterior inferior angle of the masseter muscle, ascends to the angle of the mouth, and thence to the angle of the eye, where it is named, angular artery. The facial artery is tortuous in its course over the buccinator muscle, to accommo- date itself to the movements of the jaw. Relations.—Below the jaw it passes beneath the cligastricus and stylo-hyoid muscle ; on the body of the lower jaw it is covered by the platysma myoides, and at the angle of the mouth by the de- pressor anguli oris and zygomatic muscles. It rests on the sub- maxillary gland, lower jaw, buccinator, orbicularis oris, levator anguli oris, levator labii superioris proprius, and levator labii supe- rioris alseque nasi. Its branches may be grouped into those which are given off below the jaw, and those on the face; they may be thus arranged :— The Inferior palatine branch (palatina ascendens; pharyngo-pala- tina) ascends between the stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus muscle, to be distributed to the tonsil and soft palate, and anastomoses with the descending palatine branch of the internal maxillary artery. The Tonsillar branch (tonsillaris) ascends by the side of the pharynx, and pierces the superior constrictor muscle to be distri- buted to the tonsil. Below the Jaw. Inferior palatine, Tonsillar, Submaxillary, Inferior coronary, Superior coronary, On the Face. Buccal, Inferior labial, Submental, Muscular. Lateralis nasi.