ANTERIOR HUMERAL REGION. 250 Fig. 125. rior surface the short head rests on the subscapularis, from which it is separated by a bursa. In the rest of its extent the muscle is in relation with the humerus, teres major, latissimus dorsi, and brachialis anticus; from the latter it is separated by the musculocuta- neous nerve. By its inner border with the coraco-brachialis, brachial artery and veins, and median nerve; the brachial vessels crossing its tendon at the bend of the elbow. By its outer border, with the deltoid and supinator longus. The Brachialis anticus (humero- cubitalis) is a broad muscle covering the whole of the anterior surface of the lower part of the humerus ; it arises by two fleshy serrations, which embrace the insertion of the deltoid, from the anterior surface of the hu- merus, and from the inner intermus- cular septum. Its fibres converge to be inserted into the coronoid process of the ulna, between two processes of the flexor digitorum profundus. Relations.—By its anterior sur- face with the biceps, musculocuta- neous nerve, brachial artery and veins, and median nerve. By its posterior surface with the humerus, anterior ligament of the elbow-joint, and in- termuscular aponeurosis. The latter separates it from the triceps. By its external border with the supinator longus, extensor carpi radialis longior, musculo-spiral nerve, and recurrent radial artery. By its internal border with the intermuscular aponeurosis (which separates it from the triceps and ulnar nerve), and with the pronator radii teres. Actions.—The coraco-brachialis draws the humerus inwards, and assists in flexing it upon the scapula. The biceps and brachi- alis anticus are flexors of the forearm, and the former a supinator. The brachialis anticus is a powerful protector of the elbow-joint. * Muscles of the anterior aspect of the upper arm. 1. Coracoid process of the scapula. 2. Coraco-clavicular ligament (trapezoid), passing upwards to the scapular end of the clavicle. 3. Coraco-acromial ligament, passing out- wards to the acromion. 4. Subscapularis. 5. Teres major; the triangular space above this muscle is that through which the dorsalis scapula? vessels pass. 6. Coraco-brachialis. 7. Biceps. 8. Upper end of the radius. 9. Bra- chialis anticus; a portion of the muscle is seen at the outer side of the tendon of the biceps. 10. Internal head of the triceps.