530 CAROTID PLEXUS. the gustatory nerve, and near the posterior border of the mylo- hyoideus muscle. Its branches of distribution, six or eight in number, divide into many filaments, which supply the side of the tongue, the sub- maxillary gland, sublingual gland, and Wharton's duct. Its branches of communication are, two or three from and to the gustatory nerve ; one from the chorda tympani; two or three which form a plexus with branches of the hypoglossal nerve ; and one or two filaments which pass to tbe facial artery, and communi- cate with the nervi molles from the cervical portion of the sympa- thetic. Carotid plexus.—The ascending branch of the superior cervical ganglion enters the carotid canal with the internal carotid artery, and divides into two branches, which form several loops of com- munication with each other around the artery. These branches, together with tbose derived from the carotid branch of the Vidian, constitute the carotid plexus. They also form frequently a small gangliform swelling at the under part of the artery, which is called the carotid ganglion. The latter, however, is not constant. The continuation of the carotid plexus onwards with the artery by the side of the sella turcica, is the cavernous plexus. The carotid plexus is the centre of communication between all the cranial ganglia, and, being derived from the superior cervical ganglion, between the cranial ganglia and those of the trunk ; it also communicates with the greater part of the cerebral nerves, and distributes filaments with each of the branches of the internal carotid, to accompany those branches to their ultimate ramifications. The branches which accompany the anterior cerebral artery at each side, unite upon the anterior communicating artery, and according to Kibes form a small ganglion, the ganglion of Ribes. The exist- ence of this ganglion is disputed. The ophthalmic ganglion communicates with the plexus by means of the long branch which reaches it from the cavernous plexus. The spheno-palatine joins the plexus by means of the carotid branch of the Vidian. The submaxillary ganglion is brought into connexion with it by means of the otic ganglion, and the otic ganglion by means of the tympanic nerve and Vidian. It communicates with the third nerve in the cavernous sinus, and through the ophthalmic ganglion ; frequently with the fourth in the formation of the nerve of the tentorium ; with the Casserian gan- glion ; with the ophthalmic division of the fifth in the cavernous sinus, and by means of the ophthalmic ganglion ; with the superior maxillary, through the spheno-palatine ganglion ; and with the in- ferior maxillary, through the otic ganglion. It sends two branches directly to the sixth nerve, which unite* with it as it crosses the * Panizza, in his " Experimental Kesearches on the Nerves," denies this communication, and states very vaguely that " they are merely lost and en- twined around it."—Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, Jan. 1836.