71 DEVELOPMENT OF TEETH. teeth. To the follicles of the incisor teeth there are two opercula ; to the canine, three ; and to the molars, a number relative to the number of their tubercles, either four or five. During the fourteenth and fifteenth weeks the opercula have completely closed the follicles, so as to convert them into dental sacs, aud at the same time the papillae have become pulps. The deep portion of the primitive dental groove, viz. that which contains the dental sacs of the deciduous teeth, being thus closed in, the remaining portion, that which is nearer the surface of the gum, is still left open, and to this Goodsir has given the title of secondary dental groove, as it serves for the development of all the permanent teeth, with the exception of the anterior molars. During the fourteenth and fifteenth weeks small lunated inflections of the mucous membrane are formed, immediately to the inner side of the closing opercula of the deciduous dental follicles, commencing be- hind the incisors and proceeding onwards through the rest; these are the rudiments of the follicles or cavities of reserve of the four permanent incisors, two permanent canines, and four bicuspides. As the secondary dental groove gradually closes, these follicular inflections of the mucous membrane are converted into closed cavities of reserve, which recede from the sur- face of the gum, and lie immediately to the inner side, and in close contact with the dental sacs of the deciduous teeth, being inclosed in their submucous cellular tissue. At about the fifth month the anterior of these cavities of reserve dilate at their distal extremities, and a fold or papilla projects into their fundus, constituting the rudiment of the germ of the permanent tooth ; at the same time two small opercular folds are produced at their proxi- mal or small extremities, and convert them into true dental sacs. During the fifth month the posterior part of the primitive dental groove behind the sac of the last deciduous tooth has remained open, and in it has developed the papilla and follicle of the first permanent molar. Upon the closure of this follicle by its opercula, the secondary dental groove upon the summit of its crown forms a large cavity of reserve, lying in contact with the dental sac on the one side and with the gum on the superficial side. At this period the deciduous teeth, and the sacs of the ten anterior permanent teeth, increase so much in size, without a corresponding lengthening of the jaws, that the first permanent molars are gradually pressed backwards and upwards into the maxillary tuberosity in the upper jaw, and into the base of the coronoid process of the lower jaw ; a * Saccular stage of dentition, a. Mucous membrane, b. The papilla, now become a pulp. c. Dental sac. d, e. Secondary dental groove; d remaining open for the development of the permanent tooth; while e is gradually ob- literated. /. Raphe of the gum resulting from the closure of the mucous membrane of each side over the secondary dental groove.