190 MUSCLES OP THE NECK. belly of the digastricus muscle; phrenic nerve, transversa, colli and suprascapular artery; deep lymphatic glands, sheath of the common carotid and internal jugular vein, descendens noni nerve, external carotid artery with its posterior branches, and commence- ment of the internal carotid artery ; cervical plexus of nerves, pneumogastric, spinal accessory, hypoglossal, sympathetic, and facial nerve, and parotid gland. It is pierced on this aspect by the spinal accessory nerve. The anterior border of the muscle is the posterior boundary of the great anterior triangle, the other two boundaries being the middle line of the neck in front, and the lower border of the jaw above. It is the guide to the operations for the ligature of the common carotid artery and arteria innominata, and, on the left side, for cesophagotomy. The posterior border is the anterior boundary of the great posterior triangle ; the other two boundaries being the anterior border of the trapezius behind, and the clavicle below. Actions.—The platysma produces a muscular traction on the integument of the neck, which prevents it from falling so flaccid in old persons as it would if the extension of the skin were the mere result of elasticity. It draws also on the angle of the mouth, and is one of the depressors of the lower jaw. The transverse fibres draw the angle of the mouth outwards.- The sterno-mastoid muscles (nutatores capitis) are the great anterior muscles of connexion between the thorax and the head. Both muscles acting together bow the head directly forwards. The clavicular portions, acting more forcibly than the sternal, give stability and steadiness to the head in supporting weights. Either muscle acting singly would draw the head towards the shoulder of the same side, and carry the face towards the opposite side. Second Group.—Depressors of the Os Hyoides and Larynx. Sterno-hyoideus, Thyro-hyoideus, Sterno-thyroideus, Omo-hyoideus. Dissection.—These muscles are brought into view by removing the deep fascia from off the front of the neck between the two sterno-mastoid muscles. The omo-hyoid to be seen in its whole extent requires that the sterno-mastoid muscle be divided from its origin and turned aside. The Stebno-hyoideus is a narrow, riband-like muscle, arising from the posterior surface of the first bone of the sternum and from the posterior stefno-clavicular ligament (sometimes from the inner extremity of the clavicle, and sometimes from the cartilage of the first rib). It is inserted into the lower border of the os hyoides. The sterno-hyoidei are separated by a considerable interval at the root of the neck, approach each other as they ascend, and are again