378 PROFUNDA FEMORIS ARTERY. near the superficial epigastriG artery ; it pierces the fascia lata at the saphenous opening, and passes transversely inwards, crossing the spermatic cord, to be distributed to the integument of the penis and scrotum (rami scrotales anteriores) in the male, and to the labia (rami labiales anteriores) in the female. The Inferior external pudic(pudenda externa, inferior) arises from the femoral a little below, and sometimes in common with, the preceding ; it crosses the femoral vein immediately below the termination of the internal saphenous vein, and resting -on the pectineus muscle reaches the inner border of the thigh, where it pierces the fascia lata, and is distributed to the integument of the external organs of generation and perineum. Both external pudics inosculate with the internal pudic artery. The Profunda femoris (femoralis profunda) arises from the outer and posterior side of the femoral artery about one inch'and a half below Poupart's ligament; it passes downwards and backwards and a little outwards, behind the adductor longus muscle, pierces the adductor magnus, and is distributed to the flexor muscles on the posterior part of the thigh. Plan of the Relations of the Profunda Artery. In Front. Profunda vein, Adductor longus. Inner Side. Peetineus, Adductor brevis, Adductor magnus. Profunda Artery. Outer Side. Vastus internus, Femur. Behind. Pectineus, Iliacus, Adductor brevis, Adductor magnus. Relations.—In its course downwards it rests successively on the pectineus, iliacus, adductor brevis, and adductor magnus. To its outer side the tendinous insertion of the vastus internus muscle intervenes between it and the femur ; on its inner side it is in relation with the pectineus, adductor brevis, and adductor magnus ; and in front it is separated from the femoral artery, above by the profunda and femoral vein, and below by the adductor longus muscle. Branches.—The branches of the profunda artery are, the external circumflex, internal circumflex, and three perforating arteries.