426 STRUCTURE OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. The nerve-fibres (nerve-tubes ; primitive fibres and tubes) are the chief components of the nerves and of the white substance of the brain and spinal cord, and are also found, but in less number, in the grey substance and ganglia. They are soft and cylindrical, clear and transparent when seen by transmitted light; white, glittering, and opaline when the light is reflected, and bounded by simple, dark, contour lines. They present great variety of size and some degree of variety of texture, being coarse or fine, fragile or firm ; their measurement varies between and ^w of an inch ; and they undergo a structural change after death or under the influence of chemical reagents, which converts them from simple cylinders into cylinders with double boundary lines or contours. of muscular fibre. The medulla or pulp (medullary sheath) is the mid-layer of the nerve-fibre; it is a viscous, transparent, clear, homo- geneous fluid, easily susceptible of coagulation, and converted in its coagulated state into an opaque, granular, white substance. The coagulation of the medulla commences from the exterior, and gives rise to the appearance of double boundary lines in the fibre (dark- bordered fibres) ; and the greater or less extent of the coagulum determines the depth of the interval between the double lines. In the fine nerve-fibres with a more delicate sheath, the medulla is apt to undergo another change, namely, that of collecting from point to point into elliptical masses, and producing varicose .nerve- fibres. In chemical composition the medulla consists chiefly of oily and albuminous matter • its cognomen, medullary sheath, is Fig. 172.* In structure the nerve-fibre is composed of three parts; namely, an external coat or sheath, a medulla or pulp, and a central solid filament or axis- cylinder. The sheath is exces- sively fine and transparent ; so fine and transparent as to be almost invisible or demon- strable only by chemical means, and of doubtful existence even, in the finer fibres. It is elastic and structureless, and corre- sponds in general and chemical characters with the sarcolemma