433 PONS VAROLII.—CEREBELLUM. the corpora pyramidalia and funiculi siliquse. In the corpus olivare the grey matter forms a crumpled oblong capsule of a yellowish- brown colour, open behind, the nucleus olivce (corpus dentatum); and posteriorly to this and on a plane with its upper two-thirds, another yellowish lamella, the nucleus olivce accessorius (Stilling). The grey substance of the corpora restiformia (nucleus cinereus) is a pro- longation upwards of the posterior cornua of the spinal cord, and occupies the interior of the fasciculi laterales, cuneati, and graciles. The grey substance of the floor of the fourth ventricle is a prolonga- tion upwards of the central substance of the spinal cord ; it forms a thick layer in the floor of the ventricle, extending from the calamus scriptorius to the aqueduct of Sylvius. The grey substance of the medulla oblongata, like that of the spinal cord, is composed of nerve-cells and nerve-fibres. The nerve-cells of the nucleus olivse are small, round, contain yellowish granules which give colour to the nucleus, and have from three to fij»e pro- cesses ; the nerve-cells of the nucleus cinereus of the corpora resti- formia are similar in size to those of the nucleus olivEe,' and 'have similar processes, but are either wanting in pigment or have pigment granules of a brownish hue ; the nerve-cells of the corpora pyrami- dalia and funiculi siliquse are large and caudate, while those of the grey substance of the floor of the fourth ventricle are partly caudate presenting every gradation of size, and partly large with an abundance of pigment granules and finely branched processes. The nerve-fibres of the grey substance of the medulla oblongata are the transverse fibres, which proceed from the raphe, and take their course into, through, and around the nucleus olivse and between the deep longitudinal fibres of the corpora pyramidalia and funiculi siliquse; the nerve fibres are for the most part of the finer kind. Pons Varolii.—The pons Varolii, or great commissure of the cerebellum, is composed of successive layers of white and grey sub- stance, the former consisting of transverse parallel nerve-fibres, the latter of ordinary grey substance, traversed by the longitudinal nerve- fibres of the corpora pyramidalia and funiculi siliquse, the corpora pyramidalia passing between the first and second transverse layers, into the inferior segment of the crura cerebri, the funiculi siliquse above the second transverse layer into the upper segment or tegmen- tum. The grey substance is continuous with that of the medulla oblongata below, and the substantia nigra of the crura cerebri above. Cerebellum.—The great bulk of the cerebellum is composed of white nerve-fibres, the fibres presenting every gradation of magni- tude, from the dark-bordered to the softer non-medullated nerve- fibre, and the slender filaments apparently consisting of the axis- cylinder alone. The grey substance is found in three situations, namely, on the surface, constituting the cortical substance of the convolutions; in the centre of each lateral half of the white substance, ¥ P