446 DURA MATER. mater thrown across the cerebellum and attached at each side to the margin of the petrous portion of the temporal bone ; behind, to the transverse ridge of the occipital bone, which lodges the lateral sinuses ; and to the clinoid processes in front. It supports the posterior lobes of the cerebrum and prevents their pressure* on the cerebellum, leaving a small opening anteriorly, for the transmission of the crura cerebri. The Falx cerebelli is a small process, generally double, attached to the vertical ridge of the occipital bone beneath the lateral sinus, and to the tentorium. It is received into the indentation between the two hemispheres of the cerebellum. The layers of the dura mater separate in several situations, so as to form irregular channels which receive the venous blood. These are the sinuses of the dura mater, already described ; page 396. The student cannot see the tentorium and falx cerebelli until the brain is removed ; but he should consider the attachments of the former on the dried skull, for he will have to incise it in the re- moval of the brain. He should now proceed to that operation, for which purpose the dura mater is to be divided all round, on a level with the section through the skull, and the scissors are to be car- ried deeply between the hemispheres of the brain in front, to cut through the anterior part of the falx ; then draw the dura mater backwards, and leave it hanging by its attachment to the tentorium. Raise the anterior lobes of the brain carefully with the hand, and lift the olfactory bulbs from the cribriform fossse with the handle of the scalpel. Then cut across the two optic nerves and internal carotid arteries. Next divide the infundibulum and third nerves, and carry the knife along the margin of the petrous bone at each side, so as to divide the tentorium near its attachment. Cut across the fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth nerves in succession with a sharp knife, and pass the scalpel as far down as possible into the vertebral canal, to sever the spinal cord, cutting first to one side and then to the other, in order to divide the vertebral arteries and first cervical nerves. Then let him press the cerebellum gently upwards with the fingers of the right hand, the hemi- spheres being supported with the left, and the brain will roll into his hand. The A rteries of the dura mater are, the anterior meningeal from the ethmoidal, ophthalmic, and internal carotid. The middle meningeal and meningea parva from the internal maxillary. The inferior meningeal from the ascending pharyngeal and occipital artery ; and the posterior meningeal from the vertebral. Its Nerves are derived from the nervi molles and vertebral plexus of the sympathetic, from the Casserian ganglion, the ophthalmic * In leaping animals, as the feline and canine genera, the tentorium forms a bony tent.