689 VESSELS AND NERVES OP THE UTERUS. the direction of the vibrations of the cilia being from without in- wards. In the cervix uteri the mucous membrane is somewhat thicker than in the fundus, and on the anterior and posterior surface of its canal is disposed in folds, plica palmatce, which have received the name of arbor vitce uterina. In the lower part of the cervix, moreover, are found filiform papillse, invested by a ciliated epithelium. The mucous glands of the uterus, or uterine glands, are minute follicles corresponding in length with the thickness of the mucous membrane, very numerous, sometimes simple, sometimes bifid, and sometimes spirally twisted. Their structure resembles other mucous glands, namely, a membrana propria, an epithelium of spheroidal cells in the fundus of the follicle, and of columnar cells in the excretory duct. They become much enlarged during preg- nancy. In the cervix uteri, between the plicae palmatse, are found other mucous follicles which secrete the peculiar, transparent, vitreous or crystalline mucus of that region. It is these follicles in an imperforate state which constitute the small transparent vesicles termed ovula Nabothi, seen in the canal of the cervix, around'the os uteri, and sometimes in its cavity. Vessels and Nerves.—The Arteries of the uterus are, the uterine from the internal iliac, and the ovarian from the aorta; they ramify through the muscular and mucous coat, forming a plexus of larger vessels in the deep portion of the latter, and of smaller vessels in its superficial portion ; from the smaller vessels are given off the capillaries, which constitute a fine plexus around the glands and a coarse plexus at the surface, the blood from the latter passing into the veins. The veins take the course of the arteries, and terminate in the venous plexus situated on each side of the body of the uterus. In the impregnated womb, the veins are so much dilated as to deserve the name of sinuses ; they are thin in structure, and devoid of valves, and their great number in the muscular coat gives a spongy appearance to the walls of the pregnant uterus. The lymphatics are numerous, the deep commencing in the mucous membrane, the superficial taking their course in the subserous tissue ; they follow the direction of the blood-vessels, and terminate in the pelvic and lumbar glands. The Nerves of the uterus are derived from the hypogastric and spermatic plexuses, and from the sacral plexus. They have been made the subject of special investigation by Dr. Robert Lee, who has successfully repaired the omission made by Dr. William Hunter, in this part of the anatomy of the organ. In his numerous dissec- tions of the uterus, both in the unimpregnated and gravid state, Dr. Lee has made the discovery of several large nervous ganglia and plexuses. The principal of these, situated at each side of the cervix uteri immediately behind the ureter, he terms the hypogastric gan- glion; it receives the greater number of the nerves from the hypo- gastric and sacral plexuses, and distributes branches to the uterus,