40 ETHMOID BONE. plate is broad and thin, giving attachment, by its external surface, to the external pterygoid nmscle, and by its internal surface to the internal pterygoid. This plate is sometimes pierced by a foramen, which is not unfrequently formed by a process of communication passing between it and the spinous process. The internal 'ptery- goid plate is long and narrow, and terminated at its extremity by a curved hook, the hamular process, around which plays the tendon of the tensor palati muscle. At the base of the internal pterygoid plate is a small oblong depression, the scaphoid fossa, from which arises the circumflexus or tensor palati muscle. The interval be- tween the two pterygoid plates is the pterygoid fossa ; and the two plates are separated inferiorly by an angular notch (palatine) which receives the tuberosity, or pterygoid process, of the palate bone. The anterior surface of the pterygoid process is broad near its base, and supports Meckel's ganglion. The base of the process is pierced by the Vidian canal. '^Development.—By twelve centres ; four for the body, viz., two ^ for its anterior (spheno-orbital), and two for its posterior part (spheiip-jtemporal); four for the four vfings ; two for the internal pterygoid plates,- and two for the sphenoidal spongy bones. Ossifi- ■ cation commences in the various pieces of the sphenoid in the fol- . lowing order :—greater alae, at about the same time with the other vbories of the cranium ; lesser alse and posterior body, at the end of the second month ; anterior body at the end of the third ; internal pterygoid plate and spongy bones, between the period of birth and the second year. Osseous union occurs first between the centres for the posterior body, and at about the same time between each centre of the anterior body and its corresponding (lesser) ala ; the third union takes place between the internal pterygoid plate and the greater ala ; the fourth, between the two centres of the anterior body, and at the same time between the anterior and posterior body. This is the state of union at birth, the bone consisting of five centres, one being the body and lesser alse ; one, on each side, the great ala and internal pterygoid plate ; and the remaining two, the sphenoidal spopgy bones. The greater alse unite with the body during the first year ; the spongy bones after puberty ; and the body of the sphenoid with the basilar process of the occipital bone between eighteen and twenty-five. Articidations.—With twelve bones : that is, with all the bones of the head, and five of the face, viz., two malar, two palate, and vomer. Attachment of Muscles.—To ttvelve pairs : temporal, external pterygoid, internal pterygoid, superior constrictor, tensor palati, laxator tympani, levator palpebrse, obliquus superior, superior rectus, internal rectus, inferior rectus, and external rectus. Ethmoid Bone.—The ethmoid (rjdfxbs, a sieve) is a square-shaped cellular bone, situated between the two orbits, at the root of the