PULMONARY ARTERY. 389 by Nature, to teach her observers two important principles -.—first, in respect to herself, that, however in her means she may indulge in change, the end is never overlooked, and a limb is as surely sup- plied by a leash of arteries, various in their course, as by those which we are pleased to consider normal in distribution; and secondly, with regard to us, that we should be keenly alive to what- ever is passing beneath our observation, and ready in the most serious operation to deviate from our course, and avoid—or give eyes to our knife, that it may see—the concealed dangers which it is our pride to be able to contend with and vanquish. PULMONARY ARTERY. The pulmonary artery (arteria pulmonolis) arises from the left side of the base of the right ventricle in front of the origin of the aorta, and ascends obliquely for the space of two inches to the under surface of the arch of the aorta, where it divides into the right and left pulmonary artery. In its course upwards and backwards it inclines to the left side, crossing the commencement of the aorta, and is connected by its left branch to the under surface of the arch by a thick and impervious cord (ligamentum arteriosum ; chorda ductus arteriosi), the remains of the ductus arteriosus of the foetus. Relations.—It is enclosed for nearly the whole of its extent by the pericardium, and receives the attachment of the fibrous portion of that membrane by its upper portion. Behind, it rests against the ascending portion of the arch of the aorta and left auricle, on either side is the appendix of the corresponding auricle with a coro- nary artery ; and above, the superficial cardiac plexus, and the cord of the ductus arteriosus. The Right pulmonary artery, longer and somewhat larger than the left, passes transversely outwards behind the ascending aorta and superior vena cava to the root of the right lung, where it divides into three branches for the three lobes. In its course it lies parallel with and in front of the right bronchus. The Left pulmonary artery, shorter and smaller than the right, crosses the descending aorta and left bronchus to the root of the left lung, where it divides into two branches for the two lobes. The pulmonary arteries divide and subdivide in the structure of the lungs, and terminate in capillary vessels which form a network around the air-passages and cells, and become continuous with the radicles of the pulmonary veins. Relations.—In the root of the right lung, examined from above downwards, the pulmonary artery is situated between the bronchus and pulmonary veins, the former being above, the latter below ; in the root of the left lung the artery is highest, next the bronchus, and then the veins. On both sides from before backwards, the artery is situated between the veins and bronchi, the former being in front, the latter behind.