490 AUDITORY NERVE. The Infra-orbital branches cross the masseter muscle, and are distributed to the buccinator, elevator muscles of the upper lip, and orbicularis oris. They communicate with the terminal branches of the infra-orbital nerve, infra-trochlear, and nasal nerve. Two or more of these branches are found by the side of Stenon's duct. The Cervico-pacial division, smaller than the temporo-facial, communicates in the parotid gland with the auricularis magnus nerve, and divides into branches which admit of arrangement into three sets ; bucc J, supra-maxillary, and infra-maxillary. The Buccal branches pass forward across the masseter muscle towards the mouth, and distribute branches to the orbicularis oris and buccinator. They communicate with branches of the tem- poro-facial, and with the buccal branch of the inferior maxillary nerve. The Supra-maxillary branches are destined to the muscles of the lower lip, and take their course along the body of the lower jaw. Beneath the depressor anguli oris, they have a plexiform communi- cation with the inferior dental nerve. The Infra-maxillary branches (subcutanei colli) take their course below the lower jaw, pierce the deep cervical fascia, and are dis- tributed to the platysma; communicating with the superficialis colli nerve. Auditory nerve ; portio mollis ; eighth pair of Soemmering.— The auditory nerve takes its origin in the lineee transversa (stria? medullares) of the anterior wall or floor of the fourth ventricle, ana winds around the corpus restiforme, from which it receives fibres, to the posterior border of the crus cerebelli. It then passes forward on the crus cerebelli in company with the facial nerve, which lies in a groove on its superior surface, enters the meatus auditorius internus, and at the bottom of the meatus divides into two branches, cochlear and vestibular. The auditory nerve is soft and pulpy in texture, and receives in the meatus auditorius several filaments from the facial nerve. Eighth pair of Willis ; ninth, tenth, and eleventh pairs of Soemmering ; consists of three nerves, glosso-pharyngeal, pneumo- gastric, and spinal accessory. G-losso-pharyngeal nerve.—The glosso-pharyngeal nerve, as its name implies, is the nerve of sensation of the mucous membrane of the tongue and pharynx, but it also gives branches to some of the muscles of these organs. It arises by five or six filaments from the groove between the corpus olivare and restiforme, or rather from the anterior border of the latter, and escapes from the skull at the innermost extremity of the jugular foramen through a distinct opening in the dura mater, lying anteriorly to the sheath of the pneumogastric and spinal accessory nerve, and internally to the jugular vein. It then passes forward between the jugular vein and internal carotid artery, and crosses the artery to reach the poste-