FASCI2E OF THE LOWEK EXTREMITY. 308 upper and inner extremity of the thigh an oval opening (fovea ovalis), which gives passage to the superficial lymphatic vessels, and the large subcutaneous vein of the lower extremity, the in- ternal saphenous vein, aud is thence named the saphenous opening. The existence of this opening has given rise to the division of the upper part of the fascia lata into two portions, an iliac portion and a pubic portion. The iliac portion is situated upon the iliac side of the opening. It is attached to the crest of the ilium, and along Poupart's liga- ment to the spine of the pubes, whence it is reflected downwards and outwards in an arched direction, and forms a falciform border, which constitutes the outer boundary of the saphenous opening. The edge of this border immediately overlies, and is adherent to, the sheath of the femoral vessels, and the lower extremity of the curve is continuous with the pubic portion. The pubic portion, occupying the pubic side of the saphenous opening is attached to the spine of the pubes and pectineal line ; and passing outwards behind the sheath of the femoral vessels, divides into two layers ; the anterior layer is continuous with that portion of the iliac fascia which forms the sheath of the iliacus and psoas muscle, the posterior layer is lost upon the capsule of the hip-joint. The interval between the falciform border of the iliac portion and the opposite surface of the pubic portion is closed by an areolo- fibrous layer, derived from the superficial fascia, and pierced by numerous openings for the passage of lymphatic vessels, the cribri- form fascia (lamina cribrosa). The cribriform fascia is connected with the sheath of the femoral vessels, and forms one of the cover- ings of femoral hernia. When the iliac portion of the fascia lata is removed from its attachment to Poupart's ligament and turned aside, the sheath of the femoral vessels (the femoral or crural canal) is brought into view ; and if Poupart's ligament be carefully divided, the sheath may be isolated, and its continuation with the transversalis and iliac fascia demonstrated. In this view, the sheath of the femoral vessels is an infundibuliform continuation of the ab- dominal fascia, closely adherent to the vessels a little way down the thigh, but much larger than the vessels it contains at Poupart's liga- ment. If the sheath be opened, the artery and vein will be found lying side by side, and occupying the outer two-thirds of the sheath, leaving an infundibuliform interval between the vein and inner wall of the sheath. The superior opening of this space is named the femoral or crural ring ; it is bounded in front by Poupart's liga- ment, behind by the os pubis, internally by Gimbernat's ligament, and externally by the femoral vein. The interval itself serves for the passage of the superficial lymphatic vessels from the saphenous opening to a lymphatic gland, which generally occupies the femoral ring, and from thence they proceed into the current of the deep lymphatics. The femoral ring is closed merely by a thin layer of