505 MUSCULOCUTANEOUS NERVE. The Anterior thoracic nerves, two in number, proceed, one from the external cord of the plexus, the other from the internal cord,,^**1" The former, the external or superficial branch, crosses the axilidxy f,. artery in the space above the pectoralis minor to the front^ theV*; '"' chest, and is distributed to the pectoralis major muscle. JThe^* ternal or deeper branch issues from between the axillary ajfter^;. ancl £M vein, and after forming a loop of communication with the preceding, is distributed to the under surface of the pectoralis minor andtaajorX'^ The Posterior thoracic, or external respiratory of Belly is forSfeq* ' by the j unction of two offsets, one from the fifth, the other from the sixth cervical nerve ; it crosses behind the brachial plexus^ to reac&;^ '%*■. the side of the chest, and descends on the serratus niagnusHQ the lower part of that muscle, to which it is distributed. The Superior muscular nerves are small branches to the longus colli and scaleni ; and branches to the rhomboidei and subclavius. The Rhomboid branch proceeds from the fifth cervical nerve, and passing backwards through the fibres of the scalenus medius, and beneath the levator anguli scapulae, is distributed to the under surface of the rhomboid muscles. In its course it sometimes gives a branch to the levator anguli scapula. The Subclavian branch, proceeding from the cord formed by the fifth and sixth nerve, descends in front of the subclavian artery to the subclavius muscle. This nerve usually communicates with the phrenic at its entrance into the chest. The Suprascapular nerve arises from the fifth cervical nerve, and proceeds obliquely outwards to the suprascapular notch; it passes through the notch, crosses the supra-spinous fossa beneath the supra-spinatus muscle, and running in front of the concave margin of the spine of the scapula enters the infra-spinous fossa, to be distributed to the supra-spinatus and infra-spinatus muscle, and send two or three filaments to the shoulder-joint. The Subscapular nerves are three in number : one arises from the brachial plexus above the clavicle, the others from the posterior cord of the plexus within the axilla. The first or smallest supplies the upper part of the subscapularis muscle ; the second and largest {long subscapular) follows the course of the subscapular artery, and is distributed to the latissimus dorsi; the third supplies the lower part of the subscapularis muscle and teres major. Brachial nerves.—The brachial branches of the plexus are arranged in the following order ; musculocutaneous, and one head of the median to the outer side of the artery ; the other head of the median, internal cutaneous, lesser internal cutaneous, and ulnar, to its inner side ; the circumflex and musculo-spiral behind. The Musculocutaneous nerve (external cutaneous, perforans Casserii) arises from the brachial plexus in common with the ex- ternal head of the median; pierces the coraco-brachialis muscle,