422 LYMPHATICS OF THE VISCERA. bladder, which are large, and form a remarkable plexus, enter the glands in the right border of the lesser omentum ; and those from the left lobe converge to the lymphatic glands situated along the lesser curve of the stomach. Spleen and Pancreas.—The Lymphatic glands of the spleen are situated around its hilum, and those of the pancreas in the course of the splenic vein. The lymphatic vessels of these organs pass through their respective glands, and join the aortic glands, previously to terminating in the thoracic duct. Stomach.—The Lymphatic glands of the stomach, of small size, are situated along the lesser and greater curve of that organ. The lymphatic vessels, as in other viscera, are superficial and deep, the former originating in the subserous, the latter in the submucous tissue ; they pass from the stomach in four different directions: some ascend to the glands situated along the lesser curve ; others descend to those occupying the greater curve ; a third set pass out-, wards to the splenic glands, and a fourth to the glands situated near ■ the pylorus and to the aortic glands. Intestines.—The Lymphatic glands of the small intestine are situated between the layers of the mesentery, in the meshes formed by the superior mesenteric artery, and are thence named mesenteric glands. These glands are most numerous and largest, superiorly, near the duodenum ; and, inferiorly, near the termination of the ileum. The Lymphatic vessels of the small intestines are of two kinds : those of the structure of the intestine, which run upon its surface previously to entering the mesenteric glands ; and those which com- mence in the villi, in the substance of the mucous membrane, and are named lacteals. The Lacteals, according to Henle, commence in the centre of each villus as a csecal tubulus, which opens into a fine network, situated in the submucous tissue. From this network the lacteal vessels proceed to the mesenteric glands, and from thence to the thoracic duct, in which they terminate. The Lymphatic glands of the large intestines are situated along the attached margin of the intestine, in the meshes formed by the colic and hsemorrhoidal arteries previously to their distribution. The Lymphatic vessels take their course in two different directions ; those of the csecum, ascending colon and transverse colon, after tra- versing their proper glands, proceed to the mesenteric glands, and those of the descending colon and rectum to the lumbar glands. Kidney.—The Lymphatic vessels of the kidney follow the direc- tion of the blood-vessels to the lumbar glands situated around the aorta and inferior vena cava ; those of the supra-renal capsules, which are very large and numerous, terminate in the renal lym- phatics. Pelvis.—The Lymphatic vessels of the viscera of the pelvis ter- minate in the sacral and lumbar glands.