221 MUSCLES OF THE THORAX. The principal muscles situated on the front and sides of the thorax belong in their actions to the upper extremity, with which they will be described. They are the pectoralis major and minor, subclavius and serratus magnus. The true thoracic muscles, which appertain exclusively to the actions of the ribs, are, the Intercostales externi, Subcostales, Intercostales interni, Triangularis sterni. The intercostal muscles are two planes of muscular and tendinous fibres directed obliquely between adjacent ribs and closing the inter- costal spaces. They are seen partially on the reflection of the pec- toral muscles, or on the inner surface of the chest. The triangularis sterni is within the chest, and requires the removal of the anterior part of the thorax to bring it into view. The Intercostales externi, eleven on each side, commence pos- teriorly at the tubercles of the ribs, and advance forwards to the costal cartilages, where they terminate in a thin aponeurosis which is continued onwards to the sternum. Their fibres are directed obliquely downwards and inwards, pursuing the same line with those of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen. They are thicker than the internal intercostals, and more tendinous in structure. The Intercostales interni, also eleven on each side, commence anteriorly at the sternum, and extend backwards as far as the angle of the ribs, whence they are prolonged to the vertebral column by a thin aponeurosis. Their fibres are directed obliquely downwards and backwards, corresponding with those of the internal oblique muscle of the abdomen, and crossing those of the external intercostals. In structure the intercostal muscles consist of an admixture of muscular and tendinous fibres. They arise from the two lips of the lower border of the rib, the external from the outer lip, the internal from the inner; and are inserted into the upper border of the rib below, encroaching somewhat on its surfaces. The Subcostales (infracostales ; intracostales) are nine or ten small muscles situated within the thorax at its posterior part, and lying upon the ribs. They increase in size from above downwards, and the direction of their fibres corresponds with that of the inter- costales interni. Each muscle arises from the front of a rib, and is inserted into the front of the rib but one below; the first sub- costalis is often absent. Relations.—The external intercostals, by their external surface, with the muscles which immediately invest the chest, viz., pecto- ralis major and minor, serratus magnus, serratus posticus superior and inferior, scalenus posticus, sacro-iumbalis and longissimus dorsi