SCROTUM. 679 triangular ligament to the meatus urinarius. It is narrowest in the body, and dilated at each extremity, posteriorly in the bulb, where it is named the bulbous portion, and anteriorly in the glans penis, where it forms the fossa navicularis. The meatus urinarius is the most constricted part of the canal; so that a catheter, which will enter that opening, may be passed freely through the whole extent of a normal urethra. Opening into the bulbous portion are two small excretory ducts about an inch in length, which may be traced backwards, between the coats of the urethra and the bulb, to the under part of the membranous por- tion behind the triangular ligament, where they originate in two small, lobulated, and somewhat compressed glands, of about the size of peas, Cowper^s glands. These glands are enclosed in a thin membrana propria, their glandular structure being held together by areolar tissue and smooth muscular fibre ; smooth muscular fibre is also found as a longitudinal layer, around their excretory ducts. Their glandular vesicles are lined by a tesselated epithelium, the epithelium of the excretory ducts being of the columnar kind. They are situated immediately beneath the membranous portion of the urethra, and are enclosed by the lower segment of the compressor uretkrb muscle, so as to be subject to muscular compression. On the whole internal surface of the spongy portion of the urethra, and especially along its lower surface, are numerous small openings of lacunee, the apertures of mucous glands situated in the submucous areolar tissue. The openings of the lacuna? are directed forwards, and are liable occasionally to intercept the point of a small catheter in its passage to the bladder. At about an inch and a half from the opening of the meatus, in the upper wall of the urethra, one of the lacuna? is generally found much larger than the rest, and is named the lacuna magna. In a preparation of this lacuna, made by Sir Astley Cooper, the extremity of the canal presents several large primary ramifications. TESTES. The testes are two small glandular organs suspended from the abdomen by the spermatic cords, and enclosed in an external tegu- mentary covering, the scrotum. The Scrotum is distinguished into two lateral halves or hemi- spheres by a raphe, which is continued anteriorly along the under surface of the penis, and posteriorly along the middle line of the perineum to the anus. Of these two lateral portions the left is somewhat longer than the right, and corresponds with the greater length of the spermatic cord on the left side. The scrotum is composed of two layers, integument, and a proper covering, the dartos ; the integument is thin, devoid of fat, semi- transparent, possesses numerous large sebiparous and sudoriparous glands, is beset with hairs which issue obliquely from the skin,