153 KNEE JOINT. by a fasciculus of fibres of variable size, surrounded by synovial membrane ; sometimes the synovial membrane is present without tbe fibres, or the ligament is wholly absent. The cotyloid ligament (fig. 85, e) is a prismoid cord of fibrocar- tilage, attached around the margin of the acetabulum, and serving to deepen that cavity and protect its edges. It is thicker at the upper and posterior border of the acetabulum than in front, is in- clined inwards towards the acetabulum, and consists of fibres which arise from the whole circumference of the brim, and interlace with eacE other at acute angles. The transverse ligament is a strong fasciculus of ligamentous fibres, continuous with the cotyloid ligament, and stretching across the notch of the acetabulum. It converts the notch into a foramen, through which the articular branches of the internal circumflex and obturator artery enter the joint. The fossa at the bottom of the acetabulum is filled with a mass of fat, covered by synovial membrane, which serves as an elastic cushion for the head of the bone during its movements. This was described by Havers as the synovial gland. The synovial membrane is extensive ; it invests the head of the femur, and is continued around the ligamentum teres into the aceta- bulum, whence it is reflected on the inner surface of the capsular ligament back to the head of the bone. The muscles immediately surrounding and in contact with the hip joint'are, in front, psoas and iliacus, separated from the cap- sular ligament by a large synovial bursa ; above, short head of the rectus and gluteus minimus; behind, pyriformis, gemellus superior, obturator internus, gemellus inferior, and quadratus femoris ; and at the inner side, obturator externus and pectineus. Actions.—The movements of the hip joint are very extensive ; they are flexion, extension, adduction, abduction, circumduction, and rotation. 2. Knee Joint.—The knee is a ginglymoid articulation of large size, and provided with numerous ligaments; the latter are thirteen in number, namely: / Anterior or ligamentum patellae, / Posterior or ligamentum posticum Winslowii, / Internal lateral, I Two external lateral, I Anterior or external crucial, / Posterior or internal crucial, / Transverse, Two coronary, false ligaments. Ligamentum mucosum, Ligamenta alaria, Two semilunar fibro-cartilages, Synovial membrane.