218 MUSCLES OF THE BACK. Relations.—-By its superficial surface with the longissimus dorsi, semi-spinalis dorsi, and semi-spinalis colli. By its deep surface with the laminae and spinous processes of the vertebral column, and in the cervical region with the ligamentum nuchse. The Interspinales are small muscular slips arranged in pairs and situated between the spinous processes of the vertebrae. In the cervical region there are six pairs of these muscles, the first being placed between the axis and third vertebra, the sixth between the last cervical and first dorsal ; they are attached to the apices of the spinous processes, and are separated by the interspinous ligaments. In the dorsal region, rudiments of these muscles are occasionally met with between the upper and lower vertebrae, but are absent in the rest. In the lumbar region there are six pairs of interspinales, the first pair occupying the interspinous space between the last dorsal and first lumbar vertebra, the last, the space between the fifth lumbar and sacrum. They are thin, broad,, and imperfectly developed. Rudimentary interspinales are occasionally met with between the sacrum and coccyx; these are the analogues of the caudal muscles of brutes ; in man they are named collectively the extensor coccygis (sacro-coccygeus posticus). The Intertransversales (intertransversarii) are small quadri- lateral muscles situated between the transverse processes of the vertebrae. In the cervical region they are arranged in pairs cor- responding with the double conformation of the transverse processes, the vertebral artery and anterior division of a cervical nerve lying between them. The rectus anticus minor and rectus lateralis represent the intertransversales between the atlas and cranium. In the dorsal region the anterior intertransversales are represented by the intercostal muscles, while the posterior are mere tendinous bands, muscular only between the first and last vertebrae. In the lumbar region, the anterior intertransversales are thin, and occupy only part of the space between the transverse processes. Analogues of posterior intertransversales exist, in the form of small muscular fasciculi (interobliqui, interaccessorii) extended between the rudimentary posterior transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae. The Levatores costarum (supra-costales) are divided into long and short. The short (breves) twelve in number at each side, arise from the apex and lower border of the transverse process of the last cervical and eleven upper dorsal vertebrae ; and pass down- wards and outwards, radiating in their descent, to be inserted into the upper border of all the ribs, between the tuberosity and angle. The uppermost muscle is the smallest, and their breadth increases from above downwards. The levatores costarum longi, four in number at each side, arise from the transverse processes of the dorsal vertebrae, the seventh to the tenth, and are inserted into the four lower ribs; each muscle passing over a rib in its descent, and being attached to the rib below as far as its angle. The levatores longi lie superficially to the leva- tores breves and increase in size from above downwards.