PLANTAR NERVES. 523 condyle of the femur, and divides into filaments, which are distri- buted to the fibrous capsule and synovial membrane of the knee- joint. The Internal popliteal nerve passes through the middle of the popliteal space, from the division of the great ischiatic nerve to the lower border of the popliteus muscle, accompanies the artery beneath the arch of the soleus, and becomes the posterior tibial nerve. It is superficial in the whole of its course, and lies exter- nally to the vein and artery. The Branches of the internal popliteal nerve are, muscular or sural, articular, and a cutaneous branch, the external saphenous. The Muscular branches, of considerable size, and four or five in number, are distributed to the two heads of the gastrocnemius, to the soleus, plantaris, and popliteus. The Articular branches, two or three in number, supply the knee-joint, two of the twigs accompanying the internal articular arteries. The External or short saphenous nerve (communicans poplitei, vel tibialis) proceeds from the middle of the internal popliteal, and descends in the groove between the two bellies of the gastrocnemius muscle to the middle of the leg ; it then pierces the fascia, and, after receiving the communicans peronei, comes into relation with the external saphenous vein, and follows the course of that vein to the outer ankle, to which, and to the integument of the heel and outer side of the foot (cutaneus dorsi pedis externus), it distributes branches. The Posterior tibial nerve is continued along the posterior aspect of the leg from the lower border of the popliteus muscle to the posterior part of the inner ankle, where it divides into the in- ternal and external plantar nerve. In the upper part of its course it lies to the inner side of the posterior tibial artery ; it then be- comes placed superficially to that vessel, and at the ankle is situ- ated to its outer side ; in the lower third of the leg it lies parallel with the inner border of the tendo-Achillis. The Branches of the posterior tibial nerve are, three or four muscular twigs to the deep muscles of the posterior aspect of the leg, the branch to the flexor longus pollicis accompanies the fibular artery ; one or two filaments which entwine around the artery and then terminate in the integument ;* and'a plantar cutaneous branch which pierces the internal annular ligament and is distributed to the integument of the heel, and inner border of the sole of the foot. The Internal plantar nerve, larger than the external, crosses the posterior tibial vessels to enter the sole of the foot, and becomes * It is extremely interesting, in a physiological point of view, to observe the mode of distribution of these arterial filaments. They seem to be monitors to the artery of the presence or approach of danger.