VEINS OF THE TRUNK. 404 the dorsum of the foot in a venous arch which lies across the meta- tarsus ; this venous arch receives the digital veins by its convex side. The External saphenous vein commences at the outer extremity of the venous arch and on the outer border of the foot. It passes behind the outer ankle, ascends along the posterior aspect of the leg, lying in the groove between the two bellies of the gastrocnemius muscle, and pierces the deep fascia in the popliteal region to join the popliteal vein. It receives several cutaneous branches in the pop- liteal region previously to perforating the deep fascia, and is in re- lation in its course with the external saphenous nerve. The Internal saphenous vein commences at the inner extremity of the venous arch of the dorsum and on the inner side of the foot and great toe. It ascends in front of the inner ankle and along the inner side of the leg ; it then passes behind the inner condyle of the femur and along the inner side of the thigh to the saphenous opening, where it pierces the sheath of the femoral vessels, and terminates in the femoral vein, at about one inch and a half below Poupart's ligament. It receives in its course the cutaneous veins of the leg and thigh, and communicates freely with the deep veins. At the saphenous opening it is joined by the superficial epigastric and circumflexa ilii vein, and by the external pudics. The situation of this vein in the thigh is not unfrequently occupied by two or even three trunks of nearly equal size. . VEINS OF THE TRUNK. The veins of the trunk may be divided into, 1. The superior vena cava, with its formative branches. 2. The inferior vena cava, with its formative branches. 3. The azygos veins. 4. The verte- bral and spinal veins. 5. The cardiac veins. 6. The portal vein. 7. The pulmonary veins. SUPERIOR VENA CAVA, WITH ITS FORMATIVE BRANCHES. The Venw innominate are two large trunks, formed by the union of the internal jugular and subclavian vein at each side of the root of the neck. The Eight vena innominata, about an inch and a quarter in length, lies superficially and externally to the arteria innominata, and descends almost vertically to unite with its fellow of the oppo- site side in the formation of the superior cava. At the junction of the jugular and subclavian vein it receives from behind the ductus lymphaticus dexter, and lower down it has opening into it the right internal mammary, and right inferior thyroid vein. The Left vena innominata, considerably longer than the right,