158 TIBIOFIBULAR ARTICULATION. ference of the joint. On each side of the patella it lines the ten- dinous aponeuroses of the vastus internus and vastus externus muscle, and forms a pouch of considerable size between the extensor tendon and front of the femur. It also forms the folds in the in- terior of the joint, called "ligamentum mucosum," and "ligamenta alaria." The superior pouch of the synovial membrane is sup- ported and. raised during the movements of the limb by a small muscle, the subcrureus, which is inserted into it. Between the ligamentum patellae and synovial membrane is a considerable mass of fat, which presses the membrane towards the interior of the joint, and occupies the fossa between the condyles. Besides the proper ligaments of the articulation, the joint is strengthened in front by the fascia lata, which is thicker at the outer than the inner side, by a tendinous expansion from the vastus internus, and some scattered ligamentous fibres inserted into the sides of the patella. This expansion has been termed the capsular Actions.—The knee joint is one of the strongest of the articula- tions of the body, while, at the same time, it admits of the most perfect degree of movement in the direction of flexion and extension. During flexion the articular surface of the tibia glides forward on • the condyles of the femur ; the lateral ligaments, the posterior, and the crucial ligaments are relaxed ; while the ligamentum patellae, being on the stretch, serves to press the adipose mass behind it into the vacuity formed in the front of the joint. In extension all the ligaments are put on the stretch, with the exception of the liga- mentum patellae. When the knee is semi-flexed, a partial degree of rotation is permitted. 3. Articulation between the Tibia and Fibula.—The tibia and fibula are held firmly connected by means of seven ligaments, namely, Anterior, ) , Anterior, ) , , Posterior, j above' Posterior, j helow' Interosseous membrane, m t , . p . ' Transverse. Interosseous interior, The anterior superior tibio fibular ligament is a strong fasciculus of parallel fibres passing obliquely downwards and outwards from the outer tuberosity of the tibia, to the anterior surface of the head of the fibula. The posterior superior tibio-fibular ligament, thicker and stronger than the anterior, is disposed in a similar manner on the posterior surface of the joint. Within the articulation there is a synovial membrane which is sometimes continuous with that of the knee joint. The interosseous membrane, or superior interosseous ligament, is a broad, layer of aponeurotic fibres which pass obliquely downwards and outwards, from the sharp ridge on the tibia to the inner edge