126 LIGAMENTS OF THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN. Fig. 74.f vertebral surface, with the intervertebral substance, bodies of the ver- tebrae, and vessels, principally veins, which separate its central from its lateral portions. By its anterior or visceral surface it is'in relation, in the neck, with the longus colli mus- cles, pharynx and oesophagus ; in the thoracic region, with the aorta, venae azygos, and thoracic duct; in the lumbar region, with the aorta, right renal artery, right lumbar arteries, arteria sacra media, vena cava infe- rior, left lumbar veins, receptaculum chyli, commencement of the thoracic duct, and tendons of the diaphragm with the fibres of which the liga- mentous fibres interlace. The Posterior common ligament (fascia longitudinalis posterior) lies on the posterior surface of the bodies of the vertebrae, and extends from the axis to the sacrum. It is broad opposite the intervertebral sub- stance, to which it is closely adherent ; narrow and thick over the bodies of the vertebrae, from which it is separated by the veins of the base of each vertebra; and composed, like the anterior ligament, of shorter and longer fibres, arranged in a similar manner. It is broader above than below, the reverse of the anterior common ligament. The posterior common ligament is in relation by its anterior surface, with the intervertebral substance, bodies of the vertebrae, and venae basium vertebrarum ; by its posterior surface, with the dura mater of the spinal cord, some loose cel- lular tissue and numerous small veins being interposed. * Anterior ligament of the vertebrae, and ligaments of the ribs. 1. Anterior common ligament. 2. Anterior costo-vertebral or stellate ligament. 3. Anterior costo-transverse ligament. 4. Interarticular ligament connecting the head of the rib to the intervertebral substance, and separating the two synovial mem- branes of this articulation. , . t A posterior view of the bodies of three dorsal vertebrae, connected by their intervertebral substance 1, 1. The lamina? (2) have been sawn through near the bodies of the vertebra?, and the arches and processes removed, m order to show (3) the posterior common ligament. Part of one of the openings in the posterior surface of the vertebra, for the transmission of the vena basis vertebra?, is seen at 4, by the side of the narrow and unattached portion of the ligament.