260 POSTERIOR BRACHIAL REGION. Fig. 130. supinator brevis; by its lower border with the extensor secundi and priini internodii. It is crossed by branches of the posterior interosseous artery and nerve. The Extensor primi internodii pollicis (extensor pollicis brevis vel minor), the smallest of the muscles in this layer, arises from the interos- seous membrane and radius, and passes through the groove with the extensor ossis metacarpi, to be in- serted into the base of the first pha- lanx of the thumb. Relations.—The same as the pre- ceding muscle, with the exception of the extensor carpi ulnaris. The muscle accompanies the extensor ossis metacarpi. The Extensor secundi internodii pollicis (extensor pollicis longus vel major) arises from the ulna, and inter- osseous membrane. Its tendon passes through a separate groove in the ra- dius, and is inserted into the base of the last phalanx of the thumb. Relations.—By its external surface, the same as the extensor ossis meta- carpi. By its deep surface with the ulna, interosseous membrane, radius, wrist-joint, radial artery, and meta- carpal bone of the thumb. The muscle is placed between the extensor primi internodii and extensor indicis. The Extensor indicis (indicator) arises from the ulna, as high up as the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, and inferiorly from the interosseous membrane. Its tendon passes beneath the posterior annular ligament to be inserted into the aponeurosis of the common extensor tendon of the index finger. Relations.—The same as the preceding muscle, with the excep- tion of the hand, where the tendon rests on the metacarpal bone * Deep layer of muscles of the posterior aspect of the forearm. 1. Humerus. 2. Olecranon. 3. Ulna. 4. Anconeus. 5. Supinator brevis. 6. Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. 7. Extensor primi internodii pollicis. 8. Extensor secundi internodii pollicis. 9. Extensor indicis. 10. First dorsal interosseous muscle. The other three dorsal interossei are seen between the metacarpal bones of their respective fingers.