ANATOMY OF THE HEART. 582 fifth and sixth rib, at about two or three inches from the sternum.* Its under side is flattened, and rests on the tendinous portion of the diaphragm ; its upper side is rounded and convex, and formed principally by the right ventricle, and partly by the left. Sur- mounting the ventricles are the corresponding auricles, whose auri- cular appendages are directed forwards, and slightly overlap the root of the pulmonary artery. The pulmonary artery is the large anterior vessel at the root of the heart; it crosses obliquely the commencement of the aorta. The heart consists of two auricles and two ventricles, which are respectively named, from their posi- tion, right and left. The right is the venous side of the heart; it receives into its auricle the venous blood from every part of the body, by the superior and inferior cava and coronary vein. From the auricle the blood passes into the ventricle, and from the ven- tricle through the pulmonary artery, to the capillaries of the lungs. From these it is returned as arterial blood to the left auricle ; from the left auricle it passes into the left ventricle ; and from the left ventricle is carried through the aorta, to be distributed to every part of the body, and again returned to the heart by the veins. This constitutes the course of the adult circulation. The heart is best studied in situ. If, however, it be removed from the body, it should be placed in the position indicated by the above description of its situation. A transverse incision should then be made along the ventricular margin of the right auricle, from the appendix to its right border, and crossed by a perpendi- cular incision, carried from the side of the superior to the inferior cava. The blood must then be removed. Some fine specimens of white fibrin are frequently found with the coagula; occasionally they are yellow and gelatinous. The older anatomists called these substances " polypus of the heart;" they are usually met with in the right ventricle, and sometimes in the left cavities. The Right Auricle is larger than the left, and consists of a principal cavity or sinus, and an appendix auriculas. The interior of the sinus presents for examination five openings ; two valves ; two relicts of foetal structure ; and two peculiarities in the proper passes through the auriculo-ventricular opening into the ventricle, and thence through the pulmonary artery to the lungs. 16. Left auricle. 17. Openings of the four pulmonary veins. 18. Auriculo-ventricular opening. 19. Left ventricle. 20. Mitral valve, attached by its chordse tendinea? to two large columnar carnese, which project from the walls of the ventricle. 21. Com- mencement and course of the ascending aorta behind the pulmonary artery, marked by an arrow. The entrance of the vessel is guarded by three semilunar valves. 22. Arch of the aorta. The comparative thickness of the two ventricles is shown in the diagram. The course of the pure blood through the left side of the heart is marked by arrows. The blood is brought from the lungs by the four pulmonary veins into the left auricle, and passes through the auriculo- ventricular opening into the left ventricle, whence it is conveyed by the aorta to every part of the body. * The size of the heart is about five inches in length, three inches and a-half in greatest breadth, and two and a-half in thickness. Its weight is about eleven ounces injthe male, and nine ounces in the female.