508 ULNAR NERVE. The Anterior interosseous is a large branch accompanying the anterior interosseous artery, and supplying the deep layer of muscles of the forearm ; being lost inferiority in the pronator quadratus. The Superficial 'palmar branch arises from the median at about the lower fourth of the forearm ; it crosses the annular ligament, and is distributed to the integument of the palm of the hand, and ball of the thumb. The median nerve at its termination in the palm of the hand is spread out and flattened, and divides into six branches, one mus- cular and five digital. The muscular branch is distributed to the muscles of the ball of the thumb. The digital branches are arranged as follows : two pass outwards to the thumb and supply its borders; the third runs along the radial side of the index finger, sending a twig to the first lumbri- calis, in its course ; the fourth subdivides for the supply of the adjacent sides of the index and middle finger, and gives a twig to the second lumbricalis ; the fifth receives a filament of communica- tion from the ulnar nerve, and supplies the collateral branches of the middle and ring finger. Opposite the base of the first phalanx, each nerve gives off a dorsal branch which„runs along the border of the dorsum of the finger. Near its extremity the nerve divides into a palmar and a dorsal branch ; the former supplying the sentient extremity of the finger ; the latter the structures around and beneath the nail. The digital nerves in their course along the fingers lie to the inner side of and superficially to the arteries ; and the nerve of one side of a finger has no communication with that of the opposite side. The Ulnar nerve is somewhat smaller than the median, behind which it lies, gradually diverging from it in its course. It arises from the inner cord of the brachial plexus in common with the internal head of the median and internal cutaneous nerve, and runs down the inner side of the arm, to the groove between the internal condyle and olecranon, resting on the internal head of the triceps, and accompanied by the inferior profunda artery. At the elbow it is superficial, and supported by the inner condyle, against which it may be compressed, giving rise to the thrilling sensation along the inner side of the forearm and little finger, popularly ascribed to cular branches. 13. Anterior interosseous branch. 14. The point at which the nerve passes beneath the annular ligament and divides into six terminal branches. The branch which crosses the annular ligament is the superficial palmar. 15. Ulnar nerve. 16. The point at which it passes between the two heads of the flexor carpi ulnaris. 17. Its dorsal branch. 18. Termination of the nerve, dividing into a superficial and deep palmar branch. 19. Musculo- spiral nerve. 20. Muscular branches to the triceps. 21. Cutaneous nerve. 22. Posterior interosseous nerve piercing the supinator brevis muscle. 23. Ea- dial nerve. The last two nerves are the terminal branches of the musculo- spiral. 24. The point at which the radial nerve pierces the deep fascia. 25. Circumflex nerve.