165 CHAPTER III. OF THE MUSCLES. Muscles are the moving organs of the animal frame ; they con- stitute by their size and number the great bulk of the body, upon which they bestow form and symmetry. In the limbs they are situated around the bones, which they invest and defend, while they form "to some of the joints a principal protection. In the trunk they are spread out to enclose cavities and constitute a defensive wall, capable of yielding to internal pressure, and again returning to its original position. Their colour presents the deep red which is characteristic of flesh, and their form is variously modified, to execute the varied range of movements which they are required to effect. Muscle is composed of a number of parallel fibres placed side by side, and supported and held together by a delicate web of areolar tissue; so that, if it were possible to remove the muscular substance, we should have remaining a beautiful reticular framework, possess- ing the exact form and size of the muscle without its colour and solidity. Towards the extremity of the organ the muscular fibre ceases, and the fibrous structure becomes aggregated and modified, so as to constitute those glistening fibres and cords by which the muscle is tied to the surface of bone, and which are called tendons. Almost every muscle of the body is connected with bone, either by tendinous fibres, or by an aggregation of those fibres constituting a tendon ; and the union is so firm, that, under extreme violence, the bone itself breaks rather than permit the separation of the tendon from its attachment. In the broad muscle the tendon is spread out so as to form an expansion, called aponeurosis (awb, longe ; vevpov* nervus, a nerve widely spread out). Muscles present various modifications in the arrangement of their fibres in relation to their tendinous structure. Sometimes they are longitudinal, and terminate at each extremity in tendon, the entire muscle being fusiform in shape ; in other situations they are dis- posed like the rays of a fan, converging to a tendinous point, as the temporal, pectoral, glutei, &c, and constitute a radiate muscle. Again, they are penniform, converging like the barbs of a feather to one side of a tendon, which runs the whole length of the muscle, as in the peronei; or bipenniform, converging to both sides of the tendon. In other muscles the fibres pass obliquely from the sur- * The ancients named all the white fibres of the body vevpd: the term has since been limited to the nerves.