108 TARSUS.—ASTRAGALUS. two peronei muscles. The internal surface commences on the side of the superior articular surface, and terminates below, by narrow- ing to a ridge which is continuous with the anterior border of the malleolus. It is marked along its middle by the interosseous ridge, which is lost above and below in the inner border of the bone. The posterior surface is twisted like the external, it commences above on the posterior side of the bone, and terminates below on its in- ternal side; at about the middle of this surface is the nutritious foramen, which is directed downwards. The internal border commences superiorly in common with the interosseous ridge, and bifurcates inferiorly into two lines, which bound the triangular subcutaneous surface of the external malleolus. The external border begins at the base of the styloid process of the head, and winds around the bone, following the direction of the corresponding surface. The posterior border, sharp and prominent, is lost inferiorly in the interosseous ridge. Development.—By three centres ; one for the shaft, and one for each extremity. Ossification commences in the shaft soon after its appearance in the tibia ; at birth the extremities are cartilaginous, an osseous deposit taking place in the inferior epiphysis during the second year, and in the superior during the fouith or fifth. The inferior epiphysis is the first to become united with the diaphysis, but the bone is not completed until nearly the twenty-fifth year. Articulations.—With the tibia and astragalus. Attachment of Muscles.—To ten; by the head, to the tendon of the biceps and soleus ; by the shaft, its external surface, peroneus longus and brevis ; internal surface, extensor longus digitorum, ex- tensor proprius pollicis, peroneus tertius, and tibialis posticus ; by the posterior surface, popliteus and flexor longus pollicis. Tarsus.—The bones of the tarsus are seven in number-: viz., astragalus, os calcis, scaphoid, internal, middle, and external cunei- form, and cuboid. The Astragalus (os tali) may be recognised by its rounded head, a broad articular facet on its convex surface, and two articular facets, separated by a deep groove, on its concave surface. The bone is divisible into a superior and inferior surface, an ex- ternal and internal border, and an anterior and posterior extremity. The superior surface is convex, and presents a large quadrilateral and smooth facet, somewhat broader in front than behind, to articulate with the tibia. The inferior surface is concave, and divided by a deep and rough groove (sulcus tali), which lodges a strong interos- seous ligament, into two facets, the posterior large and quadran- gular, the anterior smaller and elliptic, which articulate with the os calcis. The internal border, flat and uneven, is marked by a pyriform articular surface for the inner malleolus. The external presents a large triangular articular facet, for the external malleolus,