649- STRUCTURAL ANATOMY OF THE LIVER. t Longitudinal section of two lobules. 1. A superficial lobule, terminating branch of the portal vein from an hepatic vein ; the farmer will be found more or less collapsed, and always accompanied by an artery and duct, and the latter widely open and solitary,. The Lymphatics of the liver are described in the Chapter dedi- cated to those vessels. ■ * > > v \ The Nerves of the liver are derived from the spinal and sympa- thetic system ; the former proceed from the right phrenic>and rights pneumogastric nerve, the latter from the hepatic plexus. Structure and Minute Anatomy of the Liver. The Liver is composed of lobules, of a connecting medium, called Glisson's capsule, of the ramifications of the portal vein, hepatic duct, hepatic artery, hepatic veins, lymphatics, and nerves, Fig. 259.* and is enclosed and retained in its situation by the peritoneum. The Lobules are small granu- lar bodies of about the size of a millet seed, of irregular form, and presenting a number of rounded prominences on their surface. When divided longi- tudinally, they have a foliated appearance, and transversely, a polygonal outline, with sharp or rounded angles, according to the smaller or greater quantity of Grlisson's capsule contained in the liver. Each lobule is divided on its exterior into a base and a capsular surface. The base corresponds with one extremity of the lobule, is flattened, and rests on an hepatic vein, which is thence named sublobular. The capsular surface includes the rest of the periphery of the lobule, and has received its designation from being enclosed in an areolar capsule derived from the capsule of Glisson. In the centre of each lobule is a small vein, the intralobular, which is formed by the convergence of six or eight minute venules from the * Lobules of the liver. The lobules as they are seen on the surface of the liver, or when divided transversely. 1. Intralobular vein in the centre of each lobule. 2. Interlobular fissure. 3. Interlobular space. abruptly, and resembling a section at its extremity. 2. A deep lobule, show- ing the foliated appearance of its section. 3. Intralobular vein, with its con- verging venules; the vein terminates in a sublobular vein. 4. External, or capsular surface of the lobule. Fig. 260.f