THE KIDNEYS. 662 in the renal and phrenic veins and inferior vena cava. The lym- phatic vessels are numerous, and belong to the exterior of the organ ; they terminate in the lumbar glands. The nerves are very numerous, and derived from the renal and phrenic plexus ; Kolliker counted as many as thirty-three trunks, composed of dark-bordered nerve-fibres and provided with isolated ganglia. They are distributed to the medullary substance only, in which they form a rich nervous plexus. THE KIDNEYS. The kidneys, the secreting organs of the urine, are situated in the lumbar regions, behind the peritoneum, and at each side of the vertebral column, extending from the eleventh rib to near the crest of the ilium, and approaching the vertebral column by their upper end. Each kidney is between four and five inches in length, about two inches and a half in breadth, somewhat more than one inch in thickness, and weighs between three and five ounces. The kidneys are usually surrounded by fat; they, rest on the crura of .the dia- phragm, on the anterior lamella of the aponeurosis of the trans- versalis muscle, which separates them from the quadratus lum- borum, and on the psoas maguus. The right kidney is somewhat lower than the left, from the position of the liver ; it is in relation, by its anterior surface, with the liver and descending portion of the duodenum, which rests against it ; and is covered in by the ascend- ing colon. The left kidney, higher than the right, is covered, in front, by the great end of the stomach, the spleen, and descend- ing colon. The anterior surface of the kidney is convex, the pos- terior is flat; the superior extremity is in relation with the supra- renal capsule ; the convex border is turned outwards towards the parietes of the abdomen ; the concave border looks inwards towards the vertebral column, and presents a deepnotch (hilum renale), which leads to a cavity, or sinus, within the organ. In the sinus renalis are situated the vessels and nerves of the kidney and the expansion of the excretory duct called pelvis renalis. At the hilum these vessels are so placed that the renal vein is in front of the artery, and the pelvis and ureter behind. The kidney is surrounded by a thick layer of fat, 'contained in the meshes of a loose areolar tissue, the adipose capsule; and immediately enclosed in a proper fibrous capsule, which is thin, firm, and whitish, and composed of dense areolar tissue intermingled with elastic fibres. The capsula propria is adherent by its inner surface to a thin layer, formed by the condensed areolar stroma of the organ, from which it may be easily torn. The substance of the kidney is dense and fragile, and when divided by a longitudinal incision, exhibits two structures, different in colour and texture,— an external vascxdar or cortical portion; and an internal tubular or medullary portion. The tubular portion consists of from eight