534 GREAT SPLANCHNIC NERVE. which pass behind the right pulmonary artery are distributed to the right auricle ; a third set of filaments, proceeding from the right division of the deep cardiac plexus, follow the course of the right pulmonary artery to the anterior pulmonary plexus. From the left division of the plexus branches proceed beneath the arch of the aorta immediately to the right of the ligament of the ductus arteriosus to join the superficial cardiac plexus ; others pass outwards with the pulmonary artery to the pulmonary plexus ; a few descend to the left auricle; but the chief bulk pass on to the right coronary artery and form the posterior coronary plexus. The Anterior coronary plexus proceeds from the superficial car- diac plexus, and receives other filaments from the deep cardiac plexus. It is distributed with the branches of the coronary artery on the anterior aspect of the heart. The Posterior coronary plexus proceeds from the deep cardiac plexus and principally from its left division. It follows the course of the arteries distributed to the posterior aspect of the heart. THORACIC PORTION OF THE SYMPATHETIC NERVE. The thoracic portion of the sympathetic nerve is the trunk of the sympathetic in its course through the cavity of the thorax. It lies by the side of the vertebral column on the heads of the ribs and intercostal spaces ; but at its lowest part comes into relation with the sides of the bodies of the last two dorsal vertebrae. The Thoracic ganglia are twelve in number at each side. They are flattened and triangular, or irregular in form, and present the peculiar reddish grey colour and pearly lustre of sympathetic ganglia in general; they rest against the heads of the ribs, and are covered by the pleura costalis. The first two ganglia and the last are usually the largest; the latter being situated on the side of the body of the last dorsal vertebra. Their branches are branches of communication and branches of distribution. Some ascending filaments from the first ganglion assist in the formation of the vertebral plexus. The external or communicating branches, usually two in number for each ganglion, communicate with the intercostal nerves. The internal or visceral branches proceeding from the five or six upper ganglia, are of small size, and distributed to the aorta, oesophagus, vertebral column, and lungs. The branches to the lungs proceed from the third and fourth ganglia, and go to join the posterior pulmonary plexus. The visceral branches of the six lower ganglia unite to form the three splanchnic nerves. The Great splanchnic nerve proceeds from the sixth dorsal gan- glioD, and receiving the branches of the seventh, eighth, ninth, and tenth, passes downwards along the front of the vertebral column, and, piercing the crus of the diaphragm, terminates in the semi- lunar ganglion.