MUSCLES OP THE NECK. 194 Relations.—By its superficial or inferior surface with the mylo- hyoideus ; by the deep or superior surface with the lower border of the genio-hyo-glossus. 2%. 112.* The GrENIO-HTO-GLOS- sus(7A<3 <r era, thetongue) is a triangular muscle, narrow and pointed at z its origin from the lower f^, jaw, broad and fan- shaped at its attach- ment to the tongue. It arises from a tubercle immediately above that of the genio-hyoideus, and spreads out to be inserted into the whole length of the tongue, from base to apex, and into the os hyoides. Relations. — By its inner surface with its fellow of the opposite side. By its outer sur- face with the mylo-hyoi- deus, hyo-glossus, stylo- glossus, lingualis, sub- lingual gland, lingual artery, and hypoglossal nerve. By its upper border with the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth, in the situation of the frsenuin linguze ; by its lower border with the genio-hyoideus. Actions.—The whole of this group of muscles acts on the os hyoides when the lower jaw is closed, and on the lower jaw when the os hyoides is drawn downwards and fixed by the depressors of the os hyoides and larynx. The genio-hyo-glossus, is moreover, a muscle of the tongue ; its action upon that organ will be considered with the next group. * Styloid muscles and muscles of the tongue. 1. Portion of the temporal bone of the left side, with the styloid and mastoid process, and meatus audi- torius externus. 2, 2. The right side of the lower jaw, divided at its sym- physis ; the left side having been removed. 3. Tongue. 4, Genio-hyoideus. 5. Genio-hyo-glossus. 6. Hyo-glossus; its basio-glossus portion. 7. Its cerato-glossus portion. 8. Anterior fibres of the lingualis issuing from be- tween the hyo-glossus and genio-hyo-glossus. 9. Stylo-glossus, with part of the stylo-maxillary ligament. 10. Stylo-hyoideus. 11. Stylo-pharyngeus. 12. Os hyoides. 13. Thyro-hyoidean membrane.*, 14. Thyroid cartilage. 15. Thyro-hyoideus muscle arising from the oblique line of the thyroid carti- lage. 16. Cricoid cartilage. 17. Crico-thyroidean membrane, through which the operation of laryngotomy is performed. 18. Trachea. 19. Commence- ment of the oesophagus.