253 FLEXOR SUBLIMIS DIGITORUM. Fig. 127.* The Flexor carpi radialis arises froaa tlie inner condyle, deep fascia and intermuscular septa. Its tendon passes through a groove in the trapezium bone, to he inserted into the base of the metacarpal hone of the index finger. Relations.—By its anterior surface with the deep fascia of the forearm, and at the wrist with the tendinous canal through whichits tendon passes. By its posterior surface with the flexor sublimis digitorum, flexor lougus pol- licis, wrist joint, and groove in the trapezium bone. By its outer border with the pronator radii teres, radial artery and veins. By its inner border with the palmaris longus. The tendon is surrounded by synovial membrane, where it plays through the tendinous canal of the wrist. The Palmaris longus is a small muscle which arises from the inner condyle, deep fascia, and intermus- cular septa. Its tendon pierces the deep fascia and crosses the annular ligament to be inserted into the palmar fascia. Relations. —By its anterior surface with the deep fascia of the forearm. By the posterior surface with the flexor sublimis digitorum ; to the ex- ternal side with the flexor carpi ra- dialis ; and to the internal side with the flexor carpi ulnaris. Cut the flexor carpi radialis and palmaris longus from their origin, in order to obtain a good view of the whole extent of origin of the flexor sublimis digitorum. The Flexor sublimis digitorum (perforatus) arises from the inner condyle, intermuscular septa, internal lateral ligament, coro- * Superficial layer of muscles of the forearm. 1. Biceps, with its tendon. 2. Brachialis anticus, seen beneath biceps. 3. Part of triceps. 4. Pronator radii teres. 5. Plexor carpi radialis. 6. Palmaris longus. 7. One of the fasci- culi of the flexor sublimis digitorum ; the rest of the muscle is seen beneath the tendons of the palmaris longus and flexor carpi radialis. 8. Flexor carpi ulnaris.. 9. Palmar fascia. iO. Palmaris brevis. 11. Abductor pollicis. 12. Flexor brevis pollicis; the leading line crosses part of the abductor pol- licis. 13. Supinator longus. 14. Extensor ossis metacarpi and extensor primi internodii pollicis, curving around the lower border of the forearm.