PHALANGES. 94 muscles ; the base is irregularly quadrilateral, and rough for the in- sertion of tendons and ligaments. The base presents three articular surfaces : one at each side, for adjoining metacarpal bones ; and one at the extremity, for the carpus. The metacarpal bone of the thumb is one-third shorter than the rest, flattened and broad on its dorsal aspect, and convex on its palmar side; the articular surface of the head is not so round as that of the other metacarpal bones ; and the base has a single con- cavo-convex surface, to articulate with the corresponding surface of the trapezium. The metacarpal bones of the different fingers may be distinguished by certain special characters. The base of the metacarpal bone of the index finger is the largest of the four, and presents four arti- cular surfaces. That of the middle finger may be distinguished by a rounded projecting process at the radial side of its base, and two small circular facets on its ulnar lateral surface. The base of the metacarpal bone of the ring-finger is small and square, and has two small circular facets to correspond with those of the middle meta- carpal. The metacarpal bone of the little finger has only one lateral articular surface. Development.—By two centres; one for the shaft, and one for the digital extremity, with the exception of the metacarpal bone of the thumb, the epiphysis of which, like that of the phalanges, occupies the carpal end of the bone. Ossification of the metacarpal bones commences in the embryo between the tenth and twelfth week, that is, soon after the bones of the fore-arm. The epiphyses make their appearance at the end of the second, or early in the third year, and the bones are completed at twenty. Articulations.—The first with the trapezium; second, trape- zium, trapezoides, os magnum, and middle metacarpal; third or middle, os magnum, and adjoining metacarpal bones ; fourth, os magnum, unciforme, and adjoining metacarpal bones ; fifth, unci- forme, and metacarpal bone of the ring-finger. The figures representing the number of articulations which each metacarpal bone possesses, taken from the radial to the ulnar side, are 13121. Attachment of Muscles.—To the metacarpal bone of the thumb, three, flexor ossis metacarpi, extensor ossis metacarpi, and first dorsal interosseous ; index finger, five, extensor carpi radialis longior, flexor carpi radialis, first and second dorsal and first palmar inter- osseous ; middle finger, four, extensor carpi radialis brevior, ad- ductor pollicis, second and third dorsal interosseous ; ring-finger, three, third and fourth dorsal interosseous, and second palmar ; little finger, four, extensor carpi ulnaris, adductor minimi digiti, fourth dorsal and third palmar interosseous. Phalanges.—The phalanges (internodia) are the bones of the fingers; they are named from their arrangement in rows, and are