SCAPULA. 83 length, very strong, and gives attachment to several ligaments and muscles. Development.—By six Fig. 51.* centres; one for the body, „ one for the coracoid pro- cess, two for the acro- mion, one for the inferior angle, and one for the posterior border. The os- sific centre for the body appears in the infra- spinous fossa at about the same time as the ossifica- tion of the vertebrae ; for the coracoid process during the first year ; the acromion process, at pu- berty ; the inferior angle in the fifteenth year ; and the posterior border at seventeen or eighteen. Union between the cora- coid process and body takes place during the fifteenth year; the bone is not complete till man- hood. Articulations.—With the clavicle and humerus. Attachment of Muscles.—To sixteen: by its anterior surface to the subscapularis; posterior surface, supra-spinatus and infra- spinatus ; superior border, omo-hyoid; posterior border, levator anguli seapulse, rhomboideus minor, rhomboideus major, serratus magnus; anterior border, long head of the triceps, teres minor, teres major ; upper angle of the glenoid cavity, long tendon of the biceps ; spine and acromion, trapezius and deltoid ; coracoid pro- cess, pectoralis minor, short head of the biceps, and coraco- brachialis. The ligaments attached to the coracoid process are, coracoid, coraco-clavicular, coraco-humeral, and the costo-coracoid membrane. * Posterior view of the scapula. 1. Supra-spinous fossa. 2. Infra-spinous fossa. 3. Superior border. 4. Supra-scapular notch. 5. Anterior or axillary border. 6. Head of the scapula and glenoid cavity. 7. Inferior angle. 8. Neck of the scapula; the ridge opposite the figure gives origin to the long head of the triceps. 9. Posterior border or base of the scapula. 10. The spine. 11. Triangular smooth surface, over which the tendon of the trapezius glides". The prominent process between 10 and 11 is the tuberculum spinse scapulae. 12. Acromion process. 13. One of the nutritious foramina. 14. Coracoid process. g 2