AXILLARY ARTERY. -349 scapularis muscle, to the inferior angle of the scapula, where it inosculates with the posterior scapular, a branch from the sub- clavian. It supplies the muscles of the under surface and inferior border of the scapula, and the side of the chest. At about an inch and a half from the axillary, it gives off a large branch, the dorsalis scapulas (circumflexa scapulae), which passes backwards through the triangular space bounded by the teres minor, teres major, and scapular head of the triceps, and beneath the infra-spinatus muscle to the dorsum of the scapula, where it is distributed, inosculating with the suprascapular and posterior scapular artery. The Circumflex arteries (circumflexse humeri) wind around the neck of the humerus. The anterior, very small, passes beneath the coraco-brachialis and short head of the biceps, and sends a branch upwards along the bicipital groove to supply the shoulder-joint. The Posterior circumflex, of larger size, passes backwards through the quadrangular space bounded by the teres minor and major, the scapular head of the triceps, and humerus, and is distributed to the deltoid muscle and shoulder-joint. Sometimes this artery is a branch of the superior profunda of the brachial. It then ascends behind the tendon of the teres major, and is distributed to the deltoid without passing through the quadrangular space. Varieties of the Axillary artery.—The most frequent peculiarity of this kind is the division of the vessel into two trunks of equal size : a muscular trunk, which gives off some of the ordinary axil- lary branches and supplies the upper arm, and a continued trunk, which represents the brachial artery. The next most frequent variety is the high division of the ulnar which passes down the arm by the side of the brachial artery, and superficially to the muscles proceeding from the inner condyle, to its ordinary distribution in the hand. In this course it lies immediately beneath the deep fascia of the forearm, and may be seen and felt pulsating beneath the integument. The high division of the radial from the axillary is rare. In one instance, I saw the axillary artery divide into three branches of nearly equal size, which passed together down the arm, and at the bend of the elbow resolved themselves into radial, ulnar, and interosseous. But the most interesting variety, both in a physiological and surgical sense, is that described by Dr. Jones Quain, in his "Elements of Anatomy." {;I found in the dis- secting-room, a few years ago, a variety not hitherto noticed; it was at first taken for the ordinary high division of the ulnar artery. The two vessels descended from the point of division at the border of the axilla, and lay parallel with one another in their course through the arm ; but instead of diverging, as is usual, at the bend of the elbow, they converged, and united so as to form a short trunk, which soon divided again into the radial and ulnar arteries in the regular way." In a subject, dissected by myself, this variety existed in both arms ; and I have seen several instances of a similar kind.