MUSCLES OF THE FACE. 178 The Obliqttus superior (trochlearis) is a fusiform muscle arising from the margin of the optic foramen, and from the fibrous sheath of the optic nerve ; it passes forward to the pulley at the internal angular process of the frontal bone ; its tendon is then reflected outwards beneath the superior rectus to the outer part of the globe of the eye, where it is inserted into the sclerotic coat, at about midway between the margin of the cornea and the optic nerve. The trochlea or pulley of the superior oblique muscle is a fibro- cartilaginous ring attached to the depression beneath the internal angular process of the frontal bone. The ring is flat, about a line in width, and provided with a synovial membrane, which is con- tinued, together with a fibrous sheath, for a short distance, upon the tendon. Sometimes the ring is supported, or in part formed, by a process of bone. Relations.—By its superior surface with the fourth nerve, supra-trochlear nerve, and periosteum of the orbit. By the infe- rior surface with the adipose tissue of the orbit, upper border of the internal rectus, and the vessels and nerves crossing that border. The Obliquus inferior, a thin and narrow muscle, arises from the inner margin of the superior maxillary bone, immediately external to the lachrymal groove, and passes beneath the inferior rectus, to be inserted into the outer and posterior part of the eye- ball, at about two lines from the entrance of the optic nerve. Relations.—By its superior surface with the inferior rectus muscle and eyeball; by the inferior surface with the periosteum of the floor of the orbit, and external rectus. According to Ferrall*" the muscles of the orbit are separated from the globe of the eyeball and structures immediately surround- ing- the optic nerve, by a fascia, which is continuous with the broad tarsal ligament and tarsal cartilages. This fascia the author terms tunica vaginalis oculi ;f it is pierced anteriorly, for the passage of the six orbital muscles, by six openings, through which the tendons of the muscles play as through pulleys. The use assigned to it by Ferrall is to protect the eyeball from the pressure of its muscles during their action ; by its means, also, the recti muscles are enabled to give a rotatory movement to the eyeball; and in brutes antagonize the retractor muscle. Actions.—The levator palpebral raises the upper eyelid. The four recti, acting singly, pull the eyeball in the four directions ; upwards, downwards, inwards, and outwards. Acting by pairs, they carry the eyeball in the diagonal of these directions, viz., upwards and inwards, upwards and outwards, downwards and inwards, downwards and outwards. Acting all together, they directly retract the globe within the orbit. The superior oblique muscle, acting alone, rolls the globe inwards and forwards, and carries the pupil outwards and downwards to the lower and outer * In a paper read before the Koyal Society, on the 10th of June, 1841. t First described by Dalrymple, " Anatomy of the Human Eye." 1834.