657 THE PANCREAS. capsule ; opposite the first and second lumbar vertebra. It is divided into a body, a greater, and a smaller extremity ; the great end or head is placed towards the right, and surrounded by the curve of the duodenum ; the lesser end extends to the left as far as the spleen. The anterior surface of the body of the pancreas is covered by the ascending posterior layer of peritoneum, and is in relation with the stomach, the first portion of the duodenum, and the commencement of the transverse arch of the colon. The posterior surface is grooved for the splenic vein, and tunneled by a complete canal for the superior mesenteric and portal vein, and superior mesenteric artery. The upper border presents a deep groove, sometimes a canal, for the splenic artery and vein, and is in relation with the oblique portion of the duodenum, lobus Spigelii, and coeliac axis. And the lower border is separated from the transverse por- tion of the duodenum by the superior mesenteric artery and vein. On the posterior part of the head of the pancreas is a lobular fold of the gland which completes the canal of the superior mesenteric vessels, and is called the lesser pancreas. The pancreatic duct (duct of Wirsung) commences at the small extremity of the organ by two branches, which converge and unite after a course of about one-third the length of the gland. The duct is then continued onwards from left to right, gradually increasing in size, and lying nearer the anterior than the posterior surface of the organ, to the lower part of the descending duodenum, where it terminates on the papilla of mucous membrane, common to it and the ductus communis choledochus. The duct receives numerous branches which open into it on all sides from the lobules of the gland, and at its termination is slightly dilated and passes obliquely between the muscular and mucous coat of the intestine to reach the papilla. The duct which receives the secretion from the lesser pancreas is called the ductus pancreaticus minor; it opens into the principal duct near the duodenum, and sometimes passes separately into that intestine. As a variety, two pancreatic ducts are occa- sionally met with. In structure the pancreas presents the ordinary composition of a compound racemose gland, being made up of lobes, and these of reddish-yellow polyhedral lobules, which latter consist of smaller lobules, and the smallest lobules of the ramifications of minute ducts, terminating in glandular vesicles. The glandular vesicles are rounded in form (fig. 233), and composed of a membrana propria, lined by a spheroidal epithelium of nucleated cells ; the cells being somewhat opake from the presence of fat granules as part of their contents. The ducts are composed of areolar and elastic tissue, and lined by a columnar epithelium. In the walls of the ducts are numerous small racemose mucous glands like those in the hepatic ducts. The secretion of the pancreas is a clear fluid, without formed elements. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries of the pancreas are branches u u