INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. 368 front with the peritoneum, and is crossed by the rectum and superior hemorrhoidal artery, and, at its bifurcation, by the ureter. It is in relation behind with the left common iliac vein, and externally with the psoas magnus. The Internal iliao artery (iliaca interna; hypogastrica) is a short trunk, varying in length from an inch to two inches. It descends obliquely forwards to a point opposite the upper margin of the great sacro-ischiatic foramen, where it divides into an anterior and a posterior trunk. In the foetus, the internal iliac artery, under the name of hypogastric or umbilical, is continued onwards by the side of the fundus of the bladder to near its apex, whence it ascends by the side of the linea alba and urachus to the umbilicus, where it becomes the true umbilical artery. After birth, this artery ceases to be pervious beyond the side of the bladder, and the obliterated portion is converted into a fibrous cord. The projection of the two cords on the inner wall of the abdomen causes the depression at each side, which goes by the name of peritoneal fossa. Relations.—This artery rests externally on the sacral plexus and * Iliac arteries. 1. Aorta. 2. Left common iliac artery. 3. External iliac. 4. Epigastric artery. 5. Cireumflexa ilii. 6. Internal iliac artery. 7. Its anterior trunk. 8. Its posterior trunk. 9. The pervious portion of the umbilical artery giving off (10) the superior vesical artery. 11. Internal pudic artery passing behind the spine of the ischium (12) and lesser sacro- ischiatic ligament. 13. Middle hemorrhoidal artery. 14. Ischiatic artery, also passing behind the anterior sacro-ischiatic ligament to escape from the pelvis. 16. Ilio-lumbar, ascending to inosculate with the cireumflexa ilii artery (5) and form an arch along the crest of the ilium. 17. Obturator artery. 18. Lateral sacral. 19. Gluteal artery passing through the upper part of the great sacro-ischiatic foramen. 20. Sacra media. 21. Eight com- mon iliac artery cut short. 22. Femoral arterv. Fig. 160.*