NASAL FOSSJE. 66 the superior and middle turbinated "bone being processes of the ethmoid ; the inferior, a distinct bone of the face. The superior meatus occupies the superior and posterior part of each fossa : it is situated between the superior and middle turbinated bone, and has opening into it three foramina, viz., foramen of the posterior eth- moid cells, foramen of the sphenoid cells, and spheno-palatine foramen. The middle meatus is the space between the middle and inferior turbinated bone ; it also presents three foramina, the open- ing of the frontal sinus, of the anterior ethmoid cells, and of the antrum. The largest of the three passages is the inferior meatus, which is the space between the inferior turbinated bone and the floor of the nasal fossa ; in it there are two foramina, the termina- tion of the nasal duct, and one opening of the anterior palatine canal. The nasal fossse commence upon the face by a large irregular opening, the anterior nares, and terminate posteriorly in the two posterior nares. * Longitudinal section of the nasal fossse made immediately to the right of the middle line, the bony septum removed in order to show the external wall of the left fossa. 1. Frontal bone. 2. Nasal bone. 3. Crista galli process of the ethmoid. The groove between 1 and 3 is the lateral boundary of the foramen caecum. 4. Cribriform plate of the ethmoid. 5. Part of the sphenoidal cells. 6. Basilar portion of the sphenoid bone. Bones 2, 4, and 5, form the superior boundary of the nasal fossa. 7, 7. Articulating surface of the palatine process of the superior maxillary bone. The groove between 7, 7, is the lateral half of the incisive canal, and the dark aperture in the groove the inferior termination of the left naso-palatine canal. 8. Nasal spine. 9. Palatine process of the palate bone. a. Superior turbinated bone, marked by grooves and apertures for filaments of the olfactory nerve, b. Superior meatus, c. A probe passed into the posterior ethmoidal cells, d. Opening of the sphenoidal cells into the superior meatus, e. Spheno-palatine foramen. Fig. 40.*