61 BASE OF THE SKULL. nerve ; and, immediately beneath this, a smaller foramen, for the nervus petrosus superficialis minor. Towards the apex of the petrous portion is the notch for the fifth nerve, and below it a slight depression for the Casserian ganglion. Farther outwards is the eminence which marks the position of the perpendicular semicircu- lar canal. Proceeding from the foramen spinosum are two grooves, which indicate the course of the trunks of the arteria meningea media. The whole fossa lodges the middle lobes of the cerebrum. The 'posterior fossa, larger than the other two, is formed by the occipital bone, petrous and mastoid portion of the temporals, and by a small part of the sphenoid and parietals. It is bounded in front by the upper border of the petrous portion and dorsum ephippii, and along its posterior circumference by the groove for the lateral sinuses; it gives support to the pons Varolii, medulla oblongata, and cerebellum. In the centre of this fossa is the foramen magnum, bounded at each side by a rough tubercle, which gives attachment to the odontoid ligament, and by the anterior condyloid foramen. In front of the foramen magnum is the concave surface (clivus Blumenbachii) which supports the medulla oblongata and pons Yarolii, and, on each side, the following foramina, from before backwards. The internal auditory foramen, for the auditory and facial nerve and auditory artery ; behind, and externally to this, is a smq.ll foramen leading into the aquceductus vestibuli ; and below it, partly concealed by the edge of the petrous bone, the aqw&ductus cochlece; next, a long fissure, the foramen lacerum posterius, or jugular foramen, giving passage externally to the commencement of the internal jugular vein, and internally to the eighth pair of nerves. Converging towards this foramen from behind is the deep groove of the lateral sinus, and from the front the groove for the inferior petrosal sinus. Behind the foramen magnum is a longitudinal ridge, which gives attachment to the falx cerebelli, and divides the two inferior fossse of the occipital bone ; and above the ridge is the internal occipital protuberance and the transverse groove lodging the lateral sinus. The external surface of the base of the skull is extremely uneven. From before backwards it is formed by the palate processes of the superior maxillary and palate bones; the vomer; pterygoid, spinous processes, and part of the body of the sphenoid ; under surface of the squamous, petrous, and mastoid portion of the temporals ; and by the occipital bone. The palate processes of the superior maxil- lary and palate bones constitute the hard palate, which is raised above the level of the rest of the base, and is surrounded by the alveolar processes containing the teeth of the upper jaw. At the anterior extremity of the hard palate, and directly behind the front incisor teeth, is the anterior palatine or incisive foramen, the ter- mination of the anterior palatine canal, which transmits the naso- palatine nerves. At the posterior angles of the palate are the posterior palatine foramina, for the palatine nerves and arteries.