429 NERVE-CELLS OF THE SPINAL CORD. forwards and backwards in each lateral half of the cord, so as to present on the face of a section the appearance of a dumb-bell or two irregular crescents, connected by their convex borders. The transverse portion is the grey commissure, and the anterior and posterior projections of the lateral portion the anterior and poste- rior cornua. The white substance of the cord is composed of parallel lon- gitudinal fibres, of uniform size, and diminishes in bulk from above downwards in consequence of the deeper fibres passing inwards to the grey substance, and assuming a transverse or oblique direction ; and subsequently, after undergoing certain alterations of character and size, issuing from the cord as the roots of the spinal nerves. The particular course of these fibres is as follows : proceeding from the brain, the deep fibres of the anterior column of one side of the spinal cord cross the bottom of the anterior fissure, enter the grey substance of the anterior cornu of the opposite side, and become continuous with the fibres of origin of the anterior root of a spinal nerve. The anterior commissure is, therefore, the decussation of the fibres of the anterior columns, and is thickest and broadest where the spinal nerves are largest and most numerous, namely, at the cervical and lumbar swelling of the cord. The deep fibres of the lateral column passing inwards, enter the anterior and pos- terior cornu of the grey substance ; those of the anterior half passing forwards through the anterior cornu, and becoming continuous with the fibres of the anterior root of a spinal nerve ; and those which pass backwards through the posterior cornu becoming con- tinuous with the posterior root. The deep fibres of the posterior column, after entering in the same manner the posterior cornu, divide into two sets, one of which curves outwards and backwards, and enters the posterior root of a spinal nerve ; while the other set passes inwards through the central grey substance to the opposite posterior -column, constituting the posterior or grey commissure. In this manner the anterior root of a spinal nerve is shown to be a continuation of the fibres of the anterior part of the lateral column of its own side, and the anterior column of the opposite side; while the posterior root is a continuation of the fibres of the posterior part of the lateral and part of the posterior column of its own side, and part of the lateral and posterior column of the opposite side. The grey substance (substantia grisea ; grey nucleus) of the cord is most abundant in the lumbar swelling, next in the cervical swell- ing, then in the dorsal portion, and, at the extremity of the cord, is prolonged for a short distance in the filum terminale. In the fcetus it presents a hollow central canal, but in the adult all trace of that canal is obliterated. The anterior cornua are short and thick and of an uniform grey colour ; the posterior cornua, longer and thinner and less uniform in colour, are surrounded by the substantia gela- tinosa of Rolando, which is most abundant at their extremity, and streaked by the fasciculated posterior roots of the spinal nerves.