554 LACHRYMAL APPARATUS. the lachrymal gland ; along the edges of the lids it is continuous with the mucous lining of the Meibomian glands, and at the inner angle of the eye it may be followed through the lachrymal canals into the lachrymal sac, and thence downwards through the nasal . duct into the inferior meatus of the nose. The Caruncula lachrymalis is the small reddish body which occupies the lacus lachrymalis at the inner canthus of the eye. In health it presents a bright pink tint; in sickness it loses its colour, and becomes pale. It consists of an assemblage of follicles similar to the Meibomian glands, embedded in a fibrocartilaginous tissue, and is the source of the whitish secretion which so constantly forms at the inner angle of the eye. It is covered with minute hairs, which are sometimes so long as to be visible to the naked eye. Immediately to the outer side of the caruncula is a slight dupli- cature of the conjunctiva, called plica semilunaris, which contains a minute plate of cartilage, and is the rudiment of the third lid of animals, the membrana nictitans of birds. Vessels and Nerves.—The palpebrse are supplied internally with arteries from the ophthalmic, and externally from the facial aiid transverse facial. Their nerves are branches of the fifth and facial. LACHRYMAL APPARATUS. The Lachrymal apparatus consists of the lachrymal gland with its excretory ducts ; the puncta lachrymalia and lachrymal canals ; the lachrymal sac and nasal duct. The Lachrymal gland is situated at the upper and outer angle of the orbit, and consists of two portions, orbital and palpebral. The orbital portion, about three-quarters of an inch in length, is flattened and oval in shape, and occupies the lachrymal fossa of the orbital plate of the frontal bone. It is in contact superiorly with the peri- osteum, with which it is closely connected by its upper and convex surface ; by its inferior or concave surface it is in relation with the globe of the eye, and the superior and external rectus ; and by its anterior border with the broad tarsal ligament. By its posterior border it receives its vessels. The palpebral portion, smaller than the preceding, is situated in the upper eyelid, extending downwards to the superior margin of the tarsal cartilage. It is connected with the orbital portion above, and is enclosed in an investment of dense fibrous membrane. The secretion of the lachrymal gland is con- veyed away by from eight to twelve small ducts which run for a short distance beneath the conjunctiva, and open on its surface by a series of pores, about one-twentieth of an inch apart, situated in a curved line a little above the upper border of the tarsal cartilage. Lachrymal canals.—The lachrymal canals commence at the minute openings, puncta lachrymalia, seen on the lachrymal papillae of the lids at the outer extremity of the lacus lachrymalis, and proceed inwards to the lachrymal sac, where they terminate beneath