STERNUM. 76 Sternum.—The sternum (fig. 47) is situated in the middle line of the front of the chest, and is oblique in direction, the superior end lying within a few inches of the vertebral column, the inferior being projected forwards so as to be placed at a considerable dis- tance from the spine. The bone is flat or slightly concave in front, and marked by five transverse lines which indicate its original subdivision into six pieces. It is convex behind, broad and thick above, flattened and pointed below, and divisible in the adult into three pieces, superior, middle, and inferior. The superior piece or manubrium is nearly quadrilateral ; it is broad and thick above, where it presents a concave border, incisura semilunaris ; and narrow at its junction with the middle piece.- At each superior angle is a deep articular depression, incisura clavicu- laris, for the clavicle; and on either side two notches, for articula- tion with the cartilage of the first rib, and one half that of the second. The articulation of the manubrium with the body is often moveable, often anchylosed ; when the latter state exists, the line of union is marked by a transverse ridge. The middle piece or body, considerably longer than the superior, is broad in the middle, and somewhat narrower at each extremity; It presents at either side six articular notches, for the lower half of the second rib, the four next ribs, and the upper half of the seventh. This piece is sometimes perforated by an opening of various magni- tude, resulting from arrest of development. The inferior piece (ensiform or xiphoid cartilage) is the smallest of the three, often merely cartilaginous, and very various in appear- ance, being sometimes pointed, at other times broad and thin, and at other times, again, perforated by a round hole, or bifid. It pre- sents a notch at each side for articulation with the lower half of the cartilage of the seventh rib. Development. —By a variable number of centres, generally ten, namely, two for the manubrium ; one (sometimes two) for the first piece of the body, two for each of the remaining pieces, and one for the ensiform cartilage. Ossification commences towards the end of the fifth month in the manubrium, the two pieces for this part being placed one above the other. At about the same time the centres for the first and second pieces of the body are apparent; the centres for the third piece of the body appear a few months later, and those for the fourth piece soon after birth. The osseous centre for the ensiform cartilage is so variable in its advent, that it may exist at any period between the third and eighteenth year. The double centres for the body of the sternum are disposed side by side in pairs, and it is the irregular union of these pairs in the last three pieces of the body that gives rise to the large aperture occa- sionally seen in the sternum towards its lower part. Union of the pieces of the sternum commences from below and proceeds upwards; the fourth and the third unite at about puberty, the third and the second between twenty and twenty-five, the second and the first