212 MUSCLES OF THE BACK. inserted by separate tendons into the angles of the six upper ribs and transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra. Retzius, considering the separation of the accessorius as a diffi- culty to the student, treats it as the costal portion of the sacro- lumbalis, which latter he then describes as dividing into two sets of tendons, external or ascending, and internal or descending. These tendons cross each other in their course, and are inserted into the angles of all the ribs. The longissimus dorsi is inserted by two series of tendons, in- ternal and external ; the internal being implanted into the poste- rior transverse processes (processus accessorii) of the lumbar, and transverse processes of all the dorsal vertebrae ; the external, into the transverse processes (lumbar ribs) of the lumbar vertebrae, and all the ribs, excepting the first, between their tubercles and angles. The Spinalis dorsi arises from the spinous processes of the two upper lumbar and two lower dorsal vertebrae, and is inserted into the spinous processes of the upper dorsal vertebrae from the second to the sixth or eighth. It also receives several fasciculi from the longissimus dorsi and semi-spinalis dorsi. The two muscles form an ellipse, which embraces the spinous processes of the dorsal vertebrae. Relations.—The erector spinae muscle is in relation by its super- ficial surface (in the lumbar region) with the serratus posticus in- ferior and latissimus dorsi; (in the dorsal region) with the verte- bral aponeurosis, which separates it from the latissimus dorsi, tra- pezius, and serratus posticus superior, and with the splenius. By its deep surface (lumbar region) with the multifidus spinae, trans- verse processes of the lumbar vertebrae, and middle layer of the lumbar fascia, which separates it from the quadratus lumborum ; (dorsal region) with the multifidus spinae, semi-spinalis dorsi, levatores costarum, intercostal muscles, and ribs as far as their angles. Internally or mesially, with the multifidus spinae, and semi-spinalis dorsi, which separate it from the spinous processes and arches of the vertebrae. The fascia lumborum, with the spinal column, aponeurosis of the latissimus dorsi, and ribs, forms a complete osseo-aponeurotic sheath for the erector spinae. The Cervicalis ascendens vel descendens is the continuation of the sacro-lumbalis upwards into the neck. It arises from the angle of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth rib, and is inserted by slender tendons into the posterior tubercles of the transverse pro- cesses of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrae. The term descendens, applied to this muscle, can only be correct when it is described as arising in the neck and passing downwards to the ribs. Relations. —By its superficial surface with the levator anguli scapulae ; by its deep surface with the upper intercostal muscles, ribs, and intertransverse muscles; externally with the scalenus posticus and medius; internally with the transversalis cervicis.