temporal muscle, and in- 185 MAXILLARY GROUP. segment of the orbicularis oris, the inferior with the superior seg- ment. The muscle is invested externally by a thin fascia (buccal) which extends backwards to the pharynx. Relations.—By its external surface, posteriorly, with a large and rounded jnass of fat, which separates the muscle from the ramus of the lower jaw, temporalis, and masseter : anteriorly with the risorius Santorini, zygomatici, levator anguli oris, and depressor anguli oris. It is also in relation with a part of Stenon's duct, (which pierces it opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw,) with the transverse facial artery, branches of the facial and buccal nerve, and facial artery and vein. By its internal surf dee tttithV the buccal glands and mucous membrane of the mouth. v> The Pterygoideus exterkus is a short and thick muscle, broader at its origin than at its insertion. It arises byi two^helKdl^ 1 one from the under surface of the great ala of the spher#$. and pterygoid ridge ; the other from the external pterygoid plate/tj^e^ rosity of the palate bone and tuberosity of the superior mteilliir^^'% The fibres pass backwards to be inserted into the neck of the^Ker> jaw and into the interarticular fibrocartilage. The internal maxilP*"***rt lary artery passes between the two heads of this muscle. Relations.—By its ex- ternal surface with the ramus of the lower jaw, ternal maxillary artery; by its internal surface with, the internal pterygoid muscle, internal lateral ligament of the jaw, arteria meningea media, and in- ferior maxillary nerve ; by its upper border with the muscular branches of the inferior maxillary nerve ; the internal maxillary ar- tery passes between its two heads, and its lower head is pierced by the buccal nerve. The external pterygoid muscle must now be removed, the ramus of the lower jaw sawn through its lower third, and the head of the bone dislocated from its socket and withdrawn, for the purpose of seeing the pterygoideus internus. The Pterygoideus internus is a thick quadrangular muscle. It arises from the pterygoid fossa and descends obliquely backwards, * The two pterygoid muscles. The zygomatic arch and the greater part of the ramus of the lower jaw have been removed, in order to bring these muscles into view. 1. The sphenoid origin of the external pterygoid. 2. Its pterygoid origin. 3. The internal pterygoid. Fig. 110*