KNEE JOINT. 157 crucial ligament; posteriorly it divides into three slips; one, a strong cord, ascends obliquely forwards to be inserted into the an- terior part of the inner condyle of the femur in front of the posterior crucial ligament; another is the fasciculus of insertion into the fossa of the spinous process ; while the third, of small size, is continuous with the posterior part of the anterior crucial ligament. The ligamentum mucosum is a slender conical process of synovial membrane enclosing a few ligamentous fibres which proceed from the transverse ligament. It is connected, by its apex, with the an- terior part of the condyloid notch, and, by its base, is lost in the mass of fat which projects into the joint beneath the patella. The alar ligaments are two fringed folds of synovial membrane, extending from the ligamentum mucosum, along the edges of the mass of fat to the sides of the patella. The synovial membrane of the knee joint is by far the most ex- tensive in the body. It invests the cartilaginous surfaces of the condyles of the femur, head of tibia, and inner surface of the patella;, it covers both suifaces of the semilunar fibrocartilages ; and is reflected upon the crucial ligaments, and inner surface of the ligaments which form the circum- * Longitudinal section of the left knee joint, showing the reflections of its synovial membrane. 1. Cancellous structure of the lower part of the femur. 2. Tendon of the extensor muscles of the leg. 3. Patella. 4. Ligamentum patellae. 5. Cancellous structure of the head of the tibia. 6. A bursa situated between the ligamentum patella? and head of the tibia. 7. Mass of fat projecting into the cavity of the joint below the patella. ** The synovial membrane. 8. The pouch of synovial mem- brane which ascends between the tendon of the extensor muscles of the leg, and front of the lower extremity of the femur. 9. One of the alar ligaments; the other has been removed with the opposite section. 10. Ligamentum mu- cosum left entire; the section being made to its inner side. 11. Anterior or external crucial ligament. 12. Posterior ligament. The plan of the synovial membrane, which is here presented to the student, is divested of all unneces- sary complications. It may be traced from the sacculus (at 8), along the inner surface of the patella; then over the adipose mass (7) from which it throws off the mucous ligament (10); then over the head of the tibia, forming a sheath to the crucial ligaments; then upwards along the posterior ligament and condyles of the femur, to the sacculus whence its examination com- menced.