594 ANATOMY OF THE LARYNX. stance of the latter, and the free surface being invested by a single or double layer of epithelium. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries of the heart are derived from the left and right coronary; the capillaries form a fine network around the muscular fasciculi as in other Fig. 223.* muscles ; the veins accompany the arteries, and empty themselves by the common coro- nary vein into the right auricle ; the venaa minimse or vena? Thebesii discharging their blood directly into the auricle. The semi- lunar valves are an exception to the rest of the valves of the heart, in having no blood- vessels. Lymphatic vessels are scanty in the bag of the pericardium, but numerous beneath the membrana propria ; they follow the grooves of the heart, and terminate in the glands situated beneath the arch of the aorta, and upon the bifurcation of the trachea. The Nerves of the heart are numerous, and derived from the cardiac plexuses, which, are formed by filaments from the sympa- thetic and pneumogastric nerve, and reach the substance of the organ by means of the anterior and posterior coronary plexus. The nervous filaments partly accompany the vessels, partly cross their course, anastomose with each other at acute angles, and pierce the surface of the heart to reach its substance and the endocardium. The nerves are grey, being composed of fine pale fibres, a few only of the larger nerves containing in addition an admixture of nucleated fibres. The minute fusiform enlargements on the external branches are not ganglia, but mere thickenings of the neurilemma. ORGANS OF RESPIRATION AND VOICE. The organs of respiration are the two lungs, with their air-tube, the trachea, to the upper part of which is adapted an apparatus of cartilages, constituting the organ of voice, or larynx. THE LARYNX. The Larynx is situated at the fore-part of the neck, between the trachea and base of the tongue. It is a short tube, of an hour-glass form, and composed of cartilages, ligaments, muscles, vessels, nerves, and mucous membrane. * Anastomosing muscular fibres of the heart. After Kolliker.