HYPOGLOSSAL NEEVE. 497 The pneumogastric and spinal accessory nerve together (nervus vagus cum accessorio) resemble a spinal nerve, of which the former with its ganglion is the posterior and sensitive root, the latter the anterior and motor root. The deep origin of the spinal accessory may he traced into the grey substance of the floor of the fourth ventricle. Ninth pair of Willis ; twelfth pair of Soemmering. Hypo- glossal nerve ; lingual. — The hypoglossal is a nerve of motion, distributed to all the muscles of the tongue, most of those attached to the os hyoides, and the sterno-thyroid. It arises from the groove between the corpus pyramidale and corpus olivare by ten or fifteen filaments, which are collected into two bundles, and escape from the cranium through the anterior condyloid foramen. At its exit from the cranium, the nerve lies behind the internal carotid artery and internal jugular vein, then passing forward between the artery and vein it descends to a point parallel with the angle of the lower jaw. It next curves forward around the occipital artery, with which it forms a loop, and crossing the external carotid and lower part of the hyo-glossus muscle to the genio-hyo-glossus, sends filaments on- wards with the anterior fibres of that muscle as far as the tip of the tongue. While resting on the hyo-glossus muscle it is flattened, and beneath the mylo-hyoideus communicates with the gustatory nerve. At its origin, the hypoglossal nerve sometimes communicates with the posterior root of the first cervical nerve. Its deep origin may be traced to one of the nuclei of grey substance, in the floor of the fourth ventricle, where it decussates with its fellow of the opposite side. The branches of the hypoglossal nerve are, branches of communi- cation and branches of distribution. The Branches of communication of the hypoglossal nerve are, several to the pneumogastric, with which nerve it is closely united ; one or two with the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic ; and one or two with the loop between the first and second cervical nerve. The Branches of distribution are— Descendens noni, Thyro-hyoidean, Muscular. The Descendens noni is a long and slender nerve, which quits the hypoglossal just as it is about to form its arch around the occipital artery, and descends on the sheath of the carotid vessels. Just below the middle of the neck it forms a loop with a long branch (communicans noni) derived from the second and third cervical nerve. From the convexity of this loop branches are sent to the sterno-hyoideus, sterno-thyroideus, and both bellies of the omo- hyoideus ; sometimes also a twig is given off to the cardiac plexus, and occasionally one to the phrenic nerve. If the descendens noni K K