TEMPORAL BONE. 35 inner angle of the glenoid fossa is the foramen of the Eustachian tube; and separated from it by a thin lamella of bone, called pro- cessus cochleariformis, a small canal for the transmission of the tensor tympani muscle. Directly behind, and at the root of the styloid process, is the •stylo-mastoid foramen, the opening of exit of the facial nerve, and entrance of the stylo'mastoid artery. Nearer the apex of the bone is a large oval opening, the carotid foramen, the commence- ment of the carotid canal, which lodges the internal carotid artery and carotid plexus. And between the stylo-mastoid and carotid foramen, in the posterior border, is an irregular excavation forming part of the jugular fossa for the commencement of the internal jugular vein. The share of the jugular fossa formed by the petrous portion of the temporal bone is different in different bones; but in all, the fossa presents a vertical ridge on its inner side, which cuts off a small portion from the rest. The upper part of this ridge forms a spinous projection, the jugular process, the groove to the inner side of the ridge lodges the eighth pair of nerves, and the lower part of the ridge is the septum of division between the jugular fossa and carotid foramen. Upon the latter portion of the ridge near the posterior margin of the carotid foramen is a small opening leading into a canal which transmits the tympanic branch (Jacobson's* nerve) of the glossopharyngeal nerve. And between the jugular fossa and the stylo-mastoid foramen is another small opening leading into the canal for the passage of the auricular branch of the pneumogastric nerve. The superior border of the petrous portion is sharp, and gives attachment to the tentorium cerebelli. It is grooved for the supe- rior petrosal sinus, and near its extremity is marked by a smooth notch upon which reclines the fifth nerve. The anterior border is grooved for the Eustachian tube, and forms the posterior boundary of the. foramen lacerum basis cranii; by its sharp extremity it gives attachment to the tensor tympani and levator palati muscle. The posterior border is grooved for the inferior petrosal sinus, and excavated for the jugular fossa : it forms the anterior boundary of the foramen lacerum posterius. Development.—By five centres : one for the squamous portion, one for the mastoid process, one for the pe- trous portion, one for the auditory process, j^g 23 * which in the foetus is a mere bony ring in- complete superiorly, and serving for the attach- ment of the membrana tympani, annulus mem- brance tympani; and one for the styloid process. Ossification occurs in these pieces in the follow- ing order : in the squamous portion immediately after ihe vertebrae, then in the petrous, tympanic, * The annulus membranse tympani or tympanic bone of the foetal skull, right side. $ 2