215 RECTUS LATERALIS.—MDLTIFIDUS SPE03. The Rectus lateralis arises from the trans-verse process of the atlas, and is inserted into the rough surface of the occipital bone, externally to the condyle. The Obliquus inferior (major) arises from the spinous process of the axis, and passes obliquely outwards to be inserted into the extremity of the transverse process of the atlas. The Obliquus superior (minor) arises from the extremity of the transverse process of the atlas, and passes obliquely inwards to be inserted into the rough surface of the occipital bone, between the curved lines, and directly behind the mastoid process. Relations.—By their superficial surface the l'ecti and obliqui are in relation with a strong aponeurosis which separates them from the complexus. By their deep surface, with the atlas and axis. The rectus posticus major partly covers in the rectus minor. The rectus lateralis is in relation by its anterior surface with the internal jugular vein, and by its posterior surface with the vertebral artery. Sixth Layer. Dissection.—The semi-spinales muscles must be removed to ob- tain a good view of the multifidus spinas, which lies beneath them, and fills up the concavity between the spinous and transverse pro- cesses, the whole length of the vertebral column. The Multifidus spiNiE, consisting of about twenty-two small muscular fasciculi, extends along the vertebral groove from the sacrum to the axis. The muscle commences by tendinous fibres on the dorsum of the sacrum, proceeding from the lateral tubercles of the Sacrum and even from the lateral cornu of the coccyx, and passing obliquely upwards and inwards to the spinous tubercles. The fasciculi arise inferiorly from the sacrum, ilium, and tendon of the erector spinas; in the lumbar region from the articular and posterior transverse processes of the vertebras ; in the dorsal region from the transverse processes ; and in the cervical region from the articular processes of the four inferior vertebrae. They are inserted into the spinous processes and laruinas of all the vertebras from the sacrum to the axis. Of the twenty-two fasciculi, six are lumbar, twelve dorsal, and four cervical. Each fasciculus, separate below, spreads out as it ascends, and passing over the next vertebra, is inserted into the four or five immediately above it. The muscle is thick inferiorly ; and the uppermost fasciculus larger than those immediately below it. Under the name of rotatores dorsi, expressive of their action, Theile has described eleven pairs of small muscles, which appear to belong to the multifidus spinse, though separated from it by cellular tissue. The rotatores arise from the apex and upper border of a transverse process ; to be inserted into the lower border of the lamina of the vertebra above, as far as the base of the spinous pro- cess. The inferior rotatores are somewhat larger than the superior.