167 STRUCTURE OF MUSCLE. The ultimate fibre of animal life is known by its size, by its uniformity of calibre, and especially by the transverse markings which occur at minute and regular distances. It also presents other markings or striae, having a longitudinal direction, which in- dicate the existence of fibrillar within the myolemma. The myo- lemma, or sarcolemma, the investing sheath of the ultimate fibre, is thin, homogeneous, transparent, and elastic. According to Bowman, * the ultimate fibres or fasciculi are polyhedral in shape and various in size; the polyhedral form be- ing due to mutual pressure, and the variety of size, besides being met with in a single muscle, being also characteristic of dif- ferent classes, genera, and even sexes of animals : thus the ave- rage diameter of the ultimate fibre in the human female is in the male -gi^-, the average of both being in round numbers The largest fibres are met with in fishes, in which they average ; the next largest are found in man ; while in other classes they range in the follow- ing order :—insects T±rw; reptiles -^r J mammalia -g^T ; birds ^y. The Ultimate fibrils of animal life, according to Bowman, are beaded filaments presenting a Fig. 1024 regular succession of segments and constrictions, the latter being narrower than the former, and the component substance probably less dense. An ultimate fibre consists of a bundle of these fibrils, which are so disposed that all the seg- ments and all the constrictions correspond, and in this manner give rise to the alternate light and dark lines of the transverse striae. The fibrils are connected together with very different degrees of closeness in different animals; in man they are but slightly adherent, and dis- tinct longitudinal lines of junction may be ob- served between them ; they also separate easily when macerated for some time. Besides the more usual sepa- * On the Minute Structure and Movements of Voluntary Muscle. Philo- sophical Transactions, 1840. t Transverse section of ultimate fibres of the biceps, after Bowman. In this figure the polyhedral form of the fibres is seen, and their composition of ultimate fibrils. J b. Ultimate fibril of muscular fibre of animal life, according to the views of Bowman, c. Muscular fibre of animal life, more highly magnified. Its myolemma is so thin and transparent as to permit the ultimate fibrils to be seen.