97 ISCHIUM. this surface in an arched direction, from the anterior extremity of the crest to a notch on the lower part of the posterior border, is a groove, which lodges the gluteal vessels and nerve, the superior curved line ; and a short distance below this, a rough ridge, the inferior curved line. The surface included between the superior curved line and the crest gives origin to the gluteus medius muscle; that between the curved lines, to the gluteus minimus; and the rough interval between the inferior curved line and the arch of the acetabulum, to one head of the rectus. The posterior sixth of the external surface is rough and raised, and gives origin to part of the gluteus maximus. The crest of the ilium is arched, and curved in direction like the italic letter f, being bent inwards at its anterior termination, and outwards at the posterior. It is broad for the attachment of three planes of muscle, which are connected with its external and internal border or lip, and with the intermediate space. On its outer lip, at about midway between the anterior superior spinous process and the summit of the crest, is a prominent tubercle, tuberculum crista ilii (Retzius), from which a strong ridge runs down to the aceta- bulum. This is the broadest part of the crest, and the descending ridge serves as a buttress in giving strength to the bone. The anterior border is marked by two prominences, the anterior superior spinous process, which is the anterior termination of the crest, ;and the anterior inferior spinous process ; the two processes being separated by a notch for the attachment of the sartorius muscle. This border terminates inferiorly in the lip of the aceta- bulum. The posterior border also presents two prominences, the posterior superior and posterior inferior spinous process, separated by a notch. Inferiorly this border is broad, and arched, and forms the upper part of the great sacro-ischiatic notch. The ischium is divisible into a thick and solid portion, the body, and a thin and ascending part, the ramus ; it may be considered also, for convenience of description, as presenting an external and internal surface, and three borders, posterior, inferior, and superior. The external surface is rough and uneven, for the attachment of muscles ; and broad and smooth above, where it enters into the formation of the acetabulum. Below the inferior lip of the aceta- bulum is a notch, which lodges the obturator externus muscle in its passage outwards to the trochanteric fossa of the femur. The internal surface is smooth, and somewhat encroached upon at its posterior border by the spine. The posterior border of the ischium presents towards its middle a remarkable projection, the spine. Immediately above the spine is a notch of large size, the great sacro-ischiatic, and below the spine, the lesser sacro-ischiatic notch ; the former, being converted into a foramen by the lesser sacro-ischiatic ligament, gives passage to the pyriformis muscle, the gluteal vessels and nerve, pudic vessels and nerve, and ischiadic vessels and nerves; the lesser, completed by H