632 EPITHELIUM.—SQUAMOUS AND COLUMNAK. Fig. 238.* below. A section of epithelium would, therefore, like the epidermis, show cells in successive stages of formation and growth, namely, as simple granules, aggregated granules or nuclei, small cells, and larger arid complete cells. The cells of epithelium present some differences of form and arrangement which have given rise to their division into four varie- ties, namely, squamous, columnar, spheroidal, and ciliated. The Squamous epithelium is so named from the conversion of its superficial cells into thin, flattened, polyhedral squamse or scales, in which the original structure of the cell, together with its nucleus, is more or less effaced. On the serous membranes of the cavities of the body and on that of the blood and lymph vessels, the squamse form a single layer, but on the mucous membrane, as on the skin, there are several super- imposed layers ; hence the names lamellated, tesselated, stratified, and pavement epithelium have been given to this variety. The squamous epithelium is found on the conjunctiva; in the cavity of the nose near its external aper- tures ; in the mouth, fauces, and lower half of the pharynx; in the oesophagus, where it forms a thick layer, and terminates at the cardiac orifice of the stomach by a serrated border, ora serrata ; in the vulva, vagina, cervix uteri, and entrance of the urethra. The squamae are somewhat larger in the mouth and fauces than elsewhere ; in longest diameter they measure between 4^-5- and g^j- of an inch ; in the vagina between -g-J-jr and ; and on the skin -g--^. The nucleus, which is round or oval in shape, and flat- tened, measures in scales from the mouth -g-fnro 0I> an inch. The Columnar epithelium (cylinder epithelium) consists of cells, which have an elongated or pyriform shape, their bases being 2 directed to the free surface, and their apices to the corium. They are ranged side by side like columns, and their interstices are filled with a transparent jelly-like matrix, similar to that which connects the cells of the squamous epi- thelium. * Epithelial scales from the mouth; the large scale, magnified 310 times, exhibits the structure of the scale, as consisting of a nucleus with nucleolus in the centre ; and secondary nucleated cells, forming the body of the scale. In the other scales, magnified 155 times, the nucleus and nucleolus are alone seen distinctly: the secondary cells being reduced to the appearance of a few granules dispersed through the scale. f Portion of columnar epithelium from one of the villi of the small intestines. 1. Nucleus of the cell. 2. Membrane of the cell raised from its contents by the absorption of water. From the puppy: after Kolliker.