577 STRUCTURE OF HAIR. with the derma of the surrounding skin, and the horny structure of the nail is consequently continuous with that of the epidermis. Hairs are horny appendages of the skin, produced by the involu- tion and subsequent evolution of the epidermis ; the involution con- stituting the follicle in which the hair is enclosed, and the evolution the shaft of the hair. Hairs vary much in size and length in dif- ferent parts of the body ; in some they are so short as not to appear beyond the follicle ; in others, they grow to a great length, as on the scalp ; while along the margins of the eyelids, and in the whiskers and beard, they are remarkable for their thickness. Hairs are generally more or less flattened in form, and when the extremity of a transverse section is examined, it is found to possess an elliptical or reniform outline. This examination also demon- strates that the centre of the hair is porous and loose in texture, while its periphery is dense ; thus affording ground for its division into a cortical and a medullary portion. The free extremity of a hair is generally pointed, and sometimes split into two or thi-ee filaments. Its attached extremity is implanted deeply in the integument, ex- tending through the derma into the subcutaneous areolar tissue, where it is surrounded by adipose cells. The central extremity of a hair is larger than its shaft, and is called the root or bulb. It is rounded or conical in shape. The process of formation of a hair by its follicle is identical with that of the formation of the epidermis by the papillary layer of the derma. Plastic lymph is in the first instance exuded by the capil- lary plexus of the follicle, the lymph undergoes conversion, first into granules, then into cells, and the latter are elongated into fibres. The cells which are destined to form the surface of the hair go through a different process. They are converted into flat scales, which enclose the fibrous structure of the interior. These scales, as they are successively produced, overlap those which pre- cede and give rise to the prominent and waving lines which may be seen around the circumference of a hair. It is this overlapping line that is the cause of the roughness which we experience in drawing a hair, from its point to its bulb, between the fingers. The bulb is the newly-formed portion of the hair : its expanded form is due to the greater bulk of the fresh cells compared with the fibres and scales into which they are subsequently converted in the shaft. The colour of the hair, like that of the epidermis, is due to the coloration of the primitive granules of the cells. The Sebiparous glands are embedded in the substance of the derma, and present every degree of complexity, from the simplest follicle to the compound lobulated gland. In some situations their excretory ducts open independently on the surface of the epidermis ; while in others, they terminate in the follicles of the hairs. The sebiparous glands associated with the hairs are racemiform and lobulated, consisting of glandular vesicles which open by short p p