UTERUS. 687 terna'lly with the epithelium of the vulva, and terminates internally at about the middle of the cervix uteri. UTERUS. The Uterus is a flattened organ of a pyriform shape, having the base directed upwards and forwards, and the apex downwards and backwards, in the line of the axis of the inlet of the pelvis, and forming a considerable angle with the course of the vagina. It is convex on its posterior surface, and somewhat flattened in front; in the unimpregnated state it is about three inches in length, two in breadth across its broadest part, and one in thickness ; and is divisible into fundus, body, cervix, and os uteri. At the period of puberty the uterus weighs about one ounce and a half; after partu- rition from two to three ounces; and at the ninth month of utero- gestation from two to four pounds. The Fundus and body are enclosed in a duplicature of peritoneum, which is connected with the sides of the pelvis, and forms a trans- verse septum between the bladder and rectum. The folds formed by this duplicature of peritoneum at either side of the organ are the broad ligaments. The cervix is the lowest portion of the uterus; * Uterus with its appendages viewed from the front. 1. Body of the uterus. 2. Fundus. 3. Cervix. 4. Os uteri. 5. Vagina; the figure is placed on the pos- terior raphe or columna, from which the transverse rugae are seen passing off at each side. 6, 6. Broad ligament of the uterus. 7. Convexity of the broad ligament formed by the ovary. 8, 8. Round ligaments of the uterus. 9, 9. Fallopian tubes. 10,.10. Fimbriated extremities of the Fallopian tubes; on the left side the mouth of the tube is turaed forwards in order to show its ostium abdominale. 11. Ovary. 12. Utero-ovarian ligament. 13. Fallopio- ovarian ligament, on which some small fimbria? are continued for a short dis- tance. 14. Peritoneum of anterior surface of uterus. This membrane is re- moved at the left side, but on the right is continuous with the anterior layer of the broad ligament.