152 HIP JOINT. In connexion with the phalanges it will be proper to examine certain fibrous bands termed thecce or vaginal ligaments, which serve to retain the tendons of the flexor muscles against the flat surface of the bones. These fibrous bands are attached at each side to the lateral margins of the phalanges ; they are thick in the interspaces of the joints, thin where the tendons lie upon the joints, and are lined on their inner surface by synovial membrane. LIGAMENTS OF THE LOWEE EXTREMITY. The ligaments of the lower extremity, like those of the upper, may be arranged in the order of the joints to which they belong; these are, 1. Hip joint. 2. Knee joint. 3. Articulation between the tibia and fibula. 4. Ankle joint. 5. Articulation of the tarsal bones. 6. Tarso-metatarsal articulation. 7. Metatarsophalangeal articulation. 8. Articulation of the phalanges. 1. Hip Joint.—The articulation of the head of the femur with the acetabulum constitutes an enarthrosis, or ball-and-socket joint. The articular surfaces are, the cup-shaped cavity of the acetabulum and the rounded head of the femur ; the ligaments are jive in num- ber, viz., Capsular, Teres, Ilio-femoral, Cotyloid, Transverse. The capsular ligament (membrana capsularis, fig. 84,'s)is a strong ligamentous capsule, embracing the acetabulum superiorly, the neck of the femur below, and connecting the two bones firmly together. It is much thicker on the upper part of the joint, where more resistance is required, than on the under part, and extends farther along the neck of the femur on the anterior and superior than on the posterior and inferior side, being attached to the inter- trochanteric line in front, to the base of the great trochanter above, and to the middle of the neck of the femur behind. The ilio-femoral ligament (fig. 84, 9) is an accessory and radi- ating band, which descends obliquely from the anterior inferior spinous process of the ilium to the anterior intertrochanteric line, and strengthens the anterior portion of the capsular ligament. The ligamentum teres (fig. 85, r), triangular in shape, is attached by a round apex to the depression just below the middle of the head of the femur, and by its base, which separates into two fasci- culi, into the borders of the notch of the acetabulum. It is formed