LIGAMENTS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. 140 The ligaments connecting the different pieces of the coccyx consist of a few scattered anterior and posterior fibres, and a thin disk of interosseous cartilage ; the latter exists only in the young subject, as, in the adult, the pieces become ossified. 4. Betioeen the Ossa Pubis.—The anterior pubic ligament is composed of ligamentous fibres, which pass obliquely across the union of the two bones from side to side, and form an interlacement in front of the symphysis. The posterior pubic ligament consists of a few irregular bands of fibres uniting the pubic bones posteriorly. The superior pubic ligament is a thick band of fibres connecting the angles of the ossa pubis superiorly, and filling the inequalities of the surface of the bones. The sub-pubic ligament is a thick arch of fibres connecting the two bones inferiorly, and forming the tipper boundary of the pubic arch. The interosseous fibro-cartilage unites the two surfaces of the pubic bones, in the same manner as the intervertebral substance connects the bodies of the vertebras. It resembles the inter- vertebral substance also in being composed of oblique fibres dis- posed in concentric layers, which are more dense towards the surface than near the centre. It is thick in front, and thin behind ; and a synovial membrane is sometimes found in the posterior half of the articulation. This articulation becomes movable towards the latter term of pre- gnancy, and admits of a slight degree of separation of its surfaces. The obturator ligament (membrana obturatoria) is not a ligament of articulation, but simply a ligamentous membrane stretched across the obturator foramen. It gives attachment by its surfaces to' the two obturator muscles, and leaves a space in the upper part of the foramen for the passage of the obturator vessels and nerve. The numerous vacuities in the walls of the pelvis, and their . closure by ligamentous structures, as in the case of the sacro- ischiatic fissures and obturator foramina, serve to diminish the pressure on the soft parts during the passage of the head of the foetus through the pelvis in parturition. LIGAMENTS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. The Ligaments of the upper extremity may be arranged in the order of the articulations of the different bones : they are, 1. Sterno-clavicular articulation. 4. Shoulder joint. 2. Scapuloclavicular articulation. 5. Elbow joint. 3. Ligaments of the scapula. 6. Radio-ulnar articulation. 7. Wrist joint. 8, Articulation between the carpal bones. 9. Carpo-metacarpal articulation. 10. Metacarpo-phalangeal articulation. 11. Articulation of the phalanges.