110 SCAPHOIDES. surmounted by a rough prominence, which affords one of the guides to the surgeon in the performance of Chopart's operation. The posterior extremity is prominent and convex, and constitutes the posterior tuberosity ; it is smooth for the upper half of its extent, where it corresponds with a bursa; and rough below, for the inser- tion of the tendo Achillis ; the lower part of this surface is bounded by the two inferior tuberosities. Articulations.—With two bones : astragalus and cuboid. In their articulated state a large oblique canal is situated between the astragalus and calcaneum, being formed by the apposition of the two grooves, sulcus tali and sulcus calcanei. This canal is called the sinus tarsi, and serves to lodge a strong interosseous ligament which ties the two bones together. Attachment of Muscles.—To eight: by the posterior tuberosity, to the tendo Achillis and plantaris ; by the inferior tuberosities and under surface, abductor pollicis, abductor minimi digiti, flexor brevis digitorum, flexor accessorius, and plantar fascia ; by the ex- ternal surface, extensor brevis digitorum. The Scaphoid bone may be distinguished by its boat-like figure, concave on one side, and convex with three facets on the other. It presents for examination an anterior and posterior surface, superior and inferior border, and two extremities, one broad, the other pointed and thick. The anterior surface is convex, and divided into three facets, to articulate with the three cuneiform bones ; the posterior is concave, to articulate with the rounded head of the as- tragalus. The superior border is convex and rough, and the in- ferior somewhat concave and uneven. The external extremity is broad and rough ; the internal pointed and prominent, forming a tuberosity. The external extremity sometimes presents a facet of articulation with the cuboid. If the bone be held so that the convex surface with three facets look forwards, and the convex border upwards, the broad extremity will point to the side corresponding with the foot to which the bone belongs. Articulations.—With four bones : astragalus and three cuneiform, sometimes also with the cuboid. Attachment of Muscles.—To the tendon of the tibialis posticus. The Internal cuneiform may be known by its irregular wedge- shape, and by being larger than the two other bones which bear the same name. It presents for examination a convex and a concave surface, a long and a short articular border, and a small and a large extremity. Place the bone so that the small extremity may look upwards and the long articular border forwards, the concave surface will point to the side corresponding with the foot to which it belongs. The convex surface is internal and free, and assists in forming the inner border of the foot; the concave is external, and in appo-