31 TEMPORAL BONE. muscle, and has projecting from it an arched and lengthened pro- cess, the zygoma. Near the commencement of the zygoma, upon its lower border, is a projection called the tubercle, to which is attached the external lateral ligament of the lower jaw, and continued hori- zontally inwards from the tubercle, a rounded eminence, the eminen- tia articularis. The process of bone which is continued from the tubercle of the zygoma into the eminentia articularis is the inferior root of the zygoma. The superior root is continued upwards from the upper border of the zygoma, and forms the posterior part of the temporal ridge, serving by its projection to mark the division of the squamous from the mastoid portion of the bone; and the middle root is continued directly backwards, and terminates abruptly at a narrow fissure, the fissura Grlaseri. The internal surface of the squamous portion is marked by several shallow fossae, which cor- respond with the convolutions of the cerebrum, and by a furrow for the posterior branch of the arteria meningea media. The superior or squamous border, is very thin, and bevelled at the expense of the inner surface, so as to overlap the lower and arched border of the parietal bone. The inferior border is thick, and dentated to articulate with the spinous process of the sphenoid bone. The Mastoid portion forms the posterior part of the bone ; it is thick and hollowed between its tables into a loose and cellular diploe. On its external surface it is rough for the attachment of muscles, and contrasts strongly with the smooth and polished sur- face of the squamous portion : every part of the surface is pierced by small foramina, which give passage to minute arteries and veins; one of these openings, oblique in direction, of large size, and situ- ated near the posterior border of the bone, the mastoid foramen, transmits a vein to the lateral sinus. Not unfrequently this fora- men is situated in the occipital bone. The inferior part of the mas- toid portion is round and expanded, the mastoid process, and exca- vated in its interior into numerous cells, which form part of the organ of hearing. In front of the mastoid process, and between the superior and middle root of the zygoma, is the large oval opening of the meatus auditorius externus, surrounded by a rough lip, the processus auditorius. Directly to the inner side of, and partly con- cealed by, the mastoid process, is a deep groove, the digastric fossa; and a little more internally the occipital groove, which lodges the occipital artery. On its internal surface the mastoid portion presents a broad and shallow groove (fossa sigmoidea) for the lateral sinus, and terminating in this groove the internal opening of the mastoid foramen. The superior border of the mastoid portion is dentated ; and its posterior border, thick and less serrated, articulates with the inferior border of the occipital bone. The meatus auditorius externus is a slightly curved canal, some- what more than half an inch in length, longer along its lower