532 CAEDIAC NERVES. one of these frequently passes in front of the subclavian artery, the other behind it. Its external brandies communicate with the fifth and sixth cervi- cal nerve. Its internal branches are filaments which accompany the inferior thyroid artery, inferior thyroid plexus; and the middle cardiac nerve, nervus cardiacus magnus. The Inferior cervical ganglion (vertebral ganglion) is much larger than the preceding, and constant in its existence. It is of a semilunar form, and situated on the base of the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra, immediately behind the vertebral artery ; hence its designation u vertebral ganglion." Its superior branches communicate with the middle cervical ganglion. The inferior branches pass some before and some behind the sub- clavian artery, to join the first thoracic ganglion. The external branches consist of two sets ; one which communi- cates with the sixth, seventh, and eighth cervical, and first dorsal nerve, and one which accompanies the vertebral artery along the vertebral canal, forming the vertebral plexus. The plexus sends filaments to all the branches given off by that artery, and com- municates in the cranium with the filaments of the carotid plexus accompanying the branches of the internal carotid artery. The internal branch is the inferior cardiac nerve, nervus cardi- acus minor. Cardiac nerves.—The cardiac nerves are three in number at each side, namely, superior, middle, and inferior. The Superior cardiac nerve {nervus superficialis cordis) proceeds from the lower part of the superior cervical ganglion ; it descends the neck behind the common carotid artery and parallel with the trachea, crosses the inferior thyroid artery, and running by the side of the recurrent laryngeal nerve, enters the chest. The nerve of the right side passes either in front of or behind the subclavian artery and along the posterior aspect of the arteria innominata to the deep cardiac plexus. The left superior cardiac nerve runs by the side of the left carotid artery, and crosses the arch of the aorta to the superficial cardiac plexus. In its course it receives branches from the pneumogastric nerve, and sends filaments to the thyroid gland and trachea. The Middle cardiac nerve {nervus cardiacus magnus) proceeds from the middle cervical ganglion, or, in its absence, from the cord of communication between the superior and inferior ganglion. It is the largest of the three nerves, and lies parallel with the recurrent laryngeal. At the root of the neck it divides into several branches, which pass some before and some behind the subclavian artery, communicates with the superior and inferior cardiac, pneumogastric