509 MUSCULO-SPIRAL NERVE. striking the " funny bone." It then passes between the two heads of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and descends along the inner side of the forearm, crosses the annular ligament, and divides into two branches, superficial and deep palmar. At the commencement of the middle third of the forearm it comes into relation with the artery, and lies to the ulnar side of that vessel, as far as the hand. The Branches of the ulnar nerve are— Articular, Dorsal branch, Muscular, Superficial palmar, Cutaneous, Deep palmar. The Articular branches are several filaments to the elbow-joint, given off from the nerve while lying in the groove between the inner condyle and olecranon. The Muscular branches are distributed to the flexor carpi ulnaris and ulnar half of the flexor profundus digitorum. The Cutaneous branch proceeds from about the middle of the nerve, and descends upon the ulnar artery-to the hand, giving twigs to the integument in its course. One branch from its upper part, sometimes a separate offset from the nerve and sometimes absent, pierces the fascia, and communicates with the internal cutaneous nerve. The Dorsal branch passes backwards beneath the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, at the lower fourth of the forearm, and divides into branches which supply the integument and two fingers and a half on the posterior aspect of the hand, communicating with the radial nerve, with which it forms an arch. The Superficial palmar branch, after giving some twigs to the palmaris brevis and inner border of the hand, divides into three filaments, two of which are distributed, one to the ulnar side of the little finger, and one to the adjoining borders of the little and ring finger, while the third, a communicating branch, joins the median nerve. The Deep palmar branch passes between the abductor and flexor minimi digiti, to the deep palmar arch, supplying the muscles of the little finger, interossei, two ulnar lumbricales, adductor pollicis, and inner head of the "flexor brevis pollicis. The Muscttlo-spiral nerve, the largest branch of the brachial plexus, arises from its posterior trunk in common with the circum- flex, and, descending behind the axillary and brachial artery, winds around the humerus between the triceps and the bone, and in com- pany with the superior profunda artery, to the space between the brachialis anticus and supinator longus, and thence onwards to the bend of the elbow, where it divides into two branches, radial and posterior interosseous.