YISCERA OF THE PELVIS. 668 its passage from the inner surface of the pubes at each side of the symphysis to the neck of the bladder and prostate gland. The lateral ligaments are also formed by the recto-vesical fascia in its passage from the levatores ani muscles to the sides of the prostate gland and neck of the bladder. The ligament of the urachus is a fibrous cord resulting from the obliteration of a tubular canal (urachus) existing in the embryo. It proceeds from the summit of the bladder, and ascends along the linea alba to the umbilicus. The posterior false ligaments are the fold of peritoneum formed at each side of the pelvis by the obliterated hypogastric artery ; this fold also contains the ureter, and the vessels and nerves of the bladder. The lateral false ligaments are formed by the passage of the peritoneum from the side of the pelvis to the side of the bladder. The obliterated hypogastric artery lies along the line of reflection of the membrane. The superior or suspensory false ligament is the fold of peritoneum caused by the prominence of the cord of the urachus and the cords of the obliterated hypogastric arteries. The bladder is composed of four coats, external or serous, mus- cular, areolar, and mucous. The serous coat is partial, and derived from the peritoneum ; it invests the posterior surface and sides of the bladder, from about opposite the point of termination of the ureters to its summit, whence it is guided to the anterior wall of the abdomen by the hy- pogastric cords and urachus. The muscular coat consists of three layers, external or longitudinal, middle or circular, and internal, which is also longitudinal. The external layer, or detrusor urinos, consists of parallel longitudinal fasciculi which take their origin from the anterior ligaments of the bladder, thence named tendons of the detrusor urinfe ; they spread out upon the upper surface of the prostate gland (levator prostatse) and ascend upon the anterior sur- face of the bladder to the fundus, where they are inserted into the subserous tissue, some being continuous with the longitudinal fibres of the posterior surface of the organ, and others prolonged upon the urachus. The longitudinal fasciculi of the posterior surface and sides of the bladder, attached superiorly to the subserous tissue and partly continuous with those of the opposite aspect, while some are prolonged upon the urachus, are attached inferiorly to the prostate gland, those in the middle line being lost in the deep muscular layer of the neck of the bladder. The detrusor urinse is thickest on the anterior surface of the bladder ; it communicates by an inter- change of fasciculi with the middle layer, and in the female its pos- terior fibres are inserted into the vagina. The middle layer consists of circular fibres which are most numerous at the cervix, where they form a moderately thick stratum, the sphincter I