134 LIGAMENTS OP THE RIBS. Actions.—The movements of the lower jaw are depression, by which the mouth is opened, elevation, by which it is closed ; a for- ward and backward movement, and a movement from side to side. In the movement of depression the interarticular cartilage glides forward on the eminentia articularis, carrying with it the condyle. If this movement be carried too far, the superior synovial membrane is ruptured, and dislocation of the fibro-cartilage with its condyle into the zygomatic fossa occurs. In elevation the fibrous cartilage and condyle are returned to their original position. The forward and backward movement is a gliding of the fibro-cartilage on the glenoid articular surface, in the anteroposterior direction ; and the movement from side to side, in the lateral direction. 6. Articulation of the Ribs with the Vertebra?.—The ligaments of these articulations are remarkable for their strength, being in fact so strong as to render dislocation impossible ; the neck of the rib must break before displacement could occur : they are divisible into two groups :—1. Those connecting the head of the rib with the bodies of the vertebral; and, 2. Those connecting the neck and tubercle of the rib with the transverse processes. 1st Group. 2nd Group. Anterior costo-vertebral or stellate, Anterior costo-transverse, Capsular, Middle costo-transverse, Interarticular ligament, Posterior costo-transverse. Two synovial membranes. The anterior costo-vertebral or stellate ligament (lig. capituli costarum, fig. 73) consists of three short bands of ligamentous fibres which radiate from the anterior part of the head of the rib. The superior band passes upwards to be attached to the vertebra above ; the middle fasciculus is attached to the intervertebral substance ; the inferior to the vertebra below. In the first, eleventh, and tv;elfth rib, the three fasciculi are attached to the body of the corresponding vertebra. The capsular ligament is a thin layer of ligamentous fibres sur- rounding the joint in the interval left by the anterior ligament; it is thickest above and below the articulation, and protects the synovial membranes. The interarticular ligament is a thin band which passes between the sharp crest on the head of the rib and the intervertebral sub- stance. It divides the joint into two cavities, each being furnished with a separate synovial membrane. The first, eleventh, and twelfth rib have no interarticular ligament, and consequently but one synovial membrane. The anterior costo-transverse ligament (lig. transversarium in- ternum) is a broad band composed of two fasciculi, which ascend from the crest-like ridge on the neck of the rib, to the transverse