SUDORIPAROUS GLANDS. 578 pedunculated tubuli into a common excretory duct, and the latter, after a short course, into the hair-follicle. In the scalp there are two of the glands to each hair-follicle. On the nose and face the glands are of large size, and constantly associated with small hair- follicles. In the meatus auditorius the ceruminous glands are also large; in the eyelids the cilia are supplied like other hairs with sebiparous glands, but the Meibomian glands may also be regarded as belonging to this class. The excretory ducts of sebiparous glands offer some diversity in different parts of the body ; in many situa- tions they are short and straight, in others, as in the palms of the hands and soles of the feet, where the epidermis is thick, they assume a spiral course. The sebiferous ducts are lined by an inversion of the epidermis, which forms a thick and funnel-shaped cone at its commence- Fig. 218 ment, but soon becomes uniform and soft. Sebi- parous glands are met with in all parts of the body, but are most abun- dant in the skin of the face, and in those situa- tions which are naturally exposed to the influence of friction. The sebaceous sub- stance when it collects in inordinate quantities within the excretory ducts becomes the ha- bitat of a remarkable parasitic animal, the steatozoon folliculorum. The Sudoriparous glands are situated deeply in the corium and also in the subcutaneous areolar tissue, where they are surrounded by adipose cells. They are small round or oblong bodies, composed of one or more convoluted tubuli, or of a congeries of glandular vesicles, * Section of the skin. 1. Epidermis. 2. Rete Mucosum or deep layer of the epidermis. 3. Two of the quadrilateral papillary clumps, such as are seen in the palm of the hand or sole of the foot; they are composed of conical papilla). 4s. Deep layer of the derma, the corium. 5. Adipose cells. 6. A sudoriparous gland with its spiral duet, such as is seen in the palm of the hand or sole of the foot. 7. Another sudoriparous gland with a straighter duct, such as is seen in the scalp. 8. Two hairs from the scalp, enclosed in their follicles; their relative depth in the skin is preserved. 9. A pair of sebi- parous glands, opening by short ducts into the follicle of the hair.