THYMUS GLAND. 705 Mood-vessels, and a small quantity of areolar tissue. The cells are pale, sometimes nucleated, and sometimes without nuclei, contain- ing a few scattered fat granules, and sometimes filled with fat. The 'free nuclei, more numerous than the cells, are round and slightly flattened, filled with homogeneous clear contents, and sometimes furnished with a nucleolus. The arteries form a plexus near the surface of the internal cavity, from which branches are sent into the lobules, and from the lobules into the smaller lobules and granules, the vessels always preserving their position at the internal part of the glandular wall, and terminating in a close capillary network. When either gland is carefully unravelled by removing the areolar capsule and vessels, which retain the lobules in contact, the reser- voir, from being folded in a serpentine manner upon itself, admits of being drawn out into a lengthened tubular cord,* around which the lobules are clustered in a spiral manner, and resemble knots on a cord, or a string of beads. The internal cavity or reservoir, which is most commonly a lengthened canal, but sometimes a space of moderate breadth, has a similar structure to the walls of the lobules, the external fibrous membrane being thicker and stronger, and the granular substance thinner, and provided with a plexus of large vessels. On its inter- nal surface are seen the apertures or "pores" of the "pouches" and " secretory cells," each pore being surrounded by a vascular mesh, which forms a slightly prominent rim ; but there is no epi- thelium, and nothing analogous in structure to a mucous membrane. The contents of the cavity of the thymus are, a whitish and milky albuminous fluid, slightly acid, and containing in suspension an abundance of free nuclei, with isolated cells, and when the gland is on the decline, certain peculiar bodies, first noticed by Hassall, and, named concentric corpuscles. The free nuclei are globular and oval in form, uneven in outline, various in size, and provided with a small central nucleus. The concentric corpuscles, which appear with the decline of the gland, have a thick concentrically striated cell-membrane and granular contents, while others much larger consist of several of the former enclosed in a common envelope, also concentrically striated. They are met with near the wall of the cavity, and probably result from some alteration of the elements of the granular substance associated with the degeneration of the gland. They are allied to the bodies termed corpora amylacea, found in the brain. In the human fetus the thymic fluid was found by Sir Astley Cooper in too small proportion to be submitted to chemical analysis. But the thymic fluid of the fetal calf, which exists in great abun- dance, gave the following analyticalf results : one hundred parts * See Plates in Sir Astley Cooper's work, t This analysis was conducted by Dr. Dowler of Richmond, z z