357 BRANCHES OF THE THORACIC AORTA. The Digital Branches, four in number, are given off from the convexity of the superficial palmar arch. The first and smallest is distributed to the ulnar side of the little finger. The other three are short trunks, which divide between the heads of the metacarpal bones, and form the collateral branch of the radial side of the little finger, the collateral branches of the ring and middle finger, and the collateral branch of the ulnar side of the index finger. On the last phalanx, the collateral arteries communicate and form an arch, from which numerous branches are given off to the tip of the finger. The arteries of the hand are subject to frequent variety of distri- bution. The Pericardiac arteries are a few small and irregular branches distributed to the pericardium. The Bronchial arteries, generally three in number, one for the right lung and two for the left, vary both in size and origin ; the right often proceeding from a short trunk common to it and one of the left bronchial branches, or from the first aortic intercostal. They take their course to the back of the root of the lung, and ac- company the ramifications of the bronchial tubes through its sub- stance ; giving twigs also to the bronchial glands, oesophagus, and pericardium. The (Esophageal arteries (cesophagese), five or six in number, arise from the anterior part of the aorta, and are distributed to the oesophagus, establishing a chain of anastomoses along that tube : the superior inosculate with the bronchial arteries, and with oeso- phageal branches of the inferior thyroid arteries; the inferior with similar branches of the phrenic and gastric arteries. The Posterior mediastinal arteries are small twigs distributed to the lymphatic glands and cellular tissue of the posterior medias- tinum. The Intercostal, or posterior intercostal arteries (intercostales inferiores), arise from the posterior part of the aorta ; they are ten in number at each side, the first intercostal space being supplied by the superior intercostal artery, a branch of the subclavian. The right intercostals are longer than the left, on account of the position of the aorta. They ascend somewhat obliquely from their origin, and cross the vertebral column behind the thoracic duct, vena azygos major, and sympathetic nerve, to the intercostal spaces ; the left passing beneath the superior intercostal vein, vena azygos minor and BRANCHES OP THE THORACIC AORTA. Pericardiac, Bronchial, (Esophageal, Posterior mediastinal, Intercostal.