OPHTHALMIC ARTERY. 336 The Tympanic is a small branch given off in the carotid canal; it enters the tympanum and inosculates with the tympanic branch of the internal maxillary, and with the stylo-mastoid artery. The Arterice receptaculi anterior and posterior are two small branches given off in the cavernous sinus and distributed to the parts contained in the sinus, to the Casserian ganglion, and dura mater; one of the twigs distributed to the latter is the anterior meningeal artery. The Ophthalmic artery (ophthalmica) arises from the internal carotid, just as that vessel pierces the dura mater, and enters the orbit through the foramen opticum, lying externally to the optic nerve. It then crosses the optic nerve to the inner wall of the orbit; and runs along the lower border of the superior oblique muscle, to the inner angle of the eye, where it divides into two terminal branches, frontal and nasal. Branches.—The branches of the ophthalmic artery, ten in num- ber, may be arranged into two groups : first, those distributed to the orbit and surrounding parts ; and, secondly, those which supply the muscles and globe of the eye. They are— First Group. Second Group. Lachrymal, Muscular,—anterior ciliary, Supra-orbital, Ciliary short and long, • Posterior ethmoidal, Centralis retinas. Anterior ethmoidal, Palpebral, Frontal, Nasal. The Lachrymal (lachrymalis) is the first branch of the ophthal- mic artery, and is usually given off immediately before that artery enters the optic foramen. It follows the course of the lachrymal nerve, above the upper border of the external rectus muscle, and is distributed to the lachrymal gland. The small branches which escape from the gland supply the conjunctiva and upper eyelid. The lachrymal artery gives off a malar branch which passes through the malar bone into the temporal fossa, and inosculates with the deep temporal arteries, while some of its branches become subcu- taneous on the cheek, and anastomose with the tranversa faciei. The Supraorbital artery (supraorbitalis) follows the course of the frontal nerve, resting on the levator palpebrse muscle; it passes through the supraorbital foramen, and divides into a superficial and deep branch, which are distributed to the muscles and integu- ment of the forehead, and to the pericranium. At the supraorbital foramen it sends a branch inwards to the diploe. The Ethmoidal arteries (ethmoidales), posterior and anterior\ pass through the ethmoidal foramina, and are distributed to the falx cerebri and to the ethmoidal cells and nasal fossre. The latter