GENERAL ANATOMY OF LYMPHATICS. 415 anastomoses of the lymphatic vessels. The valves occur most nu- merously near the lymphatic glands ; next in frequency they are found in the neck and upper extremities where the vessels are small, and least numerously in the lower limbs where the lymphatics are large. In the thoracic duct an interspace of two or three inches frequently occurs between the valves. Connected with the presence of valves in the lymphatic vessels are two lateral dilatations or pouches, analogous to the valvular sinuses of veins. The sinuses are situated on the cardiac side of the valves ; they receive the valves when the latter are thrown back by the current of the lymph ; and when reflux occurs they become distended with a body of fluid which makes pressure on the flaps. These pouch-like dila- tations and the constrictions corresponding with the line of attach- ment of the convex borders of the flaps are the cause of the knotted appearance of distended lymphatic vessels. Like arteries and veins, lymphatic vessels are composed of three coats, external, middle, and internal. The external or areolar coat is thin, but very strong, and serves to connect the vessel to sur- rounding tissues, at the same time that it forms a protective cover- ing. It is composed of a network of areolar tissue mingled with fine fibres of elastic tissue and fibres of smooth muscle, arranged in a longitudinal direction; the latter serving to distinguish lympha- tics, as Kolliker observes, from small veins. The middle or mus- cular coat, also thin and elastic, consists of a layer of smooth mus- cular fibres mingled with elastic fibres. These fibres are described by Mr. Lane as longitudinal; by Kolliker as transverse or circular, and analogous to the middle coat of arteries. The internal coat, less elastic and more liable to rupture than the other coats, is com- posed of a longitudinal network of elastic tissue, generally single, but sometimes double, supporting a layer of tesselated epithelium, consisting of nucleated slightly elongated cells. Capillary and minute lymphatics have a single, delicate, structureless, trans- parent coat, with imperfect longitudinal nuclei; the minute lac- teals have a similar structure, but are somewhat thicker. The valves are composed of a very thin layer of areolar tissue coated on its two surfaces by epithelium. The lymphatic glands (conglobate, absorbent) are small oval or bean-shaped, flattened or rounded bodies of a pale red colour, and enclosed in a firm but thin sheath of areolar tissue mingled with fine fibres of elastic tissue. On the exterior the gland has the appearance of being composed of minute lobules, and on the face of a section the lobules are represented by alveolar spaces, bounded by a delicate areolar network, sent inwards by the sheath, and per- meating the entire gland. Some difference of colour and texture may also be perceived between the central and external part of the gland, which has determined its division into a cortical and medul- lary portion, the former being firmer in texture than the latter, which is soft and more or less pulpy. Moreover, the cortical por-