671 PROSTATE GLAND. complete obliteration ; and inferior vesical, from the internal iliac. The latter is distributed to the base of the bladder, vesiculse semi- nales, and prostate gland. The veins are numerous and of large size, and form a plexus around the neck and at the base of the bladder ; the plexus communicates with the prostatic plexus and hemorrhoidal veins. The nerves of the bladder are derived from the inferior hypogastric plexuses and their communications with the third and fourth sacral nerves. PROSTATE GLAND. The prostate gland (irpoto-TTj/uu, preponere) is situated in front of the neck of the bladder, behind the triangular ligament and pelvic fascia, and upon the rectum, through which latter it may be felt with the finger. It surrounds the commencement of the urethra for a little more than an inch of its extent, and resembles a Spanish chesnut both in size and form ; the base being directed backwards towards the neck of the bladder, the apex forwards, and the convex side towards the rectum. It is retained firmly in position; by the anterior and lateral ligaments of the bladder, and by a process of the recto-vesical fascia, which forms a sheath around it. It consists of three lobes, two lateral and a middle lobe or isthmus ; the lateral lobes are distinguished by an indentation at the base of the gland, and a slight furrow on its upper and lower surface. The third lobe or isthmus is a small transverse band which passes between the two lateral lobes at the base of the organ. In structure the prostate is composed of smooth muscle and glandular tissue, the latter being not more than one-third or one-fourth of the whole, and consisting of from thirty to fifty com- pound racemose glands, of a pyriform shape. It is of a greyish-red colour and dense in texture, splits easily in the course of its ducts, and is surrounded by a proper fibrous covering, and by a plexus of veins enclosed in a sheath derived from the recto-vesical fascia. Its secretion is poured into the prostatic portion of the urethra by fifteen or twenty excretory ducts. The ducts of the lateral lobes open into the urethra at each side of the veru montanum ; those of the third lobe open upon and behind the veru. The urethra, in passing through the prostate, lies one-third nearer its upper, than its lower, surface. Ellis regards the prostate as "essentially a muscular body, consisting of circular or orbicular involuntary fibres, with one large central hole for the passage of the urethra," the circular fibres being continuous behind with those of the middle muscular layer of the bladder, and prolonged in front upon the membranous portion of the urethra as a stratum, -gV of an inch thick. This muscular layer he proposes to call orbicularis vel sphincter urethrce. The longitudinal fibres of the detrusor urinse continued forwards on the