THE LUNGS. 604 of the latter vessel, in tracheotomy, might be fatal to the patient. The nerves are derived from the superior laryngeal and from the middle and inferior cervical ganglia of the sympathetic. THE LUNGS. The lungs are two conical organs, situated one at each side of the chest, embracing the heart, and separated from each other by that organ and by a membranous partition, the mediastinum. On the external or thoracic side they are convex, and correspond with the form of the cavity of the chest; internally they are concave, to receive the convexity of the heart. Superiorly they terminate in a tapering cone, which extends above the level of the first rib into the root of the neck, and inferiorly they are broad and concave, and rest on the convex surface of the diaphragm. Their posterior border is rounded, broad and long ; the anterior, sharp, short, and marked by one or two deep fissures ; and the inferior border which surrounds the base is also sharp. The colour of the lungs is pinkish- grey, mottled, and variously marked with black. The surface is figured with irregularly polyhedral outlines, which represent the lobules of the organ, and the area of each of these polyhedral spaces is crossed by lighter lines representing smaller lobules. The weight of the lungs is about forty ounces, the right lung being two ounces heavier than the left. Each lung is divided into two lobes, by a long and deep fissure, which extends from the posterior surface of the upper part of the organ, downwards and forwards to near the anterior angle of its base. In the right lung the upper lobe is subdivided by a second fissure, which extends obliquely forward from the middle of the preceding to the anterior border of the organ, and marks off a small triangular lobe. The left lung presents a deep notch in its anterior border, at a point corresponding with the apex of the heart. The right lung is larger than the left, in consequence of the inclination of the heart to the left side. It is also shorter, from the great convexity of the liver, which presses the diaphragm upwards on the right side of the chest considerably above the level of the left; and it has three lobes. The left lung is smaller, has only two lobes, but is longer than the right. Each lung is retained in its place by its root, which is formed by the pulmonary artery, pulmonary veins, and bronchial tubes, together with the bronchial vessels and pulmonary plexuses of nerves. The groove on the surface of the lung where the vessels enter its sub- stance is the hilum pulmonis ; and the position of the large vessels in the root of the lung, as follows : from before, backwards, they are placed in a similar order on both sides, viz. Pulmonary veins, Pulmonary artery, Bronchus. From above, downwards, on the right side, this order is exactly