INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY. 332 artery. masseter muscle (masseteric). Cut away the tendon of the tem- poral muscle from its insertion into the coronoid process, and turn it upwards towai-ds its origin; some vessels will be seen entering its under surface; these are the deep temporal. Then saw the ramus of the jaw across its middle, and dislocate it from its articulation with the temporal bone. Be careful in doing this to carry the blade of the knife close to the bone, lest any branches of nerves should be injured. Next raise this portion of bone, and with it the exter- nal pterygoid muscle. The artery, together with the deep branches of the inferior maxillary nerve, will be seen lying on the pterygoid muscles. These are to be carefully freed from fat and cellular tissue, and then examined. The internal maxillary artery commences in the substance of the parotid gland, opposite the meatus auditorius externus; it passes in the first instance horizontally forward behind the neck of the lower jaw ; next, curves around the lower border of the external pterygoid muscle near its insertion, and ascends obliquely forwards upon the outer side of that muscle; it then passes inwards between the two heads of the external pterygoid, and enters the spheno- maxillary fossa. Occasionally it takes its course between the two pterygoid muscles, without appearing on the outer surface of the external pterygoid. For the purposes of description it admits of division into three portions: maxillary, pterygoid, and spheno- maxillary. Relations.—The maxillary portion is situated between the neck of the jaw and the internal lateral ligament and inferior dental nerve, and lies parallel with the auriculo-temporal nerve; the ptery- goid portion between the external pterygoid muscle, and the mas- seter and temporal muscle. The spheno-maxillary portion lies between the two heads of the external pterygoid muscle, and, in the spheno-maxillary fossa, is in relation with Meckel's ganglion. Branches.—Maxillary Portion. Pterygoid Portion. Tympanic, Deep temporal, Inferior dental, Pterygoid, Arteria meningea media, Masseteric, Arteria meningea parva. Buccal. Spheno-maxillary Portion. Superior dental, Spheno-palatine, Infra-orbital, Superior palatine, Pterygopalatine, Vidian. The Tympanic branch (arteria cavi tympani) passes into the tympanum through the fissura Grlaseri, and is distributed to the laxator tympani, and membrana tympani; on the latter it inoscu- lates with the stylo-mastoid, a branch of the posterior auricular