160 ANKLE JOINT. the surface of the astragalus with its two lateral facets, below. The ligaments are three in number : Anterior, Internal lateral, External lateral. The anterior ligament is a thin, membranous layer, passing from the margin of the tibia, to the astragalus, in front of its articular surface. It is in relation, in front, with the tendons of the ex- tensors of the great and lesser toes, tibialis anticus, peroneus tertius, and anterior tibial vessels and Fig. 97.* nerves. Posteriorly it lies in con- tact with a stratum of extra- synovial adipose tissue and the synovial membrane. The internal lateral or del- toid ligament is a triangular layer of fibres, attached supe- riorly, by its apex, to the internal malleolus ; inferiorly, by an ex- ^-^f * WtJPfP^s^^! Panded t>ase» to tne astragalus, -C *TV£ 1 Sal^^rli os calcis, and scaphoid bone. Be- neath the superficial layer of this ligament is a stronger and thicker fasciculus, which connects the apex of the internal malleolus with the side of the astragalus. The internal lateral ligament is covered in and partly concealed by the tendon of the tibialis posticus, and, at its posterior part, is in relation with the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum, and flexor longus pollicis. The external lateral ligament consists of three strong fasciculi, which proceed from the inner side of the external malleolus, and radiate in three different directions. The anterior fasciculus passes forward, to be attached to the astragalus ; \he posterior, backward, to be connected with the astragalus posteriorly ; and the middle, longer than the other two, descends to be inserted into the outer side of the os calcis. "It is the strong union of this bone," says Sir Astley Cooper, with the tarsal bones, by means of the external lateral ligaments, "which leads to its being more frequently fractured than dislo- cated." The transverse ligament of the tibia and fibula occupies the place of a posterior ligament of the ankle joint. It is in relation, behind, with the posterior tibial vessels and nerve, and tendon of the tibialis * Internal view of the ankle joint. 1. Internal malleolus of the tibia. 2 2. Astragalus. 3. Os calcis. 4. Scaphoid bone. 5. Internal cuneiform b'one. 6. Internal lateral or deltoid ligament. 7. Anterior ligament. 8. Tendo Achillis; a small bursa is seen interposed between this tendon and the pos- terior tuberosity of the os calcis.