MUSCLES OF THE BACK. 208 of the back and loins. It arises from the spinous processes of the four or six inferior dorsal, and all the lumbar vertebrae, from the supra-spinous ligament, spinous tubercles of the sacrum, posterior third of the crest of the ilium, and four lower ribs; the latter origin taking place by muscular slips, which indigitate with the external oblique muscle of the abdomen. The fibres from this extensive origin converge as they ascend, and cross the inferior angle of the scapula ; they then curve around the lower border of the teres major muscle, and terminate in a short quadrilateral tendon, which gets in front of the tendon of the teres, and is inserted into the bicipital groove. The tendinous origin of the muscle is united by its under surface with the posterior lamella of the fascia lumborum, and forms the posterior part of the sheath of the erector spinas ; it is also connected with the posterior aponeurosis of the obliquus internus. A synovial bursa is interposed between its upper border and the lower angle of the scapula, and another between the upper half of its tendon and that of the teres major ; the two tendons being united inferiorly. The muscle frequently receives a small fasciculus from the scapula as it crosses its inferior angle ; and sometimes by means of its tendon, a small muscular fasciculus from the pectoralis major ; its tendon also gives off fibres to the deep fascia of the upper arm. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the integument and superficial fascia, the latter being dense and fibrous in the lumbar region, and with the trapezius. By its deep surface, from below upwards, with the erector spinas, serratus posticus inferior, posterior aponeurosis of the obliquus internus, obliquus externus, serratus magnus, intercostal muscles and ribs, rhomboideus major, inferior angle of the scapula, and teres major. The latissimus dorsi, with the teres major, forms the posterior border of the axilla. Second Layer. Dissection.—This layer is brought into view by dividing the two preceding muscles near their insertion, and turning them aside. The Levator anguli scapulae (trachelo-scapularis) arises by tendinous slips, from the posterior tubercles of the transverse pro- cesses of the four upper cervical vertebrae ; and is inserted into the upper angle and posterior border of the scapula, as far as the triangular smooth surface at the root of its spine. Being the prin- cipal elevator of the shoulder, the levator anguli scapulae has been termed muscidus patientioz. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the trapezius, sterno- mastoideus, and integument. By its deep surface with the splenius colli, transversalis cervicis, cervicalis ascendens, scalenus posticus, and serratus posticus superior. The tendons of origin are interposed between the attachments of the scalenus medius in front and the splenius colli and transversalis cervicis behind.