510 MUSCULO-SPIRAL NERVE. The Branches of the niusculo-spiral nerve are— Muscular, Cutaneous, Radial, Posterior interosseous. The Muscular branches are distributed to the triceps, anconeus, brachialis anticus, supinator longus, and extensor carpi, radialis longior. The Cutaneous branches are three in number, internal and two external. The internal branch arises from the nerve in the axilla, and piercing the deep fascia in the upper third of the arm on its posterior aspect, communicates with the intercosto-humeral nerve, and is distributed to the integument of the posterior aspect of the upper arm, as far as the olecranon. The external cutaneous branches pass through the substance of the external head of the triceps, and pierce the deep fascia ; one, upper, near the insertion of the deltoid, the other, lower, at about the middle of the upper arm. The upper branch follows the course of the cephalic vein, supplying the integument of the outer and fore part of the upper arm as far as the bend of the elbow. The lower branch passes down the outer side of the forearm, reaches the posterior aspect at about its middle, and is continued onwards to the wrist, where it communicates with the posterior branch of the musculo-cutaneous. The Radial nerve runs along the radial side of the forearm to the commencement of its lower third ; it there passes beneath the tendon of the supinator longus, and, at about two inches above the wrist- joint, pierces the deep fascia and divides into an external and in- ternal branch. The external branch, the smaller of the two, is distributed to the outer border of the thumb, and communicates with the posterior branch of the musculo-cutaneous nerve. The internal branch crosses the direction of the extensor tendons of the thumb, and divides into several filaments for the supply of the ulnar border of the thumb, radial border of the index finger, and adjacent borders of the index and middle finger. It communicates above the wrist with the pos- terior branch of the musculo-cutaneous nerve, and on the back of the hand forms an arch by joining with the dorsal branch of the ulnar nerve. On the backs of the fingers the digital branches com- municate with those of the median nerve. In the upper third of the forearm the radial nerve lies beneath the border of the supinator longus muscle ; in the middle third it is in relation with the radial artery, lying to its outer side; and in the lower third it quits the artery, and passes beneath the tendon of the supinator longus to reach the back of the hand. The Posterior interosseous nerve, somewhat larger than the radial, separates from the latter at the bend of the elbow, pierces the supinator brevis muscle, and emerges from its lower border on the