VESSELS AND NERVES OF THE LARYNX. 601 iuferiorly is prolonged through the trachea and bronchial tubes into the lungs. In the ventricles of the larynx the mucous membrane forms a cascal pouch of variable size, termed by Hilton the sacculus laryngis* The sacculus laryngis is directed upwards, sometimes extending as high as the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, and occasionally above that border. "When dissected from the interior of the larynx it is found covered by the aryteno-epiglottideus muscle and a fibrous membrane, which latter is attached to the superior thyro-arytenoid ligament below ; to the epiglottis in front; and to the upper border of the thyroid cartilage above. If examined from the exterior of the larynx, it will be seen to be covered by the thyro-epiglottideus muscle. On the surface ofit&*#^6Q.us mem- brane are the openings of sixty or seventy smsffl racemose glands, which are situated in the sub-mucous tissue^ind g^e f$ its external surface a rough and ill-dissected appearance.";*. The secretion from these glands is intended for the lubricaiion^of, xhe chorda? yocales, and is directed upon them by two small valvular fohls of mucous membrane, which are situated at the entrance of the sacculuk The mucous membrane is closely connected £o the epiglottis and to the chorda? vocales, on the latter being remarkable for its thinness. It is invested by a columnar ciliated epithelium as high up as the supe- rior folds of the ventricle of the larynx and" lower half-of the epiglottis. Glands.—The mucous membrane of the larynx is furnished with an abundance of mucous glands ; many of these are situated on the epiglottis, in the sacculus laryngis, and in the aryteno-epiglottidean folds, where they are termed arytenoid. The body known as the epi- glottic gland is merely a mass of areolar and adipose tissue, situated in the triangular space between the front surface of the apex of the epiglottis, the hyo-epiglottidean and the thyro-hyoidean ligament. Vessels and Nerves.—The Arteries of the larynx are derived from the superior and inferior thyroid. The nerves are the superior laryngeal and recurrent laryngeal; both branches of the pneumo- * This sac was described by Mr. Hilton before he was aware that it had already been pointed out by the older anatomists. I myself made a dissection, of the same sac in an enlarged state, during the month of August, 1837, with- out any knowledge either of Mr. Hilton's labours or Morgagni's account. The sac projected considerably above the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, and the extremity had been snipped off at one side in the removal of the muscles. The larynx was sent to me by Dr. George Moore; he had obtained it from a child who died of bronchial disease; and he conceived that this peculiar disposition of the mucous membrane might possibly explain some of the symptoms by which the case was accompanied. Cruveilhier made the same observation in equal ignorance of Morgagni's description, for we read in a note at page 677, vol. ii. of his Anatomie Descriptive,—" J'ai vu pour la premiere fois cette arriere cavite chez un individu alfecte de phthisie laryng^e, ou elle etait tres-d6veloppee. Je fis des recherches sur le larynx d'autres individus, et je trouvai que cette disposition etait constante. Je ne savais pas alors que Morgagni avait indique et fait representer la meme disposition." Cruveilhier compares its form very aptly to a "Phrygian casque," and Mor- gagni's figure, Advers. 1. Epist. Anat. 3. plate 2. fig. 4. has the same appear- ance. But neither of these anatomists notice the glands described by Mr. Hilton.