SUPRA-RENAL CAPSULES. 661 nected with it only by the vessels and thin processes of areolar tissue sent inwards by the fibrous tunic. Moreover in the centre of the medullary substance is the trunk of a large vein, the vena supra-renalis. After death the medullary substance speedily runs into a state of decomposition, and is converted into a dirty brownish pulp. In intimate structure, the columns of the cortical substance are found to be composed of a series of round and oblong cavities in- vested and separated by areolar tissue. These cavities have been compared to the closed follicles of the follicular glands, and their contents are not unlike, namely, a granular substance with nuclei and cells, together with oil granules and pigment granules ; whether these contents are enclosed in a membrana propria is not yet deter- mined, and no vessels have been detected within them as occurs in the closed follicles of Peyer's glands. The medullary substance is composed of a fine network or stroma of areolar tissue, continuous with that of the corticah substance, and containing within its meshes a pale granular substance, and cells resembling nerve-cells, pale, with nucleus and nucleolus, fine granular contents, fat and pigment granules, and fine processes simple and branched. The peculiar structure of the supra-renal capsule has caused its two parts to be compared, the cortical substance to a blood-vascular, or ductless gland ;,the medullary substance to a sympathetic ganglion, bearing the same relation to the sympathetic system as the pituitary gland to the brain. In confirmation of this view is the great number of nerves which ramify through it, and the observation of Leydig, that in the salamander he had detected nerve fibres proceeding from its bipolar cells. The blood-vessels of the supra-renal capsules are very numerous. The arteries, about twenty in number, proceed from the aorta, phrenic, coeliac and renal trunks ; they enter the cortical substance at every point of its surface, the greater number dividing into minute twigs and forming a plexus in the cortical layer ; while others continue onwards to the medullary substance, and either ter- minate in the medullary plexus or cross the medullary substance to re-enter the cortical layer and contribute to the formation of its capillary plexus. In the cortical substance the capillaries are straight, occupy the intercolumnar spaces, and communicate with each other across the columns by transverse branches, forming oblong meshes; in the medullary substance the capillary plexus is a close network and the meshes rounded. The veins take their origin from the capillary plexus by minute venules, which unite to form the supra-renal vein. The supra-renal vein runs through the centre of the medullary substance, and issues from the supra- renal capsule at the hilum on its anterior surface, to terminate, on the right side in the inferior vena cava, on the left in the renal vein. Smaller veins take their course by the side of the arterial twigs, and leave the capsule at various points of its surface, and terminate