437 NERVE-FIBRES OP HEMISPHERES. parallel fasciculi and becoming greatly reduced in size, separate from each, other and run in every direction, some becoming horizontal and constituting the clear whitish streak, and others passing on- wards into the grey layer and superficial layer. In the grey layer, the white fibres, still more and more attenuated in size, form an intricate plexus among the nerve-cells, while in the external or white layer they cross each other in every direction, forming several superimposed strata, and become so minute as to be ultimately lost to the eye, appearing to terminate in fine loops. The corpus callosum, anterior commissure, and fornix are com- posed of nerve-fibres like those of the medullary substance of the hemispheres. In the corpus callosum, a few greyish streaks and thin deposits of grey substance occur, consisting of cell nuclei and clear vesicles deposited among the white fibres. And the fornix, although containing no grey substance, is closely connected with that substance in various places, as in the thalami optici, corpora mamillaria, floor of the third ventricle, and at its junction with the septum lucidum. The septum lucidum contains nerve-cells like those of the tuber cinereum, and numerous plexuses of the finest nerve-fibres. The hippocampus major and minor are composed of nerve-fibres like those of the medullary substance of the hemispheres ; and also contain grey substance. The olfactory nerves, as a part of the hemispheres, and the optic nerves, as proceeding from the corpora quadrigemina and thalami optici, also call for a passing notice in connexion with the histo- logical structure of the cerebrum. The tractus and bulbus olfacto- rius are composed of finenon-medullated and medullated nerve-fibres, with nerve-cells and a finely granular matrix ; in the bulb the nerve- cells are small and large, the latter provided with branching pro- cesses. The optic nerves, besides their origin from the corpora quadrigemina, corpora geniculata, and thalami optici, are in their course connected with the crura cerebri, substantia perforata, tuber cinereum, and lamina cinerea, and decussate each other in the com- missure. They consist for the most part of dark-bordered nerve- fibres. Origin of nerve-fibres.—The origin of nerve-fibres is still an unsettled question ; they are presumed to arise from the nerve- cells, to be in fact continuations of the processes of those cells ; but in their course in the grey substance they are so minute as to cease to be traceable to their source. Kolliker has seen in the frog the origin of the dark-bordered nerves from the nerve-cells, and this observation has been corroborated by Wagner and others, among fishes. Thus the nerve-fibres of the corpus callosum may be con- sidered as arising from the nerve-cells of the grey substance of one hemisphere and terminating in the other. Spinal nerves.—The roots of the spinal nerves are composed of parallel nerve-fibres, which are larger in the anterior or motor than