PALMARIS BEEVIS.—ADDUCTOR OSSIS METACARPI. 263 Relations.—By its anterior surface with the flexor brevis pollicis, tendons of the deep flexor of the fingers, lumbricales, and deep palmar arch. By its posterior surface with the metacarpal bones of the index and middle finger, the interossei of the second inter- osseous space, and the abductor indicis. Its inferior border is sub- cutaneous. Ulnar or Hypothenar Region. Palmaris brevis, Flexor brevis minimi digiti, Abductor minimi digiti, Adductor ossis metacarpi. Dissection.—Turn aside the ulnar flap of integument from the palm of the hand; in doing this, a small subcutaneous muscle, the palmaris brevis, will be exposed. After examining this muscle, remove it with the deep fascia, in order to bring into view the muscles of the little finger. The Palmaris brevis is a thin plane of muscular fibres about an inch in width, which arises from the annular ligament and palmar fascia, and passes transversely inwards to be inserted into the in- tegument of the inner border of the hand. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the fat and integu- ment of the inner portion of the palm. By its deep surface with the ulnar portion of the palmar fascia, which separates it from the ulnar artery, veins, and nerve, and from the muscles of the inner border of the hand. The Abductok minimi digiti is a small tapering muscle which arises from the pisiform bone, where it is continuous with the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the little finger, and into the expansion of the extensor tendon. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the internal portion of the deep fascia and palmaris brevis; by its deep surface with the adductor ossis metacarpi and metacarpal bone. By its inner border with the flexor brevis minimi digiti. The Flexor brevis minimi digiti is a small muscle arising ■ from the unciform bone and annular ligament, and inserted into the base of the first phalanx. It is sometimes wanting. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the internal portion of the palmar fascia, and palmaris brevis. By its deep surface with the adductor ossis metacarpi and metacarpal bone. Externally with the abductor minimi digiti, from which it is separated near its origin by the deep palmar branch of the ulnar nerve and communi- cating artery. Internally with the tendons of the flexor sublimis and profundus. The Adductor ossis metacarpi (opponens), or adductor minimi digiti, arises from the unciform bone and annular ligament; and is inserted into the whole length of the metacarpal bone of the little finger.