DEPRESSORS OF THE OS HYOIDES AND LARYNX. 191 separated on the thyroid cartilage; they are frequently traversed below t>y a tendinous intersection. Relations.—By its external surface with the deep cervical fascia, platysma myoides and sterno-mastoid muscle; by its internal surface with the sterno-thyroid and thyro-hyoid muscle, and superior thyroid artery. The Sterno-thyroideus, broader than the preceding beneath which it lies, arises from the posterior surface of the upper bone of the sternum, and from the cartilage of the fist rib ; it is inserted into the oblique line on the great ala of the thyroid cartilage. The inner borders lie in contact along the middle line, and the muscles are marked by a tendinous intersection at their lower part. Some of the fibres of this muscle are continued directly into the thyro- hyoideus without intervening attachment; others are continuous with the inferior constrictor. Relations.—By its external surface with the sterno-hyoid, omo- hyoid, and sterno-mastoid muscle; by its internal surface, with the trachea, inferior-thyroid veins, thyroid gland, lower part of the ■larynx, sheath of the common carotid artery and internal jugular vein, subclavian vein, vena innominata, and, on the right side, arteria innominata. The middle thyroid vein lies along its inner border. The Thyro-hyoideus is the continuation upwards of the sterno- thyroid muscle. It arises from the oblique line on the thyroid cartilage, and is inserted into the lower border of the body, and great cornu of the os hyoides for one half its length. Relations.—By its external surface with the sterno-hyoid and omo-hyoid muscle ; by its internal surface with the great ala of the thyroid cartilage, thyro-hyoidean membrane, and superior laryngeal artery and nerve. The Omo-hyoideus (&,uos, shoulder) is a double-bellied muscle passing obliquely across the neck from the scapula to the os hyoides ; it forms an obtuse angle behind the sterno-mastoid, and is retained in that position by a process of the deep cervical fascia which forms a sheath for its tendon and holds it in connexion with the sternum and first rib. It arises from the upper border of the scapula and transverse ligament of the suprascapular notch, and is inserted into the os hyoides at the junction of the body and great cornu. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the trapezius, sub- clavius, clavicle, deep cervical fascia, platysma myoides, sterno- mastoid eus, and integument. By its deep&urface with the brachial plexus, scaleni muscles, phrenic nerve, sheath of the common carotid artery and jugular vein, descendens noni nerve, sterno-thyroid and thyro-hyoid muscle, and. the sterno-hyoid at its insertion. The scapular portion of the muscle divides the great posterior triangle into a superior or occipital triangle, and an inferior or subclavian triangle; the latter contains the subclavian artery and