BASILAR ARTERY. 341 the right only eight. In the same number of cases he found a small band stretching across the cylinder of the basilar artery, near the junction of the two vertebral arteries, seventeen times ; and, in a few instances, a small communicating trunk between the two vertebral arteries previously to their union. I have several times seen this communicating branch. The Basilar artery (basilaris, meso-cephalica), so named from its position at the base of the brain, runs forward in the groove on the midline of the pons Varolii, and at the anterior border of the pons divides into four ultimate branches, two to either side. Branches.—The branches of the vertebral and basilar artery are t he following :— Vertebral. Basilar. Lateral spinal, Transverse, Posterior meningeal, Superior cerebellar, Anterior spinal, Posterior cerebral. Posterior spinal, Inferior cerebellar. The Lateral spinal branches (spinales laterales) enter the inter- vertebral foramina, and taking the course of the roots of the spinal nerves, are distributed to the spinal cord and vertebra?. Where the vertebral artery curves around the articular process of the atlas, it gives off several muscular branches (rami musculares). The Posterior meningeal (meningea posterior) are one or two small branches which enter the cranium through the foramen mag- num, to be distributed to the dura mater of the cerebellar fossae, and to the falx cerebelli. One branch, described by Soemmering, passes into the cranium along the first cervical nerve. The Anterior spinal (spinalis anterior) is a small branch which unites with its fellow of the opposite side, on the front of the medulla oblongata. The artery formed by the union of these two vessels descends along the anterior aspect of the spinal cord, to which it distributes branches. The Posterior spinal (spinalis posterior) winds around the medulla oblongata to the posterior aspect of the cord, and descends on either side to the cauda equina. It communicates very freely with the spinal branches of the intercostal and lumbar arteries, and. near its origin sends a branch upwards to the fourth ventricle. The Inferior cerebellar arteries (cerebelli inferior posterior vel magna) wind around the upper part of the medulla oblongata to the under surface of the cerebellum, to which they are distributed. They pass between the filaments of origin of the hypoglossal nerve in their course, and anastomose with the superior cerebellar arteries. The Transverse branches of the basilar artery supply the pons Varolii, and adjacent parts of the brain. One of these branches, larger than the rest, passes along the crus cerebelli to be distributed to the anterior border of the cerebellum (a. cerebelli inferior,