469 SPINAL CORD. other fibres which cross the corpus olivare obliquely, these are the fibrce arciformes. When examined by section the corpus olivare is found to be ganglion deeply embedded in the medulla oblongata, and meeting its fellow at the middle line behind the corpus pyra- midale. The ganglion of the corpus olivare (corpus dentatum, nucleus olivse), like that of the cerebellum, is a yellowish-grey den- tated capsule, open behind, and containing grey substance and transverse white fibres. The nervous filaments which spring from the groove on the anterior border of the corpus olivare, are those of the hypoglossal nerve ; and those on its posterior border are the glosso-pharyngeal and pneumogastric. The Corpora restiformia (restis, a rope) comprehend the whole of the posterior half of each lateral column of the medulla oblongata. They are separated from the corpora olivaria by the grooves already spoken of; posteriorly they are divided from each other by the posterior median fissure and fourth ventricle, and superiorly they diverge and curve backwards to enter the cerebellum, and con- stitute its inferior peduncles. Along the posterior border of each corpus restiforme, and marked off from that body by a groove, is a narrow white cord, separated from its fellow by the posterior fissure. This pair of narrow cords are termed the posterior pyramids (fasciculi graciles). Each fasciculus forms an enlarge- ment (processus clavatus) at its upper end, and is then lost in the corresponding corpus restiforme. The processus clavati are the lateral boundaries of the nib of the calamus scriptorius. The corpus restiforme is crossed near its entrance into the cerebellum by the auditory nerve, the choroid plexus of the fourth ventricle, and the pneumogastric lobule. The remaining portions of the medulla oblongata visible from the exterior, are the two slightly convex columns which enter into the formation of the floor of the fourth ventricle. These columns are the fasciculi teretes (innominati). SPINAL CORD. The dissection of the spinal cord requires that the spinal column should be opened throughout its entire length by sawing through the laminae of the vertebrae, close to the roots of the transverse processes, and raising the arches with a chisel ; the muscles of the back having been removed as a preliminary step. The Spinal column contains the spinal cord, or medulla spinalis ; the roots of the spinal nerves ; and the membranes of the cord, viz., the dura mater, arachnoid, pia mater, and membrana dentata. The Dura mater spinalis is a cylindrical sheath of fibrous mem- brane, identical in structure with the dura mater of the skull, and continuous with that membrane. At the margin of the occipital foramen it is closely adherent to the bone ; by its anterior surface it is attached to thejposterior common ligament, and below, by means