223 MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN. The muscles of the abdominal region are, the— Obliquus externus (descendens), Rectus, Obliquus internus (ascendens), Pyramidalis, Cremaster, Quaclratus lumborum, Transversalis, Psoas parvus, Diaphragma. Dissection.—The dissection of the abdominal muscles is to be commenced by making three incisions :—The first, vertical, in the middle line, from over the lower part of the sternum to the pubes ; the second, oblique, from the umbilicus, upwards and outwards, to the outer side of the chest, as high as the fifth or sixth rib; the third, oblique, from the umbilicus, downwards and outwards, to the crest of the ilium and along the crest to its middle. The three flaps included by these incisions should then be dissected back in the direction of the fibres of the external oblique muscle, beginning at the angle of each. The integument and superficial fascia should be dissected off together, so as to expose the fibres of the muscle at once. When the external oblique muscle is dissected on both sides, a white tendinous line will be seen along the middle of the abdomen, extending from the ensiform cartilage to the pubes ; this is the linea alba. A little external to it, on each side, two curved lines will be observed extending from the eighth rib to the spine of the pubes, and bounding the recti muscles ; these are the lineos semilunarxs. Some transverse lines, linece transversa^, three in number, connect the linese semilunares with the linea alba at and above the um- bilicus . The External obltque muscle {obliquus externus abdominis, descendens: costo-abdominalis) is the external flat muscle of the abdomen. Its name is derived from the obliquity of its direction, and the descending course of its fibres. It arises by fleshy digita- tions from the external surface of the eight inferior ribs ; the five upper digitations being received between corresponding processes of the serratus magnus, the three lower, of the latissimus dorsi. The fleshy fasciculi proceeding from this extensive origin terminate on the front of the abdomen in a broad aponeurosis, and posteriorly are inserted into the outer lip of the crest of the ilium, for two-thirds its length, and into the anterior superior spinous process. The aponeurosis is united, in front, by its under surface, with that of the obliquus internus, forming the anterior wall of the sheath of the rectus, and is inserted into the linea alba, front of the pubes, spine of the pubes and pectineal line. The lower border of the aponeurosis, which is stretched between the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium and the spine of