256 POSTERIOR BRACHIAL REG-ION. beneath the annular ligament, it is lodged in the interspace between the two portions of the flexor brevis pollicis, and afterwards in the tendinous theca of the phalanx. If the tendons of the last two muscles be drawn aside or divided, the third muscle of this group will be brought into "view, lying across the lower part of the two bones. The Pronator quadratus (cubito-radialis) arises from the ante- rior and inner side of the ulna; and is inserted into the front of the radius. This muscle occupies about the lower fourth of the two bones, is broad at its origin, and narrower at its insertion. Relations.—By its anterior surface with the tendons of the supinator longus, flexor carpi radialis, flexor longus pollicis, flexor profundus digitorum, and flexor carpi ulnaris, radial artery and veins, and ulnar artery, veins, and nerve. By its posterior sur- face with the radius, ulna, and interosseous membrane. Actions.—The pronator radii teres and pronator quadratus rotate the radius upon the ulna, and render the hand prone. The re- maining muscles are flexors: two flexors of the wrist, flexor carpi radialis and ulnaris; two of the fingers, flexor sublimis and pro- fundus, the former flexing the second phalanges, the latter the last, one flexor of the last phalanx of the thumb, flexor longus pollicis. The palmaris longus is primarily a tensor of the palmar fascia, and secondly a flexor of the wrist and forearm. Extensor communis digitorum, Dissection.—The integument is to be divided and turned aside, and the fascia removed in the same manner as for the anterior brachial region. The Supinator longus (brachio-radialis) is placed along the radial border of the forearm. It arises from the external condy-* loid ridge of the humerus, nearly as high as the insertion of the deltoid, and from the intermuscular septum; passes forward to the anterior aspect of the elbow joint, and descends the forearm to be inserted into the base of the styloid process of the radius. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, extensor primi internodii pollicis, and deep fascia of the forearm. By its deep surface with the brachialis anticus, extensor carpi radialis longior, tendon of the biceps, supinator brevis, pronator radii teres, flexor carpi radialis, flexor sublimis digitorum, flexor longus pollicis, pronator quadratus, Posterior Brachial Region. Superficial layer. Supinator longus, Extensor carpi radialis longior, Extensor carpi radialis brevior, Extensor minimi digiti, Extensor carpi ulnaris, Anconeus.