703 THYMUS GLAND. the latter are completely formed before birth. The only parts re- maining incomplete are the mastoid cells, and meatus auditorius. The membrana tympani in the foetal head is very oblique, occupying almost the basilar surface of the skull; hence probably arises a deficient acuteness in the perception of sound. It is also extremely vascular. ]yose.—The sense of smell is imperfect in the infant, as may be inferred from the small capacity of the nasal fossae, and the non- development of the ethmoid, sphenoid, frontal, and maxillary sinuses. THYROID GLAND. The Thyroid gland is of large size in the foetus, and is developed by two lateral halves, which approach and become connected at the middle line so as to constitute a single gland. It is doubtful whether it performs any special function in foetal life. THYMUS GLAND. The^Thymus gland* consists " of a thoracic and a cervical portion on each side. The former is situated in the anterior mediastinum, and the latter is placed in the neck just above the first bone of the sternum and behind the sterno-hyoidei and sterno-thyroidei mus- cles." It extends upwards from the fourth rib as high as the thyroid gland, resting against the pericardium, separated from the arch of the aorta and great vessels by the thoracic fascia, and lying at each side of the trachea in the neck. Although described usually as a single gland, it consists actually of two lateral, almost symmetrical glands, connected with each other by areolar tissue only, and having no structural communication ^ they may therefore be " properly called a right and left thymus gland." The thymus is perceptible as early as the seventh week of em- bryonic existence, and continues gradually increasing with the growth of the foetus until the seventh month. At the eighth month it is large ; during the ninth it undergoes a sudden change, assumes a greatly increased size, and at birth weighs 240 grains. After birth it continues to enlarge until the expiration of the second year, when it ceases to grow, and begins to diminish between the eighth and twelfth year ; being often well developed at the age of twenty, and only disappearing entirely before forty. The thymus is a blood-vascular gland, composed of lobules dis- posed in a spiral form around a central canal. The lobules are held together by a firm areolar tissue ("reticulated"), and the entire gland is enclosed in a coarse areolar capsule. * In the description of this gland I have followed the account of it given by Sir Astley Cooper in his celebrated monograph " On the Anatomy of the Thymus Gland," 1832.