106 TIBIA. FIBULA. The inferior extremity of the bone is Fig. 64.* somewhat quadrilateral, and prolonged on its inner side into a large process, the in- ternal malleolus. Behind the internal mal- leolus is a broad and shallow groove, for 2 lodging the tendons of the tibialis posticus and flexor longus digitorum ; and farther outwards another groove, for the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis. At the outer side the surface is concave and triangular, rough above for the attachment of the in- terosseous ligament; and smooth below, to articulate with the fibula. On the ex- tremity of the bone is a triangular smooth surface, for articulation with the astragalus. Development.— By three centres ; one for the shaft, and one for each extremity. Ossification commences in the tibia, imme- diately after the femur ; the centre for the head of the bone appears soon after birth, and that for the lower extremity during the second year ; the latter is the first to join the diaphysis. The bone is not complete until nearly the twenty-fifth year. Two occasional centres are sometimes found in the tibia, one for the tubercle, the other for the internal malleolus. Articulations.—With three bones; femur, fibula, and astragalus. Attachment of Muscles.—To ten; by the internal tuberosity, to the sartorius, gra- cilis, semi-tendinosus, and semi-membra- nosus ; by the external tuberosity, tibialis anticus and extensor longus digitorum ; by the tubercle, ligamen- tum patellae ; by the external surface of the shaft, tibialis anticus ; and by the posterior surface, popliteus, soleus, flexor longus digi- torum, and tibialis posticus. Fibula.—The fibula (irepdvr], a brooch, from its resemblance, in conjunction with the tibia, to the pin of an ancient brooch) is the outer and smaller bone of the leg ; it is long and slender in figure, prismoid in shape, and, like other long bones, divisible into a shaft and two extremities. * Tibia and fibula of the right leg1, articulated and seen from the front. 1. Shaft of the tibia. 2. Inner tuberosity. 3. Outer tuberosity. 4. Spinous process. 5. Tubercle. 6. Internal or subcutaneous surface of the shaft. 7. Lower extremity of the tibia. 8. Internal malleolus. 9. Shaft of the fibula. 10. Its upper extremity. 11. Its lower extremity, the external mal- leolus. The sharp border between 1 and 6 is the crest of the tibia.