658 THE SPLEEN. of tliesplenic, hepatic, and superior mesenteric; the veins open into the splenic vein ; the lymphatics terminate in the lumbar glands. The nerves are filaments of the splenic plexus. THE SPLEEN. The spleen is an oblong flattened organ, of a dark bluish-red colour, situated in the left hypochondriac region. It is variable in size and weight,* spongy and vascular in texture, and exceedingly friable. The external surface is convex, the internal slightly con- cave, indented along the middle line, and pierced by several large and irregular openings for the entrance and exit of vessels ; this is the hilum lienis. The upper extremity is somewhat larger than the lower, and rounded; the inferior is flattened ; the posterior border is obtuse, the anterior sharp, and marked by several notches. The spleen is in relation by its external or convex surface with the diaphragm, which separates it from the ninth, tenth, and eleventh rib ; by its concave surface, with the great end of the stomach, small extremity of the pancreas, gastro-splenic omentum with its vessels, left kidney and supra-renal capsule, and left crus of the diaphragm ; by its upper end with the diaphragm, and sometimes with the extremity of the left lobe of the liver ; and, by its lovjer end, with the left extremity of the transverse arch of the colon. It is connected to the stomach by the gastro-splenic omentum, and to the diaphragm by a fold of the peritoneum called the suspensory Ligament. A second spleen (lien succenturiatus) is sometimes found appended to one of the branches of the splenic artery, near the great end of the stomach ; when it exists, it is round and of small size, rarely larger than a hazel-nut. There are sometimes two, and even three, of these bodies. The spleen is a blood-vascular gland, concerned in the renovation of the blood, and probably in the preparation of the blood for the secretion of bile. In structure it is composed of a fibrous and serous coat and parenchyma ; the parenchyma consisting of a network of fibrous bands, or trabecules, enclosing in their arese a bright red pulpy substance, the splenic pulp; and the latter containing an abundance of vessels and numerous small white corpuscles, the splenic or Malpighian corpuscles. The fibrous coat, tunica albu- ginea vel propria, is composed of areolar and elastic tissue, and besides investing the exterior, sends processes into the interior of the gland with the blood-vessels ; these fibrous sheaths (vaginse vasorum) accompany the vessels to their ultimate terminations, and finally constitute a fine areolar network in the substance of the splenic pulp. The fibrous coat also sends inwards from every part of its internal surface, a number of white, glistening, flattened * Its ordinary length is about live inches; and its weight six ounces.