232 MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN. The crura arise from the front and lateral aspect of the bodies of the first, second, and third lumbar vertebrae, from the interverte- bral substance between the first, second, third, and fourth, from the transverse process of the first, ligamentum arcuatum internum and externum, and last rib. The left cms is shorter than the right by the breadth of a vertebra, and does not advance so far for- ward on the front of the vertebral column. The crura are inserted into the whole length of the posterior border of the central tendon. The origin of the crura takes place by a strong tendon, from which and from the other points of attachment muscular fibres pro- ceed. The internal pillar of the crus is its anterior fasciculus, which proceeds from the third lumbar vertebra; the middle pillar, smaller than the others, proceeds from the second vertebra ; the external pillar, the largest of the three, from the first lumbar ver- tebra, ligamenta arcuata and last rib. The internal pillars ap- proach each other as they ascend, the arched interval between them being the aortic opening; their internal fibres, consisting of several fasciculi, cross each other in front of the aortic opening and form the lateral boundaries of another opening of elliptical shape (oesopha- geal), and are then lost in the central tendon. In the decussation between the aortic and oesophageal opening the fibres of the right internal pillar are generally the most superficial. Between the lumbar and costal portion of the diaphragm at each side is a trian- gular interval like that between the costal and sternal portion, closed only by cellular tissue and the serous membranes of the two cavities. The ligamentum arcuatum internum is a tendinous arch thrown across the upper part of the psoas muscle from the side of the body of the first lumbar vertebra to the apex of its transverse process, extending sometimes also to that of the second. Beneath this arch the psoas magnus emerges from the chest. The ligamentum arcuatum externum is a tendinous band ex- tended from the apex of the transverse process of the first lumbar vertebra to the lower border of the last rib. It forms an arch, across the quadratus lumborum and is continuous with the anterior wall of the sheath of that muscle derived from the posterior apo- neurosis of the transversalis abdominis. The tendinous centre of the diaphragm is shaped like a trefoil leaf, of which the central leaflet points to the ensiform cartilage, and is the largest ; the lateral leaflets, right and left, occupy the corresponding portions of the muscle ; the right being the larger and rounded, the left smaller and lengthened in its form. The openings in the diaphragm are three : one, quadrilateral, in the tendinous centre, at the union of the right and middle leaflets, for the passage of the inferior vena cava ; a muscular opening of an elliptical shape formed by the internal pillars of the crura, the oesophageal, for the transmission of the oesophagus and pneumo- gastric nerves; a third, the aortic, formed by a tendinous arch