600 MUCOUS MEMBRANE OF THE LARYNX. approximate the inferior border of the thyroid, while the posterior and superior border of the cricoid, together with the arytenoid cartilages, is carried backwards. The crico-arytenoidei postici separate the chordae vocales by drawing the outer angles of the arytenoid cartilages outwards and downwards. The crico-ary- tenoidei laterales, by drawing the outer angles of the arytenoid cartilages forwards, approximate the anterior angles to which the chordae vocales are attached. The thyro-arytenoidei draw the arytenoid cartilages forwards, and, by their connection with the chordae vocales, act upon the whole length of those cords. The thyro-epiglottideus acts principally by compressing the glands of the sacculus laryngis and the sac itself: by its attach- ment to the epiglottis it would act feebly upon that valve. The aryteno-epiglottideus superior serves to keep the mucous membrane of the sides of the opening of the glottis tense, when the larynx is drawn upwards and the opening closed by the epiglottis. Of the aryteno-epiglottideus, the "functions appear to be," writes Mr. Hilton, "to compress the subjacent glands which open into the pouch; to diminish the capacity of that cavity, and change its form ; and to approximate the epiglottis and the arytenoid cartilage." Mucous Membrane.—The aperture of the larynx is a triangular or cordiform opening, broad in front and narrow behind ; bounded anteriorly by the epiglottis, posteriorly by the arytenoideus muscle, and on either side by a fold of mucous membrane stretched between the side of the epiglottis and the apex of the arytenoid cartilage. On the margin of this aryteno-epiglottidean fold the cuneiform car- tilage forms a prominence more or less distinct. The cavity of the larynx is divided into two parts by an oblong constriction produced by the prominence of the chordae vocales. That portion of the cavity which lies above the constriction is broad and triangular above, and narrow below; that which is below it, is narrow above and broad and cylindrical below, the circumference of the cylinder cor- responding with the ring of the cricoid; while the space included by the constriction is a narrow, triangular fissure, the glottis or rima glottidis. The form of the glottis is that of an isosceles tri- angle, bounded on the sides by the chordae vocales and inner sur- face of the arytenoid cartilages, and behind by the arytenoideus muscle. Its length is greater in the male than in the female, and in the former measures somewhat less than an inch. Immediately above the prominence caused by the chorda vocalis, and extending nearly its entire length on each side of the cavity of the larynx, is an elliptical fossa, the ventricle of the larynx. This fossa is bounded below by the chorda vocalis, which it serves to isolate, and above by a border of mucous membrane folded upon the lower edge of the superior thyro-arytenoid ligament (superior or false chorda vocalis). The whole of the cavity of the larynx, with its prominences and depressions, is lined by mucous membrane, which is continuous superiorly with that of the mouth and pharynx, and