CEREBRUM. 449 convolutions, and distributing multitudes of minute straight vessels (tomeutum cerebri) to the grey substance. In the substantia per- forata, again, and locus perforatus, it gives off tufts of small arteries, wbicb pierce the white matter to reach the grey substance in the interior. But upon the crura cerebri, pons Varolii, and spinal cord, its -vascular character seems almost lost. It has become a dense fibrous membrane, difficult to tear off, and forming the proper sheath of the spinal cord. The pia mater is the nutrient membrane of the brain, and derives its blood from the internal carotid and vertebral arteries. Lym- phatics have also been desci-ibed as entering into its structure. Its Nerves are the minute filaments of the sympathetic, and fila- ments from the sensory cranial nerves ; they accompany the branches of the arteries. CEREBRUM. The Cerebrum presents on its surface a number of slightly convex elevations, the convolutions (gyri), which are separated from each other by sulci of various depth. * It is divided superiorly into two hemispheres by the great longitudinal fissure, which lodges the falx cerebri, and marks the original development of the brain by two symmetrical halves. Each hemisphere, on its under surface, admits of division into three lobes, anterior, middle, and posterior. The anterior lobe rests on the roof of the orbit, and is separated from the middle by the fissure of Sylvius. + The middle lobe is received into the middle fossa of the base of the skull, and is separated from the posterior by a slight impression produced by the ridge of the petrous bone. The 'posteri.or lobe is supported by the tentorium. If the upper part of one hemisphere, at about one-third from its summit, be removed with a scalpel, a centre of white substance will be observed, surrounded by a narrow border of grey, which follows the line of the sulci and convolutions, and presents a zigzag form. This section, from exhibiting the largest surface of medullary substance demonstrable in a single hemisphere, is called centrum ovale minus; it is spotted by numerous small red points (puncta vasculosa), which are produced by the escape of blood from the cut ends of minute arteries and veins. Separate carefully the two hemispheres of the cerebrum, and a broad band of white substance (corpus callosum) will be seen to con- nect them; it will be seen also that the surface of the hemisphere, * In estimating the surface of the brain, which, according to Baillarger, averages in round numbers, 670 square inches, these convolutions and the lamina? of the cerebellum are supposed to be unfolded. t James Dubois, a celebrated professor of anatomy in Paris, where he suc- ceeded Vidius in 1550, although known much earlier by his works and disco- veries, but particularly by his violence in the defence of Galen. His name was latinised to Jacobus Sylvius. G G