475 OPTIC NERVE.—MOTORES OCULOEUM. rests on the cribriform lamella of the ethmoid bone. From the under surface of the bulbus olfactorius are given off the nerves which pass through the cribriform foramina, and supply the mucous membrane of the nares ; they are arranged into three groups, an inner group, reddish in colour and soft, which spread out upon the septum narium ; an outer group, whiter and more firm, which de- scend through bony canals in the outer wall of the nares, and are distributed on the superior and middle turbinated bones ; and a middle group, which supply the mucous membrane of the roof of the nasal fossae. Second pair. Optic.—The optic nerve, a nerve of large size, arises from the corpora geniculata on the posterior and inferior aspect of the thalamus opticus, from the thalamus itself, and from the nates. Proceeding from this origin it winds around the crus cerebri as a flattened band, under the name of tractus opticus, and joins with its fellow in front of the tuber cinereum to form the optic commissure (chiasma). The tractus opticus is united with the crus cerebri and tuber cinereum, and is covered in by the pia mater ; the commissure is also connected with the tuber cinereum, from which it receives fibres, and the nerve beyond the commissure diverges from its fellow, becomes rounded in form, and is enclosed in a sheath derived from the arachnoid. In passing through the optic foramen the optic nerve receives a sheath from the dura mater, which splits at this point into two layers ; one, which becomes the periosteum of the orbit; the other, the one in question, which forms a sheath for the nerve, and is lost in the sclerotic coat of the eyeball. After a short course within the orbit the optic nerve pierces the sclerotic and choroid coats and expands into the nervous membrane of the eyeball, the retina. Near the globe, the nerve is pierced by a small artery, arteria centralis retinse, which runs through the central axis of the nerve and reaches the internal sur- face of the retina, to which it distributes branches. The optic commissure rests on the processus olivaris of the sphe- noid bone; is bounded by the lamina cinerea of the corpus callosum in front, by the substantia perforata at each side, and by the tuber cinereum behind. Within the commissure the innermost fibres of the optic nerves cross each other to pass to opposite eyes, the outer fibres continue their course uninterruptedly to the eye of the corre- sponding side ; some fibres pass in an arched direction from one nerve to the other behind, and others taking a similar course in front connect the two retinse. The neurilemma of the commissure, as well as that of the nerves, is formed by the pia mater. Third pair. Motores Oculorum.—The motor oculi, a nerve of moderate size, arises from the inner side of the crus cerebri, close to the pons Varolii, and passes forward between the posterior cere- bral and superior cerebellar artery. It pierces the dura mater im-