18 SACRUM. above, and proceeds gradually downwards; hence arrest of develop- ment gives rise to spina bifida, generally in the loins. Ossification of the bodies, on the contrary, commences at the centre, and proceeds from that point towards the extremities of the column; hence imper- fection of the bodies occurs either in the upper or lower vertebrae. Attachment of Muscles.—To the atlas are attached nine pairs of muscles; the longus colli, rectus anticus minor, rectus lateralis, rectus posticus minor, obliquus superior and inferior, splenius colli, levator-anguli scapulas, and first intertransversales. To the axis are attached eleven pairs ; viz., longus colli, inter- transversales, obliquus inferior, rectus posticus major, interspinals, semi-spinalis colli, multifidus spinas, levator anguli scapulae, splenius colli, transversalis cervicis, and scalenus medius. To the remaining vertebras collectively, thirty-one pairs and one single muscle ; viz., posteriorly, trapezius, latissimus dorsi, levator anguli scapulae, rhomboideus minor and major, serratus posticus superior and inferior, splenius, sacro-lumbalis, longissimus dorsi, spinalis dorsi, cervicalis ascendens, transversalis cervicis, trachelo- mastoideus, complexus, semispinalis dorsi and colli, multifidus spinas, interspinales, intertransversales, levatores costarum : ante- riorly, rectus anticus major, longus colli, scalenus anticus, medius, and posticus, psoas magnus, psoas parvus, quadratus lumborum, diaphragm, obliquus internus and transversalis. The Sacrum is a triangular bone, situated at the lower extremity of the vertebral column, and formed by the consolidation of five false vertebras. It is divi- * The sacrum seen upon its anterior surface. 1, 1. Transverse lines mark- ing the original constitution of the bone of four pieces. 2, 2. Anterior sacral foramina. 3. Promontory of the sacrum. 4. Ear-shaped surface to articulate with the ilium. 5. The sharp edge to which the sacro-ischiatic ligaments Fig. 10.* sible into an anterior and posterior surface, two la- teral and a superior bor- der, and an inferior ex- tremity. 3 The anterior surface is concave, and marked by four transverse lines, which indicate its original constitution of five sepa- rate pieces. At the ex- tremities of these lines, on each side, are the four anterior sacral foramina, which diminish in size from above downwards, and transmit the anterior