45 SUPERIOR MAXILLARY BONES. is somewhat triangular, corresponding in shape with the form of the body of the bone. On its inner wall are numerous grooves, lodging branches of the superior maxillary nerve, and projecting into its floor several conical processes, corresponding with the roots of the first and second molar tooth. In front of the opening of the antrum is the strong ascending plate of the nasal process, marked inferiorly by a rough horizontal ridge (crista turbinalis inferior), which gives attachment to the inferior turbinated bone. The concave depression immediately above this ridge corresponds with the middle meatus of the nose, that below the ridge with the inferior meatus. Between the nasal process and the opening of the antrum is a deep vertical groove (sulcus lachrymalis), converted into a canal by the lachrymal and inferior turbinated bone, and constituting the nasal duct. The superior border of the nasal surface is irregularly cellular, and ar- ticulates with the lachrymal and ethmoid bone ; theposterior border is rough, and articulates with the palate bone; the anterior border is sharp, and forms the free margin of the opening of the nose; and, from the inferior border, projects inwards a strong horizontal plate, the palate process. The posterior surface may be called zygomatic, as forming part of the zygomatic fossa ; it is bounded externally by the malar pro- cess, and internally by a rough and rounded border, the tuberosity, which is pierced by a number of small foramina (foramina alveolaria posteriora), giving passage to the posterior dental nerves and branches of the superior dental artery. The lower part of this tuberosity presents a rough oval surface, to articulate with the palate bone, and immediately above and to the inner side of this articular surface a smooth groove, which forms part of the posterior palatine canal. The superior border is smooth and rounded, form- ing the lower boundary of the spheno-maxillary fissure, and marked by a notch, the commencement of the infraorbital canal. The in- ferior boundary is the alveolar process, containing the last two molar teeth. The orbital surface is triangular and thin, and constitutes the floor of the orbit. It is bounded internally by an irregular edge, which articulates with the palate, ethmoid, and lachrymal bone ; posteriorly, by the smooth border which enters into the formation of the spheno-maxillary fissure ; and, anteriorly, by a convex mar- gin, partly smooth and partly rough, the smooth portion forming part of the lower border of the orbit, the rough portion articulating with the malar bone. The middle of this surface is channelled by a deep groove and canal, the infraorbital, which terminates at the infraorbital foramen ; and near the root of the nasal process is a slight depression, marking the origin of the inferior oblique muscle of the eyeball. The four processes of the superior maxillary bone are, the nasal, malar, alveolar, and palate. The nasal process ascends by the side of the nose, to which it