VESICULJ3 SEMINALES. 672 upper surface of the prostate, and attached to it laterally and behind, therefore represent the external muscular coat of the prostate, while the longitudinal fibres enclosing the urethra within the prostate constitute an internal muscular layer, corresponding and continuous with that of the bladder. The small secreting glands contained in the prostate are but an appendage of the mucous membrane projecting amongst the muscular fibres, and occupy but a small portion of the organ, chiefly at its base. The arteries of the prostate are small and derived from the in- ferior vesical and middle hEemorrhoidal; they distribute numerous capillaries to the glandular structure of the organ. The veins form a rich plexus in the submucous tissue of the urethra, and another of larger vessels on the exterior of the gland ; the latter receives from the front the veins of the penis, and terminates in the vesical plexus. VESICUL.E SEMINALES. On the under surface of the base of the bladder, and converging towards the base of the prostate gland, are two lobulated and some- what pyriform bodies, about two Fig. 269* inches in length, the vesiculaa semi- nales. Their upper surface is in contact with the base of the bladder; the under side rests on the rectum, separated only by a process derived from the recto-vesi- cal fascia; the larger extremities are directed backwards and out- wards, and the smaller ends almost meet at the base of the prostate. They enclose between them a tri- angular space, which is bounded posteriorly by the recto-vesical fold of peritoneum, and corresponds with the trigonum vesicas on the interior of the bladder. Each vesi- cula is formed by the convolutions of a single tube, which gives off several irregular csecal sacculi and branches. It is enclosed in a thin * Posterior aspect of the male bladder; the serous covering is removed in order to show the muscular coat. 1. Body of the Madder. 2. Fundus. 3. In- ferior fundus or base. 4. Urachus. 5, 5. Ureters. 6, 6. Yasa deferentia. 7, 7. "Vesiculse seminales. The triangular area, bounded by the vasa deferentia and vesiculse seminales at either side, a dotted line above, and the figure 3 below, is the space corresponding with the trigonum vesicae. It is this part of the bladder which is pierced, in puncturing the bladder through the rectum. The dotted line, forming the base of this triangular area, marks the extent of the recto-vesical fold of peritoneum.