ANTERIOR BRACHIAL REGION. 252 muscles, and on the fouKth by the humerus. Through the latter space pass the posterior circumflex artery and veins, and circumflex nerve. Beneath the lower part of the triceps are two small fasciculi arising from the humerus, and descending one on either side of the fossa of the olecranon to be inserted into the capsule of the elbow- joint. These have been named sub-anconeus, they are analogous to the sub-crureus. Relations.—By its posterior surface with the deep and super- ficial fascia and integument. By its anterior surface with the superior profunda artery, inusculo-spiral nerve, humerus, inter- muscular aponeurosis which separates it from the brachialis anticus, and elbow-joint. The scapular head is in relation posteriorly with the deltoid and teres minor; anteriorly with the subscapularis, teres major, and latissimus dorsi ; and externally with the posterior circumflex vessels and nerve. Actions.—The triceps brachii is an extensor of the forearm. Anterior Brachial Region. Superficial layer. Pronator radii teres, Flexor sublimis digitorum, Flexor carpi radialis, Flexor carpi ulnaris. Palmaris longus, Dissection.—These muscles are brought into view by making an incision through the integument along the middle line of the fore- arm, crossing each extremity by a transverse incision, and turning aside the flaps. The superficial and deep fascia are then to be removed. . , The Pronator radii teres arises by two heads : one from the inner condyle of the humerus, fascia of the forearm, and intermus- cular septum ; the other from the coronoid process of the ulna ; the median nerve passing between them. Its tendon is flat, and is inserted into the middle third of the oblique ridge of the radius. The two heads of this muscle are best examined by cutting through that which arises from the inner condyle, and turning it aside. The second head will then be seen with the median nerve lying across it. Relations.—By its anterior surface with the deep fascia of the forearm, supinator longus, extensor carpi radialis longior and bre- vior, radial artery and veins, and radial nerve. By its posterior surf ace with the brachialis anticus, flexor sublimis digitorum, ulnar artery and veins, and the median nerve after it has passed between the two heads of the muscle. By its upper border it forms the inner boundary of the triangular space, in which the termination of the brachial artery is situated. By its lower border it is in relation with the flexor carpi radialis.