201 PREVERTEBRAL MUSCLES. the tongue. It is the prominence of this small muscle, covered by mucous membrane, that constitutes the anterior pillar of the soft palate. It has been named constrictor isthmi faucium, from a function it performs in common with the palato-pharyngeus, viz., constricting the opening of the fauces. The Palato-pharyngeus (constrictor isthmi faucium posterior) forms the posterior pillar of the fauces ; it arises by two fasciculi from the raphe of the soft palate, where its fibres are continuous with those of the muscle of the opposite side ; and is inserted into the inner surface of the pharynx and posterior border of the thyroid cartilage. This muscle is broad above where it forms the whole thickness of the lower half of the soft palate, narrow in the posterior pillar, and again broad and thin in the pharynx where it spreads out previously to its insertion. The levator palati passes to its insertion between the two fasciculi of origin of this muscle. Relations.—In the soft palate it is in relation with the mucous membrane both by its anterior and posterior surface ; above, with the levator palati, and below with the mucous glands situated along the margin of the arch of the palate. In the posterior pillar, it is surrounded for two-thirds of its extent by mucous membrane. In the pharynx, it is in relation by its outer surface with the superior and middle constrictor muscle, by its inner surface with the mucous membrane. Actions.—The azygos uvulae shortens the uvula. The levator palati raises the soft palate, while the tensor spreads it out laterally so as to form a septum between the pharynx and posterior nares. Taking its fixed point from below, the tensor palati will dilate the Eustachian tube. The palato-glossus and palato-pharyngeus con- strict the opening of the fauces, and drawing down the soft palate, serve to press the mass of food from the dorsum of the tongue into the pharynx. Seventh Group.—Prevertebral Muscles. Rectus anticus majoi*, Scalenus medius, Rectus anticus minor, Scalenus posticus, Scalenus anticus, Longus colli. Dissection.—These muscles have already been exposed by the removal of the pharynx from the anterior aspect of the vertebral column ; all that is further needed is the removal of the fascia by which they are invested. The Rectus anticus major (trachelo-suboccipitalis), broad and thick above, narrow and pointed below, arises from the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebras ; and is inserted into the basilar process of the occipital bone. Relations.—By its anterior surface with the pharynx, internal carotid artery, internal jugular vein, superior cervical ganglion and