STRUCTURE OF TEETH. 68 external ; the neck is oval ; the root compressed, marked on each side by a deep groove, and bifid near its apex. The teeth of the upper jaw have a greater tendency to the division of their roots than those of the lower, and the posterior than the anterior pair. The molar teeth (multicuspidati, grinders), three at each side in each jaw, are the largest of the permanent set. The crown is quadrilateral, and surmounted by four tubercles; the neck large and round, and the root divided into several fangs. In the npper jaw the first and second molar teeth have three roots, sometimes four, more or less widely separated from each other, two of the roots being external, the other internal. In the lower, there are but two roots, anterior and posterior, flattened from behind for- wards, and grooved so as to mark a tendency to division. The third molars, or dentes sapientise, are smaller than the other two ; they present three tubercles on the surface of the crown ; and the root is single and grooved, appearing to be made up of four or five fangs compressed together, or partially divided. In the lower jaw the fangs are frequently separated to some distance from each other, and curved backwards, so as to offer considerable resistance in the operation of extraction. Structure. —The base of the crown of each tooth is hollowed in its interior into a small cavity which is continuous with a canal passing through the middle of each fang. The cavity and canal, or canals, constitute the cavitas pulpse, and contain a soft cellulo- vascular organ, the pulp, which receives its supply of vessels and nerves through the small opening at the apex of each root. Nasmyth observed, with regard to the pulp, that it is composed of two different tissues, vascular and reticular, the former being an intri- cate web of minute vessels terminating in simple capillary loops ; the latter, a network of nucleated cells in which calcareous salts are gradually deposited, and which by a systematic continuance of that process are gradually converted into ivory. This process takes place at the surface of the pulp, and as the pulp is thus robbed of its cells, new cells are produced by the capillary plexus to supply their place, and be in their turn similarly transformed. A tooth is composed of three distinct structures, ivory or tooth- bone, enamel, and a cortical substance or cementum. When viewed with the microscope, the ivory appears to consist of very minute, tapering, and branching fibres, imbedded in a dense, homogeneous interfibrous substance. The fibres commence by their larger ends in the wall of the cavitas pulpse, and pursue a radiating and ser- pentine course towards the periphery of the tooth, where they ter- minate in ramifications of extreme minuteness. These fibres, for- merly considered as hollow tubuli, are shown by Nasmyth to be rows of minute opake bodies, arranged in a linear series (baccated fibres), to be, in fact, the nuclei of the ivory cells, the interfibrous substance being the rest of the cell filled with calcareous matter. In the natural state of the tooth all trace of the parietes or mode