TRANSVERSALIS CERVICIS.—COMPLEXUS. 213 The tendons of insertion are interposed between the attachments of the scalenus medius and posticus and transversalis cervicis, with which they are united. The Transversalis cervicis appears to be the continuation upwards into the neck of the longissimus dorsi; it arises from the transverse processes of the five or six upper dorsal vertebrae, and is inserted into the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae, from the second to the sixth. It receives a fasciculus from the longissimus dorsi and several small slips from the trachelo-mastoideus. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the levator anguli scapulas, splenius, and longissimus dorsi. By its deep surface with the complexus, trachelo-mastoideus, and vertebras; externally with the musculus accessorius ad sacro-lumbalem and cervicalis ascen- dens ; internally with the trachelo-mastoideus and complexus. The tendons of insertion of this muscle are interposed between the tendons of insertion of the cervicalis ascendens on the outer side, and those of origin of the trachelo-mastoid on the inner side. The Trachblo'MAStoideus (complexus parvus) is likewise a con- tinuation upwards from the longissimus dorsi. It is a slender and delicate muscle, arising from the transverse processes of the three upper dorsal and last cervical, and from the articular processes of the three next cervical vertebrae, its origin being similar to that of the complexus, with which and the origin of the transversalis cer- vicis it is closely connected. It receives a fasciculus from the lon- gissimus dorsi, and is inserted into the posterior border and summit of the mastoid process. Relations.—The same as the preceding muscle, excepting that it is interposed between the transversalis cervicis and complexus. The Complexus (trachelo-occipitalis) is a large muscle, forming with the splenius the great bulk of the back of the neck. It crosses the direction of the splenius, arising from the transverse processes of the three upper dorsal and last cervical, and from the articular processes of the three next lower cervical vertebrae ; and is inserted into the rough surface of the occipital bone between the two curved lines, as far as the occipital spine. The complexus is marked in the upper part of the neck by a transverse tendinous intersection. A large fasciculus of the complexus lying superficially to that muscle, and remarkable for consisting of two fleshy bellies with an intermediate tendon, is usually described under the name of biventer cervicis. Considered as a separate muscle, it arises by three or four slips from the transverse processes of the dorsal vertebrae, from the fourth to the seventh ; and is inserted into the inner portion of the superior curved line of the occipital bone. Its tendons of origin lie internally to the insertions of the longissimus dorsi, and are connected with those of the semi-spinalis colli; and its lower belly receives a fasciculus from the longissimus. The outer border of the