VESSELS AND NERVES OF THE DERMA. 575 ormation of the scale results from the desiccation of the cell, as it is gradually pushed outwards from the derma towards the surface. Consequently, the cell never possesses any other than the flattened form ; all its phases of growth are perfected in the deepest layer of the epidermis; and, in its internal structure, it is a parent cell containing secondary and tertiary cells and granules, its growth being the result of the growth of these secondary formations. The under surface of the epidermis is accurately modelled on the papillary layer of the derma, each papilla having its appropriate sheath in the newly-formed epidermis or rete mucosum, and each irregularity of surface of the former having its representative in the soft tissue of the latter. On the external surface, this character is lost; the minute elevations corresponding with the papillae are, as it were, polished down, and the surface is rendered smooth and uniform. The palmar and plantar surface of the hands and feet are, however, an exception to this rule ; for here, in consequence of the large size of the papillae and their peculiar arrangement in rows, ridges corresponding with the papillae are strongly marked on the superficial surface of the epidermis. The epidermis is remarkable for its thickness in situations where the papillae are large, as in the palms and soles. In other situations, it assumes a character which is also due to the nature of the surface of the derma ; namely, that of being marked by a network of linear furrows, which trace out the surface into small polygonal and lozenge-shaped areas. These lines correspond with the folds of the derma produced by its move- ments, and are most numerous where those movements are greatest, as in the flexures and on the convexities of joints. The dark colour of the skin among the natives of the South is due to the coloration of the primitive granules of which the cell is composed, especially the nucleus. As the cells desiccate, the colour of the gi'anules is lost ; hence the deeper hue of the rete mucosum. The pores of the epidermis are the openings of the perspiratory ducts, hair follicles, and sebiparous glands. Vessels and Nerves.—The Arteries of the derma, which enter its structure through the areolae of the under surface of the corium, divide into innumerable intermediate vessels, which form a rich capillary plexus in the superficial strata of the skin and in its papillary layer. In the papillae of some parts of the derma, as in the longitudinal plications beneath the nail, the capillary vessels form simple loops, but in other papillae they are convoluted to a greater or less degree in proportion to the size and importance of the papillae. The Lymphatic vessels probably form, in the super- ficial strata of the derma, a plexus, the meshes of which are inter- woven with those of the capillary and nervous plexus. No lym- phatics have as yet been discovered in the papillae. The Nerves of the derma, after entering the areolae of the deeper part of the corium, divide into minute fasciculi, which form a terminal plexus in the upper strata of the corium. From this