628 COIiON.—RECTUM. sionally the peritoneum invests the caecum so completely as to con- stitute a meso-caecum, which permits of an unusual degree of move- ment in this portion of the intestine, and serves to explain the occurrence of hernia of the caecum on the right side. The caecum is the most dilated portion of the large intestine ; and is distin- guished from the colon externally by the constriction corresponding with the entrance of the ileum, and internally by the ileo-caecal or ileo-colic valve. The Colon is divided into, ascending, transverse, and descending. The ascending colon passes upwards from the right iliac fossa, through the right lumbar region, to the under surface of the liver. It then bends inwards, flexura dextra vel hepatica, and crosses the upper part of the umbilical region under the name of transverse colon ; and, on the left side, flexura sinistra vel lienalis, descends, descending colon, through the left lumbar region to the left iliac fossa, where it makes a remarkable curve upon itself, which is called the sigmoid flexure, flexura iliaca. The ascending colon, the most dilated portion of the large intes- tine, next the caecum, is retained in position in the abdomen either by the peritoneum passing simply in front of it or by a narrow meso-colon. It is in relation in front with the small intestine and abdominal parietes; behind with the quadratus lumborum muscle and right kidney ; internally with the small intestine and per- pendicular portion of the duodenum ; and by its upper extremity with the under surface of the liver and gall-bladder. The transverse colon, the longest portion of the large intestine, forms a curve across the cavity of the abdomen, the convexity of the curve looking forwards and sometimes downwards. It is in relation, by its upper surf ace, with the liver, gall-bladder, stomach, and lower extremity of the spleen ; by its lower surface, with the small intestine ; by its anterior surface, with the anterior layers of the great omentum and abdominal parietes ; and, by its posterior surface, with the transverse meso-colon. The descending colon is smaller in calibre, and situated more deeply than the ascending colon ; its relations are similar. The sigmoid flexure, the narrowest part of the colon, curves up- wards and to the right, then downwards and to the left, and is retained in its place by a meso-colon. It is in relation, in front, with the small intestine and abdominal parietes ; and behind with the iliac fossa. The Rectum, the termination of the large intestine, seven or eight inches in length, has received its name, not so much from the direction of its course, as from the straightness of its form in com- parison with the colon. It descends, from opposite the left sacro- iliac symphysis, in front of the sacrum, forming a gentle curve to the right side, and then returning to the middle line ; opposite the extremity of the coccyx it curves backwards to terminate in the anus at about an inch in front of the apex of that bone. The