686 VAGINA. ternal layer being longitudinal, and mingled with areolar and elastic tissue; the external circular, and continuous with the middle layer of the muscular coat. The female urethra is remarkable for its distensibility, which is only restricted at the meatus by a ring of dense areolar tissue ; hence, in distending the urethra for surgical purposes, it is often necessary to divide the margin of the meatus with the knife. VAGINA. The Vagina is a membranous canal, leading from the vulva to the uterus, and corresponding in direction with the axis of the outlet of the pelvis. It is constricted at its commencement, but near the uterus becomes dilated, and is closed by the contact of the anterior with the posterior wall. Its length is variable ; but it is always longer on the posterior than on the anterior wall, the former being usually about five or six inches in length, the latter about four. It is attached to the cervix of the uterus, which latter projects into the upper extremity of the canal. Its upper fourth is covered pos- teriorly by the peritoneum, while anteriorly the peritoneum is re- flected from the cervix uteri without reaching so low as the vagina ; it is firmly connected to the bladder in front, and loosely to the rectum behind ; while at the sides it receives the attachment of the posterior layer of the broad ligaments above, and that of the pelvic fascia and levatores ani below. Its close connexion with the bladder occasions the prolapsus of that organ in cases of prolapsus uteri, while its looser connexion with the rectum preserves the latter from a similar accident. The vagina, about one line in thickness, is composed of three coats, external, fibrous; middle, muscular ; and internal, mucous. The external, or fibrous coat, is thin and white, and consists of con- densed areolar tissue, with an admixture of elastic fibres. It is firm around the upper part of the tube, and lax inferiorly, and contains in its tissue, especially below, an abundant venous plexus. By its inner surface it is blended with the muscular coat without any dis- tinct separation. The middle, or muscular coat, is composed of smooth muscular fibre, arranged in longitudinal and circular bundles, and intermingled with areolar tissue and a considerable plexus of veins. The internal, or mucous coat, is of a pale red colour, and disposed in numerous plaits or folds, columnar "rugosw ; which diverge transversely from a middle line, or raphe, situated on the anterior and posterior wall of the vagina ; the rugee are most strongly developed on the anterior wall, and the median raphe are termed columns of the vagina. In intimate structure the mucous membrane consists of areolar and elastic tissue, to which its firm- ness and elasticity are due, and presents numerous conical papillse embedded in a squamous epithelium. The epithelium is thick and laminated, resembling that of the oesophagus, its upper scales measuring about T-jnrF of an inch in diameter ; it is continuous ex-