222 MUSCLES OF THE THORAX. with their continuations, cervicalis ascendens and transversalis cer- vicis, levatores costarum, and obliquus exlernus abdominis. By their internal surface with the internal intercostals, intercostal vessels and nerves, and posteriorly with the pleura, a thin aponeu- rosis being interposed. The internal intercostals, by their external surface with the external intercostals, and intercostal vessels and nerves ; by their internal surface with the pleura costalis, trian- gularis sterni, subcostales, and diaphragm. The Triangularis sterni (sterno-costalis), situated upon the inner wall of the front of the chest, arises by a thin aponeurosis from the side of the sternum, ensiform cartilage, and sternal ex- tremities of the costal cartilages from the third to the sixth or seventh ; it is inserted by fleshy digitations into the second, third, fourth, and fifth costal cartilages and corresponding ribs. Relations.—By its external surface with the sternum, ensiform cartilage, costal cartilages, internal intercostal muscles, and internal' mammary vessels. By its internal surface with the pleura cos- talis, cellular tissue of the anterior mediastinum, and diaphragm. The lower fibres of the triangularis sterni are continuous with those of the transversalis abdominis. Actions.—The intercostal muscles raise the ribs when they act from above, and depress them when they take their fixed point from below. They are, therefore, both inspiratory and expiratory muscles. The triangularis sterni draws down the costal cartilages, and is therefore an expiratory muscle. The muscles of respiration, according to Dr. Barclay, are as follow :— Dilating, or inspiratory muscles. Intercostales, Subcostales, Levatores costarum, Diaphragma, assisted occasionally by the Sterno-cleido-mastoidei, Subclavii, Scaleni, Pectoraies majores, Serrati postici superiores, Latissimi dorsi, Pectoraies minores, Cervicales ascendentes, Serrati magni, Accessorii ad sacro-lumbales. Contracting, or expiratory muscles. Triangulares sterni, Transversales abdominis, Obliqui externi, Recti abdominis, Obliqui interni, Pyramidales, assisted occasionally by the Serrati postici inferiores, Quadrati lumborum, Longissimi dorsi, Serrati magni. Sacro-lumbales, To which may be added, as expiratory powers, the costal car- tilages ; acting by virtue of their elasticity.