315 STRUCTURE OF ARTERIES. is thin in the large Fig. 145. % Cooper, several large branches perform the office of the single obliterated trunk. * The arteries do not terminate directly in veins ; but in an inter- mediate system of vessels, which, from their minute size (about -5-^5- of an inch in diameter), are termed capillaries (capillus, a hair). The capillaries constitute a microscopic network, which is distributed through every part of the body,+ so as to render it im- possible to introduce the smallest needle-point beneath the skin without wounding several of these fine vessels. It is through the medium of the capillaries, that all the phenomena of nutrition and secretion are performed. They are remarkable for their uniformity of diameter, and for the constant divisions and communications which take place between them, without any alteration of size. They inosculate on the one hand with the terminal ramusculi of the arteries ; and on the other with the minute radicles of the veins. Arteries are composed of three coats, external, middle, and internal. The external coat is firm and strong, and formed of tissues which take a longitudinal or oblique direction ; it arteries, but thicker than the middle coat in arteries; of small and medium size, and com- posed of areolar and elastic tissue. The areolar tissue consists of fine and coarse fasciculi and separate fibrils, among which are scattered numerous elongated nuclei; in arteries of the smallest size the areolar tissue is more nucleated and loses its fibrous charac- ter, and ultimately in the minutest vessel is changed into a delicate homogeneous mem- brane, in which the nuclei are gradually lost. The elastic tissue exists in small quan- tity in the large arteries, occupies the deep layer of the external coat, and is not dis- tinctly separable from the middle coat. In arteries of medium size it is more abundant, consists of larger fibres, and is laminated, the laminae approaching in character to elastic membrane. In small arteries the elastic tissue exists as a fine network in the deep layer of the external coat; in vessels still smaller it presents itself in a developmental form as fusiform cells, and in the smallest disappears altogether. * I have a preparation, showing the collateral circulation in a dog, in which I tied the abdominal aorta; the animal died from over-feeding nearly two years after the operation. f The only organs in which capillaries are wanting, are the corpora caver- nosa penis, and uterine placenta. % Smooth muscular fibre cells from the middle coat of the artery; 1. from the popliteal; 2. from a twig of the anterior tibial, half a line in diameter, a, a, elongated or rod-like nucleus. The middle cell has been rendered trans- parent by immersion in vinegar. Magnified 350 times; after Kolliker.