519 SACRAL NERVES. Below the patella it communicates with other branches of the long saphenous ; the whole of these communications constituting a kind of plexus (plexus patelke). The branches of the long saphenous nerve below the knee are distributed to the integument of the front and inner side of the leg. By one of these branches it communicates with the cutaneous branch of the obturator nerve. The Muscular branches of the anterior crural nerve supply all the muscles of the front of the thigh (with the exception of the tensor vaginse femoris, which obtains its nerve from the superior gluteal) and the pectineus. The branch to the pectineus passes behind the sheath of the femoral vessels ; the branches to the sar- torius, three or four in number, arise with the cutaneous nerves, and sometimes are supplied by the latter. The branch to the rectus enters the deep surface of that muscle. The branch to the vastus extemus follows the course of the descending branch of the external circumflex artery ; the branch to the crureus passes directly to that muscle ; and the branch to the vastus interims, remarkable for its length, descends by the side of the sheath of the femoral vessels. The Articular branches are distributed to the knee-joint ; one enters the joint at its outer side, being derived from the nerve of the vastus externus ; the other, proceeding from the nerve of the vastus internus, descends with the anastomotica magna to a level with the joint, and then pierces the capsular ligament. The Lumbo-sacral nerve.—The anterior division of the fifth lumbar nerve, conjoined with a branch from the fourth, constitutes the lumbo-sacral nerve, which descends over the base of the sacrum into the pelvis, and assists in forming the sacral plexus. SACRAL NERVES. There are five pairs of sacral nerves ; the first four escape from the vertebral canal through the sacral foramina, the last between the sacrum and coccyx. The posterior sacral nerves are small, and diminish in size from above downwards ; they communicate with each other by means of anastomosing loops immediately after their escape from the posterior sacral foramina, and divide like the other spinal nerves into external and internal branches. The external branches pierce the gluteus maximus, to which they give filaments, and are distributed to the integument of the posterior part of the gluteal region. The internal branches supply the multificlus spinEe muscle and the integument over the sacrum and coccyx. The anterior sacral nerves diminish in size from above down- wards ; the first is large, and unites with the lumbo-sacral nerve; the second, of equal size, unites with the first ; and the third, scarcely one-fourth so large as the second, joins with the two pre- ceding nerves in the formation of the sacral plexus.