TARSAL ARTICULATIONS. 162 The inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament is a broad and fibrocar- tilaginous band of ligament, which passes forward from the anterior and inner border of the os calcis to the edge of the scaphoid bone. Besides connecting the os calcis and sca- Fy. 99.* phoid, it supports the astragalus, and forms part of the cavity in which the rounded head of the latter bone is re- ceived. It is lined on its upper surface by the synovial membrane of the astra- galo-scaphoid articulation. The firm connexion of the os calcis with the scaphoid bone, and the feebleness of the astragalo-scaphoid articulation, are conditions favourable to the occasional dislocation of the head of the astragalus. The long calcaneo-cuboid, or liga- mentum longum plantce, is a long band of ligamentous fibres, which proceeds from the under surface of the os calcis to the rough surface on the under part of the cuboid bone, its fibres being continued onwards to the base of the third and fourth metatarsal bones. _u This ligament forms the inferior boun- dary of a canal in the cuboid bone, through which the tendon of the peroneus longus passes to its insertion into the base of the metatarsal bone of the great toe. The short calcaneo-cuboid, or liga- mentum breve plantos, is situated closer to the bones than the long plantar ligament, from which it is separated by adipose tissue ; it is broad and exten- sive, and ties the under part of the os calcis and cuboid bone firmly together. The interosseous ligaments are five in number ; they are short and strong ligamentous fibres situated between adjoining bones, and firmly attached to their rough surfaces. One of these, calca- neo-astragaloid, is lodged in the groove between the upper surface of the os calcis and the lower of the astragalus. It is large and very strong, consists of vertical and oblique fibres, and serves to * Ligaments of the sole of the foot. 1. Os calcis. 2. Astragalus. 3. Tube- rosity of the scaphoid bone. 4. Long calcaneo-cuboid ligament. 5. Part of the short calcaneo-cuboid ligament. 6. Calcaneo-scaphoid ligament. 7. Plantar tarsal ligaments. 8, 8. Tendon of the peroneus longus muscle. 9, 9. Plantar tarso-metatarsal ligaments. 10. Plantar ligament of the me- tatarso-phalangeal articulation of the great toe; the same ligament is seen on the other toes. 11. Lateral ligaments of the metatarso-phalangeal articu- lation. 12. Transverse ligament. 13. Lateral ligaments of the phalanges of the great toe; the same ligaments are seen on the other toes.