245 PECTORALIS MINOR. SEEEATUS MAGNUS. considerable interest, in the middle of which is situated the pec- toralis minor. The Pectoealis minoe (costo-coracoideus) arises by three digita- tions from the front and upper border of the third, fourth, and fifth rib near their cartilages ; and is inserted by a broad tendon into the anterior border and apex of the coracoid process of the scapula. It is closely united at its insertion with the coraco-brachialis. Relations.—By its anterior surface with the pectoralis major and superior thoracic vessels and nerves. By its posterior surface with the ribs, intercostal muscles, serratus magnus, axillary space, and axillary vessels and nerves. Its upper oorder forms the lower boundary of a triangular space, bounded above by the costo-coracoid membrane, and internally by the ribs ; in this space are found the axillary vessels and nerves. The Subclavius (costo-clavicularis) arisesloj a round-tendon from the cartilage and adjacent osseous part of the first rib; it is inserted into the under surface of the clavicle as far as the coraco-clavicular ligament. This muscle is enclosed in a partial sheath by the costo- coracoid membrane, an extension of the deep cervical fascia. Relations.—By its upper surface with the clavicle. By the lower with the subclavian artery and vein and brachial plexus, which separate it from the first rib. In front with the pectoralis major, ijhe costo-coracoid membrane being interposed. Actions.—The pectoralis major draws the arm against the thorax, while its upper fibres assist the upper part of the trapezius in rais- ing the shoulder, as in supporting weights. The lower fibres depress the shoulder with the aid of the latissimus dorsi. Taking its fixed point from the shoulder, the pectoralis major assists the pectoralis minor, subclavius, and serratus magnus, in drawing up and expanding the chest. The pectoralis minor, in addition to this action, draws upon the coracoid process, and assists in rotating the scapula upon the chest. The subclavius draws the clavicle down- wards and forwards, and thereby assists in steadying the shoulder. All the muscles of this group are agents in forced respiration, but are incapable of acting in that capacity until the shoulders are fixed. Lateral Thoracic Region. Serratus magnus. The Seeeatus magnus (serratus, indented like the edge of a saw ; costo-scapularis), broad, thin, and trapezoid in shape, amesbynine fleshy serrations from the eight upper ribs, two of the serrations being attached to the second rib, and extends backwards upon the side of the chest, to be inserted into the whole length of the base of the scapula, its anterior aspect. In structure, the muscle is com- posed of three portions, superior, formed by the serrations of the first two ribs, and inserted into the inner surface of the superior