400 JUGULAR VEINS. panied, for the upper half of its course, by the auricularis magnus nerve. The branches which it receives are the occipital cutaneous and posterior cervical cutaneous, and, near its termination, the supra-scapular and posterior scapular. The external jugular vein is variable in size, and occasionally- replaced by two veins. The Anterior jugular vein commences on the os hyoides by several small veins and by a branch from the temporo-maxillary, and passes downwards along the midline of the neck to the sternum ; it then turns outwards behind the lower part of the sterno-mastoi- deus and opens into the subclavian vein, near the termination of the external jugular. The two veins communicate with each other, and with the external and internal jugular vein. The Internal jugular vein, formed by the convergence of the lateral and inferior petrosal sinus, commences at the foramen lace- rum posterius on each side of the base of the skull, by a dilatation (bulbus venae jugularis), and descends the side of the neck, lying, in the first instance, to the outer side of the internal carotid, then on the outer side of the common carotid artery to the root of the neck, where it unites with the subclavian, and constitutes the vena innominata. At its commencement, the internal jugular vein is posterior and external to the internal carotid artery and eighth pair of nerves, the hypoglossal nerve being behind it; lower down, the vein and artery are on the same plane, the glosso-pharyngeal and hypoglossal nerve passing forwards between them, the pneumo- gastric being between and behind in the same sheath, and the nervus accessorius crossing obliquely behind or before the vein at its upper part. The branches which the internal jugular receives in its course are, pharyngeal, occipital, deep division of the temporo-maxillary, and middle thyroid'. The Vertebral vein descends by the side of the vertebral artery, in the canal formed by the foramina in the transverse processes of the cervical vertebra?, and at the root of the neck opens into the subclavian vein close to its termination. In the lower part of the vertebral canal it frequently divides into two branches, one of which advances forwards, while the other passes through the foramen in the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra, before open- ing into the subclavian vein. . The branches which it receives in its course are the posterior condyloid vein, muscular veins, cervical meningo-racliidian veins, and near its termination, the superficial and deep cervical veins. The Inferior thyroid veins, two, and frequently more in number, are situated one on each side of the trachea, and receive the venous blood from the thyroid gland. They communicate with each other, and with the middle and superior thyroid veins, and form a plexus on the front of the trachea. The right vein terminates in the right