432 STRUCTURE OP THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. are mingled with the nerve cells of the grey substance, the large multipolar pigmentary cells of the anterior cornua, the small cells of the substantia gelatinosa, and the medium-sized cells with the grey pulpy matrix and free nuclei of the substantia grisea. Medulla oblongata.—In the medulla oblongata the columns of the spinal cord undergo some change of position ; the anterior columns separate from each other and ascend to the outer side of the corpora pyramidalia. A small portion of the anterior column con- stitutes the outer part of the corpus pyramidale, while the larger portion (funiculus olivaris) divides into twofasciculi,/?,mic«^ siliquce, which embrace the corpus olivare, and are then continued through the pons Varolii above the second stratum of transverse fibres, one of the two bundles becoming the laqueus and entering the corpora quadrigemina, where it meets its fellow of the opposite side, the other passing into the upper division, tegmentum, of the crus cerebri. The lateral columns divide into three portions : anterior, middle, and posterior. The anterior portion, advancing into the space left by the divergence of the anterior columns, constitutes the corpora pyramidalia, the one corpus pyramidale decussating with the other at the middle line by means of two or three fasciculi. The corpora pyramidalia are continued through the pons Varolii between its first and second transverse layers and enter the lower seg- ment of the crus cerebri. The middle portion, fasciculi inno- minati, continued upwards, make their appearance in the floor of the fourth ventricle under the name of eminentise teretes, and are thence prolonged into the tegmentum of the crura cerebri. The posterior portion unites with the corpus restiforme and enters the crus cerebelli. The posterior columns constitute the fasciculi cuneati and fasciculi graciles ; the former enter the crura cerebelli, while some of their fibres, with the fasciculi graciles, are continued forwards by the side of the eminentise teretes to the tegmentum of the crura cerebri. The tegmentum cruris cerebri therefore becomes the re- cipient of fibres from the anterior, middle, and posterior column. Besides these, which are the longitudinal fibres of the medulla oblongata, there are transverse fibres, which are disposed in three sets ; namely, fibrai arciformes (superficial cerebellar fibres, Solly), which curve superficially to the corpus pyramidale and olivare and take their course to the crus cerebelli; antero-posterior fibres, which pass from before backwards through the middle of the medulla oblongata, forming its raphe ; and lateral fibres, which pass outwards from the raphe into the lateral halves of the medulla ; the most posterior of these fibres (deep cerebellar fibres, Solly) taking their course through the posterior funiculi siliquse and fasciculi cuneati into the crura cerebelli. The grey substance of the medulla oblongata is collected into three principal masses, which are situated respectively in the corpora olivaria, corpora restiformia, and floor of the fourth ventricle ; and, in addition to those, there are smaller collections of grey matter in