121 STRUCTURE OP CARTILAGE. The true cartilages are, the articular, costal, ensiforin, thyroid, cricoid, arytenoid, tracheal, bronchial, nasal, meatus auris, pulley of the trochlearis muscle, and temporary cartilage or the cartilage of bone previously to ossification. * Reticular cartilage is composed of cells (T gVij-th of an inch in diameter), separated from each other by an opaque, fibrous, inter- cellular network, the breadth of the cells being considerably greater than that of the intercellular structure. The cells contain nuclei, granular matter, and oil-globules, the latter in greater number than in true cartilage; the fibres are short, imperfect, loose in texture, and yellowish ; and chemically there is an absence of chondrine. Instances of reticular cartilage are, the pinna, epiglottis, and Eus- tachian tube. Fibrous cartilage is composed of an interlacement of fasciculi of white fibrous tissue, containing in its meshes scattered groups of cartilage cells ; and the difference of density of different fibrous car- Fig. 72. t tilages is referrible to the greater or less abundance and more or less condensed state of the fibrous tissue. In some, as in interarticular cartilages, the fibrous element exists in a concentrated form, while in the intervertebral substance it is loose, and contains an abun- dance of areolar spaces. Fibrous cartilages admit of arrangement into four groups : inter- articular, stratiform, interosseous, and free. Instances of inter- articular fibrous cartilages (menisci) are those of the lower jaw, sternal and acromial end of the clavicle, wrist, carpus, knee, to which may be added the fibrous cartilages of circumference, glenoid, and cotyloid. The stratiform fibrous cartilages are such as form a thin coating to the grooves on bone through which tendons play. The interosseous fibrous cartilages are the intervertebral substance and symphysis pubis. The free fibrous cartilages are the tarsal cartilages of the eyelids. * Page 5. f A portion of fibrous cartilage. The section is made from the symphysis pubis, and magnified 155 times.