460 FOURTH VENTRICLE. of lime, and phosphate of magnesia and ammonia, with some organic matter ; and is sometimes hollow in the interior. It is con- nected to the brain by means of two medullary cords called 'pedun- cles and a thin lamina derived from the posterior commissure ; the peduncles of the pineal gland are attached to the thalami optici, and may be traced along the upper and inner margin of those bodies to the crura of the fornix with which they become blended. From the close connexion subsisting between the pia mater and the* pineal gland, and the softness of texture of the latter, the gland is liable to be torn away in the removal of the pia mater. Behind the corpora quadrigemina is the cerebellum, and beneath the cerebellum the fourth ventricle. The student must therefore divide the cerebellum down to the fourth ventricle, and turn its lobes aside to examine that cavity. Fourth ventricle.—The fourth ventricle (sinus rhomboidalis) is the ventricle, of the cerebellum. It is situated on the posterior surface of the medulla oblongata and pons Varolii, is lozenge-shaped in its form, and bounded on each side by a thick cord passing between the cerebellum and corpora quadrigemina, called the pro- cessus e cerebello ad testes, and by the corpus restiforme. ' It is covered in behind by the cerebellum, and by a thin lamella of medullary substance, stretched between the two processus e cere- bello ad testes, termed the valve of Vieussens.* That portion of the cerebellum which forms the posterior boundary of the fourth ventricle presents four small prominences or lobules, and a thin layer of medullary substance, the velum medullare pos- terius. Of the lobules two are placed in the middle line, the nodidus and uvula, the former being before the latter ; the re- maining two are named amygdala?, or tonsils, and are situated one on either side of the uvula. They all project into the cavity of the fourth ventricle, and the velum medullare posterius is situated in front of them. The valve of Vieussens or velum medullare ante- rius is an extremely thin lamella of medullary substance, prolonged from the white matter of the cerebellum to the testes, and attached on each side to the processus e cerebello ad testes. This lamella is overlaid for a short distance by a thin, transversely grooved lobule of grey substance (linguetta laminosa) derived from the anterior border of the cerebellum, and its junction with the testes is strengthened by a narrow slip given off by the commissure of those bodies, the frcemdum veli medullaris anterioris. The anterior wall, or floor of the fourth ventricle is formed by two slightly con- vex bodies, fasciculi teretes (innominati), separated by a longitudinal groove which is continuous inferiorly with the posterior median fissure of the spinal cord. On these bodies the grey substance (fasciolee cinerea?) derived from the interior of the medulla is spread * Raymond Vieussens, a great discoverer in the anatomy of the brain and nervous system. His " Neurographia Universalis " was published at Lyons, in 1685.