INTERNAL SAPHENOUS NERVE. 518 tributed to the integument as low as the knee-joint. At its upper part the external branch communicates with the crural branch of the genito-crural nerve ; and below, the internal branch communi- cates with the internal cutaneous. One or both of these branches sometimes pierce the sartorius muscle. The Internal cutaneous nerve passes inwards in front of the sheath of the femoral artery, and divides into an anterior and an inner branch. Previously to its division it gives off three cutaneous filaments, which pierce the fascia near the internal saphenous vein, and following the course of that vessel, are distributed to the in- tegument of the inner side of the thigh as low down as the knee. The uppermost of these filaments passes through the saphenous opening, the middle becomes subcutaneous at about the middle of the thigh, and the lowest pierces the fascia at its lower third. The anterior branch passes down the inner side of the thigh, and pierces the fascia at its lower third, near the internal saphenous vein. It then divides into two twigs, one of which continues on- wards to the inner side of the knee ; while the other curves outwards to its outer side, communicating in its course with a branch of the long saphenous nerve. The inner branch descends along the inner and posterior border of the sartorius muscle to the knee, where it pierces the fascia lata, and gives off several cutaneous twigs. It then sends a small branch of communication to the long saphenous nerve, and passes down- wards along the inner side of the leg, to which it is distributed. While beneath the fascia lata it aids in the formation of a plexus by uniting with branches of the long saphenous nerve and descending branch of the obturator. When the latter is large the inner branch of the internal cutaneous nerve is small, and may terminate in the plexus, or merely give off a few cutaneous filaments. The Long or internal saphenous nerve inclines inwards to the sheath of the femoral vessels, and passes downwards in front of the sheath and beneath the aponeurotic expansion which covers the sheath, to the opening in the adductor magnus. It then quits the femoral vessels, and continuing to descend, passes between the ten- dons of the sartorius and gracilis, and reaches the internal saphenous vein. By the side of the latter it passes down the inner side of the leg, in front of the inner ankle, and along the inner side of the foot as far as the great toe ; being distributed to the integument in its course. The branches of the long saphenous nerve in the thigh are : one or two to join the plexus formed by the obturator and internal cutaneous nerve ; and a large branch, the cutaneus patellce, which pierces the sartorius and fascia lata at the inner side of the knee, and divides into many twigs, which are distributed to the integu- ment of the front of the knee. Above the patella this branch com- municates with the anterior branch of the internal cutaneous nerve, and with the terminal twigs of the middle, and external cutaneous.