CORPUS CAVERNOSUM- PENIS. 674 adherent to the rami of the puhes and ischium by means of two strong processes, the crura, and connected to the symphysis pubis by an elastic fibrous membrane, the ligamentum suspensorium. The extremity or glans penis resembles an obtuse cone, somewhat com- pressed from above downwards, and of a deeper red colour than the surrounding skin. At its apex is a small vertical slit, the meatus urinarius, which is bounded by two, more or less protuberant, labia; and, extending backwards from the meatus, a grooved raphe, to which a loose fold of mucous membrane, the frcenum prcepittii, is attached. The base of the glans is marked by a pro- jecting collar, the corona glandis, upon which are seen a number of small papillary elevations, the glandules odoriferce Tysoni. Behind the corona is a deep fossa, fossa glandis (cervix), bounded by a circular fold of integument, prceputium, which, in the collapsed state of the organ, may be drawn over the glans, but, in its dis- tended state, is obliterated, and serves to facilitate its enlargement. The internal surface of the prepuce is lined by mucous membrane, covered by a tbin epithelium; this membrane, on reaching the cervix glandis, is reflected over the glans, and, at the meatus urinarius, is continuous with the mucous lining of the urethra. The superficial fascia of the penis is thin, and its areolar struc- ture free from fat; it is continuous with the superficial fascia of the abdomen above, and with the dartos and superficial fascia of the perineum below. The ligamentum suspensorium penis is an elastic fibrous mem- brane of triangular form, attached by its apex to the symphysis pubis ; and by its base, to the body of the penis. Near the latter attachment it separates into two layers, to give passage to the dorsal vessels and nerves of the penis. The penis is composed of the corpus cavernosum and corpus spon- giosum, and contains in its interior the longest portion of the urethra. u The Corpus cavernosum is distinguished into two lateral portions (corpora cavernosa) by an imperfect septum and a superior and in- ferior groove, and is divided posteriorly into two crura. It is firmly adherent, by means of its crura, to the rami of the pubes and ischium ; and each crus, previously to its junction with its fellow, presents a slight enlargement, which was named by Kobelt, the bulb. The corpus cavernosum forms, anteriorly, a single rounded extremity, which is received into a fossa in the base of the glans ; the superior groove lodges the dorsal vessels of the penis, and the inferior receives the corpus spongiosum. Its fibrous tunic is thick, elastic, and extremely firm, and sends a number of fibrous bands and cords (trabecule) inwards from the inferior groove, which cross the interior in a radiating direction, and are inserted into the inner walls of the tunic. These trabecule are most abundant at the middle line, where they are ranged vertically, side by side, some- what like the teeth of a comb, and constitute the imperfect parti- tion of the corpus cavernosum, called septum pectiniforme. The