ILIAC FASCIA.—PELVIC FASCIA. 301 transversalis, which is pressed before the hernia, and forms one of its investments. Its coverings therefore are, the Direct inguinal hernia differs from oblique, firstly, in never at- taining the same bulk, in consequence of the resisting nature of the conjoined tendon of the internal oblique and transversalis and trans- versalis fascia ; secondly, in its direction, having a tendency to protrude from the middle line rather than towards it. Thirdly, in making for itself a new passage through the abdominal parietes, jnstead of following a natural channel; and fourthly, in the rela- tion of the neck of its sac to the epigastric artery ; that vessel lying to the outer side of the opening of the sac of direct hernia, and to the inner side of that of oblique hernia. All the forms of inguinal hernia are designated scrotal, when they have descended into the cavity of the scrotum. The fascia iliac a (lumbo-iliaca) is the aponeurotic investment of the psoas and iliacus muscle; and like the fascia transversalis, is thick below, and becomes gradually thinner as it ascends. It is attached superiorly, along the edge of the psoas, to the anterior lamella of the aponeurosis of the transversalis muscle, to the liga- ment am arcuatum internum, and to the bodies of the lumbar ver- tebrae, leaving arches corresponding with the constricted part of the vertebrae for the transit of the lumbar vessels. Lower down it passes beneath the external iliac vessels, and is attached along the margin of the true pelvis ; externally it is connected to the crest of the ilium ; and, inferiorly, to the outer two-thirds of Poupart's ligament, where it is continuous with the fascia transversalis. Passing beneath Poupart's ligament, it surrounds the psoas and iliacus muscle to its termination, and beneath the inner part of the femoral arch forms the posterior segment of the crural canal or sheath of the femoral vessels. The fascia pblvica is an aponeurotic layer situated beneath the peritoneum, forming a covering to the walls of the pelvis, and re- flected from its walls upon the viscera. The pelvic fascia is attached to the internal surface of the ossa pubis near the symphysis, to the body of the pubes above the origin of the obturator internus muscle, to the ilio-pectineal line of the brim of the pelvis as far back as the sacro-iliac articulation, and to the margin of the great sacro-ischiatic foramen. Having descended upon the wall of the pelvis as low as the pubic arch in front, and the spine of the ischium behind, it divides in the direction of a line drawn between those points, into two layers, internal and external. The internal layer (recto-vesical) is continued downwards to the prostate gland, neck of the bladder, (vagina), and rectum, to which Integument, Superficial fascia, Intercolumnar fascia, Conjoined tendon, Transversalis fascia, Peritoneal sac.