434 STRUCTURE OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. Fig. 176. forming the corpus dentaturn ; and in small quantity in the velum medullare inferius of the roof of the fourth ventricle. The cortical substance presents the appearance of two layers of nearly equal thickness, the outer being grey, the inner yellowish-red, substantia ferruginea. The intimate components of the cortical sub- stance are, nerve-fibres, nerve-cells, free cell-nuclei, and a pale yellowish granular substance, which is identical in character with the granular matrix of the nerve-cells. The nerve-fibres proceed from the white medullary substance ; they be- come reduced in the cortical substance to the dimensions of the finest nerve-fibres, form a close plexus by mutual interlacement in the substantia ferruginea and deep layer of the grey substance, and are finally lost towards the middle of the latter. The nerve-cells are of two kinds, small and large ; both are found in the deep layer of the substantia grisea, near the substantia ferruginea. The smaller nerve- cells, the least numerous of the two, are pale, with delicate processes. The large nerve-cells are round, oval, or pyriform in shape, contain a finely-granular colourless substance, and give off from their peripheral side two or three branched processes of considerable size, which take their course towards the granular super- ficial layer. The cell nuclei are found in great numbers in the substantia ferruginea em- bedded among the nerve-fibres, and also in the deep layer of the grey substance among the large and small cells ; and the pale yel- lowish granular substance exists throughout the whole of the substantia grisea, but chiefly in its deep layer. The corpus dentatum is a greyish-red crumpled capsule, containing a large number of yellow pig- mentary cells of medium size, each cell being provided with four or five processes ; and the grey substance of the velum medullare inferius of the fourth ventricle consists of brownish pigmentary cells, intermingled with nerve-fibres. Cerebrum.—The cerebrum has entering into its composition three pairs of ganglia, namely, corpora quadrigemina, * Section of the cortical substance of the cerebellum; after Kolliker. a. Medullary substance, showing its fibres, b. The substantia ferruginea, composed of fibres and cell nuclei, c. The grey substance; granular at the surface, and containing large multipolar branching cells near the substantia ferruginea.