CUNEIFORM BONES. Ill sition with the middle cuneiform and second metatarsal bone ; the long border articulates with the metatarsal bone of the great toe, the short border with the sca/phoid bone. The small extremity (edge) is sharp ; the larger extremity (base) rounded into a broad tuberosity. Articulations.—With four bones : scaphoid, middle cuneiform, and first two metatarsal bones. Attachment of Muscles.—To the tibialis anticus and posticus. The Middle cuneiform is the smallest of the three ; it is wedge- shaped, the broad extremity being jty. 67.t placed upwards, the sharp end downwards in the foot. It presents «. for examination four articular sur- faces and two extremities. The anterior and posterior surjace have nothing worthy of remark. One of the lateral surfaces has a long ar- ticular facet, extending its whole length, for the internal cuneiform ; the other has only a partial articular facet for the external cuneiform bone. If the bone be held so that the square extremity look upwards, the broadest edge of the square being towards the holder, the small and partial articular surface will point to the side to which the bone belongs. A rticulations.—With/owr bones: scaphoid, internal and external cu- neiform, and second metatarsal bone. The External cuneiform is in- termediate in size between the two preceding, and placed, like the middle, with the broad end up- f Sole of the left foot. 1. Inner tuberosity of the os calois. 2. Outer tube- rosity. * Posterior tuberosity. 3. Groove for the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum; this figure indicates also the sustentaculum tali, upon which it is placed. 4. Rounded head of the astragalus. 5. Scaphoid bone. 6. Its tuberosity. 7, Internal cuneiform bone; its broad extremity. S. Middle cuneiform bone. 9. External cuneiform bone. 10,11. Cuboid bone. 11. Groove for the tendon of the peroneus longus; the prominence between this groove and figure 10 is the tuberosity of the bone. 12,12. Metatarsal bones. 13, 13. First phalanges. 14, 14. Second phalanges of the four lesser toes. 15, 15. Third, or ungual phalanges of the four lesser toes. 16. Last phalanx of the great toe.