INFERIOR MAXILLARY BONE. 54 The superior border of the body of the bone is the alveolar pro- cess, furnished in the adult with alveoli for sixteen teeth. The inferior border or base is rounded and smooth ; thick and everted in front to form the chin, and thin behind where it merges into the angle of the bone. The ramus is a strong square-shaped process, differing in direc- tion at various periods of life ; thus, in the foetus and infant, it is almost parallel with the body ; in youth it is oblique, and gradually approaches the vertical direction until manhood ; in old age, after the loss of the teeth, it again declines, and assumes the oblique direction. On its external surface it is rough, for the attachment ' of the masseter muscle ; and at the junction of its posterior border with the body of the bone, it has a rough tuberosity, the angle of the lower jaw, which gives attachment by its inner margin to the stylo-maxillary ligament. The upper extremity of the ramus presents two processes, sepa- rated by a concave sweep, the sigmoid notch. The anterior is the bone. The constriction around the base of the condyle is its neck, into which is inserted the external pterygoid muscle. The sigmoid notch is crossed by the masseteric artery and nerve. The internal surface of the ramus is marked near its centre by a large oblique foramen, the inferior dental, for the entrance of the inferior dental artery and nerve into the dental canal. Bounding this opening is a sharp margin, to which is attached the internal * The lower jaw. 1. Body. 2. Eamus. 3. Symphisis. 4. Fossa for the depressor labii inferioris muscle. 5. Mental foramen. 6. External oblique ridge. 7. Groove for the facial artery; the situation of the groove is marked by a notch in the bone a little in front of the cipher. 8. The angle. 9. Ex- tremity of the mylo-hyoidean ridge. 10. Coronoid process. 11. Condyle. 12. Sigmoid notch. 13. Inferior dental foramen. 14. Mylo-hyoidean groove. 15. Alveolar process, i. Middle and lateral incisor tooth of one side. c. Canine tooth, b. Two bicuspides. m. Three molares. coronoid. process; it is sharp and pointed, and gives attachment by its inner surface to the tem- poral muscle. The an- terior border of the coro- noid process is grooved at its lower part for the buccinator muscle. The posterior process is the condyle, which is flat- tened from before back- wards, oblique in direc- tion, and smooth on its upper surface, to arti- culate with the glenoid cavity of the temporal