HEPATIC CELLS. 650 F,g. 262.t Fig. 231.* rounded prominences of the periphery. The intralobular vein thus constituted takes its course through the centre of the longitudinal axis of the lobule, pierces the middle of its base, and opens into the sublobular vein. The periphery of the lobule, with the exception of its base, which is always closely attached to a sublobular vein, is connected by means of its areolar capsule, with the capsular surface of surrounding lobules. The interval between the lobules is the interlobular fissure, and the augular interstices formed by the appo- sition of several lobules are the interlobular spaces. The lobules of the centre of the liver are angular, and somewhat smaller than those of the surface, from the greater compression to which they are submitted. The superficial lobules are incomplete, and give to the surface of the organ the appearance of a transverse section. In ultimate structure the lobule is composed of hepatic cells or corpuscles and a vascular plexus which receives its blood exteriorly from an interlobular bi-anch of the portal vein and transmits it in- ternally to the intralobular vein, the radicle of the hepatic vein ; no ducts are found in the lobule ; these latter, with the branches of the hepatic artery, being situated in the intervals of the lobules or interlobular fissures. The hepatic cells or corpuscles are nucleolo- nucleated cells, of a polyhedral figure, measuring about ^5-5- of an inch in diameter, and of a pale amber colour. They are composed of a thin proper membrane, enclosing granular, semi-fluid contents, which are yellowish in colour, and the essential constituents of the bile ; moreover, there are often found within the hepatic cell, besides the nucleus, a greater or less number of brownish yellow * Hepatic cells, magnified 310 times, and drawn with the camera lucida. t Arrangement of the hepatic cells in a cell network, and the mode of origin of the hepatic ducts; after Kolliker. 1,1. Hepatic ducts, commencing by caecal extremities, and formed by epithelial cells without limitary membrane. 2, 2. Hepatic cells, disposed in solid columns. 3, 3. Vascular spaces occupied by the capillary plexus.