SCLEROTIC.—CORNEA. 543 border of the sclerotic, to which it is very firmly attached, and it is somewhat thicker than the anterior portion of that tunic. When examined from the exterior, its vertical diameter is seen to be about one-sixteenth shorter than the transverse, in consequence of the overlapping above and below of the margin of the sclerotica ; on the interior, however, its outline is perfectly circular. The cornea is composed of four layers : namely, the conjunctiva ; the cornea propria, which consists of several thin lamellae connected together by an extremely fine areolar tissue ; the cornea elastica, a " fine, elastic, and exquisitely transparent membrane, exactly applied to the inner surface of the cornea proper" ; and the lining membrane of the anterior chamber of the eyeball. The cornea elastica is Fig. 204.* remarkable for its perfect transparency, even when submitted for many days to the action of water or alcohol; while the cornea propria * Longitudinal section of the globe of the eye. 1. Sclerotic, thicker behind than in front. 2. Cornea, received within the anterior margin of the sclerotic, and connected with it by means of a bevelled edge. 3. Choroid, connected anteriorly with (4) ciliary ligament, and (5) ciliary processes. 6. Iris. 7. Pupil. 8. Third layer of the eye, the retina, terminating anteriorly by an abrupt border af the commencement of the ciliary processes. 9. Canal of Petit, which encircles the lens (12); the thin layer in front of this canal is the zonula eiliaris, a prolongation of the vascular layer of the retina to the lens. 10. An- terior chamber of the eye, containing the aqueous humour; the lining mem- brane by which the humour is secreted is represented in the diagram. 11. Pos- terior chamber. 12. The lens, more convex behind than before, and enclosed in its proper capsule. 13. Vitreous humour enclosed in the hyaloid mem- brane, and in cells formed in its interior by that membrane. 14. Tubular sheath of the hyaloid membrane, for the passage of the artery of the capsule of the lens. 15. Neurilemma of the optic nerve. 16. Arteria centralis retina?, embedded in the centre of the optic nerve.