663 THE KIDNEYS. to fifteen pale reddish coloured conical masses, having their apices or papilke directed towards the sinus renalis, and their bases to the cortical substance ; these conical masses are the pyramids of Mai- pighi, and are composed of an assemblage of straight tubuli, the " tubuli recti, which open on the surface of the papilla and divide into branches at acute angles as they proceed from the apex to the base of the pyramid ; moreover, the surface of the pyramid is marked by minute vascular streaks caused by the straight vessels of the tubular structure, the arte- rioles et vena'- recto?. The vascular or cortical portion, distinguished by its red colour and softer texture, forms the surface of the organ, surrounding the base of each pyra- mid and penetrating between them to the sinus renalis. It there- fore forms septa between the pyra- mids {septa vel columrue Bertini) and marks the original composition of the kidney of separate lobes. It is composed of blood-vessels, with the cortical fasciculi and ultimate teimriuations of the tubuli uriniferi, held together by a delicate stroma of areolar tissue. The tubuli uriniferi commence on the surface of the papillae by from two hundred to five hundred openings and take their course in straight lines, tubuli recti", through the pyramids, dividing dichoto- mously in their course and separated by thin long straight vessels, arteriolar et venoz rector. At the base of the pyramids of Malpighi the tubuli break up into numerousf small fasciculi, which enter the cortical substance, cortical fasciculi, and having a pyramidal form, have received the name of pyramids of Ferrein ; from the latter, the separate tubuli pass off on all sides, and especially at their extremity, and after a tortuous course (tubuli contorti) during * Section of the kidney, surmounted by the supra-renal capsule; the swell- ings on the surface mark the original constitution of the organ of lobes. 1. Supra-renal capsule. 2. Vascular portion of the kidney. 3, 3. Tubular portion, consisting of cones. 4, 4. Two of the papillse projecting into their corresponding calices. 5, 5, 5. The three infnndibula; the middle 5 is situ- ated in the mouth of a calyx. 6 Pelvis. 7. Ureter. f Huschke estimates the number of tubuli in each fasciculus corticalis at 200; and the number of cortical fasciculi to each pyramid at 700. Conse- quently fifteen pyramids would represent upwards of two millions of tubuli. Further, as there are 500 orifices upon each papilla, and the tubuli recti divide about ten times, it is probable that each tubulus rectus is the excretory duct of a separate cortical fasciculus.