LIGAMENTS OF THE LAEYNX. 597 culate the arytenoid cartilages with the cricoid, strengthened behind by two posterior crico-arytenoid bands or ligaments; and the supe- rior and inferior thyro-arytenoid ligaments. The superior thyro-arytenoid ligaments are two thin bands of yellow elastic tissue attached in front to the receding angle of the Fig. 224.* thyroid cartilage, and behind to the anterior and inner border of each arytenoid cartilage. The lower border of this ligament constitutes the upper boundary of the ventricle of the larynx, and the fold of mu- cous membrane caused by its pro- minence has been called the supe- rior or false chorda vocalis. The inferior thyro-arytenoid ligaments, or true chordce vocales, are thicker than the superior, and like them composed of yellow elastic tissue. Each ligament is attached in front to the receding angle of the thyroid cartilage, and behind to the anterior angle of the base of the arytenoid. The inferior border of the chorda vocalis is con- tinuous with the lateral expansion of the crico-thyroid ligament. The superior border forms the lower boundary of the ventricle of the larynx. The space between the two chordae vocales is the glottis or rima glottidis. 4. The ligaments of the epiglottis are five in number, namely, three glosso-epiglottic, hyo-epiglottic, and thyro-epiglottic. The glosso-epiglottic ligaments (frsena epiglottidis) are three folds * Vertical section of the larynx, showing its ligaments. 1. Body of os hyoides. 2. Its great cornu. 3. Lesser cornu. 4. Ala of the thyroid car- tilage. 5, Superior cornu. 6. Inferior cornu. 7. Pomum Adami. 8, 8. Thyro- hyoidean membrane; the opening in the membrane immediately above the posterior figure is for the passage of the superior laryngeal nerve and artery. 9. Thyro-hyoidean ligament; the figure is placed immediately above the sesamoid bone or cartilage, a. Epiglottis, b. Hyo-epiglottic ligament. c. Thyro-epiglottic ligament, d. Arytenoid cartilage; inner surface, e. Outer angle of base of arytenoid cartilage, f. Corniculum laryngis. g. Cuneiform cartilage, h. Superior thyro-arytenoid ligament, i. Inferior thyro-arytenoid ligament, or chorda vocalis; the elliptical space between the two thyro- arytenoid ligaments is the ventricle of the larynx, k. Cricoid cartilage. I. Lateral portion of the crico-thyroidean membrane, m. Central portion of the same membrane, n. Upper ring of trachea, o. Section of isthmus of thyroid gland, p, p. Levator glandular thyroidese.