616 ALIMENTARY CANAL. structures by means of a subserous areolar tissue, which contains fat, and gives support to the vessels of the membrane. The epithelium consists of a simple tesselated layer of nucleated cells, which are flattened and polygonal, and about j-^-g- of an inch in diameter. The general characters of a serous membrane are, its resemblance to a shut sac, and its secretion of a peculiar fluid, similar to the serum of the blood ; but the former of these characters is not abso- lutely essential to the identity of a serous membrane ; for, as we have shown above, the peritoneum in the female is perforated by the extremities of the Fallopian tubes ; while in some aquatic reptiles there is a direct communication between its cavity and the medium in which they live. From the variable nature of the secretion of these membranes, they have been divided into two classes, the true serous mem- branes, viz., the arachnoid, pericardium, pleura?, peritoneum, and tunica? vaginales, which pour out a secretion containing but a small portion of albumen ; and the synovial membranes and bursa?, which secrete a fluid containing a larger quantity of albumen. ALIMENTARY CANAL. The Alimentary canal is a musculo-membranous tube, extending from the mouth to the anus. It is variously named in the different parts of its course ; and is divided into, the Mouth, - Pharynx, ^ (Esophagus, Stomach, !Duodenum, f Caecum, Jejunum, Large intestine \ Colon, Ileum. (Rectum. The Mouth (cavum, seu, cavitas oris) is the irregular cavity which contains the organ of taste and the principal instruments of mastication. It is bounded, in front, by the lips and fissura oris ; on either side, by the internal surface of the cheeks ; above, by the hard palate and teeth of the upper jaw; below, by the tongue, the mucous membrane stretched between the arch of the lower jaw and the under surface of the tongue, and by the teeth of the inferior maxilla ; and behind, by the soft palate and fauces. The space between the teeth and fleshy walls of the face is the vestibulum oris. The Lips (labium superius et inferius) are two fleshy folds formed externally by common integument and internally by mucous mem- brane, and containing between these two layers, muscles, a quantity of fat, and numerous small labial glands. They are attached to