STRUCTURE OF THE HEART. 591 where the twisting of the fibres ceases. The long band then curves inwards towards the septum, and spreads out upon the left surface of the septum into the broad and thick layer of fibres with which this description commenced. The most inferior of the fibres of the left surface of the septum ventriculorum, after winding spirally around the internal surface of the apex of the left ventricle, so as to close its extremity, form a small fasciculus, which is excluded from the interior of the ven- tricle, and expands in a radiated manner over the surface of the heart, constituting its superficial layer of fibres. The direction of these fibres is, for the most part, oblique, passing from left to right on the anterior and from right to left on the posterior surface of the heart, becoming more longitudinal near its base, and terminating by being inserted into the fibrous rings of the auriculo-ventricular openings, and of the pulmonary artery and aorta. Over the right ventricle the superficial fibres are increased in number by the addi- tion of accessory fibres from the right surface of the septum, which pierce the middle layer, and take the same direction as the super- ficial fibres from the apex of the left ventricle, and of other acces- sory fibres from the surface of both ventricles. From this description it will be perceived that the superficial layer of fibres is very scanty, and is pretty equally distributed over the surface of both ventricles. The middle layer of both ventricles is formed by the two bands, short and long. But the internal layer of the two ventricles is very differently constituted ; that of the left is formed by the spiral expansion of the fibres of the rope, and of the two columnse papillares ; that of the right remains to be described. The septum ventriculorum also consists of three layers, a left layer, the radiated expansion of the rope and carnese columnse ; a middle layer, the long band; and a right layer, belonging to the proper wall of the right ventricle, and con- tinuous both in front and behind with the long band ; and in front also with the short band, and with the superficial layer of the right ventricle. The Internal layer of the right ventricle is formed by fasciculi of fibres which arise from the right segment of the root of the aorta, from the entire circumference of the root of the pulmonary artery, and from the bases of the columnse papillares. The fibres from the root of the aorta, associated with some from the carneae columnse, constitute a layer which passes obliquely forwards upon the right side of the septum. The superior fibres coming directly from the aorta join the internal surface of the long band at the anterior border of the septum, while the lower two-thirds of the layer are continuous with the internal surface of the short band, some of its fibres piercing that band to augment the number of superficial fibres. The fibres derived from the root of the pulmonary artery, conjoined with those from the base of one of the columnar papillares, curve forwards from their origin, and wind obliquely downwards