FEMUK. 104 Fig. 62. which, the internal head of the gastro- cnemius arises. The outer side of the internal condyle is rough and concave, for the attachment of the posterior crucial ligament. Development.—By Jive centres ; one for the shaft, one for each extremity, and one for each trochanter. The femur is the first of the long bones to show signs of ossifica- tion, ossific matter is found immediately after the maxillse and before the termi- nation of the second month of embryonic life. The secondary deposits take place in the following order : in the condyloid ex- tremityf during the last month of foetal life ; in the head towards the end of the first year; in the greater trochanter be- tween the third and fourth year ; in the lesser trochanter between the thirteenth and fourteenth. The epiphyses and apo- physes are joined to the diaphysis in the reverse order of their appearance, the junc- tion commencing after puberty, and not being completed for the condyloid epiphysis until after the twentieth year. Articulations.—With three bones; os innoininatum, tibia, and patella. Attachment of Muscles.—To twenty* three; by the greater trochanter, to the gluteus medius and minimus, pyriformis, gemellus superior, obturator internus, gemellus inferior, obturator externus, and quadratus femoris; by the lesser tro- chanter, to the common tendon of the psoas and iliacus. By the linea aspera, its outer lip, to the vastus externus, gluteus maximus, and short head of the biceps; by its inner lip, vastus internus, pectineus, adductor brevis, and adductor longus ; by its middle, adductor magnus ; by the anterior part of the bone, crurseus and subcrurseus; by its condyles, gastrocnemius, plantaris, and popliteus. * Diagram of the posterior aspect of the right femur, showing the lines of attachment of the" muscles. The muscles attached to the inner lip are, p. pec- tineus ; a b, adductor brevis; a I, adductor longus. The middle portion is occupied for its whole extent by a m, adductor magnus; and is continuous superiorly with qf, linea quadrati, into which the quadratus femoris is in- serted. The outer hp is occupied by g m, gluteus maximus; and b, short head of biceps. t Cruveilhier remarks that this centre is so constant in the last fortnight of foetal life, that it may be regarded as an important proof of the fcetus having reached its full term.