STRUCTURE OF MUSCLE. 170 fusiform shape, and various length, and consists of a thin external membrane, blended with a soft, homogeneous or finely granular contained substance. These fibres were originally round nucleated cells, which have become elongated into a fusiform shape, and sub- sequently grown into the dimensions of fibres. When of small size they have a single nucleus ; but in the longer fibre a succession of nuclei with corresponding swollen parts may be observed from point to point, and the nucleus is sometimes so much elongated as to de- serve the title of columnar. The fusiform cells are united into little bundles or fasciculi by an adhesive interstitial substance, and the fasciculi, which are sometimes round and sometimes flat, are bound together into larger bundles by areolar tissue and fine elastic fibres; the interspaces of the bundles being occupied by vessels and nerves, the former in great abundance. Organic or smooth muscle is distributed abundantly in the animal frame, and is met with in all situations where a distinct contractile power, independent of mere elasticity, is required ; for example, in the alimentary canal, from the middle of the oesophagus to the in- ternal sphincter ani; in the posterior segment of the trachea, and in the bronchial tubes to their finest ramifications ; in the excretory ducts of various glands, as Wharton's duct, the ductus communis choledochus, the calices and pelvis of the kidneys; the ureters, bladder, and urethra ; on the testes, around the vasa deferentia and vesicula3 seminales, the prostate, Cowper's glands, and in the sub- stance of the corpora cavernosa ; in the Fallopian tubes, uterus and vagina ; in the middle coat of arteries, veins, and lymphatic vessels; in the iris ; and in the corium of the skin, particularly in the areola and nipples of the mammary glands, in the dartos of the scrotum, and around the hair follicles, and many of the sudoriferous and sebiferous ducts. The development of muscular fibre is effected by means of the formation of nucleated cells out of an original blastema, and -the con- version of those cells into the tubuli of ulti- mate fibres, while their contents, by a subse- quent developmental action, are transformed into ultimate fibrils. In the muscular fibre of organic life the process seems to stop short of the formation of fibrillas ; the cell-contents re- taining their original homogeneous or granular character. Muscles are divided into two great classes, voluntary and involuntary, to which may be added, as an intermediate and connecting link, the muscle of the vascular system, the heart. * d. Muscular fibre of organic life from the urinary bladder, magnified 600 times, linear measure. Two of the nuclei are seen. e. Muscular fibre of or- ganic life, from the stomach, magnified 600 times. The diameter of this and the preceding fibre, midway between the nuclei, was ^u of an inch. Fig. 106.