74 ERUPTION OF TEETH. Fig. 45.* follicular condition, and has become con- tinuous with the mucous membrane of the mouth. The opened sac now begins to shorten more rapidly than the fang lengthens, and the tooth is quickly drawn upwards by the contraction, leaving a space between the ex- tremity of the unfinished root and the bottom of the socket, in which the growth and com- pletion of the fang are effected. During the changes above described as taking place among the dental sacs contained within the jaws, the septa between the sacs, at first consisting of spongy tissue, gradually became fibrous, and subsequently osseous, the bone being developed from the surface and proceeding by degrees more deeply into the jaws, to constitute the alveoli. The sacs of the ten anterior permanent teeth, at first enclosed in the submucous cellular tissue of the deciduous dental sacs, and received during growth into crypts situated behind the deciduous teeth, advanced by degrees beneath the fangs of those teeth, and became separated from them by distinct osseous alveoli. The necks of the sacs of the permanent teeth, by which they originally communicated with the mucous lining of the secondary groove, still exist, in the form of cords, separated from the deciduous teeth by their alveolus, but communicating through minute osseous canals with the mucous membrane of the mouth, immediately behind the corresponding deciduous teeth. "These cords and foramina are not obliterated in the child," says Gooclsir, "either because the cords are to become useful as 1 gubernacula' and the canals as ' itinera dentiumi or, much more probably, in virtue of a law, which appears to be a general one in the development of animal bodies, viz., that parts, or organs, which have once acted an im- portant part, however atrophied they may afterwards become, yet never altogether disappear, so long as they do not interfere with other parts or functions." Succession.—The periods of appearance of the teeth are extremely irregular ; it is necessary, therefore, to have recourse to an average, which, for the temporary teeth, may be stated as follows, the teeth of the lower jaw preceding those of the upper by a short interval:— 7th month, two middle incisors. 18th month, canine. 9th month, two lateral incisors. 24th month, two last molares. 12th month, first molares. * Eruptive stage of dentition, a. Mucous membrane. J. Tooth, c, c. Mucous membrane, previously the boundary of the follicle and sacculus, prolonged to the root of the tooth, d. Sacculus of the permanent tooth, e, e. Opercula, closing over the pulp of the permanent tooth so as to form a sacculus. f. Pulp of the permanent tooth, g. Gubernaculum dentis, resulting from the closure of the elongated neck of the pouch of the secondary dental groove, h. Opening of escape for the permanent tooth when completed.