395 CEREBRAL AND CEREBELLAR VEINS. the vertex of the head, and descends behind the ear to join the external jugular vein near its origin. It receives in its course the veins of the external ear and the siylo-mastoid vein. The Occipital vein commencing posteriorly in the plexus of the vertex of the head, follows the direction of the occipital artery, and passing deeply beneath the muscles of the back part of the neck, terminates in the external or internal jugular vein. This vein communicates with the lateral sinus by means of a large branch which passes through the mastoid foramen, the mastoid vein. VEINS OP THE DIPLOE. The diploe' of the bones of the head is furnished in the adult with irregular sinuses (venos diploeticoz), which are formed by a continu- ation of the internal coat of the veins into the osseous canals in which they are lodged. At the middle period of life these sinuses are confined to separate bones ; but in old age, after the ossification of the sutures, they may be traced from one bone to the next. They receive their blood from the capillaries supplying the cellular structure of the diploe, and terminate externally in the veins of the pericranium, internally, in the veins and sinuses of the dura mater ; they are separated from the bony walls of the canals by a thin layer of medulla. Breschet describes four of these diploetic veins, namely, frontalis, temporalis anterior, temporalis posterior, and occipitalis. The diploetica frontalis, the smallest of the four, escapes from the frontal bone at the supraorbital notch, and opens into the supra- orbital vein. The temporalis anterior also collects the blood from the frontal bone, and terminates either in the deep temporal veins or in the cavernous sinus. The temporalis posterior commences in the parietal bone, and opens into the lateral sinus, sometimes sending a branch outwards to the veins of the scalp. The occipi- talis, the largest of the four, originates in the occipital bone, and terminates in the occipital sinus, or externally in the occipital vein. CEREBRAL AND CEREBELLAR VEINS. The cerebral veins are remarkable for the absence of valves, and for the extreme tenuity of their coats. They may be arranged into the superficial, and deep or ventricular veins. The Superficial cerebral veins are situated on the surface of the hemispheres lying in the grooves formed by the convexities of the convolutions. They are named from the position which they may chance to occupy on the surface of the brain, either superior or in- ferior, internal or external, anterior or posterior. The Superior cerebral veins, seven or eight in number at each side, pass obliquely forwards, and terminate in the superior longi- tudinal sinus, in the opposite direction to the course of the stream