CLITORIS.—HYMEN. 694 labiorum or fourchette, which is ruptured during parturition ; and immediately within this fold a small cavity, the fossa navicularis. The length of the perinasum is measured from the posterior com- missure to the margin of the anus, and is usually not more than an inch. The external surface of the labia is covered with hairs; the inner surface is smooth, and lined by mucous membrane, which contains a number of large sebiparous glands, and is covered by a thin cuticular epithelium. The use of the labia majora is to favour the expansion of the vulva during parturition ; for, in the passage of the head of the foetus, the labia are unfolded and com- pletely effaced. The Labia minora, or nymphce, are two smaller folds, situated within the labia majora. Superiorly they are divided into two processes, which surround the glans clitoridis, the superior fold forming the prceputium clitoridis, the inferior its frcenulum. In- feriorly, they diminish gradually in size, and are lost on the sides of the opening of the vagina. The nympbse consist of mucous membrane, covered by a thin cuticular epithelium. They are pro- vided with a number of sebiparous glands, and contain, in their interior, a plexus of blood-vessels. The Clitoris is a small elongated organ situated in front of the pubes, and supported by a suspensory ligament. It is formed by a small body, analogous to the corpus cavernosum penis, and, like it, arises from the ramus of the os pubis and ischium at each side by two crura. At the extremity of the clitoris is a small accumulation of erectile tissue which is highly sensitive, and is termed the glans. The corpus cavernosum clitoridis, like that of the penis, is composed of erectile tissue enclosed in a dense layer of fibrous membrane, and is susceptible of erection. Like the penis, also, it is provided with two small muscles, the erectores clitoridis. At about an inch behind the clitoris is the entrance of the vagina, an elliptical opening, marked by a prominent margin. The en- trance to the vagina is closed in the virgin by a duplicature of mucous membrane of a semilunar form, which is stretched across the opening; this is the hymen. Sometimes the membrane forms a complete septum, and gives rise to inconvenience by preventing the escape of the menstrual effusion. It is then called an imper- forate hymen. The hymen must not be considered a necessary accompaniment of virginity, for its existence is uncertain. When present, it assumes a variety of appearances : it may be a mem- branous fringe, with a round opening in the centre; or a semilunar fold, leaving an opening in front; or a transverse septum, having an opening both in front and behind; or a vertical band with an opening at each side. The rupture of the hymen, or its rudimentary existence, gives rise to the appearance of a fringe of papillae around the opening of the vagina ; these are called carunculce myrtiformes.