LACHRYMAL NERVE. 481 of the middle line of the forehead. It communicates with the infra- trochlear branch of the nasal nerve. The Lachrymal nerve, the smallest of the three branches of the ophthalmic, enters the orbit on the outer side of the frontal, but enclosed in a separate sheath of dura mater ; and passes forward, * Nerves of the orbit seen from the outer side; after Arnold. 1. Section of frontal bone; immediately behind the cipher is the frontal sinus, and in front, the integument. 2. Superior maxillary bone; the section in front of the cipher exhibits the maxillary sinus. 3. Part of sphenoid bone. 4. Levator palpebral and superior rectus muscle. 5. Superior oblique muscle. 6. Infe- rior oblique. 7. Ocular half of the external rectus drawn forwards. 8. Orbital half of the external rectus turned downwards. On this muscle the sixth nerve is seen dividing into branches. 9. Inferior rectus. 10. Optic nerve. 11. In- ternal carotid artery emerging from the cavernous sinus. 12. Ophthalmic artery. 13. Third nerve. 14. Branch of the third nerve fco the inferior oblique muscle. Between this and the sixth nerve (8) is seen the branch which sup- plies the inferior rectus; its branch to the ophthalmic ganglion is seen pro- ceeding from the upper side of the trunk of the nerve, at the bottom of the orbit. 15. Fourth nerve. 16. Trunk of the fifth nerve. 17. Casserian gan- glion. 18. Ophthalmic nerve. 19. Superior maxillary nerve. 20. Inferior maxillary nerve. 211 Frontal nerve. 22. Its division into branches to supply the integument of the forehead. 23. Lachrymal nerve. 24. Nasal nerve ; the small nerve seen in the bifurcation of the nasal and frontal, is one of the branches of the upper division of the third nerve. 25. Nasal nerve passing over the internal rectus muscle to the anterior ethmoidal foramen. 26. Infra- trochlear nerve. 27. A long ciliary branch of the nasal; another long ciliary branch is seen proceeding from the lower aspect of the nerve. 28. Long root of the ophthalmic ganglion, proceeding from the nasal nerve, and receiving the sympathetic root which joins it at an acute angle. 29. Ophthalmic gan- glion, giving off from its fore-part, the short ciliary nerves. 30. Globe of the eye. I I