493 SPINAL NERVES. be traced to its origin, it will be found to be composed of a branch from the hypoglossal, and one from the first and second cervical nerve ; occasionally it receives also a filament from the pneumo- gastric. The Thyro-hyoidean nerve is a small branch, distributed to the thyro-hyoideus muscle. It is given off by the trunk of the hypo- glossal near the posterior border of the hyo-glossus, and descends obliquely over the great cornu of the os hyoides. The Muscular branches are given off where the nerve is covered in by the mylo-hyoideus muscle, and rests on the hyo-glossus; several large branches take their course across the fibres of the genio-hyo-glossus to reach the substance of the tongue. Moreover, on the hyo-glossus muscle, the branches of the hypoglossal nerve communicate with those of the gustatory nerve. SPINAL NERVES. There are thirty-one pairs of spinal nerves, each arising by two roots, an anterior or motor root, and a posterior or sensitive root. The anterior roots pro- ceed from the anterior late- ral sulcus, which marks the division of the anterior from the middle column of the spinal cord, and gradu- ally approach towards the anterior median fissure as they descend. The posterior roots, more regular than the anterior, proceed from the posterior lateral sulcus ; they are larger, and the filaments of origin more numerous than those of the anterior roots ; and in the intervertebral * Part of the cervical portion of trie spinal cord, viewed on its posterior aspect; showing its membranes and the posterior roots of the spinal nerves. 1, 1. Posterior median fissure. 2, 2. Posterior roots of the cervical nerves; on the opposite side the corresponding roots are cut through near their origin. 3, 3. Membrana dentata. 4. Nervus accessorius, ascending between the pos- terior roots and membrana dentata; on the opposite side this nerve has been removed. 5,5. Dura mater. 6, 6. Openings in the dura mater for the passage of the roots of the nerve. 7, 7. Ganglia on the posterior roots of the spinal nerves. 8. Anterior roots of the spinal nerves. The posterior roots have been cut away in order to show each anterior root proceeding to join the nerve beyond the ganglion.