576 APPENDAGES OF THE SKIN. plexus the primitive fibres pass off to their distribution as loops, in the papillae. In the less sensitive parts of the skin the loops are simple and more or less acute in their bend, in conformity with the figure of the papillae. In the sensitive parts, and especially in the tactile papillae of the pulps of the fingers, there are two loops, which are, moreover, associated with a peculiar body embedded in the substance of the papilla, the corpusculum tactics of "Wagner. APPENDAGES OP THE SKIN. The appendages of the skin are the nails, hairs, sebiparous glands, and perspiratory glands and ducts. The Nails are horny appendages of the skin, identical in forma- tion with the epidermis, of which they are a part. A nail is convex on its external surface, concave within, and implanted by means of a thin margin or root in a fold of the derma, which is nearly two lines in depth, and acts the part of a follicle to the nail. At the bottom of the groove of the follicle are a number of filiform papillae, which produce the margin of the root, and, by the successive forma- tion of new cells, push the nail onwards in its growth. The con- cave surface of the nail is in contact with the derma, and the latter is covered by papillae, which perform the double office of retaining the nail in its place, and giving it increased thickness by the addi- tion of newly-formed cells to its under surface. It is this constant change occurring in the under surface of the nail, co-operating with the continual formation taking place along the margin of the root, which ensures the growth of the nail in the proper direction. The nail derives a peculiarity of appearance from the disposition and form of the papillae on the ungual surface of the derma (matrix). Thus, beneath the root, and for a short distance onwards towards its middle, the derma is covered by papillae which are more minute, and consequently less vascular than the papillae somewhat farther on. This patch of papillae is bounded by a semilunar line, and that part of the nail covering it being lighter in colour than the rest, has been termed lunula. Beyond the lunula the papillae are raised into longitudinal plaits, which are exceedingly vascular, and give a deeper tint of redness to the nail. These plait-like papillae of the derma are well calculated by their form to offer an extensive surface both for the adhesion and formation of the nail. The granules and cells are developed on every part of their surface, both in the grooves between the plaits and on their sides, and a horny lamina is formed between each pair of plaits. When the under surface of a nail is examined, these longitudinal laminae, corresponding with the longi- tudinal papillae of the ungual portion of the derma, are distinctly apparent, and if the nail be forcibly detached, the laminae may be seen in the act of parting from the grooves of the papillae. It is this structure that gives rise to the ribbed appearance of the nail. The papillary substance of the derma which produces the nail is con- tinuous around the circumference of the attached part of that organ