NASAL BONES. 42 thin, and somewhat curled inwards, hence it is named the superior turbinated bone (concha superior). Below the meatus is the convex surface of another thin plate, which is curled outwards, and forms the lower border of the mass, the middle turbinated bone (concha media). The external surface is quadrilateral and smooth; hence it is named os planum, and, from its thinness, lamina papyracea ; it enters into the formation of the inner wall of the orbit. The superior border is uneven and cellular, the cells being com- pleted by the edges of the ethmoidal fissure of the frontal bone. This border is crossed by two grooves, sometimes complete canals, opening into the orbit by the anterior and posterior ethmoidal foramen. The inferior border is formed internally by the lower border of the middle turbinated bone, and externally by a concave irregular fossa, the upper boundary of the middle meatus. The anterior border presents a number of incomplete cells, which are closed by the superior maxillary and lachrymal bone ; the posterior border is irregularly cellular, to articulate with the sphenoid and palate bone. The lateral masses are composed of cells, divided by a thin par- tition into anterior and posterior ethmoidal cells. The anterior, the most numerous, communicate with the frontal sinuses, and open by means of an irregular and incomplete tubular canal, the infundi- bulum, into the middle meatus. The posterior cells, fewer in number, open into the superior meatus. Development.—By three centres : one for each lateral mass, and one for the perpendicular lamella. Ossification commences in the lateral masses at about the beginning of the fifth month, appearing first in the os planum, and then in the spongy bones. During the latter half of the first year after birth, the central lamella and lamina cribrosa begin to ossify, and are united to the lateral masses by the beginning of the second year. The cells of the ethmoid are developed in the course of the fourth and fifth year. Articulations.—With thirteen bones : two of the cranium, froutal and sphenoid; and eleven of the face, viz., nasal, superior maxil- lary, lachrymal, palate, inferior turbinated, and vomer. No muscles are attached to this bone. BONES OF THE PACE. The face is composed of fourteen bones ; namely, Two nasal, Two palate, Two superior maxillary, Two inferior turbinated, Two lachrymal, Vomer, Two malar, Inferior maxillary. Nasal Bones.—The nasal are two small quadrangular bones, forming by their union the bridge and base of the nose. On the upper surface they are convex, and pierced by a foramen for a small