172 MUSCLES OF THE HEAD AND FACE. 6. Inferior labial group. (Orbicularis oris),* Depressor labii inferioris, Depressor anguli oris, Risorius Santorini, Levator labii inferioris. Temporalis, Buccinator, 7. Maxillary group. Masseter, Pterygoideus externus, Pterygoideus internus. 8. Auricular group. Attollens aurem, Attrahens aurem, Retrahens aurem. 1. Cranial Group.—Occipito-frontalis. Dissection.—The occipito-frontalis is to be dissected by making a longitudinal incision along the vertex of the head, from the tubercle on the occipital bone to the root of the nose ; and a second incision along the forehead and around the side of the head, to join the two extremities of the preceding. Dissect the integument and superficial fascia carefully outwards, beginning at the anterior angle of the flap, where the muscular fibres are thickest, and remove it altogether. This dissection requires care ; for the muscle is very thin, and without attention would be raised with the integument. There is no deep fascia on the face or head, nor is it required ; for here the muscles are closely applied against the bones, upon which they depend for support, whilst in the extremities the sup- port is derived from the dense layer of fascia by which they are invested, and which forms for each muscle a distinct sheath. The Occipito-frontalis (epicranius) is a broad musculo-apbneu- rotic layer, which covers the whole side of the vertex of the skull, from the occiput to the eyebrow. It arises by tendinous fibres from the outer two-thirds of the superior curved line of the occipital, and from the mastoid portion of the temporal bone. Its insertion takes place by means of the blending of the fibres of its anterior portion with those of the orbicularis palpebrarum, corrugator supercilii, levator labii superioris alseque nasi, and pyramidalis nasi. The muscle is fleshy in front over the frontal bone (frontalis) and behind over the occipital (occipitalis), the two portions being connected by a broad aponeurosis. The two muscles, together with their apo- neurosis, cover the whole vertex of the skull, hence their designation galea capitis ; they are loosely adherent to the pericranium, but closely to the integument, particularly on the forehead. At the sides of the head the aponeurosis (galea aponeurotica) is attached to the root of the mastoid process and processus auditorius, and, becoming thin over the temporal fascia, is connected with the zygoma, malar bone, and external boundary of the orbit. Relations.—This muscle is in relation by its external surface * The orbicularis oris, from encircling the mouth, belongs necessarily to both the superior and inferio^labial region; it is therefore enclosed within parentheses.