10 VERTEBRAL COLUMN. The vertebral column is the first and only rudiment of internal skeleton in the lower Vertebrata, and constitutes the type of that great division of the animal kingdom. It is also the first developed portion of the skeleton in man, and the centre around which all the other parts are produced. In its earliest formation it is a simple cartilaginous cylinder, surrounding and protecting the primitive trace of the nervous system ; but, as it advances in growth and or- ganization, it becomes divided into distinct pieces, which constitute vertebrce. The vertebrae admit of a division into true and false. The true vertebrae are twenty-four in number, and are classed, according to the three regions of the trunk which they occupy, into cervical, dorsal, and lumbar. The false vertebrae consist of nine pieces united into two bones, the sacrum and coccyx. The arrangement of the vertebrae may be better comprehended by means of the accompanying table :— Cliaracters of a Vertebra.—A vertebra consists of a body, two laminae, a spinous process, two transverse processes, and four arti- cular processes. The body is the solid part of the vertebra ; and, by its articulation with adjoining vertebrae, gives strength and support to the trunk. It is flattened above and below, convex in front, and slightly concave behind. Its anterior surface is constricted around the middle, and pierced by numerous small openings, which give pas- sage to nutritious vessels. On its posterior surface is a single irre- gular opening, or several, for the exit of the venae basis vertebrae. The lamince commence upon the sides of the posterior part of the body of the vertebra by two pedicles ; they then expand ; and, arch- ing backwards, enclose a foramen, which serves for the protection of the spinal cord. The upper and lower border of the laminae are rough for the attachment of the ligamenta subflava. The concavities above and below the pedicles are the intervertebral notches. The spinous process stands backwards from the angle of union of the laminae. It is the succession of these projecting processes along the middle line of the back, that has given rise to the common designa- tion of the vertebral column, the spine. The use of the spinous pro- cess is for the attachment of muscles. The transverse processes pro- ject one at each side from the laminae of the vertebra ; they also are intended for the attachment of muscles. The articular processes, True vertebrae 24 7 Cervical, 12 Dorsal, 5 Lumbar. False vertebrae \ 5 Sacrum, 9 | 4 Coccyx.