174 MUSCLES OP THE PACE. section onwards to the tip of the nose, and thence downwards to the margin of the upper lip ; then carry an incision along the margin of the lip to the angle of the mouth, and transversely across the face to the angle of the lower-jaw. Lastly, divide the integument in front of the external ear upwards to the transverse incision which was made for exposing the occipito-frontalis. Dissect the integu- ment and superficial fascia carefully from the whole of the region included by these incisions, and the present and two following' groups of muscles will be brought into view. The Orbicularis palpebrarum is a sphincter muscle, surround- ing the orbit and eyelids, and consists of two portions, external and internal. The external or orbital portion arises from a short tendon, tendo palpebrarum (tendo oculi), situated at the inner angle of the eye, from the nasal process of the superior maxillary and angular process of the frontal bone ; it encircles the orbit, and is inserted into the inner border of the orbit and lower border of the tendo palpebrarum, some of its fibres being continuous with the upper segment. The. internal portion (palpebralis) forms a curved plane of fibres on the eyelids, thinner and paler than the orbital portion ; externally these fibres are attached to the external palpebral ligament and border of the orbit, some being continuous with the orbital portion ; internally they are attached to the borders of the lacus lachrymalis and tendo palpebrarum. The borders of the palpebralis nearest the edges of the lids are thicker than the rest, and termed ciliaris. . Mr. Haynes Walton* remarks that the ciliaris is redder than the rest of the palpebralis, and continuous with the tensor tarsi; he conceives it to be the active cause in the production of entropium. The tendo palpebrarum (tendo oculi), about two lines in length and one in breadth, is attached by one end to the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone, close to the edge of the orbit; the other end bifurcates to be inserted into the inner extremities of the tarsal cartilages ; from its inner side is given off a process which spreads over the lachrymal sac, and is attached to the crest of the lachrymal bone ; this is the reflected aponeurosis of the tendo palpebrarum, and serves to protect the lachrymal sac. Relations.—By its superficial surf ace it is closely adherent to the integument, from which it is separated on the eyelids by a loose cellular tissue. By its deep surface it lies in contact, above, with the upper border of the orbit, corrugator supercilii muscle, frontal and supraorbital vessels, and supraorbital nerve ; below, with the lachrymal sac, levator labii superioris alaaque nasi, levator labii superioris proprius, zygomaticus major and minor muscles, and malar bone ; externally, with the temporal fascia. On the eyelids tendon is seen passing through its aponeurotic pulley. 23. Stylo-hyoid muscle • pierced by the posterior belly of the digastricus. 24. Mylo-hyoideus. 25. Upper part of the sterno-raastoid. 26. Upper part of the trapezius. The muscle between 25 and 26 is the splenius. * Medical Times and Gazette. May, 1852.