350 BRACHIAL ARTERY. The Brachial artery (brachials ; humeraria) passes down the inner side of the arm, from the lower border of the tendons of the latissimus dorsi and teres major, to a little below the bend of the elbow, where it divides into the radial and ulnar artery. Relations.—In its course downwards, it rests on the triceps, coraco-brachialis, brachialis anticus, and tendon of the biceps. To its inner side is the internal cutaneous and ulnar nerve ; to the outer side, the coraco-brachialis and biceps ; in front it has the basilic vein, and is crossed by the median nerve. Its relations, within its sheath, are the vense comites. Plan of the Relations of the Brachial Artery. In Front. Basilic vein, Deep fascia, Median nerve. Inner Side. Internal cutaneous nerve, Ulnar nerve. Brachial Artery. Outer Side. Coraco-brachialis, Biceps. Behind. Short head of triceps, Coraco-brachialis, Brachialis anticus, Tendon of biceps. The branches of the brachial artery are, the Superior profunda, Inferior profunda, Anastomotica magna, Muscular and Nutrient. The Superior profunda (brachialis profunda ; profunda humeri) arises opposite the lower border of the tendon of the latissimus dorsi, and winds around the humerus, between the triceps and the bone, to the space between the brachialis anticus and supinator longus, where it inosculates with the radial recurrent artery. It accom- panies the musculo-spiral nerve. In its course it gives off the posterior articular artery, which descends to the elbow-joint, and a more superficial branch, which descends by the side of the external intermuscular septum and inosculates with the interosseous articular artery. The inferior muscular branches of the superior profunda inosculate with the inferior profunda, anastomotica magna, and ulnar recurrent. The Inferior profunda (collateralis ulnaris superior) arises from about the middle of the brachial artery, and descends with the ulnar nerve to the space between the inner condyle and olecranon, where it inosculates with the posterior ulnar recurrent. In its course it pierces the intermuscular septum.