FORNIX. 456 or foramen commune antcrius. The choroid plexuses communicate, and the veins of the corpora striata pass through this opening. The lateral thin edges of the fornix are continuous posteriorly with the concave border of the hippocampus major at each side, and form the narrow white band called corpus fimbriatum (posterior crus of the fornix). In the middle line the fornix is continuous Fij. 184.* with the corpus callosum, and at each side with the hippocampus major and minor. On the under surface of the fornix towards its * Mesial surface of a longitudinal section of the brain. The incision has been carried along: the middle line; between the t wo hemispheres of the cere- brum, and through the middle of the cerebellum and medulla oblongata. 1. Inner surface of left hemisphere. 2. Divided surface of cerebellum, show- in.:? arbor vita>. 3. Medulla oblongata at junction with the spinal cord. 4. Corpus callosum curving downwards in front to terminate at the base of the brain, and rounded behind to become continuous with, 5, fornix. 6. Crus of the fornix descending to 7, corpus albicans. 8. Septum lucidum. 9.^Velum interpositum, communicating with the pia mater of the convolutions through the fissure of Bichat. 10. Section of middle commissure situated in the third ventricle. 11. Section of anterior commissure. 12. Section of posterior com- missure; the commissure is somewhat above and to the left of the figure. The interspace between 10 and 11 is the foramen commune anteiius, in which the crus of the fornix (6) is situated. The interspace between 10 and 12 is the foramen commune posterius. 13. Corpora quadrigemina, upon which is seen resting the pineal gland, 14. 15. Iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculum, or aqueduct of Sylvius. 16. Fourth ventricle. 17. Pons Varolii, through which are seen passing the fibres of the corpora pyramidalia. 18. Crus cerebri of left side, with the third nerve arising from it. 19. Tuber cinereum, from which projects the infundibulum, having the pituitary gland appended to its extre- mity. 20. One of the optic nerves. 21. The left olfactory nerve terminating anteriorly in a rounded bulb.