MUSCLES OF THE NEGK. 204 the sterno-mastoid, omohyoid, supra-scapular and transversa colli artery. The Scalenus posticus, of small size, arises by a thin tendon from the second rib between its tubercle and angle, and divides superiorly into two or three tendons which are inserted into the posterior tubercles of the two or three lower cervical vertebras. The scalenus posticus was formerly described with the scalenus medius as one muscle ; while Albinus and Soemmering'make five scaleni. Relations.—hi front with the scalenus medius ; behind with the two upper levatores costaruin, and cervicalis ascendens. The Long-us colli (praedorso-atloideus) is a long and flat muscle, consisting of two portions. The upper arises from the anterior tubercle of the atlas, and is inserted into the transverse processes of the third, fourth, and fifth cervical vertebrae. The lower portion arises from the bodies of the second, third, and fourth, and trans- verse processes of the fifth and sixth, and passes down the neck to be inserted into the bodies of the three lower cervical and three upper dorsal vertebra?. "We may thus arrange these attachments in a tabular form :— Upper ) ^tlag j 3rd, 4th, and 5th transverse portion. \ ( processes. Lower ) ^nc^' ^r(^ an<^ bodies ( 3 lower cervical vertebrae, ,. > 5th and 6th transverse < bodies, * ' ) processes * . (3 upper dorsal, bodies. In general terms, the muscle is attached to the bodies and trans- verse processes of the six superior cervical vertebrae above, and to the bodies of the last three cervical and first three dorsal below. Relations.—By its anterior surface with the pharynx, oeso- phagus ; sheath of the common carotid, internal jugular vein and pneumogastric nerve ; sympathetic nerve, inferior laryngeal nerve, and inferior thyroid artery. By its 'posterior surface it rests on the cervical and upper dorsal vertebrae. Transversalis colli anterior. *—Under this name Retzius has de- scribed a small muscle (rudimentary in man but large and important in mammiferous animals) situated on the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae between the rectus anticus major and scalenus anticus. It arises by small tendinous slips from the anterior tubercles of the fourth, fifth, and sixth cer- vical vertebrae ; and is inserted into the corresponding tubercles of the second and third vertebrae, and sometimes into the transverse process of the atlas. Actions.—The rectus anticus major and minor preserve the equi- librium of the head upon the atlas ; and acting with the longus * Oken's Isis, 1845. Transactions of the Scandinavian Naturalists, 1842.