ANATOMY OP THE TEETH. 67 TEETH. Man is provided with two successions of teeth : the first are the teeth of childhood ; they are called temporary, deciduous, or milk teeth ; the second continue until old age, and are named, per- manent. The permanent teeth are thirty-two in number, sixteen in each jaw ; they are divisible into four classes: incisors, of which there are four in each jaw, two central, and two lateral; canine, two above and two below ; bicuspid, four above and four below ; and molars, six above and six below. The temporary teeth are twenty in number : eight incisors, four canine, and eight molars. The temporary molars have four tubercles, and are succeeded by the permanent bicuspides, which have only two tubercles. Each tooth is divisible into a crown, which is the part apparent above the gum ; a constricted portion around the base of the crown, the neck; and;a root or fang, which is contained within the alve- olus. The root is invested by periosteum, which is a bond of con- nexion between it and the alveolus. The incisor teeth (cutting teeth) are named from presenting a sharp and cutting edge, formed at the expense of the posterior sur- face. The crown is flattened from before backwards, being some- what convex in front and concave behind ; the neck is much con- stricted, and the root compressed from side to side ; at its apex is a small opening for the passage of the nerve and artery of the tooth. The canine teeth (cuspidati) follow the incisors in order from be- fore backwards ; two are , situated in the upper jaw, one at each side, and two in the lower. The crown is larger than that of the incisors, convex before, concave behind, and tapering to a blunted point. The root is longer than that of all the other teeth, com- pressed at each side, and marked by a slight groove. The bicuspid teeth (bicuspidati, small molars), two at each side . in each jaw, follow the canine, and are intermediate in size between them .and the molars. The crown is compressed from before back- wards, and surmounted by two tubercles, one internal, the other /. Middle turbinated bone, g, g. Middle meatus, h. A probe passed into the infundibular canal leading from the frontal sinuses and anterior ethmoidal cells; the triangular aperture immediately above the letter is the opening of the maxillary sinus, i. Inferior turbinated bone. Tc, 1c. Inferior meatus. I, I. A probe passed up the nasal duct, showing the direction of that canal. The anterior letters g, Tc, are placed on the superior maxillary bone, the posterior on the palate bone. m. Internal pterygoid plate, n. Its hamular process, o. External pterygoid plate, p. Eoot of the pterygoid processes, q. Posterior palatine foramina, r. Eoof of the left orbit, s. Optic foramen, t. Groove for the last turn of the internal carotid artery converted into a foramen by the development of an osseous communication between the anterior and middle clinoid process, v. Sella turcica, z. Posterior clinoid process.