SUPERIOE MAXILLARY BONES. 44 continuous externally with the rough articular surface of the malar process, and internally with a thick ascending plate, the nasal pro- cess. Towards the middle line of the face the external surface is bounded by the concave border of the opening of the nose, this border is projected forwards at its inferior termination into a sharp process, forming, with a similar process of the opposite bone, the nasal spine. Beneath the jpig^ 29.* nasal spine, and above the two superior incisor teeth, is a slight depression, the in- cisive, or myrtiform fossa, which gives origin to the depressor labii superioris alseque nasi muscle. The myrtiform fossa is divided from the canine fossa by a perpendicular ridge, corre- sponding with the root of the canine tooth. The in- ferior boundary of the facial surface is the alveolar pro- cess which contains the teeth of the upper jaw ; and the facial is separated from the zygomatic surface by a strong projecting eminence, the ma- lar process. The internal, or nasal sur- face, presents a large irregu- lar opening, leading into the antrum maxillare ; this opening is nearly closed in the articulated skull by the ethmoid, palate, lachrymal, and inferior turbinated bone. The cavity of the antrum surface. 4. Infraorbital foramen, situated immediately below the cipher. 5. Infraorbital canal, leading to the infraorbital foramen. 6. Inferior border of the orbit. 7. Malar process. 8. Nasal process. 9. Concavity forming the lateral boundary of the anterior nares. 10. Nasal spine. 11. Incisive, or myrtiform fossa. 12. Alveolar process. 13. The internal border of the orbital surface, which articulates with the ethmoid and palate bone. 14. Concavity which articulates with the lachrymal bone, and forms the commencement of the nasal duct. 15. Crista nasalis of the palate process, i. Two incisor teeth. c. Canine, b. Two bicuspidati. m. Three molares. * Eight superior maxillary bone; internal surface. 1. Antrum. 2. Nasal process. 3. Crista turbinalis superior. 4. Depression corresponding with the middle meatus. 5. Crista turbinalis inferior. 6,6. Inferior meatus. 7. Sulcus lachrymalis. 8. Notch for articulation with the lachrymal bone. 9. Superior border of the bone, in which are seen three ethmoidal cells. 10, 10. Posterior border; the lower 10 marks the articulating surface for the palate bone. 11, 11. Groove of the posterior palatine canal. 12. Anterior border of the bone. 13, 13. Palate process. 14. Crista nasalis. 15. Nasal spine. 16. An- terior palatine canal. 17. Situation of the incisive foramen. 18,18. Alveolar process.