75 THORAX AND UPPER EXTREMITY. The periods for the permanent teeth are,—• 6\ year, first molares. 10th year, second bicuspides. 7th year, two middle incisors. 11th to 12th year, canine. 8th year, two lateral incisors. 12th to 13th year, second molares. 9th year, first bicuspides. 17th to 21st year, last molares. OS HTOIDES. The os hyoides forms the second arch developed from the cranium, gives support to the tongue, and attachment to numerous muscles in the neck. It is named from its resemblance to the Greek letter v, and consists of a central portion or body, of two larger cornua, which project backwards from the body ; and two lesser cornua, which ascend from the angle of union between the body and the greater cornua. The body is somewhat quadrilateral, rough and convex on its an- tero-superior surface, by which it gives attachment to muscles; con- cave and smooth on the postero-in- ferior surface, by which it lies in contact with the thyro-hyoidean membrane. The greater cornua are flattened from above downwards, and terminated posteriorly by a ■tubercle; and the lesser cornua, conical in form, give attachment to the stylo-hyoid ligaments. In early age and in the adult, the cornua are connected with the body by cartilaginous surfaces and ligamen- tous fibres ; in old age they become united by bone. Development.—By five centres, one for the body, and one for each cornu. Ossification commences in the greater cornua during the last month of foetal life, and in the lesser cornua and body soon after birth. Attachment of Muscles.—To eleven pairs: sterno-hyoid, thyro- hyoid, omo-hyoid, pulley of the digastricus, stylo-hyoid, mylo- hyoid, genio-hyoid, genio-hyo-glossus, hyo-glossus, lingualis, and middle constrictor of the pharynx. It also gives attachment to the stylo-hyoid, thyro-hyoid, and hyo-epiglottic ligaments, and to the thyro-hyoidean membrane. THORAX AND UPPER EXTREMITY. The bones of the thorax are the sternum and ribs ; and those of the upper extremity, the clavicle, scapula, humerus, ulna and radius, bones of the carpus, metacarpus, and phalanges. * The os hyoides seen from before. 1. Antero-superior, or convex side of the body. 2. Great cornu of the left side. 3. Lesser cornu of the same side. The cornua were ossified to the body of the bone in the specimen from which this figure was drawn.