579 SUDORIFEROUS DUCTS. which open into a common efferent duct. The latter ascends from the gland through the derma and epidermis, and terminates on the surface by a funnel-shaped and oblique aperture or pore. The efferent duct presents some variety in its course upwards ; within the derma it is straight, or curved and serpentine, and if the epidermis be thin, proceeds more or less directly to the excreting pore. Sometimes it is spirally curved within the derma, and having passed the latter, is regularly and beautifully spiral in its passage through the epi- dermis, the last turn forming an oblique and valvular opening on the surface. The spiral course of the duct is especially remarkable in the thick epidermis of the palm of the hand and sole of the foot. On those parts of the skin where the papillae are irregularly dis- tributed, the efferent ducts of the sudoriparous glands open on the surface also irregularly, while on the palmar and plantar surfaces of the hands and feet, the pores are situated at regular distances along the ridges, at points corresponding with the intervals of the small, square-shaped clumps of papillae. Indeed, the apertures of the pores, seen on the surface of the epidermal ridges, give rise to the appearance of small transverse furrows, which intersect the ridges from point to point. The efferent duct and the glandular vesicles and tubuli of the sudoriparous gland are lined by an inflection of the epidermis. This inflection is thick and infunclibuliform in the upper stratum of the derma, but soon becomes uniform and soft. The infundibuliform projection is drawn out from the duct when the epidermis is re- moved, and may be perceived on the under surface of the latter as a nipple-shaped cone. A good view of the sudoriferous ducts is obtained by gently separating the epidermis of a portion of decom- posing skin ; or they may be better seen by scalding a piece of skin, and then withdrawing the epidermis from the derma. In both cases it is the lining sheath of epidermis, in other words, the epithelium, which is drawn out from the duct. p p 2