MUSCLES OF THE NECK. 200 pterygoid plate, from the spinous process of the sphenoid hone, and from the anterior aspect of the Eustachian tube. It lies between the internal pterygoid muscle and internal pterygoid plate, and winding around the hamular process of the latter, expands into a tendinous aponeurosis, which is inserted into the transverse ridge on the horizontal portion of the palate bone, and at the middle line is continuous with the aponeurosis of the opposite muscle. Relations. —By its external surface with the internal pterygoid muscle ; by its internal surface with the levator palati, internal pterygoid plate, and superior constrictor. In the soft palate, its tendinous expansion is placed in front of the other muscles, and in contact with the mucous membrane. The Azygos uvuLiB is a pair of small muscles situated along the mid line of the soft palate. They arise from the spine of the palate bone, and are inserted into the uvula. By their anterior surface they are in relation with the levatores palati, palato-glossi and ante- rior fasciculus of the palato- Fi9-114* pharyngei; posteriorly they , have the thin posterior fasci- / cuius of the palato-pharyngei and the mucous membrane. The two next muscles are brought into view by raising the mucous membrane from off the pillars of the soft pa- late at each side. The Palato-glosstjs (con- strictor isthmi faucium) is a small fasciculus of fibres, which arises in the soft palate as a radiated expansion con- tinuous with its fellow of the opposite side ; and descends to be inserted into the side of * Muscles of the soft palate. 1. Transverse section through the middle of the base of the skull, dividing the basilar process of the occipital bone in the middle line, and the petrous portion of the temporal bone at each side. 2. The vomer covered by mucous membrane and separating the two posterior nares. 3, 3. Eustachian tubes. 4. Levator palati muscle, left side; the right has been removed. 5. Hamular process of the internal pterygoid plate of the left side, around which the aponeurosis of the tensor palati is seen turning. 6. Pterygo-maxillary ligament. 7. Superior constrictor, left side, turned aside. 8. Azygos uvulae. 9. Internal pterygoid plate. 10. External pterygoid plate. 11. Tensor palati muscle. 12. Its aponeurosis expanding in the structure of the soft palate. 13. External pterygoid muscle. 14. The attachments of two pairs of muscles cut short: the superior pair belong to the genio-hyo-g!ossi; the inferior, to the genio-hyoidei. 15. Attachment of the mylo-hyoideus of one side and part of the opposite. 16. Anterior attachment of the digastric muscles. 17. Depression of the lower jaw corresponding with the submaxil- lary gland. The depression above the mylo-hyoideus, on which the cipher 15 rests, corresponds with the situation of the sublingual gland.