STRUCTURE OF THE VEINS. 392 layers and alternating with the circular layers composed of smooth muscular fibres intermingled with areolar tissue and fine elastic fibres. The number of layers constituting the middle coat varies, according to the size and thickness of the vessel, from five to ten ; and they are so disposed that the inner and outer layers are muscular, while the longitudinal elastic layers are more abundant towards the inner than the outer portion of the coat, and, although stratified, communicate with each other at different points so as to form one continuous whole. In the veins of the lower extremity the middle coat is thicker than elsewhere, and in certair of the veins of the lower limb, as the popliteal, profunda, and saphense, there exists an additional layer on the inner aspect of the middle coat, a layer composed of areolar tissue intermingled with fine elastic fibres and having a longitudinal fibrillation ; the longitudinal lamina of the middle coat. In tracing the veins downwards to those of the smallest size, the layers of areolar tissue mingled with fine elastic fibres are the first to disappear ; then the muscular element is re- duced to a single layer, while its cells are separated and scanty and finally cease; the elastic element consisting of a network of fine elastic fibres is continued further and becomes continuous with the coat of the capillaries. In that portion of the inferior cava which is embedded in the liver and in the larger hepatic veins, the middle coat is wanting and the external and internal coat are in contact. The Internal coat, stronger than that of arteries, is composed of an epithelium and an elastic membrane, between which is situated a striated nuclear lamella. The epithelium consists of nucleated cells, which are elongated in veins of large and medium size ; elliptic and almost round in the smallest veins, and cease altogether in the transitional veins. The elastic membrane is not homogeneous and fenestrated as in arteries, but composed of a closely areolated longi- tudinal network of coarse and fine elastic fibres. In the smallest veins this membrane is lost and its place supplied by a layer of homogeneous or sub-fibrous areolar tissue. The veins which open into the heart, have an external annular layer of muscular fibres similar to those of the heart and presenting the same anastomosing structure. They are met with on the superior and inferior vena cava and around the pulmonary veins. Smooth muscular fibres are found in the veins of the gravid uterus in great abundance and highly developed, in all the three coats ; while in other veins the muscular element is altogether absent, as in the' maternal portion of the placenta; the greater part of the veins of the cerebral substance and pia mater; the sinuses of the dura mater and of the bones ; the veins of the corpora cavernosa ; probably those of the spleen ; and the veins of the retina. These veins are simply composed of condensed areolar tissue more or less completely developed and lined by epithelium ; the sinuses of the dura mater have besides some fine elastic fibres.