OSSICULA AUDITUS. 560 middle, fibrous and muscular ; and, internal, mucous, derived from the mucous lining of the tympanum. The tympanum contains three small bones, ossicula auditHs, viz., the malleus, incus, and stapes. The Malleus (hammer) consists of a head, neck, handle (manu- brium), and two processes, long (processus gracilis), and short (processus brevis). The manubrium is connected with the mem- brana tympani by its whole length, extending below the central point of that membrane. It lies beneath the mucous layer of the membrane, and serves as a point of attachment to which the radi- ating fibres of the fibrous layer converge. The long process de- scends to a groove near the fissura Grlaseri, and gives attachment to the laxator tympani muscle. Into the short process is inserted the tendon of the tensor tympani; and the head of the bone articulates with the incus. The Incus (anvil) is named from an imagined resemblance to an anvil. It has also been likened to a bicuspid tooth, having one root longer than, and widely separated from, the other. It consists of two processes, united nearly at right angles, and at their junc- tion forming a flattened body, which articulates with the head of the malleus. The short process is attached to the margin of the opening of the mastoid cells by means of a ligament; the long process descends nearly parallel with the handle of the malleus, and curves inwards, near its termination. At its extremity is a small globular projec- tion, the os orbiculare, which in the foetus is a separate piece, but becomes anchylosed to the long process of the incus in the adult; this process articulates with the head of the stapes. The Stapes is shaped like a stirrup, to which it bears a close re- semblance. Its head articulates with the os orbiculare, and the two branches (crura) are connected by their extremities with a flat, oval-shaped plate, representing the foot of the stirrup. The foot of the stirrup is received into the fenestra ovalis, to the margin of which it is connected by means of a ligament; it is in contact, by its surface, with the membrana vestibuli, and is covered in by the mucous lining of the tympanum. The neck of the stapes gives attachment to the stapedius muscle. The ossicula auditus are retained in position and moved upon themselves by means of ligaments and muscles. The Ligaments are three in number ; the suspensory ligament of the malleus, which is attached by one extremity to the upper wall of the tympanum, and by the other to the head of the malleus ; the posterior ligament of the incus, a short and thick band, which serves to attach the extremity of the short process of that bone to the margin of the opening of the mastoid cells ; and the annular ligament which connects the margin of the foot of the stapes with the circumference of the fenestra ovalis. These ligaments have been described as muscles, by Tod, under the names of superior capitis mallei, obliquus incudis externus posterior, and musculus