GREAT ISCHIATIC NERVE. 522 gous to those of the male. The superior branch supplies the clitoris ; the inferior the vulva and perineum. The Lesser ischiatic nerve passes out of the pelvis through, the great sacro-ischiatic foramen below the pyriformis muscle, and continues its course downwards through the thigh to the lower part of the popliteal region, where it pierces the fascia and becomes sub- cutaneous. It then accompanies the external saphenous vein to the lower part of the leg, and communicates with the external saphenous nerve. The branches of the lesser ischiatic nerve are, muscular and cutaneous. The muscular or inferior gluteal are several large branches distributed to the gluteus maximus. The Cutaneous branches are divisible into external, internal, and middle. The external cutaneous branches are several filaments which turn around the lower border of the gluteus maximus, and are distributed to the integument over the hip and outer side of the thigh. The internal cutaneous branches are distributed to the in- tegument of the upper and inner part of the thigh. One of these larger than the rest, inferior pudendal, curves around the tuberosity of the ischium, pierces the fascia lata near the ramus of that bone, and, after communicating with one of the superficial perineal nerves, is distributed to the integument of the scrotum and penis. The middle cutaneous branches, two or three in number, are derived from the lesser ischiatic in its course down the thigh, and are dis- tributed to the integument. The Great ischiatic nerve is the largest nervous cord in the body; it is formed by the sacral plexus, or rather is a prolongation of the plexus, and at its exit from the great sacro-ischiatic foramen beneath the pyriformis muscle measures three-quarters of an inch, in breadth. It descends through the middle of the space between the trochanter major and tuberosity of the ischium, and along the posterior part of the thigh to its lower third, where it divides into two large terminal branches, internal and external popliteal. This division sometimes takes place at the plexus, and the two nerves descend side by side ; occasionally they are separated at their com- mencement by a part or by the whole of the pyriformis muscle. The nerve in its course down, the thigh rests on the gemellus supe- rior, tendon of the obturator internus, gemellus inferior, quadratus femoris, and adductor magnus, and is covered in by the gluteus maximus and biceps. The Branches of the great ischiatic nerve, previously to its division, are, muscular and articular. The Muscular branches are given off from the upper part of the nerve and supply both heads of the biceps, the semi-tendinosus, semi-membranosus, and adductor magnus. The Articular branch descends to the upper part of the external