SPHENOID BONE. 38 for the superior maxillary nerve; and still farther back in the base of the spinous process, the foramen ovale for the inferior maxillary nerve, arteria meningea parva, and nervus petrosus superficialis minor. Behind the foramen ovale, near the apex of the spinous process, is the foramen spinosum for the arteria me- ningea media. Upon the anteroinferior surface of the body of the sphenoid is a long flattened spine or crest, the superior part of which, crista sphenoidalis, articulates with the central lamella of the ethmoid, while the inferior part, longer and sharper, the rostrum sphenoidale, is intended to be inserted into the sheath formed by the upper border of the vomer. On either side of the crista sphenoidalis is an irregular opening leading into the sphenoidal cells. The sphe- noidal cells, absent in the young subject, are divided by a median septum which is continuous with the crista, and are partially closed by two thin plates of bone (frequently broken away) the sphenoidal spongy bones. On each side of the sphenoidal cells are the outlets of the optic foramina, sphenoidal fissures, and foramina rotunda ; the lesser and greater wings ; and, below, the pterygoid processes. At the under surface of the body are two thin plates of bone (pro- cessus vaginales) proceeding from the base of the pterygoid process at each side, and intended for articulation with the border of the vomer. On each of these plates, close to the root of the pterygoid process, is a groove (sometimes a canal) converted into a canal by * Anteroinferior view of the sphenoid bone. 1. Ethmoid spine. 2, The rostrnm. 3. Sphenoidal spongy bone, partly closing the left opening of the sphenoidal cells. 4. Lesser wing. 5. Foramen opticum, piercing the base of the lesser wing. 6. Sphenoidal fissure. 7. Foramen rotundum. 8. Orbital surface of the greater wing. 9. Its temporal surface. 10. The pterygoid ridge. 11. Pterygo-palatine canal. 12. Foramen of entrance of the Vidian canal. 13. Internal pterygoid plate. 14. Hamular process. 15. External pterygoid plate. 16. Foramen spinosum. 17. Foramen ovale. 18. Extremity of the spinous process of the sphenoid. V Fig. 25.*