EPIDERMIS OR CUTICLE. 573 Fig. 216* the characteristic parallel ridges and furrows which are met with on the hands and feet. The papillae in these little square clumps are for the most part uniform in size and length, but every here and there one papilla may be observed which is longer than the rest. The largest papillae of the derma are those which produce the nail ; in the dermal follicle of the nail they are long and filiform, while beneath its concave sur- face they form longitudinal and pa- rallel plications which extend for nearly the entire length of that organ. In structure the papilla is composed of homogeneous, nucleated, and fibrillated areolar tissue, bounded by a structure- less limitary membrane, and containing transverse elastic fibres with a capillary and nervous loop ; besides which, in some papillae, are certain peculiar bodies, called by Wagner corpuscula tactus. The Epidermis or cuticle (scarfskin) is a product of the derma, which it serves to envelope and defend. That surface of the epidermis which is exposed to the influence of the atmosphere and exterior sources of injury, is hard and horny in texture, while that which lies in con- tact with the papillary layer is soft and cellular. Hence the epider- mis, like the derma, is divisible into two layers, external and in- ternal, the latter being termed the rete mucosum. Moreover, the epidermis is laminated in structure, and the laminae present a pro- gressively increasing tenuity and density as they advance from the inner to the outer surface. This difference of density is dependent on the mode of growth of the epidermis, for as the external surface is constantly subjected to destruction from attrition and chemical action, so the membrane is continually reproduced on its internal surface ; new layers being successively formed on the derma to take the place of the old. The theory of growth of the epidermis, deduced from the obser- vations of Schwann, is as follows : a stratum of plastic lymph (liquor sanguinis) is poured out on the surface of the derma. This fluid, by virtue of the vital force inherent in itself, and communicated to it by contact with a living tissue, is converted into granules, which * Portion of skin from the palm of the hand. 1. Papillary layer. 2. Longitudinal furrows, marking the arrangement of the papillae into ridges. 3. Transverse furrows dividing the ridges into small quadrangular clumps. In the figure a few only of the papillae are shown. 4. Eete mucosum raised from the papillary layer ; its under surface presents an exact impression of the papillary layer. 5, 5. Perspiratory ducts drawn out straight by the separation of the rete mucosum from the papillary layer ; the point at which each per- spiratory duct issues from the papillary layer, and pierces the rete mucosum, is the middle of the transverse furrow between the quadrangular clumps.