572 ORGAN OF TOUCH. The Shin is the exterior investment of the body, which it serves to cover and protect. It is continuous at the apertures of the internal cavities with the lining membrane of those cavities, the internal skin or mucous membrane, and is composed essentially of two layers, derma and epidermis. The derma or cutis is chiefly composed of areolo-fibrous tissue, besides which it has entering into its structure elastic tissue and smooth muscular fibre, together with blood-vessels, lymphatic vessels and nerves. The areolo-fibrous tissue exists in greatest abundance in the deeper stratum of the derma, which is conse- quently dense, white, and coarse ; the superficial stratum, on the other hand, is fine in texture, reddish in colour, soft, raised into minute papilla, and highly vascular and sensitive. These dif- ferences in structure have given rise to a division of the derma into the deep stratum, or corium, and the superficial, or papil- lary layer. In the Corium the areolo-fibrous tissue is collected into fasciculi, which are small and closely interwoven in the superficial strata, large and coarse in the deep strata ; in the latter forming an areolar network, with large areolae, which are occupied by adipose tissue. These areolae are the channels through which the branches of vessels and nerves find a safe passage to the papillary layer, in which and in the superficial strata of the corium they are princi- pally distributed. The yellow elastic tissue is found chiefly in the superficial strata, the smooth muscular tissue in the deep. It is to the latter that the nipples and scrotum owe their contractile power, and the general surface of the skin the contraction which is known by the name of cutis anserina. The corium presents some variety in thickness in different parts of the body. Thus in the more exposed regions, as the back, the outer sides of the limbs, the palms, and the soles, it is remarkable for its thickness ; while on protected parts it is comparatively thin, and on the eyelids, penis, and scrotum is peculiarly delicate. It is connected by its under surface with the common superficial fascia of the body. The Papillary layer of the derma is raised in the form of conical prominences or papillae. On the general surface of the body the papillae are short and exceedingly minute ; but in other situations, as the palmar surface of the hands and fingers, and the plantar surface of the feet and toes, they are long and of large size. They also differ in arrangement; for, on the general surface, they are distributed at unequal distances and without order ; whereas, on the palms and soles, and on the corresponding surfaces of the fingers and toes, they are collected into little square clumps, containing from ten to twenty papillae ; and these little clumps are disposed in parallel rows. It is this arrangement in rows that gives rise to