337 OPHTHALMIC ARTERY. accompanies the nasal nerve, and sends a branch to the frontal sinus. The Palpebral arteries (palpebrales), superior and inferior, are given off from the ophthalmic, near the inner angle of the orbit; they encircle the eyelids, forming a superior and an inferior arch (arcus tarseus superior et inferior) near the borders of the lids, between the orbicularis palpebrarum and tarsal cartilage. At the outer angle of the eyelids, the superior palpebral inosculates with the orbital branch of the temporal artery. The inferior palpebral artery sends a branch to the nasal duct. The Frontal artery (frontalis), one of the terminal branches of the ophthalmic, emerges from the orbit at its inner angle, and ascends along the middle of the forehead. It is distributed to the integument, muscles, and pericranium. The Nasal artery (nasalis vel dorsalis nasi), the other terminal branch of the ophthalmic, passes out of the orbit above the tendo oculi, and divides into two branches; one of which (angularis) in- osculates with the angular artery, while the other, dorsalis nasi, runs along the ridge of the nose, and is distributed to the integu- ment of that organ. The nasal artery sends a small branch to the lachrymal sac. The Muscular branches (rami musculares), usually two in num- ber, superior and inferior, supply the muscles of the orbit; and at the anterior part of the globe of the eye give off the anterior ciliary arteries, which pierce the sclerotic near its margin of connexion with the cornea, and are distributed to the iris. It is the conges- tion of 'these vessels that gives rise to the vascular zone around the cornea in iritis. The Ciliary arteries (ciliares) are divisible into three groups, short, long, and anterior. The Short ciliary (ciliares posticse breves), from ten to fifteen in number, pierce the sclerotic around the entrance of the optic nerve, and supply the choroid coat and ciliary processes. The long ciliary (ciliares posticse longse), two in number, pierce the sclerotic at opposite sides of the globe of the eye, and pass forwards between it and the choroid, to the iris. They form an arterial circle around the circumference of the iris by inosculating with each other, and from this circle branches are given off which ramify in the substance of the iris, and form a second circle around the pupil. The ante- rior ciliary (ciliares anteriores), six to twelve in number, are branches of the muscular arteries ; they terminate in the great ar- terial circle of the iris. The Centralis retinae artery pierces the optic nerve obliquely, and passes forwards in the centre of its cylinder to the retina, where it divides into branches, which ramify in the inner layer of that mem- brane. It supplies the retina, hyaloid membrane, and zonula ciliaris; and, by means of a branch sent forwards through the z