STRUCTURAL ANATOMY OF THE LIVER. 654 collects also the venous blood from the ultimate ramifications of the hepatic artery in the liver itself. It gives off branches in the canals, which are called vaginal, and form a venous vaginal plexus ; these give off interlobular branches, and the latter enter the lobules aud form lobular venous plexuses, from the blood circulating in which the bile is secreted. The Bile is received from the hepatic cells by the interlobular ducts ; it is thence poured into the biliary vaginal plexus of the portal canals, and thence into the excreting ducts, by which it is carried to the duodenum and gall-bladder, after being mingled in its course with the mucous secretion from numberless muciparous glands in the walls of the ducts. The Hepatic artery distributes branches through every portal canal ; gives off vaginal branches which form a vaginal hepatic plexus, from which the interlobular branches arise, and these latter terminate ultimately in the lobular venous plexuses of the portal vein. The artery ramifies abundantly in the coats of the hepatic ducts, enabling them to provide their mucous secretion ; and sup- plies the vasa vasorum of the portal and hepatic veins, and the nutrient vessels of the entire organ. The Hepatic veins commence in the centre of each lobule by minute radicles, which collect the impure blood from the lobular venous plexus and convey it into the intralobular veins; these open into the sublobular veins, and the sublobular veins unite to form the large hepatic trunks by which the blood is carried into the vena cava. Physiological and pathological deductions.—The physiological deduction arising out of this anatomical arrangement is, that the bile is wholly secreted from venous blood, and not from a mixed venous and arterial blood, as stated by Miiller ; for although the portal vein receives its blood from two sources, viz., from the chylo- poietic viscera and from the capillaries of the hepatic artery, yet the fact of the blood of the latter vessel having passed through its capillaries into the portal vein, or in extremely small quantity into the capillary network of the lobular venous plexus, is sufficient to establish its venous character.* The pathological deductions depend on the following facts :— Each lobule is a perfect gland ; of uniform structure, of uniform colour, and possessing the same degree of vascularity throughout. It is the seat of a double venous circulation, the vessels of the one (hepatic) being situated in the centre of the lobule, and those of the other (portal) in the circumference. Now the colour of the lobule, as of the entire liver, depends chiefly on the proportion of blood contained within these two sets of vessels ; and so long as the circulation is natural, the colour will be uniform. But the instant that any cause is developed which shall interfere with the * For arguments on this contested question, see the article " Liver," in the " Cyclopedia of Anatomy and Physiology."