348 AXILLARY ARTERY. which are distributed to the pectoral muscles, serratus magnus, and mammary gland ; acromial (r. transversus), which pass outwards to the acromion, and inoscu- ■%-X54* late with branches of the supra-scapular artery ; and descending (r. deltoideus), a single branch, which follows the interspace between the deltoid and pectoralis major muscle, and is in relation with the cephalic vein. The Long thoracic (tho- racica inferior; mammaria externa) descends along the lower border of the pectoralis minor to the side of the chest. It is distributed to the pec- toralis major and minor, ser- ratus magnus, and mammary gland ; inosculating with the superior thoracic, intercostal and mammary arteries. The Thoracica alaris is a small branch distributed to the plexus of nerves and glands in the axilla. It is frequently wanting ; its place being supplied by. a branch derived from one of the other thoracic branches. The Subscapular artery (scapularis inferior), the largest of the branches of the axillary, runs along the lower border of the sub- * Axillary and brachial artery, with their branches. 1. Deltoid. 2. Biceps. 3. Tendinous process given off from the tendon of the biceps to the deep fascia of the forearm; this process separates the median basilic vein from the brachial artery. 4. Outer border of the brachialis anticus. 5. Supinator longus. 6. Coraco-brachialis. 7. Middle portion of the triceps. 8. Its inner head. 9. Axillary artery. 10. Brachial artery;—a dark bar marks the limit between these two vessels. 11. Thoracica acromialis artery dividing into its three branches : the figure rests on the coracoid process. 12. The superior and long thoracic arteries. 13. Serratus magnus muscle. 14. Subscapular artery. The posterior circumflex and thoracica alaris branches are seen in the figure between the inferior thoracic and subscapular. The anterior cir- cumflex is observed between the two heads of the biceps, crossing the neck of the humerus. 15. Superior profunda. 16. Inferior profunda. 17. Anasto- motica magna inosculating inferiorly with the anterior ulnar recurrent. 18. Termination of the superior profunda, inosculating with the radial re- current in the interspace between the brachialis anticus and supinator longus.