652 STRUCTURAL ANATOMY OF THE LIVER. The branches of the portal vein are, vaginal, interlobular, and lobular. The vaginal branches are those which, being given off in the portal canals, have to pass through the sheath (vagina) of Grlisson's capsule, previously to entering the interlobular spaces. In this course they form an intricate plexus, vaginal plexus, in the capsule of Gflisson, and this plexus surrounds the vessels, as does the capsule in the larger canals, and occupies the capsular side only in the smaller canals. The interlobular branches are given off from the vaginal portal plexus where it exists, and directly from the portal veins, in that part of the smaller canals where the coats of the vein are in contact with the walls of the canal. They then enter the interlobular spaces and divide into branches, which cover with their ramifications every part of the surface of the lobules, with the exception of their bases and those extremities of the super- ficial lobules which appear on the surfaces of the liver. The lobular branches are derived from the interlobular veins ; they form a plexus within each lobule, and converge from the circum- ference towards the centre, where they terminate in the minute radicles of the intralobular vein. " This plexus, interposed between the interlobular portal veins and the intralobular hepatic vein, constitutes the venous part of the lobule, and may be called the lobular venous plexus." The regular islets of the substance of the lobules, seen between the meshes of this plexus by means of the microscope, are the acini of Malpighi, and are the network of hepatic cells. The portal vein returns the venous blood from the chylopoietic viscera, to be circulated through the lobules ; it also receives the blood which results from the distribution of the hepatic artery. The Hepatic duct, entering the liver at the transverse fossa, divides into branches, which ramify through the portal canals, with the portal vein and hepatic artery, to terminate in the interlobular fissures ; its branches are, vaginal and interlobular. The Vaginal branches ramify through the capsule of Grlisson, and form a vaginal biliary plexus, which, like the vaginal portal plexus, surrounds the vessels in the large canals, but is deficient on that side of the smaller canals against which the duct is placed. The interlobular branches proceed from the vaginal biliary plexus, where it exists, and directly from the bepatic duct on that side of the smaller canals against which the duct is placed. They enter the interlobular spaces, and ramify between the lobules in the in- terlobular fissures, where they end by csecal extremities. The coats of the duct are very vascular, and supplied with a number of mucous glands, which are distributed irregularly in the larger, but are arranged in two parallel longitudinal rows in the smaller ducts. The Hepatic artery enters the liver with the portal vein and hepatic duct, and ramifies with those vessels through the portal canals. Its branches are, vaginal and interlobular. The vaginal