LIGAMENTS OF THE PELVIS. 137 vertebral substance, ligamenta subflava, capsular ligaments, inter- spinous and supra-spinous ligament. There are, however, two proper ligaments connecting the vertebral column with* the pelvis ; these are, the Lumbo-sacral, Lumbo-iliac. The lumbo-sacral or sacro-vertebral ligament is a thick triangular fasciculus of ligamentous fibres, connected above with the transverse process of the last lumbar vertebra, and below with the posterior part of the upper border of the sacrum. The lumbo-iliac or ilio-lumbar ligament passes from the apex of the transverse process of the last lumbar vertebra to that part of the crest of the ilium which surmounts the sacro-iliac articulation. It is triangular in form. 10. Articulations of the Pelvis.—The ligaments of the articula- tions of the pelvis are divisible into four groups :—1, those con- necting the sacrum and ilium; 2, those passing between the sacrum and ischium; 3, between the sacrum and coccyx; and, 4, between the two pubic bones. r 1st, Between the sacrum and ilium. Sacro-iliac anterior, Sacro-iliac posterior. i 2nd, Between the sacrum and ischium^ Sacro-ischiatic anterior (short), Sacro-ischiatic posterior (long)\ 3rd, Between the sacrum and coccyx: Sacro-coccygean anterior, Sacro-coccygean posterior. 4th, Between the ossa pubis. Anterior pubic, Superior pubic, Posterior pubic, Sub-pubic, Interosseous fibro-cartilage. 1. Between the Sacrum and Ilium.—The anterior sacro-iliac ligament consists of numerous short ligamentous bands and fibres, which pass from bone to bone on the anterior surface of the joint. The posterior sacro-iliac or interosseous ligament (ileo-sacrale breve) is composed of numerous strong fasciculi of ligamentous fibres, which pass horizontally between the rough surfaces of the posterior half of the sacro-iliac articulation, and constitute the principal bond of connexion between the sacrum and ilium. One fasciculus of this ligament, longer and larger than the rest, is dis- tinguished, from its direction, by the name of oblique sacro-iliac ligament (ileo-sacrale longum). It is attached, by one extremity, to the posterier superior spine of the ilium ; and, by the other, to the third transverse tubercle on the posterior surface of the sacrum.