TRAPEZIUS.—LATISSIMUS DOESI. 207 tubercle on the occipital bone to the coccyx. From the upper point of this incision carry a second transversely outwards to the back of the ear ; inferiorly an incision must be made from the extremity of the sacrum, along the crest of the ilium, to about its middle. For convenience of dissection, a fourth may be carried from the middle of the spine to the acromion process. The integument and super- ficial fascia, together, are to be dissected off the muscles in the course of their fibres, over the whole of this region. The Trapezius muscle (trapezium, a quadrangle with unequal sides) arises from the inner third of the superior curved line of the occipital bone, from the ligamentum nuchse, and from the supra- spinous ligament and spinous processes of the last cervical and all the dorsal vertebrae. The fibres converge from these various points, and are inserted into the scapular third of the clavicle, acromion process, and upper border of the spine of the scapula, as far back as its tubercle. The inferior fibres become tendinous, near the. scapula, and glide over the triangular surface at the origin of the spine, upon some loose cellular tissue. When the trapezius is dis- sected on both sides, the two muscles resemble a trapezium, or diamond-shaped quadrangle, on the posterior part of the shoulders ; hence the muscle was formerly named cucullaris (cucullus, a monk's cowl). The occipital portion of the muscle is extremely thin ; and the .origin of the cervical and upper part of the dorsal portion tendinous, forming, with the muscle of the opposite side, a tendinous trapezium. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the integument and superficial fascia, to which it is closely adherent by its cervical portion, loosely by its dorsal portion. By its deep surface, from above downwards, with the complexus, splenius, levator anguli scapulse, supra-spinatus, a small portion of the serratus posticus superior, rhomboideus minor, rhomboideus major, intervertebral aponeurosis which separates it from the erector spinse, and with the latissimus dorsi. The anterior border of the cervical portion forms the posterior boundary of the posterior triangle of the neck. Its clavicular insertion sometimes advances to the middle of the clavicle, or as far as the outer border of the sterno-mastoid, and occasionally it has been seen to overlap the latter. This is a point to be borne in mind in the operation for ligature of the subclavian artery. The spinal accessory nerve passes beneath the anterior border, near the clavicle, previously to its distribution to the under surface of the muscle. The ligamentum nucha? is a thin fibrous band extended from the tubercle and spine of the occipital bone, to the spinous process of the seventh cervical vertebra, where it is continuous with the supra- spinous ligament. It is connected with the spinous processes of all the cervical vertebrse, excepting the atlas, by means of a series of small fibrous slips ; and is the analogue of an important elastic ligament in animals. . The Latissimus dorsi muscle covers the whole of the lower part