TEMPORO-FACIAL NERVES. 488 nerves in the parotid gland and on the neck, and with the sympa- thetic. The numerous communications of the facial nerve have obtained for it the designation of nervus sympatheticus minor. The Branches of the facial nerve are— Within the aqueductus (Tympanic, Fallopii After emerging at the stylo-mastoid foramen, On the face .... ( Chorda tympani. ( Posterior auricular, < Stylo-hyoid, ( Digastric. I Teinporo-facial, (Cervico-facial. The Tympanic Iranch is a small filament given off by the facial while in the petrous bone, and distributed to the stapedius muscle. The Chorda tympani quits the facial immediately above the stylo-mastoid foramen, and ascends by a distinct canal to the upper part of the posterior wall of the tympanum, where it enters that cavity through an opening situated between the base of the pyramid and the attachment of the membrana tympani, and becomes invested by mucous membrane, It then crosses the tympanum between the handle of the malleus and long process of the incus to its anterior inferior angle, and escapes through an opening in the fissura Grlaseri, to join the gustatory nerve at an acute angle between the two pterygoid muscles. Enclosed in the sheath of the gustatory nerve, it descends to the submaxillary gland, where it enters the submaxil- lary ganglion. The Posterior auricular branch ascends behind the ear, between the meatus and mastoid process, and divides into an anterior or auricular, and a posterior or occipital, branch. The auricular branch receives a filament of communication from the auricular branch of the pneumogastric nerve, and distributes filaments to the retrahens aurem muscle and pinna. The occipital branch communi- cates with the auricularis magnus and occipitalis minor, and is dis- tributed to the occipital portion of the occipito-frontalis. The Stylo-hyoid branch is distributed to the stylo-hyoid muscle, and communicates with the sympathetic plexus of the external carotid artery. The Digastric branch supplies the posterior belly of the digastricus muscle, and communicates with the glossopharyngeal and pneumo- gastric nerve. The Tempoko-pacial division, while in the parotid gland, sends a branch of communication along the carotid artery to the auriculo- temporal nerve, and divides into temporal, malar, and infra-orbital branches. The Temporal branches ascending upon the temporal region supply the attrahens aurem, occipito-frontalis, and orbicularis palpebrarum;