BRANCHES OF THE ABDOMINAL AORTA. 358 sympathetic. In the intercostal space, or rather on the external intercostal nmscle, each artery gives off a dorsal branch, which passes back between the transverse processes of the vertebrae, lying internally to the middle costo-transverse ligament, and divides into a spinal branch, which supplies the spinal cord and vertebrae, and a muscular branch, distributed to the muscles and integument of the back. The intercostal artery then comes into relation with its vein and nerve, the former being above, the latter below, and ascends obliquely to the lower border of the rib, with which it comes into relation near the angle of the bone. It then runs along the lower border of the rib, lying between the two planes of intercostal muscles to the front of the chest, where it inosculates with the superior anterior intercostal branch of the internal mammary. Besides the dorsal branch and several small muscular branches, the intercostal artery, at about the middle of its course, gives off a large inferior branch, which runs along the upper border of the rib below to the fore part of the chest, and inosculates with the in- ferior anterior intercostal branch of the internal mammary. While between the two planes of intercostal muscles, the inter- costal artery is protected from pressure by little tendinous arches thrown across it and attached by each extremity to the bone. _ The upper pair of intercostal arteries inosculate with the superior inter- costals of the subclavian ; the lower intercostals anastomose with the lumbar and epigastric arteries in the parietes of the abdomen. BRANCHES OP THE ABDOMINAL AORTA. Phrenic. !Gastric, Hepatic, Splenic, Superior mesenteric, Spermatic, Inferior mesenteric, Supra-renal, Eenal, Lumbar, Sacra media. The Phrenic arteries (phrenicse ; diaphragmaticse) are given off' (frequently by a common trunk) from the anterior part of the aorta as soon as that vessel has emerged through the aortic opening. Passing obliquely outwards on the under surface of the diaphragm, each artery divides into two branches, an internal branch, which runs forwards and inosculates with its fellow of the opposite side in front of the oesophageal opening; and an external branch, which proceeds outwards towards the great circumference of the muscle, and sends branches to the supra-renal capsules. The phrenic arteries inosculate with branches of the internal mammary, inter- costal, epigastric, oesophageal, gastric, hepatic, and supra-renal ar- teries. They are not unfrequently derived from the coeliac axis, or