STRUCTURE OF MUSCLE. 166 face of a tendinous expansion spread out on one side, to that of an- other extended on the opposite side, as in the semi-membranosus; or, they are composed of penniform or bipenniform fasciculi, as in the deltoid, and constitute a compound muscle. The nomenclature of muscles is defective and confused, and is generally derived from some prominent character which the muscle presents; thus, some are named from their situation, as the tibialis, peroneus, brachialis, temporalis; others from their use, as the flexors, extensors, adductors, abductors, levators, tensors, sphinc- ters, &c. Some again from their form, as the trapezius, triangu- laris, deltoid, rhomboideus, scalenus, orbicularis, &c.; and others from their direction, as the rectus, obliquus, transversalis, &c. Certain muscles have received names expressive of their attachments, as the sterno-mastoideus, sterno-hyoideus, &c. ; and others, of their divisions, as the biceps, triceps, digastricus, complexus, &c. In the description of a muscle we express its attachment by the words " origin" and "insertion" : the term origin is generally ap- plied to the more fixed or central attachment, or to the point towards which the motion is directed, while insertion is assigned to the more moveable point, or to that most distant from the centre ; but there are exceptions to this principle, and as many muscles pull equally towards both extremities, the use of such terms must be regarded as arbitrary. In structure, muscle is composed of bundles of fibres of variable size called fasciculi, which are enclosed in an areolar membranous investment or sheath, and the latter is continuous with Fig. 100* the areolar framework of the fibres. Each fasciculus is composed of a number of smaller bundles, and these of single fibres, which, from their minute size and inde- pendent appearance, have been distinguished by the name of ultimate fibres. The ultimate fibre is found by microscopic investigation to be itself a fasciculus (ulti- mate fasciculus), made up of a number of ultimate fibrils enclosed in a delicate sheath, the myolemma or sarco- lemma.f Two kinds of ultimate muscular fibre exist in the animal economy; viz., that of voluntary or animal life, striated muscle; and that of involuntary or organic life, smooth muscle. * A muscular fibre of animal life enclosed in its myolemma; the transverse and longitudinal striae are seen. t In the summer of 1836, while engaged with Dr. Jones Quain in the ex- amination of animal tissues with a simple dissecting microscope, constructed by Powell, I first saw that the ultimate fibre of muscle was invested by a proper sheath, for which I proposed the term " Myolemmaa term which was adopted by Dr. Quain in the fourth edition of his " Elements of Anatomy." We at that time believed that the transverse folding of that sheath gave rise to the appearance of transverse striae, an opinion which subsequent examina- tions proved to be incorrect. Mr. Bowman has since employed the term " Sarcolemma," as synonymous with Myolemma.