ANTERIOR FEMORAL REGION. 272 border of the quadratus femoris. To expose the muscle fully, it is necessary to dissect it on the anterior part of the thigh, after the removal of the pectineus, adductor longus and adductor brevis. The Obturator externus muscle (obturare, to stop up) arises from the obturator membrane and from the surface of the bone immediately surrounding it anteriorly, viz., from the ramus of the pubes and ischium ; its tendon passes outwards behind the neck of the femur, to be inserted with the external rotator muscles, into the digital fossa of the trochanter major. Relations.—By its superficial or anterior surface with the tendon of the psoas and iliacus, pectineus, adductor, brevis and magnus, obturator vessels and nerve. By its deep ox posterior surface with the obturator membrane and margin of bone which surrounds it, the lower part of the capsule of the hip-joint and quadratus femoris. The Quai>ratus eemoris (square-shaped) arises from the external border of the tuberosity of the ischium; and is inserted into a rough line on the posterior border of the trochanter major, which is thence named linea quadrati. Relations.—By its posterior surface with the gluteus maximus, and ischiatic vessels and nerves. By its anterior surface with the tendon of the obturator externus and trochanter minor, a synovial bursa often separating it from the latter. By its upper border with the gemellus inferior ; and by the lower border with the adductor magnus. Actions.—The glutei muscles are abductors of the thigh, when they take their fixed point from the pelvis. Taking their fixed point from the thigh, they steady the pelvis on the head of the femur ; this action is peculiarly obvious in standing on one leg : they assist also in carrying the leg forward, in progression. The gluteus minimus being attached to the anterior border of the tro- chanter major, rotates the limb slightly inwards. The gluteus medius and maximus, from their insertion into the posterior aspect of the bone, rotate the limb outwards ; the latter is, moreover, a tensor of the fascia of the thigh. The other muscles rotate the limb outwards, everting the knee and foot ; hence they are named external rotators. Anterior Femoral Region. Tensor vaginse femoris, Vastus internus, Sartorius, Vastus externus, Eectus femoris, Crureus. Dissection.—Make an incision along the line of Poupart's liga- ment, from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium to the spine of the pubes; and a second, from the middle of the preceding, down the inner side of the thigh, and across the inner condyle of the femur to the head of the tibia, where it may be bounded by a transverse incision. Turn back the integument from the whole of