WKIST JOINT. 147 perforated at its lower part for the passage of the anterior inter- osseous artery. The posterior interosseous artery passes backwards between the oblique ligament and upper border of the interosseous ligament. The interosseous ligament affords an extensive surface for the attachment of muscles ; and is in relation, in front, with the flexor profundus digitorum, flexor longus pollicis, pronator quadratus, and anterior interosseous artery and nerve ; behind, with the supinator brevis, extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, extensor primi internodii pollicis, extensor secundi internodii pollicis, extensor indicis, and near the wrist with the anterior interosseous artery and posterior interosseous nerve. The anterior inferior ligament is a thin band of fibres, passing transversely between the radius and ulna. The posterior inferior ligament, also thin and loose, has the same disposition on the posterior surface of the articulation. The inter articular, or triangular fibrocartilage, acts the part of a ligament between the lower extremity of the radius and ulna. It is inserted by its apex into a depression on the inner surface of the styloid process of the ulna, and attached by its base to the edge of the radius. This fibrocartilage is lined on the upper surface by a synovial membrane, which forms a remarkably loose capsule be- tween the radius and ulna, and is called the membrana sacciformis. By its lower surface it enters into the articulation of the wrist joint. Actions.—The movements taking place between the radius and ulna are, rotation of the former upon the latter ; rotation forwards being termed pronation, and rotation backwards supination. In these movements the head of the radius turns upon its axis, within the orbicular ligament and lesser sigmoid notch of the ulna ; while inferiorly, the radius presents a concavity which moves on the rounded head of the ulna. The movements of the radius are chiefly limited by the anterior and posterior inferior ligaments ; hence these are not unfrequently ruptured in great muscular . efforts. 7. Wrist Joint.—The wrist is a ginglymoid articulation ; the articular surfaces entering into its formation being the radius and triangular fibrocartilage above, and the rounded surface of the scaphoid, semilunar, and cuneiform bone, below ; its ligaments are four in number,— The anterior ligament is a broad and membranous layer consist- ing of three fasciculi, which pass between the lower part of the radius and the scaphoid, semilunar, and cuneiform bone. The posterior ligament, also thin and loose, passes between the l 2 Anterior, Posterior, Internal lateral, External lateral.