550 STRUCTURE OP THE LENS. nected to its capsule by means of areolar tissue, and that the liquor Morgagni is the result of a cadaveric change. The lens consists of concentric layers, of which the external are soft, the next firmer, and the central form a hardened nucleus. They are best demonstrated by boiling, or by immersion in alcohol, when they separate easily from each other. Another division of the lens takes place at the same time : it splits into three triangu- lar segments, having the sharp edge directed towards the centre, and the base towards the circumference. The concentric lamellae are composed of minute parallel fibres, united with each other by means of scalloped borders, the convexity of one border fitting the concave scallop of the other. Immediately around the circumference of the lens is a triangular canal, the canal of Petit * about a line and a half in breadth. It is bounded, in front, by the flutings of the zonula ciliaris ; behind, by the hyaloid membrane; and within, by the border of the lens. Vessels and nerves.—The Vessels of the globe of the eye are the long, short, and anterior ciliary arteries, and the arteria cen- tralis retinae. The lomg ciliary arteries, two in number, pierce the posterior part of the sclerotic, and pass forward on each side, be- tween that membrane and the choroid, to the ciliary ligament, where each divides into two branches, which are distributed to the iris. The short ciliary arteries pierce the posterior part of the sclerotic coat, and are distributed to the middle layer of the choroid membrane. The anterior ciliary are branches of the muscular arteries. They enter the eye through the anterior part of the scle- rotic, and are distributed to the iris. It is the increased number of these latter arteries, in iritis, that gives rise to the peculiar red zone around the circumference of the cornea. The A rteria centralis retina? enters the optic nerve at about half an inch from the globe of the eye, and passing through the porus opticus, is distributed on the inner surface of the retina, forming its vascular layer; one branch pierces the centre of the vitreous humour, and supplies the capsule of the lens. The Nerves of the eyeball are, the optic, two ciliary nerves from the nasal branch of the ophthalmic, and the ciliary nerves from the ophthalmic ganglion. Observations.—The sclerotic is a tunic of protection, and the cornea a medium for the transmission of light. The choroid sup- ports the vessels destined for the nutrition of the eye, and by its pigmentum nigrum absorbs all scattered rays that might confuse the image impressed on the retina. The iris, by means of its powers of expansion and contraction, regulates the quantity of light * John Louis Petit, a celebrated French surgeon : he published several sur- gical and anatomical Essays, in the early part of the 18th century. He died in 1750.