286 POSTERIOR TIBIAL REGION. fascia, which, separates it from the soleus, and with the posterior tibial vessels and nerve. By its deep surface with the tibia and tibialis posticus. In the sole of the foot its tendon is in relation with the abductor pollicis and flexor brevis digitorum, which lie superficially to it, and it crosses the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis. At the point of crossing it receives a tendinous slip of communication. The flexor longus pollicis must now be removed from its origin, and the flexor longus digitorum drawn aside, to bring into view the entire extent of the tibialis posticus. The Tibialis posticus (nauticus; extensor tarsi tibialis) lies upon the interosseous membrane, between the two bones of the leg. It arises by two heads from the adjacent sides of the tibia and fibula their whole length, from the interosseous membrane, and from an aponeurosis which binds it in its place. Its tendon passes inwards beneath the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum, and runs in the same sheath ; it then passes through a proper sheath over the deltoid ligament, and beneath the astragalo-scaphoid articulation, to be inserted into the tuberosity of the scaphoid and internal cuneiform bone, a process of its tendon being prolonged outwards to the external cuneiform. While in the common sheath behind the internal malleolus, the tendon of the tibialis posticus lies internally to that of the flexor longus digitorum, from which it is separated by a thin fibrous partition. A sesamoid bone is usually met with in the tendon close to its insertion. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the intermuscular aponeurosis, flexor longus pollicis, flexor longus digitorum, posterior tibial vessels and nerve, peroneal vessels, and, in the sole of the foot, the abductor pollicis. By its deep surface with the in- terosseous membrane, fibula and tibia, ankle-joint and astragalus. The anterior tibial artery passes between the two heads of the muscle. The student will observe that the two latter muscles change their relative position to each other in their course. Thus, in the leg, the position of the three muscles from within outwards, is, flexor longus digitorum, tibialis posticus, flexor longus pollicis. At the inner malleolus, the relation of the tendons is, tibialis posticus, flexor longus digitorum, both in the same sheath; then a broad groove, which lodges the posterior tibial artery, vense comites, and nerve ; and lastly, the flexor longus pollicis. Actions.—The popliteus is a flexor of the tibia upon the thigh, carrying it at the same time inwards so as to invert the leg. The flexor longus pollicis, and flexor longus digitorum, are the long flexors of the toes ; their tendons are connected in the foot by a short tendinous band, hence they necessarily act together. The tibialis posticus is an extensor of the tarsus upon the leg, and an antagonist to the tibialis anticus'. It combines with the tibialis anticus in adduction of the foot.