270 MUSCLES OF THE GLUTEAL REGION. posed between its tendon and the upper part of the trochanter major. This muscle should now be removed from its origin and turned down, to expose the next, which is situated beneath it. The Gluteus minimus Fig. 132.* is a radiated muscle aris- ing from the surface of the dorsum ilii, between the superior and inferior curved line; its fibres converge to the anterior border of- the trochanter major, into which it is inserted by- means of arounded tendon. There is no distinct sepa- ration between the gluteus medius and minimus an- teriorly. Relations.—By its su- perficial surface with the gluteus medius, and glu- teal vessels. By its deep surface with the ilium, long tendon of the rectus femoris, and capsule of the hip-joint. A bursa is in- terposed between its tendon and the trochanter. The Pyriformis (pyrum, a pear, i. e. pear-shaped; iliacus externus) arises from the anterior surface of the sacrum, by three little slips interposed between the anterior sacral foramina from the first to the fourth, and from the adjoining surface of the ilium. It passes out of the pelvis through the great sacro-ischiatic foramen, and is inserted by a rounded tendon into the posterior border of the trochanter major. Relations.—By its superficial or external surface with the sacrum and gluteus maximus. By its deep or pelvic surface with the rectum, sacral plexus of nerves, branches of the internal iliac artery, great sacro-ischiatic notch, and capsule of the hip-joint. By * Deep muscles of the gluteal region. 1. Ilium. 2. Sacrum. 3. Posterior sacro-iliac ligaments. 4. Tuberosity of the ischium. 5. Great or posterior sacro-ischiatic ligament. 6. Lesser or anterior sacro-ischiatic ligament. 7. Trochanter major. 8. Gluteus minimus. 9. Pyriformis. 10. Gemellus superior. 11. Obturator internus, passing out of the lesser sacro-ischiatic foramen. 12. Gemellus inferior. 13. Quadratus femoris. 14. Adductor magnus. 15. Vastus externus. 16. Biceps. 17. Gracilis. 18. Semi-ten- dinosus.