MALE ORGANS OF GENERATION. 673 fibrous membrane, and is constricted beneath tbe isthmus of the prostate gland into a small excretory duct. The vas deferens, somewhat enlarged and sacculated, lies along the inner border of each vesicula, and is included in its fibrous investment. It com- municates with the duct of the vesicula beneath the isthmus of the prostate, and forms the ejaculatory duct. The ejaculatory duct is about three-quarters of an inch in length, and running forwards, first between the base of the prostate and the isthmus, and then through the tissue of the veru montanum, opens on the mucous membrane of the urethra, by the side of or within the aperture of the sinus pocularis. The vesiculse seminales and vasa deferentia are partly covered in by a muscular layer, compressor vesicular et ductus seminalis (Ellis) ; which is brought into view on raising the recto-vesical fascia. This muscular layer consists of transverse and longitudinal fibres, the transverse fibres being the most superficial, and con- tinuous with the posterior border of the prostate gland ; the longi- tudinal fibres lying in contact with the vesiculse and vasa deferentia. The longitudinal fibres form a continuous fleshy plane for the space of half; an inch behind the prostate, and are prolonged for a short distance backwards on the vesiculse and vasa deferentia, lying chiefly along their borders ; while, anteriorly, the fibres accompany the ejaculatory ducts to the termination of the latter in the urethra, and are continuous with the internal longitudinal coat of the prostatic urethra. "This muscular layer will compress and shorten the vesiculse seminales, and the lower dilated ends of the vasa defe- rentia ;" and most forcibly when the bladder is distended. In structure the vesiculse seminales are composed of three coats : external, a thin fibrous membrane, made up of condensed areolar tissue; middle, a muscular coat, consisting of smooth muscular fibres arranged in two layers, longitudinal and circular ; and inter- nal, a thin mucous membrane, vascular, marked by a delicate reticulation of ridges and alveoli, and coated with a squamous epi- thelium of cells containing yellowish pigment granules. The vesi- culse are covered externally and their convolutions held together by a thin membrane of areolar tissue, and they are further invested by the recto-vesical fascia, and the muscular stratum already described, MALE ORGANS OP GENERATION. The organs of generation in the male are, the penis and testes, with their appendages. PENIS. The Penis is divisible into a body, root, and extremity. The body is surrounded by a thin integument, which is remarkable for the looseness of its connexion with the deeper parts of the organ, and for containing no adipose tissue. The root is broad, and firmly x x