581 PERICAKDIUM. HEART. Pericardium.—The pericardium is a fibro-serous membrane like the dura mater, and resembles that membrane also in deriving its serous layer from the reflected serous membrane of the viscus which it encloses. It consists of two layers, external, fibrous ; and internal, serous. The fibrous layer is attached above, to the great vessels proceeding from the heart, on which it is continuous with the thoracic fascia; and below, to thetendinous portion of the diaphragm. The serous membrane invests the heart with the commencement of its great vessels as high as the arch of the aorta, and is then re- flected upon the internal surface of the fibrous layer. In intimate structure the fibrous layer is composed of areolar tissue; the serous layer consisting of a thin stratum of elastic tissue dis- posed in a net- work, adherent by one surface to the fibrous layer, and I smooth on the free surface, where it gives support to a single or double lamina of tesselated epi- thelium. The bag of the pericar- dium has few ves- sels and nerves, the latter being derived from the phrenic and re- current branch of the right pneumogastric. The Heart is placed obliquely in the chest, the base being directed upwards and backwards towards the right shoulder ; the apex forwards and to the left, pointing to the space between the t Anatomy of the heart. 1. Eight auricle. 2. Entrance of the superior vena cava. 3. Entrance of the inferior cava. 4. Opening of the coronary vein, half closed by-the coronary valve. 5. Eustachian valve. 6. Fossa ovalis; surrounded by the annulus ovalis. 7. Tubereulum Loweri. 8. Musculi pectinati of the appendix auricula?. 9. Auriculo-ventricular opening. 10. Cavity of the right ventricle. 11. Tricuspid valve, attached by the chordae tendinese to the carnese columnar (12). 13. Pulmonary artery, guarded at its com- mencement by three semilunar valves. 14. Right pulmonary artery, passing beneath the arch and behind the ascending aorta. 15. Left pulmonary artery, crossing in front of the descending aorta. * Remains of the ductus arteriosus, acting as a ligament between the pulmonary artery and arch of the aorta. The arrows mark the course of the venous blood through the right side of the heart. Entering the auricle by the superior and inferior cavse, it Mg. 219.f