647 LOBES OP THE LIVER. These five fossse taken collectively resemble an inverted \f, the base corresponding with the free margin of the liver, and the apex with its posterior border. Viewing them in this way, the two anterior branches represent the longitudinal fossa on the left, and the fossa for the gall-bladder on the right side ; the two posterior, the fossa for the ductus venosus on the left, and the fossa for the vena cava on the right; and the connecting bar, the transverse fossa. Lobes.—The right lobe is four or six times larger than the left, from which it is separated, on the concave surface, by the longi- tudinal fossa, and, on the convex, by the longitudinal ligament. It is marked on its under surface by the transverse fossa, and by the fossge for the gall-bladder and vena cava ; and presents three depressions, one, in front, for the curve of the ascending colon, impressio colica, and two behind, for the right supra-renal capsule and kidney, impressio renalis. Not unfrequently several small irregular fissures, rimce ccecce, are found on the under surface of this lobe. The Left lobe is small and flattened, convex on its upper surface 15 * Under surface of the liver. 1. Eight lobe. 2. Left lobe. 3. Lobus qua- dratus. 4. Lobus Spigelii. 5. Lobus caudatus, the fissure in front of 5 and running parallel with the gall-bladder is a rima caeca. 6. Longitudinal fossa • the figure is placed on the rounded cord, the remains of the umbilical vein' 7. Pons hepatis. 8. Fossa of the ductus venosus; the obliterated cord of the ductus is seen passing backwards to be attached to the coats of the inferior vena cava (9). 10. Gall-bladder lodged in its fossa. 11. Transverse fossa containing, from before backwards, hepatic duct, hepatic artery, and portal vein. 12. Vena cava. 13. Depression corresponding with the curve of the colon. 14. Double depression produced by the right kidney and its supra- renal capsule. 15. Eough surface on the posterior border of the liver left uncovered by peritoneum; the cut edge of the peritoneum surrounding this surface forms part of the coronary ligament. 16. Notch on the anterior border, separating the two lobes. 17. Incisura vertebralis or notch on the posterior border, corresponding with the vertebral column.