467 MEDULLA OBLONGATA. the broad transverse band of white fibres which arches like a bridge across the upper part of the medulla oblongata ; and, contracting on each side into a thick rounded cord, enters the substance of the cerebellum under the name of the crus cerebelli. There is a groove along its middle which lodges the basilar artery. The pons Varoli is the commissure of the cerebellum, and associates the two lateral lobes in their common function. Resting against the pons, near its posterior border, is the sixth pair of nerves. On the anterior border of the crus cerebelli, at each side, is the thick bundle of filaments belonging to the fifth nerve, and lying against its poste- rior border, the seventh pair of nerves. The upper surface of the pons forms part of the floor of the fourth ventricle. MEDULLA OBLONGATA. The medulla oblongata (bulbus rachidicus), is the upper enlarged portion of tbe spinal cord. It is somewhat conical in shape, and a little more than an inch in length, extending from the pons Varolii to a point corresponding with the upper border of the atlas. On the middle line, in front and behind, the medulla oblongata is marked by two vertical fissures, the anterior and posterior median fissures, which divide it superficially into two symmetrical lateral cords or columns ; whilst each lateral column is subdivided by shallow grooves into three smaller cords, namely, the corpora pyra- midalia, corpora olivaria, and corpora restiformia. The Corpora pyramidalia are two narrow convex cords, tapering slightly from above downwards, and situated one on either side of the anterior median fissure. At about an inch below the pons the corpora pyramidalia communicate across the fissure by a decussation of their fibres, and at their point of entrance into the pons are con- stricted into round cards. The fissure is somewhat enlarged by this constriction, and the enlarged space has received the name of foramen caecum (Vicq d'Azyr) of the medulla oblongata. The Corpora olivaria (named from some resemblance in shape to an olive) are two oblong, oval-shaped, convex bodies, of about the same breadth as the corpora pyramidalia, about half an inch in length, and somewhat larger above than below. The corpus olivare is situated * Section of the medulla oblongata made across the lower part of the cor- pora olivaria; after Arnold. 1,1. Corpora pyramidalia. 2. Anterior median fissure. 3. Corpus olivare; with the zigzag outline of the corpus dentatum. 4. Corpus restiforme. 5. Grey substance of the corpus restiforme. 6. Cor- pora pyramidalia posteriora, or fasciculi graciles. 7. Floor of the fourth ven- tricle. H H 2