114 SESAMOID BONES. The phalanges of the first row are convex above, concave on the under surface, and compressed from side to side. The posterior extremity has a single concave articular surface, for the head of the metatarsal bone ; the anterior extremity, a pulley-like surface, for the second phalanx. The second phalanges are short and diminutive, but somewhat broader than those of the first row. The third or ungual phalanges, including the second phalanx of the great toe, are flattened from above downwards, spread out late- rally at the base to articulate with the second row, and at the oppo- site extremity to support the nail and the rounded extremity of the toe. Development.—By two centres ; one for the body and one for the metatarsal extremity. Ossification commences in these bones after the metatarsus, appearing firstly in the last phalanges, then in the first, and lastly in the middle row. The bones are completed at eighteen. Articulations.—The first row with the metatarsal bones and second phalanges ; the second, of the great toe, with the first pha- lanx ; of the other toes, with the first and third phalanges ; the third, with the second row. Attachment of Muscles.—To twenty-three: to the first phalanges ; great toe, innermost tendon of the extensor brevis digitorum, abductor pollicis, adductor pollicis, flexor brevis pollicis, and transversus pedis ; second toe, first dorsal and first plantar interosseous and lum- bricalis ; third toe, second dorsal and second plantar interosseous and lumbricalis ; fourth toe, third dorsal and third plantar interosseous and lumbricalis ; fifth toe, fourth dorsal interosseous, abductor mi- nimi digiti, flexor brevis minimi digiti and lumbricalis. Second phalanges: great toe, extensor longus pollicis, and flexor longus pollicis ; other toes, one slip of the common tendon of the extensor longus and extensor brevis digitorum, and flexor brevis digitorum. Third phalanges: two slips of the common tendon of the extensor longus and extensor brevis digitorum, and the flexor longus digi- torum. Sesamoid bones.—These are small osseous masses, developed in those tendons which exert a certain degree of force upon the surface over which they glide, or where, by continued pressure and friction, the tendon would become a source of irritation to neighbouring parts, as to joints. The best example of a sesamoid bone is the patella, developed in the common tendon of the quadriceps extensor, and resting against the front of the knee-joint. Besides the patella, there are four pairs of sesamoid bones included in the number of pieces which compose the skeleton, two on the metacarpo-phalangeal articulation of each thumb, and existing in the tendons of insertion of the flexor brevis pollicis, and two on the corresponding joint in the foot, in the tendons of the muscles inserted into the base of