ABDUCTOR MINIMI DIGITI.—FLEXOR BREVIS DIGITORUM. 289 Fig. 138.* iorum, flexor longus pollicis, tibialis anticus and posticus, plantar vessels and nerves, and tarsal bones. At its outer border with the flexor brevis digitorum, from which it is separated by a vertical septum of the plantar fascia. The Abductor minimi digiti (digiti quinti) lies along the outer border of the sole of the foot. It arises from the outer tuberosity of the os calcis, and from the plantar fascia, as far for- ward as the base of the fifth metatarsal bone ; and is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the little toe. Relations.—By its superficial sur- face with the external portion of the plantar fascia. By its deep surface with the musculus accessorius, flexor brevis minimi digiti, tarsal bones, and metatarsal bone of the little toe. By its inner side with the flexor brevis digitorum, from which it is separated by the vertical septum of the plantar fascia, j The Flexor brevis digitorum (perforatus) is placed between the two preceding muscles. It arises from the under surface of the os calcis, from, the plantar fascia, and inter- muscular septa ; and is inserted by four tendons into the base of the second phalanx of the four lesser toes. Each tendon divides, previously to its insertion, to give passage to the tendon of the long flexor ; hence its cognomen perforatus. Relations;—By its superficial surface with the plantar fascia. By its deep surface with a thin layer of fascia which separates it from the musculus accessorius, tendons of the flexor longus digi- torum and flexor longus pollicis, and plantar vessels and nerves. By its borders with the vertical septa of the plantar fascia, which separate the muscle, on the one side from the abductor pollicis, on the other from the abductor minimi digiti. * First layer of muscles of the sole of the foot; this layer is exposed by the removal of the plantar fascia. 1. Os calcis. 2. Posterior part of the plantar fascia .divided transversely. 3. Abductor pollicis. 4. Abductor minimi digiti. 5. Plexor brevis digitorum. 6. Tendon of the flexor longus pollicis. 7,7. Lum- bricales. On the second and third toe, the tendons of the flexor longus digi- torum are seen passing through the bifurcation of the tendons of the flexor brevis digitorum. U