VEINS OP THE HEAD AND NECK. 394 of the forehead, under the name of frontal vein, to the root of the nose, where it is connected with its fellow of the opposite side by a communicating trunk, the nasal arch. There are usually two frontal veins, which communicate by a transverse inosculation ; but sometimes the vein is single and bifurcates at the root of the nose, into the two angular veins. From the nasal arch the frontal is continued downwards by the side of the root of the nose, and near the angle of the eye, under the name of angular vein ; it then passes beneath the zygomatic muscles, becomes the facial vein, and descends along the anterior border of the masseter muscle, crossing the body of the lower jaw by the side of the facial artery, to the submaxillary gland, and from thence to the internal jugular vein, in which it terminates. The branches which the facial vein receives in its course are, the supra-orbital, which joins the frontal vein ; the dorsal veins of the nose, which terminate in the nasal arch ; the ophthalmic, which communicates with the angular vein; the palpebral and nasal, which open into the angular vein ; a considerable trunk, the deep facial (maxillaris interna anterior), which returns the blood from the spheno-maxillary fossa, from the infraorbital, palatine, vidian, and spheno-palatine veins, and joins the facial beneath the zygo- matic process of the superior maxillary bone ; and the veins corre- sponding with the branches of the facial artery. The Internal maxillary vein receives the veins from the zygo- matic and pterygoid fossa; these are so numerous and communi- cate so freely as to constitute a pterygoid plexus. Passing back- wards behind the neck of the lower jaw, the internal maxillary joins the temporal vein. The Temporal vein commences on the vertex of the head by a plexiform network, which is continuous with the frontal, opposite temporal, auricular, and occipital vein. The ramifications of this plexus form an anterior and posterior branch which unite imme- diately above the zygoma ; the trunk is here joined by another large vein, the middle temporal, which collects the blood from the temporal muscle and outer segment of the orbit, and pierces the temporal fascia near the root of the zygoma. The temporal vein then descends in the substance of the parotid gland to the angle of the lower jaw, where it divides into two trunks, one of which, mounting upon the sterno-mastoideus muscle, constitutes the ex- ternal jugular vein; while the other, uniting with the facial vein, becomes the temporo-maxillary vein. The temporal vein receives the anterior auricular, masseteric, transverse facial, and parotid veins. The Temporo-maxillary vein, a short trunk formed by the union of the temporo-maxillary trunk and facial vein, sends a branch to the anterior jugular, and terminates in the internal jugular vein. It receives the lingual, laryngeal, and superior thyroid vein. The Posterior auricular vein communicates with the plexus of