ANATOMY OP THE HEART. 588 The Pulmonary veins, two from the right and two from the left lung, open into the corresponding sides of the auricle. The two left pulmonary veins terminate frequently by a common opening. The Auriculo-ventricular opening is the aperture of communi- cation between the auricle and ventricle. The Musculi pectinati are fewer in number than in the right auricle, and are situated only in the appendix auriculae. Left Ventricle.—The left ventricle is to be opened by making an incision a little to the left of the septum ventriculorum, and con- tinuing it around the apex of the heart to the auriculo-ventricular opening behind. The left ventricle is conical both in external figure and in the shape of its internal cavity. It forms the apex of the heart, by projecting beyond the right ventricle, while the latter has the advantage in length towards the base. Its walls are about seven * Anatomy of the heart; left side. 1. Cavity of left auricle. The figure is placed on that portion of the septum auricularum corresponding with the centre of the fossa ovalis. 2. Cavity of the appendix auriculae, near the apex of which are seen musculi pectinati. 3. Opening of the two right pulmonary veins. 4. The sinus, into which the left pulmonary veins open. 5. Left pul- monary veins. 6. Auriculo-ventricular opening. 7. Coronary vein, lying in the auriculo-ventricular groove. 8. Left ventricle. 9, 9. Cavity of the left ventricle; the figures rest on the septum ventriculorum. a. Mitral valve; its flaps are connected by chordae tendinese to b, b, Columnae carnese. c, c. Fixed columnar carnese, forming part of the internal surface of the ventricle, d. Arch of the aorta, from the summit of which the three arterial trunks of the head and upper extremities are seen arising, e. Pulmonary artery. ,/. Obliterated ductus arteriosus; the letter is placed in the cleft formed by the bifurcation of the pulmonary artery, g. Left pulmonary artery, h. Eight ventricle. i. Point of the appendix of right auricle.