603 THYROID GLAND. epithelium, which is continuous with that of the larynx above and the bronchial tubes below. The Mucous glands are small ovoid bodies situated internally to the fibrous membrane, between that membrane and the muscular layer behind, and in the substance of the fibrous membrane be- tween the rings. Their ducts open upon the mucous membrane. THYROID GLAND. The thyroid gland or body is a Mood-vascular gland; in other words, it secretes into the numerous cells of which it is composed, a peculiar fluid, which, originally separated from the blood, is again taken up by the veins or lymphatic vessels or both, and conveyed into the circulation, in this way performing some function in con- nection with the formation or renovation of the blood. It is situated on the trachea, and may therefore be considered in this place, although bearing no part in the function of respiration. This gland consists of two lobes, which are placed one on each side of the trachea, and are connected with each other by means of an isthmus, which crosses its upper rings, usually the third and fourth ; but in this respect there is some variety, a point necessary to be remembered in operations on the trachea. The lobes are somewhat conical in shape, being larger below than above, and the smaller end is continued upwards to the side of the thyroid cartilage. The isthmus is connected with the lower third of the two lobes, and often gives origin to a process of variable length and size-, called the pyramid or third lobe. The pyramid is generally situated on the left side of the isthmus and is sometimes derived from the left lobe. The left lobe is somewhat smaller than the right, the weight of the entire gland being about one ounce and a half. It is, however, larger in young persons and females than in adult males, and undergoes a slight increase during menstruation. Its permanent enlargement constitutes bronchocele, goitre, or the Derbyshire neck. The structure of the thyroid is of a brownish-red colour, and is composed of a dense aggregation of minute and independent mem- branous cavities or vesicles enclosed by a plexus of capillary vessels, and connected together by areolar tissue. The vesicles are composed of a membrana propria lined by a tesselated epithelium of nucleated cells, and contain a clear yellowish fluid, in which are found cyto- blasts and cells ; the latter measuring T-jV(r of an inch in diameter. A muscle is occasionally found connected with its isthmus, or with the pyramid, and is attached, superiorly, to the body of the os hyoides, or to the thyroid cartilage. It was named by Soemmering, " levator glandulce thyroidea?;" fig. 224. Vessels and Nerves.—It is abundantly supplied with blood by the superior and inferior thyroid arteries. Sometimes an additional artery 'is derived from the arteria innominata, and ascends upon the front of the trachea to be distributed to the gland. The wounding