697 MAMMAKY GLANDS. a line, and the excretory aperture about one quarter of a line. There are from 15 to 25 ducts in the nipple, a number corresponding with the number of lobes composing the gland. The gland-vesicles are held together by a dense white areolar tissue, which unites the lobules into lobes, and connects the dif- ferent lobes with each other, forming a covering for the whole, and being itself surrounded with adipose tissue. The lactiferous ducts are composed of areolar tissue, which is homogeneous internally, and fibril! ated and nucleated and mingled with elastic fibres exter- nally. Moreover, according to Henle, there is an indication of longitudinal smooth muscular fibre. The fibrous coat of the lac- tiferous tubes is plaited, and their interior lined by a columnar epithelium. The mamilla or nipple is covered by a thin epidermis, pre- senting more or less pigment in its rete mucosum ; it possesses at the extremity a number of papillae, between which are the lacti- ferous openings, and it is composed internally of the lactiferous ducts, united together and surrounded by areolar and smooth mus- cular tissue, the latter giving the nipple the faculty of erection and retraction. The integument of the areola, besides possessing a coloured epidermis with numerous large sudoriparous and sebi- parous glands, the latter associated with fine hairs, is also pro- vided with a layer of smooth muscular fibre, which gives it a power of contraction. The secretion of milk is effected by the formation of oil-glo- bules in the epithelial cells of the gland-vesicles ; the epithelial cells being perfected, are pushed outwards and displaced by a new layer of similar cells which form beneath them ; they are thus carried forward into the lacteal ducts, where the cell bursts and gives exit to its oil-globules, now become milk-globules; and the cell-membrane and nucleus are lost. These milk-globules sus- pended in a fluid, the milk-plasma, constitute the milk. Previously to conception, the mammae only secrete a yellowish viscid mucus, and at the commencement of lactation the milk is imperfect and termed colostrum, having entering into its composition a number of cells filled with yellow fat globules, named colostrum corpuscles. The mammary gland of the male is rudimentary; it varies in size from a quarter of an inch to two inches in breadth, by one to three lines in thickness. It is firm in texture, presents no division into lobes, and its ducts are small without dilatations, and termi- nate in gland-vesicles larger than those of the female. The development of the mammary gland commences at the fourth or fifth month of embryonic life, at first by a papilla of the rete mucosum, which subsequently gives off primary and secondary branches ; the papilla and its branches are for a time solid, but as development advances they become hollow and invested externally by a fibrous membrane. At birth the gland measures between two and four lines in breadth, and presents from twelve to fifteen