SCAPULA. 82 external surface for the origin of the teres major and for a large bursa over which the mination of the line of attachment of the tendon of the trapezius. The upper border of the spine is rough and subcutaneous, and gives attachment, by two projecting lips, to the trapezius above and deltoid below ; the surfaces of the spine enter into the formation of the supra- and infra-spinous fossa. The nutritious foramina of the scapula are situated in the base of the spine. The acromion, somewhat triangular in form, is flattened, from above downwards; it overhangs the glenoid cavity, the upper surface being rough and subcutaneous, the lower smooth and corresponding with the shoulder-joint. Near its extremity, on the anterior border, is an oval articular surface, for the end of the clavicle. The coracoid process is a thick, round, and curved process of bone, arising from the upper part of the neck of the scapula, and over-arching the glenoid cavity. It is about two inches in * Anterior surface or venter of the scapula. 1,1. Oblique ridges crossing the subscapular fossa. 2, 2. Surface unoccupied by tbe subscapulars muscle. 3. Superior border. 4. Superior angle. 5. Supra-scapular notch. 6. Coracoid process. 7. Acromion process. 8. Spine of the scapula; the cipher 5, while indicating the supra-scapular notch, is placed on the spine. 9. Articular surface of the acromio-clavicular joint. 10. Glenoid cavity. 11. Head of the scapula. 12. Its neck. 13, 13. Inferior border; the upper 13 is placed against the ridge of the triceps. 14 Inferior angle. 15,15. Posterior border. 16. Pro- minence corresponding with the origin of the spine of the scapula. Fig. 50.* upper border of the la- tissimus dorsi muscle plays. T The spine of the sca- pula, triangular in form, crosses the upper part of the dorsum of the bone ; it commences at the posterior border by a smooth triangular sur- face, over which the fan-shaped tendon of the trapezius glides, and terminates, at the point of the shoulder in the acromion process. At a short distance from its origin, where the tri- angular surface rises to the level of the spine, is a prominent tubercle, the tuberculum spines scapulce (Retzius), which marks the ter-