88 RADIUS. the lesser sigmoid notch of the ulna, and narrow in the rest of its circumference, to play in the orbicular ligament. Beneath the head is a constricted circular neck ; and beneath the neck, on its internal aspect, a prominent process, the tuberosity. The"surface of the tube- rosity is partly smooth and partly rough ; rough below, where it receives the attachment of the tendon of the biceps; and smooth above, where a bursa is interposed between the tendon and the bone. The shaft of the bone is prismoid, and presents three surfaces. The anterior surface is somewhat concave superiorly, where it lodges the flexor longus pollicis ; and flat below, where it supports the pronator quadratus. At about the upper third of this surface is the nutritious foramen, which is directed upwards. The posterior surface is round above, where it supports the supinator brevis muscle, and marked below by several shallow oblique grooves, which afford attachment to the extensor muscles of the thumb. The external surface is round and convex, and marked by an oblique ridge, which extends from the tuberosity to the styloid process at the lower extremity of the bone. On the inner margin is a sharp and prominent crest, which gives attachment to the inter- osseous membrane. The loiver extremity of the radius is broad and triangular, and provided with two articular surfaces ; one at the side of the bone, which is concave to receive the rounded head of the ulna; the other at the extremity, and marked by a slight ridge into two facets, one external and triangular, corresponding with the scaphoid ; the other square, with the semilunar bone. At the outer side of the extre- mity is a strong conical projection, the styloid process, which gives attachment by its base to the tendon of the supinator longus, and by its apex to the external lateral ligament of the wrist joint. The inner edge of the articular surface affords attachment to the base of the triangular interarticular fibrocartilage of the ulna. Immediately in front of the styloid process is a groove, which lodges the tendons of the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis and extensor primi internodii; and, behind the process, a broader groove, for the tendons of the extensor carpi radialis longior and brevior and extensor secundi internodii; behind this is a prominent ridge, and a deep and narrow groove, for the tendon of the extensor indicis ; and farther back, part of a broad groove, completed by the ulna, for the tendons of the extensor communis digitorum. Development.—By three centres ; one for the shaft, and one for each extremity. Ossification commences in the shaft soon after the humerus, and before the ulna. The inferior centre appears during the second year, the superior about the seventh. The bone is per- fected at twenty. Articulations.—With four bones ; humerus, ulna, scaphoid, and semilunar. Attachment of Muscles.—To nine: by the tuberosity to the