274 ANTERIOR FEMORAL REGION. for tying the femoral artery in the middle of its course ; and the outer boundary of Scarpa's triangular space. Relations.— By its superficial surface with the fascia lata and cutaneous nerves. By its deep surface with the psoas and iliacus, rectus, sheath of the femoral vessels, vastus internus, adductor longus, adductor magnus, gracilis, long saphenous nerve, internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint. By its expanded insertion with the tendons of the gracilis and semitendinosus, a synovial bursa being interposed. At the knee-joint its posterior border is in re- lation with the internal saphenous vein. At the upper third of the thigh the sartorius forms, with the lower border of the adductor longus, an isosceles triangle (Scarpa's triangular space), whereof the base corresponds with Poupart's ligament. A perpendicular line, drawn from the middle of the base to the apex of this triangle, immediately overlies the femoral artery with its sheath. The Rectus femoris (straight) is fusiform in shape and bipenni- form in the disposition of its fibres. It arises by two round tendons, one from the anterior inferior spinous process of the ilium, the other from the upper lip of the acetabulum ; and is inserted by a broad and strong tendon into the upper border of the patella. It is more correct to consider the patella as a sesamoid bone, developed within the tendon of the rectus ; and the ligamentum patellae as the con- tinuation of the tendon to its insertion into the tubercle of the tibia. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the gluteus medius, psoas and iliacus, sartorius ; and for the lower three-fourths of its extent with the fascia lata. By its deep surface with the capsule of the hip-joint, external circumflex vessels, crureus, vastus internus and externus. The rectus must now be divided through its middle, and the two ends turned aside, to bring clearly into view the next muscles. The three next muscles are generally considered collectively under the name of triceps extensor cruris. Adopting this view, the muscle surrounds the whole of the femur, excepting the rough line (linea aspera), at its posterior aspect. Its division into three parts is not well defined; the fleshy mass upon each side being distinguished by the names of vastus internus and externus, the middle portion by that of crureus. The Vastus externus (extensor cruris externus) narrow below and broad above, arises from the base of the trochanter major, the outer surface of the femur, outer lip of the linea aspera, and inter- muscular fascia ; it passes down to be inserted, into the outer border of the patella, or rather, by means of the ligamentum patellae, into the tubercle of the tibia conjointly with the rectus and two follow- ing muscles. Relations.—By its superficial surf 'ace with the fascia lata, rectus, biceps, semi-membranosus, and gluteus'maximus, a synovial bursa being interposed between it and the latter. By its deep surface with the crureus and femur.