280 ANTERIOR TIBIAL REGION. with the synovial bursa which separates its tendon from the expan- sion of the sartorius. By its deep surface with the semi-mem- branosus, adductor magnus, internal head of the gastrocnemius, and internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint, the synovial bursa common to it and the tendon of the gracilis being interposed. By its inner border with the gracilis; by its outer border with the biceps. These two muscles must be dissected from the tuberosity of the ischium, to bring into view the origin of the next. The Semi-membranosus, remarkable for the tendinous expansion upon its anterior and posterior surface, arises from the tuberosity of the ischium, in front of the common origin of the two preceding muscles. It is inserted into the posterior part of the inner tube- rosity of the tibia; at its insertion the tendon splits into three portions, one of which is inserted in a groove on the inner side of the head of the tibia, beneath the internal lateral ligament. The second is continuous with an aponeurotic expansion that binds down the popliteus muscle, the popliteal fascia; and the third turns upwards and outwards' to the external condyle of the femur, forming the middle portion of the posterior ligament of the knee- joint (ligamentum posticum Winslowii). The tendons of the semi-tendinosus, semi-membranosus, gracilis and sartorius, form the inner hamstring. Relations.—By its superficial surface with, the gluteus maximus, biceps, semi-tendinosus, fascia lata, and, at its insertion, the ten- dinous expansion of the sartorius. By its deep surface with, the quadratus femoris, adductor magnus, internal head of gastrocne- mius, knee-joint from which it is separated by a synovial mem- brane, and popliteal artery and vein. By its inner border with the gracilis. By its outer border with, the great ischiatic nerve, and in the popliteal space, the popliteal artery and vein. If the semi-membranosus muscle be turned down from its origin, the student will bring into view the broad and radiated expanse of the adductor magnus, against which the three flexor muscles above described rest. Actions.—The three hamstring muscles are flexors of the leg upon the thigh; and taking their fixed point from below, they balance the pelvis on,the lower extremities. The biceps, from the obliquity of its direction, everts the leg when partly flexed, and the semi-tendinosus turns the leg inwards when in the same state of flexion. Anterior Tibial Region. Tibialis anticus, Peroneus tertius, Extensor longus digitorum, Extensor proprius pollicis. Dissection.—The dissection of the anterior tibial region is to be commenced by carrying an incision along the middle of the leg,