128 LIGAMENTS OF THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN. Articular processes.—The ligaments of the articular processes of the vertebrae (ligamenta processuum obliquorum) are thin capsules of ligamentous fibres which surround and enclose the synovial mem- brane; the latter being looser in the cervical than in the other regions of the spine. Spinous processes. — The interspinous ligaments (membrana interspinalis), thin and membranous, are extended between the spinous processes in the dorsal and lumbar region; being thickest in the latter. They are in relation with the multifidus spinse muscle at each side. The Supraspinous ligament (ligamenta apicum, fig. 83) is a strong, fibrous cord, extending from the apex of the spinous process ment upwards to the tuberosity of the occipital bone, constitutes the rudimentary ligamentum nuchse of man. The latter is strengthened, as in animals, by a thin slip from the spinous process of each cervical vertebra. Transverse processes.—The intertransverse ligaments, thin and membranous, are found, only, between the transverse processes of the lower dorsal vertebrae. 2. Articulation of the Atlas with the Occipital hone.—The liga- ments of this articulation are seven in number : Two anterior occipito-atloid, Lateral oceipito-atloid, Posterior occipito-atloid, Two capsular. * Anterior view of the ligaments connecting the atlas, axis and occipital bone. A transverse section has been carried through the base of the skull, dividing the basilar process of the occipital bone and the petrous portion of the temporal bones. 1. Anterior round occipito-atloid ligament. 2. Anterior broad occipito-atloid ligament. 3. Commencement of the anterior common ligament. 4. Anterior atlo-axoid ligament, continuous inferiorly with the commencement of the anterior common ligament. 5. One of the atlo-axoid capsular ligaments; that on the opposite side has been removed, to show the approximated surfaces of the articular processes (6). 7. One of the occipito- atloid capsular ligaments. The most external of these fibres constitute the lateral occipito-atloid ligament. of the last cervical ver- tebra to the sacrum, and attached to each spinous process in its course. Like the anterior and posterior common ligaments, it is composed of fibres of un- equal length, the deeper fibres passing from one vertebra to the next, the superficial fibres extending over several spinous pro- cesses. It is thickest in the lumbar region. The continuation of this liga-