132 LIGAMENTS OF THE LOWER JAW. scribed are three in number ; to which may be added, as appertain- ing to the mechanism of the joint, an interarticular fibrous-cartilage and two synovial membranes, thus : — External lateral, Capsular, Internal lateral, Interarticular fibrous cartilage, Two synovial membranes. Fig. 80.* The external lateral j / ligament is a short and thick band of fibres, passing obliquely back- wards from the tu- bercle of the zygoma, to the external surface of the neck of the lower jaw. It is in relation, externally, with the integument of the face; internally, with the two synovial mem- branes of the articu- lation and the interarticular cartilage. The external lateral ligament acts conjointly with its fellow of the opposite condyle in the move- ments of the jaw. The internal lateral ligament (spheno-maxillary) has no connexion with, the articulation of the lower jaw, and is, therefore, incorrectly named; it is a thin aponeu- Fig. 81.t rotic expansion extending from the extremity of the spinous process of the sphe- noid bone to the margin of the dental foramen ; and is piei'ced at its insertion by the mylo-hyoidean nerve. Between the internal lateral ligament and neck of the jaw is a triangular space, in which are situated the internal max- illary artery, auriculotem- poral nerve, inferior dental artery and nerve, and part * External view of the articulation of the lower jaw. 1. Zygomatic arch. 2. Tubercle of the Zygoma. 3. Eamus of the lower jaw. 4. Mastoid portion of the temporal bone. 5. External lateral ligament. 6. Stylo-maxillary ligament. f Internal view of the articulation of the lower jaw. 1. Section through the petrous portion of the temporal bone and spinous process of the sphenoid. 2. Internal surface of the ramus and body of the lower jaw. 3. Capsular ligament. 4. Internal lateral ligament. 5. A small interval at its insertion through which the mylo-hyoidean nerve passes. 6. Stylo-maxillary ligament, a process of the deep cervical fascia.