78 RIBS—TRUE AND FALSE. triangularis sterni, aponeurosis of the obliquus externus, iuternus, and transversalis, rectus, and diaphragm. Eibs.—The libs are twelve in number at each side : the first seven are connected with the sternum, and are thence named sternal or true ribs; the remaining five are the asternal or false ribs ; and the last two, shorter than the rest, and free at their extremities, are ike floating ribs. The ribs increase in length from the first to the eighth, whence they diminish to the twelfth ; in breadth they diminish gradually from the first to the last, and, with the excep- tion of the last two, are broader at the anterior than at the pos- terior end. The first rib is horizontal in direction ; all the rest are oblique, the anterior extremity falling considerably below the pos- terior. Each rib presents an external and internal surface, a supe- rior and inferior border, and two extremities ; it is curved to correspond with the arch of the thorax, and twisted, so that, when laid on a horizontal surface, one end is tilted up. The external surface is convex, and marked by the attachment of muscles; the internal is flat, and corresponds with the pleura ; the superior border is rounded ; the inferior sharp and grooved on its inner edge, for the attachment of the intercostal muscles.* Near its vertebral extremity, the rib is somewhat bent; and oppo- site the bend, on the external surface, is a rough oblique ridge, which gives attachment to a tendon of the sacrodumbalis muscle, and is called the angle. The distance between the vertebral extre- Fig. 48 .f niity and the angle increases gradually from the second to the eleventh rib. Beyond the angle is a rough elevation, the tubercle ; and immediately at the base and under side of the tubercle a smooth surface for articulation with the extremity of the transverse process * This groove is commonly described as supporting the intercostal artery, vein, and nerve; which is not the case. t Vertebral extremity of the seventh rib of the right side. 1. The angle, marked by a groove for the tendon of the sacrolumbal. 2. The tubercle. 3. Articular surface. 4. Neck' of the rib. 5. Head, presenting two articular facets. 6. Kough surface for the attachment of the middle costo-transverse ligament. 7. Crest for the anterior costo-transverse ligament. 8. Upper rounded border. 9. Lower sharp border. 10. Groove on the inner edge of the lower border.