WALLS OP THE TYMPANUM. 562 and rather posteriorly to the fenestra ovalis, from which it is sepa- rated by a bony elevation, called the promontory. It serves to establish a communication between the tympanum and cochlea. In the fresh subject it is closed by a proper membrane (m. tympani secundaria) as well as by the lining of both cavities. The Mastoid cells are numerous, and occupy the whole of the in- terior of the mastoid process and part of the petrous bone. They communicate by a large irregular opening with the upper and pos- terior circumference of the tympanum. The Eustachian tube is a short canal about an inch and three quarters in length, extending obliquely between the pharynx and the anterior circumference of the tympanum. In structure it is partly fibrocartilaginous and partly osseous, is broad and expanded at its pharyngeal extremity, and narrow and compressed at the tympanum. . The Smaller openings serve for the transmission of the chorda tympani nerve, and three of the muscles of the tympanum. The opening by which the chorda tympani enters the tympanum is at about the middle of its posterior wall, and near the root of the pyramid. The opening of exit for the chorda tympani is at the fissura Glaseri in the anterior wall of the tympanum. The opening for the laxator tympani muscle is also situated in the fissura Glaseri, in the anterior wall of the tympanum. The open- ing for the tensor tympani muscle is in the inner wall, immediately above the opening of the Eustachian tube. The opening for the stapedius muscle is at the apex of a conical bony eminence, the pyramid, which is situated on the posterior wall of the tympanum, immediately behind the fenestra ovalis. Directly above the fenestra ovalis is a rounded ridge formed by the projection of the aquosductus Fallopii. Beneath the fenestra ovalis and separating it from the fenestra rotunda is the pro- montory, a rounded prominence formed by the projection of the first turn of the cochlea. It is channeled on its surface by three small grooves, which lodge the three tympanic branches of Jacob- son's nerve. The Foramina and processes of the tympanum may be arranged according to their situation, into four groups. 1. In the External wall is the meatus auditorius, closed by the membrana tympani. 2. In the Inner wall, from above downwards, are the— Opening for the tensor tympani, Ridge of the aquseductus Fallopii, Fenestra ovalis, Promontory, with the grooves for Jacobson's nerve, Fenestra rotunda.