STRUCTURE OF ARTERIES. 317 Fig. 147. Fig. 148.t of their fibres and their intimate union or fusion, a homogeneous membrane is formed, in which the meshes appear as simple perforations (fenes- trated membrane). In medium-sized ar- teries the elastic tissue forms a single layer lying exteriorly to the muscular fibres in the largest arteries of this class ; it is mingled with areolar tissue, and exhibits a tendency to become laminated, the lamina? alternating with similar layers of areolar tissue. In the large arte- ries this is the common character of the middle coat ; the elastic tissue is laminated, and between the laminae are strata of areolar and muscular tissue. The presence of elastic tissue as a chief con- stituent of the middle coat of arteries, gives them a yellow colour, while those arteries in which the muscular tissue is abundant have a reddish tint. In the aorta, the lamina? of the middle coat are forty or fifty in number. The internal coat is the thinnest of the three, and easily broken in the transverse direction ; it is composed of two layers, an internal layer or epithelium and an external elastic membrane, which is either homo- geneous or made up of elastic elements, dis- posed in a longitudinal direction. In the middle-sized and large arteries there is a third and intermediate layer, consisting of an imperfect areolar tissue provided with a network of elastic tissue, and presenting in certain situations a peculiar structure which has received the name of striped lamellce. The epithelium is composed of slender fusiform cells with elon- gated nuclei, lying parallel with the axis of the vessel; they are more lengthened in the small than in the large arteries, and in those of the smallest calibre are only distinguishable by their nuclei. The elastic layer is a thin, homogeneous membrane of the fenestrated kind, perforated with minute oblong openings having a direction parallel with the axis of the vessel. It is folded into longitudinal ruga? when the vessel is empty, and becomes extremely delicate and is finally lost in the minute vessels. Exteriorly this layer assumes a reticulated character, and is made up of a longitudinal network of elastic fibres. The intermediate layer of the internal * Elastic membrane of the fenestrated kind, from the middle coat of the carotid artery of the horse. Magnified 350 times; after Kolliker. t Epithelial cells of blood-vessels j a, b, from a vein; e, from an artery. Magnified 350 times; after Kolliker.