STRUCTURE OF MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 634 tory part of the pharynx ; Eustachian tubes ; larynx, trachea, and bronchial tubes ; uterus and Fallopian tubes ; and serous membrane of the ventricles of the brain. The epithelium of the mucous membrane of the alimentary canal is, therefore, squamous in the mouth, guttural part of the pharynx, and oesophagus ; and columnar in the stomach, intestines, and mucous glands. In the upper or nasal portion of the pharynx the epithelium is columnar and ciliated, as belonging to the apparatus of the air-passages. In the mouth it is thin and continuous at the outer edge of the lips with the epidermis ; in the oesophagus it is thick, and terminates by an abrupt and serrated border, ora serrata, at the cardiac orifice of the stomach ; below this point the epithelium is thin and transparent. The true mucous membrane or coRTUM is analogous to the corium of the skin, and is that part of the mucous coat on which its thickness chiefly depends. In structure it consists of two por- tions ; of a thin transparent surface-layer, the limitary membrane (membrana propria ; basement membrane), and an areolo-vascular portion, which constitutes its chief bulk. It is rich in blood-vessels, and its areolar element varies in quantity in different membranes, and also in different parts of the same membrane ; thus, it is thick in the oesophagus, thin in the stomach and intestines, and thickest in the bladder and vagina. In the limitary membrane and in that part of the corium imme- Fig. 246.f * Portion of the mucous membrane of the stomach, magnified 75 times. The alveoli measured ^ib of an inch in length, by ^ in breadth; the width of the septa being ToVo °f an incl1- The smaUer alveoli measured ^ of an inch in length, and 3^ in breadth. The trifid or quadrifid division of a small artery is seen at the bottom of each alveolus, and in the depressions between the divisions of the artery, the apertures of the gastric follicles; two, three, or four, in each depression. t Portion of the mucous membrane of the large intestine, magnified 75 times. The alveoli measured of an inch in length, by T|„ in breadth; the septa between the alveoli measuring ^ of an inch in width. The alveoli are less regular in form and shallower than those of the stomach; and in the bottom of each is a gland with a central excretory aperture. In some of the larger alveoli there are two glands.