644 THE LIVEE. being that in which the intestine is surrounded for three-fourths only of its circumference- The ascending and descending colon are covered by the serous membrane only in front. The transverse colon is invested completely, with the exception of the lines of attachment of the greater omentum and transverse meso-colon. And the sig- moid flexure is entirely surrounded, with the exception of the part corresponding with the junction of the left meso-colon. The upper third of the rectum is completely enclosed by the peritoneum ; the middle third has an anterior covering only, and the inferior third none whatsoever. Vessels and Nerves.—The Arteries of the alimentary canal, as they supply the tube from above downwards, are, the pterygo- palatine, ascending pharyngeal, superior thyroid, and inferior thyroid, in the neck ; oesophageal in the thorax ; gastric, hepatic, splenic, superior and inferior mesenteric, in the abdomen ; and inferior mesenteric, internal iliac, and internal pudic, in the pelvis. The veins from the abdominal alimentary canal unite to form the vena portse. The lymphatics and lacteals open into the thoracic duct. The Nerves of the pharynx and oesophagus are derived from the glossopharyngeal, pneumogastric, and sympathetic. The nerves of the stomach are the pneumogastric, and sympathetic branches from the solar plexus ; and those of the intestinal canal are the superior and inferior mesenteric and hypogastric plexuses. The extremity of the rectum is supplied by the inferior sacral nerves from the spinal cord. THE LIVER. The liver is a conglomerate gland of large size, appended to the alimentary canal, and performing the double office of separating im- purities from the venous blood of the chylopoietic viscera-previously to its return into the general venous circulation, and of secreting a fluid necessary to chylification, the bile. It is the largest organ in the body, weighing about four pounds, and measuring through its longest diameter about twelve inches. It is situated in the right hypochondriac region, and extends across the epigastrium into the left hypochondrium, frequently reaching, by its left extremity, the upper end of the spleen. It is placed obliquely in the abdomen ; its convex surface looking upwards and forwards, the concave downwards and backwards. The anterior border is sharp and free, and marked by a deep notch, and the posterior rounded and broad. It is in relation, superiorly and posteriorly with the diaphragm ; inferiorly with the stomach, ascending portion of the duodenum, transverse colon, right supra-renal capsule, and right kidney ; and corresponds, by its free border, with the lower margin of the ribs. Ligaments.—The liver is retained in its place by five ligaments, four of which are duplicatures of the peritoneum, situated on the