TENSOR VAGINAE FEMORIS. SARTORIUS. 273 Fig. 133.* this region, and examine the superficial fascia; which is next to be removed in the same manner. After the deep fascia has been well considered, it is likewise to be removed, by dissecting it off in the course of the fibres of the muscles. As it might not be con- venient to the junior student to ex- pose so large a surface at once as ordered in this dissection, the ver- tical incision may be crossed by one or two transverse incisions, as may be deemed most proper.' The Tensor vagina eemoris (stretcher of the5 sheath of the thigh) is a short flat muscle, situated on the outer side of the hip. It arises from the crest of the ilium, near its anterior superior spinous process, and is inserted between two layers of the fascia lata at about one-fourth down the thigh. Relations. —By its superficial sur- face with the fascia lata and in- tegument. By its deep surface with an internal layer of the fascia lata, gluteus meclius, rectus, and vastus externus. By its inner border near its origin with the sartorius. The Sartorius (tailor's muscle) is a long riband-like muscle, arising from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, and from the notch immediately below that pro- cess ; it crosses obliquely the upper third of the thigh, descends behind the inner condyle of the femur, and is inserted by an aponeurotic expan- sion into the inner tuberosity of the tibia. This expansion covers in the insertion of the tendons of the gra- cilis and semitendinosus muscle. The inner border of the sartorius muscle is the guide to the operation *■ Muscles of the anterior femoral region. 1. Crest of the ilium. 2. Its anterior superior spinous process. 3. Gluteus medius. 4. Tensor vaginas femoris; its insertion into the fascia lata is shown inferiorly. 5. Sartorius. 6. Rectus. 7. Vastus externus. 8. Vastus internus. 9. Patella. 10. Iliacus internus. 11. Psoas magnus. 12. Pectineus. 13. Adductor longus. 14. Part of the adductor magnus. 15. Gracilis.