DEVELOPMENT OF VERTEBRAE. 17 is convex in front; and in the pelvis an anterior concave curve is formed by the sacrum and coccyx. Besides the antero-posterior curves, a slight lateral curve exists in the dorsal m^ffa^arving its convexity towards the right side. j^"^ Development.—The vertebrae are developadbythree primary and, five secondary centres or epiphyses. The^rimary^enireV are, one for each lamella, and one for the body ; the epiphyses, one for the apex of the spinous process, one for that of eadti transverse process, one for the upper and one for the under Surface of the body. Ex- ceptions to this mode of development are met with in the atlas, axis, vertebra prominens, and lumbar vertebrae. The atlas has four centres : one for each lateral mass, one (sometimes two) for the an.- terior arch, and one for the centre of the posterior arch. The tt'xis has five: one (sometimes two) for the body, two for the odontoid process, appearing side by side in its base, and one for each lamella. The vertebra prominens has two additional centres for the anterior or costal segments of the transverse processes, and the lumbar ver- tebral two for the posterior segments of the transverse processes. The primary centres of the vertebrae make their appearance during the seventh or eighth week of embryonic existence, the lamella being somewhat in advance of the body. From the lamella are produced the spinous, transverse, and articular processes, and the sides of the body ; they unite, to complete the arch, one year after birth, and with the body during the fifth year. The epiphyses for the extre- mities of the spinous and transverse processes make their appear- ance at fifteen or sixteen, and become united between twenty and twenty-five. The epiphyses of the body are somewhat later in ap- pearance, and are consolidated between the periods of twenty-five and thirty years of age. The ossific centres, for the lateral masses, of the atlas, appear a the same time as those of the other vertebrae; they unite posteriorly at the end of the second year, by the intervention of the centre for the posterior arch. The one or two centres of the anterior arch ap- pear during the first year, and become consolidated with the lateral pieces during the fifth or sixth year. The axis developes its lateral pieces at the same time as the other vertebrae : they join posteriorly soon after birth, and with the body during the fourth or fifth year. The centres for the body and odontoid process appear during the sixth month, and are consolidated during the third year. The body of the axis is more largely developed at birth than that of the other vertebrae. The costal segments of the vertebra prominens appear during the second month, and become united to the body at the fifth or sixth year ; they sometimes remain permanently separate, and constitute cervical ribs. The transverse process of the first lumbar vertebra has sometimes a distinct centre, which may remain permanently separate, in that case forming a lumbar rib. The ossification of the arches of the vertebrae commences from