PERITONEUM. 615 cation letween the nutrient arteries and the viscera of the upper part of the abdomen. The Great omentum (gastro-colic) consists of four layers of peri- toneum, the two which descend from the stomach, and the same two, returning upon themselves to the transverse colon. A quantity of adipose substance is deposited around the vessels which ramify through its structure. It would appear to perform a double function in the economy : namely, protecting the intestines from cold ; and, facilitating the movement of the intestines on each other during their vermicular action. The Transverse meso-colon (fieaos, middle, being attached to the middle of the cylinder of the intestine) is the medium of con- nection between the transverse colon and the posterior wall of the abdomen. It affords to the nutrient arteries a passage to reach the intestine, and encloses between its layers, at the posterior part, the transverse portion of the duodenum. It also forms a transverse septum across the abdominal cavity. The Mesentery (/jl4<toj> %vrepov, connected to the middle of the cylinder of the small intestine) is the medium of connection between the small intestines and the posterior wall of the abdomen. It is oblique in direction, being attached to the posterior wall, from the left side of the second lumbar vertebra to the right iliac fossa ; retains the small intestines in their place, and gives passage to the mesenteric arteries, veins, nerves, and lymphatics. The Meso-rectum, in like manner, retains the rectum in con- nection with the front of the sacrum. Besides this, there are some minor folds in the pelvis, as the recto-vesical fold, the false liga- ments of the bladder, and the broad ligaments of the uterus. The Appendices epiploicce are small irregular pouches of the peritoneum, filled with fat, and attached like fringes to the large intestine. Three other duplicatures of the peritoneum are situated in the sides of the abdomen ; they are the gastro-phrenic ligament, the gastro-splenic omentum, the ascending and descending meso-colon. The gastro-phrenic ligament is a small duplicature of the peri- toneum, which descends from the diaphragm to the extremity of the oesophagus, and lesser curve of the stomach. The gastro-splenic omentum (ligamentum gastro-lienale) is the duplicature which con- nects the spleen to the stomach. The ascending meso-colon is the fold which connects the upper part of the ascending colon with the posterior wall of the abdomen ; and the descending meso- colon, that which retains the sigmoid flexure in connection with the abdominal wall. Structure of Serous Membrane.—Serous membrane consists of two layers, an external or areolar layer, and an internal layer or epithelium. The areolar layer is composed of areolar and elastic tissue ; is smooth, transparent, and non-vascular on its free surface ; and rough and vascular on the exterior, being connected to adjacent