COSTAL CARTILAGES. 79 of the corresponding vertebra. The vertebral end of the rib is some- what expanded, and termed the head, and that portion between the head and the tubercle, the neck. On the extremity of the head is an oval smooth surface divided by a transverse ridge into two facets for articulation with two contiguous vertebra?. The posterior sur- face of the neck is rough, for the attachment of the middle costo- transverse ligament; and upon its upper border is a crest, which gives attachment to the anterior costo-transverse ligament. The sternal extremity is flattened, and presents an oval depression, for the reception of the costal cartilage. The ribs that demand especial consideration are the first, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth. The first is the shortest rib ; it is broad and flat, and placed horizontally at the upper part of the' thorax, the surfaces looking upwards and downwards, in place of forwards and backwards as in the other ribs. At about the anterior third of the upper surface of the bone, and near its internal border, is a tubercle which gives attachment to the scalenus anticus muscle, and immediately before and behind that tubercle, a shallow oblique groove, the former for the subclavian vein, the latter for the subclavian artery. Near the posterior extremity of the bone is a thick and prominent tubercle, with a smooth articular surface for the transverse process of the first dorsal vertebra. There is no angle. Beyond the tubercle is a narrow constricted neck ; and at the extremity, a head, presenting a single articular surface. The second rib, in some of its characters, resembles the first. The tenth rib has a single articular surface on its head. The eleventh and twelfth have each a single articular surface on the head, no neck or tubercle, and are pointed at the free extremity. The eleventh has a slight ridge, representing the angle, and a shallow groove on the lower border; the twelfth has neither. Costal Cartilages.—The costal cartilages serve to prolong the ribs forward to the anterior part of the chest, and contribute mainly to the elasticity of the thorax. They are broad at their attachment with the ribs, and taper slightly towards the sternal end ; they diminish gradually in breadth from the first to the last ; in length they increase from the first to the seventh, and then decrease to the last. The cartilages of the first two ribs are horizontal in direction, the rest incline more and more upwards. In advanced age the costal cartilages are converted more or less completely into bone, the change taking place earlier in the male than in the female. The first seven cartilages articulate with the sternum ; the three next, with the lower border of the cartilage immediately preceding ; the last two lie free between the abdominal muscles. All the car- tilages of the false ribs terminate by pointed extremities. Development.—The ribs are developed by three centres ; one for