DUEA MATER. 445 The Glandulce Pacchioni* are small, round, whitish granula- tions, occurring singly or in clusters, and forming small groups of various size along the margin of the longitudinal fissure of the cere- brum, and more particularly near the summit of the latter. These bodies would seem to be of morbid origin ; they are absent in infancy, increase in numbers in adult life, and are abundant in the aged. They are generally associated with opacity of the arachnoid around their bases, but in some instances are wanting even in the adult. They have their point of attachment in the pia mater, from which they seem to spring, carrying with them the arachnoid mem- brane, and then, in proportion to their size, producing various effects upon contiguous parts. For example, when small, they remain free or constitute a bond of adhesion between the visceral and parietal layer of the arachnoid ; when of larger size they pro- duce absorption of the dura mater, and as the degree of absorption is greater or less, they protrude through that membrane, and form depressions on the inner surface of the cranium, or simply render the dura mater thin and cribriform. Sometimes they cause absorp- tion of the wall of the longitudinal sinus, and projecting into its cavity, give rise to the granulations described in connexion with that channel. In intimate structure they are composed of immature areolar and elastic tissue containing corpuscula amylacea. If the student cut through one side of the dura mater, in the direction of his incision through the skull, and turn it upwards towards the middle line, he will observe the smooth internal surface of this membrane. He will perceive also the large veins of the hemispheres filled with dark blood, and passing from behind for- wards to open into the superior longitudinal sinus ; and the firm connexion, by means of these veins and the Pacchionian bodies, between the opposed surfaces of the arachnoid membrane. If he separate these adhesions with his scalpel, he will see a vertical layer of dura mater descending between the hemispheres ; and if he draw one side of the brain a little outwards, he will be enabled to perceive the extent of the process of membrane, which is called the falx cerebri. The processes of dura mater which are sent inwards towards the interior of the skull are the falx cerebri, tentorium cerebelli, and falx cerebelli. The Falx cerebri (falx, a sickle), so named from its sickle-like appearance, narrow in front, broad behind, and forming a sharp curved edge below, is attached in front to the crista galli process of the ethmoid bone, and behind to the tentorium cerebelli. The Tentorium cerebelli (tentorium, a tent) is a roof of dura * These bodies are incorrectly described as conglobate glands by Pacchioni, in an epistolatory dissertation. " De Glandulis conglobatis Durse Meningis indeque ortis Lymphaticis ad Piam Matrem productis," published at Eome, in 1705.