PAPIX,L^ OF THE TONGUE. 570 substance, and in the middle of the organ a vertical septum of fibrous tissue. The tongue is connected, posteriorly, with the os hyoides by muscular attachment; and to the epiglottis by mucous membrane, which forms the three glosso-epiglottic folds called frcena epiglot- tidis. At either side it is held in connexion with the lower jaw by mucous membrane ; and in front, a fold of that membrane, which is named frcenum linguce, is formed beneath its under surface. The surface of the tongue is covered by a dense layer analogous to the corium of the skin, which gives support to papillae. A raphe marks the middle line of the organ, and divides it into symmetrical halves. The Papillae, of the tongue are, the— Papillae circumvallatae, Papillae filiformes, Papillae conicae, Papillae fungiformes. The Papilla circumvallatce (p. lenticulares) are of large size, and from fifteen to twenty in number. They are situated on the dorsum of the tongue, near its root, and form a row at each side, which meets its fellow at the middle line, like the two branches of the letter A. Each papilla resembles a cone, attached by its apex to the bottom of a cup-shaped depression ; hence they are also named papillae calyciformes. This cup-shaped cavity forms a kind of fossa around the papilla, whence their name circumvallatae. At the meeting of the two rows of these papillae upon the middle of the root of the tongue, is a deep mucous follicle called foramen cwcum. The Papillce conical and filiformes cover the whole surface of the tongue in front of the circumvallatae, but are most abundant towards its anterior part. They are conical and filiform in shape, and many of them are pierced at the extremity by a minute aper- ture. Hence, they may be regarded as follicles rather than sentient organs ; the true sentient papillae being extremely minute and occupying their surface, as they do that of the other papillae of the tongue. The Papillae fungiformes (p. capitatae) are irregularly dispersed over the dorsum of the tongue, and are easily recognised among the other papillae by their rounded heads, larger size, and red colour. A number of these papillae will generally be observed at - the tip of the tongue. Behind the papillae circumvallatae, at the root of the tongue, are a number of mucous glands (lingual), which open on the surface. There is also a small cluster beneath the tip of the tongue. Vessels and Nerves.—The tongue is abundantly supplied with blood by the lingual arteries. The Nerves are three in number, and of large size; the gusta-