ABDUCTOE POLLICIS.—FLEXOR OSSIS METACARPI. 261 of the fore-finger and second interosseous muscle, and has no rela- tion with the radial artery. The tendons of the extensors, as of the flexor muscles of the fore- arm, are provided with synovial bursse as they pass beneath the annular ligament: those of the back of the wrist have separate sheaths, formed by the posterior annular ligament. Actions.— The anconeus is associated in its action with the triceps extensor cubiti: it assists in extending the forearm on the arm. The supinator longus and brevis effect the supination of the forearm, and antagonize the two pronators. The extensor carpi radialis longior and brevior and extensor carpi ulnaris, extend the wrist in opposition to the two flexors of the carpus. The extensor communis digitorum restores the fingers to the straight position after they have been flexed by the two flexors, sublimis and profundus. The extensor ossis metacarpi, primi internodii, and secundi internodii pollicis, are the special extensors of the thumb, and serve to balance the actions of the flexor ossis metacarpi, flexor brevis, and flexor longus pollicis. The extensor indicis produces extension of the index finger, and is therefore named "indicator," and the extensor minimi digiti supplies that finger with the power of exerting a distinct extension. MUSCLES -OF THE HAND. Radial or Thenar Region. Abductor pollicis, Flexor brevis pollicis, Flexor ossis metacarpi (opponens), Adductor pollicis. Dissection.—The hand is best dissected by making an incision along the middle of the palm, from the wrist to the base of the middle finger, and crossing it at each extremity by a transverse incision, then turning aside the flaps of integument. For exposing the muscles of the radial region, the removal of the integument and fascia on the radial side will be sufficient. The Abductor pollicis (brevis) is a small thin muscle, which arises from the trapezium bone and annular ligament. It is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the thumb. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the external portion of the palmar fascia; by its deep surface with the flexor ossis metacarpi. At its inner side it is separated by a narrow cellular interspace from the flexor brevis pollicis. This muscle must be divided from its origin, and turned aside, in order to see the next. The Flexor ossis metacarpi (opponens pollicis) arises from the trapezium and annular ligament, and is inserted into the whole length of the metacarpal bone. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the abductor pollicis. By its deep surface with the trapezo-metacarpal articulation and metacarpal bone. Internally with the flexor brevis pollicis. The