MUSCLES OF THE LARYNX. 598 of mucous membrane, which connect the anterior surface of the epiglottis with the root of the tongue. The middle of these con- tains elastic tissue. The hyo-epiglottic ligament is a band of yellow elastic tissue passing between the anterior aspect of the epiglottis near its apex, and the upper margin of the body of the os hyoides. The thyro-epiglottic ligament is a long and slender fasciculus of yellow elastic tissue, which embraces the apex of the epiglottis, and is inserted into the receding angle of the thyroid cartilage im- mediately below the anterior fissure and above the attachment of the chordae vocales. Muscles.—The muscles of the larynx are eight in number ; the five larger are the muscles of the chordse vocales and rima glottidis ; the three smaller are muscles of the epiglottis. The five muscles of the chordse vocales and rima glottidis are, Crico-thyroid, Thyro-arytenoideus, Crico-arytenoideus posticus, Arytenoideus. Crico-arytenoideus lateralis, The Crico-tliyroid muscle arises from the anterior surface of the cricoid cartilage, and passes obliquely outwards and backwards to be inserted into the lower and inner Fig. 225.* border of the ala of the thyroid from its tubercle as far back as the inferior cornu. The Crico - arytenoideus posticus arises from the depression on the pos- terior surface of the cricoid cartilage, and passes upwards and outwards to be in- serted into the outer angle of the base of the arytenoid. The Crico-arytenoideuslateralis arises from the upper border of the side of the cricoid, and passes upwards and back- wards to be inserted into the outer angle of the base of the arytenoid cartilage. The Thyro-arytenoideus arises from the receding angle of the thyroid carti- lage, close to the outer side of the chorda vocalis, and passes backwards parallel with the cord, to be inserted into the base and outer surface of the arytenoid cartilage. The Arytenoideus muscle occupies the posterior concave surface of the arytenoid cartilages, between which it is stretched. It consists of three planes of transverse and oblique fibres ; hence it * Posterior view of the larynx. 1. Thyroid cartilage, right ala. 2. Ascend- ing cornu. 3. Descending cornu. 4, 7. Cricoid cartilage. 5, 5. Arytenoid cartilages. 6. Arytenoideus muscle, consisting of oblique and transverse fas- ciculi. 7. Crico-arytenoidei postici muscles. 8. Epiglottis.