LYMPHATICS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. 417 vein and sheath of the carotid artery, by tbe side of the pharynx, oesophagus, and trachea, and extend from the base of the skull to the root of the neck, where they are in communication with the lymphatic vessels and glands of the thorax. Vessels.—The Superficial lymphatic vessels of the head and face are disposed in three groups ; occipital, which take the course of the occipital vein to the occipital and deep cervical glands ; tem- poral, which follow the branches of the temporal vein to the parotid and deep cervical glands ; and facial, which accompany the facial vein to the submaxillary lymphatic glands. The Deep lymphatic vessels of the head are the meningeal and cerebral; the former are situated in connexion with the meningeal veins, and escape through foramina at the base of the skull, to join the deep cervical glands. The cerebral lymphatics, according to Fohmann, are situated on the surface of the pia mater, none having as yet been discovered in the substance of the brain. They pass most probably through the foramina at the base of the skull, to terminate in the deep cervical glands. The Deep lymphatic vessels of the face proceed from the nasal fossos, mouth, and pharynx, and terminate in the submaxillary and deep cervical glands. The Superficial and deep cervical lymphatic vessels accompany the jugular veins, passing from gland to gland ; at the root of the neck they communicate with the thoracic lymphatic vessels, and terminate, on the right side, in the ductus lymphaticus dexter ; on the left, in the thoracic duct, near its termination. LYMPHATICS OP THE UPPER EXTREMITY. Glands.—The Superficial lymphatic glands of the arm are not more than four or five in number, and of very small size. One or two are situated near the median basilic and median cephalic vein, at the bend of the elbow ; and one or two near the basilic vein, on the inner side of the upper arm, immediately above the elbow. The Deep glands in the forearm are excessively small and infre- quent ; two or three may be found in the course of the radial and ulnar vessels. In the upper arm there is a chain of small glands, accompanying the brachial artery. The Axillary glands are numerous and of large size. Some are closely adherent to the vessels, others are dispersed in the loose cellular tissue of the axilla, and a small chain may be observed extending along the lower border of the pectoralis major to the mammary gland. Two or three subclavian glands are situated be- neath the clavicle, and serve as the medium of communication be- tween the axillary and deep cervical lymphatic glands. Vessels.—The Superficial lymphatic vessels of the upper extre- mity commence on the fingers and take their course along the fore- arm to the bend of the elbow. The greater part reach their desti- E E