542 ORGAN OF VISION. The form of the eyeball is that of a sphere, of about one inch in diameter, having the segment of a smaller sphere engrafted on its anterior surface, which increases its antero-posterior diameter. The axes of the two eyeballs are parallel with each other, but not so with the axes of the orbits, which are directed outwards. The optic nerves follow the direction of the orbits, and therefore enter the eyeballs at their nasal side. The globe of the eye is composed of tunics, and of refracting media called humours. The tunics are three in number, 1. Sclerotic and Cornea, 2. Choroid, Iris, and Ciliary processes, 3. Retina and Zonula ciliaris. The humours are also three— Aqueous, Crystalline (lens), Vitreous. First tunic.—The Sclerotic and Cornea form the external tunic of the eyeball, and give it its peculiar form. Four-fifths of the globe are invested by the sclerotic, the remaining fifth by the cornea. The Sclerotic (<TK\y)pbs, hard) is a dense fibrous membrane, thicker behind than in front. It is continuous, posteriorly, with the sheath of the optic nerve derived from the dura mater, and is pierced by that nerve as well as by the ciliary nerves and arteries. Anteriorly it presents a bevelled edge, which receives the cornea as a watch- glass is received by the groove of its case. Its anterior surface is covered by a thin tendinous layer, the tunica albuginea, derived from the expansion of the tendons of the four recti muscles ; and by its posterior surface it gives attachment to the two oblique muscles. The tunica albuginea is covered, for part of its extent, by the mucous membrane of the front of the eye, the conjunctiva ; and, by reason of the brilliancy of its whiteness, gives occasion to the common expression, "the white of the eye." At the entrance of the optic nerve, the sclerotic forms a thin cribriform lamella (lamina cribrosa), which is pierced by a number of minute openings for the passage of the nervous filaments. One of these openings, larger than the rest, and situated in the centre of the lamella, is the porus M>ticus} through which the arteria centralis retinae enters the%£ePtll. The Cornea (corneus, horny) is the transparent prominent layer which constitutes the anterior fifth of the globe of the eye. In its form it is circular, concavo-convex, and resembles a watch-glass. Its is received by its edge, which is sharp and thin, within the bevelled