BRACHIAL NERVES. 504 junction the plexus consists of two cords, from which a third is given off, and the three become placed, one to the inner side of the axillary artery, one behind, and one to its outer side. Lower down, each of the lateral cords gives off a branch which unites with its fellow in front of the artery, and surrounds the vessel ; the trunk formed by the union of the two branches being the median nerve-. The plexus is broad in the neck, narrows as it descends into the axilla, and again enlarges at its lower part, where it divides into its terminal branches. The brachial plexus communicates with the cervical plexus by means of a branch from the fourth,to the fifth nerve ; and receives branches from the two inferior cervical ganglia of the sympathetic. The plexus is in relation in the neck with the scaleni muscles ; lower down it is placed between the clavicle and subclavius muscle above, and the first rib and first serration of the serratus magnus muscle below. In the axilla, it is situated at first to the outer side of and then behind the axillary artery, resting by its outer border against the tendon of the subscapularis muscle. Lower down it completely surrounds the artery. The branches of the brachial plexus are : from the outer cord, one of the anterior thoracic nerves, the musculo-cutaneous nerve, and the outer head of the median; from the inner cord, the other anterior thoracic nerve, inner head of the median, internal cuta- neous, lesser internal cutaneous of Wrisberg, and ulnar; from the posterior cord, the subscapular nerves, circumflex, and musculo- spiral. Besides these, the brachial plexus, while in the neck, gives off several superior muscular branches ; one to the subclavius muscle, one to the rhomboid muscles and levator anguli scapulae ; one of large size, the suprascapular ; and a long and slender nerve which passes down the thoracic wall of the axilla, the posterior thoracic, or external respiratory nerve of Bell. In reference to their distribution, the branches of the brachial plexus may be arranged in three groups, thoracic, scapular, and brachial, as follows :— Thoracic. Scapular. Anterior thoracic, Superior muscular, Posterior thoracic. Suprascapular, Subscapular. Brachial. Musculo-cutaneous, Internal cutaneous, Lesser internal cutaneous, Median, Ulnar, Musculo-spiral, Circumflex.