MUSCLES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. 246 angle of the scapula ; middle, composed of the serrations connected with the third and fourth ribs, and inserted into the greater part of the posterior border ; inferior, consisting of the last five serra- tions, these latter indigitate with the obliquus externus and form a thick muscular fasciculus, which is inserted into the scapula near its inferior angle. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the pectoralis major and minor, subscapularis, latissimus dorsi, and axillary vessels and nerves. By its deep surface with the ribs and intercostal muscles, to which it is connected by loose cellular tissue. Actions.—The serratus magnus is the great external inspiratory muscle, raising the ribs when the shoulders are fixed, and thereby increasing the. cavity of the chest. Acting upon the scapula it draws the shoulder forwards, as in the case of diseased lungs, where the chest has become almost fixed from apprehension of the expanding action of the respiratory muscles. Anterior Scapular Region. Subscapularis. The Subscapularis arises from the whole of the under surface of the scapula excepting the superior and inferior angle, and terminates by a broad and thick tendon, which is inserted into the lesser tuberosity of the humerus, and by muscular fibres into the surface of bone immediately below that process. In structure the subsca- pularis is composed of eight or ten fasciculi, four or five of which arise from one side of as many aponeurotic processes attached to the ridges of the venter of the scapula ; and four or five proceed from the other side of the aponeurotic processes and from the surface of bone intervening between them. Its tendon forms part of the capsule of the joint, glides over a large bursa which separates it from the base of the coracoid process, and is lined by a prolongation of the synovial membrane of the articulation. Relations.—By its anterior surface with the serratus magnus, coraco-brachialis, and axillary vessels and nerves. By its posterior surface with the scapula, and shoulder-joint. Action.—It rotates the head of the humerus inwards, and is a powerful defence to the joint. When the arm is raised, it draws the humerus downwards. Posterior Scapular Region. Supra-spinatus, Teres minor, Infra-spinatus, Teres major. The Supra-spinatus muscle {supra, above; spina, the spine) arises from the supra-spinous fossa, spine of the scapula, and proper investing fascia ; and is inserted into the uppermost depression on the greater tuberosity of the humerus ; the tendon being united near its attachment with that of the infra-spinatus. The tendon cannot be seen until the acromion process is removed.