AQUEOUS HUMOUR.—VITREOUS HUMOUR. 549 retina. The under surface of the zonula is in contact with the hya- loid membrane, and around the lens forms the anterior fluted wall of the canal of Petit. The connexion between these folds and the ciliary processes may be demonstrated by dividing an eye transversely into two portions, then raising the anterior half, and allowing the vitreous humour to separate from its attachment by its own weight. The folds of the zonula will be seen to be drawn out from between the folds of the ciliary processes. Humours.—The Aqueous humour is situated in the anterior and posterior chamber of the eye ; it is a weakly albuminous fluid, with an alkaline reaction, and a specific gravity very little greater than that of distilled water. According to Petit, it scarcely exceeds four or five grains in weight. The anterior chamber is the space intervening between the cornea in front, and the iris and pupil behind. The posterior chamber is the narrow space less than half a line in depth,* bounded by the posterior surface of the iris and pupil in front, and by the ciliary processes, zonula ciliaris, and lens behind. The two chambers are lined by a thin layer, the secreting membrane of the aqueous humour. The Vitreous humour forms the principal bulk of the globe of the eye. It is an albuminous and highly transparent fluid, enclosed in a delicate membrane, the hyaloid. From the inner surface of this membrane, numerous thin lamellze are directed inwards, and form compartments in which the fluid is contained. According to Hannover, these lamellae have a radiated arrangement, like those of the transverse section of an orange, and are about 180 in num- ber. In the centre of the vitreous humour is a tubular canal, through which a minute artery is conducted from the arteria cen- tralis retinae to the capsule of the lens. This vessel is injected without difficulty in the foetus. The Crystalline humour or lens is situated immediately behind the pupil, and surrounded by the ciliary processes, which slightly overlap its margin. It is more convex on the posterior than on the anterior surface, and is embedded in the anterior part of the vitre- ous humour, from which it is separated by the hyaloid membrane. It is invested by a peculiarly transparent and elastic membrane, the capsule of the lens, which contains a small quantity of fluid called liquor Morgagni^ and is retained in its place by the attachment of the zonula ciliaris. Dr. Jacob is of opinion that the lens is con- * Winslow and Lieutaud thought the iris to be in contact with the lens; it frequently adheres to the capsule of the latter in iritis. The depth of the posterior chamber is greater in old than in young persons. t John Baptist Morgagni was born in 1682. He was appointed Professor of Medicine in Bologna, and published the first part of his "Adversaria Ana- tomica," in 1706. He died in 1771.