359 CCELIAC AXIS.—HEPATIC ARTERY. from one of its divisions, and sometimes they give origin to the supra-renal arteries. The Cceliac axis (coeliaca ; tcoiXia, ventriculus) is the first single trunk given off by the abdominal aorta. It arises opposite the upper border of the first lumbar vertebra, is about half-an-inch in length, and divides into three large branches, gastric, hepatic, and splenic. Relations.—The trunk of the coeliac axis has in relation with it, in front, the lesser omentum ; on the right side, the right semilunar ganglion and lobus Spigelii of the liver; on the left side, the left semilunar ganglion and cardiac portion of the stomach ; and below, the upper border of the pancreas and lesser curve of the stomach. It is completely surrounded by the solar plexus. The Gastric artery (coronaria ventriculi), the smallest of the three branches of the coeliac axis, ascends between the two layers of the lesser omentum to the cardiac orifice of the stomach, then runs along the lesser curvature to the pylorus, and inosculates with the pyloric branch of the hepatic. It is distributed to the lower ex- tremity of the oesophagus and lesser curve of the stomach; and anastomoses with the oesophageal arteries, vasa brevia of the splenic artery, and pyloric branch of the hepatic artery. The Hepatic artery (hepatica) curves forward, and ascends along the right border of the lesser omentum to the liver, where it divides into two branches (right and left), which enter the trans- verse fissure, and are distributed along the portal canals to the right and left lobes.* It is in relation, in the right border of the lesser omentum, with the ductus communis choledochus and portal vein, and is surrounded by the hepatic plexus of nerves, and nume- rous lymphatics. There are sometimes two hepatic arteries, in which case one is derived from the superior mesenteric. The Branches of the hepatic artery are, the The Pyloric branch, given off from the hepatic near the pylorus, is distributed to the commencement of the duodenum and to the lesser curve of the stomach, where it inosculates with the gastric artery. The Oastro-duodenalis artery is a short but large trunk, which Pyloric, Gastro-duodenalis, Cystic. I Grastro-epiploica dextra, Pancreatico-duodenalis. * For the mode of distribution of the hepatic artery within the liver, see the " Structural Anatomy" of that organ in the Chapter on the Viscera.