INTEROSSEOUS ARTERY. 356 between the two heads of the flexor carpi ulnaris, lying beneath the ulnar nerve, and inosculates with the inferior profunda, anasto- motica magna, and interosseous recurrent. The Interosseous artery is a short trunk which arises from the ulnar, opposite the bicipital tuberosity of the radius, and passes backwards to the interosseous membrane, where it divides into the anterior and posterior interosseous artery. The Anterior interosseous (interossea interna) passes down the forearm upon the interosseous membrane, between the flexor pro- fundus digitorum and flexor longus pollicis, and behind the pro- nator quadratus; it then passes through an opening in the inter- osseous membrane to the back of the wrist, where it inosculates with the posterior carpal branches of the radial and ulnar. The anterior interosseous artery gives off several muscular branches ; nutrient branches to the radius and ulna ; a companion branch to the median nerve ; and at the upper border of the pronator quad- ratus, a small branch, which descends behind that muscle to inosculate with the anterior carpal arteries. The median artery is sometimes of large size, and occasionally takes the place of the superficial palmar arch. The Posterior interosseous artery (interossea externa ; perforans suprema) passes backwards through an opening between the upper part of the interosseous membrane and the oblique ligament, and descends between the superficial and deep layer of muscles of the forearm to the back of the wrist, where it inosculates with the an- terior interosseous and posterior carpal branches of the radial and ulnar. At its upper part it gives off a recurrent branch, posterior interosseous recurrent, which returns upon the elbow between the anconeus, extensor carpi ulnaris and supinator brevis, and anasto- moses with the posterior terminal branches of the superior profunda. The Muscular brandies of the ulnar artery are distributed to the muscles of the ulnar border of the forearm. The Carpea anterior, a branch of small size, passes outwards upon the front of the wrist-joint, and contributes to form the ante- rior carpal arch by inosculating with the anterior carpal branch of the radial artery. The Carpea posterior, larger than the preceding, passes beneath the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris muscle to the back of the wrist-joint, where it inosculates with the posterior carpal branch of the radial artery, and forms & posterior carpal arch. The Metacarpea, often a branch of the preceding, passes along the inner border of the metacarpal bone of the little finger, and forms the dorsal collateral branch of that finger. The Communicating or deep branch arises close to the annular ligament, and dips between the abductor minimi digiti and flexor brevis to inosculate with the termination of the deep palmar arch. It is accompanied by the deep palmar branch of the ulnar nerve.