EPITHELIUM. 631 At the termination of the ileum in the large intestine, the mucous membrane forms two semilunar folds, strengthened by the muscular coat. The termination of the ileum is oblique and flattened, and constitutes the division between the caecum and colon, the two folds of mucous membrane being the ileo-ccecal or ileo-colic valve (valvula Bauhini). The position of these folds is such that one belongs to the caecum, the other to the colon, the opening between them being oblong, and oval, and not inaptly com- pared to a button-hole; morever, the colic flap somewhat overlaps the caecal flap, and is so disposed in relation to the entrance of the ileum, that the contents of the small bowel ai-e necessarily dis- charged into the caacum. In the ccecum and colon, the mucous membrane is smooth, and lines the surfaces of the plica; sigmoidem which form the boundaries of the sacculi of the large intestine. In the rectum, it forms three valvular folds,* one of which is situated near the commencement of the intestine ; the second, extending from the side of the tube, is placed opposite the middle of the sacrum ; and the third, which is the largest and most constant, projects from the anterior wall of the bowel opposite the base of the bladder. Besides these folds, the membrane in the empty state of the intestine is thrown into longitudinal plaits, somewhat similar to those of the oesophagus ; these have been named the columns of the rectum. The mucous membrane of the rectum is connected to the muscular coat by a loose areolar tissue, as in the oesophagus. Structure op Mucous Membrane. — In intimate structure mucous membrane is composed of three layers, epithelium, true mucous membrane or corium, and submucous tissue. Epithelium is analogous to the epidermis in forming a layer of protection to the structure which it invests ; it constitutes the sur- face of the mucous membrane, and indeed of all the other internal membranes of the body, namely, the serous and synovial membranes, the heart, the blood-vessels, and lymphatics. Like the epidermis also it is composed of minute cells, generated on the surface of the corium in a soft, transparent, jelly-like substance, filled with small granules, the blastema, which serves besides the purpose of a matrix in connecting the cells together. The blastema, originally fluid, soon becomes filled with organic granules ; these granules congre- gating together in small masses constitute the nucleus, or original part of the cell, the separate granules being the nucleoli. Around the nucleus other granules accumulate and grow, a boundary mem- brane is formed about them, and the cell is complete, consisting of its nucleus with included nucleoli, the cavity of the cell, which is composed of granules and secondary cells, and the cell-membrane. This process of cell-formation being in constant operation on all the surfaces of the body, the old cells of the surface of the epithelium are regularly cast off, while young cells take their place from * Houston, " On the Mucous Membmne of the Eectum." Dublin Hospital Reports, vol. v.