660 SUPRA-RENAL CAPSULES. free nuclei. Besides which there are also met with other cells with single and multiple nuclei, and of various size, intermingled with blood corpuscles in various stages of degradation ; and pigmentary granules. The cells are for the most part collected together into small aggregated masses of various dimensions. Vessels and Nerves.—The splenic artery is of a very large size in proportion to the bulk of the spleen; it is a division of the cceliac axis. The branches which enter the spleen are distributed to dis- tinct sections of the organ, and anastomose very sparingly with each other ; they terminate in elegant bundles or penicilli of minute straight arteries, which end in a capillary network, and the latter forms a plexus throughout the substance of the parenchyma, and around the splenic corpuscles. The veins, by their numerous dilatations, constitute the principal part of the bulk of the spleen; they pour their blood into the splenic vein, which is one of the two great formative trunks of the portal vein. The lymphatics, few in number, are superficial and deep ; the former are situated between the coats of the gland ; the latter issue from its substance through the hilum, and terminate by means of a trunk in the thoracic duct. The nerves are, the splenic plexus, derived from the solar plexus. THE SUPRA-RENAL CAPSULES. The supra-renal capsules or glandular supra-renales are two small yellowish and flattened bodies surmounting the kidneys, and inclining inwards towards the vertebral column. The right is some- what three-cornered in shape, the left semilunar; they are connected to the kidneys by the common investing areolar tissue, and each capsule is marked on its anterior surface by a fissure or hilum which appears to divide it into two lobes. The right supra-renal capsule is closely adherent to the posterior and under surface of the liver, the left lies in contact with the pancreas and spleen. Both capsules rest against the crura of the diaphragm on a level with the tenth dorsal vertebra, and by their inner border are in relation with the great splanchnic nerve and semilunar ganglion. They are larger in the foetus than in the adult, and appear to perform some office specially connected with embryonic life. The anatomy of these organs in the foetus will be found in the succeeding chapter. In structure the supra-renal capsule is composed of a cortical and medullary substance, and invested by a firm but thin coat of areolar tissue, which sends fine processes inwards through its interior. The cortical substance is of a yellowish-white colour externally, and brownish within, consists of straight parallel columns arranged perpendicularly to the surface, and is somewhat friable, breaking in the direction of these columns. The medullary substance, twice or three times the thickness of the cortical substance, is soft, of a greyish-white or pale red colour, darker when the venous plexus is congested, and easily detached from the cortical layer, being con-