487 FACIAL NERVE. of the cms cerebelli. The smaller and most internal of these, and at the same time the most dense in texture, is the facial nerve or portio dura. The external nerve, which is soft and pulpy, and often grooved by contact with the preceding, is the auditory nerve or portio mollis. * Facial nerve ; portio dura; seventh pair of Soemmering.—The facial nerve, the motor nerve of the face, arises from the upper part of the groove between the corpus olivare and corpus restiforme close to, and by a few fibres from, the pons Varolii; its deep origin being traced through the corpus restiforme to the side of the floor of the fourth ventricle. The nerve passes forward, resting on the crus cere- belli, and comes into relation with the auditory nerve, with which it enters the meatus auditorius internus, lying at first to the inner side of, and then upon that nerve. At the bottom of the meatus, the facial nerve enters the aqueductus Fallopii, and takes its course forwards to the hiatus Fallopii, in the anterior wall of the petrous bone, Mi ere it forms a gaugliform swelling (intuinescentia gangliformis, ganglion geniculare), and receives the petrosal branch of the Vidian nerve. It then curves backwards towards the tympanum, and descends in the inner wall of that cavity to the stylo-mastoid foramen. Emerg- ing at the stylo-mastoid foramen, it passes forwards within the parotid gland, crossing the external carotid artery, to the ramus of the lower jaw, were it splits into two trunks, temporo-facial and cervico-facial. These trunks divide into numerous branches, which escape from the anterior border of the parotid gland, and are dis- tributed in a radiated manner over the side of the face, from the temple to below the lower jaw ; on the masseter muscle the branches communicate and form loops, and the whole arrangement over the side of the face has been termed pes anserinus. In the meatus auditorius, the facial nerve communicates with the auditory nerve by one or two "filaments ; the intumescentia gangli- formis receives the nervus petrosus superficialis major and minor, and sends a twig back to the auditory nerve ; behind the tympanum, the nerve receives one or two twigs from the auricular branch of the pneumogastric; at its exit from the stylo-mastoid foramen it re- ceives a twig from the glossopharyngeal, and in the parotid gland one or two large branches from the auriculo-temporal nerve. Besides these, the facial nerve has numerous peripheral communications, with the branches of the fifth nerve on the face, with the cervical * A third nerve of small size, portio intermedia of Wrisberg, is brought into view by separating these two cords. The researches of Morganti render it probable that the portio intermedia is connected, at its origin in the corpus restiforme, with the auditory nerve; that it is the posterior or sensitive root of the facial; that the intumescentia gangliformis of the facial is the ganglion of this root; that it bestows the principal part of the sensitive function on the facial; and that the chorda tympani is partly derived from the intume- scentia gangliformis. 4