314 GENERAL ANATOMY OP ARTERIES. segment, the segmental branch ; and one which is the proper con- tinuation of the trunk of the vessel to the segment heyond, the trans-segmental branch. The segmental artery lies near the bone, diminishes rapidly in size, and gives off numerous branches which supply the bone and muscles and anastomose with other arteries. The trans-segmental artery retains its size throughout, and gives off no important branches, excepting at its commencement or near its termination, and is chiefly concerned in transmitting the current of blood to the segment beyond. Besides these, Mr. Nunn gives the name of anastomotic or communicating vessels to another group of arteries, whose office is to connect other vessels together. These anastomotic branches may run towards or from the centre of circu- lation, they may be single or double, or they may divide and re- unite, and so constitute an arterial plexus. They serve to connect together the branches of the segmental artery, the segmental with the trans-segmental, or they may unite distant portions of the same trunk. In the division of an artery into two branches, it is observed that the combined area of the two branches is somewhat greater than that of the single trunk ; and if the combined area of all the branches at the periphery of the body were compared with that of the aorta, it would be seen that the blood, in passing from the aorta into the numerous distributing branches, was flowing through a conical space, of which the apex might be represented by the aorta, and the base by the surface of the body. The advantage of this provision in facilitating the circulation is sufficiently obvious ; for the increased channel which is thus provided for the current of the blood, serves to compensate for the retarding influence of friction, resulting from the distance of the heart and the division of the vessels. Communications between arteries are free and numerous, and increase in frequency with the diminution in size of the branches ; so that, through the medium of the minute ramifications, the entire body may be considered as one uninterrupted circle of inosculations, or anastomoses (avh, between, arofxa, mouth). This increase in the frequency of anastomosis in the smaller branches is a provision for counteracting the greater liability to impediment existing in them than in the larger branches. Where freedom of circulation is of vital importance, this communication of the arteries is very re- markable, as in the circle of Willis in the cranium, or in the distribution of the arteries of the heart. It is also strikingly seen in situations where obstruction is most likely to occur, as in the distribution to the alimentary canal, around joints, or in the hand and foot. Upon this free communication existing everywhere between arterial branches is founded the principle of cure by the ligature of large arteries ; the ramifications of the branches given off from the artery above the ligature inosculate with those which proceed from the trunk of the vessel below the ligature ; these anastomosing branches enlarge and constitute a collateral circula- tion, in which, as is shown in the preparations made by Sir x\stley