241 FEMALE PERINEUM. The Constrictor vaginae is analogous to the accelerator urinse of the male; it arises from the tendinous centre of the perineum, where it is continuous with the sphincter ani and transversus perinei; and passes forwards on each side of the entrance of the vagina, to be inserted into the corpus cavernosum clitoridis. The Erector clitoridis wises from the ramus of the ischium, and is inserted on each side into the crus clitoridis. It is in rela- tion by its inner border with the constrictor vaginae. The Transversus perinei is a small muscle arising on each side from the ramus of the. ischium, and inserted into the side of the constrictor vaginae. The Compressor urethra has the same origin and insertion, and exercises the same functions in the female as in the male. The Sphincter ani and Sphincter ani internus surround the lower extremity of the rectum, as in the male. The Levator ani is inserted into the side of the vagina and rectum. The Cocctgeus and Sacro-coccygeus anticus are identical with the same muscles in the male. A ctions.—The acceleratores urinse being continuous at the middle line, and attached at each side to the triangular ligament, by means of their posterior fibres, support the bulbous portion of the urethra, and acting forcibly, propel the semen, or the last drops of urine from the canal. The posterior and middle fibres, according to Krause,* contribute to the erection of the corpus spongiosum, by compressing the venous structure of the bulb; and the anterior fibres, according to Tyrrell, + assist in the erection of the entire organ by compressing the vena dorsalis, by means of their insertion into the fascia penis. The erector penis becomes entitled to its name from spreading out on the dorsum of the organ into a mem- branous expansion (fascia penis), which, according to Krause, com- presses the dorsal vein during the action of the muscle, and espe- cially after the erection of the organ has commenced. The trans- verse muscles serve to steady the tendinous centre, that the muscles attached to it may obtain a firm point of support. According to Cruveilhier, they draw the anus backwards during the expulsion of the fasces, and antagonise the levatores ani, which carry the anus forwards. The compressor urethras, taking its fixed point from the ramus of the ischium at each side, can, says Guthrie, '' cOmpress the urethra so as to close it; I conceive completely, after the manner of a sphincter." The external sphincter, being a cutaneous muscle, contracts the integument around the anus, and by its attachment to the tendinous centre of the perineum and point of the coccyx, assists the levator ani in giving support to the opening during ex- pulsive efforts. The internal sphincter contracts the extremity of * Miiller Archiv fiir Anatomie, Physiologie, &c. 1837. t Lectures in the College of Surgeons. 1839. R