SUPERIOR MAXILLARY BONES. 43 Fig. 27* artery ; on the under surface they are somewhat concave, and marked by a groove, which lodges the nasal branch of the ophthal- mic nerve. The superior border is narrow and thick, the inferior broad, thin, and irre- gular. Development.—By a single centre for each bone, the first ossific deposition making its appearance at the same time as in the ver- tebrae. Articulations.—With four bones : fron- tal, ethmoid, nasal, and superior maxil- lary. Attachment of Muscles. — It has in relation with it the pyramidalis nasi and compressor naris; but neither is inserted into it. Superior Maxillary Bones.—The superior maxillary are the largest bones of the face, with the exception of the lower jaw ; they form, by their union, the whole of the upper jaw, and assist in the construction of the nose, orbit, cheek, and palate. Each bone is divisible into a body and four processes. The body is triangular in form, and hollowed in its interior into a large cavity, the antrum maxillare (antrum of Highmore). It presents for examination four sur- faces, external or facial, internal g' 28 ^ or nasal, posterior or zygomatic, and superior or orbital. The external, or facial surface, forms the anterior part of the bone ; it is irregularly concave, and presents a deep depression towards its centre, the canine fossa, which gives attachment to two muscles, compressor nasi and levator anguli oris. Immediately above this fossa is the infra- orbital foramen, the termination of the infraorbital canal, trans- mitting the superior maxillary nerve and infraorbital artery ; and above the infraorbital foramen is the lower margin of the orbit, * Nasal bone of the left side; its external or convex surface. 1. Superior border. 2. Internal or mesial border 3. External border. 4. Inferior or free border. 5. Foramen for a small artery. t Superior maxillary bone of the right side, as seen on its lateral aspect. 1. External or facial surface; the depression in which the cipher is placed is the canine fossa. 2. Posterior, or zygomatic surface. 3. Superior or orbital