85 ULNA. kl 1 each side are the external and internal condyle, jp^> 53* the latter being considerably the longer ; and running upwards from the condyles along the borders of the bone are the- condyloid ridges, of which the external is the most prominent. Im- | mediately in front of the trochlea is a small de- pression for receiving the coronoid process of the ulna during flexion of the fore-arm ; and imme- diately behind it a large and deep fossa, for con- taining the olecranon process during extension. Development.—By seven centres : one for the shaft, one for the head, one for the tuberosities, one .for the eminentia capitata, one for the trochlea, and one for each condyle, the internal preceding the external. Ossification commences in the diaphysis of the humerus soon after the clavicle ; in the head and tuberosities, during the second and third year of infantile life; in the eminentia capitata and trochlea during the third and sixth year; and in the condyles during the twelfth and fifteenth. The entire bone is con- solidated at twenty. , Articulations.—With the glenoid cavity of ' the scapula, the ulna, and radius. Attachment of Muscles.—To twenty-four: by the greater tuberosity, supra-spinatus, infra- spinatus, and teres minor; lesser tuberosity, subscapularis ; anterior bicipital ridge, pectoralis major; posterior bicipital ridge and groove, teres major and latissimus dorsi; shaft, external and internal head of the triceps, deltoid, coraco- brachialis, and brachialis anticus ; external con- dyloid ridge and condyle (condylus extensorius), extensors and supinators of the fore-arm, viz., supinator longus, extensor carpi radialis longior, extensor carpi radialis brevior, extensor communis digitorum, extensor minimi digiti, extensor carpi ulnaris, anconeus, and supinator brevis; internal condyle (condylus flexorius), flexors and one pronator, viz., pi'onator radii teres, flexor carpi radialis, palmaris longus, flexor sublimis digitorum, and flexor carpi ulnaris. Ulna. ■—The ulna is a long bone, divisible into a shaft and two extremities. The upper extremity is large, and forms principally the articulation of the elbow ; the lower extremity is small, and is excluded from the wrist-joint by an interarticular fibrocartilage. * Humerus of the right arm, its posterior aspect. 1. Shaft. 2. Head. 3, 3. Neck. 4, 4. Surgical neck. 5. Great tuberosity. 6. Facet of insertion of the infra-spinatus and teres minor . 7. Groove for the musculo-spiral nerve. 8. Articular surface of the elbow. 9. Internal condyle. 10. External condyle. 11. External condyloid ridge. 12. Fossa for the reception of the olecranon.