ETHMOID BONE. 41 nose, and perforated on its upper surface by a number of small openings, from which peculiarity it has received its name. It con- sists of a perpendicular lamella and two lateral masses. The perpendicular lamella is a thin central plate, which articu- lates with the vomer and cartilage of the septum, and assists in forming the septum of the nose. It is surmounted superiorly by a thick and strong process, the crista galli, which projects into the cavity of the skull, and gives attachment to the falx cerebri. From the base of the anterior border of this process there project forward two small plates, alar processes, which are received into corre- sponding depressions in the frontal bone, and often complete pos- teriorly the foramen caecum. At each side of the crista galli, on the upper surface of the bone, is a thin and grooved plate perforated with a number of small openings, the cribriform lam^^3j^eUQh. supports the bulb of the olfactory nerve, and gives.; passage to itfN filaments, and to the nasal branch of the ophthalmic nen|jj. j|s' t^e middle of the groove of this lamella w ^ the foramina pierce the bone com- pletely, but at either side they are the apertures of canals, which run for some distance in the substance of the central lamella, inner wall of the lateral mass, and spongy bonesi The opening for the nasal nerve is a narrow slit in the ante- rior part of the cribriform lamella, close to the crista galli. The cribri- form lamella serves to connect the lateral masses with the perpendi- cular plate. The lateral masses (labyrinthi) are divisible into an internal and external surface, and four borders, superior, inferior, anterior, and posterior. The internal surface is rough, slightly convex, and forms the external boundary of the upper part of the nasal fossaa. Towards the posterior border of this surface is a narrow horizontal fissure, the superior meatus of the nose ; the upper margin of this fissure is * Ethmoid bone, seen from above and behind. 1. Central lamella. 2,2. La- teral masses; the ciphers are placed on the posterior border of the lateral mass at each side. 3. Crista galli process. 4. Cribriform plate of the left side, pierced by its foramina. 5. The hollow space immediately above and to the left of this number is the superior meatus. 6. Superior turbinated bone. 7. -Middle turbinated bone; the numbers 5, 6, 7, are situated on the internal surface of the left lateral mass, near its posterior part. 8. External surface of the lateral mass, or os planum. 9. Superior or frontal border of the lateral mass, grooved by the anterior and posterior ethmoidal canals. 10. Eefers to the concavity of the middle turbinated bone, which is the upper boundary of the middle meatus.