DUODENUM.—ILEUM. 626 of the liver by means of a baud of peritoneum called ligamentum hepatico-duodenale ; and to the right kidney by another band, the ligamentum duodeno-renale. The first or oblique portion (pars transversa superior) of its course, between two and three inches in length, is completely enclosed by the peritoneum : it is in relation, above with the liver and neck of the gall-bladder ; in front with the great omentum and abdominal parietes ; and behind with the right border of the lesser omentum and its vessels. The second or perpendicular portion (pars descendens) is situated altogether behind the peritoneum : it is in relation by its anterior surface with the commencement of the arch of the colon ; by its posterior surface with the concave margin of the right kidney, the inferior vena cava, and ductus communis choledochus ; by its right border with the ascending colon: and by its left border with the pancreas. The ductus communis choledochus and pancreatic duct open into the internal and posterior side of the perpendicular por- tion, a little below its middle. The third or transverse portion (pars transversa inferior) of the duodenum, the longest and narrowest of the three, lies between the diverging layers of the transverse meso-colon, with which and with the stomach it is in relation in front; above, it is in contact with the lower border of the pancreas, the superior mesenteric artery and vein being interposed; and, behind, it rests on the inferior vena cava and aorta. The Jejunum (jejunus, empty) is named from being generally found empty. It forms the upper two-fifths of the small intes- tine : commencing at the bend of the duodenum, flexura duodeno- jejunalis, on the left side of the second lumbar vertebra, and termi- nating in the ileum. It is thicker to the touch than the rest of the intestine, has a pinkish tinge from containing more mucous mem- brane than the ileum, and is situated in the umbilical region and left iliac fossa. The Ileum (el\eiv, to twist, to convolute) includes the remaining three-fifths of the small intestine. It is somewhat smaller in calibre, thinner in texture, and paler than the jejunum ; but there is no mark by which to distinguish the termination of the one or the commencement of the other. It is situated in the umbilical and hypogastric region and pelvic. cavity, and terminates in the ri°iit iliac fossa, by opening at an obtuse angle into the commence- ment of the colon. At its entrance into the large intestine it has a cuneiform shape. The small intestines form in their course a double curve resem- bling the letter S, the upper curve to the right representing that of the duodenum ; and the lower to the left that of the jejunum and ileum to the termination of the latter in the colon. The jejunum and ileum are surrounded, above and at the sides, by the colon ; in front they are in relation with the omentum and