233 DIAPHRAGMA. thrown from the tendon of one crus to that of the other, beneath which pass the aorta and thoracic duct. The great splanchnic nerve passes through the diaphragm between the internal and middle pillar of the crus ; the trunk of the sympathetic and vena azygos between the middle and external pillar. The lesser splanchnic nerve escapes between those fibres of the external pillar which pro- ceed from the ligamentum arcuatum internum. Relations.—By its superior surface with the pleurae, pericar- dium, heart, and lungs. By its inferior surface with the perito- neum ; on the left with the stomach and spleen ; on the right with the convexity of the liver ; behind, with the kidneys, supra-renal capsules, duodenum, and solar plexus. By its circumference with the ensiform cartilage, ribs, intercostal muscles, and vertebral column. Actions.—The external oblique muscle, acting singly, would draw the thorax towards the pelvis, and twist the body to the op- posite side. Both muscles, acting together, flex the thorax directly on the pelvis. The internal oblique of one side draws the chest downwards and outwards : both together bend it directly forwards. Either transversalis muscle, acting singly, will diminish the size of the abdomen on its own side, and both together will constrict the entire cylinder of the cavity. The recti muscles, assisted by the pyramidales, flex the thorax towards the pelvis, and, through the medium' of the lineae transversa, are enabled to act when their sheath is curved inwards by the action of the transversales. The pyramidales are tensors of the linea alba. The abdominal are ex- piratory muscles, and chief agents in expulsion ; by their action, the foetus is expelled from the uterus, the urine from the bladder, faeces from the rectum, bile from the gall-bladder, ingesta from the sto- mach and bowels in vomiting, and mucus and irritating substances from the bronchial tubes, trachea, and nasal passages during cough- ing and sneezing. To produce these effects, they all act together. Their violent and continued action produces hernia, and, acting spasmodically, they may occasion rupture of the viscera. The qua- dratus lumborum draws the last rib downwards, and is an expira- tory muscle ; it also serves to bend the vertebral column to one or the other side. The psoas parvus is a tensor of the iliac fascia, and, taking its fixed origin from below, may assist in flexing the verte- bral column forwards. The diaphragm is an inspiratory muscle, and the sole agent in tranquil inspiration. When in action, the muscle is drawn downwards, its plane being rendered oblique from the level of the ensiform cartilage, to that of the upper lumbar ver- tebra. During relaxation it is convex, and encroaches considerably on the cavity of the chest, particularly at the sides, where it cor- responds with the lungs. It assists the abdominal muscles power- fully in expulsion, every act of that kind being preceded or accom- panied by inspiration. Spasmodic action of the diaphragm produces hiccough and sobbing, and its rapid alternation of contraction and