FCETAL ORGANS OF SENSE. 702 ventricle. Yet it is from this impure blood that the nutrition of the lower extremities is provided. Hence we are not surprised at their insignificant development at birth ; while we perceive the pro- vidence of nature, which directs the nutrient current, in abundance, to the organs of sense, prehension, and deglutition, organs so neces- sary, even at the instant of birth, to the safety and welfare of the creature. After birth, the foramen ovale becomes gradually closed by a membranous layer, which is developed from the margin of the open- ing from below upwards, and completely separates the two auricles. The situation of the foramen is seen in the adult heart, on the septum auricularum, and is called the fossa ovalis; the prominent margin of this opening is the annulus ovalis. As soon as the lungs have become inflated by the first act of in- spiration, the blood of the pulmonary artery courses through its right and left branches into the lungs, to be returned to the left auricle by the pulmonary veins. Thus the pulmonary circulation is established. Then the ductus arteriosus contracts and degenerates into an impervious fibrous cord, serving in after life simply as a bond of union between the left pulmonary artery and the concavity of the arch of the aorta. The current through the umbilical cord being arrested, the hypo- gastric arteries likewise contract and become impervious. The umbilical vein and ductus venosus, also deprived of their circulating current, become reduced to fibrous cords, the former being the round ligament of the liver, and the latter a fibrous band which may be traced along the fissure of the ductus venosus to the inferior vena cava. Nervous system.—The brain is very soft, almost pulpy, and has a reddish tint throughout ; its weight at birth, relatively to the entire body, is as one to six, and the difference between the white and grey substance is imperfectly marked. The nerves are firm and well developed. ORGANS OF SENSE. Eye.—The eyeballs are of large size and well developed at birth. The pupil is closed by a vascular membrane called the membrana pupillaris, which disappears at about the seventh month. Some- times it remains permanently, and produces blindness. It consists of two thin membranous layers, between which the ciliary arteries are prolonged from the edge of the iris, and form arches and loops by returning to it again, without anastomosing with those of the opposite side. The removal of the membrane takes place by the contraction of these arches and loops towards the edge of the pupil. The capsule of the lens is extremely vascular. Ear.—The ear is remarkable for its early development ; the labyrinth and ossicula auditus are ossified at an early period, and