MUSCLES OF THE FACE. 184 risorius Santorini and platysma myoides, parotid gland and Stenon's duct, transverse facial artery, pes anserinus, and integument. By its internal surface with the temporal muscle, buccinator, from which it is separated by a mass of fat, and ramus of the lower jaw. By its posterior border with the parotid gland; by the anterior border with the facial artery and vein. Dissection.—Make an incision along the upper border of the zygoma, for the purpose of separating the temporal fascia from its attachment. Then saw through the zygomatic process of the malar bone, and through the root of the zygoma near the meatus audito- rius. Draw down the zygoma, and with it the origin of the mas- seter, and dissect the latter muscle away from the ramus and angle of the inferior maxilla. Now remove the temporal fascia from the rest of its attachment, and the whole of the temporal muscle will be brought into view. The Temporalis (crotaphytes) is a broad and radiating muscle, occupying a considerable extent of the side of the head, and filling the temporal fossa. It is covered in by a dense fascia (temporal fascia), which is attached along the temporal ridge on the side of the skull, extending from the external angular process of the frontal bone to the mastoid portion of the temporal; and inferiorly to the upper border of the zygoma. The muscle arises by tendinous fibres from the whole length of the temporal ridge, and by muscular fibres from the temporal fascia and entire surface of the temporal fossa. Its fibres converge to a strong and narrow tendon, which is inserted into the apex and internal surface of the coronoid process of the lower jaw. Relations.—By its external surface with the temporal fascia (which separates it from the attollens and attrahens aurem muscle, and temporal vessels and nerves) and with the zygoma and mas- seter. By its internal surface with the bones forming the tem- poral fossa, the external pterygoid muscle, part of the buccinator, and the internal maxillary artery with its deep temporal branches. By sawing through the coronoid process near its base, and pull- ing it upwards, together with the temporal muscle, which may be dissected from the fossa, we obtain a view of the entire extent of the buccinator and external pterygoid muscle. The Buccinator (buccina, a trumpet; alveolo-labialis), the trumpeter's muscle, arises from the alveolar process of the superior maxillary bone, the external oblique line of the inferior maxillary as far forward as the second bicuspid tooth, and the pterygo-maxil- lary ligament. This ligament is the raphe of union between the buccinator and superior constrictor muscle, and is attached by one extremity to the hamular process of the internal pterygoid plate, and by the other to the extremity of the molar ridge. The fibres of the muscle converge towards the angle of the mouth, where some are continuous with the levator and depressor anguli oris, and the rest cross each other, the superior being continuous with the inferior