303 PERINEAL FASCIA. further outwards, the fascia passing to the side of the neck of the bladder constitutes its lateral true ligament; and reflected forwards from the neck of the bladder upon the prostate, it forms a sheath for that gland which encloses the prostatic plexus of veins. Upon the rectum and vagina it also forms a sheath. The posterior boundary of the pelvic fascia forms a free semilunar border in front of the pyriformis muscle. Perineal fascia.—The fasciae of the perineum are the superfi- cial and the deep. The superficial fascia consists as in other situations of two layers, one lying next the skin and containing an abundance of fat, the other more condensed lying in contact with the muscles. The superficial layer in the perineum is connected with the raphe at the middle line and with the external border of the sphincter ani, and is continuous, by its circumference, with the dartos of the * Side view of the viscera of the pelvis, showing the distribution of the pelvic fascia. 1. Symphysis pubis. 2. Bladder. 3. Rectovesical fold of peritoneum, passing from the anterior surface of the rectum to the posterior part of the bladder; and from the upper part of the bladder to the abdominal parietes. 4. Ureter. 5. Vas deferens crossing behind the ureter. 6. Vesi- cula seminalis. 7, 7, 8, 8. Prostate gland divided longitudinally. 9. Pro- static portion of the urethra. 10. Membranous portion embraced by the compressor urethrse muscle. 11. Commencement of the corpus spongiosum penis, the bulb. 12. Anterior ligaments of the bladder. 13. The pelvic fascia reflected on the rectum. 14. An interval between the pelvic fascia and trian- gular ligament occupied by a plexus of veins. 15. The triangular ligament. 16. Cowper's gland. 17. Superficial perineal fascia ascending in front of the root of the penis to become continuous with the dartos of the scrotum (18). 19. The fascia prolonged to the rectum. 20. Lower part of the levator ani. 21. A layer of fascia situated between the bladder and rectum. Fig, 142 * .»