388 PLANTAR ARTERIES. branches are distributed to the muscles of the sole of the foot and to the articulations of the tarsus. The Digital branches (interossese plantares) are four in number : the first is distributed to the outer side of the little toe ; the three others pass forward to the cleft between the toes, and divide into collateral branches, which supply the adjacent sides of the three external toes, and the outer side of the second. At the bifurcation of the toes, a small branch is sent upwards from each digital artery, to inosculate with the interosseous branches of the metatarsea ; these are the anterior perforating arteries. The Posterior perforating are three small branches which pass upwards between the heads of the three external dorsal interossei muscles, to inosculate with the arch formed by the metatarsea artery. Varieties in the Arteries of the Lower Extremity.—The femoral artery occasionally divides at Poupart's ligament into two branches, and sometimes into three ; the former is an instance of the high division of the profunda artery ; and in a case of the latter kind which occurred during my dissections, the branches were, the pro- funda, superficial femoral, and internal circumflex. Dr. Jones Quain, in his "Elements of Anatomy," records an instance of high division of the femoral artery, in which the two vessels became again united in the popliteal region. The point of origin of the profunda artery varies considerably in different subjects, being sometimes nearer to and sometimes farther from Poupart's ligament, but more frequently the former. The branches of the popliteal artery are very liable to variety in size ; and in all these cases the compensating principle, so constant in the vascular system, is manifested. When the anterior tibial is of small size, the peroneal is large; and in place of dividing into two terminal branches at the lower third of the leg, descends to the lower part of the inter- osseous membrane, and emerges upon the front of the ankle, to sup- ply the dorsum of the foot; or the posterior tibial and plantar ar- teries are large, and the external plantar is continued between the heads of the first dorsal interosseous muscle, to be distributed to the dorsal surface of the foot. Sometimes the posterior tibial artery is small and thread-like; and the peroneal, after descending to the ankle, curves inwards to the inner malleolus, and divides into the two plantar arteries. If, in this case, the posterior tibial be suffi- ciently large to reach the ankle, it inosculates with the peroneal previously to the division of the latter. The internal plantar artery sometimes takes the distribution of the external plantar, which is short and diminutive, and the latter not unfrequently replaces a deficient dorsalis pedis. The varieties of arteries are interesting in the practical application of a knowledge of their principal forms to surgical operations ; in their transcendental anatomy, as illustrating the normal type of dis- tribution in animals; or, in many cases, as diverticula permitted