STRUCTURE OF BONE. 4 their circumference, and, in the dried state of the bone, contain merely the remains of membranous cells and some calcareous salts.* In the living bone, the corpuscles and their tubuli are probably filled with a nutritive fluid holding calcareous salts in solution. The form of the cells is oval or round, and more or less flattened ; their long diameter corresponds with the long axis of the bone, and their tubuli cross the direction of the lamellae, and constitute a delicate network in the basis substance by communicating with each other and with the tubuli of neighbouring cells. The tubuli of the cells nearest the Haversian canals terminate on the internal surface of those passages. The size of the cells varies in extreme measurement from ^ttutt *° •srnr °f an inca in l°ng diameter, an ordinary average being TCVo" ? the breadth of the oval cells is about one-half or one- third their length, and their thickness one-half their breadth. They are situated between the lamellse, to which circumstance they owe their compressed form. In the fresh state, bones are invested by a dense fibrous membrane, the periosteum, which covers every part of their surface with the exception of the articular extremities, the latter being coated by a thin layer of cartilage. The periosteum of the bones of the skull is termed pericranium ; and the analogous membrane of external cartilages, perichondrium. Lining the interior of the medullary canal of long bones, the Haversian canals, the cancelli, and the cancelli of the flat and irregular bones, is the medullai*y membrane, which acts as an internal periosteum. It is through the medium of the vessels ramifying in these membranes that the changes required by nutrition occur in bones, and the secretion of medulla into their interior is effected. The medullary canal, Haversian canals and cancelli of long bones, and the cancelli of other bones, are filled with a yellowish oily substance, the medulla, which is contained in a loose cellular tissue formed by the medullary membrane. Development of Bone.—To explain the development of bone it is necessary to inform the student that all organized bodies, whether belonging to the vegetable or animal kingdom, are developed pri- mordially from minute vesicles. These vesicles, or, as they are properly termed, cells, are composed of a thin membrane, containing a fluid or granular matter, and a small rounded mass, the nucleus, around which the cell was originally formed. Moreover, the nucleus generally contains one or more small round granules, the nucleolus, or nucleoli. From cells having this structure all the tissues of the body are elaborated ; the ovum itself originally presented this simple form, and the embryo at an early period is wholly composed of such nucleated cells. In their relation to each other, cells may be isolated and independent, as is exemplified in the corpuscles of the blood, * Miiller and Henle conceived that the bone cells and tubuli were the prin- cipal seat of the calcareous matter. Hence they were named calcigerous cells and tubuli.