391 STRUCTURE OF THE VEINS. peroneal in the lower extremity, there are two veins, placed one at each side of the artery, and named vence comites. The larger arteries, as the axillary, subclavian, carotid, popliteal, femoral, are accompanied by a single venous trunk ; and certain veins, such as those of the cranium, spinal canal, liver, and larger veins of bones, run apart from arteries. Sinuses differ from veins in their structure; and also in their mode of distribution, being confined to especial organs and situated within their substance. The principal venous sinuses are those of the dura mater, diploe, cancellous structure of bones, and uterus. The communications between veins are more frequent than those of arteries, and they take place between the larger as well as the smaller vessels ; the vena3 comites communicate with each other in their course by means of short transverse branches which pass across from one to the other. These communications are strikingly ex- hibited in the frequent inosculations of the spinal veins, and in the various venous plexuses, as the spermatic plexus, and vesical plexus. The office of these inosculations is very apparent, as tending to obviate the obstructions to which veins are particularly liable from the thinness of their coats, and from their inability to overcome much impediment by the force of their current. Veins, like arteries, are composed of three coats, external, middle, and internal. The External coat is the thickest of the three, increasing by degrees from the smallest to the largest; in the former gradually diminishing until it is lost altogether, and nothing remains but the one coat of the capillary; in the veins of medium size acquiring double the thickness of the middle coat, and in some of the large veins attaining four or five times its thickness. In structure it resembles the external coat of arteries, consisting of areolar tissue interwoven with a network of elastic fibres of the finer and coarser kind. In some of the larger veins, as the inferior vena cava, the trunks of the hepatic veins, and vena portse, there exists besides, a layer of longitudinal smooth muscular fibres, occupying the inner half or two-thirds of the external coat, and, where the middle coat is absent, lying in contact with the internal coat. This muscular stratum is met with in its highest stage of development in that portion of the inferior vena cava which is embedded in the liver, the muscular fibres being intermingled with a fine network of elastic fibres. The Middle or contractile coat is thin but firmer than the external, and composed of areolar tissue, elastic tissue, and smooth muscular fibres ; the two latter being less in quantity than in the corresponding coat of arteries, and the muscular fibres being more abundant in the medium-sized than in the larger veins. The especial character of the middle coat of veins is, however, the presence of longitudinal as well as transverse fibres; the longitudinal fibres consisting of closely-reticulated elastic tissue, occurring in