629 STRUCTURE OF MUCOUS MEMBRANE. rectum, therefore, forms a double flexure in its course, the one being directed from side to side, the other from before backwards. It is smaller in calibre at its upper part than the sigmoid flexure, but becomes gradually larger as it descends, and its lower extremity, previously to its termination at the anus, forms a dilatation of con- siderable but variable magnitude. With reference to its relations, the rectum is divided into three portions; the first, including half its length, extends to about the middle of the sacrum, is completely surrounded by peritoneum, and connected to the sacrum by means of the meso-rectum. This por- tion is in relation, above, with the left sacro-iliac symphysis ; and, below, with the branches of the internal iliac artery, sacral plexus of nerves and left ureter; one or two convolutions of the small intestine are interposed between the front of the rectum and the bladder, in the male ; and between the rectum and the uterus with its appendages, in the female. The second portion, about three inches in length, is closely attached to the surface of the sacrum, and covered by peritoneum only in front; it is in relation by its lower part with the base of the bladder, vesiculse seminales, and prostate gland; and in the female with the vagina. The third portion curves backwards from opposite the prostate gland and tip of the coccyx to terminate in the anus ; it is embraced by the levatores ani, and is about one inch and a half in length. This portion is separated from the membranous part of the urethra by a triangular space ; in the female the triangular space intervenes between the vagina and rectum, and constitutes by its base the perineum. The A nus is situated at a little more than an inch in front of the extremity of the coccyx. The integument around it is covered with hairs, and is thrown into numerous radiated plaits which are obliterated during the passage of feces. The margin of the anus is provided with an abundance of sebiparous glands, and the epidermis may be seen terminating by a fringed and scalloped border, at a few lines above the extremity of the opening. STRUCTURE OF THE INTESTINAL CANAL. The intestinal canal has four coats :—mucous, submucous or areolar, muscular, and an external coat, which, in the pharynx and oesophagus, is areolo-fibrous, and in the abdominal cavity serous, being derived from the peritoneum. Mucous coat.—The mucous membrane of the mouth is thick, of a pinkish-red colour, semitransparent, furnished with an abun- dance of papilla?, and rich in vessels and nerves. It lines the whole interior of the oral cavity, and is closely adherent to the boundaries of that cavity, in some parts muscle, in others, as upon the jaws and hard palate, bone. It commences, in front, at the junction of the red margin with the skin of the lips, is continuous with the