DORSAL NERVES. 511 posterior aspect of the forearm, where it divides into branches which supply all the muscles of the posterior aspect of the forearm, with the exception of the anconeus, supinator longus, and extensor carpi radialis longior. One branch, longer than the rest, descends upon the interosseous membrane to the posterior part of the wrist, and forms a gangliform swelling (a common character of nerves which supply joints), from which numerous filaments are distri- buted to the wrist-joint. The Circumflex nerve arises from the posterior cord of the brachial plexus in common with the musculo-spiral. It passes downwards over the border of the subscapulars muscle, winds around the neck of the humerus with the posterior circumflex artery, and splits into an upper and lower division ; the upper division is continued onwards beneath the deltoid, and distributed to the ante- rior part of that muscle, some of its branches piercing the muscular fibres and becoming cutaneous. The lower division sends a branch (remarkable for a gangliform swelling) to the teres minor, several branches to the posterior part of the deltoid, and mounting upon the border of that muscle becomes cutaneous, supplying the integu- ment over its lower half by means of several filaments. Besides its muscular and cutaneous branches, the trunk of the nerve gives off" an articular branch, which enters the shoulder-joint at its posterior and under part. DORSAL NERVES. The dorsal nerves are twelve in number at each side ; the first appearing between the first and second dorsal vertebra; the last between the twelfth dorsal and first lumbar. They are smaller than the lower cervical nerves ; diminish gradually in size from the first to the tenth, and then increase to the twelfth. Each nerve, as soon as it has escaped from the intervertebral foramen, separates into an anterior and posterior cord ; the anterior cords being the intercostal nerves, the posterior the dorsal branches of the dorsal nerves. The Dorsal branches pass directly backwards between the trans- verse processes of the vertebrae, lying internally to the anterior costo-transverse ligament, and each nerve divides into an internal and external branch. The internal branches diminish in size from the first to the last. The six upper branches pass inwards between the semispinalis dorsi and multifidus spinse, and, piercing the rhomboid, trapezius and latissimus dorsi, become cutaneous close to the spinous processes, and are then reflected outwards to supply the integument. The six lower branches are lost in the muscles of the spine. The external' branches increase in size from above downwards, and make their appearance in the line of separation between the longissimus dorsi and sacro-lumbalis. The six upper branches are distributed to those muscles and the levatores costarum. The six