INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY. 333 The Inferior dental (maxillaris vel alveolaris inferior) descends to the dental foramen, and enters the canal of the lower jaw in company with the inferior dental nerve. Opposite the bicuspid teeth it divides into two branches, one of which is continued onwards within the bone as far as the symphysis, to supply the incisor teeth ; while the other, mentalis, escapes with the nerve at the mental foramen, and anastomoses with the inferior labial and submental branch of the facial. It supplies the alveoli (rami alveolares) and teeth of the lower jaw, sending small branches along the canals in their roots. At the inferior dental foramen, it gives off a mylo-hyoid branch, which accompanies the mylo- hyoidean nerve. The Arteria meningea media ascends behind the temporo- maxillary articulation to the foramen spinosum in the spinous process of the sphenoid bone, and entering the cranium, divides into an anterior and a posterior branch. The anterior branch crosses the great ala of the sphenoid to the groove or canal in the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone, and divides into branches which ramify on the external surface of the dura mater, and anastomose with corresponding branches from the opposite side. The posterior branch crosses the squamous portion of the temporal bone, to the posterior part of the dura mater and cranium. The branches of the arteria meningea media are distributed chiefly to the bones of the skull; in the middle fossa it sends a small petrosal branch through the hiatus Fallopii to the facial nerve, and branches to the Casserian ganglion. The Meningea parva is a small branch which ascends to the foramen ovale, and passes into the skull to be distributed to the Casserian ganglion and dura mater. It gives off a twig to the nasal fossae and soft palate. The Muscular branches (musculares) are distributed, as their names imply, to the five muscles of the maxillary region; the temporal branches (temporales profundse) are two in number; they inosculate with the middle temporal. The pterygoid branches are distributed to the two muscles of that name. The masseteric artery passes outwards, behind the tendon of the temporal muscle and over the sigmoid notch, to the masseter muscle. The buccal branch, arising opposite the anterior part of the pterygoid muscle, passes downwards with the buccal nerve to the buccinator muscle. It inosculates with the facial and transverse facial artery. The Superior dental artery (supramaxillaris vel alveolaris supe- rior) is given off from the internal maxillary, just as that vessel is about to make its turn inwards to reach the spheno-maxillary fossa. It descends on the tuberosity of the superior maxillary bone, and sends its branches through several small foramina to supply the posterior teeth of the upper jaw, and the antrum. The terminal branches are continued forwards on the alveolar process, to be distributed to the gums and sockets of the teeth.