OCCIPITAL BONE. 23 curved line. In the middle of the ridge is a projection, called the external occipital protuberance; and defending from it a small vertical ridge, the spine. Above and below the superior curved line the surface is rough, for the attachment of muscles; and on either side of the spine is a convexity, the receptaculum cerebelli. About three-quarters of an inch below the superior curved line is another transverse ridge, the inferior curved line, and beneath the latter the foramen magnum. On each side of the foramen magnum, nearer its anterior than its posterior segment, and encroaching somewhat upon the opening, is an oblong articular surface, the condyle, for articulation with the atlas. The condyles approach towards each other anteriorly, their articular surfaces looking downwards and outwards. Directly behind each condyle is an irregular fossa, and a small opening, the posterior condyloid fora- men, for the transmission of a vein to the lateral sinus. In front of the condyle is the anterior condyloid foramen, for the hypo- glossal nerve; on the outer side of each condyle, a projecting ridge, the transverse process, excavated in front by a notch which forms part of the jugular foramen ; and directly behind the ridge, and forming its posterior boundary, a prominent process, the jugular tubercle* In front of the foramen magnum is a thick square mass, the basilar process, and in the centre of the basilar process a small tubercle for the Attachment of the superior and middle constrictor muscles of the pharynx. Internal Surface.—On the internal surface is a crucial ridge, which divides the bone into four fossae; the two superior or cerebral fossae lodging the posterior lobes of the cerebrum ; the two inferior or, cerebellar, the lateral lobes of the cerebellum. The superior arm of the crucial ridge is grooved for the superior longitudinal sinusy and gives attachment to the falx cerebri; the inferior arm is sharp and prominent for the attachment of the falx cerebelli, and slightly grooved for the two occipital sinuses. The transverse ridge gives attachment to the tentorium cerebelli, and is deeply grooved for the lateral sinuses. At the point of meeting of the four arms is a projection, the internal occipital protuberance, which corresponds with the similar process situated on the external surface of the bone. The convergence of the four grooves forms a slightly depressed fossa, upon which rests the torcular Herophili. In the centre of the basilar portion of the bone is the foramen mag- num, oblong in form, and larger behind than before, transmitting the spinal cord, spinal accessory nerves, and vertebral arteries. Upon the lateral margins of the foramen magnum are two rough emi- nences, which give attachment to the odontoid ligaments, and imme- diately above these, the openings of the anterior condyloid foramina. In front of the foramen magnum is the basilar process, grooved on its surface for supporting the medulla oblongata, and along each lateral border for the inferior petrosal sinus. On each side of the foramen * Eetzius remarks that the jugular tubercle is very long in certain mammalia.