THE PANCREAS. 656 raised into minute ruga?, which give it a beautifully reticulated appearance ; and it forms, at the neck of the sac, a spiral valve. It is continuous through the hepatic duct with the mucous mem- brane lining the ducts of the liver, and through the ductus com- munis choledochus, with the mucous membrane of the alimentary canal. It is coated on its surface with a columnar epithelium. The Biliary ducts are, the hepatic, cystic, and ductus communis choledochus. The Hepatic duct, nearly two inches long, is formed in the trans- verse fossa of the liver by the junction of two ducts which proceed from the right and left lobe. It joins the cystic duct at an acute angle, and the common duct resulting from their union is the ductus communis choledochus. The Cystic duct, about an inch in length, passes inwards from the neck of the gall-bladder, and unites at an acute angle with the preceding. The Ductus communis choledochus (%o\t?, bills, dixo/uai, recipio) is the common excretory duct of the liver and gall-bladder; it is about three inches in length, and is formed by the junction of the hepatic with the cystic duct. It descends through the right border of the lesser omentum, and behind the descending portion of the duodenum to the inner side of that intestine, where it terminates by passing obliquely between the muscular and mucous coat, and opening on the summit of a papilla which is common to it and the pancreatic duct. The papilla is situated near the lower part of the descending portion of the duodenum at its inner side ; and the duct is constricted in size during its passage between the coats of the intestine. The coats of the biliary ducts are an external or fibrous, and an internal or mucous coat. The external coat is composed of dense areolar tissue, containing many nuclei, and elastic tissue. The mucous coat, continuous on the one hand with the lining membrane of the hepatic ducts and gall-bladder, and on the other with that of the duodenum, is furnished with a columnar epithelium. A few smooth muscular fibres have been observed in the mucous coat; but there is no special muscular coat. Vessels and Nerves.—The gall-bladder is supplied with blood by the cystic artery, a branch of the hepatic. Its veins return their blood into the portal vein. The nerves are derived from the hepatic plexus. THE PANCREAS. The pancreas is a long, flattened, conglomerate gland, analogous to the salivary glands. It is about six inches in length, and be- tween three and four ounces in weight; is situated transversely across the posterior wall of the abdomen, behind the stomach, and rests on the aorta, vena portse, inferior vena cava, the origin of the superior mesenteric artery, and the left kidney and supra-renal