OSSEOUS LABYRINTH. 567 purpose of a serous membrane by its internal layer, secreting a limpid fluid, the aqua labyrinthi (perilymph, liquor Cotunnii), and sending a reflection inwards upon the nerves distributed to jty. 214.* the membranous labyrinth. In the cochlea, the membrane of the labyrinth invests the two surfaces of the bony lamina spi- ralis, and being continued from its border across the diameter of the canal to its outer wall, forms the membranous lamina spiralis, and completes the sepa- ration between the scala tym- pani and scala vestibuli. The fenestra ovalis and fenestra ro- tunda are closed by an extension of this, membrane across them, assisted by the membrane of the tympanum and a proper in- termediate layer. Besides lining the interior of the osseous cavity, the membrane of the labyrinth sends two delicate processes * Labyrinth of the left ear, showing its cavities and the membranous labyrinth; after Breschet. 1. Cavity of the vestibule; the figure rests on the common saccule of the membranous labyrinth, the sacculus communis. 2. Ampulla of the perpendicular semicircular canal, receiving a fasciculus from the superior branch of the vestibular nerve, 3. 4. Perpendicular canal with its contained membranous canal. 5. Ampulla of the horizontal semicircular canal, receiving a fasciculus from the superior branch of the vestibular nerve. 6. Termination of the membranous canal of the horizont al semicircular canal in the sacculus communis. 7. Ampulla of the oblique semicircular canal, receiving a fasciculus from the inferior branch of the vestibular nerve. 8. Oblique semicircular canal with its membranous canal. 9. The common canal, resulting from the union of the perpendicular with the oblique semi- circular canal. 10. Membranous common canal terminating in the sacculus communis. 11. The otoconite of the sacculus communis seen through the membranous parietes. A fasciculus from the inferior branch of the vestibular nerve distributed to the sacculus communis near the otoconite. The portion of the sacculus above the otoconite is lodged in the superior ventricle of the vestibule, and that below it in the inferior ventricle. 12. Sacculus proprius situated in the anterior ventricle; its otoconite is seen through its membranous parietes, and a fasciculus derived from the middle branch of the vestibular nerve is distributed to it. The spaces around the mem- branous labyrinth are occupied by the aqua labyrinthi. 13. First turn of the cochlea; the figure points to the scala tympani. 14. Extremity of the scala tympani, the fenestra rotunda. 15. Lamina spiralis ; the figure is situated in the scala vestibuli. 16. Opening of the scala vestibuli into the vestibule. 17. Second turn of the cochlea; the figure is placed on the lamina spiralis, and therefore in the scala vestibuli, the scala tympani being beneath the lamina. 18. Remaining half turn of the cochlea; the figure is placed in the scala tympani. 19. Lamina spiralis terminating in its falciform extremity. The dark space included within the falciform curve of the extremity of the lamina spiralis is the helicotrema. 20. Infundibulum.