FOSSAE OF THE LFVEE. 646 by the inferior vena cava, previously to the passage of that vessel through the tendinous opening in the diaphragm. The Round ligament is a fibrous cord resulting from the oblite- ration of the umbilical vein, and situated between the two layers of peritoneum in the anterior border of the longitudinal ligament. It may be traced from the umbilicus through the longitudinal fossa of the under surface of the liver to the inferior vena cava, to which it is connected. Fossce.—The under surface of the liver is marked by five fossae, which divide its surface into five compartments or lobes, two principal and three minor lobes ; they are the— The Longitudinal fossa or fissure is a deep groove running from the notch, incisura umbilicalis, in the anterior margin of the liver, to the posterior border of the organ. At about one-third from its posterior extremity it is joined by a short but deep fossa, the transverse, which meets it transversely from the under part of the right lobe. The longitudinal fossa in front of this junction lodges the fibrous cord of the umbilical vein, and is generally crossed by a band of hepatic substance called the pons hepatis. The Fossa for the ductus venosus is the shorter portion of the longitudinal fossa, extending from the junctional termination of the transverse fossa to the posterior border of the liver, and con- taining a small fibrous cord, the remains of the ductus venosus. This fossa is therefore but a part of the longitudinal fossa. The Transverse fossa is the short and deep fossa, about two inches in length, through which the hepatic ducts quit and the hepatic artery and portal vein enter the liver. Hence this fossa was considered by the older anatomists as the gate of the liver, porta hepatis ; and the large vein entering the organ at this point, the portal vein. At their entrance into the transverse fossa the branches of the hepatic duct are the most anterior, next those of the artery, and most posteriorly the portal vein. The Fossa for the gall-bladder is a shallow depression extending forwards, parallel with the longitudinal fossa, from the right ex- tremity of the transverse fossa to the free border of the liver, where it frequently forms a notch, incisura vesicalis. The Fossa for the vena cava is a deep and short fissure, occa- sionally a circular tunnel, which proceeds from a little behind the right extremity of the transverse fossa to the posterior border of the liver, and lodges the inferior vena cava. Fossce, Lobes. Longitudinal fossa, Fossa for the ductus venosus, Transverse fossa, Fossa for the gall-bladder, Fossa for the vena cava. Eight lobe, Left lobe, Lobus quadratus, Lobus Spigelii, Lobus caudatus.