PULMONARY VEINS. 411 The Inferior mesenteric vein receives its blood from the rectum by means of the hsemorrhoidal veins, and from the sigmoid flexure and descending colon, and ascends behind the transverse duodenum and pancreas, to terminate in the splenic vein. Its hsemorrhoidal branches inosculate with branches of the internal iliac vein, and thus establish a communication between the portal and general venous system. The Superior mesenteric vein is formed by branches which collect the venous blood from the capillaries of the superior mesenteric artery; they constitute by their junction a large trunk, which as- cends by the side of the corresponding artery, crosses the transverse portion of the duodenum, and unites behind the pancreas with the splenic in the formation of the portal vein. The Splenic vein commences in the structure of the spleen, and quits that organ by several large branches; it is larger than the splenic artery, and perfectly straight in its course. It passes hori- zontally inwards behind the pancreas, and terminates near its greater end by uniting with the superior mesenteric and forming the portal vein. It receives in its course the gastric and pancreatic veins, and near its termination the inferior mesenteric vein. The Gastric veins correspond with the gastric, gastro-epiploic, and vasa brevia arteries, and terminate in the splenic vein. The Vena PORTiE, formed by the union of the splenic and supe- rior mesenteric vein behind the pancreas, ascends through the right border of the lesser omentum to the transverse fissure of the liver, where it divides into two branches, one for each lateral lobe. In the right border of the lesser omentum it is situated behind and between the hepatic artery and ductus communis choledochus, and is surrounded by the hepatic plexus of nerves and lymphatics. At the transverse fissure each primary branch divides into numerous secondary branches which ramify through the portal canals, and give off vaginal and interlobular veins, and the latter terminate in the lobular venous plexus of the lobules of the liver. The portal vein within the liver receives the venous blood from the capillaries of the hepatic artery. PULMONARY VEINS. The pulmonary veins (vena? pulmonales), four in number, return the arterial blood from the lungs to the left auricle of the heart; they differ from veins in general, in the area of their cylinders being but little larger than that of the corresponding arteries, and in accompanying singly each branch of the pulmonary artery. They commence in the capillaries upon the parietes of the inter- cellular passages and air-cells, and unite to form a single trunk for each lobe. The vein of the middle lobe of the right lung unites with the superior vein, so as to form the two trunks which open into the left auricle. Sometimes they remain separate, and then