538 CHAPTEK IX. ORGANS OF SENSE. The organs of sense, the instruments by which the animal frame is brought into relation with surrounding nature, are five in num- ber. Four of these organs are situated within the head ; viz., the apparatus of smell, sight, hearing, and taste; the remaining organ, that of touch, is resident in the skin, and distributed over the surface of the body. THE NOSE AND NASAL FOSS^J. The organ of smell consists essentially of two parts : one external, the nose; the other internal, the nasal fossae. The nose is the triangular pyramid which projects from the centre of the face, immediately above the upper lip. Superiorly it is con- nected with the forehead by means of a narrow bridge; inferiorly, it presents two openings, the nostrils, which overhang the mouth, and are so constructed that the odour of all substances must be received by the nose before they can be introduced within the lips. The septum between the openings of the nostrils is called the columna. Their entrance is guarded by a number of stiff hairs (vibrissas) which project across the openings, and act as a filter in preventing the introduction of foreign substances, such as dust or insects, with the current of air intended for respiration. The anatomical elements of which the nose is composed, are, 1. Integument. 2. Muscles. 3. Bones. 4. Fibro-cartilages. 5. Mucous membrane. 6. Vessels and nerves. 1. The Integument forming the tip (lobulus) and wings {alw) of the nose is extremely thick and dense, so as to be with difficulty separated from the fibro-cartilage. It is furnished with an abun- dance of sebiparous glands, which, by their oily secretion, protect the extremity of the nose under alternations of temperature. The sebaceous matter of these glands becomes of a dark colour near the surface, from altered secretion, and also from attraction of the car- bonaceous matter floating in the atmosphere; hence the spotted appearance which the tip of the nose presents in large cities. When the integument is firmly compressed, the inspissated sebaceous