442 STRUCTURE OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. rufi, molles); the cardiac branches and pelvic plexuses are also grey and soft. Some part of the greyness of these nerves is also due to the presence of certain peculiar fibres, the grey- fibres of Remak (gelatinous fibres, Henle). The grey fibres of Remak are pale flat fibres, indistinctly striated, granular or homogeneous, and presenting elongated or fusiform nuclei, in fact presenting charac- ters similar to imperfectly formed areolar tissue, to which substance they probably belong. Remak finds them in great abun- dance in the impregnated uterus, indeed o more numerous than the nerve-fibres, and they seem to constitute the basis of many of the nerves. They are probably derived from the neurilemma of the finer branches. In their peripheral terminations the branches of the sympathetic nerve present numerous minute, almost microscopic gan- glia, which are especially remarkable on the carotid arteries, in the pharyngeal plexus, upon the heart, around the root and in the substance of the lungs, upon the supra-renal capsule, on the lymphatic glands, on the posterior wall of the urinary bladder, and occasionally in the kidneys. In structure these ganglia are identical with the larger ganglia. The nerve-fibres, like those of the cerebro-spinal system, terminate in loops, in fine plexuses, and in free ends, the latter being present in the Pacinian corpuscles of the mesentery. In their ultimate terminations they probably cease to be medullated and become reduced to their axis fibres. Development. — Nerve-cells and nerve-fibres are developed from the primary cells of which the embryo is originally composed; the nerve-cells increase in size, and either retain the character of simple cells or throw out processes which become connected with nerve-fibres. Some of the nerve-cells, provided with two nuclei, appear to increase by division. Nerve-fibres are produced from fusiform nucleated cells, which are united into pale, flattened, nu- cleated tubules or fibres ; and at about the middle period of foetal life they become white from the development of the medullary sheath. In the peripheral plexuses, the anastomosis of fibres results from their development by fusiform or stellate cells, the * A sympathetic ganglion from a puppy, made transparent by soda; after Kolliker. a, a. Trunk of the sympathetic nerve, b. Communicating branches from a spinal nerve; these branches divide into two fasciculi which take their course upwards and downwards in the trunk, c, c. The ganglion, com- posed of ganglion cells, d. Small branch, probably destined to accompany an artery, e. A visceral branch.