484 INFERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. mucous membrane of the lower eyelid, cheek, nose, and upper lip, and form a plexus by their communications with the facial nerve. The Inferior maxillary nerve is a nerve both of sensation and motion, and is distributed to the teeth and gums of the lower jaw, to the tongue, which it supplies with the sense of taste, to the in- tegument of the temple, external ear, lower part of the face and lower lip, and to the muscles of mastication. It proceeds from the inferior angle of the Casserian ganglion, is the largest of the three divisions of the fifth nerve, and is increased in size by the anterior or motor root, which, passing behind the ganglion, unites with the inferior maxillary as it escapes through the foramen ovale. Emerg- ing at the foramen ovale the nerve divides into two trunks, external and internal, separated from each other by the external pterygoid muscle. The External division, into which may be traced nearly the whole of the motor root, immediately separates into five or six branches, distributed to the muscles of the temporo-maxillary region ; they are, masseteric, temporal, buccal, internal pterygoid, and external pterygoid. The Masseteric branch passing over the external pterygoid muscle, and behind the tendon of the temporal, crosses the sigmoid notch with the masseteric artery to the masseter muscle. It sends a small branch to the temporal muscle, and a filament to the temporo- maxillary articulation. The Deep temporal brandies, two in number, anterior and pos- terior, pass between the upper border of the external pterygoid muscle and the temporal bone to the temporal muscle. Two or three filaments from these nerves pierce the temporal fascia, and communicate with the lachrymal, subcutaneus malae, superficial temporal, and facial nerve. The Buccal branch is of large size, and pierces the lower fibres of the external pterygoid muscle at its anterior part. It sends a branch to the external pterygoid muscle, and is distributed to the buccinator, and mucous membrane and integument of the cheek, communicating with the facial nerve. The Internal pterygoid branch is a long and slender nerve which passes inwards to the internal pterygoid muscle, and gives filaments in its course to the tensor palati and tensor tympani. This nerve is remarkable for its connexion with the otic ganglion, to which it is closely adherent. The External pterygoid branch is commonly derived from the buccal nerve. The Internal division of the inferior maxillary nerve splits into three branches— Auriculotemporal, Inferior dental, Grustatory. The Auriculotemporal nerve originates by two roots, between which the arteria meningea media takes its course, and passes