636 MUCOUS GLANDS. where they are larger ; and in the gall-bladder, where they are large and coai*se. The alveoli of the stomach are polyhedral, for the most part hexagonal in form, and have opening into their floor the mouths of the gastric follicles; in the pyloric end of the stomach, they are oblong in form, and their walls are rendered uneven by the presence of numerous flattened papillae or villi, plica? villosce. In the small intestine, the limitary membrane and subjacent tissue, instead of forming a raised network, is prolonged into pa- pillae, which are termed villi. The villi vary in form, some being conical; others cylindrical, and enlarged at the extremity ; others again triangular or flat and lamellated. They measure in length about ¥V of an inch, and in thickness taper from ^ff to T^ or Ti¥ of an inch, and are so numerous that Krause counted from fifty to ninety within the limits of a square line in the upper part of the intestine; and lower down from forty to seventy; the entire number of villi in the small intestine he estimated at four millions. The villi are situated on every part of the surface of the membrane, both on the valvulae conniventes and between those folds, and when immersed in water they give it the appearance of a fine velvet. There are no villi in the large intestine. The rete of the stomach and large intestine and the villi of the small intestine are both highly vascular ; and, besides the limitary membrane and sublimitary substance, have entering into their structure capillary and lymphatic vessels. The villi have each a small artery and vein, with an intermediate capillary plexus ; but no nerves have as yet been traced into them. The lymphatic or lacteal of each villus probably commences, as Henle has described, by a single cascal vessel. Krause thinks it begins both as a plexus and by several csecal tubes. Areolar coat.—The Submucous or areolar coat (vascular, ner- vous) is a moderately thick stratum of areolar tissue which sustains the vessels, nerves, and glands of the mucous membrane, and con- nects it to the muscular coat; it is thin and dense in the oesophagus ; thicker and more distinct in the stomach ; and thicker than the other coats in the small intestine, where it is loose in texture, devoid of fat, and easily distended with air, excepting at Peyer's glands, where it is closely adherent. It is also thicker in the upper part of the small intestine than below, and is one cause of the greater thickness of the duodenum and jejunum ; moreover, it enters into the structure of the valvules conniventes. Glands.—In the corium and in the loose areolar tissue of the submucous coat, are situated the glands of the mucous membrane. These glands like those of the mucous membrane of the mouth, are of three kinds; tubular glands or simple follicles ; follicular or saccular glands ; and racemose or lobulated glands. The tubular glands or simple follicles are minute caecal tubuli,