607 BRONCHIAL TUBES. nicating freely with the intercellular passages, and sparingly with the bronchial tubes. In structure the bronchial tubes are composed of cartilages, fibrous membrane, muscular -fibres, elastic fibres, and mucous membrane. The cartilages in the primary bronchi are six or eight in num- Fiff- 229-* bsr in the right bronchus, and ten or twelve in the left. In the subsequent divisions of the bronchial tubes, which are cylin- drical in figure, the cartilages assume the form of thin plates of irregular shape and size, adapted to each other by their edges, and completely surround- ing the tubes. The plates are most strongly developed around the bifurcations of the tubes, and the point of division is furnished with ; a cartilage of a semilunar form.' They are found entering into the structure of the bronchial tubes until the latter are reduced to a quarter of a line in diameter, and are then lost. The fibrous membrane, which enters largely into the formation of the trachea and bronchial tubes, is the piincipal coat of the smallest tubes, and is continued to their terminations in the inter- cellular passages and air-cells. The muscular fibres belong to the class of non-striated, smooth, or organic muscle, they are arranged in rings around the tube, and form a muscular coat which is placed externally to the cartilaginous plates and is continued as far as the extremity of the tubes, being absent in the intercellular passages and air-cells. The elastic fibres, arranged in longitudinal fasciculi, form a thin stratum next the mucous lining; this elastic coat is prolonged to the ends of the tubes, and scattered fibres are found around the intercellular pas- sages and air-cells. The mucous membrane, lining the bronchial tubes, is provided with a ciliated columnar epithelium as far as their termination ; but in the intercellular passages and air-cells it is altered in its characters, is thin and transparent, and coated with a squamous epithelium. The capillaries of the lungs form plexuses which occupy the walls and septa of the air-cells and the walls of the intercellular passages, but are not continued into the bronchial tubes. The septa between * A diagram showing the dilatation of the ultimate bronchial tubes into intercellular passages, and the enlargement of the latter near the surface of the lung, a, a. Bronchial tubes, b, b. Intercellular passages, on the walls of which are seen opening the air-cells, c, c. Air-cells near the surface of the lung.