123 YELLOW FIBROUS TISSUE. Ligament is the name given to those bands of various breadth and thickness which retain the articular ends of bones in contact in the construction of joints. They are glistening, but slightly- elastic, and composed of fasciculi of fibrous tissue ranged in a parallel direction side by side, or in some situations interwoven with each other. The fasciculi are held together by separate fibres, by fine elastic fibres, and by areolar tissue. Tendon is the collection of parallel fasciculi of fibrous tissue, by means of which muscles are attached to bones. They are constructed on the same principle as ligaments, are usually rounded in their figure, but in some instances are spread out so as to assume a mem- branous form. In the latter state they are called aponeuroses. Yellow fibrous tissue, or elastic tissue, enters very generally into the structure of tissues and organs in which the property of elas- ticity is an important quality, and serves the additional purpose of binding structures together. As an elastic and binding element it is present in the common cellular tissue and superficial fascia, in the fascial sheaths of muscles, in the fibrous capsules of different organs, as of the spleen, in the corium of. the skin, in serous and mucous membranes, in the coats of blood-vessels and ducts; and, in certain situations is the sole tissue present, as in the ligamenta subfiava, chordae vocales, thyro-epiglottic ligament, crico-thyroidean mem- brane,; the membranous layers connecting the cartilaginous rings of the trachea and bronchial tubes, the ligamentum nucha?, and liga- mentum suspensorium penis. It is also met with around some parts of the alimentary canal, as the oesophagus, cardia, and anus, and around the male and female urethra. The fibres of elastic tissue are cylindrical or flattened, brittle, colourless when single but yellowish in an aggregated form, elastic, admitting of being stretched to double their length and returning to their original size, and variable in dimensions, ranging from extreme fineness to a considerable breadth. They present them- selves, therefore, in the two forms of fine and coarse, and are distributed among the textures of the body either as single and isolated filaments or as a network. Isolated elastic fibres of extreme fineness are met with coiled around or entwined among the fasciculi of areolar tissue, hold- ing them together, and have received the name of nuclear fibres, from their supposed origin in the nuclei of the formative cells, There seems, however, to be no reason for the belief of their origin being different from that of other primitive tissues, namely, from cells. The elastic network formed by these fibres may be extremely fine and delicate as in thin membranes; or it may be coarser, as in the various ligamentous bands composed of this tissue ; or it may be spread out like a membrane, the interstices forming but a small part of its extent, as in the fenestrated membrane of the arteries. In the construction of yellow elastic ligaments, the fibres communicate