676 URETHRA. of the finer twigs of the arteries have a peculiar, twisted, and dilated or tendril-like appearance, first described by Muller under the name of arterice helicince. The helicine arteries were supposed by Muller to end by csecal terminations ; but Kolliker finds a minute artery to proceed from the bulbous extremity of each of these dilated vessels, and terminate like the other capillaries in the veins. Arnold regards the helicine arteries as mere vascular loops. The venous plexus conveys the blood into the efferent veins of the penis, by which it is returned to the general circulation. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries of the penis are derived from the internal pudic; they are, the arteries of the bulb, arteries of the corpus cavernosum, and dorsales penis. Its veins are superficial and deep. The deep veins run by the side of the deep arteries, and terminate in the internal pudic veins. The superficial veins escape in considerable number from the base of the glans, and converge on the dorsum penis, to form a large dorsal vein, which receives other veins from the corpus cavernosum and spongiosum in its course, and passes backwards between two layers of the ligamentum suspen- sorium, and through the triangular ligament beneath the arch of the pubes, to terminate in the prostatic plexus. The Lymphatics terminate in the upper group of inguinal glands, while some of the deeper lymphatics take the course of the urethra and end in the pelvic glands. The nerves are derived from the pudic nerve, sacral plexus, and hypogastric plexus. URETHRA. The urethra is the membranous canal extending from the neck of the bladder to the meatus urinarius. It is curved in its course, and composed of three layers, a mucous coat, submucous coat, and muscular coat. The mucous coat is thin and smooth ; it is con- tinuous internally, with the mucous membrane of the bladder; externally, with the investing membrane of the glans; and at certain points of its extent, with the lining membrane of the numerous ducts which open into the urethra, namely, those of Cowper's glands, prostate gland, vasa deferentia, and vesiculae seminales. It is provided with a squamous epithelium correspond- ing with that of the bladder. The submucous coat is loose, and contains numerous racemose mucous glands, which open on the surface of the mucous membrane. The muscular coat consists of longitudinal fibres, intermingled with areolar and elastic tissue, and is derived from the internal muscular layer of the bladder. The urethra is about eight inches in length, and divided into a prostatic, membranous, and spongy portion.- The Prostatic portion, a little more than an inch in length, is situated in the prostate gland, about one-third nearer its upper than its lower surface, and extending from its base to its apex. On its lower circumference or floor is a longitudinal ridge or crest,