STRUCTURE OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 436 177* is composed of small cells with not more than one or two pro- cesses. The pituitary gland has a small quantity of fine granular sub- stance, with cell-nuclei and fine fibres in its posterior lobe ; but no nervous elements in the anterior or larger lobe. The grey matter and the nerve-fibres communicate with the tuber cinereum through the medium of the infundibulum. Hemispheres.—The hemispheres are composed of white nerve- fibres, which take a radiated course from the corpus callosum and cerebral ganglia to the surface, where they are invested with grey substance. The fibres are parallel, independent, and undivided, and their average diameter ^nyw of an inch. The grey or cortical substance presents the appearance of three layers ; external, white ; middle, grey ; and internal, yellowish-red. The internal layer occupies about half the thick- ness of the cortical substance, and is marked horizontally by two clear whitish streaks con- sisting of nerve-fibres, one of these streaks being situated at about its middle ; the other at its junction with the grey layer; hence, the section of the cortical substance may be said to exhibit six laminae, distinguished by their colour, as follows : white or external layer ; grey or middle layer ; the four remaining constituting the internal layer, namely, clear whitish streak, yellowish-red la- mina, clear whitish streak, yellowish-red lamina. In structure the cortical substance is com- posed of nerve-cells, nerve-fibres, and a pale granular substance or matrix, which alone con- stitutes the external layer. The nerve-cells are provided with processes, and vary somewhat in the different layers. In the external or white layer, they are few in number and small, with one or two fine processes, and embedded in the pale granular substance. In the middle or grey layer they are abundant and closely aggregated, present every gradation of size from cell-nuclei^ to large cells, are pyriform, fusiform, triangular and polygonal in shape, and provided with three, four, or five branching processes. In the internal or yellowish-red layer they are less numerous than in the middle layer, somewhat paler, but otherwise similar in character, while some contain pigment granules which give the peculiar tint to the layer, especially its deepest stratum. The nerve-fibres of the cortical substance proceed from the medul- lary substance, and after penetrating the yellowish-red layer in * Cortical substance of the hemispheres; after Kolliker. a. Medullary substance, b. Reddish-grey layer, c. Clear white streak, composed of ho- rizontal fibres, d. Grey layer, e. External white layer.