161 TARSAL ARTICULATIONS. posticus muscle ; in front, with the extra-synovial adipose tissue and synovial membrane. The synovial membrane invests the cartilaginous surfaces of the tibia and fibula (sending a duplicature upwards between their lower ends), and the upper surface and two sides of the astragajus. It is then reflected upon the anterior and lateral ligaments, and on the transverse ligament posteriorly. Actions. —The movements of the ankle joint are flexion and ex- tension only, without lateral motion. 5. Articulation of the Tarsal Bones.—The ligaments which con- nect the seven bones of the tarsus to each other are of three kinds,— Dorsal, Plantar, Interosseous. The dorsal ligaments are small fasciculi of parallel fibres, which pass from each bone to all the neighbouring bones with which it articulates. The only dorsal liga- ments deserving of particular men- Fl9' 98-* tion, are the external and poste- rior calcaneo-astragaloid, which, with the interosseous ligament, complete the articulation of the astragalus with the os calcis ; the superior and internal calcaneo- cuboid ligaments; and the supe- rior astragalo-scaphoid ligament. The internal calcaneo-cuboid, and superior calcaneo-scaphoid liga- ment, which are closely united posteriorly in the deep groove which intervenes between the as- tragalus and os calcis, separate anteriorly to reach their respective bones ; they form the principal bond of connexion between the first and second range of bones of the foot. It is the division of this portion of these ligaments that demands the careful attention of the surgeon in performing Chopart's operation. The plantar ligaments have the same disposition on the plantar surface of the foot; three of them, however, are of large size, and have especial names, viz., the Calcaneo-scaphoid, Long calcaneo-cuboid, Short calcaneo-cuboid. * External view of the ankle joint. 1. Tibia. 2. External malleolus of the fibula. 3, 3. Astragalus. 4. Os calcis. 5. Cuboid bone. 6. Anterior fasci- culus of the external lateral ligament attached to the astragalus. 7. Its middle fasciculus, attached to the os calcis. 8. Its posterior fasciculus, at- tached to the astragalus. 9. Anterior ligament of the ankle. M