ANATOMY OF THE HEART. 584 stretching across the month of the coronary vein, and preventing the reflux of blood in the vein during contraction of the auricle. The Annulybs ovalis is situated on the septum auricularum, opposite the termination of *the inferior cava. It is the rounded margin of the septum, which occupies the place of the foramen ovale of the foetus. The Fossa ovalis is an oval depression corresponding with the foramen ovale of the foetus. This opening is closed at birth by a thin valvular layer, which is continuous with the left margin of the annulus, and is frequently imperfect at its upper part. The depres- sion or fossa in the right auricle results from this arrangement. There is no fossa ovalis in the left auricle. * Anatomy of the heart; right side. 1. Cavity of right auricle. 2. Appendix auriculse, in its cavity are seen the musculi pectinati. 3. Superior vena cava, opening into the upper part of right auricle. 4. Inferior vena cava. 5. Fossa ovalis; the prominent ridge surrounding it is the annulus ovalis. 6. Eusta- chian valve. 7. Opening of the coronary vein. 8. Coronary valve. 9. Entrance of the auriculo-ventricular opening. Between the figures 1 and 9, two or three foramina Thebesii are seen. a. Eight ventricle, b, c. Cavity of right ventricle, on the walls of which the columnse carnese are seen; c is placed in the channel leading upwards to the pulmonary artery, d. e, f. Tricuspid valve; e is placed on the anterior curtain, yon the right curtain, g. Long columna carnea, to the apex of which the anterior and right curtain are con- nected by chorda? tendinese. h. The " long moderator band." i. The two columnse carnese of the right curtain, k. Attachment by chordae tendinese of the left limb of the anterior curtain. I, I. Chorda? tendinese of the " fixed curtain" of the valve, m. Valve of the pulmonary artery. The letter of reference is placed on the inferior semilunar segment, n. Apex of left appen- dix auriculse. o. Left ventricle, p. Ascending aorta, q. Its transverse portion, with the three arterial trunks which arise from the arch. r. De- scending aorta.