373 EXTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. sacrum. The inferior passes down by the side of the anterior sacral foramina to the coccyx ; it first pierces and then rests on the origin of the pyriformis, and sends twigs into the sacral canal to supply the sacral nerves. Both arteries inosculate with each other and with the sacra media. The Gluteal artery (glutsea superior) is the continuation of the ^ posterior trunk of the internal iliac ; it passes backwards between - the lumbo-sacral and first sacral nerve through the upper part of the great sacro-ischiatic foramen and above the pyriformis muscle, and divides into three branches, superficial, deep superior, and deep inferior ; while within the pelvis it gives off some muscular twigs to the iliacus and pyriformis, and at its escape from the pelvis, a nutritious artery to the ilium. The Superficial branch passes backwards between the gluteus maximus and medius, and is distributed to the gluteus maximus and to the integument of the gluteal and sacral region. The Deep superior branch passes forwards along the superior curved line of the ilium, between the gluteus medius and minimus to the anterior superior spinous process, where it inosculates with the superficial circumflexa ilii and external circumflex of the femoral. There are frequently two arteries occupying the place of this branch. The Deep inferior branches, two or three in number, cross the gluteus minimus obliquely to the trochanter major, where they in- osculate with branches of the external circumflex and ischiatic artery, and send branches through the gluteus minimus to supply the capsule of the hip-joint. Varieties in the branches of the internal iliac.—The most im- portant of the varieties occurring among these branches is the origin of the dorsal artery of the penis from the internal iliac or ischiatic. The artery in this case passes forwards by the side of the prostate gland, and through the upper part of the transverse ligament of the perineum. It would be endangered in the operation of lithotomy. The dorsal artery of the penis is sometimes derived from the ob- turator, and sometimes from one of the external pudic arteries. The artery of the bulb, in its normal course, passes almost trans- versely inwards to the corpus spongiosum. Occasionally, however, it is so oblique in direction as to render its division in lithotomy unavoidable. The obturator artery may be very small or altogether wanting, its place being supplied by a branch from the external iliac or epigastric. The External iliac artery (iliaca externa ; cruralis iliaca), of each side, passes obliquely downwards along the inner border of the psoas muscle, from opposite the sacro-iliac symphysis to the femoral arch, where it becomes the femoral artery. Relations.—It is in relation in front with the spermatic vessels,