347 AXILLARY ARTERY. as tlie fourth dorsal vertebra, and ascended from that point to the border of the first rib. Varieties in the branches of the subclavian are not unfrequent; the most interesting is the origin of the left vertebral from the arch of the aorta. AXILLARY ARTERY. The Axillary artery (axillaris) passes outwards and downwards with a gentle curve through the axillary space from the lower border of the first rib to the lower border of the tendons of the latis- simus dorsi and teres major, where it becomes the brachial. Relations.—After emerging from beneath the margin of the costo-coracoid membrane, it is in relation with the axillary vein, which lies at'first to the inner side, and then in front of the artery. Near the middle of the axilla it is embraced by the two heads of the median nerve, and covered in by the pectoral muscles. On the inner or thoracic side it is in relation, first, with the first inter- costal muscle ; it next rests on the first serration of the serratus magnus; and is then separated from the chest by the brachial plexus of nerves. By its outer or humeral side it is at first sepa- rated from the brachial plexus by a triangular interval of cellular tissue ;i it next rests against the tendon of the subscapularis muscle; and thirdly, upon the coraco-brachialis muscle. The relations of the axillary artery may be thus arranged :— In Front. Inner or Thoracic Side. Outer or Humeral Side. Pectoralis major, First intercostal muscle, Plexus of nerves, Pectoralis minor, First serration of ser- Tendon of sub- Pectoralis major. ratus magnus, scapularis, Plexus of nerves. Coraco-brachialis. Branches.—The branches of the Axillary artery are seven in number :— Superior thoracic, Subscapular, Thoracica acromialis, Circumflex anterior, Long thoracic, Circumflex posterior. Thoracica alaris, The superior thoracic and thoracica acromialis are found in the triangular space above the pectoralis minor. The inferior thoracic and thoracica alaris, below the pectoralis minor. And the three remaining branches below the lower border of the subscapularis. The Superior- thoracic (suprema ; short thoracic), the highest of the branches of the axillary, and sometimes derived from the next, passes inwards to the chest in front of the pectoralis minor muscle, and is distributed to the pectoral muscles and walls of the chest. It anastomoses with the intercostal and mammary arteries. The Thoracica acromialis (thoracica humeraria) is a short trunk which proceeds from the axillary in the space above the pectoralis minor muscle, and divides into three sets of branches, pectoral,