47 MALAR BONES. inent of the alveolar process, and the consequent fusion at this point of the original pieces, 'explains the difficulties which have been felt by anatomists in determining the precise number of ossifying centres of the bone. Articulations.—With nine bones ; viz., two of the cranium, and all the bones of the face, excepting the inferior maxillary. These are, frontal and ethmoid ; nasal, lachrymal, malar, inferior turbi- nated/ palate, vomer, and its fellow of the opposite side. Attachment of Muscles.—To ten; orbicularis palpebrarum, obli- quus inferior oculi, levator labii superioris alaeque nasi, levator labii snperioris proprius, levator anguli oris, compressor naris, dilatator naris, depressor alse nasi, buccinator, masseter. Lachrymal Bones (os unguis, from an imagined resemblance to a finger nail).—The lachrymal is a thin oval-shaped plate of bone, situated in front and at the inner angle of the orbit. It may be divided into an external and internal surface and four borders. The external surface is Fig. 30.* smooth and marked by a vertical ridge, the lachrymal crest, into two portions, one of which is flat and enters into the formation of the orbit, hence may be called the orbital portion ; the other is concave, and lodges the lachrymal sac, hence, the lachrymal portion. The crest is expanded inferiorly into a hook- shaped process (hamulus lachrymalis), which forms part of the outer boundary of the fossa lachrymalis. The internal surface is uneven, and completes the anterior ethmoid cells; it assists also in forming the wall of the nasal fossae and nasal duct. The four borders articulate with adjoining bones. Development.—By a single centre, appearing in the early part of the third month. Articulations.—With four bones; two of the cranium, frontal and ethmoid ; and two of the face, superior maxillary and. inferior turbinated bone. Attachment of Muscles.—To owe muscle, the tensor tarsi, and to an expansion of the tendo oculi, the former arising from the orbital surface, the other being attached to the lachrymal crest. Malar Bones (mala, the cheek).—The malar (os jugale) is the strong quadrangular bone which forms the prominence of the cheek. * Lachrymal bone of the right side viewed on its external or orbital surface. 1. Orbital portion of the bone. 2. Lachrymal portion; the prominent ridge between these two portions is the crest. 3. Lower termination of the crest, the hamulus lachrymalis. 4. Superior border, which articulates with the frontal bone. 5. Posterior border, which articulates with the ethmoid bone. 6. Anterior border, which articulates with the superior maxillary bone. 7. The border which articulates with the inferior turbinated bone.