MUSCLES OF THE LARYNX. 599 was formerly considered as several muscles, under the names of transversi and obliqui. The three muscles of the epiglottis are, Thyro-epiglottideus, jp\q_ 226 * Aryteno-epiglottideus superior, Aryteno-epiglottideus inferior. The Thyro-epiglottideus appears to be formed by the upper fibres of the thyro- arytenoideus muscle ; they spread out on the external surface of the sacculus laryngis and in the aryteno-epiglotti- dean fold of mucous membrane, on which they are lost; a few of the anterior fibres being continued onwards to the side of the epiglottis (depressor epiglottic!is). The Aryteno-epiglottideus superior consists of a few scattered muscular fibres, which pass forward in the fold of mucous membrane forming the lateral boundary of the entrance into the larynx, from the apex of the arytenoid cartilage to the side of the epiglottis. The Aryteno-epiglottideus inferior, described by Hilton, and closely connected with the sacculus laryngis, may be seen by raising the mucous membrane immediately above the ventricle of the larynx. It arises by a narrow and fibrous origin from the arytenoid cartilage, just above the attachment of the chorda vocalis; and passing forwards and a little upwards, expands over the upper half or two-thirds of the sacculus laryngis ; it is inserted by a broad attachment into the side of the epiglottis. Actions.—From a careful examination of the muscles of the larynx, Bishopf concludes, that the crico-arytenoidei postici open the glottis while all the rest close it. The arytenoideus approxi- mates the arytenoid cartilages posteriorly, and the crico-arytenoidei laterales and thyro-arytenoidei anteriorly; the latter, moreover, close the glottis mesially. The crico-thyroidei are tensors of the chordae vocales, and these muscles, together with the thyro-ary- tenoidei, regulate the tension, position, and vibrating length of the vocal cords. The crico-thyroid muscles effect the tension of the chordae vocales by rotating the Cricoid on the inferior cornua of the thyroid ; by this action the anterior portion is drawn upwards and made to * Side view of larynx, one ala of the thyroid cartilage removed. 1. Left ala of thyroid cartilage. 2. Eight arytenoid cartilage. 3. Corniculum laryngis. 4. Cricoid cartilage. 5. Crico-arytenoideus posticus muscle. 6. Crico-aryte- noideus lateralis. 7. Thyro-arytenoideus. 8. Crico-thyroidean membrane. 9. One half the epiglottis. 10. Upper part of trachea. f Cyclopaedia of Anatomy and Physiology, art. Larynx.