622 PHARYNX. Its secretion is poured into the mouth by from seven to twenty short ducts, ductus Riviniani, which open on the ridge made by the gland in the floor of the mouth ; the larger openings being situated by the side of thefrsenum linguse. One of the ducts longer than the rest, and opening close to Wharton's duct, has been named ductus Bartholini. Structure.—The salivary glands are of the conglomerate kind, consisting of lobes, which are made up of polyhedral lobules ; and these of smaller lobules ; in minute structure they correspond with the racemose mucous glands. The smallest lobule is composed of glandular vesicles, acini, which are minute csecal pouches, formed by the convolution and dilatation of the extreme ramifications of the ducts. These minute ducts unite to form lobular ducts, and the lobular ducts constitute by their union a single excretory duct. The glandular vesicles are connected by areolar tissue, so as to form a minute lobule ; and the lobules and larger lobes are held together by a more condensed, but lax areolar tissue. The submaxillary and sublingual glands are looser in structure and their lobules larger than those of the parotid gland. The glandular vesicles, about 5^75- of an inch in diameter, consist of a proper external coat or membrana propria, lined by a single layer of spheroidal epithelial cells. The cells are nucleolo-nucleated and contain granules, some of which are fatty and others pig- mentary. The excretory ducts are thick and dense, composed of areolar and elastic tissue, and lined by a layer of columnar epithe- lium ; and Wharton's duct is additionally provided with a longi- tudinal layer of smooth muscular fibre. The secretion of the salivary glands is a clear fluid, sometimes containing a small quan- tity of mucus and the detrita of epithelial cells. Vessels and Nerves.—The parotid gland is abundantly supplied with arteries by the external carotid ; the submaxillary by the facial and lingual ; and the sublingual by the sublingual and sub- mental branches of the lingual artery. The capillaries form net- works around and in contact with the glandular vesicles. The Nerves of the parotid gland are derived from the auriculo- temporal branch of the inferior maxillary, from the auricularis magnus, and from the nervi molles accompanying the external carotid artery. The submaxillary gland is supplied by the branches of the submaxillary ganglion, sympathetic, and filaments from the mylo-hyoidean nerve ; and the sublingual by filaments from the submaxillary ganglion and gustatory nerve. PHARYNX. The pharynx ((pdpvy^, the throat) is a musculo-membranous sac, about four inches in length, situated on the cervical portion of the vertebral column, and extending from the base of the skull to a