435 CEREBRUM. thalami optici, and corpora striata, and the hemispheres ; and each of these parts is composed of white and grey substance. The grey substance of the cerebral ganglia is similar in structure to that of the grey substance of other parts ; it is separate and isolated in the corpora striata, but continuous with the grey sub- stance of the pons Varolii and medulla oblongata in the thalami optici and corpoi'a quadrigemina ; it is also somewhat deeper in colour in the thalami optici than in the corpora quadrigemina, and inseparably commingled with the white fibres. The corpora quadri- gemina and thalami receive their white fibres from the processus e cerebello ad testes, funiculi siliquse, fasciculi innominati, and partly from the corpora restiformia ; while the base of the thalami is traversed by the crura cerebri. The corpus striatum contains two large nuclei of grey substance, nucleus caudatus, which is superior and anterior, and nucleus len- ticularis, inferior and posterior, though both are connected in front; and two smaller and secondary portions, nucleus teniaformis and amygdala. The grey substance is composed of nerve-cells and fine nerve-fibres ; the nerve-cells being partly coloured and partly pigmentary, and provided with from two to five processes. The white nerve-fibres are derived from the corpus pyramidale and lower segment of the crus cerebri. Entering the corpus striatum they collect into fasciculi, which penetrate the first division of the len- ticular nucleus and anterior and thicker portion of the nucleus cau- datus ; they then divide into smaller fasciculi, and, spreading out in a radiated manner, pass successively through the second and ex- ternal layer of the nucleus lenticularis. In their course they are reduced in size to an extreme degree of fineness, and terminate by forming a plexiform interlacement in which they are finally lost. Connected with the central ganglia are other smaller collections of grey substance, namely, the substantia nigra of the crura cerebri, the commissura mollis, pineal gland, floor of the third ventricle, corpora mamillaria, tuber cinereum, and pituitary gland. The sub- stantia nigra is composed of pigmentary nerve-cells similar to those of the substantia ferruginea of the cerebellum, but smaller and pos- sessed of fewer processes. In the commissura mollis the nerve- cells are smaller and paler, with from one to three processes, and mingled with fine plexiform nerve-fibres and a few of the coarser kind. The pineal gland is made up of pale round nerve-cells with- out processes and scattered nerve-fibres, and contains in addition the sabulous matter peculiar to that organ. The peduncles of the gland consist of an admixture of coarse and fine nerve-fibres. In the floor of the third ventricle there are large and small nerve-cells embedded in the meshes of fine nerve-fibres ; the cells are pale, and furnished with from one to four processes often very large. The corpus mamillare is a hollow capsule of white substance, containing grey substance similar to that of the floor of the third ventricle, but with nerve-cells somewhat less in size. The tuber cinereum f f 2