CARTILAGES OF THE LARYNX. 595 The Cartilages are the— Thyroid, Cricoid, Two arytenoid, Two cornicula laryngis, Two cuneiform, Epiglottis. The Thyroid (dvpebs eldos, like a shield) is the largest cartilage of the larynx : it consists of two lateral portions, or ala7, which meet at an angle in front, and form the projection which is known by the name of pomum Adami. In the male, after puberty, the angle of union of the two alss is acute ; in the female, and before puberty in the male, it is obtuse. Where the pomum Adami is prominent, a bursa mucosa is often found between it and the skin. Each ala is quadrilateral in shape, and forms a rounded border posteriorly, which terminates above, in the superior cornu, and below, in the inferior cornu. On the side of the ala is an oblique line, or ridge, directed downwards and forwards, and bounded at each extremity by a tubercle. Into this line the sterno-thyroid muscle is inserted ; and from it the thyro-hyoid and inferior con- strictor take their origin. In the receding angle, formed by the meeting of the two alse, on the inner side of the cartilage, and near its lower border, are attached the epiglottis, chordse vocales, thyro- arytenoid and thyro-epiglottidean muscles. The Cricoid (KpUos—eldos, like a ring) is a ring of cartilage, narrow in front, and broad behind, where it is surmounted by two rounded surfaces, which articulate with the arytenoid cartilages. At the middle line, posteriorly, is a vertical ridge which gives at- tachment to the oesophagus, and at each side of the ridge are the depressions which lodge the crico-aryten'bidei postici muscles. On either side of the ring is a glenoid cavity, which articulates with the inferior cornu of the thyroid cartilage. The Arytenoid, cartilages (apvraipa,* a pitcher), two in number, are triangular and prismoid in form. They are broad and thick below, where they articulate with the upper border of the cricoid cartilage ; pointed above, and prolonged by two small pyriform fibro-cartilages, cornicula laryngis (capitula Santorini), which are curved inwards and backwards, and they each present three sur- faces, anterior, posterior, and internal. The posterior surface is concave, and lodges part of the arytenoideus muscle ; the internal surface is smooth, and forms part of the lateral wall of the larynx ; the anterior or external surface is rough and uneven, and gives at- tachment to the chorda vocalis, thyro-arytenoideus, crico-arytenoi- deus lateralis and posticus, and, above these, to the base of the cuneiform cartilage. * This derivation has reference to the appearance of both cartilages taken together and covered by mucous membrane. In animals, which were the larynx, with the arytenoid cartilages, bears a curious resemblance to the mouth of a pitcher with a large spout. (rincipal subjects of dissection the ancients, the opening of the QQ2