440 STRUCTURE OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. Fiq. m* take their course to the exterior of the nervous fasciculi, interlacing them in various directions and seeming to hold them together, and frequently making one or more turns around the ganglion-cells "before proceeding to join the nerve-fibres. They are at first fine, but soon increase in size, and are gradually converted by the deve- lopment of a medullary sheath into dark-bordered nerve-fibres of medium size. The ganglionic fibres are probably distributed with the blood-vessels to the integuments, muscles, bones, joints, ten- dons, membranes, and glands, while the fibres of the motor roots are destined for the voluntary muscles, and the sensitive nerves for the exposed parts of the mucous membrane and skin. In their ultimate distribution, nerve-fibres terminate in loops, in fine plexuses, and in free extremities, instances of all these modes of termination, together with division of fibres, being met with in the skin : loops are well seen in the papillae of that membrane, terminal plexuses in the conjunctiva scleroticse, and free extremities in the conjunctiva and Pacinian bodies. The Pacinian bodies are small oval or pyriform masses, varying in size from half a line to three lines in length, situated on the peripheral extremities of the nerve-fibres chiefly in the palm of the hand and sole of the foot, but also found in other parts, as the perineum, glans penis, bulb of the urethra, on the intercostal nerves, on the cutaneous nerves of the neck, arm, and leg, and dorsum of the hand and foot, and on the filaments of the sympathetic nerve in various localities. It has been cal- culated that in the palm of the hand and palmar surface of the fingers there are six hundred of these bodies, and at the extremi- ties of the fingers they are especially nume- rous. They are situated for the most part in the subcutaneous areolar tissue, are clear, S^V| f transparent, and glistening in appearance, and traversed internally with white streaks. In structure a Pacinian body is composed of from twenty to sixty concentric layers or capsules of areolar tissue, separated by spaces containing a serous fluid, and having a central cavity also filled with serous fluid, which contains the free extremity of a nerve-fibre, divested of its sheath and medulla, and reduced to the condition of an axis-cylinder. The intercap- sular spaces are wider between the external than the internal layers, and closing around the nerve-fibre at its entrance into the r * Portion of a digital nerve, showing the disposition of the Pacinian cor- puscles ; reduced after Kolliker.