EPIDIDYMIS. 683 Fig. 273.t the tunica albuginea. The lobule is composed of from one to three minute tubnli, tuhuli seminiferi,* exceedingly convoluted, anas- tomosing frequently with each other near their extremities, termi- nating in loops or in free ctecal ends, and of the same diameter j-^-g- of an inch, Lauth) throughout. The tubuli seminiferi are of a bright yellow colour ; they become less convoluted in the apices of the lobules, and terminate by forming between twenty and thirty small straight ducts of about twice the diameter of the tubuli semi- niferi, the vasa recta. The vasa recta enter the substance of the mediastinum, and terminate in from seven to thirteen ducts, smaller in diameter than the vasa recta. These ducts pursue a waving course from below upwards through the fibrous tissue of the medi- astinum ; they communicate freely with each other, and constitute the rete testis. At the upper extremity of the mediastinum, the ducts of the rete testis terminate in from nine to thirty small ducts, the vasa efferentia,% which form by their convolutions a series of conical masses, the coni vasculosi ; from • the bases of these cones tubes of larger size probeed, which constitute, by their complex convolutions, the body of the epididymis. The tubes become gradually larger towards the lower end of the epididymis, and terminate in a single large and convoluted duct, the vas de- ferens. The Epididymis is formed by the convolutions of the excretory seminal ducts, externally to the testis, and pre- viously to their termination in the vas deferens. The more numerous convo- lutions and the aggregation of the coni vasculosi at the upper end of the organ constitute the globus major; the conti- nuation of the convolutions downwards is the tody; and the smaller number of convolutions of the single tube at * Lauth estimates the whole number of tubuli seminiferi in each testis at 840, and their average length at 2 feet 3 inches. According to this calculation the entire length of the tubuli seminiferi would be 1890 feet t Anatomy of the testis 1, 1. Tunica albuginea. 2, 2. Mediastinum testis 3, 3. Lobuli testis. 4, 4. Vasa recta. 5. Uete testis. 6. Vasa efferentia of which six only are represented in this diagram. 7. Coni vasculosi con'sti tuting the globus major epididymis. 8. Body of the epididymis 9' Globus minor epididymis. 10. Vas deferens. 11. Vasculum aberrans • lEaehrruaS e®.ere™ with its cone measures, according to Lauth, about 8 inches. The entire length of the tubes composing the epididymis, according to the same authority, is about 2] feet. ■ ' ^Jlu"'s