639 GLANDULiE AGMINATJE. membrane, and situated in the ileum and lower part of the jejunum, but principally at the lower part of the former, where they are larger than above. They are found in that portion of the in- testine which is opposite the attachment of the mesentery, and vary in size from half an inch to several inches in length, and from a quarter to half an inch in breadth. To the naked eye they have the appearance of pale disks pierced with numerous small irregular fissures ; but, under the microscope, they are found to be composed of a reticular and alveolar structure. The reticular structure, forming the septa between the alveoli, measures between T^ and of an inch in breadth ; it is highly vascular, and presents on its surface the numerous small angular and oval openings of shallow pits. The alveoli are quadrangular and oblong in form, and measure in longest diameter about ^ of an inch. Their floor is somewhat raised in the centre by a vascular network, and in the foveolae formed by the radiating branches of this vascular network are the openings of numerous simple follicles. The alveoli are considerably less vascular than the reticular structure ; and immediately beneath their floor are the closed vesicles or sacculi which constitute the essential part of the gland. There are commonly twenty or thirty Fig. 253 * * Portion of one of Peyer's glands, magnified 19 times. The alveoli are deep; measuring A by aV of an mcn (a smaller one measured bv and the septa between the alveoli measured from x-i-o to TV of an inch. A vascular network and the openings of numerous simple follicles ■ are seen in the floor of the alveoli; and the septa are marked by numerous circular and elongated sulci. t Section of the lower part of the ileum of the calf, through a Peyer's gland; after Kolliker. 1. Villi. 2. Tubular glands or Lieberkiihn'sfollicles 3. Muscular stratum of the mucous membrane. 4. Sacculi of Peyer's gland'. 5. Deep portion of the submucous coat. 6. Circular layer of the muscular coat. 7. Longitudinal layer of the muscular-coat. 8. Serous coat.