SUPERIOR LABIAL GROUP. 181 which embrace the rima of the mouth, and interlace at their extre- mities, where they are continuous with the fibres of the buccinator and the other muscles connected with the angle of the mouth. The upper segment is attached by means of a small muscular fasciculus (naso-labialis) to the columna of the nose ; and other fasciculi con- nected with both segments, and attached to the maxillary bones, are termed " accessorii." Several anatomists consider the orbicularis as composed of two portions, internal or marginal, in immediate contact with the lips, and thick; and external, broad and thin ; the separation between the two being indicated by the coronary arteries. Relations.—By its superficial surj?ace with the integument of the lips, with which it is closely connected. By its deep surface with the mucous membrane of the mouth, the labial glands and coronary arteries being interposed. By its circumference with the numerous muscles which move the lips, and by the inner border with the mucous membrane of the rima of the mouth. The Levator labii superioris aljbque nasi (pyramidalis) is a thin triangular muscle ; it arises from the upper part of the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone ; and, becoming broader as it descends, is inserted by two portions, one into the ala of the nose, the other into the orbicularis oris and upper lip. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the orbicularis palpe- brarum, facial artery, and integument. By its deep surface with the superior maxillary bone, musculus anomalus, compressor naris, dilatator naris, and alar cartilage. The Levator labii superioris proprius (incisorius) is a thin quadrilateral muscle; it arises from the lower border of the orbit, and passing obliquely downwards and inwards, is inserted into the integument of the upper lip, its deep fibres being blended with those of the orbicularis. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the lower segment of the orbicularis palpebrarum, facial artery, and integument. By its deep surface with the compressor naris, levator anguli oris, orbicu- laris oris, and infraorbital artery and nerve. The Levator anguli oris (caninus) arises from the canine fossa of the superior maxillary bone, and passes obliquely outwards to be inserted into the angle of the mouth ; its fibres being continued into the inferior segment of the orbicularis, and depressor anguli oris. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the levator labii supe- rioris proprius, branches of the infraorbital artery and nerve, and inferiorly with the integument. By its deep surface with the supe- rior maxillary bone and buccinator muscle. The Zygomatic muscles are two slender fasciculi of fibres which arise from the malar bone, and are inserted into the upper lip. The zygomaticus major descends to the angle of the mouth, and is continuous with the inferior segment of the orbicularis, depressor anguli oris, and risorius Santorini. The zygomaticus minor, lying in front of the major, becomes connected with the outer border of