277 PECTINEUS.—ADDUCTOR MAGNUS. common to it and the preceding muscle, behind; the crural nerve and iliacus muscle to the outer side ; and the femoral artery, by which it is slightly overlaid, to the inner side. The Pectineus is a flat and quadrangular muscle ; it arises from the pectineal line (pecten, a crest) of the os pubis, and from the surface of bone in front of that line. It is inserted into the ridge leading from the anterior intertrochanteric line to the linea aspera of the femur. Relations.—By its anterior surface with the pubic portion of the fascia lata, which separates it from the femoral artery and vein and internal saphenous vein, and lower down with the profunda artery. By its posterior surface with the capsule of the hip-joint, obturator externus and adductor brevis, the obturator vessels being interposed. By its external border with the psoas, the femoral artery resting on the line of interval. By its internal border with the outer edge of the adductor longus. Obturator hernia is situated directly behind this muscle, which forms one of its coverings. The Adductor longus (adducere, to draw to ; caput longum tricipitis), the most superficial of the three adductors, arises by a round and thick tendon from the front surface of the os pubis, im- mediately below the angle of that bone ; and, assuming a flattened and expanded form as it descends, is inserted into the middle third of the linea aspera. Relations.—By its anterior surface with the pubic portion of the fascia lata, and near its insertion, with the femoral artery and vein. By its posterior surface with the adductor brevis and magnus, anterior branches of the obturator vessels and nerve, and, near its insertion, profunda artery and vein. By its outer border with the pectineus, by the inner border with the gracilis. The pectineus must be divided near its origin and turned outwards, and the ad- ductor longus through its middle, turning its ends to either side, to bring into view the adductor brevis. The Adductor brevis (caput breve tricipitis), placed behind the pectineus and adductor longus, is fleshy, and thicker than the ad- ductor longus ; it arises from the body of the os pubis, and is in- serted into the line leading from the lesser trochanter to the linea aspera. Relations.—By its anterior surface with the pectineus, adductor longus, and anterior branch of the obturator nerve and artery. By its posterior surface with the adductor magnus. By its outer border with the obturator externus, and tendon of the psoas and iliacus. By its inner border with the gracilis and adductor magnus. The adductor brevis is pierced near its insertion by the middle perforat- ing artery. The adductor brevis may now be divided from its origin and turned outwards, or its inner two-thirds may be cut away entirely, when the adductor magnus muscle will be exposed in its entire extent. The Adductor magnus (caput magnum tricipitis) is a broad tri-