569 ORGAN OF TASTE. The Auditory nerve divides into two branches at the bottom of the cul de sac of the meatus auditorius internus ; a vestibular nerve and a cochlear nerve. The vestibular nerve, the posterior of the two, separates into three branches, superior, middle, and inferior. The superior vestibular branch gives off a number of filaments which pass through the minute openings of the eminentia pyrami- dalis and superior ventricle of the vestibule, and are distributed to the sacculus communis and ampullae of the perpendicular and horizontal semicircular canal. The middle vestibular branch sends off numerous filaments, which pass through the openings of the macula cribrosa in the anterior ventricle of the vestibule, and are distributed to the sacculus proprius. The inferior and smallest branch takes its course backwards to the posterior wall of the vestibule, and gives off filaments which pierce the wall of the am- pullary dilatation of the oblique canal to be distributed upon its ampulla. According to Stiefensand, there is in the situation of the point of entrance of the nervous filaments into the ampulla a deep depression on the exterior of the membrane, and on the in- terior a corresponding projection, which forms a kind of transverse septum, partially dividing the cavity of the ampulla into two chambers. In the substance of the sacculi and ampullae, the nervous filaments radiate in all directions, anastomosing with each other and forming interlacements and loops, and terminate on the inner surface of the membrane in minute papillae, resembling those of the retina. The Cochlear nerve divides into numerous filaments which enter the foramina of the tractus spiralis foraminulentus in the base of the cochlea, and passing upwards in the canals of the modiolus, bend outwards at right angles, to be distributed in the tissue of the lamina spiralis. The central portion of the nerve passes through the tubulus centralis of the modiolus, and supplies the apicial portion of the lamina spiralis. In the lamina spiralis the nervous filaments lying side by side on an even plane form numerous anastomosing loops, and spread out into a nervous membrane. According to Treviranus and Grottsche, the ultimate terminations of the filaments assume the form of papillae. The Arteries of the labyrinth are derived from the internal auditory branch of the superior cerebellar, or basilar artery, and from the stylo-mastoid. ORGAN OF TASTE. The Tongue is composed of muscular fibres, which are distributed in layers arranged in various directions : thus, some are disposed longitudinally (lingualis superficialis); others transversely (lin- gualis transversus); others, again, obliquely and vertically. Be- tween the muscular fibres is a considerable quantity of adipose