STRUCTURE OF CARTILAGE. 119 acting as the connecting medium between bones without any free surface, interosseous. White fibrous tissue enters into the con- struction of joints under the form of ligament, in one situation con- stituting bands of various breadth and thickness ; in another, a layer which extends completely round the joint, and is then called a capsular ligament. All the ligaments of joints are composed of that variety of fibrous tissue termed white fibrous tissue ; but in some situations ligaments are found which consist of yellow fibrous tissue, for example, the ligamenta subflava of the arches of the vertebral column. Adipose tissue exists in variable quantity in relation with joints, where it performs, among other offices, that of a valve or spring, which occupies any vacant space that may be formed during the movements of the joint, and prevents the occur- rence of a vacuum in those cavities. This purpose of adipose tissue is exemplified in the cushion of fat at the bottom of the acetabulum and in the similar cushion behind the ligamentum patellae. Syno- vial membrane constitutes the smooth and polished lining of a joint, and contains the fluid termed synovia, by means of which the adapted surfaces are enabled to move upon each other with ease and freedom. Cartilage.—In the structure of joints, cartilage serves the double purpose of a connecting and separating medium. In the former ca- pacity possessing great strength; in the latter, smoothness and elasticity. In reference to structure it admits of classification into three kinds ; true cartilage, reticular cartilage, and fibrous cartilage. True cartilage is composed of a semitransparent homogeneous substance (hyaline or vitreous substance, matrix) containing a Fig. 68* number of minute cells (cartilage cells) dispersed at short intervals through its structure. The cells are oval, oblong, or polyhedral in * A portion of articular (true) cartilage from the head of the fibula. The section is made vertically to the surface, and magnified 155 times. It exhibits the appearance and arrangement of the cells near the bone. The flexuous line to the left is the boundary of the bone.