476 MOTORES OCULORUM. mediately in front of the posterior clinoid process; descends obliquely in the external wall of the cavernous sinus ; and divides into two branches which enter the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure and between the two heads of the external rectus muscle. The superior branch ascends, and supplies the superior rectus and levator palpe- brae. The inferior sends a branch beneath the optic nerve to the Fig. 191 * internal rectus, another to the inferior rectus, and a long branch to the inferior oblique muscle. From the latter a short thick branch is given to the ophthalmic ganglion, forming its inferior root. The branches of the third nerve enter the muscles on their ocular side. The fibres of origin of this nerve may be traced into the grey sub- * Isthmus encephali, showing thalamus opticus, corpora quadrigemina, pons Varolii, and medulla oblongata, viewed from the side. 1. Thalamus opticus. 2. Posterior prominence of this body, tubsrculum superius posterius or pulvinar. 3. Corpus geniculatum externum. 4. Corpus geniculatum in- ternum. 5. Tractus opticus. 6. Pineal gland. 7. Nates. S. Testis of one side. 9. Brachium anterius. a. Brachium posterius. b. Origin of fourth nerve, which may be seen descending over the crus cerebri, c. Processus e cerebello ad testem, or superior peduncle of the cerebellum, d. The band of fibres termed laqueus, the superior division of the fasciculus olivaris, crossing the superior peduncle of the cerebellum to enter the corpora quadrigemina. Through the small triangular space in front of this band, crossed by the fourth nerve, some of the fibres of the superior peduncle of the cerebellum may be seen. e. Superior portion of crus cerebri, termed tegmentum, f. Its inferior portion, g. Third nerve, k. Pons Varolii, i. Crus cerebelli, or middle peduncle of the cerebellum. Tc. Inferior peduncle derived from the corpus restiforme. The mass lying in the angular interval upon these is the superior peduncle. I. Fifth nerve issuing from between the transverse fasci- culi of the pons Varolii, m. Sixth nerve, n. Facial and auditory nerve. o. Corpus olivare crossed inferiorly by the superficial arciform fibres, p. Corpus pyramidale. q. Posterior pyramids of the medulla oblongata, r. Corpus restiforme. t. Fourth ventricle.