637 MUCOUS GLANDS. Fig. 249 * Fig. 250.t closely set together, and occupying the whole thickness of the mucous membrane. They are composed of a membrana propria of limitary membrane, and lined by a columnar epithelium, which either invests them throughout as in the simple follicles of the small and large intestine, the cryptce mucosa? of Lieberkiihn ; or occupies only the upper third of their extent, as in the gastric or pepsiniferous glands; the remainder of the tubule being filled with pale finely granular polygonal nucleated cells. The tubular glands of the small and large intestine have the same diameter through- out, while those of the sto- mach, and especially those at the pyloric end, are dilated at the extremity, sometimes flexuous and twisted, occasion- ally bifurcated, and always filled in the deeper part with nucleated cells. The mucous membrane of the pyloric end of the stomach owes its greater thickness to the large size and considerable number of these glands. In the small intestine the tubular glands are so nu- merous as to give to the surface of the membrane between the villi the appearance of a sieve, and around the solitary follicular glands, and the follicular glands of Peyer's patches, they are arranged in circles of six or ten, corona? tubulorum. In the large intestine, they are very closely set, and are also somewhat larger and longer than the tubular glands of the small intestine. The follicular or saccular glands, called also from the shape of their sac, lenticular, and vesicular from their structure, resemble the follicular glands of the tongue already described. They are found in the roof of the pharynx in considerable numbers, and behind the apertures of the Eustachian tubes ; sparingly in the stomach, lenticular glands; and more numerously in the small intestines, where they constitute the glandulse solitarise and Peyer's glands ; and in the large intestine, where they are termed solitary glands. In structure the follicular gland is a closed follicle, sac- * Perpendicular section of the stomach in the pyloric region ; showing- its coats and the gastric glands; from the pig: after Kolliker. 1. Gastric glands. 2. Muscular layer of the mucous membrane. 3. Submucous coat, in which a vessel has been divided. 4. Transverse fibres of the muscular coat. 5. Lon- gitudinal fibres of the muscular coat. 6. Serous coat. t A tubular gastric gland. 1. Columnar epithelium occupying its upper third. 2. Flexuous and twisted deeper portion, filled with nucleated cells. 3. One of the nucleated cells. After Kolliker,