SUTURES—OSSA TEIQUETRA. 56 In these sutures the serrations are formed almost wholly by the ex- ternal table, the edges of the internal table lying merely in apposition. The squamous suture (squama, a scale) is formed by the over- lapping of the bevelled edges of two contiguous bones, as in the articulation between the temporal and lower border of the parietal. In this suture the approximated surfaces are roughened, so as to adhere mechanically with each other. The harmonia suture (apeiv, to adapt) is the simple apposition of contiguous surfaces, the surfaces being more or less rough and retentive. This suture is seen in the connexion between the supe- rior maxillary bones, or of the palate processes of the palate bones with each other. The schindylesis suture ((xx^vKyjcns, a fissure) is the reception of one bone into a sheath or fissure of another, as occurs in the arti- culation of the rostrum of the sphenoid with the vomer, or of the latter with the perpendicular lamella of the ethmoid, and with the crista nasalis of the superior maxillary and palate bones. The serrated suture is formed by the interlocking of the radiating fibres along the edges of the flat bones of the cranium during growth. When this process is retarded by overdistention of the head, as in hydrocephalus, and sometimes without any such apparent cause, distinct ossific centres are developed in the interval between the edges ; and, being surrounded by the suture, form independent pieces which are called ossa triquetra, or ossa Wormiana. In the lambdoidal suture there is generally one or more of these bones ; and, in an adult hydrocephalic skeleton* in the College of Surgeons, there are upwards of one hundred. The coronal suture (fig. 37) extends transversely across the vertex of the skull, from the upper part of the greater wing of the sphe- noid of one side to the same point on the opposite side ; it connects the frontal with the parietal bones. In the formation of this suture the edges of the articulating bones are bevelled, so that the parietal rest on the frontal at each side, and in the middle the frontal rests on the parietal bones ; they thus afford to each other mutual support and increased consolidation to the skull. The sagittal suture extends longitudinally backwards along the vertex of the skull, from the middle of the coronal to the apex of the lambdoidal suture. It is much serrated, and serves to unite the two parietal bones. In the young subject, and sometimes in the adult, this suture is continued, through the middle of the frontal bone to the root of the nose, under the name of frontal suture. Ossa triquetra are sometimes found in the sagittal suture. The lambdoidal suture is named from some resemblance to the Greek letter A, consisting of two branches, which diverge at an acute angle from the extremity of the sagittal suture. This suture connects the occipital with the parietal bones. At the posterior and inferior * This skeleton belonged to Mr. Liston.