711 DESCENT OF THE TESTES. muscle, aud, during the seventh, makes its way through the sper- matic canal, and descends into the scrotum. While situated in the lumbar region, the testis and gubernaculum are placed behind the peritoneum by which they are invested upon their anterior surface and sides. As they descend, the investing peritoneum is carried downwards with the testis into the scrotum, forming a lengthened pouch, which by its upper extremity opens into the cavity of the peritoneum. The upper part of this pouch, being compressed by the spermatic canal, is gradually obliterated, the obliteration extending downwards along the spermatic cord nearly to the testis. That portion of the peritoneum which imme- diately surrounds the testis is, by the above process, cut off from its continuity with the peritoneum, and is termed the tunica vaginalis ; and as this membrane must be obviously a shut sac, one portion of it investing the testis, and the other being reflected so as to form a loose bag around it, its two portions have received the appellations of tunica vaginalis propria, and tunica vaginalis reflexa. The descent of the testis is effected by means of the traction of the mijiscle of the gubernaculum, the cremaster. "The fibres," writes Mr. Curling, "proceeding from Poupart's ligament and the obliquus internus, tend to guide the gland into the inguinal canal; those attached to the os pubis, to draw it below the abdominal ring ; and the process descending to the scrotum, to direct it to its final destination." During the descent, "the muscle of the testis is gradually everted, until, when the transition is completed, it forms a muscular envelope external to the process of peritoneum, which surrounds the gland and the front of the cord." " The mass com- posing the central part of the gubernaculum, which is so soft, lax, and yielding as in every way to facilitate these changes, becomes gradually diffused, and, after the arrival of the testicle in the scrotum, contributes to form the loose cellular tissue which after- wards exists so abundantly in this part." The attachment of the gubernaculum to the bottom of the scrotum is indicated throughout life by distinct traces.