335 INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. seen in the cervical portion, near the base of the skull; and, by the side of the sella turcica, it resembles the italic letter s, placed horizontally. Relations.—In consideration of its connexions, the artery is divisible into a cervical, petrous, cavernous, and cerebral portion. The Cervical portion is in relation posteriorly with the rectus anticus major, superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, and pharyngeal and superior laryngeal nerve which cross behind it. Internally it is in relation with the side of the pharynx, tonsil, and ascending pharyngeal artery. Externally with the internal jugular vein, glosso-pharyngeal, pneuraogastric, and hypoglossal nerve; and in front with the stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus muscle, stylo-hyoid ligament, glosso-pharyngeal nerve, and parotid gland. Plan of the Relations of the cervical portion of the internal carotid artery. In Front. Parotid gland, Stylo-glossus, Stylo-pharyngeus, Stylo-hyoid ligament, Glosso-pharyngeal nerve. Internally. Pharynk, Tonsil, Ascending pharyn- geal artery. Internal Carotid Artery. Externally. Internal jugular vein, Glosso-pharyngeal, Pneumogastric, Hypoglossal nerve. Behind. Pharyngeal nerve, Superior laryngeal nerve, Superior cervical ganglion, Pectus anticus major. The Petrous portion is separated from the bony wall of the carotid canal by a periosteal lining derived from the dura mater; it is in relation with the carotid plexus, and is covered in by the Casserian ganglion. The Cavernous portion is situated in the cavernous sinus, and is in relation by its inner side with the lining membrane of the sinus, and by its outer side with the third, fourth, ophthalmic, and sixth nerve. The Cerebral portion of the artery is enclosed in a sheath of the arachnoid, and is in relation with the optic nerve. At its point of division it is situated in the fissure of Sylvius. Branches.—The cervical portion of the internal carotid gives off no branches : from the other portions are derived the following:— Tympanic, Anterior cerebral, Arterise receptaculi, Middle cerebral, Ophthalmic, Posterior communicating, Choroidea anterior.