THIRD TUNIC.—RETINA. 547 by removing the iris from its attachment to the ciliary ligament, when a front view of the processes will be obtained, or by making a transverse section through the globe of the eye, when they may be examined, from behind, as in Fig. 206. They consist of a number of triangular folds, formed apparently by the plaiting of the middle and internal layer of the choroid. According to Zinn, they are about sixty in number, and may be divided into large and small, the latter being situated in the spaces between the former. Their periphery is connected with the ciliary ligament, and is continuous with the middle and internal layer of the choroid. The central border is free, and rests against the cir- cumference of the tens. The anterior surface corresponds with the uvea ; the posterior receives the folds of the zonula ciliaris between its processes, and thus establishes a connexion between the choroid and the third tunic of the eye. The ciliary processes are covered with a thick layer of pigmentum nigrum, which is more abundant on them and the anterior part of the choroid, than at the posterior part of the latter. When the pigment is washed off, the processes are of a whitish colour. Third tunic.—The third tunic of the eye is the retina, which is prolonged forwards to the lens by the zonula ciliaris. Dissection.—If, after the preceding dissection, the choroid mem- brane be carefully raised and removed, the eye being kept under water, the retina may be seen very distinctly. The Retina is composed of three layers :— External, or Jacob's membrane, Middle, Nervous membrane, Internal, Vascular membrane. Jacob's membrane is extremely thin, and is seen as a mere film when the freshly dissected eye is suspended in water. Examined by the microscope, it is found to be composed of cells having a tes- selated arrangement. Dr. Jacob considers it to be a serous membrane. The Nervous membrane is the expansion of the optic nerve, and forms a thin semi-transparent bluish-white layer, which envelopes the vitreous humour, and extends forward to the commencement of the ciliary processes, where it terminates by an abrupt scalloped margin. According to Treviranus, this layer is composed of cylin- drical fibres, which proceed from the optic nerve, and, near their termination, bend abruptly inwards, to form the internal papillary layer, which lies in contact with the hyaloid membrane ; each fibre constituting by its extremity a distinct papilla. The Vascular membrane consists of the ramifications of a minute artery, arteria centralis retinae, and its accompanying vein ; the artery pierces the optic nerve, and enters the globe of the eye through the porus opticus, in the centre of the lamina cribrosa. N N 2