INTERNAL MAMMARY ARTERY. 343 tributed to the upper surface of the cerebellum, inosculating with the inferior cerebellar. The Posterior cerebral arteries (cerebri posterior yel profunda), the other two terminal branches of the basilar, wind around the crus cerebri at each side, and are distributed to the posterior lobes of the cerebrum. They are separated from the superior cerebellar arteries near their origin, by the third pair of nerves, and are in close relation with the fourth pair in their course around the crura cerebri. Anteriorly, near their origin, they give off a tuft of small vessels which enter the locus perforatus, and they receive the pos- terior communicating arteries from the internal carotid. They also send a branch to the velum interpositum and plexus choroides, choroidea posterior. The communications established between the anterior cerebral arteries in front, and the internal carotids and posterior cerebral arteries behind, by the communicating arteries, constitute the circle of Willis (circulus arteriosus Willisii). This remarkable vascular communication at the base of the brain is formed by the anterior communicating branch, anterior cerebrals, and internal carotid arteries in front, and by the posterior communicating, posterior cerebrals, and basilar artery behind. The Internal mammary artery (mammaria vel thoracica interna) arises from the under side of the subclavian, and passes down behind the subclavian vein to the cartilage of the first rib. It then descends by the side of the sternum, resting on the cartilages of the ribs, to the sheath of the rectus, where, under the name of superior epigastric, it terminates by inosculating with the epigastric branch of the external iliac. As the artery enters the chest it is crossed by the phrenic nerve; it then gets under cover of the pleura, and lower down lies between the triangularis sterni and internal intercostal muscles ; in the sheath of the rectus it sends branches to the walls of the abdomen. The Branches of the internal mammary are,—■ Comes nervi phrenici, Anterior intercostal, Mediastinal, Perforating, Pericardiac, Musculo-phrenic. The Comes nervi phrenici (phrenica superior), a long and slender branch given off by the artery as it enters the chest, descends with the phrenic nerve between the pleura and pericardium to the dia- phragm, to which it is distributed, inosculating with the musculo- phrenic and abdominal phrenic arteries. The mediastinal and pericardiac branches are small vessels dis- tributed to the anterior mediastinum, pericardium, and thymus gland (thymicos). Some sternal branches are sent to supply the sternum and triangularis sterni muscle. The Anterior intercostals (intercostales anteriores) supply the