' 695 MEATUS URINARIUS. The triangular smooth surface between the clitoris and the entrance of the vagina, which is bounded at each side by the upper • portions of the nymphae, is the vestibule. At the posterior part of the vestibule and near the margin of the vagina is the opening of the urethra, the meatus urinarius; and around the meatus au elevation of the mucous membrane formed by the aggregation of numerous mucous glands. This prominence serves as a guide to finding the meatus in the operation of intro- ducing the female catheter. Beneath the vestibule at each side, and extending from the clitoris to the side of the vagina, are two oblong or pyriform bodies, consisting of erectile tissue enclosed in a thin layer of fibrous membrane. These bodies are narrow above, pars intermedia, broad and rounded below, and are termed by Kobelt, who considers them analogous to the bulb of the male urethra, the bulbi vestibuli. Behind these bodies and lying against the outer wall of the vagina are two small glands analogous to Cowper's glands in the male subject; they are the glands of Bar- tholine. Each gland opens by means of a long excretory duct on the inner side of the corresponding nympha. The mucous membrane of the external organs, about a quarter of a line in thickness, is composed of areolar and elastic tissue, without fat, and rich in capillary vessels. It is furnished with numerous papillae, which are large on the labia minora, smaller on the clitoris, and is invested by a squamous epithelium. On the internal surface of the labia majora, on the labia minora, and occa- sionally around the meatus urinarius and entrance of the vagina, there exist sebiparous glands; while on the vestibule, around the meatus urinarius and around the entrance of the vagina, there is an abundance of racemose mucous-glands, opening on the surface of the membrane by shorter and longer ducts. The glands of Bar- tholine are common racemose mucous-glands, nearly half-an-inch in diameter, and made up of pyriform glandular vesicles, lined by squamous epithelium, and surrounded by a dense nucleated areolar tissue. Their excretory ducts, more than half-an-inch in length, are invested by columnar epithelium, and surrounded by a thin layer of smooth-muscle cells, disposed longitudinally. The secre- tion of these glands is a clear, yellowish, viscous mucus. Vessels and Nerves.—The external organs of generation are abundantly supplied with arteries, chiefly by the internal pudic ; they terminate in a deep and superficial capillary plexus, as in other mucous membranes. Valentin has described helicine arteries in the clitoris. The veins returning the blood from the capillaries form a rich plexus, which is especially abundant in the bulbi vesti- buli of Kobelt. The lymphatics are numerous, and communicate partly with the inguinal and partly with the pelvic glands. The nerves are derived partly from the hypogastric plexus and partly from the sacral plexus.