PLEURA. 608 the air-cells consist of a single layer of the capillary plexus enclosed in a fold of the mucous lining membrane. The air-cells of the central part of the lung are most vascular, and at the same time smallest, whilst those of the periphery are less vascular and larger. The pigmentary matter of the lungs is contained in the air-cells, as well as in the areolar tissue of the inter-lobular spaces and blood-vessels ; it is composed chiefly of carbon. The Pulmonary artery, conveying the dark and impure venous blood to the lungs, terminates in capillary vessels, which form a dense network in the parietes of the intercellular passages and air- cells, and then converge to form the pulmonary veins, by which the arterial blood, purified in its passage through the capillaries, is re- turned to the left auricle of the heart. The Bronchial arteries, branches of the thoracic aorta, ramify on the parietes of the bronchial tubes, and terminate partly in bronchial veins which convey the venous blood to the vena azygos on the right side, and the superior intercostal vein on the left; and partly in the pulmonary capillaries. The Lymphatics, commencing on the surface and in the substance of the lungs, terminate in the bronchial glands. These glands, very numerous and often of large size, are placed at the roots of the lungs, around the bronchi, and at the bifurcation of the trachea. In early life they resemble lymphatic glands in other sifcuations ; but in old age, and often in the adult, are black, and filled with carbonaceous matter, and occasionally with calcareous deposits. The Nerves are derived from the pneumogastric and sympathetic. They form two plexuses : anterior pulmonary plexus, situated upon the front of the root of the lungs, and composed chiefly of filaments from the deep cardiac plexus ; and posterior pulmonary plexus, on the posterior aspect of the root of the lungs, composed principally of branches from the pneumogastric. The branches from these plexuses follow the course of the bronchial tubes, and are distributed to the intercellular passages and air-cells. PLEURAE. Each lung is enclosed, and its structure maintained, by a serous membrane, the pleura, which invests it as far as the root, and is then reflected on the parietes of the chest. That portion of the membrane which is in relation with the lung is called pleura pul- monalis, and that in contact with the parietes, pleura costalis. The reflected portion, besides forming the internal lining to the ribs and intercostal muscles, also covers the diaphragm and thoracic surface of the vessels at the root of the neck, extending for somewhat more than an inch above the margin of the first rib. At the lower border of the root of the lung is a fold of the pleura, which extends down by the side of the posterior mediastinum to the diaphragm, and serves to retain the lower part of the lung in position. This