CORPORA QUADRIGEMINA. 459 given his name (foramen of Monro). It is the medium of com- munication between the two lateral and third ventricle, and trans- mits superiorly the choroid plexus and venae corporum striatorum. The foramen commune anterius is also termed, iter ad infun- dibidum, from leading downwards to the funnel-shaped cavity of the infundibulum. The crura of the fornix are embedded in the lateral walls of the foramen commune, and are concealed from view in this situation by the layer of grey substance which lines the in- terior of the third ventricle. If the.crura be slightly separated, the anterior commissure will be seen immediately in front of them, crossing from one corpus striatum to the other. The space between the middle and posterior commissure is the foramen commune pos~ terius ; it is much shallower than the preceding, and is the origin of a canal, the aqueduct of Sylvius or iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculum, which leads backwards beneath the posterior commis- sure and through the base of the corpora quadrigeniina to the upper part of the fourth ventricle. Corpora quadrigemina.—The corpora quadrigemina, or optic lobes, are situated immediately behind the third ventricle and pos- terior commissure ; and beneath the posterior border of the corpus callosum. They form, indeed, at this point, the inferior boundary of the transverse fissure of the hemispheres, the fissure of Bichat. The anterior pair of these bodies, grey in colour, are named nates: the posterior pair, white and much smaller than the anterior, are termed testes. From the nates on each side may be traced a rounded process (brachium anterius) which passes obliquely outwards into the thalamus opticus ; and from the testis a similar but smaller process (brachium posterius) which has the same destination. The corpus geniculatum internum lies in the interval of these two pro- cesses where they enter the thalamus, and behind the brachium posterius is a prominent band (laqueus) which marks the course of the superior division of the fasciculus olivaris. The corpora quadri- gemina are perforated logitudinally through their base by the aqueduct of Sylvius ; they are covered in partly by the pia mater and partly by the velum interpositum, and the nates support the pineal gland. Pineal gland.—The pineal gland is a small reddish-grey body of a conical form (hence its synonym conarium), situated on the an- terior part of the nates, and invested by a duplicature of pia mater derived from the under part of the velum interpositum. The pineal gland, when pressed between the fingers, is found to contain a gritty matter* (acervulus) composed chemically of phosphate and carbonate * This gritty matter, the brain sand, consists of round, mulberry-shaped, opaque, concentrically striated granules; also, of angular, stalactiform, cla- vate or irregular bodies, having an uneven, botryoidal, scaly surface; also, of simple cylindrical rigid fibres branched or reticular; also, of fine particles. It is sometimes found in the choroid plexuses, and in the pia mater and arachnoid.