SINUSES OF THE DURA MATER. 397 and back part of the skull, and those of the base of the skull. The former are, the Superior longitudinal sinus, Occipital sinuses, Inferior longitudinal sinus, Lateral sinuses. Straight sinus, The Superior longitudinal sinus is situated in the attached margin of the falx cerebri, and extends along the middle line of the arch of the skull, from the foramen caecum in the frontal, to the inner tuberosity of tbe occipital bone, where it divides into the two lateral sinuses. It is triangular in form, small in front, and increases gradually in size as it passes backwards ; it receives the superior cerebral veins which open into it obliquely, numerous small veins from the diploe, and near the posterior extremity of tbe sagittal suture the parietal veins, from the pericranium and scalp. Examined in its interior, it presents numerous transverse fibrous bands (trabecule) the chordce Willisii, which are stretched across its inferior angle ; and some small white granular masses, the glandulce Pacchioni; the oblique openings of the cerebral veins, with their valve-like margin, are also seen on the walls of the sinus. The termination of the superior longitudinal sinus in the two lateral sinuses forms a considerable dilatation, into which the straight sinus opens from the front, and the occipital sinuses from below. This dilatation is named the torcular Herophili,* and is the point of communication of six sinuses, the superior longitudinal, two lateral, two occipital, and the straight. The Inferior longitudinal sinus is situated in the free margin of the falx cerebri; it is cylindrical in form, and extends from near the crista galli to the anterior border of the tentorium, where it termi- nates in the straight sinus. It receives in its course several veins from the falx and sometimes one or two from the internal surface of the hemispheres. The Straight or fourth sinus (sinus tentorii) is the sinus of the tentorium ; it is situated at the line of union of the falx with the tentorium ; is prismoid in form, and extends across the tentorium, from the termination of the inferior longitudinal sinus to the toixmlar Herophili. It receives the vena? Galeni, the cerebral veins from the inferior part of the posterior lobes, and the superior cerebellar veins. The Occipital sinuses (occipitales posteriores) are two canals of small size, situated in the attached border of the falx cerebelli; they commence by several small veins around the foramen magnum, and terminate by separate openings in the torcular Herophili. Not unfrequently they communicate with the termination of the lateral sinuses. * Torcular (a press), from a supposition entertained by the older anatomists that the columns of blood, coming in different directions, compressed each other at this point.