MUSCLES OF THE NECK. 192 brachial plexus of nerves; the other two boundaries of the sub- clavian triangle being the sterno-mastoid in front and the clavicle below. The hyoid portion of the muscle divides the great anterior triangle into an. inferior carotid triangle situated below the muscle, and a superior triangle which lies above the muscle, and is again subdivided by the digastricus into the submaxillary triangle and superior carotid triangle. The other two boundaries of the inferior carotid triangle are the middle line of the neck in front and the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid behind. The other boundaries of the superior carotid triangle are the posterior belly of the digastricus above and the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid behind. Actions.—The four muscles of this group are depressors of the os hyoides and larynx. The three former drawing these parts downwards in the middle line, and the two omo-hyoidei regulating their traction to the one or other side of the neck, according to the position of the head. The omo-hyoid muscles, by means of their connexion with the cervical fascia, are rendered tensors of that portion of the deep fascia which covers the lower part of the neck, between the two sterno-mastoid muscles. Third Group.—Elevators of the Os Hyoides. Digastricus, Grenio-hyoideus, Stylo-hyoideus, Genio-hyo-glossus. Mylo-hyoideus, Dissection.—These are best dissected by placing a high block beneath the neck, and throwing the head backwards. The integu- ment has been already dissected away, and the removal of some cellular tissue and fat brings them clearly into view. The Digastricus {pis, twice, yaarrip, belly, biventer) is a small muscle situated immediately beneath the side of the body of the lower jaw ; fleshy at each extremity, and tendinous in the middle. It arises from the digastric fossa and anterior border of the mastoid process of the temporal bone; pierces by its posterior belly the stylo-hyoideus muscle, and is inserted into a depression on the inner side of the lower jaw, close to the symphysis. The middle tendon is held in connexion with the body of the os hyoides by an aponeurotic loop, through which it plays as through a pulley ; the loop being lubricated by a synovial membrane. A thin layer of aponeurosis is given off fitom the tendon of the digastricus at each side, which is connected with the body of the os hyoides, and forms a strong plane of fascia between the anterior portions of the two muscles. This fascia, the supra-hyoidean, is continuous with the deep cervical fascia. Relations.—By its superficial surface with theplatysma myoides, sterno-mastoid, anterior fasciculus of the stylo-hyoid muscle, parotid