163 TARSOMETATARSAL ARTICULATION. unite the os calcis and astragalus solidly together. The second interosseous ligament, also very strong, is situated between the sides of the scaphoid and cuboid bone ; the three remaining interosseous ligaments connect strongly together the three cuneiform bones and the cuboid. The synovial membranes of the tarsus are four in number; one, for the posterior calcaneo-astragaloid articulation ; a second, for the anterior calcaneo-astragaloid and astragalo-scaphoid articulation ; occasionally an additional small synovial membrane is found in the anterior calcaneo-astragaloid joint; a third, for the calcaneo-cuboid articulation ; and a fourth, the large tarsal synovial membrane for the articulations between the scaphoid and three cuneiform bones, the cuneiform bones with each other, the external cuneiform bone with the cuboid, and the two external cuneiform bones with the • bases of the second and third metatarsal bones. The prolongation which reaches the metatarsal bones passes forward between the in- ternal and middle cuneiform bone. A small synovial membrane is sometimes met with between the contiguous surfaces of the sca- phoid and cuboid bone. Actions.—The movements permitted by the articulation between the astragalus and os calcis, are a slight degree of gliding, in the direction forwards and backwards, and laterally from side to side. The movements of the second range of tarsal bones are very trifling, being greater between the scaphoid and three cuneiform bones than in the other articulations. The movements occurring between the first and second range are the most considerable ; they are adduc- tion and abduction; and, in a minor degree, flexion, which in- creases the arch of the foot, and extension, which flattens the arch. 6. Tarso-metatarsal Articulation. —The ligaments of this arti- culation are, Dorsal, Plantar, Interosseous. The dorsal ligaments connect the metatarsal to the tarsal bones, and the metatarsal bones with each other. The base of the second metatarsal bone, articulating with the three cuneiform bones, re- ceives a ligamentous slip from each, while the rest articulating with a single tarsal bone receive only a single tarsal slip. The -plantar ligaments have a similar disposition on the plantar surface. The interosseous ligaments are situated between the bases of the metatarsal bones of the four lesser toes; also between the base of the second and third metatarsal bone and the internal and external cuneiform bone. The metatarsal bone of the second toe being implanted by its base between the internal and external cuneiform bone, is the most strongly articulated of all the metatarsal bones. This disposition m 2