DEVELOPMENT OF TEETH. ally thinner as it approaches the neck. It is 69 Fig. 41 * of connexion of the cells is lost, but after steeping in weak acid, the cellular network is made evident. The enamel forms a crust over the whole exposed surface of the crown of the tooth to the commencement of its root; it is thickest on the summit of the tooth, and becomes gradu- composed of minute hexagonal crystalline fibres, resting by one extremity against the surface of the ivory, and constituting by the other the free surface of the crown. The fibres, examined on the face of a longitudinal section, have a waving arrangement, and consist, like those of ivory, of cells connected by their surfaces and ends, and filled with calcareous substance. When the latter is removed by weak acid, the enamel presents a delicate cellular network of animal tissue. The cortical substance, or cementum (substantia ostoidea) forms a thin coating over the root of the tooth, from the termination of the enamel to the opening in the apex of the fang. In structure it is analogous to bone, and is characterized by the presence of Purkinjean cells and tubuli. The cementum increases in thickness with the advance of age, and gives rise to those exostosed appear- ances occasionally seen on the teeth of very old persons, or in those who have taken much mer- cury. In old age the cavitas pulpse is often filled up and obliterated by osseous substance analo- gous to the cementum. Nasmyth has shown that this, like the other structures composing a tooth, is formed of cells having a reticular arrangement. Development.—The development of the teeth in the human subject has been successfully in- vestigated by Groodsir,f whose inquiries com- menced as early as the sixth week after concep- tion, in an embryo, which measured seven lines and a half in length, and weighed fifteen grains. At this early period each upper jaw presents two semicircular folds around its circumference ; the most external is the true lip ; the internal, the rudiment of the palate ; and between these is a deep groove, lined by the common mucous membrane of the mouth. A little later a ridge is developed from the floor of this groove in a direction from * Magnified section of a canine tooth, showing intimate structure. 1. Crown. 2, 2. Neck. 3. Fang. 4. Cavitas pulpse. 5. Opening by which the -vessels and nerves communicate with the pulp. 6,6. Ivory, showing fibrous structure. 7, 7. Enamel. 8, 8. Cementum. t " On the Origin and Development of the Pulps and Sacs of the Human Teeth," by John Goodsir, jun., in the Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, January, 1839.