CHAPTER V. OF THE ARTERIES. The arteries are the cylindrical tubes which convey the blood from the ventricles of the heart to every part of the body. They are dense in structure, and preserve for the most part the cylindrical form when emptied of their blood, which is their condition after death : hence they were considered by the ancients as the vessels for the transmission of the vital spirits,* and were therefore named arteries (drjp Twpeiv, to contain air). The artery proceeding from the left ventricle of the heart con- tains the pure or arterial blood, which is distributed throughout the entire system, and constitutes with its returning veins the greater or systemic circulation. That which emanates from the right ven- tricle conveys the impure blood to the lungs; and with its corre- sponding veins establishes the lesser or pulmonary circulation. The whole of the arteries of the systemic circulation proceed from a single trunk, named the aorta, from which they are given off as branches, and divide and subdivide to their ultimate ramifications, constituting the great arterial tree which pervades by its minute subdivisions every part of the animal frame. The mode in which the division into branches takes place is deserving of remark. From the aorta the branches, for the most part, pass off at right angles, as if for the purpose of checking the impetus with which the blood would otherwise rush along their cylinders from the main trunk ; but in the limbs a very diiferent arrangement exists ; the branches are given off from the principal artery at an acute angle, so that no impediment may be offered to the free circulation of the vital fluid. The division of arteries is usually dichotomous, as of the aorta into the two common iliacs, common carotid into the external and in- ternal, &c. ; but in some few instances a short trunk divides sud- denly into several branches which proceed in different directions: this mode of division is termed axis, as the thyroid and coeliac axis. Mr. Thomas William Nunn, in his "Observations and Notes on the Arteries of the Limbs," has very ably generalized the manner of distribution of these vessels. According to him, the main trunk of the artery of each segment of a limb divides into two branches, one which is intended for the supply of the component parts of the * To Galen is due the honour of the discovery that arteries contained blood, and not air.