MEDIAN CEPHALIC AND BASILIC VEINS. 402 Fig. 168 the external jugular and this vein, which gives it the appearance of being derived directly from the head—hence its appellation. The Median vein is intermediate in position between the anterior ulnar and radial vein; it begins at the wrist by the junction of branches from the palm of the hand, and collects the blood from the anterior aspect of the forearm, communicat- ing with the two preceding. At the bend of the elbow it receives a branch from the deep veins, and divides into two branches, the me- dian cephalic and median basilic. The Median cephalic vein, longer and somewhat smaller than the me- dian basilic, passes obliquely out- wards, in the groove between the biceps and supinator longus, to unite with the radial and form the cephalic vein. The branches of the external cutaneous nerve pass behind it. The Median basilic vein, larger than the median cephalic, passes ob- liquely inwards, in the groove , be- tween the biceps and pronator radii teres, and unites with the common trunk of the ulnar veins to form the basilic vein. This vein is crossed by one or two filaments of the internal cutaneous nerve, and overlies the brachial artery from which it is se- parated by the aponeurotic slip given off from the tendon of the biceps. Axillary vein.—The axillary vein is formed by the union of the venae comites of the brachial artery with the basilic vein. It * Veins of the forearm and bend of the elbow. 1, Eadial vein. 2. Cephalic vein. 3. Anterior ulnar vein. 4. Posterior ulnar vein. 5. The trunk formed by their union. 6. Basilic vein, piercing the deep fascia at 7. 9. Communi- cating branch between the deep veins of the forearm and the upper part of the median vein. 10. Median cephalic vein. 11. Median basilic. 12. A slight convexity of the deep fascia, formed by the brachial artery. 13. The process of fascia, derived from the tendon of the biceps, which separates the median basilic vein from the brachial artery. 14. External cutaneous nerve, piercing the deep fascia, and dividing into two branches, which pass behind the median cephalic vein. 15. Internal cutaneous nerve, dividing into branches, which pass in front of the median basilic vein. 16. Intercosto- humeral nerve. 17. Spiral cutaneous nerve, a branch of the musculo-spiral.