LUMBAR NERVES. 513 magnus above and the obliquus externus below to reach the surface. The lateral cutaneous nerve then divides into an anterior and pos- terior branch. The anterior branches are directed forwards to supply the integument of the antero-lateral aspect of the trunk, some of the superior branches turning around the inferior border of the pectoralis major to the mammary gland. The posterior branches take their course backwards to supply the integument of the postero- lateral aspect of the trunk, some of the superior turning around the posterior border of the axilla to reach the integument over the lower part of the scapula and latissimus dorsi; and that from the third intercostal being distributed to the integument of the axilla and neighbouring part of the arm. The first intercostal gives off no lateral cutaneous nerve; the lateral cutaneous branch of the second intercostal nerve will be presently described, under the name of intercosto-humeral nerve. The lateral cutaneous branch of the last intercostal nerve pierces the internal and external oblique muscle, crosses the crest of the ilium just behind the tensor vaginae femoris, and is distributed to the integument of the anterior part of the gluteal region as low down as the trochanter major. The Anterior cutaneous nerves are divided according to their position into those of the thorax and those of the abdomen. Having reached the surface they are reflected outwards to supply the integu- ment of the front of the trunk. The anterior cutaneous branches of the third and fourth intercostal nerve are distributed to the mammary gland. The Intercosto-humeral nerve is the lateral cutaneous branch of the second intercostal nerve ; after piercing the external intercostal muscle, it passes downwards into the axilla and communicates with a branch of the lesser internal cutaneous nerve of Wrisberg. It then perforates the deep fascia, and is distributed to the integument of the inner and back part of the arm to about the middle, and to the integument covering the lower part of the scapula. On the back of the arm it communicates with the internal cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral nerve. This nerve sometimes takes the place of the nerve of Wrisbei-g. LUMBAR NERVES. There are five pairs of lumbar nerves, of which the first makes its appearance between the first and second lumbar vertebra; the last between the fifth lumbar and the base of the sacrum. The anterior cords increase in size from above downwards. They com- municate at their origin with the lumbar ganglia of the sympathetic, and pass obliquely outwards behind the psoas magnus, or between i its fasciculi, sending twigs to that muscle and to the quadratus i lumborum. In this situation each nerve divides into two branches, a superior branch which ascends to form a loop of communication L L