APPENDAGES OP THE EYE. 551 admitted through the pupil. If the iris be thin, and the rays of light pass through its substance, they are absorbed by the uvea ; and if that layer be insufficient, they are taken up by the black pigment of the ciliary processes. In Albinoes, where there is an absence of pigmentuin nigrum, the rays of light traverse the iris, and even the sclerotic, and so overwhelm the eye with light, that sight is destroyed, except in the dimness of evening or at night. In the manufacture of optical instruments, care is taken to colour their inteilor black, with the same object, the absorption of scattered rays. The transparent lamellated cornea and the humours of the eye have for their office the refraction of the rays in such proportion as to direct the image in the most favourable manner upon the retina. Where the refracting medium is too great, as in over convexity of the cornea and lens, the image falls short of the retina (myopia, near-sightedness) ; and where it is too little, the image is thrown beyond the nervous membrane (presbyopia, far-sightedness). These conditions are rectified by the use of spectacles, which provide a differently refracting medium externally to the eye, and thereby correct the transmission of light. APPENDAGES OP THE EYE. The Appendages of the Eye (tutamina oculi) are, the eyebrows, eyelids, eyelashes, conjunctiva, caruncula lachrymalis, and the lachrymal apparatus. The Eyebroivs (supercilia) are two prominent arches of integu- ment covered with short thick hairs, which form the upper boundary of the orbits. They are connected beneath with the orbiculares, occipito-frontales, and corrugatores superciliorum muscles; their use is to shade the eyes from too vivid a light, or protect them from particles of dust and moisture rolling down the forehead. The Eyelids (palpebral) are two valvular layers placed in front of the eye, serving to defend it from injury by their closure. When drawn open, they leave between them an elliptical space (fissura palpebrarum), the angles of which are called canthi. The outer canthus is formed by the meeting of the two lids at an acute angle. The inner canthus is prolonged for a short distance inwards towards the nose, and a triangular space is left between the lids in this situation, which is called the lacus lachrymalis. At the commence- ment of the lacus lachrymalis upon each of the two lids is a small angular projection, the lachrymal papilla or tubercle; and at the apex of each papilla a small orifice (punctum lachrymale), the com- mencement of the lachrymal canal. The eyelids have, entering into their structure, integument, orbi- cularis muscle, tarsal cartilages, Meibomian glands, and con- junctiva. The tegumentary areolar tissue of the eyelids is remarkable for