151 METACARPOPHALANGEAL ARTICULATIONS. capsular ligaments of the skeleton; the other two being the shoulder and hip. The articulation has a proper synovial membrane. The metacarpal bones of the four fingers are firmly connected at their bases by means of dorsal and palmar ligaments, which extend transversely from one bone to the other, and by interosseous liga- ments which pass between their contiguous surfaces. Their lateral articular facets are lined by a reflection of the great synovial mem- brane of the two rows of carpal bones. Actions.—The movements of the metacarpal on the carpal bones are restricted to a slight degree of sliding motion, with the exception of the articulation of the metacarpal bone of the thumb with the trapezium. In the latter, the movements are flexion, extension, adduction, abduction, and circumduction. 10. Metacarpophalangeal Articulation.—The metacarpopha- langeal articulation is a ginglymoid joint : and its ligaments four in number,— Anterior, Two lateral, Transverse. The anterior ligaments, thick and fibrocartilaginous, form part of the articulating surface of the joints. They are gx*ooved externally for the lodgment of the flexor tendons, and by their internal aspect form part of the articular surface for the head of the metacarpal bone. At each side they are continuous with the lateral ligaments. The lateral ligaments are strong narrow fasciculi, holding the bones together at each side. The transverse ligament is a strong ligamentous band passing across the heads of the metacarpal bones of the four fingers, and connected with the anterior ligaments. The expansion of the extensor tendon over the back of the fingers takes the place, and performs the office of a posterior ligament. Actions.—This articulation admits of movement in four different directions, viz., flexion, extension, adduction, and abduction; it is also capable of circumduction. 11. —Articulation of the Phalanges.—These articulations are ginglymoid joints ; and furnished with three ligaments, Anterior, Two lateral. The anterior ligament, firm and fibro-cartilaginous, forms part of the articular surface for the head of the phalanges ; while exter- nally it is grooved for the reception of the flexor tendons. The lateral ligaments are very strong ; and the principal bond of connexion between the bones. The extensor tendon takes the place and performs the office of a posterior ligament. Actions.—The movements of the phalangeal joints axe flexion and extension, these movements being more free between the first and second, than between the second and third.