675 CORPUS SPONGIOSUM PENIS. septum is more complete at its posterior than towards its anterior part. The tunic of the corpus cavernosum consists of two layers of fibrous fasciculi, the external being longitudinal and forming a kind of close net by the frequent interchange of their fibrous bundles ; the internal, less thick, being disposed in a circular direction, and constituting the septum pectiniforme. From its anterior extremity it gives off small fibrous bands, which are prolonged into the sub- stance of the glans penis.* The cavity of the corpus cavernosum is occupied by the spongy mass of its erectile tissue. The Corpus spongiosum is situated along the under surface of the corpus cavernosum, in its inferior groove. It commences by its posterior extrerhity between and beneath the crura penis, where it forms an enlargement, the bulb, and terminates anteriorly by another expansion, the glans penis. Its middle portion, or body, is nearly cylindrical, and tapers gradually from the posterior to the anterior extremity. The bulb is adherent to the triangular liga- ment by means of a prolongation of fibrous membrane ; in the rest of its extent the corpus spongiosum is attached to the corpus caver- nosum, by areolar tissue, and by veins which pass upwards to reach the dorsal vein. It is composed of erectile tissue, enclosed in a dense fibrous layer much thinner than that of the corpus cavernosum, and contains the spongy portion of the urethra, which lies nearer its upper than its lower wall. ' The bulb shows a tendency to divi- sion into two lobes, an appearance which is due to the existence of a thin longitudinal septum in its interior. The fibrous tunic of the corpus spongiosum, unlike that of the corpus cavernosum, consists only of circular fibres which are re- flected inwards along the middle line, forming a septum which is complete only in the bulb ; the reflected fibres of this septum em- brace the urethra through its entire length, and exclude the latter from the proper structure of the corpus spongiosum. Erectile tissue is a peculiar cellulo-vascular structure, entering in considerable quantity into the composition of the organs of genera- tion. It consists essentially of a plexus of veins so closely convoluted and interwoven, as to give rise to a cellular appearance when examined by means of a section. The veins forming this plexus are smaller in the glans penis, corpus spongiosum, and circum- ference of the corpus cavernosum, than in the central part of the latter, where they are large and dilated. They have no other coat than the internal lining prolonged from the neighbouring veins ; and the interstices of the plexus are occupied by a reddish smooth muscular tissue. The arteries are convoluted in the passive state of the penis, but straightened in its distended condition; they terminate in large capillaries, which do not form a plexus, as in other situations, but open directly into these dilated veins. Some * Ellis: loc. citat. x x 2