GENERAL ANATOMY OF ARTERIES. 318 Fig. 149. coat, found only in the larger arteries, is lamellated and composed of elements which have a longitudinal direction. The striped lamellce are situated in this layer, and consist of clear lamellae, sometimes striped, sometimes nucleated, and sometimes homogeneous.. They lie immediately beneath the epithelium, and when nucleated bear so close a resemblance to that layer, as to have been regarded as a metamorphosed epithelium ; when homogeneous their nearest analogue is elastic membrane, to which tissue they appear to belong. In the internal coat of certain arteries, as of the axillary and popliteal, Kolliker has found smooth muscular fibres. In taking a summary survey of the constituent tissues of the three coats of arteries in their order of succession from without in- wards, it will be seen that the external coat consists of areolar and elastic tissue ; the middle coat of smooth muscular fibre, areolar and elastic tissue ; and the internal coat of elastic tissue and epithelium. Capillaries or capillary vessels have only one coat, which is thin, transparent, and structureless; resembling, in this respect, cell-membrane and the sarcolenmia of muscular fibre ; in approach- ing the arteries and veins this coat becomes somewhat thicker, and is finally lost in the elastic membrane of the in- ternal coat of the arteries, and in that of the middle coat of the veins. The increasing thickness of the coat of capil- laries causes a distinction of these vessels intone and coarse, and the latter gradu- ally augmenting in size and complexity of structure, become the transitional vessels. On the inner surface of ca- pillaries, and dispersed at short dis- tances, are oblong nuclei, the nuclei become placed nearer together in the coarse capillaries and transitional ves- sels, and in the arteries and veins consti- tute the epithelial layer of the internal coat. In distribution, capillary vessels form plexuses by their frequent com- munication with each other; and these plexuses present considerable variety in the closeness of their meshes and the number and size of the vessels. They are most abundant and largest in the * Transition of a minute artery into capillary vessels; from the brain; after Kolliker. 1. Minute artery. 2. Transitional capillary. 3. Coarse capil- lary with thick coat, represented by a double contour line. 4. Fine capillary, with single contour. The nuclei are seen widely scattered in 4 and 3; more closely congregated in 2; and still more so in 1: where they form an epithe- lium, a. The transverse elongated nuclei of muscular cells; the incipient muscular coat of the artery.