448 PIA MATER. with a limpid serous secretion, the sub-arachnoid ean or cerebro- spinal fluid,* a fluid which is necessary for the regulation of pres- sure, and protection of the cerebro-spinal mass. The quantity of the cerebro-spinal fluid is determined by the relative size of the cerebro-spinal axis and that of the containing cavity, and is conse- quently variable. It is smaller in youth than in old age, and in the adult has been estimated at about two ounces. The visceral layer of the arachnoid is connected to the pia mater by a delicate areolar tissue, which in the sub-arachnoidean space is loose and filamentous. The serous secretion of the true cavity of the arach- noid is very small in quantity as compared with the sub-arachnoi- dean fluid. The arachnoid does not enter into the ventricles of the brain, as imagined by Bichat, but is reflected inwards upon the venae Galeni for a short distance only, and returns upon those vessels to the dura mater of the tentorium. It surrounds the nerves as they originate from the brain, and forms a sheath around them to their point of exit from the skull. It is then reflected back upon the inner sur- face of the dura mater. According to Mr. Rainey^ vessels of considerable size, but. few in number, and branches of cranial nerves, are found in the arachnoid. He also describes, in this membrane, numberless plexuses and ganglia, which he considers to be analogous to those of the sympa- thetic nerve ; but which are most probably, as Kolliker observes, reticular, anastomosing fasciculi of areolar tissue. These fasciculi united into lamella? are the constituent structure of the arachnoid membrane, and many of the fasciculi have fibres of elastic tissue twined around them. The external surface of the arachnoid is fur- nished with a tesselated epithelium identical with that of the dura mater. Pia mater. The Pia mater is an areolo-vascular membrane composed of innu- merable vessels held together by immature areolar tissue. It in- vests the whole surface of the brain, dipping into the sulci between the convolutions, and forming a fold in its interior called velum interpositum. It also forms folds in other situations, as in the third and fourth ventricles, and in the longitudinal fissures of the spinal cord. This membrane differs in structure in different parts of the cerebro-spinal axis. Thus, on the surface of the cerebrum, in contact with the soft grey matter of the brain, it is extremely vascular, forming remarkable loops of anastomosis in the interspaces of the * The presence of a serous fluid beneath the arachnoid has given rise to the conjecture that a sub-arachnoid serous membrane may exist in that situation. Such a supposition is quite unnecessary to explain the production of the secretion, since the pia mater is fully adequate to the function. t Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. 29.