269 GLUTEUS MAXIMUS.—GLUTEUS MEDIUS. the deep fascia which binds down the gluteus medius, the other portion of the region. The Gluteus maximus (yXovrbs, nates; sacro-fenioralis) is the thick, fleshy mass of muscle, of a trapezoid shape, which forms the convexity of the nates. In structure, it is coarse, being made up of large fibres, which are collected into fasciculi, and these again into distinct muscular masses, separated by deep cellular furrows. It arises from the posterior fifth of the crest and external surface of the ilium, from the posterior surface of the sacrum and coccyx, and from the great sacro-ischiatic ligament. It passes obliquely out- wards and downwards, to be inserted into the rough line leading from the trochanter major to the linea aspera, and is continuous by means of its tendon with the fascia lata covering the outer side of the thigh, and with the external intermuscular ligament. Several bursse are situated between this muscle and subjacent parts : one upon the tuberosity of the ischium, one between its tendon and the trochanter major, and one between it and the tendon of the vastus externus. Relations.—By its superficial surface with a thin aponeurotic fascia, which separates it from the superficial fascia and integument, and near its insertion, with the vastus externus. By its deep sur- face with the gluteus medius, pyriformis, gemelli, obturator in- ternus, quadratus femoris, sacro-ischiatic foramina, great sacro- ischiatic ligament, tuberosity of the ischium, semi-membranosus, semi-tendinosus, biceps, and adductor magnus ; gluteal vessels and nerves, ischiatic vessels and nerves, and internal pudic vessels and nerve. By its upper border it overlaps the gluteus medius ; and by the lower border forms the lower margin of the nates. The gluteus maximus must be turned down from its origin, in order to bring the next muscles into view. The Gxuteus medius is placed in front of, rather than beneath the gluteus maximus ; and is covered in by a process of the deep fascia, which is very thick and dense. It arises from the outer lip of the crest of the ilium for four-fifths its length, from the surface of bone between that border and the superior curved line of the dor- sum ilii, and from the thick fascia above mentioned. Its fibres converge to the outer part of the trochanter major, into which its tendon is inserted. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the tensor vaginae femoris, gluteus maximus, and its own proper fascia. By its deep surface with the gluteus minimus and gluteal vessels and nerves. By its lower border with the pyriformis muscle. A bursa is inter- Gluteus maximus, Gluteus medius, Gluteus minimus, Pyriformis, Gemellus superior, Obturator internus, Gemellus inferior, Obturator externus, Quadratus femoris.