385 POSTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY. The posterior tibial artery (tibialis postica) passes obliquely down- wards along the tibial side of the leg from the lower border of the popliteus muscle to the concavity of the os calcis, where it divides into the internal and external plantar artery. Relations.—In its course it lies first on the tibialis posticus, next on the flexor longus digitorum, then on the tibia ; it is covered in by the intermuscular fascia which separates it above from the soleus, below from the deep fascia and integument. It is accom- panied by vense comites, and by the f '^rior tibial nerve, which lies to its inner side at first, and to its outer side for the rest of its course. Plan of the Relations of the Posterior Tibial Artery. Superficially. Soleus, Deep fascia, Intermuscular fascia. Inner Side. >r tibit Vein. Posterior Tibial Posterior tibial nerve, Artery. Outer Side. Posterior tibial nerve, Vein. Deeply. Tibialis posticus, Flexor longus digitorum, Tibia. Branches.—The branches of the posterior tibial artery are, the Peroneal, Internal calcanean, Nutritious, Internal plantar, Muscular, External plantar. The Peroneal artery (peronsea; fibularis) is given off from the posterior tibial at about two inches below the lower border of the popliteus muscle ; it is nearly as large as the anterior tibial artery, and -passes obliquely outwards to the fibula. It then runs down- wards along the inner border of the fibula to its lower third, where it divides into the anterior and posterior peroneal. Relations.—The peroneal artery rests on the tibialis posticus muscle, and is covered in by the soleus, intermuscular fascia, and flexor longus pollicis, having the fibula to its outer side. Branches.—The branches of the peroneal artery are, muscular to the soleus and neighbouring muscles : nutrient to the fibula ; and vo terminal branches anterior and posterior peroneal. The Anterior peroneal artery (perona3a antica vel perforans) pierces the interosseous membrane at the lower third of the leg, c o