THE TRACHEA. 602 gastric. The two nerves communicate with each other ; but the superior laryngeal is distributed principally to the mucous mem- brane at the entrance of the larynx ; the recurrent, to the muscles. THE TRACHEA. The Trachea or wind-pipe is cylindrical for about two-thirds of its circumference, and flattened on the posterior third, where it rests on the oesophagus ; it extends from opposite the fifth cervical vertebra to opposite the third dorsal, where it divides into the two bronchi. The length of the trachea is about four inches, and its diameter from side to side nearly an inch ; it is somewhat larger in the male than in the female. The right bronchus, larger than the left, passes off nearly at right angles, to the upper part of the corresponding lung. The left descends obliquely, and passes beneath the arch of the aorta, to reach the left lung. It is composed of cartilaginous rings, fibrous membrane, muscular fibres, elastic tissue, and is lined by mucous membrane. The Cartilaginous rings are from fifteen to twenty in number, and extend for two-thirds around its cylinder, being deficient at the posterior part. The first ring is received within the lower margin of the cricoid cartilage, and is broader than the rest ; the last is broad at the middle in consequence of the prolongation of the lower border into a triangular process which curves backwards at the point of bifurcation. The posterior extremities of the rings are rounded, and occasionally one or two rings will be found to bifurcate. The Fibrous membrane connects the rings and forms a thin cover- ing to them on the outer surface. Inter- Fi 29y * nally it does not reach the surface, and the rings have in consequence an appear- v'fMM [p1 '", a ance of greater prominence. It also ; ], i stretches across between the rings on the 5 «v ■{}; rt\ %0 posterior part of the trachea. ^^Mw^mW^'l The Muscular fibres are disposed trans- ailt j jjfi)f% i ), I] i versely across the space, between the ex- Q\ ''V f-j tremities of the rings behind. They are 3 - jj'^j <;„ T^r, placed internally to the fibrous mem- 2~^ETf ~ '.' brane. jgji illllBllllJ The Elastic tissue is disposed in longi- tudinal bundles, within the rings; and internally to the muscular layer behind. The Mucous membrane, which is pale, forms the internal lining of the tube, and has opening upon its surface the excretory tubes of numerous mucous glands ; it is furnished with a ciliated columnar * Ciliated epithelium from the trachea ; after Kolliker. 1. External layer of longitudinal elastic fibres. 2. Homogeneous surface layer of the mucous membrane. 3. Round cells. 4. Oval and oblong cells. 5. Ciliated cells.