THE SPLEEN. .659 Fig. 263. or cylindrical bands, the splenic trabeculce, which traverse the substance of the gland in all directions, and are attached by their inner ends to each other and to the fibrous sheaths of the vessels. The splenic or Malpighian corpuscles or vesicles are small white roundish bodies, embedded in the splenic pulp, and connected with the twigs of the small arteries. They are found only in the fresh and healthy spleen, and are more con- stant in children than the adult; their average size is one-sixth of a line, and they are found in numbers varying from five to ten on each small arterial twig. In intimate structure, the splenic corpuscle is a vesicle composed of a membrana propria and greyish pulpy granular con- tents. The menibrana propria is trans- parent and colourless, moderately thick, consisting of homogeneous areolar tissue with elastic fibrils, and closely connected with the fibrous sheath of the artery. The greyish contents are thick and viscid, and made up of pale round nucleated cells, free nuclei, and a small proportion of clear albuminous fluid. The splenic corpuscles would seem to be analogous to the closed vesicles of the follicular glands, as the tonsils, solitary glands, and Peyer's glands ; and to the lymphatic glands. In support of this view, Kolliker thinks that he saw a vascular plexus in the splenic corpuscles of the cat; like that which has been described as existing in the vesicles of Peyer's glands. On the other hand, there is no apparent relation be- tween the lymphatic vessels and these corpuscles. The splenic pulp fills the interstices of the trabecule, is of a bright red colour, like currant jelly, and is com- posed of a delicate areolar networJc, formed by the smaller trabeculse and vascular sheaths ; of minute blood-vessels; and of nucleated cells (parenchyma cells) similar to those of the splenic corpuscles, and Fig. 264.f * Arterial twig of the splenic artery, showing the connexion of the splenic corpuscles with the small vessels. From the spleen of the doa-; after Kolliker. t A single splenic corpuscle, from the spleen of the ox; after Kollike r 1. External tunic, or membrana propria. 2. Granular contents. 3. Part of a small artery. 4. Its sheath, derived from the exterior tunic of the spleen, with which the corpuscle is closely connected. u u 2