RADIUS. 87 tulum ulnce, from the side of which projects the styloid process. The latter presents a deep notch at its base for the attachment of the apex of the triangular interarticular cartilage, and by its point gives attachment to the internal lateral ligament. On the posterior surface of the head is a groove, for the tendon of the extensor carpi ulnaris; and on the side opposite the styloid process a smooth surface, for articulation with the side of the radius. Development.—By three centres; one for the shaft, one for the inferior extremity, and one for the olecranon. Ossification com- mences in the ulna shortly after the humerus and radius ; the ends Fig. 55. of the bone are cartilaginous at birth. The centre for the lower end appears at about the fifth ; that for the olecranon about the seventh year. The bone is completed at about the twentieth year. Articulations.—With two bones ; humerus and radius; it is separated from the cunei- form bone of the carpus by the triangular in- terarticular cartilage. Attachment of Muscles.—To twelve: by the olecranon to the triceps extensor cubiti, one head of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and an- coneus ; by the coronoid process, brachialis anticus, pronator radii teres, flexor sublimis digitorum, and flexor profundus digitorum ; by the shaft, flexor profundus digitorum, flexor \ mm mi carpi ulnaris, pronator quadratus, anconeus, extensor carpi ulnaris, extensor ossis meta- carpi pollicis, extensor secundi internodii pol- licis, and extensor indicis. Eadius.—The radius is the rotatory bone of the fore-arm ; it is divisible into a shaft and two extremities; unlike the ulna, its upper extremity is small, and merely acces- sory to the formation of the elbow-joint; while the lower extremity is large, and forms almost solely the joint of the wrist. The superior extremity presents a rounded head, depressed on its upper surface into a shallow cup. Around the margin of the head is a smooth articular surface which is broad on the inner side, where it articulates with * Bones of the fore-arm, seen on their posterior aspect. 1. Shaft of the ulna. 2. Olecranon process. 3. Border of the great sigmoid notch. 4. Bidge for the interosseous membrane. 5. Capitulum ulnae. 6. Styloid process. 7. Shaft of the radius. 8. Its head. 9. Neck. 10. Tuberosity. The ridge on the shaft for the interosseous membrane is indicated by the cipher 4. 11. Lower ex- tremity of the bone. 12. Bidge separating the tendons of the extensors in their passage to the dorsum of the hand. 13. Styloid process.