SPERMATIC ARTERIES. 364 denum. It supplies both those organs, and inosculates with the pancreatico-cluodenalis branch of the hepatic. The Vasa intestini tenuis arise from the convexity of the supe- rior mesenteric artery. They vary from fifteen to twenty in num- ber, and are distributed to the small intestine from the duodenum to the termination of the ileum. In their course between the layers of the mesentery, they form a series of arches by the inosculation of their larger branches; from these are developed secondary arches, and from the latter a third series of arches, from which the branches arise which are distributed to the coats of the intestine. From the middle branches a fourth and sometimes even a fifth series of arches is produced. By means of these arches a direct communica- tion is established between all the branches given off from the con- vexity of the superior mesenteric artery; the upper branch inoscu- lates with the inferior pancreatico-duodenalis; the lower with the ileo-colica. The Ileo-colic artery is the last branch given off by the concavity of the superior mesenteric. It descends to the right iliac fossa, and divides into branches which communicate and form arches, from which branches are distributed to the termination of the ileum, caecum, and commencement of the colon. This artery inosculates on the one hand with the termination of the mesenteric trunk; on the other, with the colica dextra. The Colica dextra arises from about the middle of the concavity of the superior mesenteric, and passing outwards behind the peri- toneum, divides into branches which form arches, and are distri- buted to the ascending colon. Its descending branches inosculate with the ileo-colica, the ascending with the colica media. The Colica media arises from the upper part of the concavity of the superior mesenteric, and passes forward .between the layers of the transverse mesocolon, where it forms arches, and is distributed to the transverse colon. It inosculates on the right with the colica dextra; on the left, with the colica sinistra, a branch of the inferior mesenteric artery. The Spermatic arteries (spermaticse interna?) are two small vessels which arise from the front of the aorta below the superior mesenteric; from their origin each artery passes obliquely outwards, and accompanies the corresponding ureter along the front of the psoas muscle to the border of the pelvis, where it is in relation with the external iliac artery. It is then directed outwards to the internal abdominal ring, and follows the course of the spermatic cord along the spermatic canal and through the scrotum to the testicle, to which it is distributed. The right spermatic artery lies in front of the vena cava, and both vessels are accompanied by veins and by the spermatic plexuses of nerves. The spermatic arteries in the female (ovarian) descend into the pelvis and pass between the two layers of the broad ligaments of