447 ARACHNOID MEMBRANE. nerve, and sometimes from the fourth. The branches from the two latter are given off while those nerves are situated by the side of the sella turcica ; they are recurrent, and pass backwards between the layers of the tentorium, to the lining membrane of the lateral sinus. Purkinje describes a sympathetic plexus of considerable size, as being situated around the vena Graleni at its entrance into the fourth sinus. The filaments from this plexus are distributed to the tentorium. Kolliker describes the dura mater as composed of two lamellae, periosteal and proper fibrous, the former adheres to the bones, the latter forms the internal processes, whilst the sinuses result from the separation of the two. He finds nothing to indicate the lining of the internal surface by the arachnoid as a separate membrane ; but shows that the tesselated epithelium of the free surface is in contact with, and bedded upon the fibrous structure. Arachnoid membrane. The Arachnoid (apdxvn eldos, like a spider's web), so named from its extreme tenuity, is the serous membrane of the cerebro- spinal centre ; and, like other serous membranes, a shut sac. It envelopes the brain and spinal cord, visceral layer, and is reflected on the inner surface of the dura mater, parietal layer, giving to that membrane its serous investment. On the upper surface of the hemispheres the arachnoid is trans- parent, but may be demonstrated as it passes across the sulci from one convolution to another by injecting with a blow-pipe a stream of air beneath it. At the base of the brain the membrane is opa- lescent and thicker than in other situations, and more easily demon- strable from the circumstance of stretching across the interval be- tween the middle lobes of the hemispheres. The space which is in- cluded between this layer of membrane and those parts of the base of the brain which are bounded by the optic commissure and fissures of Sylvius in front, and the pons Varolii behind, is termed the ante- rior sub-arachnoiclean space. Another space formed in a similar manner between the under part of the cerebellum and the medulla oblongata, is the posterior sub-arachnoidean space; and a third space, situated over the corpora quadrigemina may be termed the stiperior sub-arachnoidean space. These spaces communicate freely with each other, the anterior and posterior across the crura cere- belli, the anterior and the superior around the crura cerebri, and the latter and the posterior across the cerebellum in the course of the vermiform processes. They communicate also with a still larger space formed by the loose disposition of the arachnoid around the spinal cord, the spinal sub-arachnoidean space. The whoie of these spaces, with the lesser spaces between the convolutions of the hemispheres, constitute one large and continuous cavity which is filled