ABDUCENTES. 486 the tongue it is flattened, and gives off numerous branches, which are distributed to the mucous membrane and papillae. In the upper part of its course the gustatory nerve lies between the external pterygoid muscle and the pharynx, next between the two pterygoid muscles, then between the internal pterygoid and ramus of the jaw, and between the stylo-glossus muscle and the submaxillary gland ; lastly, it runs along the side of the tongue, resting against the hyo-glossus muscle and crossing the duct of the submaxillary gland, and is covered in by the mylo-hyoideus and mucous membrane. The gustatory nerve, while between the pterygoid muscles, often receives a communicating branch from the inferior dental; lower down it is joined at an acute angle by the chorda tympani, a small nerve which, arising from the facial in the aqueductus Fallopii, crosses the tympanum, and escapes from that cavity through the fissura Grlaseri. Having joined the gustatory nerve, the chorda tympani is continued downwards in its sheath to the submaxillary ganglion. One or two branches are given by the gustatory nerve to the sub- maxillary ganglion. • On the hyo-glossus muscle several branches of communication join with branches of the hypoglossal nerve, and others are sent to the sublingual gland, "Wharton's duct, and mucous membrane of the mouth and gums. Sixth pair. Abducentes.—The abducens nerve, about half the size of the motor oculi, arises by several filaments from the upper constricted part of the corpus pyramiclale, and by a few fibres from . the pons Varolii. Proceeding forwards from this origin, it lies * parallel with the basilar artery, and, piercing the dura mater on the clivus Blumenbachii of the sphenoid bone, ascends between the two layers of that membrane to the cavernous sinus. It then runs forward through the sinus below the level of the other nerves, and resting against the internal carotid artery, to the sphenoidal fissure. Entering the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure it passes between the two heads of the external rectus, and is distributed to that muscle. At the sphenoidal fissure it lies upon the ophthal- mic vein, from which it is separated by a lamina of dura mater; and in the cavernous sinus is joined by several filaments from the carotid plexus. Mayo traced the deep origin of this nerve between the fasciculi of the corpora pyramidalia to the posterior part of the medulla ob- longata ; and it appears to arise from the grey substance of the fourth ventricle. Seventh pair.—The seventh pair of nerves, of Willis, consists of two nervous cords which lie side by side on the posterior border