297 DEEP CERVICAL FASCIA. ing the stylo-maxillary ligament; and if it be followed downwards, it will be found connected with the tendon of the omo-hyoid muscle, and may thence be traced behind the clavicle, where it encloses the subclavius muscle, and being extended from the cartilage of the first rib to the coracoid process, constitutes the costo-coracoid mem- brane or ligament (fascia costo-clavicularis). In front of the sterno-mastoid muscle, the deep fascia is attached to the border of the lower jaw, os hyoides, and anterior bellies of the digastrici (fascia supra-hyoidea), and forms a sheath for the sub-maxillary gland. Inferiorly it divides into two layers, one of which is at- tached to the interclavicular ligament and upper border of the sternum ; the other to its inner border. * Transverse section of the neck, showing the deep cervical fascia and its numerous prolongations, forming sheaths for the different muscles. As the figure is symmetrical, the figures of reference are placed only on one side. 1. Platysma myoides. 2. Trapezius. 3. Ligamentum nuchse, from which the fascia may be traced forwards beneath the trapezius, enclosing the other muscles of the neck. 4. The point at which the fascia divides, to form a sheath for the sterno-mastoid muscle (5). 6. The point of reunion of the two layers of the sterno-mastoid sheath. 7. The point of union of the deep cervical fascia of opposite sides of the neck. 8. Section of the sterno-hyoid. 9. Omo-hyoid. 10. Sterno-thyroid. 11. Lateral lobe of the thyroid gland. 12. Trachea. 13. (Esophagus. 14. The sheath containing the common carotid artery, internal jugular vein, and pneumogastric nerve. 15. Longus colli. The nerve in front of the sheath of this muscle is the sympathetic. 16. Rectus anticus major. 17. Scalenus anticus. 18. Scalenus medius. 19. Splenius capitis. 20. Splenius colli. 21. Levator anguli scapulae. 22. Com- plexus. 23. Trachelo-mastoideus. 24. Transversalis cervicis. 25. Cervicalis ascendens. 26. Semi-spinalis colli. 27. Multifidus spinse. 28. Cervical ver- tebra; the transverse processes are seen to be traversed by the vertebral artery and vein.