682 STRUCTURE OF THE TESTIS. areolar tissue, in which fat is never deposited, but which is very susceptible of serous infiltration. The tunica vaginalis is a pouch of serous membrane derived from the peritoneum in the descent of the testis, and afterwards obliterated from the abdomen to within a short distance of the gland. Like other serous coverings, it is a shut sac, investing the organ, visceral portion, and then reflected so as to form a bag around its circumference, parietal portion. The visceral portion, tunica vaginalis propria, covers the surface of the tunica albuginea, and surrounds the epididymis, connecting it to the testis by means of a duplicature. The parietal portion, tunica vaginalis communis, is attached by its external surface, through the medium of a quantity of loose areolar tissue, to the inner surface of the dartos. Between the two layers is the smooth surface of the shut sac, moistened by its proper secretion. The Tunica albuginea (dura mater testis) is a thick areolo- fibrous membrane, of a bluish-white colour, andtbe proper tunic of the tes'ticle. It is adherent externally to the tunica vaginalis pro- pria, and, from the union of a serous with a fibrous membrane, is regarded as a fibro-serous membrane, like the dura mater and peri- cardium. After surrounding the testicle, the tunica albuginea is reflected from its posterior border into the interior of the gland, and forms a projecting longitudinal ridge, the mediastinum testis (corpus Eighmorianum*), from which numerous fibrous cords (tra- beculae, septula) are given off, to be inserted into the inner surface of the tunic. The mediastinum serves to contain the vessels and ducts of the testicle in their passage into the substance of the organ, and the fibrous cords are adapted to prevent compression of the gland. If a transverse section of the testis be made, and the surface of the mediastinum examined, it will be observed that the blood-vessels of the substance of the organ are situated near the posterior border of the mediastinum, while the divided ducts of the rete testis occupy a place nearer the free margin. The Tunica vasculosa (pia mater testis) is the nutrient mem- brane of the testis ; it is situated immediately within the tunica albuginea, and encloses the substance of the gland, sending pro- cesses inwards between the lobules, in the same manner that the pia mater is reflected between the convolutions of the brain. The substance of the testis consists of numerous conical flattened lobules (lobuli testis), the bases being directed towards the surface of the organ, and the apices towards the mediastinum. Krause found between four and five hundred of these lobules in a single testis. Each lobule is invested by a distinct sheath formed of two layers, one being derived from the tunica vasculosa, the other from * jSTathaniel Highmore, a physician of Oxford, in his " Corporis Humani Disquisitio Anatomiea," published in 1651, considers the corpus Highmoria- num as a duct formed by the convergence of the fibrous cords, which he mis- takes for smaller ducts.