PALATINE NERVES. 528 The Sphenopalatine ganglion (Meckel's), the largest of the cranial ganglia of the sympathetic, is situated in the sphenomaxil- lary fossa, a little below the superior maxillary nerve. It is of small size, of a reddish-grey colour, and triangular in shape ; and is placed on the posterior part of the spheno-palatine nerves which it only partially involves. Its branches are divisible into four groups ; ascending, descending, internal, and posterior. The ascending branches are three or four small filaments which are distributed to the periosteum of the orbit. One of these branches sometimes joins the ophthalmic ganglion ; one the sixth nerve ; and two the optic nerve. The descending branches are the three palatine nerves, anterior, middle, and posterior. The anterior or large palatine nerve descends from the ganglion through the posterior palatine canal, and emerges at the posterior palatine foramen. It then passes forward in the substance of the hard palate to which it is distributed, and communicates with the naso-palatine nerve. While in the posterior palatine canal, this nerve gives off several branches {inferior nasal), which enter the nose through openings in the palate bone, and are distributed to the middle and inferior meatus, inferior spongy bone, and antrum. The middle or external palatine (nerve descends externally to the preceding to the posterior palatine foramen, and distributes branches to the tonsil, soft palate, and uvula. The posterior or small palatine nerve, quits the other nerves to enter a distinct canal, from which it emerges by a separate opening behind the posterior palatine foramen. It is distributed to the hard palate and gums near the point of its emergence, and also to the tonsil, soft palate, and uvula. The internal branches are the superior nasal and naso-palatine. The superior nasal nerves, four or five in number, enter the nasal fossa through the spheno-palatine foramen, and are distributed to the mucous membrane of the superior meatus, and superior and middle spongy bone. The naso-palatine nerve (Scarpa) enters the nasal fossa with the nasal nerves, and crosses the roof of the nares to reach the septum, to which it gives filaments. It then curves downwards and forwards to the naso-palatine canal, and passes through that canal to the palate, to which and to the papilla behind the incisor teeth it is distributed. This nerve was described by Cloquet as uniting with its fellow in the naso-palatine canal and constituting the naso- palatine ganglion. The existence of this ganglion is disputed. The posterior branches are the Vidian or pterygoid nerve, and the pharyngeal. The Vidian* nerve passes directly backwards from the spheno- * Guido Guidi, latinized into Vidus Vidius, was professor of anatomy and medicine in the College of France in 1542. His work is posthumous, and was published in 1611.