PYRAMIDALIS.— QUADRATUS LUMBORUM. 229 f ersae are vestiges of the abdominal ribs of reptiles, and rarely extend completely through the muscle. Relations.—By its external surface with the anterior lamella of the aponeurosis of the internal oblique, below with the aponeurosis of the transversalis, and with the pyramidalis. By its internal surface with the ensiform cartilage, cartilages of the ribs from the fifth to the ninth, posterior lamella of the internal oblique, perito- neum, and epigastric artery and veins. The Pyramidalis (pubio-subumbilicalis) arises from the crest of the os pubis in front of the rectus, and is inserted into the linea alba at about midway between the umbilicus and pubes. It is enclosed in the sheath with the rectus, and rests against the lower part of that muscle; it is sometimes absent. The rectus may now be divided across the middle, and the two ends drawn aside for the purpose of examining the mode of con- struction of its sheath. The sheath of the rectus is formed, in front, for the upper three- fourths of its extent, by the aponeurosis of the external oblique and anterior lamella of the internal oblique; behind by the posterior lamella of the internal oblique and aponeurosis of the transversalis. Midway between the umbilicus and the pubes, the posterior wall of the sheath terminates in a thin curved margin (plica semilunaris, Douglassii) the aponeurosis of the three muscles passing, below this point, altogether in front of the rectus. The next two muscles can be examined only when the viscera of the abdomen are removed. To see the quadratus lumborum, it is also necessary to divide and draw aside the psoas muscle and the anterior lamella of the posterior aponeurosis of the transversalis. The Quadratus lumborum (ilio-costalis) is concealed from view by the anterior lamella of the posterior aponeurosis of the trans- versalis muscle, which is inserted into the bases of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae. When this lamella is divided, the muscle will be seen to consist of two portions :—one, the external, arising from the ilio-lumbar ligament and ©ater lip of the crest of the ilium for two inches in extent, and inserted into the apices of the transverse processes of the four upper lumbar vertebras (sometimes also last dorsal) and last rib; the other, the internal and anterior portion, arises by tendinous slips from the transverse processes of the three or four lower lumbar vertebrae, and passes upwards to be inserted into the lower border of the last rib. , If the muscle be cut across or removed, the middle lamella of the aponeurosis of the transversalis will be seen, attached to the apices of the transverse processes; the quadratus being enclosed between the two lamellae as in a sheath. Relations.—Enclosed in the sheath formed by the aponeurosis of the transversalis muscle, it is in relation, in front, with the kidney, colon, psoas magnus, and diaphragm. Behind, but also separated by its sheath, with the erector spinas.