36 SPHENOID BONE. mastoid, and styloid. The tympanic ring is united by its extre- mities to the squamous portion during the last month of intra-uterine life ; the squamous, petrous, and mastoid portions are consolidated during the first year ; and the styloid some years after birth. It not unfrequently happens that the latter remains permanently separate, or is prolonged by a series of pieces to the os hyoides, and so com- pletes the hyoid arch. The subsequent changes in the bone are, the increase of size of the glenoid fossa, the growth of the meatus audi- torius externus, the levelling of the surfaces of the petrous portion, and the development of mastoid cells. Traces of the union of the petrous with the squamous portion of the bone are usually percep- tible in the adult. Articulations.—With five bones : occipital, parietal, sphenoid, inferior maxillary, and malar. Attachment of Muscles.—To fourteen: by the squamous portion, to the temporal; by the zygoma, to the masseter ; by the mastoid portion, to the occipito-frontalis, splenius capitis, sterno-mastoid, trachelo-mastoid, digastricus, and retrahens aurem ; by the styloid process, to the stylo-pharyngeus, stylo-hyoideus, stylo-glossus, and two ligaments, stylo-hyoid and stylo-maxillary; and, by the petrous portion, to the levator palati, tensor tympani, and stapedius. Sphenoid Bone.—The sphenoid (crffiv, a wedge) is an irregular bone, situated at the base of the skull, wedged between the other bones of the cranium, and entering into the formation both of the cranium and face. It bears some resemblance, in form, to a bat with its wings extended, and is divisible into body, wings, and processes. The body forms the central mass of the bone, from which the wings and processes are projected. From the upper and anterior part of the body extend, one to each side, two small triangular plates, the lesser wings ; from either side and expanding laterally are the greater wings ; proceeding backwards from the base of the greater wings, the spinous processes, and downwards, the pterygoid processes. The body presents for examination a superior or cerebral surface, an anteroinferior surface, and a posterior surface. Superior surface.—At the anterior extremity of this surface is a small projecting plate, the ethmoidal spine, and spreading out on either side the lesser wings. Behind the ethmoidal spine in the » middle line is a rounded elevation, the olivary process, which sup- ports the commissure of the optic nerves ; and on either side of the posterior margin of that process a tubercle, the middle clinoid process. Passing outwards and forwards from the olivary process, are the ojitic foramina, which transmit the optic nerves and ophthalmic arteries. Behind the optic foramina are two sharp tubercles, the anterior clinoid processes, which are the inner termi- nations of the lesser wings. Beneath these processes, on the sides of the olivary process, are two depressions* for the last turn of the * These depressions are occasionally, as in a skull before me, converted into