OCULAR GROUP. 177 Relations.—By its internal surface with the optic nerve, adipose tissue of the orbit, and eyeball. By its outer surface with the Fig. 108.* periosteum of the orbit; by its upper border with the anterior and posterior ethmoidal vessels, nasal and infra-trochlear nerve. The Rectus externus (abductor), the longest of the straight muscles, arises by two heads, one from the common tendon, the other with the origin of the superior rectus from the margin of the optic foramen ; the nasal, third, and sixth nerve, passing between them. It is inserted into the outer surface of the globe of the eye, a little more than two lines from the margin of the cornea. Relations.—By its internal surface with the third, nasal, sixth, and optic nerve, ciliary ganglion and nerves, ophthalmic artery and vein, adipose tissue of the orbit, inferior oblique muscle, and eye- ball. By its external surface with the periosteum of the orbit and lachrymal gland ; by the upper border with the lachrymal vessels and nerve. The recti muscles present several characters in common; thus, they are thin, have each the form of an isosceles triangle, bear the same relation to the globe of the eye, and are inserted in a similar manner into the sclerotica, at about two lines from the circum- ference of the cornea. The points of difference relate to thickness and length ; the internal rectus is the thickest and shortest, the external the longest, and the superior the most thin. The insertion of the four recti into the globe of the eye forms a tendinous expan- sion, which is continued as far as the margin of the cornea, and is termed tunica albuginea. * Muscles of the eyeball; the view is taken from the outer side of the right orbit. 1. Fragment of that portion of the sphenoid bone through which "the optic nerve passes to enter the orbit. 2. Optic nerve. 3. Globe of the eye. 4. Levator palpebral muscle. 5. Superior oblique. 6. Its cartilaginous pulley. 7. Its reflected tendon. 8. Inferior oblique muscle; the small square knob at its commencement is a piece of its bony origin broken off. 9. Superior rectus. 10. Internal rectus partly concealed by the optic nerve. 11. Part of external rectus, showing its two heads of origin. 12. Extremity of external rectus at its insertion; the intermediate portion of the muscle having been removed. 13. Inferior rectus. 14. Tunica albuginea, formed by the expansion of the tendons of the four recti. N