180 MUSCLES OF THE FACE. lary bone immediately below the origin of the levator labii supe- rioris alseque nasi. This muscular slip was termed by Albinus, musculus anomalus, from its attachment to bone by both ends; and by Santorinus, musculus rhomboideus. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the levator labii superioris proprius, levator labii superioris alseque nasi, and integu- ment ; by its deep surface with the superior maxillary and nasal bone, and with the alar and lateral cartilage of the nose. The Dilatator naris is a thin and indistinct muscular apparatus expanded on the ala of the nostril, and consisting of an anterior and posterior slip. The anterior slip (levator proprius alas nasi anterior) arises from the upper border and surface of the alar carti- lage, and is inserted into the integument of the border of the nos- tril. The posterior slip (levator proprius alee nasi posterior) arises from the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone, and sesamoid cartilages, and is inserted into the integument of the border of the nostril, its posterior half. These muscles are difficult of dissection, from the close adhesion of the integument with the nasal cartilages. The Depressor aj^m nasi (myrtiformis) is brought into view by drawing upwards the upper lip and raising the mucous membrane. It arises from the superior maxillary bone in front of the roots of the second incisor and canine tooth (myrtiform fossa), and passes upwards and inwards to be inserted into the posterior part of the columna and ala nasi. It is closely connected with the deep sur- face of the orbicularis. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the mucous mem- brane of the mouth, orbicularis oris and levator labii superioris alseque nasi; by its deep surface with the superior maxillary bone. Actions.—The pyramidalis nasi, as a point of attachment of the occipito-frontalis, assists that muscle in its action : it also draws down the inner angle of the eyebrow, and by its insertion fixes the aponeurosis of the compressores narium, and tends to elevate the nose. The compressores narium appear to act in expanding rather than compressing the nares ; hence probably the collapsed state of the nares from paralysis of these muscles in the last moments of life, or in compression of the brain. The dilatator naris is a dilator of the nostril, and the depressor alse nasi draws downwards both the ala and columna of the nose, the depression of the latter being assisted by the naso-labialis. 5. Superior Labial Group.— Orbicularis oris, Levator anguli oris, Levator labii superioris alseque nasi, Zygomaticus maj or, Levator labii superioris proprius, Zygomaticus minor. The Orbicularis oris is a sphincter muscle, completely sur- rounding the mouth, and possessing consequently neither origin nor insertion. It is composed of two thick semicircular planes of fibres,