CARPUS. 89 biceps ; by the oblique ridge, supinator brevis, pronator radii teres, flexor subliniis digitorum, and pronator quadratus ; by the anterior surface, flexor longus pollicis and pronator quadratus; by the pos- terior surface, extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis and extensor primi internodii; and by the styloid process, supinator longus. Carpus.—The bones of the carpus are eight in number; and arranged in two rows. In the first row, commencing from the radial side, are the os scaphoides, semilunare, cuneiforme, pisi- forme ; in the second row, in the same order, os trapezium, trape- zoides, os magnum, and unciforme. The scaphoid bone is named from bearing some resemblance to the shape of a boat, being broad at one end, and narrowed like a prow at the opposite, concave on one side, and convex on the other. It is, however, more similar in form to a cashew nut flattened and concave on one side. If carefully examined, it will be found to pre- sent a convex and a concave surface, a convex and a concave border, a broad end, and a narrow and pointed extremity, the tuberosity. To ascertain to which hand the bone belongs, let the student hold it horizontally, the convex surface looking backwards (i.e., towards himself), and the convex border upwards : the broad extremity will indicate its appropriate hand ; if it be directed to the right, the bone belongs to the right; if to the left, to the left carpus. Articulations.—With five bones ; by its convex surface with the radius; by its concave surface, with the os magnum and semilu- nare ; by the extremity of its upper or dorsal border, with the trapezium and trapezoides. Attachments.—By its tuberosity to the anterior annular ligament. The semilunar bone may be known by having a crescentic con- cavity, and a somewhat crescentic figure. It presents for examina- tion four articular surfaces and two extremities ; the articular surfaces are, one concave, one convex, and two lateral, one late- ral surface being crescentic, the other nearly circular and divided generally into two facets. The extremities are, one dorsal, which is quadrilateral, flat, and indented for the attachment of ligaments ; the other palmar, which is convex, rounded, and of larger size. To determine to which hand it belongs, let the bone be held per- pendicularly, the dorsal or flat extremity looking upwards, and the convex side backwards (towards the holder). The circular lateral surface will point to the side corresponding with the hand to which the bone belongs. Articulations.—With five bones, but occasionally with only four; by its convex surface, with the radius ; by its concave surface, with the os magnum ; by its crescentic lateral facet, with the scaphoid ; by the circular surface, with the cuneiform bone and the point of the unciform. This surface is divided into two parts by a ridge, when it articulates with the unciform as well as with the cuneiform bone.