GLOSSOPHARYNGEAL NERVE. 491 rior border of the stylo-pharyngeus. Following the posterior border of this muscle for a short distance, it next passes across it and the middle constrictor and behind the hyo-glossus muscle, to be distributed to the mucous membrane of the tongue, pharynx, and tonsil. While in the jugular fossa, the nerve presents two gangliform swellings ; one superior, the ganglion jugulare (Muller), of small size, and involving only the posterior fibres of the nerve ; the other inferior, nearly half an inch below the preceding, of larger size, and occupying the whole diameter of the nerve, the ganglion, petrosum or ganglion of Andersch.* The fibres of origin of this nerve may be traced through the fasciculi of the corpus restiforme to the grey substance of the floor of the fourth ventricle. The Branches of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve are branches of communication and branches of distribution. The branches of communication proceed chiefly from the gan- glion of Andersch ; they are, one to join the auricular branch of the pneumogastric ; one to the ganglion of the pneumogastric ; one to the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic ; and one, which arises j below the ganglion and pierces the posterior belly of the digastricus muscle, to join the facial nerve. The Branches of distribution are— The Tympanic branch (Jacobson's nerve) proceeds from the ganglion of Andersch, or from the trunk of the nerve immediately above the ganglion ; it enters a small bony canal in the jugular fossa (page 35), and divides into six branches, which are distri- buted on the inner wall of the tympanum, and establish a plexiform communication (tympanic plexus) with the sympathetic and fifth pair of nerves. The branches of distribution supply the fenestra rotunda, fenestra ovalis, and Eustachian tube : those of communi- cation join the carotid plexus in the carotid canal, the petrosal branch of the Vidian nerve, and the otic ganglion. The Carotid branches are several filaments which follow the trunk of the internal carotid artery, and communicate with the nervi molles of the sympathetic. The Muscular branch divides into filaments, which are distri- buted to the posterior belly of the digastricus, stylo-hyoideus, stylo- pharyngeus, and constrictor muscles. The Pharyngeal branches are two or three filaments which are distributed to the pharynx and unite with the pharyngeal branches Tympanic, Carotid, Muscular, Pharyngeal, Tonsillitic, Lingual. * Charles Samuel Andersch. "Tractatus Anatomico-Ph)siologicus de Nervis corporis Humani Aliquibus, 1797."