OYAEIES. 691 proceeds from the fimbriated extremity to be attached to the distal end of the ovary, and serves to guide the tube in its seizure of that organ. The Fallopian tube is composed of three tunics, an external and serous investment derived from the peritoneum ; a middle or mus- cular coat, consisting of circular (internal) and longitudinal (exter- nal) fibres, continuous with those of the uterus; and an internal or lining mucous membrane, which is continuous on the one hand with the mucous membrane of the uterus, and at the opposite extremity with the peritoneum. The fibres of smooth muscle are mingled, as in the uterus, with immature nucleated areolar tissue. The mucous membrane is thin, pale, and soft, without villi or glands, and disposed in longitudinal plaits. It is invested by an epithelium consisting of a single layer of conical or filiform ciliated cells, the direction of the vibrations of the cilia being towards the cavity of the uterus. The 0 varies, testes muliebres, are two oblong, flattened and oval bodies, of a whitish colour and uneven surface, situated in the pos- terior layer of peritoneum of the broad ligaments. They are con- nected to the upper angles of the uterus at each side by means of a rounded cord, consisting of fibrous tissue, and a few muscular fibres derived from the uterus, the ligament of the ovary. By the opposite extremity they are connected by another and a shorter ligament to the fimbriated aperture of the Fallopian tube. In structure the ovary is composed of a spongy fibrous paren- chyma or stroma of a greyish-red colour, containing a number of small cells traversed by blood-vessels, and enclosed in a capsule consisting of two tunics, external or serous, derived from the peri- toneum, and investing it completely, with the exception of its lower border where the vessels enter; and internal or fibrous, called also tunica propria and tunica albuginea, the latter from its analogy with the fibrous coat of the testis. By its inner surface the tunica albuginea blends with the substance of the ovary. The stroma is composed of immature nucleated and fibrous areolar tissue, and, traced from the lower border of the organ, its fibres radiate from the lower border and centre towards the circumference in small bundles, between which and near the surface of the ovary, are seen a number of small cells or vesicles termed ovisacs or Graafian vesicles. The peripheral position of the larger ovisacs has caused a division of the stroma into medullary and cortical, in the latter of which, the ovisacs are chiefly found. The number of ovisacs in a single ovary has been estimated at from 30 to 100 or even 200 ; and their size varies from a quarter of a line to three lines in diameter. The Ovisac or Graafian vesicle, is a vesicle consisting of an exter- nal membrane and fluid contents. The membrane is composed of an outer coat, the tunica fibrosa, the theca folliculi of Von Baer; and an internal lining or epithelium. The tunica fibrosa is highly vas- Y y 2