249 CORACO-BRACHIALIS.—BICEPS BRACHII. border is thin and tendinous above, where it is connected with the aponeurotic covering of the infra-spinatus muscle, and thick below. Actions.—The deltoid is the elevator muscle of the arm in a direct line, and, by means of its extensive origin, it can carry the arm forwards or backwards so as to range with the hand a con- siderable segment of a large circle. The arm, raised by the deltoid, is an illustration of a lever of the third power, so common in the animal machine, by which velocity is gained at the expense of power. In this lever, the weight (hand) is at one extremity, the fulcrum (glenoid cavity) at the opposite end, the power (insertion of the muscle) between the two, but nearer to the fulcrum than to the weight. Anterior Humeral Region. Coraco-brachialis, Biceps brachii, Brachialis anticus. Dissection.—These muscles are exposed, on the removal of the integument and fascia from the anterior half of the upper arm, and the clearing away of the cellular tissue. The Coraco-brachialis, a name suggestive of its points of origin and insertion, arises from the apex of the coracoid process in com- mon with the short head of the biceps ; and is inserted into a rough line on the inner side of the middle of the humerus. Relations.—By its anterior surface with the deltoid and pec- toralis major. By its posterior surface with the shoulder-joint, hu- merus, subscapularis, teres major, latissimus dorsi, short head of the triceps, and anterior circumflex vessels. By its internal border with the axillary and brachial vessels and nerves, particularly with the median and musculo-cutaneous nerve, by the latter of which it is pierced. By the external border with the short head of the biceps and brachialis anticus. The Biceps brachii (bis—KecpaXal, two heads ; flexor radii) arises by two tendons, one, the short head, from the coracoid process in common with the coraco-brachialis ; the other, the long head, from the upper part of the glenoid cavity, where it is continuous with the glenoid ligament. The muscle is inserted by a rounded tendon into the back part of the tubercle of the radius. The long head, a long slender tendon, passes through the capsular ligament of the shoulder-joint enclosed in a sheath of the synovial membrane ; after leaving the cavity of the joint, it is lodged in the deep groove that separates the two tuberosities of the humerus, the bicipital groove. A small synovial bursa is interposed between the tendon of insertion, and the tubercle of the radius. At the bend of the elbow, the tendon of the biceps gives off from its inner side a ten- dinous band, which protects the brachial artery, and is continuous with the fascia of the forearm. Relations.—By its anterior surface with the deltoid, pectoralis major, superficial and deep fascia, and integument. By its poste-