214 MUSCLES OF THE BACK. upper belly is united with the complexus ; in the rest of its course it is free. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the trapezius, splenius, trachelo-mastoideus, transversalis cervicis, and longissimus dorsi. By its deep surface with the semi-spinalis dorsi and colli, recti and obliqui. It is separated from its fellow of the opposite side by the ligamentum nuchas, and from the semi-spinalis colli by the pro- funda cervicis artery, princeps cervicis branch of the occipital, and posterior cervical plexus of nerves. Fifth Layer. Dissection.—The muscles of the preceding layer are to be removed by dividing them transvex-sely through the middle, and turning one extremity upwards, the other downwards. In this way the whole of the muscles of the fourth layer may be dissected off, and the re- maining muscles of the spine brought into a state to be examined. The Semi-spinales muscles are connected with the transverse and spinous processes of the vertebrae, spanning one-half the verte- bral column ; hence their name semi-spiuales. The Semi-spinalis doksi arises from the transverse processes of the dorsal vertebras from the sixth to the tenth; and is inserted into the spinous processes of the four upper dorsal and two lower cervical vertebras. It is united below with the spinalis dorsi, and above with the semi-spinalis colli; it also sends several small slips to the longissimus dorsi. The Semi-spinalis colli, larger than the preceding, arises from the transverse processes of the five or six upper dorsal vertebras; and is inserted into the spinous processes of the cervical vertebras from the second to the fifth. Relations.—By their superficial surface the semi-spinales are in relation from below upwards with the spinalis dorsi, longissimus dorsi, complexus, splenius, profunda cervicis and princeps cervicis artery, and posterior cervical plexus of nerves. By their deep surface with the multifidus spinas muscle. On the middle line in the cervical region is a small muscle, the analogue of the spinalis dorsi, termed the spinalis cervicis. It is extremely irregular; arising from the spinous processes of the two upper dorsal or two lower cervical vertebras ; and inserted into the spinous process of the axis, and sometimes into the next one or two vertebras. Occipital Group.—This group of small muscles is intended for the movements of the cranium on the atlas, and atlas on the axis. The Rectus posticus major (superficialis) arises from the spinous process of the axis ; and is inserted into the inferior curved line of the occipital bone. The Rectus posticus minor (profundus) arises from the spinous tubercle of the atlas ; and is inserted into the rough surface of the occipital bone, beneath the inferior curved line.