TIBIALIS ANTICUS. EXTENSOR LONGUS DIGITORUM. 281 midway between the tibia and fibula, from tbe knee to the ankle, and bounding ibinferiorly by a trans- verse incision extending from one malleolus to the other. And to expose the tendons' on the dorsum of the foot, the longitudinal incision may be carried onwards to the outer side of the base of the great toe, and terminated by another incision di- rected across the heads of the meta- tarsal bones. The Tibialis anticus (flexor tarsi tibialis) arises from the outer tube- rosity and upper two-thirds of the tibia, the interosseous membrane, intermuscular fascia, and deep fascia; its tendon passes through a distinct sheath in the annular liga- ment, and is inserted into the inner and under side of the internal cunei- form bone, and base of the metatarsal bone of the great toe. Relations.—By its anterior sur- face with the deep fascia, from which many of its superior fibres arise, and the anterior annular liga- ment. By its posterior surface with the interosseous membrane, tibia, ankle-joint, and bones of the tarsus. By its internal surface with the tibia; by its external surface with the extensor longus digitorum, ex- tensor proprius pollicis, and anterior tibial vessels and nerve. The Extensor longus digitorum (extensor communis longus) arises from the outer tuberosity of the tibia, the head and upper three- fourths of the fibula, the interos- seous membrane, intermuscular fascia and deep fascia. Near the * Muscles of the anterior tibial region. 1. Quadriceps extensor inserted into the patella; the figure rests on the tendon of the rectus, the vastus inter- nus and externus are situated one at each side. 2. Subcutaneous surface of the tibia. 3. Tibialis anticus. 4. Extensor longus digitorum. 5. Extensor proprius pollicis. 6. Peroneus tertius. 7. Peroneus longus. 8. Peroneus brevis. 9, 9. Borders of the soleus muscle. 10. Part of the inner belly of the gastrocnemius. 11. Extensor brevis digitorum; the tendon in front of the cipher is that of the peroneus tertius; that behind it, the peroneus brevis.