SUBCLAVIAN AKTEEY. 338 centre of the vitreous humour in a tubular sheath of the hyaloid membrane, the capsule of the lens. The Anterior cerebral artery (cerebri anterior vel corporis callosi) passes forwards in the great longitudinal fissure between the two hemispheres of the brain ; then curves backwards along the corpus callosum to its posterior extremity. It gives branches to the olfac- tory and optic nerves, to the under surface of the anterior lobes, the third ventricle, corpus callosum, and inner surface of the hemi- spheres. The two anterior cerebral arteries are connected soon after their origin by a short anastomosing trunk, the anterior com-' municating artery (communicans anterior). The Middle cerebral artery (cerebri media vel fossae Sylvii), larger than the preceding, passes outwards along the fissure of Sylvius, and divides into three principal branches, which supply the anterior and middle lobes of the brain, and the island of Reil. Wear its origin it gives off the numerous small branches which enter the substantia perforata, to be distributed to the corpus striatum. The Posterior communicating artery (communicans posterior), variable in size, sometimes double, and sometimes altogether want- ing, passes backwards and inosculates with the posterior cerebral, a branch of the basilar artery. Occasionally it is so large as to take the place of the posterior cerebral artery. The Choroidea anterior is a small branch which is given off from the internal carotid, near the origin of the posterior communicating artery, and passes beneath the edge of the middle lobe of the brain to enter the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle. It is distri- buted to the choroid plexus, and to the walls of the middle cornu. SUBCLAVIAN AETEEY. The Subclavian artery (subclavia) on the right side,' arises from .< the arteria innominata, opposite the sterno-clavicular articulation ; on the left, from the arch of the aorta. The right is consequently shorter than the left, and situated nearer the anterior wall of the chest; it is also somewhat greater in diameter, from being a branch of a branch, in place of a division from the main trunk. The course of the subclavian artery is divisible, for the sake of precision and surgical observation, into three portions. The first portion of the right and left arteries differs in its course and rela- tions in correspondence with the dissimilarity of origin above referred to. The other two portions are alike on both sides. The first portion, on the right side, ascends obliquely outwards to the inner border of the scalenus anticus. On the left side it ascends perpendicularly to the inner border of that muscle. The second portion curves outwards behind the scalenus anticus ; the third portion passes downwards and outwards beneath the clavicle, to the lower border of the first rib, where it becomes the axillary artery.