130 LIGAMENTS OF THE VEKTEBKAL COLUMN. The occipito-axoid ligament (apparatus ligamentosus colli) is a the dura mater ; and is sometimes described as consisting of a cen- tral and two lateral portions. The odontoid ligaments (alaria) are two short and thick fasciculi, which pass outwards from the apex of the odontoid process, to the sides of the occipital foramen and condyles. A third and smaller fasciculus (ligamentum dentis suspensorium) proceeds from the apex of the odontoid process to the anterior margin of the foramen magnum. These ligaments serve to limit the extent of rotation of the head, hence they are termed check ligaments. 4. Articulation of the Atlas with the Axis.—The ligaments of this articulation arejive in number,— The anterior ligament consists of ligamentous fibres, which pass from the anterior tubercle and arch of the atlas to the base of the odontoid process and body of the axis, where they are continuous with the commencement of the anterior common ligament. The posterior ligament is a thin, membranous layer, passing be- tween the posterior arch of the atlas and the laminse of the axis. The capsular ligaments surround the articular processes of the atlas and axis; they are loose, to permit of the free movement which subsists between these vertebrae. The ligamentous fibres are most numerous on the outer and anterior part of the articulation; and * Upper part of the vertebral canal, opened from behind in order to show the occipito-axoid ligament. 1. Basilar portion of the sphenoid bone. 2. Sec- tion of the occipital bone. 3. Atlas, its posterior arch removed. 4. Axis, posterior arch removed. 5. Occipito-axoid ligament, rendered prominent at its middle by the projection of the odontoid process. 6. Lateral and capsular ligament of the occipito-atloid articulation. 7. Capsular ligament of the arti- cular process of the atlas and axis. Fig. 78 * broad and strong band, which covers in the odontoid process and its ligaments. It is attached below to the body of the axis, where it is continuous with the posterior common liga- ment ; superiorly it is inserted by a broad ex- pansion, into the basi- lar groove of the occi- pital bone. It is firmly connected opposite the body of the axis, with Anterior atlo-axoid, Posterior atlo-axoid, Two capsular, Transverse.