566 MODIOLUS.—LAMINA SPIRALIS. modiolus in the direction of the canal. The bony septum extends for about two-thirds across the diameter of the canal, and in the fresh subject is pro- Fig. 213 * longed to the opposite wall by means of a membranous layer, so as to constitute a com- plete partition, the lamina spiralis. The osseous lamina spi- ralis consists of two thin lamellae, between which, and through the perforations on their surfaces, the fila- ments of the cochlear nerve reach the mem- brane of the cochlea. At the apex of the cochlea, the lamina spiralis terminates by a pointed, hook-shaped process, the hamulus laminae spiralis. The two scalae of the cochlea, which are completely separated through- out their length in the living ear, communicate superiorly, over the hamulus laminae spiralis, by means of an opening common to both, the helico-trema eXtcrcrw, volvere—rpij/na). Inferiorly, one of the two scalae, the scala vestibuli, terminates by means of an oval aperture in the anterior ventricle of the vestibule ; while the other, the scala tympani, becomes somewhat expanded, and opens into the tympanum through the fenestra rotunda (fenestra cochleae). Near the termination of the scala tympani is the small opening of the aquaeductus cochleae. The internal surface of the osseous labyrinth is lined by &fibro- serous membrane, which is analogous to the dura mater in per- forming the office of a periosteum by its exterior, whilst it fulfils the * The cochlea divided parallel with its axis, through the centre of the modiolus; after Breschet. 1. Modiolus. 2. Infundibulum in which the modiolus terminates. 3, 3. Cochlear nerve, sending its filaments through the centre of the modiolus. 4, 4. Scala tympani of the first turn of the cochlea. 5, 5. Scala vestibuli of the first turn ; the septum between 4 and 5 is the lamina spiralis; a filament of the cochlear nerve is seen passing between the layers of the lamina to be distributed in the membrane which invests the lamina. 8. Loops formed by the filaments of the cochlear nerve on the lamina spiralis. 9, 9. Scala tympani of the second turn of the cochlea. 10,10. Scala vestibuli of the second turn; the septum between the two is the lamina spiralis. 11. The remaining half turn of the scala vestibuli; the dome placed over this half turn is the cupola; a line leads from the figure to the remaining half turn of the scala tympani. The lamina of bone which forms the floor of the scala vestibuli curves spirally round to constitute the infundi- bulum (2). 14. The helicotrema through which a bristle is passed; its lower extremity issues from the scala tympani of the middle turn of the cochlea. The hamulus laminae spiralis is seen in front of the bristle.