344 THYEOID AXIS.—INFERIOR THYROID ARTERY. intercostal muscles of the front of the chest, and inosculate with the aortic intercostals ; to each space there are two arteries which ran along the borders of the rib. Besides supplying the intercostal muscles, they send branches to the pectoral muscles and mammary gland. The Perforating arteries (mammary) pass forward to the front of the chest through the first six intercostal spaces ; they then turn outwards, and after giving some branches to the front of the sternum, are distributed to the pectoral muscles and mammary gland. Those intended for the mammary gland are of larger size than the rest. The Musculo-phrenic artery, proceeding from the internal mam- mary at the interspace between the sixth and seventh rib, passes downwards and outwards over the cartilages of the false ribs to the last intercostal space. It pierces the diaphragm at the attachment of that muscle to the eighth rib, and sends branches to its mus- cular structure, and others to the intercostal spaces of the false ribs. " The mammary arteries," says Dr. Harrison, " are remarkable for the number of their inosculations, and for the distant parts of the arterial system which they serve to connect. They anastomose with each other, and their inosculations, with the thoracic aorta, encircle the thorax. On the parietes of this cavity their branches connect the axillary and subclavian arteries ; on the diaphragm they form a link in the chain of inosculations between the subclavian artery and abdominal aorta ; and in the parietes of the abdomen they form an anastomosis most remarkable for the distance between those vessels which it serves to connect; namely, the arteries of the superior and inferior extremities." The Thyroid axis is a short trunk which arises from the front of the subclavian close to the inner border of the anterior scalenus, and divides almost immediately into three branches, inferior thyroid, supra-scapular, and transversa colli. The Inferior thyroid artery (thyroidea inferior) ascends ob- liquely in a serpentine course behind the sheath of the carotid vessels, and in front of the longus colli, to the inferior and posterior part of the thyroid gland, to which it is distributed. It is in rela- tion with the middle cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, which lies in front of it; and sends branches to the trachea, larynx, and oesophagus. Near its origin it gives off the following branch. The Cervicalis ascendens, a branch of the inferior thyroid, ascends upon the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae, lying in the groove between the scalenus anticus and rectus anticus major. It is distributed to the deep muscles and glands of the neck, and sends branches through the intervertebral foramina to supply the spinal cord and its membranes.