STRUCTURE OF NERVE-CELLS. 427 derived from its position, encircling the central filament as in a sbeath; and it is absent in the finest nerve-fibres. The central filament, or axis-fibre (axis-cylinder, Purkinje ; primitive band, Kemak), is a pale, transparent, homogeneous, slightly flattened or cylindrical filament, which occupies the centre of the nerve-fibre. It is about one-third the thickness of the nerve-fibre ; is solid and elastic, sometimes finely granular or striated, and is only brought into view when the fibre is broken up or the medulla dissolved by chemical means. It is also met with in an isolated form, and divested both of sheath and medulla. According to Kolliker, the central filament exists in all nerve-fibres, coarse or fine ; but Valentin and Henle, among other histologists, regard it as simply the uncoagulated portion of the medullary sheath. Kolliker adduces, in support of his views, the constancy of appear- ance of the filament, its chemical constitution as a protein com- pound allied to coagulated albumen, and its presence in nerves still warm with life ; his opinion is probably correct. Besides the medullated or dark bordered nerve-fibres, now de- scribed, there are others which contain no medulla, non-medullated fibres, and which consist only of the central filament invested by the nerve-sheath. The non-medullated nerve-fibres are pale in colour, and bounded by single contour lines ; they are more or less transparent and consistent, and sometimes nucleated; in a word, they present those conditions which distinguish them as nerve- fibres in process of development, and, as such, are the chief con- stituent of the embryonic brain. According to this view, the con- tents of the embryonic fibres separate into two parts, of which the exterior, fluid and viscous, is the medulla, while the unaltered in- terior, firm and solid, is the central filament. Pale non-medullated fibres axe found in connexion with nerve-cells, constituting the pro- cesses of those cells, and sometimes forming the bond of union between the nerve cells and medullated fibres ; they are found also as peripheral continuations of the medullated fibres in the cornea ; in the Pacinian corpuscles ; and as nucleated fibres in the terminal expansion of the olfactory nerves. The nerve-cells (nerve corpuscles) are nucleated cells, occurring in great numbers in the grey or coloured portion of the brain and spinal cord, in ganglia, occasionally in the trunks of certain nerves, and in nervous expansions, as of the optic and auditory nerve. In structure they are composed of a delicate structureless membrane, containing soft, pulpy, greyish contents, and a central nucleated nucleus. In size the nerve-cells vary between and 3~oVu" 0I" an inch in diameter, and the nuclei between .-ytuit an<^ sinnr* The contents of the cells are a clear, homogeneous, colourless, or slightly yellowish matrix, having diffused through it a multitude of minute round granules of nearly uniform size. Sometimes the granules are pale and colourless, or have intermingled with them a small number which are slightly tinged with yellow or grey, and consti- t