681 ANATOMY OF THE TESTIS. in the foetus. The cremasteric covering, erythroid, is the thin muscular expansion formed by the spreading out of the fibres of the cremaster, which is likewise carried down by the testis during its descent. The fascia propria is a continuation of the infundi- buliform process from the transversalis fascia, which immediately invests the vessels of the cord, and is also obtained during the descent of the testis. The Testis (testicle) is a small oblong and rounded gland, about an inch and a half in length, somewhat compressed at the sides and behind, and suspended in the cavity of the scrotum by the spermatic cord. Its position in the scrotum is oblique, so that the upper ex- tremity is directed upwards and forwards, and a little outwards ; the lower, downwards and backwards, and a little inwards ; the convex border looks forwards and downwards, and the flattened border, to which the cord is attached, backwards and upwards. Lying against its outer and posterior border is a flattened body which follows the course of the testicle, and extends from its upper to its lower extremity; this body is named, from its relation to the testis, epididymis (eirl, upon, SLdv- fjios, the testicle) ; it is divided into a central part or body, an upper extremity or globus major, and a lower extremity, globus minor (cau- da) epididymis. The globus major is situated against the upper end of the testicle, to which it is closely adherent; the'globus minor is placed at its lower end, is attached to the testis by areolar tissue, and curves upwards, to become continuous with the vas deferens. The testis is in- vested by three tunics, tunica vagi- nalis, tunica albuginea, and tunica vasculosa, and is connected to the inner surface of the dartos by a large quantity of extremely loose * Transverse section of the testicle. 1. Cavity of the tunica vaginalis; the most external layer is the parietal layer; and that in contact with the organ, the visceral layer. 2. Tunica albuginea. 3. Mediastinum testis giving off numerous fibrous cords in a radiated direction to the internal surface of the tunica albuginea. The cut extremities of the vessels below the figure belong to the rete testis; and those above to the arteries and veins of the organ. 4. Tunica vasculosa, or pia mater testis. 5. One of the lobules, con- sisting of the convolutions of the tubuli seminiferi, and terminating by a single duct, the vas rectum. Corresponding lobules are seen between the other fibrous cords of the mediastinum. 6. Section of the epididymis.