MUSCLES OF THE NECK. 188 Dissection.—The dissection of the neck should be commenced by making an incision along the middle line of its fore part from the chin to the sternum, and bounding it superiorly and inferiorly by two transverse incisions; the superior being carried along the margin of the lower jaw, and across the mastoid process to the tubercle on the occipital bone, the inferior along the clavicle to the acromion process. The square flap of integument thus included should be turned back from the entire side of the neck, which brings into view the superficial fascia, and on the removal of a thin layer of superficial fascia the platysma myoides will be exposed. The Platysma myoides (7rXari>s fids eTdos, broad muscle-like lamella ; latissimus colli; subcutaneus colli; thoraco-facialis) is a thin plane, of muscular fibres, situated beneath the integument on the side of the neck ; it arises from the fascia of the pectoralis major and deltoid muscle, and passes obliquely upwards and inwards to be inserted into the side of the chin, oblique line of the lower jaw, angle of the mouth, and cellular tissue of the face. The ante- rior fibres are continuous beneath the chin, with the muscle of the opposite side; the next interlace with the depressor anguli oris and depressor labii inferioris; the posterior fibres are disposed in a transverse direction across the lower part of the face, arising from the fascia of the parotid gland and masseter muscle, and inserted into the angle of the mouth (risorius Santorini). The entire muscle is analogous to the cutaneous muscle of brutes, the panniculus carnosus. Relations.'—By its external surface with the integument, with which it is closely adherent below, but loosely above. By its internal surface, below the clavicle, with the pectoralis major and deltoid; in the neck with the trapezius, sterno-mastoid, external jugular vein and deep cervical fascia; on the face, with the parotid gland, masseter, facial artery and vein, buccinator, depressor anguli oris, and depressor labii inferioris. On raising the platysma throughout its whole extent, the sterno- mastoid is brought into view. The Sterno-cleido-mastoideus is the large oblique muscle of the neck, and is situated between two layers of the deep cervical fascia. It arises, as implied by its name, from the sternum and clavicle (Kkeibiov), and passes obliquely upwards and backwards, to be inserted into the mastoid process of the temporal, and superior curved line of the occipital bone. The sternal portion arises by a rounded tendon, increases in breadth as it ascends, and spreads out to a considerable extent at its insertion. The clavicular portion is broad and fleshy, separate from the sternal portion below, but blended with the posterior surface of the latter as it ascends. The two portions of this muscle are sometimes described as sepa- rate muscles under the names of sterno-mastoideus (nutator capitis internus, vel anticus) and cleido-mastoideus (nutator capitis ex-