THORACIC DUCT. 423 The Lymphatic vessels of the testicle take the course of the sper- matic cord, in which they are of large size; they terminate m the lumbar glands. THORACIC DUCT. . The thoracic duct,* the great trunk of the lymphatic and chylous system, commences in the abdomen, by a considerable and somewhat triangular dilatation, the receptaculvm ehyh, which is situated. on the front of the body of the second lumbar vertebra, behindI and between the aorta and inferior vena cava, and close to the tendon - of the right crus of the diaphragm. From the upper part of the receptaculum chyli the thoracic duct ascends through the aortic opening of the diaphragm, and along the front of the vertebra^ column, lying between the thoracic aorta and vena azygos and upon theTightitercostal arteries, to the fourth dorsal vertebra It then » inclines to the left side, passes behind the arch of the aorta, and ' ascends by the side of the oesophagus, and behind the perpendicular Son of the left subclavian artery to the root of the neck opposite Z seventh cervical vertebra, where it makes a sudd« wards and downwards, and terminates at the point of junction of the left subclavian with the left internal jugular vein . The thoracic duct is about eighteen or twenty inche, irlength and near its origin as large as a goosequill; as rtMoaad^xtdU minishes in size ; and near its termination again becomes dilated. At the middle of the thorax it frequently divides ^okaAs of equal size, which reunite after a short course ; and sometimes it gives off several branches, which assume a plexiform arrange menTin this situation. Occasionally the thoracic *"b b^£"* the upper part of the thorax into two branches one of which opens ntothepoit of junction between the right'^^^SS vein while the other proceeds to the normal termination of the duct It the left side. In rare instances the duct has been found to terminate in the vena azygos, which is its normal destination m SThemthTaac!ca-duct presents fewer valves in its course than lvmnhatic vessels generally; at its termination it is provided with !ft£of lZ^v valves, to prevent the admission of venous ^Branches -The thoracic duct receives at its commencement four or fiv^forge lymphatic trunks, which unite to form the receptacuhm pWI?- it next receives the trunks of the lacteal vessels. W thin he hoa1?bfjSSd by a large lymphatic trunk from the liver, ^^Tci™ through the posterior mediastinum, receives the * The thoracic duct was discovered ^^bto, ta by Veslingius in man.