MUSCLES OF THE NECK. 198 ates, from its origin, and spreads out upon the side of the pha- rynx, the lower fibres descending and being overlapped by the constrictor inferior ; the upper fibres ascending, so as to cover in the constrictor superior. It is inserted into the raphe of the pharynx, and by a fibrous aponeurosis into the basilar process of the occipital bone. Relations.—By its external surface with the vertebral column, longus colli, rectus anticus major, carotid vessels, inferior con- strictor, hyo-glossus, lingual artery, pharyngeal plexus of nerves, and some lymphatic glands. By its internal surface, with the superior constrictor, stylo-pharyngeus, palato-pharyngeus, and mucous membrane of the pharynx. The upper portion of this muscle must be turned down, to bring the whole of the superior constrictor into view; in so doing, the stylo-pharyngeus muscle will be seen passing behind its upper border. The Constrictor superior is a thin and quadrilateral plane of muscular fibres arising from the side of the tongue, the extremity of the molar ridge of the lower jaw, the pterygo-maxillary ligament, and lower third of the internal pterygoid plate ; and inserted into the raphe of the pharynx and basilar process of the occipital bone. Its superior fibres are arched, leaving a concave interspace between its upper border and the basilar process ; some of its lower fibres are continuous with those of the genio-byo-glossus on the side of the tongue, and it is overlapped inferiorly by the middle constrictor. Between the side of the pharynx and the ramus of the lower jaw is a triangular interval, the maxillo-pharyngeal space, which is bounded at the inner side by the superior constrictor muscle ; at the outer side by the internal pterygoid muscle ; and behind by the rectus anticus major and vertebral column. In this space are situ- ated the internal carotid artery, internal jugular vein, glosso-pharyn- geal, pneumogastric, spinal accessory, and hypoglossal nerve. Relations.—By its external surface with the vertebral column and muscles of the latter, behind ; with the vessels and nerves con- tained in the maxillo-pharyngeal space laterally, and with the middle constrictor, stylo-pharyngeus, and tensor palati. By its internal surface with the levator palati, palato-pharyngeus, tonsil, and mucous membrane of the pharynx. The Sttlo-pharyngeus (levator seu dilatator pharyngis) is a long and slender muscle arising from the inner side of the base of the styloid process ; it descends between the superior and middle con- strictor muscle, and spreads out beneath the mucous membrane of the pharynx ; it is inserted partly into the posterior border of the thyroid cartilage and partly into the internal face of the inferior constrictor. Relations.—By its external surface with the stylo-glossus muscle, external carotid artery, parotid gland, and middle constrictor. By its internal surface with the internal carotid artery, internal jugular