455 FIFTH VENTRICLE.—FORNIX. nate layers of white and grey substance. The hippocampus major is continuous superiorly with the fornix and corpus callosum,, and derives its medullary layer from the corpus fimbriatum. The Pes accessorius (eminentia collaterals) is a swelling some- what resembling the hippocampus major, but smaller in size, and situated in the angular interval between it and the hippocampus minor. Like the latter, it is formed by the protrusion of one of the sulci of the convolutions. The Corpus fimbriatum (tenia hippocampi) is the narrow white band which is prolonged from the central cavity of the ventricle, and is attached along the inner border of the hippocampus major. It is lost inferiorly in the hippocampus. Fascia dentata.—If the corpus fimbriatum be carefully raised, a narrow serrated band of grey substance, the margin of the grey substance of the middle lobe, will be seen beneath it; this is the fascia dentata. Beneath the corpus fimbriatum will be likewise seen the transverse fissure of the brain, which has been before de- scribed as extending from near the fissure of Sylvius on one side, across to the same point on the opposite side. It is through this fissure that the pia mater communicates with the choroid plexus, and the latter obtains its supply of blood. The fissure is bounded on one side by the corpus fimbriatum, and on the other by the under surface of the thalamus opticus. The internal boundary of the lateral ventricle is the septum lucidum. This septum is thin, semi-transparent, and consists of two laminae of cerebral substance attached above to the under surface of the corpus callosum at its anterior part, and below to the fornix. Between the two layers is a narrow space, the fifth ventricle, which is lined by a proper membrane. The fifth ventricle may be shown, by snipping through the septum lucidum transversely with the scissors. The corpus callosum should now be cut across towards its an- terior extremity, and the two ends carefully dissected away. The anterior portion will be retained only by the septum lucidum, but the posterior will be found incorporated with the white layer beneath, which is the fornix. Fornix.—The fornix (arch) is a triangular lamina of white substance, broad behind, and extending into each lateral ventricle : narrow in front, where it terminates in two crura, which arch down- wards to the base of the brain. The two crura descend in a curved direction to the base of the brain, embedded in grey substance, in the lateral walls of the third ventricle, and lying directly behind the anterior commissure. At the base of the brain they make a sudden curve upon themselves and constitute the corpora albicantia, from which they may be traced upwards to their origin in the thalami optici. Opening transversely beneath these two crura, just as they are about to arch downwards, is the foramen of communication between the lateral and the third ventricle, the foramen of Monro ;