LATERAL VENTRICLES. 454 major in the descending horn of the lateral ventricle, is also termed, tenia hippocampi. The Fornix is a white layer of medullary substance, of which a portion only is seen in this view of the ventricle. The Anterior cornu is triangular in form, sweeping outwards, and terminating by a point in the anterior lobe of the brain, at a short distance from its surface. The Posterior cornu or digital cavity curves inwards, as it ex- tends back into the posterior lobe of the brain, and likewise ter- minates near the surface. An elevation corresponding with a deep sulcus between two convolutions, projects into the area of this cornu, and is called the hippocampus minor. The Middle or descending cornu, in descending into the middle lobe of the brain, forms a very considerable curve, and alters its direction several times as it proceeds. Hence it is described as passing backwards and outwards and downwards, and then turning forwards and inwards. This complex expression of a very simple curve has given origin to a symbol, formed of the primary letters of the term, by which the student is enabled to recollect more easily the course of the cornu, bodfi. It is the largest of the three cornua, and terminates close to the fissure of Sylvius, after having curved around the crus cerebri. The middle cornu should now be laid open, by inserting the little finger into its cavity, and making it serve as a director for the scalpel in cutting away the side of the hemisphere, so as to expose it completely. The Superior boundary of the middle cornu is formed by the under surface of the thalamus opticus, upon which are the two pro- jections called corpus genie ulatum internum and externum ; and the inferior wall by the following parts :— Corpus fimbriatum, The Hippocampus major or cornu Ammonis, so called from its resemblance to a ram's horn, the famous crest of Jupiter Ammon, is a considerable projection from the inferior wall, and extends the whole length of the middle cornu. Its extremity is likened to the foot of an animal, from its presenting a number of knuckle-like elevations on the surface, and is named pes hippocampi. The hippocampus major is the internal surface of the convolution (gyrus fornicatus) of the lateral edge of the hemisphere, the convolution which has been previously described as lying on the corpus callosum and extending downwards to the base of the brain to terminate at the fissure of Sylvius. If it be cut across, the section will be seen to resemble the extremity of a convoluted scroll, consisting of alter- Hippocampus major, Pes hippocampi, Pes accessorius, Choroid plexus, Fascia dentata, Transverse fissure.