236 MUSCLES OF THE PEEINEUM. The muscles of the perineum are situated in the outlet of the pelvis, and consist of two groups, one of which belongs especially to the organs of generation and urethra, the other to the termination of the alimentary canal. To these may be added the anterior muscles of the coccyx. The muscles of the perineal region in the male, are the Accelerator urinse, Sphincter ani, Erector penis, Levator ani, Transversus perinei, Coccygeus, Compressor urethra, Sacro-coccygeus anticus. Dissection.—To dissect the perineum, the subject should be fixed in the position for lithotomy, that is, the hands should be bound to the soles of the feet, and the knees kept apart. An easier plan is the drawing of the feet upwards by means of a cord passed through a hook in the ceiling. Both of these means of preparation have for their object the full exposure of the perineum. And as this is a dissection which demands some degree of delicacy and nice manipu- lation, a strong light should be thrown upon the part. Having fixed the subject, and drawn the scrotum upwards by means of a string or hook, carry an incision from the base of the scrotum along the ramus of the pubes and ischium and tuberosity of the ischium to a point parallel with the apex of the coccyx ; then describe a curve over the coccyx to the same point on the opposite side, and continue the incision onwards along the opposite tuberosity and ramus of the ischium and pubes, to the opposite side of the scrotum, where the two extremities may be connected by a transverse incision. . This incision will completely surround the perineum, following very nearly the outline of its boundaries. Now let the student dissect off the integument carefully from the whole of the included space, and he will expose the fatty cellular structure of the common super- ficial fascia, which resembles the superficial fascia in other situa- tions. The common superficial fascia is then to be removed to the same extent, exposing the superficial perineal fascia. This layer is also to be turned aside, when the muscles of the genital region of the perineum will be brought into view. The Acceleratores URiNiE (bulbo-cavernosi) arise from a ten- dinous point in the centre of the perineum and from the fibrous raphe of the two muscles. From this origin the fibres diverge like the barbs of a pen ; the posterior to be inserted into the triangular ligament and ramus of the pubes ; the middle, to encircle the cor- pus spongiosum and meet on its upper side ; the anterior, to spread out on the corpus cavernosum at each side, and be inserted, partly into its fibrous structure, and partly into the fascia penis. The