441 STRUCTURE OF SYMPATHETIC NERVE. corpuscle are continued for some distance on the fibre to constitute its sheath. The nerve-fibre included within the central cavity ends in a small rounded tubercle, and not unfre- quently is bifid or even trifid. The Pacinian Fig. 180.* corpuscles are first apparent during the sixth month of foetal life. Sympathetic nerve.—The sympathetic or ganglionic nerve, or system of organic nerves, has received its various designations from its numberless communications and anastomoses from its composition of a series of ganglia and from its distribution chiefly to the viscera of the body. It consists of a cord of moderate thickness, which extends from the head to the coccyx, lying by the side of the vertebral co- lumn, of a series of ganglia, some of which are fusiform and others flattened and multangular, of short branches of communication from the spinal nerves, and, peripheral branches which for the most part follow the trunks of arte- ries, and are distributed to the viscera, after ^ uniting with ganglia in their course, or form- ing smaller ganglia in their distribution. The elementary constituents of the ganglionic nerve are ; white nerve- fibres of every degree of magnitude from coarse to fine ; ganglionic nerves, and nerve-cells. The ganglia resemble in structure those of the posterior roots of the spinal nerves, but the nerve-cells are smaller, more uniformly round, pale and colourless or slightly tinged with pigment, and provided with a single process, sometimes two, and more rarely none ; the ganglionic nerve. After one or two turns around and between the nerve-cells, the ganglionic nerve takes its course to the periphery of the ganglion and united with other fibres constitutes the nervous cords. The ganglionic nerves are dark-bordered and pale. The white nerve-fibres are derived from the anterior and posterior roots of the spinal nerves, chiefly from the latter ; entering the ganglion, they divide into an ascending and descending fasciculus, which pass upwards and downwards along the main trunk of the nerve, or pass off with the larger branches in company with ganglionic nerves. The branches of the sympathetic nerve present some difference of colour, having reference to the greater or less preponderance of the white or ganglionic fibres; thus the splanchnic nerves are white, the mesenteric branches greyish-white ; and the filaments ramifying on the branches of the carotid arteries reddish-grey and soft (nervi sub- * A Pacinian corpuscle; after Kolliker. a. Its peduncle, b. The nerve- fibre, c. The axis-cylinder contained in the cavity of the corpuscle, d. The laminated sheath.