517 ANTERIOR CRURAL NERVE. nerve, and is distributed to the integument of the inner side of the leg as far as its middle. The cutaneous branch is often wanting, its place being supplied by the internal cutaneous nerve, and some- times by the accessory obturator. The posterior branch pierces the obturator extern us muscle, to which and to the adductor magnus it distributes branches ; it also gives off an articular branch which pierces the adductor magnus muscle, and accompanies the popliteal artery to the'knee-joint. The A ccessory obturator nerve, small and inconstant, is a high division of the obturator, being sometimes derived from it near its origin, and sometimes by separate filaments from the third and fourth lumbar nerve. It passes down the inner border of the psoas muscle, crosses the os pubis, and dips beneath the pectineus, where it divides into branches. One of its branches is distributed to the pectineus, another supplies the hip-joint, while a third communi- cates with the anterior branch of the obturator nerve, and when of large size constitutes its cutaneous branch. As already stated, the existence of the accessory obturator nerve is uncertain. The Anterior crural or femoral nerve is the largest of the divisions of the lumbar plexus ; it is formed by the union of branches from the second, third, and fourth lumbar nerve, and is distributed to the integument of the front and inner side of the thigh, leg, and foot, to all the muscles of the front of the thigh (excepting one), to the iliacus, pectineus, femoral artery, and knee-joint. Emerging from beneath the psoas, the nerve passes downwards in the groove between that muscle and the iliacus, and beneath Poupart's liga- ment into the thigh, where it spreads out and divides into numerous branches. At Poupart's ligament it is separated from the femoral artery by the breadth of the psoas muscle, which at this point is scarcely more than half an inch in diameter, and by the iliac fascia, beneath which it lies. Branches.—Within the pelvis, the anterior crural nerve gives off three or four twigs to the iliacus muscle, and a branch to the femo- ral artery. The latter divides into filaments which entwine about the artery, and follow its course downwards in the thigh. Below Poupart's ligament the crural nerve becomes flattened out, and divides into numerous branches, which may be arranged into two principal groups, superficial and deep. The separate branches of these groups are as follow : Long or Internal saphenous. The Middle cutaneous nerve pierces the fascia lata at about three inches below Poupart's ligament, and divides into two branches, which pass down the inner and front part of the thigh, and are dis- Superficial. Middle cutaneotis, Internal cutaneous, Deep. Muscular, Articular.