EIGHT VENTRICLE. 585 The Tulerculum Loweri* is the portion of auricle intervening "between the openings of the superior and inferior cava. Being thicker than the walls of the veins, it .forms a projection, which was supposed by Lower to direct the blood from the superior cava into the auriculo-ventricular opening. The Musculi pectinati are small muscular columns situated in the appendix auriculae. They are numerous, and arranged parallel with each other ; hence their cognomen "pectinati,'''' like the teeth of a comb. The Right or anterior ventricle is triangular and prismoid in form. Its anterior side is convex, and forms the larger portion of the front of the heart. The posterior side, which is also inferior, is flat, and rests on the diaphragm ; the inner side corresponds with the partition between the two ventricles, septum ventriculorum. Superiorly where the pulmonary artery arises, there is a dilatation * of the ventricle, termed the infundibidum or conus arteriosus. The right ventricle is to be laid open by making an incision parallel with, and a little to the right of, the anterior longitudinal furrow, from the pulmonary artery in front, to the apex of the heart, and thence by the side of the posterior longitudinal furrow behind to the auriculo-ventricular opening. It contains, to be examined, two openings, the auriculo-ventri- cular and that of the pulmonary artery ; two apparatus of valves, tricuspid and semilunar; and a muscular and tendinous apparatus belonging to the tricuspid valves. They may be thus arranged :— Auriculo-ventricular opening, Tricuspid valves, Opening of the pulmonary artery. Semilunar valves. Chordse tendinece, Carnese columnse. The Auriculo-ventricular opening is surrounded by a fibrous ring, covered by the lining membrane (endocardium) of the heart. It is the opening of communication between the right auricle and ventricle. The Opening of the pulmonary artery is situated at the summit of the conus arteriosus, close to the septum ventriculorum, on the left side of the right ventricle, and upon the anterior aspect of the heart. The Tricuspid valves are three triangular folds of the lining membrane, strengthened by a thin layer of fibrous tissue. They are connected by their base around the auriculo-ventricular open- ing ; and by their sides and apices, which are thickened, they give attachment to a number of slender tendinous cords, called chordae tendinese. The chorda*, tendinew are the tendons of the thick mus- * Eichard Lower, M.D. " Tractatus de Corde; item de Motu et Colore Sanguinis," 1669. His dissections were made upon quadrupeds, and his observations relate rather to animals than man.