GEMELLUS SUPERIOE. GEMELLUS INFERIOR. 271 its upper border with the gluteus medius and gluteal vessels and nerves. By its lower border with the gemellus superior, ischiatic vessels and nerves, and internal pudic vessels and nerve. The Gemellus superior (gemellus, double, twin) is a small slip of muscle situated immediately below the pyriformis ; it arises from the spine of the ischium, and is inserted into the upper border of the tendon of the obturator internus, and into the digital fossa of the trochanter major. The gemellus superior is not unfrequently wanting. , Relations.—By its superficial surface with the gluteus maximus, ischiatic vessels and nerves, and internal pudic vessels and nerve. By its deep surface With the pelvis and capsule of the hip-joint. The Obturator internus arises from the inner surface of the anterior wall of the pelvis, being attached to the margin of bone around the obturator foramen-and to the obturator membrane. It passes out of the pelvis through the lesser sacro-ischiatic foramen, and is inserted by a flattened tendon into the digital fossa of the trochanter major. The lesser sacro-ischiatic notch, over which this muscle plays as through a pulley, is faced with cartilage, and provided with a synovial bursa to facilitate its movements. The tendon of the obturator is bordered above and below, by the gemelli muscles (hence their names), which are inserted into the sides of its tendon, and appear to be auxiliaries or superadded portions, external origins in fact of the obturator internus. Relations.—By its superficial or posterior surface with the in- ternal pudic vessels and nerve, the obturator fascia, which sepa- rates it from the levator ani and viscera of the pelvis, the sacro- ischiatic ligaments, gluteus maximus, and ischiatic vessels and nerves. By its deep or anterior surface with the obturator mem- brane and the margin of bone surrounding it, the cartilaginous pulley of the lesser ischiatic foramen, external surface of the pelvis, and capsular ligament of the hip-joint. By its upper border within the pelvis, with the obturator vessels and nerve; externally to the pelvis, with the gemellus superior. By its lower border with the gemellus inferior. The Gemellus inferior arises from the posterior point of the tuberosity of the ischium, and is inserted into the lower border of the tendon of the obturator internus, and into the digital fossa of the trochanter major. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the gluteus maximus, and ischiatic vessels and nerves. By its deep surface with the external surface of the pelvis, and capsule of the hip-joint. By its upper border with the tendon of the obturator internus. By its lower border with the tendon of the obturator externus and quad- ratus femoris. In this region the tendon only of the obturator externus can be seen ; it is situated deeply between the gemellus inferior and upper