INFRASPINATUS. TERES MAJOR. 247 Relations.—By its topper surface with the trapezius, clavicle, acromion, and coraco-acromial ligament. From the trapezius it is separated by a strong fascia. By its lower surface with the supra- spinous fossa, suprascapular vessels and nerve, origin of the omo- hyoid muscle, and upper part of the shoulder-joint, forming part of the capsular ligament. The Infra-spinatps (infra, beneath; spina, the spine) is covered in by a layer of tendinous fascia, which must be removed before the fibres of the muscle can be seen, the deltoid muscle having been previously turned down from its scapular origin. It arises from the whole of the infra-spinous fossa, excepting a small portion near the neck of the bone, from the spine of the scapula, and from the investing fascia; it is inserted into the middle depression of the greater tuberosity of the humerus ; its tendon being blended with that of the supra-spinatus above and the teres minor below. Relations.—By its posterior surface with the deltoid, latissimus dorsi, trapezius and integument. By its anterior surface with the infra-spinous fossa, supra-scapular and dorsal scapular vessels, and shoulder-joint; its tendon being lined by a prolongation from the synovial membrane. By its upper border it is in relation with the spine of the scapula ; and by the lower with the teres major and minor, being closely united with the latter. The Teres minor (teres, round) arises from the posterior surface of the lower border of the scapula for about the middle third of its extent; it is connected with the lower border of the preceding muscle, and is inserted into the inferior depression of the greater tuberosity of the humerus. The tendons of the three preceding muscles, with that of the subscapularis, are in immediate contact with the shoulder-joint, and form part of its ligamentous capsule, thereby preserving the solidity of the articulation. They are therefore the structures most frequently ruptured in dislocation of the head of the humerus. Relations.—By its posterior surf ace with the deltoid, and integu- ment. By its anterior surface with the inferior border and part of the dorsum of the scapula, dorsalis scapulae vessels, scapular head of the triceps, and shoulder-joint. By its upper border with the infra-spinatus; by the lower with the teres major, and long head of the triceps. The Teres maj^r muscle arises from the dorsal surface of the inferior angle of the scapula, and from its inferior border ; it is inserted into the posterior bicipital ridge of the humerus, imme- diately behind the tendon of the latissimus dorsi. At its origin this muscle is covered by the latissimus dorsi, but the latter shortly afterwards curves around its lower border and becomes placed in front: the two tendons at their insertion, one lying behind the other, are separated by a bursa. Relations.—By its posterior surface with the latissimus dorsi, scapular head of the triceps and integument. By its anterior surface