BASE OF THE SKULL. 50 jaw. It contains the external pterygoid, part of the temporal, and internal pterygoid muscle; and the internal maxillary artery and inferior maxillary nerve, with their branches. At the inner side and upper part of the zygomatic fossa are two fissures, spheno- maxillary and pterygo-maxillary. The spJieno-maxillary fissure, horizontal in direction, opens into the orbit, and is situated between the great ala of the sphenoid and the superior maxillary bone. It is completed externally by the malar bone. The pterygo-maxillary fissure is vertical, and descends at a right angle from the extremity of the preceding. It is situated between the pterygoid process and the tuberosity of the superior maxillary bone, and transmits the in- ternal maxillary artery. At the angle of junction of these two fissures is a small space, the spheno-maxillary fossa, bounded by the sphenoid, palate, and superior maxillary bone. In this space are seen the openings of five foramina : foramen rotundum, spheno- palatine, pterygo-palatine, posterior palatine, and Vidian. The spheno-maxillary fossa lodges Meckel's ganglion and the termination of the internal maxillary artery. The base op the skull presents an internal or cerebral, and an external or basilar surface. The cerebral surface is divisible into three parts, which are named, anterior, middle, and posterior fossa of the base of the cranium. The anterior fossa is somewhat convex at each side, where it corre- sponds with the roof of the orbits ; and concave in the middle, in the situation of the ethmoid bone and anterior part of the body of the sphenoid. The latter and the lesser wings constitute its pos- terior boundary. It supports the anterior lobes of the cerebrum. In the middle line of this fossa, at its anterior part, is the crista galli; immediately in front of that process, the foramen cozcum ; and on each side, the cribriform plate with its foramina, for the transmission of the filaments of the olfactory and nasal branch of the ophthalmic nerve. Farther back in the middle line is the pro- cessus olivaris, and, at the sides of this process, the optic foramina, anterior and middle clinoid processes, and vertical grooves for the internal carotid arteries. The middle fossa of the base, deeper than the preceding, is boun led in front by the lesser wing of the sphenoid ; behind, by the petrous portion of the temporal bone ; and is divided into two lateral parts by the sella turcica. It is formed by the posterior part of the body, great ala, and spinous process of the sphenoid, and by the petrous and squamous portion of the temporal bones. In the centre of this fossa is the sella turcica, which lodges the pituitary gland, bounded in front by the anterior and middle, and behind by the dorsum ephippii and posterior clinoid processes. On each side of the sella turcica is the carotid groove for the internal carotid artery, cavernous plexus of nerves, cavernous sinus, and orbital nerves ; and farther outwards the following foramina, from before backwards: sphenoidal fissure (foramen lacerum anterius) for the