SPERMATIC COED. 680 and have prominent roots, and has usually a dark colour from the presence of pigment in the epidermis. The tunica dartos is a thin reddish layer composed of smooth muscular tissue; it forms the proper tunic of the scrotum, and sends inwards a septum, septum scroti, which divides the cavity into two sacs for the two testes. The dartos is continuous around the base of the scrotum with the common superficial fascia of the abdomen and perineum, and in an attenuated form is prolonged upon the penis to the prepuce. The Spermatic cord is the medium of communication between the testes and the interior of the abdomen; and is composed of arteries, veins, lymphatics, nerves, the excretory duct of the testicle, and investing tunics. It commences at the internal abdominal ring, where the vessels of which it is composed converge, and passes obliquely along the spermatic canal: the cord then escapes at the external abdominal ring, and descends through the scrotum to the posterior border of the testicle. The left cord is somewhat longer than the right, and permits the left testicle to reach a lower level than its fellow. The Arteries of the spermatic cord are, the spermatic artery from the aorta ; the deferential artery, accompanying the vas deferens, from the superior vesical; and the cremasteric, from the epigastric artery. The spermatic veins form a plexus, which constitutes the chief bulk of the cord ; they are provided with valves at short in- tervals, and the smaller veins have a peculiar tendril-like arrange- ment, which has obtained for them the name of vasa pampini- formia. The lymphatics are of large size, and terminate in the lumbar glands. The nerves are the spermatic plexus, which is derived from the aortic and renal plexus, the genital branch of the genito-crural nerve, and the scrotal branch of the ilio-inguinal. The Vas deferens, the excretory duct of the testicle, is situated along the posterior border of the cord, where it may be distin- guished by the hard and cordy sensation which it communicates to the fingers. It is about a line or a line and a half in thickness ; its parietes are thick and tougb, and its canal from one-fourth to one-third the diameter of the entire duct. In structure it is com- posed of three coats, an external or fibrous coat, which is thin ; a middle or muscular coal, which is remarkable for its thickness, and consists of three layers of smooth muscular fibre, namely, external longitudinal, middle circular, and internal longitudinal ; and an internal or mucous coat, the mucous membrane being pale in colour, disposed in longitudinal plaits, and coated with a squamous epithelium, composed of cells containing yellowish pig- ment granules. In the dilated portion, near its extremity, it presents a reticular appearance, like that of the vesiculse seminales. The Coverings of the spermatic cord are, the spermatic fascia, cremaster muscle, and fascia propria. The spermatic fascia is a prolongation of the intercolumnar fascia, derived from the borders of the external abdominal ring during the descent of the testicle