219 LEVATORES COSTARUM. Relations.—By their superficial surface with the sacro-lumbalis, longissimus dorsi and transversalis cervicis. By their deep surface with the ribs and intercostal spaces ; the levatores breves close the intercostal spaces, and are united by their external border with the intercostales externi. With regard to the origin and insertion of the muscles of the back, the student should be informed that no exact regularity attends their attachments. At the best, a knowledge of their pre- cise connexions, even were it possible to retain it, would be but a barren information, if not absolutely injurious, as tending to exclude more valuable learning. I have therefore arranged a plan, by which they may be more easily recollected, placing them in. a tabular form (pp. 216, 217), that the student may see at a glance, the origin and insertion of each, and compare the natural grouping and similarity of attachment of the various 'layers. In this manner their actions also will be better comprehended, and learnt with greater facility. In examining the table, the student will observe the constant recurrence of the number four in the origin and insertion of the muscles. Sometimes the four occurs at the top or bottom of a region of the spine, and frequently includes part of two regions, taking two from each, as in the case of the serrati. Again, he will perceive that the muscles of the upper half of the table take their origin from spinous processes, and pass outwards to transverse, whereas the lower half arise mostly from transverse processes. To the student I commit these reflections, and leave it to the peculiar tenor of his own mind to make such arrangements as will be best retained in his memory. Actions.—The upper fibres of the trapezius draw the shoulder upwards and backwards ; the middle fibres, directly backwards ; the lower, downwards and backwards. The lower fibres also act in producing rotation of the scapula on the chest. If the shoulder be fixed, the upper fibres will flex the spine towards the correspond- ing side. The latissimus dorsi is a muscle of the arm, drawing it backwards and downwards, and at the same time rotating it in- wards ; if the arm be fixed, the latissimus dorsi will draw the spine to that side, and, raising the lower ribs, be an inspiratory muscle; and if both arms be fixed, the two muscles will draw the whole trunk forwards, as in climbing or walking on crutches. The leva- tor anguli scapula? lifts the upper angle of the scapula, and with it the entire shoulder ; the rhomboidei carry the scapula and shoulder upwards and backwards. The serrati are respiratory muscles acting in opposition to each other, the serratus posticus superior drawing the ribs upwards, and thereby expanding the chest ; the inferior drawing the lower ribs downwards, and diminishing the cavity of the chest. The former is an inspiratory, the latter an expiratory muscle. The splenii muscles of one side draw the vertebral column backwards and to one side, and rotate the head towards the corresponding shoulder.