195 MUSCLES OF THE TONGUE. Fourth Group.—Muscles of the Tongue. Genio-hyo-glossus, Styloglossus, Hyo-glossus, - Palato-glossus. Linguali s, These are already exposed by the preparation we have just made ; there remains, therefore, only to dissect and examine them. The Genio-hyo-glossus, the first of these muscles, has been de- scribed with the last group. The Hyo-glossus is a square-shaped plane of muscle, arising from the whole length of the great cornu and from the body of the os hyoides ; and inserted between the stylo-glossus and lingualis into the side of the tongue. The direction of the fibres of that portion of the muscle which arises from the body is obliquely backwards ; that from the great cornu obliquely forwards ; hence they are described by Albinus as two muscles, under the names of basio-glossus and cerato-glossus, to which he added a third fasciculus, arising from the lesser cornu, and spreading along the side of the tongue, the chondro-glossus. The basio-glossus slightly overlaps the upper part of the cerato-glossus, and is separated from it by the trans- verse portion of the stylo-glossus. Relations.—By its external surface with the digastricus, stylo- hyoideus, stylo-glossus, mylo-hyoideus, gustatory nerve, hypo- glossal nerve, Wharton's duct, and sublingual gland. By its in- ternal surface with the middle constrictor of the pharynx, lingualis, genio-hyo-glossus, lingual artery, and giosso-pharyngeal nerve. The Lingualis.—The fibres of this, muscle (lingualis longitudi- nals inferior) may be seen towards the apex of the tongue, issuing from the interval between the hyo-glossus and genio-hyo-glossus ; and is best examined by removing the preceding muscle. It consists of a small fasciculus of fibres, running longitudinally from the base, where it is attached to the os hyoides, to the apex of the tongue. By the outer border its fibres reach the plane of longitu- dinal fasciculi of the stylo-glossus and lingualis superficialis ; and by its under surface it is in relation with the ranine artery. The other muscles entering into the structure of the tongue, are, the.lingualis longitudinalis superior vel superficialis; and the lin- gualis transversus. The lingualis superior forms a thin plane on the upper surface of the organ, lying immediately beneath the mucous membrane. This layer is thicker in front than behind, and is covered posteriorly by a thin stratum of transverse fibres derived from the hyo-glossus. The lingualis transversus constitutes the chief bulk of the tongue ; it lies between the lingualis superior and inferior, its fibres being attached at the middle line to the fibro- cartilaginous septum. of the tongue, and laterally to the mucous membrane ; some of its fibres are continuous with those of the stylo-glossus and hyo-glossus, and others are connected with the lesser cornua of the os hyoides. o 2