F(BTAL CIRCULATION. 701 almost impervious. Only a small quantity of blood passes there- fore into the lungs; the greater part courses through the ductus arteriosus, into the commencement of the descending aorta, where it becomes mingled with that portion of the pure blood which is not sent through the carotid and subclavian arteries. Passing along the aorta, a small quantity of this mixed blood is distributed by the external iliac arteries to the lower extremities ; the greater portion is conveyed by the internal iliac or hypogastric, and umbilical arteries to the placenta ; the hypogastric arteries pass forwards by the side of the fundus of the bladder, and upwards along the anterior wall of the abdomen to the umbilicus, where they become the umbilical arteries. From a careful consideration of this circulation, we perceive—1st. That the pure blood from the placenta is distributed in considerable quantity to the liver, before entering the general circulation. Hence arises the abundant nutrition of that organ, and its enormous size in comparison with other viscera. 2ndly. That the right auricle is the scene of meeting of a double current; the one coming from the inferior cava, the other from the superior, and that they must cross each other in their respective course. How this crossing is effected, a cursory examination of the foetal heart will show ; for the direction of entrance of the two vessels is so opposite, that they may discharge their currents through the same cavity without admixture. The mSeem cava opens almost directly into the left auricle ; and, by the aid of the Eustachian valve, the current in the inferior cava is almost entirely excluded from the right auricle. 3rdly. That the blood which circulates through the arch of the aorta comes directly from the placenta ; and although mixed with the impure blood of the inferior cava, yet is propelled in such abundance to the head and upper extremities, as to provide for the increased nutrition of those parts, and prepare them, by their greater size and development, for the functions which they are required to perform at the instant of birth. 4thly. That the blood circulating in the descending aorta is very impure, being obtained principally from the returning current in the superior cava ; a small quantity only being derived from the left arrows 12 and 13, represent the return of the blood from the head and upper extremities through the jugular and subclavian veins, to the superior vena cava (14), to the right auricle (8), and in the course of the arrow through the right ventricle (15), to the pulmonary artery-(16). 17. Ductus arteriosus, which appears to he a proper continuation of the pulmonary artery; the offsets at each side are the right and left pulmonary artery; these are of extremely small size as compared with the ductus arteriosus. The ductus arteriosus joins the descending aorta (18, 18), which divides into the common iliacs, and these into the internal iliacs, or hypogastric arteries (19), and return the blood along the umbilical cord to the placenta; while the other divisions, the external iliacs (20), are continued into the lower extremities. The arrows at the terminations of these vessels mark the return of the venous blood by the veins to the inferior cava.