VEINS OF TIIE LOWER EXTREMITY. 403 lies to the inner side of the artery, receives numerous branches from the collateral veins of the branches of the axillary artery ; and at the lower border of the first rib becomes the subclavian vein. Above the pectoralis minor it receives the cephalic vein. Subclavian vein.—The subclavian vein crosses the first rib and beneath the clavicle, and unites with the internal jugular vein to form the vena innominata. It lies at first in front of the sub- clavian artery, and then in front of the scalenus anticus, which separates it from that vessel. The phrenic and pneumogastric nerve pass between the artery and vein. The veins opening into the subclavian are the external and anterior jugular externally to the scalenus anticus, and the vertebral internally to that muscle. • VEINS OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. The veins of the lower extremity are deep and superficial. The deep veins accompany the branches of the arteries in pairs, and form the vense comites of the anterior and posterior tibial and pero- neal artery. These veins unite in the popliteal region to form a single vessel of large size, the popliteal, which successively becomes in its course the femoral and the external iliac vein. Popliteal vein.—The popliteal vein ascends through the pop- liteal region, lying, in the first instance, directly upon the artery, and then getting somewhat to its outer side ; and, passing through the oval opening in the tendon of the adductor magnus, becomes the femoral vein. It receives several muscular and articular branches, and the external saphenous vein. The valves in this vein are four or five in number. Femoral vein.—The femoral vein, commencing at the opening in the adductor magnus muscle, ascends the thigh in the sheath of the femoral artery, and entering the pelvis beneath Poupart's liga- ment, becomes the external iliac vein. In the lower part of its course it is situated on the outer side of the artery ; it then becomes placed behind that vessel, and at Poupart's ligament, lies to its inner side. It receives the muscular veins and profunda, and, through the saphenous opening, the internal saphenous vein. The valves in this vein are four or five in number. The Prof unda vein is formed by the convergence of the numerous small veins which accompany the branches of the artery: it is a vein of large size, lies in front of the profunda artery, and termi- nates in the femoral at about two inches below Poupart's liga- ment. Superficial veins.—The superficial veins are the external or short, and the internal or long saphenous. They commence on 1) d 2