ILIOINGUINAL NERVE. 514 with the nerve above ; and an inferior branch which descends to join in like manner the nerve below. The communications and anastomoses which are thus established constitute the lumbar plexus. The posterior cords diminish in size from above downwards; they pass backwards between the transverse processes of the corresponding vertebrse, and each nerve divides into an internal and external branch. The internal branch, the smaller of the two, passes in- wards to be distributed to the multifidus spinse and inter-spinales. The external branches communicate with each other by several loops, and, after supplying the deeper muscles, pierce the sacro- lumbalis to reach the integument to which they are distributed. The external branches of the three upper lumbar nerves descend over the posterior part of the crest of the ilium, and are distributed to the integument of the gluteal region. Lumbar plexus.—The Lumbar plexus is formed by the commu- nications and anastomoses which take place between the anterior divisions of the four upper lumbar nerves, and between the latter and the last dorsal. It is narrow above, increases in breadth in- ferior] y, and is situated between the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrse and quadratus lumborum behind, and the psoas magnus muscle in front. The Branches of the lumbar plexus are the— Ilio-hypogastric, External cutaneous, Ilio-inguinal, Obturator, Genito-crural, Anterior crural. The Ilio-hypogastric nerve (superior musculo-cutaneous) pro- ceeds from the first lumbar nerve, and passes obliquely outwards between the fibres of the psoas magnus and across the quadratus lumborum to about the middle of the crest of the ilium. It then pierces the transversalis muscle, and between it and the internal oblique divides into its two terminal branches, iliac and hypogastric. The iliac branch pierces the internal and external oblique mus- cles close to their attachment, and a little behind the middle of the crest of the ilium ; it is distributed to the integument of the outer part of the hip. The hypogastric branch continues its course onwards, piercing first the internal oblique, and just above the external abdominal ring the aponeurosis of the external oblique. It is distributed to the integument of the hypogastric region and mons pubis. The Ilio-inguinal nerve (inferior musculo-cutaneous), smaller than the preceding, also arises from the first lumbar nerve. It passes obliquely downwards and outwards below the ilio-hypogastric nerve, and crosses the quadratus lumborum and iliacus muscle to the anterior part of the crest of the ilium ; it then pierces the