CUNEIFORME.—PISIFORME. 90 The cuneiform bone, although somewhat wedge-shaped in" form, may be best distinguished Fig, 56.* by a circular and isolated facet, which articulates with the pisi- form bone. It presents for exa- mination three surfaces, a base and an apex. One surface is very rough and uneven; the opposite forms a concave articular surface ; the third is partly rough and partly smooth, and presents that circular facet which is characteris- tic of the bone. The base is an articular surface, and the apex rough and pointed. To distinguish its appropriate hand, let the base be directed backwards, and the pisiform facet upwards ; the concave articular surface will point to the hand to which the bone belongs. Articulations. — With three bones, and the triangular fibrocartilage. By the base, with the semilunare ; by the concave surface, with the unciforme; by the circular facet, with the pisiforme; and by the superior angle of the rough surface, with the fibrocartilage. The pisiform bone may be recognised by its small size, and by the possession of only one articular facet. Examined carefully, it will be observed to present four sides and two extremities ; one side is articular, the smooth facet approaching nearer the superior than the inferior extremity. The side opposite to this is rounded ; the remaining sides are, one slightly concave, the other slightly convex. If the bone be held so that the articular facet shall look down- wards, and the extremity which overhangs the articular facet for- wards, the concave side will point to the hand to which it belongs. Articulations.-—With the cuneiform bone only. Attachments.—To two muscles, flexor carpi ulnaris, and abductor minimi digiti; and to the anterior annular ligament. * Diagram showing the dorsal surface of the bones of the carpus, with their articulations.—The right hand. E. Lower end of the radius. U. Lower extremity of the ulna. F. Interarticular fibrocartilage, attaehed to the styloid process of the ulna, and to the margin of the articular surface of the radius. S. Scaphoid bone: the cipher (5) indicates the number of bones with which it articulates. L. Semilunare articulating with five bones. C. Cuneiforme, articulating with three bones. P. Pisiforme, articulating with the cuneiforme only. T. First bone of the second row, the trapezium, articulat- ing with four bones. T. Second bone, the trapezoides, articulating also with four bones. M. Os magnum, articulating with seven. U. Unciforme, articu- lating with five. The figures, 1, 3,1, 2, 1, on the metacarpal bones, refer to the number of their articulations with the carpal bones.