KNEE JOINT. 154 Fig. The first five are external to the articulation ; the next five are internal; the remaining three are mere folds of synovial membrane, and have no title to the name of ligaments. In addition to the ligaments, there are two fibrocartilages, and a synovial membrane. The anterior ligament, or Ugamentum patella?, is the prolonga- tion of the tendon of the extensor muscles of the thigh downwards to the tubercle of the tibia. It is, therefore, no ligament: and, as the patella is simply a sesamoid bone developed in the tendon of the extensor muscles for the defence of the front of the knee joint, the ligamen- tum patellae has no title to consideration, either as a ligament of the knee joint or as a ligament of the patella. A small bursa mucosa is situated be- tween the ligamentum patella? near its insertion and the front of the tibia ; and another of larger size between the ante- rior surface of the patella and fascia lata. It is the latter which is enlarged in housemaid's knee. The posterior ligament, ligamentum posticum Winslowii, is a broad expansion of ligamentous fibres, which covers the whole of the posterior aspect of the joint. It is divisible into two lateral portions, which invest the condyles of the femur, and a central portion which is depressed, and formed by the interlacement of fas- ciculi passing in different directions. The strongest of these fasciculi is derived from the tendon of the semi- membranosus, and passes obliquely upwards and outwards from the posterior part of the inner tuberosity of the tibia to the external condyle of the femur. Other accessory fasciculi are given off by the tendon of the popliteus and heads of the gastrocnemius. The middle portion of the ligament supports the popliteal artery and vein, and is perforated by several openings for the passage of branches of the azygos articular artery and the nerves of the joint. The internal lateral ligament is a broad and trapezoid layer of ligamentous fibres, attached above to the tubercle on the internal condyle of the femur, and below to the inner tuberosity of the tibia. It is crossed at its lower part by the tendons of the inner hamstring, from which it is separated by a synovial bursa, and it covers in the * Anterior view of the ligaments of the knee joint. I. Tendon of the qua- driceps extensor muscle of the leg. 2. Patella. 3. Anterior ligament, or ligamentum patellae, near its insertion. 4, 4. Synovial membrane. 5. Internal lateral ligament. 6. Long external lateral ligament. 7. Antero-superior tibio- fibular ligament.