DORSAL VERTEBRAE. 14 the dorsal region ; it is thicker behind than before, and marked on each side by two half articulating surfaces for the heads of two ribs. The pedicles are strong, and the lamince broad and thick; the is a small facet for the articulation of the tubercle of a rib. The articular processes are vertical, the superior facing directly back- wards, the inferior directly forwards. The peculiar vertebrae in the dorsal region are, the first, ninth, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth. The first dorsal vertebra approaches very closely in character, the last cervical. The body is broad from side to side, and concave above. The superior articular processes are oblique, and the spinous process horizontal. It has an entire articular surface for the first rib, and a half surface for the second. The ninth dorsal vertebra has only ono half articular surface at each side. The tenth has a single entire articular surface at each side. The eleventh and twelfth have each a single entire articular surface at each side; they approach in character, the lumbar vertebras: their transverse processes are very short, trifid at their summit, and have no articulation with the corresponding ribs. The transverse pro- cesses of the twelfth dorsal vertebra are rudimentary, and its infe- rior articular processes look outwards. Lumbar Vertebra;.—These are the largest pieces of the vertebral column. The body is broad and large, and thicker before than behind. The pedicles very strong; the lamina} short, thick, and broad; the inferior intervertebral notches very large, and the spinal foramen large and oval. The spinous process is thick and broad. The transverse processes (costiform processes) are slender, pointed, * Lateral view of a dorsal vertebra. 1. The body. 2, 2. Articular facets for the beads of ribs. 3. The pedicle. 4. Tbe superior intervertebral notch. 5. The inferior intervertebral notch. 6. The spinous process. 7. The extre- mity of the transverse process, marked by an articular surface for the tubercle of a rib. 8. The two superior articular processes looking backwards. 9. The two inferior articular processes looking forwards. Fig. 8 * spinal foramen small and round, and the inferior intervertebral notch of large size, the superior can scarcely be said to exist. The spinous process is long, prismoid, directed very obliquely downwards, and terminated by a tubercle. The trans- verse processes are large and strong, and di- rected obliquely back- wards. Upon the an- terior and superior aspect of their summits