METACARPUS. 93 Fig. If the bone be held perpendicularly, the articular surface with two facets looking upwards, and the unciform process backwards (towards the holder), the concavity of the unciform process will point to the hand to which the bone belongs. Articulations.—With Jive bones; by the two facets on its base, with the fourth and fifth metacarpal bone; by the two lateral articu- lating surfaces, with the magnum and cuneiforme ; and by the flat- tened angle of its apex, with the semilunare. Attachments.—To two muscles, adductor minimi digiti, and flexor brevis minimi digiti; and by the hook-shaped process to the anterior annular ligament. Development.—The bones of the carpus are each developed by a single centre ; they are cartilagi- nous at birth. Ossification com- mences towards the end of the first year in the os magnum and unciforme ; at the end of the third year, in the cuneiforme; during the fifth year, in the trapezium and semilunare; during the eighth, in the scaphoides ; ninth, in the trapezoides ; and twelfth, in the pisiforme. The latter bone is the last in the skeleton it is, in reality, a sesamoid bone of the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris. The number of articulations which each bone of the carpus main- tains with surrounding bones may be expressed in figures, which will facilitate the student's recollection; the cipher for the first row is 5531, and for the second 4475. Metacarpus.—The bones of the metacarpus are five in number. They are long bones, divisible into a head, shaft, and base. The head is rounded at the extremity, and flattened at each side for the insertion of strong ligaments ; the shaft is prismoid, and marked deeply on each side, for the attachment of the interossei * Left hand viewed on its anterior or palmar aspect. 1. Scaphoid bone. 2. Semilunare. 3. Cuneiforme. 4. Pisiforme. 5. Trapezium. 6. Groove in the trapezium which lodges the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis. 7. Trape- zoides. 8. Os magnum. 9. Unciforme. 10,10. The five metacarpal bones. 11,11. First row of pbalanges. 12, 12. Second row. 13, 13. Third row, or ungual phalanges. 14. First phalanx of the thumb. 15. Second and last phalanx of the thumb.