SPHENOID BONE. 37 internal carotid arteries. Behind the olivary process is the sella turcica (ephippium) the deep fossa which lodges the pituitary gland and circular sinus ; behind and somewhat overhanging the sella turcica, is a broad rough plate (dorsum ephippii) bounded at each angle by a tubercle, the posterior clinoid processes; and behind this plate an inclined surface (clivus Blumenbachii), which is con- tinuous with the basilar process of the occipital bone. On either side of the sella turcica is a broad groove (carotid) which lodges the internal carotid artery, cavernous sinus, and orbital nerves. IS Immediately external to this groove, at the junction of the greater wings with the body are four foramina : the first is a broad interval, the sphenoidal fissure, which separates the greater and lesser wing, and transmits the third, fourth, the three branches of the ophthalmic division of the fifth, and sixth nerve, and the ophthalmic vein. Behind and beneath this fissure is the foramen rotundum foramina by the extension of a short bony pillar from the middle to the anterior clinoid process. * Superior or cerebral surface of the sphenoid bone. 1. Processus olivaris. 2. Ethmoidal spine. 3. Lesser wing of the left side. 4. Cerebral surface of the greater wing of the same side. 5. Spinous process. 6. Extremity of the pterygoid process of the same side, projecting downwards from the under surface of the body of the bone. 7. Foramen opticum. 8. Anterior clinoid process. 9. Groove by the side of the sella turcica; for lodging the internal carotid artery, cavernous plexus, cavernous sinus, and orbital nerves. 10. Sella turcica; the two tubercles in front of the figure are the middle clinoid processes. 11. Posterior boundary of the sella turcica; its projecting angles are the posterior clinoid processes. 12. Basilar portion of the bone. 13. Part of the sphenoidal fissure. 14. Foramen rotundum. 15. Foramen ovale. 16. Foramen spinosum. 17. The angular interval which receives the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. The posterior extremity of the Vidian canal terminates at this angle. 18. Spine of the spinous process; it affords attachment to the internal lateral ligament of the lower jaw. 19. The border of the greater wing and spinous process, which articulates with the anterior part of the squamous portion of the temporal bone. 20. The internal border of the spinous process, which assists in the formation of the foramen lacerum basis cranii. 21. That portion of the greater ala which articulates with the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone. 22. The portion of the greater ala which articulates with the orbital process of the frontal bone.