265 ACTIONS OF MUSCLES. Relations.—By their dorsal surface with a thin aponeurosis, the fascia dorsalis profunda, which separates them from the tendons on the dorsum of the hand. By their palmar surface with the muscles and tendons in the palm of the hand. By one side with the meta- carpal bone; by the other with the corresponding palmar inter- osseous. The abductor indicis is in relation by its palmar surface, with the adductor pollicis and flexor brevis pollicis. The radial artery passes into the palm of the hand between the two heads of the first dorsal interosseous muscle (abductor indicis) ; and the perforating branches of the deep palmar arch, between the heads of the other dorsal interossei. Actions.—The actions of the muscles of the hand are expressed in their names. Those of the radial region belong to the thumb, and provide for three of its movements, abduction, adduction, and. flexion. The ulnar group, in like manner, are subservient to the same motions of the little finger, and the interossei are abductors and adductors of the several fingers. The lumbricales are accessory in their actions to the deep flexors ; they were called by the earlier anatomists Jidicinii, i.e. fiddlers' muscles, from an idea that they might effect the rapid movements by which the performer is enabled to produce the various notes on that instrument. In relation to the axis of the hand, the four dorsal interossei are abductors, the three palmar adductors. It will therefore be seen that each finger is provided with its proper adductor and abductor, two flexors, and (with the exception of the middle and ring finger) two extensors. The thumb has moi-eover a flexor and extensor of the metacarpal bone; and the little finger a flexor of the metacarpal bone (opponens) without an extensor. The actions of the muscles of the upper extremity, arranged after the plan of Dr. Barclay, are as follows:— Scapula. Elevators. Trapezius, Levator anguli scapulse, Bhomboidei. Trapezius (lower part), Pectoralis minor. Attrahentes. Pectoralis minor, Serratus magnus. Retralientes. Trapezius, Bhomboidei. Humerus. Extensors {forward). Deltoid (anterior part), Pectoralis major, Biceps, Coraco-brachialis. Flexors (backward). Deltoid (posterior part), Teres minor, Teres major, Latissimus dorsi, Triceps (long head).