REGION OF THE FACE. G3 the pterygoid processes. At the base of the pterygoid processes are the pterygopalatine canals. The internal pterygoid plate is long and narrow, terminated at its apex by the hamular process, and at its base by the scaphoid fossa. The external plate is broad; the space between the two is the pterygoid fossa ; it contains part of the internal pterygoid muscle, and the tensor palati. Externally to the external pterygoid plate is the zygomatic fossa. Behind the nasal fossae, in the middle line, is the under surface of the body of the sphenoid, and the basilar process of the occipital bone, and still farther back, the foramen magnum. At the base of the external pterygoid plate, on each side, is the foramen ovale, and behind this the foramen spinosum with the prominent spine which gives attach- ment to the internal lateral ligament of the lower jaw and laxator tympani muscle. Running outwards from the apex of the spinous process of the sphenoid bone, is the fissura Grlaseri, which crosses the glenoid fossa transversely, and divides it into an anterior smooth surface, bounded by the eminentia articularis, for the condyle of the lower jaw, and a posterior rough surface for a part of the parotid gland. Behind the foramen ovale and spinosum, is the irregular fissure between the spinous process of the sphenoid bone and the petrous portion of the temporal, the foramen lacerum anterius basis cranii, which lodges the internal carotid artery and Eustachian tube, and in which the carotid branch of the Vidian nerve joins the carotid plexus. Following the direction of this fissure outwards, we see the foramen for the Eustachian tube, and that for the tensor tympani muscle, separated from each other by the processus cochleariformis. Behind the fissure is the pointed process of the petrous bone which gives origin to the levator palati muscle, and, externally to this process, the carotid foramen for the transmission of the internal carotid artery and ascending branch of the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic ; and behind the carotid foramen, the foramen lacerum posterius basis cranii and jugular fossa. Externally, and somewhat in front of the latter, is the styloid process, and at its base the vaginal process. Behind and at the foot of the styloid process is the stylo-mastoid foramen, for the facial nerve and stylo- mastoid artery, and farther outwards the mastoid process. At the inner side of the root of the mastoid process is the digastric fossa; and a little farther inwards, the occipital groove. On the sides of the foramen magnum, and near its anterior circumference, are the condyles of the occipital bone. In front of each condyle, and piercing its base, is the anterior condyloid foramen for the hypoglossal nerve, and directly behind the condyle the irregular fossa in which the posterior condyloid foramen is situated. Behind the foramen magnum are the two curved lines of the occipital bone, the spine, and the protuberance, with the rough surfaces for the attachment of muscles. The Face is somewhat oval in contour, uneven in surface, and excavated for the reception of two principal organs of sense, the eye