VEINS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 393 The Valves of veins are composed of a thin stratum of nucleated areolar tissue mingled with fine elastic fibres, and coated on the two surfaces with an epithelium of less elongated cells. The segments or flaps of the valves of veins are semilunar in form, and arranged in pairs, one upon either side of the vessel ; in some instances there is but a single flap, which has a spiral direction, and occasionally there are three. The free border of the valvular flaps is concave, and directed forwards, so that while the current of blood is per- mitted to flow freely towards the heart, the valves are distended, and the current intercepted, if the stream become retrograde in its course. On the cardiac side of each valve the vein is expanded into two pouches (sinuses), corresponding with the flaps of the valves, which give to the distended or injected vein a knotted appearance. The valves are most numerous in the veins of the extremities, par- ticularly in the deeper veins, and they are generally absent in the very small veins, and in the veins of the viscera, as in the portal and cerebral veins ; they are also absent in the large trunks, as in the venae cava?, venaa azygos, innominate, and iliac veins. Sinuses are venous channels, excavated in the structure of an organ, and lined by the internal coat of the veins ; of this structure are the sinuses of the dura mater, whose external covering is the fibrous tissue of the membrane. The external investment of the sinuses of the uterus is the tissue of that organ ; and that of the bones, the lining membrane of the cells and canals. Veins, like arteries, are supplied with nutritious vessels, the vasa vasorum ; their nervous filaments, few in number and of small size, are derived from the sympathetic and spinal system ; they have been found only on the larger veins ; as, the vense cavse, iliacs, crural, jugular, vertebral, and sinuses of the dura mater. I shall describe the veins according to the primary division of the body ; taking first, those of the head and neck ; next, those of the upper extremity; then, those of the lower extremity ; and lastly, the veins of the trunk. The veins of the head and neck may be arranged into three groups, namely, veins of the exterior of the head, veins of the diploe and interior of the cranium, veins of the neck. The veins of the exterior of the head are, the The Facial vein (facialis anterior) commences on the anterior part of the head in a venous plexus, formed by the communications of the branches of the temporal, and descends along the middle line VEINS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. Facial, Internal maxillary, Temporal, Temporo-maxillary, Posterior auricular, Occipital.