EXTENSOR CARPI RADIALIS BREVIOR. 257 Fig. 129* radius, musculo-spiral nerve, radial and posterior interosseous nerve, and radial artery and veins. This muscle must be divided through the middle, and the two ends turned aside to expose the next muscle. The Extensor carpi radialis longior arises from the external condyloid ridge, below the preceding, and from the intermuscular septum. Its tendon passes through a groove in the radius immediately behind the styloid process, to be in- serted into the base of the metacarpal bone of the index finger. Relations.—By its superficial sur- face with the supinator longus, exten- sor ossis metacarpi pollicis, extensor primi internodii pollicis, extensor se- cundi internodii pollicis, radial nerve, fascia of the forearm, and posterior annular ligament. By its deep sur- face with the brachialis anticus, ex- tensor carpi radialis brevior, radius, and wrist-joint. The Extensor carpi radialis brevior is seen by drawing aside the former muscle. It arises from the external condyle of the humerus and intermuscular septa, and is inserted into the base of the metacarpal bone of the middle finger. Its tendon is lodged in the same groove on the radius with that of the extensor carpi radialis longior. Relations.—By its superficial sur- face with the extensor carpi radialis longior, extensor ossis metacarpi pol- * Superficial layer of muscles of the posterior aspect of the forearm. 1. Biceps. 2. Brachialis anticus. 3. Lower part of the triceps, inserted into the olecranon. 4. Supinator longus. 5. Extensor carpi ra- dialis longior. 6. Extensor carpi radialis brevior. 7. Tendons of insertion of these two muscles. 8. Extensor communis digi- torum. 9. Extensor minimi digiti. 10. Extensor carpi ulnaris. 11. Anconeus. 12. Flexor carpi ulnaris. 13. Extensor ossis metacarpi and extensor primi internodii lying together. 14. Extensor secundi inter- nodii ; its tendon is seen crossing the tendons of the extensor carpi radialis longior and brevior. 15. Posterior annular ligament. The tendons of the common extensor are seen on the back of the hand, and their mode of dis- tribution on the dorsum of the fingers.