MUSCLES OP THE FACE. 182 the levator labii superioris proprius, and is attached to the integu- ment of the upper lip. This muscle is often wanting. Relations.—The zygomaticus major is in relation by its superfi- cial surface with the lower segment of the orbicularis palpebrarum above, and with the fat of the cheek and integument for the rest of its extent. By its deep surface with the malar bone, masseter, buccinator, and facial vessels. The zygomaticus minor being in front of the major, has no relation with the masseter ; inferiorly it rests on the levator anguli oris. Actions.—The orbicularis oris produces the direct closure of the lips by means of its continuity, at the angles of the mouth, with the fibres of the buccinator. When acting singly in the forcible closure of the mouth, the integument is thrown into wrinkles, in consequence of its firm connexion with the surface of the muscle ; its naso-labial fasciculus draws downwards the columna nasi. The levator labii superioris alseque nasi lifts the upper lip with the ala of the nose, and expands the opening of the nares. The levator labii superioris proprius is the proper elevator of the upper lip : acting singly, it draws the lip a little to one side. The levator anguli oris lifts the angle of the mouth and draws it inwards, while the zygomatici pull it upwards and outwards, as in laughing, and produce the dimple in the cheek. In the movement of laughter the zygomatici are assisted by the risorius Santorini. 6. Inferior Labial Group.— Depressor labii inferioris, Risorius Santorini, Depressor anguli oris, Levator labii inferioris. Dissection.— To dissect the inferior labial region, continue the vertical section from the middle of the lower lip to the point of the chin. Then carry an incision along the margin of the lower jaw to its angle. Dissect off the integument and superficial fascia from this surface, and the muscles of the inferior labial region will be exposed. The Depressor labii inferioris (quadratus menti) arises from the oblique line by the side of the symphysis of the lower jaw, and passing upwards and inwards, is inserted into the orbicularis muscle and integument of the lower lip. Its inner fibres interlace with those of the opposite muscle, the outer fibres reach nearly to the angle of the mouth. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the platysma myoides, part of the depressor anguli oris, and the integument of the chin with which it is closely connected. By the deep surface with the levator labii inferioris, labial glands, mucous membrane of the lower lip, and mental nerve and artery. The Depressor anguli oris (triangularis) is a triangular plane of muscle arising by a broad base from the external oblique ridge of the lower jaw, and inserted by its apex into the angle of the mouth,