655 GALL-BLADDER. free circulation of either, there will be an immediate diversity in the colour of the lobule. Thus, if there be any impediment to the free circulation of the venous blood through the heart or lungs, the circulation in the he- patic veins will be retarded, and the sublobular and the intralobular veins will become congested, giving rise to a more or less extensive redness in the centre of each of the lobules, while the marginal or non-congested portion presents a distinct border of a yellowish white, yellow, or green colour, according to the quantity or quality of the bile it may contain. "This is 'passive congestion' of the liver, the usual and natural state of the organ after death ;" and, as it com- mences with the hepatic vein, it may be called the first stage of hepatic-venous congestion. But if the causes which produced this state of congestion continue, or be from the beginning of a more active kind, the congestion will extend through the lobular venous plexuses " into those branches of the portal vein situated in the interlobular fissures, but not to those in the spaces, which being larger, and giving origin to those in the fissures, are the last to be congested." In this second stage the liver has a mottled appearance, the non-congested substance is arranged in isolated, circular, and ramose patches, in the centres of which the spaces and parts of the fissures are seen. This is an extended degree of hepatic venous congestion; it is (i active con- gestion " of the liver, and very commonly attends disease of the heart and lungs. These are instances of partial congestion, but there is sometimes general congestion of the organ. " In general congestion the whole liver is of a red colour, but the central portions of the lobules are usually of a deeper hue than the marginal portions." GALL-BLADDER. The Gall-bladder (fig. 170) is the reservoir of the bile ; it is a pyriform sac, situated in a fossa on the under surface of the right lobe of the liver, and extending from the right extremity of the transverse fossa to the free margin. It is divided into a body, fundus, and neck : the fundus or broad extremity in the natural position of the liver is placed downwards, and frequently projects beyond the free margin of the liver, while the neck, small and con- stricted, is directed upwards. This sac is composed of three coats, serous, fibrous, and mucous. The serous coat is partial, is derived from the peritoneum, and covers that side only which is unattached to the liver. The middle or fibrous coat is a thin but strong fibrous layer, composed of dense areolar tissue, and connected on the one side with the liver, on the other with the peritoneum. There also exists in this layer a stratum of smooth muscular fibres, which are longitudinal and circular in direction. The internal or mucous coat is but loosely attached to the fibrous layer; it is everywhere