CERVICAL NERVES. 499 foramina there is a ganglion on each of their roots. The first cervical nerve forms an exception to these characters; its pos- terior root is smaller than the anterior ; it often joins, in whole or in part, the spinal accessory nerve, and sometimes the hypo- glossal ; it has frequently no ganglion, and when the ganglion exists, it is often situated within the dura mater, the latter being the usual position of the ganglia of the last two pairs of spinal nerves. After the formation of a ganglion, the two roots unite, and con- stitute a spinal nerve, which escapes through the intervertebral foramen, and separates into an anterior cord for the supply of the front aspect of the body, and a posterior cord for the posterior aspect. In the first cervical, last sacral, and coccygeal nerve this division takes place within the dura mater ; and in the upper four sacral nerves, externally to that cavity, but within the sacral canal. The anterior cords, with the exception of the first two cervical nerves, are larger than the posterior ; an arrangement which is proportioned to the larger extent of surface they are required to supply. The1 Spinal nerves are classed as follows :— Cervical 8 pairs Dorsal 12 ,, Lumbar 5 ,, Sacral 5 ,, Coccygeal 1 The cervical nerves pass off transversely from the spinal cord ; the dorsal are oblique in direction ; the lumbar and sacral, vertical; the latter form the large assemblage of nerves, at the termination of the cord, called cauda equina. The cauda equina occupies the lower third of the spinal canal. CERVICAL NERVES. The cervical nerves increase in size from . above downwards; the first (suboccipital) passes out of the spinal canal between the occipital bone and atlas ; the second between the posterior ring of the atlas and the lamina of the axis ; and the last between the last cervical and first dorsal vertebra. Each nerve, at its escape from the intervertebral foramen, divides into an anterior and a pos- terior cord. The anterior cords of the four upper cervical nerves form the cervical plexus; the posterior cords, the posterior cervical plexus. The anterior cords of the four inferior cervical together with the first dorsal form the brachial plexus. Anterior cervical nerves.—The anterior cord of the first cer- vical or suboccipital nerve escapes from the vertebral canal through kk2