617 CHEEKS.—SOFT PALATE. the surface of the upper and lower jaw, and each lip is connected to the gum in the middle line by a fold of mucous membrane, the frcenum labii superioris and frcenum labii inferioris, the latter being very small. The Cheeks (buccse) are continuous with the lips, and form the sides of the face ; they are composed of integument, a large quantity of fat, muscles, mucous membrane, and buccal glands. The mucous membrane lining the cheeks is reflected above and below on the sides of the jaws, and is attached posteriorly to the anterior margin of the ramus of the lower jaw. At about its middle, opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw, is a papilla, on which may be observed a small opening, the aperture of the duct of the parotid gland. The Hard palate (palatum durum, seu, osteum) is a dense struc- ture, composed of mucous membrane, palatine glands, areolar tissue, vessels, and nerves, and firmly connected to the palate pro- cesses of the superior maxillary and palate bones. It is bounded in front and at each side by the alveolar processes and gums, and is continuous behind with the soft palate. Along the middle line it is marked by an elevated raphe, and presents at each side of the raphe a number of transverse ridges and grooves. Near its anterior extremity, and immediately behind the middle incisor teeth, is a papilla which corresponds with the termination of the anterior palatine canal, and receives the naso-palatine nerves. The Gums (gingivse) are composed of a thick and dense mucous membrane, which is closely adherent to the periosteum of the alveolar processes, and embraces the necks of the teeth. They are remarkable for their hardness and insensibility ; and for their close contact, without adhesion, to the surface of the tooth. From the neck of the tooth they are reflected into the alveolus, and become continuous with the periosteal (peridental) membrane of that cavity. The Tongue has been already described as an organ of sense ; it is invested by mucous membrane, which is reflected from its under part upon the inner surface of the lower jaw, and constitutes with the muscles beneath, the floor of the mouth. On the under surface of the tongue, near its anterior part, the mucous membrane forms a considerable fold, which is called the frcenum Ungues; and on each side of the frasnum is a large papilla, carwncula sublingualis, the termination of the duct (Wharton's duct) of the submaxillary gland. Running back from this papilla is a ridge, occasioned by the prominence of the sublingual gland; and opening along the summit of this ridge, a number of small openings, the apertures of the excretory ducts of the gland. Posteriorly the tongue is con- nected with the os hyoides by muscle, and to the epiglottis by three folds of mucous membrane, the frosna epiglottidis. The Soft palate (palatum molle; velum pendulum palati) is a fold of mucous membrane situated at the posterior part of the