34 TEMPORAL BONE. seventh pair, facial and auditory, which are lodged in the meatus. Along the convexity of the reniform fossa, and arranged in a curved line from above downwards, are four or five openings, the two upper ones being the largest, and occupying the superior compart- ment, the two or three inferior ones, smaller, the inferior com- partment. Behind the latter, at the distance of a line and a half, and on the posterior wall of the meatus, is a cluster of three or four oblique openings, two of which are minute. The inferior and larger compartment of the reniform fossa presents a well- marked spiral groove, which commences on the convex border of the fossa, immediately below the line of openings above described, and, sweeping round the convexity of the inferior compartment, and becoming deeper as it proceeds, terminates by a small round aperture in the centre of the spire. The uppermost of the openings of the reniform fossa is the aperture of the aquseductus Fallopii, and gives passage to the facial nerve. The rest are cul de sacs, pierced at the bottom by numerous minute foramina for the passage of filaments of the vestibular nerve, while the cluster of three openings on the posterior wall of the meatus is intended for single filaments of the same nerve. The spiral groove corresponds with the base of the cochlea, and being pierced by a number of minute foramina for filaments of the cochlear nerve, is named tractus spi- ralis foraminulentus. The opening in the centre of the spiral impression leads into a canal which occupies the central axis of the modiolus, and is thus called tubulus centralis modioli. The basilar surface of the petrous portion is rough, irregular, and enters into the formation of the under surface of the base of the skull. Projecting downwards, near its middle, is a long sharp spine, the styloid process, occasionally connected with the bone only by cartilage, and lost during maceration, particularly in the young subject.* At the base of this process is a rough sheath-like ridge, into which the styloid process appears implanted, the vaginal pro- cess or tympanic lamina. In front of the vaginal process is a broad triangular depression, the glenoid fossa, bounded in front by the eminentia articularis, behind by the vaginal process, and externally by the rough lip of the processus auditorius. The glenoid fossa is divided transversely by the glenoid fissure (fissura Glaseri), which receives the extremity of the processus gracilis of the malleus, and transmits the laxator tympani muscle, chorda tympani nerve, and anterior tympanic artery. The surface of the fossa in front of the fissure is smooth, to articulate with the condyle of the lower jaw ; and that behind the fissure rough, for the reception of part of the parotid gland. At the extremity of the * Eetzius remarks that the styloid process, which is connected with the lesser cornu of the os hyoides by means of the stylo-hyoidean ligament, belongs in reality to the os hyoides, and completes the hyoid arch; he also notes that the vaginal process or tympanic lamina is a distinct bune in many vertebrata.