STRUCTURE OP MUCOUS GLANDS. 620 Fig. 233.* Fig. 234.f They are enclosed in a thick investing capsule of areolar tissue, with a certain proportion of elastic tissue. The capillary vessels of the follicular glands form a fine and close network around their bases. The racemose, or lobulated gland, is composed of several lobes, the lobes being made up of a branch or branches of an excretory duct, and vesicular dila- tations. The excretory ducts terminate in a common excretory duct, which opens on the surface of the mucous membrane, and the glandular vesicles or acini are cliver- ticxda and cmcal terminations of the smaller convoluted branches of the ex- cretory ducts. The glandular vesicles are globular or oval or pyriform in shape, about 4^ of an inch in diameter, and com- posed of a proper structureless coat, or memhrana propria, lined by an epithelial layer of spheroidal nucleolo-nucleated in breadth. The nucleated cells contain white or coloured granules, which give the proper colour to the glands. The excre- tory ducts are composed of areolar and elastic tissue, and lined by a layer of co- lumnar epithelium. The smallest racemose gland consists of several lobules, and the lobules are held together by areolar tissue, and by an external investing coat of the same tissue intermingled with elastic fibres. The capillary vessels of the glands form a close network around the glandular vesicles ; and the secretion of the glands is a clear yellowish mucus, with an occa- sional and accidental admixture of gra- nules, nuclei, and remains of cells. SALIVARY GLANDS. Communicating with the mouth are the excretory ducts of three pairs of salivary glands (glandular salivales), the parotid, sub- maxillary, and sublingual. * One lobe of a racemose mucous gland from the floor of the mouth; after Kolliker. 1. Sheath of areolar tissue. 2. Excretory duct. 3. Glandular vesicles or acini. t Plan of the structure of a racemose gland; after Kolliker. 1. An excre- tory tube unravelled, to show the composition of the lobule, of diverticula, and caecal terminations of the duct. 2. Appearance of the glandular vesicles, when grouped together in their normal state. 3. The main excretory duct.