FASCLZE OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 296 assists the muscles in their action, by keeping np a tonic pressure on their surface ; aids materially in the circulation of the fluids in opposition to the laws of gravity : and in the palm of the hand and sole of the foot is a powerful protection to the structures which enter into the composition of those regions. In some situations its tension is regulated by muscular action, as by the tensor vaginse femoris and gluteus maximus in the thigh, by the biceps in the leg, and by the biceps and palmaris longus in the arm ; in other situa- tions it affords an extensive surface for the origin of the fibres of muscles. The fasciae may be arranged, like the other components of the body, into—1. Those of the head and neck. 2. Those of the trunk. 3. Those of the upper extremity. 4. Those of the lower extremity. FASCIA OF THE HEAD AN I) NECK. The Temporal fascia is a strong aponeurotic membrane, which covers in the temporal muscle at each side of the head, and gives origin by its internal surface to some of its fibres. It is attached to the whole extent of the temporal ridge above, and to the zygo- matic arch below ; in the latter situation it is thick and divided into two layers, the external being connected to the upper border of the arch ; the internal to its inner surface. Some fat is found between these two layers, and the orbital branch of the temporal artery. The temporal fascia is covered in by the aponeurosis (galea aponeurotica) of the occipito-frontalis muscle, which descends to be attached to the zygomatic arch. Cervical fascia.—The fasciae of the neck are the superficial and deep. The superficial cervical fascia is a part of the common superficial fascia of the entire body, and is only interesting from containing between its layers the platysma myoides muscle. The deep cervical fascia is a strong areolo-fibrous membrane, which invests the muscles of the neck, and retains and supports the vessels and nerves. It commences posteriorly at the ligamentum nucha3, and passes forwards at each side beneath the trapezius muscle to the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid ; here it divides into two layers, which embrace that muscle and unite upon its an- terior border to be prolonged onwards to the middle line of the neck, where it is continuous with the fascia of the opposite side. Besides constituting a sheath for the sterno-mastoid, it also forms sheaths for the other muscles of the neck over which it passes. If the superficial layer (anterior layer) of the sheath of the sterno-mastoid be traced upwards, it will be found to pass over the parotid gland and masseter muscle (fascia parotideo-masseterica), to be inserted into the zygomatic arch; if it be traced downwards, it will be seen to pass in front of the clavicle, and become lost upon the pectoralis major muscle. If the deep layer (posterior layer) of the sheath be examined superiorly, it will be found attached to the styloid pro- cess, from which it is reflected to the angle of the lower jaw, form-