146 RADIOULNAR ARTICULATION. Tig. elbow joint are, in front, brachialis anticus ; inner side, pronator • radii teres, 'flexor sublimis digitorum, and flexor carpi ulnaris ; externally, extensor carpi radialis brevior, extensor communis digitorum, extensor carpi ulnaris, anconeus, and supinator brevis ; behind, triceps. Actions.—The movements of the elbow joint are flexion and extension; the extent of these movements being limited, in front by the coronoid process, and behind by the olecranon. 6. Radio-ulnar Articulation.—The ra- I dius and ulna are firmly held together by ligaments, connected with both extremities of the bones, and with the shaft; they are, Orbicular, Oblique, Interosseous, Anterior inferior, Posterior inferior, Interarticular fibro-cartilage. jiL'i^ j The orbicular ligament (annulare, coro- H jj'l nale) is a firm band several lines in breadth, ffi' l'ji J which surrounds the head of the radius, and {m ij is attached by each end to an extremity of M \ the lesser sigmoid cavity. It is strongest ! behind where it receives the external lateral If j jV/V i I ligament, and is lined on its inner surface 1 i ' by a reflection of the synovial membrane of 1 ^ the elbow joint. The rupture of this ligament permits the dislocation of the head of the radius. The oblique ligament (called also ligamentum teres, in contra- distinction to the interosseous ligament) is a narrow slip of liga- mentous fibres, descending obliquely from the base of the coronoid process of the ulna to the inner side of the radius, a little below its tuberosity. The interosseous ligament (membrana interossea) is a broad and thin plane of aponeurotic fibres passing obliquely downwards from the sharp ridge on the radius to that on the ulna. It is deficient superiorly, broader in the middle than at each extremity, and * External view of the elbow joint. 1. Humerus. 2. Ulna. 3. Radius. 4. External lateral ligament inserted inferiorly into (5) the orbicular ligament. 6. Posterior extremity of the orbicular ligament, spreading out at its insertion into the ulna. 7. Anterior ligament scarcely apparent in this view of the articulation. 8. Posterior ligament, thrown into folds by the extension of the joint.