CERVICAL PLEXUS. 500 the groove on the posterior arch of the atlas, which supports the vertebral artery, lying beneath that vessel. It descends in front of the transverse process of the atlas, sends twigs to the rectus lateralis and rectus anticus minor, and forms an anastomotic loop by communicating with an ascending branch of the second nerve. Branches from this loop communicate with the pneumogasfcric nerve, hypoglossal nerve, and first cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. The anterior cord of the second cervical nerve, at its exit from the intervertebral foramen between the atlas and axis, gives twigs to the rectus anticus major, scalenus medius, and levator anguli scapulae, and divides into three branches : ascending branch, which com- pletes the arch of communication with the first nerve ; and two descending branches, which form loops with corresponding branches of the third nerve. The anterior cord of the third cervical nerve, double the size of the preceding, divides at its exit from the intervertebral foramen into several branches, some of which are distributed to the rectus major, longus colli, and scalenus medius, while others communicate and form loops and anastomoses with the second and fourth nerve. The anterior cord of the fourth cervical nerve, equal in size with the preceding, sends twigs to the rectus major, longus colli, and levator anguli scapulae, communicates by anastomosis with the third, and sends a small branch downwards to the fifth nerve. Its principal branches pass downwards and outwards across the posterior triangle of the neck, towards the clavicle and acromion. The anterior cords of the fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth cervical nerves will be described with the brachial plexus, of which they form a part. Cervical plexus.—The cervical plexus is constituted by the loops of communication and anastomoses which take place between the anterior cords of the first four cervical nerves. The plexus rests on the levator anguli scapulas, posterior and middle scalenus, and splenius colli muscle, and is covered in by the sterno-mastoid and platysma. The Branches of the cervical plexus may be arranged into three groups, superficial ascending, superficial descending, and deep :— Superficial ISuperficial:s colli, Auricularis magnus, Occipitalis minor. Descending, j Communicating branches, Deep