32 THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. have passed, pour out stock in bowl; when cold put on ice. Bean Soup.—Soak quart white beans over- night ; in morning pour off water; add fresh, and set over fire until skins will easily slip off; throw them into cold water, rub well, and skins will rise to top, where they may be re- moved. Boil beans till perfectly soft, allowing 2 quarts water to 1 quart beans; mash beans, add flour and .butter rubbed together, also salt and pepper. Cut cold bread into sm^l pieces, toast, and drop on soup when you serve. Family Soup.—Time, 6 hours; 3 or4quarts pot liquor, i. e., the water in which mutton or salt beef has been boiled. Anv bones from dressed meat, trimmings of poultry, scraps of meat or 1 pound gravy beef, 2 large onions, 1 turnip, 2 carrots, a little celery seed tied in a piece muslin, bunch savory herbs, 1 sprig pars- ley, 5 cloves, 2 blades mace, a few peppercorns, pepper and salt to taste. Put all your meat- trimmings, meat-bones, etc., into stewpan. Stick onions with cloves, add them with other vegetables to meat; pour over all the pot liq- uor ; set over slow fire and let simmer gently, removing all scum as it rises. Strain through fine hair-sieve Clam Soup.—Boil juice of clams, make a little drawn butter and mix with the juice; stir till it boQs, chop up clams and put them in; season to taste with pepper, salt, and little lemon juice; cream or milk is to be added. Boil over slow fire 1 hour. Soups of Dried Peas or Beans.—Pick and soak split peas, dried green peas, or black or white beans overnight. Drain, measure, add 4 times as much cold water; to each quart of water, Vi onion. Simmer slowly till soft. Rub through sieve. Return to fire, season with salt and pepper; for each quart thicken with 1 teaspoon each butter and flour. Boil up again for a few minutes. Black bean soup should also have a pinch of mustard and a little lemon juice added, and slices of hard-boiled egg. Croutons.—Trim crust from stale bread and cut in Vi-inch dice. Fry golden brown in a little butter or in a kettle of smoking-hot fat. Drain and serve hot with soups. Instead of frying they may be browned in the oven. Ox-tall Soup.—1 ox-tail, 2 pounds lean beef, 4 carrots, 3 onions, thyme and parsley, pepper and salt to taste, 4 quarts cold water. Cut tail into joints, fry brown in good dripping. Slice onions and 2 carrots and fry in the same, when you have taken out the pieces of tail. When done tie the thyme and parsley in lace bag, and drop into the soup-pot. Put in the tail, then the beef cut into strips. Grate over them 2 whole carrots, pour over all the water, and bod slowly 4 hours; strain and season; thicken with brown flour wet with cold water; boil 15 minutes longer and serve. Fish Directions for preparino.—Clean fish carefxiUy, slit it low enough so as not to have any blood on the backbone, but do not make too large a cut so as to spoil look of fish; wash thoroughly in cold water. Great care must be taken not to break gall, for it would make fish bitter. Use good dripping or lard for frying. To Broil Fish.— Clean, wash, and wipe dry. Split so that when laid flat the backbone will be in the middle, or take the backbone out. Sprinkle with salt and lay, inside down, upon a buttered gridiron over a clear Are until it is nicely colored, then turn. When done, put upon a hot dish, butter plentifully, and pepper. Put a hot cover over it and send to table. Boiled Bass, or other Fish.—Put sufficient water in pot to enable fish, if alive, to swim easily. Add Via cup vinegar, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 onion, 1 dozen whole black peppers, 1 blade mace. Sew up fish in piece of clean net or muslin, fitted to shape. Heat slowly for first VIj hour; then boil 8 minutes, at least, to pound, quite fast. Unwrap, and pour over it cup of drawn butter, based upon the liquor in which fish was boiled, with juice of Mi lemon stirred into it. Creamed Fish.— Steam 2 pounds codfish, break in flakes, removing bones and skin. Make 1 pint white sauce (see Meat and Fish Sauces). Grease a baking-dish, fill with alter- nate layers of fish and sauce, seasoning with salt, pepper, chopped parsley, and lemon juice or a few drops of vinegar. Mix together 1 cup dry bread crumbs and 3 tablespoons melted butter; spread over top and brown in quick oven. This may be varied by using tomato, becha- mel, curry, or any other sauce, or by adding grated cheese or sliced hard-boiled eggs to the white sauce; by baking in shells or patty-pans in place of the deep dish, or by covering with mashed potato or biscuit crust instead of crumbs. Broiled Salt Mackerel.—Freshen by soak- ing it overnight in water, taking care that the skin lies uppermost. In the morning dry it without breaking, cut off the head and tip of the tail, place it between the bars of a buttered fish-gridiron, and broil to a light brown; lay it on a hot dish, and dress with a little butter, pepper, and lemon juice, vinegar, or chopped pickle. Broiled Halibut.—Slices of halibut, salt, pepper, butter. Cut the slices of fish about an inch tliick, season with pepper and salt, and lay them in melted butter Mi hour, allowing 3 tablespoons of butter to a pound of fish, then roll them in flour, and broil about 20 minutes. Serve very hot. Codfish Balls.— Put fish in cold water, set on back of stove; when water gets hot, pour off and put on cold again until fish is fresh enough; then pick it up. Boil potatoes and mash them; mix fish and potatoes together while potatoes are hot, taking % potatoes and Vti fish. Put in plenty of butter; make into balls and fry in plenty of lard. Have lard hot before putting in balls. Variation may be had by rolling each ball in beaten egg, then in dry bread cmmbs be- fore frying. Fried Blue Fish, and other Kinds.—Clean, wipe dry, inside and out. Sprinkle with flour, and season with salt. Fry in hot butter or sweet lard. Mi lard and Mi butter make a good mixture for frying fish. The moment fish are