THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 27 THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. utes; remove from fire; add ’^4 cup cider, sc«dding hot, 1 large tablespoon good butter, aud yolks 2 eggs. Royal Wine Sauce.— Bring slowly to boil- ing point ‘>2 pint wiue; then add yolks of 4 eggs and 1 cup sugar; whip it on fire until in state of high froth aud a little thick; remove and use as directed. Sugar Sauce.—Beat to light cream cup sugar, flavored with V4 teaspoon extract lemon and V4 cup butter; add yolks of 2 eggs and place on ice until wanted. Vanilla Sauce.— Put 14 pint milk in small saucepan over Are; when scalding hot, add yolks 3 eggs; stir until thick as boiled custard; add, when taken from the Are and cooled, 1 tablespoon extract vanilla and whites of eggs whipped stiff. Wine Sauce.— % pint water, 1 cup sugar, 1 small teaspoon corn-starch, 1 teaspoon each extract lemon and cinnamon, gill wine. Boil water, add corn-starch dissolved in little cold water, and the sugar; boil 15 minutes, strain; when about to serve, add extracts and wine. Wine Sauce, 2.—14 pint water, 1 cup sugar, l4 teaspoon com-starch, 1 teaspoon each ex- tract bitter almonds and vanilla, 14 cup white wine. Stir 2 tablespoons of sugar on the fire in thick saucepan, with 1 tablespoon water, until very dark, but not burned; add water boiling, rest of sugar, the com-starch dissolved; boil 10 minutes; when about to serve, strain, add extracts and wine. ¥ Pies The richest pastry for pies Is called puff paste, and much skill and practice are required to make it flaky, tender, and very light. First-class puff paste will rise in baking to double its thickness and be in light, flaky layers and without greasiness. The novice must leam to handle it as lightly and little as possible in rolling and turning. It should be put in the ice-box as soon as made and stand at least twelve hours before being used. Pastry flour should always be used for pie cmst. It is whiter than bread flour and when mbbed between the fingers it feels very smooth and soft, like com-starch. Carefully sift before using. Where it is desired to have a plainer pastry, or one less troublesome to make and more economical, the use of a small quantity of Royal Baking Powder will give a light and tender crust. As in other cases, the baking powder must be mixed and sifted with the flour before the shortening is added. Sweet home-made lard may be used in place of butter, either whoUy or in part, giving a less expen- sive but equally good aud light paste. Never use sour milk or so-called prepared or self- raising flours. Paste for Pies.— 3 cups sifted flour, V4 tea- spoon Royal Baking Powder, large pinch salt, 1 cup cream. Vs cup butter. Sift flour, salt, and powder together; add the cream; mix into smooth, rather firm paste; flour the board, roll it out thin; spread the butter on it evenly, fold in three; roll out thin, aud fold in three; repeat twice more and use. Paste, 2.— 3 cups flour, V4 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, V4 pound beef suet, freed of skin and chopped very fine, 1 cup water. Place the flour, sifted with the powder, in bowl; add suet aud water; mix into smooth, rather firm dough. Paste, 3.— 3 cups sifted flour, V4 cup lard, IV4 cups butter, V4 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 1 cup water. Cut lard into flour, sifted with powder; mix into smooth, firm paste with the water; place it to cool for 15 minutes; meanwhile press milk and salt from butter by pressing in clean, wet towel, and flour it. Roll out dough on well-floured board; place butter on it; fold dough over it, com- pletely covering butter; roll it out lightly to ^ inch in thickness, turn it over, fold each end to middle, flour it, roll out again; fold ends to middle, and turn it; repeat this 3 times more, and use. If this paste is made in Slimmer, put on ice after each operation of folding and rolUng. Paste, 4.— 5 cups flour, 1 cup butter, 1 cup lard, 1 cup water, V4 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder. Sift flour with powder; rub in lard and butter cold; add the water; mix into a smooth, lithe dough. Paste, 5 (Puff Paste).—3 cups sifted flour, 2 cups butter, 1 egg yolk, a little salt. This is difficult to make. The essentials are: A cool place to make it in, ice broken up in 2 shallow cake-pans, good flour, and butter, firm, with salt and buttermilk worked out. Sift flour on pastry slab, form it in a ring with back of your hand. Place in center the egg yolk and salt; add a little ice-water, and from inside of ring gradually take flour, adding a little at a time, as you require it, more ice-water, about a cup altogether, until you have smooth, fine paste, very tenacious and lithe. Place in ice- box 15 minutes, then roll out to size of a din- ner-plate ; lay on it butter, and wrap over it edges of dough, carefully covering it; turn it upside down, roll out very thin; then turn face down — the face is side of paste next to rolling-pin — folding it in three, squarely; re- peat this three times more, placing it in thin tin on the broken ice, and other tin containing ice on it, after each turn or operation of fold- ing and rolling. By this method this diffi- cult puff paste may be made successfully in hottest weather. Paste, 6.— 3 cups sifted flour, 1 large cup butter, % teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 3 tablespoons sugar, V4 cup milk. Sift flour with powder and sugar, rub in butter, add milk; mix into a smooth dough of medium stiffness.