THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 18 THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. Albert Cakes.— Yolks 6 eggs, white 1 egg, 5 ounces sugar, 5^4 ounces blanched and chopped almonds, 3 ounces flour, Mi teaspoon Roym Baking Powder, 1 ounce chopped can- died orange peel, Mi teaspoon extract cinnamon, pinch cloves, grated rind lemon. Bake in small patty-pans in moderate oven. Buttercups.— 2 tablespoons butter, 1 cup sugar, yolks 9 eggs, 1 teaspoon vanilla, % cup milk, 3 cups flour, 2 teaspoons Roy^ Baking Powder. Bake in patty-pans, ice with boiled icing, tinted yellow. Jumbles.— 1 cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 4 eggs, 2 cups flour. Mi teaspoon Royal Baking Powder. Rub together the butter and sugar; add the beaten eggs, and flour sifted with the powder; flour the board, roU out the dough rather thin, cut with jumble-cutter, or any you may have; roll in sugar, lay out on greased tin (fig. XIII); bake in fairly hot oven 10 minutes. Peanut Jumbles.— cups butter, 2 cups sugar, 6 eggs, 1V<2 pints flour, ^ cup corn-starch, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 1 teaspoon extract lemon. Mi cup chopped peanuts, mixed with Mj cup granulated sugar. Rub the but- ter and sugar smooth; add the beaten eggs, the flour, corn-starch, and powder, sifted to- gether, and the extract; flour the board, roll out the dough rather thin, cut out with bis- cuit-cutter, roll in the chopped peanuts and sugar, lay on greased baking-tin (fig. XIII); bake in rather hot oven 8 to 10 minutes. Little Spice Cakes.— 1 cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 5 eggs, 1 teaspoon vanilla, 1 tablespoon black coffee, V4 teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons cocoa, 1 teaspoon extract cinnamon, 1 teaspoon extract nutmeg, 2 ounces com-starch, 1 cup flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder. Mix as for cakes with butter, and bake in patty- pans in a hot oven. Little Chocolate Cakes.— 2 tablespoons butter, 1 cup sugar. Mi cup water, IMi cups flour, pinch salt, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 2 eggs, 4 tablespoons grated chocolate melted over hot water, 1 teaspoon extract vanilla. Put together as for cake with butter; bake in patty-pans in moderate oven. Scotch Cakes.— 1 pound flour, \>2. pound butter. Ml teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, % cup granulated sugar, 1 teaspoon extract va- nilla. Mix flour and baking powder. Riib in butter as for biscuits. Work in the sugar and flavoring. This gives a rather crumbly dough. Work with hands to make it adhere, pat out in cakes, sprinkle with caraway-seed. Bake in moderate oven. Very rich. Spencer Cakes.— 2 cups sugar, 8 eggs, pints flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 2 tablespoons coriander-seed, 1 teaspoon ex- tract lemon. Beat eggs and sugar together, until they get thick and white; add flour sifted with powder, the seed, and extract; mix into rather thick sponge; drop in spoonfuls on greased tin (flg. XIV), bake in hot oven 5 or 6 minutes. Rice Cakes.— Mi cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 4 eggs, IMi cups rice flour, cups flour, 1 tea- spoon Royal Baking Powder, Mi cup cream, 1 teaspoon extract lemon. B^t the eggs and sugar together 10 minutes; add the butter, melted; sift together flour, rice flour, and the powder, which add to the eggs, etc., with the cream and the extract; mix into a thin batter, and bake in patty-pans, well greased, in a hot oven, 10 minutes. Delicious Little Cakes can be made by making a rich jumble-paste — rolling out in any desired shape; cut some paste in thick, narrow strips and lay around your cakes so as to form a deep, cup-Uke edge; place on a well- buttered tin and bake. When done, fill with iced fruit, prepared as follows: Take rich, ripe peaches (canned ones will do if fine and weU drained from all juice), cut in halves; plums, strawberries, pineapples cut in squares or small triangles, or any other available fruit, and dip in the white of an egg that has been very slightly beaten, and then in pulverized sugar, and lay in the center of your cakes. Cinnamon Cakes.— Whites 4 eggs. Mi cup sugar, 1 cup flour. Mi teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 2 tablespoons cream, 1 teaspoon ex- tract cinnamon. Mix as for cakes without butter, and bake in patty-pans in a quick oven. Ice with water icing flavored with cinnamon extract. Cigarettes.— Mix and sift 2 cups flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 2 tablespoons sugar, hi teaspoon salt. Rub in 2 tablespoons butter, add Mi teaspoon extract cinnamon, 10 drops extract cloves, and milk to mix to a rather firm dough. Knead till smooth, cut off bits size of hickory nuts and mold into shape of cigarettes. TaJte Mi cup granulated sugar and 1 teaspoon powdered cinnamon, mix, and roU each cigarette in it. Lay on greased pans, bake in moderate oven. Drop Cakes.— 1 cup butter. Mi cup sugar, 2 eggs, 1 small teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 1 pint flour, 1 cup washed and picked currants, 1 teaspoon each extract nutmeg and lemon, ^ cup milk. Rub the butter and sugar to a white, light cream ; add the eggs, beat 10 min- utes ; add the flour and powder sifted together, the milk and extracts. Mix into a rather firm batter, and drop with a spoon on a greased baking-tin (fig. XIV); bake in a quick oven 10 minutes. Ginger Snaps,— Mi cup lard. Mi cup butter, 1 large cup brown sugar, 1 cup water, 1 table- spoon extract ginger, 1 teaspoon each extract cinnamon and cloves, 1 quart fiour, \Mi tea- spoons Royal Baking Powder. Rub to a smooth paste the lard, butter, and sugar; then rub it into the flour and powder sifted together. Mix into a firm dough with the water and ex- tracts. Roll out the dough thin on a floured board, cut out with a round biscuit-cutter, and bake on greased pan (fig. XIV), in a hot, steady oven, 8 minutes. Edenkobers.— 2 eggs, 1 cup sugar, V4 pound almonds, pounded to paste, pound chopped citron, M4 pound chopped candied lemon peel, 2 tablespoons drained honey, 2 cups flour, % teaspoon Royal Baking Powder. Mix to a paste, roll out, and cut in small cakes. Bake in moderate oven. Hermits.— 3 eggs, 1 cup butter, IMz cups sugar, 1 cup chopped raisins, 2 tablespoons chopped citron, 1 teaspoon each extract cloves.