13 THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. Bake in paper-lined cake-tin (fig. IX), in a hot oven, 50 minutes. Coffee Cake, No. 2.— 1 cup brown sugar, 1 cup butter, 2 eggs, Vfj cup molasses, 1 cup strong coffee, Vj teaspoon soda dissolved in the molasses. 2 teaspoons powdered cinnamon, 1 teaspoon cloves, teaspoon salt, 1 cup chopped raisins, 5 cups flour, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder. Sift together the flour, salt,baking powdor,aud spices. Dredge raisins with some of the flour. Cream butter and sugar. Add beaten yolks and molasses, then alternate the coffee and flour; lastly beat in whipped whites. Divide into 2 loaves and bake in moderate oven. Cream Cakes (Eclatres a la Creme).—10 eggs, ’>‘2 cup butler, pound flour, 1 pint water. Set the water on the fire in a stewpan wdth the butter; as soon as it boils, stir in the sifted flour with a wooden spoon; stir vigorously until it leaves the bottom and sides of pan; remove from fire, beat in the eggs, 1 at a time. Place this batter in a pointed canvas bag having a nozzle at small end, press out the batter, in shape of Angers, on a greased tin, a little distance apart. Bake in steady oven 20 minutes. W’hen cold, cut the sides and fill with following: PASTRY CREAM 2 cups sugar, 1 Vfe pints milk, 3 large table- spoons com-starch, yolks of 5 eggs, 1 table- spoon good butter, 2 teaspoons extract vanilla. Bring the milk to a boil; with the sugar add the starch dissolved in a little cold water; as soon as it reboils, take from the Are. Beat in the egg yolks. Return to the fire 2 minutes to set the eggs. Add the extract and butter. Spread tops, when cold, with chocolate or va- nilla icing. Cream Cake.— % cup butter, 2 cups sugar, IMt pints flour. 5 eggs, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 1 cup milk. Rub the butter and sugar to a white, light cream. Add the eggs, 2 at a time, beating 5 minutes after each addition. Sift the flour with the powder, which add to the butter, etc., and the milk. Mix into rather thin batter, and bake in jelly- cake tins, well greased, in hot oven 15 minutes. When cold spread pastry cream between the layers, and ice the top with clear icing. (See pastry cream, above.) Continental Fruit Cake.— 1 pound butter, 1 pound sugar, It^ pounds flour, 1 cup cream, 1 wine-glass each brandy and wine, 1 grated nutmeg, 1 teaspoon each mace and cloves, 2 teaspoons cinnamon, 14 teaspoon salt, 8 eggs, % pound each raisins and currants, ^ pound shred citron. Put together as for centennial cake, and bake in 2 loaves in moderate oven, lining pans with 3 thicknesses of paper. Cup Cake.— 1 cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 4 eggs, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 3 cups flour, 20 drops extract bitter almonds. Rub the butter and sugar to a cream. Add the eggs, 2 at a time, beating 5 minutes after each addition. Sift together the flour and powder, which add to the butter, etc., with the extract. Mix into a smooth, medium batter. Bake in well-greased cups or muffln-pans (fig. VII), in a rather hot oven, 20 minutes. Currant Cake.— 1 cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 4 eggs, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 1 pint flour, IV2 cups currants, washed and picked, 2 teaspoons extract cinnamon, and 1 teaspoon extract lemon. Rub the butter and sugar to a white, light cream. Add the eggs, 1 at a time, beating a few minutes after each. Add the flour sifted with the powder, the currants, and the extracts. Mix into a medium batter. Bake in paper-lined cake-tin (fig. IX) 50 minutes, in a moderate oven. Currant Cake, No 2.— cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 3 eggs, cup milk, 2 cups flour, tea- spoon salt, 1'^ teaspoons Royal Baking Pow- der, 1 cup cleaned currants, 1 teaspoon vanilla. Mix flour, salt, and baking powder, dredge the cui’raiits. Cream butter and sugar. Add beaten yolks and vanilla. Beat in flour and milk; add whipped whites and currants, and beat hard. Bake in shallow pan in moderately hot oven. Currant Cake (English).— 1 % cups butter, 2 cups sugar, 7 eggs, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, Mi cup citron, in small thin slices, the rind of an orange, peeled very thin and cut in shreds, 2 cups cuiTants, washed and picked, IMi pints flour, 1 teaspoon extract nutmeg. Rub the butter and sugar to a white, light cream. Add the eggs, 2 at a time, beating 5 minutes after each addition. Sift the flour and powder together. Add it to the butter, etc., with the citron, orange peel, currants, and the extract. Bake in a thickly paper- lined tin (fig. XIII), 1 hour and 25 minutes, in a moderate oven. Duchesse Cake.— It^ cups butter, 1 cup sugar, 6 eggs, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 1 pint flour, 1 teaspoon extract cin- namon. Rub the butter and sugar to a light cream. Add the eggs, 2 at a time, beating 10 minutes after each addition. Sift together flour and powder, add to the butter, etc., with the extract. Mix into a medium thick batter, and bake in small, shallow, square pans (fig. XII), lined with thin white paper, in a steady oven .30 minutes. When they are taken from the oven, ice them. Soft Gingerbread.—Mi cup butter, 2 cups molasses, 1 cup sugar, 4 cups flour, 1 cup milk, 4 eggs, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, gin- ger and cloves to taste. Dark Fruit Cake.—2 cups butter, 2 cups sugar, 12 eggs, 4 cups flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, Mi teaspoon salt, 1 pound cur- rants, 1 pound sliced citron, 3 pounds seeded raisins, 1 pound chopped figs, % cup any kind of wine, 2 tablespoons strained lemon juice, 2 teaspoons cinnamon. Mi teaspoon each cloves and mace, ■I4 teaspoon each allspice and nut- meg. Sift together flour, salt, baking powder, and spices. Dredge fruit thoroughly. Cream butter and sugar, add beaten yolks and lemon juice. Alternate flour and wine, add whipped whites, and beat for 10 minutes. Stir in pre- pared fruit. Line loaf-pans with 4 thicknesses paper; pour in batter. Bake in slow oven from 3 to 5 hours, covering pans with paper tin til % baked. Delicate Fruit Cake.—% cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 1 cup milk, 2% cups flour, V4 teaspoon salt,