42 THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK Corn Meal Qruel.—Mix 1 tablespoon corn meal, ^ teaspoon salt, and 2 tablespoons cold water. Add 1 pint boiling water, simmer slowly 1 hour. In serving bowl put 2 table- spoons cream, 1 lump sugar, strain in gruel, stir for a moment, and serve. Flour and arrowroot gruel is made in the same way, but cooked only 10 minutes. Farina gruel is made with milk and cooked 1 hour in double boiler. Boil oatmeal gruel 1 hour and strain. Barley Water.— Wash 2 tablespoons pearl barley, scald with boiling water, boil 5 minutes, strain. Add 2 quarts cold water, simmer till reduced Mi. Strain, add lemon juice to taste. Good in fevers. Wine Whey.—Scald 1 cup milk, add 1 cup wine, cook gently till it wheys. Strain through cheese-cloth. Beef Tea.— Chop very fine 1 pound lean beef round. Cover with Ms pint cold water. Stand in cold place 1 hour. Set over hot water, stir till liquid begins to turn color. Strain, add pinch salt. To reheat, set cup in pan of hot water. Restorative Jelly.—Put in glass jar Ms box granulated gelatine, 1 tablespoon granulated gum arable, 2 cloves, 3 tablespoons sugar, 2 tablespoons lemon juice, 1 cup port wine. Stand in kettle cold water, heat till all is dis- solved. Strain into shallow dish. Chill. Cut in Ms-inch squares. ¥ Candies Granulated sugar is preferable. Candy should not be stiired while boil- ing. Cream tartar should not be added until syrup begins to boil. Butter should be put in when candy is almost done. Flavors are more delicate when not boiled in candy but added afterward. Butter Scotch.— 2 cups sugar, 2 tablespoons water, piece butter size of an egg. Boil with- out stirring until it hardens on a spoon. Pour out on buttered plates to cool. Cream Candy.— 1 pound white sugar, 3 tablespoons vinegar, 1 teaspoon extract lemon, 1 teaspoon cream tartar. Add little water to moisten sugar, boU until brittle. Put in ex- tract, then turn quickly out on buttered plates. When cool, pull until white, and cut in squares. Cream Walnuts.— 2 cups sugar, % cup water. Boil without stirring until it will spin a thread; flavor with extract vanilla. Set off into dish with cold water in; when at blood heat stir briskly until white and creamy, then knead and work with the hands for sev- eral minutes. Have walnuts shelled; make cream into small round cakes with your fingers; press half a walnut on either side, and drop into sifted granulated sugar. For cream dates, take fresh dates, remove stones, and fill center of dates with this same cream. Drop into sugar. Creamed Nuts.— Mix 1 pound confectioners’ sugar, white 1 imbeaten egg, 1 teaspoon va- nilla, and 2 teaspoons cold water to a stiff paste. Shape in little balls, press between THE ROYAL BAKING POWl halved walnut or other nut meats. Ston^ dates and large raisins may be filled with this cream, or it may be mixed with chopped nuts, shaped in bars, and cut in squares. Butter Taffy.— Boil 3 cups brown sugar, cup molasses, Mi cup each hot water and vin- egar. When it crisps in cold water, add 2 tablespoons butter, 1 teaspoon vanilla, cook 3 minutes, cool on buttered pans. Candied Popcorn.— Put into an iron kettle 1 tablespoon butter, 3 tablespoons water, 1 tea-cup white pulverized sugar. Boil until ready to candy, then throw in 3 quarts nicely popped corn. Stir briskly till candy is evenly distributed over com. Take kettle from fire, stir*until it is cooled a little and you have each grain separate and crystallized with sugar, taking care that corn does not burn. Nuts of any kind may be prepared in same way. Cocoanut Cream Candy.— 1 cocoanut, 1% pounds granulated sugar. Put sugar and milk of cocoanut together, heat slowly until sugar is melted; then boil 5 minutes; add cocoanut (finely grated), boil 10 minutes longer, stir constantly to keep from burning. Pour on buttered plates, cut in squares. Will take about 2 days to harden. Use prepared cocoa- nut when other cannot be had. Hickory Nut Candy.— 1 cup hickory nuts (meats), 2 cups sugar, hi cup water. Boil sugar and water, without stirring, until thick enough to spin a thread; flavor with extract lemon or vanilla. Set off into cold water; stir quickly until white; then stir in nuts; turn into flat tin; when cold cut into small squares. Chocolate Caramels.—2 cups molasses, 1 cup brown sugar, 1 cup cream or milk, Mj pound chocolate, piece of butter size of an egg. Beat all together; boil until it thickens in water; turn into large flat tins, well buttered. When nearly cold, cut into small squares. Ice Cream Candy.— 3 cups‘sugar, crushed or cut loaf, a little less than Mj cup vinegar, 1 Mt cups cold water, piece of butter size of a wal- nut, flavor with extract vanilla. Boil until it hardens, then pull until white. Molasses Candy.— 3 cups yellow coffee sugar, 1 cup molasses, 1 cup water, Mi tea- spoon cream tartar, butter size of a walnut. Follow directions for cream candy. Velvet Molasses Candy.—Put IMj pounds sugar. Mi pint molasses, Mz pint water, Mi cup vinegar, in agate kettle. Heat; when boiling add Mj teaspoon cream tartar, boil tiU it crisps in cold water. Stir; when almost done add \ pound butter, 14 teaspoon soda. Cool in but- tered pan and pull. Peanut Brittle.— Shell and chop roasted nuts to measure 1 pint. Put 2 pounds granu- lated sugar in clean frying-pan. Stir over slow fire. It will lump, then gradually melt. WTien pale coffee color and clear add nuts and pour quickly on buttered tin sheet. Roll thin as possible. When cold break up. Fudge.— Cook 3 cups sugar, 1 cup milk, and 1 tablespoon butter. When sugar is melted add 4 or 5 tablespoons cocoa. Stir and boil 15 minutes. Take from fire, add 1 teaspoon va- nilla, stir till creamy, pour on buttered plates, cut in squares. )ER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE.