5 THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. In using shortening for biscuits, especially through the winter season, with some limita- tion, good, sweet home-made lard may take the place of butter. Butter will color slightly yellow; lard will whiten the biscuits. This substitution will not do when considerable shortening is called for, as in cake; but in receipts where the quantity does not exceed 2 ounces or tablespoons to the quart of flour, butter may, in the majority of cases, be replaced by lard without impairing the taste. Biscuits are mixed to a soft dough, which is turned out, patted down or rolled to a proper thickness, and then cut out and baked. From long experience it has been found that the re- sult is much better and the food more digestible when the finished biscuit is small and not too thick. The scientific reason for this is that the oven heat necessaryforbiscuit,if they are made verj' large, will brown the outside before the center is as thoroughly baked as it ought to be. The dough should be rolled out until inch thick; the biscuits should be of medium size,— 2 inches or less across,— and placed slightly apart in the pans. A favorite cutter of expert biscuit-makers is the open end (not the cover) of a V4-pound Royal Baking Powder can. A good oven heat will bake the biscuit perfectly in from 15 to 20 minutes, and even a dyspeptic can eat them without fear of consequences. The biscuit may, of course, be made thicker or thinner, as more or less of the soft inside part may be preferred, but the time of baking must be regulated accordingly. The same directions will apply to hot baking powder breads made with a batter. If baked in a sheet the batter should rarely be more than an inch deep in the pan, sometimes less; if in cups or molds they should not be more than % full. This allows the heat to pene- trate the mixture quickly; the moisture and heat start the baking powder into life; each tiny grain of the powder acts on the materials surrounding it; the dough or batter expands, then is stiffened by the heat, and all the starch grains are thoroughly and evenly cooked. Royal Hot Biscuit.— 1 quart flour, 1 tea- spoon salt, 2 teaspoons Roy^ Baking Powder, 1 tablespoon lard or butter, 1 pint sweet mUk. cold (never use sour milk); use cold water when milk cannot be obtained. Sift together flour, salt, and powder; rub in shortening; add mUk; form into smooth, consistent dough. Flour the board, turn out dough, roll out to thickness of % inch, cut with small round cut- ter ; lay them close together on greased bak- ing-tin ; bake in good hot oven. Old biscuit can be made fresh by moistening and placing in oven until heated through. Breakfast Biscuit.— Take 1 quart sweet milk, cup melted butter, a little salt, 2 tear spoons Royal Baking Powder, flour enough to make a stiif batter; do not knead into dough, but drop into buttered tins from a spoon; bake in a hot oven — unless it is hot they will not be light and tender. Emergency Biscuit.—2 cups flour, tea- spoon salt, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder; mix and sift; rub in 1 tablespoon butter. Mix to a thick batter with milk, drop by small spoonfuls on greased pans, and bake in quick oven. Egg Biscuit.— Mix and sift well together 1 pint flour, tis tea^oon salt, 1 teaspoon sugar, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder. Beat 1 egg, add % cup milk, stir into dry mixture, adding more mUk if necessary to mix to soft dough. Turn out on board, knead for a moment, cut into circles, place 1 inch apart on g;reased pans. Brush with little beaten egg, and bake in very hot oven. Sandwich Biscuit.— Sift together 1 pint flour, Mj teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon Royal Bak- ing Powder. Rub in 1 heaping tablespoon but- ter. Mix to a soft dough with milk. Roll out % inch thick. Cut into rounds. On Mi of the rounds spread a little soft butter, add a thick layer of finely chopped and seasoned cold meat; cover with remaining rounds and press together. Brush tops with milk, place 1 inch apart on greased pans, and bake in hot oven. Nut Biscuit.— Sift together 2 cups flour. Mi teaspoon salt, 1 heaping teaspoon Royal Bak- ing Powder. Rub in 1 heaping tablespoon but- ter, add 1 cup ground or very finely chopped nuts — English walnuts, hickory-nuts, or almonds — and 2 tablespoons sugar; mix to a soft dough with milk. Mold with the hands into small balls, place well apart on greased pans, brush each with mUk, put a pinch of chopped nuts on top, and bake in hot oven. Diamonds.— Prepare dough as for Royal biscuit. Knead and roll out Mi inch thick. Cut in strips 2 inches wide, then cut strips into diamonds; place on greased pans 1 inch apart, brush with mUk, and bake in very hot oven. Royal Muffins.— Beat 3 eggs, add 1 pint milk, Ml teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon sugar, and sufficient flour to make a drop batter — about 3 cups — into which has been thoroughly sifted 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder. Beat hard for 1 minute, fill greased muffin-cups or -pans % full, bake in hot oven about 20 minutes. Boston Muffins.— IM2 pints flour. Mi pint Indian com meal, 1 tablespoon sugar, 1 tea- spoon salt, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 tablespoon butter, 3 eggs, and 1 pint (full measure) milk, 1 teaspoon extract cinnamon (which may be omitted without detriment). Sift together flour, com meal, sugar, salt, and powder; rub in butter or lard; add eggs, beaten, milk, and extract cinnamon. Mix into batter a little stifFer than ordinary griddle- cake batter. Have griddle heated regularly all over; grease it. lay on it muffin-rings, also greased; half fill them with batter. As soon as risen to tops of rings, turn them over gently with cake-turaer; bake nice brown on either side. They should bake in 7 or 8 minutes. French Muffins.— IMi pints flour, 1 cup honey. Mi teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 2 tablespoons butter, 3 eggs, and little over Mi pint milk or thin cream. Sift together flour, salt, and powder; rub in butter, cold; add beaten eggs, milk or thin