31 THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. jars. Cover and cook according to directions or till tender. Take from canner or boiler, add more syrup till overflowing, cover and seal immediately. Amount of Sugar per Quart Jar Cherries . . Canned Prese Strawberries . . . 8 “ . ... 12 Raspberries . . . 4 “ . ... 6 Blackberries . . . 6 “ . ... 9 Quinces . . . . . 8 “ . ... 12 Pears . . . ... 8 Grapes . . . . . 4 “ . ... 8 Peaches . . . . . 4 “ . ... 8 Pineapples . . . . 8 “ . ... 12 Crab-apples . . . . 6 “ . ... 10 Plums . . . . . G “ . ... 9 Rhubarb . . . . . 8 “ . ... 12 Sour apples . . . . 6 “ . ... 9 Currants . . . . . 8 “ . ... 12 Cranberries . . . . 8 “ . ... 12 Preserving.— Preserves require from ^ to 1 pound of sugar to each pound of fruit, and cup water to each pound sugar. The fruit should be simmered in the syrup until tender, a little at a time; skimmed out into the jars; when all are done the syrup should be brought to boiling point, jars filled and sealed. Hard fruits Uke quinces should be first steamed or cooked in boiling water till tender. Jams.— Jams are usually made with small fruits or with chopped large fruits; they are cooked with an equal weight of sugar till rich and thick, then put into tumblers or small jars and sealed. Jellies.— Use equal parts of sugar and drained fruit juice. Mash and heat berries till juice runs readily, then turn into bags of unbleached muslin or 2 thicknesses of cheese- cloth and let drip. Measure juice and sugar. Boil juice 20 minutes. Have sugar in shallow pan, heat through in open oven. Add to boil- ing juice, boil up once, take off fire and pour into tumblers. Fruit like apples and quinces should be chopped and covered with water, then simmered till tender before turning into jelly-bags. Spiced Fruits.— These are also called sweet pickled fruits. For 4 pounds prepared fruit allow 1 pint vinegar, 2 pounds brown sugar, % cup whole spices — cloves, allspice, stick cin- namon, and cassia-buds. Tie spices in thin muslin bag, boil 10 minutes with vinegar and sugar. S&m, add fruit, cook till tender. Boil down syrup, pour over fruit in jars, and seal. If put in stone pots, boil syrup 3 successive mornings and pour over fruit. Currants, peaches, grapes, pears, and berries may be prepared in this way, also ripe cucumbers, muskmelons, and watermelon rind. ¥ Soups SOUP STOCK is made from cheap, tough cuts. The meat should be cut in small pieces and soaked in cold water for half an hour to draw out the juices. Bone is added for the sake of the gelatine which it con- tains, and which will give body to the soup. A good proportion is 1 pound each of meat and bone to each quart of water. Use a kettle with a very tight cover and simmer slowly for a number of hours. Stock is better when made the day before it is to be used. Soup Stock.—1 pound lean beef, 1 pound bone (or 2 pounds of shin), 1 quart cold water, 1 teaspoon salt, Vi teaspoon peppercorns, 2 cloves, 2 allspice berries, 1 sprig parsley, 1 tea- spoon mixed herbs, 1 tablespoon each kind chopped vegetable. Prepare meat as above, soak in water Vi hour, heat slowly and simmer 3 hours, add vegetables and seasonings, sim- mer 1 hour longer, and strain. Next day re- move cake of fat. To clear stock beat white 1 egg till frothy, add with broken shell to above stock when cold (after fat is removed); heat slowly and stir constantly. Boil 10 minutes without stir- ring ; set aside 10 minutes; strain through 2 thicknesses cheesecloth dipped in cold water. Soups with Pastes or Vegetables.—Pre- pare and clear stock as above. In salted water boil macaroni, vermicelli, barley, rice, tapioca, or other vegetables or dry material until done \ drain and add to the clear soup and simmer to- gether 10 minutes. Proportion, Vis cup cooked material to 1 quart stock. Vegetables should be boiled in salted water, cut in shapes, and added to stock in same proportion. Tomato Soup with Stock.—1 quart stock, 1 can tomatoes, salt, pepper, and .sugar to taste. Stew and strain tomatoes; add to boiling stock, season, and simmer 10 minutes. Tomato Soup without Stock.—Stew to- gether for 10 minutes 1 can tomatoes, 1 pint water, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon sugar, 5 cloves, V4 teaspoon peppercorns, 1 tablespoon chopped onion, 1 tablespoon chopped parsley. Rub through sieve, return to fire, and thicken with 1 tablespoon butter and 1 tablespoon flour rubbed together and stirred in. Mock Bisque Soup.—% can tomatoes, IVfe tablespoons butter, IMs tablespoons flour, 1 quart mUk, salt and pepper. Stew and strain tomatoes; scald milk in double boiler and thicken with the flour and butter; season to- matoes well and reheat. Take both from fire and mix together; if tomatoes are acid add pinch of soda. If mixed on fire soup is apt to curdle. Scotch Broth.—Soak V<j cup pearl barley overnight. Cut 2 pounds neck of mutton in bits, add 2 quarts water, soak 1 hour. Heat slowly, skim, add barley, skim again; simmer 1 hour, add V4 cup each diced onion, carrot, turnip, celery fried for 5 minutes in 1 table- spoon dripping. Simmer 3 hours. Season well, thicken a little with flour, add 1 table- spoon chopped parsley, and serve. Consomme.—1 chicken, 3 pounds lean beef, 1 onion, 1 turnip, 2 carrots, bunch sweet herbs, 7 quarts cold water, Vfj cup sago soaked in cold water, pepper and salt. Cut beef in strips and disjoint chicken, slice vegetables, chop herbs, put all on with water to cook slowly for 6 hours. Take out chicken and beef; salt and pepper and put into jar. Strain soup, pulping vegeta- bles through a sieve. Season and divide it, pouring V<j on meat in jar, and setting in pot of hot water to cook, covered, 2 hours more. Heat the rest and skim; put in sago, simmer for Vfe hour, then pour out. When 2 hours