THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 28 THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. Apple Pot Pie.—14 apples, peeled, cored, and sliced, 1*^ pints flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 1 cup sugar. Mi cup butter, 1 cup milk, large pinch salt. Sift floiir with powder and salt, rub in butter cold, add milk, mix into dough as for tea biscuits; with it line shallow stewpan to within 2 inches of bottom; pour in cups water, apples, and sugar; wet edges and cover with rest of dough; put cover on, set it to boil 20 minutes, then place in moderate oven until apples are cooked; then remove from oven, cut top crust in four equal parts; dish apples, lay on them pieces of side crust cut in diamonds, and pieces of top crust on a plate; serve with cream. Apple Pie.— 5 or 6 apples, 1 cup sugar, */t) cup water, 1 teaspoon extract lemon, paste, 4. Peel, quarter, and core apples, put in stew- pan with sugar and water; when tender, re- move ; when cold, add extract and fill pie-plate, lined with paste; wet the edges, cover with paste rolled out thin, and wash with milk; btdie in steady, moderate oven 20 minutes. Apple Pie, 2.— 3 tart apples, Mi cup sugar. Ml lemon rind grated, paste, 4. Peel, core, and sUce apples very thin; line pie-plate with paste; put in apples, sugar, and little water; wet the edges, cover with paste rolled out very thin; wash with milk; bake in steady, moderate oven 25 minutes — or till apples are cooked. Dried Apple Pie.— Stew apples until quite soft; rub through a colander ; have them juicy. Beat 2 eggs, saving the white of 1; ^ cup butter. Mi cup sugar to every pie; season to taste. Quantity of sugar must be governed somewhat by the acidity of the apples. Bake with a bottom crust; while they are baking make a frosting of the white of 1 egg; when pies are done spread frosting evenly over the top; set again in the oven and brown slightly. Cream Pie and Oranges.— Cut the oranges in thin slices and sprinkle sugar over them; let them stand for 2 or 3 hours; serve in ordi- nary fruit-plates. The pie is made with a bottom crust only, and that not thick, but light and flaky. Take 1 coffee-cup thick, sweet cream, Mt cup pulverized sugar, 1 tablespoon flour, 1 egg; flavor with extract lemon ; bake imtil you are sure the crust is brown and hard, so that it will not absorb the custard. Banbury Tarts.— Chop 1 cup seeded raisins, add % cup cleaned currants, 1 cup sugar, 2 tablespoons cracker dust, 1 beaten egg, juice and grated, rind 1 lemon. Roll pie crust, 5 very thin, cut in circles. Lay on each a table- spoonful of filling; wet edges of paste; fold each side over the middle to form pointed ovals, dust with granulated sugar, and bake 20 min- utes in slow oven. Cocoanut Pie.— Proceed as for custard pie, (plain), adding IMi cups grated cocoanut, and leaving out ^ pint milk. Cranberry Pie.— Paste, 4, 3 cups cran- berries, stewed with IMi cups sugar, and strained. Line pie-plate with paste; put in cranberry jam; wash the edges, lay 3 narrow bars across; fasten at edge, then 3 more across, forming diamond-shaped spaces. Lay rim of paste, 5, or of same; wash with egg wash: bake in quick oven until paste is cooked. Custard Pie (Plain).— Paste, 6, 1% pints milk, 4 eggs, 1 cup sugar, 1 teaspoon extract lemon, add pinch salt. Line well-greased pie- plate V4 inch thick, take ball of paste, flour it well, and proceed, with palm of left hand pressed against edge, to push the paste from center into a thick, high rim on edge of plate. Pill while in oven with sugar, eggs, and milk, beaten with extract and strained; bake in moderate oven 20 minutes. Custard Pie (Apple).— Proceed as for cus- tard pie (peach), substituting thick, stewed apples. Custard Pie (Peach).— Proceed as for cus- tard pie (plain), laying in bottom of pie some cooked, fresh, or canned peaches, then adding the custard. Fruit Pies of all Kinds.— Use about 3 cups prepared fruit for each pie. Heap fimit in center. Sprinkle with sugar to sweeten; _ if juicy, add 1 teaspoon or more of flour with sugar. Use pie crust, 4 or 6. Gooseberry Pie.— Paste, 5, 3 cups goose- berries, stewed with IVii cups sugar lo minutes, and strained. Proceed as directed for cran- berry pie. Lemon Cream Pie.— Paste, 5,H<2 pints milk, 3 tablespoons com-starch, 1 cup sugar, 2 table- spoons butter, grated rind and juice of 2 lem- ons, yolks 4 eggs. Boil milk, add corn-starch dissolved in a little cold milk; when it re- boils, take off, beat in yolks, butter, lemon juice, and rind; pour at once into pie-plates lined with paste, having high rim — as described in custard pie; bake in hot oven until paste is cooked — about 20 minutes. Lemon Cream Meringue Pie.— Having made the lemon cream pie, whip whites of 4 eggs to dry froth; gently incorporate 1 cup sugar; spread over top of pie; dust with powdered sugar; return to oven to set fawn color. Lovers of Chocolate, in any and every form, can make this addition to a common custard pie. Beat 1 egg to a stiff froth, then add pulverized sugar and grated chocolate with Ml teaspoon extract vanilla; spread this on the top of the pie and let it harden for a moment in the oven. Or you may prepare it in still another way. Put the chocolate in a basin on the back of the stove, and let it melt (do not put a drop of water with it); when melted beat 1 egg and some sugar in with it. In the latter case it will be a regular chocolate brown in color, and in the other a sort of gray. Mince Pie.— Paste, 3, 2 cups mince-meat. Mince-meat.—7 pounds currants,3V^ pounds peeled and cored apples, 5Mi pounds beef, 3Mj pounds suet, ^ pound each citron, lemon, and orange peel, pounds coffee sugar, 2 pounds raisins, 4 nutmegs, 1 ounce cinnamon. Mi ounce each cloves and mace, 1 pint brandy, and 1 pint white wine. Wash currants, dry, pick them; stone the raisins; remove skin and sinews from beef and suet. Chop each ingre- dient, separately, very fine; put into large pan as they are finished, finally adding spices, brandy, and wine; thoroughly mix together; pack in jars; store in cold, dry plaoe. This