14 THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. 2 teasp>oons Royal Baking Powder, whites 5 eggs, 1 tablespoon grated lemon rind. Cream butter and mix dry ingredients. Cream butter and sugar. Add whipped whites, flour, and milk, and beat hard. To 5 tablespoons of this batter add spices to taste, and 1 oup raisins and cup sliced citron, and bake in 1 layer. Bake remainder of batter in 2 layer-pans. When cold put together with boiled icing, hav- ing dark layer in center. Fig Cake.—IV2 cups sugar, hi cup butter, % cup sweet milk. IMi cups flour, V4 teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, hi cup corn- starch, whites C eggs. Put together as for corn- starch cake, and bake in 2 shallow oblong pans in a quick oven. Put together with fig filling (see Cake Fillings). French Cake.—\hi cups butter, 2 cups sugar, 12 eggs, 1 quart flour, V2 teaspoon Roj^al Bak- ing Powder, 1 gill each of cream, wine, and brandy, 20 drops each extract bitter almonds and nutmeg, 1% cups raisins, stoned, % cup almonds, blanched, 1 cup chopped citron. Rub butter and sugar to a white, light cream ; add the eggs, 2 at a time, beating 10 minutes be- tween the first 3 additions, and 5 minutes between the rest; add the flour, sifted with the powder, raisins, almonds, citron, extracts, cream, wine, and brandy. Mix into a smooth, consistent batter; bake in a thickly paper- lined cake-pan (fig. XIII), in a steady oven, 2 hours. Light Fruit Cake.—V2 cup butter, 1 cup sugar, hi cup milk, 2 cups flour, Ihi teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, whites 4 eggs, % cup seeded raisins, hi cup sliced citron, Mi cup chopped blanched almonds, teaspoon salt. Mix flour, baking powder, and salt. Dredge fruit with flour. Cream butter and sugar, add beaten whites, and beat hard; add flour and milk and beat again ; stir in the prepared fruit. Line a loaf-pan with 3 thicknesses of paper, and bake cake Ihi hours in moderate oven, covering with paper for first hour. Geranium Cake.—hi cup butter, 1 cup sugar, % cup water, V4 teaspoon salt, 2 cups flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, whites 4 eggs. Mix flour, salt, and baking powder. Cream but- ter and sugar. Add alternately the water and flour, then whites of eggs, and whip hard for 5 minutes. Line loaf-pan with buttered paper, then with rose-geranium leaves. Bake in a moderate oven. The leaves can be pulled off with the paper. ’ Ginger Cake.—% cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 4 eggs, Ihi tea^oons Royal Baking Powder, IVi pints flour, 1 cup milk, 1 tablespoon extract ginger. Rub the butter and sugar to a light cream; add the eggs, 2 at a time, beating 5 minutes between; add the flour, sifted with the powder, the milk and extract; mix into a smooth batter; bake in a cake-tin (fig. IX), in rather hot oven, 40 minutes. Ginger Sponge Cake.—2 cups brown sugar, 4 eggs, 1 pint flour, % cup water, Ihi teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 tablespoon extract ginger, 1 teaspoon extract lemon. Beat the eggs and sugar together for 10 minutes ; add the water, the flour sifted with the powder, and the extracts; mix into a smooth sponge, and bake in quick oven 30 minutes. Gingerbread.—1 cup brown sugar and 3 tablespoons butter, stirred to a cream; add 1 cup New Orleans molasses, 2 eggs; mix well; stir dry 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder in 2hi cups flour, put in ginger or spice to taste, bake in 1 loaf 1 hour. Gold Cake.—^ cup butter, 2 cups sugar, yolks 10 eggs, Ihi pints flour, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 cup thin cream, 1 tea- spoon each extract lemon and nutmeg. Rub the butter and sugar to a white cream; add the yolks, 3 at a time, beating a little after each addition; add the flour sifted with the powder, the thin cream, and the extracts ; mix into a pretty firm batter; bake in a paper- lined cake-tin (fig. IX), in a steady oven, 50 minutes. Gold Cake, No. 2.—hi cup butter, 1 cup su- gar, yolks 6 eggs, 2 cups flour, hi, teaspoon salt, i heaping teaspoon Royal Baking Pow- der, grated rind and strained juice 1 large orange. Mix the dry ingredients. Cream the butter and sugar, add weU-beaten yolks, or- ange rind and juice, and flour. Bake in shal- low pan in moderate oven, and ice with orange-water icing. Harrison Cake.—Ihi cups sugar, Ihi cups butter, 1 cup thick molasses mixed with ^3 tea- spoon soda, hi cup mUk, 1 teaspoon each cinna- mon and cloves, 5 eggs, 2 cups stoned raisins, 5 cups flour, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Pow- der. Mix flour, spices, and baking powder. Cream butter and sugar. Add molasses, then beat in of flour. Add milk and beaten yolks, add remainder of flour, then egg whites whipped stiff. Beat hard, and bake in a loaf- pan in moderate oven about IV2 hours. Hazelnut Cake.—9 ounces flour, 4 ounces butter, 4 ounces sugar, 4 ounces chopped hazel- nuts, 4 eggs, 1 teaspoon vanilla, I4 teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder. Mix flour, salt, and baking powder. Cream butter and sugar, add vanilla, chopped nuts, and beaten yolks. Add flour, then whipped whites, and beat well. Bake in shallow pan in me- dium oven, and when cold ice with boiled icing. Honey Cake.—hi cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup honey, 1 pint flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoon caraway seeds. Mix the honey with the sugar; add the butter melted, the eggs slightly beaten, the flour, sifted with the powder, and the seeds; mix into a smooth batter of the consistency of sponge cake, and bake in a fairly hot oven 35 minutes. Ice-Cream Cake.—1 cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 1 cup milk, 3hi cups flour, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, whites 8 eggs, V4 tea- spoon salt. Mix dry ingredients. Cream but- ter and sugar, add milk, then flour, and beat. Add whipped whites and beat again. Flavor with almond extract. Bake in three jelly-tins in hot oven, and when cold put together with boiled icing flavored with almond extract. Imperial Cake.—1 cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 5 eggs, 1 teaspoon grated lemon rind, 1 table- spoon lemon juice, ^ pound seeded raisins, hi cup sliced blanched almonds, hi pound flour, V4 teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder. Mix dry ingredients. Cream butter