THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 35 THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. slices; slice also a little raw ham; put both in a fryinf:-pan, with some butter and small quan- tity chopped onions; let them simmer together a short time on the fire or in the oven; add a little flour and enough stock to make sauce; salt, pepper, chopped parsley, aud a little Wor- cestershire sauce as seasoning; add also a few sliced potatoes, and cook together for about 20 minutes; put this into a pie-dish, with a few slices of hard-boiled eggs on the top, and cover with a layer of common paste. Bake from 15 to 20 minutes in a well-heated oven. All dark- meat pies can be treated precisely in the same way. If poultry, leave the potatoes out. To Boil a Ham.— A blade of mace, a few cloves, a sprig of thyme, and 2 bay-leaves. Well soak ham in large quantity of water for 24 hours, then trim and scrape very clean; put into large stewpan, with more than sufficient water to cover it; put in mace, cloves, thyme, and bay-leaves. BoU 4 or 5 hours, according to weight; when done, let it become cold in liquor in which it was boiled. Then remove rind carefully, without injuring the fat; press cloth over it to absorb as much of the grease as possible. It is always improved by setting in the oven for nearly an hour, till much of the fat dries out, and it also makes it more tender. Shake some bread raspings over the fat. Serve cold garnished with parsley. Boiled Mutton or Lamb.— Trim and wipe the meat. Have ready kettle of rapidly boiling salted water. Immerse meat, boil hard 5 min- utes, then reduce to gentle simmer. Allow 12 to 15 minutes per pound. Lamb should always be well done; mutton .may be rare. A little rice may be added to water to keep meat white; if a few vegetables are also added the pot liquor will make a good thick soup. Boiled Corned Beef and Turnips.— Select a ^iece not too salt. The brisket is a good cut tor family use when not too fat. Cook beef in plenty cold water. Bring slowly to boil. Cook 18 miniites to the pound after it begins to sim- mer. When fully % done put in a dozen tur- nips, peeled and quartered. When both beef and tximips are thoroughly done dish out the beef, and lay the turnips, unmashed, about it. Serve with drawn butter, having as a base the pot liquor. Remaining liquor will make a good soup for next day’s dinner. Pork Chops with Tomato Gravy.— Trim off skin and fat; rub the chops over with a mixture of powdered sage and onion; put small piece butter into a frying-pan; put in the chops and cook slowly, as they should be well done. Lay chops on hot dish; add a little hot water to gravy in pan, 1 large spoon butter rolled in flour, pepper, salt, and sugar, and cup juice drained from can tomatoes. The tomatoes themselves can be used for a tomato omelet. Stew 5 minutes and pour over the chops and serve. Sausages.— Have % lean and V* fat pork chopped very fine, 1 pound salt, pound pepper, and teacup sage to every 40 pounds meat. Warm the meat, that you can mix it well with your hands, do up a part in small patties mixed with a little flour, the rest pack m jars. When to be used, do it up in small cakes, flour the outside, fry in butter or alone. They should not be covered while frying, or they will fall to pieces. They should be kept where it is cool, but not damp. To prevent sausages from bursting when cooking, never make a hole in them vrith a fork while turn- ing them. Fried Salt Pork.— Cut fat salt pork in thin slices and soak in milk for a few hours. Pour boiling water over, drain, and fry until crisp. When partly fried they may be dipped into batter (see Fritters), then finished in the same pan, turning several times. Pork and Beans.— Soak 1 quart white beans overnight in cold water. Drain, add fresh water, and simmer gently till tender. Put in baking-pan and place in center, rind up, gashed, pound fat salt pork parboiled. Rfix 1 tea- spoon salt, *>*2 teaspoon dry mustard, and 1 table- spoon molasses; add to the beans, with enough boiling water to cover. Bake 8 hours in a moderate oven, adding more water as necessary. Liver and Bacon.— Cut liver in Irjt-inch slices, soak in cold water 20 minutes, drain, dry, and roll in flour. Have pan very hot. Put in bacon thinly sliced, turn until brown, trans- fer to hot platter. Fry liver quickly in the hot fat, turning often. When done pour off all but 1 or 2 tablespoons fat, dredge in flour until it is absorbed, aud stir tilt brown. Add hot water gradually to make smooth gravy, season and boil 1 minute. Serve separately. Few people know that lamb’s liver is as ten- der and well flavored as calf’s liver; it is much less expensive. Stew, Irish.— Time, about 2 hours. 2Vi pounds chops, 8 potatoes, 4 turnips, 4 small onions, nearly a quart of water. Take some chops from loin of mutton, place them in a stewpan in alternate layers of sliced potatoes and chops; add turnips and onions cut into pieces, pour in nearly quart cold water; cover stewpan closely, let stew gently till vegetables are ready to mash and greater part of gravy is absorbed; then place in a dish ; serve it up hot. Brown Beef Stew.—Cut 2 pounds beef in small pieces. Melt some of the fat in a pan, brown in it the meat. Put rest of meat in kettle with 1 pint cold water, let stand 20 min- utes, then heat slowly. Transfer browned meat to kettle; thicken fat with two table- spoons browned flour, add 1 pint boiling water and stir; when thick strain into kettle. Add 1 cup diced carrot, cover, and simmer. When half done add 1 pint diced potatoes. Season well with salt and pepper. Mutton Haricot.— Cut 2 pounds breast mutton in pieces, roll in flour, and brown in drippings. 'Transfer to a stewpan, and 2 sliced onions, cover with boiling water, and simmer until very tender. Add 1 pint parboiled pota- toes or 1 pint boiled macaroni and 1 pint shelled peas; season, simmer till vegetables are done. Brown Kidney Stew.— From a beef kidney cut off the outside meat in bits, rejecting tubes and purplish cores. Cover with cold water; heat slowly till steaming, drain, add cold water, and heat a second and again a third time. To the drained kidneys add 1 cup brown sauce (see Sauces), season very highly with Worces- tershire and catsup, and stand over hot water for 10 minutes.