THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 8 THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. Fritters and WaflBles Fritters are served as a vegetable or a sweet, for a lunch, dinner, or supper, according to the ingredients used in mak- ing them. Whether sweet or plain, the foun- dation batter is much the same, and, with some additions, the first receipt given in this chap- ter can be used for many kinds of fritters. By the use of Royal Baking Powder a fine frit- ter batter may be stirred up in a moment, and a meal which it may be thought necessary to extend, perhaps because of unexpected guests, can be embellished by the addition of a delicate and tasty dish. A fritter batter which is to be used as a medium for whole or sliced fruit should be quite thin, as it is to serve as a cover for the fruit. When chopped fruits or vegetables are stirred in, or the batter is to be used plain, it should be thick enough to retain its shape when dropped by spoonfuls into the frying- kettle. The fat should be deep enough to cover the fritters, and it should be smoking hot when used. Each fritter will at first sink to the bottom of the kettle; then, as the heat starts the baking powder into action and the dough begins to swell, it will rise to the surface, and should be gently turned, the turning to be repeated until the fritter is finely colored. Most fritters are done within five minutes, the time needed to cook them being determined by one which should be cooked as a tester. The very word “ waffles ” brings to our minds a host of pleasant recollections. The only drawback, in the old days, was that they must be started so long before they were ready for the irons, for home-made yeast took time to raise the batter to the requisite degree of lightness. Now, by the use of Royal Baking Powder, they can be prepared in five minutes. They are better than of old, too, for there is no yeasty taste to them; they are light, tender, and toothsome, and, what is most important, en- tirely digestible and whol^ome. Plain Fritter Batter.—1 cup'^our, te^ spoon Royal Baking Powder, teaspoon salt, 3 eggs, 1 cup milk. Siftdry ingredients together* add beaten eggs and milk; beat till smooth. Apple Fritters.—4 largo sound apples, peeled, cored, and cut each into 4 slices, gill wine, 2 tablespoons sugar, 1 teaspoon extract nutmeg. Place slices of apples in bowl with sugar, wine, and extract; cover with plate; set aside to steep two hoiirs, then dip each slice in plain fritter batter, fry to light brown in plenty of lard made hot for the purpose; serve with sugar. Fruit Fritters.—Any kind of fruit may be made into fritters, as directed for apple frit- ters. Whole canned fruits, drained from syrup, may also be used. Apples and other fruits may also be prepared, coarsely chopped, stirred into a plain fritter batter, and dropped by small spoonfuls into smoking hot fat, finish- ing as already directed. Banana Fritters.— Peel bananas, cut in lengthwise slices. Let them steep an hour with sugar and lemon juice, dip in fritter bat- ter, and fry as directed for apple fritters. Corn Fritters.— To 1 pint scraped com add ^ cup milk, cup flour, 1 tablespoon melted butter, 2 beaten eggs, 1 teaspoon salt, tea- spoon pepper, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Pow- der. Beat well, and fry in small spoonfuls as directed. Clam Fritters.— Wash and dry 25 good- sized clams or 2 strings soft-shell clams, dis- carding black part. Chop fine. Make a plain fritter batter, using the clam liquor (or that and milk) in place of milk. Stir in the chopped clams, season well with salt and pepper, and fry as directed. Oyster Fritters.— Substitute oysters for clams as in above receipt. Pineapple Fritters— Sprinkie half-inch slices of fresh pineapple with sugar and sherry; let stand 1 hour. Dip each into plain fritter batter, drop into deep kettle of smoking hot fat, fry brown. Drain on paper and sprinkle with powdered sugar. Strawberry Fritters.— Crush and sieve fresh berries to make 1 cup pulp. Add 3 beaten eggs, 1 teaspoon sugar, 1 cup flour mixed with 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder and enough more flour to make thick drop batter. Fry in deep kettle of smoking hot fat, and serve with plenty of mashed berries. Meat Fritters.— Cut cold cooked meat in slices or fingers and dip in batter; or chop and stir into the batter, seasoned with salt, pepper, and herbs or chopped onion, as desired. Fry as directed. Rice Fritters.—1 cup rice, 1 pint milk, 3 eggs, 1 tablespoon sugar, 2 tablespoons butter. Boil rice in milk until soft and aU the milk is absorbed, then remove, add yolks of eggs, sugar, and butter; when cold add whites, whipped to diy froth; drop in spoonfuls in plenty of lard, made hot for the purpose ; fry them deep buff color. Serve with cream, wine or lemon sauce. Hominy Fritters.— To 1 pint hot ooifed hominy add 2 beaten eg^s, % teaspoon salt, dash of pepper, Mt cup milk. When cool add flour to make a thin drop batter, and 1 tea- spoon Royal Baking Powder. Beat and drop in hot fat'by small spoonfuls. Waffles.— Sift together 1 quart flour, Vs teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon sugar, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder. Rub in % cup butter. Add 3 eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, and sufficient milk to make a thin batter. Cook in hot greased waffle-irons. Waffles, 2.— Iquartmilk, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder mixed with 3 cups flour, 1 cup melted butter, Mi teaspoon salt, whites and yolks 6 eggs, more flour to make thin batter. Bake at once.