4 THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. flour, com meal, salt, and powder; mb in shortening; add the milk, mix smoothly into rather firmer dough than usual. Flour the board, turn out the dough, give it 1 or 2 turns to complete its smoothness. Divide it, thus prepar^, into pieces size of an egg; again di- vide these in half, which roll out under the hand until they are long and half the size of one’s little finger. Lay on greased baking- tin (fig XrV) so that they do not touch, wash them over with milk. Bake in hot oven 7 or 8 minutes. Lunch Rolls.— 1 quart flour, 1 teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 tablespoon butter or lard, 1 pint milk. Sift together flour, salt, and powder ; mb in the shortening; add milk, mix to a smooth dough to be easily handled. Flour the board, turn out dough, give 1 or 2 quick kneadings to give it smoothness. Roll out little over Vi inch thick, cut out with round cutter about 2Vi inches in diameter; lay them on greased baking-tin (fig. XIV), ( just touching (in rows evenly), wash over with milk, bake in fairly hot oven 25 minutes. Wash them over again with milk when taken from oven. Twist Rolls.— Prepare dough as for lunch roUs. Cut in pieces size of egg. Roll each with hands into plain roU tapering at ends and 5 inches long. Lay 3 together; begin in middle and braid to end; turn over and braid opposite end. Mold and twist all the pieces of dough in the same way. Lay well apart on flat greased pans. Brush with milk, bake golden brown in very hot oven. Dinner Rolls.— Prepare dough as for lunch rolls, but slightly stififer. Knead and roll out quite thin. Cut in strips 3 inches wide. Roll strips up very tight; they should not be too thick. Lay well apart on greased flat pans, bmsh with mUk, and bake in very hot oven. French Rolls.— Make dough as for lunch rolls. Knead on board. Divide into pieces size of an egg. Form each into a short, thick, tapering roll. Put together by twos, side by side, pinching ends together a little. Place on flat greased pans. Bmsh with milk. Bake in very hot oven. Parker House Rolls.— Prepare Arm dough as for dinner roUs. Knead and roll out Vij ) inch thick. Cut into 3-inch circles. Press j pencil down across middle of each ; mb edges with soft butter. Double each, lay 1 inch apart on flat greased pans. Brush with milk, and bake in hot oven. Fruit Rolls.— Mix together 1 quart flour, 1 teaspoon salt, 2 tablespoons sugar, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder; mb in 2 tablespoons butter. Cut fine V4 pound citron, seed and halve V4 pound raisins. Mix fruit evenly with dry ingredients, make to a firm dough with milk. Knead on board for a moment, divide into pieces size of egg, make into long rolls, lay 1 inch apart on flat greased pans, bmsh with milk. Bake in a very hot oven. Hot Biscuits, Cakes, and Muffins Experienced housekeepers agree that breakfast is difficult to cater for. Even the appetite ordinarily easy to satisfy is likely to be captious when approaching the first meal of the day. Every article of food upon the breakfast-table, therefore, should be perfect — the coffee as clear as amber, the bacon white and crisp, the biscuits flaky, ten- der, delicious. As a nation we approve of hot-breads, and most of all at the breakfast-table. And while we eat and enjoy them, we have the satisfac- tion of knowing that American methods and American cookery have made them healthful as well as appetizing and nutritious. And of all the breakfast foods, nothing is so appetizing, so appetite-whetting, so always dependable, so satisfying, as the light, flaky, hot biscuit, with a crisp, brown emst, just from the oven, broken apart without use of knife, and spread with butter; or, to top off the meal, with honey, jam, or marmalade. The very simplicity of the methods of mak- ing and the familiar, every-day use of this little hot bread-morsel have, however, some- times led to lack of care in its preparation, so that we too seldom And it in perfection upon our tables. It is the object of this chapter to stimulate an interest in and awaken a love for this most healthful and economical of our purely Ameri- can foods, so that it will be found, as it de- serves to be, a prominent part of every day’s food in every household. With a basis of flour, salt, and Royal Baking Powder, we can add other ingredients to vary and enrich the cakes and biscuits generally known to the housewife, and produce in al- most endless variety breakfast and luncheon foods that shall be dainty and delicious or sub- stantial and hearty. Are eggs scarce and high, does too much shortening disagree with some member of the family. Royal Baking Powder permits the les- sening of both or either of these ingredients, without impairing the delicacy or digestibility of the finished biscuit. Royal Baking Powder is pure and healthful, and its use in excess can produce no harm; yet for cooking results it is best to be guided by the quantity specified in the receipts. Baking powder could be added until a dry, powdery biscuit resulted. The mixing of the baking powder, flour, and other dry ingredients should be thorough. This is imperative if a delicate, evenly leav- ened biscuit is wanted. The other ingredients can then be added, following the special direc- tions as given in each receipt.