THE OFFICIAL TESTS SHOW ROYAL BAKING POWDER SUPERIOR TO ALL OTHERS The United States Government, after elaborate tests, reports the Royal Baking PowdOT a pure cream of tartar powder of greater leavening strength than any other. Bulletin 13, U. S. Ag. Dep., p. 599. The Canadian official tests, recently made, show the Royal Baking Powder highest of all in leavening strength. Bulletin 10, Inland Rev. Dep., p. 16. The Royal naving powder is superior to any other powder which I have examined; a baking powder imequaled for purity, strength, and wholesomenees. Willis G. Tucker, M.D., Ph.D., New York State Analyst As the excellence of a baking powder is dependent upon the yield of leavening gas, and upon the wholesomeness and piu'ity of its ingredients, the Royal is unquestionably the best Massachusetts State Analyst The best baking powder made is, as shown by analysis, the RoyaL Cyrus Edson, M.D., Com’r of Health, New York City. I find the Royal Baking Powder superior to all the others in every respect. It is purest and strongest Walter S. Haines, M.D., Consulting Chemist, Chicago Board of Health. Our test shows that Royal Baking Powder has greater leavening power than any other of which we have knowledge. W. B. Rising, State Analyst, California. I have from time to time analyzed the Royal Baking Powder, and have uniformly found it to be high in leavening power and to be composed of pure ingi-edients. H. A. Weber, State Analyst, Ohio. My tests show the Royal Baking Powder of very superior leavening power; a cream of tartar powder of the highest purity, containing no alum, lime, ammonia, or any unwhole- some material. R. C. Kedzie, late State Analyst, Michigan. Royal Baking Powder is composed of the best and purest ingredients. It is absolutely pure, with perfect keeping qualities, and as strong as such a powder can be made. Royal makes the food much finer, besides assuring its perfect healthfulness. G. N. Failure, Kansas State Chemist I have submitted the Royal Baking Powder to careful chemical tests, and find it to be perfectly free from any substance in any way deleterious or injurious. H. A. Huston, Indiana State Chemist Royal Baking Powder is free from alum and every adulteration, and it has a larger amount of leavening gas than any of the others analyzed. M A. Scovell, Director Kentucky AgL Exp. Station. I have made a large number of analyses of Royal Baking Powder, and have found it to be an absolutely pure cream of tartar powder, entirely free from alum, ammonia, and all adultera- tions and impurities. In leavening power it is of the very highest. Charles W. Drew, late State Chemist, Minnesota. In this market I find but one powder besides Royal made from cream of tartar. Royal is the strongest, purest, most economical. H. H. Nicholson, Nebraska State Chemist. I find the Royal to be absolutely pure and highest in leavening power. Albert Menke, Arkansas State Chemist From actual analysis made by me, I pronounce the Royal Baking Powder to be the strongest and purest Baking Powder before the public. W. T. Wenzell, Analyst San Francisco Board of Health. The Royal Baking Powder Is superior in regard to purity, leavening power, and keeping qualities. Geo. S. Cox, State Chemist, Wisconsin. I allow no baking powder other than the Royal to be used in my kitchen, lor I know it to be absolutely pure and aU that is claimed lor it. Wm. T. Cutter, Connecticut State Chemish The Royal was found the highest in leavening strength, and the best powder analyzed. George F. Payne, State Chemist, Georgia. There is no baking powder known to us equal to the RoyaL We confidently recommend it for purity and wholesomeness. W. Q. Webb, M.D., President Board of Health, Spokane, Washington. Royal Baking Powder has been found by every examination — official or competitive — to be the highest of ALL in leavening power, and of absolute purity and yrtiolesomeness.