THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 40 THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. Boiled Cabbage.—Strip off outer leaves, cut in quarters, cut out stalk. Soak in salted wa- ter 1 hour. Drain. Have kettle of rapidly boiling water. Add Mi teaspoon baking soda and cabbage. Cover and keep at galloping boil. Unless very old, cabbage will be done in 1 hour. Press out all water; season well; put in hot dish. Carrots and other Root Vegetables.— Scrape or pare carrots, parsnips, turnips. Dice and cook gently in unsalted water till tender. Drain and reheat in seasoned butter, 1 table- spoon to 1 pint, or in a drawn butter or white sauce. In early summer, when roots are small, water should be salted. Onions should also be boiled in salted water, then finished as here directed. Stewed Corn.—Husk corn. Draw sharp knife down center of each row of grains; press out pulp with back of knife. To 1 pint add Mi teaspoon salt. Mi teaspoon sugar, dash pe^er, cup cream or rich milk. Heat and .simmer 10 minutes. Corn Pudding.—To 1 pint scraped corn pulp add 4 beaten eggs, 1 pint milk, 1 teaspoon salt, Mj teaspoon pepper. Mix, bake in moderate oven till set in center. Fried Egg Plant.— Wipe the egg plant, cut in V4-inch slices, soak in salted cold water 1 hour. Dip each shce in beaten egg and fry in butter until inside is very soft, outside brown. Fried Onions.— Peel (holding onions and hands under water to prevent tears), wash and cut crosswise so as to form undivided rings. Flour them, fry 5 or 6 minutes. Drain, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and serve with beefsteak. Fried Potatoes.— Pare raw potatoes; cut thin as wafers with sharp knife or patent sheer. Soak 20 minutes in cold water; dry on towel. Throw a handful at a time in kettle of smoking-hot fat; skim out fast as browned and drain on unglazed paper. Sprinkle with salt. Fried Potatoes,2.—Cut cold boiled potatoes in thick slices, season and saut6 in a little hot fat in a frying-pan. Mashed Potatoes.— Boil potatoes in salted water; while hot put through ricer or mash with fork till smooth. Season with salt and pepper; to 1 pint add 1 tablespoon butter and 2 tablespoons hot milk. Beat till Ught, heap in hot dish. Baked Potatoes.— Scrub potatoes of same size. Bake in very hot oven until tender. Press till skin breaks shghtly, serve hot with butter. Potato Croquettes.— Mix together 1 pint hot mashed potato, 1 teaspoon salt. Mi teaspoon pepper, 1 teaspoon onion juice, 1 tablespoon butter, 1 tablespoon chopped parsley, yolks 2 beaten eggs. Stir over fire till mixture leaves sides of saucepan. When cool, shape into cro- quettes, dip each in beaten egg, roll in crumbs, and fry brown in deep kettle of smoking-hot fat. Lyonnaise Potatoes.— Heat 1 tablespoon butter in frying-pan. Add 1 tablespoon chopped onion. \^en pale brown add 1 pint diced boiled potatoes, seasoned. Shake tUl butter is absorbed; potatoes should not color. Add 1 tablespoon chopped parsley and take up. Creamed Potatoes.— To 3 cups diced boiled potatoes add 1 pint cream sauce (see Sauces), more seasoning if necessary, and simmer 10 minutes. Or, season cold sliceM potatoes, cover with mUk, and stew till milk is reduced one half, then add a little butter. Stewed Squash.— Pare .small squash, re- move seeds, boil in salted water till tender. Drain, mash, season, and stir over slow fire till quite dry. Add butter and seasoning to taste. Stewed Tomatoes.— Scald and skin toma- toes, remove hard ends and cut up. Stew in agate saucepan till tender, add smt, pepper, and sugar to taste, also 1 teaspoon butter to each pint. If liked, thicken with fine crumbs or with a little flour dissolved in cold water. Stuffed Tomatoes.— Choose large toma- toes ; cut off stem ends and take out centers. Fill with stuffing (see Stuffings), lay on but- tered baking-pan, and bake in hot oven _ 30 minutes. Peppers, summer squash, large rij>e cucumbers, onions, and egg plant may be pre- pared in same way. Panned Tomatoes.— Cut firm tomatoes in halves. For 4, heat 1 tablespoon butter in frying-pan. Dip tomatoes in floru', put cut side down in pan, cover, and cook over hot Are until browned. Transfer to hot dish, sprinkle 1 tablespoon flour in pan, stir, add 1 cup milk ; stir till thickened, season, boil 1 minute, and pour round tomatoes. Mashed Turnips.— Pare and dice turnips, boU in unsalted water till tender. Mash, adding salt, pepper, and butter to taste. If cut small they will cook in less time and be less odorous. Ragout of Vegetables.— Parboil 1 carrot, 1 turnip, 2 potatoes, 2 ears of corn, 1 cup of lima beans, and the same of peas, 1 onion, and with them M4 pound of fat salt pork. Drain off the water and lay aside the pork. Slice carrots, turnips, potatoes, and onion. Put into a saucepan with a cup of some good meat soup before it has been thickened. Season well; cut the com from the cob and add with the peas, beans, and a sliced tomato as soon as the rest are hot. Stew' all together Mi hour. Stir in a great lump of butter rolled in flour. Stew 5 minutes, and serve in a deep dish. Dried Sweet Corn.— Soak 1 pint overnight. Drain, add fresh cold water, and cook slowly. When tender drain, add Mi cup rich milk, 1 tablespoon butter, salt and pepper to taste, simmer 10 minutes. Boiled Rice.— Wash 1 cup rice through sev- eral waters till water mns off clear. Have at least 4 quarts rapidly boiling water in kettle. Add rice and 1 tablespoon salt. Boil at a gallop until rice is tender — this takes 12 to 20 min- utes according to kind and age of rice. Drain, set colander over boiling water for 10 minutes or more to steam. Each grain will be distinct yet tender. Macaroni.— Have a large kettle nearly full of rapidly boiling salted water. Break maca- roni into 2 or 3 inch lengths, drop into the water, and boil as directed for rice until tender, which will take from 30 to 45 minutes. Drain, then pour cold water through the colander to remove pastiness. Reheat in a little butter, or in a white, brown, or tomato sauce. Before sending to table, sprinkle thickly with grated cheese or stir the cheese through it. Spaghetti, vermicelli, or any of the forms of paste may be prepared in the same way.