17 THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. Shrewsbury Cake.— 1 cup butter, 3 cups sugar, IVi pints flour, 3 eggs. 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 1 cup milk, 1 teaspoon extract rose. Rub butter and sugar to smooth, white cream; aild eggs, 1 at a time, beating 5 min- utes after each; add flour, sifted with pow- der, and extract; mix into medium batter; bake in cake-mold (fig. I), well and carefully greased, in quick oven, 40 minutes. Vanilla C"ke.— IMj cups butter, 2 cups sugar, 6 yolks eggs, 1 pint flour, IVi teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 cup cream, 1 tea- spoon extract vanilla. Rub butter and sugar until very light and creamy ; add egg yolks and cream, flmir, sifted with powder, and extract; mix into smooth, rather firm batter; bake in shallow square pan (fig. XIII), in fairly hot oven, 35 minutes. Wedding (or Bride) Cake.— 4 cups butter, 4 cups sugar, 10 eggs, 4 pints flour, 6 cups currants, washed, dried, and picked, 3 cups sultana raisins, 3 cups citron, W cup can- died lemon peel, 2 cups almonds, blanched and cut in shreds, ^ pint brandy, 2 teaspoons each nutmeg, mace, and cinnamon, tablespoon each cloves and allspice. Prepare all these ingredients in following manner: place butter and sugar in large bowl; break eggs into quart measure or pitcher; cover small waiter with clean sheet of paper; on it lay sifted floiir, fruit, citron and lemon peel cut into shreds, the almonds and spices, with brandy measured at hand ; also get ready large cake-tin (fig. XVIII), by papering it inside with white paper and out^ side and bottom with 4 or 5 thicknesses of coarse wrapping-paper, which can be tie<l on. Having thus prepared everything, and banked up fire to last, with addition from time to time of a shovel of coal, by which means you will not reduce oven heat, proceed to beat to very light cream the butter and sugar, adding eggs. 2 at a time, beating a little after each addition, until all are used; then put in contents of waiter all at once, with brandy; mix very thoroughly and smooth, put into prepared cake-tin, smooth over the top, put plenty of paper on to protect it; bake 8 hours, keeping oven steadily up to clear, moderate heat; watch carefully and you will produce a cake worthy of the occasion ; re- move from oven very carefully, and suffer it to stay on tin until quite cold ; next day ice it with thin coat of white icing, both top and sides; place in cool oven to dry the icing. Now spread a second coat of icing, which will prevent any crumbs or fruit being mixed up with the icing when you are icing to finish ; now with broad k nife proceed, w hen first coat is dry, to ice sides, then pour icing on center of cake, in quantity sufficient to reach the edges, when stop; deco- rate with vase of white, made flowers, etc., to taste. White Mountain Cake.— 1 cup butter, 3 cups sugar, 1 pint flour, IMi teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, whites 6 eggs, 1 cup milk, 20 drops extract bitter almonds. Rub butter and sugar to light, white cream; add the 6 whites whipped to dry froth, the flour sifted with the powder, the milk, and extract; mix together thoroughly, but carefully, and bake in jelly- cake tins in a qiiick oven 15 minutes; then arrange in layers with white icing and grated cocoanut mixed, in the proportion of 2 cups of former to 1 of latter. Wild Rose Cake.— Make the dough after the receipt given for pond-lily cake, flavoring with rose and strawberry instead of peach. Bake in 2-inch-deep jelly-tins, and sandwich with pink icing, and the same on top. (Made by substituting finely pulverized pink sugar for white.) When you have put the last layer of pink icing on top, sift very lightly over with granulated white sugar. Webster Cake.— 1 cup butter, 3 cups sugar, 2 eggs, 5 cups flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 2 cups raisins, seeded, 1 tea- spoon each extract bitter almonds and vanilla, 1 Vi cups milk. Rub butter, sugar, and eggs smooth ; add flour sifted with powder, raisins, mUk, and extracts; mix into medium batter; bake in cake-mold (fig. I), in quick, steady oven, 45 minutes. Wedding Fruit Cake.— 1 pound flour, 1 pound sugar, 1 pound butter, 2 pounds cur- rants, 1 pound raisins. Mi pound citron, 1 ounce mace, 1 ounce cinnamon, 4 nutmegs, 1 ounce cloves, 8 eggs, wine-glass brandy. Mi ounce extract rose. Wine Cake.— 1 cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 2 cups flour. Ml teaspoon Royal Baking Pow- der, 1 gill wine, 3 eggs. Rub butter and sugar to light cream, add eggs, 1 at a time, beating 5 minutes after each addition; add flour sifted with powder, and wine ; mix into medium, firm batter; bake in shallow square cake-pan (fig. XIII), in moderate oven, 40 minutes; when taken from oven carefully ice with transpa- rent icing. ¥ Cookies and Small Cakes Royal cookies.— l cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 5 eggs, 1% pints flour, Mi teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 1 cup milk. Mix butter, sugar, and eggs smooth; add flour sifted with powder, and milk; mix into dough, soft enough to handle conveniently; flour the board, roll out dough, thin; cut out with bis- cuit-cutter ; lay on greased baking-tin, bake in hot oven 5 or 6 minutes. Soft Cookies.— 1 cup butter, IMi cups sugar, 2 eggs, 3 tablespoons milk, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, just enough flour to roll out to a soft dough. Sprinkle with sugar be- fore rolling, cut in rounds, bake in quick oven. Cocoanut Cookies.— 1 cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 2 eggs, 1 cup grated cocoanut, 1 tea- spoon vanilla, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Pow- der, flour to roll out. Bake pale brown. Plain Cookies.— Mi cup butter, IMi cups sugar, 2 beaten eggs, 1 cup water, 1 teaspoon grated nutmeg, 1 cup flour sifted with 1 tea- spoon Royal Baking Powder, sufficient flour added to make a soft dough. Roll out, cut into cookies, and bake pale brown in moderate oven. Anise-seed Cakes.— 8 eggs, 1 pound sugar, 1 scant pound flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, pinch salt, 1 tablespoon anise-seed. Beat eggs and sugar together 30 minutes, then add anise, flour mixed with powder, and roll out thin. Cut in fancy shapes and bake on flat tins in quick oven.