ROYAL 1 SimaLy PllRE,CREinOFIARTAII bakinr powder rilHE tests made by the Government chemists show that Royal X Baking Powder is of the highest efficiency and usefulness as a leavening agent; that it does not contain alum, ammonia, or lime, and is absolutely pure. The official tests by the various State Food Com- missions, Boards of Health, and official analysts show no other baking powdej so pure, strong, and healthful. More ill health and physical discomfort result from unwholesome food than from any other one cause, and chief among unwholesome foods are the alum and other cheaply made baking powders. The market is full of low-grade powders, mostly made from burnt alum and phosphatic acid. The sale of these powders is urged by some dealers because they are bought cheap at wholesale and yield them large profits. Consumers should ask for Royal and take no substitute. Alum baking powders are classed as poisonous by the most eminent physicians. They cost but three cents a pound to make, and being sold at from twenty to forty cents, are also a commercial fraud. They cause indigestion, heartburn, dyspepsia, and diseases of the liver and kidneys. Consumers who value their health must be on their guard against these dangerous powders. It will be safer in all cases to demand the Royal and take no other. The housewife will find no possible substitute for the Royal Baking Powder. There is no other baking powder or preparation that will render the food so excellent in every quality. Instead of cream of tartar and soda, or soda and sour milk, the best housekeepers now use Royal Baking Powder. It is almost impos- sible for the housekeeper to procure pure cream of tartar. Professor Chandler, when president of the New York Board of Health, stated in an official report that he found upon investigation that nearly all the cream of tartar sold by grocers was adulterated with white clay, alum, or other hurtful substance. These ingredients are dangerous to health, impoverishing the blood, producing dyspepsia, etc. Professor Chandler strongly recommends the use of a well-known baking powder (like the Royal) in all kinds of baking as more convenient, economical, and healthful. Royal Baking Powder is sold only in securely labeled tin cans. Remember, in all old receipts where cream of tartar and soda or saleratus are called for, you can substitute Royal Baking Powder and get better results. The usual proportions, old way, are: 2 teaspoonfuls cream of tartar to 1 of soda or saleratus; Instead of which use 2 teaspoonfuls op Royal Baking Powder, and mix it with the flour while dry. This powder is so pure and per- fectly combined that one third less will do better work. Never use so-called prepared or self-raising flours. They mostly contain alum, phosphates, or other injurious ingredients.