THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 39 THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. Cold Slaw.—Prepare Mj quantity boiled dressing. While hot pour over 1 quart shaved cabbage, cover closely; set away till cold. Red cabbage may also be used. Cheese Straws.— Roll out pie crust, 5, very thin. Sprinkle with grated sharp cheese and a dust of cayenne, fold in three, roll out, and dust a second time with cheese. Fold, roll out quite thin, cut in fine strips or straws with jagging-iron, lay on flat pans and bake in very moderate oven. Welsh Rarebit.— Select richest and best American cheese, the milder the better, as melting brings out strength. To make 5 rare- bits, take 1 pound cheese, grate and put in tin or porcelain-lined saucepan; add ale (old is best) enough to thin the cheese sufficiently, say about a wine-glass to each rarebit. Place over fire, stir until it is melted. Have slice of toast ready for each rarebit (crusts trimmed); put a slice on each plate, and pour cheese enough over each piece to cover it. Serve while hot. ¥ Eggs SOFT AND HARD BOILED EGOS.—For soft boiled drop into boiling water and boil 3 to 3 til minutes. A better way is to have water boiling in a saucepan. Take from fire, add eggs quickly, cover, and let stand off fire away from drafts from 8 to 10 minutes, according to freshness of eggs. Hard boiled eggs should be simmered at least 20 minutes. This gives mealy yolks, which digest more readily than sodden ones. Poached Eggs.— Toast small slice of bread for each egg; trim and lay on hot platter. Have frying-pan partly filled with salted water. When simmering, carefully break in 1 egg at a time. Baste with the water until white is firm, take up with skimmer, trim edge of white and slip on toast. Scrambled Eggs.— Beat together 4 eggs, ^ cup cream or rich mUk, teaspoon salt, 14 teaspoon pepper. Turn into hot buttered pan, stir till set. Serve on toast. Chopped boiled ham or other cold meat may be mixed with the eggs before cooking. Omelet.— Break 3 eggs in bowl; add 1 tea- spoon cold water. Beat with fork till mixed. Add teaspoon salt. Turn into very hot but- tered pan, shake and stir till eggs begin to set. Let form, fold and turn out on hot platter. Fancy Omelets.— Finely chopped cooked meats, vegetables cut fine, chopped parsley, etc., may be added to plain omelet and dish named according to what is added, as ham omelet, omelet with peas, etc. Orange or other Sweet Omelet.— Sepa- rate and whip whites and yolks of 3 eggs. Pour yolks over whites, add grated rind of orange and 1 tablespoon of orange juice, 1 table- spoon powdered sugar. Mix and cook as above. Omelet Souffle.— Break 6 eggs into sep- arate cups; beat 4 of the yolks, mix with them teaspoon flour, 3 tablespoons powdered sugar, very little salt; flavor with extract lemon or any other flavors that may be preferred. WWsk the whites of the 6 eggs to firm froth; mix them lightly with yolks; pour the mixture into a greased pan or dish; bake in quick oven. When well risen and lightly browned on the top it is done; roll out in dish, sift pulverized sugar over and send to table. You can also pour some rum over it and set it on fire, as for an omelet au rhum. Plain and Fancy Baked Eggs.— Butter small stoneware dishes. Carefully break egg in each. Add salt, popper, and bit of butter. ' Bake in oven till white is set. May be varied by buttering dish and adding : chopped parsley or ham, soaked bread crumbs, , chopped onions, or a little stewed tomato. ¥ Vegetables Hints on cooking vegetables.— First — Have them fresh as possible. Summer vegetables should be cooked on same day they are gathered. Second — Look them over and wash well, cutting out all decayed or unripe parts. Third — Lay them, when peeled, in cold water for some time before using. Fourth — Always let water boil before putting them in, and con- tinue to boil until done. Turnips.— Should be peeled, and boiled from 40 minutes to an hour. Beets.— Bon from 1 to 2 hours ; then put in cold water and slip skin off. Spinach.— Boil 20 minutes. Parsnips.— Boil from 20 to 30 minutes. Onions.— Best boiled in 2 or 3 waters, add- ing milk the last time. String Beans.— Should be boiled IMi hours. Shell Beans.— Require an hour. Green Corn.— Boil 20 or 30 minutes. Green Peas.— Should be boiled in little water as possible; boil 20 minutes. Asparagus.— Same as peas; serve on toast with cream gravy. Winter Squash.— Cut in pieces and boil 20 to 40 minutes in small quantity of water; when done, press water out, mash smooth, season with butter, pepper, and salt. Cabbage.— Should be boiled from 1 to 2 hours in plenty of water; salt while boiling. Asparagus on Toast.—Have stalks of equal length ; scrape lower ends ; tie in small bunches with tape. Cook 20 to 30 minutes, according to size. Dip 6 or 8 slices di _ toast in asparagus liquor, lay on hot platter, place asparagus on them, and cover with a white or drawn butter sauce; in making sauce use asparagus liquor and water or mUk in equal quantities. String Beans.—Top and tail the beans, and strip off all strings carefully; break into short len^hs and wash. Boil in salted water until tender — from 1V& to 3 hours. Drain, season with butter, salt, and pepper. Kidney Beans, Brown Sauce.—Cook 1 pint fresh shelled beans in salted water till tender. Drain ; shake in saucepan with 1 teaspoon but- ter 3 minutes. Add 1 cup brown sauce (see Sauces), and simmer 5 minutes. Beets, Cream Sauce.—Wash and boil beets till tender. Rub off skins and slice or dice. To 1 pint add 1 cup white sauce (see Sauces); simmer 5 minutes. Other root v^etables may be finished same way.