THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 15 THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. and sugar. Add 1 whole egg and beat bard until incorporated. Stir in some of the flour. Alternate eggs and flour in same way until all the eggs are added, then beat hard 10 minutes. Add lemon juice, almonds, and dredged rai- sins. Line loaf-pan with 3 thicknesses paper. Bake in moderate oven about 1*4 hours. Jelly Cake.—Beat 3 eggs well, whites and yolks separately; take a cup of fine white sugar and beat in well with yolks, and 1 cup sifted flour, stirred in gently ; then stir in the whites, a little at a time, 1 teaspoon Royal Bak- ing Powder, and 1 tablespoon milk; pour into 3 jelly-cake plates and bake from 5 to 10 minutes in a well-heated oven; when cold spread with currant jelly, place each layer on top of the other, and sift powdered sugar on top. Rolled Jelly Cake.—i eggs, % cup powdered sugar, ^ cup pastry flour, Vi teaspoon salt, Vi teaspoon Royal Baking Powder. Beat egg yolks and sugar till light. Add mixed dry in- gredients; then stiffly beaten whites. Mix lightly together. Bake in thin sheet in quick oven. As soon as done turn quicklv on a towel wrung out of water, spread with jelly, roll up, and dust with powdered sugar. Lemon Cake.—1 cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 7 eggs, IMi pints flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Bak ing Powder, 1 teaspoon extract lemon. Rub to a light cream the butter and sugar; add the eggs, 2 at a time, beating 5 minutes after each addition ; add the flour, sifted with the powder, and the extract; mix into a medium batter; bake in paper-lined tin (fig. XIII), in a moderate oven, 40 minutes. Lady Cake.—1V4 cups butter, 3 cups sugar, whites 8 eggs, 1 pint flour, teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 1 cup milk, 20 drops extract bitter almonds. Rub the butter and sugar to a cream ; add the flour sifted with the powder, milk, and extract; mix into a smooth batter; then gently mix the 8 egg whites, whipped to a dry froth ; when thoroughly mixed, put into a shallow cake-pan (fig. XIII), papered, and bake carefully in steady oven 40 minutes. When cool, ice the bottom and sides with white icing. Lightning Cake.—1 cup butter, 1 cup gran- ulated sugar, 3 eggs, 2 cups flour, Vi teaspoon Royal BaMug Powder, grated rind 1 lemon. Mix flour and baking powder. Cream butter and sugar, add lemon and beaten eggs, add flour, and beat well. Spread 1 inch thick on flat buttered pans, sprinkle with a mixture of granulated sugar, powdered cinnamon, and few chopped almonds. Bake pale brown in hot oven, and when cold cut in squares. Lunch Cake (Boston).—2 cups butter, 2 cups sugar, pints flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 6 eggs, 1 gill wine, 1 teaspoon each extract rose, cinnamon, and nutmeg. Rub the butter and sugar to a very light cream; add the eggs, 2 at a time, beating 5 minutes after each addition; add the flour sifted with the powder, wine, extracts; mix into a smooth batter, put into a thickly papered shallow cake-pan (fig. XIII), and bake in moderate oven IVi hours. When cold, ice the bottom and sides with white icing. Marshmallow Cake.—1 egg, Hi cups sugar, 1 tablespoon butter, 1 cup milk, 2 cups flour. teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder. Mix flour, salt, and baking powder. Cream butter, add *4 of sugar, and beat. Add beaten egg and remainder of sugar, and beat 4 minutes. Add alternately flour and milk, beating well. Add vanilla and bake in layer- cake pans in quick oven. Cut fine *4 pound marshmallows. Spread them between cake layers, and stand in open oven till they melt. Marbled Cake.—This is made in separate batters, a dark and a light one. For the dark one, take cup butter, I cup brown sugar, 2Vi cups flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Pow- der, yolks of 4 eggs, Vj cup milk, 1 teaspoon each extract cinnamon, cloves, and allspice. For the light one take cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 2V2 cups flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, whites of 4 eggs, cup milk, 1 tea- spoon extract lemon. Both batters are made by rubbing the butter and sugar to a cream, adding the eggs, beating a few minutes, then adding the flour, sifted with the powder, the extracts and milk, and mixing into smooth bat- ter, rather firm. Have a paper-lined tin (fig. IX); with a spoon drop the two batters alter- nately into it, and bake in a rather quick oven 35 minutes. Minnehaha Cake.—Vj cup butter, cups sugar, 3 eggs, 1 cup milk, 2Vs cups flour, 2 tea- spoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 teaspoon va- nilla. Mix dry ingredients. Cream butter and sugar, add beaten yolks and vanilla, then, al- ternately, the milk and flour. Beat well, and bake in 3 layers in quick oven. Put together with fruit filling (see Cake Fillings). Orange Cake.—Vi cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 5 eggs, 1 pint flour, IVj teaspoons Royal Bak- ing Powder, 1 teaspoon extract orange, 1 cup milk. Rub the butter and sugar to a cream ; add the eggs, 2 at a time, beating 5 minutes after each addition; add the flour sifted with the powder, the milk and extract; mix into a smooth, fine batter, put in a paper-lined cake- tin (fig. IX), and bake in a moderate oven 30 minutes. When cool, cover the top with the following preparation: Whip the whites of 3 eggs to a dry froth ; then carefully mix in 4 cups sugar, the juice, grated rind, and soft pulp, free of white pith and seeds, of 2 sour oranges. Nut Cake.—Vs cup butter, IV2 cups sugar, 3 eggs, 2Vs cups flour, IVs teaspoons Royal Bak- ing Powder, Vs cup milk, 1 cup of any meats of nuts preferred or at hand. Rub the butter and sugar to a hght, white cream ; add the eggs, beaten a little, then the flour, sifted with the powder; mix with the milk and nuts into a rather firm batter, and bake in a paper-lined tin (fig. IX), in a steady oven, 35 minutes. Peach-Blossom Cake.—1 cup pulverized sugar, Vs cup butter, stirred together until like thick cream, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, Vs cup sweet milk; beat the whites of 3 eggs, and add to a cup of flour, mixed with the baking powder; stir and add Vi teaspoon com-starch. Flavor strongly with extract peach. Bake in 2 square sponge-tins in moderately quick oven, and when done sandwich with finely grated cocoanut and pink sugar. Frost with clear icing, and sprin- kle this with pulverized pink sugar.