26 THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK THE ROYAL BAKING POWl )ER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. butter the mold, pour in pudding, set in sauce- pan with boUing water to reach Mi up _ its sides; steam slowly for 25 minutes; permit it to stand 3 minutes before turning out; serve with custard sauce. Sago Pudding.— 1 quart milk, 4 tablespoons sago boiled in the milk till soft; set dish in kettle of hot water, and let sago swell gradu- ally. Beat up 3 eggs, and stir into cooked milk and sago; salt and sugar to taste. Then put in oven and bake very lightly. Serve with creamy sauce. Souffld" of Different Fruits.— With fruits of a soft and juicy nature, such as peaches, plums, apricots, bananas, etc., proceed in this manner: Remove the kernels and press the fruit through a sieve; put what you have thus obtained in a bowl, adding Mi pound powdered sugar and the whites of 3 eggs; beat well with an egg-beater for 5 or 6 minutes. Then take the whites of G or 7 eggs and beat them into a stiff froth ; mix well together. Put this on a dish in a well-heated oven 5 or G minutes be- fore serving. Sprinkle powdered sugar on top. For hard fruits, such as apples, pears, etc., cook them first and then press through a sieve. The treatment is exactly the same as for the others. Suet Pudding.—2 eggs, 1 cup milk, Mi cup molasses. Mi cup finely chopped suet, 1 teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 3 scant cups fiour, spices to taste, and 1 cup mixed chopped fruit — raisins, citron, currants, or almonds. Steam 2 hours and serve with a soft sauce. Tapioca Pudding.— 1 small cup tapioca, 1 quart mUk, 1 teaspoon butter, 3 tablespoons sugar. Soak tapioca in water 4 or 5 hours, then add the milk; flavor with extract lemon, or anything else you prefer. Bake slowly 1 hour. To be made day before it is wanted, and eaten cold with cream or milk and sugar. Some prefer the pudding made with 3 pints mUk and no water. Tapioca and Cocoanut Pudding.— 1 cup tapioca soaked overnight, 1 quart milk, yolks 4 eggs, whites of 2, 1 cup sugar, 2 tablespoons grated cocoanut; bake Mi hour. Make frosting of whites 2 eggs, 3 tablespoons sugar, 2 table- spoons grated cocoanut; spread over pudding when baked. Set in oven until a light brown. ¥ Sauces for Puddings, Etc. Brandy sauce.— Proceed as directed for wine sauce, 2, substituting brandy for wine. Canned Fruit Sauce.—Take the syrup from any canned fruit, add sufflcient sugar to sweeten, and an equal quantity of boiling water. Measure, and for 1 pint thicken with 1 tablespoon arrowroot blended in a little wa- ter. Boil 10 minutes; add 1 tablespoon butter and stir till melted. Currant Jelly Sauce.— Melt 1 cup red-cur- rant jelly, add 1 glass white wine, and 1 tea- spoon extract raspberry. Currant Jelly Sauce, 2.— Cream 2 table- spoons butter ; add gradually % cup stifl' cur- rant jelly slightly softened by standing in warm room. Beat well and serve very cold. Cream Sauce.— Bring % pint cream slowly to boil; set in stewpan boiling water; when it reaches boiling point add sugar, then pour slowly on whipped whites of 2 eggs in bowl; add 1 teaspoon extract vanilla and use. Creamy Sauce.— Cream 2 tablespoons but- ter ; beat in by degrees Mi cup powdered sugar, 2 tablespoons each of thick cream and sheiry. Beat long and hard. Just before serving stand bowl over hot water and beat till sauce b oks creamy but is not hot enough to melt the butter. Custard Sauce.— 1 pint milk, yolks 4 eggs, Ml cup sugar. Set over fire and stir until thick. Duchesse Sauce.— Boil 2 ounces grated chocolate in Mi pint milk 5 minutes; strain on 2 yolks of eggs beaten with Mi gill cream and Y2 cup sugar; strain, return to fire, stir until thick as honey; remove and add 1 tea- spoon extract vanilla. Foaming Sauce.— Whip white 1 egg and Mi cup powdered sugar to a stiff froth. Whip separately 1 cup thick cream to a solid froth. Mix lightly together, flavor with 1 tablespoon sherry. Hard Sauce.— Beat 1 cup sugar and Mi cup butter to white cream; add whites 2 eggs; beat few minutes longer; add tablespoon brandy and teaspoon extract nutmeg; put on ice until needed. Qolden Sauce.— Make hard sauce as above without egg whites or flavoring. Beat in gradually the yolks of 2 raw eggs and add flavoring to suit. The color may be accentu- ated by the addition of a little yellow color- paste. Hygienic Cream Sauce.— Mi pint milk. Mi pint cream, yolk 1 egg, 1 tablespoon buckwheat dissolved in little milk, large pinch salt. Bring milk and cream to boil in thick, weU-lined saucepan; add to it buckwheat dissolved in milk, stirring rapidly to prevent lumping; al- low it to boil 5 minutes; remove from fire, beat in the yolk of egg diluted with a table- spoon milk. Lemon Sauce.— Boil 1 cup sugar and 1 cup water together 15 minutes, then remove; when cooled a little, add Mi teaspoon extract lemon and 1 tablespoon lemon jmce. Molasses Sauce.— Boil together 10 minutes 1 cup molasses, 1 tablespoon vinegar, 1 table- spoon butter, pinch salt. For apple puddings. Orange Sauce.— To golden sauce made as above add the grated yellow rind and 1 table- spoon of the juice of an orange. Peach Sauce.— Place peach juice from can in small saucepan; add equal volume of wa- ter, little more sugar, and 8 or 10 raisins ; boil this 10 minutes, strain, and just before serv- ing add 8 drops extract bitter almonds. Rexford Sauce.— Dissolve 1 teaspoon corn- starch in little water; add it to 1 cup boiling water, with % cup brovm sugar; boil 10 min-