19 THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. allspice, and cinnamon, pinch of salt, 1 tea- spoon Royal Baking Powder, flour to roll out. Cut in rounds, bake in moderate oven. Soft Gingerbread.— 1 cup molasses, % cup sugar, cup butter, cup milk, 2 eggs, 1 tablespoon ginger, 1 teaspoon allspice, 2 cups flour, 1 Ms teaspoons Royal Baking Powder. Bake in shallow pans or gem-pans in moderate oven. Spice Drop Cakes.—Yolks 3 eggs, Mi cup butter, 1 cup molasses, cup milk, 3 cups flour, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, pinch of salt, spice to taste. Drop on buttered paper on tins, and bake in hot oven. Sand Tarts.— 1 cup butter, cups sugar, 3 eggs, 1 tablespoon water. Mi teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, flour to roll out. Cut in squares, sprinkle with granulated sugar and powdered cinnamon before baking in hot oven. Walnut Wafers.— pound brown sugar. Ml pound broken walnut meats, 2 level table- spoons flour, V4 teaspoon Royal Baking Pow- der, Ml teaspoon salt, 2 eggs. Drop small spoonfuls on buttered pans, bake in quick oven. ♦ Fillings and Icings for Cake CREAM FILLING.— 2 cups sugar, 3 cups milk, 3 heaping tablespoons com-starch, yolks 5 eggs, 1 tablespoon butter, 2 tea- spoons extract vanilla. Scald milk in double boiler, add corn-starch dissolved in little cold milk, stir till smooth. Add sugar, cook 10 min- utes. Add egg yolks, cook 4 minutes, take off and add vanilla. Cream Filling, 2.— 2 cups milk, 2 eggs, 3 tablespoons sifted flour, 1 cup sugar, flavoring. Cook as above. Cream Filling, 3.—1 cup thick cream whipped to a solid froth. Mi cup powdered sugar, 1 teaspoon extract vanilla. Mix lightly together and use at once. Cocoanut Filling.— 1 cup grated cocoanut, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup milk, 2 eggs. Cook all to- gether 5 minutes. Cocoanut Fiiling, 2.— To cream Ailing, 2 add 2 cups freshly ^ated cocoanut, and 2 teaspoons extract vanula. Chocolate Cream Filling.— M cake choco- late, grated, % cup milk, Vfe cup sugar, 1 table- spoon butter, pinch salt, 1 teaspoon extract vanilla. Boil gently till thick. Chocolate Filling.— V4 cake chocolate, grated. Mi cup milk, yolk 1 egg, 1 cup sugar, 1 teaspoon extract vanilla. Boil sugar, choco- late, and milk till thickened, add egg yolk, cook 2 minutes, take from Are, add vanilla. Chocolate Filling, 2.— 5 tablespoons grated chocolate, cream to moisten, 1 cup sugar, 1 egg, 1 teaspoon extract vanilla. Beat egg, add chocolate and sugar, cook over fire till thick, add flavoring. Lemon Filling.— Grated rind 2 lemons, their strained juice, 2 cuds sugar, whites 2 eggs, 1 cup boiling water, 2 tablespoons flour mixed with cold water, 1 tablespoon melted butter. Cook together in double boiler, adding beaten whites last. Orange Filling.— As lemon filling, using but cup sugar and oranges instead of lemons. Fig Filling.— ^ pound chopped figs, 2 table- spoons sugar, 3 tablespoons boiling water, 1 tablespoon lemon juice. Cook in double boiler till thick enough. Fruit Filling.— 4 tablespoons finely chopped citron, same of chopped seeded raisins. Mi cup chopped blanched almonds, pound chopped figs, whipped whites 3 eggs, Vi cup sugar. Whip whites with sugar, add fruits, and beat well. Prune and Nut Filling.— Soak Mi pound large prunes over night. Steam until plump and soft. Remove pits. When cold add cup chopped blanched almonds and stir into this whites 3 eggs, beaten stiff, with Mi cup powdered sugar. Almond Icing.— Whites 3 eggs, 1 pound Jordan (sweet) almonds, 3 cups sugar, 10 drops extract rose. Pound to fine paste almonds, with a little sugar; then add whites of eggs, rest of sugar, and extract; pound few minutes to thoroughly mix. Take up in bowl and use as directed. Clear Icing, for Cake.— Put 1 cup sugar in a bowl with a tablespoon lemon juice and whites of 2 eggs. Mix together smooth and pour over the cake; if the cake is not hot enough to dry it, place it in the mouth of a moderately warm oven. Transparent Icing.— Place 1 pound pulver- ized white sugar in saucepan with Mi pint water. Boil to consistency of mucilage, then rub sugar with wooden spatula against sides of pan until it assumes white, milky appearance. Stir in 2 tablespoons extract vanilla; mix weU to- gether. Pour this while hot over top of cake so as to completely cover it. Chocolate Transparent Icing.— Melt 3 ounces fine chocolate with small quantity water in pan over fire (stirring constantly) until it becomes soft. Dilute this with gill of syrup; work until perfectly smooth. Then add to boiled sugar as above. White Icing.—The whites of 4 eggs, 11^ pounds white sugar dust, the juice of Mi lemon, V4 ounce extract rose. Place the whites and the sugar in a bowl with the juice and ex- tract. Beat with a wooden spoon until, letting some run from the spoon, it maintains the thread-like appearance for several minutes, when use as directed. Bakers’ Soft Icing.— Boil 2 cups granulated sugar with 1 cup water without stirring till it ropes when dropped from fork. Take quickly from Are, let stand untouched till blood-warm. Beat till thick as soft dough, take in hands and knead tiU soft, smooth, and creamy. Pack in covered glass and keep in cold place. To use, put some in bowl, set in hot water, stir con- stantly till soft enough to spread. Flavor and use. Will keep indefinitely.