THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 2 THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. place of yeast to leaven bread. It does pre- cisely the same work — that is, swells up the dough and makes it porous and spongy. But the process is not destructive: the baking powder by itself produces the leavening gas. No part of the flour is decomposed or de- stroyed. Moreover, there is no mixing or kneading with the hands, no setting of sponge overnight, as the loaf is mixed and ready for the oven at once. Bread thus made cannot sour, but will retain its moisture and freshness, and may be eaten while hot or fresh without distress even by persons of delicate digestion. The ease with which Royal Baking Powder bread is made, its cleanliness and healthful- ness, have caused it to supersede yeast bread with many of the best pastry cooks. In making this bread the materials and utensils should be brought together before the mixing of the dough is begun. The fire must be looked to so as to secure a steady, moderate heat. Remember to mix the flour and Royal Baking Powder together before sifting, and sift thoroughly before wetting. Royal Baking PowderBread.—Iquart flour, 1 teaspoon salt, teaspoon sugar, 2 heap- ing teaspoons Royal Baking Powder,* % medium-sized cold boiled potato, and water. Sift together thoroughly flour, salt, sugar, and baking powder; rub in the potato; add sufii- cient water to mix smoothly and rapidly into a stiff dough, about the consistency of cake bat- ter : about a pint of water to a quart of flour will be required —more or less according to the brand and quality of the flour used. Do not make a stiff dough as in yeast bread. Put the dough into a greased pan iMi by 8 inches, and 4 inches deep, filling about half fuU. The loaf will rise to fill the pan when baked. Bake in very hot oven about 4") minutes, placing paper over flrst 15 minutes’ baking, to prevent crust- ing too soon on top. Bake immediately after mixing. Household Bread.— Sift twice together 1 quart of flour, 1 teaspoon salt, 2 heaping tea- spoons Royal Baking Powder. Make a well in the center; add gradually sufiBcient cold liquid — water, milk, or equal quantities of each — to mix to a stiff batter or soft dough ; this will require about 1 pint of liquid. Turn at once into a greased loaf-pan (fig. XII), smooth the top with a knife dipped in melted butter, and bake immediately in a moderate oven about 1 hour. When done take from the pan, moisten with the hand dipped in cold water, wrap in bread-cloth tiU cold. Qraham Unfermented Bread.— IMi pints Graham flour, Vfj pint flour, 1 tablespoon sugar, 1 teaspoon salt. 2 teaspoons Royal BaMng Powder, VA pints milk, or equal parts milk and water. Sift together Graham flour, flour, sugar, salt, and powder; add the milk, or milk and water; mix rapidly into soft dough, which put into grea.sed tin (fl'g. XII). Bake in rather hot oven about 40 minutes. Protect loaf with paper flrst 15 minutes. Brown Bread.— 1 pint Indian com meal, 1 pint rye flour, 1 teaspoon brown sugar, 1 tea- • Perfect succem can be had only with the Royal Baking Powder. spoon salt, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 tablespoon butter or lard, % pint milk. Sift together corn meal, rye flour, sugar, salt, and powder. Rub in the shortening; add the milk, and mix the whole into a batter. P*ut into grea.sed tin (fig. XII), and bake about 40 min- utes in rather hot oven. Protect at first with paper. Brown Bread, 2.— Mix together 3 cups Graham flour, 1 cup wheat flour, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 teaspoon salt; rub in 1 tablespoon butter or other shortening. Beat 3 eggs; add 1 cup milk and 1 tablespoon mo- lasses : stir into dry mixture. Add more milk if needed to make a drop batter. Put into a greased loaf-pan (fig. XII), smooth with knife dipped in cold water. Bake about 1 hour in j moderate oven. Boston Brown Bread.— Vfj pint flour, 1 pint Indian corn meal. Mi pint rye flour, 2 po- tatoes, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon brown sugar, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, pint water. Sift flour, corn meal, rye flour, sugar, salt, aud baking powder together thor- oughly. Peel, wash, and boil well 2 mealy po- tatoes, rub them through a sieve, diluting with water. When this is quite cold use it to mix flou r, etc., into a batter. Pour into well-greased mold (fig. VI) having a cover. Place it in I saucepan half full of boiling water, where the j loaf will simmer 1 hour, without water getting I into it. Remove it then, take oflf cover, finish I by baking in fairly hot oven about 30 minutes. I Boston Brown Bread, 2.— 1 cup corn meal, 2 heaping cups rye meal, 1 tea^oon salt. Mi teaspoon soda. 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Pow- der, 1 cup molasses. Mix dry ingredients; add molasses and 1 pint warm water; boat smooth. Pour at once into greased mold (fig. VI) with cover, steam or boil 3 hours. Uncover, set in oven 10 minutes. Boston Brown Bread, 3.— 2 cups yellow Indian com meal, 1 cup rye meal, 1 cup flour, 2 cups milk, 1 cup molasses, Mt teaspoon salt, j 3 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder. Mix well I together, pour into greased brown-bread mold, steam 4 hours. Dry oflf 10 minutes in mod- erate oven. Norwegian Bread (for Dyspeptics).— 1 pint barley meal, Mi pint Graham flour, ta pint flour, 1 teaspoon salt. 2 teaspoons Royal Bak- ing Powder, 1 pint milk. Sift together barley meal, Graham flour, flour, salt, and powder; mix into Ann batter with the milk ; pour into greased tin (fig. XII), bake in moderate oven aBbut 40 minutes. Cover with paper 20 mintites. Oatmeal Bread.— Vi pint oatmeal, 1 Vi pints flour, Vi teaspoon salt, 3 teaspoons Royal Bak- ing Powder, ^4 pint milk. Boil oatmeal inlVi pints salted water 1 hour; add milk; set aside until cold. Then place in bowl, sift to- gether flour, salt, and powder, and add. Mix smoothly and deftly. Bake in greased tin (fig. XII) about 45 minutes, protected with paper 20 minutes. Peculiars.—1 pint flour, sifted with 1 tea- spoon Royal Baking Powder and a little salt; add 1 egg; mix with 1 pint sweet milk, beat well to a batter, and bake quickly in buttered gem-pans already hot.