25 THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK lER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. THE ROYAL BAKING POWI whites of eggs to stiff froth; add 6 tablespoons sug^r. Spread the frosting over top; set again in oven until a light brown. Custard Pudding.— IMj pints milk, 4 eggs, 1 cup sugar, 2 teaspoons extract vanilla, and pinch of salt. Beat eggs and sugar together ; dilute with milk and extract; pour into but- tered pudding-dish, set in oven in dripping- pan full of boiling water; bake until firm, about 40 minutes, in moderate oven. Fig Pudding.— pound good dried figs, washed, wiped, and minced; 2 cups fine dry bread crumbs, 3 eggs, cup beef suet, pow- dered ; 2 scant cups sweet milk, cup wliite sugar, in which 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Pow- der has been mixed, little salt. Soak the crumbs in milk, add eggs, beaten light with sugar, salt, suet, and figs. Beat 3 minutes; put in buttered mold with tight top, set in boiling water with weight on cover to prevent mold from upsetting, and boil 3 hours. Eat hot with hard sauce made of butter, powdered sugar, 1 teaspoon extract nutmeg. Indian Pudding.— tg cup flour, cups Indian corn meal, V<s cup syrup, tfj teaspoon salt, 1 quart milk. Mix flour, corn meal, salt, and cup milk together; pour the rest on it, boiling; stir once in a while for 30 minutes; bake in moderate oven 2 hours in well-but- tered pudding-dish; serve with wine sauce. Lemon Suet Pudding.—3 cups stale bread, 1 cup suet, Mi cup sugar, mixed with 1 tea- spoon Royal Baking Powder, 4 eggs, 1 table- ^oon extract lemon, pints milk, pinch salt. Grate bread, chop suet, freed of skin, very fine, put them in bowl; add sugar, eggs, beaten, salt, and extract; pour over boiling milk, stir- ring it the while; suffer it to stand 30 minutes, covered, then pour into well-buttered pudding- dish ; bake in moderate oven 40 minutes; serve with sugar sauce. Orange Pudding.—1^4 cups stale Royal un- fermented bread, 1 cup finely chopped suet, 1 cup sugar, 2 eggs, juice of 1 orange or 1 tablespoon extract orange. Mi cup milk. Mix aU thor- oughly together, fill 6 cups, well greased, boU 30 minutes. Turn out on dish, serve with hard sauce flavored with 1 teaspoon extract orange. Peach Cottage Pudding.—Make a batter with Vi cup sugar, 3 tablespoons melted butter, 1 beaten egg, 1 cup milk, 2 cups flour, 1 Vi tea- spoons Royal Baking Powder. Stir in 2 cups sliced peaches, bake in a loaf and serve with hard sauce. Fine Peach Pudding.—Fill pudding-dish with whole peeled peaches, pour over 1 pint water, cover, and bake till peaches are tender. Drain off juice and let cool. Add to it 2 cups milk, 4 beaten eggs, 1 scant cup flour mixed with 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 1 cup sugar, 1 tablespoon melted butter, pinch salt. Beat hard 4 minutes, pour over peaches in dish, bake to rich brown and serve with cream. “ Poor Man’s Pudding.”—V^ cup suet, chopped, V<2 cup seeded raisins, V<s cup currants, washed and picked, IVfe cups grated bread, 1 cup flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, Mi cup brown sugar, 1 pint milk. Slix all well together, put into well-greased mold, set in saucepan with boiling water to reach Vi up sides of mold; steam 2 hours; turn out on dish carefully ; serve with butter and sugar. Plum Pudding (Royal Christmas).—2 cups raisins, 2 cups currants, 2 cups suet, Vi cup almonds, blanched, 2 cups flour, 2 cups grated bread, Vi cup each citron, orange, and lemon peels, 8 eggs, 1 cup sugar, Vi cup cream, 1 gill each wine and brandy, large pinch salt, 1 table- spoon extract nutmeg, 1 teaspoon Royal Bak- ing Powder. Put in large bowl raisins, seeded, currants, washed and picked, suet, chopped very tine, almonds, cut fine, citron, orange, and lemon peels, chopped, sugar, wine, brandy, and cream; lastly, add flour, sifted with powder ; mix all well together, put in large, well-buttered mold (fig. II); set in saucepan mth boiling water to reach ^ up sides of mold, steam thus 5 hours; turn out on dish carefully; serve with Royal wine sauce. Plum Pudding, 2.—IVi cups each grated bread, very finely chopped suet, raisins, seeded, currants, washed and picked, and coffee .sugar. Mi cup each citron, milk, and orange marma- lade, 4 eggs, 2 cups flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 1 teaspoon each extract cin- Tiamou, cloves, and nutmeg. Mix all these ingredients well together in large bowl, put in well-buttered mold, set in saucepan with boil- ing water to reach Mi up its sides; steam thus 3Mj hours; turn out carefully on dish, and serve with Royal wine sauce. Princess Pudding.— % cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 1 large cup flour, 3 eggs. Mi teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, small glass brandy. Rub to smooth cream butter and sugar; add eggs, 1 at a time, beating few minutes after each addition; add flour sifted with powder, and brandy; put into mold well buttered, set in saucepan with boiling water to reach % up its sides; steam thus IV^ hours; turn out on dish carefully; serve with lemon sauce. Raisin Roly Poly.— 2 cups flour. Mi teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, sifted together. Rub in 2 tablespoons butter, miT with milk to soft dough, roU out Mi inch thick. Spread with a little soft butter. Sprinkle thickly with seeded raisins, then with 2 ta- blespoons granulated sugar. Roll up, pinch ends together, lay on buttered pie-plate, and steam 30 minutes. Dry off in oven 10 minutes. Serve with creamy or liquid sauce. Raisin Pudding.— 1 cup finely chopped suet. Mi cup sugar, 2 eggs, Mi cup milk, 1 cup entire wheat flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 1 cup floured raisins. Steam 3 hours. Serve with liquid sauce. Rice Pudding.— Mi cup rice, IVfj pints milk. Ml cup sugar, large pinch salt, 1 tablespoon lemon rind chopped fine. Put rice, washed and picked, sugar, salt, and milk in quart pudding- dish ; bake in moderate oven 2 hours, stirring frequently first IMi hours, then permit it to finish cooking with light-colored crust, disturb- ing it no more. Eat cold wdth cream. Rice Pudding, 2.— Vfj cup rice, % pint milk, 4 apples, peeled, cored, and stewed, Vh cup sugar, 4 eggs. Boil rice in milk until reduced to pulp; beat well with apple sauce and sugar for 10 minutes, then set aside to cool; then carefully mix in whites of eggs, whipped to stiff froth,