THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 29 THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. mince-meat will keep from 12 to 18 mouths. The fruit should never be floured iu making mince pie. Mince-meat, 2.— 2 pounds currants, 5 pounds peeled and cored apples, 2 pounds lean boiled beef, 1 pound beef suet, \ pound citron, 2^ pounds coffee sugar, 2 pounds raisins, 1 pound seedless raisins, 2 tablespoons cinna- mon. 1 nutmeg, 1 tablespoon each mace, cloves, and allspice, 1 pint each Madeira wine and brandy. Wash currants, dry, pick them; stone the raisins; remove skin and sinews from the beef. Chop each ingredient up, separately, very flne; place as soon as done in large pan, finally adding spices, Madeira, and brandy ; mix thoroughly; pack in jars; keep in cold place. Peach Tart.—For each large peach allow 1 tablespoon sugar and 1 tablespoon water. Fill baking-dish with sliced peaches, add sugar and water. Cover with pie crust, 6, bake in moderate oven about 30 minutes. Serve hot with cream. Plum Pie.— Paste, 5, 3 cups plums; simmer in water, cover with cups sugar, until ten- der. Line pie-plate with the paste; wet edges; cover; wash with egg; bake in quick oven 20 minutes. Pumpkin or Squash Pie.— Use pie crust, 4 or 6. Mix 3 cups thick stewed and sieved pumpkin or squash, 2 cups milk, 1 cup sugar, 1 teaspoon salt, 2 eggs, Mt teaspoon cinnamon, pinch cloves. Line 2 pie-plates as for custard pie; bake in moderate oven. Rhubarb Pie.— Paste, 4, IMi bunches rhu- barb, Iti cups sugar. Cut fruit in small pieces after stripping off skin, cook it very fast in shallow stewpan, with sugar. Line pie-plate with the paste; wet rim; add rhubarb, cold; lay 3 bars paste across, fastening ends; lay 3 more across, forming diamond-shaped spaces ; lay round a rim, wash over with egg, and bake in quick oven 15 minutes. Tarts: Gooseberry, Currant, Apple, or any other Fruit.— Time to bake, from ^ to 1 hour. 1 quart gooseberries, rather more than ^ pound paste, moist sugar to taste. Cut off tops and tails from gooseberries, or pick cur- rants from their stems, or pare and quarter the apples or peaches; put them into pie-dish with sugar, line edge of dish with paste, pour in a little water, put on cover, ornament edge of paste in the usual manner, and bake it in a brisk oven. Tartlets.— Time to bake, V4 hour. Line some patty-pans with puff paste, fill them with any jam or preserve, and bake lightly. Open Jam Tart.—Time to bake, until paste loosens from the dish. Line shallow tin dish with puff paste, put in the jam, roll out some of paste, wet it lightly with yolk of an egg beaten with a little milk and a tablespoon of powdered sugar; cut it in very narrow strips, then lay them across the tart; lay another strip round the edge, trim off outside, and bake in quick oven. Other Desserts Baked custards.— For each quart milk allow 4 large or 5 small eggs and 3 tablespoons sugar. Warm milk; pour over eggs and sugar beaten together. Fill small earthen cups or pudding-dish. Stand in pan of warm water; add flavoring to suit, and bake in moderate oven till firm in center. For chocolate custards melt chocolate with sugar. Corn-starch Custard.— Scald 1 quart milk. Dissolve 2 level teaspoons corn-starch in little cold milk. Turn quickly into hot milk; stir till thickened, then cover and cook 10 minutes. Beat 2 eggs with 3 tablespoons sugar, add to custard, stir a moment longer, strain. Add flavoring when partly cooled. Tapioca Custard.— Put 2 tablespoons flne tapioca in double boiler with 1 pint mdk, cook and stir till tapioca is transparent. Add yolks 2 eggs beaten with 3 tablespoons sugar, and pinch salt; stir till thickened. Add whites whipped to stiff froth, stir lightly 3 minutes; take from Are; add flavoring when cooled. If pearl or lump tapioca is used, it must be soaked in cold water for several hours before cooking. Apple Snow.— Core, quarter, and steam 3 large, sour apples. Rub through sieve, cool; whip whites 3 eggs to very stiff froth with ^ cup powdered sugar, gradually add apple, and whip long time tUl white and stiff. Pile in dish, garnish with dots currant jelly. Snow Eggs.— To whites 5 eggs add pinch salt, and whip to very stiff froth; gradually add 1 tablespoon powdered sugar and few drops flavoring. Scald 1 quart milk in large pan. Shape whites in tablespoon, drop a few at a time in hot milk. Turn until cooked. Lift out with skimmer, lay on glass dish. When all are cooked make custard with egg yolks, milk, and 3 tablespoons sugar, and serve with eggs. Charlotte Russe.— Mix 1 pint rich cream, % cup powdered sugar, 1 teaspoon vanilla. Have very cold and whip to stiff froth, turning under cream when it first rises. Line dish with sponge cake or ladyflngers, fill with whipped cream. Chocolate Blanc-mange.— Quart mUk, box gelatine soaked in 1 cup water, 4 table- spoons grated chocolate rubbed smooth in a little milk, 3 eggs, extract < vanilla to taste. Heat milk until boiling, then add other ingre- dients ; bon 5 minutes. Pour into mold. Serve cold with sugar and cream, or custard. Iced Fruits for Desserts.—Any desirable fruit may be easily iced by dipping first in the beaten white of an egg, then in sugar finely pulverized, and again in egg, and so on until YOU have the icing of the desired thickness. For this purpose oranges or lemons should be carefully pared, and all the white inner skin removed that is possible, to prevent bitterness; then cut either in thin horizontal slices if