THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 30 THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. lemons, or in quarters if oranges. For cherries, strawberries, currants, etc., choose the largest and finest, leaving stems out. Peaches should be pared and cut in halves, and sweet, juicy pears may be treated in the same way, or look nice when pared, leaving on the stems, and iced. Pineapples should be cut in thin slices, and these again divided into quarters. Floating Island.— 1 quart milk, 4 eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately, 4 table- spoons sugar, 2 teaspoons extract vanilla or bitter almonds, ^ cup currant jelly. Heat mUk to scalding, but not boiling. Beat the yolks; stir into them the sugar, and pour upon them gradually, mixing well, a cup of the hot milk. Put into sauc^an and boil until it begins to thicken. When cool, flavor and po\ir into a glass dish. Heap upon top me- ringue of whites whipped until you can cut it, into which you have beaten the jelly, a tea- spoon at a time. Frozen Desserts How TO FREEZE.— Pound ice to bits size of hickory nut. Use salt in lumps Ml size of a pea. Allow 1 part salt to 3 parts ice. Mix together in pail. In bottom of freezer put 1 inch layer of mixture, and pack. Arrange and fasten can in freezer. Fill up space between with the mixture, packing hard. Turn can occasionally to make sure it will run freely. When ice is within 1 inch of top of can open and fill can, replace and fasten top. Turn slowly at first. Increase speed, adding more ice and salt as mixture sinks. When cream is very firm open can, draw out dasher, work cream down in can wdth wooden spoon, cover top with paper, then with can cover, add more ice and salt, heaping it over top of can. Cover with heavy blanket, set away in cold place for 2 hours. Plain Ice Cream.— Scald 1 pint milk ; mix I cup sugar with 2 tablespoons flour, pinch salt, and 2 beaten eggs. Add to hot milk, stir over fire till thick and smooth, cover and cook 20 minutes. Strain and cool. Add 1 pint cream, fla- voring desired, and freeze. One can condensed milk and 1 cup milk may be mixed and added in place of cream. Very good ice cream may be made without the addition of any cream. Philadelphia Ice Cream.— Scald 1 pint cream. Add 1 cup sugar and stir till dissolved. Take from fire and add 1 pint chilled cream. Freeze when cold. Delmonico Ice Cream.— Make a cooked custard with 1 pint milk, 5 eggs, 1 cup sugar; strain and cool. Add 1 pint rich cream, 2 tablespoons flavoring, and freeze. To this as well as to any cream may be added at will 1 cup fresh fruit or berries rubbed through sieve, cup cake crumbs, or any variety flavorings and colorings desired. Water Ices.— Boil 1 quart water and 1 pint sugar 5 minutes. Add box gelatine soaked in cold water, stir till dissolved and chill. Add 1 cup lemon juice and freeze. All water ices are made in this way, varying the proportion of sugar according to the acidity of the fruit used. Canned fruit syrups may be substituted for fresh fruit juice. Biscuit Qlace'.— 1 % pints cream, 12 ounces sugar, yolks of 8 eggs, and 1 tablespoon extract vanilla. Take 6 ounces crisp macaroons, pound in mortar to dust. Mix cream, sugar, eggs, and extract. Place on fire, and stir composi- tion until it begins to thicken. Strain and rub through hair-sieve into basin. Put into freezer; when nearly frozen, mix in macaroon dust, another tablespoon extract vanilla, and finish freezing. Chocolate Ice Cream.—3 pints best cream, 12 ounces pulverized white sugar, 4 whole eggs, 1 tablespoon extract vanilla, 1 pint rich cream whipped, 6 ounces chocolate. Dissolve chocolate in small quantity of mUk to smooth paste. Now mix with cream, sugar, eggs, and extract. Place all on fire, stir until it begins to thicken. Strain through hair-sieve. Place in freezer; when nearly frozen, stir in lightly the whipped cream, and 1 tablespoon extract va- nilla, and finish freezing. Crushed Strawberry Ice Cream.—3 pints best cream, 12 ounces pulverized white sugar, 2 whole eggs. Mix all in porcelain-lined ba- sin ; place on fire; stir constantly to boiling point. Remove and strain through hair-sieve. Place in freezer and freeze. Take 1 quart ripe strawberries, select, hull, and put in a china bowl. Add 6 ounces pulverized white sugar, crush all down to pulp. Add this pulp to frozen cream, with 2 tablespoons extract vanilla; mix in well. Now give freezer few additional turns to harden. Orange Water Ice.—Juice 6 oranges, 2 tea- spoons extract orange, juice 1 lemon, 1 quart water, 1 pound powdered sugar, 1 rich, sweet cream; add all together and strain. Freeze same as ice cream. Peach Ice Cream.—One dozen of best and ripest red-cheeked peaches; peel and stone; place in china basin, crush with 6 ounces pul- verized sugar. Now take 1 quart best cream, 8 ounces pulverized white sugar, 2 whole eggs. Place all on fire until it reaches boiling point; now remove and strain; place in freezer and freeze. When nearly frozen stir in peach pulp, with teaspoon extract almonds; give few more turns of freezer to harden. Raspberry Water Ice.—Press sufficient raspberries through hair-sieve to give 3 pints juice. Add 1 pound pulverized white sugar and juice of 1 lemon, with 1 teaspoon extract raspberry. Place in freezer and freeze. ¥ Canning and Preserving CANNING.— The important points to be observed in canning are, to use only sound, ripe fruit; to have hot syrup and air-tight jars; to fill jars to overflowing and seal immediately. Jars should be scalded and tested before using. Patent canners greatly simplify the work. Pick over the fruit, stem, pare, cut, wash, etc., and pack in jars. Make syrup by adding Ml pint boiling water to 1 pound sugar. When clear, bring to boiling point and carefully fill the jars. Stand in canner or on board in wash- boiler containing water up to shoulders of