16 THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. Mola&ses Cake.—1 cup butter, 1 cup brown sugar, cup molasses, 1 cup milk. Its pints flour, IMt teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 egg. Rub smooth the butter and sugar; add the milk, egg, and molasses ; stir in flour, sifted with the powder; mix into a consis- tent batter, and bake in cake-tin (fig. IX) 40 minutes. Pound Cake.—IMi cups butter, 2 cups sugar, 7 eggs, 1pints flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 1 teaspoon extract nutmeg. Rub the butter and sugar to a white, light cream ; add 3 of the eggs, 1 at a time, and the rest, two at a time, beating minutes after each addi- tion ; add the flour, sifted with the powder; add the extract; mix into a smooth, medium batter, and bake in a paper-lined cake-tin (flg. XIII), in a steady oven, 50 minutes. Pond-Lily Cake.—1 cup butter, cups sugar, whites 5 eggs, pints flour. Its tea- spoons Royal Balking P-wder, 1 cup milk; flavor with extract peach and a few drops ex- tract rose. Bake in 2 cakes, in very deep jelly- or sponge-tins, and when done put together with freshly grated cocoanut and pulverized sugar between and on top of the cakes, and ice with clear icing. Queen Cake.—2 cups butter, 2tS cups sugar. Its pints flour, 8 eggs, ts teaspoon Royal Bak- ing Powder, 1 wine-glass each wine, brandy, and cream, tS teaspoon each extract nutmeg, rose, and lemon, 1 cup dried currants, washed and picked, 1 cup raisins, stoned and cut in two, 1 cup citron, cut in small, thin slices. Rub the butter and sugar to a very light cream ; add the eggs, 2 at a time, beating 5 minutes after each addition; add the flour, sifted with the powder, the raisins, currants, wine, brandy, cream, citron, and extracts; mix into a batter, and bake carefully in a papered cake- tin (flg. XIII), in a moderately steady oven. Its hours. Sponge Cake.—2 cups sugar, 7 eggs, 1 cup flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, pinch salt, 1 teaspoon extract lemon. Whip sugar and eggs together until thick and white; add flour, sifted with powder and salt, and the ex- tract ; mix together quickly; bake in tin (fig. XII) lined with buttered paper, in hot oven, 35 minutes. Sponge Cake (Almond).—Its cups .sugar, 8 eggs, Its cups flour, tS teaspoon Royal Bak- ing Powder, 1 teaspoon extract bitter almonds. Boil sugar in 1 tS giUs water until, taking some up on end of spoon-handle and cooling in wa- ter, it breaks brittle, when at once pour it on the eggs, previously whipped 10 minutes ; con- tinue the whipping 20 minutes longer; add flour, sifted with powder, and extract; bake in well-buttered cake-mold (fig. I), in quick oven, 30 minutes. Sponge Cake (Berwick).—6 eggs, 3 cups sugar, 4 cups flour, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 cup cold water, pinch salt, 1 tea- spoon extract lemon. Beat eggs and sugar to- gether 5 minutes ; add flour, sifted with salt and powder, water, and extract; bake in shal- low square cake-pan (fig. XIII), in quick, steady oven, 35 minutes; when removed from oven, ice it with clear icing. Cream Sponge Cake.—6 eggs, their weight in powdered sugar, and Vi, their weight in flour, teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, pinch salt, grated rind 1 orange. Beat egg yolks and sugar till thick. Sift in the mixed flour, salt, and baking powder. Mix lightly, add orange rind and stiffly whipped whites. Out them in lightly, and bake in 2 shallow pans in mod- erate oven. Put together with cream filling flavored with orange. Silver Cake.—Whites 6 eggs, 1 cup milk, 2 cups sugar, % cup butter, 4 cups flour, V4 tea- spoon salt, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 teaspoon almond extract. Cream butter and sugar ; add alternately the milk and flour mixed with salt and baking powder; then the extract and the stiffly whipped whites. Beat well, and bake in loaf-pan in moderate oven. Snow Cake.—1 pound arrowroot, 14 pound sugar, 1 cup butter, whites 6 eggs, teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 1 teaspoon almond ex- tract. Cream butter and sugar. Add whipped whites and teaspoon salt, then the arrow- root mixed with baking powder. Beat well for 10 minutes; add extract, and bake in loaf- pan lined with 3 thicknesses paper. Have oven moderate, bake IMi hours, and cover pan with paper for first hour. Spice Cake.—1 cup butter, 1 cup brown sugar, 1 pint flour, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 teaspoon each caraway and corian- der seeds, 1 teaspoon each extract nutmeg, cinnamon, and ginger, 1 cup milk. Sift flo\ir, sugar, and powder together; rub in butter; add milk, seeds, and extracts; mix smooth into batter of medium thickness; fill greased patty-pans % full; bake in hot oven 8 or 10 minutes. Delicate Spice Cake.—% cup melted butter, % cup sugar, 2Mi cups flour, 1 egg, % cup molas- ses, 1 cup milk, 2 scant teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 tablespoon vinegar, 1 tablespoon mixed OTound spice, pinch salt. Beat egg, add milk. Add, mixed, flour, baking powder and salt, spice, sugar, melted butter, molasses, and vinegar. Eake in two shallow pans in quick oven. Scotch Cake.—Itii cups butter, 2V<2 cups sugar, 8 eggs, 1V& pints flour, % teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 3 cups raisins, stoned, 1 tablespoon extract lemon. Rub butter and sugar to light, white cream; add eggs, 2 at a time, beating 5 minutes after each addition; add flour sifted with powder, raisins, and ex- tract ; mix into smooth batter; put into paper- lined square, shallow cake-pan (fig. XIII); bake in moderate oven 1 hour. Washington Cake (St. Louis, 1780).—2 cups butter, 3 cups sugar, 4 cups flour, 2 tea- spoons Royal Baking Powder, 5 eggs, 1 cup milk, 1 cup stoned raisins, lie cup washed and picked currants, 14 cup chopped citron, 1 teaspoon each extract nutmeg and cinnamon. Rub but- ter and sugar to light, white cream ; add beaten eggs gradually, the flour sifted with powder, milk, raisins, currants, citron, and extracts; mix into smooth, medium batter ; bake in shal- low square cake-pan (fig. XIII), in rather quick, steady oven. Ilia hours; when cold ice with white icing.