THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 24 THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. Suet Dumplings.—1 cup bread crumbs, 2j tablespoons finely chopped beef suet, whites and yolks 2 eggs beaten separately, Vi teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder sifted with 1 cup flour, sufficient milk to mix to stiff paste. Flour hands and make into baUs. Wring small cloths in hot water, du *■ with flour, lay ball in each and tie, leaving room to swell. Cook in rapidly boiling water 45 min- utes, and serve with liquid sauce (see Sauces). Potato Dumplings.—1 dozen large potatoes, 6 tal)lespoons flour, 2 tablespoons Royal Bak- ing Powder, 1 tablespoon butter, 3 eggs, salt, and nutmeg. Grate potatoes, which have been boiled and skinned the day before; mix with the flour, previously sifted together with bak- ing powder, add the melted butter, and eggs one by one, and salt and nutmeg to taste; form into balls about size of a .small apple, put into boiling water, which has been well salted, boil 15 minutes; take out with skimmer, and serve with any kind of fricassee or pot-roast. Suet Dumplings (Danish).—1 cup suet, chopped fine, 1 cup grated English muffins or bread, 1 cup flour, teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, Vt cup sugar, 2 eggs, 1 pint mBk, large pinch salt. Sift together powder and flour, add beaten eggs, grated muffins, sugar, suet, and milk; form into smooth batter, which drop by tablespoons into pint boiling milk, three or four at a time ; when done, dish and pour over them milk they were boiled in. « Puddings Apple pudding (Boston).—Paste, 3; 12 or 14 apples, peeled, cored, and sliced ; 1 teaspoon extract nutmeg, IVfe cups sugar. Line edge of deep earthenware dish with the paste; pack in the apples, add sugar, Vfj cup water, and extract; wet edge of paste; lay on cover of paste, press two together, orna- ment edge, wash with milk, bake in moderate oven ; serve with rich cream. Apple Pudding (English).—Paste, 2; 12 or 14 apples, peeled, cored, and sliced; 1 teaspoon extract nutmeg, IVfe cups sugar. Line earthen- ware pudding-mold with paste, pack in apples, sugar, and extract; wet edges; cover, pinch edges together firmly; place in saucepan full boiling water. Apple Tapioca Pudding,—Pare and core enough apples to fill dish; put into each apple bit of lemon peel. Soak % pint tapioca in 1 quart lukewarm water 1 hour, add a little salt; flavor with lemon; pour over apples. Bake until apples are tender. Serve cold with cream and sugar. Blackberry Pudding.—Paste, 2; 1 quart berries. lV<j cups sugar. Proceed as directed for apple pudding. Blackberry Pudding, 2.—Proceed as di- rected for cottage pudding, adding IVij cups blackberries ; serve with liquid sauce. Batter Pudding (Baked).—Proceed as di- rected for batter pudding (hoilM), baking it in well-buttered pudding-dish 35 minutes ; serve with foaming sauce. Batter Pudding (with Fruit).— 1 cup flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, pint milk, 4 eggs, 2 cups any kind of fruit prepared as usual, IVfj cups sugar. Sift flour, sugar, and powder together, add eggs, beaten, milk, and fruit; pour into weU-buttered pudding-dish, bake in quick oven 40 minutes; serve with wine sauce. Batter Pudding (Boiled).— 1% cups flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, Mi teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon butter, 10 drops extract nut- meg, 2 eggs, 1 pint milk. Sift flour, salt, and owder together; rub in butter cold; add eggs, eaten, and milk; mix into batter as for muf- fins ; pour into well-buttered mold; set in sauce- pan with boiling water % up sides of mold; steam one hour, and serve with spice sauce. Boston Baked Plum Pudding.— IMi cups beef suet, freed of skin, chopped very fine, 1^ cups raisins, stoned, IMi cups currants, washed and picked, 1 cup brown sugar, 2 cups flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 4 eggs, 1 cup milk. Ml cup citron, chopped, pinch salt, 1 tablespoon extract nutmeg, 1 glass brandy. Put all these ingredients in a bowl, eggs as they drop from the shell, flour sifted with powder, and brandy; mix into rather short batter; pour into weU-buttered clean cake-tin, bake in steady oven 2 hours; serve with va- nilla sauce. Cabinet Pudding.— Mi pound stale sponge cake, VSj cup raisins. Mi can peaches, 4 eggs, IMi pints milk. Butter plain oval mold; lay in some stale cake, Vb of the raisins, stoned, Vb of peaches; make two layers of remainder of cake, raisins, and peaches; cover with very thin slice of bread; then pour over milk beaten with eggs and sugar; set in saucepan with boiling water to reach % up sides of mold, steam it % hour, turn out carefully on dish, and serve with peach sauce. Cottage Pudding.— 1 cup sugar, 2 eggs, 2 cups cream, 1 pint flour, IV2 teaspoons Etoyal Baking Powder. Beat the eggs and sugar to- gether; add cream, flour with the powder sifted in, and a pinch of salt; mix into smooth batter as for cup cake; put into long narrow or oval buttered mold, bake in hot oven 30 minutes ; serve with liquid or foaming sauce. Cottage Pudding, 2.— 1 cup sugar, 1 cup milk, 1 egg, lump butter size of egg. 1 pint flour, salt, 1 heaping teaspoon Royal Baking Powder. Sauce.— 1 cup sugar, 1 egg. 1 tea- spoon flour, small piece of butter, mixed. Add boiling water, let come to boil, flavor with extract vanilla. Cherry Pudding.—2 eggs, 1 cup milk, Mi teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon melted butter, IMi cups flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, pinch salt. Mix in order given, turn into shallow greased pan. Over top put 2 pounds cherries, press into the batter, sprinkle with 3 tablespoons granulated sugar. Bake 30 min- utes in moderate oven, serve hot with cream and sugar. Chocolate Pudding.—1 quart milk, scalded; IMi squares chocolate, grated; wet with cold milk, and stir into scalded milk. When choco- late is dissolved, pour into pudding-dish; add yolks of 6 eggs, well beaten, and 6 table- spoons sugar. Bake about \ hour. Beat