THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 41 THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. Pickles, Etc. USE glass bottles for pickles, also wooden knives and forks in preparation of them. Fill bottles 3 parts full with articles to be pickled, then fill bottle with vinegar. Use saucepans lined with earthen- ware, or stone pipkins, to boil vinegar in. Chow Chow.— 1 quart large cucumbers, 1 quart small cucumbers, 2 quarts onions, 4 heads cauliflower, 6 green peppers, 1 quart green tomatoes, 1 gallon vinegar, 1 pound mustard, 2 cups sugar, 2 ctips flour, 1 ounce turmeric. Put all in salt and water one night; cook all the vegetables in brine until tender, except large cucumbers. Pour over vinegar and spices. Pickling Cauliflowers.— Take whitest and closest cauliflowers in bunches; spread on earthen dish, cover them with salt, and let stand 3 days to draw out all the water. Then put in jars, pour boiling salt and water over them, let stand overnight; then drain with a hair-sieve, and put in glass jars; flU up jars with vinegar; cover tight. Piccalllly.— 1 peck green tomatoes, sliced; % peck onions, sliced; 1 cauliflower, 1 peck small cucumbers. Leave in salt and water 24 hours; then put in kettle with handful scraped horse-radish, 1 ounce turmeric, 1 ounce cloves (whole), *4 pound pepper (whole). 1 ounce cassia-buds or cinnamon, 1 pound white mus- tard seed, 1 pound English mustard. Place in kettle in layers, and cover with cold vinegar. Boil 15 minutes, constantly stirring. Pickled Red Cabbage.— Slice it into a col- ander, sprinkle each layer with salt; let it drain 2 days, then put into a jar, pour boiling vinegar enough to cover, put in a few slices of red beet-root. Choose purple red cabbage. Those who like flavor of spice will boil it with the vinegar. Cauliflower cut in bunches, and thrown in after being salted, will look red and beautiful. Tomato Catsup.— 1 gallon tomatoes (strained), 6 tablespoons salt, 3 tablespoons black pepper, 1 tablespoon cloves, 2 tablespoons cinnamon, 2 tablespoons allspice, 1% pints vinegar; boil down one half. 1 peck tomatoes will make 1 gallon strained. Walnut Catsup.— Take green walnuts be- fore the shell is formed (usually in a proper state early in August). Grind them or pound them in an earthen or marble mortar. Squeeze out the juice through a coarse cloth, and add to every gallon of juice 1 pound of anchovies, 1 pound salt, 4 ounces cayenne pepper, 2 ounces black pepper, 1 ounce each ginger, cloves, and mace, and the root of one horse-radish. Boil all together till reduced to half the quantity. Pour off, and when cold bottle tight. Use in 3 months. v Beverages Boiled coffee. —For 4 heaping table- spoons ground coffee allow 1 quart freshly boiling water and Mt white 1 raw egg. Mix the egg white with 3 tablespoons cold water, beating with fork. Add coffee and stir till well wet. Scald coffee-pot, put in pre- pared coffee. Pour in boiling water, cover spout, and boil 5 minutes. Pour in quickly V4 cup cold water, let stand 3 minutes to set- tle. Strain into hot pot or have strainer on table. Coffee for Six Persons.—Take 1 full cup ground coffee, 1 egg, a little cold water; stir together, add 1 pint boiling water, boil up ; then add another pint boiling water, and set back to settle before serving. French Coffee.—1 quart water to 1 cup very fine ground coffee. Put coffee grounds in bowl; pour over about Mt pint cold water and let stand for 15 minutes; bring remaining water to a boil. Take coffee in bowl, strain through flne sieve, then take French coffee- pot, put coffee grounds in strainer at top of French pot. leaving water in bowl. Then take boiling water and pour over coffee very slowly. Then set coffee-pot on stove 5 min- utes ; must ywt boil. Take off and pour in cold water from bowl that coffee was first soaked in, to settle. Serve in another pot. The French, who have the reputation of mak- ing the best coffee, use 3 parts Java, 1 part Mocha. Vienna Coffee.—Equal parts Mocha and Java coffee; allow 1 heaping tablespoon of coffee to each person, and 2 extra to make good strength. Mix 1 egg with grounds, pour on coffee as much boiling water as will be needed, let coffee froth, then stir down grounds and let boU 5 minutes; then let coffee stand where it will keep hot, but not boU, for 5 or 10 minutes, and add rest of water. To 1 pint cream add white of an egg, well beaten; this is to be put in cups with sugar, and hot coffee added. Tea.—Water for tea should be freshly heated and just boiling. Teas are of differing strengths, but a safe rule is 1 teaspoon dry tea to Mt pint boiling water. Scald tea-pot; put in dry tea and cover for 1 minute. Add boiling water, cover closely. Let stand 3 to 6 min- utes, strain off into second hot pot. A wadded cozy will keep tea hot for a long time off the Are. Cocoa.—The usual rule is 1 teaspoon cocoa to each cup. Mix dry cocoa with little cold water, add scalded milk or boiling water, and boil 1 minute. Chocolate.—1 square unsweetened choco- late, 1 tablespoon sugar, 2 tablespoons hot wa- ter. Grate chocolate, boil all together till smooth, add gradually 1 pint scalded milk, cook in double boiler 5 minutes. Some like to add 1 teaspoon vanilla. It can be made stronger by using more chocolate. Cookery for the Sick Always prepare food for the sick in the neatest and most careful manner. In ^ sickness the senses are unusually acute, and far more susceptible to carelessness, neg- ligence, and mistakes in the preparation and serving of food than when in health.