THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 37 THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. Chicken Pat^s.—Chop meat of cold chicken coarsely and season well. Make large cup rich drawn butter, and while on fire stir in 2 eggs, boiled hard, minced very fine, also a little chopped parsley, then chicken meat. Let al- most boil. Have ready some p&t^pans of good paste, baked quickly to light brown. Slip from pans while hot, fill with mixture and set in oven to heat. Arrange upon dish and serve hot. Boned Chicken.— Boil a chicken in little water as possible until meat will fall from bones; remove all skin, chop together light and dark parts; season with pepper and salt. Boil down liquid in which chicken was boiled, then pour it on meat; place in tin, wrap tightly in cloth, press with heavyweight several hours. Serve cold, cut in thin slices. Chicken Pot-pie.— 2 large chickens dis- jointed and boiled in 2 quarts water ; add a few slices salt pork; season. When nearly cooked, add crust made of 1 quart flour, 4 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 saltspoon salt; stir in stiff batter with water; drop into kettle while boiling; cover close and cook 25 minutes. Chicken Pot-pie, 2.—Disjoint 2 fowls and cook in 2 quarts water till very tender. Slip out bones and season. Line sides of clean ket- tle with rich biscuit crust (see Biscuits). Add chicken and thickened liquor. Stand on mod- erately hot fire. Build fire of dry cobs or small sticks round kettle, and keep burning till crust is well browned. Put chicken on platter and lay crust on it. Old-fashioned receipt. Make thick dumpling batter (see Dumplings). Drop by spoonfuls into thickened boiling liq- uor, cover closely for 20 minutes. New receipt. Chicken Pie.— Take 2 full-grown chickens, or more if small, disjoint them, cut backbone, etc., small as convenient. Boil them with few slices of salt pork in water enough to cover them, let boil quite tender, then take out breast- bone. After they boil and scum is taken off, put in a little onion cut very fine — not enough to taste distinctly, just enough to flavor a lit- tle ; rub some parsley very fine when dry, or cut fine when green — this gives pleasant fla- vor. Season well with pepper and salt, and few ounces good fresh butter. When all is cooked well, have liquid enough to cover chicken, then beat 2 eggs and stir in some sweet cream. Line 5-quart pan with crust made like Royal Baking Powder biscuit, only more shortenmg, put in chicken and liquid, cover with crust same as lining. Bake till crust is done, and you will have a good chicken pie. Creamed Chicken.— Make 1 cup cream sauce (see Sauces). Prepare 2 cups diced cooked chicken. Add to sauce, season well, simmer 10 minutes. ¥ Meat and Fish Sauces WHITE OR CREAM SAUCE.—Put 1 tablespoon each of butter and flour in saucepan over fire. When mixed without browning add Mi teaspoon salt, Vi tea- spoon white pepper, then, gradually, 1 cup hot milk. Stir until smoothly thicken^, and sim- mer for 3 minutes. Thick White or Cream Sauce.— Make as above, but use double quantities of flour and butter. Bechamel Sauce.— 1 tablespoon each of flour and butter, Vi cup each thin cream and white stock — chicken or veal — salt and pep- per to taste. Prepare same manner as white sauce. Allemande Sauce.— Same as white sauce, with addition of 2 raw egg yolks added as taken from fire. Egg Sauce (for Fish).—1 cup white sauce, 2 chopped hard-boiled eggs, 1 tablespoon chopped parsley, 1 teaspoon lemon juice or vinegar. Add parsley after taking from fire. Caper Sauce.— 2 tablespoons butter, 1 ta- blespoon flour; mix well; pour on boiling water till it thickens; add 1 hard-boiled egg chopped fine, and 2 tablespoons capers. Drawn Butter.—cup butter, 2 tablespoons flour; rub thoroughly together, then stir into pint boiling water; little salt; parsley if wished. Curry Sauce.— Slowly cook 1 tablespoon chopped onion in 1 tablespoon butter 5 minutes without coloring. Add 1 teaspoon curry pow- der, cook 2 minutes, add 1 cup white sauce, cook 2 minutes longer. Soubise Sauce.— Peel 3 large white onions; boil very soft in salted water. Drain, rub through sieve, add 1 cup white sauce. Bread Sauce.— Cook in dorible boiler for 15 minutes 1 pint mUk, 2 tablespoons chopped onion; add 1 tablespoon butter. Mi teaspoon salt, Vi teaspoon pepper, and rub through sieve. Brown Mi cup coarse dry bread crumbs in 1 tablespoon butter in frying-pan. Add these to sauce as it goes to table. Brown Sauce.— In saucepan brown 1 table- spoon butter until dark, but not burned. Add 1 tablespoon flour, stir and brown again. Add gradually 1 cup good stock (beef is l^st) or hot water and stir until smooth and thick. Season with salt and pepper to taste. Simmer 5 minutes. Sauce Piquante.—To 1 cup brown sauce add 1 tablespoon each of chopped capers and pickles and simmer 5 minutes. Mushroom Sauce.— Make 1 cup brown sauce, using equal quantities stock and liquor from canned mushrooms. Season, add 2 ta- blespoons chopped mushrooms, simmer 5 minutes. Sharp Brown Sauce.— 1 tablespoon butter, 1 tablespoon flour, 3 tablespoons vinegar, 1 tablespoon tomato catsup, % cup stock. Make same way as brown sauce, add salt and pepper to taste. Sauce Robert.— 1 cup brown sauce made with stock, 1 teaspoon sugar, 1 teaspoon made mustard, 1 tablespoon vinegar. Simmer 5 minutes. Olive Sauce.— 1 cup brown sauce, 24 stoned olives, 1 tablespoon sherry. Simmer olives in hot water 10 minutes. Drain, r.dd sauce, sim- mer 5 minutes ; take from fire and add sherry. Spanish Sauce.— Boil 1 quart strong stock down one half. Make as directed for brown sauce, and add 2 tablespoons sherry.