38 THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. Currant Jelly Sauce.—Melt % glass cur- rant jelly over slow fire. Add 1 cup hot brown sauce; stir well and simmer 1 minute. Tomato Sauce.— Simmer Viz can tomatoes, 1 chopped onion, Viz teaspoon salt, Vi teaspoon pepper, 1 clove together 10 minutes. Bub through sieve. Cook together 1 tablespoon each of flour and butter 1 minute, add tomato gradually, stir till smooth, aud simmer 5 minutes. Italian Tomato Sauce.— Simmer together for 20 minutes V4 can tomatoes, 6 cloves, 3 sprigs parsley, 1 teaspoon mixed herbs, Viz tea- ^oon whole allspice. Viz teaspoon peppercorns, ^owly brown 2 tablespoons chopped onion and 1 tablespoon butter until very dark; add 2 table- spoons flour, brown again; add gradually 1 cup rich brown stock, then the cooked toma- toes. Simmer 10 minutes, rub through a sieve and add more seasoning if necessary. Hollandaise Sauce.— Cream Viz cup butter ; add gradually 2 beaten egg yolks; stir weU. Add 1 tablespoon lemon juice, dash each of salt and cayenne. Add Viz cup boiling water, and stir over boiling water tiU thick as boiled custard. Serve immediately. Sauce Tartare.— Make 1 cup mayonnaise (see Salads). Chop very fine 1 tablespoon each of capers, olives, green cucumber pickle, and parsley. Press in a cloth till quite dry. Blend gradually with the mayonnaise. For fried or broiled fish. Maitre d’Hotel Butter.— Cream 2 table- spoons butter, add gradually Viz teaspoon salt, V| teaspoon white pepper, 1 tablespoon each of lemon juice and chopped parsley. Keep very cold. Serve with fried fish or broiled steak. Horse-radish Sauce.— Cream 2 tablespoons butter; add 2 tablespoons fresh grated horse- radish, 1 tablespoon very thick cream. Viz tea- spoon lemon juice. Keep very cold. Mint Sauce.— 1 cup chopped green mint leaves. Viz cup vinegar, V4 cup powdered sugar. Mix 1 hour before serving. ¥ Salads and Cheese MAYONNAI'E.— Have dishes and in- gredient. very cold. If summer, set dish in pan of pounded ice. In soup- plate or shallow bowl put yolk 1 raw egg, add U teaspoon salt and dash cayenne, a few drops of Tobasco and a teaspoon Worcestershire sauce, stir with fork till very thick. Add few drops olive oil and stir; add more oil, few drops at a time, until mixture balls on fork. Thin with few drops lemon juice or vinegar, then add more oil. Alternate in this way un- til 1 cup olive oil is used and dressing is thick and glossy, like a jelly. About 3 tablespoons lemon juice or 2 of vinegar will be needed, ac- cording to its acidity. Always stir in the same directum. Keep covered and on ice until needed. French Dressing.—Mix Vi teaspoon salt, dash white pepper, and 3 tablespoons olive oil. Stir for few minutes, then gradually add 1 ta- blespoon vinegar, stirring rapidly until mix- ture is slightly thickened and vinegar cannot be noticed. Mixture will separate after about 20 minutes. Boiled Dressing.— 3 beaten eggs, 1 cup rich milk, % teaspoon dry mustard, 2 teaspoons salt, 2 dashes cayenne, 2 tablespoons olive oil or melted butter, V<z cup vinegar. Cook in double boiler till thick as custard. Strain and keep in cold place. Cream Dressing.—1 cup cream, 1 tablespoon flour, 3 tablespoons vinegar, 2 tablespoons but- ter, V<z teaspoon powdered sugar, 1 teaspoon salt, Vi teaspoon peppier, % teaspoon mustard, whites 2 eggs. Cook in double boiler, stirring constantly, and adding whipped whites just be- fore taking from fire. Celery Saiad.—2 bunchescelery,! tablespoon salad oU, 4 tablespoons vinegar, 1 small tea- spoon fine sugar, pepper and salt to taste. Wash and scrape celery; lay in ice-cold water until dinner-time. Then cut into inch lengths, add above seasoning. Stir well together with fork and serve in salad-bowl. Chicken Salad.— Cut cold roast or boiled chicken in small dice, add Va as much blanched celery cut fine, season with salt and pepper. Mix with French dressing and set away for an hour or more. Just before serving stir in some mayonnaise slightly thinned with lemon juice or French dressing, arrange on lettuce leaves and cover with thick mayonnaise. Lobster Salad.— Tear the meat of lobster into shreds with two forks, and let it get cold. Mix with blanched celery cut in small pieces — V4 celery, % lobster. Mix with mayonnaise. Make cups of small blanched leaves of lettuce, fill with salad, garnish with mayonnaise, capers, and lobster coral. Keep on ice until served. Salmon Salad.— Remove bones and skin from can salmon. Drain off liquid. Mix with French dressing or thin mayonnaise; set aside for a while. Finish same as lobster salad. Other fish salads may be prepared in same manner. Tomato Salad.— Pare with sharp knife. Slice and lay in salad-bowl. Make dressing as follows: Work up saltspoon each of salt, pep- per, and fresh made mustard with 2 table- spoons of salad oil, adding only a few drops at a time, and, when thoroughly mixed, whip in with an egg, beaten, 4 tablespoons vinegar; toss up with fork. Cucumber and Onion Salad.— Pare cucum- bers and lay in ice-water 1 hour; do same with onions in another bowl. Then slice them in proportion of 1 onion to 3 large cucumbers; arrange in salad-bowl, and season with vine- gar, pepper, and salt. Potato Salad.— Make Viz amount of boiled dressing given; when cold, thin with vinegar or lemon juice, and add 2 tablespoons onion juice. Pour over diced boiled potatoes while hot. When cold serve with watercress or field salad, garnishing with diced pickled beets and sliced hard boiled egg. Potato and Egg Salad.— Hard boil 3 eggs 30 minutes; shell and cut fine with silver knife. Boil 3 or 4 potatoes. Dice while hot, mix with cut eggs and add French dressing. Let stand till cold. Serve on bed of water- cress with more French dressing or boiled dressing thinned with vinegar.