11 THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. Cakes whipped to a stiff froth. Add them alternately with the sifted flour (mixed with baking pow- der), and cut both in very lightly and quickly. Flour To Bake Cakes FANCY-CAKE makers and confectioners prefer to use “pastry” flour for the making of cakes and pastry, which is a flour of different grade from that used for bread and general baking purposes. Bread flour contains a large proportion of gluten, the nitrogenous property of the wheat grain, which gives bone and muscle, and makes bread a nutritiou.s food. When bread flour is used for cake and pie crust the result is not quite as flaky and light as it should be, because of the gluten in the flour. A special sack of pastry flour for use in making fine cakes and pastry will be advantageous. In appearance pastry flour is whiter than bread flour. When rubbed between the fingers it feels as soft and fine as corn- starch ; if squeezed in the hand it forms a firm ball. Because of this tendency to “pack” it should always be sifted very thoroughly. Generally speaking. Royal Baking Powder used with any good flour will make satisfactory cake which will be creditable to any house- keeper. Royal Baking Powder In no department of cookery is Royal Bak- ing Powder of greater use and importance than in making fine cake. Eggs are too expensive nowadays to bo used as lavishly as they were a generation ago — ten or more to a cake. Not as a substitute wholly, but as an accessory,— as an aid toward producing the lightness and digestibility of the food.— we use the Royal Baking Powder. We thereby obtain uniformly good results and do a large amount of work at a minimum expense. The quantity called for by the receipt should be thoroughly mixed with the flour before the latter is sifted. The Royal Baking Powder has worked a revolution in cake-making. It is now no trouble to make at home the finest cakes in almost endless variety, which shall rival the productions of the confectioner. If you follow these directions there will be no spoiled or heavy cakes, no wasted materials through fail- ures in mixing or baking. To Mix Cakes Containing Butter Cream the butter, beating till light. Gradu- ally add the sugar, beating till light and creamy. Add the yolks of eggs beaten till light, then the flavoring. Beat in alternately the liquid and flour, the latter mixed with salt and baking powder. Lastly, add the beaten whites, and fruit, if used. To Mix Cakes Containing No Butter Beat the egg yolks until very light and thick. Add the sugar gradually, beating till very light and spongy. Add the flavoring and liquid, if used. Have the whites of eggs Thin cakes need a hotter oven than loaf cakes. Cakes without butter (sponge cakes) should have a more moderate, longer baking than cakes of same size containing butter. The process of baking may be divided into four periods or quarters of time: in first quar- ter the cake begins to rise; in second quarter it is stiU rising and begins to color; in third quarter it browns all over; in last quarter it shrinks from sides of pan. To test, insert a clean broom-straw into the middle of the cake ; if it comes out clean, the cake is done. Hold the pan to the ear; it should scarcely “ sing.” Line loaf-cake pans with buttered paper; fruit cakes need several thicknesses of the same. Do not use sour milk, buttermilk, or any of the so-called prepared or self-raising flours. Weights and Measures 1 cup, medium size . . 14 pint or V4 poimd. 4 cups, medium size, of flour weigh 1 pouni 1 pint flour weighs . . . I4 pound. 1 pint white sugar weighs . . 1 pound. 2 tablespoons of liquid weigh . 1 ounce. 8 teaspoons of liquid weigh . 1 ounce. 1 gill of liquid weighs ... 4 ounces. 1 pint of liquid weighs . . 16 ounces. Adelaide Cake.— 1 cup butter, 114 cups su- gar, 4 eggs, 1 pint flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Bak- ing Powder, 1 cup dried, stoned cherries, 14 cup cream, 1 teaspoon extract vanilla. Rub butter and sugar to white, light cream; add eggs, 2 at a time, beating 5 minutes after each addition. Sift flour and powder together, add to butter, etc., with cherries, cream, and extract vanilla. Mix smoothly and gently into rather firm batter. Bake in paper-lined cake- tin (fig. IX) 40 minutes in moderate, steady oven. Watch carefully; if getting too brown, protect with paper. Almond Cake.—14 cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 4 eggs, I4 cup almonds blanched — by pouring water on them until skins easily slip off — and cut in fine shreds, Mt teaspoon extract bitter almonds, 1 pint flour, 114 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 glass brandy, 14 cup milk. Rub butter and sugar to smooth white cream; add eggs, 1 at a time, beating 3 or 4 minutes after each. Sift flour and powder together, add to butter, etc., with almonds, extract of bitter almonds, brandy, and milk; mix into smooth, medium batter, bake carefully in rather hot oven 20 minutes in a fluted mold (flg. I). Almond Cake, 2.— % cup butter, 1 cup su- gar, 14 cup milk, 3 eggs, 2 cups flour, 2 level tea- spoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 pound almonds blanched and cut in strips. Cream the butter, add the sugar, and cream again; add the beaten yolks, then, alternately, the milk and the flour sifted with the baking powder. Lastly, add the whites whipped to a stiff froth and the almonds. Bake in a loaf in a moderate oven.