THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 20 THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. Boiled Icing.— Boil 1 cup granulated sugar with cup water till it ropes when dropped from fork. Pour grad ually over stiffly whipped whites of 2 eggs, beating hard. Add flavoring and use at once. Chocolate Water Icing.— Melt 3 ounces fine chocolate in a few spoons water until creamy. Boil 2 cups granulated sugar with 1 cup water without stirring till it can be rolled in soft ball between fingers in cold water. Take from fire, stir for a moment till it becomes slightly cloudy. Add chocolate and use at once on cake. Plain Icing.—Whip white 1 egg tUl frothy. Add 1 teaspoon cold water, then 1 tablespoon at a time, sufficient sifted confectioners’ sugar to make stiff enough to spread. Flavor as desired. Royal Icing.— Put whites 2 eggs in a bowl, add 1 tablespoon sifted confectioners’ sugar, beat 3 minutes. Add another tablespoon sugar, beat again, continue till icing is very stiff and glossy, adding 1 teaspoon lemon juice. Spread on cake, let stand till dry. Water Icing.— To 2 tablespoons boOing water add enough confectioners’ sugar to make thick enough to spread. Add any fiavoring desired. Maple Sugar Frosting.— Boil % pound broken maple sugar with 3 tablespoons water till dissolved and thick enough to rope when dropped from fork. Povir gradually on whipped whites of 2 eggs. Beat till thick enough to spread. Marshmallow Frosting.— Heat 2 table- spoons milk and 6 tablespoons sugar over fire; boil 6 minutes without stirring. In double boiler heat pound cut marshmallows. When very soft add 2 tablespoons boiling water, cook till smooth. Beat in hot sugar; keep beating till partly cool, add teaspoon extract vanilla. Use at once. ¥ Plain Cakes German apple cake.—i pint fiour, teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, Vi teaspoon salt, mixed and sifted. Rub in 2 tablespoons butter, add 1 beaten egg, and milk to make very thick batter. Spread 1 inch deep in greased shallow tin; have ready sev- eral pared, cored, and quartered apples. Press points into dough, sprinkle thickly with sugar mixed with little cinnamon. Bake in hot oven. Dutch Peach Cake.— Make a soft biscuit- dough with 1 quart flour, 2 tablespoons but- ter, Ml teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, and sufficient cold milk to mix. Roll out % inch thick, lay on flat greased pans. Have ready some peaches pared and quartered. Press these into the top of the dough in rows. Sprinkle with granulated sugar and bake in a quick oven. Cut in squares while hot. Coffee Cake.— Mix 1 pint flour, % teaspoon salt, 1 heaping teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 2 tablespoons sugar. Rub in 2 tablespoons butter. Beat 2 eggs, add Mi cup milk, add more milk if necessary to mix to soft dough. Roll out 1 inch thick, sprinkle with 1 cup chopped dates, almonds, figs, mixed together. Roll little thinner, sprinkle -with granulated sugar. Lay on greased shallow pan, bake in hot oven. Break in squares, seiwe hot. Tea Cakes.— 3 cups flour, Ufa teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, ^ teaspoon salt, % cup sugar, 3 tablespoons butter, 1 teaspoon cara- way-seeds, milk to mix to soft biscuit-dough. Roll out Mi inch thick, cut in circles, and bake in flat pan in hot ovcu. Strudel Cakes.— Mix 1 quart flour, 1 tea- spoon salt, 1 tablespoon sugar, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder. Rub in 4 tablespoons butter, mix to soft dough with milk, roll out Mi inch thick. Have ready mixed 1 cup chopped almonds, Mi pound seedless raisins, Mi^ cup grated maple sugar. Cut dough in 2 pieces. On 1 piece spread nut mixture, cover with other piece, roll together with pin. Cut in 4- inch squares, brush tops with milk, sprinkle with maple sugar, bake in quick oven. Bath Buns.— Mix and sift 1 quart flour, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking I’owder, Mi teaspoon salt, % cup sugar, 1 teaspoon powdered cinna- mon. Add grated rind 1 lemon. Mi cup chopped citron. Rub in Mi cup butter. Beat 6 egg yolks, add % cup milk, and mix all to soft dough, adding more milk if needed. Mold with the hands in round buns. Place 1 inch apart on greased pans. Brush with milk, sprinkle with chopped citron, and bake in quick oven. Cinnamon Buns.— Sift together 1 pint flour, 1 tablespoon sugar. Mi teaspoon salt, 1 heaping teaspoon Royal Baking Powder. Rub in 2 tablespoons butter, mix with milk to soft d'■^]gh. Roll out Ml inch thick, spread with sfllirbutter, granulated sugar, and powdered cinnamon. Roll up like jelly roU, cut in inch slices, lay close together in greased pan, and bake in quick oven. Buchtels.— Prepare dough as for cinnamon buns, but take double quantity butter. Roll out Mi inch thick, cut in 4-inch squares with jagging-iron. In center of each place 2 stewed and pitted prunes and pinch of grated lemon rind. Draw corners of dough together, pinch. Place close together in greased pan, brush with white of egg, sprinkle with granulated sugar, and bake in hot oven. Triangles.— Prepare dough as for cinnamon buns. Roll out, cut in strips, then in 3-cor- nered pieces. Brush each with white of egg, press in center Mi lump .sugar, surround with seeded raisins, and bake in hot oven. Eccles Biscuit.— Sift together 1 pint flour. Ml teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder. Rub in 2 scant tablespoons butter. Mix to a soft dough with milk; roll out ^ inch thick. Have ready a mixture of Mi cup each chopped seeded raisins, citron, cleaned cur- rants, finely chopped almonds or other nuts, 2 tablespoons granulated sugar, V4 teaspoon cinnamon, 14 teaspoon allspice, pinch cloves, and just enough good sherry or brandy to moisten. Cut the dough in ovals. On each put a spoonful of the filling; brush edges with white of egg; fold over to make pointed oval cakes. Turn plain side up, press lightly to flatten. With sharp scissors make 3 short cuts