36 THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. To Roast a Leg of Pork.— Choose a small leg of fine young pork; cut a slit in the knuckle with a sharp knife, and fill the space with sage, and onions chopped, and a little pepper and salt. When half done score the skin in slices, but do not cut deeper than the outer rind. Apple sauce and potatoes should be served to eat with it. Sweetbreads.— Scald in salted water ; re- move stringy parts ; put in cold water 5 or 10 minutes ; drain in towel; dip in egg and bread or cracker crumbs, fry in butter, or broil them plain. Veal Cutlets, Breaded.— Trim and flatten the cutlets, pepper and salt, and roll in beaten egg, then in pounded cracker. Fry rather slewly in good dripping, turning when the lower side is brown. Drain off the fat, squeeze a little lemon juice upon each,'and serve in a hot flat dish. ¥ Stuffings VEAL STUFFING.—3 cups stale bread crumbs, 3 onions chopped fine, 1 tea- spoon salt, Ml teaspoon white pepper, 2 tablespoons chopped parsley, Mi cup melted butter or suet. Poultry Stuffing.— 1 quart stale bread crumbs, salt, pepper, and dried thyme to season highly, \ cup melted butter. Chestnut Stuffing for Poultry.— 1 pint fine bread crumbs, 1 pint shelled and boiled French chestnuts chopped fine, salt, pepper, and chopped parsley to season, cup melted butter. Oyster Stuffing for Poultry.— Substitute small raw oysters, picked and washed, for chestnuts in foregoing receipt. Celery Stuffing.— Substitute finely cut celery for chestnuts. Stuffing for Pork.— 3 large onions parboiled and chopped, 2 cups fine bread crumbs, 2 tablespoons powdered sage, 2 tablespoons melted butter or pork fat, salt and pepper to taste. Stuffing for Geese and Ducks.— 2 chopped onions, 2 cups mashed potato, 1 cup bread crumbs, salt, pepper, and powdered sage to taste. Stuffing for Tomatoes, Green Peppers, etc.— 1 cup dry bread crumbs, teaspoon salt, M4 teaspoon pepper, 1 teaspoon onion juice, 1 tablespoon chopped parsley, 2 tablespoons melted butter. Hominy, rice, or other cooked cereal may take the place of crumbs. ¥ Poultry O CLEAN POULTRY.—Put 2 table- spoons alcohol in saucer, ignite, and over this singe the fowl. Cut off head just below bill. Untie feet, break bone, and loosen sinews just below the joint; pull out sin- ews and cut off feet. Cut out oil-sac. Lay breast down, slit skin down backbone toward head; loosen windpipe and crop and pull them out. Cut off neck close to body. Make small slit below end of breast-bone, put in the fingers, loosen intestines from backbone, take firm grasp of gizzard and draw all out. Cut round the vent so that the intestines are unbroken. Remove heart and lungs. Re- move kidneys. See that inside looks clean, then wipe oxit with wet cloth. Wipe off skin with cloth. To Truss Poultry.—Fill inside with stuf- fing (see StuflSngs). Have at least 1 yard fine twine in trussing-needle. Turn wings across back so that pinions touch. Run needle through thick part of wing under bone, through body and wing on other side; return in same way, but passing needle in over bone, tie firmly, leave several inches of twine. Press legs up against body, run needle through thigh, body, and second thigh, and return, going round bone in same way; tie firmly. Run needle through ends of legs, return, passing needle through rump; if opening is badly torn, 1 or 2 stitches may be needed, otherwise not. T© Roast Poultry.—Rub all over with soft butter and sprinkle with salt and pepper. Place on rack in roasting-pan and put in very hot oven. Make basting-mixture with % cup each of butter or chicken-fat and water ; keep hot and baste every 10 or 15 minutes. Roast 3 hours for 8^pound turkey, 1 to 1 Ms hours for fowls. Keep oven very hot. If fowl is very large and heavy, cover breast and legs with several thicknesses paper to keep from burning. Poultry Gravy.—Pour off excess of fat in pan. Set pan on stove and sprinkle in suffi- cient flour to absorb fat. Stir until well browned. Gradually add hot water, or the chopped giblets with water in which thCT were cooked ; stir till smoothly thickened. Season, simmer for few minutes, and serve. Broiled Chicken.—Singe, split down back- bone, and clean. Grease broiler, arrange chicken on it, crossing legs and turningwings. Rub inside and out with soft butter, and sea- son. Have fire clear and hot. Cook flesh side first, holding up well that it may not brown too quickly. Should cook in about 20 or 25 min- utes, then turn and brown skin side. Fried Spring Chicken.— Clean and disjoint, then soak in salt water for 2 hours. Put in frying-pan equal parts of lard and butter— in aU enough to cover chicken. Roll each piece in flour, dip in beaten egg, then roll in cracker crumbs, and drop into the boiling fat. Fry until browned on both sides. Serve on flat platter garnished with sprigs of parsley. Pour most of fat from frying-pan, thicken the remainder with browned flour, add to it cup of boiling water or milk. Serve in gravy-boat. Chicken Fricassee.— Clean and disjoint chicken. 'Wipe each piece. Put in pot, cover with boiling water and simmer tiU tender. To the liquor add 1 cup or more hot milk, and thicken with flour dissolved in cold water. Season well, boil up for a few minutes. Serve with dumplings or Royal biscuit. Brown Fricassee of Chicken.—Clean and disjoint. Brown in a few spoons hot butter or pork fat. Transfer to a kettle. To fat in pan add sufficient flour to absorb, stir and brown. Gradually add 1 pint hot water, stir till thickened, strain over chicken. Cover and simmer gently till tender.