21 THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. across top. Sift over little powdered sugar, place well apart on greased pans, and bake in quick oven till pale brown. Good for lunch. Currant Loaf.— 3 c\ips flour, % cup butter, Vi cup sugar. Vs teaspoon salt, 1 cup cleaned currants, grated rind 1 lemon, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder. Mix dry ingredients, rub in butter, add currants and lemon rind, mix to a very thick drop batter with cold milk. Turn into well-greased loaf-pan, bake 1 hour in moderate oven. Fruit Wheels.— Sift together 2 cups flour, 1 heaping teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, Vs teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon sugar. Rub in 2 large tablespoons butter. Mix to soft dough with milk; roll out inch thick. Spread thickly with soft butter, dust with 1 teaspoon flour, 4 tablespoons granulated sugar, 1 tea- spoon cinnamon]; sprinkle over Mi cup each of seeded and cut raisins, chopped citron, and cleaned currants. Roll up, cut in 1-inch slices, put 1 inch apart on greased flat pans, and bake in hot oven. Fruit Short Cakes The old-fashioned fruit short cakes were generally made with flour, soda, sour milk, and shortening, and were restricted to the strawberry season. We now use Royal Baking Powder for lightening them, employ all the fruits of the various seasons, and thus feast ourselves upon the delicate confections almost the whole year through. The short cake made with Royal Baking Powder and sweet milk is incomparably better, surer, ■ i 1 more healthful than the old-fashioned concoc- tion. Too much skill was reqviired in combin- ing soda and sour milk. The milk had to be at just the right stage of sourness; not a grain more of soda could be used than was sufficient to neutralize the acid in the milk, or the cake would be yellow, with a disagreeable odor and soapy taste; if too little, the cake was heavy. But even the young or inexperienced house- keeper will find that with Royal Baking Powder a perfect short cake is an easy and agreeable task. The baking powder only needs to be thoroughly sifted with the fiour, so that it may evenly lighten the cake. Use sweet milk al- ways. For the old-fashioned short cake no eggs are needed, the dough being put together in the same way as for baking powder biscuit. Throughout the summer fresh fruit of all kinds can be used. With cold weather substi- tutes are found in tropical fruits such as ba- nanas and oranges, stewed fruits such as prunes, dried, and all varieties of canned fruits; but it is better to keep the fruit short cake for those seasons when ripe, fresh fruits are obtainable. The cake part for a fruit short cake may be made from any one of the following receipts: Short Cake.— 1 quart flour, 1 teaspoon salt, 2 heaping teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 2 tablespoons butter, 1 pint milk. Sift the flour. salt, and powder together, rub in the butter cold; add the milk and mix into a smooth dough, just soft enough to handle; divide in half, and roll out to the size of breakfast-plates; lay on a greased baking-tin (fig. XIV), and bake in hot oven 20 minutes; separate the cakes without cutting, as cutting makes them heavy. Short Cake, 2.— 1 quart flour, Vj cup but- ter, Vj teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon sugar, 2 heaping teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, milk to make soft dough. Dlix as in first receipt, and bake. Short Cake, 3.— 1 pint flour, 3 tablespoons butter. Mi teaspoon s^t, 2 teaspoons sugar, 2 scant teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, milk to mix to stiff batter. Sift dry ingredients; add milk to make very thick batter in which spoon will stand upright. Turn into shallow greased pan (fig. XIII), and steam 30 minutes; place in not oven 10 minutes. When cold split in 2 or 3 thicknesses. Short Cake, 4.— Cream cup butter and 1 cup sugar. Add 2 well-beaten eggs. Mi tea- spoon salt; then, alternately. Mi cup milk and 2 cups flour in which is sifted 2 teaspoons Roym Baking Powder. Bake in layer-cake tins and use when cold. Apple Short Cake.— Pare, core, and cut 8 sour apples into eighths. Put in earthen dish with 1 tablespoon butter, 1 tablespoon lemon juice. Ml cup sugar, and a pinch of cinnamon or nutmeg. Cover and bake in moderate oven till dark red and tender. Wlien cold spread between layers of short cake and serve with plain or whipped cream or a cold boiled custard. Blackberry Short Cake.— Wash and drain 1 quart berries. Sweeten, spread between lay- ers of short cake, and serve with cream or a cold custard. Strawberry Shortcake.—Pick, hull, wash, and drain berries. Sweeten, spread between bottom layers of short cake. Garnish top layer with large whole berries, dust with sugar, and serve with cream or custard. Raspberry Short Cake.— Prepare as for strawberry short cake. Cherry Short Cake.— Make as for straw- berry short cake, using pitted sweet or tart cherries. Peach Short Cake.—Pare and slice peaches. Finish as for strawberry short cake. Banana Short Cake.— Peel and slice ba- nanas. Finish as for strawberry short cake. Canned Fruit Short Cake.— Any canned fruit, drained from syrup, may be used in place of fresh fruit, finishing as for other short cakes. Huckleberry Short Cake.—2 cups sugar. Ml cup butter, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 pint milk, 2 heaping teaspoons Royal Baking Powder sifted into 3 cups flour, 1 quart washed and well- drained huckleberries, more flour to make a very thick batter. Bake in greased dripping- pan, break in squares, serve hot with butter. Individual Short Cakes.—Make short cake, 2. Roll out Ml inch thick, cut in rounds size of small saucer. Bake and finish as for other short cakes.