THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 9 THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. Qerman Waffles.— 1 quart flour, tea- spoon salt, 3 tablespoons sugar, 2 large teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 2 tablespooni^ lard, rind of 1 lemon, grated, 1 teaspoon extract cinna- mon, 4 eggs, and 1 pint thin cream. Sift together flour, sugar, salt, and powder; rub in lard cold; add beaten eggs, lemon rind, extract, and milk. Mix into smooth, rather thick bat- ter. Bake in hot waffle-iron, serve with sugar flavored with extract of lemon. Soft Waffles.—1 quart flour, ^ teaspoon ^It, 1 teaspoon sugar, 2 teaspoons Royal Bak- ing Powder, 1 large tablespoon butter, 2 eggs, IVs pints milk. Sift together flour, salt, sugar, and powder; rub in butter cold; add beaten eggs and milk; mix into smooth, consistent batter that will run easily and limpid from mouth of pitcher. Have waffle-iron hot and carefully greased each time ; All close it up; when brown turn over. Sift sugar on them, serve hot. Rice Waffles.—Into a batter as directed for soft waffles stir 1 cup of rice, free from lumps ; cook as directed in same receipt. Virginia Waffles.— Cook cup white Indian com meal in IMj cups boiling water 30 minutes, adding IMt teaspoons salt. Add cups milk, 2 tablespoons sugar, 2 tablespoons melted butter, 2 cups flour mixed with 2 heap- ing teaspoonsiRoyal Baking Powder, and 2 eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately. Cook in hot, weU-greased waffle-iron. Jolly-Boys.— Mix and sift together 3 cups rye meal, 1 cup flour, cup Indian com meal, Vi teaspoon powdered cinnamon, V4 teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, and 2 tablespoons sugar. Add 1 beaten egg, 2 tablespoons molasses, and sufficient cold water to make a thick batter. Drop by small spoonfuls in a kettle of smoking hot fat, and cook till brown. ¥ Griddle Cakes, Etc. The griddle cake as made to-day with Royal Baking Powder is another arti- cle of food which has taken high rank upon the American table. The heavy, sour, grease-soaked, indigestible griddle cake of old is, where modem methods are employed, a thing of the past. The properly made griddle cake is a delicious food, healthful, appetizing, and nutritious. Raising the griddle cake with yeast is alto- gether obsolete with expert cooks. Mixtures of soda, saleratus, sour milk, buttermilk, etc., are likewise not permissible. Royal Baking Powder has altogether redeemed the griddle cake. It makes the cake light, tender, digest- ible, and its preparation and baking are the work of a moment only. Royal Baking Powder, plain, sweet milk, flour, and a little salt make a food fit for a feast. What .so simple, so easUy prepared? Eggs are altogether unessential. The batter must be thin, the cakes made small and not too thick,— about a good Vk inch thick when baked,—browned, and neatly turned. The griddle must be merely mbbed with grease, not grease-soaked. This is highly important. Take a thick piece of salt pork on a fork, or a lump of suet in a piece of cheese-cloth, and mb lightly over the hot grid- dle and pour the batter on immediately. Remember that buckwheat is one of the most difficult flours to lighten. Where it en- ters into combination with other materials this fact must be recognized and a somewhat larger proportion of Royal Baking Powder allowed. Made in the manner directed in these receipts buckwheat cakes can be safely and profusely eaten by every one. Royal Wheat Cakes.—This is the best plain hot griddle cake without eggs. The cakes will be light, tender, and healtMul. 1 quart flour, 3 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, Vk teaspoon salt. Sift well together and add sweet milk to make into a soft batter. Bake immediately on hot griddle. Should be full Vk inch thick when baked. Smother with butter and maple symp or honey. Qriddle Cakes with Eggs.— 3 cups flour, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 teaspoon salt. Mix well together, add 2 well-beaten eggs and sufficient sweet milk to make a thin drop batter. Bake at once on a hot, weU- greased griddle. Make them thin. Qraham Qriddle Cakes.— 1 pint Graham flour, Vk pint Indian com meal, Vk pint flour, 1 heaping teaspoon brown sugar, Vk teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 egg, Vk pint each of milk and water. Sift together Graham flour, com meal, flour, sugar, salt, and powder. Add beaten egg, milk, and water. Mix together into a smooth batter. Heat griddle hot, pour batter into cakes as large as a tea saucer. Bake brown on one side, care- fully turn and brown other side. Pile one on the other, serve very hot, with sugar, mUk, cream, or maple symp. Rye Griddle Cakes.— 1 pint rye flour, Vk pint Graham flour, Vk pint flour, 1 tablespoon sugar, Vk teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons R^al Baking Powder, 1 egg, 1 pint milk. S^ift together rye flour, Graham flour, sugar, salt, and baking powder, add beaten egg and milk, mix into smooth batter. Bake deep brown color on hot griddle. Geneva Qriddle Cakes.— IVk pints flour, 4 tablespoons sugar, Vk teaspoon salt, IVk tea- spoons Royal Baking Powder, 2 tablespoons butter, 4 eggs, nearly Vk pint milk. Rub but- ter and sugar to white, light cream ; add yolks of eggs, 1 at a time. Sift flour, salt, and pow- der together; add to butter, etc., with milk and egg whites whipped to dry froth; mix together into a smooth batter. Bake in small cakes ; as soon as brown, turn and brown the other side. Have buttered baking-tin ; fast as browned, lay them on it, and spread raspberry jam over them; then bake more, which lay on others already done. Repeat this until you have used jam twice, then bake another batch.