34 THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. sherry; cook 5 minutes; add ’>2 cup cream beaten with yolks 2 eggs, stir till thickened. Take quickly from fire. Meats Broiling The rules for roasting meat apply to broil- ing, except that instead of cooking it in the oven it is to be quickly browned, first on one side and then on the other, over a hot fire, and removed a little from the fire to finish cooking. Meat an inch thick will broU in about 4 minutes. It should be seasoned after it is cooked. Frying There are two distinct methods of frying: One with very little fat in the pan, to practise which successfully the pan and the fat must be hot before the article to be fried is put into it. For instance, in frying chops, if the pan is hot, and only fat enough is used to keep the chops from sticking to it, the heat being main- tained so that the chops cook quickly, they will be nearly as nice as if they were broiled. Frying by the other method consists in entirely immersing the article to be cooked in sufficient smoking-hot fat to cover it, and keeping the fat at that degree of heat until the food is brown. It should then be taken up with a skimmer and laid upon brown paper for a mo- ment to free it from grease. Boiling and Stewing Fresh meat for boiling shoidd be put into boiling water and boiled very gently about 20 minutes for each pound. A little salt, spice, or vegetables may be boiled in the water with the meat for seasoning. A little vinegar put in the water with tough meat makes it tender. The broth of boiled meat should always be saved to use in soups, stews, and gravies. Stewing and simmering meats means to place them near enough to the fire to keep the water on them bubbling moderately, constantly, and slowly. Salt meats should be put over the fire in cold water, which as soon as it boils should be replaced by fresh cold water, the water to be changed until it remains fresh enough to give the meat a palatable flavor when done. Salted and smoked meats require about 30 minutes’ very slow boiling, from the time the water boils, to each pound. Vegetables and herbs may be boiled with them to flavor them. When they are cooked the vessel containing them should be set where they will keep hot without boiling until required, if they are to be served hot; if they are to be served cold, they should be allowed to cool in the pot liq- uor in which they were boiled. Very salt meats, or those much dried in smoking, 'should be soaked overnight in cold water before boiling. Roasting Wipe meat with damp cloth. Trim and tie into shape if necessary. In the bottom of pan put some pieces of fat from meat. Arrange meat on rack in pan. Dredge with salt, pep- per, and flour. Have oven very hot at first; when meat is half done reduce heat. Baste every 10 or 15 minutes. If there is danger of fat in pan being scorched add a few spoons of boiling water. Allow from 10 to 20 minutes per pound of meat, according as it is desired rare or well done. WHben done remove to hot platter. Thicken gravy in pan with browned flour, adding more water as necessary and add seasoning. Yorkshire Pudding.— % pint flour, 3 eggs, IVfe pints milk, pinch salt, 1^ teaspoons Royal Baking Powder. Sift flour and powder to- gether, add eggs, beaten with milk, stir quickly mto rather thinner batter than for griddle cakes, pour into dripping-pan, plentifully greased wdth beef-dripping, bake in hot oven 25 minutes; serve with roast beef. Braised Beef.—Wipe and trim 6 pounds round or rump of beef without bone. Sear brown on all sides in very hot frying-pan over hot fire. In braising-pan or iron kettle put layers of sliced onions, turnips, and carrots; add bunch of sweet herbs, 1 teaspoon salt, Vi teaspoon pepper; on this lay meat. Add 1 pint boiling water (or water and stewed tomatoes). Cover closely and cook 4 hours in moderate oven. If water evaporates rapidly add more. Transfer meat to hot platter. Strain, thicken, and season gravy. The vegetables may be served separately if desired. Braised Veal Shoulder.—Have shoulder boned. Fill with stuffing (see Stuffings). Pre- pare bed of vegetables as for braised beef. Lay veal on it, add 1 pint boiling water, 1 pint stewed tomatoes, ^2 teaspoon salt, ^ teaspoon pepper. Cover and cook 4 hours in moderate oven. Uncover and brown. Serve strained gravy separately. Broiled Steak.— Trim and wipe steak, which should be at least 1 inch thick. Rub broiler with fat, arrange steak with thickest part in center of broiler. Have fire clear and very hot, but without blaze. Hold steak close to fire. Turn every Mi minute, that it may sear quickly. When Ml done season with salt and pepper. Steak 1 inch thick will broil in 4 minutes. Panned Steak or Chops.—Trim and wipe steak. Heat frying-pan until it smokes all over. Rub bottom with a bit of fat. Lay in steak and turn every 10 seconds. Keep pan very hot. Season when Mi done. Mutton and pork chops, ham and bacon, may be panned in same way. If hot platter for steak is rubbed with a cut onion it will give a delightful flavor to the meat. Broiled Ham and Poached Eggs.— Cut slices of boiled ham of equal size; broil on a gridiron over a clear fire; lay on a hot dish. Lay on each a poached egg, neatly trimmed, and serve. Beefsteak Pie (French style).—Take a nice piece of beef, rump or sirloin, cut in smaB