THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 12 THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. Angel Food Cake.—Whites 11 eggs, IMj cups fine granulated sugar, 1 cup flour sifted four times with 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 1 teaspoon vanilla. Whip the whites to a firm, stiff froth. Cut in lightly the sugar, then the flour mixed with the baking powder, lastly the vanilla. Pour into an ungreased pan (lig. IV) and bake 40 minutes in moderate oven. When baked invert pan on 2 cups; let stand till cold. Apple Jelly Cake.— 1 cup butter, 2 cups su- gar, 4 eggs, 3 cups floui', IM2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 cup milk, 6 apples, 6 ounces sugar, 1 teaspoon butter. Rub together butter and sugar to flue, light, white cream, add eggs 2 at a time, beating 10 minutes after each ad- dition. Sift flour and Royal Baking Powder together, add to butter, etc., with milk, and mix into rather thin batter. Bake in jelly- cake tins carefully greased. Meanwhile have apples peeled and sliced, put on Are with su- gar; when tender remove, rub through fine sieve, and add butter. When cold use to spread between layers. Cover cake plentifully with sugar sifted over top. Bride’s Cake.— 1 scant cup butter, 3 cups sug.ar, 1 cup milk, whites 12 eggs, 3 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 cup corn-starch, 3 cups flour, 14 teaspoon salt. Cream butter and sugar. Mix flour, baking powder, and corn- starch, and add alternately with milk and whipped whites. Flavor with vanilla or almond extract and bake in loaf-tin lined with 4 thick- nesses of paper; have oven moderate. Banana Cake.— cup butter, 1 cup sugar, ^<8 cup milk, 2 scant cups flour, IMi teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, whites 4 eggs, Vfe tea^ ^oon vanilla. Mix flour and baking powder. Cream butter and sugar, add milk and flour alternately, then vanilla and beaten whites. Bake in 3 layer-tins in hot oven. To receipt for boiled icing (see Cake Fillings) add Mi cup mashed banana and use as filling. Dust top with powdered sugar. Chocolate Cake.— Make a cake as for ba- nana cake, and bake in 3 l^ers. Put together with chocolate filling (see Cake Fillings). Chocolate Cream Cake.—IMi pounds each butter, sugar, and flour, 14 eggs. Beat the yolks separate with sugar and butter. Beat the whites separately, and add to above. To Mi of the dough mix *4 pound chocolate, and bake of each part (the dark and light) 6 cakes. For filling take % pint cream, yolks 8 eggs. Sugar to taste; flavor with extract vanilla, put on fire and stir until it thickens, then put between the cakes. Chocolate Layer Cake.— 2 eggs, 2 cups powdered sugar, 1 cup milk, 2 cups flour, 2 scant teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, V4 tea- spoon salt, 1 teaspoon vaniUa. Mix flour, salt, and baking powder. Beat egg yolks till thick. Gradually add and beat in the sugar. Add vanilla and milk, whites whipped stiff, and flour. Bake in 3 layer-cake pans in hot oven. Put together with chocolate filling. No. 2 (see Cake Fillings). Chocolate Loaf Cake.— Mi cup butter, cups sugar, 2 cups flour, 2 teaspoons Royal Btudng Powder, >4 teaspoon salt. Mi cup milk. 4 eggs, 4 ounces chocolate dissolved m 5 table- spoons boiling water, 1 teaspoon vanilla. Mix flour, salt, and baking powder. Cream butter and sugar, add egg yolks, vanilla, and dissolved chocolate. Alternate the milk and flour and beat hard, then add whipped whites, turn into buttered loaf-pan lined with 3 thicknesses of paper. Bake in moderate oven. Cinnamon Chocolate Cake.— Mi cup but- ter, 1 cup sugar, 2 eggs, ^ cup milk, IMi cups flour, \Mi teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, ^ teaspoon salt, 3 teaspoons powdered cinnamon. Mix flour, salt, and baking powder. Cream butter and .sugar. Add cinnamon and beaten yolks, then alternate milk and flour. Add whipped whites, beat hard, and bake in 3 layer- pans in quick oven. When cold put together with boiled icing containing melted chocolate. Centennial Cake.— % pound butter, \Mi pounds brown sugar, 6 eggs, 2 cups milk, 1% pounds flour, teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons ^yal Baking Powder, % pound cleaned cur- rants, V4 pound seeded raisins, Vi pound sliced citron, 1 grated nutmeg, 1 glass wine. Dredge fruit well vi.th a little of the flour. Mix flour, salt, and baking powder. Cream butter and sugar. Add beaten yolks, nutmeg, and wine. Beat in alternately the milk and flour, add whipped whites, and beat hard. Stir in pre- pared frtiit. Line 2 loaf-pans with 3 thick- nesses of paper. Divide the batter between the pans and bake about IV4 hours in moderate oven. Cocoanut Layer Cake.— Mi cup butter, IV4 cups sugar, whites 8 eggs, cups flour, Vi teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 1 teaspoon vanilla. Mix flour, salt, and baking powder. Cream butter and sugar. Add vanilla, then, alternately, the flour and whipped whites. Beat hard; bake in 3 layer-cake pans. When cold put together with cocoanut filling. No. 2 (see Fillings). Cocoanut Loaf Cake.— ^l cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 5 eggs, 2 cups flour, 1 cup milk, 2 tea- spoons Royal Baking Powder, V4 teaspoon salt, 2 cups fre.shly grated cocoanut. Put together same as chocolate loaf cake, and bake in loaf- pan in moderate oven. Citron Cake.— IMj cups butter, 2 cups sugar, 6 eggs, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 1 pint flour, 1 cup citron cut in thin, large slices, 1 teaspoon extract nutmeg. Rub the butter and sugar to a smooth, light cream, add the eggs, 2 at a time, beating 5 minutes after each addition. Sift the flour and powder to- gether, which add to the butter, etc., with the citron and extract nutmeg. Mix into a firm batter, and bake carefully in paper-lined shal- low, flat cake-pan (fig. XIII), in a moderate oven, 50 minutes. Coffee Cake.— 1 cup very strong coffee, I cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 3 eggs, IMi pints flour, IMi teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 cup stoned raisins, cut in two, Mi cup chopped citron, 10 drops each extract allspice and nut- meg, and Ml cup milk. Rub the butter and sugar to a white cream; add the eggs, 1 at a time, beating 3 or 4 minutes after each. Sift together flour and powder, which add to the butter, etc., with the coffee, raisins, citron, milk, and extracts. Mix into a smooth batter.