THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 7 THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. Crumpets.— Melt 1 heaping tablespoon lard; add 2 b^ten eggs and cups milk. Beat well, add 1 teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons sugar, 3 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder sifted with 2 Vi cups flour. Crumpet^rings are larger than muffin-rinM. Put greased rings on hot greased griddle; All % full with batter. Turn when half done. London Crumpets.— IVi pints flour, Vi tea- spoon salt, 1 teaspoon sugar, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 egg, nearly a pint milk and cream in equal parts, 1 teaspoon extract cinnamon. Sift together flour, salt, sugar, and powder; add beaten egg, milk, cream, and extract; mix into rather firm batter; half fill large greased muffin-rings (flg. XVII) on hot, well-greased griddle. Bake on one side of them only. Serve hot with cottage cheese. Rice Crumpets.— 3 eggs, IVi cups milk, 1 cup cold boiled rice, 1 tablespoon melted butter, 1 cup Indian com meal, Vi cup flour, 2 tea- spoons Royal Baking Powder, Vi teaspoon salt. Mix in order named, and bake in criunpet- rings on hot greased griddle. Hominv Crumpets.— 1 scant cup boiled hominy, 3 cups milk, 1 tablespoon sugar, 1 tea- spoon salt, 2 tablespoons melted butter, enough flour to make thin drop batter, with 2 tea- spoons Royal Baking Powder sifted into the first cup. Bake as directed for plain cmm- pets. Bannocks.— Scald 2 cups Indian com meal with just enough boiling water to moisten. Cover; let stand 30 minutes; add 4 beaten eggs, 2 cups milk, 1 teaspoon salt, 2 tablespoons melted butter, 1 cup flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder. Bake in greased shallow pans in hot oven. Slappers.— Put 2 cups Indian corn meal in bowl with V4 teaspoon salt and 2 tablespoons butter. Pour on slowly sufficient boiling water to thoroughly moisten without being sloppy. Cover; let stand for some hours or overnight. Add 3 welT-beaten eggs, 1 cup milk, and 1 cup wheat flour, the first half-cupful of flour being mixed with 2 teaspoons Royal Bak- ing Powder, to make a very thick drop batter. Drop by spoonfuls on a hot greased griddle, cook slowly till brown, turn and brown other side. Scotch Scones.— 1 quart flour, 1 teaspoon sugar, V^ teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons ^yal Baking Powder, 1 large tablespoon lard, 2 eggs, nearly 1 pint milk. Sift together flour, sugar, salt, and powder; mb in lard cold; add beaten eggs and milk; mix into dough smooth and just consistent enough to handle. Flour the board, turn out dough, give it one or two quick kneadings to complete its smoothness; roll it out with rolling-pin to V& inch in thickness, cut with sharp knife into squares larger than soda crackers, fold each in half to form three- cornered pieces. Bake on hot griddle 8 or 10 minutes; brown on both sides. Hot Cross Buns.—Sift together 1 quart flour, V^ teaspoon salt, 1 cup sugar, 3 scant teaspoons Royal Baking Powder. Rub in V<{ cup butter, then add V<j pound cleaned currants, V4 teaspoon nutmeg, >4 pound cut citron, V4 pound seeded raisins, V4 teaspoon allspice. Beat 2 eggs, add V<j cup milk, and stir into the dry mixture, adding enough more milk to mix to a firm dough. Mold into round buns, lay 2 inches apart on greased pans, brush with mUk. Cut cross on each, sprinkle cut with granulated sugar, bake in hot oven. German Coffee Cake.—Sift together 3 cups flour, V& teaspoon salt, 3 tablespoons sugar, 2 scant teaspoons Royal Baking Powder. Rub in 2 heaping tablespoons butter. Beat 2 eggs, add % cup milk, stir into dry mixture, adding more milk if necessary to mix to very stiff batter. Spread % inch thick in well-buttered shallow pan. Mix together 2 tablespoons flour, 4 tablespoons granulated sugar, 1 heaping tablespoon cinnamon. Rub in 2 tablespoons butter until it is cmmbly. Spread thickly over top of dough, bake about % hour in moderate oven. Drop Cakes. — 1 pint flour, V<j teaspoon salt, V<j teaspoon sugar, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder sifted together. Rub in % tablespoon lard. Mix with milk to a thick batter. Drop by spoonfuls on greased pans, and bake in a very hot oven. Yorkshire Breakfast Cake.— Sift together 3 cups flour. Ml teaspoon salt, 3 level teaspoons Royal Baking Powder. Rub in 1 heaping tablespoon butter. Mix to a soft dough with milk. Roll out Mi inch thick. Place without cutting on hot greased griddle, and cover. Place on moderate fire, cook about 10 minutes. Slip off on board, turn without breaking, re- turn to griddle and cook 10 minutes longer. Break into pieces and serve with butter. Royal Sally Lunns.—Sift together 1 pint flour, 1V<2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, V^ teaspoon salt. Stir in the beaten yolks of 2 eggs mixed with Mi cup milk and V^ cup melted butter. Beat hard, add the whites whipped to a stiff froth. Bake in well-greased muffin- pans in a hot oven. Rusks.— IMi pints flour. Mi teaspoon salt, 2 tablespoons sugar, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 2 tablespoons butter, 3 eggs, 1 tea- spoon each extract nutmeg and cinnamon, pint milk. Sift together flour, salt, sugar, and powder; rub in butter; add milk, beaten eggs, and extracts. Mix into dough soft enough to handle; flour the board, turn out dough, give it quick turn or two to complete its smoothness. Roll under the hands into round balls size of a small egg; lay them on greased shallow cake-pan (flg. XIII), put very close to- gether, sprinkle a little sugar over, bake in moderately heated oven about 30 minutes. Yankee Puffs.—Mix together 1 Mi cups flour, M4 teaspoon salt, scant teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 1 tablespoon sugar. Cream 1 table- spoon butter, add the beaten yolks of 2 oggs, then alternately the dry mixture and 1% cups milk. Ml teaspoon vanilla, whipped whites of 2 eggs. Bake in hot greased muffin-pans in a hot oven. German Puffs.—1 pint flour, 2 tablespoons sugar, IVi teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 3 tablespoons butter, 4 eggs, 1 cup cream. Cream butter and sugar; add beaten eggs, then, alternately, the cream and dry ingredients sifted together. Bake in well-greased cups in hot oven.