10 THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. which use to cover them. Sift sugar plenti- fully over them, place in a moderate oven to finish cooking. Three-Egg Griddle Cakes.—3 cups milk, 2 heaping cups fiour, Vfj teaspoon salt, 3 eggs, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder. Mis as for plain griddle cakes, adding whites and yolks of eggs beaten separately. Huckleberry Griddle Cakes.— pint huck- leberries, IMj pints fiour, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon brown sugar, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 2 eggs, 1 pint milk. Sift together flour, sugar, salt, and powder; add beaten eggs, mUk, and huckleberries (washed and picked over). Mix into batter that will run ftrom pitcher in thick, continuous stream. Have griddle hot enough to form crust soon as batter touches it. In order to confine juice of berries, turn quickly, so as to form crust on other side; turn once more on each side to complete baking. Blackberry or raspberry griddle cakes in same manner. Rice Griddle Cakes.— 2 cups cold boiled rice, 1 pint flour, 1 teaspoon sugar, teaspoon salt, teaspoons Royal BaMng Powder, 1 egg, little more than pint milk. Sift to- gether flour, sugar, salt, and powder; add rice free from lumps, diluted with beaten egg and milk; mix into smooth batter. Have griddle well heated, bake nice brown, not too thick; serve with maple syrup. Crushed Wheat Griddle Cakes.— 1 cup crushed wheat, pints flour, 1 teaspoon brown sugar, ^ teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 egg, 1 pint milk. Boil 1 cup crushed wheat in % pint of water 1 hour, then dilute with beaten egg and milk. Sift together flour, sugar, salt, and powder; add to crushed wheat preparation when quite cold; mix into smooth batter. Bake on hot griddle; brown delicately on both sides; serve with hygienic cream sauce. Corn Meal Griddle Cakes.— 2 cups com meal, 1 cup flour, teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon molasses, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, milk or milk and water to mix to thin batter. Bake as already directed. Indian Griddle Cakes.— % quart corn meal. Ml quart flour, 1 teaspoon brown sugar, Vi tea- spoon salt, 2 heaping teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 2 eggs, 1 pint milk. Sift together com meal, flour, salt, sugar, and powder, add beaten eggs and mUk, mix into a smooth bat- ter. Bake on very hot griddle to a nice brown. Serve with molasses or maple syrup. Royal Buckwheats.— This is the most de- licious of all the griddle cakes. It has been against buckwheat cakes when made from yeast or risen overnight that it was difficult to make them light and sweet, and that dis- agreeable effects followed their eating. It is found that by the use of the Royal Baking Powder to raise the batter these objections have been entirely overcome, and that buck- wheat cakes are made a most delicious food, light, sweet, tender, and perfectly wholesome, that can be eaten by any one without the slightest digestive inconvenience. 2 cups pure buckwheat (do not use the so-caUed “ pre- pared” or “self-raising” flours), 1 cup wheat flour, 2 tablespoons Royal Baking Powder, Ml teaspoon s^t, all sifted well together. Mix with sweet milk into thin batter, and bake at once on a hot griddle. Buckwheat Cakes.— To IMi pints pure buckwheat flour (^never use prepared or self- raising flour) add Mi pint each wheat flour and Indian meal, 3 heaping teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon brown sugar or molasses. Sift well together, in dry state, buckwheat, Indian meal, wheat flour, and baking powder, then add remainder; when ready to bake add 1 pint water or suffi- cient to form smooth batter that will run in a stream (not too thin) from pitcher; make griddle hot and cakes as large as a saucer. When surface is covered with air-hples it is time to turn cakes over; take off when suffi- ciently browned. Bread Cakes.— Mi pound bread, 1 pint flour, 1 teaspoon brown sugar, Mi teaspoon salt, 1% teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, ^4 pint milk, 1 egg. Put bread, free from crust, to steep in warm water. When thoroughly soaked, wring dry in a towel; dilute with beaten egg and milk. Sift together flour, sugar, salt, and powder, add to prepared bread, mix together into a smooth batter. Bake on weU-heated griddle. Serve with sugar and cream. Wheat (or Flannel) Cakes.—IMi pints flour, 1 tablespoon brown sugar, 1 teaspoon salt, 2 heaping teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 2 eggs, IMi pints milk. Sift together fiour, sugar, salt, and powder; add beaten eggs and milk, mix into smooth batter that w^l run in rather continuous stream from pitcher. Bake on good hot griddle rich brown color, in cakes large as tea saucers. Serve with maple syrup. Hominy Griddle Cakes.— Proceed as di- rected for rice griddle cakes; serve with ma- ple syrup. Pancakes.— 1 pint flour, 6 eggs, 1 saltspoon salt, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, and milk to make a thin batter. Add the baking powder to the flour, beat the whites and yolks of eggs separately; add the yolks, salt, 2 cups milk, then the whites and the flour alternately with milk, until the batter is of right consis- tency. Run 1 teaspoon lard over the bottom of a hot frying-pan, pour in a large ladleful of batter, and fry quickly. Roll pancake up like a sheet of paper, lay upon a hot dish, put in more lard, and fry another pancake. Keep hot over boiling water. Send Mi dozen to table at a time. Serve with sauce, jelly, or preserves. English Pancakes.— 1 pint milk, 2 eggs, 1 tablespoon sugar, 1 cup flour, 1 teaspoon Btoyal Baking Powder, 1 cup cream, pinch salt. Sift flour, salt, and powder together; add to it eggs beaten with sugar and diluted with milk and cream; mix into thin batter. Have small round frying-pan; melt little butter in it; pour about Mj cup batter in it, turn pan round, that batter may cover the pan, put on hot fire; turn it and brown other side. Butter each and roll it up; sprinkle with powdered sugar. French Pancakes.— Proceed as directed for English pancakes; when all are done, spread each with any kind of preserves, roll up, sift over plenty sugar, glaze vdth red-hot poker.