THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 22 Doughnuts and Crullers These old-fashioned “fried cakes,” as they used to be called, need the addition of Royal Baking Powder to make them light. By its use less shortening is necessary and the cakes are more tender and far more digestible. After it is mixed with the flour the other ingredients are added and the dough quickly rolled out, cut, and at once cooked. The fat should be in a deep pot (to obviate any danger of boiling over), and should be of suffi- cient depth to cover the dough when flrst dropped in. It should be smoking hot, or the dough will absorb grease and be soggy. Not more than half a dozen should be dropped in at one time, or the fat will be unduly cooled and some of the cakes submerged during the entire cooking; in which case the cakes when cooked will be greasy and not light. One or two pieces of dough should be cooked flrst as testers. When done the cakes should be drained on unglazed paper, then rolled in pow- dered sugar. Doughnuts.— Beat well together 2 eggs and 2 cups granulated sugar. Add 1 pint milk and 1 quart flour in which are mixed and sifted 3 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 teaspoon salt, and 1 grated nutmeg. Beat well, then add more flour to make a soft dough. Roll out inch thick, cut in rings or small balls, and fry brown in a deep kettle of smoking-hot fat. Doughnuts, 2.— cup butter, 1 cup sugar, Hi pints flour. Hi teaspoons Royal BaWng Powder, 1 egg, IVi cups milk, 1 teaspoon extract nutmeg. Rub the butter, sugar, and egg to- gether smooth. Sift the flour and powder to- gether, add it to the butter, the milk, etc. Mix into a soft dough; well flour the board, roll out the dough to ^i inch in thickness, cut out with large biscuit-cutter, and fry to a light brown in plenty of lard made hot for the pur- pose. Serve with sifted sugar over them. Doughnuts, 3.— % cup granulated sugar, yolks and whites 2 eggs, 3 tablespoons melted butter or lard, 3 cups flour, 3 heaping teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, Mi teaspoon grated nut- meg. Add beaten whites last, then ^d enough more flour to make a soft dough. Roll Vi inch thick, cut, and fry as directed. Doughnuts, 4.— Sift together 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 quart flour, Vi cup sugar, M) teaspoon salt. Add 2 well-beaten eggs, 1 cup milk, 1 teaspoon vanilla, a little more flour if necessary to make a soft dough. Roll out, cut, and fry. German Doughnuts.— Scald 1 pint milk, pour hot over 1 pint flour, and beat till smooth; add Vi teaspoon salt, and let cool. Add beaten yolks 4 eggs, 1 tablespoon melted butter, 1 teaspoon flavoring, Vi cup sugar, beaten whites of eggs, 1 cup flour mixed with 2 teaspoons Roy^ Baking Powder, and more flour to make a soft dough. Roll, cut, and fry. Puffball Doughnuts.—3 eggs, 1 cup sugar, 1 pint milk, Vi teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon extract vanilla, 2 heaping teaspoons Royal Baking Powder sifted with 2 cups flour, more flour to make a thick batter in which s^on will stand upright. Drop by small spoonfuls in kettle of smoking-hot fat and fry brown. Crullers.— IVi cups sugar, 1 cup mUk, 2 eggs, 2 tablespoons butter, melted, 1 teaspoon vanilla, 1 teaspoon powdered cinnamon, Vi tea- spoon salt, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder mixed with 2 cups flour, more flour to make a soft dough. Roll out, cut in squares, cut slits in each with jagging-iron, and braid together. Fry in smoking-hot fat. Crullers, 2.— 1 quart flour, Vi cup lard, Vi cup butter, 1 cup sugar, IVi teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, % pint milk, 2 eggs, 1 tea- spoon extract nutmeg. Sift the flour, sugar, and powder together; rub in the lard and but- ter ; add the beaten eggs, extract, and milk. Mix into a smooth dough, just soft enough to handle conveniently. Roll out with the rolling-pin on a well-floured board; cut into strips about Vi inch wide, twist in different shapes, and fry to a light brown color in plenty hot lard. Serve with sifted sugar. Crullers, 3.— 2 cups brown sugar, IVi cups butter, 6 eggs, Vi nutmeg, grated, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, flour to make soft dough. Roll, cut with jagging-iron, fry as directed. Crullers, 4.— 1 cup sugar, 3 tablespoons butter, 1 cup cream, 3 cups flour mixed with 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, and Vi tea- spoon salt, adding enough flour to make soft dough. Roll out, cut in 2-inch squares, and slash with jagging-iron. Fry, drain, and roil in sugar. Dutch Crullers.— 2 eggs, 1 teaspoon grated nutmeg, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup cream, V4 teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, suffi- cient flour to mix to a soft dou^h. RoU out, cut in squares, cut several times m center with jagging-iron; fry brown in kettle of deep smoking-hot fat. Fried Cakes.— 2Vi cups flour, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, Vi cup milk, Vi tea- spoon salt, 2 eggs, 1 scant tablespoon melted butter, 5 tablespoons sugar. Sift dry materials together. Add beaten eggs, mUk, and melted butter. Drop by small spoonfuls in deep smoking-hot fat, fry brown, drain on unglazed paper. Doughnuts, 5.— Scald 1 cup milk, add Vi cup sugar, stir till dissolved, and cool. Add 1 Vi cups flour sifted with V4 teaspoon salt and 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, the well- beaten whites 3 eggs, 1 tablespoon melted but- ter, and enough more flour to make a soft dough. Roll, cut, and fry. Rye Drop Cakes.— 1 heaping cup rye meal, 1 heaping cup flour, 1 tea^oon salt, 3 table- spoons molasses, 1 cup milk, 2 eg^, 2 Vi tea- spoons Royal Baking Powder. Sift dry ma- terials together. Add milk, molasses, and beaten eggs. Drop by spoonfuls in deep smok- ing-hot fat. When brown drain on paper. THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. 1