DTSKASES OF BONE. I So cases violent and deeply seated pain occnvs in the limb, -wliicb beeomes gcnc- vally inflamed, with much redness and ftTcat swellinf^. Abscess soon forms along the Avhole line of bone between it and the periosteum ; and gi’eat con- stitutional disturbance ensues, Avhich may lead to removal of limb as the only means of saving life. This form of necrosis chiefly occurs in young and cachectic subjects, usually as a sequel of a febrile attack, such as scarlatina or typhoid fcA’er, or from ex'posurc to severe cold. I have also seen it occur as a senile disease in the tibia, the humerus, and in the fibula of persons of an advanced age, fr-om sixty-five to seventy-five years. In these patients the necrosis has set in suddenly, without any obvious exciting cause ; but Avith intense pain, subperiosteal abscess, and inflamed cedematous SAvelling of the limb, Avhich I have more than once seen mistaken for gout. In acute necrosis, the disease usually stops short at the line of junction betAveen the shaft and epiphyses. Hence, and for the reason already stated, the joints escape in the majority of instances. The prognosis of the case Avill maiidy depend on this. If the joints escape, the sequestrum Avill separate, and a soiuid limb may result; if they become invoh'ed, amputation is inevitable. On examination after the abscess has been opened, the bone Avill be found Avhite, opaque, and dead-looking : the periosteum is detached, neAV bone is deposited, the suiTounding parts are infiltrated, and, usually, supjDuration has taken place around the bone through its Avhole length, if the patient be young, or in the circumference if he be old. In many cases, especially in children, the articular ends escape, the necrosis being confined to the shaft of the bone, AA’hich will be found to be detached fr-om one or both epiphyses. To these the periosteum of the shaft, greatly thickened, still remains adherent, and AA'ill become the organ for the reproduction of the bone. In extreme cases, more particularly in old people, the articular ends are inA'oh’ed, and the joints secondarily affected and disorganised. Separation of the Dead Bone.—The process of separation of the dead bone, and the fomration of a new osseous tissue to supply the place of that AA’hich is necrosed, are most interesting phenomena. The separation of the dead bone, or its Exfoliation, is precisely similar to the mode in which a slough in soft tissues separates, the only difference being the time required. Inflam- matory action is set up so as to form a true line of demarcation and of sepa- ration in the substance of the bone AA’hich is still living, and which is imme- diately contiguous to that AAdiich has lost its vitality. In this way a gi-oove is gradually deepened around the edge of the sequestrum, by the absorption, or rather disintegration, of the earthy matter of the living bone, which is carried off by the pus formed in the course of the process; this pus, according tc^ B. Cooper, contains per cent, of phosphate of lime. Along this ^adually deepening line of separation, plastic matter is throAA^n out, from aa nci gianu latious are foi-med that constitute a hairier, as it Avere, between the living and the dead bone, and, extending into the under surface of the sequptnnn, become so implanted in the hollows and depressions Avhich are there found, that this may continue to be firmly attached to the subjacent living bone after all osseous connection betAveen them has ceased. I his piocess o ex o lation may often be beautifully seen in the separation of the outer table of the skill in cases of necrosis of that bone. AVhen occiiiriiig betAveen the shaft and