825 SELECTION OF OPERATION. tomy, Civiale lost 18, or exactly one-lialf. These figures show that lithotrity cannot be considered the only operation for stone ; but must, even in the hands of the most dexterous and successful practitioners, be in many instances replaced by the cutting operation. Selection op Operation : Lithotomy or Lithotrity.—The circum- stances that must chiefly determine the Surgeon in the selection of the particular operation to be performed are—1, The Age of the Patient; 2, the Size and Character of the Stone ; and 3, the Condition of the Urinary Organs. 1. Age.—The age of a patient is an important element. As a general rule, it may be stated that at the middle and advanced periods of life lithotrity is most successful; while, in early ages lithotomy is the preferable operation. In children under the age of puberty, the genito-urinary organs are undeveloped ; the urethra is small, and the bladder narrow. These conditions not only necessitate the employment of instruments specially constructed of reduced size, and render great care in their manipulation requisite, but the narrovmess of the lu’cthra is especially apt to render the expulsion of the fragments of the crushed stone extremely difficult, and to favour their impaction. If, in addition to this, we bear in mind the great sensitiveness of the bladder in young children, and their restlessness under the repeated sittings which may be necessary, it can easily be understood that lithotrity is neither an easy nor a safe operation in them ,• unless the calculus be so small—not larger than a cherry-stone—that it can be crushed aud brought away at one sitting. Ijitho- tomy, on the other hand, is so successful an operation in children, that the Surgeon would gain nothing by substituting lithotrity for it. Thus, of 35 children under 10, operated on by Cheselden, only 1 died ; and of 58 children cut for stone at St. Thomas’s, but 1 case proved fatal; and the average mor- tality of lithotomy cases in children is not more than about 1 in 14. Guersant, at the Children’s Hospital in Paris, has performed lithotrity in children 40 times 35 of the cases being in boys : of these, 7 died, and 3 at least of the others required to be afterwards subjected to hthotomy. Of the deaths, 4 were caused by croup and scarlatina, and 3 were attributable to the operation. These resffits are anything but satisfactory when compared with those of lithotomy in children in this country, or even iu Guersant’s own practice ; for, of 100 that he cut, 14 died. I think that the best and most experienced Surgeons are agreed in this, that, although lithotrity is jiracticable on boys, yet lithotomy, beiug much safer and far speedier, should be preferred to lithotrity in all patients under puberty, and in most under twenty years At veiy advanced periods of life, the iiTitable state of the miuary organs, the tendency to the supervention of low cystitis, and the enlarged state of the prostate, are often such as to prevent the performance of lithotrity with any prospect of success. At the same time, the success of lithotrity in old age has leen very great m the hands of some Surgeons. Thus, Segalas states that, of 14 octogenarians whom he lithotrised, he did not lose one ; and of 27 septua- genarians, but two. Lithotomy, on the other hand, is very fatal in a^ed persons. It 18 at the middle period of life, or in persons who, though advanced in