EFFECTS OF LIGATURE OF CAROTIDS. 91 external portions of the stcrno-liyoid and sterno-thyi'oid muscles rnay likewiso . l)e cut across for the same pm-pose. The jugular vein in this situation lies considerably to the outside of the artery (iig. dHl). After ligature of the carotid artery, the blood is so fi-ecly conveyed to the distal side of the -N’essel, by the free communication subsisting between the arteries of opposite sides within the cranium, that a continuance and return of pulsation in the sac is of common occuiTcnce. This condition, however, usually disappears after a time by the gi’adual consolidation of the tiunour, and indeed may generally be looked upon as a fayom'able sign ; being "S'ery seldom asso- ciated with those cerebral symptoms that, as will immediately be explained, commonly prove fatal after this operation. It is interesting to observe that the collateral supply, after the ligature of the common carotid, is not afibrded by any of the branches of the corresponding vessel of the opposite side, but by the subclavian artery of the same side. In a case related by Porter, in which the right carotid had been tied, the subclavian and vertebral arteries on the same side were enlarged to at least double their natural diameters, and the chief conununications outside the skull took place between the superior and inferior thyroid arteries, which were enlarged ; whilst inside the cranium the vertebral took the place of the internal cai’otid. Supimration of ilw sac is not of very uncommon occurrence after the ligature of the carotid for aneurism—sometimes even after so considerable an interval as eight months, as happened in a case related by Post. In the majority of these instances, the patient eventually does well; but death may result by the tumour pressing upon the pharynx and lai’ynx, or by the occuiTence of secondary htemoiThage, which may take place either from the part to which the ligature has been applied, or from the suppurating sac. In the first instance, it usually occurs about the period of the separation of the ligature ; in the second, it may happen at a considerably later period, even after many weeks. As the suppuration is often due in aU probability to the proximity of the wound and the hgatme to the aneiu'ism, it has been suggested that, in such cases, it might be safer to anticipate it by laying open the sac after the application of the ligatme on the proximal side, and tying the vessel again on the distal side, thus performing a combination of Anel’s arrd the old opera- fciorr. It would appear, however, as if this were orrly substituting, with cer- tainty, one evil for another that may very possibly be avoided. Besides these, which may be looked uporr as the ordinary accidents follovfng the application of a ligature for aneurism, deligation of the carotid artery occasiorrally gives rise to serious and even fatal distrnbance of the circulation withirr the crarrirrm. Effects on the Brain of Ligature of one or both Carotids.—Many experiments have been made by Meyer, Jobert, arrd others, upon the lower animals, with the view of determinirrg the eflhet prodrreed orr the brain by the ligatrrre of the carotid arteries. But the dedrretions from these arc of no lalrre whatever wherr applied to the hurnarr subject, for the simple reasorr which appear’s to have been strangely overlooked), that irr rrrany of the lower animals on which the observations w^ere made, as the dog and rabbit, for instance, the common carotid arteries are of secondary irnportarree so firr as the cerebral circulation is concerned, being destined principally for the supply of the external parts of the head—the brain deriving its chief supply