CMBTLICAL HERNIA. 673 sac. The two ends Imd retracted one inch apart, the distal having gone so far in the direction of the obtnrator foramen that any attempt to reach it would have been out of the question. The needle was found to have passed imme- diately in front of the proximal end, crossing the track of the artery, but not actually including it within the ligature ; yet the traction so exerted seems to have been enough to close the vessel, as it was obliterated by a clot. The distal end contained no clot. From this case, it is evident that acupressure is the most hopeful means of dealing with such an accident, but it can only lie applied to the proximal end. In this case no htemorrhage occurred from the distal end, but the patient was much exhausted, and lived only thirty hours after the operation. It will generally be found that the intestine contained in the sac of a femoral hernia is dark-colomed and tightly nipped; it requires to be treated in accord- ance with the general principles that guide us in the management of hernia. UMBILICAL HERNIA. By Umbilical Hernia or Exoniphalus is meant a protrusion through the umbilical aperture. It occurs either in children or in adults. Umbilical Hernia in Children is sometimes congenital; and, when so, it has happened that the protrusion has been included in, and accidentally strangulated by, the hgatiu'e applied to the umbiheal cord. More frequently, however, it ocems shortly after birth, in consequence of the child straining or crying. In these cases it is readily recognised by a smooth, rounded, and tense tumour, starting forwards at the umbilicus, readily reducible on pressure. The Treatment should consist in keeping the tumour reduced by the appli- cation of an elastic India-rubber belt, with an air-pad that presses firmly upon the aperture; or, should such a contrivance as this not be at hand, the reduction may readily enough be effected by applying over the aperture a piece of soap-plaster spread on amadou, upon which a weU-padded slice of cork may be tightly strapped. It most commonly happens that, after pressure has in this way been kept up for some months, a radical cure results. Umbilical Hernia in Adults most frequently occurs in women, espe- cially those who have home many children, or who are loaded with internal fat. It is by no means unlikely that a tendency to this disease is often estab- lished in childhood, but does not become developed until the abdominal muscles have been weakened and the umbiheal aperture relaxed by the pressure of the gravid uterus. Umbilical rupture generally attains a considerable bulk, and often acqubes an enormous size ; when large, it is commonly iiTegular or semilunar in shape, sometimes appearing to be composed of several distinct tiunours. It is usually partly doughy and partly tympanitic to the feel, has a distinct impulse on coughing, and is readily reducible ; not unfrequently it happens, however, that a portion of the rupture continues irreducible, owing to the existence of adherent omentum. The coverings of an umbilical rupture are usuaUy ex- tremely thin, consisting merely of the peritonemn, a layer of condensed fascia, which IS often perforated at several points by circular openings through which the heraia protrudes, and the integuments containing the umbilical cicatrix, i> h,ch 18 ex-panded over the part. The sac gener.ally contains both intestine T OL. II, X X