151 ANEURISM OF DEEP FEMORAL ARTERY. FEMORAL AND POPLITEAL ANEURISMS. "We have, in the preceding section, considered aneurisms afiecting the gi'oin, ■which are by no means of very unl'reqnent occurrence. Anem’isms of the thigh are, liowever, much less frequently met Avith ; but those in the ham are very commonly encountered. Thus, out of 551 cases of auem'ism recorded in the British medical joimials of the present century. Crisp has found that 137 affected the popliteal, and only 06 the femoral artery. Of these GO, 45 were situated either in the groin or upper part of the thigh, and 21 only were truly femoral or femoro-popliteal. The reason of this difference in the frequency of the occuirence of aueiu’ism in different parts of the vessel, may be accounted for by attention to its anatomical relations. In looking at the main artery of the loAver extremity, in its coimse from Poupart’s ligament to where it terminates in the anterior and posterior tibials, Ave see that it may be diAuded in relation to the muscular masses that siUTOund it, into three principal portions : 1. That Avhich is situated between Poupart’s ligament and the anterior margin of the sartorius, and which may be considered ; 2. That which intervenes be- tween this point and the apertime in the adductor tendon, and which may be consideredand, 3. That division of the vessel which corresponds to the ham, and Avhich may be considered jpojoliteal. Of these three divisions, the fii’st and last are comparatiA^ely superficial, and, being unsupported by muscle, readily expand ; while the central portion of the artery is closely siUToimded on all sides by muscular masses, and is very imhkely to be dilated into an anemlsmal tumour. A\ e also find that the inguinal portion of the vessel is closely and finnly iuA’ested by a dense and resistant fibro-areolar sheath, and is well sup- ported by the fascia lata ; whilst in the popliteal space the artery is merely surrounded by the ordinary areolar sheath, and receives no aponeurotic support. This difference in the connections of these two parts of the vessel may, to a certain extent, explain the gi-eater frequency of aneiuism in the ham than in the upper part of the thigh. AxEUEisii OF THE Deep Femoeal Aeteey is of extremely rare occm’rence; indeed, I am acquainted young man under my care in University College Hospital in 1870. There Avas a large tumoiu at the upper part of the thigh, over Avhich lay the su- pei-ficial femoral artery, pulsating freely. The disease Avas cured by compression of the common Avith fiAC cases only. One of these occurred in a lemoral artery, hydrate of chloral being given to reliove^ pam. Another case is recorded by Bryant as liaA'ill" OCCUired in f.bp in-nnHoo n—.l l n ) L' case is recoi’ded by Bryant 1. Coiiiinon Feinonil 2. SnimrlU'.ial Femoral. >eep Femoral. Fig. 337.—Aneurism of Deep Femoral Artery. Femoral Artery. 4. Aneurism, cut open , a large tumour of