502 PLASTIC SURGERY OF THE FACE AND MOUTH. Tvith in practice. There is no evidence to show that there is any danger in operating during early infancy; on the contrary, very young children, those but a few weeks or months old, bear operations remarkably well. I have repeatedly operated at these tender ages, not only for hare-lip, but for hernia, the removal of tumours and na3vi, the division of tendons, &c., and have never- seen any bad result follow. Besides this, the performance of the operation is easier at a very early age than when the child has reached its first or second year ; when, its intelligence being more developed, it knows what it has to suffer, and screams and struggles more than a very young infant does, whenever it sees the Surgeon, or when he makes an attempt to examine the wound or dressings. After the operation, also, the child wdll, wheir young, take to the breast rvithout difficulty and with the greatest avidity. The act of suction is advantageous, as in it the sides of the incision are more closely compressed and brought together. At very early ages, union of the wound takes place with great readiness and solidity ; and, as no time has been given for the rest of the fea- tures to become distorted, there vdll not be that permanent flattening and deformity of the face which is apt to continue after the hare-lip is cured, if the operation be defeiTed to a more advanced age. For these various reasons I agree with Dubois, Fergusson, and Butcher, that the operation had best be performed early; if possible, at about the sixth week after birth, or from that to the third month, which may, I think, be considered the time of election for this procedure. At this time the vitahty of the child is good, and the tissues are not so lacerable as at an earlier age. The operation may safely be performed at a much earlier period in single than in double hare-lip ; and the greater the deformity, the more marked the intermaxillary projection, the wiser wiU it be to defer operation, which not only becomes increasingly severe with the extent of the deformity, but after the performance of wffiich the traction on the pins becomes too great for the tender tissues to sustain. Should circumstances require it, however, the operation might be done at a much earlier period than that advised above. Thus, at the mgent solicitations of the parents, I hav& performed it within the first twenty-fom hours after birth, and several times during the first w'eek. But in these very early days of life the operation is not "without danger ; the "vitality of the child is often feeble, it suffers greatly from the loss of even a very small quantity of blood, and the tissues are so lacerable- that there is great danger of the pins or stitches cutting out. I woifid there- fore not advise its performance then. It is scarcely necessary to observe that, as union by the first intention is aimed at, the operation should not be undertaken unless the health be good ; and certainly not if the child, at whatever age, have but recently recovered from measles, scarlet fever, or other infantile disease. Operation for Hare-lip.—In the treatment of hare-lip, there are three main objects to be kept in view: 1. The procuring of Union by the Direct Adhesion of the cut edges of the fissure ; 2. The Prevention, as far ^ po^ib e, of Deformity during the process of union; and, 3. The Avoidance of all Trac- tion on the line of incision that may interfere with these results. These principles of treatment are earned out by paring the edges o fissure freely, bringing them together by means of the twisted or i^emip e suture, and taking off’ all tension by means of strips of p astci an