960 DISEASES OF THE TESTIS AND COllD. the Tcins, the -wire being- brought out at the second puncture (Fig. 845). Eacli end of the wire is now passed througli the corresponding hole of the pin, which is twisted round and round repeatedly, each turn causing the wire to be rolled around the pin, and so tightened, till the veins are firmly compressed between the pin behind and the loop of wire in front (Pig. 84fi). By this means the scrotum is quite free and uncompressed, and there is no dano-er of exciting inflammation or oedema. The wire should be tightened from day to day, as it causes ulceration in the veins until it has completely cut throuo-h, which lesults, usually, in about a w'cclc or ten days. Meanwhile, there is much plastic matter throwm out around the veins ; this finally contracts and obliteiates their channels. This method produces an effectual and permanent cure (Fig. 847). Pig. 847.—Vidul’s Operation : Appearance of Xeedle and Wire when removed. Of late, I have been in the habit of employing a simpler method. I separate. the vas deferens in the usual way, and then make a small incision, about half an inch long, in the fr-ont and back of the scrotum: afterwards I pass a needle armed with silver wire, as before described, between the vas and the veins, bringing it out behind; I then return the needle, but this time can-ying it in front, between the veins and the skin ; and thus the veins are included in a loop of Avire, without impheating the scrotum. The loop is then tightly twisted together, so as to constrict the enclosed vessels. This plan has a similar effect to that of the Avire and pin combined ; by repeated tightenings the Avire gradually effects a passage by ulceration through the veins, which are obliterated by the same process. It has been objected to this and similar operations, that atrophy of the testis may take place, from its arterial branches being included together Avith the veins ; but, as the spermatic artery runs near to the vas deferens, and is held out of the way with that duct, it escapes, and the chance of that mischief is avoided. Nevertheless, atrophy of the testis may coexist, as the result of long- continued pressure of the blood in the vessels of the gland before the perform- ance of the operation. TUMOURS OP THE TESTIS. All solid tumours of the testicle are classed together imder the generic term •of Sarcocele ; and, when these are conjoined with fiuid accumulations in the timica A'aginalis, they are termed Hydro-sarcocele. Sarcocele is usually divided into the Simple, the SyphiUUc, the Tuhermlous, the Cystic, and the Maliynant; w^hich, indeed, comprise so many distinct diseases of the testis, requiring separate study. SiJiPLE Sarcocele is a chronic enlargement of the testis resulting fr-om 1 inflammatory mischief in the organ, not arising from syphilis or deposit of tubercle. It is, in fact, chronic orchitis. Both the epididymis and the body of the gland are usually affected. The testicle feels hard, smooth, solid, though perhaps slightly elastic at points ; it is ovoid in shape, and usually about as large as a duck’s egg. It is heaA'y and but slightly painful, and.