574 DISEASES OF THE BREAST. CHAPTEE LXI. ' —♦— DISEASES OP THE BREAST. By Disease of the Breast is meant an affection of the mammary region, not merely of the mammaiy gland. These diseases may occm- in the male as weU as in the female. They are necessarily most frequent as ■well as most important in the latter, the rudimentary mammary gland of the male being little predisposed to such affections in comparison to the highly developed and active organ in the female. Diseases of the breast, when they occm- in the female, are of much interest to the Surgeon ; not only on account of their great variety, hut fr-om the difficulties attending then’ diagnosis, and from the importance attaching to the question of operative interference in connection with them. Diseases of the breast seldom occim before puberty, being most fr-equently met wdth either during lactation, when the functions of the gland are in a high degree of development; or towards the termination of menstrual hfe, when the actions of the organ are necessarily influenced by the changes that are taking place in the uterine system. But there is this important difterence between the diseases at these different periods of life, viz., that in the young they are of a simple, in the older woman frequently, if not generally, of a malignant nature. Just before or at puberty, the breast occasionally becomes the seat of inflammation and abscess ; in all probabihty O'wing to changes taking place in it in connection with the general development of the reproductive system. As the period of' puberty approaches, the breasts often swell, become hard, knotty, and somewhat painful, indicative of some commencing change in the generative system. In other cases again, a precocious hypertrophy may take place, frequently attended with severe neiu-algia in the part. When puberty occurs, the breasts naturally enlarge, and often become tender ; and occasionally one undergoes a certain degree of hypertrophy, increasing greatly in bulk beyond the other. These various changes, though exciting alarm in females, cannot be regarded as of any very serious importance, and seldom require more than the simplest surgical treatment. ANOMALIES OP DEVELOPMENT. The mammary gland is subject to certain anomalies as to development. Thus, in some instances it has been found to be altogeiher wanting. Sir A. Cooper and Froriep both relate instances in which the organ was not de- veloped, and in which the ovaries were also defleient. A more remarkable anomaly consists in the development of a number of Supernumerary Breasts. Birkett has collected fourteen reported cases, in which there were