970 DISEASES OF THE TESTIS AND OOIU). plastic matter that was midorgoing latty degeneration. A malignant testicle may rapidly attain a very considerable magnitude, becoming as larc/e as a cocoa-nut m a few weeks or months. When of this size it is, of course, abundantly supplied by blood-vessels ; consequently the spermatic artery and accompanying veins will be found a good deal dilated. The lymphatic glands in the neighbourhood speedily become enlarged, those in the iliac fossa espe- cially, as may be ascertained by deep pressure in the flank. The inguinal glands do not in general become affected, until the skin has become implicated by the progress of the disease. It is then also that the caneerous cachexy rapidly develops itself. ihe Symptoms of encephaloid of the testicle are usually somendiat obseure in the early stages, although they become clearly and distinctly developed as the disease progresses. The patient first begins to complain of some degi’ee of chagging pain and weight in one of the testes, which on examination will be found to be indurated and eidarged, though preserving its normal shape. The enlargement continues until the testicle attains about the size and shape of a duck s egg, being somewhat tense and elastic, but smooth and heavy. As it increases in size, which it usually does with rapidity, it becomes rounded and somewhat doughy or puljiy in feel in parts, Avhere, indeed, it may almost be semi-fiuctuating. though in others it continues hard and knobbed. This altera- tion in feel is partly due to softening of the substance of the. tumour, and partly to its making its way through the tunica albuginea. The scrotimr is much distended, reddened, and purplish, and becomes covered by a network of tortuous veins ; the cord may become somewhat enlarged, hard, and knotty. As the disease advances, the scrotum becomes adherent at some of the softened parts, ulceration takes place, and a fungus projects, which presents all the characteristic signs of fimgus hmmatodes ; it does not commonly happen, how- ever, that the disease is allowed to go so far as this before removal. The pain is not very severe at first, but after a time assiunes a lancinating character, extending up the eord and into the loins. Secondary infection of the system takes place through the medium of the lumbar glands in which the absorbents of the testis terminate. In cancer of the scrotum, just as in the same disease of the jDenis, the inguinal glands become secondarily affected. Treatment.—The only treatment of any avail in encephaloid of the testicle, is the removal of the diseased organ. This operation is not performed so much with the view of curing the patient of his disease, which will probably return in the iliac glands or in some internal organ, as of affording temporary relief from the suffering and incumbrance of the enlarged testicle. It is therefore an operation of expediency, and should only be done in those cases in which the disease is limited to the testicle, the cord being free and the lumbar glands not involved; so that, if recm-rence take place, it may not be a very speedy one. An Undescended Testis may become the seat of structiual disease, just as it may be affected by infiammation. The combination of malposition ol the organ and structiual disease is necessarily rare. But its possible occiu- rcnce must be borne in mind by the Surgeon, as it may lead to the necessity of an operation for the removal of the diseased mass from the inguinal canal. Cases of this kind are recorded by Storks and J. M. Arnott. The tumour in the first case was as large as a cocoa-nut; in the second as a man’s fist. Both