OPENING THE WINDPIPE IN DIPHTHERIA. 557 will nntloubtecUy rcsciie it from this immediate danger, and Avill be a proper- operation ; bnt, if extensive broncho-pulmonary inflammation already exist, it will lie worse than useless, and should on no account be practised. A serious objection to the performance of tracheotomy in the croup of young children s, that it is by no means an easy operation or one devoid of immediate danger. If chloroform be not given, the struggles and ivrithings of the child will materially embarrass the Surgeon in his attempts at opening the windpipe. But even if chlorofonn be administered, which should always be done when practicable, and this source of difficulty removed, there is, unless care betaken,, no little danger of luomon-hage ; and I have heard of several cases in which this has occun-ed to a fatal extent. Although, therefore, as a general rule, I fullv agree with Porter in reprobating this in ordinary cases of cioup, yet cases' are doubtless occasionally met with, in which the disease is so clearly limited to the larynx—the respiration being free throughout the lungs and bronchi that the Surgeon may feel himself justified in endeavouring to save the little patient, struggling against overpowering asphyxia, by opening the windpipe. In several such cases, to which I have been called by other practitioners, and Avhich were apparently most favourable to the operation, I have considered myself justified in doing this, though rarely mth ultimate success. I believe- that the general experience of British Surgeons is unfavourable to the opera- tion. On the other hand the French Sm-geons, and more particularly Trous- seau, arc strenuous advocates for the performance of tracheotomy in croup, and the operation is accordingly far more extensively practised in France than in this countiy. But even in Paris it is not a very successful procedure ; thus it appears that, at the Hospital for Sick Children in that city, the operation was performed in 215 cases in five years, and that of these only 47 were ciu’ed. Unless we assume that the disease, as occurring in Paris, is different from the form of croup we meet -with here, it may fairly be doubted whether an opera- tion which is in itself dangerous could be necessary in many of these in- stances, and whether a large proportion of the children might not have- recovered under ordinary medical treatment and without having recourse to- surgical operation. In Diphtheria, as in croup, there are several sources of danger. There is. not only pei-il from the obstruction of the pharyirx and larynx, by inflammation and the accumulation of exudation-matter, to such an extent as to indirce asphyxia, but there is also liability to pulmonary inflammation and congestion,, blood-poisoning, and exhaustion of the system. In diphtheria, as in croup, the windpipe may be opened when the patient is in imminent danger of death from la-ryngeal obstmetion ; and the fatal event may be warded off so far as it arises from this cause, and time be then afforded for proper treatment. F^en though the relief afforded by operation be only temporary in the- majority of cases, and the patients generally eventually die of the constitu- tional symptoms, yet it is obviously proper in cases still uncomplicated, and ■\yhere the danger of death from laryngeal asphyxia is’ imminent, that the- Surgeon should rescue the patient from its instant peril, and give him his only chanee of prolonging or of preserving life, by opening the windpipe, the trachea in children, the larynx in adults, being most suitable for operation. It has been very justly observed by Sir W. Jenner that, by opening the wind-