270 JLXOISION OF JOINTS AND BONES. this is the case, it is better to aj^ply the gouge to them than to saw the bone below their level. It is usually sufficient to remove from one-third to three- fourths of an inch of the tibia, and about one inch or an inch and a half of the thigh-bone (Figs. 458 and 459). Should, hoAvever, the operation be perfonned for disease of the limb, consequent upon the deformity resulting from badly reduced fractures or dislocations about the knee, as has been done successfully by Humphry of Cambridge, it may be necessary, in order to bring the limb into good position, to remove a wedge-shaped piece from one of the bones. If the patella be much diseased, it must be removed ; if it be only slightly carious, it may be scraped or gouged out; and if healthy, in accordance with that principle of conservative surgery by which no sound part is removed, it should be left, becoming consolidated with and strengthening the joint. The anterior articular surface of the thigh-bone, which extends some way up its forepart, may advantageously be sliced off, so as to leave an osseous siuface, instead of a cartilaginous one, for the attachment of the patella. In some cases no ligatures will be required, but usually two or three of the articular arteries furnish sufficient haemorrhage to require restraint. The patella flap when laid down will often appear inconveniently long and thick ; but it is better not to curtail it, unless the bones haA'e been shortened more than usual, as it will contract and eventually fit well. I have always found the operation, as it has just been described, easy of per- formance and good in its results ; but various modifications are adopted by different Siu’geons. Thus, some make one straight transverse incision ; others two parallel incisions, one on each side of the patella, or an H-shaped inci- sion, and thus open the articulation from the side. Jones of Jersey, who had great experience in this operation, advised that the skin be dissected up by means of a semilunar incision, and then that the ligamentum patellte be preserved by being pushed with the patella and the quadriceps extensor tendon to one side, the joint then opened, and the bones sawn. Others advise that the patella be removed; and Holt has recommended that, after the excision, the soft parts of the ham be perforated to allow the discharges to drain through. The result of the operation AviU mainly depend on the care taken in the after-treatment. After the operation, the limb should be at once put up securely in a Liston’s sphnt, and well supported. Subsequently, when gianula- tions spring up, it may most conveniently be placed in a long leather trough, extending from heyond the foot to the pelvis, and well padded; paiticulai attention being paid to the position of the limb, and especially to the pre- vention of any bowing outwards which is apt to take place. ^ In order to prevent displacement, it has been proposed to diAude the hamstring tendons ; this, however, I have never found necessary, nor docs it seem to me to be ad\isable to complicate the operation by such an addition to it. The pro- tuberance of the flap, if at all excessive, may be diminished by the pressure o a many-tailed bandage. In this way osseous ankylosis will ensue, and a good and useful sfraight limb result. In two cases I have succeeded in getting a good limb with a partially movable joint; both these cases were in diddrcn ; and I am disposed to think that in young patients this icsn t ^ TLvq satisfactorily attained. In adults, however, osseous ankylosis should awn,.