732 DISEASES OF THE LARGE INTESTINE AND ANUS. off; for, unless this be done, they become irritated, swollen, and inflamed by the presence of the ligatures, and constitute a source of mnch distress. The patient must now retnrn to bed, and shonld keep the recumbent posture until the ligatures separate, which usually happens from the sixth to the eighth day, when an ulcerated surface Avill be left, which, however, speedily closes and contracts. In some cases this process may be facilitated by the application of the nitrate of silver through a speculum ani. On the second day after the operation, the bowels may be opened with a dose of castor-oil. In the C(ft(i7'-treaiment of the case, care must be taken to prevent the recur- rence of those causes that gave rise to the affection in the first instance. After piles ha's e been tied, more particularly if they be seated towards the anterior part of the rectum, there is frequently great irritation set up about the neck of the bladder, so that the patient experiences difficulty in passing his urine, and sometimes suffers from complete retention ; a warm hip-bath, and a full dose of hyoscyamus and nitrous ether, will usually relieve this, and enable the urine to pass. In some cases, when the external piles are very large and vascular, and the patient debilitated, the ordinary rule of cutting them off may advantageously be deviated from, and a combination of the treatment by excision and hgature be adopted. In such cases an incision may be made through the integuments merely, and then the piles tied in the course of the groove thus formed. By these means the pain and constitutional disturbance- consequent on the inclusion of a portion of the integument in the ligatiu’e are avoided, at the same time that the risk of haemorrhage is not inciuTed. The treatment of piles by ligature is not altogether devoid of danger in per- sons of broken constitution. I -have more than once known death from pyaemia result in these cases. Smith's Operation.—Piles may be removed with but little fear of haemonhage by the method introduced by H. Smith, which is as follows. The pile is brought Fig. 704.—Smitii’s Clamp. doAvn and seized in a clamp (Fig. 701), fixed by a feAV tums of the screw, and cut off not too close to the clamp. The cut surface is then seared Avith a cau- terising iron, by which haemorrhage is prevented and cicatrisation facilitated. Th^ Removal of Piles by the Galvanic Ecraseur may easily and safely be effected, the pile being draAvn down with ring-forceps, and its base con- stricted by the platinum wire of the feraseur, which, being tightened, cuts off the projecting mass very readily. This treatment is, however, only to be adopted for internal piles. In them, it has the great advantage of preventing all htemorrhage by the searing of the cut surface by the hot wire ; and the contraction of the resulting cicatrix after the separation of the slough, tends still further to obliterate all dilated htemon-hoidal vessels. _ Caustics.—In certain kinds of internal piles, the application of nitric acui