4 DISEASES OF ARTERIES. Secondary Eeeects oe Arteritis.—These are of great importance. Arctation, or even complete occlusion, of the artery not unfrequently occurs, as a consequence of inflammation of the vessel. This usually results from chronic arteritis, often excited by the pressure of a tumour or by some other local irritant. As it is usually a slow process, there is abundant time for the anastomosing circulation to be set up : so that the vitality of the limb or part supplied by the diseased vessel is preserved. The artery that has been so narrowed and closed, ultimately becomes converted into a fibro-ceUular cord up to the nearest collateral branch, just as if it had been occluded by a ligature. The thrombosis which renders the vessel impervious by obliterating it, may in some cases give rise to gangrene of the parts supplied. This is especially apt to occur if the arteritis be acute, if the patient be aged, or if the plug be so situated as to occlude some of the principal anastomosing branches, so that there may not be time or opportunity for the collateral circulation to establish itself. In other cases, fibrine may not only be deposited at the part inflamed, but may, in the form of embola, be carried lower down than the original seat of disease, and thus accumulate in the terminal branches of the artery. The vessel will thus be obstructed at two points, between which a pernous part will be included. This double occlusion of the vessel, I beheve, renders gangrene of the limb ine'^dtable ; at least, in all those cases in which I have seen mortification result from arteritis, this condition has existed. The fibrine poured out at the inflamed point may in some cases be carried on through the terminal branches of the vessel into the capillaries, and thus may form buflp-coloured deposils in various organs, especially in the spleen. In other cases, the arteries and capillaries of a tract of tissue being thus plugged by embola, the blood in the veins leading from the part will coagulate ; and this coagulation, spreading into veins beyond the part primarily affected, vdU cause thrombosis of some larger veins. Should a piece of the thi’ombus projecting into a vein become detached, it will be carried on in the circulation until arrested at some point, as in the lungs, or, being aiTested in and obstruct- ing a venous tnnik, it may give rise to so-called phlebitis. Symptoms.—The liocal Symptoms of arteritis depend not only on the con- dition of the vessel itself, but on that of the parts which it supplies. The most marked are pain ; some tension and'stiffness of the affected limb ; a good deal of tenderness ; and a cord-like feehng along the inflamed vessel, in which also a jerking and forcible pulsation can be felt. The pain below the part of the artery that is inflamed, is ahvays very severe, and is distinctly of two kinds superficial and deep. The superficial pain is seated in the skin, which is exces- sively sensitive to the touch, so that the patient cannot bear the finger to be laid upon it, just as is the case in neinalgia ; it is smarting and pricking,^and, is, I believe, always associated with more or less loss of muscular power. The deep pain is bimiing and lancinating, and not only follows the com'se of the ^ essels, but strikes through the limb in different directions. If the inflamed part of the vessel lie not completely occluded by the plastic plug deposited in it, the pulsation in the arteries of the limb, below the seat of the disease, may continue much as usual; but in the majority of cases the pulsation ceases m all the vessels on the distal side of the inflamed spot, and the limb gradually