DISEASE OF THE HIP-JOINT. 320 It is of especial importance to adopt early measures. If we ■wisli to prevent tire occurrence of suppuration, dislocation, or ankylosis, the child must, on the supervention of the earliest symptoms of impending mischief about the joint, be put under proper constitutional treatment, and complete rest of the limb must be secured by a well-fitting leather splint. By early attention, a cure may be effected ; whereas, if the case be neglected in its first stages, the utmost ' I the Surgeon can do is to save the life of the patient; the limlj invariably )f falling into a shortened, withered, and distorted condition. ' When the disease is of the acute Arthritic kind, the patient must of course be kept in bed, and absolutely at rest, and be treated with calomel and opium freely administered, having a full dose of an opiate at night, in order to prevent the painful startings of the limb. The inflamed joint must be comfortably ' arranged upon pillows, so as to be kept in as easy a position as possible ; and '■ great relief wiU be afforded to the patient by the appheation of hot poppy- 4 fomentations. But no treatment will be of the slightest avail, unless Ave adhere rigidly to that principle which is paramount in the management of all acutely inflamed joints—absolute rest. Izi inflammation of the hip-joint, there are two methods of securing this : 1, by means of a weight attached to the limb ; 2, by I the long splint. Of the two methods, that by a weight is the best, as it enables 1 the Sm’geon to make any necessary application to the hip AAlthout distmbing ? the apparatus. In applying extension by means of a weight, the following plan j should be adopted (Fig. 487). The patient is placed on a hard mattress. The k pelvis and body are fixed to the bed by means of broad felt straps and buckles. jj I Fig. 4S7.—Apparatus for Extension Tjy Weights in Hip-joint Disease. A leather ankle-strap is then placed round the foot and lower part of the leg, and a padded belt above the knee. From the sides of each of these, straps arc carried to a point six or eight inches beyond the foot, where they are attached to a transverse iron rod, four inches long. From this the cord suspending ^ the weight passes over a puUey-frame fixed to the end of the bed. The weight applied should be from two to three pounds in childi’cn up to six yeai’s of age ; four pounds betiveen the ages of six and ten ; five or six pounds froin ten to thirty. If the long splint be used, it must be apphed as for fractured thigh, but without the perineal band. When the inflammatory action has been some- what subdued, the joint may be conveniently fixed by means of a eat ci sp ui