OSSEOUS ANKYLOSIS OF THE KNEE. 37.1 The Treatment of these cases is not very satisfactory. The obstacle to the restoration of the normal position of the joint is dependent, so far as the angular contraction is concerned, on shortening of the ligamentum posticiun, and the rotiitory displacement is kept up and rendered intractable by shortening of the anterior crucial ligament. jMere extension of the limb, whether gradual or forced, may counteract the angular deformity ; but it will not only leave the. other displacements uninfluenced, but may actually increase the displacement of the tibia backwards and the rotation of the leg outwards. A leg-and-thigh splint, such as in Fig. 031, but having, instead of the springs, a rack-and- pinioii apparatus working on three centres, so as to extend the limb, abduct the knee, and rotate the leg inwards, is the only contrivance by which this de- formity can be counteracted, and the limb properly restored to shape. In reference to the treatment' of these various deformities of the extremities, it may be stated generally that it is much easier to rectify faulty position than to restore mobility. The first may always be done by the various means that have been enumerated ; the latter can only be effected, if at aU, by long-con- tinued efforts on the part of the Sm-geou, by passive motion, frictions, sham- pooing, &c., aided by properly constructed apparatus. In ankylosis of the knee, after extension has been made, and the limb brought straight, the question arises as to Avhether mobility of the joint should be eucoiu-aged, or the limb kept straight and made stiff. The answer to this question will greatly depend on conditions of the muscles of the thigh. If the quadi’iceps extensor exhibit electric irritability, then, if the state of the joint admit it, motion may be attempted. If the muscle be insensible to the stimidus, then the joint had best be kept stiff. 3. Osseous Ankylosis of the Knee is not of very frequent occurrence. It is usually, if not invariably, the result of traumatic inflammation of the joint. If the limb be straight, no operation -will be ad’^isable ; if it be lent, so that the patient cannot put the foot to the gTound, the only remedy will be an operation. Ehea Barton, of Philadelphia, in 1835, proposed an operation for restoring the straight position of the limb in cases of complete osseous anlvylosis of the knee-joint with angular deformity. The proceeding consists in excisino- a wedge-shaped pieee of the shaft of the femim above the condyles, not including the whole diameter of the bone, then fracturing the undivided portion, and so bnnging the limb into a straight jiosition. Birch, of New York, in 1844, imdificd this operation by sawing out a wedge-shaped portion, consisting of the condyles of the femur, the patella, and the head of the tibia. According o bross, these two operations have been done in all in 21 cases, of Avhich 4 jiroyed fatal by pyaimia. In one case, that of Eeil, the femoral artery had to be tied for secondary hemorrhage from the popliteal on the fifteenth day • but the patient made au excellent recovery with an useful limb. Brainard of Uiicago, in 1854, proposed a simple and less severe method than either of the abme, tor the remedying of angular osseous aiilcylosis of the knee. It con- sisted m drilling the femur subcutaneously and then fracturing the bone rtiis opeiation Avas first done by Pancoast in 1859, and since then has been snccess u y practised by Bramard, Gross, and others, Avho have extended it to "'tI of fto patcnr The drill that is used .for this operation consists of a steel shaft 4^ inches