864 DISEASES OF THE PROSTATE. T). In Atony of the bladder from over-distension, the diagnosis is effected by observing the manner in which the urine flows on the introduction of a catheter. In prostatic obstruction—provided that the distension have not produced atony—tlie flow of urine is often forcible, and can be accelerated by the will of the patient; while, in atony, the m’ine simply runs out through the catheter. G. True Paralyses of the bladder, accompanied with a similar affection of other parts, is recognised by its concomitant conditions, and by the absence of physical signs of enlarged prostate, and, as in atony, by the passive natm’c of the flow of urine through the catheter, detention of Urine constitutes the great danger in advanced cases of enlarged prostate. It commonly comes on gradually, the patient having for some time before experienced considerable difficulty in passing his urine, and he ■will often find that the more he strains in his efforts to do this the less readily will it come away ; whereas, when he remains quiet, it -will usually flow with more freedom. The retention firom prostatic enlargement is of the mixed kind, there being always more or less incontinence, or rather overflow, conjoined with it. When the bladder has become tense, and the prostatic portion of the urethra put upon the stretch, the escape of a certain quantity of urine will take place, mitil, by the relief of the tension of the over-distended bladder, the parts about its neck and the enlarged prostate become relaxed, so that they again fall together, and thus, the urethra resuming its tortuoiis condition, the outlet is occluded. In these cases error may always be guarded against by the Surgeon feeling the enlarged bladder rising up above the pubes, and reaching perhaps as high as the umbiheus. This condition is an extremely dangerous one, not so much from any risk of the bladder or m-ethra giving way in conse- quence of over-distension, which very rarely happens in retention from enlarged prostate, as from the occmTence of atony of the bladder, or the probability of the early setting in of chronic inflammation of its mucous membrane, which is especially apt to take place. The bladder has usually not emptied itself com- pletely for a considerable length of time before the retention is complete; and a quantity of ropy mucus, having collected in the fundus behind the prostate, whence it cannot be expelled, becomes putrid, and thus disposes to the super- vention of that form of chronic inflammation of the vesical mucous membrane, which, occurring in a depressed state of the system, is especially apt to give rise to a brown tongue 'vuth quick pulse, and typhoid symptoms. Secondary inflammation of the kidneys terminating in suppuration is of fi’equent occur- rence. Indeed, when death ocem’s from prostatic disease, it usually takes place in this way. In some rare instances there is evidence of true incontinence of urine, the bladder being found empty and contracted, while the prostate is enlarged con- siderably but equally, so that the urethral orifice is patent. Treatment.—In the treatment of enlarged prostate, little, cazi be done by ‘ medical means ; though the patient’s condition may be somewhat ameliorated by remedies calculated to lessen irritation about the urinaiy organs, and to improve the condition of the urine. If it be very acid, alkalies with henbane should be given ; if neutral or alkaline, the dilute nitric acid with opium ; it mixed ■with ropy mucus or muco-pus, the infusion of buchu, or the balsams ot