988 DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITAL OIIGANS. 1. Medical Means exercise no influence in curing ovarian tumours, and but little, if any, in retarding tbeir progress. Specific treatment by means of mercury or iodine has always appeared to mo to hasten the progress of the malady, by breaking down the constitutional powers of the patient ; and attempts at promoting the absorption of the fluid by purgatives, diuretics, &c. are invariably unsuccessful. An ovarian cyst is a parasitic gi’owth, the tissues and structure of which are not inlluenced to increased power of absorption by the action of dcobstruents on the system generally. The utmost that can be done by medical means in such cases is, to attend to the general health and to support the patient’s strength by tonics. 2. Tapping in ovarian dropsy may be done as for ascites, through the linea alba ; but not mifrequently the tumoiu' presents more distinctly at some other- part of the abdominal wall, and may be emptied through the liuca semi- lunaris ; or, if multilocular, it may require the trochar to be inserted at dificrent points into its separate compartments. The paracentesis of ovarian cysts shordd, unless the disease be very acute, always be deferred as long as is compatible rvith the comfort of the patient; as it is not only followed by speedy re-accumirlation of the fluid, and often by rapid exhaustion, few patients surviving the first operation more than three or form years ; but is attended by certain special dangers, such as the risk of peritonitis, of exhaustion, or possibly even of the pmicture of the bladder, or of a coil of small intestine, Avhich is sometimes adherent to the anterior Avail of the ovarian cyst, and may be met with where httle expected. But independently of any positive danger of this kind, tapping an ovarian tumour is, as will immediately be stated, an operation that not only holds out no prospect of cure, but that is indeed usually the preciu-sor of a more speedily fatal termination to the case than Avould otherwise occur. As a means of temporary relief it is clearly only applicable to unilocular cysts or to those multilocular tumours in Avhich one cyst takes greatly the lead in point of size over the others. Indeed, so disastrous ai-e the results of tapping that, since the dev-elopment of ovariotomy and the increasing success of that operation, it is not often had recom-se to, being only practised in certain exceptional cases that either do not admit of complete extirpation of the tumoiu-, or in Avhich it is necessary for various reasons to defer that operation. 3. Tapping, conjoined witli Auxiliary Means, has occasionally suc- ceeded in effecting a cure of unilocular ovarian cysts. These auxihary means are of various kinds ; firm pressiue ; incision of the cyst; excision of a por- tion of its wall, plugging the apertiue in it ivith a tent; the introduction of a catheter or tube ; the establishment of a fistulous opening leading into the interior of the cyst, either through the anterior abdominal Ai all or thiough the vagina, have all been adopted in addition to simple tapping. However much these different procedures may vary in detail, they are aU conducted on one . principle ; viz., that of causing the gradual contraction^ of the cyst and the cohesion of its -walls—a principle of treatment Avhich is only applicable to unilocular cysts, and hence can only be had recourse to in a small number of cases, and those the simplest, of ovarian tumour. None of these means can be looked upon as curative, so far as ovarian disease is concerned. By means of them the cyst that is chiefly enlarged maybe made to coUapsc and conti-act.