934 DISEASES OF THE PENIS AND SCROTUM. vessels be tied ; 5, That the mucous membrane be well turned back, so as to cover in the gap left by the retracted skin ; G, That the hgatures be left long; 7, That as few sutimes as possible be used. Paraphimosis.—In farcquMmosin the prepuce has been forcibly drawn back behind the glans, which becomes strangled by the pressure exercised by the preputial orifice, so that the parts cannot be replaced in proper relation to one another. This accident principally ocem-s in boys, or in individuals who have naturally a tight prepuce, and who, on imcovering the glans, find it diiticult to get this part of the organ back. This difficulty is speedily and greatly in- creased by the swelling from congestion that is set up in the constricted glans. Treatment.—This is sufficiently simple. The Surgeon should first try to • reduce the swollen organ. He may often succeed in doing this by seizing the body of the penis between the index and middle fingers of each hand, and then endeavoming to draw the prepuce for- wards, at the same time that he com- presses the glans between the two thumbs and pushes it back (Fig. 832). Should reduction not be effected in this way, the constricted and strangulating preputial orifice must be divided. In doing this, the Surgeon will observe that the glans is separated from the body of the penis by a deep and narrow sulcus, which is especially evident on the upper part of the organ. , This sulcus, Avhich is over- lapped on one side by the glans and on the other by a fold of integument, corresponds to the imier margin of the preputial orifice ; and it is by the division of this, in which the stricture is situated, that immediate relief -will be given. This operation may readily be done by di-awing the glans forwards, then passing the point of a narrow-bladed scalpel into the sulcus on the dorsum of the penis, and making a perpendicular incision about one-third of an inch in length through the integuments at the bottom of the groove directly across it (Fig. 833). In consequence of the great stretching of the parts, the incision will immediately gape widely ; so that, instead of being longitudinal, it ■\vill appear to be transverse ; and then reduction of the glans may readily be effected. Balanitis.—Inflammation of the prepuce commonly occurs as the result of local iiritation from want of cleanliness, not imfrequently set up by a gonorrhma. When confined to the ' prepuce, and constituting ialanitis, that structure is much swollen, infiltiated, and reddened, and, while the inflammation lasts, continues in a state of phimosis. When the mucous membrane of the glans is affected as well, con- stituting Posthitis, there is a good deal of irritation and smai'ting, together with muco-purulent discharge. Fig. 833.—Incision in Opera- tion for Paraphimosis. Fig. 832.—Reduction of Paraxdiimosis.