255 Excmox OF CLAVICLE, AND ELBOW. readily enough arrested. The critical part of the operation consists in the di^•ision of the subscapular artery. This should be reserved for the last part of the operation ; as the vessel is cut, it should immediately be seized by an assistant and tied at once. _ , . , , i i. i The after-dressing of the large wound left is simple, and is to bo conducted on ordinary principles, the flaps being laid down and retained by a few points of suture. , ^ i Result.—The result of the operation is satisfactory, by flir the larger pro- portion of patients on whom it has been practised having made quick recoveries from the operation, oven though some have succumbed at an early period to a recurrence of the disease for which it was practised. Indeed, the danger is much less than might at first be supposed from an operation of such magnitude. Clavicle.—The clavicle may require to be partially or wholly excised. In caries or necrosis of this bone, portions of it may be gouged away oi extracted without much difficulty, the bone being rarely affected through its whole thick- ness, and its posterior part consequently not requiring removal; but when, in consequence of the growth of tumoiu’s, the removal of the whole or greater part of the bone is required, the operation is one of the most hazardous in surgery, as a glance at the anatomy of the parts lying beneath the bone, and encroached upon by the morbid growth, will indicate. In 1828 ^lott excised the clavicle for an osteo-sarcoma which measured four inches in diameter. This operation was one of great difficulty ; it occupied four hours in its performance, and forty ligatm'es were required to restrain the haemorrhage. The subclavian vein, thoracic duct, and phrenic nerve were exposed, but the patient made a good recovery, and was alive many years after the operation had been performed. Similar operations, but not perhaps of quite so formidable a character, have been performed by Warren, Travers, Curtis of Chicago, Cooper of San Fran- cisco, and other Surgeons. It is obviously impossible to lay down definite rules for the performance of an operation in which the circumstances must vary so greatly in each case as in this, and for the safe conduct of which the Surgeon must be mainly indebted to his anatomical knowledge. It may be stated generally that the bone requires to be exposed by a free incision along its whole length : it is then sawn across or disarticulated at its acromial articulation, and carefully dissected out in a direction from without inwards, the sternal end being forcibly tivisted outwards, and its ligamentous connections carefully divided, care being taken to preserve the important vascular and nervous structures in the lower posterior cervical region, and to prevent the entry of air into any cut vein by the ligature of the vessel before its dinsion. The sternal end ouly of the clavicle has been excised by Davie of Bungay in a case in which dislocation backwards had resulted from deformity of the spine, and the luxated end, gradually pressing upon the cesophagus, threatened the life of the patient. The bone was cut through by means of a Key’s saw about an inch from its sternal end, and, the sterno-clavicular ligaments having been divided, the portion of bone was forcibly elevated, and at last extracted. Elbow-joixt.—In tracing the history of the introduction of excision of the elbow-joint into surgical practice, we find, as is the case in several other parts, that it was first partially and then wholly done for injury, and proposed by one Surgeon and eventually practised by another for disease.