SPECIAL IIERNIAE. 6s6 abdominal ring, which it greatly distends and renders round and open, it becomes covered by the intercolnmnar fascia, receiving also a partial invest- ment around its neck from some of the expanded and thickened fiI)rons bands that lie near the ring, and Avliich are always most marked upon its outer side. Relations.—The relations of the spermatic cord and testes, and of the epigastric artery, to an inguinal hernia, are of groat importance. The sjier- matic cord vdll almost invariably bo found to be situated behind or rather underneath the oblique inguinal hernia ; and the testis will be found to lie at its lower and back part, where it may always be distinctly felt. In some cases the elements of the spermatic cord become separated, the vas deferens lying on one side, and the spermatic vessels on the other. In other rare cases, an instance of which there is in a preparation in the University College Museum, the hernia lies behind the cord and has the testis in front. In other cases, again, it may happen that the elements of the cord are all separately spread out on the forepart of the hernial tumoiu’. The epirjastric artenj has the same relations to the obhque inguinal hernia that it has to the spermatic cord, lying to the inner side of and behind its neck. The pressure of large and old inguinal hemise has, however, a tendency to modify somewhat the relations of this vessel. By distending the rings, and dragging the posterior wall of the canal downwards and inwards, they shorten the canal, and cause a great deflexion of the artery from its natural course, which is changed from an oblique direction to one curved doAvnwards and inwards, under the outer edge of the rectus muscle. Direct Ihguixal Herjiia.—This does not pass out like the obhque through the internal abdominal ring, but pushes forwards through a triangular space,, which is bounded by the epigastric artery on the outer side, the edge of the rectus on the inner, and the cnu’al arch at its base ; through this the hernial tumour protrudes, pushing before it or ruptm-ing the posterior wall of the inguinal canal. Coverings.—These vary according to the length of the canal that the hernia traverses, and the portion of the posterior wall through which it pro- trudes. In fact, there are at least two distinct forms of direct inguinal hernia, which differ according as they are situated above or below the remains of the umbiheal artery. One, the most common variety, is situated below the cord- like remains of this vessel, between it and the outer edge of the rectus. The other, which is of less frequent occurrence, is situated above this vessel, between it and the epigastric artery. In that form of direct inguinal hernia, which lies toeloxo the umbilical artenj, the protrusion takes place through that part of the posterior nail of the inguinal canal which is situated almost behind and opposite to the external i-ing. In this situation, the investments successively received by the hernia aret first, the peritoneum, the subperitoneal fat, and the fascia transversalis ; it then comes into contact with the conjoined tendons of the internal obhque and transversalis muscles, which it may either rupture or push before it, thinned out and expanded. Most frequently these are ruptured, constituting a partial investment to the protrusion, which is most evident on the most part of the sac, that which is nearest the mesial line. As tne