839 MxiLFORMATIONS OF THE BLADDER. CHAPTER LXX. —*— diseases of the bladder. CONGENITAL MALPOKMATION. Extroyeusiox op the Bladder, consisting in an absence of the anterior wall of the organ, with defieiency in the coiTesponding part of the abdominal parietes, is occasionally met with as a congenital malformation. It may occur in either sex, but is most common in males. This condition essentially consists in an arrest of development, in consequence > of which the anterior part of the pelvic girdle is deficient, the bodies of the pubic bones being imperfectly developed and the symphysis being absent. The recti muscles separate at their lower part, and pass obliquely outwards to be inserted into the lateral abutments of the pubic bones. A triangular space is thus left, into which the bladder is forced, and where its anterior wall, being fused with the common integuments, becomes deficient and thus leaves the interior exposed. At this spot also the umbilical cord traverses the abdominal waU, and thus the umbilicus wiU be found wanting in all these cases, and the urethra to be in a state of epispadias. The posterior wall of the bladder, being pushed forwards by the pressm-e of the abdominal viscera behind, forms a rounded tumour about the size of a small orange just above the pubes. The surface of this tumom’ is red, vascular, and papillated, evi- dently composed of mucous membrane ; at its lower aspect the orifices of the ureters wfil be observed to open, and to discharge the mine in drops or in a stream. For a full description of the mechanism of the passage of the urine in this malformation, I would refer to a case which fell under my notice, and in which I made a number of experiments on the rapidity of the passage of foreign matters through the kidneys, reported in the Medical Gazette for 1845. This malformation is of the most distressing kind. The odoim constantly exhaled from the patient by the dribbling of the mine is a source of annoyance to himself and of disgust to others. In order to render his presence at all tolerable to others, this dribbling must be prevented by some mechanical con- trivance. With this view the patient should wear a properly constructed instrument to receive and collect the urine, consisting of a hollow shield strapped over the part, communicating by means of a tube with an India- iTibber bottle, which may be attached along the inside of the thigh. Treatment.—Up to a comparatively recent period this condition was considered incurable. Of late years, however, operations have been devised and practised with the view of covering in the exposed bladder, forming an anterior wall to