ANEURISM. 62 in M liicli the flow of blood tlivougb the feeding artery can be stopped in the same way. Its application is therefore somewhat limited, and its use is still further restricted by the pain and insupportable annoyance occasioned in many cases by forced flexion of the limb, necessitating, as in Mannoir’s case, a relaxation of the method, which, however, was still effecti^■e in curing the aneurism. Nothing can be simpler than the details of this plan. It consists, in the lower limb, in bandaging the limb and then gradually flexing the leg upon the thigh, so that the heel is brought up towards the buttock, where it is retained by a strap or bandage. The patient is at the same time confined to bed, and put under proper constitutional treatment. By this means, the popliteal artery being bent at an acute angle, the circulation through it is nearly, if not com- pletely arrested ; and the obstacle to the flow of blood is still further increased by the compression of the tumour between the posterior flat surface of the femur and the upper part of the calf. In this way the anem'ism is most favourably situated for the consolidation of its contents, which, in the recorded cases, has often taken place at an early period. The principle on which the cure is effected in these cases appears to be, that by flexion the artery leading to and fi’om the sac, and the aneiu’ism itself, are so compressed that retardation of the circulation ensues, and deposition, of laminated fibrine takes place in the usual way. The compression by flexion, like every other method of treating anem-isms, occasionally fails. It is most likely to be attended by success in those cases in which the aneurism is small, situated low in the popliteal space, and in a young •or middle-aged subject, Avho can bear the continued flexion without much inconvenience. When flexion is not sufficient of itself to cm-e an aneurism, it may very advantageously be had recourse to in addition to other methods of treatment, more especially with that by digital compression. The statistics of the treatment by flexion require to be carried down to the present time. Those published by Fischer in 1870 comprised 57 cases. Of these 28 were cined—20 being by compression alone ; and in 29 the method failed. COMPEESSION BY ACUPRESSURE of the main artery leading to the sac is a means that, I think, might in certain cases be temporarily employed with ad- vantage, and the consolidation of the aneinism thus obtained in cases where compression by the ordinary methods, digital or instrumental, is not piacticable. With this vieAV a long and strong curved needle, such as the stilet of a rectum- trochar, might be dipped deeply under the artery and vein, e.g., the common femoral, and the artery compressed against this by means of a cork and twisted suture for several hours—the vein being left free. The patient might be kept under chloroform, if necessaiy. When consolidation of the contents of the sac Avas obtained, the compressing means might be removed. Such a method of treatment might possibly be advantageously combined in certain extreme and exceptional cases Avith the injection of the sac Avith the perchloride of iion, or the use of electro-puncture. _ The various methods of employing compression, viz., by clamps, by Aveight, by flexion, and by the finger, may often be advantageously combined in the same