DISEASES OF JOINTS. 228 more than natural, and on examination seems larger and thicker than natural (Fig. 438). On rotating the limlj, the movements of the bone are extremely limited, and crackling, grating, or osseous crepitation will often be felt around the joint. As Smith remarks, the lumbar vertebras acquire great mobility, the thigh on the alfceted side is wasted, but the calf retains its natural size and firnmess. Pathological Changes.—On examination after death, it will be found that the joint, the bones, and the sm-rounding parts, have undergone remarkable changes. The capsular ligament is thickened, and the syirovial membrane is of a bright red coloiu’, vascular, and fringed in some parts, whilst it has dis- appeared in others. The round ligament is destroyed, and the head of the bone denuded of membrane, the vascular fringes being attached around the neck. The head of the bone becomes remarkably altered in shape, being flattened, greatly increased in size, or placed more or less at a right angle Avith the shaft, sometimes elongated, and always very irregular and tuberous. The neck is more or less absorbed, and in some cases appears as if it had undergone fractm-e. The acetabulum generally becomes enlarged, sometimes of a more or less circular and flattened shape ; in other cases pro- jecting at its rim, narrowed, and embracing tightly the head of the thigh-bone (Fig. 439). Both it and the upper part of the thigh-bone become porous, and perforated with numeroirs small foramina. Stalactitic masses of bone and porcellanous Fig. 439.—Section of Hip-Joint affected t)}’Dry Clu-onic Bheunmtic Arthritis. deposits are commooly throrm out about the base of the troohauter, but more partieularly along the iutertroehanteric Imcwitbm the capsule of the jomt, an Tt mfi-equently in the soft tissue around it. In many ca*s he apparent increase in the sise of the head of the bone is dependent on the depositions of these masses of osseous tissue upon it, rather than on ai^ expansion oi osteo- Toros “oTthe upper articular e^d of the thigh-bone These mas*s o bone constitute one of the most important characters presence that eommmiioates the peouhar craeklmg that s fe Un tte * a 1,-fp Tbp muscles and soft strnctm-es in ,the vicinity of the joint aie necessarily ttted"rdisuse and pimtly from the piussure of the morbid masses of bone. carefully studied the pathology of fhP PivHlao-e and secondarily affects the synovial The disease commences in the caitila e anci membrane and bone. The cartilage i fiiomput'? The cartilage- the intercellular substance becomes broken up m cavities are enlarged and contain an excess of cells, but tbesc