963 STRUCTURE OF TUBERCULAR TESTICI^E. felt. The gland itself may rr Fig. S40.—Tubercular Testi- cle, showing the diseased E])i- tlidyiiiis forming a crescentic mass partially suiTounding tlie healthv body. iu«j feel soft and natimal, or a nodule or tiyo may be felt in its substance. Tl.o affcotion is scarcely nnd in the earlier stages the scrotum is unaftected. ihe speimatic com ivill usually present no gcneial thickening, but the vas deferens is enlarged, liefer feeling like a“ piece of ivhipcord between the fingers, it may be as large as a quill. If the disease have extended to the vesiciihx! semin.ales, these can be felt enlarged and hardened by introducing the finger into the rectum. There is little or no pain, and on squeezing the gland the ordinary sensations will be perceived by the patient except in a very advanced stage of the disease. As the disease advances, one of the craggy nodules^ softens, and the skin becomes adherent over it. This process is accompanied by more acute inflammation, usually caus- ing marked increase of pain and tenderness. The adherent skin becomes red and shining, and finally gives way, and the tuberculous abscess dischaiges it- self, leaving an unhealthy cavity yielding thin pus mixed with soft, shreddy whitish-yellow sloughs. In some favourable cases the cavity may granulate and close completely, or leave merely a fistulous opening discharging small quantities of serous fluid. In most cases, however, the process of softening extends, other nodules break down, and a great part of the testicle may be destroyed. If an abscess should form in the body of the gland, a hernia or fungus testis may follow, as in simple chronic orchitis. Occasionally exuberant granulations may sprout out ’from the region of the epididymis, closely resembling the true fungus testis. The general health suffers greatly, and at a comparatively early stage of the case tubercular disease of the lungs is almost' certain to make its appearance. In the great majority of cases, the opposite testicle also becomes affected. Death usually results from the disease of the lungs, but it may occur fr’om acute general tuberculosis with tubercular meningitis. Occasionally the disease may extend to the urinary tract, and terminate fatally from tubercular disease of the kidneys. In some cases of phthisis,in which the testicles enlarge, and yet give but little trouble, the whole organ, both body and epididymis, may be found converted into a uniform soft cheesy mass. A specimen of two such testicles, fi'om a patient who died fi-om disease of the Imigs, is in the Museum of University College. In cases of acute general tuberculosis, grey granulations have been found in the testicles. Slructure—Qi{ making a section from before backwards through a typical specimen of tubercular disease of the testicle, the following conditions will be found. The tunica vaginalis may be perfectly healthy, or may be here and there adherent to the tunica albuginea. The tunica albuginea will be normal in appearance, except in the immediate neighbourhood of a tubercular gTOwth, where it will be thickened. That part of the body of the gland nearest the surface may be perfectly healthy in appearance ; there is no thickening of the septa, and the tubules can be teased out under water as in a healthy testicle. As Ave approach the corpus Highmorianum, the gland