27 SYMFT02IS OF DIFFUSED ANEURISM. the size of the tumour, and the cessation of the pulsation and Iruit on compressing the vessel leading to the sac, and the immediate and sudden return of these signs on remoring the pressure from the artery. r f ^ :^IauY of the symptoms that have just been described are peculiar to and their cLbination is characteristic of anem-ism, being dependent on the com- munication that exists between the artery and the sac. dhose that result from the i)ressm-e of the sac upon neighbouring parts are common to aneurism and to any other kind of tumour ; but, though not of so special a character as those that have just been described, they are of considerable importance in determining the nature of the disease when taken in conjunction with the other symptoms. Symptoms of Diffused Aneurism.—When a sacculated circumscribed aneurism becomes diffused, the sac having given way, but the blood being still bomided by the tissues of the limb, the patient experiences a sudden and acute pain in the part, and usually becomes pale, cold, and faint. On examination, it will be found that the tumour has suddenly and gTeatly increased in size,^ at the same time that it has lost its circumscribed and distinct outline, dhe pulsation and bruit become materially diminished in force and in distinctness, having receded as it were from the surface, and may disappear altogether. The limb may also become oedematoiis, or may suffer in other ways fr’om the diffused effects of the pressme of the aiiem-ismal swelling upon the neighbouring veins and tissues. At the same time, the circulation in it being greatly obstructed, the limb may become cold and livid, and a sensation of weight and general inutility wdl be experienced in it. In these circumstances the anemlsmal swelling usually becomes harder, in consequence of the coagulation of the blood in the areolar tissue around the sac ; by which indeed the fm’ther extension of the disease is arrested, and a fresh boundary is often formed, so as to bmit the extravasated blood. If it be left to itself, the tumour will now usually rapidly increase in size, sometimes without, sometimes Avith much pulsation, and per- haps evidence of inflammatory action around it, so that at last it may so obstruct the circulation through the limb as to occasion gangTene ; or, if it adA^ance towards the surface, the skin coA^'ering it becomes thinned and reddened, the tumour becomes soft and semi-fluctuating, OAviug to the coagulum breaking doAvn, and eA’entually external ruptm’e of the sac AviU ensue. In some cases it happens that, Avhen rupture of the sac takes place, the effused blood, instead of being limited by the surrounding areolar tissue, be- comes suddenly and Avidely extravasated into the substance of the limb. A\Tieu this untoAvard accident happens, the shock and local disturbance are very great, and the patient is suddenly seized Avith a A’ery severe lancinating and numbing pain in the part. The pain is most severe in those cases in Avhich the rupture takes place under the deep fasciae, by AA'hich the effused blood is tightly bomid down; and it may be so severe as to occasion syncope. In other instances, faintness occurs from the sudden loss of blood out of the current of the circula- tion into the substance of the part, the SAvelling being greatest in those instances m Avhich the blood is suddenly and largely effused into the areolar tissue. If the extravasation happen in a limb, this will become greatly swollen, hard, brawny, and cold. The superficial veins are congested, and the circulation in the lower parts of the memljer is soon completely an-ested by the pressure