500 PLASTIC SURGEIIY OF THE FACE AND MOUTH. broken fragment of bone, which has actually occuiTed, is not an unlikely accident. Fistulous Opexixgs a'lmouGH the Nasal Bohes leading into the in- terior of the nostrils are occasionally mot witli. Such apertures as these are, perhaps, best closed by paring the edges, and then bringing forward a flap of neighbouring skin by the gliding operation. In some cases of this kind, pro- cedures may be required, in which the Siu’geon may display much ingenuity and benefit his patient greatly. The cuts represent a case many years since- under my care, before and the day after operation, in which a large apertine- into the side of the nose, resulting from necrosis of the left nasal bone con- sequent on scarlatina (Fig. 5!) 9), was successfully closed by a flap of skin taken from the forehead by the twisting process (Fig. COO). The patient, who was a child at the time of the operation, has since grown into a comely woman,, presenting scarcely a trace of the operation. Operation for Depressed Nose.—Sometimes the nose is depressed and flattened in consequence of the loss of the cartilages, vomer, and septum,, though the external parts remain entire. Dieffenbach has proposed a plan for raising it by slitting it longitudinally into three pieces ; dissecting the lateral slips from the osseous attachments ; paring the edges to such an extent that they overlap, and stitching them together; then bringing the whole organ forwards by pushing long hare-lip pins across its base, so as to elevate and narrow its attachments, which are brought more into the mesial line. Fergnsson has. improved this procedure by not slitting the nose down, but dissecting it away fr’om the bones from within the nostril, and then pushing long steel-pointed silver needles across from cheek to cheek, and twisting their ends over per- forated pieces of sole-leather, through Avhich they had previously been passed,, thus bringing the whole organ bodily forwards. The columna is next fashioned in the way ivhich has already been described ; and the nose is completed. PLASTIC SURGERY OP THE LIP. Hare-lip.—By hare-lip is meant a congenital perpendicular fissure or fissm’es through the upper lip, the result of an arrest of development. The condition thus produced in man is, according to Geofih’oy St. Hilaire, not analogous to what is met with in the hare, but to that which ocem’s in animals of a lower gvade of organisation—in fishes. The arrest of development takes place at the outer border of the intermaxillary bones, and is usually asso- ciated with a certain amount of disunion or malformation at the line of junction between these and the superior maxillary bones. When the arrest of develop- ment takes place on one side only, the hare-lip is said to be Single (Fig. 60f). In it the mesial side of the gap is usually rounded; the outer edge is flattened; and the frasnum at the angle is long and subcutaneous. It most frequently, so far as I have observed, occurs upon the left side. Not unfrequently there is a fissure on each side of the mesial line ; and then the hare-hp is said to be Double (Figs. 602, 603). AVhen double, the fissure is deeper on one side than on the other, and usually extends into the nostril, and is associated ivith cleft palate ; though sometimes it stops short of this. In these cases the nose is usually flattened and expanded, and between the fissures there is always a central or medium lobule, consisting of the intermaxillary bones m a nidi-