45° OPHTHALMIC SURGERY. wliicli, incleecl, became clear to us some years a"o, Avhen the traction-instru- ments were im'entecl; and 2nd. That it is equally unnecessary as a rule, even with the smaller opening, and very undesirable on all accounts if its use can be avoided, to introduce any tract!on-instrument within the eye, as is done in the operation last described. (If Von Griife used any such aid in any case, it was a small blunt hook instead of a spoon.) The incision is made with a knife like a sharp-pointed tenotomy-knife, by puncture and counter-puiictmc, of perhaps one-fourth of the circle of the sclerotico-comeal junction. Attached to the corneal flap is left a flap of conjunctiva to cover the incision. An iridectomy is made, and, of course, the lens-capsule is lacerated in the usual manner. To evacuate the lens, the back of the curette is pressed against the sclerotic margin of the incision, and the necessary counter-pressure below is made with the fixing forceps. The cortical lens-matter generally remains to be removed, after the nucleus has come out or has been removed by the hook placed under and around it. Yon Griife says that the advantages are the following:—1st, the incision is linear; in consequence of which the co-aptation of the edges of the wound is more perfect than is the case after a flap incision, and there is less risk of gaping of the wound, permitting loss of 'sdtreous humour after the performance of the operation : 2nd, it is peripheral, passiug chiefly through a vascular texture, in which the healing process occurs more rapidly than in a non-vascular tissue : 3rd, the incision may be viewed as subconjunctival, being covered by a flap of conjunctiva ; 4th, a portion of iris is removed, and thus no prolapse of his can occur, and the tendency to iritic inflammation is diminished : 5th, in most cases no instrument is introduced to assist the evolution of the lens, and, when such is necessary, a hook merely is employed; and 6 th, the after-treatment is of short dmration. Now probably no extraction by Von Grafe’s method is ever done in all its stages, exactly as Von Griife used to do it, and no operator is free from all prejudice in favom’ of his own particular modifications, which indeed to him only, it may be, are advantages in operating ; but some few practical remarks as to my own experience of this now estabhshed method of performing the most important of the capital operations in eye surgery may be useful. The pupil is under the influence of atropine. The anaesthetic preferred may be feai’lessly given ; and, the patient being well under its influence, a spring speculum (Fig. 564, a) is introduced between the lids, and the eye itself steadied by grasping a considerable fold of conjunctiva at some distance below the lower margin of the cornea, ivith the toothed forceps (Fig. 564, V). For either eye to be operated on, I stand, as usual, behind the head of the patient lying on the couch, and hold the forceps generally in my left hand, because, in my way of making the corneal section, the knife for either eye may be as conveniently held in the right hand. I prefer a Sichel’s knife, as m iridectomy (p. 436), in the present operation ; not that there is anything to be .feared in wounding the lens, or that it cuts better than Von Griife’s, but because A\ith it a section of the cornea can be made less obliquely in all its extent th.m by puncture and counter-puncture, which, in iridectomy for glaucoma, is also an advantage ; and especially because, with so small a section of the cornea as is now made, the counter-puncture extremity of the section, when a counter-punctuie