5 STRUCTURAL DISEASES OF ARTERIES. loses its temperature, becoming of a dark or Inud colour, and cold; yet the inordinate sensibility of the surface continues. As the (jarujrem advances, however, this is lost; the parts, at the time that they lose their sensibility, assuming the ordinary character of dry, shrivelled, or mummified gangrene, until all indications of vitality cease. If, however, the veins be plugged, as well as the arteries, the dark moist variety of mortification wiU result. In this way some of the cases of so-called “ spontaneous gangrene ” are occasioned (Vol. I. p. 6G1). . . . The Spontaneous Gangrene resulting from arteritis may occur in the upper as well as in the lower extremities, and is not unfrequently met with in young people. In most of the cases which I have seen, it has occurred in individuals under the age of thirty. When it is the result of pm’e arteritis, independent of any other structural afiection of the coats of the vessel, the gangrene most commonly occurs in the upper extremity. Arteritis, however, is by no means necessarily followed by mortification ; the liability to the loss of vitality depends on the seat of the inflammation, being greater when it takes place ill the neighboiu'hood of the large collateral trunks of the limb, and when it is of an acute character, so that the anastomosing circulation has not time to establish itself. It also ocem’s more frequently when the arteritis is idiopathic than when it is traumatic ; as then a larger extent of vessel is plugged, and there is a greater tendency to the occlusion of the collateral branches, which are necessary to the preservation of the vitahty of the limb. The embolism of the terminal branches, by the plastic matter poured out at the seat of inflammation and washed down into the lower part of the limb, is a frequent cause of gangrene. STRUCTURAL DISEASES OP ARTERIES. An artery may be the seat of various Structural Lesions, which play an important part, not only in giving rise to ulterior diseases in the vessel itself, but in disposing to various affections of the organs which it supplies. If we look upon an artery as a tube composed of tissues that differ largely in their organisation and structure, we must necessarily consider their diseases to be equally 'v aried ; and we shall find that, whilst the changes which take place in the external coat, in which the whole , of the vital or nutritive activity of the vessel resides, are chiefly conservative, those that have their seat in the internal and middle coats have a destructive tendency. This important difference in the character of the diseases of the coats of the vessel, is dependent on the relative degrees of vascularity and of vitality possessed by these structures. The diseases of the internal coat are the most interesting in a pathological point of view ; those of the external coat in a practical one. The coats of an artery are liable to the following changes :—1. Plastic Deposit on and under the lining 'membrane ; 2. Fatty and Granular Degene- ration ; and 3. Calcification. 1. Plastic Deposits on the free surface are of a fibrino-albuminous cha- racter, occurring in the form of rounded, semi-transptu’ent, and glistening masses, usually met with in the aorta or larger arteries around the mouths of their secondary vessels, or of ancurismal sacs—not unfrequently appearing to be agglomerated on calcareous spicula, and attaining great thickness. They