63S exposure of the sac. is souo-ht, or in fruitless efforts to reduce the sn’elling before the Patient’s admission. Not only is time lost in this way, but the bowel is often bruise and injimoiisly squeezed, so that the inflammation already cxistin^ in it i^ considerably increased. OPERATION FOR. STBANaULATED HERNIA The operation for strangulated hernia maybe performed ni two ways; either by opening the sac, exposing its contents, and dividing the stricture, vheic’sei it is situated,/row ivitlwi; or it may be done by divid- ing the stricture outside, without opening the sac. In either case the great object of the operation, the di^dsion of the strictm-e by the knife, is the same ; but the mode in which it is effected is different. We shall first describe the ope- ration in which the sac is opened ; afterwards that in which it is not; and then briefly compare the two rig. C74.—operation for Hernia: Dirision of the Skin, procedures. OPERATlOJf IK WHICH THE Sac IS OPEKED.—Exposure of the Sac.—The patient having been brought to the edge of the bed, or placed on a table of convenient height, the bladder is emptied, and the parts that are the seat of operation are shaved. The dissection of the hernial coverings in layers anatomically ar- ranged, is never done at an operation. The Surgeon dissects, or rather cuts, down to the sac, then turns aside the coverings as a whole, and divides the stricture. He proceeds as fol- lows : An incision of sufficient length is made over the neck of the sac ; this may be best done by pinching up a fold of skin, pushing the scalpel through its base with the back of the instrument turned towards the hernia, and then cutting upwards (Fig. G74). A linear incision is thus made, which may be extended at either end if necessary ; the dissection is then can-ied through the \ superficial fascia and fat with the scalpel and forceps. ^ If any small artery spout freely, it had better be tied at oncc„ lest the bleeding obstruct the view of the part in the subsequent steps of the operation. As the Surgeon approaches the sac, more caution is required, particularly if the subserous areolar tissue be dense, opaque, and laminated. The Surgeon must pinch this up with the forceps, make a small incision into it, introduce a director, and lay it open upon this, or on the finger (Fig. G75).