466 OPIITIIALMIG SURGERY. more adrancod in years. If if; 'were not so, the excision operation -would bo more generally adopted in cases of disease of the front only of the eye. The stump of an eye left, if it can he made useful, is a much better foundation for an artificial eye to ho -worn upon, than is the cushion only of the soft parts left far back in the orbit by excision ; and the ocular muscles haye a definite j insertion and action. The healing of an abscissed globe is tedious, and per- haps painful; whereas there is no trouble or anxiety whatever about the heal- ing after the excision of an eye. But few comparatively of our hospiial patients ■will or can have the opportunity in future years of continuing to pro-ride themselves Avith an artificial eye, every year or two, wdien a new one is required. Aud it is absm’d to do an abscission in any case unless the patient intended to wear a glass eye ; he had much better have the offending globe removed at once and altogether, if for that reason only. In private practice we can better depend on our patients not neglecting any symptoms against Avhich they arc Avarned ; and, of course, the stump of an abscissed globe can be excised at any time if it began to be painful or tender. Operation.—An incision, oval horizontally, through the sclerotic and other coats of the eye, is made to enclose the cornea, ciliary body, and lens, all of which are removed together. Sutures may or may not be used to drair the sides of the gap together, from above and below, to retain better the vitreous body, to hasten the time of healing, and leave a better shaped stump and smaller scar. But the sutures sometimes give much pain, and keep up inflammatory symp- toms during the protracted healing. Supposing they are employed, three or four stout and semicircular curved needles, each with a silver-wire or black silk thread, are inserted in a row above the cornea, at about half an inch from the comeal margin. These are respectively carried at some distance behind the ciliary body and lens, and brought out below the cornea at about as far fr’om the corneal margin as they were when introduced. Then a punctm-e is made with a pointed knife through the coats of the eye at about half an inch external to the margin of the cornea, and by it one blade of a bhmt-pointed scissors is introduced, and so an oval piece of sclerotic, including the cornea, &c., is removed altogethei’, and just within the points at AAfrich, above and below, the needles traverse the sclerotic. Then the needles are dra-wn through, and the sutures are tied in knots each to each. THE OPHTHALMOSCOPE. The advantages of the ophthalmoscope, in a surgical point of view, and as an aid in the treatment of eye-diseases generally, have been alluded to (p. 418, | ct seq.). Fig. 573 represents the way in which I recommend the instrument to be used. The patient rests and steadies his head against a high upright-backed chair. (Ophthalmic Hospital Reports, vol. III. p. G4), and the observer, standing.before him, can easily move his head, not only from side to side, as Avhen he is seated in the way usually recommended, but he can as easily look irom above or below • and this is more convenient, as he can more easily command his own movements than those of the patient’s eyes. The best common ophthalmoscope is Liebreich’s. It has a small, polished, slightly concave metal mirror, reflect-