534 DISEASES OF THE HOD Til AND THROAT. the tonsil is largo, rather pale, hard, smooth, and semi-clastic. This disease is one "which occurs in children and young persons who have a general ten- dency to struma of the mucous membranes and their appendages. [Most commonly it develops vdthout any assignable or external cause, usually com- mencing at five or six years of age, and gradually increasing up to puberty, a period when the functional activity of these glands is greatest, and when they arc most exposed to irritation from zymotic diseases, especially scarlatina and measles. When once the tonsils have enlarged, they become a source of great inconvenience and of even serious derangement of health. The child is liable to attacks of inflammation of the throat, the tonsils then becoming congested, greatly swollen, and readily running into ulceration or suppuration. In consequence of these repeated attacks of inflammation, the enlargement of the tonsils increases, they become indurated, rugged-looking, and nodulated, projecting far forwards into the fauces, and sometimes even touching each other below the uvula. Kespiration, articulation, and deglutition are now SQi'iously interfered with. The mucous membranes of the nose and eyes become chronically congested, and there is an increased secretion, from the back of the throat and nose, of thick, tenacious, unhealthy, or foetid material, the swallowing of Avhich- is deleterious. The child cannot sleep without snoring, and is apt to start up with a feeling of suffocation; the voice becomes thick and husky ; the sense of hearing is blunted; and, partly from the in- cipient deafness, partly from the diffi- culty of breathing, causing the child to keep its mouth half open, the counte- nance assumes a peculiar vacant, semi- idiotic expression, which is very charac- teristic of the advanced stages of the disease. The most serious effect is the impediment to inspiration, Avhich in the more chronic and severe forms of enlarged tonsils will go to such an extent as to prevent the full inflation of the lungs, and thus occasion a per- manent flattening and contraction of the chest, imperfect aeration of the blood, and an interference with general nutrition. The Treatment of chronic enlai-ge- ment of the tonsils will vary according to the age of the child, and the degree and kind of hypertrophy and indura- tion of these organs. In the eailier and slighter forms of the disease, the enlargement of the tonsils may gradu- . ally subside as the child giws older and stronger ; and it is well not to be in too great a hurry to excise the tonsds m Fig. 63(3.—Tonsil-Guillo- tine aijplied. Fig. 037.—Tonsil Guillotine shut.