989 HISTORY OF OVARIOTOMY. But secondary cysts developed in its wall, or at its base, and whose develop- ment has been kept in abeyance l)y the pressure and absorption of nutrition by the larger cyst, will commonly begin to grow when this has been reduced in bulk ; and thus eventually a multilocular tumour may be substituted for an apparently unilocular cyst. These measures hai’e also, like tapping, given way to the safer and more certain procedure of o’^'ariotomy, and are now confined to those cases in which ftom adhesions on the tumour it cannot be remoi’ed in its entirety. -k Injection of Tincture of Iodine has been occasionally employed both in this country and the Continent. After the tumour has been tapped, from four to six ounces of the tincture are injected through a catheter, passed dmni the cannula, and left in. The immediate effect of this injection is the contraction of the cyst ; the secondary effect, the effusion of plastic matter within it. In some cases no constitutional disturbance follows ; in others, a severe febrile paroxysm, accompanied by intense iodism, the urine and saliva being impregnated with iodine; and in others again, suppuration of the cyst, with fiital peritonitis, has resulted. This method of treatment is only aiiplicable, however, to non-adherent unilocular cysts : and in them it must be looked upon as palliative rather than curative—the cyst collapsing, and the tumour perhaps reemring in another form. It is, however, so very uncertain in its results—so entirely palliative and so manifestly inferior as a method of cure of ovariotomy, that it is now, I believe, generally abandoned. 0. Ovariotomy is probably the greatest triumph of modem Siu’gery in its operative department. In its original conception, as in its ultimate perfection, it reflects the gveatest lustre on the British School of Surgery. Its history is curious. Its progress was slow, and was marked by those oscillations in the judgment and the favour of the Profession which frequently precede the final establishment of a great advance in practice. The operation was originally proposed, and its practicability discussed in 17G2, by William Hunter. It was strongly advocated and its practicability taught by John Bell, at a later period. It is said to have been performed in France, by L’Aumonier, in 1782, in a case of scirrhous disease with abscess” of the ovaiy ; the patient recovering. A pupil of John BeU—McDowell of Kentucky —first performed the operation in America in 1809 ; he followed up his case by others, and in all operated thirteen times. In 1823, Lizars operated for the first time in this country. But the operation, though several times repeated, fell into discredit, in a great measure owing to the imperfection of the diagnosis of the cases in which it was done, and was not revived until 183fi, when Jeaffreson of Framliugham practised it successfully through a small incision an inch and a half long only. From this operation we must date the revival of ovariotomy in Great Britain. This operation was followed by others performed by King of Saxmundham, Crisp of Harleston, and West of Tonbridge. The example of these provincial Surgeons was followed by their brethren in London, and the operation was practised by many, especially by Walne, F. Bird, and Baker Brown, but with A'cry discouraging results ; for of ] G2 cases collected by Kobert Lee, in GO the disease could not be removed, and of these 19 died ; whilst of the remaining 102, 42 terminated fatally! Xot only did these unfavourable results discourage the Profession, but a