342 DISEASES OF SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES, AND OF MUSCLES. bone of the great toe. This angle, being constantly pressed upon by the boot, becomes instated; and, for its protection, the bursa that is there natmally situated becomes enlarged, or an adventitious one forms. From time to tune the bursa and the projecting angle become irritated and in- flamed ; and the morbid action thus set up may run on to suppuration of a very troublesome kind, a thin, unhealthy pus’ being formed, which is dis- charged through an opening that speedily becomes fistulous, and may degenerate into a most troublesome indolent sore. Treatment.—In the treatment of this affection, the first thing to be done is to change the direction of the toe by wearing properly shaped boots, made with the inner side of the sole straight from the toe to the heel. If accidental inflammation be excited in the part, it must be allayed by the application of leeches, warm foot-baths, and poulticing ; the cutaneous irritation that is left may best be removed by painting the surface with a strong solution of nitrate of silver. The faulty direction of the toe may best be remedied by using the iimenious contrivance (Fig. 503), the action of which consists in dramng the everted end of the toe inwards by the constant action of a slender steel spring. Should these means fail, the position of the toe may be remedied by the divi- sion of the external lateral hgament of the metatarso-phalangeal articifiation, or of the tendon of the adductor polheis, or of the mner^ head ot the flexor breads pollicis ; the toe, when restored to its position, being for a time kep fixed upon an under-splint. Occasionally in elderly people the bunion wil inflame and suppurate, and the mischief, extending to the metatarso-phalangea articulation, will cause dftorganisation of this. This is a state devoid of anxiety, as it not unfrequently happens that, if the constitutional powers be enfeebled by age, a low sloughy ^^TSfl^elatoiis inflam^ set up in the foot, which eventually may terminate fatally be in-etrievably disorganised, and the patient’s strength admit it, amputation through the metatarsal bone should be done.