446 OPHTHALMIC SURGERY. regularly extracfcocl; or tlie risk and danger of extracting immature cataracts must be borne. (I have bad no practical experience of the extraction of cata- ract in its capsule.) For portions of transparent cortical lens-matter are sticky, and adhere to the portions of lens-capsule remaining in the eye after an extraction-operation, and to other parts ; besides, if they were not thus difficult to remove, and did not require much interference for their removal, they are transparent at the time, and so cannot be seen to be removed. The preliminary needle-operations are not very satisfactory in practice : for the ■central, very slowly progressing cataracts, equal in each eye, of old people, needle-operations are in themselves rather dangerous (see p. 452), and they take much time whilst one is striving to hasten the end ; for two needle- operations or a follovdng extraction-operation cannot be done at short intervals safely, and a senile cataract very slowly becomes opaque, even when the capsule is opened, and an iritis is never improbable. The congenital forms occur in younger, j)erhaps very young patients ; and, very often, a needle-operation having been done in order to the matm’ation for extraction of one of these ■cataracts, it will be found better to complete the operation by repeated use of the needle only. If one eye be cataractous, the other still retaining more or less the useful vision, the cataract may be operated on, if complete and otheiuvise fit for - •operation : but it cannot be right to urge the operation which may well be deferred, and need not now be done. If the seeing eye show a commencing cataract, a patient will, not unfrequently, desire the removal of the complete cataract, so as to have prospectively the use of the then practically bhnd eye when the other fails him. If the seeing eye do not show any commencement of cataract in it, the history and examination of the case require more parti- cular attention in order to its diagnosis—that it be not traumatic, or, if it be, at least that vision, independently of the cataract, be good. Perhaps operation may be advisable. I have sometimes, for cosmetic reasons, extracted a cataract in a blind (amaurotic) but otherwise, externally, healthy-looking eye. Even with the densest or darkest colom-ed cataract the patient has, in an uncomplicated case, a good perception of light and field of vision. If there should be cataracts in both eyes equally advanced, both fit for extraction, I prefer to do one first and the other a few months afterwards ; but I would not refuse to extract both at once if good and special reasons were given for my doing so. I have known both eyes to be lost after a double extraction. The object of the operations for cataract is the removal of the opaque^ lens from the axis of vision. Subsequently to the operation, instead of ^ the natural lens, an equivalent glass lens is placed lefore the eye—for near objects about 2^, and for distant objects about inches focus. The points to be ‘ observed”’are, either the getting rid of the cataract very gradually by natural process of absorption, when, in young persons, the capsule being lacerated, and the lens wounded, by operation from time to time, this can be accomplished ; or otherwise, the more rapid removal of the cataract, the opaque lens-matter, by laceration first, and then evacuating by as small an opening as possib e m the cornea; or, thirdly, by extraction of the whole at once by a sufficiently aige opening. After the operation, w^e have merely, as a general idea, to let notiiing.