CONGENITAL DEFORMITIES OF FINGERS AND HAND. 363 twisted to the ulnar side, so that the hand presents a claw-like appearance, the mischief evidently affecting the joints. Treatment.—The treatment of digital contractions is purely operative. The kind of operation must be determined by the pathological cause of the disease. If the contraction be tendinous, then subcutaneous tenotomy must be done. If, as far more commonly is the case, it be fascial, then the tendonand its sheath must not be touched, but the contracted structures outside them must be cut acix)ss. This consists, when the deformity is slight and recent, in dividing each tense digital fascial lU’olongation by a subcutaneous incision. This should be done opposite the second phalanx, where it is usually most tense ; but, if the other finger-joints be affected, a separate section maybe required opposite each phalanx. Should it be found to be impossible to straighten the fingers with such limited incisions, or should the skin be firmly adherent to the subjacent fibrous band, a long crucial incision may be made through the skin, the flaps dissected back, the fascial bands divided or dissected off the sheaths of the tendons, and the fingers straightened. As the flexor tendons are not primarily affected, they need not be di\ided. After the operation, the hand should be placed on a digitated splint, and the fingers kept extended. Busch recommends the following modified operation, fi'om Avhich he says that he has derived excellent results in many cases. A A-shaped incision is made through the skin of the j}alm. The base coiTesponds to the fmvow separating the bent finger from the palm of the hand. The apex reaches to the highest parts of the contraction when the finger is well stretched. The skin is dissected up from the apex towards the base, all condensed connecth'e tissue removed, all fibrous cords passing upwards fr-om the palmar fascia cut thiough, and the palmar fascia itself incised on each side of the sheath of the tendon, which is not touched. The finger gTadually straightens itself during this operation. The fiaiD is then laid down, and no extension apparatus or passi\ e movement is employed until the wound is granulating. Congenital Deformities of the Fingers and Hand are frequently met Avith. ^ 1. The most common form consists in a Supernumerary Finger or Fingers. These are of several different kinds. There is, in the fii-st place, that form of supernumerary finger in which the added digit appears to be simply a con mua ion 0 the natui’al series, so that there are six fingers instead of fiA'e. * Morand describes a hand having a thumb and six we ormec trough somewhat shortened fingers. The suirernumerary fitiophied and shorter than the rest. It is A’ery common in fpp/-\ ° ^ pi’ovidcd Avith additional fingers, and the feet Avith one or more supernumerary toes.* in soiJp^pnT^^Ti* 1^ malformations—a supernumerary one being thurnTriV ' -n supLimierary phalanges ^'iilThVl '^1 ^ be found that there are two small and deformed oxtromftv \ l f 1 malformed phalanx in each extremity, the tAvo being articulated Avith the proximal phalanx! ill the ‘■’‘description of one of the Philistine eiants mentioiie 1 .stature, that ha.l on ever>- haiulsix lingers, am?on evc^;y fSot six tola, foul^a'ni'tw^