DISEASES OF THE BREAST. 588 their interior, may attain an immense magnitude and weight. They have been met with of six, eight, or CA’cn twelve poimds weight; but by far the largest is one described by Velpeau, Avhich weighed forty pounds. 8. Cystic Sarcoma.—The various forms of cystic tumour that have just been described, AA'hen associated Avith the development of fibrinous intracystic matter, constitute forms of the so-called cysUc sarcoma. Another A-ariety of this disease, however, is not unfrcquently met AAuth, in Avhich the sarcomatous or solid element of the tumour preponderates OA’er the cystic part of the gi'OAvth. In these cases the tumour AviU be found to be composed of a dense Avhite lobulated or foliated structure, closely resembling that of the chronic mam- mary tumour, and consisting either of imperfect hypertrophy of the breast- gland, or of the deposit of a fibrinous material. This mass is studded thi’oughout with a number of small cysts, varying in size from a pin’s head to a hazel-nut, and usually containing clear fluid. If some of these cysts increase out of proportion to the rest, the tumour Avill assume more of the true cystic character. This form of cystic sarcoma usually occius in Avomen from thirty to thirty- fiAm years of age, as the result of injury or as the remote consequence of some inflammatory action during lactation. On examining a breast affected in this way, it AAdll be found that the tumom’, which may either be confined to one lobe or may implicate the whole of the gland, is hard, heavy, and solid to the , feel ; on careful examination, hoAvever, its surface may be felt to be finely ■ nodulated; and, occasionally, a larger cyst than usual may be found projecting, Avhich is recognised by its elastic feel and globular shape. The disease is sIoav in its growth, and does not implicate the adjacent cutaneous or areolar structures; hence, the tiunoiu’ is movable on the pectoral muscles, and the skin is unattached to it. The axillary glands, also, are not enlarged, at least not to any material extent. The nipple AviU usually be foimd to be normal in its shape, and not depressed. The eventual development of malignant action in these cystic tumours by the deposit of cancer in the interior of the large cysts must not be overlooked. A tumour of this kind may be benign for many years, and remain generally so throughout the greater portion of its structure ; yet, after removal, en- cephaloid may be found to have formed in some of the cysts. In the case from which the drawings (Figs. 664, 665) were taken, the tumour had ■existed for more than twenty years before removal, haAdng commenced at the age of tAventy-eight; but, after extirpation, cancerous matter was foimd at the bottom of some of the cysts, which, as the constitution Avas uncontami- nated, Avas doubtless of recent formation ; and the siuface of the fungus was •epitheliomatous. Treatment.—The treatment of these various forms of cystic and sarcomatous groAvths varies, according to the number and size of the cysts, and the quantity ■of solid matter deposited inside and around them. When the cyst is small and i ^single, the fluid contents may be let out by punctiuing Aidth a small troebar; but a cure cannot usually be effected in this Avay, as the fluid readily reaccumu- lates. In cases of this kind. Sir B. Brodie found considerable advantage ■from the application of stimulating embrocations, more particularly of one composed of equal parts of camphorated spirit and AA^eak spirit, with one-eij, t