3(> ANEURISM. than that winch records the changes that liave taken place and the progress that has been made in the treatment of aneurism. The older Surgeons were either afraid to meddle at all with an anemasm, and amputated the limb affected by it, or tried to restrain the progress of the disease by tight bandaging and direct iwessure, or had recourse to the troublesome, difficult, and dangerous operation of laying open the sac and ligaturing the diseased artery on each side of the opening in it. In 1785, John Himter substituted for the barbarous and dangerous methods of treating aneurism that had hitherto been adopted, the simpler and more scientific procedm-e of ligatiu’ing the artery in a healthy part of its course, above the sac, and thus directly cutting off the influx of blood into the aneurism. This operation midoubtedly constituted one of the greatest and most direct advances in Sm’gery that has ever been made by the single act of one man, and the “ Hunterian Operation ” continued for moi’e than half a century as almost the sole method of treating this formidable disease, when situated on an artery to which the operation was applicable. It was not until 1841-42 that the Dubhn Sm’geons, distinguished as they ever have been by their practical skill as much as by their scientific devotion to their art, inaugimated a new era in the treatment of this disease. For they found m practice, and they demonstrated by an elaborate pathological investi- gation and by a smgical argument, as convincing as it was exhaustive, that the coagulation of the blood by which an aneurismal sac is occluded and the disease cured, may as readily take place when the cuiTent of blood from the artery into the sac is interrupted hy the compression, as when it is an’ested by the ligature of the vessel. And they established triumphantly this great fact, that wherever the artery could be reached so as to admit of compression between the sac and the heart, the scalpel was no longer needed for the cure of this formidable disease. But the treatment of aneurism was destined to be still farther shnphfied, when Vanzetti showed that, by discarding all instimnents and by the simple pressure of the finger on the feeding artery, a coagulum might be formed, on the production of which in the sac the em’e of the aneurism essentially depends. And in addition to this, the fact was established, that in some cases adequate compression of the vessel and sac might be effected by simple flexion of the limb. Thus, then, we have had a continuous and progressive process of simplification in the treatment of aneurism, as it has been proved that instrumental compression maybe substituted for the hgature, that pressure with the finger or flexion of the hmb suffices for the deposition of that coagulum on which the cure of the disease depends ; and, still more recently, the sphere of the appheabihty of compression has been greatly extended by conducting it during prolonged ansesthesia. Another subsidiary means of treatment, but one certainly destined to play an important part in the management of some of the more mti-actable fonns of aneinism, is electro-piincture, by Avhich, as Cimselh and others have recently shown, consolidation of the contents of an aneurism may be effected so as to retard the progress of the disease, if not to cine it radically. We will now proceed to consider in detail these various methods of treat-