514 PLASTIC SURGERY OF THE FACE AND MOUTH. the bone into the cavity of the nose. By a slight lateral movement of the chisel, the two portions can now be readily made to meet in the middle line; stitches may then be passed through the opening on each side ; the lateral gaps close afterwards by gTanulation, As Sir William Fergusson found that the stitches when passed through the two lateral Avounds were apt to slip, in his later opera- tions he drilled the palate on each side of the fissure in one or more places, and passed the sutures through the drill-holes before applying the chisel; and, still more lately, he has in some cases abandoned sutures altogether, and kept the two sides of the fissure in contact by introducing plugs of lint into the lateral wounds. In a few cases slight necrosis has occuiTed after this operation, but in none has there been any difficulty in closing the two lateral gaps formed by the chisel. In order to be successful, a careful selection of cases to be operated on must be made. Fergusson considers that about one-half of the fissures of the hard palate admit of operation. There is a difference of practice amongst Simgeons as to the closiu’e of the gap in the soft palate at the same time as the one in the hard palate, or at a subsequent period. Pollock prefers a delay in the operation until the cleft in the hard palate is closed. Annandale has, however, operated successfully by closing the fissure in both palates at one sitting; and perhaps the wisest course to adopt is to close as much of both as the patient can bear at one time, and to leave the remainder of the operation to be completed at another oiAportimity. If it be determined to undertake the closure of the hard and soft palates in two distinct operations, Fergusson prefers to do the soft palate first, leaving the hard till a later time. Perforation of the Hard Palate.—Perforations of the hard palate, con- sequent on necrosis of the bones, the result of syphihs or injury, are not amenable to surgical treatment. In such cases, a well fitting obtm-ator iviU most effec- tually remedy the inconvenience. Tumours of the Pat,ate.—Tumours of various kinds may arise in the hard or soft palate. Amongst the most important are Enchondroma, Fibroma, and Sarcoma of the hard palate, and Adenoma of the soft palate. These last are, perhaps, the most frequent. They are occasionally found also in the hard palate. They are hard, smooth, painless, and, being encapsuled, are readily shelled out from a single incision. Syphilitic gummata and cancer may also occur in this region. The diagnosis must be made and the treatment con- ducted on general principles.