OPERATIONS ON THE EYELIDS. 415 much pressure bo required, is Liebreicli’s, which consists of an oblong piece of knitted cotton Avith a piece of tape sewn to it at one end, and at mieh tanos which are joined, and have beyond them another single tape. The tTr^rc put oJ above and the other below the oeoiput to steady the banda-ve, and the two single ends of tape are tied together, as tightly as may be reciuirod, round the head. If common bandages be employed, the two ends may be tied in a knot on the side of the head opposite to that of the eye affected • or, the two ends being split for a short distance, the two lower half ends may be tied above the occipital protuberance and the two upper ones below it The object is to employ no more length of bandage than may be required and to prevent the bandage from becoming shifted. A narrow flannel bandage, long enough to be passed many times round the head, is the best bandage when pressure on an eye is required. OFEBATIONB ON THE EYELIDS. We are here only concerned in those operations which are, at least to some extent, peculiar to the eyelids. Tumours.—Of tumours there are here, as elsewhere, many kinds. MoUuscum is very common about the skin of the eyelids. This is best treated by thrusting a shaiqi-pointed knife through the tumom', vnth the back of the knife towards the base, and cutting outwards so as to divide the upper lialf of the growth. Then with the ends of the two thumb-nails, one on each ■side, pressed together below the base of the tumour, the whole is turned out easily at once. A Sebaceous Tumour, often containing hafrs, is of frequent occurrence, especially at the upper and outer margin of the orbit. It should be dissected out altogether. It is generally very difficult or impossible to remove the whole without opening or bursting the sac. The common Tarsal Tumour, as it is called, probably has its origin in disease of the Meibomian glands. If left some months, it may become as large as half a pea; and then it suppurates, and at last bm’sts on the con- junctival side of the lid. It should be opened as soon as, when the inner sur- face of the lid is exposed, the situation of the tumour is shown by a greyish semi-transparent spot. Of course, if it have suppurated, it should be opened. By two punctures a crucial incision is made in the more transparent pai’t of the tumour, and the whole soft contents arc squeezed out with two fingers. The contents are probably firm, and cannot be evacuated, if the semi-trans- parent spot do not appear. Ptosis.—The muscle that should raise the upper lid is sometimes per- manently paralysed, and then it may be noticed that the occipito-fr’ontalis muscle of the same side, in endeavouring to raise the lid, has corrugated the skin of the brow, on the side of the paralysed muscle. Hence, in order to make more use of this new action of the occipito-frontalis, an operation is sometimes employed when all else has failed. It consists in the removal of a horizontally oval piece of skin and some subcutaneous parts of the iqrper part •of the upper lid, of a sufficient size to allow the upper lid to cover the globe, and yet, when the patient lifts his brows, that the cornea may be readily un- ■covered. A fold of the skin is seized with forceps at the place from which