159 DOUBLE POPLITEAL ANEUPISAL Gantrrene of the Limb is perhaps the most frequent source of danger after lio-aturc of the femoral artery for popliteal aneurism. It seldom occins, howem unless the tumour be of considerable magnitude, have become dmused,’or otherwise interfere seriously with the circulation though the hmb. I ImVhowever, seen it follow the operation where the popliteal aneurism had not attained a larger size than that of an orange ; but, m this case, there was much oedema of the limb, and congestion of the veins, before the opera- tion • and, on examination afterwards, it rvas found that the popliteal vein had been obliterated by the pressure of the tumour. The gangrene may, in some cases, be prevented by the treatment that has been pointed out at page ;>11, Vol. I. When it has ftiirly declared itself, there is necessarily no resource left but amputation, and this operation is sufficiently successful ; for I ffird that of fourteen cases in which it was done, there were ten recoveries, and but four deaths. . tj. i The Return of Pulsation in the Sac after the operation for popnteal anemism is by no means of frequent ocemTenee ; yet it has been met with in some instances, and Secondary Aneurism has also been found in this situation. In these cases the patient should be put upon a careful dietetic plan, the limb be kept elevated and at rest, and pressm-e applied by means of a compress and bandage, or a horse-shoe tourniquet. In this way cures have been effected by Wishart, Turner, Briggs, and Liston. In conjunction with such treatment, or in the event of its not sufficing, the compression of the common femoral artery as it passes over the pubic bone would in all probability effect a cure. Should it not do so, and the tumour continue to increase, threatening to suppurate, or to occasion gangrene, amputation Avould be the sole resource. The External Iliac Artery may requh’O to be tied in cases of popliteal aneurism, when the superficial and common femorals are so diseased as not to admit the ligature. This occurred once to me. A gentleman Avho had lost the left foot and leg from spontaneous gangrene, became two years afterwards the subject of a large popliteal aneurism in the other leg. As compression failed, it was decided to tie the superficial femoral. On cutting down on the vessel the coats were found so diseased, the artery itself being cyhndrically dilated and slightly aneurismal, that the operation was abandoned ; and, as the common femoral felt dilated and almost uncompressible from calcification ■of its coats, it was decided to tie the external iliac. This I did with the able assistance of Sir W. Fergusson, at a somewhat high point, the vessel being somewhat dilated and calcified lower down. Pulsation recurred in the tumour a few hours after the operation, the collateral circulation being very free, and the patient died of secondary haemorrhage on the fifteenth day. Double Popliteal Aneurism.—In cases of this kind the artery has been occasionally ligatured with advantage on both sides, either simultaneouslj'’, or, Avith more safety, consecuiively. But these cases appear to me especially adapted for the employment of pressure, so as to avoid that disturbance of the balance of tlic circulation Avhich is certain to ensue when one vessel is ligatured, and Avhich may act injuriously upon the opposite aneurism. When the popliteal aneurism is conjoined with a similar disease in the groin, ligature of the external iliac is the proper course to pursue, and Avill effect a cure of both affections.