443 FORMS OF CATARACT. of uncertainty makes it also very much more difficult to say what operation is meant by name, or to venture to recommend any particular operation in any case. Forms of Cataract.—Cataract is most common in old or elderly persons, and in them it is of the kind called Hard Cataract. In younger persons, and especially in children, cataracts are comparatively soft. The Senile Cataracts are generally striated ; the streaks being very e’sident in the com- mencement of the disease, and less seen as the whole lens becomes opaque : the lenses are generally a httle amber-coloured, especially in the nucleus. The- other catai-acts are comparatively little or very indistinctly striated, and of a milky coloiir. Striae in the lens are almost invariably found to radiate from an opaque central spot to the circumference (Fig. 572), or to inoject towards the centre from various points of the circumference of the lens (Fig. 571). In fact the strife, according to the direction of the lens-fibres, of which some only have become opaque, always diverge fr’om or converge to the centre of the lens. In hard catai’acts the cortical parts, as in the normal lens, are always com- paratively soft, sometimes very soft, with a hard nucleus only ; but these are cases of secondary degeneration, by which, even the nucleus may at last become dissolved. In rare cases, an indefinite central haze, without any pattern, in- dicates the beginning of cataract. But there are not unfrequent cases of haziness of the lens, as a, senile change, or from intraocular pressiue (see “ Glaucoma ”), which must not be called cataract, for it is sometimes found together with good vision, and the haziness may disappear, or it may never go- on to a complete or real opacity of the lens. It is not, in fact, the beginning of cataractous changes. This is an important distinction ; and no doubtful case must be said to be one of cataract, unless, by examination with the ophthal- moscope, by the direct or oblique methods of illumination, strife or some certain opacities be seen in the lens, or such a degree of central haze in the same situation as to obsciue the image of the fundus, when, by direct illiunination of the ophthalmoscope, a driffht light is thrown into the eye. If any less definite rule be adopted, it will lead to inniunerable misunderstandings and false anticipations. When an eye, in which strife exist in the lens, the rest of it ^ Cataract: Op, I'ly. 5Vi2.—Commencing Cataract: Opmiiic streaks diverging from the centre." Tim lens-nucleus is altogetlicr obscured only "oa atropmo, the mirm- of the ophthalmosoopl boMriri fi5 several streaks appear black, in fr-ont of the lio-ht bohtnd them of the brightly ht-„p f„„cta/of the ey; (Fig. hfDVvhit!