778 URINARY CALCULUS. perhaps somewhat unjustly been discarded. Of all the instruments of the kind refen-ed to, that which is the invention of N. ll. Smith, of Baltimore, is the most ingenious and practically useful, ’ This instrument consists of a staff with appliances (Fig, 749), and a pecu- liarly shaped bent cutting gorget (Fig, 750). It was first described and figured by Smith in 1831. It has undergone many modifications at the hands of its inventor, and is now given to the pro- fession with all its improvements, as seen in Figs. 749 and 750. The staff consists of three parts. 1. A rectangular tubular staff, with a wide ’ slit making a quarter turn, so as to fit it for lateral lithotomy. 2. Attached to the staff by a hinge close under the handle, is an “ arm-piece,” or “ conductor.” This ends in a knife-blade, set at right angles to the shaft and deeply grooved at its under part. 3. An “ indicator ” consists of a slender rod traversing the handle of the staff and terminating in a cup sliding in the tubular staff. The mode of action of the instrument is as follows. The conductor being drawn back on its hinge, the rectangular staff is passed in the usual way into the bladder, the angle being brought just in front of the prostate and resting on the mem- *''°'coiiductor*^^* branous part of the methi’a. When the Fig. 750 (to right).—Smitii’s Gorget. Sm’geon has Satisfied himself that the staff is in proper position, he draws down the conductor, and, pressing upon it, pushes its terminal knife through the tissues of the perinmum until it enters the slit in the staff. The groove in the “ conductor ” outside the perinfeum is now continuous with that in the staff which is in the urethra. The “indicator ” is now draAvn up so that its cup lies immediately under the groove of the “ conductor.” The superficial inci- sion having been made in the usual way, the methra is opened on the groove in the “ conductor ;” the beak of the knife is then engaged in the cup of the “ indicator,” and as the knife advances the rod of the indicator descends, but ceases to move if the blade depart from the proper route by slipping out of the slit in the staff and stops when the end of the groove is reached. The knife, oi* gorget (Fig. 750), ends in a blunt beak, and the handle is sot at an angle to the blade, so as to enable the Sm’geon to watch more accurately its attitude and position. Professor Johnson, of Baltimore, has used this instrument many times, and speaks highly of its utility. After-treatment of Lithotomy.—After the operation, the patient must