URINARY CALCULUS. 826 years, preserve their powers unimpaired, that lithotrity is most generallv apphcable and is most successful. 2^. Size and Character of the Stone.—With regard to the size of the stone. Surgeons generally recognise the fact that a small stone is more favour- able to lithotrity than a large one. All calculi below one inch in diameter may be ciushed, piovidcd other circumstances are favoux’able. In regard to larger calculi, it is, as a general rule, not well to attempt to crush a stone that is above one inch and a half in diameter ; much, however, will depend on the composition and density of the calculus. The objections to lithotrity in any given case are, not that a large stone cannot be broken, because in most cases this can be done ; but that the fragments may be so large, angular, and sharp, as to require separate crushing to enable them to pass ; that their quantity would be so great that the bladder would in all probability not be able to expel them ; or that their presence, and the necessary operations for their disinte- gration and removal, would produce a dangerous amount of irritation. This is especially applicable to lithic acid concretions, giving a clear and ringing sound, the fragments of which do not disintegrate, but split up into sharp and angular spicula and scales. Oxalate of lime calculi, occurring chiefly in young people, comparatively rarely admit hthotrity, but, when crushed, break up very readily; and, as there is usually a co-existing healthy state of the urinary organs, the cases have a favourable issue. Phosplmtic calculi, which are soft and fi’iable, and do not yield ang-ular fragments requiring repeated disinte- gration, may, even if of larger size than that mentioned, be broken up. Some of the French lithotrisers are in the habit of breaking up friable phos- phatic calculi of from fifteen to twenty lines in diameter. At the same time, the shattered state of system, and the irritable condition of the urinary organs accompanying phosphatic calculi, often counterbalance the advantage that would otherwise have been derived from the character of the stone. If there be several stones, the propriety of performing lithotrity will depend in a great degree upon the size of the calculi. If these be small—not larger, perhaps, than small nuts, and not very numerous, the bladder being healthy— the operation may be performed with safety. I have removed successfully in a few sittings five or six calculi about half an inch in diameter. But if the calculi be larger than that, lithotrity is not a very successful procediu’e ; for, though each calculus may not be very large, yet the aggregate of the whole is considerable ; and, besides this, the calcuh wiU each require a separate opera- tion, as it were, and may each contain a hard and possibly very resisting nucleus. Occasionally the bladder contains a large number of small pea- shaped calculi. These may be successfully broken up, and washed out through a large-eyed catheter ; from 50 to 100 separate ones may be thus removed. Sometimes a calculus, after having been broken up into several fragments, has been left in the bladder, each fragment forming the nucleus for a new stone. Such cases are usually most successfully cut; but in favourable cir- cumstances as to the condition of the luinary organs, they may be subjected to lithotrity. 3. The Conditions of the Urinary Organs that influence the pio- priety of performing lithotrity or lithotomy have relerence to the state ot the Jcidneijs, the Madder, the urethra, and the prostate.