SYNECIIUi: CORE LYSIS. 441 vitreous humour behind it, and is not brought about in any sudden or impulsive manner ; it is then discovered as a little bag of a dai’k colour'- whatever may be the natural colour of the iris. If; being recent, we hope to retm-ii the pro- lapsed iris intact, Calabm- bean and a strong light may be tried ; and the return may be aided, if the prolapsed iris be distended by the aqueous humour, by gently pressing it back with the end of a spatida, by puncturing the most pro- minent part with a needle and relieving the distension, or by closing the lids and making some pressure upon them and rubbing them gently with the finger. The iris bulging may be ah-eady adherent to the margin of the external opening and cannot be returned ; yet it may increase by the opening becoming larger or by an increase of pressure from behind, and this we must guard against by ai'tificially contracting or dilating the pupil, as the case may be, by con- tinued pressure of a pad of wool and a bandage, or, if the prominence be much, by punctiu'ing it, or, supposing it to have become firmly adherent, by snipping it off with a pair of small scissors. In the old operation of extraction of cataract by a semicircular fl^ap, the iris, which is to be left intact, often prolapses, and this is one of the chief difficulties of this operation. It occurs either at the time of the operation, the vitreous humoiu' after the lens is gone, causing it to bulge forwards between the lips of the wound; or the iris is found, after some days, to be involved in the weak and slowly progvessing cicatrisation of the same. In the former case it should be smoothly and gently pressed back into its place with the flat side of the spatula held horizontally, and then, all pressure being taken off the globe, the lids are to be closed and so the lips of the wound kept together. When the piolapse is discovered some days after the operation has been done, of course it •cannot be returned ; pressure may then be employed, or, if the prolapse be considerable, it may be punctiued or incised, or, better still, the prominence, if sufficient, be cut off. Synechi® : Coveljsis.—Anterior Synechia, or adhesion of the iris to the cornea, only takes place when the two have been brought together for a time by evacuation of the aqueous humour, generally by perforating ulcers of the cornea (see Prolapse, p. 440, and Iriddesis, p. 435.) Posterior Synechia, or adlmsion of the iris to the lens, which is veiy much more common, results from mtis; and these adhesions, once formed, are seldom detached, as in any case way possible : for, if not, an iritis can aidly be said to be cured Posterior synechim may be numerous, or the whole 0 e pupi^ ary maigiu may be bound down to the lens—total posterior or exc usion of the pupil: if this be so, no communication exists oeeween the anterior and posterior aqueous chambers, the circle of the iris pro- nnrl Central depression in which is the adherent pupil, iumn^Hnr ? "" 7®'’^ characteristic appearance by oblique illumination. It is Tnifnk!! i"®: 7" '''' immediate operation : the com- iride7tfnw chambers must be re-established by an mation living numerous, the iritic inflam- irritation and a amount of permanent injury, a source of time are’left • but fhl.\^ ° recurrence of intis, therefore, at any indefinite me,aie ieft, but the damage, if there should be total posterior synechia 8 a nays and at all times loithout intermission or hope of alatement, to