SPECIAL ANEUPJSMS. M-hicli tlic symptoms of complaint seemed chiefly referable, was two bulbs, about c-ei^glitlis of an inch in diameter, filling up the hollow on each side of the sella Turcica, which were evidently dilatations of the carotid arteries, and, from their being filled with laminte of coagulated blood, there could be no doubt of their being aneurisms of those artei-ies. The dissection was made by iMr. Hunter, assisted by Mr. Home, in the presence of Dr. Jonner and myself, and all concurred in the opinion that these tumours were aneimsms. The one on the left side Avas the largest. That on the right side communicated with the caAuty of the artery, Avhich was not the case with the other.” Treatment.—In the treatment of intracranial aneurism there is usually little to be done, the nature of the case not being sufficiently obvious in the majority of instances to justify active measures. Should, hoAveA'er, the loud rough Avhiz be distinctly audible over one side of the head, more especially about the base of the skull, or by appbcation of the stethoscope to the mastoid process, and should symptoms of cerebral compression begin to manifest them- sch'es, ligature of the carotid artery on the affected side may Avith propriety be practised. This has been successfully done in a most interesting and instruc- tive case of intracranial aneurism by Coe of Bristol; and in one at UniA'ersity College Hospital, by Berkeley Hill. INTRAORBITAL ANEURISM. Intraorbital Aneurisms were for a long time considered by Simgeons to be of the natime of erectile tumoims ; but the error of this opinion has been pointed out by Busk, and more recently by Hunneley, who has conclusively shown that, except in those very rare cases in which a pulsating tumoim of the orbit has. been congenital, or has appeared shortly after birth, or has been associated Avith iimA'oid tissue developed in the eyehds, it must be looked upon as being a circumscribed aneimism. The vessel affected appears to be in some instanees the ophthalmic artery itself; in other instances it Avould appear that the tumour is developed within the cranium, springing from the carotid artery, the ophthalmic being but secondarily affected. More recently Delens of Pai-is has recorded four cases verified by post mortem examination, in which the symptoms arose from an arterio-venous aneurism affecting the carotid artery in the cavernous sinus. Causes.—The causes of intraorbital aneurism are in some cases very obscure ; in others, it evidently and directly has originated from a bloAV upon the head. In the first class of cases, where the disease has been of spontaneous and not of traumatic origin, the patient has suddenly felt a crack or snap in the orbit, like the “ crack of a Avhip,” or the “ snap of a gun,” and the disease has then developed itself gradually. In the other or traumatic cases, the bloAV upon tlie head has usually been seA'ere, attended in some instances AAuth symptoms of fractiu'c of the anterior part of the base of the skull. It is a remarkable circumstance that, in all the spontaneous cases on record, the disease occiu’red in Avomen, and AAuth one exception (a case of Nunneley’s), appeared on the left side. The circumscribed intraorbital aneurism has been met AAuth at all ages in adults, even in persons of advanced periods of life. Symptoms.—The first sensation experienced is, in spontaneous cases, that of