4o6 diseases of THE HEAD AND NECK. [growth. In such cases, tlic question of removal requires to be approached vltli the utmost caution. If the tumour be movable above the vessels, it may generally be taken out; if it lie below the sheath, even though not fixed to the spine, its extirpation is not practicable. Before determining upon the removal of a tumour situated in one of the triangles of the neck, it is indeed always'S’ery necessary that a diagnosis of its nature be effected, and that some opinion be formed of the probable extent of its deep attachments. The first point to ascertain is whether it be simple or malignant. If simple, it wiU usually have been many years in growing ; it will be hard but not stony, lobnlated or somewhat square-shaped ; the patient’s general health being- good. It Avill generally be found to be movable, though not perhaps to any great extent, and will present no sign of incorporation with neighbouring stnictures ; the fibres of the platysma will not appear to spread over it, and the stemo-mastoid muscle may be traced to one side of or below it. In such circumstances, removal of the tumour may be undertaken by any Surgeon possessing a fair share of anatomical knowledge and manual skill, with every prospect of success. But if the tumour be of stony hardness, have implicated the skin, and be immovable, the whole head being moved on any attempt at drawing it aside, if it be ill-defined under the jaw and ear, or rapidly growing, soft and pulpy to the feel, deeply seated under the angle of the jaw, evidently below the platysma and deep fascia of the neck, and possibly beneath the sterno-mastoid, then no attempt at extirpation should be undertaken, as the mass could either not be removed with safety, or, if it were by any possibility extii-pated, the already existing contamination of the neighbom-ing parts would certainly lead to a speedy recurrence of the disease. In removing siihmaxillary tumours, a free superficial incision nearly parallel to the margin of the lower jaw, but below this, mil usually allow ready extirpation of the mass. In these operations the facial artery is generally sufficiently imder cover of the bone to escape injmy, but there may be, and usually is, free venous haemorrhage. Hydrocele of the Neck.—A peculiar cystic tumour, hydrocele of the neck, has been described by Maunoir and Phillips. The disease usually appears in the posterior inferior triangle, forming a rounded tumour, smooth, tense, and elastic, imilocular in some cases, multilocular in others, and filled with a yellow or chocolate-coloured sero-albnminous fluid. It may attain so large a size as to interfere with deglutition and respiration. The largest I have seen was of the size of an orange. The skin covering this tmnom- is not discoloiu-ed, in some cases of natiu-al thickness, in others thin and expanded, so as to give a bladder- like appearance to the growth. The Treatment of this tumour consists in tapping, when complete collapse of the cyst takes place ; which, however, will soon fill again. A permanent cure may be effected by injection with iodine, or by passing a seton across. True Hydatid Tumours will sometimes foini in the neck. A woman was under my care at the Hospital for a hydatid tumour of the liver which I tapped ; seven years afterwards she presented herself with a thm-waUed elastic semi-transparent tumour in the posterior inferior triangle o t e nec y about the size of an orange. This I tapped, and found it to connm ceai serous fluid, with the remains of echinococci. In another case, that ot a