98o diseases of THE FEMALE GENITAL ORGANS. It has the additional advantage of being very cleanly, and not stained by any caustics that may be used in it. These specula should be of different sizes, and may be sometimes advantageously bevelled off at the inner end. When the wall of the vagina requires examination, as in some operations for fistula, a | bivalve speculum (Fig. 859), one with expanding blades (Fig. 858), a cylindrical one, provided with a sliding side, or the “duck-biUed” speculum (Fig. 81D) may advantageously be used. Introduction of the Speculum may readily be effected, without any exposure of the person, under the dress or bed-clothes. There are two positions in which the patient may conveniently be placed for this purpose. In the first, she lies upon her back, with the nates well raised or brought to the edge of the bed or couch, her legs separated, and her feet resting on two chairs; the Surgeon, standing or sitting in front of the patient, introduces the fore and middle fingers of his left hand into the vagina, dilates its walls, passes the speculum, well greased, gently and steadily between and under them. This position is the most convenient when caustics require to be applied, but is often objectionable to the patient, as it appears to entail much exposure, though in reaHty it need not do so. Another mode of introducing the speculum, which should always be adopted when practicable, consists in placing the patient on her left side across the bed, with the knees drawn up, and the nates near the edge; the instrument is then introduced in the same way as before, the Surgeon sitting by the patient’s side. In whichever way the speculum is used, no force should ever be employed; the patient should be placed opposite a good light, and care should be taken that the instrument be introduced fairly to the uterus, the position of which may have been pre^dously ascertained by tactile examination. Female Catheter.—The use of the female catheter is often required in various diseases and operative procedures about the genito-urinary organs of women. It should be introduced without exposure, by the aid of the touch alone. This may readily be done, as the patient lies in bed, under the clothes. The Surgeon, standing on her left side, passes his left index-finger downwards between the nymphm until he feels the projection of the meatus urinarius, immediately above the entrance into the vagina ; keeping his finger just below this, he uses it as a guide to direct the point of the catheter into the canal. Or the reverse way may be adopted : the Surgeon, passing his finger just into the orifice of the vagina, feels the urethra like a cord under the arch of the pubes. He carries it along this until the lu'ethral orifice is reached, when the catheter is slipped in. This method has the advantage that the clitoris is not touched, a matter of importance in hysterical females. DISEASES OP THE EXTERNAL ORGANS AND VAGINA. The vulva and the nymphte are the seats of numerous morbid conditions, , principally consisting of hypertrophy or of veiTucous growths from them, or the formation of cysts in their substance. Hypertrophy op the IjAbia to a limited extent is not unfr-equently met with, one labium hanging down considerably below the other. In these cases, it will often be found that the enlargement is due to a kind of solid oedema.