INTRODUCTION OF CATHETERS AND SOUNDS. 895 \.s a o-eneral rule, I think that metallic instruments are decidedly preferable, more especially in the early stages of the treatment, and Avhen the stricture is tight, cartilaginous, and of old standing. In such cases, nothing will pass so reachly as a well-made steel sound or silver catheter. But, when once dilata- tion has been carried up to a certain point, for instance, to the introduction of a No. 5 catheter, then some of the other and softer instruments may often be advantageously substituted for the metal one. The shape and curve of Catheters and Sounds is of much importance ; the best curve for these instruments, I think, consists of one-fourth of the circumference of a circle 4^ inches in diameter. If sounds be used, they should be made slightly conical, so that there may be a difference of about three numbers between the point and the thickest part, which corresponds to the bend of the instrument. They should be well rounded at the point. Sounds are particularly useful Avhen the stricture will admit a moderate-sized instru- meut. The sound should have a broad metallic handle, which transmits any sensation commiuiicated to the point more acciu’ately than a wooden one. If a catheter be used—and this instrument is most applicable in small stric- tures, in which, if the difficulty of introduction be great, it may advan- tageously be left—it should be made very solid and stiff. The rings should be large, so as to serve for a handle, and the eyes well rounded off and somewhat depressed, so that they may not scrape the urethra. These instru- ments should be used mth every possible care and gentleness; but, though no one more strongly recognises than I do the necessity of not employing unnecessary violence in their introduction, it is useless to think of passing through a tight hard stricture without the employment of some degree of force. The catheter or sound wiU not “ find its own way” here as it may in a healthy urethra, but it must be guided and directed by the hand of the Surgeon ; and there is scarcely an operation in surgery that requires more tact and delicacy of manipulation than that of passing an instrument through a tight, or, as it is termed, an impermeable stricture. Here some force must be used, but the skiU is shown in proportioning this to the amount of resistance, and in using it in a proper direction. The appearance of force is indeed often greater than the reality; for, though the point of the catheter have passed through a tight strictiu’e, it may still require considerable pressure to push the rest of the instrument through it. Introduction.—Catheters and sounds are best introduced by laying the patient flat upon his back, with the pelvis somewhat raised, and the head and shoulders low. The Sm’geon, standing on the left side, inserts the instrument well warmed and oiled into the urethra, with its concavity turned towards the left gi’oin, and passes it down the canal, at the same time drawing the penis upwards with his left hand, so as to put the mucous membrane on the stretch. As the instrument approaches the triangular ligament, the handle is can’ied to the mesial line, and at the same time raised perpendicularly ; aud, as its poiut passes under the pubes, it should be kept well against the upper surface of the urethra, and made to enter the bladder by depressing the handle towards and between the thighs. The surest guide to the bladder is the upper surface of the urethra, which is more fixed than the lower, and less liable to the existence of fistulous openings or false