961 rATlIOLOGY OF CHRONIC ORCHITIS. except in very old cases, the peculiar sensation felt on squeezing a testicle is present. The cord is usually somewhat thickened, and, as well as the groin, is the seat of pain of a dragging character. The tunica vaginalis occasionally contains serous fluid lying in front of and obscuring the testis, constituting the condition spoken of as hydro-sarcocele. The scrotum is always healthy, and one testicle only is usually affected. Occasionally simple chronic inflam- mation may slowly gi^'C rise to suppuration, and one or more abscesses may form, especially in strumous subjects. In these circumstances, a part of the indurated testicle softens and becomes prominent, the skin becomes rod, shining and thinned, and adhesions form between it and the gland beneath. At last the abscess bursts and a flstulous opening is left. Through this aperture a fungus (hernia testis, or benign fungus of the testicle) speedily protrudes, which grows sometimes slowly, sometimes rapidly, perhaps attaining a very considerable size (Tig. 848). As the fungus in- creases, the organ appears to atrophy, but in reality is drawn out of the scrotum and merges into the fungus. This fungus is not a ne\v gr’owth, but is a granular mass composed essen- tially of the tubuli testis and inflammatory pro- ducts. It is in the form of a pale reddish-yeUow granular mass. If small and firm, it may become a very chronic complaint; but if large, rapidly growing, and loose-textured, it speedily destroys the secreting structiu’e of the testis, leaving- nothing in the scrotum but a thickened epididymis and a contracted and shrunken tunica albuginea. It is, however, surprising how long the functions of this organ will continue, though its tissue is in a great measure destroyed, and its structiue traversed by suppurating fistulte. Occasionally, instead of bursting and giving rise to fungus, the abscess may become sun-ounded by dense fibroid tissue and remain stationary, and this dense waU has been known to calcify. Simple chronic orchitis can usually be distinctly attributed to a blow, squeeze, or other injury by which inflammation has been excited in the Fig. S4S.—Hernia Testis or Benign Fungus of the Testicle. organ. Stn(cturp.—(h\ making a section of a testicle affected with simple chronic inflammation, the tunica vaginalis will be found to be more or less adherent, and perhaps separated from the tunica albuginea in parts by small col- lections ot fluid. The tunica albuginea is thickened, often presenting on its external surface a series of firm, glistening layers. The septa of the testis are seen to be thickened, rendering the whole organ hard and firm, and givino- It a bluish-gi-ey appearance. In the midst of this, soft opaque yellow spots may be seen. These have been mistaken for tubercle, but arc in reality masses of chronic inflammatory products that have undergone fatty degenera- tion. Ihe microscope shows that the chronic inflammation chiefly affects the mtertubular fibrous tissue, but in many cases this is accompanied by catarrhal overgrowth of the epithelium. ^ VOL. II. Q