435 IRIDDESIS. little obliquely, so that the iris may be dra-wn out quite up to its outer circumference. Artificial pupil, if one eye only be diseased, is urgently required if there be total posterior synechia or numerous adhesions, and should be done, although the performance of the operation is not urgent, if the patient incline to it, in nny of the other cases, even if the unaffected eye be perfeetly sound. Incision.—This is an operation not much in use. It is advisable perhaps ■only Avhen the lens is no longer present, or, at least, is useless and of no nceount by results of operation or injury, and the iris has prolapsed through the corneal wound ; or when the puinl has been -obliterated in consequence of iritis, the cornea remaining clear, and, there being no communication between the anterior and posterior aqueous chambers, the iris-fibres bulge forwards all round wherever they are not too tightly stretched. When they thus bulge, though a transparent lens may be supposed to exist behind the iris, it may perhaps be safe to incise the tense iris-fibres somewhat obliquely : but, in such ■a case, probably an iridectomy Avould be a better operation. It is probable, indeed, that mere incision for the formation of an artificial pupil, should be confined to those cataract-cases in which the extraction-operation has been followed by inflammation and closed pupil, with stretching of the iris-fibres. If, in such a case, the Surgeon anticipate inflammation to follow the secondary operation, one simple cut with a broad needle may be rapidly made across the ms flbres. In such cases, too, the iris may be fearlessly incised ; there is no transparent lens or no lens to be wounded. The vitreous humoiu’ probably protrudes through the opening in the iris ; and, if no fresh inflammation be set up, a good pupil may be made, and may remain (Fig. 567). Just after Fig. 568.—Ai-tiflcial Pni>il after Iiidectomy. Fig. 569.—Pupil after Iriddesis. X'ig. 567.—tnetsion of Iris. Fig. 570.—Iridectomy for Glaucoma. the operation, when the pupil is first made, it will appear, of course, to be goo , because the aqueous humour has escaped, and the protruding vitreous body then makes it appear very black and clear. speculum and forceps, or TiP'ir tbp ^ cutting edge not confined to the part exLl^tv r ’la''- the iris at one to withdrawn, it is made fimther made. ^ ^^’S'^ibres to the other extremity of the aperture that is to be P F 2