MALPOSITION OF THE TESTIS. 941 CHAPTER LXXIV. —•— . DISEASES OF THE TESTIS AND CORD. MALPOSITION OP THE TESTIS. The testes are, in tlie foetus, lumbar organs lying below the kidneys, and in the normal condition descend into the scrotum a short time before birth. From some arrest of deyelopment, this descent may be retarded on one or both sides ; and in other instances it is never completed. An undescended testis , may continue to lie within the cavity of the abdomen ; or it may find its way into the internal ring ; or may become engaged in the inguinal canal, lying above the external abdominal ring, or it may project just beyond this, not passing into the scrotum. In these several situations it may remain quiescent; but it may become the seat of inflammation or of structiu-al degeneration, simple or malignant. It may also, when nndescended, as has been stated at p. 659, Yol. II., become complicated with or mistaken for a hernia, and may present many diagnostic difficulties. Inflammation of the testis retained in the canal will be considered at p. 945. When an inidescended testis becomes the seat of structinal disease, it may require removal from the canal. The testis may be met with in other abnormal situations ; thus some time ago I saw a case in which one of these organs was situated in the perinmum, close by the anus, having apparently missed the scrotum ; and cases have occurred in which they have been met with in the interior of the pelvis. The organ may sometimes be tmned hindside forwards, being retroverted, so that the epididymis is placed in front. In a case of this kind which I had an oppor- tunity of examining after detd^h a few years ago, the epipidymis and vas deferens were considerably larger than natural. If a hydrocele form in such a case, it will be seated behind the testis. There is a very important question connected with malposition of the testis, viz. Is the organ when undescended prolific ? There is reason to believe that it is not. Such testes are small, hard, and granular in structure ; and, when they are examined under the microscope, spermatozoa are not found in them. When only one testis is undescended, the other one, being- in its proper position, cam’es on the functions of the two organs ; but when both testes are retained in the canal or in the abdomen, being undescended, the indi\idual who is the subject of such malposition will most probably be sterile. He may have the usual erotic feelings, full power of erection, and of emission of a spermatic fluid ; but the secretion will proljably have no fecundating power.