TREATMENT OF ANKYLOSIS. 235 cautionary nature ; that is to say, when the Siu-g-eon finds that the cstajjlish- mcnt of ankylosis is, as it wore, the natural means of cure adopted by natm-c in a deeply diseased joint, his efforts should be directed to taking care that the joint become fixed in such a position as will leave the most useful limb to the patient. Thus, if it be the hip or knee, the ankylosed joint should be ni the straight position ; if it be the elbow, it should be placed at a right angle, and the hand in the mid state between pronation and supination. 'When once ankylosis has occurred, the treatment to be adopted mil depend ])artly on the degree of stiffness, whether it be fibrous or osseous ; and partly on the object to be attained, whether this be merely the restoration of mobility in a part ankylosed in a good position, or the remedying of the deformity occasioned by faulty ankylosis. 1. In attempting to restore the mobility of a joint ankylosed in a good position, as of a straight but stiff knee, the Surgeon may usually succeed if the ankylosis be only fibrous, (when some degnee of movement will always be per- oe[)tible in the part,) by the employment of passive motion, frictions, and douches, more particularly with warm salt water or the mineral sulphimous springs. In the more obstinate cases, and where the immobility appears to dc])end, in some degree at least, on fibrous bands stretching across the joint, an attempt might be made to riiptme these subcutaneously. In doing this no mischief can result; for, the synovial structime of the joint ha'sfing been destroyed, no dangerous amoimt of inflammation can be set up in it. SajTc has estabhshed an important point in the distinguishing of those cases in which it is necessary to cut a contracted tendon or fascia, and those in Avhich it will yield by stretching without division. It is this; if, when the part is stretched to the utmost firm point and pressme is made on it with the finger, reflex action be induced, then it must be cut. If no reflex contraction ensue, then stretching is sufficient. '2. "When fibrous anlcylosis has taken place in a faulty position—if, for in- stance, the knee be bent, or the elboAV straight—the first thing to be done is to place the limb in such a position that it wiU be useful. This may most readily be done by putting the patient under the influence of chloroform, and then forcibly flexing or extending the limb as the case may require, Avhen with loud snaps and cracks it will usually come into proper position. Shoifid any ■of the tendons or bands of fascia near the joint appear to be particularly tense, they may be divided subcutaneously. Either some days before the extension is attempted, or else if it haA'C been earned as far as the rigid state of the ten- dons aam’11 permit, tenotomy may be practised, and, an inteiwal of a foAV days ha\ing been allowed to elapse, extension may be completed. The muscular contraction will however, in many cases, yield to gradual extension by means of screw splints or weights, and thus render tenotomy unnecessary. The in- flammatory action that folloAvs this forcible extension or flexion of the limb, is usually but very trivial; an evaporating lotion and rest will speedily subdue it. Indeed, it is siu-prising what an amount of violence may be inflicted on an ankylosed joint Avithout any bad consequences ensuing. After the limb has been restored to its proper position, passive motion and frictions may tend to increase its mobility. 3. 'When osseous ankylosis has taken place, and the position of the limb is a