SrjSGIAL ANEURISMS. 158 P) es.m') e may bo ai^plicd by placing a graduated compress of lint or com- pressed sponge, saturated in a solution of pcrchloridc of iron, over the bleediiu'- orifice, and fixing it there firmly by a horse-shoe tourniquet. This mean^ although extremely uucertain, occasionally succeeds ; should it not do so’ bower-er, and bleeding recur a second time, it is useless to continue it, as experience has shoAvn that the hemorrhage will continue until the patient'is worn out. Lujaiure of the superficial femoral at a higher point, or, if the artery have been tied too high for this, the dehgation of the common femoral, or of the external iliac, presents itself as a probable means of arresting the hemonhage. Such an operation, however, is fraught with danger, and has, I believe, im-ari- ably been followed by gangrene. It might at first be supposed that the limb would not be placed in a worse situation after the ligatm-e of the external iliac whether the superficial femoral had been previously tied or not; the anasto- mosing channels remaining the same in either case. But in reahty it is not so ; for, although the blood might find its Avay through the epigastric, the circumflex ilii, the gluteal, and sciatic arteries, into the deep femoral and its branches, yet from this point the difficulty of its transmission through the limb would be materially increased. If the superficial femoral be open, it ■serves as a direct and easy channel for the conveyance, to the vessels of the leg ■and foot, of the blood brought by the anastomoses. But -nffien the superficial femoral is tied, this blood must find its way through a second chain of anas- tomosing vessels,—those intervening between the branches of the deep femoral and the articular arteries of the knee ; and here the real difficulty would arise, its impulse not being sufficient to overcome the obstruction to its passage through these small channels, which might not improbably be still fiu’ther obstructed by the pressime of the aneurism. Should the anastomosing circu- lation be sufficiently free to maintain the vitahty of the limb, it is not im- probable that the recurrent blood would escape from the distal side of the ligature, and thus keep up the hinmorrhage exactly as in case of wound. It appears indeed that the femoral artery, in a case of secondary htemoiThage after the application of the hgatiu’e, is in very much the same eondition as an artery which has been wounded, and in which the bleeding, having been sup- pressed for some days, has returned with violence : and certainly the best com-se for the Surgeon to pursue is the same practice that he would foUow in the event of secondary htemorrhage occinring from a wounded vessel, viz., to cut down vijon the Heeding goart and apply a ligature to it. That such an opera- tion is surrounded 'with difficulties cannot be doubted ; yet none would present themselves that care and skill might not overcome. The Surgeon would cer- tainly have to cut into a part infiltrated with blood, in which the different tissues could not readily be distinguished, and the vessel when reached would be found to be soft, friable, and granulating ; yet, by free dissection above and below the wound, a portion of it might at last be exposed, where its coats would hold a ligatime ; or should this not be found, the wound might be firmly plugged from the bottom with compressed sponge ; or the bleeding aperture might be touched with the actual cauterj'’. Should these means fail, it would, be safer to amputate the liml), than to endeavour to aiTest the hmmorrhage in any other way.