6o8 DISEASES OF THE BREAST. the entry of air into dilated veins; and, the ligature being applied beyond the diseased mass, that which remains of it Avill slough away when the thread separates. ' Tumours are occasionally met with in the axilla as a primary disease, un- connected with any malignant or other morbid action either in the upper extremity or in the breast. Such masses may be either lymphadenomata or cancers ; and may require extirpation. When the former, they are readily enough enucleated ; but when cancerous, they become so widely and deej^ly adherent, that their removal cannot be undertaken without much danger. In such dissections, I have had occasion to expose the axillary and subseapular vessels to some extent. The after-dressing of the wound is of great consequence. A wound that gapes immensely whilst the arm hangs down, will be found to close with the- greatest ease when the arm is raised and laid across the chest. All bleeding- vessels, then, having been secured, the edges of the wound must be brought into apposition by attention to position of the arm. Should there be a tendency to gape, or should any transverse cut have been required, the edges may be- brought together by a few points of suture. But if the integuments have not been freely removed, if the parts come well together, it is far better to dispense- entirely with sutures, and to retain the edges in contact with long narroAr strips of plaster. The edges of the wound are supported and compressed slightly by pads of lint. The womid itself is covered by a piece of antiseptic lint and the arm supported in a sling. No bandage of any kind is necessary r indeed, I look upon body-bandages in these cases as injurious. They preA'ent free respiration by their tightness, and favour htemorrhage by them AA'armth. The wound must be dressed on ordinary surgical principles. In many cases it Avill unite by the first intention ; for owing to the yielding nature of the parts- in this situation, the lips of the cut come into very good apposition, even though a considerable mass has been removed. By some it has been supposed that relapse of cancer is less liable to take place if the Avound unite by granu- lation, than if it come together by more speedy union ; of this, hoAvever, there is at present no proof with which I am acquainted, though it is by no means improbable that the suppurative action may ehminate cancer-cells from the neighboiu-ing tissues. The mortality from amputation, of the Ireast is not considerable, barely amounting to 10 per cent. The circumstances that chiefly influence it are the nature of the tumoim, the size of the breast, and the extent of the incision into the axilla. The operation is much more dangerous Avhen perfoinied for the removal of cancerous than of simple tumours : and the danger increases in proportion to the length of time the cancer has been alloAved to exist before the operation is undertaken. In proportion as the patient’s general health has become undermined by the continuance of the malignant disease, so the ten- dency to pyaemia and erysipelas increases. Women AA'ho haA'e small mammp, , Avith little fat, bear the operation best. The danger of the operation is, for obvious reasons, much greater in women with large breasts, in Avhom the areolar tissue is loaded with coarse yeUow fat. In these, reparative action is slow, and there is much tendency to sloughing and to erysipelas. Lastly, the opera- tion becomes dangerous in proportion as the tumour is adherent to the