ii6 SPECIAL ANEURISMS. The difficulty in applying the compression might, T think, he overcome hy the use of the instrument of which a representation is given by Bonrgery. The efficiency of the compression would be materially increased l^y the employment of direct pressure on the tumour, or of galvano-punctime at the same time, and in this way a coagulum might be formed in the sac. Although too much ought not to be expected from this mode of treatment, yet I think it might with propriety be tried in cases of the kind that has been mentioned. 2. Distal Ligature of the Subclavian Artery in the Third Part of its Course has been suggested, and may, perhaps, hold out some prospect of I success in cases of aneurism situated between or internal to the scaleni. In an i ancurismal sac springing from the artery in this situation, the principal current ' of blood woidd, in all probability, be that which is destined for the supply of the upper extremity. Some of the branches arising from the artery before it has passed beyond the scalenus anticus would, doubtless, be more or less compressed, and thus obhterated, by the tumoiu’; or they might be obstructed by an extension of the laminated fibrine over their orifices. If, therefore, the supply to the upper extremity could be cut off, therp might be a possi- bility of those changes taking place within the sac which are necessary for the obliteration of its cavity. The principal obstacles to this desirable result would necessarily be the transversales colli and humeri arteries ; which, being- the two vessels that are more particularly destined to cany on the circulation in the upper extremity after the ligature of the subclavian, Avould necessarily, if not occluded, undergo dilatation, and thus continue to draw too large a current of blood through the sac for stratification of its contents to take place y and, if they were occluded, there Avould be danger of gangrene of the arm from insufficient vascular supply. Dupuytren ligatured the axillary artery under the pectoral muscles for a case- of subclavian aneurism, two arterial branches being diAuded in the incisions through the fat and areolar tissue; and the patient died on the ninth day. This operation could not be expected to succeed ; for between the ligatime and I the sac are the large and numerous alar, acromial, and thoracic branches of the axillary artery, which would continue to be fed by a current sent through the tumour, and thus preclude the possibility of its contents being sufficiently stationary for ultimate contraction and ciu’e to result. Laugier performed the distal operation in a supposed case of subclaArian anem-ism, which afterAvards turned out to be one of the brachio-cephahe artery. In addition to Dupuy- tren’s case, the operation has been done by Petrequin, Schuh, and Canton, in, all instances with a fatal result. 3. The above-mentioned difficulties are met by a plan of procedure, origi- nally suggested, I belicAO, by Pergussou, but Avhich has as yet been praetised , in only one case. It is Amputation of the Arm at the Shoxilder-joint, , followed by Distal Ligature of the Artery a despciate undei taking, tiuly,. but for a desperate disease, it must be remembered, and one that imder ordi- nary siu’gical treatment is almost incurable. The artery might be ligatured before the amj)utation. “ It is knoAvn, says FergiASSon, “ that amputation at the shoulder-joint is genei’ally a very success- ful operation ; so far as this Avound is concerned, then, there might be little to apprehend, but the effect on the timiour is not so easily foretold. Ifigaturc-