478 diseases of the jajfs and their appendages. malignancy Ifc implicates the integuments of the cheek, with an inflammatorv ooclcma, and the soft structures within the mouth, and throws out snouti^ “I ft““‘ ‘b' 8 A point of Toiy great importance in relation to operative interference is to dotei-mme theory am/ of the lumour; tvhether it spring ft-om the Zi y of the anti-um, from the malar bone, or from behind the snperior maxilla ta the spheno-maxillaiy or pterygo-maxillary fossa. When it springs from the mterior of the antrum, the buccal, orbital, nasal, or palatal Avails of that caAdty are ex- panded, and the line of teeth is rendered irregular. When the tumour primarily springs from the malar lone (Fig. 581), ifc pushes foi’Avard the cheek into a somewhat conical prominence, and dips donm into the mouth between the gums and the soft struc- tures of the face. It does not involve the orbit or palate, or alter the line of the teeth ; but rather spreads over the bones, and in- volves the covering soft parts by continuity of tissue, AAdthoufc any definite anatomical disposition. As the tumour increases in size, it will implicate the anterior wall of the antrum, and thus secondarily projects into that cavity. When the disease developes primarily lehind the siqoerior maxilla, between it and the great ala or the pterygoid process of the sphenoid, the upper jaw-bone is simply pushed bodily forwards, there being little if any defoiniity in its outline, the line of teeth not being displaced, nor the AvaUs of the antrum— palatal, nasal, or orbital—expanded. Yet ifc must be borne in mind that the difficulty of diagnosis is greatly increased by the fact that a tmnour, though not originating in the antriun, may pass into the orbit through the spheno- maxillaiy fissure, and may make its way forwards amongst the bones of the face, partly by creeping through, and partly by absorbing and displacing them. Treatment.—In the treatment of tumour of the upper jaw and antrirm, nothing can be done except to extirpate the growth ; and it is consequently of great importance to distinguish those forms of the disease in Avhich an opera- tion can be undertaken with safety, and with a fair chance of success, fi’oni those in which none should be performed. The three points to be considered are ; 1, whether the tumour is benign ; 2, if ifc be benign, AV'hefcher ifc grows from the antrum or springs from behind the superior maxiUa ; or 3, Avhether ifc is malignant; and if so, whether ifc has passed the boundaries of the antrum. When the tumour, springing from the antrum, is of a simple character, the disease should bo removed, together with the whole of the superior maxilla ,- the tumour, Avhatever size ifc has attained, being generally encysted, and the bones expanded and absorbed aroimd it; so that ifc is w'ell bounded, and does not implicate neighbouring parts. Here, as Liston justly observes,.no nibbling or grubbing operations should be done, but free excision of the wdiole 581.—Malignant Disease of Malar Bone not suitable for operation.