1 97^5 niSEASES OF THE TESTIS AND CORD. An occasional inyohintary emission is not true spermaton-hoea. It is common to young men of an ardent and excitable temperament, and is often the occasion of much gTOundless alarm. It occurs at that period of life when the generative power and sexual feeling arc at their highest point of develop- ment. It is simply tlie result of a hypersecretion of the testes and ovei-flow of the semen. 1 or its repression, moral advice and medicinal agents arc equally unnecessary and unavailing. For it, early and congenial man-iage is the only remedy. Unless this be adopted. Nature will assert herself—she is indilferent to social considerations—she will enforce her rights in spite of all restraint. “Naturam expellas furca ; tamen usque recim-et.” Treatmenff.—The curative treatment should consist in giving tone to, and in lessening the irritability of, the genito-urinai’y organs. In these cases it Ijecomes necessary to maintain and improve the tone of the system by remedies calculated to remove the anaemia and to stimulate the nervous energies. With this view, the preparation of iron, phosj)horus, nux vomica, and cantharidcs will be found the most effective. The syrup of the phosphate of iron and strychnine, or the tincture of the perchloride of iron, in combination with those of nux vomica and cantharides, will be found of the greatest ser^dce. But under any form of treatment the cure will be slow, and long-continued perseverance in the use of remedies, local and constitutional, is imperatively necessary. In addition to these means the cold hip-bath should be assiduously employed. This the patient should use every night and morning ; remaining in it, at first, for about three minutes, but gradually increasing the time of immersion to ten or fifteen. The patient must sleep on a hard mattress, be lightly covered, and eat no supper. Some satisfactory mental occupation should also be provided, or travelling if possible. In some cases the cold shoAver-bath appears to give more tone, and then should be prefeiTed. These means, useful as adjuncts, will not, hoAvever, cure the patient. For this pur- pose, the local initability must be removed by the application of the nitrate of silver to the prostatic and bulbous portions of the urethra. It will usually be found that there is a good deal of tenderness in these situations, felt on pressing upon the perinmum, or on passing an instrument into the urethra, when, as the point enters the bulb, the patient vfill suffer much pain. The continu- ance of this irritation certainly keeps up the seminal emissions, and thus maintains the debility of the genital organs, and the nervous indtability, that are so characteristic of these cases. It may most effectually be remedied by the application of the nitrate of silver, as originally recommended by Lalle- mand ; and, if this be done in a proper manner, a cure Avill usually be accom- i Fig. 806.—Syringe-catlioter for aiii'lyiiig Caustic to tlie Urethra. plisM. Tor many years past I have employed, with miieh advantage m such cases, the instrnment here figured (Fig. 85C). It consists oi a silver catheter.