SPECIAL ANEUlilSMS. So ANEUllTSMS or INNOJIOATE TREATED BY LIGATURE OF CAROTID OXLY- (continued). OPERATOR. SEX. AOE. RESULT. CAUSE OF DEATH. 13, Wright. (Montreal.) 1855. m. 70. Died on sixtieth day. Hemiplegia from cerebral abscess. 14. Broadbent. 18G0, m. 50. Died on one hundred and fifteenth day. Exhaustion, from secondary haemorrhage. 15. A. Newton. m. Died on twelfth day. Effusion into chest. 16. Hutchinson 1867. m. 48 Died on forty-second day. Asphyxia. 17. Hewson. 1867. m. 51. Died on seventh day. Pulmonary symptoms and asphyxia. 18. Pirogoff. m. abt. 40 Recovered from operation. REMARKS. Tumour solidified by lami- nated fibrinc. Subclavian pervious, with canal through tumour leading to it. No alteration produeed in tumour by the ligature. Secondary haemorrhage re- cun-ed several times. of carotid and subclavian and aortic arch, all filled ■with coagula. Aneurism of innominate and arch of aorta, partially filled ■with firm coagula. Patient left hospital t^w’O and a half months after opera- tion, ■when tnmour was smaller, and the pulsation less marked; but aneurism not cured. XoTB.—111 addition to the cases given in the table, a fatal case is recorded by John Scott (1S34) and two by Nussbiuuii. All three died from riiiitiue of the sac. Knowles records a case which terminated fatally from apoplexy, and O’Shaughnessey one in which galvano-piinctnre was unsuccessfully applied after the operation had failed to give relief. A fatal case is also attributed to Ordile (1859 ? ) but no particulars can be ascertained. Porta once perfoniied the operation, but after the death of the patient no aneurism was found. Holmes, after carefully investigating the ertdeiice, is of opinion that the eases in the above table attributed to Rompani and 'Vilardebo are in reality only one case. In 1852? Pirogoff ligatured the left carotid in a case of aneuiism of the aorta and innominate. The jiatient died hemiplegic. In 1873 Heath ligatured the left carotid in a case of innominate aneurism. Tlie patient died almost immediately apparently from want of supply of blood to the brain. The right vertebral was obliterated, and the sac of the anem’ism projected behind the right carotid, so as to interfere considerably with the flow of blood through it. 3. In fifteen cases both, the Carotid and Subclavian Arteries have been Brachio-cephalic Aneurism: Ligature of the Subclavian only. Brachio-cephalic Aneurism: Ligature of the Carotid only. Brachio-cephalic Aneurism: Ligature of the Subclavian aud Carotid.