647 TREATMENT OF FjEGAL FISTULA. i-ture, being no longer used for the transmission of feces, ^adually tciidcncyto act as a kind of valve, and thus to occlude the orifice into the lower portion of the gut. The integuments in the neighbourhood of such an aperture as this usually become initatcd, infiamed, and excoriated, from the constant passage of the feces over them. In some cases, the mucous membrane fining the edges becomes everted, and pouting; and, in others, a true prolapse takes place, large portions of the membrane protruding. An artificial anus fully formed in this way never undergoes spontaneous cure. Besides this, which is the ordinaiy form of artificial anus, we must, I think, recognise at least two other varieties, both of which I have met in prac- tice. In one of these, the angle formed by the gut is adherent to the upper extremity of the sac which has been returned, and thus lies at some distance from the sm’face, so that the fecal matter traverses a long canal before it reaches the external aperture. In the other variety the angle of the gut is fixed at a higher point within the abdomen, and the feces find their way out through a channel bounded by agglutinated coils of intestine and layers of lymph. In both of these forms, there is a considerable distance between the external opening and the apertm’e in the gut. Thus, then, there are three forms of artificial anus, differing from one another according to the situation of the angle of the gut in relation to the external opening and to its connections. I^Tien a Fenced Fistula has formed, the condition of parts is somewhat dif- ferent. The apertiue in the intestine consists of merely a small perforation in its coats, unattended by any considerable loss of substance, through which a quantity of thin fiuid and feculent matter exudes, giving rise to a good deal of irritation of neighbouring structures. In some cases, there are several apertures communicating with the gut, and extending through the skin. Fistulous openings of this kind not unfrequently undergo spontaneous cure after existing for a few weeks or months. TfeedmcnL—\i the aperture be merely a small one, with a naiTOw fistula leading into the gut, the chief inconvenience suffered by the patient often arises from the inltation of the skin around the opening by the continued moistme of the feculent matter. In such cases the skin should be protected by means of zinc ointment, spread on lint; and the patient should wear a pad to restrain the discharge. By the pressure of this pad the aperture may sometimes be made to close. In other cases, the occasional application of the galvanic cautery or of a red-hot wire will induce contraction of its edges ; and in other instances, again, a plastic operation of some kind may be required. But I confess I have not usually seen much advantage result from such operations, which are often followed by erysipelas. As the existence of an artificial anus', by interfering with nutrition, commonly gives rise to considerable emaciation,'