738 SECONDARY DISEASES OF THE URINARY ORGANS. DISEASES OF THE GENITO-UKINARY ORGANS. CHAPTER LXVII. -—-♦— SECONDARY DISEASES OF THE URINARY ORGANS ARISING FROM SURGICAL CAUSES. The great majority of cases of stone in the bladder, stricture of the urethra, cystitis secondary to paralysis, retention from enlarged prostate, tumours of the bladder, and, in short, of every disease tending to hinder the escape of urine ft’om the bladder, or to induce chronic inflammation of that organ, terminate, if not relieved, by giving rise to fatal disease of the kidneys. This fact alone is sufficient to make the study of the secondary affections of the kidney of the greatest importance to the practical Sm’geon; and the obscurity which sur- rounds their diagnosis, and the general impotence of treatment intended for their relief, renders the subject weU worthy of the fullest investigation. My friend and colleague, Marcus Beck, has for some years devoted 'much attention to the morbid changes thus induced. His pathological investigations in this very important department of Genito-urinary Diseases have been as careful and minute as they have been extended. The following pages will be found to contain a summary of the principal results at which he has arrived, for which I am indebted to him. Morbid Conditions of the Bladder.—If we examine a case in which death has occmued from one of the above-named diseases, we find that the mucous membrane of the bladder shows signs of both recent and old inflam- mation. The recent is indicated by the swollen and softened condition of the mucous membrane, and the intense pm-ple of the summits of the rugae, and possibly by patches of ulceration, the ulcerated sm’faces being often covered by a thick slough closely resembling diphtheritic membrane. The old inflamma- tion is indicated by the dark slate-grey pigmentation which affects the greater part of the mucous membrane, and which has resulted from repeated attacks of intense congestion, in which red blood-coi’puscles have become extravasated, and, after breaking np and becoming absorbed, have left their pigment behind them. The muscular wall of the bladder is found to be hypertrophied, or not, according to circumstances. If, in order to expel the mine, it have been called upon to make a greatly increased pressure on its contents, the hypertrophy Avill be vei’y marked. If the obstruction to the flow of urine have been of a valvulai’ nature, as is often the case in enlarged prostate, then dilatation of the bladder wiU greatly exceed the hypertrophy of the muscular walls. It may, therefore, always be supposed, when great hypertrophy with contraction of t e bladder is found, that increased difficulty existed in expelling the urine, but