982 DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITAL ORGANS. necessary during parturition actually to complete the division of tliat mem- brane, if thickened and unruptured, though in most cases it gives way under the pressure of the foetal head. It may happen that surgical aid is needed to supplement conjugal efforts in the consummation of the marriage rite. In these so-called “ delicate ” cases, anesthesia having been induced, the Surgeon introduces a small bivalve speculum shut (Fig. 85!)), or an ordinary “ glove-stretcher,” and, expanding the blades, ruptures the hymen, and dilates the vagina to the necessary extent as he withdraws the instrument. Absence op the Uterus and Ovaries, with imperforate vagina, is occasionally met with in women, otherwise perfectly well formed : the external organs of generation, labia, and nymphte being present, and the breasts developed. In such cases, it is remarkable that sexual desire usually exists. The true condition may, however, be detected by an examination per rectum, and especially by the introduction of a catheter into the bladder whilst the finger is in the rectum, when the two cavities -will be found to be in close apposition without the intervention of uterus or ovaries, the point of the instrument being felt thinly covered through the gut. In two of the cases of this kind in which I have been consulted, there had been monthly epistaxis. No sm-gical interference can be of any avail in such cases ; and an attempt to restore the vagina would necessarily lead to fatal results by opening the peritoneal cavity. Occasionally, if the ivoman has been married, the i'ruitless attempt at coition on the part of the husband has caused dilatation and expansion of the urethral orifice to such an extent, that the index finger may be introduced into the cavity of the bladder. I have kno^m this expanded urethra mistaken for the vaginal aperture, coitus effected into it, and the existence of the malformation for a long time completely overlooked. Simultaneous vesical and rectal exploration will always clear up the true nature of the case. Hypertrophy of the Clitoris is occasionally met with : this organ becoming enlarged, elongated, and pendulous, and in some cases attaining an enormous size. Hargrave mentions an instance where it was found after removal to constitute a tumour weighing five pounds and a half. When the clitoris is enlarged, it may give rise to a good deal of irritation, and require excision, an operation that is often followed by rather troublesome hiemoiThage, requiring the use of the actual cautery for its arrest. Removal of the Clitoris, even though not enlarged, was some years ago recommended and extensiA'ely practised as a means of em’e in some foims of epilepsy and of erotomania. This is an operation as unscientific as it would be to remove the glans penis for the cure of similar affections in the male, and one that the experience of the profession has proved to be as useless in its results as it is unscientific in its principle. Tumours of various kinds are met with in the interior of the vagina, springing from its walls. These may be of a Cystic character ; but occasion- ally true Mucous Polypi are found dependent and projecting fr-om the side of this canal. These may most readily be removed by transfixing their base by a double whipcord ligature, and then strangling it. In performing this operation, however, ivhen the tumour grows from the posterior wall, care must