^73 SYMFT02IS OF CARIES. skull, 101 ; facial bones, 44; vertebral column, elbow- 1 fmnni- ('slmftl ol ; tibia, 30 ; fibula, '2. JX i;itiDaiin.auiun 1*1 crives • bead and spine, 10!) 1 ; upper limbs, 185 ; lower limbs, 720 Hence ft appeai-s that, while any bone may be affected with caries, it is most frequently met with in the short and cancellous bones. . tv, , i C \-USES —Caries usually occurs in constitutions that have been debilitated bv struma or syphilis, often without any other apparent cause. Caries occur- vino- in strimous constitutions, and affecting the short bones, as those of the tamis or spine, or the heads of the long bones, as the tibia, usually, if not always,-commences in the central cancellated structure of the bone, which liecomes congested, softened and disintegrated ; in many cases without any external cause, but apparently simply from the diminution of vitality in those parts of the osseous structure which are farthest from the periosteum, and which do not, like the deeper structures of a long bone, receive a supply of blood ft-om an internal or medullary membrane. In these cases, the inflam- mation of the soft investing parts, and the destruction of the joint, which usually ensue, are consecutive to the disease in the bone. In si/pliilitio constiiiiHons caries is aj)t to affect the surface of the bone, dis- integrating and eroding this iii a remarkable mannei’. This condition has been described by Stanley as true idcercdion of Toono, and he regards it as distinct fi’om caries, and analogous to ulcers of the soft parts. Here the disease does not penetrate deeply, but leaves the surface rough and porous, -with a good deal of inflammation in the soft parts around the affected bone. He states that it only occurs in adults, and in males, and is very chronic ; it is met with primarily in the bones of the spine, but also occurs on the articular smfaces in advanced stages of joint-disease. SniPTOMS.—The symptoms indicative of the occurrence of caries are very equivocal, and are not imfr-equently, in the early stages, mistaken for those of ordinary phlegmonous abscess or rheumatism. They consist of pain in the bone, with a good deal of redness and swelling in the soft tissues covering it ; abscess at last forms, often of considerable size ; and, on letting out the pus, the character of the disease Avill be recogmised, as the bare and rough bone may be felt A\nth a probe, Avhich sinks into depressions upon its surface, which, though rough, yields readily to the pressme of the instrument. The cavity of the abscess gradually contracts, leaving flstulous openings, Avhich discharge a fetid pus, usually dark and sanious, intermixed with gi’anules of bone, and containing a superabundance of the lime phosphates. The fistulous openings are generally surrounded or concealed by high spongy granulations, and the neighboiu’ing skin is duskily inflamed. These sinuses or fistulm arc often long and tortuous. They Avind along and around the muscles, the pus finding its Avay along the lines of least resistance in the muscular planes of areolar tissue, and the external opening being often situated at a considerable distance, perhaps many inches, fr’om the diseased bone. In these cases, a long and flexible probe is required to traverse the sinuosities of the fistulous track so as to reach the bone at its extremity ; and