30 ANEURISM. lifive hvice ligatured the external iliac for aneurisms of the gi’oin that had been mistaken for abscesses. Oceasionally, the more fatal en-or has been committed of puncturing the tumour with the view of letting out pus, when none appeared, and, either immediately or after a lapse of a few hours, profuse arterial hemor- rhage ensued. That this accident may arise from the intrinsic difficulties of the diagnosis, is evident from the fact that it has happened to such Surgeons as Desault, Pelletan, Dupuytren, Pirogoff, and many others. I have once seen this accident occur to a Surgeon of considerable experience, who, mistaking a diffused popliteal aneimism for an abscess, opened it with a bistoury, but finding no pus, applied a poultice; alarming hemorrhage ensued in about forty hom’s, and I amputated the thigh on the second day after this untoward occuiTence. The difficulty in diagnosis is especially apt to occur in those aneurisms which, haA'ing become diffused, have ceased to pulsate, have no bruit, are elastic, softened, and diffluent to the feel, and in which the skin has become reddened and inflamed by pressure from within. It is only by careful atten- tion to the history of the case, and by skilful manipulation, that the true nature of the tumour can be ■ made out. But an anemism may actually become associated A\dth an abscess in one or two ways. Thus it may suppurate, inflam- mation of a suppurative character taking place in the areolar tissue around it, with swelling, redness, oedema, and heat of the integirmental structures, increase of size in the tumoiu, and probably diffuse solidification of it. If this abscess be opened or allowed to burst, dark gTumous pus will escape, followed by coagula and masses of broken dorni decolorised fibrine, and sometimes accom- panied, but more usually followed after a lapse of some hours, by a free and perhaps fatal discharge of florid blood. Another form of combination between abscesses and aneurism consists in the opening of an artery by ulceration into the cavity of an abscess, so that the blood is projected directly into this from the opened vessel. In cases of this Idnd—of Avhich the instance that occun-ed to Liston is a good example— Ave have the ordinary signs of abscess, usually of a chronic character, to Avhich those of an aneurism are generally suddenly superadded, Avith gueat increase in the bnlk of the tumour. This accident has chiefly been obseiwed in abscess of the neck, opening up a communication AAith the carotid artery. 'With rheumatism and neuralgia it Avould at first appear to be difficult to confound an anenrism, but in practice it is not so. I have knoAvn several cases in Avhich the lancinating pains of aneurism, more especially when the tumour was internal, have been mistaken and treated for rheumatic or neuralgic affections ; and I have even knoAvn the pain occasioned by the presence of a large aneurism of the tliigh treated for several weeks as rheumatism. In such cases as these, it is of course obvious that a little care and proper examination will usimlly serve to establish the diagnosis. The aneurismal may be distinguished from the rheumatic pain by its haAing a twofold character—being both lancmating and intermittent, as well as continuous, aching, and burning hen this kind of pain is persistent, especially about the back, the side of the Imad or aim, it ought always to cause the Surgeon’s attention to be directed to the condition of the neighbouring large vessels. . . ^ Terminations.—Spontaneous Cure of an aneurism is o Aciy larc occm ^ rence. The manner in Avhich it happens has been especially and ably stiidicc \v