401 epituelioma of the lip. adiacent "lands. I have seen recurrence at the angle of the mouth and inside the cheek^of the side opposite to that on which the primary disease had declared itself and been removed, and this recurrence not till three or four years after the operation. FiK 552 -Extensive Wnrty Epithelioma Fig. 553.-Lines of Incision for Eemo^-ing of the Lip. V-shaped Piece of Lip. When the glands under the jaw are enlarged in this disease, it is a question whether an operation should be done. In some eases, extirpation of the disease and removal of the enlarged glands (provided that the surrounding soft parts be not involved) may be practised if the patient be in a good state of health ; and he will thus be placed in a more favourable condition than before the operation, and will have a better chance of prolongation of life. But in the majority of cases it wiU be wiser not to operate. Opei-ation.—When once the true natm’e of the disease has been ascertained, the operation should be performed with as little delay as possible ; but before it is done, it is weU that any very prominent or broken tooth should be removed, and the tartar cleaned away from the incisors. The operation requires to be somewhat modified, according to the situation and extent of the affection (Fig. 554). If this be tolerably limited, a yshaped cut, extending widely round it, , and carried sufficiently low to include any indurated prolongation of the ab- I sorbents, should be practised ; the edges of the cut should then be brought [ together by two hare-lip pins with a twisted suture, as in the case of a simple- hare-lip. When the disease occupies a considerable longitudinal extent, but does not dip down very deeply, a slice of the lip should be shaved off, including Fig. 554.—Epitliclioma of Lower l.ip : Fig. 555.—Lip after Removal ot Lines of Incision. Epithelioma. the whole of the morbid structure ; and it is often surprising, in these- ■ circumstances, to observe how the tissues of the lip will speedily rise to their VOL. II. D jj