DISEASES OF JOINTS. cure without ankylosis ; a new and healthy aetion having been imprinted on the synovial membrane. This mode of treatment does not appear hitherto to have met with mueh support in this country ; yet it certainly deserves a ! trial, though reeoursc should not lightly be had to it, as it is evident that the i induced inflammation might exceed the expected limits. In one case of hydrar- throsis of the knee, in an old man, in which I employed it, about six ounces ol thin s}movia were drawn off, and a drachm of strong tincture of iodine was injected into the joint. Shght inflammation only ensued ; and the disease, which was of two years’ standing, was completely cured. The chief points that appear to require attention are that no inflammation be going on at the time, there being no tenderness or pain in mo'i’ing the joint, the effusion being quite passive, and of a very chronic character ; and, above all, that no air be allowed to enter with the injected fluid. After di’opsy of the joint has been removed, the articulation is usually left weak for some length of time, in consequence of the stretching to which its ligaments have been subjected: here cold douches and an elastic bandage will constitute the best mode of treatment. ARTHRITIS. Simple, Acute, and Chronic Arthritis.—By Arthritis, in its simple form, is meant inflammatory disease of an acute or chronic kind of the whole or gTeater part of the structures that enter into the formation of a joint. This affection may conmience in the synovial mmnlranes, and then sjiread to the other articular tissues ; or it may begin in the cariilayes or lo7ics. Diseased action is very seldom primarily set up in the liyaments of the joint; though these structures commonly become elongated, softened, and destroyed, as a consequence of other forms of articular disease. But, though primary inflammation of the ligaments is so rare an affection as to have been denied by many, yet it certainly does occasionally occiu’. This is especially seen in the hip-joint, where the inflammatory affection may commence in the round hgament; illustrative of which there is a very beautiful model in the University CoUege Museum. Inflammation may commence in the Jibrous capsule of the joint: this we find more particularly to be the case when the affection is of a rheumatic character ; in these cases inflammation, nmning into suppuration and slough of this structure, vdll commonly spread to the internal parts. In some instances this form of disease gives rise to the deposition of masses and layers of bone in the areolar structines outside the articulation. Causes.—In some instances, acute necrosis of the shaft of one of the long bones, as of the tibia, will extend to the epiphysis, and thus run on to destructive action in the terminal articulations, the cartilages becoming imder- mined, softened, and perforated. It not unfrequently happens that the arthritic disease is a result of a ntorbid condition of the ariicubxr ends of the long bones, or of those short bones that enter into the formation of the joint; this we especially see in diseases of the foot, of the elbow, of the knee, and hip ; but it is a condition which, I believe, may occur in any joint. The bones usually become, in the first instance, the seat of tuberculous infiltration; this runs into imhealthy suppuration, ivhich gives rise to caries and limited necrosis