TREATMENT OF SYAIPTOMS AFTER REDUCTION'. 633 navo been reauced in mass (vuh p. 052, Vol. H.) ; 2. An internal strangula- lion has existed Avithin the sac—the taxis having overcome the external stric- ture, but failing to influence that within the sac ; 3. The gut may have been so severely nipped that, although all constriction has been removed, the peristaltic action is not restored, the constricted portion of bowel falling into a state of gangrene ; 4. A second hernia may exist in a state of strangulation, which has escaped detection. The diagnosis of these several conditions may possibly be made by atten- tion to the following circumstances. In the reduction in mass the tumour has slipped up without any gurgle ; the canal is very open, and no trace of sac can be felt in it, but a rounded tumour, possibly at the upper part, on coughing. In the case of internal adhesions there will have been no 'gurgling, but the caual is still filled by the sac ; the abdominal apertures are not pretcrnaturally patent and distinct. In the case of extreme nipping and consequent paralysis of a portion of the gut, gurgling will have been felt and heard in effecting the taxis, Avhich does not happen in either of the other conditions, and the symptoms of intestinal obstruction will not be quite complete. The vomiting will lose its stercoraceous character, and probably some flatus will pass. In the case of the co-existence of a second hernia in a state of strangulation, the 'Cause of the continuance of the symptoms may be ascertained by careful ■examination of the abdominal walls. It is especially the co-existence of a small .femoral with a large umbilical or inguinal hernia that is apt to be overlooked. This I have seen .happen in a very fat person. A man was admitted into University College Hospital with strangulated inguinal hernia. It was reduced by the house-surgeon, but the symptoms persisted, and the patient died un- relieved, there being no indication for operation. After death a very small piece, half a knuckle, of intestine was found strangulated in the crural canal of the same side. The patient being extremely fat, this strangulation was not detected, and could not be recognised during life. The folds of the groin should be very carefully examined in all these cases. The Treatment of these different conditions is full of difficulty and of anxiety to the Siugeon. As a general rule, I think that the proper practice in all cases when the symptoms of strangulation, especially stercoraceous vomiting, continue unrelieved and undiminished in severity for some hom’s after the ap- parent reduction of the hernia, is to cut down upon the canal, expose the sac, and, if that be found still strictured, as will be explained at p. 637, Vol. II., divide the constriction. Should the hernia not have been reduced “ in mass,” it might possibly be found that a small knuckle of intestine is still gripped at the inner and deeper ring ; but should that not be the case, it wiU, I think, be safer not to push any exploration into the abdominal cavity with the vieAV of discovering the possible existence of unrelieved internal strangulation, the presence of which would be highly problematical, and, if existing, could scarcely admit ol discovery. The safer and wiser plan under such circum- stances appears to be, to leave the wound open, with a poultice and a light compress over it, and to give the patient the chance of the formation of an artificial anus on the sloughing of the strangulated or badly nipped knuckle of intestine ; a result that I have more than once witnessed about the fourth or fifth day, the patient ultimately recovering.