55° DISEASES OF THE MOUTH AND THROAT. simple : but as the disease advances, the expectovation becomes more and more puriform, the cough increases, the patient emaciates, is affected witli niglit sweats, and at last sinks and dies. This A’ariety is often spoken of as Larijmjeal i Fhthis'is. In this form of the disease, a marked feature, as seen l)y the laryn- jk goscopc, is the rounded thickening of the arytasnoid cartilages, accompanied > by a similar condition of the arytmno-epiglottidean folds of mucous membrane. I’atchcs of ulceration, often having a Avhite or a yellowish surface, form later in these parts. The epiglottis is usually congested, but not extensively ulcerated. Ulceration and thickening of the vocal cords are also common. When the affection is at all adA’anced, disease of the lungs is almost invariably present, and it is only in rare cases that the larynx is affected first. In the syiAiiliiic variety the symptoms much resemble the tubercular, but the constitutional condition is different, and the lungs remain healthy. The ] laiyngoscope shows us also that the local appearances are not exactly the I same. The epiglottis is often extensively affected, in some cases being com- pletely destroyed. The swollen rounded condition of the tips of the aiytmnoid cartilages, common in tubercular laryngitis, is not so marked. At the same time the ulceration frequently extends to the pharynx, and ulceration, or the scars of old ulcers, may be seen on the tonsils. The vocal .cords are often more or less completely destroyed, and not unfrequently the disease leads to necrosis of the laryngeal cartilages (see p. 553). The syphihtic form of ulceration gives rise in many cases to narrowing of the glottis, and tracheotomy is much more frequently required in this variety than in the tubercular. Diagnosis.—Examination of the larynx by means of the laryirgoscope will always serve to point out the true nature of the affection, and to prevent its beinsr confounded AAuth chronic bronchitis or catarrhal attacks ; and attention O to the points above indicated, Avith a careful inquiry into the constitutional condition of the patient, together Avith a stethoscopic examination of the chest, Avill usually determine the variety of the disease fr’om Avhich he is suffering. Treatmejit—ThB treatment of the various chi-onic inflammations of the mucous membrane of the pharynx and larynx requires to be conducted by careful regulation of the general health and selection of climate, avoidance of exposure to cold, and attention to digestion; and especially by the local appheation of various astringent vegetable and metallic solutions. In the milder forms of the disease, a satm’ated solution of tannin or glyce- rine, apphed by means of a camel’s hair brush or a sponge-probang, AAnll be found useful. In many cases the best results foUow the inhalation of solutions of tannin or sulphate of zinc in a “ pulverised ” form, apphed by means of the ordinary spray-douche, such as is used for procuring anassthesia l^y the local application of ether. But of all these astringents none equals in value the topical application of a solution of the nitrate of silver, which may almost be looked upon as specific in the simpler forms of this disease. _ , The practice of treating chronic disease of the larynx by the application of a strong solution of the nitrate of silver is by no means of recent origin. Many years ago it Avas employed by Sir C. Bell; and before him Bretonneaii applied the solution in these cases by means of a sponge attached to a inece ot Avhale-bone. Of late years this practice has been brought very iiromiiiently