DISEASES OF THE PROSTATE. 866 round the pubes. The middle lobe, even when very greatly enlarged and valvular, as was the case in Fig. 700, docs not necessarily offer much obstacle to the introduction of the catheter, the point of which pushes it hack. It is of great moment to ascertain that the catheter does fairly enter the body of the bladder. In enlarged prostate, the corresponding portion of the urethra is often elongated and dilated, forming a bend or pouch, containing perhaps half an ounce or one ounce of urine; this pouch the catheter may enter and empty, and the Siu-geon, then erroneously supposing that he has passed the instrument into the bladder, may rest content; but this is a grievous error, as the bladder is left distended beyond the pouch. Treatment of Retention of Urine.—^When retention has occurred, re- lief can only be afforded by the proper use of the catheter, and this should never be delayed, as typhoid symptoms in elderly people rapidly set in. Three questions present themselves in connection with the treatment of this form of retention. 1. As to the hind of cathetcT Ah&t should be used, Brodie recommends a gum-elastic instrument, long, of large size, and kept on a well-curved iron stylet, so to preserve its curve when that is withdrawn. This must be intro- duced either with or without the stylet; if possible, without it. Other Surgeons of great authority in these matters prefer the silver prostatic catheter ; and I certainly think that for the relief of retention a silver instrument is safer, and more easily managed, than the gum-elastic one. It might be supposed that a less chance of mischief would result from the gum-elastic than from the metallic catheter, as being the softer and more yielding instrument; but this is erroneous, if the stylet be allowed to remain in, as it is then as rigid at the point, as hard, and as likely to penetrate soft structures as a silver oue would be. If the stylet be withdrawn, it is often a very unmanageable instru- ment ; it is impossible to know how to direct its point; and if the obstacle be difficult to surmount, it is not easy to guide the instrument over it. The manoeuvre mentioned by Sir B. Brodie wiU often be of use ; viz., after passing the catheter as far as it will go, to withdraw the stylet for three or four inches, and so tilt up the point of the catheter, which then passes over the obstacle. With the metallic catheter, on the other hand, the Surgeon can feel his way, as it were, and wiU, if he depress the handle well, as soon as the point enters the prostatic portion of the urethra, find little difficulty in guiding it into the bladder. It is the first introduction of the instrument that especially requhes care, and as much gentleness as possible ; after it has once been introduced, it will almost invariably readily find its own way. It is a question whether the patient should be placed in the erect or in the recumbent position, when the catheter is introduced for the rehef of uriuaiy retention. I certainly think that the recumbent is not only the easiest position in which to introduce the instrument, but the safest. In old and feeble subjects the sudden withdrawal of the urine, by removing compression from the abdo- ‘ minal veins, and allowing these vessels to refiU, may induce syncope, which occurring in the erect position might prove fatal. I have heard of one case, in which the sudden death of the aged patient in such circiunstances was attributed to this cause. By far the most convenient instrument in the majority of cases is the soft