Si6 DISEASES OF THE MOUTH AND THROAT. Absoess of the Tongue, though rare, occasionally occurs. I have seen several instances of it. The abscess forms a small deeply seated elastic but firm tumour, which sometimes feels slightly movable and presents no super- ficial discoloration. A boy was once brought to me with an elastic tumour of slow growth, and of about the size of a small plum, situated deeply in the centre of the tongue ; on puncturing it, about half an ounce of healthy pus was let out, after which the cyst speedily closed. N^vus and Aneurism by Anastomosis are but rarely seen in the tongue, and when met with would require to be treated on the same principles that guide ns in the management of the disease elsewhere. A very remarkable instance of an erectile tumour of naivoid character affecting the tongue came under my care, in which the whole of the free extremity of the organ was im- plicated in the morbid growth, presenting a thin club-shaped end, which pro- truded between the teeth and lips of the patient, a girl about three years old. In this case Image, of Bury St. Edmunds, had very judiciously aiTested the activity of the disease, and had produced consolidation of the mass, by the introduction of setons, which were worn for some months ; and, when the child subsequently came under my care, the chief inconvenience that existed resulted from interference with speech, and the deformity occasioned by the hypertrophied and elongated organ (Fig. 342, p. 942, vol. I.) By means of the dcraseur I removed all the redundant tissues, and so reduced the tongue to its normal length and breadth. Morbid Changes of the Epithelium of the tongue sometimes occur; amongst the most remarkable of these is Psoriasis. In this affection the tongue is indurated, shrivelled, and dry, having cracks upon its surface, with patches of a dead white colour, and irregular in shape, varying in size from that of a split-pea to an inch in diameter ; this condition exactly resembling- psoriasis of the palms of the hands, may occur with or without scaly disease of the general integument. I have seen it in both conditions, and have always found it a most difficult affection to treat. The preparations of arsenic, with Plummer’s piU and sarsaparilla, have, however, appeared to afford the best results. In some instances it is evidently of syphilitic origin : and then it re- quires to be treated on the general principles that guide us in the management of the constitutional forms of that disease. The surface of the tongue occasionally assumes a Glazed and Warty Character, as if covered with a layer of boiled sago ; the mucous membrane being oedematous, elevated and papillated, but at the same time glassy and semi-transparent, and without induration. This condition, which usually aiises from syphilis, requires the constitutional treatment of that disease. A Hard Warty Condition of the Mucous Membrane covering the end or side of the tongue is occasionally met with, giving rise sometimes to so i much interference ivith speech, as to require removal either by the scissors or ecraseur. This has been likened by some to Ichthyosis, and appeai-s to consist of an elongation of the papillm with a dense horny epithelial covering to them. Both it and the disease which I have described as psoriasis are liable to degenerate into epithelioma of the organ, and they thus acquire a serious and prospective importance. Fissures or Cracks not imcommonly appear upon the side of the tongu ,