DISEASES OF JOINTS. 2i8 of a low form. These attacks are often mistaken in the first instance for gout; but the rapidity of the disorganising action, the formation of pus within and around the joint, the necrosis of the contiguous bones, and the separation of the mcrusting cartilages, all indicate the different nature of this affection ; which, so far as the joint itself is concerned, is incurable, and which may terminate in the loss of the jDatient’s life. The symptoms of arthi-itis that are most marked are the pain, heat, swelling, and peculiar position of the joint. The is often severe' tensi's e, and throbbing : so acute is it sometimes, that the patient screams with agony ; he cannot bear the bed to be touched, the room to be shaken, or the slightest mo'vement communicated to the limb, any attempt at examination of joint in such cases being attended with insupportable agony. There are usually nocturnal 'exacerbations, and the pain is commonly refeiTed with especial severity to one particular spot in the joint ; thus it is generally felt at the inner or under side of the knee-joint, and at the outer asjDect of the hip. The heat of the diseased joint is considerable, and is often accompanied with more or less superficial redness. The sweWmg is uniform, in^'olving the Avhole of the articulation, and not projecting at certain parts of it, as when the synovial membrane alone is affected ; it is generally not very considerable, and has a soft and doughy, rather than a fluctuating feel. As the disease advances, however, the swelling generally increases suddenly, and to a consider- able extent, either in consequence of the irritation of the synovial membrane, or of the accumulation of pus within or ai'ound the joint. In many cases the synovial membrane gives way, and the pus from the interiorof the joint becomes vddely diffused through the muscular interspaces of the limb, forming enormous abscesses and long sinuous tracts. The position of the affectedjimb is peculiar, and that attitude is insensibly adopted in which the patient will have the greatest amount of ease ; thus the knee is semiflexed and turned outwards, the thigh is abducted, and the elbow is bent. Sjoasms or startings of the limb, often of a very sharp and painful character, come on at times ; more particularly at night. Amongst the most distressing symptoms in the more ad^-anced stages of acute disorganisation of a joint are the painful startings of the limb when- ever the patient falls to sleep. The muscles becoming relaxed the softened articular structm'es allow the joint to become slightly displaced ; a reflex con- traction of the muscles immediately takes place aud the patient wakes with a painful spasmodic jerk of the limb, inducing a feeling of alarm, that is often very distressing. The constitutional clisturhance is very severe, and of an actiA'ely febrile type. As the disease progresses, suppuration takes place within the joint, which becomes hot and red, with a good deal of throbbing pain, and at last fluctuation is perceived where the coverings are thinned. In some cases the suppiwation occurs with very great rapidity, and luxation of the head of the bone takes place. In other cases the synovial membrane and capsule of the joint give Avay Avithout any looseness of ligaments or displacement ot bones, pus becomes infiltrated into the areolar tissue around the joint, an abscess forms externally to the articulation, and extensive purulent collections become diffused through the limb. As the joint becomes loosened by the destruction of its ligaments, the bones become mobile, and grate against one another Avhere the incrusting