754 URINARY CALCULUS. alkaline remedies too long, or in too large quantity ; lest the stone rapidly increase in size by becoming encrusted with phosphates. Oxalic Diathesis.—This is characterised by the formation of oxalate of lime in the urine. It generally occurs in individuals in whom there is defective assimilation, dependent upon exhausted nervous energy, arising from over- work, mental anxiety, or venereal excesses. The patient is usually pale and hypochondriacal, suffers from dyspepsia, acidity of stomach, and disturbed sleep. In these cases there is often loss of sexual power ; a state of debility of the generative organs, connected either with the w'ant of erectile vigour, or too speedy emissions. The mine is usually very pale, abundant, and acid, and there is heat and smarting during its passage along the m-ethra. In this dia- thesis there is no sediment or gravel, properly speaking, but the crystals float in the urine ; subsiding, however, when it stands, but not occurring in suffi- cient quantity to constitute a true sediment (Fig. 714). Roberts states that oxaluria ac- companies no constant state of symptoms, and questions the existence of such a dia- thesis ; so much so, as to state that the pre- sence of oxaliu’ia by itself furnishes no indi- cation for treatment. Calculus.—The oxa- late of lime or mulberry calculus is usually of a dark-brown or almost black ■coloiu’, moderate ^ , Fig. 714.—Ciystals of Oxalate of Lime. being Seldom '^^iate of Lime Calculus. larger than a walnut, and round; it is always rough, tuberculated, and some- times almost spiculated on the surface (Fig. 715). Treatment.—When there is no calculus, it is necessary to put the patient upon a light and noiu’ishing diet, especially fish, as recommended by Biid, cautioning him to avoid sweets and aU fermented liquors, with the exception of a moderate quantity of brandy. Tonics, particularly the mineral acids, iron, zinc, and quinine, may be given, and the residence should, if possible, be changed for a time to a warm chmate. When calculus is formed, there is, owing to its roughness, and the irrit- able state of the patient’s nervous system, usually a good deal of pain in the region of the bladder, requiring the free administration of opiates. Phosphatic Diathesis.—This chiefly oc- em's in old persons, or in those who are pre- maturely aged, with a broken constitution and an anemic condition of the system. In this diathesis, the sediment and ealenU may occm in three distinct forms i 1. Triple or Ammoniaeo-Magnesian Phosphate; 2. Phosphate of L mo; and 8. Mued Phosphates, consisting of a mixture of the preceding v arieties. Fip 716._Cryslals of Ammoniaoo- Magnesiaii Phospliatc.