DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. 920 Symptoms.—An urinary abscess is indicated by the formation of a small, somewhat cirenmscribed, bal'd, and painful tumour, situated in the neighbour- hood of the urethra. It is usually unattended by constitutional disturbance ; unless it attain any considerable bulk, when some pyrexia may ensue. It is principally in the perinmum that it attains any degree of magnitude, then constituting a perineal abscess, characterised by a deeply seated, hard, tense tumour, brawny and without fluctuation; attended by considerable weight and throbbing in this region. It does not readily point, owing to the manner’ in which it is bound down by the superficial fascia. Treatment.—Early incision is required. When the abscess occurs in the scrotum or anterior to it the Surgeon should wait for fluctuation ; but when it is seated in the perinmum, he need not do so, but should at once make a free incision through the mesial line into the hard brawny mass, in order to prevent the certainty of extravasation of urine. After the opening has been made, fomentations and poultices should be used. Urinary ristuiee commonly form in the perinEeum and scrotum, as the result of abscess in these regions communicating with the urethra ; occasion- ally, however, they are met with in other situations, as in the groin, the anterior abdominal waU, or the inside of the thigh. They usually communicate with the bulb or with the membranous portion of the urethra, but occasionally occur anterior to this. In number they vary considerably ; when ocem-ring in the scrotal and penile portions of the urethra, they are usually single; but when in the perineal, they are often rather numerous ; several apertures being occasionally met with about the perinteum, scrotum, and nates. In one case Civiale found as many as fifty-two. Their size also differs considerably ; some only admitting the finest probe, whilst others are large cloacae. In a case under my care, the patient had a tunnel of this kind in the groin that would readily admit three fingers. They are usually tortuous, elongated, and narrow ; sometimes constricted externally and more widely dilated behind. The smTounding parts are greatly condensed ; the whole of the scrotum and penis is enormously enlarged, indm-ated, and almost cartilaginous in structure. The urine may escape almost entirely through the fistuhe, scarcely any being discharged through the lu’ethral orifice; or there may be but a slight exudation from the fistulous openings. The Treatment of m'inary fistula varies according as it is complicated with stricture, and as it is situated in the anterior or the posterior part of the canal. If there be a stricture, this, as the cause of the fistula, will require removal either by dilatation or by the perineal section. If the strictine be not very tight and hard, dilatation commonly succeeds ; the instrument being intro- duced every second or third day, until the m’ethra is dilated to its normal size, when the fistulous tracks will in many cases close. In some instances, however, the frequent introduction and withdrawal of the catheter is a source of irritation, and then it had better be left in. When this practice is adopted, a moderate-sized elastic catheter should be used. If this be too small, the urine will flow between it and the sides of the urethra, and thus escape through the fistuhn ; if too large, it stretches the urethral orifice of the fistula injuriously. If the stricture be very tough and irritable, the better plan is to perform