CAUSES OF DEATH IN INTRACRANIAL ANEURISM. 103 tlicre are occasionally no warning nor premonitory symptoms of an impending dan-cr • the patient, when apparently in good health, being struck down by an attack of apoplexy which is speedily fatal. More frequently a senes of those symp- toms that have ah-oady been mentioned as attending many cases of this disease, precede the fixtal event for a longer or shorter time. When ruptiu-e of the sac and extravasation of blood take place, death is inevitable ; at least, I am not acquainted with any case in which the appearance found after death con- vei-ted me to the belief that the patient had even temporarily recovered from this condition. Death from ruptmc of the sac appears to be most fr-equent in younger sub- jects. In the later period of life, aneinism is commonly associated with atheromatous disease of the vessels generally, which may cause death by softening and effusion of blood. According to GruU, of 20 cases occm’ring in persons under thirty-five years of age, IG (or 80 per cent.) were fatal from rupture of the sac ; while in 37 cases over thu'ty-five, death occurred from this cause in only 14, or 38 per cent. 3. Death may result from another cause than the pressure of the aueurismal sac or its rupture and the extravasation of its contents—viz., from softening or (Usorganisalion of the substance of the brain to a greater or less extent, in con- sequence of the obstruction offered to the passage of the blood through the aueurismal vessel. In the case of aneurism of both carotids, already mentioned as having occurred at University College Hospital, this Avas the case ; both anterior cerebral lobes Avere affected with white softening, and this condition was especially observable on that side on which the aneurism was largest. 4. Lastly, death may be produced by the mere irritation occasioned by the pressm’e of one or more aneiuismal tumoiu’s Avithin the cranium. Of this an interesting example is afforded by the history of a case of anemdsm of both external carotids, contained in the Museum of the College of Surgeons, and related by Sir Gr. Blane in the Transactions of the Society for the Improvement of Medical and Ghirurgical Knoivledge, vol. ii. p. 192. In this case the patient, a lady aged 69, had suffered for foin yeai-s fr'om attacks of giddiness, headache, and imperfect Ausion ; about sixteen months before her death she became insane, recovered, and then relapsed twice into the same state. After having regained her senses for some months, she became affected Avith giddiness, red- ness of the eyes, and Auolent maniacal delirium, Avhich continuing for some Aveeks caused her death. After death the folloAving appearances Avere found. “ Upon examining the body, there Avas no appearance in the brain itself that could in anyway account for the symptoms. There was, indeed, a gi’eater quantity of fluid than common in the ventricles, and the surface of it was moister than it is usually found in a sound state ; but in all other cases AAhich have occurred to me of organic affections of the brain proving fatal, except those which are sudden, such as apoplexy, there has been a preternatural quantity of fluid in its A'cntricles. There were also spicula of bone in the membrane forming the falx. The inner substance of the erm-a cerebri Avas of a brown colour, and more tender than natural. The optic nerves AA^ere smaller than natmal, as if they had been Avasted. The septum lucidum Avas more than usually dense. “ But the morbid appearance in this case, which was so singular, and to