362 DEFORMITIES. usually met with. In this, the true digital coutraetiou, the tendons are unatlected, and the deformity is due to changes taking place in the integu- uieutal and fascial structures outside them. ]\'Iost commonly this commences in the little finger, and thence gradually extends to the ring and middle fingers, which become so forcibly and firmly curved inwards, that their exten- sion is not practicable. It usually results from frequent and continued pressiu’e on the palm of the hand, as in leaning on a round-ended stick in walking, or in those trades in which an instrument requires to be pressed into the hollow of the hand. It occurs, however, in persons in the prime of life •without any apparent exciting cause. In such cases I have always found it associated with a rheumatic or gouty diathesis ; the disease in fact consisting in chronic thickening of the fascite of the palm and fingers, resulting from rheumatic inflammation of or deposits in these parts. On examining the con- tracted fingers, projecting ridges will be felt extending fr’om the palm to their anterior aspects ; and on endeavouring to straighten them, these ridges will be found to become stretched, and the palmar fascia to be rendered tense. The skin covering these fascial ridges is usually healthy, but sometimes adherent to them. So firmly are the fingers contracted, that by no effort can they be extended. Pathology.—The pathology of this contraction has given rise to a good deal of difference of opinion amongst Sm’geons. Dupuytren appears to have been the first who endeavom’ed, by dissection, to ascertain its true character. He found, on examining a hand which was the seat of this disease, that, after the removal of the skin, which was loose and flaccid, the contraction continued as before, and this, therefore, could not be its seat; but that the pahnar fascia, which was exposed, was tense and diminished in size, whilst from the lower aspect some cord-like prolongations passed up by the side of the fingers ; and that, when these were di'vided, the contraction was immediately removed, the tendons, the bones, and the joints being perfectly sound. He considered these fibrous cords to be digital prolongations of the pahnar fascia, and consequently looked upon this membrane as the seat of the disease. Goyrand, who has carefully dissected hands affected in this way, states that these fibrous cords, which he looks upon as the seat of the affection, are not prolongations of the palmar fascia, but are ligamentous structm’es that extend from its anterior inferior aspect to the sheaths of the flexor tendons, into which they are inserted opposite the second phalanx ; being an hypertrophied condition of the subcii- taneous filaments of fibro-cellular tissue which natmally exist in this situation. The Diagnosis of cases of digital contraction, so fixr as the deformity is coin cerned, is obvious, and requires no comment; so far as the cause is concerned, it is not so easy. Is it tendinous or fascial ? When tendinous, the contracted tendon can be followed up to and above the wrist as a tense cord ; the structures being healthy. AVhen fascial, the tendon cannot be clearly defined, but the palmar structines are dense, thickened, and incorporated together, forming distinct ridges and sulci. ■, i • , 1 « n .-f,, This time digital contraction must not be confounded with that arthriti defonnans,” which often distorts the weather-beaten hands of labouring men and sailora. In these cases all the fingers are bent inwards, and more or less