459 SECONDAliY OPERA TIONS. instrument ■when it is introduced, only beside it, perhaps, and the space beside it is not large enough to lot pass any but the smallest fragments that may come in the way ; so, not to lose the opportunity gi’^'en by the natural force of expulsion and the gi’eater quantity of fluid contents, we must begin to employ the suction-power as soon as possible after we have entered the suction-curette in the anterior chamber, or the aqueous humour Avithout the lens-matter may be running to Avaste. Secondary Operations for Cataract.—Opaque matters on the capsule of the lens, remaining after removal of cataract by any one of the various fore- mentioned methods, veiy often necessitate a final operation ; without Avhich,, indeed, the promised good result of the operation—for there has been no iritis- in these simple cases—is in abeyance. When it is plain that this bttle opera- tion will be required, it should be done as soon as all redness, remaining after the primary and major operation, has disappeared from the eye ; for, if it be long deferred, the capsule becomes so tough that it cannot be torn through Avithout much force, or the use of two needles, and even then, perhaps, a rent insufficiently large is made ; and, moreover, the force used, aud the draggings made on the parts around, may light up an inflammation which will after all close the aperture made in the capsule. It is seldom indeed that, Avith a pupil AA^idely dilated, one cannot see, after remoA'al of the lens, some opaque patches and streaks left upon the posterior capsule in situ ; but these are very often only found in the margin, and there chiefly in most cases where they are generally distributed. Others consist of shi’ivelled-up remains of the anterior lens-capsule, and of traces of the cataract itself; and yet, althono-fi these may be considerable, if they have been draAvn away towards the circuni- erence Avith the retracted capsule, as they are usually, aU ways behind the iris, when not und^ the mflmme of airofim, they wiU require no needle-operation! If the central parts be clear, there would seem to be no obstruction to vision, and the patient should have good sight; but, as in doubtful commencino- mtaT aTil T', “amination-the ophthalmoecopio rmetimef '’W ™P<=rfeot, oblique illumination, by whic{ any opacitmo renir°^"™® oapsule is detected as (without nrJ- ^ ^ opening to be made in it with a needle Bv the dra»™S; awT “ T ““5' »“l*q«ontly left to bo capll t “‘Tus ft y™-™ntly, by the shrivelling of the lacerated ^ ® “““ P”’'‘ “"d nnobstructed. forceps • or*if''o'iiB°*’'^'u'*'’'^ “toadied by use of the wire speculum and toothed passes into IlnterL 1 , 1 i wherever it may be most c^n “M'ginnl part of the cornea, a cataract-needle the point nT"r obliquely through the coats. sule,.md so far L, toSf ^ ■“ then brought down towards the cap- whieh it has been entered “oross it to the side opposite to that at passing the instrument anv hi tl ^ oapsu e is then penetrated : and, without towards the side at which H hat b! ‘’’l.P'”'"'' b»ck, and winch It has been introduced. The needle should traverse-