LIGATURE OF TIBIAE ARTERIES. 16.^ TIBIAIj ARTERrES. aneurism op the Aneurisms of the Tibial Arteries arc extremely rare, except as the result of wound, yet they are occasionally met with; and in the museum of St. George’s Hospital is a preparation of a small aneurism of the posterior tibial. I have only seen one case during life, that of a man suffering from cardiac and renal {liseasc, admitted into University College Hospital under my care for an aneurism of the anterioi tibial at the lower part of the upper third of the right leg. The signs were wcU marked—pulsation forcible and ex- centric, brnit loud. Compression was used without avail; and as he was anasarcous, no other siu’gical treat- ment could be adopted. He left the hospital uucured. The tibial arteries sometimes require ligatime either for injiuy or for disease. Ligature of the Tibial Arteries.—The Pos- terior Tibial Artery maybe tied in two parts of its either behind the ankle or in the calf of the leg Fig. 400.—Diagram of Left Popliteal Ai-tery. A. Popliteal Ai-tei-}'. V. Vein. N. Internal PoplitcalXervo; M. Biceps Muscle. course The line of direction of the posterior tibial artery is from a point about one inch below the knee, and equidistant from the two sides of the limb, to a point one finger’s breadth behind the internal malleolus. Behind the ankle it may be reached by making a semilunar incision three inches long, about three-quarters of an inch behind the inner malleolus, towards which its concavity should look. After dividing the integument and superficial fascia, the deej) fascia, which is usually single, but may be double, must be laid open ; this closely invests the vessel, nerve, and tendons in this situation; imder it the artery will be found accompanied by two veins, from which it must be separated before the ligature is passed. Anterior to the vessel, and nearer the bone, are the tendons of the flexor digitorum communis and tibialis posticus muscles ; behind, are the nerve and the tendon of the flexor proprius pollicis. In the middle of the leg, the posterior tibial artery should be tied only for a wound in that situation. In such circumstances no regular operation can be performed, but an incision of suf- cient length, taking the wound for its centre, should be made through the gastrocnemius and soleus parallel to their fibres, when, after these have been cut through, the deep fascia will be exposed. This must next be opened, when the artery Avill be found accompanied by its veins, and having the nerre to the outer side. Brom the depth at which the vessel is situated, and the free incisions that it is necessary to make through muscular parts It IS extremely difficult to apply the ligature in this situation. The latter steps of the operation may bo much fiicilitated by flexing the leg on the thio-h and extending the foot, so as to relax the muscles. ^ The Anterior Tibial Artery may be tied in several situations • but like the posterior tibial, it should not bo ligatured in the upper or middle parts of M 2 Fig. 401.— Diagram of Right I’osterior Tibial Artury, belli iid Inner Malleolus. A. Posterior Ti- bial Artery. V. V. Verne co- niites. N. Posterior Ti- bial Nerve.