SPECIAL ANEURISMS. (124 trollablo than I liave ever witnessed,” and was not commanded by drawing ‘the ligatnre tight. It was so great that it was douljtful whether the patient Avonid leave the theatre alive, and was only arrested by plugging the wound with sponge-tents. The patient died of inflammation of the pleura. On examination, the ancnrismal sac was found to have a pouch-like enlargement np\vards, overlying the artery, where it had been punctured. In connection ■with the ligature of the subclavian in this situation it is impossible to pass O’^'er in silence the flxet, that in some instances the artery takes a remarkably high course in the neck, and that in some of those instances, instead of pass- ing over the fii’st dorsal rib, it has boon supported on a supernumerary cervical rib, the anatomical relations being thus seriously distm’bod. Anti again, if this supernumerary cervical rib be miusually short, the vessel may be found to lie between it and the fii’st dorsal. Ligature between the Scaleni.—If the sac encroach upon the neck, rising above the clavicle, or the artery be not sound in the third part of its coiu'se, it may be necessary to ligature it between the scaleni, dmding the outer half or two-thirds of the scalenus anticus. This operation should not be considered as distinct Aom ligatime of the vessel in the third part of its course, but rather as an extension of that proceeding, if it be found, for the reasons just mentioned, unadx'isable to tie the artery on the first rib ; in this way it has been practised by Dupuytren and Liston. In its first steps, as far as the exposure of the scalenus anticus, it is the same as that for the deligation of the vessel in the third part of its coui-se. When this uiuscle has been exposed, a director must be pushed under it, upon winch it is to be divided to the extent of half or two-thirds its breadth, when it retracts, exposing the vessel. During this part of the operation, some danger may be incurred to the phrenic nerve, and to the transversales colli and humeri arteries ; but if ordinary care be taken, this will not be great. The phrenic ner\*e, as I have found by very frequent examinations on the dead body, lies altogether to the tracheal side of the incision, if that be not carried beyond one-half the breadth of the muscle ; and shoidd it appear to be in the way, it may readily be pushed in- waixls towards the mesial line, being only loosely invested by areolar tissue. I have, however, seen one instance in which the right subclavian artery was ligatured for a spontaneous cyhmh’iform aneurism of the axiUa, and the patient ‘died on the eighth day, of pneumonia ; on examination after death, the edge ■of the scalenus was found cut, and the phrenic nerve divided. Had the in- jury to the nerve in this case anything to do with the pneumonia ? I do not think it improbable ; as dmsion of one phrenic nerve, by paralysing to a ‘Certam extent the diaphragm, and so far interfering unth the respiratoiy move- ments, must necessarily have a tendency to induce congestion of the lung, which would readily run on to inflammation of that organ. ^ I have likewise heard of one case in which incessant hiccough followed this operation, and nfter death the phi’enic nerve was found reddened and inflamed, having probably in some way been interfered -unth during the exposiue of the "S'CSSCl. Another important point in reference to the ligature of the x esscl in this part of its coiuse is, that in five cases out of six on the right side and in one half on the left, the superior intercostal arises from the subclavian artery