ATONY OF THE BLADDER. 819 Daggers ix Lithotrity.—The principal dangers in lithofcrity arise from the state of the bladder and kidneys. They consist in the induction of ■C'ystitis of a iow form, Atony of the Bladder, of Eenal Indtation, or in the occurrence of Pya3mia, with much constitutional disturbance of a low type. Cystitis may occur in consequence of the increased in-itation to which the bladder is subjected. It sometimes occurs during the earlier period of the operation, in consequence of the irritation of the bladder by large and angular fr-agments, and subsides at once when these arc crushed up and pulverised. Bhould it continue, it speedily assumes a low form, and is apt to prove fatal by the induction of acute secondary inflammation of the kidneys or septi- offimia; even if it do not do so, its continuance is an insuperable obstacle to the fru-ther crushing of the stone ; and in cases of this kind the best course that could be pursued will be, after getting the patient into as favourable a state as possible, to remove the fragments by lithotomy. Atony of the Bladder is one of the most dangerous conditions that can •occiu’ in lithotrity. This state of things happens usually in old people, in whom the urinary organs may appear to be in a peculiarly quiet and favour- able condition before the operation, the patient being able to hold his urine for six or eight hom’s, and to bear the injection of ten or twelve ounces of fluid. In these circumstances, the Surgeon should be upon his guard ; for the danger of this condition is, that the bladder does not possess sufficient contractile power to expel the fragments. These consequently acciunulate in the lower fundus, and imtate the mucous membrane, and thus the founda- tion may be laid for fatal cystitis, which in these cases always assumes a typhoid type. The atony of the bladder appears to arise partly from that natural want of expulsive power, which is not imfrequent in old people, and partly fr’om a kind of paralysis of the organ, induced by the contact of the instruments, especially after long sittings, and by the pressure of the fragments, by which the bladder is, as it were, overpowered. Such patients usually die with severe constitu- tional depression, and with suppurative inflammation of the kidney. When atony of the bladder has come on, it is essential that the Surgeon should rid the patient of the fragments which he is unable to expel. This may sometimes be done by means of the scoop, assisted by washing out the bladder through the large-eyed catheter ; but the safer plan would probably be, to get the patient into as good a condition as possible, and then cut him. IhisI once did in an interesting case under my care at the Hospital; the patient, an old man, had been lithotrised by a Surgeon out of doors a few weeks before admission, but no fragments had passed ,• on sounding him, I found a moderate-sized calculus, with what appeared to be a large mass of soft concretion, of the natm-e of which I was not aware until after its removal • ‘ the patient having concealed the fact of his having been lithotrised. On cu mg him m the usual way, I removed a lithic acid calculus about as large as a pigeon s egg, and a handful of fragments of another calculus of the same composition, which had been crusted over and matted together by phos- Sould irfutmJ’’" I mth a scoop ^ ‘I'e Madder 3 o 2