treatment of subclavian aneurism. 115 those on the opposite side of tlie head and neck, as illustrated by the annexed cut (Fi«^ 3S0), taken from the preparation of the case in the University College Museum' Indeed, this is the great danger to bo apprehended after ligature of the subclavian artery on the tracheal side of the scaleni, depending as it does on the anatomical relations and connections of the vessel, vhich no skill on the part of the operator can in any way lessen, and which, in my opinion, ought certainly to cause the operation of ligature of the subclavian in the first part of its coui'sc to be banished Iroin surgical practice. Hobart of Cork ligatured the first part of the right subclavian and the root of the carotid in a case of aortic aneurism supposed to be innominate. The ligature separated safely from the subclavian, but the patient died on the sixteenth day of hemorrhage from the carotid, brought on by a fit of passion, in which she threw her bolster at the nurse. Smyth of New Orleans tied the innominate, the carotid, and subsequently the right vertebral, with eventual success (Table, p. 110). The carotid only was tied by Butcher, with a fatal result. ■\Vheu an aneurism is situated on the subclavian artery, in the posterior inferior triangle of the neck, it is necessarily impossible to ligatm-e that vessel beyond the scaleni,‘as there would not be sufiicient room for the exposiu’e of the ai'tery, which, even if laid bare, would in all probability be found in too diseased a condition to bear the application of a ligatm-e. Thus it will be seen that, in every case, except Smyth’s, in which an aneurism of the subclavian artery has been subjected to operation, whether by ligatm-e of the brachio-cephalic or of the subclavian itself infernal to tlie scaleni, the result has been a fatal one. As this unfortunate termination is in no way to be attributed to want of skill on the part of the operators,—who have been, without exception, men greatly distinguished for the possession of this very quality,—but is solely dependent on certain anatomical pecubarities in the an-angement of these vessels, by Avhich their successful ligature has been rendered aU but impossible, a repetition of these attempts, which may hasten the patient’s death, can scarcely be considered justifiable. What then are we to do ? Ai-e we to leave patients labouring- under anem-ism of the subclavian artery to ine-sitable death, v-ithout making an effort to save them ? Or does sm-gery offer other modes of treatment besides those just mentioned, by which we may hope to arrive at more successful resrrlts ? Without mentioning direct pressm-e, manipulation, or gah'ano-pmrctm-e. which are certainly deserviirg of further trials iir combinatiorr rvith appropriate constitutional treatment, three modes of treatment present themselves :— 1. Compression of the Ar-tcry where it passes over the Fust Bib, and conse- quently on the Distal Side of the Tumour. ■>. Ligature of it on the Distal Side, above or below the Clavicle. 3. Amputation at the Shoulder-joint, arrd Distal Ligature of the Artery. 1. Compression of the Artery on the Distal Side of the Sac could only be effected where it crosses the fii-st rib, and consequently would only be applicable to aneurisms of the first part of tins vessel. This plan has never been tried : partly, perhaps, on account of the difficulty in applying pressm-e in this situation, and partly, probably, on account of the want of success that has attended procedures of this kind when applied to vessels in other situations.