912 DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. nfiammatiou and the existence of fistnUn, it is a most difficult mattei- to dissect through such an altered mass and hit the urethra beyond it ■ and the difficulty is still further increased by the bleeding, which is often profuse. ihis operation, I have no hesitation in saying, is perhaps the most trouble- soine m surgery. I have more than once seen the most skilful operators foiled m their endeavours to accomplish it, and compelled to relinquish the operation without concluding it, or only succeed after prolonged and most painful attempts. Fortunately, this operation is now scarcely ever necessary ; ivith patience and under chloroform the Surgeon may almost invariably pass a staff’ however small, into the bladder ; he then has a sure gviide upon which to cut' by following which he must certainly be led through the stricture into the urethra beyond it. In all cases, therefore, urethrotomy should, if practicable, be substituted for the division of the stricture without a guide. Operation from front.-^Boutonniere Operation.—Tlvi following, which is a modification of the “ button-hole ” operation, may be advantageously per- formed in some cases of stilcture which are impervious to a grooved staff or other guide, and where it may be thought necessary to divide from without in consequence of their complication with fistula. The patient having been placed and secm’ed in the lithotomy position, a moderate-sized catheter, No. 8, is passed down to the strictm-e. The catheter is then turned round, so that its point is made to project into the perinteum just above the strictm’e. The Surgeon cuts doAvn upon this by an incision about 1|- inch long in the median line, and consequently opens the urethra just above the stricture. The catheter is now withdrawn, and each side of the opened urethra seized with a sharp hook or hook-forceps, and held apart so as to expose the interior of the canal. Oozing having been allowed to cease, the aperture leading through the strictiue will now readily enough be found at the lower angle of the opened urethra. A probe or narrow director is slipped into this, and along the guide thus introduced a tenotome is passed, so as to divide the stricture. The catheter is then passed on and tied in the bladder. This operation, though often difficult, is, on the whole, far easier and safer than the other. COMPLICATIONS AND BESULTS OP STBICTURE. Retention of Urine has already been several times described as ailsing from different causes. Thus, in boys, it arises from the impaction of a cal- culus in the urethra ; in girls it is usually hysterical; in old men it is almost invariably the consequence of atony of the bladder or enlarged prostate, alone or combined. In those of middle age, stricture of the urethra is the occa- sioning cause in the vast majority of cases. Retention of urine has a tendency to occur in all tight strictiues from the gTadual and progressive contraction of the canal. It most usually, however, takes place in consequence of a conges- tive spasmodic condition being superadded to the organic constriction. It commonly happens that a patient having a moderately tight organic strictinc commits an excess, or becomes exposed to cold and wet, and thus gets such a congested condition superadded, that the urine vdll not pass at all, or only in such small quantity by drops, and with so much pain and straining, that the bladder cannot be completely emptied. In these cases the retention always