914 DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. introcluco a catheter iii the ordinary way through the stricture, relief must be given to the over-distended bladder in some other way, lest it or the urethra burst, and extravasation of urine occur. The bladder may be emptied in four ways : 1, by Forcible Catheterism ; 2, by making an Opening into the Urethra behind and through the Stricture ; 3, by Puncturing the Viscus itself through the Eectum ; and 4, by Puncturing it above the Pubes, and 5, by Aspiration. 1. Forcible Catheterism is a most unsurgical and dangerous procedure. Nothing can surely be more improper than to take a small, stiff, silver catheter, pass it dovm to the stricture, and then, by main force, attempt to drive it on into the bladder. In these cases the • Surgeon usually fails in his attempt at reaching, the viscus, but pushes the point of the instrument into the tissues around the neck of the bladder or into the prostate, and thus induces great, and perhaps even fatal, mischief in these regions. If he should, by some fortunate accident, reach the bladder, it is not by any skilful though forcible expansion of the strictiu’e, but rather by perforating the urethra, and buiTOwing through the corpus spongiosum and prostate—“ tunnelling,” as it has been termed— until he again enter that canal, or in some such way reach the neck of the bladder. 2. Opening the Urethra behind and through the Stricture.—In the kind of retention of urme that we are now discussing, the safest, though by no means the easiest mode of affording relief after the fadiu’e of the catheter, is to make an incision into the middle line of the perinfeum, and to open the urethra behind or through the stricture. In doing this there is much less difficulty in cases of retention, than Avhen the bladder is empty. In conse- quence of the urethra being distended by the accumulation of urine, and by the straining of the patient, it sometimes attains a considerable magnitude ; though, if this be not the case, the operation may prove a very serious and difficult one. The operation, which is essentially the same as that for imper- meable stricture, described at p. 911, is performed by passing a catheter down to the stricture ; opening the distended sinus of the urethra ieijond this ; cutting upAvards through the stricture upon the end of the instrument ; and then passing the instrument on into the bladder, or allowing the urine to flow from the aperture thus made in the perina3um. In doing this, care must be taken to keep strictly in the direction of the mesial line, so as not to wound A’essels of importance. One advantage of this operation is. that the stricture may by it be cured at the same time that the retention is relieved ; and, as the incisions do not extend into the bladder, but are limited to the urethra, there is less danger to the patient than when that viscus is opened. Another adA^antage of the perineal incision in these cases is, that it not unfrequently happens that urinary abscess has begun to form, or the extra- vasation of a few drops of urine has taken place sooner than the Surgeon may have had any idea of: and if so, the incision through the perinaaum wdl afford an exit for any extravasated matters, at the same time that it relieves the patient from the distress and danger of the retention. Should any mischief of this kind have taken place, it is not necessary to be so particular about opening the urethra with the knife; for, an apertme having ah-eady been established in it, the urine will readily flow through the artificial channel thus formed by free incision into the inflamed or suppurating perinamm.