formation of column a nasl 497 Fi'o-. -)9(;, taken from a patient of mine the clay after the operation. Fig. 595 represents the deformity for which the operation was performed. The patient should be put to bed with a piece of soft lint laid over the whole of the face, so as to maintain its temperature ; and, if it be winter, he must be placed in a room that is kept well warm day and night. The diet for the first lew clays •should be simple, but abundant, consisting chiefly of nutritious slops. The di’essings must not be disturbed for three days : by this time, if all go well, the flap will be found somewhat tumid, warm, and sensitive, but pule in colour. The plug in the nose will now require changing, lest it be rendered offensive by the discharges ; its withdrawal and the substitution of another must be clone with the greatest gentleness, the Surgeon bearing in mind that any undue pressure or traction may destroy adhesions, and prove latal to the vitality of the flap. If the sutimes produce no in-itation, they may be left in till the fifth or sixth day, by which time the adhesions will be tolerably perfect, and they may with safety be cut and withdrawn. As the adhesions strengthen and the vitahty of the flap improves, it must be elevated by putting imderneath it a larger plug of lint; for which, after a time, may be substituted a small gutta-percha tube moidcled to the figure of the inside of the nose. (Edema of a somewhat sohd character is apt to come on in the flap, giri'ng it a white appeai’ance ; but this is of little moment, and will gradually subside as the circulation through it becomes more actively established. The flap gradually becomes thicker and firmer, thi’owing out granulations from its under surface, which eventually becomes clothed with mucous membrane. The wound in the forehead must be ch-essed like an ordinary ulcer, and be well touched with nitrate of silver from time to time, to insure its contraction. It usually cicatrises with great readiness, and leaves remarkably little deformity. 2. Separation of the Root of the Plap.—This may be done about a month after the flap has been fashioned, when its vascularity, through its lateral adhesions, vill be perfected. The division of the root is best done by passing a narrow-bladed bistoury under the twist, and cutting upwards towards the eyebrows, removing a wedge-shaped portion of the soft parts, so as to make a smooth and proper bridge. 3. Formation of theColumnaSTasi.—The addition of the columna is nowaU that is wanted to make the nose complete. This must be made from the upper lip, perhaps at the same time when the bridge is fashioned ; and it may be cut and fixed in the way that has been already described in speaking of the restora- tion of this feature, the interior of the apex of the new nose having been well pared to receive it. The columna requires to be well supported by means of a nan’ow strip of plaster passing from one cheek to the other, and usually requires a good deal of fashioning before it is perfect; indeed, this is the part of the operation that I have found always most troublesome, and requiring most attention. • I he new nose must continue to be supported fi’om beneath, for some months a ter its formation, by plugs of lint or small gutta-percha tubes, as it will evince a gieat tendency to contract and to alter in its general outline and shape ; be- coming, if the Surgeon be not careful, either depressed or dumpy. The sensi- 1 ity 0 t e new nose is entirely destroyed for a time after the division of the ^^voL II I’eturns from all sides, appearing first in the neighbour- K K