282 EXCISION OF JOINTS AND BONES. across ; the tendons of the peronens brevis and tertius, and the extensor brevis digitornm muscle, di\ ided. But the mass of extensor tendons in front of the foot, with the dorsalis pedis artery, must be left untouched. These should be drawn forcibly inwards. The peronens longus tendon may be drawn backwards. The foot is then strongly twisted inwards, the astragalus cleared, and its ligaments divided from the outer side in suceession as they present themselves. When the operation is done for disease of the bone, these structures will usually be more or less softened and disorganised; when for injiuy, they wiU in a great measiwe have been torn through. Hence, in actual operation, the same steps cannot be followed so methodically as may be done on the dead subject. The bone must now be seized with lion-forceps and dra-wn Aveh out of its bed; the knife being applied to any restraining structimes, but being used very carefrdly towards the inner side of the bone, lest the plantar arteries be wounded. Under this process the softened and carious Ijone usually breaks down and has to be taken away piecemeal, or its neck may be cut across, and the head separately removed from its articulation with the scaphoid. If the bone have been dislocated, and its ligamentous con- nections thus torn thi’ough, or if these have been disorganised and softened by disease, it may readily enough be removed as just described. But if the osseous tissue itself be carious and softened, and the ligamentous connections tolerably sound, then the operation becomes extremely troublesome, tedious, and prolonged—the l3one breaking down, and haA'ing to be I’emoA'ed piecemeal by means of the gouge and phers. The result of this operation is very satisfactory ; a good and movable articu- lation may be left betAveen the malleoli and calcaneum, and the limb is but little shortened. According to Hancock, of 109 cases in AA'hich the astragalus was remoA'ed, 76 recovered Avith good and usefol limbs; secondary amputa- tion Avas performed in two, AAuth one death ; 15 others died; and in 14 the results are not knoAni. The operation Avas performed in 64 cases for com- pound dislocation, with 50 complete recoveries ; in 20 of simple dislocation, with 14 complete recoveries; and in 10 for caries, perfect recovery taking place in 6. 2. When the disease has extended from the astragalus to the nialteolai a>ch, excision of the anlcle-joint AAiU be required. This operation may most conve- niently be performed in the folioAving way. A semilunar incision, about foui inches in length, should be made along the outer and inferior aspect of the joint, round the lower border of the external malleolus (Fig. 468), and should be carried sufficiently forwards to give space Avithout dividing the extensoi tendons or the dorsal artery. A perpendiculai- cut should then be made along the back of the fibula. The peroneal tendons need not be dmded, but should be draAvn downwards and backwards ; the lower end of the fibula shou d nex be cut across and detached. The astragalus, which wdl now be exposed, should then be separated from its connections, which, if they be much diseased, maj usually be readily done. If not deeply affected, it aauII be more firmly held and should then be cut across with pliers, and each fragment lifted out 0 bed Avith gouge or pliers. The foot may next be well drawn to the nmer side. andtheloVend of the tibia carefully isolated; the knife ^ great caution, and kept close to the bone, lest the postciioi tibial ai y