289 SPIXA BIFIDA. CHAPTER L. ♦ DISEASES OF THE SPINE. SPINA BIFIDA. It occasionally happens that, from congenital malformation and arrest of development, the spinous processes of some of the yertebrse are deficient, and their laminfe either absent or separated ; in consequence of which the meninges of the spinal cord are unprotected, and project through the aperture in the bones, giving rise to a tumour at the part where the arrest of development in the osseous structm*es occurs. Characters.—The tumour is usually oval, its long axis corresponding with that of the spine. It generally varies in size, fi’om that of a walnut to an orange ; but occasionally it attains an immense bulk, equal to that of a child’s head. In some cases the tumour is lobulated, having an imperfect septum stretching across it; in other instances, two or more of these tumours have been met wdth in the spine. The skin covering it is usually of its normal colour ; but when the tumoiu’ is of considerable size, it may be thin and have a bluish or congested appearance, and present a certain degree of transparency. In these circumstances, ulceration from distension and thinning of the skin may eventually take place. On examining the tumour, which is hard, though elastic when the child is held upright, it will be found that it becomes soft when the child is laid horizontally. It sometimes becomes tense dm’ing expiration, and softer during inspiration. In some cases fluctuation is perceptible, and by pressure the bulk may be lessened. Spina bifida may be met with in any part of the vertebral column ; it is, however, almost invariably found in the lumbar region, the cases in which it appears higher up being of rare occurrence ; instances of the kind are, however, mentioned by Cruveilhier. When it occurs higher up, in the cervical or upper dorsal region, it has been found that the spinal cord and nerves are usually adherent to the walls of the tumoiu’; in the lumbar region this is not the case. The tumour is distended by the cerebro-spinal fluid, which is characterised by its clear limpid appearance, by its low specific gravity (1003 to lOOG being the average), and by its containing merely a trace of albumen, a considerable quantity of chloride of sodium, and a trace of sugar. Prohnosis.—The prognosis of spina bifida will depend upon the size of the tumour, on the condition of the skin covering it, and on its situation. If it bo of small size, with healthy integumental investment, and without a tendency Vr»T TT ^