deformities. 370 him, seizes the foot of the affected limb with one liand, whilst with the other ho steadies the limb just above the knee. Ho now extends the lo<r gradually but forcibly ; as it comes forwards, the bands of adhesion in and around the joint will be felt and heard to give way with loud snaps and cracks, distinctly audible at some distance. Should there be much resist- ance within the joint, the Sm-geon may apply his own knee or elbow to the upper^ sm-tace, and thus increase the force Avith which the limb is acted upon. In this Wcy I have never found any contractions of the kind now undei- consideration able to resist the Surgeon’s efforts, nor any difficulty in effect- ing at once the extension of the limb. Hor have I ever seen any evil con- sequences result; indeed, it is sm-prising to what an amount of force a joint that has been contracted for any length of time may be subjected without inconvenience. In these cases it would appear as if the synoHal membrane lost its susceptibility to inflame, just as is the case ^dth serous membranes that have been the seat of chronic inflammation and its conse- quences. Beyond some pain for a few days, and slight heat, easily subdued by cold evaporating lotions, I have never seen any ill results arise ; but then care must be taken that no inflammatory action is going on mthin the joint at the time of this manipulation, as, if such action were present, the operation would certainly be followed by injurious results. After the extension has been made, the limb should be fixed on a long splint, well padded, some evaporating lotions applied, and the patient kept in bed for a few days, after which, mth the aid of a starched bandage, he may walk about. When the triple displacement which has already been referred to exists— viz., angular contraction, displacement of the head of the tibia backwards, and rotation of the limb outwards—simple extension is no longer sufficient for the remedying of the deformity. In these cases the hamstring tendons may often require division, generally on both sides—sometimes only the external one ; and extension may then require to be effected, either forcibly, or by the gradual and slow action of rack-and-pinion apparatus. After extension has been effected, the position of the head of the tibia backwards may still occasion considerable deformity and weakness of the limb (Fig. 530). This corrdition is best removed by the use of the instrumerrt of which the sketch orr rrext page (Fig. 531) is a good representation; it was designed and con- structed by that excellent srrrgical mechanician, Mr. Bigg. The diagram (Fig. 530) represerrts a limb with the tibia displaced backwards, the angular contraction having been remedied. In the cerrtres of the end of the thigh- bone and of the head of the tibia, two letters (X and Z) arc jrlaced to desig- rrate the axis of each bony head, beneath and above which the displaced joint has formed its abnormal axis. The dotted lines represerrt the leverage formed by the cylindrical surface of the tibia and thigh-bone. The arrows are placed in such a direction as the bones would take in resuming their irormal position. It will readily be seen that any instrument capable of acting irr the nrechani- cal directions showrr by the arrows, would not only accomplish the restoration of the joint, but extend, if contracted, the extremities of both femur and tibia. An additional advantage that this instrument possesses over any other with which I am acqrrairrted, is the applicatioir of spring-power, by means ot