DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. 888 will iisiifilly be passed without much difficulty. The bowels should then be made to act, when the patient will usually be relieved. If the spasm continue as It often does, for some days or weeks after this, a full-sized bourne should be introduced e^-ery second or third day, in order to lessen the irrita- bility of the urethra. In some cases, this is more effectually done by the use of a plated bougie well warmed and oiled. Whatever instrument is used should be of large size, from No. 8 to 10. A small bougie will often be arrested, and Avill create much irritation, when a large one will pass readily. If the use of the instrument cause irritation and increase of spasm, it is better to omit it entirely, and to trust to constitutional treatment. But the Sm-geon must not be discoiuaged, if the first few introductions of the bougie appear to increase the irritation; as the urethra becomes accustomed to the use of the instru- ment, relaxation of the spasm will take place. At the same time, the patient’s general health should be carefully attended to ; the bowels must be kept open, and the diet regulated; aU acids, stimulants, and sweets being carefully avoided! Dm-ing the time when the bougie is being used, he should take the citrate of potash weU diluted. As a preventive treatment of these attacks, a careful regulation of the diet, warm clothing Avith the use of flannel, and keeping the skin in action by means of horsehair gloves and tepid baths, will be found serviceable. Congestive Stricture.—Many Surgeons look upon spasmodic stricture as essentially dependent on congestion of the mucous membrane of the luethi’a, overlooking altogether the existence of spasm, or considering it as the result of irritation of the perineal muscles, and not of the true organic muscles of thc’ canal. That the tAvo conditions of congestion and spasm are frequently associated in the imethra, in the relation of cause and effect, there can be no- doubt ; and this is the most frequent condition in which spasmodic strictures are found. Indeed, congestion plays an important j>art in all forms of stric- ture ; it may, as we have just seen, he connected AAuth the spasmodic A'ariety ; it may occur a,lone; or it may be associated Avith organic strictm-e. Some parts of the urethra appear to be more subject to congestion than others; thus, for instance, the membranous and prostatic portions, especially the folds of mucous membrane constituting the verumontanum, are peculiarly liable to- become congested. Causes.—Congestive stricture frequently occurs as the result of chronic and long-continued inflammation of the urethra, or of the passage of mine that has been rendered irritating by being too concentrated, or by an admixture of an undue proportion of lithates. It is especially in gouty or rheumatic sub- jects who suffer from irritability of the skin and mucous membranes that this condition occurs. In these cases there is no true or permanent obstruction, but the disease is transitory, and solely due to a swollen state of the membrane of the part. But in the majority of cases it complicates and aggi’aA’ates seriously spasmodic and slight organic strictures. Symptoms.—In congestive stricture we not only find the common symptoms occasioned by an impediment of the fr’ee passage of the urine, but some SAA^elling of the lips of the m’ethra, Avith reddening and eA’ersion of them. There is also slight gleety exudation, and not unfrequently an abundant puriform discharge, in fact, imethritis of a marked kind, Avith a sense of weight or fulness in the