875 TREATMENT OF GONORRHCEA. liable to terminate in strictm-e if unrelieved. The correct diagnosis of ite natm-e and source is, therefore, of extreme importance. In the first place, it is necessary to remember that in young men a somewhat copious flow of mucus is apt to accompany an erection of the penis. When, as is frequently the case, an erection occurs just before waking in the morning, the mucus may be fomid glueing the lips of the urethra together, and may be mistaken by the patient for a gleet. Again, true gonorrhoeal gleet must not be confounded with pro- statorrhoca (sec p. 870). Desormeaux has shown by means of the endoscope, that a true gonoiThoeal gleet is due to the presence of chronically inflamed patches of mucous membrane in the urethra. These patches are purphsh or dark red in colour, whereas the normal urethra is a pale pink. Sometimes the surface of the mucous membrane is covered with small granulations, like those seen on the conjunctiva in granular lids. This condition Desormeaux calls “ granular urethritis.” The patches may be multiple, but more often there is only one situated in the bulbous portion of the methra. The sijmjAoms of such a condition are the following. A slight, sometimes almost colomiess sometimes yellowish, discharge will be found glueing the lips of the urethra together in the morning. This discharge is little affected by diet or stimulants, but is usually greatly aggravated by connection. If during micturition the first few drops of urine be passed into a separate vessel, flocculi of mucus and pus are seen floating in it. There is no pain or discomfort in micturition, but the stream may be slightly narrowed, and a few di’ops of urine may be retamed in the m’ethra, and dribble away afterwards, as in a slight strictiue. These in- flamed patches may usually be detected without difficulty by the use of the olive-headed bougie. As the sound passes the inflamed spot, the patient will complain of pain, and on withdrawing it a drop of blood may be found upon its bulb. A shght feehng of resistance to the instrument is also felt. Teeatvient.—The treatment of gonorrhoea must be conducted with re- ference to the stage to which the disease has attaiired, but especially with regard to the amount of inflammatory action accompanying it. It is of two kinds, rational, and specific or empirical. Both plans are useful, and, indeed, usually necessary for a proper cure, but they caimot be adopted indiscrimi- nately. Thus, if specific means be employed dm’ing the acute inflammatory stage of the complaint, much mischief may ensue; whilst, if antiphlogistic treatment be persevered in for too long a time, the disease may be kept up indefinitely. It has been proposed to adopt what has been termed the aloortive ov revulsive treatment, during the earliest stages of gonorrhoea ; indeed, during the incu- bative period. This method consists either in the injection of a very strong solution of the nitrate of silver into the luethra, or in the application to the inflamed mucous membrane of a strong ointment of that salt by means of a bougie smeared with it; other Surgeons, again, have recommended the admi- nistration of very large doses of copaiba at this period. These various plans have, however, deservedly fallen into disrepute. I have on several occasions seen most intense inflammation produced by this mode of treatment, and never, in any case, any good result. Independently of this, it is impossible to know whether the case, in the earliest stage, will prove to be one of simple urethritis or a specific gonoiThcoa.