171 TREATMENT OF ABSCESS OF BORE. on tl. articula;. - this, it will probably lead to thinning and evcntiial^ dis- 1 m 1 Fig. 404.—Bone Treidiiiie. intco-ration of the cartilage, Avhich at last be- comes perforated, so that the pns and osseous debris enter the joint, which is at once and acutely destroyed. If the chronic osseous abscess be situated near the junction of the epiphysis with the shaft, this event is not so likely to occur, d'he suiTOunding bone simply becomes thick- ened ; and though the health may suffci fiom the^ constant wearing pain, the joint is not in peril, and relief may readily be given by operation. Treatment—A& a cii-cumscribed abscess in bone cannot perforate the dense osseous structure overlying it by any process analo- gous to the pointing and discharge of an abscess in the soft parts, it becomes necessary for the Siu’geon to open up a vent for the jDus. This may be done either by linear osteotomy or by the trephine. In some cases simple linear osteotomy, as described at p. 1G7, may be practised ; but should the bone be much thickened and the osseous structiu’cs greatly indurated, the trephine is the best in- strument to use for opening the abscess. The proper way of doing tliis has been pointed out by Quesuay and Brodie. It consists in trephining the bone, so as to make an aperture for the exit of the pus, with an instrument having a small crown, of the size represented at a, Fig. 404. So soon as a vent has been given to the j)us, which is often cheesy and occasionally very offensive in its character, the patient will experience oreat and permanent relief. In performing lUc osteitis mui cii-- * ^ ^ cuiiiscirl36cl ‘VljSCCSSCS this operation, there are several points that deserve special of many years’ dm-a- attention. The bone must be exposed by a T- or V- shaped incision, made over the spot which has been found to bo uniformly tender on pressiu’e : and to this the trephine should Ire applied. The trephine should have a small and deep crown of the size and shape represented in Fig. 404 ; and it is well always to be provided with trvo instruments of the same shape and size that will exactly tit the same hole, lest one become disabled by the density and hardness of the osseous case, as I have seen happen. When the trephine has penetrated to a sufficient depth, the button of bone may be removed by means of an elevator; hut care should be taken irot to perforate the whole thickness of the bone. Tire diseased cavity will very commonly at once be opened in this way, a small cpiantity of pus escaping, which may, however, readily be overlooked, as it is can’ied away in streaks rvith the blood, which Hows