excision of the wrist. 263 power of flexing and extending the wrist, and with very considerable mobility of the fingers; and within the last few years the operation has been sereral times performed with more successful residts than had been anticipated. To Lister of Edinburgh, and West of Birmingham, is principally due the ment of showing the practicability of the operation. The mode of operating planned by the former of these Surgeons will be here described. But before mvincT the details of this operation, it may be well to mention the principles on which it is foimdcd. On looking at the movements of the VTist-jomt, ifc will be seen that they are far fewer and more limited than those of either of the other joints of the upper extremity. In fact, they are but two in number, viz., flexion and extension, and flexion can rarely be carried to a right angle. The hand as an organ may be perfectly useful though these movements be lost, and, when lost, they are supplemented by the antero-posterior movements of the elbow. But the hand cannot be left useful if the flexion and extension of the Angel’S be interfered with seriously. Now the essential principle of Lister s operation appears to me to consist in sa'vdng these, whilst those of the wrist aie necessarily sacrificed. If we look at the tendons that siu’round the wrist, we shall find them divisible into five groups : 1. Those special to the thumb ; 2. The extensors of the fingers; 3. The flexors of the fingers ; 4 and 5. The exten- sor’s and the flexors of the wist. Now the incisions are so planned as to save absolutely the whole of the first three groups, and only to divide the tendons of the wrist proper. Hence the result of the operation is to enable the patient to recover ivith good movement of flexion and extension in the fingers and of the thumb as an opponent to the hand, but with the comparatively slight inconvenience of a stiff wrist. Lister’s Operation.—From the result of two cases of severe injrn’y to the wrist-joint, which recovered with useful hands. Lister was led to the conclusion that, with proper after-treatment, the tendons about the wrist might be very freely handled without permanent stiffness necessarily resulting. At the same time, he hoped by remoHng the whole of the cartilaginous surfaces to be able to prevent recmrcnce of the disease—which is the common ending of cases of partial excision of the ^Yrist-joint for caries of the carpus. At the time when he published his papers, he had performed the operation of excision of the wrist fifteen times. The method of operating was essentially the same in all; various small details being altered as experience suggested. The opera- tion, as he now performs it, is done as follows. Before commencing, Esmarch’s bandage and tourniquet should be applied, as without them the oozing of blood interferes considerably Avith the operation. Any adhesions of the tendons then existing may be forcibly broken dowi by moving the joints. An incision is then made “ fi’om about the middle of the dorsal aspect of the radius, on a level with the styloid process, downwards and outwards towards the inner side of the metacarpo-phalangeal articulation of the thumb ; but, on reaching the line of the radial border of the metacarpal bone of the index finger, it is carried downwards longitudinally for half the length of that bone.” This incision should commence in the angle formed by the tendons of the common extensor of the fingers and the extensor secundi internodii pollieis, and the upper part should rim parallel to the latter teudon, but Avithout injuring it. The tendon of the extensor carpi radialis brevior Avill be cut, but that of the