down on the tumoiu and examine its composition. If it be herniary m part. 1 664 SPECIAL IIERNIjE. and constipation. The question here arises as to the nature of this tumour. Is it simply an inflamed undescended testis; or is it an undescended testis, inflamed or not, as the case may be, having a knuckle or loop of strangulated intestine lying behind it ? When the tumour simply consists of an inflamed undescended testis, the pain will be of that peculiar character which is indicative of orchitis, and the constitutional symptoms of strangulation, however simulated for a time, will not be persistently present. The following case is a good illustration of this condition. A man, aged about forty, said to be labouring under strangulated hernia, was sent up from the country for operation. On being called to him, I found the house-sm’geon attempting the reduction of the tumour in the hot bath ; but as soon as I felt the swelling, I was convinced, from its hard, solid, and irregular feel, that it was not a hernia. On inquiring into the history of the case, it appeared that the patient had for the last two days suffered from occasional vomiting, and had been constipated ; that the tumom- in the groin had not appeared suddenly, though it had enlarged with gveat rapidity ; that - it was excessively painful; and that he had always worn a truss for a supposed ruptui’e on that side, until the last few weeks, when, in consequence of the instrument breaking, he had discontinued it. On examining the gvoiii care- fully, a tumoiu- about as large as the fist was found in the right inguinal canal; it was tender to the touch, hard, and irregular at the upper and outer part, but somewhat soft and fluctuating below; when the finger was passed into the external ring, the outline, of the tumour could be very distinctly felt in the canal. There was no impulse in it on coughing, but some abdominal tender- ness on that side. The right testis was not in the scrotum. I ordered the man to be bled, the tumour to be leeched, and salines administered : under this treatment the case did well. When a knuckle of strangulated intestine hes behind and above the testis, still retained above the external ring, the symp- toms of strangulation will be violent and persistent; and this, even though the tumoiu present but httle the feel or the ordinary character of a hernia. In fact, in such a case, the Sm-geon is guided by the character of the general symptoms, and not by those of the local tumour. In a case of this kind to which I was called, there could be felt behind and above an inflamed and swollen testicle, which lay at the external abdominal ring, a small, hard, round tumoiu in the upper portion of the canal. As symptoms of strangulation were urgent, this was cut down upon, the anterior wall of the canal was incised, and the tunica vaginalis, much distended with fluid, was laid open, when a small knuckle of intestine was found lying at its upper part, very tightly constricted by the inner ring. But in other cases the diagnosis is not so easy ; the whole tumoiu lying in the canal feels smooth, elastic, and uniform, so that no manual examination can enable the Surgeon to say with certainty whether the tumom is an inflamed testis surrounded by fluid in a distended tiuiica vaginalis, or whether there is a loop of intestine lying above an undescended testis. In such cases as these, however, the Surgeon is guided in the course he should adopt by the symptoms. If these indicate strangulation of intestine, and persist after a reasonable time has been consumed in the application of leeches and the administration of purgatives, he should, without further delay, cu