SPECIAL ANEURISMS. 128 decreased ; the cough lessened ; and finally, three months after tlic operation, the patient -was quite well. Gi’oss tied the subclavian artery for axillary aneurism on the 18th of February. After the performance of the operation the contents of the tumour | solidified, and its volume progressively diminished. On the 15th of March, the patient suffered from fever, and slight tendemess on the apex of the tumour was perceptible. On the lOth he was suddenly seized with intense ) pain in the chest, which was particularly severe at the base of the right lung, i and extended up towards the axilla. The respiration throughout the right lung was bronchial, and there was dulness on percussion over the lower ribs the aueurismal tumoiu’ had suddenly disappeared at the time of the attack. On the 18th, the patient experienced a sensation as if a fluid were passing from the pleuritic cavity into that of the ancurismal tiunour ; and, upon auscultating, a plashing sound was heard at every inspiration, the noise resem- bling that produced by shaking water in a closed vessel. On the 20th, he died. Upon dissection, the aneurism was found to communicate by an aper- ture, one inch and three-quarters in length and an inch and a half in width, nith the pleural ca-vdty; this opening was situated between the first and second ribs, and was obviously the result of idceration and absorption, caused by the pressime of the tumour. Both ribs wore denuded of their periosteum. The right side of the chest contained nearly three quarts of bloody serum, inter- mixed with laminated clots and flakes of lymph ; the former of which had exudently been lodged originally in the aneurismal sac. i Besides these cases, a somewhat similar one has been recorded by Ueret, of Nancy. A patient was admitted into the hospital, labouring under hsemoptysis, ; and on examination was found to have an aneurism of the left subclavian artery as large as a chestnut. He died shortly after admission ; and, on exami- nation, the aneurism was found to communicate with a large cavity in the upper part of the lung. The cause of death in Gross’s case was probably the fact of the sac opening- and discharging its contents into the pleiu’al cavity. This does not appear to have occurred in Bullen’s, in which a communication was estabhshed directly with the lung, the contents of the abscess finding exit through the air-tubes. The process "here was analogous to what occasionally occurs in hepatic abscess when this opens through the lungs, adhesion having previously taken place between the opposed surfaces of the pleura. In Furner’s case of axillary aneurism, both arteries became affected by the disease, and both subclavians Avere tied in the third part of their course at an interval of about fifteen months. In this most remarkable and interesting case, the result of which reflects much credit on the skill and decision of the operator, the patient, a stone-mason by trade, made an excellent recovery from the first operation. After the second operation he progressed most favourably for twelve weeks, by which time the tmnour had diminished so much as to be not more than a third of its original size. Without obvious reason febrile dis- turbance set in, the tumour enlarged again, and showed signs of suppurating. Funier noAV made a free incision into it through the pectoral muscle, ^ out 18 or 20 ounces of very offensive pus and broken-dovm coaguhun. le patient speedily recovered, the tumour disappearing entire y.