197 TUBERCLE OF BONE. served in some of tlie forms of caries of the spine, or of white sweUmg s m suppuration takes place in the interior of the hone ; and on the sides or in cenL of the abscesses thus formed, hardened and white ivoiy-lookmg mas and knobs of osseous tissue may be seen to be deposited; these apparent y Fig. 419.—Scrofulou.s Osteitis of Tibiii. fjtr 420. Carious Bone from a Case of Scrofirious Osteitis of the bones of the Skull in a Child. At b _ are seen the so-called Lacuine of Howship; the material hUmg the dilated Cancellous Spaces a is more or less cheesy eranulation material. consisting of tuberculous bone that has undergone some special modification of structure. All these changes, with the exception of that described as the grey infiltration, appear to be due rather to chronic inflammatory changes, accom- panied by an impaired nutrition and imperfect attempts at repair, than to the development of a distinct new formation. Yirchow pro- poses the name of scrofulous osteomyelitis, as more truly expressing the conditions present in these cases than that of tubercle, which he would limit to the following variety. Tubercle of bone, in the limited sense in which this term is here employed, is un- doubtedly a rare affection. True miliary tubercle in the form of grey granulations, which undergo cheesy changes, and lead to softening and necrosis of the parts around, is occasionally found in the cancellous tissue of the epiphyses, or more commonly in the spongy structures of the bones of the tarsus (Billroth). It is absolutely impossible to form any exact diagnosis of the nature of the changes going on in the bone, which can only be determined by an examination of the conditions of the other organs. There can, however, be no doulDt that the bones of young people, the subjects of tuberculous disease in the restricted sense of the term, are very liable to become affected with caries from very slight causes. In fact, in both struma and tubercle, nutritive functions arc imperfectly performed, and tissues formed under these influences readily suffer when put to any severe trial. Fig. 421.—Cells of Osseous Tubercle.