543 0PEEATI02s^ OF GASTROSTOMY. a catheter impermeable, and in which neither food can be swalW nor passed, and in which, consequently, the most miserable death, death by sta c Uon, is impending ? In snch cases it has been proposed by &6dillot, to open the stomach by an incision through the abdominal waUs, and thus directlj introduce food into the organ. This operation has been practised several times by Sedillot, Fengcr of Copenhagen, Forster, and others. S^dillot, who has o-iven it the name of Gastroslomy, lays down the following rules for its & performance. , . , , c< Operation of Gastrostomy.—The patient lying on his back, the Surgeon,, who stands on the right side, makes a crucial incision, each limb of which is about an inch and a half in length, on the left side of the mesial line of the abdomen, two fingers’ breadth to the inner side of the costal cartilages, and about one-third nearer to the ensiform cartilage than to the umbilicus ; having- previously satisfied himself by percussion and palpation that the livei is not in his way. The dissection is carried through the abdominal wall, and the peritoneum is opened. The Surgeon then feels with the left index finger foi the left border of the liver ; by folloiviiig this upwards, the stomach is reached. This organ is then seized with forceps, dra-wn forwards and examined, so that its identity may be established. By means of three or four points of suture, the anterior wall of the organ is then fixed to the edges of the apertnre in the integuments, and an opening is made into it about midway between its two extremities, and a little above the lower margin. Nutritive injections must not be made into the artificial opening for the first few days ; not, in fact, until consolidation of the wall of the stomach to the parietal peritoneum has been secured, and a fistulous opening thus fairly established. This must be kept patent by properly adapted silver tubes, through which the nutritive injections are to be made. The value of this operation has as yet to be determined by experience. In but few cases in which it has hitherto been done has it succeeded in adding much, if anything, to the prolongation of life. In reasoning upon it, two objections present themselves. Fu’st, there is the great and immediate danger of destroy- ing life outright by the induction of peritonitis ; though it is by no means- impossible that the tendency to abdominal inflammation may be lessened by the previous starvation of the patient. But supposing this risk to be over- come, what is gained by the artificial opening ? It is true that through it the patient might be nourished ; but, as every idiopathic stricture of the oesophagus is either from the first of a cancerous character, or eventually assumes a malig- nant aetion, of what advantage is it to endeavour to prolong a precarious existence, Avhich must in a few weeks or months be cut short by the unchecked progi-ess of a malignant disease ? Would not the immediate danger of the operation much more than counteract all good to be eventually derived from it ? There is, liowover, one class of oesophageal strictures which are of the most, obstinate character, and rapidly fatal by simple occlusion of the tube, without any tendency to malignancy. These arc the constrictions that result from the swallowing of con-osivc liquids, whether acid or alkaline. In such cases as those, m which speedy death by starvation is inevitable, I think that recourse might with propriety be had to the operation of gastrostomy.