OPERATION WITHOUT OPENING SAC. 649 instrument have come into contact, and the spur-like process has consequently sloughed away, the gi'eat obstacle to the closiu-e of the artificial anus will he removed ; and the eontinuity of the canal being thus re-established, its lips may be’pared and brought together by hare-lip pins and sutures. In some cases, from the length of time that has elapsed—many years, possibly —the fistula continues permanently patent, and no treatment is available for its closure. Its existenee is not incompatible with good general health. I have had two cases under my constant observation, in one of which, that of a woman about fifty years of age, the whole of the intestinal contents have been discharged for four years through an aperture of the umbilicus, in consequence of the sloughing away of a large coil of intestine in an umbilical hernia ; and another case is a lady more than eighty, who has for upwards of thirty ycai-s had a fiecal fistula in the right groin, consequent on an operation for femoral hernia. OrERATiON 'WITHOUT OPENING THE Sac.—The possibility of removing the stricture in strangulated hernia without laying the sac open, naturally sug- gested itself when it was known that in many cases the stricture was seated in the tendinous and areolar tissues outside the neck of the sac, and that, when these were divided, the protrusion was readily reduced. This operation was performed by Petit as loug ago as 1718, but was seldom practised until it was revived of late years by Aston Key and Luke. The great advantage sought to be gained by this operation is that, as the peritoneum is not interfered 'with nor its ca'vity opened, the risk from peritonitis "will be proportionately lessened. The wound made by the operation being altogether superficial, and the sac not opened, its risk has been compared to that of the taxis, with the addition of that which would result from a superficial wound. This argument would be conclusive in favour of the operation without opening the sac, if it could be sho'mi that, in all cases of strangulated hernia, peritonitis is occasioned by interfering -with the peritoneal cavity ; it must, however, be admitted, even by the keenest advocates of Petit’s operation, that this is not the case. But there is this additional element of risk : that it is the taxis practised on a hernia that has been so tightly strangled that reduction is impossible without operation, and in which, consequently, the parts that constitute the hernial protrusion are infinitely more congested, inflamed, and deteriorated in struc- ture than are those in which reduction by the simple taxis wdthout opera- tion to di'vide the stricture is possible. In many instances the inflammation exists before any operation is performed, being evidently produced by the stricture of and consequent injmy to the gut. But it cannot with fairness be argued that, though the peritonitis may exist before the operation, the incision of the peritoneal cavity does not increase it; even in healthy persons, laying open the abdomen, handhng the gut and omentum, and pushing the fingers into the peritoneal sac, would always be followed by intense, often by fatal, peritonitis. It is only reasonable to believe that the same proce- dures in an already inflamed peritoneum would be followed by equally disastrous results. That the opening made into the cavity of the abdomen in reality adds to the frequency of the peritonitis, cannot, I think, be doubted by any Surgeon. It not unfrequently happens in strangulated hernia, that no sign of peritoneal