944 DISEASES OF THE TESTIS AND CORD. altered, and the virile powers of the patients remained unimpaired Curlino- also mentions several such cases, and points out the necessity of continuing the treatment of epididymitis until the last trace of induration has disappeared. At a later period, treatment is almost useless. Subacute Orchitis usually comes on with the same symptoms, thoimh in a less marked form than in the acute variety. This swelling, however, is'^con- siderable, though of a softer kind. When the disease is chronic, the testis often becomes permanently enlarged and hardened, assuming an oval shape, being smooth, hea'vy, and uniiormly expanded, with a sensation of weight, dragging, apd severe pain, and a good deal of tenderness on pressme. This form of orchitis occasionally occurs in old people. Orchitis may occm* idiopathically, without any assignable cause in the way of external injmy or local irritation in the urethra or prostate. This form of the disease is most common in middle-aged men, and more especially in those who lare gouty. In fact the disease is in all probability one of the many local forms of gouty inflammation. It is not very acute but hngering, liable to recurrence, and to be followed either by hydrocele or chronic indurations of the epididymis. Treatment.—The treatment of Acutely Inflamecl Testicle, whether local or constitutional, is essentially antiphlogistic. Blood should be abstracted from the part by puncturing the veins of the scrotum—a far better method than applying leeches, the bites of which are apt to become irritated. This little operation may be very effectually done by du’ecting the patient to stand up, and to foment the scrotum for a few minutes with a hot sponge, so as to distend the veins ; these may then be pnuctm’ed at various points Avith a flne lancet, and the parts well fomented afterwards, so as to encourage the floAV of blood. In this way six or eight ounces may be taken iu the course of a few minutes ; when enough has escaped, the further flow may be aiTested by laying the patient doAvn and elevating the part. The patient should be kept in bed with the testis raised on a small pillow between the thighs, poppy fomentations being diligently applied. If there be much effusion into the tunica vaginalis, constituting acute hydrocele, relief may be afforded by puncturing this sac with the point of the lancet. The Constitutional Treatment during the acute stage consists in the adminis- tration of salines and antimony, with henbane in full doses, so as to give an aperient, a diaphoretic, and a sedative together ; when this begins to act, great relief is usually afforded. As the inflammation subsides, the treatment must be changed. When there is merely swelling and hardness left, with but little pain or tenderness, the testis may advantageously be strapped with adhesive plaster, so as to give good support and to promote absorption of plastic matter. Fricke of Hamburg has | strongly recommended strapping in the acute stage; but I cannot say that I have ever seen any advantages derived from it at this period of the disease, i though I have many times seen it tried ; it has usually appeared to me to increase, sometimes very considerably, the pain in the part, and the general uneasiness. In Subacute Orchitis much Ijenefit is usually derived from a short course of Dover’s powder and calomel, with early strapping of the testis. hen the