5SS OPERATIONS ON THE AIR-TUBE AND CHEST. pipe in these cases, avc save the patient from so terrible a death as that by asphj-xia; and, even if life be nltimately extinguished by the disease, temporary ease will have been afforded the patient, and death will occur in a less distress- ing manner ; and that, if only one life in a hundred could in this way lie saved, Ave should be justified in having recourse to the operation. Sir N. Jenner has made the important observation, that if the larynx be not invaded by the end of the first Aveek, so as to require the Avindpipe to be opened, laryngeal obstruction rarely if ever occiu’s. The prospect of saving life after opening the windpipe in cases of diphthe- ritic asphyxia Avill greatly depend upon the age of the patient. Under two or even three years of age, recovery is extremely rare; as age advances, the chance of life proportionately increases, and in adults the prospect of recovery is considerable. In many cases the patient Avill get great temporary benefit from the operation, and Avill appear to be doing well for several days, perhaps for eight, ten, or foiu-teen ; and then, to the great disappointment of the Surgeon, he will die, not from the effects of the operation, but from blood-poisoning or from the extension of the disease to the bronchi and lunss. After operations of laryngotomy or tracheotomy in croup and diphtheria, it is a question how long the tube should be left in. As a general rule, I think from three to four days are sufficient, care being taken to cleanse it thoroughly ! during this period. After Avithdrawal, respiration Avill in a great measure be carried on through the apertm-e, AA^hich aaiU not gradually close. Should this ■prove insufficient, the tube may always be inserted again. Occasionally false membranes are expelled, or may be withdrawn from the opening in the Avind- pipe ; and through it the interior of the larynx may be sponged out Avith solu- tion of nitrate of silver, if thought desirable. No patient ought ever to be allowed to die fr-om simple laryngeal obstruction, whether that be spasmodic or dependent on organic disease, Avithout an attempt being made to save life by opening the windpipe. It is as impermissible for a Surgeon to alloAv a patient to die of laryngeal asphyxia Avithout an attempt at relief by opening the windpipe, even though life appear to be extinct, as it would be to let him die of haemorrhage without attempting to contract the hleeding vessel. Necessity for Promptitude.—When it has been determined to open the windpipe for acute disease, more especiailly supervening on chronic lai-yngitis, ■the less delay there is in having recourse to operation, the better; as the patient may at any moment be seized Avith laryngeal spasm, and be canied oif. The operation ought always, hoAvever, to be completed, even though the patient have apparently expired before the windpipe has been opened; for resuscitation may, even in these extreme cases, be effected by artificial respiration. Wien life hangs on so slender a thread as it does in m-gent cases of laryngeal obstruc- tion, the first touch of the knife may cause a spasmodic seizure that may give rise to apparent death. It has tAAUce happened to me to operate under such circumstances, and in both cases to be fortunate enough to save the patient’s life. In one case to Avhich I Avas called many years ago by my fr-ieud kir. E. Baker, the patient, an elderly Avoman, Avas apparently dying fr-om the supervention of acute upon chi-onic laryngeal disease. I lost no time m making an incision into the crico-thyroid membrane, but at the first touch of