SY}rPTOMS OF lIYDliOCELF. 947 variety of the disease also occurs in them when but a few days old, and very at"fii-st bo soft,"but after a while becomes hard and tense; or it may be so ii-om the commencement. AVhatover its original condition, the tumour soon becomes oval or pyi-iform in shape, being narrowed above, rounded and broad lielow : it is suiooth and uniformly tense and hard, often having a semi-elastic feel. It reaches upwards along the cord, towards the external abdominal ring, which, however, is rarely invaded by it, and the cord is usually distinctly to be felt above the upper margin of the tumour. Most commonly the size varies from that of a hen’s egg to a small cocoa-nut; but sometimes it may attain a considerably greater magnitude than this, and will then cause much incon- venience, as it reaches up close to the external ring, and drags over the penis, causing that organ to be buried in it, so as to interfeie with mictuiition. Gibbon the historian had an enormous hydrocele, which was tapped by Cline, who drew off six quarts of fluid. The most characteristic sign of hydrocele is its translucency by transmitted light. This may always be detected by the Surgeon grasping the posterior part of the tumoiu- with one hand, so as to put the integuments of the fore part on the stretch, then placing the edge of the other hand along the most promi- nent part of the swelling, and having a lighted candle held close behind. On making this examination, the tumour will appear translucent; if, however, the walls of the sac be thick, or the fluid dark, the transmission of light through it may not be perceived unless the examination be conducted in a darkened room. Another very simple and efficient method of determining the translucency is by putting the end of a stethoscope against the tumour, and looking down the tube against the light. IVe have already seen that the ordinary hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis may vary as to size : it may also differ as to shape ; in some cases being globular, in others constricted in the middle, or of an hour-glass shape. The quantity of liquid varies considerably ; there are usually from six to twelve or twenty oimces, but I have known a hydrocele to contain more than one hundred and twenty ounces. The fluid is generally clear and limpid, and of a straw-colour ; but in very large and old hydroceles it may become of a dark-brownish or chocolate hue, owing to the admixture of disintegrated blood ; and it will then be found to contain flakes of cholesterine. The sac is usually thin ; but in some old cases it becomes thick and dense, lined by a kind of false membrane, and divided by septa or bands, occasionally to such an extent as almost to separate it into distinct compartments. When the sac is thick, and the fluid opaque and turbid, there may be considerable difficulty in detecting the translucency. The testis is generally somewhat enlarged, especially about the epididymis, and frequently slightly tender, more particularly in the early stages of the complaint. It is almost invariably situated in the posterior part of the sac ( Fig. 888), but may sometimes be found towards its anterior part. When this is the case, the epididymis will be found turned towards the front, owing to the organ being retroverted. 8 p 2