318 DISEASE OF THE HIP-JOINT. not be despaired of; but coin^alesccnee will be greatly protracted. In such cases much will depend on the patient’s constitution. If that bo highly scrofulous, tubcrculisation in other organs, more particularly in the lungs or spine, may probably take place, and destroy life. IMieu the bones that enter into the composition of and that surround the hip-joint are diseased, the case at once assumes a much graver aspect. Some Surgeons are of opinion, that if caries exist the patient must die. In this doctrine I cannot concur. I believe that much will depend on the situation and extent of the caricSj and on the question whether it be primary and tuberculous, or secondary to disease of the soft joint-structm’es. In the latter case the head of the bone, denuded of its incrusting cartilage, softened and carious upon the surface, may be thrown on to the dorsum ilii; profuse and long-continued suppiuation will ensue, yet, under good and careful management, and without operation, I have in some instances seen recovery take place. In those cases in which the disease is primarily femoral, and dependent upon tubercular deposit in the head of the thigh-bone, the prognosis, if the case be not subjected to operation, is very unfavourable. Here we have a form of caries in Avhich there is no prospect of spontaneous cure ; and the patient will be worn out by hectic, induced by the long-continued and iiTcmediable sup- puration resulting from the irritation excited by the dislocated and carious femoral head irr the ghrteal region. The corrdition of the pelvic- hones is one that more materially thair any one other cirerrmstarree influerrees the prognosis in cases of coxalgia. When the acetabnhrm alone of these bones is affected, the prognosis will tur-n upoir whether this acetabrrlar disease be primary or secondary. If it be primary, intrapelvic abscess rvill probably form, pointing above Poupart’s ligament; arrd whether the head of the thigh-borre be dislocated or not, I believe that death must necessarily ensue, unless the diseased osseous structures be excised. If it be secondary to disease of the head of the thigh-bone, irr which the primary mischief has developed, the condition of the acetabulmn need not seriously affect the prognosis. In these cases the head of the bone becomes dislocated, and this very displacement is the first step towards the erme of the disease in the acetabulmn. The sruface of this cavity, which is roughened, arrd deprived of its incrusting cartilage, speedily becomes covered by gr’anu- lations. These nrrdergo fibroid transformation; arrd irr the coru’se of a short time the whole cavity becomes fiUed up by a dense elastic fibroid o-vowth, which is in fact the medium of repair of the diseased and disrrsed acetabular cavity. When the morbid actiorr extends to the osseous structrmes arouird the aceta- bulum, such as the rami of the ischium and pubes, the body and the trrberosity of the ischium arrd the upper lip of the acetabulum, and even the dor-srrm of the ilirrm, the disease usually partakes more of the nature of necrosis thair of caries, and is perfectly incrnable, except by operation. In exterrsrve pelvic disease such as this, natru’al means arc qrrite unable to effect a cure, and the patient must die of hectic or intercun-ent disease, unless recourse be had to ex- cision of the head of the thigh-bone and the whole of the necrosed and carious osseous structures.