835 CALCULUS IF THE FEMALE. from depraved motives, been passed up the urethra and has been dropped into the bladder. In this -vvay hair-pins, pieces of bougie, of catheter, or of pencil, will often be found to form the starting point and the nucleus of the concretion. Symptoms. The symptoms of stone in the female closely resemble those that occur in the male, and its iiresence may usually be easily detected by means of a short and nearly straight sound, or a female catheter. It is often simulated very closely by the irritation occasioned by a vascular urethral tumour, or by an irritable bladder ; but exploration of the auscus will always determine the diagnosis. Largo calculi may be met with in very young female children. I have removed an uric acid calculus incrusted vdth phosphates, measuring inch in length by ^ inch in breadth, from a little girl four years old. The stone was removed mibroken, by gradual dilatation of the urethra. In the adult they may attain a very large size. I have extracted one from a young woman measm'ing 8 inches in its long, and 6 inches in its short circumference. . Calculus in the female bladder, if allowed to remain um-elieved, will not only occasion the various morbid conditions in the lu’inary organs that have been described as following the long-continued presence of stone in the male, but will give rise to diseased states peculiar to the female. Thus the stone may be spontaneously discharged through the urethra ; if of small size, with- out any bad results following ; but if large, by a process of ulceration, in consequence of which permanent incontinence of urine will remain : or it may slough through into the vagina: or lastly, it may offer a serious obstacle during parturition to the descent of the foetal head, when, if it cannot be pushed aside to be dealt with afterwards, it must be cut out, or craniotomy be per- formed. Kemoval.—stone may be extracted from the female bladder by one of three methods : 1, l^y Lithectasy, through a dilated urethra ; 2, by Lithotomy ; 3, by Lithotrity. These different operations cannot be employed indiscrimi- nately, but each one is more especially adapted to certain kinds of calculus. 1. Lithectasy may be performed in two ways—either by simply Dilating ilia Urethra by means of a sponge-tent or dilator, or else by Incising the Mucous Membrane at the same time that the canal is being expanded. a. Simple Dilatation of the urethra may be effected quickly by the intro- duction of a three-bladcd dilator, which is rapidly screwed up. In this Avay, in a few minutes the eanal may be easily dilated sufficiently to allow the introduction of a pair of forceps, and the extraction of a calculus of moderate size. Some Smgeons prefer a slow process of dilatation, continued through many hours, by means of a sponge-tent; but this appears to me to possess no advantage over the more rapid expansion, and has the [very decided disadvan- tage of prolonging the patient’s sufferings. In the absence of a proper urethral dilator, it is always easy to dilate the canal by means of the finger. With this A icAV a director is first passed, and along this the Surgeon gradually insinuates the tip of his finger, and then soon succeeds in expanding the urethra suffi- ciently for all ordinary purposes. 1. Dilatation may be employed conjointly Avith incision, in order to 3 H 2