167 the AT ME XT OF OSTEITIS. ^ 1 olvi honp • incl if the bone have been cut short, as on the end of* a of new and haid ho , ‘ rnnnded Sometimes considerable elonga- stump, ^villtecomosm^ j ^ t:::ir*"ostoiti‘s, L HWa aom o„o and a half to two inches longer symptoms of chronic osteitis consist of enlargement of the hone with deeplv seated pain and great tenderness in the limb: the XI p— f “ chronic is much influenced by the state of the weather. ^ ^ TreItme^'T—In the treatment of the acute cases, om-principal rehanc must be on local leeching, with hot fomentations, poultices and ^ the more chronic form of the affection, when the bone has become Sickened and enlar<^ed, nothing of a curative kind can be adopted ; and the only remedy coiisists in the administration of iodide of potassium the jehe^ the pain iiith perhaps the occasional application of leeches. Should ' in mi-ing relief, and the pain continue of an excessively distiessin^ a pei-sistent character, I have for many years past practised the following operation of Umar osteotomy. An incision about three inches long is ma e directly down on the clmonically inflamed and indicated bone, beii^' came through the periosteum, so that the scalpel grates upon the bone. By means of a Key’s saw this cut is extended into the substance of the bone as far as the mcdiiUai-y canal, or deeply into its canceUoiis tissue. Some bleedmg occiu’S, but it can always be arrested by position and pressime. The wound is then closed. ■\Yhen osteitis tends to harden and consolidate the bone, there is no danger connected with this condition ; but it often becomes distressing from the severity of the tension and nocturnal pain accompanying it. men osteitis is of the strumous character, there is great danger of its termi- nating either in caries or in chronic siippiu’ation of the affected portion of bone. In either case an early, deep, and free incision, by linear osteotomy, should be made into the inflamed bone. Nothing relieves the tensive pain so effectually as this, and nothing stops so decidedly the tendency to secondary mischief, whether in the form of caries or of abscess. In this way tension is taken off; and the pain, which appears to be dependent on the compression of inflamed bone by its own condensed structure, is at once relieved. “ Linear osteotomy ” is an operation especially applicable to osseous nodes of the long bones, or to chronic osteitis of the articular ends of the tibia, and is a far less severe mode of treatment than trephining the bone, which has occasionally been adopted in such cases ; while it is equally efficacious. After a time, when all morbid action ceases, the hypertrophied bone does not give rise to any very serious inconvenience, except such perhaps as may be occasioned by its bulk. Osteitis is principally of importance to the Surgeon from its connection with other more serious diseases of bones, in wLich it not nnfr-eqiiently termi- nates. These conditions are Suppuration of Bone, its Ulceration, Caries, and Necrosis. The best and simest mode of preventing these serious sequences is the early performance of osteotomy, as just described. SUPPURATION OP BONE. Suppuration of Bone may present itself in two forms, the Diffused and the (Hrcumscribeit.