ilujtcal cunE of yakigocele. 959 3. 'When atrophy of the testicle is a consequence of the pressure of the blood in the veins, an operation may be performed. 4. Cases not uncommonly occur where the pressure of the enlaiged ^eius on the speimatic nerves produces repeated attacks of spermatonhoea. dhese cases arc, however, more frequently met with out of hospitals, than in individuals of the class who apply to such institutions for relief. In fact, young rnen of the more highly educated classes are very subject to varicocele, especially those who habitually lead a sedentary and studious life, as, for instance, young elcrgjnnen and lawyers. In these persons, a peculiarly hypochondriacal state is brought on by the tendency of the mind to dwell on the condition of the genital organs, and the patient is constantly fidgeting about the local and tangible disease he observes in them. liow should the radical cure of this condition be produced ? To this I would answer—By exciting adhesive inflammation of the spermatic veins, through an application of the same principle which sets up that process in the veins of the lower extremity. There are several different ways of doing this ; ^ome are very objectionable. The twisted suture, as applied to the veins of the leg, induces too great imtation in the scrotum, and there its introduction is often followed by violent inflammation or sloughing, or by an opening up of Fi^'. 843.—non Pin for Treatment of Varicocele. the areolar tissue of the scrotum with oedema, and even purulent infiltration. It is better, I think, not to use this method here ; indeed I have twice, in the Fig. 844.—Needle threaded 'with Silver Wire. practice of others, seen it followed by death. The plan I have adopted for some years is that suggested and practised by Yidal de Cassis, and is as follows. The vas deferens, readily dis- tinguished by its round cord-like feel, is first separated from the veins, and entrusted to an as- sistant ; next, an iron pin bored with a hole at each end (Fig. «43), is passed between the vas and the veins, and brought out at the point of perforation, the scrotum being first notched with a scalpel; then a silver wire, threaded on a needle so con- structed that the wire shall Fig. s«.-vifiui’s Operation it without catching (Fig. and Fig. 84G.—Wire Twisted and Veins Rolled ui). follow H44), is passed in at the aper- ture of entry of the pin, and carried between the integument of the scrotum and