FliESSUIxE-EFFECTS OF INNOMINATE ANEUEISM. 75 aspect In some eases no tnmonr rises into the neck, but the sterniun, clavicle, and costal cartilage of the first rib, arc found to be considcralfiy imshcd forwards beyond their natural level. In the space around the light sterno-ehn-icular articulation, and about the upper part of the sternum, there will be dulness on percussion. In very many instances there is no bruit, but merely a strong impulse with the heart’s sounds, as distinct as in the cardiac region, or even more so ; but in other cases there is eveiy variety of bruit. Ipressure-Effects.—The most important symptoms arc occasioned perhaps by the pressure-effects of the tumour upon the neighbouring parts, affecting the pulse, the venous circulation, the neiwes, respiration, and degliititioii. The Pulse is usually influenced, being much smaller and feebler in the radial arteiy of the affected than of the sound side, and in some instances being completely arrested ; owing, doubtless, to the occlusion of the subclavian. The pulsation in the right carotid and its branches is also frequently much less powerful than in the opposite vessel. These signs commonly occur before any external tumour is seen or can be felt, and hence constitute an important element in the early diagnosis of the disease. Enlargement of the Superficial Veins of the neck and right upper extremity is of frequent occurrence, the external jugular being the vessel that is usually flrst dilated ; at a more advanced period the superficial subcutaneous veins of the upper part of the right side of the chest often become tortuous and form a dense plexus in this situation, while many anastomose with the cephahe and thoracic veins above, and the superficial epigastric below. As the pressure increases, oedema commences in the right eyelids and hand, and may speedily extend to the whole of the head, face, and arm, which become hard and brawny in consequence of serous infiltration. In one instance I have seen the left arm become suddenly oedematous, the left imiominate vein being pressed upon. In these cases the eyes become staring and prominent, and the lips, nose, and features livid and turgid with blood, as well as oedema- tous, so as to greatly alter the expression of the countenance. Pain of a dull aching character is experienced in the situation of the tumour, from the compression of the neighbouring structures. But, early in the disease, and among some of the first symptoms, the patient often exjDeri- ences sharp shooting pains, apparently of a rheumatic or neuralgic character, in the arm and the side of the head and face, arising fr’om pressure upon, and in’itation of, nerves of the cervical and brachial plexuses. Taking the course of the ascending and descending filaments of the cervical plexus, the pain shoots up the side of the head and neck, over the shoulder apd upper part of the chest; or, from pressure upon the brachial plexus, it radiates down the hand and arm, being usually especially severe about the elbow and fingers. The muscular power of the right arm also commonly becomes impaired. Dyspnoea is of very common occurrence, and of very varying degrees of intensity, from slight difficulty in breathing up to frital asphyxia. It may proceed cither from irntation of the larynx, in consequence of compression of the rccuiTent nerve ; or fr’om pressure on the trachea. When it depends on larjTigeal iiritatioii, the voice is hoarse, husky, or whispering ; and there is a dry, croupy, and paroxysmal cough, usually accompanied by expectoration of t in frothy mucus. In these cases, after death, the recuiTent nerve wilt be