UlUNAliY CALCULUS. the urethra but iu lithotomy all source of irritation is at once removed )>y the- extraction ot the stone. The condition of the urinary organs must be very carefully examined : and, if these be diseased, it will probably be requisite to abandon the operation. In a subsequent part of this Chapter, when we come to the comparison of lithotomy and lithotrity, we shall exdmine the conditions which either indicate ■01 negative the pcifoimance of the latter operation. At present, Ave will, suppose a case in Avhich the Surgeon may have recourse to lithotrity Avith every prospect of readily and permanently freeing the patient of his calculus ; one in which the calculus is of moderate size, single, and not too hard ; the lu-inary organs healthy, and not over sensith-e ; and the patient an adult, but not too aged. ^ In performing the operation in such a case, but little preparatory treat- ment is required ; though it is well to keep the patient quiet for a few days,, and to regulate his boAvels before anything is done. Should the patient’s health not be iu a satisfactory state, or should his urinary organs be irritable, he must j be treated on ordinary medical principles until his health be sufficiently restored for the Surgeon safely to-undertake an operation. Shoidd the patient be iierA'ous about the use of instruments, or should the lu-ethra be in-itable, a large sound may be passed every second day, so as to accustom the patient and the parts to the use and contact of instruments. L SE OE Ajy^TtSTHETics.—Much difference of opinion exists as to the advisa- bility of employing chloroform iu lithotrity. It has been objected to its use that the sensations of the patient are an useful guide to the Surgeon in his manipulations ; and that, if these be annihilated by antesthetics, injury may be done by the lithotrite nipping or otherwise bruising the mucous membrane. But this objection is not tenable. It is the sensations of the Surgeon, and not those of the patient, that constitute a valuable guide ; although in the majority of cases lithotrity, when properly performed, is almost a painless procedure. Yet cases not unfrequently occur in which the patient can with difficulty support the necessary manipulations, and in Avhich, either from nerA'OUSuess or from irritability of the bladder, he ejects his urine on the introduction of the lithotrite, or even does not allow his bladder to be duly distended by-injection. In such cases chlorofoim is of inestimable service ; and many patients when anses- thetised can be safely subjected to hthotrity, avIio could not suffer the operation under other circumstances. Operation.—The operation of lithotrity may be divided into three stages : 1. The Introduction of the Instrument. 2. The Search for and Seizure of the Stone. 3. The Crushing of the Stone. 1. Introd-action of the Lithotrite.—Lithotrity may most conveniently be performed with the patient lying on his back either upon a hard mattress, or on a couch or table. If the patient be very stout, or the prostate enlarged, the pehds may be raised by a hard pilloAA", so as to allow the stone to roll up on | the posterior siuface of the bladder. The Surgeon, standing on the right side of the patient, carefully introduces the holloAv sound, or catheter, and di’aAvs off the urine ; he then sloAvly and very cautiously, injects the bladder, by means^ of the brass syringe, Aidth from fom- to six ounces of tepid Avater. The use off drawing off' the urine is to make sure of the bladder holding the propci •quantity of fluid Avhen it is afterwards injected ; and the object in injecting it.