946 DISEASES OF THE TESTIS AND CORD. in^-olvccl in the morbid action ; and, as the result of the constriction of the tendinous and aponeurotic tissues in the situation, sloughing has occasionally occurred. Either of these conditions may lead to a fatal termination. The Treatment should be actively antiphlogistic. Leeches must be fi-eely applied o^'er the part, and blood should be taken from the am, if the patient be young and strong ; salines with antimony being at the same time adminis- tered, and fomentations diligently persevered in. Iiiflammation and Abscess of the Cord.—In some cases the inflam- mation of the testis may extend, or the disease may, from the first, be limited, to the areolar tissue of the cord, giving rise to tumefaction, with a good deal of pain and tenderness along it, and eventually abscess, accompanied by the usual signs of suppuration. The Treatment of such a case must be conducted on ordinary iDrinciples, early discharge for the pus being secured. Chronic Orchitis of a persistent character constitutes a distinct disease of the testis, so closely allied to some forms of tumour of this organ in its cha- racter and pathology, that it will be more convenient to consider it with the Sarcoceles (p. 900). HYDBOCELB AND H.ffi]MATOCELE. By Hydrocele is meant an accumulation of serous fluid, formed in connec- tion with the testis or cord. Most frequently the fluid occupies the sac of the tunica vaginalis, constituting a true dropsy of it; in other instances, it appears to be formed in distinct cysts, situated either in connection with the testis, or upon the cord. Hence hydroceles are commonly divided into those that affect the Tunica Vaginalis, and the Encysted variety. Hydiiocele oe the Tunica Vaginalis may occm- as the result of acute orchitis ; the inflammation of the testis causing the effusion of a quantity of limpid fluid into its serous investment (p. 943). This, however, is not the kind of hydi-ocele that is commonly met with ; the fluid so poured out as the result of active inflammation usually becoming absorbed as the parts recover their normal condition. The ordinary hydrocele occurs as a chronic disease, with- out any signs of inflammation of the testicle, or, at most, with but slight tendeniess of that organ. It is most fr-equently met with in individuals about the middle period of life, commouly without any evident exciting cause, either constitutional or local. It is very common in men who have hved long in warm climates, and Fayrer considers it in some cases to have a malarial origin. In young infants, hydrocele is not unfr-equently seen, and in them it may affect two forms : either the ordinary one, similar to that which occurs in adults in whom the timica vaginalis constitutes a closed sac filled with fluid ; or a less common variety, in which the accumulation of fluid in the tunica A’aginalis communicates, by the jiersistence of a canal in the funicular pro- longation of the peritoneum investing the cord, with the general cavity of , that membrane. This form of hydrocele is Congenital; and the fluid in it occupies the same position that intestine does in a congenital hernia. It ma} readily be recognised by the fluid being made to flow back into the general peritoneal cavity, on raising or squeezing the tumour. But, although this may be considered to be the true congenital form of hydrocele in influits, the other