FALSE PASSAGES. 899 employed small. It generally ceases of itself; but, if it be troublesome, the application of cold will check it. The Inflammation about the urethra and in the testes that occasionally occurs during the treatment of stricture, is best guarded against by not using too large catheters, and by directing the patient to abstain from much exercise during the time of their introduction. False Passages are occasioned by the instrument passing out of the urethra through its coats into the surrounding tissues. They are especially apt to occur in tight bridle-strictures, when a small instrument is being used, and more especially if the direction of the constriction be somewhat oblique, so that the point of the sound is thrown against the side of the canal (Fig. 798). The extent and situation of a false passage necessarily vary according to the position of the stricture ; and the danger is usually in proportion to its depth. The false passage usually takes a direction downwards and to one side of the lu-ethra. If the stricture be far forward, it may run along the corpus spon- giosum ; but if it be iu the usual situation, it may perforate the lateral lobe of the prostate, or run between this and the rectum, being unable to extend upwards on account of the rigid nature of the structures in this situation, TVTien the false passage merely perforates the corpus spongiosum, running parallel to the urethra, and opening again into the canal, or when, perforating a portion of the prostate, it enters the bladder, it is not necessarily attended with much dauger ; but when it enters the areolar tissue between the bladder and the rectum, breaking up this structure to a great extent, admitting urine into the recto-vesical space and about the neck of the bladder, then the most serious consequences, such as inflammation and abscess in this neighbourhood, are apt to ensue, which may not unlikely be followed by the death of the patient. At the moment when a false passage is made during the introduction of an instrument, by the Surgeon using too much force or pressing in the wrong direction, he feels the point make a sudden slip, which the direction of the shaft indicates to be to one side of the urethra. The patient complains of severe pain, and is often conscious of a laceration ; there is a grating or rough sensation communicated by the tissues against which the instrument has passed ; and though it have entered deeply, it will be found not to have reached the bladder. On the Surgeon introducing his Anger into the rectum, he probably feels the point of the instrument in the areolar tissue between the gut and the bladder ; on -withdrawing it, it will be found covered -with blood, and there will be free hmmorrhage from the urethra. The Surgeon knows when he has entered an old false passage by the change that takes place in the direction of the instrument, by its not reaching the bladder, and by the rough sensation communicated to it, very different fr'om that afforded by the smooth lining of the urethra. The patient is often con- scious of the existence and of the entry of the instrument into the false passage, and will warn the Surgeon of it. ’ If the Surgeon be aware that he has made a false passage, he should, if possible, at the time of the accident pass a large catheter into the bladder, and leave it there for a few days until the laceration has healed. If there l)e an old false passage he must be careful, by keeping the point of the instru- 3 M 2