DISEASES OF THE TJRET HR A. 910 yith Civiale’s instrument, or the forcible expansion or rupture of the stricture is the best method of treatment; the perineal section being too severe and dangerous, whilst simple dilatation is too feeble a means of treatment. Stricture of the Urethral Orifice is usually the consequence of the destruction of tissue by a phagedaenic chancre. It is apt to become extremely tight, and has a great tendency to relapse. It may be treated in thi’ee ways— 1. By gradual dilatation, by means of short nail-headed styles of graduated sizes. 2. By rapid dilatation. This is best eifected by the introduction of a tube of laminaria, which, swelling up in a few hours, rapidly dilates the stricture. 3. By division with Civiale’s instrument, introduced shut, and cutting as it is withdrawn (Fig. 813). Either of the last two methods may most advantageously be adopted. Impermeable Stricture.—In order to perform the perineal section, the stricture must be pervious to a grooved staff, however small this may be ; and this, it might be supposed, would limit materially the cases.in which the opera- tion can be performed. But complete obliteration of the m’ethra cannot take place except as the result of sloughing, usually from injmy ; indeed “ imper- meable ” strictiu:es, though fi-equently spoken of, are very rarely met with. SjTue, indeed, denied their existence, and stated that, if urine can escape through a strictme, a bougie can be introduced. A Surgeon may often be foiled in his first attempts in passing an instrument through a very tight stricture. But I believe that, with patience, by attention to constitutional treatment, so as to lessen inethral irritation, and especially by the administra- tion of chlorofoim, he will usually at last succeed in making an instrument of some kind pass through the very worst strictures. In the first case in which I performed the perineal section, almost aU the urine had for twelve years been discharged through fistulous openings in the perineeum and scrotum ; and the principal portion escaped through a large hole on the inside of the left thigh, a few drops merely occasionally passing out by the lips of the inethra. No instrument had been passed for four years, though repeated attempts had been made by different Singeons. Being foiled in introducing a catheter into the bladder the first time I tried, I kept the patient in the Hospital for two or three weeks, attending carefully to his constitutional condition, but without making any further effort. He was then placed under chloroform, when I ' succeeded in passing No. 1. The urethra was then dilated up to No. 5, beyond which no instrument could be passed, when the perineal section was performed. The patient made an excellent cure, the fistulous openings closing, and the urine being discharged by the natural chaimel. In another case, persevering attempts had been made for five years to make an instrument