538 DISEASES OF THE MOUTH AND THROAT. deceived in these cases, failing to detect the existence of an enlargement at the back of the pharynx ; but the finger readily recognises it. In the case of nbscess there is finctuation, and the dysphagia will be remo’S'ed by opening the abscess and letting out the contents ; and the solid, or semi-solid and soft, or j other feel of a tumour in this situation ^vill lead to a very probable guess as to its nature. ! 2. Morbid Conditions of tlie Larynx.—(Edema about the back of the ' ■epiglottis, or chronic oedema, ulceration, and thickening of the mucous membrane there, or oedema about the rima glottidis, may give rise to a tendency for licpiids to pass into the air-passages, and thus occasion a serious impediment in swallowing, the difficulty Ijeing attended with a feeling of spasm and sulfocatiou. By passing the finger down behind the root of the tongue, the state of parts can often be felt; but the combination of dysphagia with a suffocative fit, and these probably associated with laryngeal cough, are the chief points to be attended to in the diagnosis. 3. Tiuno'ar.s in the Heck ontside the (Esophagus.—Enlarged glands or a carotid aneurism, developing posteriorly, as has been knov.m to occur with the internal carotid artery ; or a tiunonr connected with the thyroid body, tightly bormd down by the sterno-mastoid muscles and cervical fascia, may, Iry pressing on the oesophagus, give rise to dysphagia. In all cases where that symptom is complained of, the neck should be examined carefully for tumours, which will generally be very readily detected, especially where the difficulty has existed for some time, and the person has become much emaciated from deficient nourishment. 4. Aneurism of the Innominate Artery.—When this disease has risen into the root of the neck it is easily recognisable; but in certain cases it develops first in a direction backwards, and then one of the eaiher symptoms is dysphagia. Indeed, the patient may sufier but little from any other symptom, nnd may apply to the Sm-geon for relief from it alone, quite unconscious of the existence of any serious disease. The diagnosis wifi, be effected by careful attention to the symptoms described at pp. 74—7G, vol. II. In such a case, much danger might be incurred by at once putting an instrument into the cesophagus, under the impression that stricture existed ; for the point of the bougie, or whatever instrument might be used, might perforate the sac of the aneiu’ism, and so give rise to instant death. 5. Aneurism of the Aortu, whether of the fusiform or the sacculated variety, may give rise to difficulty of deglutition by pressure on the gullet. In this case, also, there is great danger of the aneurismal sac being pierced by an instrument passed down for the piu’pose of ascertaining the existence of .stricture. The presence of the symptoms of intrathoracic aneurism, described at pp. 68—72, vol. II., will determine the diagnosis. G. Intrathoracic Tumours, such as enlarged bronchial glands, cancerous and other tumours, may be developed from the thoracic spine into the posterior mediastinum, and so compress the oesophagus. In such cases the diagnosis is very difficult. It is difficult enough to determine the existence of a timioiir, but stm more so to distinguish it from an anemdsm undergoing consolidation ; but dulness on percussion, and dyspnoea with dysphagia, together vit xe pain in or to one side of the spine, with neiualgia down the ai-ms or up ttic