691 COLOTOMY. of a stomach-pump. If these means do not succeed, and if the obstruction, as lUv-ivs the case in these chronic instances, be seated in or below the sigmoid flexure of tlio colon, tlie intestine must be opened at a point above the “cofotZT-Thc opetatiou required to give exit to the intestinal contents, is of two kinds In one the intestine is opened in the left iliac fossa, by cutting lo^h the peritoneum covering it. In the other it is opened in the loin by cutting betwLn the layers of the meso-colon, being thus exposed Avhere it is uncovered by peritoneum. LiHres Operation.—first operation, or Littre’s, as it has been caUed, was nroDOsed by a Surgeon of that name, in 1710, who ad^fised that in these cases the sio-moid flexm’e of the colon should be opened from the left iliac region ; but iAvas not until the year 177G that any operation of the kind was per- formed when Pillore, a Surgeon of Eouen, was the first to make an artificial anus on the adult, for relief of retention of frnces ; this he did, not according to Littre’s method, but by opening the emeum from the right iliac region. Fine, of Geneva, in 1797, opened the transverse colon from the umbilical region, in a case of retention of fmces produced by scirrhus of the upper part of the rectum. ... „ . Although these operations serve to fulfil the indication of reheving the retention °of the feces, they are all defective in one most important respect; for, as the peritoneum must in all of them of necessity be wounded, an intense and frequently fatal peritonitis is the inevitable consequence. It was to avoid this serious complication that Callisen, of Copenhagen, in 1796, proposed opening the colon from b.ehind, in the left lumber region, where it is not covered by peritoneum. He once attempted this operation on the dead body of a child ; but, failing in his endeavour to reach the intestine without wounding the serous membrane, he seems to have relinquished aU further idea of it; and it was subsequently rejected as impracticable by aU writers on , surgery who treated of this subject. Amussafs Operation.—The operation of colotomy proposed by Callisen, but first practised and perfected by Amussat, is one of the most important addi- tions to modem operative surgery, and affords an admirable illustration of the important practical application of an apparently trivial anatomical fact, viz., the relation of the layers of the meso-colon to the descending colon. Amussat, at the time when he was attending the celebrated Broussais for that scirrhous affection of the rectum of which he ultimately died, was led to reflect on the resources that Surgery offers in similar cases ; and after making some experiments on the dead body, with the view of contrasting the merit of the different operations that have been proposed for the formation of artificial anus in cases of obstruction of the large intestines, he became convinced that the operation proposed by Callisen, if somewhat modified, was not only prac- ticable, but safe. He soon had an opportunity of putting this opinion to the test of experiment in 1839, in a private case, at which he kindly inrfted me, then a student in Pains, to be present; and since this time the operation has I taken a recognised position in Siu’gery. I It is not only for the relief of chronic intestinal obstruction that ikmussat’s I operation is now performed. Y Y 2