948 DISEASES OF THE TESTIS AND CORD. Ilie Coverings of a hydrocele are the same as tliose of the testis. Besides the integumental sti’uctiires, aponeurotic prolongations from the intercolnmnar and cremasteric fasciae may be traced over the surface of the swelling (Fig. 839). Treatment.—The treatment of hydrocele is divided into the Palliative and Curative. By Cos, ^palliative treatment the Siu-geon simply seeks to relieve the patient of the annoyance induced by the bulk or weight of the tumour ; but the curative has for its object the permanent removal of the disease. , The Palliative Treatment consists in the use of a suspensory bandage and cooling lotion, or in tapping with a fine trochar. These simple means, how- e’S'er, will sometimes succeed in effecting a radical cm’e. Thus, in infants it will happen that the application of evaporating and discntient lotions may remove the effused fluid ; and indeed it is seldom that any other plan of treatment than tliis is required in yomig children. The best lotion for the purpose consists of one composed of 5j of muriate of ammonia, 5j of spirits of wine, and 3viij of water; with this the scrotum should be kept constantly wetted ; and, if there be a communication with the peritoneum, a truss should be kept applied OA'er the external ring. In adults it occasionally happens that simple tapping of the tumour has effected a radical cure. Some years ago, a gentleman from Cuba consulted me for a small hydrocele which had been forming for several months ; I tapped it with a fine trochar, and drew off about five ounces of fluid. This was followed by a radical cure. This case bears out a remark made by Brodie, that the few instances in Avhich he had known simple tapping to produce a radical cure occurred in West Indians. I have, however, several times seen hydroceles disairpear after having been tapped a few times, without any other treatment, in persons Avho had ncA'er been in hot climates. This simple operation is not altogether, howeA'er, destitute of danger; Fig. 838.—Hydrocele of the Tunica Vaginalis laid open. Fig. 839.—Dissection of a Hydrocele, sho\ving its Coreringk