215 TREATMENT OF HYDRARTHROSIS. aiTOsting it, then, if the patient be young and strong, the free and repeated application of leeches to the inflamed articulation, followed by fomentations and accompanied by perfect rest of the part on a splint, or on pillows properly an-anged, will be the most useful treatment. At the same time, saline purga'tivcs with antimony must be giyen, and the patient kept on a low the disease be rlmmaiic, leeches must be applied, followed by hot fomen- tations, and rest of the part in the elevated position : at the same time col- chiciim, udth salines, if there be much febrile distm-bance, and in combination with Dover’s powder, if there be much pain at night, should be administered. In some instances, where colchicum disagrees, great benefit will result from the administration of Dover’s powder and calomel, in small but frequent doses. When the disease is of sijjMitic origin, leeches are not often required ; but the application of blisters, followed by calomel and opiimi, will be attended with marked success. IVheii the syno’sitis is suhacute or chronic, the same principles of treatment must be adopted, modified according to the intensity of the affection. In these forms of the disease, rest is perhaps the most important element in the treat- ment, eveiything else proving nugatory unless this be attended to ; the limb is usually best fixed by leather splints, buckled on so that they may be removed in order to make the necessary applications to it. In these cases, repeated bhsterings over the whole of the joint constitute perhaps the most useful local means that we possess : in a more advanced stage, counter-irritation by means of stimulating embrocations, together with douches, either of warm sea-water or of some of the sulphiu’ous springs, such as those of Aix or Bareges, Avill prove most useful; and when aU infiammatory action has been subdued, and weakness of the joint merely is left, the joint should be properly strapped with soap-plaster, spread upon leather. Amongst the internal remedies likely to be of most service, may be mentioned the iodide of potassium, either alone or in some bitter uifusion. In hydrarthrosis, rest and repeated blistering will usually promote the removal of the fluid. In addition to this, the employment of pressure and friction, with absorbent remedies, as the iodine or mercurial ointment or oleate of mercury conjoined with the internal administration of the iodide of potassium or a mild mercimal course, will often procime the absorption of the fluid. If these means fail, the pneumatic aspirator may be used to empty the joint of its fluid, the puncture being closed antiseptically, and in extreme cases we have a very powerfrd method of cure at our command in the in- jection of the joint with tincture of iodine. This plan, a sufficiently bold one, has been much employed by Jobert, Velpeau, and Bonnet. These burgeons used the tincture diluted with two or three parts of water. A small trochar is introduced into the joint, a moderate quantity of the serous fluid is let out, but not all, and then a corresponding quantity of the iodine solution IS thrown in ; and after being left for a few minutes, is allowed to escape. Inflammation of the joint, which is a necessary result of this pro- cedure, comes on. This is then treated by ordinary .antiphlogistic means, and, accoiding to the statements of the French Surgeons, has in no case been followed by any serious consequences, but in several instances by a complete