392 DISEASES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. in these cases ; plugging may possibly be recpiired if cold do not an-est the bleeding. Lipoma is a chronic hypertrophy of the cutaneous and subcutaneous structures, and of the areolar tissue of the nose, forming a large reddish-blue, vascular-looking, soft, tremulous, and lobulated mass, enveloping the end of the nose, and producing excessive deformity of it. There are all degrees of this disease, from mere clubbing of the end of the organ, to the fomiation of a set of pendulous lobular tumours attached to it. The sebaceous glands and crypts appear to be the structures chiefly implicated in this disease. The patient’s appearance may be greatly improved by the removal of these growths. This may be done readily enough by making an incision down the mesial line to the alar cartilages, and then dissecting the lipoma off these on each side ; especial care, however, being taken in doing this not to encroach upon the nostril. This is best avoided by directing an assistant to keep his Anger in it while the dissection is being prosecuted, so that he may warn the Surgeon of the too near approach of the knife. The sm-face is then left to granulate and cicatrise. Lupus and Epithelial Cancer.—The nose is frequently the seat of Lupus and various forms of Epithelial Cancer, many of the deformities of this feature being referrible to this affection ; indeed, lupus may be looked upon as almost specially affecting this organ, destroying one or both alse, the columna, or perhaps the whole of the nose. The consideration of the nature and treatment of these affections in this situation presents nothing special {see Chapter xxxvii. Vol. I.): but the cure of the defoiruities induced by them, which is full of interest to the Surgeon, wiU be considered in detail when we speak of the plastic operations that are practised on the face. Polypus.—Tumoiu’S of very different structines and composition are met with in the nostrils ; and to all of these which possess the common characters of being pendulous and blocking up these passages, the term Polypus is given. Thus Surgeons commonly speak of the Benign, the Soft, the Gelatinous, or Mucous Polyp, as well as the Sarcomatous or Fleshy, and the Malignant Polyp. The term, however, should properly be confined to a soft and pendulous mucous growth ; the fleshy and malignant polypi being mere varieties of fibrous myeloid or encephaloid tumoiu’s, springing from the bones in the nasal fossEe, or fr'om the ethmoidal and sphenoidal cells. The true Mucous Nasal Polyp is a soft, moist, gelatinous tmnour, of a greyish-yellow colour when lodged in the nasal fosste ; but when it descends into the anterior nares, or beyond them, and is exposed to the air, it becomes of a reddish-brown or pmple tint, and somewhat shrivelled on the suiface. It is usually lobulated, pedunculated, or bottle-shaped ; and not very vascular except at the root, Avhere it is permeated by largish thin-waUed vessels that bleed freely on the slightest touch. In structure it is homogeneous, and com- posed of the elements of mucous membrane, covered by ciliated epithelium, the cilia of Avhich may often be seen under the microscope in active movement after the removal of the growth. Occasionally polypi are found, growing from the lower part of the nares, covered with tessellated epithelium. The tumour may grow from any points of the surface of the turbinate and ethmoid bones, and has indeed occasionally, though A'ery rarely, been obsoived to project in o c