813 BREAK ING THE STOXE. lio tliGii very jjGiifcly turned the beuk of the instruuient toAvnids the opposito side of the bladder, opened the Idades, and then, turning them over towards the stone, seized it between the open blades. In those manoeuvres, all rough handling must be most carefully avoided, and the instrument should bo turned about as little as possible. It is far safer to desist in the operation, if there be anv diffieulty in seizing the stone, than to persevere in repeated and fruitless attempts, by Avhich the bladder may be severely injured and inflamed. Kather than do this, the patient should be allowed to get up and move about for a feAv minutes, when the position of the stone may be so far altered that it will admit of being seized. 3. Breaking the Stone.—When the stone has been seized, it is gently raised in the grasp of the lithotrite, so as to be placed about the middle of the- bladder, and it is then crushed. The important step of the operation, like all the others, requires to be deliberately and carefully done (Fig. 770). If Civiale’s impi'OA'ed lithotrite be used, the stone, if small, may often readily be crushed by the pressure of the hand alone Avithout the action of the scrcAV (Fig. 771). If the ordinary lithotrite be employed, the breaking should not be effected by >i0. — Position of Tjitliotnte in Cra.shini{ the Stone. time be not consumed rig. 172. Position of Hands in using Tlnimlj-scretv Lithotrite. suddenly and forcibly screwing up the instrument, but the screw should be gradually worked by a series of short and sharp turns, so as to constitute almost percussive movements (Fig. 772). In this way the cal- culus 18 generally made to crumble doAvn, rather than to fly asunder; and, as it yields, the scrcAv must be worked tightly home. The blades of the instrument may then be opened again, a fragment of the broken calculus seized and crushed in the same Avay as before • and thus the disintegration of the stone is in a oTeat measure effected and sometimes completed at one sittino-. it IS of thegi-eatest moment, hoAvever, that too muci at one sitting. Nothing is more dangerous than the