419 EGTROPIOF. jvlso to many cases otherwise originating, in which the skin of the lid is abun- dant, should bo done. An oval piece of the skin of the lid, quite close to the margin, must be excised horizontally. As much as is sufficient of the skin and subcutaneous tissues is seized with toothed forceps, raised a little, and cut away ■with scissoi-s curved on the flat. The lid is drawn open a little and steadied by the finger of an assistant, or by the little finger of the left hand of the operator, which holds also the forceps. Then all those fibres of the orbicularis nearest to the edge of the lid are snipped away with the scissors, so that the cartilage is quite exposed. No sutures are required, as a very speedy union •of the edges of the wound is not desirable, and a broader, firmer cicatrix is obtained by a slower process of healing. Enough of the skin should be removed, •and all the inner fibres of the muscle causing the inversion. jMore difficult, because more complicated cases, of older date and yet of com- mon occurrence, are those in which the lid, its cartilage, &c., is altogether thickened, generally as a residt of the application of caustics in the solid form to the palpebral conjunctiva for a longer time than was needed, probably for ^anular lids, or, as usual, too near to the margin only of the lid. The upper lid is the one most frequently affected. This is the commonest cause of trichiasis ; but it may result in entropion, or in both together. The trichiasis must be treated by excision of the hair-bulbs, or otherudse, as may be required. The entropion may be remedied in this, and in such cases of thickening of the hd, by ‘‘ grooving ” the outer surface of the length of the cartilage, near its margin, by first exposing it, and then making two longitudinal vertical incisions into the cartilage two-thirds or more through its thickness, inchned to each other, so that they meet below and form a V-shaped groove nlong the edge of the lid. Then, if there be no wrong direction in the growth ■of any of the lashes (tidchiasis), but only the regular row is canded in with the inverted lid against the eye, a few fine sutures are introduced through the skin of the edge of the wound, next the margin of the lid, and then through the edge of the groove in the cartilage, farthest from the lid’s margin. If the lashes have been removed for concomitant trichiasis, the fine suhrres are merely put through the two lips of the skin-wound, so as to approximate the sides of the groove in the cartilage, and keep out the incurved margin. In some cases of entropion, an operation, the reverse of that sometimes adopted in cases of ectropion, the V-Y-operation, may be done. A 1-shaped incision may be made through the skin and subcutaneous parts of the (lower) lid, and the point of the angle, being dissected up, is extended frown below the point from which it was taken, and then seemed with some fine sutures. Ectropion For this morbid condition, and, in a less degree, for entrojiion, 1 IS not possible to point out any single operation as a cure. Neither of them IS a disease, but the result of various diseases ; and even though two cases of ec ropioii, 01 instance, may be considered due to the same disease, they will ^ ^ ^ different methods of treatment. Some operations in ich has been their origin is common to them. In thin old people, who have d)Vht’Drov„rr'* ™scle,ivitb loose skin, iiKlliccs passively, on any si.ght provocafon, octrop.on of the lower lid, and perhaps io eonseqnentlj E E 2