DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. 9o8 '1. To cut carefully in the median line ; where, as Syme has observed, a kind of septum exists even in the deeper stnicturcs of the porinaBum, and whore there can be no danger whatever of dividing any artery of magnitude, which might happen if any lateral deviation of the knife took place. The only vessel indeed, which is at all endangered, is the artery of the bulb; and this may always be avoided by carefully keeping in the raphe, as it lies towards the side of the incision. 3. To enter the point of the knife behind the strictmu, and to divide that by cutting forwards in the groove of the staff. 4. Not to turn the edge of the knife downwards ; if this be done, the deep perineal fascia may be opened, and danger of pelvic infiltration and inflam- mation incurred. 5. Much difficulty has occasionally arisen in the introduction of the catheter into the bladder after the division of the stricture. This may be avoided by passing a broad director, with the groove turned up, into the posterior part of the lu-ethra after the stricture has been cut, but before the staff is withdrawn. As the catheter is passed down the canal, its point ’\\dll infalhbly be guided by this onwards into the bladder. Where there are more strictures than one, the division of the deepest is usually alone necessary ; the others may be dilated. Result.—The result of the perineal section, so far as the fife of the patient is concerned, is usually satisfactory ; yet cases have not unfrequently ocem-red in which a fatal termination has been the consequence, and there is every reason to believe that these cases have been more numerous than the advocates of this operation have been willing to admit. As yet, there are no trustworthy statistics before the profession that would enable us to speak positively as to the percentage of deaths after this operation. Occasionally, an incurable fistulous opening has been left in the perinteum ; and not unfrequently accidents of a grave though not fatal character, such as inflammatory oedema of the scrotum, abscess in perinteo, &c., have been found to supervene. The whole value of urethrotomy will at last depend on the liability of the stricture to return after its division; and this point has not as yet been by any means satisfactorily determined. The ultimate result of the cases in which it has been practised has not as yet been fully laid before the profession ; and, mi til this has been done, we cannot consider the utihty of the operation as established, except as a means of temporary relief in cases of the kind just mentioned. Much will certainly depend upon keeping up dilatation of the urethi'a for some months after the division of the strictiue, a catheter of full size being passed once in a week or ten days. If this precaution be neglected, relapses will often occur ; and even when it is scrupulously attended to, they are, I believe, by no means unfr’equent. Against luethrotomy it has been argued that, like a wound, the incision into the urethi’a might occasion a cica- trix which would contract, and thus eventually tend still fiu’ther to lessen the ' diameter of the canal. But post mortem examination of patients vho have died some years after this operation had been performed has shown that the idea is groundless, the cicatrix being linear and scarcely perceptible. In fact, there is a great difference in the result, between cases in which the urethra has been divided transversely and those in Avhich it has been incised longitudina y.