296 DISEASES OF THE SPINE. so as to become fused together iu one soft and fi-iable mass of bone, across which bridges of osseous tissue are sometimes thrown out, so as to strengthen the otherwise weakened sihne. In these cases, masses of porcellaneous deposit will not nnfrequently be found intermixed with and adherent to the carious bone. Indeed, this ankylosis and fusion of the bodies of the diseased vertebra} may be looked upon as the natural mode of cure of angular curvatm’e of the spine ; the only way in which it can take place when once the disease has advanced to any considerable extent. When abscess forms in connection with diseased spine, it is in most cases the result of the continued irritation produced by the tuberculous osteitis ; and it may become the most prominent and marked featirre of the affection, giving rise almost to a distinct and independent disease. The situation and coiu’se of the abscess depend mainly upon the part of the spine affected ; thus, for instance, when the cervical vertebrte are diseased, the abscess may come for- wards behind the pharynx, and may occasionally extend under the sterno- mastoid muscle to the side of the neck, where it opens ; sometimes, though very rarely, it passes into the chest, and in other cases down into the axilla. When the disease is seated in the dorsal vertebrae, it usually passes forwards under the piUars of the diaphragm, down the side of the aorta and the iliac vessels, into the ihac fossa, and then presents through the alrdominal wall above Poupart’s ligament; sometimes, if the patient be long kept in the recumbent position, the pus sinks into the pelvis, and then passes out through the sacro- sciatic notch, giving rises to a large accumulation in the gluteal region, or it may present by the side of the anus. In other instances, again, the pus passes directly backwards, and large dorsal or lunxbar abscesses are the result. It is remarkable that in these cases of caries of the dorsal vertebras the pus does not tend to encroach on the chest or the pleimal cavity. In other cases, when the lower dorsal or upper lumbar vertebra are diseased, the pus enters the sheath of the psoas muscle, thus constituting the common affection termed Psoas Aiscess, and, passing along this, under Poupart’s ligament, presents in the thigh ; or it may continue its course downwards, burroAving under the muscles of this region, until it i*eaches the popliteal space, and may even pass from this some distance downwards on to the calf or ankle. I have seen an abscess, which took its origin in disease of the dorsal Am’tebrfe, opened by the side of the tendo AchiUis (Fig. 74, Vol. I.). In other cases, again, these abscesses take a different course ; and, descending into the subperitoneal areolar tissue of the pelvis, may present by the side of the rectum in the periiifeum, or pass out of the sciatic notch, and down by the side of the trochanter. The Cjuantity of pus contained in these collections is sometimes enormous, and abscesses of this description attain a greater magnitude than those of any other part of the body. In some cases the abscess may follow the ^course of both psoas muscles, and project on each groin at the same time. Their true nature and point of origin may usually be determined by an examination of the spine, and by feeling an impulse on coughing communicated to their extremest points of presentation. Sometimes fragments of the carious or necrosed bone from bodies of the diseased vertebra will be found in the pus more particularly towards the termination of the case, nhen ieco\eiy y ankylosis is taking jilace. In the patient from whom big. 4b0 (p. 300) uas