SPECIAL ANEUFJSMS. 82 A^^EUMSMS OF INNOJIINATE TREATED BY LIGATURE OP CAROTID AND SUBCLAVIAN—continued. OPERATOR. SEX. AGE. CAROTID LIGATURED. subclavian LIGATURED. 1 REMARKS. 1 7. J. C. Hut- chison. (Brooklyn.) ni. 48 Subclavian and carotid simultaneously. Jan. 16tb, 1807. Death on forty-first day fi-om suf- focation dependent on tracheal obstruction. The aneurism in- volved the brachio-cephalic, the origins of the carotid and sub- clavian, and arch of aorta. 8. Maunder. m. 37 Subclavian and carotid simultaneouslv. Sept. 18th, 1867. Died on sixth day. Clot in aneu- rism extended into and choked the aorta. 9. Sands. f. 43 Cai’otid and subclavian tied simultaneously. July 16, 1868. Six months after operation, aneu- rism not cured, though size and pulsation diminished. 10. J. Lane. f. 45 Carotid and subclavian tied simultaneously. Sept. 20, 1871. At first slight improvement, fol- lowed by rapid increase of aneurism. 11. T. Holmes. m. 45 Carotid and subclavian simultaneously. Nov. 9, 1871. Death a few weeks after operation, galvano-puncture having pre- viously been applied. 12. McCarthy. m. 50 Carotid and subclavian simultaneously. Oct., 1872. 13. F. Ensor. m. 50 Carotid and subclavian simultaneously. Sept. 8, 1874. Recovery. Diminution in activity of aneurism. 14. Hobart (of Cork) f. 25 Simultaneous in 1839. First part of subclavian tied. Died of secondary haemorrhage. Aneu-! rism of the aorta. 15. Durham. Simultaneous. Died on eighth day of “ shock.” It was attempted in 1868 by Chevers, but the subclavian vein was woimded and the patient died in two hom’s ; and in another case Hodges performed the operation, but after death on the eleventh day no aneurism was found. A resume of the cases of anemdsm of the innominate, in which the operation of hgatm’ing one or both arteries beyond the sac has been performed, haidng thus been given, the question arises whether these operations, or any of them, should retain a place in surgery. This question may be examined in two points of view ; 1. As to the principle on which these operations are perfoi’med ; and 2, As to then’ results in practice. For the success of the distal operation, it is requisite that there be no branch given off, either from the sac or between it and the ligature; or that the ciuTent of blood through the sac be at least so far diminished as to admit of the deposition of laminated fibrine in sufficient quan- tity to fill it up, by a process similar to that which happens in a case of aneinism treated by the Hunterian method. In order that this may be accomplished, it is certainly necessary that the greater portion of the blood passing through the sac be arrested ; for, if the cun-ent that is still kept up be too free, the tumour will continue to increase, as we have seen happen in cases of inguinal aneurism in which the femoral artery has been ligatured below the epigastric and the circumflex ilii, the cun’cnt thi’ough which has been sufficient to feed the sac in such a way that a ciu’e could not be accomplished. H, therefore, but one of the vessels leading from the brachio-cephalic, as the subclavian beyond the