TUMOUnS OF THE BREAST. 581 matter that is tbroAvn out aroimcl the collection of pus. It is owing to the deposition of this dense mass of limiting fibrine, that the chronic en- cysted abscess is commonly developed as a hard and apparently solid lump. It is in o-eneral not very distinctly circumscribed, and of but moderate mag- nitude ; "after a time it remains stationary, or but slowly increases with but little pain during a space of many months ; it is not unfrcquently attended with retraction of the nipple. The diagnosis of this form of abscess is of great importance, inasmuch as it has not nnfrequently been excised for imnour of the breast. I am acquainted with many instances in which this mistake has been com- mitted. Such an error may, however, commonly be avoided by attention to the following points ; 1, that the existence of an abscess is almost in- A'ariably preceded by impregnation, parturition, or miscaniage ; 2, that there is more or loss codema of the subcutaneous areolar tissue covering it; ?>, that, although it is of slow formation and without pain, it is not dis- tinctly circumscribed, but gradually fuses in an iiTCgular manner into the neighboin'ing tissues ; 4, that it is not freely movable, but rather incorporated Avith adjacent parts ; and 5, that elasticity, or even deep fluctuation, may be commonly felt at one part of it. Should there be the least doubt in the case, the introduction of an exploring trochar, by giving issue to the pus, will always determine its true nature j indeed, this simple means of diagnosis should never be neglected in any case in which there is reason even to suspect the possibility of the apparent tumour of the breast being in reality an abscess. Treatment.—In the chronic encysted abscess, as well as in the diffused form of the disease, the drainage-tube is most useful ; but, should the mass of plastic matter be very large and dense, a seton may advantageously be passed across it in a perpendicular direction, so that the plastic tumour may be softened and caused to disappear by the inflammation thus excited in it. In aU cases of chronic abscess of the breast, but more particularly in the submammary, the arm should be kept at j)erfect rest in a sling or bandaged to the side. TUMOURS OP THE BREAST. The study of the various tumom-s of the female breast, more especially in a diagnostic point of view, is of the first importance to the practical Surgeon ; for, though it might be supposed that it would be easy, if not to recognise the minuter shades of pathological difference between morbid growths so super- ficially situated as those of the mammary gland, at all events to diagnose the malignant from the non-malignant afiections of this organ, yet in practice nothing is more difficult in many cases : and it not only requires great experi- ence, but also an intimate acquaintance with the sjDecial com’se and symptoms of each particular disease, to come to a correct conclusion as to its nature. Even with all the light which experience and a careful examination of the characters of the tumour may throAv upon the nature of the disease, it Avill be impossible for the Surgeon to avoid oceasional errors in diagnosis. Mammary tumours may be either simple or malignant. The original recog- nition and classification of the different Aurieties of simple tumour that affect