981 IMP EPF OP A TE HYMEN. originally dopoiidcnt, perimps, upon a fissure or uloci f ? Ciises, largo fibre-collnlar tnmom-s form as outgrowths ftom the natmal Hires in this region ; these may require removal by simple • L iugb Coxovlojlvta or YmuiPCiE are often met with here as the resu t of o-onorrhcoal or syphilitic disease, forming at last irregular pendulous masses, which rcrpiire extirpation, either by knife or scissors. ^ u\e ac oc casion also to remove a large Na^vus by ligature from this situation ; and, in fact, any growth that occurs in the skin or cellular tissue may be met with here. Cystic Tuyiours are not unfrequently met with in the labia, and may sonie- times resemble rather closely the ordinary forms of inguinal hernia ; with which, however, their incompressibility, irreducibility, and the absence 01 impulse on coughing, will prevent their being confounded. These cysts, which recpiire removal by a little simple dissection, usually contain a dark, turbid, or sanguineous fluid, and sometimes atheromatous matter. Tolerably free hmmoi- rhage may follow their removal, the excitable tissues of the labia being cut into. This may, however, always be arrested by pressure and a T-bandage. Occasionally they project from the inside of the vagina, and then require removal by dissection or ligature, as can be best practised. InPERTORATE Vagixa is occasionally met with in young children, and occasions a good deal of anxiety to the parents. This condition, however, ma-y always be r ery readily and speedily removed by tearing open the canal, as it were, by dragging open its walls in opposite directions, and breaking through the adhesions, which are little more than epithelial, Avith the thumb-nail, a blunt probe, or the handle of a scalpel, and then introducing a small pledget of greased lint. IiiPERFORATE Hymen is occasionally met AAuth, causing great inconvenience, and even danger, by the retention of the menstrual secretion, which may accumulate to an immense extent, and become converted into a land of choco- late-coloured grumous fluid. This malformation does not usually attract attention until the age of seventeen or eighteen. "When the menstrual flux lias, hoAvever, not appeared, notwithstanding periodical constitutional distinb- ance, an examination is instituted, and the cause of the obstruction is revealed. Ill these cases the hymen, Avhich forms a dense elastic membrane, is pushed down betAveen the Auilvae, and the accumulated secretion may sometimes be felt as an elastic fluctuating tumour above the pubes or in the iliac fossa. The Trealmmt consists in puncturing the hymen Avith a trochar, enlargipg the opening Avith a probe-pointed bistoiuy, and thus discharging the retained fluid, Avhich may be in A'ery large quantity. This operation is not ahvays unattended by danger. Buppuration of the exposed cavity and peritonitis may come on, ending in the patient’s death. In opening the membrane, it need scarcely be said that Avouiid of the urethra should be carefully guarded against; and, Avith care, that canal may always be avoided. I have, however, seen one case in AA'hich it had been slit uji by the Surgeon who punctured the membrane. Occasionally the Surgeon’s advice may be sought by man-ied Avomen, for a rigid and only ^icirliallij 2^<^’>'forate It/ijmen; Avhon incision with a probe-pointed bistoury and dilatation Avith a sponge-tent may be required. Impregnation, however, is possible, even though the hjinen be not ruptured ; and it may be