368 DEFORMITIES. being suspended, the muscular opposition, which is partly voluntary, and no doubt in some measure reflex, is no longer called into action, and the limb falls of i,ts own aefcord almost into the straight position, in which it must be retained by means of a long splint, lost the retraction recur with returning consciousness ; and then, the hysterical condition being removed by troatmeih calculated to improve the general health, the tendency to the retm-n of the deformity will be obviated. 'W e occasionally see contraction of the knee from spasmodic action of the hamstiings, pioduced by some irritation applied to the nerv'es at a distance from the part. Just as spasm of the internal rectus muscle of the eye occasions squint, so long as the irritation that gives rise to the spasm lasts ; so there may be spasm of the hamstrings, with contraction of the knee as a consequence. Most commonly, however, the joint itself is at fault, either in consequence of subacute inflammatory action within it, or of the chronic and pei’manent changes induced by former inflammatory attacks. Contraction from Inflammation of the Knee.—In inflammation of the knee, the patient naturally and instinctively places the limb in the semiflexed position, as being that in which there is least tension exercised on the structures that enter into the joint, and consequently that which is most congenial to his feelings. This position, which is immediately as- sumed on the occiu'rence of acute and active inflammation in the joint, comes on more gradually in cases of subacute inflammation ; and here the symptoms of disease in the joint may be so slight that the contraction may be considered the chief ailment, and engvoss too exclusively the Sur- geon’s attention. Chronic Contraction.—The next class of cases that we have to consider are those of a more chronic and intractable kind, lasting often for years, dependent upon structural lesions of a deep and important character in and around the joint, and requiring veiy active surgical interference for their cure. These chronic forms of contracted knee appear to arrange themselves in three distinct varieties, being dependent—1, on Consolidation and Contraction of the Ligamentous Structures in or around the joint; 2, on Pemanent Con- traction of the Muscles, with or without the last-named condition ; and, 3, on Osseous Ankylosis. Each of these varieties will require separate consideration, as each demands a special mode of treatment for its cme. 1. Those cases of contrstetion of the knee that depend on Consolidation of the Lujamentous Structures in and around the joint, resulting firom tbimer inflam- matory attacks, arc not only the most numerous, but the most readily amenable to treatment. When the structures outside the joint, such as the capsule and ligaments, are the parts chiefly affected, the inflammation has usually been of a rheumatic character. When the internal structures have lieen disorganised, and fibroid deposits ha-\-c taken place within the joint, the inflammation has generally been strumous. In these cases the knee is usually fixed at or near a right angle, and is capable of but ^'ery limited motion ; to such a degi’ce only, in most instances, as will allow the foot to move to the extent of two or three inches. The hamstriug muscles arc not tense, cncu when the knee is extended to its utmost; and, indeed, in some eases they are