DIVISION OF THE STRICTURE. 637 should then open it opposite to the oinentnm, or to any small mass of fat which he may observe shining through it. The opening having once been made into the sac, may be extended by the introduction of a broad director (Fig. G70), upon which it is to be slit up to a sufficient extent to allow the- examination of its contents. Fig. «V6.—Broail anti narrow Director on which tlio Sac may he divided. 3>’ Division of the Stricture.—The next point in the operation is the division of the strictiu-e ; and this requires considerable care, lest injury be done to the- neighbouring parts of importance, or the gut be wounded. Vessels and structures in the vicinity of the strictme are avoided by dividing it in a proper direction, in accordance with ordinary anatomical considerations, which will be. described when we come to speah of the special forms of ruptine. All injury to the intestine is prevented by introducing the index finger of the left hand, up to the seat of stricture, insinuating the finger-nail underneath it, and divid- ing the constriction by means of a hernia-knife, having a very limited cutting edge (Fig. 677). If a director be used to guide the knife, the intestine wiU be in considerable danger, as the instrument may be slid uuder that portion of it which hes beneath the stricture ; or the tense gut, curling over the side of the groove, may come into contact with the edge of the knife. These accidents are prevented by using the finger as a dhector, and slipping the hernia-knife (which should not have quite so long a probe - point as those usually made) along the pahnar surface of the finger, upon its flat side, (as represented in Fig. 678): the finger serves to keep the bowel out of the way, and detects any part that may be interposed between the edge of the knife and the stricture. During the division of the stricture, the protruding portions of intestine must be protected from injury by the knife. The operator may siwead his left hand over them in such a w'ay that they caimot be touched by the- edge of the instrument: or they may be protected by an attentive and careful assistant. In some cases the stricture is so tight that it is at first ahirost impossible- to get the edge of the nail underneatli it. The Surgeon, will, however, gene- rally succeed in doing so, by directing his assistant to draw down the cSl of Fig. 078.—Mode of u.sing tlie Hernia knife.