S54 DISEASES OF THE BLADDER. bladder whicb is incapable of discharging- completely the whole of its contents occurs much more li-equently than is suspected. The quantity thus retained will vary from an ounce to half a pint : the patient believing that he has emptied his bladder, but the introduction of a catheter proving the existence of retained urine. This condition will be a soui-ce of serious inconvenience, and eventually of disease, to the patient. In consequence of the bladder never being completely emptied, there mil be frequent, sudden, and almost u-resistible calls to pass urine, so as to simulate imtability of the bladder. The retained lu’ine becomes offensive, ammoniacal or fishy in odour, and mixed with mucus or muco-pus. The constituents of the urine become absorbed, derange the health, give rise to impaired nutrition, and, being ehminated by the skin, iiiitate it and occasion intractable forms of skin-disease. I have seen chronic eczema of the most inveterate character produced in this Avay, and only yield to treatment on care being taken to keep the bladder clear and free from residual urine. The continuance of complete retention of m-ine from atony of the bladder, will probably give rise to fatal consequences ; a subacute inflammation taking place in the mucous membrane of the organ, which falls into a sloughy condition, accompanied by symptoms of a tyjDhoid type. In some instances coma supervenes, owing to the poisoning of the system by the absorption of the lU’inary constituents. Even though the retention be relieved, tliis condition is apt to come on ; vesical catarrh with fetid m-ine supervening, the tongue becoming brown, and low fever setting in. The bladder cannot ulcerate or bm-st when the retention arises from atony of that organ independent of any mechanical obstacle ; the continued dribbling pre- venting this catastroj)he. Treatment.—The treatment of retention fr-om atony must have reference to the cause of the loss of power in the bladder ; but in all cfrcumstances the m-ine must be drawn off regularly. A large gum catheter must accordingly be introduced twice a day, even though the retention be not complete, in order to empty the bladder of the small quantity of residual m-ine left in it after the apparent evacuation of its contents ; and, in doing this, care must be taken that the beak of the instrument properly enters the body of the bladder, which is further removed from the pubes than usual; for it will sometimes happen that it may enter the dilated prostatic part of the urethra, or elongated neck of the bladder, when, an ounce or two of mine escaping, it may be supposed that there is no more left, though in reality the xiscus is immensely distended. In order to get the catheter well in, its point should be closely hooked around the pubes and raised by depressing the handle between the thighs. In cases ot paralysis, the catheter should neither be introduced too fr-equently, nor should it be allowed to remain in the bladder. Frequent introduction of the instru- ment, or its retention in the bladder, is liable to be followed by subacute cystitis, with fetid, ammoniacal, and viscid m-ine. These sequences are usually attributed to the mechanical in-itation produced by the instrument giving rise to low inflammation of the vesical mucous mem- brane, and this occasioning in its turn a decomposition of the urine. That a solid and foreign body like a catheter may, by its repeated introduction into and retention in the bladder, develop irritative inflammation of the inteiior of this organ, is by no means improbable. But I cannot consider this to be