OPHTHALMIC SURGEliY. 458 mid tlion carried back until it is in contact with the posterior hns-caj)sute, '1 ben there, the point should not le moved ahoid, or it may draw in the iris, or afterwards the cornea, with the lens-matter, or bruise the iris. The patient being recumbent, and the point of the instrument kept Avell back in the pos- terior aqueous chamber, in the hollow of the posterior capsule, all the diffluent lens-matter will fall towards the orifice and be drawn in succession into the syiinge. If, in a case of a swollen accidental or surgical traumatic cataract, the burgeon cannot be sure that the lens-substance is completely dissolved in the aqueous humoiu’, after a lapse ol time amply suffleient according to the age of the jiatient (the older the patient, the slower is the cataract in becoming dissolved in the aqueous humom-), it will be better to defer the use of the syringe until some evidence of irritation, redness in the ciliary region, &c., shows itself. In no case would it be necessary to wait more than a week or ten days : but, if the lens-matter be imperfectly dissolved, some fragments clog the small tube of the syringe, and then it is necessary to remove the instrument from the eye, and reverse the action so as to force out the frag- ment causing the obstruction in the tube of the syringe. This necessitates the introduction and reintroduction and various movements of the syringe, almost as much as used to be required mth the old curette in the anterior chamber. The suction-ciu'ctte is invaluable, especially for the total remo^'al of the whole lens at once, without any previous needle-operation on an earlier day, by a very small opening in the cornea, in diabetic and other quite exceptional cases of cataract; and next in those in which the preliminaiy operation (or an accidental wounding of the lens) has, after a little while, made it possible and desirable thus to remove the lens, or a great part of it, in a large number of cases ; for, with the suction-curette, the corneal opening need be only very small, and the parts ooncerned little disturbed. The great amount of swelling of the cataractous lens-substance, and the evenness of its bluish-white tint, are, together with the history of the case and the age of the patient considered, the best indications that can be obtained of the practicability of a suction- operation ; but if, in any case, the operation should prove to be impracticable, it has no way precluded a subsequent traction-operation with a larger opening in the cornea. It is also, in different cases, sometimes useful in other opera- tions for cataract, in cases where the old-fashioned open cimette would have been used, so as to employ suction-power instead of traction, &c. Whenever a cataract has been removed by flap-extraction or smaller corneal section, and soft cortical matter and shi'eds of lens-capsule remain, less injury to the parts is probably done by use of the suction-curette than by the old cirrette or other traction instrument; but the latter must be used in many cases when the cor- tical matter, «&c., is not very soft, and the suction-curette becomes clogged. As to the shreds of lens-capsule and lens-matter involved, the grooved curette cannot possibly remove them, and considerable fragments of lens- matter ean- not be removed with either the suction or the grooved curette so readily as with a scoop. The grooved curette acted best when, with the first gush of aqueous humour along its gi’oove, the opportunity was taken to let pass along' with the aqueous humour as much as possible of the diffluent lens. J^on, with the suction-cmette there is no voluntary gush along the tube of the