URINARY CALCULUS. 7S2 m reaching the bladder. This difficulty arises in consequence of the small size of the urethra, the mobility of the bladder, and the ready lacerability of the tissues. If, after the gToove in the staff has been exposed, care be not taken to insinuate, as it Avere, the nail into the opening in the urethra thus made, the membranous portion may be torn across ; and the neck of the bladder, receding befoi’e the finger, may easily be pushed away from the sur- face, so that the Surgeon may fail in reaching the cavity of the organ. When the road is once lost in this wajy, there is the very greatest difficulty in finding it again. The course that should be pursued is, I think, as follows. If the staff haA c not been AvithdraAvn, the Siu’geon must again place the knife in its groove, and carefully push it on towards the neck of the bladder, notching that structure and passing the finger cautiously along the groove, and hooking doAvn the parts with his nail until he reach the inside of the bladder. Should the staff haA’G been withdraAAm, the Surgeon must endeavour to pass it again ; if he succeed in this, he may act as just stated ; but if he cannot succeed in introducing the staff fairly into the bladder, he must on no account tvluiiever endeaAmur to open that viscus, or continue his attempts at the extraction of the calculus, but must at once abandon the operation until the parts have healed, Avhen he can repeat it. The great danger in these cases arises fi’om the Surgeon losing his presence of mind, and endeavouring to enter the bladder Avithout a guide a procedure which must be unsuccessful, and can only end in the destruction of the patient. In adults, the difficulty is to get out the stone ; in children, to get into the bladder. 3. Difficulty in Seizing and. Extracting the Stone is far more fre- quently met Avith than in reaching the bladder. This may be OAAdng to a variety of causes. It is likely to happen in all those cases in AA’hich, either fr’om the depth at Avhich the bladder lies from the sm’face, or fr’om the pecuhai’ position of the calculus, the stone cannot be felt Avith the finger after the incisions have been made into the neck of the bladder. Difficulty from the Position of the Stone.—The calculus may be lodged in the lo wer fundus. This is especially apt to happen if the patient be old and fat, and haAm a deep perinmum, perhaps vrith enlarged prostate, behind which the stone may be lodged. This constitutes the greatest difficulty. Here the best plan is to use a much-curved pair of forceps, and to tilt the bladder up by introducing the finger into the rectum, so as to bring the stone within reach. HTien the stone is situated in the upper fundus of the bladder above the pubes, it is altogether out of the axis of the incision, and in such a case can only be extracted with great difficulty. Aston Key recommends that in such cases the abdomen should be compressed, and the calculus thus pushed doAvn into reach. This suggestion is a very useful one ; and it Avas only by employ- ing this manoeuvre and using a very curved scoop, that I could remove a calculus lodged above the pubes, in the first patient AA'honi I cut at the Hospital many years ago. Difficidty in consequence of the Stone heing Fixed to or retained in the Bladder. ■—A small calculus may be enveloped hij the folds of the imicous memhrane, and in this Avay elude the grasp of the forceps. In these circumstances there is nothing for the Surgeon to do, but patiently to try to disentangle and remove