TREATMENT OF INNOMINATE ANEURISM. 85 to take upon themselves a great increase of development the collateral circulation being carried on by them and not by the left carotid ; so that, by the time that the subclavian comes to be ligatimed beyond the scaleni, the sac wnll still continue to bo traversed by a ciu-rent of blood for the supply of the branches of the subcla-s’ian, dilated beyond their normal size, in consequence of the task of supplying the right side of the neck, face, head, and brain being principally thrown upon them. This current througli the proximal end of the snbcla^dan, increased as it will have been by the Avhole of that blood which is destined to supply the place of that which should pass by the cai-otid, will place the sac in nearly the same condition as it was before the ligature ; and will consequently, for the reason that has ali-eady been given, be too powerful for a cure to take place in the course of its stream. It now remains for us only to consider the simulianeous ligatm’e of both vessels—an operation that has been performed eleven times. In reasoning upon the simultaneous ligature of the two vessels, we must consider two points : 1. In what condition do we place the sac ? 2. Is the danger of the patient mqch increased ? So far as the sac is concerned, it is impossible to place it in a better condition for the deposit of fibrinous matter ; two-thirds of the blood flowmg tlu’ough it being an-ested, and that only traversing it which is destined for the supply of the branches of the subclavian. It is by no means improbable that even this stream may yet be too largo and forcible to allow the process of occlusion to take place, yet it is impossible stiU further to diminish it ; and if the anemism be sacculated, and project from one side of the innominate artery, particularly to its internal or mesial aspect, it is by no means impossible that it may be sufficiently removed from the stream to allow consohdation of its contents. Does it add to the danger of the patient to ligatm-e these two vessels simultaneously rather than separately ? I think not. If the risk of a double operation is to be incurred, 1 cannot think that it would be positively increased by the two being performed at once, instead of at separate intervals ; the whole of the vessels that serve to maintain the collateral circulation in the head and upper extremity—the vertebral, inferior thyroid, suprascapular, posterior scapular, and cervical—being left without interference. And the result that has followed the limited number of these oj)erations corroborates the justice of this opinion, for we find that the patients recovered from the operations in seven out of the eleven cases. But the result of these seven cases, so far as the aneurism itself was concerned, was by no means satisfactory. In Heath’s case, although the patient survived the operations for four years, yet the disease proved at the post mortem examination to have been an aneurism of the arch of the aorta, and not of the innominate ; Ensor’s case is still incomplete, the operation having been performed late in 1874 ; whilst the report in Sands’ case, within six months after the operation, shows that the aneurism was then not closed, although smaller and less active. In Hutchison’s case, the aneurism involved all the neigh- boimug arteries. In Maiuider’s, it appeal’s to have been aortic as -well as brachio-cephalic; and in Lane’s and Holmes’ cases no benefit appeal’s to be