ANEURISM. 119 TREATMENT OF AXILLARY moiily extends downwards and forwards, causing the hollow of the axilla to disappear. In some rare instances, however, the tumour has been known to take a direction upwards under the lesser pectoral, and into the areolar interval above that musclo, or even underneath the clavicle into the acromial angle between it and the trapezius. 11 is fortunately rare for an aneurism to take such a course, as it would present serious difficulty in the compression or the ligatime of the subcla’i-ian ; and there is more than one instance on record, in which the sac has been punctured in the attempt to pass the needle round this vessel. "When the aneurism is seated high up, it not unfrequently happens that the claA'icle is pushed upwai'ds by the pressure of the tumoim beneath it a com- plication of considerable moment in reference to the operation, the difficulties of which are gi-eatly increased by it. The pressure of the tumour upon neigh- boiu’ing parts may give rise to sei’ious consequences ; thus it may produce a carious state of the first and second ribs, and the compression of the brachial plexus of nerves will occasion pain and numbness in the upper extremity. The affections of the limb occasioned by the aneiu’ism are diminution or ex- tinction of the radial pulse, oedema, coldness, and loss of muscular power. In some cases the brachial artery beyond the tumour would appear to be ob- structed, no pulsation being perceptible in it; and the compression of the axillary vein may occasion oedema of the hand and arm, with some diminution in the temperature of the limb ; and these symptoms, if the tumoim attain a very large size, may even amount to indications of impending gangrene. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of axillary aneiudsm is usually readily made ; there being but two diseases with which it can well be confounded, viz., chronic enlargement and suppuration in the glands of the axilla, and pulsating tumour of the bones in this region. From gkmdular or other abscess, the diagnosis is generally easy; but I have seen some cases in which, pulsation being communicated to their contents by the subjacent artery, it was somewhat difficult to distinguish the nature of the tumours. Here, however, the history of the case and its speedy progvess to pointing wiU indicate its true natui’e. From medullary tumour, or osteo-aneurism of the head of the humerus, the diagnosis is not always so easy ; and there are at least two instances on record in which the subclavian artery has been ligatured for disease of this kind on the supposition of its being an aneurism. In these instances it has, howeTi'er, generally been observed that the tumoiu’ first made its appearance on the fore part of the shoulder, and not in the usual situation of axillary aneurism ; that it was from the first firm, smooth, elastic, but nearly incompressible ; and that, although it presented distinct pulsation, there was no true bellows-sound, but rather a thrilling brait perceptible in it. The most important diagnostic mark, perhiips, is the fact of these tumoims forming a prominence in situations in which aneurisms of the axillary artery would not at first show themselves, as at the upper, outer, or anterior part of the shoulder. In more advanced stages, Avhen the substance of the bone has undergone absorption and its shell has become thin and expanded by the outward pressure of the tumour, there is often a dry crackling or rustling sound perceived on pressure, which is never met with in cases of aneurism. TuEATnEXT.—I am not acquainted A\ ith any instance in wdnch an aneurism