SYMPTOMS OF NECROSIS. 179 Di-csence, ami endeavour to throw it off by an inflammatory action, just as tliev would if any extraneous substance, as a piece of wood, were thriist in amone-st them. But the ultimate result of the action thus set up is not limited to the separation of the dead bone, but extends to the formation of material destined to repair the loss of substance occasioned by the separation and extrusion of the dead bone. , „ , , i „ Tubular or central necrosis consists of the death of that portion of bone which lies in immediate contigaiity to the medullary canal. It is usually the result of osteo-myelitis, and is common in stumps. (Fig. 14, vol. i. p. 47.) In pei-iplm-al necrosis of the shafts of the long bones, as of the femur or tibia, the inflammatory symptoms just indicated are well marked, and the disease usually runs a rapid com’se up to the period of the formation and dis- charge of the abscess. In the case of central necrosis, the pain is usually more severe than in the former case, and is peculiarly deep-seated and throbbing, being especially intense at night. The limb becomes very oedematous, red, and "glazed; the bone enlarges greatly, and abscess at last forms, which spreads videly in the planes of areolar tissue, undermining the muscles, and producing general destruction of the limb, the tissues of which become rigid and condensed, having sinuses leading down through them. On introducing a probe into the channels, the instrument passes through apertimes into the bony case, termed Cloacae (Fig. 408), at the bottom of which the dead bone will be felt rough and bare. Though this is the general condition that occiu’S in central necrosis, it occasionally but rarely happens that a small portion of some of the internal lameUte of the bone dies, and, being included in a greatly thick- ened case of new bone, gives rise to symptoms of osteitis, or closely resembling those of circumscrilied abscess of bone, but not to those characterising necrosis. '^^^len the lohole thiclmess of a shaft dies, the symptoms are always of a very acute kind, the extent and gravity of the inflammatory and suppimative condition being proportioned to the amoimt of bone that loses its vitality. The articular ends usually escape, though even these sometimes become affected, and the joints involved. The reason why the necrosis usually limits itself to the shaft is that its vascular supply is distinct from that of the epiphyses, which draw their blood from the articular arteries. The disease, therefore, in attacking them, would have to enter a new vascular area. When the short cancellated bones or the articular ends of long bones become the seat of necrosis, it commonly happens that the disease is far more chronic than in the other cases. In these cases the necrosis is associated vdth caries; the dead portion of bone being a small round mass lying in a vomica or carious cavity. The shaft is not implicated ; abscess forms, Avhich at first may not reveal its true nature, or, being preceded by continual pain, may be looked upon as a disease of rheumatic character. Suppuration at last occiu-s, some- times rapidly opening into the neighbouring joint, and disorganising it Avith extreme constitutional disturbance ; but more commonly it runs a A’cry chi'onic course. On passing the probe doAvn the fistulous openings that lead through the indurated and thickened soft parts, an aperture may usually be felt in the bone, at the bottom of Avhich lies a necrosed mass not larger than a hazel-nut, suiTounded by carious bone. Acute necrosis especially attacks the shafts of the tibia and femur. In these