757 RENAL CALCULUS. fliicfly dependent on vesical irritation and decomposition of the m-ine, conse- quent on the presence in the bladder of the imc acid or oxalate of lime nucleus vhich has been previously formed. OiUGix.—Calculi may bo formed either in the kidneys or in the bladder. Those that contain nuclei of the urates or oxalates are probably renal in their origin ; whilst those that have a phosphatic nucleus arc usually vesical from the fii-st; renal nuclei of this composition being rarely met with. All renal calculi, all those vesical calculi that have a renal origin, and some of those even that appear to be primarily formed in the bladder, have a consti- tutional source; they arise from a morbid state of the urine, which probably in its turn depends upon mal-assimilation, the peculiar form of which determines the chemical composition of the stone. Those calculi that ai’c formed by deposit from the urine upon and around some foreign body, as a pin or straw accidentally introduced into the bladder, and some soft phosphatic concretions that appear to be the result of an unhealthy state of its mucous membrane, may be looked upon as being local in their origin. Calculi of Renal Origin.—When a stone forms in the pelvis of the kidney, it usually gives rise to pain in the loin. When of small size, it may descend into the bladder with but little suffering to the patient; but, if large enough to mutate the ureter and to pass with some difficulty, it then gives rise to a pecidiar train of symptoms, which will immediately be described. In some cases the calcidus attains a very large size, occupying the whole of the pelvis of the kidney, extending into the calices and lueter, and being moulded, as it were, to the shape of the parts amongst which it lies ; it then gives rise, by its pressui’e, to absorption of the substance of the kidney, and occasions, by the magnitude that it attains, excessive pain and irritation in this region, the patient usually dying, worn out by constant suffering and by the irritation of incurable kidney-disease. In some instances, stone in this situation has given rise to abscess in and around the kidney, and has even been discharged through an aperture in the lumbar region. Descent of Cl Reiicd Gcdculus.—Incases in which a renal calculus descends into the bladder, the patient is seized with pain in the loin that has been the seat of previous in’itation. This pain is usually of the most agonising character, extending into the spermatic cord and testis, and down the inside of the thigh of the afiected side. There is retraction of the testicle, with constipation and vomiting ; fr-equently accompanied by the passage of scanty, high-coloimed, and bloody mine, and gi’eat constitutional distiubance. This pain usually con- tinues of a somewhat remittent chai-acter, imtil the calculus enters the bladder, when, unless expelled, it gives rise to . the train of symptoms peculiar to its presence in that organ. Ti eatment. Dming the descent of a renal calculus, which always occupies many hours, and perhaps some days, the patient should have full doses of opium admnistered, drink fi-eely of bland diluents, be put into a warm hip- oatn and have hot fomentations or mustard poultices applied to the loin • the thoroughly emptied by enemata. It is weU to bear in mind, that a somewhat similar tram of symptoms to that induced by the descent of thP forms of irritation or flatulent distension ol the cc^cum and descending colon, which will require appropriate treatment