ENCYSTED IIYDltOGELE. 953 It is not always pracleiit to have recourse to the radical cure in the treat- ment of hydrocele. In persons advanced in years, or of feeble and unhealthy constitution, the inflammatory action excited in the tunica vaginalis by any of the means just detailed may run on to such an extent as togheiiseto inflammatory mdema, and e'S’on sloughing of the scrotum, with great danger to life. In men advanced in year’s it is much safer and usually sufficient to- temporise with the hydrocele, arrd only to tap as occasion arises from th& increasing size of the swelling. Excysted Hydrocele.—In this variety of the disease the fluid does not. lie in the tuirica vaginalis, but is contaiircd in a cyst which projects from the- surface of the ejrididynris or testis, and pushes the serous irrvestmerrt of th& gland before it. These cysts are much more frcqueirtly fouird corrnccted with the epididymis- than Avith the body of the testicle. Irrdeed, Oru’ling has pointed out the fact, that small pedrrncrdated cysts about the size of currarrts, arrd composed of a fine serous rnembrarre, liired with tesselated epithelium, are very frequently foiurd beneath the visceral tiurica vaginalis covering the epididymis. They are delicate iir strrrctrrre, corrtain a clear limpid fluid, arrd are very liable to- rirptm-e. They are met rvith at ah ages after that of puberty. According to Gosselin, after the age of forty, they occurred iir at least two thirds of tho testes examiired to ascertain their presence. Such cysts as these may remain stationary, of small size, and not to be detected durirrg life, being merely patho- logical phenomena ; they may ruptru’e into the tuirica vaginalis ; or they may enlarge and become developed into tumours of considerable magnitude. The fluid of these cysts possesses the remarkable characteristic discovered by Liston, of containing spermatozoa (Fig. 841); an observation that has been fuUy confirmed by many subsequent ob- servers. Though spermatozoa do not always exist in this fluid, yet they are usually met Avith, sometimes in smaU quantities, at others so abundantly as to give it a turbid or opales- cent appearance. This admixtine of sper- matozoa with the clear fluid of the cyst is probably due, as pointed out by Curling, to the accidental rupture of a seminal duct into an already existing cyst. Spermatozoa have also, but xery rarely, been found in the fluid of an ordinary hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis ; and then probably their presence Avas due to the rupture of one of these cysts into the tunica A’aginalis. Hence their presence in the fluid of hydrocele may in most cases be considered as charactei’istic of the encysted A^ariety of tho disease. There are tAvo distinct forms of encysted hydrocele ; in one the disease is due to dilatation of a seminal duct; in the other, to a ncAV cystic formatiorr. The first form alone contaiirs spermatozoa. ihe Si^ns of erreysted hydrocele difier in some respects from those presented by the ordinary form of the disease. Fig. S-ir.—Spermatozoa from Encysted riydiocele.