DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. 882 the disease commences in the epididymis, may be advanced in support of the first opinion ; whilst the fact that the discharge usually ceases when the in- flammation of the testicle comes on, and returns as it subsides, may be adduced in support of the doctrine of its metastatic origin. Curling is of opinion that the diminution of discharge is due to counter-in-itation, as he has seen a case in which the urethral discharge ceased, although the orchitis had been occasioned by a blow. As the symptoms and treatment of gonon-hoeal inflammation of the testicle present nothing peculiar, I shall reserve their consideration until we speak of diseases of this organ. Gonorrhoeal epididymitis is apt to be followed by long-continued gleet, consequent on the exudation from the lining membranes of the inflamed vas deferens, and the secretory apparatus of the testes. Gonorrhoeal Inflammation of the Eyes is fortunately not of very common occun-ence. It may affect either the conjunctiva or the sclerotica. Gonorrhoeal Conjunctivitis is one of the most destructive forms of ophthalmia, giving rise not unfrequently, in the course of forty-eight hours, to the most intense chemosis, with opacity and softening of the cornea, followed by staphyloma and a discharge of the humoiu’s. In the majority of instances only one eye is affected ; but, in some, both are involved to an equal extent. The disease commences with the ordinary symptoms of conjunctival inflammation ; itching and swelling of the eyelids, velvety redness of the con- junctiva, muco-purulent discharge, with much lachrymation. The chemosis sets in early, and is very severe ; and, unless treatment afford speedy rehef, the consequences are most disastrous to vision. Lawrence states that, of 14 cases that feU under his observation, 9 had only one eye affected and 5 both. Of the nine in whom one eye only was diseased, the organ was lost in 6 cases ; of the 5 in whom both eyes were affected, both organs were destroyed in one case; in 2 one eye only was lost; one patient recovered imperfectly; and in only one did complete recovery ensue. It has been a question with Siu’geons, whether gonoiThoeal oiDhthalmia is the result of the direct application of the specific pus to the conjimctiva, or occurs as a constitutional disorder. There can be little doubt that the application of the pus to the surface of the conjunctiva will occasion the disease, but at the same time it is perfectly certain that in many instances there is no evidence of contact, the inflammation occurring in both eyes without the patient having apparently communicated it; and, though it is necessarily difficult to adduce positive proof on this point, it is but reasonable to presume that such cases may be constitutional. The Trccdment of this dangerous affection must be of an active character ; blood should be taken freely from the temples by cupping, or, if the patient be sufficiently robust, from the arm, as strongly recommended by Lawi-ence, who placed gTeat reliance on it; he must of course be kept in a dark room, and on strict antiphlogistic regimen. The disease must, however, be met, and the eye cap alone be saved, by active local treatment. The most active topical agent that we possess is the nitrate of silver. The use of this astrin- gent, originally introduced by Little, has been much insisted on by Guthrie, Walker, and others, and is generally adopted at the present day, being certainly the most useful agent that we possess. Surgeons differ somewhat in opinion