BUN I ox. 341 Chronic Enlargement.—n\c next affection to which the bursa patelhc is liable is closely allied to the last, and appears to be an advanced degi-ee of ]t. It consists in a chronic enlargement of the bursa, the coats of which are much thickened. The contents of the bursa, so enlarged, consist of a dark fluid, in which float a number of smooth oval bodies, of the size and shape of melon- seeds. I have seen this condition in both the ruale and the female. It may be distinguished from simple enlargement of the bursa, by the pecifliar crackling sensation which is communicated to the hand when the tumour is manipulated. This arises fr'om the melon-seed bodies floating about and rubbing against each other. The Paihologg of this aff'ection is as follows. There is enlargement of the biii-sa, with excessive secretion into its interior of simple synovial fluid ; this, however, is dark-coloured, probably from admixtime of blood which has under- gone disintegi'ation. This fluid will be found to contain a large quantity of cholesterine, broken-up blood-corpuscles, and granules. The melon-seed bodies ai’e composed of lowly organised fibroid matter mixed with cholesterine, and ai’e probably separated fr’om the wall of the biu’sa. Solid Tumours may be formed in connection with the bursa pateUm. By many these are supposed to be the result of a deposition of a fibroid material, which gTadiially takes the place of the fluid of an ordinary “housemaid’s knee,” and which, instead of taking the form of melon-seed bodies, is deposited in concentric masses, and thus accumulated in the interior of the cyst. This has not been the case, however, in many instances that I have seen. In these cases I believe there is a true fibroid deposit in the bursa from the very first ; the tumom is never fluid, but hard and solid fr’om the commencement, and continues slowly to augment in size, until it occasions sufficient inconvenience to require removal. In some cases there has been a previous syphilitic taint; the patient complains of pain in the tumour like that which is experi- enced in nodes, and it is by no means impossible that there may be a syj)hilitic origin for these tumours. However that may be, in the cases that have fallen under my observation, the tumours have never been fluid, nor have they origi- nated in pressme, but appear to have been primary deposits of fibroid matter. Ireatment. There is nothing to be done with such tumours but to dissect them out. This may be required in one or in both knees. With the most ordinaiy care the joint runs but little risk • but much trouble may arise from opening up that layer of deep fascia which, after siUTOuuding the knee, is fixed to the borders of the patella. Such an accident is liable to be followed by in tiation and deep abscess in the ham, and is to be avoided by keeping the scalpel weU towards the centre of the patella when operating. uxiox. A\hen the bursa which lies towards the plantar siuface of the leac 0 t e metatarsal hone of the great toe becomes enlarged, or Avhen a neiv serous sac is formed upon the inner and posterior aspect of this bone, the aisease termed a lunion occurs. In this affection, the enlargement of the bursa IS usually secondary to an alteration in the shape and position of the Sri.oor’ I consequence of the pressure of narrow-pointed boots, has Ijeen throvm outwards in an oblique direction, so as to lie over or ™fo.™7V tW a sharp angle ioimcd at the junction between the first phalanx and the metatarsal