REMOVAL OF FOREIGN BODIES. 431 tlicro. If it be not now found we may again examine the cornea, for it is here that nearly all foreign bodies in the eye are found ; and the oblique illumina- tion with the ophthalmoscope, using a second convex lens as a mag-nifier, may be serviceable in this examination. Xot unfrequently a larger foreign body, sueh as a small button, or a husk of corn, purposely or accidentally introduced under the upper lid, has passed beyond the upper edge of the cartilage, and so is retained for months or years, until the persistent slight irritation leads to its detection and remo^'al. Therefore, in doubtful cases, as above recom- mended, the spooii-end of a probe should bo used. To avoid eiTor in diagnosis, it is always well to inquire if the patient remember the time at which the foreign body entered the eye, when he has the sensation of an existing body, for there arc many irregularities of the ■surface of the palpebral conjunctiva, which, in its movements, give the sensa- tion as of a foreign body when there is none. Conjunctivitis especially is a •cause ; and if there be no such cause, and the patient recollect no particular time at which he fii’st felt the foreign body, and “ something got into his eye,” Ave must look for some httle tumom-, or a somewhat inverted eyelash ■or other persistent cause. A patient may have the sensation as of a foreign body in the eye when it is there no longer, but has left, perhaps, a slight ■abrasion. A foreign body in the cornea is best removed with the end of a little instru- ment which is like a piece of wire flattened at the end, and with a round edge, hut little sharpened, like a “spud.” A piece of wire, beaten out at the end, is the instrument made for themselves, and used by some one of their number, by the workmen in some of the large factories. With this, the lids and the eye itself being held open and fixed with the fingers, the foreign body is tmned out of the hollow in which it is embedded. Some- times, if it be very deep in the cornea, a sharp-pointed or cutting instrument must be used. There is a class of cases by no means common, which may be considered together with foreign bodies in or upon the cornea, for the offending sub- stance IS quite superficial to the cornea and keeps up irritation. It appears as a perfectly opaque, dense, whitish opaeity on the front of the cornea, unlike leucoma in its perfecthj definite outhne, and in being very superficial and dead- ivtule m appearance. There is also some injection of the eye, which there is not generaUy ni cases of circumscribed leucoma—the dense corneal opacity ong a tei t e inflammation before it. The foreign substance is deposited n some Pol low of the cornea, an excoriation, abrasion, or ulcer, probably after some lotion of acetate of lead, which is too often applied by patients for holll^’rfindiscriminately. It must be picked out of the little enithehimri-V^ ° f'l iii i'W beneath the .iLoi u ’ must be scraped off; and then the deposit will be found imme- broken difficulty, little by little, in ^ ‘■“O'-'*'' of o lovife, or, Ivents “ff. It should bo, at al “LiC ao forllT of tte comoa i somoAvhat equivalent to a foreign body also. But it