183 treatment of necrosis. time for complete reparative action to take place ; but the periosteum will be fouiKl much thickened and vascular, separated ^ sioiially lined with scales of new ossiiic matter, the tot step towaids the Tf^rnrhlrlpo'^d on those parts of the snrfa» of the shaft from which the scales of the old osseous tissue have been separated, 01 envelopm*^ the sequestrum when the whole thickness of the shaft becomes necrosed, is at first rough, porous, caiiccUated, and very vascular ; after a time it gradiially becomes more compact and harder, at the same time that it assimilates in bulk and shape to the bone whose place it takes. The case of new bone, which necessarily exceeds in circumference the old bone, as this is included within it, gradually contracts both in textm-e and in size, becoming firmer and smaller after the removal of the sequestrum ; and, the cloacm closing so soon as all dead bone has been extruded, it eventually acquires the proper size and shape of the bone ; the medullary canal even becoming lined by a proper membrane formed in it. In this way, restoration of the whole of the shaft of many of the long bones, such as those of the arm, forearm, and leg, will take place, provided ahvays the epiphyses have been left untouched by disease. If one or other of these have been destroyed, aU power of repair seems to be lost. The new bone usually forms with a rapidity that keeps pace with the death and sepimation of the old bone. In acute cases of necrosis, in which amputa- tion has been performed but a few weeks after the setting in of the disease, a thick layer of new bone will sometimes l}% be found under the periosteum ; but in some instances, when the whole of a shaft is necrosed, the new case is not com- pleted, or has not become attached to the articular ends before these are separated from the shaft. In other cases, though complete, it has not sufficient strength to resist the contractions of the muscles of the limb ; in these circum- stances, it may spontaneously fracture—an accident that I have seen happen both in the femur and the tibia—or may become shortened or bent. In other instances, again, when the periosteum is deficient, new bone does not form (Fig. 410) ; but, as the sequestrum separates, the limb becomes shortened, loose, deformed, and useless. Treat:mext.—In the treatment of necrosis, the indica- tions to be accomplished are sufficiently simple, though the mode in which they have to bo carried out often requires much patience and skill on the part of the Surgeon. The first point to be attended to is to remove any constitu- tional or local cause that has occasioned or keeps up the disease ; unless this be done, it is clear that the whole of the rest of the treatment must be ineffectual. Thus, for instance, if the death of the bone appear to result from scrofula or syphilis, those conditions must be corrected. So again, if it arise in the lower iaw from the fumes of , V. -rvVir. Ur- Ml 1 11 Ueflcicnt Fonim- pnospnoius, tne patient must necessarily be removed from tiou of new none, their influence ; or, if it be threatened in consequence of denudation of bone.