CYSTINE AND XANTHINE. 755 1. The Triple Phosphate (Fig. 710) usually occurs in urine that is copious, pale, and barely acid, sickly to the smell, and soon decomposing and becoming very offensive. In other cases the lu’ine is dark, alkaline, and mucous. This condition especially occurs in old people, and is associated with much debility, irritability of mind, pallor, and aummia. 2. The Phosphate of Lime sediment is of less common occurrence; it usually occurs in pale and offensive, readily putrescent urine, mixed with much mucus, and in some cases apparently produced by the mucous membrane of the bladder. .3. Mixed Phosphates commonly occur after injmies of the spine, as the result of general impairment of the health, or in advanced cases of prostatic disease. They are occasionally met with in large quantity, forming a kind of mortar-like sediment in the bladder. They are deposited whenever the urine from any cause becomes alkaline from decomposition. Calculi.—The phosphatic calculi are very common. The most frequent is the mixed, or fusible calculus, as it is termed, on account of the ready way in which it melts when exposed to heat. This calculus is fr-iable, laminated, and has a chalky or earthy look. The calculus composed of phosphate of ammonia and magnesia is not so common ; it resembles the preceding rather closely in its general cha- racters, but is whiter and has a more chalky look. The phosphate of lime cal- culus is extremely rare ; it is laminated, and harder than the other varieties. Treatment.—The treatment of the phosphatic diathesis consists principally in improving the digestive powers, and in restoring the general strength of the patient by giving him good food, wine, or beer. The administration of tonics, especially of nitric acid, should be attended to, and exercise in the open air enjoined. As there are usually much pain and uTitability of system in this diathesis, opium may advantageously be administered. Roberts con- siders phosphates in the great majority of cases as merely the result of the alkalinity of the urine, from whatever cause arising. Besides the calculi mentioned, various other kinds of concretions form in the urine, each of which doubtless represents a diathesis ; the characters of which, however, are not so distinctly marked or so well recognised as those that have just been described. Cystine is one of the rarer forms of morbid product occasionally met with in the bladder. It differs from all other ingredients in containing a large quantity—about 26 per cent.—of sulphim. It is very rarely seen as a sediment in the urine ; but when it occurs in this form it presents the microscopic characters seen in Fig. 717, being composed of hexagoual laminae. Calculi con- taining cystine have occasionally been met with. Golding Bird states that in Guy’s Hos- pital Museum there are eleven composed of this peculiar animal matter; and in the Museum of University College we have some good specimens. Cystine in calculus has a peculiar yellowish or greenish and waxy look, ’very different from any other ingredient met with in lu’inary concretions. Crystals of Cystiue. Xanthine, or Xanthic Oxide, was first noticed by Marcet, and has since 3 C 2