6oo aflectiou DISEASES OF THE BREAST. . . 111 t^iis, to retard tlie progi-ess of the constitutional inlection, and thus at least to prolong existence. How far these objects are attained by amputation of the cancerous breast is a subject of important incjuiry to the Surgeon. The operation has been discountenanced Ijy many excellent patliologists ; not so much Irom any intrinsic danger it may possess, foi, although occasionally fatal from erysipelas or some similar accidental complication, there is nothing specially hazardous about it; nor from its being now, as formerly, open to the objection of subjecting the patient to unnecessary pain, all suffering dm’ing its performance being prevented by anesthetics, and little inconvenience being experienced at subsequent dress- ings, Avhich are usually nearly painless ; but the great objection lies in the fear of the disease, in many cases, returning and running its course as rapidly after the operation as if none had been performed, and in others perhaps even more rapidly. The principal points in connection with the operation appear to resolve themseh-es into two questions 1. In any case of cancer of the breast, may constitutional infection be prevented by amputation of that organ ; and, if so, under what circumstances wiU this most probably happen ? 2. Although the disease may eventually return in the part or elsewhei’e, may not excision arrest the rapidity of the fatal termination ? {Yuh p. 80C et seq., Vol. I.) 1. To the first question, it is not easy to give a very definite reply. Nothing shows more clearly the ntter worthlessness of many so-called surgical statistics, than the discrepancy that exists between those which have been published as exhibiting the liability to relapse of cancer after operation. Thus, HiU states that out of 88 cancers on which he had operated, at least two years before the retimi was made, there were only ten relapses, and 2 deaths ; whilst Alexander Monro states that, ont of CO cancers which he had seen removed, in only 4 patients was there no relapse at the end of the second yean Boyer saved one only in 2y, and Macfaiiane gives a still more unfavourable accjount of his practice ; for he says that, out of 32 cases of cancer operated upon by himself, there was not one instance of radical cure ; and of 80 other cases 'with which he was acquainted, the result was in every instance unfavourable. Warren, on the other hand, saved 1 in 3 ; and Cooper 1 in 4. Amidst such conflicting statements as these, it is clearly impossible to eliminate more than the general fact, which is well known to every Surgeon ; that, in a large number of the cases of cancer operated upon, there is a tolerably speedy retm-n of the disease. In these cases there are, however, many j)oints to be taken into aceount, of which gross statistics can take no cognisance ; much being necessarily depend- ent upon the skill with which the operation is performed, as well as upon the care employed by the Surgeon to ent widely of the disease, and to extirjmte completely not only the whole of the morbid mass, but those tissues in its neighboiu’hood which appear to be impheated in however slight a degree. In many of these cases, also, it is by no means improbable that the practice, at one time rather generally followed, may have been adopted, of merely ex- tirpating the tumoiu’ without removing the whole of the breast. I am there- fore disposed to look upon any deductions based upon the statistics of Hill, Macfarlane, and Benedict, as of very little if of any value when applied to the surgery of the present day. This is more especially the case Ifom the fiict.