675 VENTRAL UERNIA. ^imbilical lieruia, especially of large size, tlie patient, I believe, rare y le- coverino- when tins is done—much less frequently, so far as my experience troes than in other forms of hernia. Sometimes, after the external division of the stricture, it will be found that there is an internal strangiJation in the hernia, the gut having slipped tlmough an aperture formed, I believe, in the condensed fascia covering the sac ; if so, the edge of this sharply defined cpeiiino- may require division. Sir A. Cooper mentions an umbilical hernia formiiur two tumours, having a communication between them ; and South xelates a case in ivliich the tumom- resembled a figure of 8, a dense areolar baud binding down the middle of the sac. In such cases as these, which are by no means”uncommon, central constrietion may require to be divided as well 5is the stricture at the neck of the sac. Adherent omentum had, I think, better be left in the sac in cases of umbilical hernia ; and gangrenous intestine or omentum must be treated upon general principles. It is not often that strangulation of an umbilical hernia occims during pregnancy ; but, should this happen, the operation must be performed as usual; that condition does not complicate the case much, and instances are recorded by Sir A. Cooper, Lawrence, and others, of its successful performance at this period. After the division of the strietures and the reduction of parts, a large and very thick •compress must be laid over the loose folds of integument in the site of the hernia, and be retained in position by a broad and firmly applied flannel roller. VENTKAIi HEBNIA. By Ventral Herniae are meant those protrusions of the intestine that occur through any part of the abdominal wall, except the inguinal, the femoral, or the imibihcal apertm’es ; they most commonly occur in the mid-line between the recti muscles, the linea alba appearing to have given way in this situation dining parturition ; and here they may attain an immense size. A case was once sent to me from the country, in which there was a long triangular gap through the upper part of the abdominal wall, extending from the umbilicus to the eusiform cartilage, through which a protrusion had taken place that was nearly as large as an adult’s head. These ruptines have also been met with in the linem semilunares, and in the hypoehondriae and iliae regions ; and Cloquet describes a case oceurring in the lumbar region. When these hernim happen in the vicinity of the stomach, they are apt to occasion dyspeptic symptoms and much gastric irritation ; but Lawrence is doubtless right in thinking that these symptoms do not arise from the implication of the stomach, but simply from in-itation of it. These difierent protrusions have occasionally been met with as the residt of injuries, by which the anterior abdominal waU has been lacerated ; indeed they seldom, if ever, take place below the umbilicus, unless arising fr-om a directly traumatic cause. Treatment.—The treatment of ventral hernia must consist in supporting the tumour by means of a broad belt and properly constructed pad. Should it become strangulated, which I believe very rarely happens, owing to the width of the neck of the sac, the operation must be performed in the same way as for umbilical rupture, care being taken to divide cautiously the integuments, any aponeurotic investments, and the peritoneal sac if necessary; the stricture should always be divided upwards in the mesial line. X X 2