GONORIUKEAL rheumatism. 883 as to the strength of the application ; some, the Germans especially, advise that the solid stick should be used ; whilst others employ it in solution, of the strength of a drachm to the ounce of distilled water. Wharton Jones employs a weaker solution, one of four or five grains to the ounce, and I have seen cases very successfully treated by this plan ; so much so, indeed, that I am disposed to prefer it to the stronger solution. A few drops must be introduced about twice in the twenty-four hours, into the inner canthus of the eye ; the lids in the meantime being kept covered by compresses dipped in weak alum lotion, and the purulent discharge, as it accumulates, carefully washed away by tepid ahun injections. In doing this, great care must be taken that none of the discharge come into contact with the eyes of the Surgeon or nm-scs, as it is highly contagious, and AviU almost to a certainty produce the disease ; instances are recorded in which, in this way, the attendant’s vision has been destroyed. If the chemosis be considerable, it must be incised ; and, as the inflammation subsides, belladonna lotions may be employed u-ith advantage, and the use of the nitrate of silver gradually discontinued. Gonorrhceal Sclerotitis is by no means of such frequent occurrence as the conjunctival inflammation ; when it happens, it wiU commonly be found to be associated vdth gonorrhoeal rheumatism, and not unfrequently with inflam- mation of the testicle, occun’ing apparently in individuals in whom there is a tendency to affection of the fibrous tissues. This disease is evidently of con- stitutional origin, as it cannot possibly arise from local contagion; it is attended by the ordinary signs of sclerotic inflammation, and is usually accompanied by some degree of iritis. In the Treatment there is nothing very peculiar. Cupping or leeches to the temples, with belladonna fomentations, are the principal local means ; and calomel and opium, continued until the gums are affected, constitute the chief internal remedies; these means must be persevered in until the anterior chamber clears, and any effused lymph is absorbed. As the disease declines, and especially if the patient be somewhat debilitated, soda, rhubarb, and bark in powder may be given internally, and blisters kept open on the temples. Inflamination of the Nose, attended by profuse suppuration, is a com- plication that I have more than once had occasion to observe in gonon'hoea. The swelling of the organ is considerable, the tenderness great, and the discharge abundant; a condition, indeed, of the Schneiderian membrane that seems analogous to the inflammation of the conjunctiva just described. The Ireatment that I have found to succeed best, consists in fomentations followed by astiingent lotions or injections. Gonorrhoeal Rheumatism prmcipally occurs in young and otherwise healthy persons. It is of two kinds; in one, the most common, and indeed, the typical variety, the fibrous and muscular structures are affected ; in the other the joints are impheated. It is a disease that appears to be closely associated with some forms of blood-poisoning—possibly in some cases with pyaemia. It is of two kinds, the fibroid or plastic, and the suppiuative. The fibroid is intimately associated with those forms of blood-disease in ■\\ ich fibrinous exudations are formed in internal organs, more especially on the serous surfaces, as the pleura, the peri-, and the endocardium. The fibroid 3 L 2