TREATMENT OF VAGINAL FISTULA. 925 however, two difficulties present themselves—the sutures either cutting their way out too soon, or the trickling of urine between the freshly pared edges interfer-irrg with adhesiorr. In order to overcome these difficulties, a variety of ingenious contr-ivances have been introduced by different Sru’geons ; amongst which may be especially mentioned the clamps of Marion Sims and Baker- Brown, and the button-suture of Bozeman. To Sims especially is due the great merit of having srrbstituted silver wires for siUc sutures in this operation, by wliich the probabilities of a successful result have been very greatly irrereased. Before the operation, the bowels should have been fi-eely opened by castor-oil and an enema. I^Io chlorofor-m should be given, as its administration interferes with the position that the patient must maintain during the operation. This should be on the knees and elbows, on a narvow table, Avith the buttocks well raised and the head low. It is of gr’eat moment that the parts should be freely ex- posed. This is best done by means of the “duck- billed” speerdurn (Fig. 819), by Avhich the posterior- wall of the vagina is well draryn up and out of the AA'ay of the operator, and light is reflected on the fistulous opening. The edges of the aperture are noAV to be freely pared. This is best done by seizing them Arith a hook-forceps or a double hook, and dissecting off the vaginal mucous membrane to the exterrt of about a quarter of an inch all round, by means of a fine small scalpel or angularly set knives (Figs. 820, 821) and scissors properly curved. The dissection shorfid be earned towards the fissrue, and especial care taken that the angles are Avell cleared of mucous membrane. After the edges of the fistnla have been freely pared, and all bridles or cica Pig. 819.—Buck-biUetl Speculum. Figs. 820 nml 821.—Angularly Curved Knives. tricial constrictions divided, sutiues of silver or annealed iron wire (which does not rust) are passed across the lips of the wound. These wires may most conAeniently be passed by means of the holloAv needle (Fig. 822); or if this be not at hand, a silk thread may be passed by a mevus or cork-screw needle a full half inch ft-om the freshened edge of the fistula, and brought out throimh a coiTesponding point on the other side of the fistula, without haA'ing transfixed he mucous membrane of the bladder. As many threads as necessary having silver wire about eighteen inches loim fs attached 0 the Silk, Avhich IS then draAvn out, leaving the wire to occupy its place, so that its centre corresponds to the fissure, and both ends hang o^ut of