COLOTOMT BY AMUSSAT’S OPERATION. 693 gut, and by this means di-awing it to the surface of the wound, in order to pre- vent it fi-om shrinking or sinking back when opened. It is now to be punc- 1 tured with a large troehar or bistoury; and its contents having been evacuated, 1 the sides of the opening in the intestine are to be fixed to those of the incision ; in the skin by four or five points of suture, so as to prevent the contents of the /. bowel from being effused into the areolar tissue of the wound (Fig. 693). It ) is of importance to draw the colon well forwards before opening it, in order to 3 prevent its contents from being effiised into the loose ai-eolar tissue of the ( wound, when they may set up considerable irritation and retard the union of j the parts. In order to prevent that accident, the following procedure may be I adopted with great advantage. When the gut is exposed, two long silk ) sutures may be passed through it transversely parallel to the sides of the ; wound. Eaeh suture should have a needle at each end. The four needles I should then be passed through four points of skin, two in the upper and two in the lower side of the wound. The gut may then be opened between the I two sutiu’es, the finger introduced, the loops pulled out and divided and I rapidly tied. By this plan much time is saved, and the fecal matter prevented from running into the wound. If the patient be very fat, the operation is ‘ proportionately difficult on accoimt of the depth of areolo-adipose tissue lying in front of the quadratus, which requires to be very carefully dissected through before the gut can be reached. This step of the operation will be much facilitated by dividing the deeper seated tissues in a crucial manner, so as to give the operator more space. After colotomy, the patient will derive much comfort from taking powdered charcoal. It not only deodorises, but also tends to harden the feces. When recovery has taken place, the anal apertme in the lumbar region may be kept supported and closed by means of a truss with a large pad. BTien the operation is practised on the dead body, it will be found on dis- section that the following are the parts cut through. After the skin and areolar tissue, the latissimus dorsi will be seen divided towards the posterior third of the iucision, and the obliquus externus in the anterior two-thirds of it: the obliquus internus and the transversahs, sometimes the quadratus lum- borum, the areolo-adipose tissue which immediately covers the intestine, and finally the colon itself, come into view. The colon will usually be found a Kig. 092.—Incision in Left Lumbar Uegion in Ainii8s,it’8 Operation. Fig. 093.—Colon Opened and Stitched to Sides of Incision.