SOUNDING THE BLADDER. 763 the usual situations, and increased frequency of niictimtion from the pressmo and in’itation of the calculus. Physical Diagnosis of Stone.—The existence of stone is finally deter- mined by Sounding the Bladder. A Sound is a solid steel instrument shaped like a catheter, but shorter in the curve (Fig. 724), so that it may explore thoroughly all parts of the bladder. jTjg. 724.—Souiul for examining BliuUler. especially those behind the prostate. It should have a wide and smooth steel handle, and be slightly bulbous. The operation of sounding is conducted as follows. The patient lies upon his back on a hard mattress ; a full-sized sound, well oiled and wanned, is then passed into the bladder ; which should, if the- patient can retain it, be allowed to contain three or four ounces of urine. The Surgeon then using his left hand, or crossing over to the patient’s right side, whichever he finds most convenient, carefully directs the beak of the instru- ment towai-ds the back of the bladder, turning it fr’om right to left over the whole of that region ; he next draws it forward on one side as fai- as the neck, tapping, as it were, gently with its beak ; he repeats the same manoeuvre on the other side ; and, lastly, directs the end of the instrument by raising its handle into the lower fundus, which he carefully explores. Usually the stone is readily detected by these manceuvres, and its position in the bladder will often be dependent upon, and may to a certain extent be taken as an approxi- mative indication of, its size. Thus, 'when moderately large, it will usually be foimd lying to one side, most generally the right, of the neck of the bladder ; when small, it wiU be placed towards the fundus, near the orifice of one or other ureter. These then are the situations in which the Surgeon should first seek for a stone, and in which he wdll generally find it when present. Should it not be met ■with here, the chances are, more especially if the patient be elderly, that it wuU be found- in a pouch behind the pro- state, where it may be detected by depressing the handle and so tinn- ing the beak of the sound doivnwards (Fig. 725). Should the Surgeon not detect the calculus in r.-„ rss.-SomuUng for stone belnnd Prostate, any ot these situations, he depresses the handle between the thighs, and tilts up the beak so as to examine the pubic portion of the organ (Fig. 720). In the event of his not meeting with a stone, he may direct the patient to stand up, and then he may