3 D 2 INCISIOXS IN LATERAL OPERATION. 77t Fig. —Lateral Lithotomy : Fiiiger-iiail in Groove of the Staff. skin, superficial fascia, subcutaneous fat, and inferior htemoiTlioidal vessels, are dinded. After it is completed, the knife is again introduced a little below the upper part of the -wound, and the blade is run lightly doAvn-wards over any resisting structures ; the left fore-finger being placed at the middle of the tvound, so as to protect the rectum. In this way the transversalis perinmi muscle is di\ided, together with some areolar tissue and small vessels, and the triangular space is opened between the accelerator urinm and erector penis muscles. The lower border of the triangular liga- ment is notched so as to open up the space between the two layers of the triangular liga- ment, in which the mem- branous part of the urethra hes. The knife is then with- draAvn, and the left index-finger is pushed deeply into this space until the edge of the nail is lodged in the groove of the staff (Fig. 789), Avhich can be felt just anterior to the prostate, thinly covered by the membranous portion of the urethra. The point of the knife is then pushed through the urethra at its [membranous part into the groove of the staff, above the index-finger, which protects and presses to the right the rectum lying beneath it (Figs. 740 and 741). l^Tien the knife is felt to be well lodged in the groove, its handle is slightly depressed, so that the point may be raised ; at the same time the blade should be somewhat lateralised so that its side lies parallel to the ramus of the ischimn. If the edge be turned too directly downwards towards the mesial line, the rectum may be Avounded ; and if it be directed too much outAvards the in- ternal pudic artery will be endangered (Fig. 742); hence the mid coiu'se is the proper one. The Surgeon, keeping the knife steadily in this position, and pressing the point firmly against the side of the groove of the staff, Avhich he must never for a moment lose, pushes it forwards through the deep perineal fascia, a fcAV fibres of the levator ani, and the prostate, and thus makes an entry into the bladder (Fig. 741) j he then withdraws the knife by keeping its back against the staff, so as not to enlarge the extent of the incision in the prostate. Fig. 740.—Knife in Groove of Stnff. Tlirough this, and along the staff,