LIGATURE OF THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. 113 backwards, so that it lay parallel to, and about an inch fi-oni, the external border of the trapezius. This peculiarity of position enabled AVarren to tie the artery on the cardiac side of the tumour, and the case had a successful issue. It the aneurism be situated on the right subclavian artery, between or beyond the scaleni, that vessel has been Lujatured on ihe Tracheal stele of these muscles ; on the left side this operation is scarcely practicable, on account of the depth at which the artery is situated. It has, however, been performed in one ease by Dr. J. R. Rodgers of New York ; and it was attempted once by Sir Astley Cooper, who failed to secure the vessel, and is said to have wounded the thoracic duct. AA'hcn we consider the anatomical relations of that portion of the right subclavian which intervenes between the brachio-cephalic artery and the tracheal edge of the scalenus anticus muscle, we are at once struck with the great difficulties of this undertaking ; and when we reflect on the position in which the ligature vill be placed between the oiiAvard cun'ent of blood in the brachio-cephahe on the one side, and the regurgitant stream conveyed by the vertebral, the thyi’oid axis, the internal mammaiy and superior intercostal, into the subclavian, immediately beyond the seat of deligation on the other side, Ave can scarcely, in accordance Avith those principles on Avhich the formation of a coagulum AAithin a hgatured vessel takes place, anticipate any but the most disastrous results. In reference to the mere difficulties of the operation, Fergusson justly charac- terises it as the most serious in Surgery ; the proximity of the common carotid artery on one side, the internal jugular vein on the other, the vena innominata Ijelow, the par vagum and numerous small venous trunks in front, the reciuTent laryngeal nerve and pleura behind, constitute relations of sufficient importance to justify Fergusson’s opinion. But supposing these difficulties overcome, and the ligature applied, this must be situated, as has just been stated, in such a position, Avith a strong current of blood flowing upon each side of it, as to render the formation of an internal coagulum, and consequently occlusion of the arteiy, impossible, and thus to lead inevitably to the occurrence of fatal hiemorrhage on the separation of the hgatme. Besides the danger of secondary hiemorrhage fi’om these causes, there Avould be the additional risk of the coats of the artery being diseased, as we commonly And them to be in a more or less morbid state in the immediate vicinity of aneimisms ; and, thus being- rendered insusceptible of healthy inflammation, ulceration and sloughing* would take place along the track of the ligature, causing the probability of a recurrence of hiemorrhage. Thus, in Colles’s case it was found, on exposing the subclaA'ian arteiy, that the aneurism had extended in such a way toAvards the carotid, that it Avas doubtful whether any part of the affected vessel continued sound. On exposing fully, it Avas found that only a space of the vessel three lines in length remained free between the sac and the bifurcation of the brachio-cephalic, and it Avas in this narroAV space that the ligature was applied. The subclaAian has been ligatured on the tracheal side of the scaleni muscles in fourteen cases, aU of which proved fatal: twelve from hcemor- rhage, one from inflammation of the pericardium and pleura, and one from pyiemia. The cases are as folloAv :— VOL. II. I