166 DISEASES OF BONE. The pus is thick, and has been found to contain bacteria as soon as the abscess is opened, in this respect differing Irom the pus of ordinary acute abscess in the soft structures. At the bottom of the abscess the bone Avill Ijc felt bare and rough. There is a superficial patch of osseous structure in a state of acute necrosis. The death of the bone is due to the violence of the inflammation. A scale is killed by the intensity of the local inflammation, just as a shred of areolar tissue may die from the same cause. The scale will separate at a later period. In some cases, however, a great portion of the shaft will be found to be involved, and the case is one rather of acute general necrosis than of ordinary subperiosteal abscess. The Treatment of subperiosteal abscess is simple and rational. A free and deep incision through the inflamed, tense, and thickened periosteum lets out the pus and gives immediate relief. After this has been done, the Sm’geon must wait for the separation of the necrosed bone before the Avound will heal, and the treatment then resolves itself into that of necrosis. OSTEITIS. Osteitis A'aries in its characters, causes, and results, according as it affects the long or the short bones, the compact or the cancellous structm’es. When affecting the shaft of a long bone, it usually occurs as the result of blows or of exposm’e to cold and Avet. When it occiu’s in the articular ends, or in the short cancellous bones, although often immediately excited by these causes, it is more commonly associated Avith a strumous habit of body. In these cases, also, it frequently folio ays that deterioration of health which is consequent on scailatina or measles. Acute Osteitis commonly leads to necrosis of the affected bones, and is more ifequent in the shafts than in the articular ends of long bones. When oc- curring in the cancellous bones, it leads to acute caries. Its symptoms and pathology wiU, therefore, more coiiA'eniently be considered when Ave speak of these diseases than at present. Chronic- Osteitis is that which ocem’s most commonly from slight trau- matic or climatic causes in delicate or strumous children. It is a fertile soiu’cc of inciu’able disease of the spine-joints and bones, and Avill frequently be re- ferred to in its congestiA'o and strumous forms in treating of these affections. Pathology.—When a jAortion of bone is chronically inflamed, the periosteum and medullary membrane participate in the morbid action, and, together with the affected osseous structiu’e, become highly vascular ; at the same time the inflamed bone becomes enlarged and softened, partly in consequence of changes induced in its organic constituents, and partly in consequence of the cancel- lated structure becoming expanded from interstitial absorption; the cancelli being filled Avith a sero-sanguineous fluid. The compact structure of inflamed bone midergoes a peculiar kind of laminated expansion, so that a section of it presents an appearance of concentric parallel layers. When the inflammation is chronic, its character AviU vary according as it is strumous or not. When it is strumous, the bone is expanded, softened, and reddened. This form is often seen on ends of long bones, especially the tibia. AYhen traimiatie, on the other hand, and when occurring in a healthy subject, the bone beeomes A-eiy dense, indurated, and compact; looking and cutting moie like ivoiy t lan ordinary bone. In these cases the medullary canal becomes closed by deposit