FEMORAL COXALGIA. 315 however, abscess forras, and then the patient may either be worn out by the continued irritation of diseased bone, or by the profnseness of the discharge ; or, great shortening taking place either by the absorption of the head of the bone, or its dislocation out of the acetabulum, the cavity of the abscess may ultimately contract, the carious portions of bone exfoliate, and the sinuses close after years of suffering. In the most favourable circumstances, when once the joint has been acutely inflamed, a year or two will elapse before the patient can use his limb with any degree of security. The safety of the patient depends in a great measiu-e on preventing the occurrence of suppuration. If the constitution be very strimrous, this can rarely be done ; but, if it be toler- ably healthy, the disease may be prevented from passing on to this stage, and then the patient may recover with an useful though somewhat stiff and crippled limb. If suppiu'ation occur, it is very seldom that an adult patient recovers, hectic and exhaustion speedily carrying him off. The lives of children may, however, be saved even in these circumstances ; but they Avill be left pennauently lamed. Acetahtilar Coxalgia.—In the acetabular form, the disease originates in the pelvic bones, and the articulation and head of the thigh-bone are only secondarily involved. The disease of the peMc bones bras more of the character of necrosis than of caries ; but the two morbid conditions are in many cases co-existent, the acetabulum being carious, whilst the rami of the pubes and ischium are necrosed. The soft articular structiu-es speedily become disor- ganised ; the cartilage incrustiug the head of the thigh-bone is absorbed ; the femoral head itself becomes eroded rather than carious ; but the disease does not extend into the neck or trochanters. This form of hip-joint disease is more common in adults than any other variety. The SymiAoms are usually obscine in the early stages, but become very unequivocal as the disease advances. There is pain around the hip rather than in the joint itself; this, however, becomes tender on pressure, and the patient cannot bear on the limb, but no alteration takes place in its length, although it becomes greatly Avasted. Abscess invariably foims, perhaps at fh-st within the pehic caA'ity ; but it soon presents externally. Sometimes it passes down by the side of the rectum, or through the sciatic notch to the gluteal region; but generally it points near the pubes, under Poupart’s ligament. Hectic comes on; the sufferings are greatly increased ; and death from ex- haustion speedily ensues in this, Avhich is by far the most fatal form of hip-disease. In cases of this form, dislocation, though it is met with now and then, rarely takes place. Sometimes, however, the destruction of the acetabu- lum IS so extensive that the head of the thigh-bone penetrates it, and passes m 0 0 pelvic caA’ity. Dislocation is most frequent AAden the disease has es loye the head of the bone ; so that, the head being no longer present, no impediment is offered to the action of the muscles around the "joint, and the bone at length slips from its position in the cavity of the acetabulum. Femoral Coxalgia.—In the femoral fonn of coxalgia, the morbid action commences in the upper epiphysis of the thigh-bone. Tlie progress of this A arie y 0 coxalgia is veiy insidious : its symptoms are by no means prominent • o -wr if > I 0 I„in. J.n It the yelloAv, somewhat soft, friable matter fiUs up the cancelli of