EXCISION OF THE LOWER JAW. 489 should not be encroached upon ; tlic con\’cx fla]) tluis formed is dissected up, and the facial artery and any other branches requiring ligature tied. The knife is then carried behind tlic jaw in front of the tumour, and, one of the incisor teeth having been extracted l^eforc the operation commenced, a saw should be applied to the bone in this situation, and its section finished by means of the cutting-pliers (Fig. 587); the Surgeon then dissects under and around it; in this situation a scali>el, curved on the fiat, wll be found useful, the edge of the knife being kept close to the bone and tumour. When he has cleared the tumour and ramus, he depresses the body of the bone forcibly with his left hand, in order more readily to divide the attachment of the temporal muscle to the coronoid ]3rocess. This having been done, the only part left is the disarticulation, which is best effected by opening the joint Ifom the fr'out, whilst the bone is well depressed and twisted somewhat out- wards, the edge of the knife being kept close to its neck, scraping the bone so as, if possible, to avoid wounding the internal maxillary artery, when, any remaining attachments having been cut through, the disarticulation is effected (Fig. 588). In depressing the bone to reach the temporal muscle and the joint, care must be taken not to use too much force, lest it happen that the ramus give way, ha\ing been weakened by the disease ; this accident would produce a good deal of trouble in remo’'idng the fragment left behind, which can only be done by seizing it with necrosis-forceps, thus dragging it fo wards, and then dividing the muscle and capsule. Should the internal maxillary artery have been divided, it must be ligatured, or the termination of the external carotid, where the vessel dmdes into the temporal and internal maxillary, tied : any other branches that bleed will necessarily also require the ligature. The ca^ ity, having been lightly filled with lint, should then be left to granulate ; the cheek being laid down and attached along the line of incision by hare-lip pins and twisted sutures. A kind of fibrous tissue forms in place of the jaw that has been removed, and comparatively little deformity results. When the disease of the bone extends beyond the symphysis, a thick ligatm-e should be passed through the end of the tongue, which must be drawn forwards by an assistant, lest, on the division of the insertion of its muscles into the lower jaw, be forcibly retracted into the pharynx, and thus threaten or even occasion suffocation, as has happened to Surgeons of eminence both in France and in America, f operations for it, see Chapter XLYT.; and for tracheotomy m operations on the jaws, see Chapter LX.