479 OPERATIONS ON THE UPPER JAW. mass practised. When the tumour springs from the spheno-maxillary or pterygo-maxillary fossa, pusliing the bones of the side of the face for\vards, an operation should not be lightly undertaken, as it is doubtful, in many cases, ■whether the Surgeon can interfere ■with any prospect of success. Should, ho\v- cver, the tumour bo simple, the patient’s health bo good, and an operation be deemed expedient, the tumour can only be reached by excising the upper ja^', ■when it may either be removed attached to that bone, or it may be extirpated from the cavity in ■which it lies behind it, and the bone and cheek shut in OA’cr it. Such an operation, implicating as it does the base of the skull, may be followed by death from shock to the nervous centres, as I saw happen in a patient of Liston’s thus operated upon ; or, involving the internal maxillary artery, may be attended by very profuse and troublesome hmmon'hage. When once a malignant gi'owth of this part has passed beyond the osseous boimdaries of the antrum, the question of removal becomes very complicated. In refer- ence to this point, I think that it may be stated generally that, if the cheek be freely movable over the tumour, and the submaxillary glands unaffected, the operation may be proceeded Avith. But, if it have advanced so far as to impheate the soft stnictures of the cheek, A\ith enlargement of the submaxiUary glands, it is neither wise nor prudent to interfere Avith it by opera- tion ; as infiltration aaIII have taken place more widely than the knife can reach, and speedy reciUTence must of necessity ensue. So long as it is contained AA'ithin this cavity, AA'here indeed it is often impossible to ascer- tain, until after removal, the true nature of the affection, it may be excised, provided the glands in the neck be not greatly enlarged. Tr 1 1, • V j. 1 ^ o82.—Malignant Tumour of the Upper il tney be much imphcated, even though J“'"^.'nvolving the whole of the Bones of the the ivalls of the antnm be not perforated, it is AVTong to interfere, as a ciu’e by operative procedure must be hopeless. Whenever the soft structimes of the cheek are involved so as to require partial excision Avith the tumoui', no operation s ould be peiformed ; as the disease Avill probably have become constitutional, 1 _ completely extirpated, and Avill speedily recur in the cica- nx. en the upper jaw on both sides is affected, as sometimes, though laic y, as appened, it is clear that the tumour cannot be removed (Fio' 582) Opeiutioxs o^t THE Upper JAAV.-The Operations that have been practised to the removal of tumours springing from the upper jaw are of three kinds. vr oP Tumour ; 2, Partial Excision of the BoL ^ ^ Complete Eemoval with or Avithout the ]\Ialar For operations on the upper jaw, the Surgeon will requfre strong- cuttino- piers, and two or three narrow-bladed saws, Avith handles set at “different angles, and having movable backs (Fig. 583). ciineient 1. Scooping out the Tnmonr.-The practice of scooping out tumoims of