SUCTIOy OPERATION FOR CATARACT. 457 (T. 1.) even though the pupil be fully dilated (atropine of course being used) and there be no ciliary redness, the swollen lens-matter must be at once evacuated, and perhaps an iridectomy upwards done at the same time. Suction-Operation.—Fluid cataracts are sometimes, but not otten, touncl ; the whole contents of the lens-capsule being evacuated into the anterior chamber when the capsule is torn open with a needle. They occur, perhaps, in young ndults for whom avo should use the needle. They look like soft cataracts and they can hardly or unlrequently be distinguished from ordinary soft cataracts, besides that from their rarity they are not expected. They appear of an uniform colour. SomeAvhat like them surgically are the cataracts of diabetic patients, though these latter are not fluid, only very soft; so that, after the needle has been used, although the patient be middle aged, the whole of the lens is mixed up in the aqueous humour, and can be, and indeed must be, remoA-ed forthwith. In this I am speaking of my own experience, in which I have had a succession of cases of diabetic cataract, all ahke, and all success- fully ti’eated by suction, at one operation, as described below. I do not say that all diabetic cataracts must be like those to Avhich I refer : they were of a bluish milky colom', A’ery large, apparently pressing fonvards the iris, with some broad, conA'ergent, indistinctly glistening striae anteriorly, rather lighter in colour than the body of the lens itself. The syringe is also available in the •cases of woimds of the lens in children or young adults, in which, soon after the injury (or a fh’st needle-operation), in a week or thereabouts, the whole lens is much swoUeu altogether, and in cases AA'here, by a subsequent needle- ■operation, it has been completely broken up and has become uniformly swollen and diffluent. In the youngest patients, it is most probable that the natural process of absorption AviU suffice to effect the removal of the lens-matter Avith- out risk of inflammation. If it should be altogether very much swollen, even if there be no dangerous symptoms, it is well to hasten the cure by evacuating at least the major part of the soft cataract. Not imfrequently the wound in the cornea, through AAfflich the lens was wounded, will be the most convenient way of reaching the lens ; and often, when a soft swollen lens-mass is pressing ■outAvards the lips of the w'ound, the thin Aveak recent cicatrix retaining it may be easily traversed with the end of the suction-ciuette, and so it may be alto- gether removed without any cutting instrument. The operation is a very -admirable one, and, if practised carefully in the above-mentioned cases, it deserves more consideration than it has obtained. Diffluent lenses used to be •CA'acuated by the ciuette ; a sufficiently large opening haAdng been made Avith a broad needle, the ciuette Avas introduced into the anterior chamber, and a ^ush of the aqueous hmnour and lens-matter took place, and then, by various little movements to-and-fro, a little more of the lens-matter Avas made to floAV along the groove of the instrument. Noav, in such a case, by using the syringe, with the end like that of a curette, but made tubular, keeping the point of it an the posterior aqueous chamber, and the oriflee being forwards, avc can, without any moA’ements endangering the iris, si«'7c ouf the u'hole of the cUffiueni lens-matter. The corneal opening is made Avith a broad needle, Avhich should be made to enter also the lens and lacerate the capsule, if necessary. It should be large enough easily to admit the suction-curette ; and the point of this, Avhen once introduced, should be brought into the centre of the 'piqnllari/ area,