NEEDLE-OFERATION FOR CATARACT. 453 been removed; this is insomuch less serious; but at all events, if vitreous humour have escaped before the lids are closed and bandaged, the escaping vitreous body- should be di\-ided across close to the corneal opening with a pair of scissors ; then the wire speculum is raised a little from off the surface of the globe to remove its weight, and to prevent the action of the orbicularis upon it; and then, this muscle being at the time tolerably passive, the speculum is removed and the eye quietly closed. In the old semicircular flap-extraction operation, vitreous himiour was, perhaps, more I'requently lost than it is in Von Griife’s operation ; but then, in the latter operation, it is more likely to anticipate the evacuation of the lens. Dislocated Lens.—If the whole lens, or the greater part of it, have fallen into the -\-itreous chamber, the attempt is to be made to transfix it with a long noodle or sharp hook, and remove it; but, lost to sight—and the ophthalmoscope cannot, in this stage of the proceedings, be employed—it can seldom be reached. Sometimes after a blow, a lens, perhaps already cataractous, becomes separated from its attachments, and, in its capsule, dislocated into the anterior chamber or the Vtreous space. In the former situation especially it must be removed at once (because of the mechanical irritation and consequent inflammation of iris and ciliary processes to be anticipated), by a sufficiently large opening in the cornea, made with the point of a cataract-knife—care being taken mean- Avhile not to jness the lens back again through the pupil: if this be a^'oided, it will in all probability readily enough escape when the incision is completed. I hav e seen a lens half-dislocated through the pupil, and held by the sphincter iridis. The iritis set up in this case was, of course, very acute. A lens, dis- located into the \itreous space, if quite separated and fallen to the bottom of this space, would be probably visible with the ophthalmoscope even although it were transparent, and had not yet become cataractous. It must be brought for V aid into the anterior chamber and removed by use of a long needle or a shaip hook, introduced through the sclerotic or in any way most convenient to secure it, if it can be done ; but it is very difficult to do this, especially if the lens be still transparent. If the blow have burst the globe, the lens will be loinid in some cases beneath the conjunctiva, external to the globe. The Tuptm-e of the globe is probably in or just behind the ciliary region ; and the lens 18 lying beyond it, further fr-om the cornea. It is seen as a rounded semi- transparent prominence, probably under the upim- lid and far hade, and it is easily removed by opening the conjunctiva underneath which it is lying. Sometimes a lens or cataract is hall-dislocated into the vitreous chamber, that is to say, it is held still partly by the suspensory hgament, as by a hinge, and, fixed here it can move to and fro ; it also, of course, must be at once removed, incleecl, a lens, cataractous or not, dislocated, or half-dislocated in any dii-ec- tion, IS to be rcmoved—if it can be done ; for the lens, if transpai-ent, is not onnmiP '' probability it must soon become is the method to be preferred for soft is not oftL^fl^ age, so that we have only to determine which is a soft cataract. It persons DhS f"' “ ” cataract, or in traumatic cases in young pcisons. Diabetic cataracts are soft. If a middle-aged or elderly person have cataract, it is, as in infants and young persons bluish-white, rather uniform