942 DISEASES OF THE TESTIS AND CORD. NEURALaiA OF THE 0?ESTIS. A painful or irritable condition of the testicle may occur without any actual disease of the organ ; the pain being either seated in the epididymis, which is the part naturally the most tender, in the body of the testis, or stretching along the cord to the loins and groins. It is usually paroxysmal, and is accompanied by great tenderness, and commonly by some fulness of the organ, which feels soft and flaccid ; but it is difficult to make a proper examination, on aeeount of the agony that is induced by touching the part. This disease chiefly occurs in young men of a nervous and excitable temperament, and is frequently associated with gTeat mental disquietude and despondency, often amounting to a suicidal tendency. The Causes are obscure ; in many cases the disease appears to he connected with a neuralgic temperament, but in others it is associated with some dyspeptic disorder, or may be dependent upon local initation ; thus external piles, or the pressm-e of a varicocele, will often give rise to it. The disease is usually of a very chronic character. In some instances, how- ever, it ceases spontaneously, after having lasted for weeks or months. Treatment.—When the neuralgia is dependent upon constitutional causes, the treatment is extremely unsatisfactory. The administration of tonics, such as iron, zinc, or quinine, the local application of sedatives, as of atropine ointment or the tincture of aconite, may be of service. In other cases, cold bathing or douching will he beneficial; and, in aU, keeping the part supported with a suspensory bandage will be advantageous. In the event of there being any local initation, that should be removed ; thus I have known the disease to cease after the excision of external piles ; and when it is connected with varicocele, proper measures must be adopted for the relief of that afiection. In extreme cases. Sir A. Cooper recommends castration ; but such .a pro- ceeding is altogether unjustifiable in a disease that is either constitutional, or dependent on local causes which are readily removable. INFLAMMATION OF THE TESTIS. Inflammation of the Testicle, considering the organ as a whole, may be of two distinct kinds, varying as to seat and as to cause. Thus it may he seated in the body of the organ, constituting Orchitis; or the epididymis may alone be affected, constituting Epididymitis. As to cause, it may be rheumatic, traumatic, or gonorrhoeal. Acute Inflammation.—The Seat of the inflammation, at the commence- ment of the disease, depends greatly upon the cause, which may be in the urinary passages or elsewhere. Irritation in any part of the urethra, occa- sioned by the passage of instruments, by the lodgment of calcuh,^ or by gonorrhoeal inflammation, usually causes the epididymis to be primarily affected, and the body of the organ to be inflamed in a secondary manner. When, on the other hand, the inflammation comes on fi'om injuries, blows, strains, or other causes acting generally, the body of the testis is tisuafly first affected. To all this, however, exceptions will often occur ; and orcffitis may sunervene as the result of gonoiThcca, or epididymitis from a i on. i&