440 OPHTHALMIC SURGERY. or less, of tlic entire surface of the optic nerve-cntraiice, and tortuosity and congestion and pulsation of the retinal Tcins (and arteries), which are displaced and compressed against the white margin of tlie “ cup,” and some little ecchy- moses therefrom, perhaps, are the marked features. These signs arc all due to increased intraocular pressure, as is shown directly by the excessive tension (the first diagnostic sign given), in consequence of the contents of the globe being more than is normal. Glaucomatous is a term applied to symptoms of increased intraocular pres- sure (tension) in other diseased states of the eye, in which iridectomy is per- formed with much benefit to the patient: hardness of the glohe being in any such cases whatever, the indication for the operation. As it is specially im- portant to recognise glaucoma in its first stages, we must not look for the corneal and lenticular changes, or much “ cupping ” of the optic nerve in all cases of the disease, or the operation will have been deferred long after it should have been done. Glaucoma is a disease of elderly or of old people of impaired health. The earhest symptoms are, to the patient, perhaps, intermittent obscm’ations, halos, and more or less wandering pain ; and, to the Surgeon, in- creased tension, some congestion, dilated pupil, shallow anterior chamber, and ophthalmoscopically, some excavation of the optic nerve-entrance and venous pulsation. In the case of an eye blind by old neglected glaucoma, nidectomy will perhaps reheve pain ; but probably it should be extirpated. The benefits of iridectomy, properly performed, and sufficiently early in glaucoma, are patent ; and it must be done, when the opportunity offers, even when the time most favom’able for its performance is gone by, and even in the chronic cases, in which the results are always least advantageous. Without operation, glaucoma certainly ends in total blindness. It is probably, in the fii’st place, choroiditis, and effusion in the vitreous space. It goes on by pro- ducing such structiu’al changes in all the tissues of the globe, that total dis- organisation is the result. Prolapse of the Iris.—This means a bulging of the iris through an ulcer which has perforated the coats of the eye, or through a wound in these coats, either made accidentally, or in the com’se of a surgical operation. It is often caused by the fii’st gush of aqueous humom- as it escapes when the perforation is complete, and remains there passively imtil it is either pushed back into its place "with a spatula or curette, or made to return by causing contraction or dilatation of the pupil by instillation of a solution of (atropine or) Calabar bean, one or the other, as the case may seem to need. It is evident that, if the external opening should be in or very near the centre of the cornea, a prolapse of the iris cannot occur ; it cannot be very far from the corneal margin, the position in which most of our internal surgical operations are commenced. If a pro- lapse is to be retm’ned, it must he done very soon after it has occurred, oi the iris will probably have become adherent to the margin of the external opening, forming what is called synechia anterior, or, compressed between the edges ot the woirnd, the iris vdU have at least become strangrrlated. Iir nidectomy operatiorrs, however, it is an advantage that a prolapse of the iris followir^ t e curneirt of the aqueous humour should take place ; for their we nee rro introduce to the anterior chamber the forceps by which it is to be draiur ou . ^ In other cases, prolapse of the iris is caused by pressure of the aqueous or