674 SPECIAL IIERNIJE. and omentum, but the stomach and other viscera have been included in it • and Murray has recorded a case in which the gravid uterus, at the eightli month of pregnancy, formed the contents of an umbilical hernia. Treatment.—The treatment consists, if the hernia be reducible, in wearinf>- a properly constructed truss ; if irreducible, in applying a hollow cup-shaped pad supported by a bandage over the part. It not unfrequently happens that, in consequence of an indigestible or flatulent meal, an irreducible umbilical rupture in old persons becomes obstructed, the symptoms consisting of tension of the protrusion, with nausea and constipation. In these cases, much dis- crimination will be required to avoid confounding this passive condition of the tumour mth acute strangulation of it. This may be done by attention to the rules laid down (p. G29, vol. II.). By leeching, fomentations, calomel and opium, and enemata, relief may usually be afforded. Should, however, the bowels not speedily act, and stercoraceous vomiting come on, the tumom’ con- tinuing irreducible, it will be better to cut doMm upon it, and treat it as a strangulated hernia, dividing adhesions, and reducing the swelling ; for, if it be left obstructed and unreduced, the whole tumour may run into a state of gangrenous inflammation, and then operative interference will be of httle use. In such circumstances death usually results ; but I have known the patient to survive the gangrene, the whole of a coil of intestine, the sac, and much mesentery and omentum sloughing away, and an incm’able artificial anus resulting. When an umbilical hernia becomes strangulated, as often happens in old iiTeducible tumours of this description, the symptoms are not usually very acute at first; but no time should be lost in eifecting reduction, if possible, by the taxis, as they speedily assume an active and urgent character. If the taxis fail, the plan that I have usually found to succeed best has been to give the patient three doses of calomel gr. ij, and opium gr. j, one every second hour ; at the administration of the second dose to apply an ice-bladder ; to keep this on for four horn’s ; and then to employ the taxis again, when reduction of some portion of the swelling will rarely fail to occur. Should this not succeed, the operation must be proceeded with without further delay, lest gangrene of the timiour set in. Operation.—The parts covering an umbilical hernia are usually very thin in places, so that much caution is required in making the early incisions. The strictm’e shoidd, if possible, be divided without opening the sac. This may usually be accomplished by drawing the tumour well down, and then making an incision in it about two inches in length over the neck at its upper part in the mesial hne. If the tumour OA'erlap here, it may be more convenient to make the incision by the side of the umbilical cicatrix, or even between the two lobes of the tumour ; but as a general rule, the upper part is the best. After the dmsion of the integumental structm’es, and often of a deep layer of fat, the end of the nail may be slipped under the edge of the sharp circular margin through which the ]3rotrusion has occurred, and, the stricture being divided away from the sac, and if possible in the mesial line, reduction may be readily and safely accomplished. Should the strangulation not be thus relieved, the sac must be opened, and any stricture di\dded from within. But the Surgeon should exhaust every means before he opens the sac of an