SYMPTOMS OF KIDNEY-DISEASE. 74f> interference, and, rapidly ending in suppuration of the kidney, terminates fatally. On the other hand, the symptoms often gradually subside, the tem- perature becomes normal, and the patient gains strength. The improvement usually coincides with some diminution of the local irritation at the primary seat of disease, such as results from rest in bed in a case of stone, or from the- cleansing of a foul bladder. As the symptoms are somewhat indefinite, it is often difficult to say how much is due to renal mischief and how much to the- primary affection ; but wherever we find a diy tongue, a persistent nocturnal elevation of temperature, loss of appetite, general weakness and emaciation, wc ought to make every attempt to get rid of these symptoms before under- taking any serious surgical procedure, such as the treatment of stricture, lithotomy, or lithotrity, the irritation of Avhich might start the smouldering- inflanimation into activity. Acute mterslitial and suppurative nephritis gives rise to much more manifest symptoms, often supervening on those just described. The attack, Avhicb is- often induced by some surgical procedure although it may commence spon- taneously, begins with a severe rigor, followed by j)rofuso sweating. The temperatme may rise to 105° F. or 106° F. After the rigor it falls, but remains somewhat above normal. The rigors and SAveating may be repeated more than once. The tongue rapidly becomes dry, red, and fissured, looking- like a jnece of broiled ham, and sordes accumulate on the teeth. There are complete loss of appetite, and rapid emaciation ; nausea is almost a constant symptom, and actual Ammiting is common. Diarrhoea may occur. The patient soon sinks into a heavy drowsy state, often Avith contracted jrapils, so that the condition may closely resemble that of opium-poisoning. He can be roused and answers rationally if spoken to, and in most cases complains of little pain or discomfort. The temperature noAv usually falls, sometimes below normal, and the skin feels cold and clammy. In this form, there is usually some tenderness on pressing firmly in the region of the kidneys. As the case but it rarely reaches a condition of absolute coma. Convulsions are extremely rare. There is no oedema at any time. The urine varies much. It usually becomes more or less bloody, and in rare cases is ^ippressed ; though much more frequently a considerable quantity is passed up to the time of death. It is usually in such a state fr-om decomposition and the presence of pus, blood and mucus, as to render accurate chemical and microscopical investio-ation impossible. Pus-cells are constantly present, but Avhether they come fr-om the ticiTifiv nr f.lipi Tilaflfl/iT in miTT l_ 1_ _ . . progresses, muttering delirium sets in, followed by more complete insensibility «r ” V.*. The diu-ation of an acute attack as above described, when terminating