UllETHROPLASTY. 9-^ iirethi-otomy at once, as much time and pain are thus saved. In the majority of instances, internal urethrotomy with Civiale’s instrument appears to me to be the safest and simplest procedure, and I have very advantageously practised it in such cases. But if the fistulm be veiy numerous so as to riddle the perinmum and scrotum in all directions, perhaps the^ bet er p an^ is o perform the perineal section. In this way we not only divide the strictui^, and thus at once remove all obstruction, but give a free exit to the iu*ine, which, instead of escaping by tortuous and sinuous passages, finds its way out readily through the new aperture that has been made, which will eventually granulate and heal by the second intention. The fistulm, especially if small and recent, will sometimes heal kindly enough after the removal of the obstruction ; but if extensive, old, and carti- laginous, they are of course little disposed to take on reparative action ; and although the cause that in the first instance gave rise to them may lie removed, yet they constitute an independent affection which requires special treatment. The special treatment for urinary fistula must vary according to the size of the canal, but more particularly with regard to the part of the urethra with which it communicates ; whether it be in Perineal, a Scrotal, or a Penile fistula. But in all cases, and wherever it be situated, there is one most important point to be attended to, ^iz., never to let the fistula be disturbed or irritated by the passage of urine over or through it, or it will never heal. Hence the m'ine must always be drawn off with the catheter, which the patient should be taught to pass for himself. If the fistula be Perineal, and of small size, a probe coated with melted nitrate of silver, or a wire made red-hot in the ordinary way, or by the galvanic current, and passed down it oecasionally, may cause its contraction. If it be large, a gum-catheter should be kept in the bladder, and the edges of the fistula fr'eely rubbed with the nitrate of silver, or deeply pared and brought together by quilled sutures. If the fistulas be large and very numerous, it will be better to pass a grooved director down the principal ones, and sht them up so as to throw the several sinuses into the larger one. When the fistula is Scrotal, it often requires to be laid open, and to be made to granulate from the bottom, when it may be found to communicate “with large sloughy and ill-conditioned cavities in this situation. When Penile, the fistula is usually much more troublesome to heal; its edges are thin, and the track is short and shallow. Urethroplasty may in such cases be advantageously practised. Opera- tions of this kind require for their success very careful management and minute attention to detail; they very commonly fail in consequence of a small quantity of urine or of mucus escaping through the wound, and thus inter- fering wth union of its lips. In order to prevent this accident, which is fatal to the success of the operation, the patient should be taught to pass a catheter, and thus to draw off his own urine after the operation as often as necessary ; or an assistant must do this CVC17 third or foiu’th hour. Should this, however, not be practicable, a fr;ll-sized gum-catheter should be passed into the bladder and properly secured there. It should be left without a plug, so that no distension of the bladder