^^4 DISEASES OE BONE. the best mode of prevention will be to lay down the flaps of integument, and so cover the exposed surface. Abscess should bo opened as soon as it lias fairly formed. The early and free opening of pm-ulent collections is especially imperative when they are suh2)eriosieal. In these cases the constitutional irritation occasioned by the confined pus is often so intense, more particularly in childi’en of feeble constitution, that life is threatened, and can only be preserved by the evacuation of the pus from the midst of the tense structures between which it lies. Removal of the Sequestrum.—After the cause has, in this way, been removed or counteracted, the separation of the secpiestrum should be left as much as possible to the unaided efforts of nature. The less the Sm-geon inter- feres with this part of the process the better ; for, as has justly been obsen-cd by Wedemeyer, the boundaries of the necrosis are known to nature only, and the Surgeon will most probably either not reach, or he will pass altogether beyond them. Here much patience will be required for many weeks or months ; and the utmost the Siugeou can do is to attend to the state of the patient’s health, treating him cai’efaUy upon general principles, removing inflammatory mischief by appropriate means, opening abscesses as they form in the limb, ancT at a later period, supporting the patient’s strength by good diet, tonics, and general treatment, calculated to bear him up against the depressing and wasting influence of continued suppiuation, and of the irritation induced by the disease. So soon as a sequestrum has been detached from the adjacent or underlying bone, by the proper extension of the granulating line of separation, the Siugeon must proceed to its removal. In most cases it is sufficiently easy, when the necrosis is superficial, to ascertain that this separation has taken place, as the flat end of a probe may be pushed under the edge of the detached lamina. When, however, the sequestrum is deeply seated, it is not always so easy to ascertain that the separation has occurred ; though, in the majority of cases, the introduction of a probe through one of the fistulous openings leading to the necrosed bone, and firm pressure exercised upon this, will enable the Surgeon to detect that degree of mobility which is characteristic of looseness. In other cases, however, the sequestrum, though completely removed from all osseous connections, still continues to be fixed by the pressure of the siuround- ing granulations, and by the extension of its spicula into the coircsponding cavities of the new osseous case. This especially happens when the sequestrum is central and invaginated, and the cloacae leading to it of such small size that but a limited portion of it is exposed. Here a more careful examination will be required ; and its looseness may sometimes be determined by pressing upon it with a probe in a kind of jerking manner, or by introducing two probes through different cloacje, at some distance from one another, and alternately bearing upon the exposed bone with one or other of them, ihen, again, if the sound elicited by striking the end of the probe against the sequestium^bc a peculiarly hollow one, the detachment of the bone may be suspected. Ihe dm-ation of the disease, also, will probably throw some light upon the probable state of things inside the new case. The separation of the sequestrum having been ascertained, the Suigcon must adopt measures for its extraction. If the necrosis be pcripho.ial, all t at