REMOVAL OF FOREIGN BODIES. 429 raised above the surface—“ fleshy pterygium.” In either case an operation is called for. No other ti-eatment is of any use. Pteryo-imn has been remo^'ed by dissecting up the growth from apex to base, transplanting the apex of the flap thus fonned into an incision made along the lower part of the ocular conjunctiva beneath the lower lid, and fixing it with sutures in this position. I do not remember that in any of the cases in which I operated in this way the disease returned; but excision of the whole growth more eflectually removes the defonnity than merely transplanting it; and total abscission is the commonly adopted practice nowadays. Nevertheless, even when carefully removed, pterygium is apt to rctuni; and hence it is important in operating to remove the whole thicliiiess of it, down to the sclerotic and cornea. Opcrcilion.—An incision is made with a scalpel through the conjuncti^ a, along the borders of the gi-owth, whilst put on the stretch by the eye being- drawm with forceps in the opposite direction, if necessary by an assistant; and then with a pair of forceps, with rather long sharp teeth, the whole width of the pterygium is taken up, between the two fines of incision in the conjunc- tiva, at about the middle of its length, and raised sidficiently to allow the scalpel to be thrust beneath it with the edge towards the cornea. The growth being weU raised from the surface of the globe, and the traction made in the direction opposite to the place of the pterygium being relaxed, the scalpel is caiTied onwards, close to the surface of the cornea, up to the centre or as far forwards as the growth extends. The w'hole is shaved off at once ; the fiap is then seized and raised, and dissected off the sm’facc of the sclerotic, and finally removed altogether as far back as it seems to extend at its base, near the junc- tion of the ocidar and palpebral conjunctive. If any small portions of the- pterygium have been left, they should be seized and shaved off the surface of the cornea or sclerotic. The growth should be removed quite up to its margins and to its apex, as far forwards on the cornea as it extends. It may everywhere be raised with forceps from the finn structures, cornea and sclerotic, beneath.. If a fine shaving of sclerotic or cornea be taken off, it is not of the serious im- portance that has been suggested ; but of course it should not be done. All soft parts, wfrere the pterygium is situated, should be dissected off the scle- rotic and cornea; and if the knife be held flat to the smfface of the globe of the eye, there is no fear that an incision will be made actually into the- globe. After the operation no special treatment is required ; but, by using warm water to bathe the eye, great cleanliness is maintained ; and, if the movements ol the eyes cause any pain in the eye operated on, they may be tied up, and so- kept at perfect rest for a while. Removal of Foreign Bodies external to tlie Eye.—A foreign body, such as a particle of dust or of coke, superficially sticking in the eye, is gene- lally to be found embedded in the cornea. The cornea is the most prominent part of the eye ; and if a foreign body should hit the sclerotic conjunctiva, it is probably somewhat obliquely, and so it may glance off at once and not remain there. It is probably soon dislodged from the sclerotic conjunctiva,, as it IS loose and easily moved, and is washed away in the tears. It is often very difficult to see the -\’ery small foreign bodies which lodge in or upon the-