mail OR SUPRAPUBIC OPERATION. 805 weighed from 1 to i ounces; 85 from 2 to 3 ; 11 irom 8 to 4 ; 5 from 1 to 5) ; and only 4 were above this size. Hence, if we confine the high operation to those instances in which the calculus is above such a size as will readily admit of extractiou through the perinmum, we shall seldom have occasion to perform it; yet instances occasionally occur in which no other method of extracting the caleulus presents itself. Thus, by this method, Uytterhoeven succeeded in ■extracting a calculus, of which he has kindly given me a cast, which measured 1 (]i inches in one circumference, and 12| in the other. It was perfectly moulded to the shape of the inside of the bladder, and clearly could not have ■been removed by any incisions through the pcrinmimi, as the outlet would ■liave been insufficient for its extraction. The patient survived the operation •eight days. But not only may the high operation be recpiired on account of the size of the calculus ; it may be rendered necessary by other conditions, such as the existence of so much rigidity about the hips in consequence of rheumatic disease, as would prevent the proper exposure of the perinmum ; or by that region being the seat of disease which would interfere with any operation being practised through it; or the pelvic outlets may be so contracted b}^ rickets as to prevent the possibihty of the extraction of a stone through them, l)y any of the perineal operations. Operation.—The high operation consists in making an incision through the •abdorm’nal wall, above the pubes, and opening the anterior part of the bladder underneath the reflexion of the peritoneum that passes upwards fi’om its ■superior fundus. In performing this operation, it is necessary that means should be taken to raise up the fundus of the bladder, so that it may project above the pubes, and thus admit of being safely opened. With this view various con- trivances have been invented, such as catheters containing sliding stylets, which can be pushed through the bladder when that viscus is exposed. These instruments, though ingenious, are not necessary ; for the end of an ordinary catheter introduced through the urethra, and made to project above the pubes, will serve as a sufficient guide. The bladder having been slowly but folly injected with tepid water, so that it may arise above the pubes, an incision, about three inches in length, is to be canied from the pubes directly upwards in the mesial line. The pyi’amidales aie then to be cut across near their origin, the linea alba exposed, cautiously opened near the pubes, and divided upwards some httle way. The peri- toneurn must next be pushed back, and the dissection carefully carried through the areolar tissue above the bone, until the instrument previously introduced can be felt through the bladder, when, if it contain a sliding and pointed stylet, this may be pushed through the coats of the bladder : if not. around the margins of the wound. In ■geons kept the bladder empty by making