742 SECONDARY DISEASES OF THE URINARY ORGANS. the atrophy of the cortex becomes much more advanced, till nothing may be left but a layer of kidney-substance not thicker than a shilling. The micro- scope also shows more dilatation of the tubules and flattening of the epithelium. It is an interesting fact to be noted, that in the case above described the secre- tion of urine was abundant, its specific gravity was 1009, and it was free from albumen and casts. It is also evident that, if such a kidney as this were exposed to any additional source of irritation, more acute inflammation incompatible M'ith life would readily be set up. 2. Acute Diffuse Intershtial InflammaMon.—In this condition the kidney is soft and swollen. The capsule is opaque, and small vessels are seen ramifying in it. It separates easily, but tears the kidney-substance in so doing. The siuface of the kidney is coarse and irregular. The colour of the surface is mottled, the greater part being usually of a pale yellowish tint intermixed with pm-ple patches. Sometimes the mottling is very fine, almost granular. The venous stars always seen on the surface of the kidney are injected, and show out prominently. On section, the cortex is found to be abnoimally soft, and to present the same mottled colom- as the surface. Sometimes the part of the cortex corresponding to one pyramid may present a more uniformly pale appear- ance than that belonging to another. Small yeUowdsh spots, looking hke minute collections of pus, may be present, which are, however, on section found to be solid, though very soft. The pyi-amids ai-e usually intensely injected, and contrast strongly with the paler cortex. Pale streaks can often be seen running parallel to the straight tubules. These are most frequent in those cases in which the pelvis is filled with putrid urine. The pelvis is found in some cases free from any signs of acute inflammation, though more fr-equently it is much affected and filled with foul urine and mucus. The appearances here described are often conjoined with the signs of pressure mentioned above, varying from mere flattening to complete destruction of the j)yramids. The microscope shows that this condition is a mere exaggeration of that found as the result of simple pressure. The change is chiefly and primarily interstitial, but the small ceU growth is so abundant as in many parts to press upon and even destroy the tubules, areas being foimd in which nothing but crowds of small round cells can be seen. These, when large, form the small yellowish spots visible to the naked eye. It only requires an increased intensity of the in- flammation and a softening of these spots to convert them into minute abscesses. As in the form of interstitial nephritis first mentioned, the new growth is most marked round the Malpighian bodies. The change is rarely uniform throughout the kidney. It varies in degree usually in every field of the microscope, and parts may be foimd apparently almost healthy. The epithe- lium throughout the kidney is usually swollen and granular, and readily washes out in preparing the specimen, but it does not choke the tubules as in acute catairhal nephritis. In very acute cases, small round cells, similar to those outside the tubules, are seen in the lumen of the tube surrounded by ‘ epithelium. These have probably found their way in fr’om the outside, and, if w’ashcd on by the secretion from above, would appear as pus-cells in the luinc. The vessels are often seen to be gorged with blood, and occasionally minute hcemorrhages are present. It is not always easy to distinguish this form of disease by the unaided eye, as, from the pallor caused by the pressure on the