201 myeloid and FinilO-PLASTIG TUAWURS. a broken ec^o--shell, or the crackling of tin-foil. Under this, the elasticity or even semi-flnctnation of the tumoui- may be felt. Ihis fluctuation Paiticm larly marked after a time,\n-hen the osseous envelope has become still more exnanded, or is partially or wholly absorbed. • a • i if yV.«/m.n^.-When the contents of the tumour are fluid or senn-^^’ ^ must, if large, be treated in the same way as solid gi-owths aie . but if it b small, or if of moderate size, so as not to have materially attected the integrity of the bone, it may siiflice to remove one side of the wall of the cyst by the trephine or by excision, and then the cavity may be stuffed with lint, and allowed to gi'amilate, and its walls to contract. This plan has proved especially successful in some of the cystic tumours of the lower jaw ; and I have had occasion to practise it with success in a small cyst fonning in the outer condyle of the humerus. IMyELOiD AXD Spixdle-Celled Saeco- :>IATA are not unfrequently met ivith at the ai’ticiilar ends of the long bones (Fig. 423). They always develop in the cancellous struc- tiu’e ; sometimes spontaneously, at other times as the result of a blow or other injury. Even when involving the shaft of a bone, they usually commence in the central portion of the osseous tissue, and expand outwards. All the long and many of the flat bones are liable to this form of disease. It is most common, perhaps, at the lower end of the femur, and the head of the tibia ; in the head of the humerus, and the lower end of the radius ; in fact, in those portions of bone where there is most cancellous struc- tul'e. In the jaw and the scapida it also occurs ; and I have amputated the thigh for this disease in the fibula of a lad. The disease is local in its development and earlier stages, but has a tendency to recmvence after removal, especially if the whole of the affected bone and infiltrated muscles be not extirpated. Its malignaney is proportionate to the rapidity of its growth ; and the more rapid this is, the greater will be the probability of recurrence and of secondary deposits in internal organs. Ec- current myeloid, after imperfect extirpation, is always softer, darker, and more malignant in appearance and in action than the primary deposit. A myeloid tumour, developing in the articular end of a long bone, may burst into the neighbomlng joint and fill this up with its softened mass. It does this by pushing before it the inerusting cartilages of the joint. These are not destroyed or invaded by the disease ; but, the bone by which they arc supported being disintegrated, broken down, and destroyed, they necessarily separate and lie loosened upon the morbid mass. The stnicture of myeloid tumours has been described and illustrated (Vol. I., p. 770). The accompanying di-awings (Figs. 423—428) afford examples of it in its primary and recurrent forms when occiUTing in bones. Fig. 422.—E.ximnsion of Lower End of Femur by Cystic Tumom-.