DISEASES OF THE BREAST. 576 HYPBRTROPHy. Simple Hypertrophy op the Breast is nob unfrcqucntly associated with very severe neuralgia of the organ. An increase of size, such as naturally takes place during pregnancy, between the fourth and ninth months, will occasionally commence at puberty, and go on until the organ attains an enormous bulk, as in Fig. OGl, which represents the breast of a very thin girl of fifteen, who was under my care for this condition. In some cases the breast has been found after death to weigh as much as twenty pounds ; and after re- moA’al, a breast of this kind, taken from a young woman under thirty, has weighed no less than twelve pounds, being entirely com- posed of its normal tissues, greatly hyper- trophied. In these cases of hypertrophy both breasts are usually affected, though one is commonly more so than the other. When first this morbid condition commences, the breast preserves its usual shape, though it is increased in bulk; but as it enlarges it gradually projects forwards, drawing down the skin of the shoulders, of the side of the chest, end even of the back, and hansdne: mentioned by Bdrard, it has been known to Pig. 661.—Simple Hypertropliy of Breast in a Girl filteen years old. downwards, until, as in a case reach to the knees. Treatment.—The treatment of this affection is very unsatisfactory. The general health must be attended to, and an endeavour may be made to excite lactation, and thus to unload the vessels of the breast by the employment of galactagogue remedies. Amputation of the organ should not be performed in these cases, unless the gToivth attain so great a size as to render life a burden. Then the mass may be extiiqiated with little trouble or danger. Lobular Hypertrophy op the Breast has been described by Sir A, Cooper as occurring chiefly in unmarried women between thirty and forty years of age. It appears on manipulation to be composed of several sohd but movable masses, wLich after a time begin to diminish in size, until the breast at last atrophies, and is in a great measure absorbed. It ivould appear to be rather a species of the chronic mammary tumour than a pure hypertrophy. ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OP THE LACTEAL SECRETION. The lacteal secretion is occasionally the cause of abnormal conditions in the ^ breast. Thus the milk may appear at unusual times, a twelvemonth, for instance, after iveaning ; it has occasionally been known to be secreted in children, and in some remarkable instances in boys and men. In other instances again, after parturition, there is a total Absence of Milk, either owing to Avant of development in the gland, or to debihty on the part of the