MECHANICAL EFFECTS OF ENLARGED PROSTATE. 86i shape, and is more or less pedunculated. It is continuous in structure with the prostatic tissues, and has its own duct, which opens into the urethra through the pedicle. Prostatic concretions are commonly found in these out- growths ; never in the isolated tumours. OutoTOwths ai’o most common in the middle portion of the prostate ; but sometimes there may be a projection from the posterior part of one of the lateral lobes, or from that portion of the gland Avhich lies above or in fr-ont of the inner orifice of the urethra. In rare instances, the A'crumontanum alone appears to be affected, forming •a thickened polypoid projection, which projects in a valvular manner, and interferes materially with the floAV of lu-ine. Thompson points out, as had been suggested by Velpeau, that remarkable analogies exist between these prostatic outgrowths and the fibroid tumours of the uterus. This view is in accordance with the teaching of Leuckart, Simpson, and others, that the prostatic utricle in the male is the analogue of the uterus in the female. Mechanical Effects of Enlarged Prostate on the Urinary Organs.— Enlargements of the prostate are productive of inconvenience vith regard to the flow of urine, giving rise either to retention or to incontinence, or to a kind of mixture of both conditions. VTien the lateral lobes are enlarged, there is a diminution of the lateral or transverse diameter of the canal, at the same time that the antero-posterior diameter is increased, so that the canal becomes a chink-like passage. The m-ethi’a also becomes greatly elongated and tortuous; and is diverted from the natiu'al direction—this varying with the form of enlargement. When the median portion is enlarged, there is a more or less ■angular curvatme of the canal at the prostatic portion. When, in addition, there is enlargement of a lateral lobe, the urethra is also curved laterally in the direction of the enlarged lobe. The lateral deviation may occur also when there is enlargement of the middle lobe ; but it then affects both sides. The inner orifice of the urethra also uudergoes changes. Enlargement of the posterior part of the middle portion of the prostate gives it a crescentric form, ■with the uonvexity directed upwards : and, in enlarge- ment of either lateral lobe, the convexity of the crescent lies towards the side opposite the enlarged lobe. Sometimes, when there are two •or more irregularly enlarged lobes, the orifice is very much distorted, elongated, and tortuous. Sometimes, in cases of valvular or pedunculated projections from the posterior portions, the orifice appears to be overlapped altogether. This condition existed in the case from which the accompanying (Fig. 790) Avas taken ; the third, or median lobe forming a pedunculated tumour Avhich aeted like a A^alve—obstrueting the exit of the urine from the bladder, though it did not offer any obstacle to the introduction ■of a catheter. Fig. 700.—niacUler laid oiicii, slio^vving Enlargcnieut of Urctliral Fortiou of Prostate.