622 HE UN I A. The needle is then passed along the ulnar border of the finger, and pushed through tlie external pillar close to l^upart’s ligament opposite to the internal ring, the skin being drawn outwards till the point of the needle appears at the former puncture, through which it is then pushed. The upper hoolc of the wire is then hooked on and drawn down with the needle into and throu-di the scrotal incision. Next, the spermatic cord opposite to the scrotal ind- sion is to be carelhlly separated from the sac of the hernia by the finger niid thumb, placed upon the skin in the same manner as in the operation foi ligaturing varicocele. The needle, detached again from the wire, is then passed into the lower angle of the scrotal incision, and made to travei-se the tissues between the cord and the hernial sac, and to emerge at the upper angle of the incision. The inner end of the ware is then hooked on to the needle and drawn with it across between the cord and sac. A little caie must heie be taken to avoid any kink in the wire, which must be drawn down until the part which remains in the wound is quite straio-ht. The ends of the wire are then twisted to the extent of three turns, which it will be found useful, when removing the wire, always to make in the same direction. Traction is then made upon the wire loop wfrich remains in the groin-punctm-e. This will be found to invaginate the sac and scrotal fascia, and to close up the pillars of the external abdominal ring. The loop must then be twisted by three firm turns well drawn into the groin-puncture. Then the long ends of the wire, being cut off to a suitable length, are to be passed together through the loop bent down to meet them and hooked on to it. Under the arch thus formed a stout pad of lint is placed, and the whole is held firmly by a spica bandage. The patient, after the operation, should be placed in bed with the shoulders well raised and the knees bent over a bolster. Any discharge which forms has a free escape downwards, and may be received upon a sponge steeped in some antiseptic fluid. The scrotum should be either suspended in a turn of the bandage, or kept up by a small cushion or strap of plaster. The wires should be kept in from fomdeen to twenty-one days, according to the amount of solid effrision which subsequently occurs. Any pain in the abdomen should be allayed by opiates and fomentations, and by slackening or removing the bandage after forty-eight hours. Pain sometimes results fr'om including the ilio-inguinal nerve, which must not be mistaken for the pain of peritonitis. Wood had up to 1872 operated in nearly 200 instances, and estimated his successful results in cases of all degrees of severity at about sixty-five per cent. In young persons the results have been still more favourable, and he now confines the operation to patients below the age of thirty, unless in special circumstances. Three deaths have resulted from pyaemia and peritonitis. lEBEDXJCIBLBJ HEENIA. Irreducible Herniae are usually of old date, and of large size. They gene- rally contain a considerable quantity of thickened omentum, as wall as intestine and mesentery. In many instances, a rupture of this kind is partly reducible, the greater portion remaining unreduced. It is usually the gut which slips up, and the omentum that cannot be returned.