662 SPECIAL llEENPK. must be made in the same way and in the same direction as has already been described. In Ingtiinal Herniae, containing either the Casenm, the Sigmoid Flexure of the Colon, or the Urinary Bladder, the lorotruded risccra arc- only partially covered by peritoneum ; hence, in operating upon such hernife, when strangulated, care must be taken that the contents be not wounded, which is apt to occur if the Sm’geon divide the parts without due caution, not sus- pecting himself to have reached the neighbourhood of the viscus, but believing- that he has met Avith a sac Avhich does not exist. As the protruded parts ai’e generally adherent in these cases, the Surgeon must content himself Avith leav- ing them unreduced after the division of the stricture ; in such circumstances,, it has happened that the inotrusion is ultimately draAvn back into the abdomen by some natimal action of the parts. Operations for strangulated ingumal hernia are required during a greatei- range of ages than those for any other kind of protrusion. I have operated successfully for congenital hernia in infants less than six weeks old, and for ordinary oblique inguinal hernia at seven Aveeks and at four months of age ; and the operation has been done on centenarians. IITien small and recent,, the protrusion usually consists of intestine only; when large, it commonly contains omentum as weU. The treatment of these contents, and the after- management of the case, must be conducted in accordance Avdth the rules laid down at pages 6-I0 et seq. vol. II. Hernia in the Tunica Vaginalis : Congenital Hernia.—In this case- the hernia descends inside the tunica vaginahs, which constitutes its sac. It is. always oblique, and takes the course of the spermatic- cord ; most commonly descending into the scrotum,, but sometimes lying within the canal, out of which perhaps the testis has imperfectly passed. This hernia differs from an ordinary obhque hernia in the absence- of a true peritoneal sac, and in the protruded parts lying- in the tunica vaginalis and in contact AAuth the testicle; (Fig. G8I). The great peculiarity, indeed, of this, hernia, consists in its descending along the canal left open by the descent of the testis. In the foetus the testis originally lies below the kidney, and, as it descends in the later months of intra-uterine life into- the inguinal canal and scrotiun, it puUs doAvn a pro- longation of the peritoneum, exactly resembhng a hernial sac. In addition to this defective closuie of the Taginal process of the peritoneum, there is another anatomical con- dition which tends to the formation of a congenital ingninai hernia—ns., an ahnoi-mally long mesentery. This, unlike the open peiatoneal process, is not necessary to the formation of the hernia, but when existing it is a mateiial factor in its production. And it is attended by this serious inconreiiience. that it is an obstacle to the radical cure of the hernia by the closure of the open funicular process of peritoneum by the pressure of a trass. That prolongation of the peritonoimi which is carried down ® in its deroent, may be dirided into two portions, the fiiiiicular and the testi- Fig. 684.—CongciiitaTl Hernia.