844 DISEASES OF THE B LAD DEE. Fig. 78S.—Microsoopioal Apioear.mces in Mu- cus of Vesical Catarrli. 1. 1. Mucus. 2. Epi- • theliuui. 3. Pus. 4. “Organic Glol)ules,” met with in the Urine. made up ot local irritation and constitutional debility. There is frecment desire to pass urine, which is usually ammoniacal and fetid, and is mixed\vith a lai-ge quantity of glutinous stringy mucus, which gives it a turbid appearance ihe urine, on standing, separates into two parts, the upper beino- dear but the lower consisting of a thick, viscid, slimy or gummy mucus,1)ften semi- opaque and purulent in appearance ; it sticks tenaciously to the bottom of the pot, and when poured out hangs fi’om the edge in long stringy masses. It is often mixed with urinary deposits, more especially of a phosphatic kind. Its microscopic appearances are represented in Fig. 788, ihe alkaline condition of urine in vesical catan’h has been supposed to depend upon the simple fermentation of its mucus; but Niemeyer and Lister have shown that urine mixed with mucus may continue acid for a gx*eat length of time, unless it have become mixed with loxver organisms, with vibrios, &c., which Nie- meyer has supposed to enter the bladder- through badly washed catheters, but which, according to Salisbury, are developed di- rectly from the epithelium of that organ. This chi’onic form of inflammation of the bladder is not unfrequently fatal, death resulting eventually with symptoms of a typhoid character ; the tongue becoming brown and the pulse feeble ; and these conditions are usually associated rvith urtemic poisoning. Pathological Changes.—On examining the bladder after death in such cases, great thickening of the muscular coat and of the mucous membrane will usually be found, together with a dilated and tortuous condition of the veins ramifying upon it, the blood contained within which is peculiarly black. Abscesses may be found in the walls or outside them, circumscribed and bounded by plastic matter. The mucous membrane is thrown into folds and ridges, which becoiiie thickened and hardened, having irregular depressions between them, so as to cause the interior of the bladder to resemble somewhat the inside of one of the cavities of the heart with its projecting columnae carnese. This fasciculated condition is almost an invariable accompaniment of long-continued chronic inflammatory irritation of the bladder. As the organ becomes hypertrophied, in con- sequence of the continuance of the disease, it usually becomes sacculated, the cysts forming at its posterior or lateral parts. The sacculi are of two kinds, both of which are formed by projections between the fasciculi of the wall of the bladder. In the first and least common kind, the muscular as well as the mucous coat is pushed outwards. In the second form of cyst, the mucous coat alone forms a kind of hernial protrusion (Fig. 789). In the cysts thus formed, accmnulations of various kinds may take Fig. 7S0.—Cyst in the Wall of tlie Bladder.