531 TREATMENT OF EANULA. least, rather to consist of independent cystic formations, such as commonly occur in connection with other secreting glands, and in other parts of the mouth. And this view of the case is strengthened by the fact that these globular cystic tumours containing glairy fluid may occur in the substance of the tongue itself^ far away from any salivary duct. ^Morrant Baker, who has investigated the connection between ranula and the "Whartonian duct, finds that, in cases of ranula, Wharton’s duct is quite free, without any alteration in size, and that saliva may be seen issuing from it. A probe passed into the duct is separated from the ranula by a thin membranous wall, showing clearly that the duct and the ranula do not communicate. I have, however, lately seen a case in which a ranula resulted from a wound of the floor of the mouth, in the situation of the Whar- tonian duct. The wound was caused by the accidental slipping of a pair of tooth- forceps during extraction of the first molar tooth. As the wound healed a ranula formed, the con- tents of which were thick and ropy, like the natural secretion of the submax- illary gland. It ultimately reached the size of a plover’s egg. That this tumour was formed by an accumulation of the secretion of the sub- maxiUaiy gland, there can be no doubt; but it is quite possible that the collection formed in the submucous tissue, and that it was not enclosed in an actual dilatation of the Whartonian duct. The Treatment of this fonn of ranula consists either in passing a seton through its walls, so that contraction may take place on this (Fig. G33); or else m the excision of a large portion of the anterior wall of the cyst,’the remainder contracting, until it at last becomes obliterated. 2. Besides the ordinary form of ranula, an encysted tumour, partaking of this character, is occasionally met with, lying above the mylo-hyoid muscle, between It and the buccal mucous membrane. It projects more distinctly intO' e nec' t an into the mouth, and thus forms a large tumour under the angle ^ ° semi-fluctuating, occupying, perhaps, ° between the lower jaw and the hyoid bone on one side. It attains e size ot an orange. In a case of this kind under my care, the contents of e tumour, which closely resembled cream-cheese in character, were athero- a ous, being composed of epithelial scales and fatty matter. —These tumours are best treated by making a free openino- into aeir“ooutcnts,stuffi.rg a: 7 h hnt, and allowing it to granulate and contract. If an attempt be M M 2 Fig. G33.—Ranula : Introduotiou of Seton.