CONTENTS. XV Chapter LXXII.—Diseases oe the Urethra. -872 llKKTHRiTis—Symptoms—Trciitmcnt—Urethral Abscess—Perineal Abscess Treat- i. .••••• 871— CIOXORKHCEA—Cause—Character—Symptoms—Incubative Stage-Acute or Inflam- matory Stage-Chronic Stage—Gleet—Treatment of GonoiThcea—Treatment of (jleet Complications—Inflammation of Lymphatics of Fraenuin—Chorclee Irritable Bladder—Cystitis—lictention of Urine—Hiemorrhage from Urethra Sequences of Gonorrhoea—Warts—Stricture—Induration and Thickening—Gonor- rhoeal Epididymitis — Conjunctivitis—Treatment—Sclerotitis—Treatment—In- flammation of Nose—Ithcumatism—Cutaneous Eruptions—Gonorrhoea in the Female—Diagnosis—Treatment • §'^2 88G' Stricture of the Urethra—Varieties—Spasmodic Stricture—Causes—Symptoms —Treatment—Congestive Strictm-e—Causes—Symptoms—Treatment—Organic Stricture—Age—Seat—Characters—Amount of Constriction—Mechanical Eesults Symptoms—Local Signs—Examination of Urethra—Treatment Gradual Me- chanic.ll Dilatation—Introduction of Catheters—Gum-Elastic and Wax Instru- ments—Eesults of Introduction of Instruments—Accidents attending Catheterism —Eigors—Hiemorrhage—Inflammation—False Passages—Continuous Dilatation —Caustics—Forcible Expansion or Eupture—Sliding Tubes—Expansion by Screw Mechanism—By Wedge—Division of Stricture—Internal Urethrotomy— External Urethrotomy—Operation for Peimeable Strictiu'e—Perineal Section— Eesult—Comparison of Methods of Treatment—Strictm-e of Urethral Orifice- Operations for Impermeable Stricture—Operation from Behind—Operation from Front, or Boutonniere Operation 886— Complications and Eesults of Stricture—Eetention of Urine—Treatment— Forcible Catheterism—Opening Urethra behind and through Stricture—Puncture of Bladder through Eectum—Puncture above Pubes—Employment of Aspirator —Conditions requiring Puncture of Bladder—Extravasation of Urine—Local Effects—Constitutional Distm-bance—Treatment—Urinary Abscess—Symptoms— Treatment—Urinary Fistula—Treatment—Urethroiilasty—Death after Operation on Urinary Organs—Stricture of Female Urethra . . , . . . 912—921 Urinary Vaginal Fistul/e —Varieties—Urethro-Vaginal—Vesico-V.iginal—Ee- sults—Treatment—Sims’s <ind Bozeman’s Operations 924— 927 Tumours in the Urethra-Polypoid Tumour—Treatment—Excision—Ligature —Caustics—Cautery 927 928- 912- Chapter LXXIII.—Diseases oe the Penis and Scrotum. Diseases of the Penis—Congenital Malformation—Adhesion of Penis to Scrotum —Hypospadias—Absence of Corpus Spongiosum and Urethi-a—Epispadias— Phimosis—Congenital—Acquired—Treatment—Operations—Dilatation of Plii- mosis—Slitting-up Prepuce—Circumcision—For Congenital Phimosis in Children —For Disease of the Prepuce in Adults—Paraphimosis—Treatment—Balanitis and Posthitis—Treatment—Herpes of Glands and Prepuce—Hypertrophy of Prepuce—Warts—Horny Excrescences—Persistent Priapism—Warts—Gangrene of Peni.s—Fibroid Tumour of Penis—Cancer of Penis—Sciiriius—Epithelioma- Diagnosis—Treatment—Amputation of Penis—Nmvus and other Tumours . 929 939' Diseases of the Scrotum—Inflammatory Oedema—Treatment—Hypertrophy or ' Elephantiasis-Treatment—Epithelioma—Treatment .... 939_94q. Chapter LXXIV.—Diseases of the Testis and Cord. Malposition of the Testis Neuralgia of the Testis—Causes—Treatment ^ v'auoc.o—xiuatuiuuu • • . , , < Inflammation of the TESTis-Orclutis and Epididymitis-Acute Inflammation- ' 941 942