840 DISEASES OF THE BLADDER. the viscus, and restoring the urinary canal; so as to protect the tender extro- verted surface of the bladder, to prevent tlie pain and in-itation arising from contact of the clothes with it, and, by giving a proper conduit to the urine, to save the patient all the annoyance of constant dribbling. The first operation for the remedy of this malformation that was success- fully performed was done, in 1859, by Ayres of New York, in the case of a young woman 28 years of age. He, consequently, has the merit of having been the pioneer in this branch of Surgery. He was followed by Pancoast of Philadelphia, and subsequently by Holmes and Wood of London. Asrves’ Operation.—The operation practised by Ayres comprised two steps. The first consisted in dissecting down a long flap of integument and of super- ficial fascia from the anterior wall of the abdomen above the bladder, and tmming this down so that the cuticular surface was innermost and lay over the exposed bladder as far as its inferior border. Lateral union was then secured in this position, but the lower part of the fiap was left open, so as to allow a free exit for the mine. In this way the bladder was covered in com- pletely by a skin fiap, having its cuticular surface underneath, and conse- quently next to the exposed vesical mucous membrane. The integuments of the abdomen were now sufficiently separated from their areolar connections with the muscles beneath, on each side of the reversed flap, to admit of their shding forwards, and being united by sutures along the mesial line, so as com- pletely to cover in the exposed raw siu’face of the flap. In this way the bladder was overlaid by integumental structm’es, which readily united along the mesial line ; and were the patient a male, little more would require to be done than to dissect up the integumental structures below this flap, and so to close m the epispadias and fonn an anterior wall to the urethra. In xiyres’s case, as the patient was a female, the second step of the operation, which was practised after a lapse of three weeks, consisted in fashioning a covering for the vulva, by dissecting up the integuments coA'^ering the pelvic bones on each side, and uniting them to one another on the mesial fine and to the lower part of the reversed flap. The prmciple of the operations adopted by Pancoast, Holmes, and Wood, is essentially the same as that practised by Ayres—viz., that of raising integu- mental flaps from the abdominal wall, and covering in the bladder by turning the cuticular surface of these flaps towards it. But the details of the operations differ chiefly in this, that the flaps have been taken fr’om the groins and lateral aspects of the abdominal wall, with their bases downwards, so that they might be nourished by the recurrent branches of the common femoral aitery. Wood’s Operation.—A flap composed of the skin and areolar tissue of the abdominal walls above the extroverted bladder is first dissected up. This flap is somewhat square in shape, and its base should con-espond in width with the exposed mucous membrane of the bladder. Its length should be sufficient to cover the whole of the exposed mucous membrane. This flap is turned down with its skin-surface towards the bladder. Then a “pyi-iform flap,” the base of which is about equal in width to the length of the umbilical flap, is dis- sected up from each groin, the base of the flap being “ directed towai-ds the scrotum and thigh ” (Fig. 784). These two flaps are brought together so as to meet in the median line, and to cover in the umbilical Hap, the raw surliiccs