56o operations ON THE AIR-TUBE AND CHEST. Tumours in the larynx (Ij). 1>. Scald of glottis by boiling Avater or acids (T or L, according to ao-e of k patient). ° o 10. Foreign bodies impacted in the larynx (L). 11. Foreign body in the trachea or bronchus (T). V2. Impactions of foreign substances in the pharynx (T). 13. Asphyxia from any cause by which the glottis is mechanically closed (T or Ij, according to the age of the patient). 14. Accidents in operations about the head and face by which blood accumu- lates in the pharynx (L). 15. As a preliminary step in certain operations on the bones of the face, attended by much hfemon-hage (T). IG. Laryngeal spasm from compression of the inferior laryngeal nerve by aortic aneurism (L). IjARYITQOTOj^’ is an easy operation. The crico-thyroid membrane is almost subcutaneous, and may readily be reached by making a vertical incision in the mesial line, between the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, about an inch in length, and then a cross cut through the membrane -with an ordinary scalpel. The air-passage having thus been opened, a silver tube, curved on the flat, may be readily introduced and retained by tapes round the neck. The only trouble- some result that can occur in this operation is the woimd of a small artery, the crico-thyroid branch of the superior thyroid, which crosses the membrane. I have never seen any trouble arise from this ; but, should it occm-, the hemor- rhage would readily be arrested by the application of pressure or hgature. Tracheotomy consists in making an opening into some part of the trachea, , hy exposing the tube and cutting across two or three of its rings. ' In performing tracheotomy, the patient’s shoulder should be supported with pillows, and his head be thromi as much back as practicable. An incision about an inch and a half in length should then be made with a scalpel directly in the ' mesial line, fr’om the cricoid cartilage downwards. After dividing the integu- J ments, any veins that present themselves should be avoided as carefully as- * possible, being held aside with a blunt hook. By using the point of the scalpel thi'ec of them (Fig. 047). The tube must then be tapes round the neck. Fig. C47.—Operation of Tracheotomy. to a limited extent, and dilating the deeper portions, of the incision with its handle or with a director, the trachea may be reached with safety. It shoifld then be transflxed and drawn forwards by a sharp hook, and opened by push- ing the point of the knife, with its back turned to- wards the sternum, between two of the rings, and cut- ting upwards through about introduced, and retained by