rO.V GRAPE'S OPERATION FOR CATARACT. 45^ G G is effected, milcesso small an opening in iM anterior chamUr as compared milk its size extenialhj, and tliis is a deception, for of coiu-se its least dimensions are only practically available in the evacuation of a lens. Ihe point of the knitc bcin.^ directed towards the centre of the pupil, the cornea is transfixed at its uppe“r mar<^in at the right hand extremity of the intended incision ; the point of the knife is then carried on between the cornea and iris along the upper circum- ference of the anterior chamber. No counter-punctm-e is made, but the knife is cpiickly brought into a more vertical position, and with a firm hand, and <iuickly, by little to-and-fi.-o movements, the section is continued as far as need be to the left extremity of the intended opening. That this extremity may be square like the other, and not at all oblique, the knife should be either di-aira out at the end of the section, held quite vertically ; or, the knife being- held horizontally, the edge is brought upwards and forwards, and its point is ■made so to cut its way out suddenly at one stroke. The comeal opening should lie as large as one-thhd of the circumference of the cornea ; it had much better lie unnecessarily large, than a little too small in any case ; it is easily extended at •either end, if it should seem to be necessary, by re-introduction of the point of the knife into the anterior chamber, and cutting right or left. No conjunc- tival flap is left to cover the wound : it is doubtful if, when it has been left, 'the corneal wound heals any the better. A considerable iridectomy is as usual made (p. 448), and the lens-capsule opened (p. 447). To evacuate the lens, the back of the cinette, held horizontally, is now pressed on the globe between the lower margin of the cornea and the point below it, at which the globe is held with the fixing forceps. By moderate pressure Ijackwards, •gi-adually increasing, and by a succession of httle sliding movements from below upwards, never reaching the edge of the cornea, the upper margin of the lens wiU beg-in to protrude at the corneal opening, and dilate it : as soon as it is ■certainly ad.vancing out of the eye, the shding movements must be discontinued, and the simple, very gradually increasing backward, and upward pressure alone is to be kept up on the eye or the lens ; its largest part not having passed the •opening, may recede as well as advance alternately with each up and down movement of the curette, and the extraction might never be completed. This steady backward pressm-e is to be kept up patiently until the largest part of the lens is certainly quite outside the corneal opening, when the whole body of the lens -will probably fall aside out of the way, or it may be pushed aside, only not with the curette, for the pressure must not be altogether intermitted. At least we are no more concerned about it, and have only now to care for the ■complete remo^’al of all the softer cortical lens-matter left behind in the an- terior chamber. The curette is continuously pressing on the lower front part ■of the globe, and now again the sliding movements upwards may be recom- menced, still not reaching forwards beyond the lower margin of the cornea ; by this the viti-eous body advances stiU more, and the lower part of the iris and cornea arc brought into contact with it first, and soon, the prcssinc and uprvards sliding movements being continued, the lower margin of the pujril is seen to be quite clear and black. The curette may now be slid a little up on to the lower part of the coimea ; the opaque soft lens-matter will then rise higher, and so gradually, as it is seen to advance, and the clear pupillary space to become larger and larger, the curette pursues it until it is just all outside