F£liGUSSOiTS OPERATION FOR STAPIIYLORAPHY. 511 Fig. 018.—Wood’s Modification of Sraitli’s Gag. administered or if the patient be nervous tlic gag may bo inserted when tidmi isteie , 1 represented in the accompanying draw- irpcis tavoutod by Wood. It can taadjulicd to fit any patient by more or less widely scpar.at.ug the two '“‘‘111*6 operation as performed by Fergusson, there are folir distinct stag® 1. The miLles of the palate are divided; by passing a ciuwed lancet-ended kn fe thromdi the fissure behind the velum, midway between its attachment to the hard palate and the free margin, and about half-way between the velum and the end of the Eustachian tube. By cutting deeply with the point of the knife in this situation, the levator palati is di^dded. The uvula is then seized and drawn forwards, so as to put the posterior pillar ■of the fauces on the stretch, which is to be snipped across, so as to divide the palato-phai'yngeus. The anterior pillar, the palato-glossus, may then be notched in a similar way. 2. The next step in the operation consists in paring the edges gf the fissure from above doivnwards, by means of a shai'p-pointed bistomy. This is best done by seizing the lower ■end of the uvula, putting it on the stretch, and cutting first on one side .and then on the other, leaving the angle of union to be afterwards removed. The patient should then be allowed to remain quiet, and to gargle the mouth with cold water or to suck ice, so as to stop the bleeding; or, if under chloroform, a piece of ice fixed in a holder may be applied to the wound to check the hiemorrhage, while the fauces are frequently cleared of blood and mucus by means of sponges on sponge-holders. 3. When the bleeding is arrested, the Sm’geon proceeds to the next step, that of iatroducing the sutures; this may be done by means of a iiEevus-needle, armed with a moderate-sized thread, being passed from below upwards on the left side of the fissure, abouc a quarter of an inch from the margin ; the thread should now be seized with forceps, and one end of it pulled forwards through the fissui'e. This may again be threaded in the needle, and passed through the opposite side of the fissm’e from behind forwards through the right side ; as the point of the needle appears, the thread should agaui be seized, and the needle at the same time withdrawn ; the suture is then tied by means of the Siu'geon’s knot; and in this w^y, according to the extent of the fissure, from two to fom* sutures may be passed and tied lightly, and the knots cut close. An important im- provement in this method of passing the sutures is now very generally adopted. It consists in passing a single sutui-e through the left side of the cleft from before backwards in the usual way. A needle, having an eye at its point, I and thi’oaded with a loop instead of a single thread, is now passed through the right side of the cleft, the loop drawn through, and the needle removed. The •single suture is then slipped through the loop. This is then withdrawn, ■carrying with it through both sides of the cleft the single ligature. In this