XIV CONTENTS. in Children—Sources of Danger and Causes of Death after Lithotomy—Statistics of Mortality—Influence of Age—Of Shock—State of Kidneys-Prolonged Operation—Hemorrhage—Cystitis—Diffuse Inflammation of Areolar Tissue of Pelvis—From Cutting beyond Prostate—From Bruising and Over-Distension— Peritonitis — Sloughing.—Median Lithotomy—Histoiy — Operation — Com- parison between Median and Lateral Lithotomy—General Ease and Simplicity Hemorrhage—Wound of Bulb—Wound of Kectum—Treatment of Prostate- Manipulation of Forceps and Extraction of Stone—Indications for Median Operation. —Bilateral Lithotomy.—Medio-Bilateeal Operation.-High OR Suprapubic Operation ve.r; one Chapter LXIX.—Urikary Calculus (continued).' Lithotrity—History—Instruments—Preparation of Patient—Anesthetics—Opera- tion—Introduction of Lithotrite—Seizure of Stone—Breaking Stone—Accidents in Lithotrity—Impaction of Angular Fragments in Urethra—Chronic Enlarge- ment of Prostate—Dangers in Lithotrity—Cystitis—Atony of Bladder—Disease of Kidneys—Constitutional Disturbance—Perineal Lithotrity . . . 807—S22 Comparison between Lithotomy And Lithotrity—Statistics—Chcumstances detemiining Selection—Age—Size and Character of Stone—Condition of Urinary Organs—Choice of Operation of Lithotomy—Results of Operations for Stone— Recurrence of Calculus after Operation—Treatment 822—831 Urethral Calculus—Symptoms—Treatment—Impaction of Calculus in Urethra of Boys 831—83R Peostatic Calculus—Characters—Symptoms—Treatment .... 833—834 Calculus in the Female—Statistics—Symptoms—Removal—Lithectasy—Simple Dilatation—Dilatation with Incision—Lithotomy—Suprapubic—Vaginal—Litho- trity in the Female 834—838 Chapter LXX.—Diseases of the Bladder. Congenital Malformation — Extroversion — Treatment— Ayres’s Operation— Wood’s Operation 830—842 Cystitis—Acute—Termination—Treatment—Chronic Cystitis—Treatment—Irritable Bladder—Symptoms—Vesical Catan'h—Pathological Changes—Causes of LTita- bility—Diagnosis—Treatment—Irritable Bladder in Children—In Women 842—848 Tumours and Cysts op the Bladder : and H^ematueia—Tumours of the Bladder—Villous Tumour—Cancer—Cysts of Bladder.—Ha3MATuria—Sources —Kidneys—Bladder—Prostate—Uretlira^Treatment . . ' . • • Atony of the Bladder—Retention of Urine—Symptoms—Diagnosis—Results Treatment—Incontinence of Urine—Active—Passive—Treatment Hysterical Retention and Incontinence—Painful Conditions of the Bladder . . 852— Chapter LXXI.—Diseases of the Prostate. Prostatitis Symptoms—Treatment—Prostatic Abscess Retention of Uiine Deep-seated and Chronic Abscess . . . • ■ • ' Chronic Enlargement of the Prostate—Characters—Simple Prostatic Tumours —Mechanical Effects on Urinary Organs—Moral Effects of Enlarged ftostatc- Symptoms-Diagnosis-Retention of Urine-Treatmcnt-Prostatic Catheter- Puncture of Bladder above Pubes—Puncture through Rectum—Forcible Cathe^^^^^ terism or Tunnelling the Prostate Other Diseases of the Prostate — Atrophy — Cancer—Tubercle—Cysts Cavities—Calculi—Prostatorrhcca ’ '