CALCIFICATION OF ARTERIES. 9 SvDliiHtic Deposits in and consecutive dej?enerations of the coats of arteries are of common occurrence, and may lay the foundation ot aneurism. These syphilitic deposits in the coats of arteries must not be confounded vnth Fig. 348.—n. E.’ctenial Coat. 6. Middle Coat. c. Internal Coat, c'. Sclerosing Layer of Inner Coat, showing ahundant Cell-proliferation. c". Atheromatous Matter derived from Fatty Metamorphosis of Proliferated Cells, Oily Debris, softened Tissue-elements, and Cholesterine. c'". Deepest Layers of Inner Coat, fattj’’ but not wholly disintegrated. ordinary atheroma. They partake of the general character of the syphilitic gummata, and are most commonly met with in the large vessels. They involve the external coat, or may be deposited in plastic masses on the lining membrane. Effects.—The most important consequence of these changes in the structure of the artery is the eifect produced upon its vital properties. Instead of being an elastic resilient tube, reacting on the contained blood and serAung to regulate its distribution, it becomes inelastic, and consequently either gradually dilates in its calibre imder the influence of the outward pressime of the blood contained within it, forming perhaps an aneurism ; or, being incapable of regulating the distribution of the \ital fluid, tends to impair the supply to the organs to which it leads, and thus may occasion impairment of nutrition leading to softening, disintegration, or mortification. 3. Calcification of Arteeies comes next in order of frequency to their fatty disintegration. This change consists in the deposit in their coats of a quantity of hard and gritty earthy and saline matters, which, though commonly called osseous, present none of the true characters of bone—no trace of bone- corpuscles or of vascular canals being ever traceable in them. Microscopical examination shows them to consist of an irregular crystalline granular mass, without any evidence of organisation, composed, according to Lassaigne, of 50 parts of animal matter, 47^ of the phosphate, and 2 of the carbonate of lime in every 100. This calcification of the arterial coats is closely allied to atheroma; and indeed it would appear to have the same starting-point in many cases at least; the new growth preceding the atheroma having undergone