STRUCTURAL CHANGES IN RONE. 210 the mam artery leading to the part of the limb in Avhich the tumour is situated, all movement and bruit commonly cease in it, and the tumour lessens in size. By pressing upon the growth when it is thus diminished It will commonly bo found to have a bony margin, with a central depression more especially in those cases in which there is no malignant gTowth entering into its composition, the gTowth being apparently composed of erectile and expanded osseous tissue, filled with fluid blood. In some cases, however the tumour is fed by several arterial branches, which may be felt distinctly pulsating under the skin. This is more particularly the case when it occurs upon the bones of the pelvis and the scapula, and then the bruit and pul- sation cannot be made to cease in it. All these signs are commonly some- vhat inteimittent, appearing perhaps in the earlier stages of the disease, and disappeaiing as it advances; oi’ the reverse may occur, the pulsation and hruit becoming distinct as the disease increases in size, and meets with more resistance in its outward growth. Diagnosis.—It is of considerable importance in many cases to diagnose the different forms of pulsating tumour of bone from one another ; some being of a truly mah’gnant character, whilst others appear to consist of shnple expansion of the vascular element of the bone, with atrophy of its osseous substance ; and consequently the prognosis also in the two conditions is very different. The true osteo-aneurism has so many signs in common with the gmlsaiwg malignant tumour of bone, that in many cases it is almost impossible to effect the diagnosis ; yet it is well to bear in mind that the mahgnant form of the disease is not imfi-equently multiple, occurring, with pulsation and bruit, in more situations than one : thus I have seen growths of this kind, with their signs well marked, springing both from the pelvis and from the rihs. The true osteo-aneurism is met with only in the articular ends of long bones ; whereas the malignant disease, though commonly occurring in these situations, is also frequently fomid in other parts of the body. Besides these, there are two conditions which, in many cases, will enable the Surgeon to determine that the pulsating tumom* is an osseous aneiuism: \dz., the absence of all bruit, though the pulsation be distinct, and the detection by Arm pressiue, after the tumour has been diminished by comj>ressing the artery leading to it, of an osseous margin around its depressed centre. From ordinary aneurism the diagnosis of osteo-aneurism is, in many cases, attended by almost insuperable difficulties. So great are these, that there are many cases on record in which the most experienced Sm-geons have ligatured arteries for tumoius that were supposed to be aneurismal, but which have turned out to be pulsating growths connected with bone. A principal point to be attended to in effecting the diagnosis is the situation of the tumour, which may occur away from the ordinary sites of aneurism, in parts of the body where there is no vessel large enough to give rise to such a disease—as, for instance, about the head of the fibula or the side of the pelvis. Then, again, its incorporation with the subjacent bone, the want of a distinctly limited and circumscribed outline, and the existence in many cases of plates of bone in the wall of the tumour—giving rise perhaps, on pressure, to the peculiar rustling or crackling sound cliaracteristic of expansive bony growths —^vill enable the Surgeon to come to a conclusion as to the true natine of tlie