DISEASE OF THE HIP-JOINT. 3i6 the head and neck of the thigh-bone, resembling, and indeed being identical Nvith, tubercular deposit in other organs. This form of coxalgia is accompanied inevitably by the foimation of abscess in the soft parts around the joint, commonly on the outside of the thigh, and in the gluteal region ; the articular surfaces are eventually destroyed, and the head of the bone becomes carious and is displaced, leading to shortening and distortion of the limb ; the disease very generally terminates in death from exhaustion and hectic. Sym^iioms.—The disease usually commences veiy insidiously. It assumes a subacute character, and is chiefly met udth in young chikhen. The first symptom that usually attracts attention is, that the child limps and walks in a peculiar shuffling, hopping manner ; he does not stand firmly upon both feet, but rests on the toes of the affected hmb, the knee of which is bent. The limb will be seen to be e'S’erted, somewhat abducted, slightly flexed upon the thigh, with the knee partly bent, and apparently shorter than the other. This shortening, however, , is apparent, and not real; for on laying the child on its back, it will be found that the pelvis is placed obliquely ; the anterior superior spine on the affected side being raised to a higher level than that on the sound one, and at the same time tmmed somewhat forwards. Measurement of the hmb from this pofrit to the ankle will show that there -is no alteration in its length. The obliquity of the pelvis, which is of veiy early occmTence in diseased hip, is owing to the child lifting the foot oflT the gTOund in order to avoid pressure on it in walking or miming; and in doing this he is obliged to raise, not only the limb, but the con-esponding side of the pelvis. This apparent shortening will commonly give place, after keeping the child in bed for a few days, to a simulated elongation of the hmb ; the pelvis on the affected side descending below its natural level. At the same time that these symptoms are noticed, the child usually complains of pain in the hip, especially on pressing over the pectineus muscle, or behind the trochanter ; this is increased by standing, walking, or any attempt to bear upon the joint ; abduction also, and rotation of the hmb outwards, are particularly painful, and any concussion of it, as by striking the heel or knee, will greatly increase the suffering. At this stage of the disease, the patient wifi often refer to the knee rather than the hip as the seat of pain, and a careless Surgeon might be misled and treat the wrong joint; the more so, as there is not unfrequently a good deal of cutaneous sensibihty about the inner side of the knee-joint. This pain appears to be seated in the obturator nerve ; the articular branch of which, sent to the hip-joint, becoming imphcated in the disease, commimicates a radiating pain that is felt at the extremity of the long descending branch which is distributed to the knee. On tinning the child upon its face it will be observed that the nates are somewhat flattened, the fold being in a great measure obhterated; and, if it be a female, the labium on the affected side will be seen to be placed at a lower level than on the soimd one. As the disease advances, abscesses may form at any part in the vicinity of the joint. They most commonly occur under the glutei muscles ; but sometimes at the anterior part, under the pectineus muscle. When in this situation, they occasionally give rise to very severe suttering down the mnev side of the thigh by exercising pressure upon the obturator nerve, which may sometimes become tightly stretched over the subjacent cyst of the abscess.