226 DISEASES OF JOINTS. After tlic formation of abscess tbo prognosis is most nnfa\-oiirable, cspcciiilly when large joints such as the knee or hip are affected ; or when those are im- plicated Avhich arc important to life, snch as the articulations of the vcrtebraj; so, likcAvnsc, Avhen the articular ends of the long bones arc affected, it is seldom that the joint can recover itself, as caries or necrosis are compheating its disease and keeping it up. When the articulation is very sinuous, as in the carpus, or Avhen a number of small joints communicate with one another, if not directly by synovial membrane, at all events indirectly thi’ough the medium of ligament and of fibrous tissue, as in the tarsus, a cure can scarcely be anticipated. In aU these cases, hectic and great constitutional irritation usually come on. Pymmia is not unfrequently developed, or, the joint becoming useless or cum- bersome, its remoA'al must be practised either by excision or amputation. The result will at last in a great measure depend upon the state of the bones that enter into the confonnation of the joint. If these be sound, or not primarily affected, and the patient’s constitution has got over the effect of the occiuTence of suppuration in the joint, ankylosis more or less complete may be confidently looked for. Bnt if the articular ends of the bones be primarily or deeply impKcated, then excision or amputation will be the only alleviation. •, IWien an inflamed joint, whether it haA'e suppurated or not, appears to be disposed to undergo a cure, its repair must be facilitated by keeping it in a proper position, such as wiU be most useful to the patient in after-life, should it become stiff; the straight one for the knee and hip, and the semifiexed for the elboAV. IWien the ligaments have become softened so as to admit of lateral mobility, very special attention wiU be required to prevent displace- ment of the osseous surfaces from one another, either laterally or antero- posteriorly ; this may be produced partly by the weight of the hmb, partly by the traction of the muscles. Any neglect of proper precautions in the more- minute details of the application and adjustment of proper apparatus may be folloAved by a A’ery considerable amourut of deformity. Should the limb ah’cady unfortunately haA'e assumed a faulty position in consequence of the Surgeon neglecting to support it properly in splints in the early acute stage, the patient may be anaesthetised, and the limb sloAvly and gently placed in such a position as will be most conducive to his after-comfort. It may be useful to strap the joint firmly in the proper position, in the way recommended by Scott when it is the knee that is affected, or by means of starched bandages aa hen the hip or elbow are implicated. Scott’s plan of treatment consists in spread- ing on pieces of hnt the strong mercurial ointment, to every ounce of AV'hich a drachm of camphor has been added; strips of soap-plaster spread upon leather are then cut of a proper length and breadth, and the joint is fii-mly and accurately strapped up, the limb having previously been bandaged as- high as the joint that is strapped. This dressing may be left on for a week or two, until it loosens or gives rise to irritation ; oyer the Avhole a starched bandage may be apphed. In many cases I haA'e found it advantageous to strap up the joint Avith a plaster composed of equal parts ot the emplastrum am- moniaci cum hydrargyro, and the emplastrum saponis or belladonna. I hose applications not only fix the joint and promote the absoiption o tic matter that is deposited around it, but by acting as gentle counter-irritants.