EXCISION OF JOINTS AND BONES. arm, of Minch the annexed figure is a good representation, was left (Fig. 450) Alter a time the hand gradually inclines towards the radial side of the arm i but, although the articulation between it and the forearm is but a slender one Fig. 451.—The Badius after Eemoval. through the medium of the ulna, a very useful memlier will be left. These operations do not require any specific rules for their performance ; the bone is exposed by a long incision in the direction of, and made by slitting up, the sinuses that biuTow amongst the muscles, and is then carefully dissected out from the parts amongst which it lies; especial care being taken to presen'e the periosteum and any new bony deposits that may already have been formed. In one case in which the elbow-joint ivas involved, and the radius diseased, m- stead of amputating the hmb I obtained an excellent result by the excision of the articulation as well as of the affected bone. The patient, a builder about thirty years of age, was able, foim years after the operation, to use his hand not only in all the ordinary piuqDOses of life, but also in his trade. The Olecranon has been successfully removed in some instances ; for dis- ease by Birkett of Guy’s Hospital; and on account of non-union after fractime by NeAvman of Stamford. In each case an useful arm Avas retained. Wrist.—Excision of the Wrist is an operation that has hitherto found less favoiu’ Avith Sm’geons than the removal of other joints. Two objections have been urged against it. The first is that, when the carphs is diseased, the morbid action very often rapidly extends, AAuth gveat constitutional irritation, to all the small bones that enter into its formation ; and although in some cases a few of these may hai'e been successfully taken aAA-ay, yet methodical excision of the whole of the joint has either been attended by persistence of the disease in the soft parts, or followed by a stiff and useless hand and arm. The second objection to excision of the Avrist consists in the superficial character of the articulation, and its close connection Avith the flexor and extensor ten- dons ; hence, Avhen the AAmund cicatrises, consolidation of these and of their sheaths is apt to result, and loss of that utility of hand, the preservation of Avhich should he the great object in the performance of the operation, is entailed. I had a case, hcAA'CA'cr, in 1858, in the person of a middle-aged man, in AA'hom the Avhole of the carpus and a portion ot the bases ot the metacarpal liones Averc rcmoA'cd, and Avho recoA'cred AA'ith a A’ery useful hand, AA’ith some