395 MALIGNANT NASAL TU210UKS. may gi’ow to a lai-ge size, extending into the thi-oat, and perhaps finding its Avay from the nose into situations Avhere it is little expected. Thus it has been met Avith in the pterygo-maxillary fossa, and has been known to pass into the orbit through a hole in its inner AA’all. (See also Chapter LVII.) Malignant Nasal Tumours.—There is a remarkable and as yet unde- scribed, and to mo inexplicable, connexion between the ordinary benign nasal polypus and tumom'S of a sarcomatous, myeloid, or cancerous character, developing as a sequence of the extraction of the polyp in the large cavities and interosseous fissures in the A'icinity of the nares. I have several times seen in chilcben and young adults tumours of the above-mentioned character de- veloping rapidly in the orbit, the sphenoidal cells, or behind the superior maxilla, after the extraction of perfectly and anatomically benign nasal polypi. The questions to be soh'ed are these :—Are these tumours the result of the irrita- tion of the operation of extraction ? or are they the primary disease lying concealed and undeveloped in the deep cavities of the face, the benign nasal jAolyp being secondary in reahty, though more apparent, and consequent on the initation set up by the graver and yet latent tumour ? In whatever way futiue investigators may answer this, the fact remains certain, that a connexion does exist between the two forms of disease. I haA’e several times observed it. Tumours of rapid growth, mah’gnant in their course, (sometimes called malignant jDolypus,) either epithehal, encephaloid, or fibro-plastic, occasionally foim piimaiily in the middle or posterioi* nares. They grow rapidly, with gieat expansion of the bones, much discharge, often intense tensive pain, and bleeding, the htemoiThage being often excessive. They attack children and persons advanced in life. A tumonr of this kind may be developed in different situations. Thus, in some cases, it extends into the pharyiix behind the soft palate ; in others it has a tendency to press against, absorb, and protrude through the nasal or lachrymal bones, occasioning obstruction of the nostril divergence and protrusion of the eyeball, with disturbance of vision, and severe neuralgic pains in the head and face. A soft elastic tumour that projects at the inner side of the orbit, extending into the nose and some httle distance down upon the cheek, absorbing and destroying the bones on which it lies and giving rise to secondary deposits under the angle of the jaw, will soon ow Its true nature. These diseases, especially when occiuring in youno- people speedily pvove fatal. Death may ocom- in Tarious ways, AordL to haLuoo fr doTelopment; by ex- br^ee hx b f ‘ brain and its Lm- doneTvTnf 7^*"'' anything very effectual or permanent can be "rowths which ''' malignant or ethmoidal cehs Irt nostrils take their origin from the sphenoidal the tiLo^nr bo 1 protrusion, as it were, of a deeply seated tumour. Should Siirfronn ^ gTowth, with au absence of secondaiw deposits the siZe nose, and then ‘JmZTllk 'T