SPECIAL ANEURISMS. 86 attributable to the operation. So fixr, then, as aetual results go, it is evident that but A'ery little, if any, benefit has been derived from this operation in the gTeat majority of the cases in -which it has been done. The patients Avould probably have had an equally good, if not a better, prospect of life, if treated by palliative and constitutional means ; for it must not bo forgotten that patients -with aneurism of the innominate have been cured by such means, -which cannot be said of the operation. Added to all these considerations, there is extreme difficulty in the diagnosis, not only of the exact extent of an inno- minate aneurism, -ndiether it implicate the aortic arch or not, but whether it be an aneurism of the arch or of the brachio-cephalic. And I confess that I do not think that, however strong a iniori reasoning may be in favour of this operation, the results hitherto obtained have been such as to encoiuage a repetition of it. ANEURISM OF THE CAROTID ARTERY. Aneurismal Varix of the Carotid Artery and of the Jugular Vein, as the result of punctiues and stabs in the neck, has been met -with in a sufficient number of instances to establish the signs and treatment of such a condition ; and an instance is related by Mackmurdo, in which a communication was established between these vessels as the result of disease ; but I am not acquainted -with any case of Varicose Aneurism of these vessels having been recorded. The Signs of aneurismal varix in this situation present nothing pecidiar ; and the Treatment must be entirely of a hygienic character, no operative interference being likely to be attended by any but a fatal result. It is the more desirable not to interfere in these cases, as the disease docs not appear to shorten life. Spontaneous Aneurism of the Carotid is not of very unfrequent occiu- rence : in Crisp’s table of 551 aneiuisms, 25 were of the carotid ; and it ranks in oi’der of frequency between those of the abdominal aorta and of the sub- clavian. It occurs more frequently in the female than any other external aneiu’ism ; thus, of the 25 cases alluded to, 12 were in women, owing probably to its seldom being the result of violence, but generally arising from disease of the coats of the vessel. In Holmes’ table of 337 aneurisms, 11 were of the common carotid, 10 being spontaneous, and 1 traumatic. Three of the foimer were in women. This aneiuism is also remarkable as occurring at earlier ages than most others : thus, Hodgson has seen it in a gui of ten ; and Sykes, of Philadelphia, in one of eighteen. The right carotid is much more commonly affected than the left, and the upper portion of the vessel than the lo-v\er ; indeed, the bifui’cation is the most common seat of aneurismal dilatation. The root of the right carotid not uncommonly is dilated ; but I have ne^s er seen oi heard of a case in which the left carotid, before emerging fi'om the chest, has been affected. Symptoms.—A carotid aneurism in the early stage presents itself as a small, ormid, smooth tumour, with distinet pulsation and bruit, and a veU-ciicrmr- scribed outline. It is commonly soft and compressible, diminishing in size on irressiu’e, and expanding again with the usual aneurismal dilatation. As it increases iir size, it becomes more solid, occasions shooting pains in tic ea and neck, and, by its pressirre on the pharynx, ocsophagrrs, and larynx, pro rices