445 OFEllATION FOR CATARACT. Cataracts affecting, for the most part, only tiie cortical fibres of tbe lens, bare been called Capsular. Anterior Capsular Cataract shows of course the shape of the convex surface as it is seen in front and just behind the pupil. In Posterior Capsular Cataract, there commencing, the striae- appear concave and rather yellow, not white, because they are seen through the thickness of a lens which, by age, is yellowish, as are all old lenses, cata- ractons or not; and some of them, without being cataractous, have yet a slight haze in them, nevertheless not a commencement of cataract. Secondary cataracts, consequent upon some disease of the deeper parts of the eye, are- seen commencing in the centre of the posterior surface of the lens. Capsular cataracts are only commencing cataracts, where the opacity first appears in the cortical layers. Gej^eral Remarks on Operation.—If cataract begin as a stellate central patch in the lens (Fig. 572), of course vision is at once much interfered wdtb,. and is probably benefited by the use of atropine from time to time ; whereas,, in both these respects the reverse is true, if the striae project only towards the- centre from the circumference of the lens (Fig. 571). In any case, even the most complete, of cataract, it must be remembered that, though the fundus of the eye cannot be seen by the Surgeon, the patient can always, if the case be imcomplicated, see a bright light very well, the other eye being covered, and can at once equally tell the absence of it when the hand is before it. The “ field of vision,” also, vdthin which the patient can see the light, is not re- duced in size. The patient has not the hopeless look of blindness of an amam’otie patient; he seems to look for the light and to enjoy even such vision, of light only, as he has left to him. So it is also in any case of non- nervous blindness, in leucoma, &c. Also, in the diagnosis of a case of cata- ract to be operated on, one expects to find a pupil ready to dilate weU or to- contract, a good-sized anterior chamber,—in fact, an apparently healthy eye- hut for the cataract ; no increase or decrease of tension of the globe"; no history of foiTuer pain, and so on. Arcus senilis is no reasonable objection to- operation. Cataract, unless it be traumatic, in which case the history is our guide, and the lens becomes cloudy in a few hours or days, is, of course, com- paratively of slow fomation, very slow indeed in the senile forms ; but blind- ness or partial blindness in one eye from cataract, or indeed from any other- cause, without pain or redness, is not nnfrequently discovered suddenly and by chance, by the patient accidentally closing the other eye, with which ho- has been seeing, so that the history given us may require a complete mental rctutation, lest we be led to fear any unfavourable complication not existino- in the case. ° An incompletely opaque lens must not be operated on for its extraction if the- operation can be deferred or avoided : but it cannot be in some cases of so- called congenital cataract, in which the lens opacity is central and so large as the loss of the whole lens (see, on the other hand, Iriddesis), or in siXraWe a produced L con- practically biind tL >1 ““Plotell cataractous, to have made the patient Lml a ' ““y «sc the needle once or twice before- hand, and, the whole lens haying consequently become opaque, it may be