EXTRAVASATION OF URINE. 917 perforator too deeply, and gently to withdi-aw it before the whole of the urine has escaped, so as to prevent the emptied bladder froui collapsing upon and being wounded by its point (see pp. r>70, 571). After the bladder has been punctured, by whichever of these methods the Surgeon may think proper to adopt, means must be taken to restore the calibre of the urethra, so as to prevent the orifice of the puncture from de- generating into a permanent fistulous opening. With this view the cannula Siould be°left in the bladder, and the urine allowed to discharge through it for from four to six days. At the expiration of this time, should no urine ha^-e passed by the urethra, the stricture in the canal will be found to be relaxed, and a small instrument may usually without much difficulty be intro- duced into the bladder, where it should be retained, the cannula being Avith- drawn. The cure of the strictiu’e by dilatation may then be proceeded noth in the usual Avay. In connection Avith this subject, it may be stated that Puncture of the Bladder may be required for the foUoAAung conditions :— 1. Impermeable stricture (through rectum). 2. Complete rupture of imethra (throirgh rectum). 3. Enlarged prostate (above pubes). Extravasation of Urine is one of the most dangerous and fatal results of unreheved retention. This serious accident most commonly occurs in con- sequence of that portion of the urethra Avhich is immediately behind the strictiu’e becoming over-distended, so that it may be thinned ; and a fissm’e then forming in it, a few drops of mine escape into the surrounding areolar tissue. Some sloughing immediately ensues, the narrow apertiu’e made in the urethra becomes enlarged, and the urine is then driven with the AA^hole force of the contraction of the OA'er-distended bladder into the areolar tissue of the perinmum, scrotum, and groin. In other cases, a lacuna in the urethra infiames, an urinary abscess forms, and the urine being clilven into this, the cyst gives way, and general extravasa- tion occurs. The part of the urethra that gives way is almost invariably the membranous portion of the canal, just between the layers of the triangular ligament, where it is Aveak, being least supported by siUTOunding structures, and usually most dilated and attenuated by the pressure to which it has been subjected. The extravasated urine afterwards finds its way through the anterior layer of the triangular ligament, Avhere it is perforated by the urethra, and so beneath the deep layer of the superficial fascia of the perinieum, by Avhich its course is aftei’Avards directed. This fascia is firmly attached across the perinmiun to the free border of the triangular ligament and, along each side, to the rami of the ischium and pubes, as far upwards as the pubic spine, from Avhich point its attachments are continued outAA'^ards along Poupart’s ligament to the crest of the ilium. The extravasated urine, therefore, uniformly takes a course fonvard into the perinanim and scrotum, and upAvards upon the external organs of generation, the groins, and the anterior abdominal Avail : so that it ascends contrary to its gi’aAUty rather than soaks back into the more dependent parts of the body, as it Avould do, Avere it not for the particular connection of the fascia) that has just been alluded to. I have, hoAveA'er, knoAAUi the super-