747 SEPTW MATTER IE RELVIS OF KIJJXEY. III one case there was almost total supin'cssion for the first hour and a half, followed bj very bloody urine. In one case of internal urethrotomy, during: the first hour the urine flowed away in great quantities, and was almost free from blood. For the next six hours it was passed in moderate quantity, and Avas A'cry darkly tinged Avith blood. In all foim cases, there Avas some reason to. believe that the blood came from the kidney. It occurred after the hemor- rhage from the Avound Avould have ceased ; it Avas uniformly mixed Avith the urine, and free from clots. These cases are of course insufficient in number to draAv any conclusions from them ; but. as far as they go, they tend to shoAV that, ill all cases of operation on the lu’ethi’a, there is a miniature representa- tion of that intense congestion of the kidney Avhich is found in cases of deatli. from suppression of urine after simple catheterism. Possibly in some cases the dilatation of the vessels is preceded by a contraction of longer or shorter dm\ation, giving rise to the suppression noted aboA'e. In a healthy kidney such an attack of acute hypermmia soon passes off and does no harm ; but, supposing the kidney to be already diseased, the subacute condition may readily become acute and terminate fatally. Repeated attacks of such hyper- lemia, Avhich probably result from the irritation of a stone, or passing urine through a bad strictiu’e, Avould in aU probability be alone sufficient to lead to a ckronic interstitial change in the kidney. It is a matter of observation, that fatal affections of the kidney scarcely ever result from operations performed on the penile portion of the m-ethra. 3. The presence of Septic Matter in the Pelvis of the Kidney. This plays a most important part in producing the final acute condition which often kills the patient. In the first place, the mere presence of such an irritating sub- stance as ammomacal m’ine in the pehds of a kidney already diseased, Avould certainly intensify the existing infiammation. It seems probable, hoAvever, that in many cases the septic matter thus pent up at some degree of pressm’c (for the thick mixture of mucus, pus, and urine cannot pass the valves of the ureter aheady someAvhat obstructed by the SAV'ollen mucous membrane, and prhaps by a hypertrophied or distended bladder, so readily as healthy urine) becomes absorbed by the lymphatics of the kidney, and thus gives rise to a diffuse intertubular inflammation rapidly running on to suppuration. This wou account for the pale streaks seen running in many cases parallel to the straight tubules in the pyramids, and expanding in the cortex. Pro- a y t IS condition alone is sufficient to account for many cases of acute siippurative nephritis, but it must be remembered that suppuration of the kidney does occur, not unfrequently, in cases in which the urine in the peyis IS ee rom decomposition. Dr. George Johnson suggests that the scattered abscesses may occasionally be due to rupture of the tubules and local extraAasatioiis of urine ; and in a kidney already softened by acute interstitial lepliritis. It IS very possible that this may occim. Dr. Dickinson accounts for the abscesses by a theory of septic embolism in the A-eins, a sort of local pyiomia; the presence of the general change, and the fact that CA-ery stage is found l.eUoen comn.cncng diffuse interstitial i„fl„,„„,atio., and the MIy f„red abscesses seem to contradict this view, (ioodliart of Gny’s Hospital Iris suggested the possible connection bettveen erysipelas and snppnratiL of the kidney, and has advanced some very interestiiig evidence in fa™,r of h^L viet