855 INCONTINENCE OF URINE. the sole, or, indeed, the chief cause of the urinary disturbance that ensues. It M-ould appear probable that the air which is carried into the bladder at each introduction of the empty catheter,, gives rise to decomposition of the urine ; that this becoming ammoniacal, decomposed, and fetid, imtates the mucous membrane of the bladder ; that vesical catarrh then results ; and that thus we have the phenomena of decomposed urine, subacute cystitis, and vesical catandi, occurring in the consecutive order just given, and primarily arising from and dependent on the introduction of air, and consequent putrefaction of the urine. The pressure of the point of a catlieter retained in a paralysed bladder may also give rise to sloughing of the mucous membrane. When once a bladder has become atonic, it very rarely recovers its con- tractility completely. The regular use of the catheter becomes imperative, and will do more, by taking off the habit of retention, to favour normal con- tractility, than any medicines. The only internal remedy of any real value is strychnine, in very minute doses, long continued. The treatment of an enormously distended bladder with concmi’ing extra- vasation into, and abscess of, the perinmum, is very simple. It consists in putting the patient in the lithotomy position, introducing the left forefinger ' into the rectum, thrusting a long bistoury, edge upwards, into the mid-line of the perina3iun, until it reaches the open space occupied by pus and urine, cutting upwards for about three inches, and thus opening up the perineal suppuration and extravasation, and evacuating the over-distended bladder through the incision thus made. The double pathological condition is thus relieved by one simple fr’ee incision. After the operation, an elastic catheter may be passed by the luethra into the bladder, the end left open, attached to an India- rubber tube, and the mine thus allowed to escape. IxcoxTiXEXCE OE UErxE ai’ises from weakness of the neck of the bladder, in consequence of which there is not sufficient power to hold the contents of the organ, and the mine escapes. It may be regarded as active or passive, according as the body of the bladder retains or has lost its contractile power. Active Incontinence is most frequent in children, in whom it ocem’s dming sleep, the patient losing command over the sphincter so soon as a small quantity of urine has accumulated behind it. In many cases it is sympathetic, dependent on the irritation of piles, strictme of the methra, or stone in the bladder ; and occasionally it results from nervous causes, more particulai'ly in women of a hysterical temperament. In strumous children, nocturnal incontinence of urine is very apt to occur ; probably from the irri- tation produced by the fluid, which is generally found loaded with uric acid crystals. Passive Incontinence, or, as it has been termed by Thompson, overfloiv of urine, ocems when the bladder is in a state of atony. In such cases, the sphincter-like action of the neck may not be quite lost, so that a small quantity of urine is ejected from time to time, as it overcomes the slight resistance offered by the partial contractility of the neck. Over-distension of the bladder will occasion incontinence of urine, not from paralysis, but fr-om a kind of strain of the muscular structures of the part : in this way a patient, who from circumstances has been unable to empty his bladder for a con- siderable time, may suffer from incontinence. Incontinence or ovcrfloAv is