SPECIAL ANEURISMS. 68 SPECIAL ANEUEISMS. CHAPTER XLIY. —♦— ANEURISMS OF THE THORAX, HEAD AND NECK, i\XD UPPER EXTREMITY. ANEUBISM OP THE THORACIC AORTA. Symptoms.—The symptoms of Intrathoracic Aortic Aneimism are of tMO kinds : cmseultalory and rational. The Auscultatory Signs vary greatly in distinctness, and even in pre- sence. In some cases, more especially in fusiform aneurisms, they are almost from the first of a very marked and obvious character ; in others, especially in sacculated aneiu'isms, they are absent throughout, the aneurism terminating- fatally without its existence ha'^dng been determined by the stethoscope. They consist in miumurs of various kinds and degrees of intensity, bellows, rasping, or whizzing ; in the second soimd of the heart being audible over a greater space than normal. At the same time there may be dulness on percussion. These various signs may often be heard more distmctly upon or to the left side of the spine, than at the anterior part of the chest; when occurring anteriorly, they are chiefly met with on the right side. The ■\’alue of the auscultatory signs in the diagnosis of anem-ism within the chest is not perhaps so gi'eat as in many other thoracic diseases, in the early stages of the affection, and in those cases in which the aneurism continues small and sacculated throughout, or is so deeply seated as not to approach the parietes of the chest. This need not be a matter of siuprise, when we reflect how deeply the ascending portion of the aorta and the arch are situated ; how they are covered in front by the hmgs and loose areolar tissue, through which sound is with difficulty transmitted ; and how they are covered in behind by the spine and its muscles. M^hen, in addition to this, it is borne in mind that aneiu'isms of the arch often prove fatal by bursting into contiguous carities and canals before they have attained a size gveater than that of a walnut or a pigeon’s egg, and thus are incapable of frunishing a miumiu of any veiy maiked kind, it can be easily understood that the value of auscultation is but small in many cases of thoracic aneurism. The Rational Signs of intrathoracic aortic aneurism are of three kinds : Prcssiue-Effects ; Pulsation ; and Tumour. Pressure-Effects may be exercised on any of the contiguous structures ; and a glance at the anatomical relations of the thoracic aorta, more particulaily