924 DISEASES OF TILE URETHRA. The Treatment consists in the dilatation of the orifice by means of a two- bladed dilator (Fig. 80G). Preternatural communications between the urinary passages and the vagina commonly arise A’om injurious pressiue upon and consequent sloughing of the anterior wall of this canal, to a greater or less extent, during parturition. They may, however', occur from idiopathic abscess, or from maligirant disease involving those parts. Varieties.—Urinary vaginal fistulaj ai'e essentially of two kinds, according as the communication is established between the urethra or the fiuidus of the bladder and the vagina. Hence they may be divided into Uretloral and Vesical. Ureth.ro-Vaginal Fistulas are, so far as my observation goes, of most common occurrence ; and this is readily explained by the fact that the urethra passes along the anterior aspect of the vagina for some distance before it ter- minates in the bladder, and occupies that portion of the vaginal wall which is most hkely to be compressed, during labour, under the arch of the pubes. These fistulas are usually of small size and linear. Vesico-vaginal Fistulee estabhsh a communication between the neck or fundus of the bladder and the vagina. They are consequently situated further back than the other, and are usually larger and more ragged. Results.—The existence of a lu-inary fistula in the vagina is always a soiu'ce of serious discomfort and distress to the patient. The dribbling of urine through the preternatural aperture is generally continuous ; although, if this be situated far back behind the orifices of the imeters, it may be somewhat intermittent, a flow taking place as the lower portion of the bladder fills. The incontinence of urine thus produced gives rise to irritation and excoriation about the external parts, and occasions a strong ammoniacal odour to hang about the patient. The precise seat and extent of the fistulous opening are best ascertained by posterior and lateral walls of the vagina with bent spatulie ; when the anterior aspect of that canal wiU have a tendency to protrude, and thus to expose the fistula, at the same time that the introduction of a bent probe, or of a female catheter, into the m'ethra, wiU guide the Surgeon to the artificial opening ui the urinary passage. Treatment.—The cure of a vaginal fistula can only be accomphs e y causing a coalescence of its sides. When it is small, about a line or two in diameter, and more especially if urethral, this may best lie effected by tone un„ fLo nf t.Rp tniprinTn with the ualvaiiic cautei’y or a led-hot wn’e, an re urinary vaginal FISTULiE. placing the patient on her knees opposite a good light, and holding aside the