<>34 HERNIA. In some cases, Avliere the nipping of the strangulated intestine has been severe, yet not sufficient to an-cst permanently the peristaltic action or to destroy its vitality, constipation and retching, with nausea, may continue ; and the tmnour, if the hernia have been small and deeply seated (more particularly if lemoral), may continue to be felt, though loss tense than before ; consisting simply of the thickened and inflamed sac, with serous fluid in it. In these circumstances, we must be careffil not to operate, I have, on two or throe occasions, seen an empty sac operated on to the annoyance of the Surgeon and danger of the patient. The mistake may be avoided by observing that the symptoms gradually lessen in severity by waiting, and that the tympanitis subsides, the abdomen becoming flat and supple. The length of time during which the congestive condition of the bowel wiU continue after a strangulated portion of intestine has been reduced, is very considerable. In a case of strangulated femoral hernia W'hich was some time ago under my care, reduction was effected, but, strangulation recurring at the end of twelve days, an operation became necessary ; this was performed, and the patient died on, the eighth day after it, or the twenty-first from the first strangulation. On examination, the small intestine was found congested in two distinct portions, each of which was about eight inches in length ; several feet of healthy gut intervening between them. One of these eongested por- tions lay opposite the wound, and was evidently the intestine that was last strangulated. The other was altogether away from the seat of operation, but was equally darkly congested, being almost of a black colour, and was clearly that portion which had been constricted some time previously; and which, although twenty days had elapsed, had not as yet recovered itself. When a second strangulated hernia exists it, of coiu’se, must either be reduced by the taxis, or the operation practised on it. After the taxis has been fairly employed for a sufficient time, and has not succeeded in reducing the hernia, the operation must be proceeded with. It is impossible to lay down any definite rule as to the time that it is prudent to continue efforts at reduction; but it may be stated generally that, after the different adjuvents of the taxis Avhich the Siu’geon may think it desirable to apply have been fairly tried and have failed, the operation should be under- taken without further delay. There are few Siu’geons who 'wiU not at once acknowledge the truth of the remark of the late Hey of Leeds—that he had often regretted perform in g this operation too late, but never having done it too earlv. It is true that cases are occasionally recorded, in which after foiu- or five days of treatment the hernia has gone up ; but it is very rare to meet with such cases in practice; and, in all probability, in delaying the operation in the hope of finding one such case, the lives of dozens of patients would be sacri- ficed. Luke has shown, as the result of the experience at the London Hospital, that the ratio of mortahty increases greatly in proportion to the length of (time during which the strangulation is allowed to continue. Of GO cases of straugu- lof^ri nomio nnorni.Pfl imnn wlthiu the fii’st 48 hours of strangulation, 12 died.