DISEASES OF THE BREAST. 590 bo owing to some portion of the cystic structure having been left in the first | operation, or to the development of now cysts in the site of the former ; but to < which cause it is referable, is still uncertain. The repeated recurrence of these v, cystic tumours is very remarkable. Cassar Hawkins relates a case in which the growths had to be removed eight times for as many roeuiTonces. After the j removal of the cystic sarcoma, a recurrent tumour of cancerous character is sometimes developed in the cicatrix, even in cases in which there is good reason to belicA'C that there has been no carcinomatous element in the primary disease. Yet in other instances it is doubtless owing to the cancerous degene- ration of the cystic growth, which may originally have been benign, but in which a malignant action has established itself before removal. Sangximeous Cysts are occasionally met Avith in the mamma. They present the ordinary characters of cystic development, but are sometimes accompanied by bleeding from the nipples, and, when tapped, ai’e found to contain dark thin grumous fluid. Vamous hare TmiouRS.—Besides these tumom-s, the breast is occasionally the seat of other morbid growths ; for instance, flbrous, osseous, and cartila- ginous masses have been met with. AU these affections, however, are of extremely rare occurrence ; and, when they form, it is almost impossible to determine their true nature until after removal. Their extirpation is usually jn-actised on account of the obscurity attending the diagnosis, and the fact of their commonly being mistaken for cancerous growths. The most important of these, perhaps, is a Recurrent Fibrous tumour, Avhich shows a remarkable tendency to retin-n after removal. This it may do many—as often as eight or ten—times. Sir A. Cooper describes a Scrofulous Tumour of the breast; the precise natiu’e of which is not very apparent from the account given by that great i Sui-o-eon. It is not improbable, hoAvever, that it is of tuberciflous character ; | and Velpeau states that he has found tubercle occurring in the breast in j two forms : in the first, primarily deposited in the skin and subcutaneous I cellular tissue ; and in the other, as a fibro-tuberculous affection of the gland itself. . Hydatids of the breast are of rare occurrence, and have been principally described by Sir A. Cooper ; cases have also been related by Griife and others. These hydatid tumoiu-s are so excessively rare and obscime, that their true natui-e would not, in all probability be suspected until after removal. They present the ordinary characters of deeply seated cysts, Avith fluctuation and some induration round the globular swelling, and an absence of pain. In such a case, an incision into the tiimoim AAdll cause the escape of the acephtdocysts, and the ultimate suppuration of the cavity in which they lodged, which aaiII gradually cicatrise. , i j. -ii In some rare cases, tumoiu'S containing Foetal Remains haA^e been met AAutli in the breast: these, however, are rather matters of pathological curiosity than , of practical importance. CANCEB OP THE BREAST. All the various forms of cancer haA^e been met with in the breast; sciiibns, however, occurs Avith far greater frequency than any of the other varieties.