PLASTIC SURGERY OF THE PALATE. 5oc> on each side of the chin ; and anotlier incision, c J), npAvards and outwards parallel to, and coiTcspondin" in length to, A n. The flaps formed by these incisions are represented in Fig. (31 r>. They arc detached from their subjacent Buclifuiiui’s OpGi*iitioii for the Restorutioii of the Lom er Lip. connections ; and the whole is raised upwards, so that the original elliptical incision comes into a horizontal line, and is made to constitute the margin of the new lip ; the secondary incisions under the jaw coming together in a vertical direction, in which they are retained by twisted and interrupted sutm’cs (Fig. 616). Syme recommended a somewhat different mode of operating. Instead of making the incisions c D, he carried those marked B c onwards for some distance in a direction ciu’ving downwards and outwards, so that they terminated below the angles of the jaw. The flaps so formed were raised and united in the middle line, as in Buchanan’s operation, the A-shaped portion of skin above the chin serving to maintain them in position and prevent their sliding downwards. The long curved incisions enabled this to be done by merely stretching the convex edges of the flaps, -without sufficiently displacing them to prevent their readily meeting the concave edges of intervening skin, and beiug united to them by sutures. No surface ■was therefore left to granulate, and the whole wound has healed by the first intention. PLASTIC STJRGBKT OF THE PALATE. Various degi-ees of congenital deformity may occui- in the palate and uvula: thus the uvula alone may be bifid, or the cleft may extend through the greater part of the whole of the soft palate ; or the hard palate may be di-vided as well (Fig. 61?); and, lastly, the separation may extend forwards to the integuments of the face, producing single or doiflflo hare-lip (Fig. 604). The soft palate and uvula arc not unfrequently cleft without tlie hard palate being divided ; and, in some ■v^ery rare cases, the lip and the hard palate fissured without the soft one being cleft. Ihese malformations necessarily give rise to j^cat inconvenience, by interfering with deglu- tition, and rendering speech nasal and imperfect. bit.—rissuio of iinrd mui soft During the swallowing of fluids, there is a tendency to regurgitation through the nose, though this is occasionally