724 DISEASES OF THE LARGE INTESTINE AND ANTIS. AVhcn of small size and recent formation, external piles do not m general give rise to much distress, but merely some local heat, pricking, and Itching, with a sense of fulness after defecation ; but when of largo size’ and inflamed or irritated, they may occasion very acute suffering. There is not only deeply seated, dull, aching and throbbing paiir in the pile itself, but this shoots up the side of the rectum, through the perinaeum, and into the nates, and is much increased when the patient stands or walks. After a few days these symptoms subside ; suppm’ation either taking place in the pile, or the blood contained in it coagulating. The parts are, however, left in a thickened and indurated state, and do not really resume their former soft and flaccid condition, effusion of plastic matter taking place into the areolar tissue, and the contained blood perhaps coagulating, so that the tumour can no longer be emptied by pressure, assuming the form of a broad, rounded, or indurated mass. Internal Piles.—When the pile is situated altogether within the verge of the anus, it is called internal; of these there are two principal varieties, the Longitudinal and the Globular. The Longitudinal, or, as it is sometimes called, the Fleshy pile, is generally met mth about an inch or two up the rectum. It is spongy, elastic, firm, or tough, of a dark reddish or dusky brown tint, taperiug upwards from a broad base. It seldom bleeds or varies much in size ; between the piles are found small curtains, valves, or folds of mucous membrane, forming sacculi or pouches, with their concavities looking upwards. These sacculi are apt to become distended and pressed downwards by the ffeces, especially if the motions be hard and the bowels have been constipated, thus giving rise to a tendency to prolapsus. When the hsemoiThoid assumes a Globular form, it constitutes the ordinary bleeding pile. It may be situated on a broad base ; or, as not unfrequently happens, its point of attachment to the mucous membrane becoming elongated, it assumes a pedunculated shape, hanging downwards into the cavity of the rectum. It is of a dark bluish colour, and numerous small vessels of a brighter hue than the body of the pile may be seen ramifying on the mucous membrane investing it. Its surface is at first smooth and shining, and may continue so throughout, being covered vdth a thin and dehcate prolongation of the lining membrane of the gut. Not unfrequently, however, superficial ulceration takes place, and then it has a granulated strawberiy-hke appearance. Synyptoms.—Internal piles are usually attended by a sensation of heat, itching, pricking, or smarting about the anus, and a feeling as if there were a foreign body within the gut. After defecation these sensations are increased, and are often accompanied by a bearing down, as if the bowel wore not emptied of its contents, that is peculiarly distressing and sickening. This is occasioned by the piles, or the elongated and condensed mucous membrane to Avhich they are attached, being protruded during the expulsion of the fieces, and not retiu’ning sufficiently quickly, being grasped by the sphincter ani and constricted by it. This feeling of discomfort and bearing down is much increased, if the patient stand or walk much after having had a stool, or if he have a confined state of the bowels. If this state of things be not jKopcrly attended to, the symptoms become increased in severity; the bearing-doun