615 SIGNS OF HFjRNIA. sac • which lias been cut off from all communication with the peritoneum either by the radical cure of the hernia, or by the adhesion of intestine or omentum to the upper part and neck of the sac, it must he considered a rare disease , Lul hut few cases are recorded by surgical writers. Cui;^ing, m his woik 011 the 7VS//6-, states that, during his connection with the London Hospital, he S.1U- milv one case • and the only others with Avhich I am acquainted, besides one that occurred in my own practice, are two related by Pott, two by Pelletan one by Boyer, and one by Lawrence. This disease must not be confounded with the accumulation of fluid, in whatever quantity, in strangulated henna, or in hernial sacs that communicate with the peritoneal cavity. Its dis- tinmiishiiig feature is the accumulation of fluid in a sac that has been cut off fi-om all communication with the cavity of the peritoneum. An Accumulation of Ascitic Fluid in a Hernial Sac may occur when hernia is complicated with dropsy of the peritoneum. In one case of this kind which occurred in my practice at University College Hospital, the hernia, which was femoral, in a woman, was very tightly strangulated, as large as a shaddock, very tense, ivith distinct fluctuation ; the skin covering it being much stretched, this was pecidiarly evident. On opening the sac, fluid followed in a jet, as if a hydrocele had been punctured, and about four inches of strangled gut were found lying at the bottom of the sac. After dividing the stricture, serous fluid in large quantity continued to drain from the peritoneal cavity for several hoins after the operation. Loose Foreign Bodies have occasionally been met with inside hernial sacs. They are usually rounded, smooth, and firm; vary in size from a pea to a chestnut; and are mostly single. On section, they are foiuid to consist of a fatty central nucleus with a laminated fibrous envelope, usually of considerable thickness. They are apparently composed of one of the glandulee epiploicte, which has become detached, fallen loose into the peritoneal caHty, and become enveloped in plastic layers. SiGXS.—The signs of hernia, though varying considerably according to the contents of the sac and the condition in which it is placed, present in all cases many points in (common. There is an elongated or rotmded tumour at one of the usual abdominal apertures, broader below than above, where it is often naiTowed into a kind of neck ; usually increasing in size when the patient stands, holds his breath, coughs, or makes much muscular exertion. It can be pushed back into the abdomen on pressure, or goes back readily if the patient lie down, but reappears Avhen he stands up. On coughing, a strong and distinct impulse may be felt in it. When the hernia is altogether Intestinal, it is usually smooth, gurgling when pressed upon, sometimes tympanitic and rumbling, and resonant on percussion. It may be returned into the cavity of the abdomen Avith a distinct slip and gurgle ; it has a Avell-marked impulse on coughing, and is usually accompanied l)y various dyspeptic symptoms, and often Avith much dragging uneasiness. Omental Hernia is usually soft and doughy, returning sloAvly on pressure into the abdomen, feeling irregular on the surface, and httAung an ill-defined outline. It occurs most frequently on the left stde, and is rare in infants, in Avhom the omentum is short. In Entero-epiplocele there is a combination of the two conchtions and their signs ; but these arc usually so uncertain, that feAV