OPEFiATIONS FOR INCOMPLETE INGUINAL HERNIA. 66r may be reduced, its strangulation depending on the of this aperture’; most commonly, however, the stricture is situated deeper th;m •this The cremasteric fascia, which is generally considerably tluckened, is now oxnosed when its fibres will be found to form a kind of reticulated mesh over the hernial timiour. This structure must be cai’efully divided upon a director, >vhen the trausversalis foscia and subserous areolar tissue, ov fascia pro])na,yn\\ Ije laid bare. This structure is usually thickened and vascular, and not unfre- ouently the stricture appears to be situated in it, or in a kind of condensed ring formed by the incoi-poration of it with the meshes of the cremaster. If it be found, after the division of these faseije, that the hernia can be reduced, it wouM of coiu*sc be uimecessary to lay open the sac ; and the safety of the patient will be considerably enhanced, more particularly if the operation be perfoimed for 4111 old scrotal hernia of large size, by not doing so. If, however, as will happen in the majority of instances in inguinal hernia, it be found that the stricture is in the neck of the sac itself, occasioned by a condensation, constriction, and puckering of it, the sac must be carefully opened at its anterior part, the finger introducSl, and the stricture divided from within, by pressing the finger-nail under it, and cautiously sliding the hernia-knife along this. It is an established xule in sm-gery, that this division should be effected in a direction immediately upwards, so that it may lie parallel with the epigastric vessels, whether it be .situated upon the inner or outer side of these. It is true that, if the Sm'geon <iould be sine that he had to do mth an oblique inguinal hernia, he might safely <livide the stricture outwards ; or, if he were certain that the protrusion was of the direct kind, he might make the section inwards ; but, as it commonly hap- pens that he cannot determine with absolute certainty upon which hernia he is operating, he adopts the safer plan recommended by Sir A. Cooper and Lawrence, of cutting upwards from the middle of the ring parallel to the epigastric vessels. The Seat of Stricture in inguinal hernia ^will thus be seen to differ in •different cases ; and in some instances it exists in two situations. I think it most commonly ocem’s in the neck of the sac, oiving to contraction and elonga- tion of it, mth condensation of the subserous ai-eolar tissue lying immediately upon it. In other cases, though much more rarely, it seems to be formed by a thickeniug of the trausversalis fascia in the inner ring, but altogether outside the sac. Occasionally it is met ivith in some part of the canal, at the lower •edge of the internal oblique, but much more frequently at the external abdominal ring. In many cases there is very tight constriction in this situation, as well as in the deeper portions of the canal, or at the inner ring ; hence, after the division of any stricture at the external abdominal ring, the deeper portions of the canal should always be carefully examined before any attempt is made to put the hernia back. The operation for an Incomplele Inguinal Hernia requires to be conducted in the same way as that which has just been described, except that the incision ueed not be quite so long, and should not extend beyond the external ring. After this, has been laid open, and the tendon of the external oblique slit up, a flat director must be passed under the lower edge of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles, which must be carefully divided ; should the stricture not be relieied in this way, and the sac require to bo laid open, the deep section