146 SPECIAL ANEUIilSAIS. between the middle of the fifth lumbcar vertebra and the middle of thcsaerum, both points inclusive ; and if it be notin this situation the division will probably be lower down. The length of the vessel varies gveatly ; aecording to Quain, in five-sevenths of the cases it ranged between one-and-a-half and three inches! Results.—Writing in 1852,1 stated that Avhen we look at the depth at which this artery is situated, its great size, and proximity to the centre of the eircu- lation, and consider the force with which the blood rushes through it, we can- not but be struck with the success which has attended its ligatui-e. Of 17 cases in which it had been tied, 8 were cured, and ‘J died ; in 11 of the cases the ligature was applied for aneurism, and of these 7 recovered. The 4 that died j)crished rather from the magnitude and extent of the disease than fr’om the effects of the operation ; and it is remarkable, as shoudng the power of the anastomoses in maintaining the vitality of parts, that in no instance did gan- grene ensue. Since this period the operation has been performed many times, but with much less satisfactory results. Stephen Smith, of New York, published the statistics of this operation in 1860, giving the details of 32 cases ; of these, he says, 25 died and only 7 recovered. I think the numbers should be 24 and 8 ; as in one case (Bushe’s), the patient (an infant) died two months after the operation, the ligature having separated and the artery being- occluded and thus the deligation having succeeded. Gurlt of Berhn, in repro- ducing Smith’s tables, adds 2 cases, both fatal. To these must also be added a fatal case by Dugas, of Charleston, and five in which the operation has, Avithiu the last few years, been performed in this country ; once by Bicker- steth of Liverpool; once by Syme, in a remarkable case of iliac aneurism, in which that distinguished Surgeon laid open the sac and tied the arteries (the common, external, and internal iliacs) opening into it—both successful; once by Hargrave of Dublin, whose patient died on the seventy-third day after the operation, of gangrene of the foot and profuse discharge from the wound ; and once by Maunder, the patient, a man forty years of age, dying on the sixth day from gangrene of the loAver extremity ; by Morrant Baker in a youth of 17, for hEemorrhage from a branch of the internal iliac, consequent on ulceration produced by sacro-iliac disease—fatal on the day folloAAung the operation. These cases increase the total number to 40, of which 10 recovered and 30 died ; in 9 of the cases the peritoneum was wounded, and of these 8 proved fatal. Of 14 cases in which this vessel Avas tied for htemorrhage, 13 proved fatal; the majority of the recoveries took place after operation for aneurism—^which con- stituted about half of the cases. Treatment by Compression has been successfully apphed to aneurism of the iliac arteries. The compression must be apphed to the aorta by means of Lister’s tourniquet (Fig. 65), as in the treatment of aneurism of the abdominal aorta (p. 137). A considerable number of cases have now been cmed by these means. They have already been referred to when treating generally of the subject of compression of the arteries for cure of aueiu'ism. j\Iiu-ray insists on the importance of complete arrest of the circulation in these cases, so that not the shghtest current of blood should pass through the sac. One of his cases Avas cured in three-quarters of an hour. One of Heath s (of New- castle) consolidated in twenty minutes. LaAvson in one case applied two tour- niquets—one to the abdominal aorta, the other to the femoral beloAV the sac.