739 CAUSES OF nyPEHTROniY OF BLADDER. the increased power of the bladder proved ecpml to the occasion. When dila- tation is found combined with hypertrophy, we must conclude that increased power was required to expel the urine, but the increase of muscular tissue was not quite sufficient, and that the bladder suffered frequently from over-disten- sion. When dilatation alone is found with scarcely any hypertrophy, avc know either that the bladder has been paralysed, or that the obstruction to the exit of urine was vahailar in nature, so that increased force applied to the contents of the bladder could .only shut the valve more closely; and over-distension, with such an amount of stretching of the neck as to render the valve incom- petent, was the only means by Avhich urine could be passed without artificial aid. This last condition is peculiar to prostatic disease, and some cases of tumour of the bladder. In aU cases of great hypertrophy of the muscular walls of the bladder, the bundles of fibres form ridges on the surface, giving rise to the condition known as faschulaibn. In many cases in which great pressm’e has frequently existed in the bladder, either from the forcible contraction of its hypertrophied walls on the contained urine, or fr’om simple over-distension ■from retention arising fr'om a valvular obstruction in the prostate, the mucous membrane becomes thrust between the bundles of muscular fibres, so forming pouches called saccuU. These sacculi are most fr’equent in the posterior part of the bladder, and, in most cases, their walls are composed merely of mucous membrane and peritoneum. Sometimes, however, a layer of muscular fibres is also found. These sacculi form pouches in Avhich putrid urine accumulates, and frequently gives rise to in^ammation of the mucous membrane, sometimes ending in ulceration, and possibly perforation of the bladder. Much more often it gives rise to attacks of local peritonitis, and portions of intestine may so become glued to the bladder. (Sec also Chapter LXX.) The causes which give rise to an increased demand for force in expulsion of the mine, and consequently to hypertrophy of the bladder, are various. The most common is perhaps obstruction in the urethra from stricture. In some cases it may arise fr-om an in-egular enlargement of the prostate in which the obstruction is not valvular in character. Villous growth and other tumoius of the bladder may call for increased force, from partially obstructing the orifice of the urethra. Chronic cystitis, fr-om the alteration it produces in the cha- racter of the urine, always causes more or less hyiDertrophy. Stone in the bladder causes obstruction to the flow of urine, partly mechanically and partly by the chronic cystitis to which it usually gives rise. The thick ropy mucus of chronic cystitis luidoubtedly offers very considerable obstruction to the flow of urine. All these causes, therefore, may give rise to more or less hypertrophy. J.here is no evidence that mere frequency of action plays any important part iu the production of hyiiertrophy. In the few recorded cases in which there wa.s peat frequency of mictiuition with healthy urine in cases of calculous pyelitis, no mention is made of any marked hyjiertrophy. There is every reason to believe tliat hypcrtropliy of the bladder plays a IS ev( very important part in the production of kidney-disease. In no case, as the xahes of the ureters incompetent. In the simple dilatation from valvulai- obstructip an the prostate, they are closed more firmly than natural No guigitation takes place, but of course the pressure in the ureters and kidneys 3 11 2