470 DISEASES OF TEE JAWS AND THEIR APPENDAGES. jaw (Fig. 575). It appears chiefly to be occasioned by the iratation of decayed stumps, and hence occurs more frequently in connection Avith the molar than with the incisor teeth. Although this disease has occasionally been seen in children, it seldom occurs before the adult age, and then may be developed at any—even up to an advanced—period'of hfe. It is seen then I as often among females as males. A fibrous epulis appears as a red, smooth, and lobulated timiour, at first hard and semi-elastic, like the ordinary structm'e of the gum, but after a time softening by disintegration, and ulcerating on the surface, with a pinmlent or sanious dischai’ge. The fibrous variety appears simply to be a circumscribed and rapidly growing hypertrophy of the gum. Treatment.—The treatment of epulis consists in the removal of the Avhole of the mass and of that portion of the alveolus from which it springs. As it evinces a great tendency to reproduction, it must not simply be shaved off the bones, but a portion of the osseous structure must be removed as well; unless this be done, the growth Avill to a certainty be reproduced. In all ordinary cases of simple epulis, the remoA’al may be done fr’oni the inside of the mouth Avithout the necessity of making any incisions through the cheek. In very large masses of epulis, more particularly of the myeloid variety, and extending towards the ramus, it may be necessary either to carry an incision from the angle of the mouth doAvnwards and outwards, or to dissect up the cheek from the bone, and thus expose the disease fully. In perform- ing the operation, the first thing to be done is to extract a tooth on each side of the timioiu'; a cut must then be made with a saAV through the alveoli of the teeth that haA^e been removed, down to a level AAith the base of the growth. In doing this, care must be taken not to cut too near the remaining teeth, lest the ahnoli be opened and their support lost. If the tumour be large, it may be necessary to saw deeply; but the base of the lower jaAv should, AA'henever practicable, be left intact, the whole of its snb- stance not being sawn through, so that, though a considerable portion of bone be remoA’ed, yet the length of the jaw may be preserved. For this pm’pose Hey’s saw should not be used, as it is a niggling instrument, difficult to manage in this situation ; but a straight and stiff-backed saAV, with as deep a blade as the mouth AA'ill coiiA'eniently admit, AAdll be found most useful (Fig. 415). The epulis, included between two vertical cuts, may now, if small, be removed with cross-cutting forceps, and the bleeding stopped by placing a plug in the Avound and comj)ressing it against the teeth of the upper jaw by means of a bandage passed under the chin. If the epuhs be large, a horizontal cut shoidd be made along the bone about midAA'ay betAAnen the alveolus and the base, by means of Key’s saw; and, after the bone has been penetrated to a sufficient depth, the blade of the cross-cutting forceps may be fixed^ in this cut, and the diseased part then removed. Should there be a spouting dental artery, it may be necessary to apply a red-hot wire, or the perchloridc i of iron, in order to arrest its bleeding. The cut surface will speedily granu- late ; and the cavity fills up Avith fibrous tissue. The operation for the removal of epulis is a very safe one. Of 28 cases collected by Hutchinson from different London Hospitals, only one aaus fatal, from pya3mia. Malignant Epulis.—Cancerous ulcers and fungus sarcomatous gTOAvths Irom the alveolar processes, malignant epuhs, as they arc called, occui in tlie same