OPHTHALMIC SURGERY. 428 to attend well to tlie Surgeon’s wishes in directing his eyes. Children with or without chloroform or bichloride of methylene will not give us this assistance, and they therefore at least should always have the anaesthetic. The operation being over, and it being found that the tenotomy has been satisfactorily done, a piece of lint Avetted with cold Avater, and a round holloAv sponge or some wool dipped in the same, are at once tied tightly over the eye, Avith a strip of common bandage fastened behind the opposite ear in a knot. In six hours the lint, sponge, and bandage may be left off (the fear of “black eye,” or much ecchymosis, being jjast), the tAvo eyes may be un- covered and brought into use together (for distant objects as much as possible), and the eyes only bathed with lukewarm water as often as the patient may desire it. Tenotomy, as concerns the muscles of the eyes, is hardly ever done but for the cure of one or other of the kinds of squint actually existing. It is, how- CA*er, desirable to divide the external rectus tendon in some cases of muscular asthenopia (insufficiency of the internal rectus muscles) as AveU as of external strabismus ; and several of the tendons (sometimes in the same eye of the same patient) have been divided in cases of oscillating globes ; and the upper, inner, and outer tendons have been cut when an artificial pupil has been made necessarily at the upper margin of the cornea, so as to Aveaken the opponents of the inferior rectus. OPERATIONS ON THE EXTERIOR OP THE GLOBE. Pterygium.—This is not a common disease in England. The cases which we have seen have been in adult men, sailors, perhaps foreigners. The disease •consists in an hypertrophy of some portion of the ocifiar conjunctiva and .subconjunctival tissues, consequent upon some long previous chronic irritation or inflammation ; and as the vessels of this mucous membrane pass to or from the centre of the globe in front, radiating in all directions, it has a triangular shape, of Avhich one angle is at or approaches to the centre of the cornea, just as much as the vessels of a chronic ulcer of the cornea following phlyctenular ophthalmia, which folloAVS one of the exanthemata, have a Avide circumferen- tial origin, and are definitely bounded on each side, ending as it were at one point or apex—the ulcer itself. So it is in what has been called fascicular keratitis,” though the vessels are not collected in a bundle in it, but oonA^erged. Pterygium is to be got rid of, because it Avill always steadily advance up to the centre of the cornea, and so, to some extent, interfere Avith vision ; and very much too, if, as is not uncommon in these cases, more than one ptery- gium should form in the same eye, and, advancing fr’om different directions hi the circumference, meet in the centre, towards which the apex of the gTmvth is alAvays directed ; or if, as is not common, a pterygium should advance from beloAV upwards. The growth is also to be removed, because it is a conspicuous deformity, easily remediable, so that at least only an irregular Avhitish scar is left in its place. A pterygium should be removed in any stage of its gi’O" • At fii'st, it is but little redder than the suiTounding conjunctiva, and hu-cly at all raised above the conjunctiA'al surface. It has then been c< e a branous pterygium.” Afterwards it becomes ACiy muc moic vascu.