DISEASES OF THE TESTIS AND CORD. 978 01 smgical treatment can do little. In other cases it arises from exhaustion of the nervous system by habitual physical or mental exertion, by excessive sexual indulgence, o^•er-training, or study, caiTied to too great and injurious a degree. Complete absence of seminal secretion—Asperma—except in cases of atrophy or absence of the testes, must be especially rare. In a patient of mine who died at 51 years of age, and who, according to his oivn and his wife’s account, had heen completely impotent for the twenty-four preceding years, spermatozoa in considciable (quantities weic after death found in the testes, which were carefully examined with the view of ascertaining whether they ever secreted semen. SrEniLiTY in the male is a condition that has attracted some amount of attention of late years. It is, of course, not unfrequently connected with, and probably dependent on, the same conditions that give rise to the various forms of sexual debility that have just been described. But it may occm- inde- pendently of any of these states, in individuals, indeed, who are possessed of a very considerable amount of sexual desire and vigour. It would appear to be due to some morbid condition of the seminal fluid, in consequence of which the spermatozoa are either absent, or are possessed of insufficient vitality to effect impregnation. The causes of this condition are very obsem-e ; but over- indulgence in sexual intercourse appears to be amongst the most frequent. It would seem as if each individual were endowed with a certain given amount of procreative power, which, if early exhausted, or habitually wasted in indis- criminate intercourse, cannot be restored. Hence, polygamists in the East, or theii’ Western congenera, do not propagate, as a rule, more than the average number of children. Amongst organic causes of this state, chronic epi- didymitis appears to be the most frequent (p. 943). The only Treatment that can be adopted with any prospect of success, is in the one case prolonged avoidance of sexual excitement, and in the other the removal of local disease existing in the urethra or testis, such as stricture, or thickening or condensa- tion of structure, by the long-continued use of absorbent remedies on general principles. Tonics are valueless in such cases. In conclusion I need scarcely say that, in the treatment of that general melancholia or hypochondriasis that accompanies these various affections, much good may be effected by means that directly influence the spirits and the mental condition of the patient. He should be encoimaged to travel, to occupy himself with healthy out-door pursuits and amusements, to take regular exercise, to avoid all enervating habits ; and, above all, his mind should be cheered by the hope of eventual cure. Should there be any local disease, such as balanitis, qffiimosis, or varicocele, that should be subjected to treatment or operation.