DEFORMITIES. !74 Fig. 533.—Drill for Ankylosed Joint. —- Fig. 532.—Drill for Aiilcylosed Knee. long, fitted M-ith a solid and rounded handle (Fig. 532). The point is J-th of an inch in breadth, and has on each side an olfiiqne groovcVith cutting’‘edo-es, so that it acts as a gouge as ivell as a drill. The interior of the" obliterated articulation is reached by making an incision about half an 'inch long on the outer side of the limb, at the line of juncture betn'een the condyles of the femur and the tibia. The drill is then Avorked through, until its end can be felt under the integuments on the oppo- site side of the limb. The instrument must noAV be worked in such a manner as to break down the osseous adhe- sions between the femur and the tibia on the one hand, and the patella on the other. The patella is sometimes best loosened by using the drill as a leA’e;’. When the bones have been sufiiciently perforated in different directions, the limb must be extended, AA'hen the re- maining osseous connections AviU give way Avith a cracking noise. The wound in the integument is then closed Avith silver sutures and col- lodion, and the limb laid on a pilloAV. In three or four days it may be put in a McIntyre splint, and gradual extension practised, the soft parts posteriorly sloAvly yielding. Bony union wiU then take place ; but it is a decided advantage Avhen the limb is stiff for the knee not to lie quite straight, but slightly flexed, so that the leg may be about an inch .shorter than the opposite limb. This operation, it aauU be seen, is in many respects superior to those of Barton and Buck ; for whilst bringing the limb into an equally good position, it does so by a comparatively slight and subcutaneous procedine, unattended by any danger of hEemorrhage or of complications arising from an extensive external Avouud. The nine cases in which it has been done were all successful. These various perforating operations appear hitherto to haA’e been confined to the knee-joint. But there can be little doubt that they might advantageously bo extended to other joints, Avhen affected by osseous ankylosis, more particu- larly in the elbow and the hip. In angular conti'action of the knee-joint AAith dislocation of the tibia backwards, Volkmann has improved the condition of the limb and materially coivected the deformity, by cutting across the femur just aboA'e the condyles, and in one case by doing the same to the tibia just below its head. This he recommends to be done Avith a chisel, the Avoimd being dressed antiseptically. Ankylosis of the knee in the strciifiht ‘posihon interferes comparatively little Avith the utility of the limb. It is, hoAA'eA'er, desirable, AA’hen jiracticable, to restore the flexibility of the joint. The possibility of doing this Avill depend on the dcgi’ee of ankylosis. If this be osseous, or even if densely fibrous, little can be done ; but if the rigidity depend chiefly on condensation of the capsule, and the deposit of plastic matter externally to the joint, much may bo