treatment of organic stricture. 893 this instrument enables it to pass readily drawino- it the shoulder hitches on any nan-ow pait The mstiument should be gi-aduatcd in inches, so that the exact distance of the stricture ftom the orifice can be readily determined. If it be desired to recognise more acciu'ately the seat of the stricture, the distance of the orifice of the bladder from the meatus externns must fii-st be determined by carefully passing a graduated catheter d l)Oule, and noting the exact moment at which the urine commences to flow. The graduated olive-headed sound is then passed, and slowly withdrawn. If the hitch or cling be felt between one inch and one and three-quarters, the stricture is in the mem- branous part. If between one and three-quarters and three inches, it is in the bulbous portion. For the purpose of measuring these slight stric- tures, Otis, of New York, has invented an instru- ment which he calls the “urethrometer ” (Fig. 802). It consists of a straight tube, the end of which can be dilated into a sort of fenestrated sphere, and the size to which it is dilated is registered on a small dial on the handle. The instrument can be readily introduced into the bladder if necessary, but there is no advantage in so doing. When in the urethra. Fig. SOO.— Conical-heacled Sound. Fig. SOI.— Olive-headed Sound. behind the stricture, the bulb is gradually expanded till it is just held, but not tightly gvasped. It is then drawn steadily forward, and when it is stopped the bulb is gradually diminished till it passes the stricture. The exact size of each part is thus registered on the dial. The employment of soft wax bougies has been recommended with the view of taking a mould of the size, shape, and direction of the stricture, by pressing the end of the instrument into it; but no possible advantage can be derived from this proceeding, and a Surgeon accustomed to the use of metallic instru- ments can obtain all this information with more certainty by the finer touch afforded by them. Treatment.—The treatment of organic stricture of the urethra may be con- ducted by the following methods :—1, Gradual Mechanical Dilatation ; 2, Con- tinuous Dilatation; 3, Caustics; 4, Forcible Expansion or Rupture; o. Internal Urethrotomy ; 6, External Urethrotomy or Perinmal Section. What- ever plan of treatment be adopted, the Surgeon must bear in mind that his operations have to be conducted upon a tender canal endowed with exquisite