628 I JIEllNIA. iu the part, which speedily extends to the contiguous portion of tlie abdomen,, assuming the characters of peritoneal inflammation. a''he first thin<>' that happens when intestine is strangulated, whether a large coil bo constricted, or a small portion only of the diameter of the gut he nipped, is an arrest of the- peristaltic movement of the part implicated ; and the occuiTence of obstruction to the onward course of the intestinal contents is followed by constipation, vomiting, and colicky pains. The constipation is always complete, neither fmces nor flatus passing through ; the bowels may sometimes act once after the- strangulation has occiUTed from that portion which lies below the seat of con- striction, but they cann,ot, of course, empty themselves thoroughly, nor fronr above the strangled part. Vomiting usually sets in early, and is often very severe and continuous, with much retching and straining ; at first the contents of the stomach are ejected, with some bilious matters, but afterwards the vomiting becomes fecu- lent, or stercoraceous. The cause of feculent vomiting has usually been sup- posed to be an inverted peristaltic action of the intestines. But the observations- ' of Dr. Brinton seem to throw much doubt on the coiTCctness of this time- honoured view. Dr. Brinton maintains that in vomiting, the result of ' obstructed or strangulated intestine, the peristaltic action is not inverted—that it continues to be direct—but that when the intestinal contents meet -with the obstruction, they undergo a kind of churning, and that a central upward current takes place ; the contents of the bowel being forced upwards by the pressure of the accumulated substances at the seat of obstruction, and conse- quently behind them. The vomiting is attended by colicky and dragging pains; about the navel. These symptoms are more severe in their character when the strangulation is acute and the hernia is intestinal, than when it is passive, and the rupture omental. They occur equally in the incomplete and the complete forms of the disease ; indeed, it not nnfrequently happens that the hernial; tumour may be so small as to have escaped observation ; the occurrence of the above-mentioned symptoms being the first indication of the probable nature of the mischief. Hence, it is well always to examine for hernia when called to a patient suddenly seized Avith constipation, vomiting, and colicky pains, even if told that no tumour exists. After the strangulation has existed for some time, the inflammation that occui-s in the sac extends to the contiguous peritoneum, accompanied by the- ordinary signs of peritonitis, such as tension of the abdominal muscles, ten- derness, with lancinating pains about the abdomen, and tympanitis. The- patient lies on his back with the knees drawn up, has a small, hard, quick, and perhaps intermittent pulse, a diy tongue which speedily becomes brown, and a- pale, anxious, and dragged countenance, with a good deal of heat of the skin, and inflammatory fever. In some cases, this is of a sthenic type ; but, in the- majority of instances, especially in feeble subjects, it assumes the inltati'se- form. When gangrene of the ruptm’e takes phice, hiccup usually comes on, i with sudden cessation of pain in the tumour, and intermittent pulse, cold sweats, pallor, anxiety, rapid sinking of the vital powers, usually with slight dehrium ; and death speedily ocem’s. Modifications of Symptoms.—The symptoms just described ai-e those-