TREATMENT OF CAROTID ANEURISM. S9 circumscribed enlari?cmcnfc of one lobe of the gland, whidi extends laterally over the common carotid, and receives pulsation from it. This kind of bron- chocclc may be diagnosed from aneurism by the communicated pulsation in it ceasing when it is raised from the artery. The most puzzling cases, hoiYCver, and those in which mistakes may most easily be made, arc instances oi •Tidsating hronchoceJc, in which these tumours have an acti\e and independent pulsation or thrill. In these instances, however, there arc thi-ee points that will almost invariably enable the Surgeon to effect the diagnosis. Thus the tumour, although principally confined to one lateral lobe, always affects the isthmus more or less. Then again, in bronchocele, that portion of the tumour is most firmly fixed which stretches towards the mesial fine ; whilst in carotid aneurism the firmest attachment is nnder the sterno- mastoid muscle. The third point of difference is that, on desiring the patient to make an eftbrt at deglutition, the enlai-ged thyi’oid body moves with the larymx and trachea. Cysts in the thyroid hodtj are of more common occurrence than pulsating bronchoceles, and sometimes equally difficult of diagnosis. Dupuytren has pointed out that, when these cysts are tapped, the pulsation often becomes stronger, and the fluid, which on first flomng is serous, may at last become pm-e ai-tcrial blood, so that the Siu’geon may suspect that he has punctiu’cd an aneurism. TREATiiKNT.—Digital Compression has of late years been successfully employed for the treatment of carotid aneiuism. A case of anemism of the common cai’otid ai'tery, cured by intermittent digital compression, has been recorded by Rouge of Lausamie. The patient was a male, aged C8. Com- pression was made by placing the thumb against the anterior edge of the sterno-mastoid and the next three fingers under the posterior edge of the muscle ; the artery was thus seized and compressed. This avoided any pres- sm-e on the pneumogastric nerve, which was supposed to be the cause of the pain usually caused by attempts to compress the carotid. The compression was applied for seventeen days dining seven or eight horns each day ; and at the end of the time the man ivas cm-ed. In addition to this. Holmes has col- lected four successful cases by Sheppard, Kerr, Humphry, and Gay, and two unsuccessful by Dc Castro and Delore. The pressm-e should, if possible, be applied above the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra, so as to avoid compressing the vertebral artery at the same time. Ligature.—Since the time when Sir A. Cooper first ligatm’ed the carotid, in 1805, the means on which the Surgeon almost always relies for the cure of aneurism of this vessel is deligation of the artery at a distance from the sac. AVhen the anemism is so situated that a sufficient extent of healthy ^■essel exists between the sternum and the base of the tumour to admit of the applica- tion ol a ligature, the Hunterian operation may be practised. • If, however, the root or lower portion of the artery be so involved that there is no room to apply the ligatme between the heart and the seat of the disease, the distal operation may be performed. Ligature of the Carotid.—When the Surgeon can choose the seat at udiich to ligature the artery, he usually selects the part of the vessel which bisects the angle formed by the anterior edge of the sterno-mastoid with the omo* hyoid muscle. I he course of the artery is marked by a line draum from