STRUCTURAL CHANGES IN BONE. 198 Treatment.—The treatment of tubercle of bone resolves itself into that of its effects. As its existence cannot be recognised except by the changes -which it induces in the bone, the treatment must be directed exclusively to these. Thus, if it occasion circumscribed abscess, this must be opened : if caries, the diseased cavity and tissue must be scooped out, or removed in accordance with the principles ah’eady laid down ; and if disease of the neighbouring- articulations result, it must be managed in the way that will hereafter be explained. It is of importance, however, to recog-nise the dependence of these various affections of the bones on a scrofulous or tuberculous constitutional state, as it is specially necessary in these conditions that suitable measures should be adopted for the removal of the cause. Thus, good food, sea air, the adminis- tration of iron, of the iodides, and cod-liver oil, -will form most important elements in the treatment; and without these, indeed, it cannot be brought to a successful termination. The progvess of these cases is generally excessively tedious. Stanley gives two years as the time required for a strumous bone to recover itself; and in very many instances this period may even be exceeded. In this, as in all other chronic inflammatory affections of the bone, it is of considerable moment to continue the means of cure until the disease is fuUy recovered from ; for relapse vill occm’ vdth special readiness in the tubercular affections, if the patient be allowed to use the diseased limb or part too soon. Deposits of tubercle in bone may serve as centres whence general tubercu- losis may spread. Hence the importance of their free removal by amputation, excision, or gouging of the diseased bone, according to the extent and the situation of the tubercular infiltration of or deposit in it. TUMOURS OP BONE. Exostosis.—By exostosis is meant the gvowth of a bony tumoiu- from some of the osseous structm-es of the body. The causes that immediately give rise to this disease are usually extremely obsciu’e. There can be no doubt that in some instances it is hereditary ; but, in general, it ocem’s without any distinct or appreciable exciting cause. It is chiefly met with in the young, developing itself about the age of puberty. . Exostosis appears to originate in two ways ; being either primarily foimed and deposited as true bone ; or in other cases being the result of the ossification of an enchondi-oma. Exostoses may be single or multiple. They are usually situated in or near the epiphysis. When multiple, they commonly occur at the insertions ol tendons. Exostoses are of two kinds—the one hard and compact, the other softei and more spong-y. The hard, or Ivory Exostosis, is a structure that differs both in appearance and composition from true bone. It is extremely compact and white, having a gi’anular section closely rcsembhng that of ivory, and presenting somewhat radiating fibres, but possessing a true bony structure, Haversian canals, lacunae, and lamellae. In chemical composition, it is foinid to differ Bom healthy borre in contairring nrore of the phosphate and less ot the carborrate 0 hme, and also in the proportiorr of animal matter being smaller. Ihis kinc 0 exostosis principally grows from the flat bones, and, as it is generally ot sma