^34 URINARY CALCULUS. as a hen’s egg, and then presenting a branched or in-egular appearance. Though usually hut one or two exist, which are sometimes deposited in a kind of cyst in the organ, as many as thirty or forty have been met with, the ducts being filled, and its whole tissue being studded with them. Symptoms.—Calculus in the prostate gives rise to a sense of weight, pain, and irritation in the perinmum, some- retention of urine, and, in fact, to the ordinary symptoms of enlarged and irritated prostate; it often occasions a tolerably free discharge of mucus in the urine. On introducing a sound, this passes over the stone, sometimes rubbing or striking it with a distmet grate or click before its beak enters the bladder. This is increased by the finger in the rectum pushing the organ up, and thus bringing the stone into more direct contact with the sound. In some instances the calculus is deeply imbedded in the prostate, and cannot be touched by the sound. In these cases the stone may usually be felt through the rectum. If there be many small calculi in a sacculus in the prostate, they may be felt by introducing the finger into the rectum, when a peculiar crackhng or grating sensation may be experienced by the rubbing together of the calculi, something hke that produced by beads in a bag. Treatment.—The treatment of prostatic calculus will depend upon the situation, size, and number of the concretions. When they are large, single, or at most two or three in number, readily struck with the sound, and situated on the urethral surface of the organ, the ordinary median operation may advan- tageously be performed, and the calculus removed with a scoop or forceps. If the calculi be small and very numerous, not to be felt with the sound, but only through the rectum, it will be wiser not to have recoiu'se to operation, which could not remove the whole of the concretions. In such circumstances, a palliative treatment directed to the subdual of the irritation of the prostate, and the use of the catheter to relieve retention, is the only course to pursue. When prostatic and vesical calculi occiu’ together.', the same operation wiU rid the patient of both forms of the disease. (For foreign bodies in bladder, vkh Vol. I., p. 651.) CALCULUS IN THE FEMALE. Stone is of rare occurrence in women ; in London, certainly, it is not often met with. Thus, South states that, during a period of twenty-three years, 144 males were operated on for stone at St. Thomas’s Hospital, and only 2 females. In some districts, however, stone would appear to be more common in women than this. Thus, according to Crosse, at the Norwich Hospital, the proportion has been about 1 woman to 19 men. Civiale states, as the result of his researches, that in the North of Italy, the proportion is 1 to 18 ; and in France, about 1 to 22. At the University College Hospital we had not had ‘ a case of stone in the female for many yeai’s until 1855, when three came under my care in the com’se of a few months : and since that period many have occmi’ed. Vesical calculi in the female are often nothing more than phosphatic incrus- | tations deposited around some foreign body that has, either accidentally or