OPHTHALMIC SURGERY. 420 lacrymation (wliicli always aggi’avates the eversion of the lid—see ‘SSlitting the Punctura,” below). The very existence also of the ectropion in time only aggi’avatcs the disease by exposure, and consequent thickening, of the conjunc- tiva. A tendency to entropion or ectropion may often be remedied by means which in a normal lid would produce the contrary results. Thus caustics too freely applied to the conjunctival surface of the margin of the lid, it has been said, have often caused entropion. So, also, if sufficiently used, the application of nitrate of silver, or some other caustic from time to time, will sometimes ciu'e a slight ectropion. It has been said that a weak orbicularis induces a passive ectropion; and also that a removal of some too powerful and active fibres of the same muscle, next the lid’s margin, wiU cure many trifling cases of entropion. Severer cases of old and confirmed ectropion will probably require to be treated by a V-shaped excision of a part of the whole thickness of the lid : the cut surfaces being afterwards brought together, and adapted with entomological pins and silk twisted around them. Ectropion generally occurs in the lower lid ; entropion (in the numerous cases in which there is thickening* and perhaps trichiasis) generally in the upper lid, being there artificially pro- duced. Ectropion from deficient power, or paralysis, of the orbicularis, by force of gravity, and entropion from excessive action of the marginal fibres of the same muscle, as explained already, both affect the lower lid as a rule. OPEBATIONS ON THE TEAR-PASSAGES. Slitting the Pnnetum and Canaliculus.—In any case in which, without any special exciting cause, the tears are found to run down the cheeks, this state of things must be remedied as soon as possible, or it aggravates itself. In the first place, in operating here, we have to ascertain, first, if the lower pimc- tum be rightly placed in contact vdth the globe of the eye ; second, if it be- patent; thirdly, if the canaliculus or nasal duct be obstructed. Seldom, if the punctum be averted from the globe, will it be enough to restore its right position. VTiilst disused, it has become permanently too narrow. If it be everted a little, it wfiU be enough that the pimctum be divided, so that the tears may reach the slit-shaped artificial opening. If it be closed, or too small, it must be slit up ; and if the canaliculus or nasal duct be obstructed, it must be thenceforth repeatedly probed. Among the preliminary “ special exciting causes ” of an overflow of tears, besides grief and casual external stimulants, such as peat-smoke, we must not omit to search for eyelashes, or other foreign bodies, in or upon the conjunc- tiva. If there be intolerance of light, there is generally an equal amount of lacrymation when the eyes are exposed to light. Both are excessive in the common conjunctivitis of weakly children. Probably, e-^-en though the cause of the weeping be but temporary—swelling of the parts near the orifice during conjunctivitis, or abscess of the margin of the lid everting the ^ punctum-—it will be best to slit the inferior canaliculus. And as to the slitting operation, it may quite safely be done in any case, even if only temporarily, required ; for, if it do no good afterwards, it does no harm, and the imperfection of the punctum seems to be of no more serious importance than is that of the pupil- lary aperture after an iridectomy that was needed and then done. As the lower lid is of the two the most subject to ectropion, so also it seems that the \