682 INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. strangulation, the patient is usually seized with a sudden feeling of something 'UTong having taken place in the abdomen ; or he is struck with intense pain at one point. There may be sudden syncope, though most usually the depression of vital power docs not amount to this. Vomiting speedily occurs ; at first of the contents of the stomach, but after a time of stercoraceous matter ; some- times it assumes this form almost from the very first. The abdomen becomes swollen and tender, the intestines being blown up with flatus, giving rise to immense tympanitic distension, rolling over one another, and occasioning loud rumbling and gurgling noises. If the abdominal walls be thin, the rolling of the intestines may be distinctly felt, and in many cases seen, through them: and may sometimes be observed to be continued up to one spot, where it ceases. At this point an intumescence may sometimes be indistinctly felt correspond- ing to the seat of strangulation. If relief be not afforded, the sufferings of the patient become very severe, and his mental distress agonising ; the vomiting, perhaps, become less frequent, but the vital depression increases, and at last death results, usually about the sixth to the tenth day, though sometimes sooner, from exhaustion, peritonitis, and gangrene conjoined, the mind being- clear to the last, and the patient’s attention being intently and distressingly riveted upon the possibility or not of getting relief from the bowels. Chronic Intestinal Obstruction.—This usually arises from one of three causes ; viz., 1, the gradual obliteration of some portion of the colon, in con- sequence of the malignant degeneration of its walls ; 2, the compression of the gut by a tumour growing near it ; or, 3, the obstruction of its cavity by the accumulation of large masses of hardened feculent matters. The Symptoms, in the earlier stages of these cases, are commonly those that will be described as indicating stricture of the large intestine ; but, when once complete obstruction has come on, the constipation becomes the most pro- minent symptom. In some instances, this wdU occur without any antecedent leading to the supposition of the existence of stricture. There may be compa- ratively httle constitutional disturbance at first, but the bowels cannot be made to act, and any attempt at forcing their operation by the administration of pm’gatives gives rise to sickness and much distress. Diu’ing the progress of the- attack, eructations, retchings, and even vomiting, are of firequent occm-rence, but it seldom happens that this is stercoraceous till the very last; there may be much tympanites, with rumbling and gurgling of the intestines, but most- frequently the abdomen fills slowly and gradually, and these symptoms do not occur until after some days have elapsed. The distress of the patient does not depend so much on the length of time that the obstruction has existed, as on the amount of tympanitic distension of the abdomen. The greater this is, the more m-gent wiU be the symptoms. In many instances, life is prolonged for several weeks, for five or six, even after complete obstruction has set m; and in some cases a recovery may take place, even though a very considerable time have elapsed from the occurrence of the obstruction. In the case of a lady ' whom I attended many years ago with Mr. Powell, recovery took place, although there had been complete obstruction for upwards of five weeks ; and I have seen other cases recover in which from forty to forty-five days had elapsed before the obstruction was reheved. Diagnosis.—I. The diagnosis of the cames of the obstruction is of great