DISEASES OF THE BREAST. 6io oiitgroAving cancers seem to develop tbemselves. T have never seen them at the inner or lower part of tlie gland, unless the whole of its structure had been previously infiltrated. The operation in these cases should be complete and I tliorough, the whole organ being removed, however healthy the nipple, areola, and some portions of its gland-structure may appear to be. The skin should also be widely removed where implicated, and the dissection carried as high into the axilla as safety will permit. Unless thorough extirpation be practised, speedy and rapid recuiTcnce will ensue. In this as in all operations for diffused cancer, the wound should be well Avashed out with a solution of chloride of zinc (1 to 20), so as to destroy scattered and Avandering cells. AXILLARY TUMOURS. Scirrhous Tumours may form in men as well as in Avomen, as primary disease, under the pectoral muscle or in the axilla (Fig. 007). Such tumours might, in their early stages, be dissected out; but if they extend high up to the clavicle, or implicate the skin widely by infiltration, they should, I think;, be left, as was necessary in the patient fromAvhom Fig. G(iK was taken, Avhere the size of the tumour and its connections precluded the possibility of operation. Their re- moval cannot, indeed, at any stage, be undertaken without much danger. In dissections requisite for the ex- tirpation of such masses, as in Fig. GG7, I have had to expose the ax- illary and subscapular vessels and their accompanying nerves. The cancerous growth being usually somewhat widely disseminated, it is difficult to be certain that the Avhole is fairly extirpated : hence, recur- rence is likely speedily to take place. Chronic Strumous Disease of Fig. OOr.-SeinhouB Tumour in Axilla of a Man. Occasionally met with, forming a large lobed mass under the pectoral muscle. Such a tumoiu- as this may easily and safely be enucleated,^ and should be removed i it have resisted all ordinary topical and constitutional treatment. It will be found to be infiltrated with tubercle. Simple Tumours of various kinds ai-e met with in the axilla- The n o common ai-e lymphadenomata of the axillary glands, fatty, and fibro-cellular ^''Lymphadenoma of the AxiUary Glands is chiefly met Avith in young women forming a smooth, lobed, movable mass, usually about the size of . orange,’in this Situation. If left untouched, a process of plastic deposit goe oil in the tumour until at last it may attain a great bulk. These tumours may readily be removed by enucleation.