SPECIAL ANEUlilSMS. resembled other of tlic greater operations, after Avliicli pyemic pneumonia is so common a sequela ; but, on closer examination, it will be found that this is not the case. Inflammation, when attacking the tliorax or its contents after ligature of tins artery for axillary aneurism, is uot confined to the lungs, but very com- monly affects the pleura and pericardium as "well as, or c^’cn in preference to these organs. It would, therefore, appear probable that it arose from causes that are essentially connected either with this operation or with the aneurism itself. These are refen-ible to three heads. 1. Inflammation of the deep areolar tissue at the root of the neck may extend to the anterior mediastinum, the pleura, and pericardium. This would appear to ha^ e been the cause of death in a patient in whom Key tied the suh- clavian, and has been especially adverted to by that excellent Surgeon in his relation of the case. 2. The sac may, by its pressme inwards, encroach upon and give rise to inflammation of that portion of the plem’a which corresponds to its posterior aspect. This occun-ed in a case in which Mayo of Winchester operated, and is more liable to happen if suppuration have taken place in the sac ; when this occiu’S, adhesion may take place between it and the plenra, or even the tissue of the adjacent lung ; and the contents of the suppimating tumom- may be discharged into the pleural cavity or air-tubes, and so coughed up. Of this curious mode of termination there are at least two cases on record ; one hy Bnllen, in which the patient recovered ; the other by Gross, in which the patient died from the escape of the contents of the sac into the cavity of the plenra. 3. Di’^ision of the phrenic nerve would necessarily, by interfermg with the respiratory movements, induce a tendency to congestion and inflammation of the lungs ; and, although such an accident must be a very rare one in ■cases of ligatime of the subclavian for axillary aneurism, yet it imdoubtedly has occurred, as I have myself witnessed in one case. Suppuredion of the Sac is the most common, though not the most fatal, accident after ligatiu’e of the subclavian for spontaneous axillary aneurism. It xvas the immediate cause of death in six cases, and ocemved in two of the ■patients that died of inflammation of the chest; it also took place in six cases that recovered : in aU, fourteen cases out of forty-five, or nearly one in three, —a much higher proportion than is generally observed in cases of ligature for •aneiuism. What occasions this greater frequency of suppuration of the sac in axillary uneiu'isms than in those in other situations ? The only cause to wliich it appears to be attributable is the great laxity of the areolar membrane in the uxilla, which allows the tumom- to increase so rapidly in size as to excite inflammatory action in the surrounding tissues, which may speedily i-un into suppuration. So long as the contents of the tumour continue fluid, they will necessarily excite less irritation on simrounding strnctiu-cs; but when once they have beconye solidified, whether by the gradual deposition of laminated fibrine, during the progress of the disease, or more suddenly, in consequence of those changes that take place in the contents of an ancurismal sac alter the ligatm-e of the artery leading to it, the indurated mass, acting lilcc any other foreign body, sets up inflammation in the ai’colar tissue that is in