196 STRUCTURAL CHANGES IN BONE. fidditional obstacle is offered to the outward progress of tlie inflammatory pro- ducts, or rather of the curdy matter into which they have become transformed. The existence of these changes in the osseous tissue thus not only gives rise to destruction of the bone and adjacent articulations, &c., but may occasion inflammation and extensive suppimation in the neighbouring soft parts ; indeed, some of the largest chronic abscesses that form iii the body, those connected Avith diseased dorsal or lumbar vertebra), oAve their origin in the majority of cases to the deposition and disintegration of these loAvly organised products in the bones. When once caries has been established in a bone, and the osseous boundaries containing the dehris have become perforated by the accompanying plastic infiltration and abscess and sinuses of the soft parts, &c., these conditions Avill continue in a permanent manner ; the fistulous tracks leadmg down to the bone, and the caAities in it, remaining open so long as any imsomrd matter is left at the bottom of them ; and in this Avay the patient may eventually be exhausted by the copious and continuous discharge from the osseous vomicte. In some favourable cases as the result of natiual processes, and in others from those operations that the Surgeon performs for caries, the whole of these products may be disintegTated, and thus even- tually eliminated, a true vomica being left in the bones, or scooped out by the gouge ; and then the sinus, whether in the soft parts or in bone, haAung no longer this kind of foreign body lying on its bottom, gradually closes—not by the contraction of its osseous Avails, which is of coiu'se impossible, but by the deposition of a fibrous tissue by which the cavity is occluded. Pathology.—Nelaton has devoted special attention to the pathology of these affections, to which he applies the term tubercular, and Avith which he classes the only variety to which the name properly belongs, viz., that derived fiom the deposit of grey granulations in the osseous tissue. He describes two forms of tubercle in this situation ; the first is the encysted variety, which occurs in the form of small masses, of an opaque white or yellowish coloim, contained in a cyst, Avhich is soft, A'ascular, and spongy, apparently of a cellular structure. This variety is stated by Nelaton to be the most common. I haA'e certainly not found it so, but have most frequently met Avith the infiltrated opaque tubercle. The other form in which tubercle occiu's, according to Nekton, is an infiltration into the cancellous structure of bones. This may be in the fonn of semi-transparent gTanulations of a greyish or rosy tint, opalescent and slightly transparent ; occasionally these granulations are firm, so as almost to resemble cartilaginous deposits in the interior of the bone. The osseous stnxc- ture, in the mid'st of Avhich this kind of tuberculous matter is deposited, does not appear at first to undergo any material alteration. Tubercle may also be infiltrated as opaque puriform matter of a pale yellow colour, soft, and Avithoifi vascularity (Fig. 421). The osseous tissue, under the influence of this disease, often becomes, as Nelaton observes, more condensed than natural, the cells being obliterated so as to resemble the compact substance of bone. In some cases it may continue thus chronicaUy thickened and indurated ; but m other instances the tuberculous inflammation will give rise to rapid and destructive inflammation of the siuTOunding osseous tissue, which becomes excessively vascular, and crumbles doAvn into a carious state, Aiiti some necrosed masses intermixed. In other instances, as is not iinfiequcnty oi