i86 DISEASES OF BOFE. this, hoAvever, may be aiTcsted by a tourniquet, or by the pressure of an assis- tant’s fingers, and will soon gTadnally cease of itself. Esmarch’s bloodless method will be found a great assistance in these operations. The bone ha-\'ing been freely exposed, it Avill sometimes be foimd that the cloaca are of sufficient size to allow the ready extraction of the sequestrum. But in the majority of cases, this cannot be done at once, and the apertures must be enlarged, either with the gouge or the treplnne, according to the density of the new case, and the amount of room required. Occasionally, when two cloacm are close to one another, the intervening bridge of bone may very conveniently be removed by means of cutting pliers, of different shapes (as in Figs. 411, 412, and 413), or by means of a Key’s or a straight narrow saw having a movable back to stiffen the blade (Fig. 415), and space thus given for the extraction of the sequestrum. Very convenient pliers for this piu’pose are those represented in Fig. 414. They are made with gouge ends, and hence may be termed gouge-forceps. I have found them extremely serviceable in many operations upon the bones. Care, however, should be taken not to remove more of the new case than is absolutely necessary, as the apertiu-e so made in it will not be fiUed up again by osseous matter, but vdU be closed by fibrous tissue, and thus the ultimate sormdness of the limb might be endangered. For the extraction of the sequestrum, the most convenient instrument is a pair of strong necrosis-forceps, well roughened at their extremity, and straight or bent as the case may require (Fig. 416). Occasionally the sequestrum is so shaped and placed that it cannot be seized with this instrument; in these circumstances it will be useful to drive a screw- probe (Fig. 90) into it, by which it may either be extracted, or so fixed as to admit of seizime and removal by the forceps. In some cases, additional and convenient purchase may be given to the dead bone, by fixing a bone-forceps, such as is represented in Fig. 417, fii’mly into it. II the sequestrum be too laro-e to be removed entire through the cloacae, it may perhaps best be extracted piecemeal, having been previously divided by passing the points of narrow but strong cutting pliers into the interior of the bone. .-n i i a • After the removal of the sequestrum, a smooth hollow cavity will be left in the new case, from the bottom and sides of which blood usually wells up fr-eely, issuing abundantly from the vascular bone, and from the granulations lining its interior. Should this haemorrhage be at all troublesome, inessii ^ will always sufficiently arrest it. Lint must then be hglitly introduced mto bottom of the wound, and the part elevated ; a good deal of inflammation s frequently set up after the operation, but that must be combated on ^ner^ nrinciplcs. If the sequestrum have been a long one and ha^c invoB ireater part of the shift of the bone, it may happen that the new case has not