52 Fig. SC-l.- iSae of Aneurism cured by Coni])ressioii: Ue- ))Osit of Laminated Fibrine. ANEURISM. employment of such violent and forcilde com- Lnn ^ of exciting inflammation in the artexy, that the patient could seldom bear it for a sufficient length of time to effect a cine ; sloughing of the skin commonly resulting from the severity of the pressure to which it xvas subjected. To the ffublin Surgeons belongs the veiy great merit not only of having pointed out the eiTor of this doctrine, but of having distinctly laid down as the piinciple of the pi’actice, that, in the majority of cases, the aneurism was cui’ed, when the arteiy leading to it was compiessed, in pi’ecisely the same way as when a spontaneous cure takes place, or when the Hunterian operation is per- foi’med ^viz., by the deposit of sti’atified fibrine in the sac, and by the consequent consolidation of this (Fig. 3G4), aided by the contraction of the walls of the sac ; and that, as in the case of ligature of the vessel, it was not necessary that the whole of the cfrculation through the artery should be entirely and permanently airested, but merely that it should be lessened in quantity and force to such an extent as to be compatible with the deposition of laminated fibrine in the sac ; and it was clearly shown by examination after death that, if the pressxu’e were properly conducted, the artery was in no way injured or occluded at the part compressed. The recognition of the true principles on which compression of the arteiy leading to the sac cures the aneiu’ism, has led to important results; for as the severe pressure that was formerly considered necessary is now known not only to be unnecessaiy, but often to be absolutely injurious, no amount of compression is exercised beyond what is requisite to restrain and moderate the flow of blood into the sac ; no attempt being made to compress the artery so severely as to lead to its oblitei-ation by inflammation. But, although, where the pressime is moderate or the anastomosing circula- tion fr’ee, the consolidation of the contents of the sac takes place in the way that has just been described, it would be an error to suppose that this is the process by which the aneurism becomes cured in all cases in which recourse is had to compi’ession. There can be no doubt that in some cases, where consolidation has taken place in a few hours after the employment of pressime, coagulation of the contents of the sac has suddenly occiuTed ; and this sudden coagulation, which at one time was dreaded by Siugeous, has been found by increased experience to be in the highest degree advantageous, as leading to a more rapid and equally certain cure of the aneurism. In the tubular fonn of aneurism, which is fiir less fr-equent than the sacculated in the extremities, the cure aixpears to take place rather by the gradual contraction of the partially emptied sac than either by the slow deposit of laminated fibrine, or by the rapid and almost sudden coagulation of its con- tents. The sac gradually shrinks, and shreds of fibrine only are found adherent to its sides. But although I behex'e that the condition of the aneurism, whether sacculated or tubular, has a considerable influence upon the mode in which the compression acts in effecting a cure, and also upon the time that is occupied in the treatment, this being much shorter in the sacculated than in the tubular