695 RESULTS OF COLOTOMY. i having been opened at its most depending part (in the recumbent position), the fiecal mattei-s woidd have much less tendency to be efPused into it, than if it were opened in front. In respect of not wounding the peritoneum, this operation closely resembles that of puncturing the bladder above the pubes, and below the reflexion of that membrane. There is, however, one important difference between the two operations, which may influence the result; in the one case, as the patient lies upon his back, the urine has a tendency to stagnate in the wound, being obliged, in order to escape, to mount against its OAvn gravity ; whilst, in the other case, the fascal matters find a ready exit from a Avoimd situated in a depending part. Ca3sar Hawkins has collected and analysed 44 cases, in which an artificial anus has been formed by opening the intestine ; in 17 of these the artificial ) anus was made through the peritoneum, and in 27 behind that membrane ; : but for various reasons, which are stated at length in the paper, Hawkins ex- : eludes 0 of the cases of peritoneal section, leaving only 12 to compare with 26 I cases of operation behind this membrane. Of the former he finds that 7 died I and 5 recovered ; the recoveries amoiuiting, therefore, to only forty-one per I cent, in the cases of this category; whilst of the 26 cases where the peritoneum > was iminjm-ed, 10 died and 16 recovered ; the proportion of recoveries in the cases of this category amounting to sixty-one per cent. Though the large intestine was opened in aU these cases, the operation was performed on the rigid side in 10 instances ; in 4 cases the right colon and caecum were opened through the peritoneum, and of these all died ; whilst of the remaining 6, in I which the right colon was opened behind the peritoneum, 4 recovered. The preference, therefore, as Hawkins observes, on the right side, is certainly due to the lumbar operation. It is remarkable, however, that in the operation on the left colon, the results are somewhat different; for, of 8 cases in which this intestine was opened through the peritoneum, 5 recovered and 3 died ; whilst of 20 cases in which the lumbar operation was performed, 11 recovered and 9 died. Hawkins observes, that the inequalities of the numbers appear, how- ever, to leave the question as to the mode of operating on the descending colon still undecided ; and that an operator is justified in selecting whichever situa- tion he thinks best for the formation of an artificial anus on the left side of the body ; still, for the reasons that have afready been given, there can be no doubt whatever that Amussat’s is very decidedly preferable to Littr6’s operation. In those cases in which death has resulted fr’om Amussat’s operation, peritonitis does not appear to have exercised any material influence ; and the fatal result seems rather to have depended on the influence of previous disease on the con- stitution of the patient, or on changes taking place in the diseased bowel, than on the operation itself, which appears occasionally to have been uselessly done at the last extremity. We should, therefore, have less hesitation in per- forming the extraperitoneal operation in an early stage of those cases in which it is called for, than we should if the section itself were attended with any serious risk to the patient’s life.