17 CAUSES OF ANEURISM. that aneurisms are most frequently met with ; at those ages, indeed, when the arteries have already commenced to lose their elasticity, in consequence of disinte<n-ating changes, whilst, at the same time, the heart has not lost any of its impulsive force, or the general muscular system its contractile vigour ; and when the enfeebled and inelastic vessels, becoming exposed to powerful causes of distension, may readily give way or be expanded at some one weak- ened point. This disease is excessively rare before puberty, yet is occasionally met with at em-ly periods of life : thus Syme mentions a case of popliteal aneurism in a boy of seven, Hodgson had a preparation of a carotid aneiiiism in a girl of ten, and Schmidt a case of spontaneous anem’ism of the radial artery in an infant eight weeks old. A forcible, irregular, and occasionally greatly increased action of the heart is the immediate cause of the over-distension and dilatation of the vessels, and thus of the production of aneinism. Hence we find that this disease is especially apt to be induced in those individuals in whom the muscular system is called upon to make sudden, luolent, and intermittent exertions ; as, for instance, in men who habitually lead somewhat sedentary lives, but occasionally and suddenly change their habits, and indulge in sports, such as hunting, rowing, or a long day’s shooting, which they might wdthout risk have practised in early life, but which cannot be taken up with impunity at an age when the arteries, having become weakened, are unable to bear the same strain upon their coats as heretofore. I agree with Porter, in thinking that continuous, steady, laborious employments do not predispose to aneiudsm, •as this disease is seldom met with amongst those of the lower classes who labour hard and uninterruptedly ; but it rather occurs in those who, after long periods of comparative inaction, are occasionally and suddenly called upon to make 's'ery 'violent muscular efforts, disproportioned to their strength, or, at all events, to their previous habits. It is in this way that soldiers, sailors, and members of the higher classes in society, are rendered pecuharly liable to aneurism. As violent muscular strain and exertion predispose to this disease, Ave should necessarily expect to meet with it more frequently among men than in Avomen ; and accordingly, Crisp finds that, of 551 cases of aneurism of all kinds, more than seven-eighths occurred in men. It is important, however, to obscrA'e that different kinds of aneurism occur Avith varying degrees of fre- quency in the sexes; thus, this affection is met Avith in the carotid artery about as often in Avomen as in men, AA'hilst the.other external aneurisms occiu’ in the proportion of thirteen cases in males to every one that happens in a female, ft is remarkable, hoAveA^er, that in the dissecting aneurism the proportions arc reversed ; for every one case in men, two occur in women. Climate exercises an important influence on the occurrence of aneurism, Avhich is far more I'requent in cold than in hot countries. It is not, hoAVCA'cr, the geographical position or the meteorological state of a country that exercises any direct influence OA'er the occurrence of this disease. It is in reality the habits of the people that dispose to it, and that regulate its piwalcnce ; and it is in the more energetic nature and the more actiA'c physical habits of the northern nations that Ave must look for an explairation of its greater prevalence amongst them, than in the more indolent inhabitants of the South. If we may judge of the prevalence of aneurism in a country by the number of published VOL. II. ^ ^