88i GONORltlKEAL EPIDIDYMITIS. catheter are indicated ; but, as the stricture is the chief cause of obstruction, the treatment must be directed to it. ^ i, « i i Hemorrhage from the Urethra may occur either as the result ot chordee, and consequent rupture of some blood-vessels of the coiq)US spongiosum, as the consequence of attempts at passing the catheter, or as a kind of exudation from the mucous membrane. Most commonly it may be arrested by the application of ice, and the employment of moderate local antiphlogistic treatment. Should it be abundant, the introduction of a large gmn-elastic catheter, and pressure by means of a bandage to the penis or peiinmum, will arrest it. Sequences of Gonorrhoea.—The sequences, or more remote complications of gonorrhoea, are partly local and partly constitutional. Amongst the local we find more particularly Warts about the prepuce and glans or within the urethral orifice, which require to be treated by excision or caustics ; and Stricture, the management of which is fully described elsewhere. In some cases, also, in consequence of extravasation of blood, or the effusion of plastic mattei' into the corpus spongiosum or the corpora cavernosa, limited and localised Induration and Thickening of the Penis may result, attended by chordee, painful erections, and a permanent twist in the organ. In such conditions as these, an attempt may be made to produce absorption of the effused mass, by the administration of small doses of bichloride of mercury, with the inunction of iodide of lead ointment. After the cure of a clap that has been of long continuance, the generative organs are often left in a toeah and irritable state; the penis, scrotum, and spermatic cords being lax and elongated, with an apparent want of power, and often painful and dragging sensations about the cords and groins. Besides the strictly local complications of gonorrhoea, certain sequences, to which some constitutions are especially liable, occasionally occur as the result of this disease ; viz., inflammation of the testes and of the eyes, rheumatism, cutaneous eruptions, and sore throat. Some df these, as the affections of the eyes and testes, may be either local or constitutional; the others are clearly constitutional. The constitutional effects of gonorrhoea offer characters that have some analogy to those presented by the more chronic and subacute forms of pytemia. This is more especially .the case in monarthritic inflamma- tion of the knee or wi’ist, leading to disorganisation or permanent ankylosis of these joints. Gonorrhceal Epididymitis is certainly the most common of these sequences. It most invariably affects only one testis, and commences in the epididymis, whence it extends to the body of the organ. It usually occurs in individuals who have a lax and long scrotum, with very pendulous testes. It seldom sets in before the third week after the occurrence of gonorrhoea, but may occiu at any period during the continuance of the discharge, though it is more frequent between the fifth and sixth weeks than at any other time. In cases of gleet, also, it not uncommonly occurs at a Iqter period. In many instances it is refciTed to some slight injury—a blow, or squeeze, received during the con- tinuance of the gonoiThoea ; but in some cases it would appear to arise from extension of the inflammation along the ejaculatory duct; and in others from a kind of metastasis of the morbid action from the urethra to the testis. That