5^4 OPERATIONS ON THE AIR-TUBE AND GUEST. them is apt to ho doubled in under the cud of the instrument. This may j^e avoided by the use of Fuller’s bivalve tube introduced closed (Fig. CnO), and then expanded by slipping a cannula into it (Fig. Of)!); or one side of tlie cut in the trachea may be held aside with the forceps or a blunt hook, whilst the tube is slipped under the other. If the rings of the trachea be very rigid and miyielding, the silver tube may most conveniently be introduced by expandin<»- the incision by means of the trachea-forceps (Fig. {NI2), and then passing it between or under their blades. Some Surgeons prefer, instead of the scalpel, to open the trachea with cutting forceps, or with a trochar carrying a cannula in the shape of a trachea-tube, which is then left in the air-passage ; these instruments, though ingenious and in some respects useful, do not appear to me to be so safe or easy of management, especially in children, as the scalpel and trachea-hook. Tracheotomy in Children is never an easy, and is at times a dangerous operation. The difficulty of the operation arises more particularly in infants and very young children from the shortness of the neck, the depth and small size of the trachea, and the quantity of granular areolo-adipose tissue lying over it. The danger of the operation results from the large size of the venous plexus in connection with the thyroid body, and the proximity of the carotids. In performing this operation in young subjects, chloroform should always be ad- I ministered. This may be done with safety, even though the most m’gent asphyxia | be present; the difficulty of respiration, being in a great measure spasmodic, is reheved by the anaesthetic. If chloroform be not given, the struggles of the child will seriously embarrass the operator, and add much to the danger of the operation. The incision must be very carefully placed on the mesial line ; and after the fascia of the neck has been opened, the knife should be used as sparingly as possible, and the tissues rather pushed and held aside Avith a director. The trachea, when exposed, must be raised up by transfixion -v^th the director-hook and carefully opened, the knife being neither thrust so deep as to wound the posterior part, nor turned laterally. As soon as the trachea is opened, the tube should be introduced; and this step of the operation is greatly facilitated by holding the trachea well up and drawing it forward vuth the hook. When the tube is fairly in, the hook must be withdrawn. Comparison of Tracheotomy and Laryngotomy.—On comparing tracheo- tomy, as ordinarily performed, with laryngotomy, I think there can be little doubt that the Surgeon should give the preference, in all cases where it is prac- ticable, to the latter operation, on account of its greater simplicity, safety, and rapidity. In all cases in which the obstruction to respiration is produced by inflammatoiy effusion into the submucous areolar tissue, whether depeudeiit upon idiopathic or erysipelatous laryngitis, oedema glottidis, or chronic disease of the larynx, or upon the irritation and infiammation excited by swallowing boiling water or the stronger acids, the swelling, for reasons that have afready been mentioned, never extends below the true vocal cords ; hence an opening i into the crico-thyinid membrane will always be below the seat of obstruction. An objection, it is true, has been urged to laryngotomy in these cases, that it docs not allow the patient to wear a tube without much irritation being ^ induced. This, however, I have not found to be the case in my practice, i j have had patients Avho have worn silver tubes in this situation a consic eia e j