SPECIAL I/ERNTjE. 66o two separate tumours can usually be distinguished, there being some degree of constriction, or of consolidation, between them. The hydrocele will present its ordinary characters of transluccncy, in-cducibility, and circumscribed outline, and is commonly jdaced anterior to the hernia, which lies towards the back of the scrotum, and may be distinguished by its reducibility and impulse on coughing. It sometimes happens, as in a case which once fell under my ob- servation, that a hydroceh of the cord is associated with one of the tunica vaginalis- and a hernia; in such circumstances, the diagnosis requires a little care, but may be effected readily enough by separately determining the characters of the different swellings. 1. Varicocele. Here the diagnosis 7nay be effected in the way pointed out by Sir A. Cooper. The patient should be placed in the re- cumbent position, and the swelling reduced ; the Surgeon then presses upon the. external ring with his fingers, taking care to cover the whole of it, and desires the patient to stand up. If it be a hernia, the tumour cannot descend ; but if it be a varicocele, it will speedily reappear iihilst the pressure is leing Icept up^ the blood being conveyed into it through the spermatic arteries, c. Tumours of the Testis. These may be distinguished from hernia by their solid feel,, rounded shape, by the absence of aU impidse on coughing, and, especially, by the cord being felt free and clear above them, and the inguinal canal imoccupied. d. Eccmatocele of the Tunica Vaginalis. Here the cause of the swelling, its. pyi'iform shape, opacity, solid feel, the absence of impulse on coughing, and the defined characters of the cord, will enable the Siugeon to make the diagnosis. Treatment.—When inguinal hernia is reducible, the rupture must be kept up by a well made truss, the pad of which, of an oval shape, shonld press not only upon the external ring, but upon the whole length of the canal. It is in this form of hernia that the various operations for the radical cure are most applicable. When it is irreducible, and of large size, nothing can be done, beyond supporting it in a bag-truss. Operation.—When the hernia is strangulated, if the taxis properly employed in the direction of the canal have failed, the operation must be performed in the fcUoAving way. The bladder having been emptied and the pubes shaved, the patient should be brought to the edge of the bed; and the Surgeon, stand- ing between his legs, and having the skin covering the external ring well pinched up, divides the fold in the usual way, by an incision tluee inches- in length, commencing about an inch above the external abdominal ring. Should any spouting vessels, as the external pudic, be divided in this incision, they had better be ligatui-ed. The Surgeon then proceeds with the section through the subcutaneous structures; he wiU, in many cases, find the superficial fascia considerably thickened, particularly if the patient have long worn a truss. He divides this structure in the line of the external incision, and then exposes, the intercolumnar fascia, which will also generally be found thickened, and incorporated with the superficial fascia. In many cases, the intercolumnar fibres mil be found condensed into a thick and broad fiUct, which limits the further extension of the ring, and produces. an evident constriction upon the neck of a large inguinal hernia. An opening should be cai’efidly made intO' this fascia, a grooved director passed under the edge of the ring, and this slit up. In some cases, though but very rarely, it will now be found that the hernia