TREATMENT OF CHRONIC MAMMARY TUMOUR. 583 usually happens in those cases in which an adenoma has remained in a quiescent state from an early period up to about the middle of life, or in which it devclopes for the fimt time between the ages of 35 and 40 years. In these instances it will grow with extreme rapidity, attaining in a few months a size equal to that of a cocoa-nut, or even larger, and simulating in this respect the progress of an encephaloid tumour. Such rapidly growing adenomata are pain- less° and, however large, continue perfectly movable, free fr-om deep adhe- sion’, or from glandular implication ; the skin covering them is healthy, thinned, and unadherent, the nipple projecting usuaUy very prominently. The tumour itself will be felt to be nodulated, semi-elastic, not stony, and always rounded in outline. After removal its section is lobulated and glisten- ing, something resembling a mass of rice or sago jelly, often having cysts interepersed through its substance, containing fluid or semi-solid glandular tissue. Treatment.—Yhx?, consists in attention to the general health, and in the employment of local absorbent remedies. Under this treatment, adenomata have occasionally disappeared; in some instances they have been known to become spontaneously absorbed after maiTiage or during pregnancy. If obsti- nate, their dispersion may be facilitated by the occasional application of two or three leeches, followed by inunction of iodide of lead ointment ; and by the internal administration of Plummer’s piU, and the compound decoction of aloes. In addition to these means, the employment of compression will be found especially serviceable; this may be applied either by means of Amott’s slack air-cushion, or by Tanchou’s plan, which consists of a pad to which a spiral spring is attached, and which, being compressed by a proper arrangement of bandages across the chest, will keep up steady and continued pressure upon the tumoiu’. I have employed this kind of apparatus, which is far less ex- pensive and cumbersome than the air-compressor, in several cases of adenoma, mth great benefit. The advantage attending it is, that it can be used in con- junction wth absorbent ointments, which cannot be used uflth the air-bag, as the grease entering into their composition destroys the macintosh cloth of which it is made. In this way absorption may not unfrequently be secured ; and I am disposed to think that not a few of the so-called cases of cancer of the breast that have been reported as having been cmed by pressure, were in reality instances of the adenoma in which absorption had been brought about in this way. Should the growth attain too great a magnitude to admit of absoiption by the means that have just been recommended, its excision must be practised. In doing this it is not necessary to remove the whole of the breast, but it will be quite sufficient to extiipate the tumour itself, and at most the small lobe of mammaiy gland connected with it. This may be done, if the ^owth implicate the edge of the mammary gland, by two incisions that radiate from the nipple as fr’om a centre, thus inclosing a triangular portion of the breast. If it be very movable, and in the substance of the gland itself, it may often bo enucleated through a simple incision. In removing this tumour, 'there are two little practical points that should, if possible, be attended to. 1. The gland should not be incised through its whole thickness, so as to open up the areolar bed which is interposed between it and the pectoral muscle. If this be interfered with, infiltration of blood or of pus into ifc may occur, and deep