ACUTE INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. 6Si CHAPTER LXIV. INTESTINAL 0B8TRUCTTON. Intestinal Obstructions may be of two distinct kinds, tbe Acute and the Chronic. These must not be confounded with one another, as they arc usually dependent not only upon very difi’erent conditions, but require different linos of treatment to be adopted for their rehef. Acute Intestinal Obstruction.—This condition may arise from liNc different causes. 1. It most commonly occurs by the formation of an internal hernia, which becomes suddenly strangulated, a portion of gut slipping through un apertiu'e in the mesentery or omentum (Fig. (J90), or becoming constricted by bands, adhesions, or di^•erticula, stretching across from one side of the ubdomen to the other. 2. It may occur from invagination or intussusception, the iqiper portion of the intestine slipping into and being constricted by the lower. 3. It may be produced by a portion of gut becoming twisted upon itself, and thus forming a volvulus, owing to the mesentery or meso-colon being unusually long, and allowing a half twist to take place, in consequence of %vhich complete obstruction ocem’s. 4. In other instances, symptoms of acute obstruction may arise in consequence of a mab'gnant stricture gradually closing, and then at last becoming suddenly occluded. 5. Severe and even fatal intestinal obstruction may occur simply from a spasmodic con- traction of the intestine, or as the result of inflammatory affections of the abdomen, without the existence of any mechanical lesion. Symptoms.—The symptoms of acute intestinal obstruction, more especially when arising from a mechanical cause, such as the forma- tion of an internal hernia, or volvu- lus, are always characterised by "very mjirked vital depression. There is constipation from the very first; but tin’s symptom is not the most prominent one, and those that result arc evidently, as in an ordinary case of strangulated hernia, the consequence of the injimy inflicted upon the intestine, rather than of tlie mere mechanical obstacle to the onward passage of the fasces. At the moment of the occurrence of the Fig. 000.—Intcstiniil Olistruotion from Ijitcnin Hernia.