340 DISEASES OF SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES, AND OF MUSCLES. the symptoms, it became necessary to remove the limb above the knee. After amputation, it was found that the morbid action had extended through the patellar cartilage, perforating it by a small aperture, and so giving rise to sup- puration within the joint. Sloughing of the Bursa Patellae occasionally occurs as the result of its inflammation and suppuration, A woman was admitted into the Hospital, in whom this bursa had inflamed and suppurated ; and not only the bursa but also the integimients covering it had sloughed away, leaving in front of the knee a circular ulcer as large as the palm of the hand, having a flabby sur- face, and undermined, purple edges. The patella was not exposed. Under ordinary treatment, the ulcer slowly healed, but no vestige of bursa was left. 2. Enlargements.—We now proceed to the consideration of the second variety of disease of the bursa patellfe—that in Avhich there is no inflammation, but in which there is enlargement of the biusa, owing to the accumulation Avithin it of bursal fluid, of this fluid mixed Avith solid bodies, or of solid fibroid deposits. Simple Enlargement.—The bursa may present a simple enlargement, de- pendent on the accumulation of fluid in its interior. Continued pressure exer- cised upon the bursa, as in kneeling, is the common cause of this affection ; hence it frequently occius amongst housemaids, and constitutes the true “house- maid’s knee.” But it is also common amongst other people, AA^hose vocation necessitates long-continued kneeling. One case of the affection in University College Hospital was in a cai’pet-layer ; it AA^as to all intents and purposes a “housemaid’s knee.” A man, aged thirty, who, in consequence of habitually kiAeeling upon the left knee in laying doAAui carpets, had a tmnour there as large as an orange, indolent, soft, and fluctuating to the feel, evidently an enlarged bursa, was admitted into the Hospital. It was tapped by means of a trocar, clear fluid was di'awn off, and a seton Avas passed through the cannula, and left in for six or seven days. Suppuration took place along the seton, the tumour collapsed and contracted, and the patient left the Hospital, cured, on the tAvelfth day. With regard to the Pathological Nature of the disease, it would seem to con- sist in excessHe secretion into the interior of the bursa, Avhich becomes enlarged, thickened, and filled Avith a clear sero-synovial fluid. The Treatment of these tumours is very simple. In some cases the aiAplica- tion of tincture of iodine, or the ammoniacum and mercury plaster, or bfister- ing, AviU succeed in inducing absorption of the contained fluid. If these fail, as they very often do, or if their use be too tedious, a very simple, and at the same time a very safe and successful, mode of treatment consists in tapping the tumour with the trocar, and passing a seton through the cannula, either by means of a long straight needle, or by using an eyed probe, and cutting down upon the end of it Avith a scalpel. The seton-threads should be left in until they excite free suppuration, and then be withdiwii. This treatment is ex- ceedingly simple, and perfectly certain in its results. The only point to be attended to is, to keep the apertures by Avhich the seton passes sufficient!} patent to allow the free eseape of any fluid Avhich may collect in the intcrioi of the bursa before it is elosed. This is especially to be observed with the loAVcr opening, Avhich is apt to become blocked up.