CANCER OF THE TONGUE. 517 usually opposite the molar teeth, sometimes dependeut on in'itation of stumps, hut not unft-eciuently on dyspepsia. These craeks may in some depraved states of the constitution extend rapidly, eroding away a considerable portion of the side of the organ in a short time, so as to leave a large and deep sloughy cavity with much dusky inflammation around it, but without any induration of the base or sides, with great fetor of the breath, and a copious discharge of saliva, which trickles out of the corners of the mouth ; the patient being usually destroyed in a few months, by the irritation of the disease, the inability to take food, and the supervention of htemorrhage. Treatment—disease, which is a combination of sloughing and ulcera- tion, possibly in some cases malignant, is best treated in the early stages by the use of chlorinated gargles, Avith a moderately anti-inflammatory regimen. As it advances, the internal administration of arsenic is useful in some cases, with the application of the balsam of Peru, either pmre or diluted with the yolk of egg, and the employment of gargles composed of the chlorides and the tincture of myrrh. Syphilitic G-umha is not unfrequently met with in the tongue, as one of the adi'anced symptoms of constitutional syphUis, forming an indurated irre- gularly cu’cumscribed mass, of a round shape, situated deeply in the substance of the organ, or towards the centre of the tip. The surface covering the gumma is of a dusky red or coppery colour ; it rarely runs on to ulceration, though rhagades and fissures occasionally form around it; there is no fetid discharge, and no destruction of the organ. The Treatment consists in the administration of small doses of bichloride of merciuy in sarsaparilla, under which the gumma Avill rapidly disappear. Excysted ahd Fibeous Tumoues, requiring extirpation, are sometimes situated in the centre of the tongue, towards its mesial line. In such cases they may readily be removed by drawing the tongue forwards by means of a hook or piece of whipcord passed thi-ough its tip, and then dissecting out the morbid growth. Any bleeding that occiu's may be arrested by passing a sutm-e or tivo by means of a curved or cork-screw needle across the gap in the com’se of the diA-ided A'cssels, and thus closing the aperture at the same time that the vessels are compressed. Cahcee oe the Tongue.—Epithelioma is the form of cancer that com- monly affects the tongue. It almost ahvays commences on the edge, usuaUy at the middle third, extending back to the anterior pillar of the ffiuces. It may occur at the tip, or even on the dorsum of the tongue. Scinkus is rare. I have, however, seen it in several instances, and after death sciiThus tubercles haA^e been found in the hver, lungs, and heart. Scin-hus commonly begins as a hai-d solid mass in the body of the organ. I ave only seen encephaloid Avhen the disease Avas recurrent, and then in the floor of the mouth. _ Cancer of the tongue, Avhatever form it assumes, most usuaUy occurs in muviduals between the ages of forty and sixty. It is more frequent in men lan in women. It may doA^elope Avithout any evident cause in persons Avho are otherwise perfectly healthy, whose teeth are sound, and in Avhom there has been no pre-existing disease of the tongue. But most commonly it occurs in consequence of a local imtation, as from the abrasion produced and kept np