ANEURISM. 50 Ihe loss ofhloocl, cither in consequence of secondary liasmorrhi l)j gangi-cne ; tlie more so, if it have been nc- ^ dilation by the second ligature being so gi-eat, that cessary to apply a ligature to a higher point on i,he trunk of the I'esscl than had previously been tied. Ibis secondary ligature of a lai’ge artery in cases of aneurism has, I believe, been invariably followed by gangTene of the limb, when done in the lower ex- tremity ; the interference with the collateral cir- The period of supervention of gangrene of the limb is usually from the third to the tenth day ; it seldom occurs before this period, unless incipient the 'Vitality of the part cannot be maintained. Besides these causes, the occmi-ence of erysipelas, exposure of the limb to cold, or to an imdue degi'ee of heat, or subjecting it to the compression of a bandage, may be attended by consequences fatal to its vitahty. Fig. 363. - Poiiiiteai Aneurism mortification havc already set in before the artery ►mpressing the Vein, .•mu thus . ^ gangi’ene is always of the dark and moist variety, oyfing to its being com- monly dependent on pressure upon the large venous trunks by the aneiu'ismal tumoiu'. Treatment.—The general preventive treatment of gangi-ene following the ligature of the artery for aneurism must be conducted on the same principles as when it arises after the ligature of arteries generally (vol. I., p. 311). But some special modifications of it are required, so far as the aneimism is con- cerned. When the gangrene occurs from the pressure of the sac upon the ac- companying vein, it has been proposed to lay the tumour open, and to tmm out its contents, thus removing the compression exercised by it. The danger of such a proceeding consists in the probability of the occurrence of hmmorrhage from the opening made into the sac, and in the risk attending suppuration set up in the sac ; yet it would appear that, in two cases in which this practice has been adopted, no bad results followed. Thus, Lawrence has related a case of difiPused aneurism of the popliteal artery, in which this ^fian Avas had recom-se to Avith the best results ; and Benza has recorded a case of popliteal anem'ism in which the same practice Avas adopted in consequence of great oedema and iiicipient gangrene of the foot; after the extraction of a quantity of ' fiesh-like fibrine from the sac, the patient made an excellent recoA'ery. These cases would certainly justify the Surgeon in adopting such a course Avhen the danger of gangrene is imminent, and dependent on the size and pressiu’e of the tmnour. Should, hoAvever, the gangrene shoAv any disposition to extend, or should there be haemorrhage from the sac after it lias thus been laid open, the Surgeon must hold himself in readiness to amputate Avithout delay. lien gangrene has once fairly set in, there is no reasonable prospect of saA'ing Artery; h, A'eiii counnessed at d c, Aneurism. cuiiijJicabin^ tuc vein, auu i/iiua , ~ causing Gangrene of tiio Limb; o, AAns tied. Gangrene usually follows the linature of , .‘\rf.prv* 7) Vp-in f».nnivn’i»K«pfl nt, /7. • _ ® the external iliac at an earlier period than that of any other artery. In cases of aneurism, the