568 OPERATIONS ON THE AIR-TUBE AND CHEST. used till then. The tube is single, but the ease with which it can be removed and re-introduced is so great, that there is no difficulty in keeping it clean ; in fact the irritation produced in so doing is said to bo less than that caused by the removal of the inner tube of any ordinary double trachea-tube. Mr. Baker has found, from experience in a considerable number of cases, that it is worn Avith much greater comfort to the patient than a rigid tube. Trendelenburg’s Operation.—An ingenious and useful application and modification of tracheotomy has been devised by Trendelenburg and adopted by Langenbeck, in cases of operation about the jaws, palate, and pharynx, in which danger might arise from the inspiration of blood into the air-passage. The entrance of blood into the air-tube during these operations is dangerous, both directly, by the risk of suffocation; and also indirectly, by the blood finding its way into the air-cells, there coagulating, and thus disposing to bronchitis or pneumonia, a danger that is greatly increased by the inhalation of the breath loaded Avith septic influences from the suppurating and sloughy sur- faces of the wound. With the view of obAnating these dangers, Trendelenburg proposes the following operation. The patient having been placed under the influence of cliloroform, tracheotomy is performed in the usual Avay above the thyroid body. A trachea-tube fltted with a hollow India-rubber coUar (Fig. G56, 1) is then introduced, and the inhalation of the antesthetic vapour can-ied on through it by attaching, by means of an India-rubber tube, a funnel containing a sponge (Fig. 650, 2). When the Surgeon is about to commence Fig. 656.—Treuileleuburg’s Tracliea-Tampon. 1. Tlie Trachea-tube and Collar slightly 3. The Inflating Bottle attached inflated. 2. The Inhaling Funnel to the CoUar on Trachea-tube. his operation, the collar is inflated by means of the India-rubber ball attached (Fig 656 3) • the effect being to close the larynx above the tube, and thus to cut off aU possibihty of blood finding its way down the larynx into the bronchi and air-ceUs. After the operation is completed, the “ trachea-tampon is removed, and an ordinary trachea-tube is substituted and retained as long as it may be thought necessary.