424 OPMTIIALMIG SURGERY. wai-ds, backwards, and inwards—being borne in mind, the probe is gently pressed on ; it must not be held so tightly between the lingers that it cannot follow the course of the duct, and sometimes, it has been obseiwed, a slight rotation by the Sm-geon’s fingers will facilitate matters. If it will not pass down to the floor of the nostril, perhaps an inch and a half, a little more pres- sure may be exerted and continued, and increased if the probe seem to pass at all. The probe generally passes easily enough through the lower part of its coui’se. Experience alone can determine when and how much pressm-e may be exerted without fear of making a false passage. For stricture in the bony nasal duct, it would seem to be useless to leave the probe in for a short time, as may be done for the strictures of the canaliculus above described. It should be removed when it has passed aU along the duct. It must be passed again many times at intervals of a few days, and the size, up to No. 6, increased, if at first it have not been possible to pass the largest probe. If, after the obstruction has been remedied, as very often happens, the stoppage again take place (the punctum and canaliculus ai’e now always patent), recourse must be again had to the probing. The smaller-sized probes are hable to be caught in folds of the mucous membrane and to make false passages ; and No. 6 (or 5 or 4) by a little pressm’e in the right direction, and with aU due precautions, will almost certainly pass. If the probing finally will not cure the obstruction, a style, introduced by the slit canahculus, must be worn for a time. It consists of a silver wire, of the size of the No. G probe, two inches or less in length, and abruptly tapered into half an inch of about the size of the No. 2 or 3 probe ; this end is bent down when the style has been introduced. SQUINT-OPEBATIONS. In these operations the object is, by dividing the tendon of the rectus muscle which produces the Strabismus, to cause it to become attached to the globe of the eye at a point behind its natural insertion into the sclerotic. Then the mnscle regains and retains the power of moving the eye, but in a diminished degree, so as, usually and without any special exertion, to place the eye in a position parallel to that of the other. The first point in diagnosing a fit case for tenotomy in squint cases is to ascertain that all the muscles of the eye act, and that there is no paralysis of any of them. Then, again, an operation should not be performed in any case in which the squint is not confirmed, where some- times there is no degree of squint; in such a case, spectacles should be tried. Convex glasses (for hypermetropia) are very often needed in squint cases ^ to remedy a slight degTee, or, at least after the operation, to correct the pre-exist- ing error of refraction. The hypermetropia is the cause why niost of the patients who squint have begun to do so at the age at which chili-en have learned to read and observe near objects closely. Very young children a,re therefore very rarely subjects for squint-operation. And even if the case be one of a confirmed squint, the operation (in a very young child) may be deferred, if the vision of neither eye he irnymirecl A lai-ge majority of these cases are of convergent strabismus, requiring division of the internal rectus tendon or tendons. Of 307 primary operations for squint, at the Koyai London Ophthalmic Hospital, in Moorfields, in 1871, 275 were for convergciit