515 GLOSSITIS. CHAPTER LIX. —<— DISEASES OF THE MOUTH AHD THROAT. DISEASES OF THE TONGUE. To^’GUE-TIE.—Infants and even adults are said to be tongue-tied, when the frienum bnguje is shorter than usual, causing the end of the tongue to be shghtly bifid, depressed, and fixed, so that it cannot be protruded beyond the incisors. If this malformation be considerable, suckling and distinct articula- tion may be interfered with; and then division of the fold becomes necessary, which may readily be done by snipping it across with a pair of round-ended scissors. In this operation, the risk of wounding the ranine arteries, that is sometimes spoken of, may be avoided by keeping the point of the scissors downwards towards the fioor of the mouth. Hypeetbophy AjYd Peolapsus of the Tongue has occasionally been met with, either as a congenital or an acquired condition ; it has been described by Lassus and Crosse as consisting either in want of power in the retractor muscles, or in hyper- '■ trophy of the organ (Fig. 622). In this condi- tion, the tongue lolls out of the mouth, is greatly swollen, of a pmplish colour, but somewhat dry, with constant dribbhng of sahva. If the swell- ing have existed for a long time, it may give rise to deformity of the teeth, and of the alveolus of the lower jaw, which is pushed forwards. In the Treatment of this affection, little need be done unless it be excessive and permanent, when excision of a portion of the tongue by the ecraseur may be required. Glossitis is a rare affection, more particu- larly when it occurs idiopathically; most commonly it results from immoderate and injudieious salivation. In this disease the tongue is gi-eatly infiltrated with serum and blood, becoming immensely swollen, so as to hang out of the mouth with profrise discharge of saliva and inability on the part of the patient perhaps a threatening of suffocation. ihe Treatment is as simple as it is efficient; it consists in making a loim- flifid« tT ^mediate rehef by the escape of blood and infiltrLed fluids. I have seen a patient, who was nearly suffocated by the immense size o1 atrE Sl^ardt^^^^ — Fig. 622.—Great Hy}jertropliy of Tongue. L L 2