SPECIAL ANEURISMS. 15(5 In tins operation, there are se-\'eral points of considerable importance that recjnirc special attention. 1. The incision should be made directly iu the axis of the limb, and especial care taken not to incline it inwards in the direc- tion of the sartorins. 2. The edge of the sartorius should be exposed to a limited extent, as the surest guide to the artery. ?>. In cutting down upon the artery, the saphenous vein, or any parallel branch, should if possible be avoided. 4. After the sheath has been opened, it will sometimes be found that a rather large muscular brauch is giA’cn off from the artery at about the part where it was intended to ligature it; if so, this must be carefully aA'oided, as well as any small veins that cross the main trunk in this situation. 5. The ligature should be applied about four inches below Poupart’s ligament, so that suffi- cient space may intervene between the origin of the deep femoral, Avhich is usually from one or two inches below the crural arch, and the point deligated, to admit of the formation of a proper coagulum in the vessel. It has, indeed, happened that the ligature has been placed within thi-ee-quarters of an inch of the origin of the deep femoral, without any iujiuious consequences resulting. The proper point, however, for the deligation of the artery is that indicated, W'hich is usually the very spot at which the sartorius crosses it; though, if this muscle be very broad, it may be necessary to draw it to the outer side, and tie the vessel below it. 6. The greatest care must be taken not to M'ouud the femoral vein, which lies behind and somewhat to the inner side of the artery. It is best avoided by passing the needle from within outwards between the two vessels ; the inner side of the sheath being at the same time put upon the stretch by drawing upon it with a pair of forceps. In passing the needle, its end should be kept very close to the artery, and made to circle round it. The vein is generally perforated by dipping the needle too deeply and losing the contact between it and the artery. After the needle has been brought up on the outer side of the artery, a small portion of the sheath will some- times be foimd to be pushed up by it; this must be divided by being carefully touched with the point of the scalpel, when the needle may be earned round the vessel. Results.—Ligatiu-e of the femoral artery for pophteal auemism is an operation that has been so fr'equently performed, that Surgeons seldom think of recording cases of this description, unless they present complications or sequelm of unusual interest or severity ; hence, but little importance can be attached to any statistical deductions from reported cases as to the fatality of this oj)eration, although they may serve as a rough estimate of the piopoitioii maintained between the different accidents, such as haemorrhage, gangrene, &c., that follow it. That the ligatm-e of the femoral artery is attended with more success than that of any of the other large trunks, can admit of no doubt. This is not only in accordance with the general experience of Sm-geons," but is confirmed by the statistics of published cases, even without making allowance for the probability of more of the uusuccessM than suc- cessful having been recorded. Thus of 110 instances, collected by Crisp, m which the femoral artery had been ligatured for popliteal aneurism, oiily Welve are reported to have died ; amongst these, four deaths were caused by secondary hmmorrhage, three by gangrene, and the others by phlebitis, tetanus, chest-disease, &c. Higher rates of mortahty ai-e, however, given by other