DIAGNOSIS OF OBSTRUCTION BY ENLARGED PROSTATE. 863 About this time changes begin to take place in the urine, -which usually becomes someAvhat fetid, even while it continues acid, and is often intermixed with more or less viscid, stringy mucus ; though in many cases it is clear, pale, and not in any way altered in character. The symptoms often come on in a veiy gradual manner, the patient straining and experiencing much difficulty in the extrusion of the urine for months or even years before retention will occur. As the disease advances and the bladder becomes less capable of emptying itself, two or three ounces or more of residual urine are left, which becomes dark, and mixed Avith adhesive sticky mucus ; and, at last, if the mucous membrane of the bladder fall into a chronic state of inflammation, this urine assumes a milky appearance from an admixture of pus, and becomes horriljly offensive, blackening the silver catheter. Diagnosis.—The exact condition of the enlarged prostate can only be ascer- tained by examination through the rectum and lU’cthra. By rectal exploration with the finger, the degree of eiflargement of the lateral lobes can best be ascertained ; though, as in many cases the end of the finger cannot reach the fiu'ther extremity of the gland, it AviU be impossible to say to what extent the hypertrophy has extended. The urethral exploration must be conducted by means of a long gum-elastic or a silver prostatic catheter, and will afibrd information that rectal exploration cannot give ; and by it are ascertained approximately the size of the middle lobe, and the condition of the urethra as to elongation and curve. The diagnosis of obstruction in consequence of enlarged prostate has to be made from that produced by, 1, Stricture of the Urethra ; 2, Calculus of the Bladder ; 3, Vesical Tumour : 4, Chronic Cystitis ; 5, Atony of the Bladder ; G, Paralysis of the Bladder. 1. Ill Stricture the stream of mine is small ; the obstruction is ivithin six inches of the meatus and the disease mostly occurs before middle life. In enlarged prostate, the flow of urine is not always reduced in volume ; the obstruction is at least seven inches from the orifice ; and the enlargement does not occur until after middle hfe. In stricture, straining will increase the jet of urine ; in enlarged prostate, it only makes matters worse. 2. Calculus presents many symptoms in common with enlarged prostate, and its more special symptoms may be absent. The presence of a small quantity of florid blood in the urine passed after exercise should make the SiU’geon strongly suspect the presence of a stone ; but the use of the sound wiU alone lead to an exact diagnosis. _ 3. Vesical Tumour gives rise to more pain and tenderness on the introduc- tion of instruments than prostatic enlargement; and the urine generally con- tains samous discharge and flocculi, often with sabulous matter. Microscopic examination of the contents of the urine may show tlie presence of the com- ponent tissues of the tumour. Tumours, especially of the malignant kind may be felt through the rectum ; while villous tumours give rise to the almost constant presence of blood in the urine. ^ 4. In Chrome Cystitis, without complication, the absence of the physical signs of enlarged prostate, as ascertained by examination by the rectum and urethra, vill establish the diagnosis.