512 PLASTIC SUIlGEliY OF THE FACE AND MOUTH. way the sntui-es, being passed on both sides from before baekwards, can be inserted more evenly, and Avitlr less cbance of pnekering when knotted. In tying the knots, groat earc should be taken that no nndne traction be exercised npon the parts ; in fact, the nse of the sutures is not to draw, but simply to hold, the parts togethoi-; the division of the muscles has caused these to be relaxed, so that they hang down loosely, and merely require to be held in apposition by the sutm-es. The patient must next be put to bod, and every care taken to avoid any movement of the palate. He should be restricted to fluid but nourishing food for a few days, and should be directed to swallow this with as little effort as possible, and indeed should not be allowed anything solid until complete union has taken place. All coughing, spitting, or swallow- ing of the saliva should be interdicted 4. The stitches should, he left in for several days; and, indeed, need not be disturbed so long as they produce no irritation. They usually require removal by the eighth or tenth day, but occasionally may be left with advantage for some time longer, until they excite irritation, or mitil union is perfect ; they should then be cut across with scissors and di’aAvn out, the upper one first, the middle next, and the lower one last. Shoidd there be any aperture left in the palate, where union has not taken place, this may be closed by touching it with a point of nitrate of silver. The voice in these cases does not usually at once recover its natural tone after the operation, although in some cases it may. The nasal or “ Punch- like” voice that is often left after operations, appears to arise from two causes. The first is the mere habit of faulty articulation, and this can be corrected by careful instruction in elocution. The second, which is much more difficult to deal with, arises from a mechanical condition, and is. dependent on the contraction upwards of the palate along the line of the cicatrix, so that the velum becomes unable to shut off the posterior nares from the pharynx. Mason has proposed to remedy this condition by dividing the soft palate perpendicularly on each side, so as to leave a square and mobile central fiap. In dividing the levator palati, Pollock adopts a different practice from that Fig. 019. 020. l'‘g. 021. Sddillot's Orcratiou for Staiiliylorapliy. of Fergusson. Instead of cutting from behind, he passes a ligature through the curtain of the soft palate so as to control it and draw it forwards j t eii.