9^2 DISEASES OF THE TESTIS AND CORD. Profjnosis.—Simple chronic orchitis usually terminates in recovery, but the organ may lie left somewhat enlarged and indurated, or in other cases it may undergo atrophy as the inflammatory products become absorbed. Strapping and the administration of an alterative course of bichloride of mercury may be tried. If the organ do not diminish in size by these means, or if it be a soux’ce of much inconvenience to the patient, it must lie removed. If accompanied by hydrocele the hydrocele must be tapped, but on no account should injection of iodine be resorted to. If abscesses form, they must be opened. AVhen a fungus has protruded through one of the fistulous apertiu’es, means must be taken to repress or remove this, lest it go on to complete destruction of the testis. If it be of small size, the best plaxi will be to sprinkle it with red oxide of mercury, and to strap it tightly down with a piece of lint and strapping. If it be larger, it may be shaA'ed off, and the cut surface then dressed with the ointment of the red oxide of mercury ; care being taken during cicatrisation to repress the granu- lations below the level of the surrounding integument by strappmg and pressm’e. Syme has recommended that the pressiu'e should be effected by the integument of the part; an elhptical incision being made round the fungus and the edges of the opening in the skin through which it protrudes pared away, the scrotal integuments are freely separated by dissection from their subjacent connexions, and brought together over the protruding mass and secm’ed by sutures. This operation I haA'e practised with success. Should the fungus be of A-ery large size, so as to include Avithin itself the whole or greater part of the structure of the testis, it may not be possible to save any of that organ ; and in these circumstances it is better to remove the AA'hole gland ; if left it could ncA^er be of any sendee, and Avould continue slowly to suppm-ate. Tubercular Testicle, Scrofulous Testicle, or Tubercular S.\r- COCELE.—This disease, although occasionally met Avith in individuals appa- rently strong and healthy, usually occurs in those of a feeble or cachectic constitution, most frequently in early manhood; and, although commonly associated Avith phthisis, may occur AAdthout any evidence of tubercularisation in other organs. It is very common to find both glands affected, but the disease is usually more advanced in one than in the other. In some cases it arises apparently as a sequence of gonorrhoeal epididymitis, or there may be a history of some injury to the testicle. The disease almost invariably commences in the epididymis, either at the globus major or minor, AA^hich becomes swollen, indurated, and shghtly tender. As it progresses, it spreads upwards along the vas deferens until it may reach the prostate and A^esiculie seminales, and forwards through the corpus High- morianum into the body of the testis. In some rare cases, it is said to commence in the body of the gland. The progress of the disease is usually sloAV, but it may go on rapidly to almost complete destruction of the testis. In a well marked case the foUoAving conditions Avill be found. ^ The testicle is moderately enlarged, but on examination this enhu’gement aa ill be found to be chiefly in the epididymis, Avhich can be felt as an irregular, craggy, nodulated mass, half surrounding the body of the gland in the form of a crescent situated at its posterior aspect. In the hard mass, Avhich often con- siderably exceeds the body of the gland in bulk, spots of softening may be