139 INGUINAL ANEURISM. lon-cd anaBSthesia, a few points require special attention. The patient should he fed well on the day before the operation. On the day of the operation he should receive fluid nourishment only, and the boAvels should be we emptied by means of a copious enema. The tourniquet must be applied with the greatest care immediately above the tumour, and mth no more force than is absolutely necessary. If much force be required before the pulsation in the femoral arteries is an-ested, it is probable that the pad ot the tourniquet is not in the right place, and various attempts must be made till the spot is found where the smaUest amount of pressure will control the circu- lation. It will be found convenient to insert a soft hollow sponge under the pad of the tourniquet, as it then accommodates itself more readily to the parts between it and the spine. During the operation the patient must be watched A'erj' carefully, and the tourniquet slackened at once if any symptoms of faint- ness intervene. Obstinate vomiting may render the continuance of the opera- tion impossible. It is difficult to say whether this is due to pressme on the sympathetic or to the influence of the ctloroform. During the application of the toiu'iiiquet, it is advisable to have the lower limbs raised in the bed and warmly wrapped in cotton-wool, as marked coldness and serious congestion ha^-e usually been noticed after the compression has lasted a short time. If necessary, nutritive enemata and brandy may be administered dining the amesthesia. INGUINAL ANEUBISM. An Iliac or Inguinal Aneurism may arise from the external iliac, or from the common femoral artery ; most frequently it springs from the latter, and, taking a direction upwards, pushes the peritoneum before it, and thus encroaches somewhat upon the cavity of the abdomen. The aneurism is commonly of the circumscribed false variety, though sometimes tubular. It rarely, if ever, becomes diffused, for the reason long ago pointed out by Scarpa, that the femoral artery, above the edge of the sartorius muscle, is invested by so dense a sheath, and is so closely bound domi to the neigh- bouring fascia, that, when dilated into an aneurism, it does not readily give way. SvBirPTOMS.—When first noticed, the aneurism is a small, soft, compressible tumour, with pulsation and bruit, and is generally attended by little pain or uneasiness. It rapidly enlarges, however, and may attain a considerable mag- nitude ; being often somewhat lobulated upon the siuface, owing to the unequal constriction exercised on it by the faseije under which it lies. At the same time, it usually becomes more sohd ; and the pulsation in it diminishes con- siderably, or even ceases entirely. As it increases in size, it compresses the saphena and femoral veins, thus giving rise to oedema of the limb ; and, by stretching the genito-criual and some of the branches of the anterior crmal neiTC, it occasions considerable pain in the thigh and leg. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of inguinal aneurism is not always so easy as might at first appear. It has most fr-equently been confounded with abscess in the groin, ivith carcinomatous tumours in this situation, and with osteo- aneurism. The diagnosis from alsccss must be made on general principles ; but in some instances it appears to be replete with difficulty, as there are not a few cases on record in which aneurisms in this situation have been mistaken