566 OPERATIONS ON THE AIR-TUBE AND CHEST. it is tlie imperative duty of the Surg-eon to open the air-passage fus speedily as possible, and to endeavour, by means of artificial respiration, to recall the bickering spark ; and it is impossible to experience a greater satisfaction in the exercise of our profession, or to witness a gi*eater triumph of art, than in thus snatching a patient out of the very jaws of death. Laryngotomy should, therefore, be practised on the adult in impending asphyxia from the following causes 1. Acute laryngitis; 2. Erysipelatous laryngitis—oedema glottidis ; 3. Chronic ulceration and disease of the larynx ; 4. Scald of the pharynx, &c., from swallowing con-osive liquids ; 5. Spasm from iwessm-e on the recuiTent laryngeal nerve ; 0. Diphtheritic exudation. Tracheotomy should, as a general rule, he prefen’ed in children, and should be performed on them for obstruction to respiration from—1. Croupy exuda- tion ; 2. Diphtheritic effusion ; 3. Swallowing boiling water ; 4. Foreign bodies in the air-passage of adult as well as child ; 5. Impaction of food, &c., i in the phaiynx. Trachea-tubes should be of such a calibre throughout as to admit of respi- I’ation being carried on though them, without any effort on the part of the patient. Many of those that are to be met udth in the instnunent-makers’ shops, though very wide at the mouth, are far too naiTOw and contracted at the i lower aperture to aUow a free and unimpeded passage for the air of respiration, j being made very conical in order to admit of easy introduction, and to occlude completely the opening in the -windpipe, so as to prevent the entry of any blood ^ by the side of the tube. The disadvantage attending this mode of construction may in a great degree be remedied, by having a longitudinal opening like the | large eye of a catheter cut in the side of the tube, immediately above the inferior aperture. One great difficulty which the Surgeon has to meet in cases of tracheotomy or laryngotomy, is to keep the tube from being clogged and obstructed by mucus. ! It is usually stated that the tube may be kept clear by the occasional introduc- i tion of a feather’, of a piece of sponge fixed to a stick, or a bit of lint -wrapped round a probe. In this way it is trrre that the frothy or spumous mrreus that collects irr the trrbe may be readily errough cleared away ; bVit this simple means will in very many cases be found to be quite ineffectual in removing another kind of mucus that in certain conditions rapidly accrrmulates to a considerable extent -withirr the tube. On examirrirrg a trachea-tube that has been worn for but a few horrrs, it -\nll be found that its interior becomes gradually lined by a coating of dr-y, grrmmy, and very tenacious muerrs, which is so fir-mly adherent to the metal as to render it necessary, before the tube can be properly cleaned, to detach this lining by means of a pen-knife or pointed probe ; or, what is better, by pom’ing boiling water through the tube. Hhis tenacious mucus, col- lecting in largest quantity at the inferior aperture, and at the cur^'e of the trachea-tube, may block up its calibre to a very gi-eat and dangerous extent, whilst the mouth of the tube appears to be perfectly perdous and free ; though ' feathers and pieces of stick armed with sponge or lint have been introduced fr’om time to time, these, passing over thi^ dry mucus, are quite miable to detach it from the side of the tube, and merely bring away the sputa and more fr’othy mucus. . . , Obre devised a very simple means to remedy this inconvenience. It consists