SPECIAL ANEURISMS. 90 the stomo-clavicnlar articulation to a point midway between the angle of the jaw and the mastoid process. The artery is reached by making an incision, about three inches in length, over this course upon the anterior edge of the sterno-mastoid, which is the directing line and a sure guide to the artery. After diA’iding the integument, the platysma, the subcutaneous fascia, and areolar tissue, and turning outAA-ards the edge of tbe sterno-mastoid, the sheath of the vessel is exposed. This must then be carefully opened toAvards its inner side over the artery and not OA'er the vein, any branches of the descendens noui neiTc being avoided. After opening the layer of cervical fascia common to both A^essels and the pneumogastric nerve, the special sheath of the artery must be carefully opened luitil the external coat is seen. The needle is then passed betAveen this sheath and the external coat through the loose areolar tissue naturally found in this situation. If this be carefully done it is alnrost impossible to wound the vein or pick up the nerve. If, hoAvever, the true sheath of the artery be not opened either of these accidents may happen. The needle must be passed ft'om without inwards, between the A’ein and artciy (Fig. 380). In performing this operation, subcutaneous vessels are occasion- ally AA'ounded, which may bleed rather freely ; if so, they should be ligatured. When the sheath is opened, the jugular vein sometimes swells up considerably, so as to obscure the artery, but by being diwn aside Avith a retractor, or repressed by the assistant’s finger, all difficulty from this source AviU cease. The pneumogastric nerve is not seen, as it lies deeply behind the vessels, and is drawn Fig. 3S0.—Incision for Ligature of the Carotid Arteir. Fig. 3S1.—Uiagram of Left Com- mon Carotid Artery as seat of ligature. Stenuwiiastoid mnoli drawn aside. Slieath oiieued. A. Common Carotid. V. Internal .Jugular A’cin. N. Pueumo-giustric Nerve, with liranclies of descendens noni. M. Omolr.'oid muscle. aside Avith the vein. If the aneiu’ism haA'c attained a very consideiable size, extending low in the neck, and not leaving, perhaps, more than one inch ot clear space above the clavicle for the Surgeon to operate in, the difficulties aic necessarily very gveatly increased ; and here the best plan Avill be to diAude the . tendon of the sterno-mastoid muscle, so as to give additional space. The