767 INSTRUMENTS FOR LITHOTOMY. Qp PljQ ^rudiitil motlific^fcions tlint Iirvg n^fc Vcinous times l)Gcn iiitiocliicecl^ ftom tliG rnde attempts of the Greek and Roman Surgeons to the i^arbarous and unscientific iiroccdures adopted by the itinerant operators after tlie re^•ival ol letters. For all this, I would refer the reader to the classical Avorks of Des- champs and of John Bell. The operation, as now generally practised in this country, is essentially that introduced by Cheselden, and modified more or less according to the A'iews of particular Surgeons. Though Surgeons generally are agreed upon the great principles involved in it, they differ in carrying these out; as in the direction and extent of the incisions, and in the instruments employed, which have been much varied to suit the tastes and views of parti- cular operators. But, although I look upon Chesclden’s operation, as modified and practised by Liston, as being on the whole the simplest and safest mode of cutting for the stone as yet introduced, there can be no doubt that recourse may occasionally be had Avith advantage to other methods instead of it. Indeed, there is no operation that requires to be considered from so many and such different points of view as lithotomy. The size, shape, and position of the stone, the age and constitution of the patient, all render it desirable, and indeed necessary, to modify the method of operating. Hence, a Surgeon should not be too exclusively wedded to one plan, but should adopt one or other of the methods about to be described, according to the exigencies of the particular case before him. Instruments.—The table for operating must be firm and of conA'enient height, so that when the Surgeon sits on a rather Ioav stool the patient’s nates AA-ill be on a level with his breast; a few blankets doubled should be laid upon the table, and covered by a piece of tarpaulin hanging over the end ; and a tray of sand placed under it on the floor. The instruments necessary are the foUoAving a pair of lithotomy tapes, a sharp and probe-pointed scalpel, a staff, forceps, and scoops of various sizes, and a tube. To these may be added a searcher, and a brass injecting syringe. The tapes should be of coarse flannel, about three yards long, by thi-ee inches broad. An inflnite amount of ingenuity has been expended in giving variety to the shape of the knives used for opening the deeper portions of the urethra and neck of the bladder in lithotomy. Instruments of this kind, straight-edo-ed and shouldered, beaked and probe-ended in every possible Avay, have been deAu'sed ; and each has had its special advocate, but has seldom been adoi^ted jn practice by any except its inventor. All these modifleations of the ordinarv scalpel are, to say the least, useless ; some, perhaps, actually dangerous. They simply seek to supply by mechanical means that safety in the deeper incisions which may as readily be secured by a broad-bladed, straight-backed scalpel if properly guided by a hand that is ordinarily skilful. Fig. 720.—Lithotomy ScfUi)el. The cutting gorget, formerly much in vogue, is all but miiversally discarded as a most dangerous tool by the modern lithotomist. ^ (Hscarded