ANEURISM. iS reports of cases, I should say that it is of more eomnion oceurrence in Great Britain and Ireland than elsewhere ; indeed, Bonx states that it is less frequent in France than in England. In America, it is also of frequent occurrence ; hut in the East Indies it is comparatively rare. Cachexy induced by any cause, such as syphilis, chronic gout, or rheuma- tism, the abuse of n^ercin-y, &c., has a tendency to occasion disease of the coats of the arteries, and thus to predispose to aneurism. But, though mercuiy and syphilis are commonly said to tend specially to the production of this disease, I am not aware that we are in possession of any facts that would warrant us in coming to this conclusion ; though there can be no doubt that the cachexy thus induced may dispose to it as much as any other cause. It is remarkable that phtliisis is antagonistic to aneimism ; though probably this may arise from the facts that the heart’s action is feeble in that disease, and that violent muscular exertion is seldom undertaken by those labouring under it. Any obstacle to the free flow of blood through an organ or the capil- laries of a part, exercises an important influence in disposing to aneurism, as it throws an increase of pressme on the interior of the artery. Chevers believes that obstruction in the abdominal organs frequently occasions anemisms of the abdominal arteries. Sijontaneous aneurisms of the radial and nlnar arteries are supposed in the great majority of cases to be due to the obstruction caused by the impaction of an embohe clot washed on fr’om a diseased heart. The only Exciting or Direct Occasioning Causes of aneiu’ism are blows, violent strains, and wounds of an artery. When an atheromatous artery is concussed by a Uow, the lining membrane covering the softened patch may be ruptured, the atheroma being poured out into the interior of the vessel ; and thus the external coat, with perhaps a portion of the middle adherent to it, becoming exposed to the pressure of the contained blood before it has been fully consolidated by inflammation and plastic deposit, the foundation of an anein'ism may readily be laid. In very violent muscular strains or efforts, it is easy to understand how an afready weakened jjortion of the vessel may become dilated by the increased pressure that is thrown upon its interior ; and occasion- ally even the vessel may be completely torn across. Wounds impheating arteries are common causes of those various forms of aneurism that ha'^'e already been discussed in considering Injuries of Ai’teries (Vol. I., p. 313). Classification.—Anemism may be classified as follows:— 1. Fusifoem.—True. 2. Saccltiated. — j r a. Circumscribed. ^ ‘ ‘1/3. Difiused. 3. Dissecting. 1. Fusiform or Tubular Aneurism.—This is a pretcrnatui’al dilatation of an artery, all the coats of which are equally expanded through the n hole circumference of the vessel. It most frequently occurs in the aorta, and may, though rarely, be met with elsewhere. The fusiform aneurism is not a meie dilatation of the vessel, but there are elongation, thickening, and degeneration of its walls as well. The elongation of the artery in the fusiform aneurism is