434 OPIITIIALMIG SURGERY. Oplifchalmic Hospital in Moorflolds, without reckoning any of the very nume- rous preliminary iridectomies in cataract extraction and other operations. If an operation for artificial pupil be thought of in a case in which the natural pupil is quite obliterated, or where, in any case, even u'ith atropine, an ophthalmoscopic examination of the fundus cannot be had, the Surgeon must first carefully ascertain that the eye retains perception of light. But, in order that the operation may be likely to succeed in restoring useful vision in such cases, the patient should not only have a perception of light, but should be able, when the other eye is closely covered with the palm of the hand, to readily perceive the shadow of the hand of the Surgeon when it is passed quickly before the light, between it and the eye of the patient, even at a distance of two or three feet. If there be a less degree of vision remaining, if the tension of the eyeball be plus or minus, indications of intraocular pressure, or atrophy, there must have been some deep-seated disease, besides the iritic inflammation, the immediate cause of the obstructed pupil. After estimating the degree to which vision is impaired in the case of proposed operation for artificial pupil, the Surgeon must observe accurately what evidence of past disease he can see with his own eyes, and compare all this with the history of the case. If cor- neal opacity be the reason why an artificial pupil should be made, the opera- tion must be deferred until, after some months at least, no improvement by progressive clearing has taken place, according to the history of the case, or by the Siu’geon’s observation, no redness of the sclerotic has appeai’ed around the cornea, and no former operation of the same kind has been attempted. A lad was admitted at University College Hospital for the operation of artificial pupil. He had had keratitis of both eyes some years before, and shght attacks more recently. He had been treated at intervals as an out-patient for a long time, with cod-liver oil and syrup of iodide of iron, &c. He was antemic, and, apparently, lived poorly. When taken into the Hospital, he had full diet, and he sat, almost blind, by the fire with the other patients. Very soon he could see better, and in a short time the clear marginal part of the cornea was wider. When the operation was performed, a few weeks after his admission, it was remarkable how his corneas were cleared, after they had been at a stand-still for months, if not for a year previously, according to the patient’s own account, and the latter part of the time during which he had been mider our own observation.* Of com’se, if there be ever any appearance of present, or any history of recent inflammation, any faint diffused nebula of the cornea and slight redness around it, it must be understood that it is not of that external nature with superficial vessels, due to granular lids, an inverted eyelash, or other mechanical means, but an affection of the cornea itself. One can only wait for the cornea to clear as much as it will, always from the margin, of course. The general health of the patient must be attended to, and belladonna locally may be of some use, meanwhile, as a sedative and mychlatic. In any case of opacity of the cornea extending nearly to the margin, and allowing at no part any wider clear space for artificial pupil, the incision of the cornea must be made in the sclerotico-corneal junction and vciy * 111 cases of old hopeless leueoinata, at a operation he done, the disflgiu'emeiit may colour than the iris. suhsoqueiit time to the ojieration for artificial pni'il, if iiiiy such he entirely remedied hy tattooing them of a somewhat diirkcr