336 DISEASES OF SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES, AND OF AWSCLES. CHAPTER LIIL DISEASES OF SYNOVIAL MEMBEANES, AND OF MUSCLES. DISEASES OF BURS.®. The bnrs£e whicli naturally exist, either under the skin, beneath the muscles and hgaments, or around tendons, are subject to various diseases. Not only do the normal bursse become aflPected, but these sacs are sometimes developed from continued friction in situations where they are not naturally met with, and here also they may undergo disease ; thus, for instance, bm'ste have been found to be formed at the projecting point of a hump-back, on the prominent parts of club-feet, or at the extremity of stumps. Situations in which Bursse exist.—In the following situations burseo naturally occur, and may consequently be expected to be met vdth in a diseased state :—behind the angle of the lower jaw, on the symphysis of the chin, on the angle of the thyroid cartilage ; on the acromion, the external and internal condyles of the humerus, the olecranon, the styloid processes of the ulna and radius ; on the dorsal surface of the metacarpo-phalangeal articula- tions, as well as on their palmar surface, and on the dorsal aspect of the phalangeal articulations ; on the anterior superior spine of the ihum, the great trochanter, the tuberosity of the ischium, the lower, superior, and outer parts of the patella ; on each condyle of the thigh-bone, the tuberosity of the tibia, the two malleoli, the calcaneiun, the dorsal aspect of the toes, and on the ' Fig. 501.—Enlarged Bursa over Olecranon—Miner’s Elbow, thickened, Or to Undergo Vai’ioUS changes in structure. This en- largement of the bursie in particular situations is often connected with special employments, by which continuous and severe pressure is exercised upon ceitain plantar aspect of the heads of the first and fifth metatarsal bones. Besides these situations, they occur imder the deltoid and the gluteus maximus, between the lower end of the scapula and the latissimus dorsi, and in the ham. Morbid Alterations. — The continued irritation of bursa? by the pressiu’e that is exercised upon them, may cause them to inflame, to enlarge, to become