5o8 plastic surgery OF THE FACE AND MOUTH. remaining portion of the lijiby points of suture ; the head being kept properly inclined, in order to prc’s^ciit undue tension. After sufficient union has taken place to preserve the vitality of the flap, its lower attachment may be divided. I’he flaj) should, if possible, not be twisted, though it is not always practicable to avoid this. This operation is not usually very satisfactory in its results, as the new flap is apt to become cedematous and inverted at the edge, or the flow •of saliva may interfere with proper union. In those cases in Avhich the greater portion of the lower lip has been excised for cancerous disease affecting its upper mai-gin, the most successful procedure for the restoration of the deformity ■consists in a modification of the plan recommended by Serres ; and from this I have derived excellent results, as in the case which is here represented (Fig. The object of the operation is to raise the lower lip to a level Avith the Fig. C12.—Lines of lueision in Clieiloi)lasty. Fig. G13.—Incisions .mu Sutures in ClieiloiiUisty. incisor teeth. An incision, about three-quarters of an inch in length, is made directly outwards from the angle of the mouth, on each side, into the cheek ; from the extremity of this, a cut is carried obliquely downwards on to the upper margin of the lower lip, so as to excise the included triangular piece ; the lower lip is then dissected away from the jaw, from the inside of the mouth, and a yshaped piece is taken out of its centre. By means of a hare- lip pin on each side, and a point of suture, the incisions in the angle of the mouth are brought accm-ately together ; and in the same way the vertical one, in the centre, is united (Fig. 613). In this way the whole of the lower lip is raised, and brought more forwards. If care have been taken m removing the cancer from the edge of the h’lj, to leave the mucous membrane rather long (which may ahvays be done, as the skin is affected to a gi’eater extent than it), a good prolabium may be formed, and the restoration effected AAith but little deformity. Care must be taken to prevent unffin from occm'ring between the inside of the loAver lip and the gum, by the interposition of a strip of oiled lint. Buchanan, of Glasgow, as far back as 1811, published an account of a method for restoring the lower hp Avhen affected by extensive cancerous ■ disease, Avhich leaves most satisfactory results. The accompanying figures illustrate the kind of case in which Buchanan’s operation is aiiplicable, the lines of incision required, and the appearance presented by the chin and lip after the disease has been removed, and the flaps brought into proper ■apposition. The steps of the operation are simple, and the result is excellent. ^ ^ The diseased part of the loAver lijj is first remoA’ed by an elliptical incision (Fig. 61-1, A B a). An incision, B c, is then carried doAViiwards and outwards