996 DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITAL ORGANS. the twenty-four hours ; but the bowels should be left unrelieved for several days, and then merely opened by an enema. As no solid food should be- talcen during this time, little inconvenience results. If peritonitis come on, it must bo treated in accordance with the rules laid down when speaking of that which folloAvs strangulated hernia. Should symptoms of exhaustion manifest themselves, the patient must be kept up by wine or brandy, repeated as frequently as the irritable state of the stomach will permit. After recovery from ovariotomy, the cure is usually complete. Impregna- tion may occur through the medium of the ovary that is left; and partmTtion may be safely accomplished. In some rare instances, however, the rdtimate rcsidt is not so fortunate. If the tumour have been malignant, recuiTence may take place ; and occasionally the ovary that is left becomes the seat of disease, so as to necessitate a second operation. Hernia of the Ovary. It may happen that the ovary, on one or both sides, becomes displaced, and escapes from the pelvis through one of the openings which give passage to intestinal hernia. In three-fourths of the recorded cases (twenty-seven out of thirty-eight, according to Englisch of Vienna) the displacement has been inguinal. In nearly one half of the cases it was congenital; aU these were instances of inguinal displacement; and aU the instances of double ovarian hernia were inguinal and congenital. The Causes of the displacement in the adidt are not easily ascertained. In the congenital cases it would seem as if an abnormal descent of the ovary took place, analogous to the descent of the testis in the male. Symptoms. Congenital ovarian hernia is nearly always in'educible; while in most cases of acquired displacement of the ovary, it has been possible to return the tumoiu’ into the abdomen. The swelling is generally pyriform in the inguinal region, rounder in the femoral. There is no constant diagnostic symptoms ; but in several instances it has been noticed that the hernia became more tender on pressime, and larger, diming menstruation. At this time, also, inflammation of the ovary may take place ; and, being attended with vomiting, may lead the Simgeon to imagine that the case is one of strangulated hernia. The diagnosis here is not easy ; indeed, according to Englisch, of twenty cases, in which symptoms of strangulated hernia were present, a correct diagnosis was made in seven only. The difliculty of diagnosis would be much increased if an intestinal or omental hernia were present with the ovarian. Abscess or sloughing of the displaced ovary occasionally occims. Treatment. So long as the hernia presents no special symptoms there is httle or no occasion for interference, beyond the wearing of a properly fitted truss. If inflammation occim, the case must be treated on ordinary principles ; and if the ovary suppurate, the abscess should be opened. ^Vhen the ovary is very painful, or has become cystic, extirpation may be practised.