975 TRUE SPERMATORRIKEA. spirits, Ws countenance is pale and haggard, eye dull expresstan listi* md devoid of all enevf^y. He takes no interest m tlie ordinary affairs of life, Ins whole thoughts are concentrated on his own condition and he feels himse de-n-aded as being unfit for that duty which is alike the first and the lon est of mSi. This state of mind is commonly the result of some local irritation or disease, re-acting on a morbidly sensitive nervous system ; and on examination, the Surgeon will commonly find some local condition that has been the star - ill" point of the mental malady. Balanitis, phimosis, or varicocele in the male ; uterine or ovarian irritation, congestion, or disease in the female, are the common occasioning causes. But the most frequent direct exciting cause is undoubtedly that pernicious and disgusting habit alike destructive of bodily vigour and of mental power, which, heedlessly contracted in youth, lays the foundation for an effete and impotent manhood, and for premature senility in the one sex, and entails hysteria, in its most aggravated and intractable fomis on the other. ^Ye may recognise at least three distinct varieties of generative debility in the male, of whom I alone speak, which may in some cases amount to actual impotence ; 1. True Spermatorrhoea, or Seminal Flux ; 2, Spasmodic Sper- matoiThoca, or Spermaspasmos ; and, 3, that arising from Want of Seminal Secretion, or Asperma. 1. True Spermatorrhoea, or Seminal Flux, is chiefly met with in young men usually from the ages of eighteen to thirty. It is commonly the conse- quence of that hideous sin, engendered by vice, and practised in solitude, which alike emasculates the body, enfeebles the mind, and degrades the moral nature of its perpetrator, or of debility of the generative organs induced by gonon-hoea, or of the continued struggle to repress the natural sexual desires by a life of forced or unavoidable continence. In this form of the disease there is a mixture of irritability and of debility. The generative organs are excited by slight emotional causes, or by trivial and ordinary physical stimuli —a thought, a look, a ivord, the movement of a carriage, the effort of strain- in" at stool, will excite the secretion of the testes, which the debilitated state of the parts allows to escape with a feeble ejaculatory effort, or in a kind of leakage of a few drops from the urethra. In the slighter cases, and in the earlier stages of the malady, these emissions take place but occasionally—three or four times a week, chiefly in the morning, in the mid state between waking and sleeping, and are preceded by an erection. In the more advanced stages, the emissions occur once or oftener in the twenty-four hours without an erection ; the semen at last, when discharged, flowing back into the neck of the bladder, escaping with each discharge of the urine, or being squeezed out after defecation. The patient’s physical and mental state becomes seriously implicated in these more advanced cases of true spermatorrhoea. His counte- nance is pallid, anmmic, and sallow ; his features are drawn, their expression is listless ; his eyes lifeless ; his spirits depressed, often to the lowest depths of despondency and despair. Connection is impracticable, as the discharge of semen takes place either before erection occurs, or without its occurrence. Diagnosis.—This form of spermatorrhoea is apt to bo confounded with frostatorrhaia (p. 870, vol. II.) ; but the diagnosis may always be effected by a microscopical examination of the discharge.