SPECIAL IIERNIjE. 676 * A rare kind of ventral rapture has been dcscrn)ed by (Intbrie and tbe- German Surgeons, in which the abdominal wall has been absorbed or yielded to a considerable extent, forming a broad and expanded tumour, without any distinct neck 01 pedicle. Sometimes this tumour may attain an immense size stretching perhaps doAvn to the knees, and containing even the gravid uterus PELVIC HERNLB. Obturator Hernia.—This rare foimi of hernia, in ivhich the protrasion of intestine takes place through the thyroid foramen, was first noticed by Garengeot, in the early part of the eighteenth century ; and, since that time, about seventy cases have been recorded. Its existence has rarely been ascertained till after death ; in fact, Lawrence seems to doubt the possibility of the recognition of the complaint during life, in consequence of the small size wLich the tumour attains, and its being covered in and compressed under the pectineus muscle. But several cases are on record in which it was recognised during life. It generally occurs in persons above the age of fifty ; in consequence, according to Gurlt, of the participation by the muscular structines passing through the thyroid foramen in the general wasting of tissue which occurs at that time of life. Sym,2}foms.—In obturator hernia, the intestine descends through the thyroid foramen ; the neck of the sac thus lies behind the horizontal ramus of the pubes. The symptoms have in some cases sufficiently resembled those of strangulated femoral hernia to lead able Surgeons to suppose they had to deal ivith the latter affection. In addition, however, to the ordinary symptoms of strangulation, there arc two special signs which may lead to the suspicion of the existence of this hernia, if not to its positive diagnosis. The first of these is a slight fulness and hardness in the upper part of the thigh to the inner side of the femoral vessels, often very indistinct, yet giving to the surface of the limb a different outline from that which is observed on the other side. The other is, pain extending down the inner side of the thigh towards the knee ,- or even, as in a case referred to by Birkett, as far as the great toe. This pain has been noticed in a large number of the recorded cases, and is due to the pressure of the hernia on the obturator nerve : it may also be increased by pressure with the hand at the thyi’oid foramen. It does not extend to the testis ; but it may, as happened in a case which I have seen, affect the thigh to such an extent that the patient, to relieve it, flexes the limb on the abdomen. Eoser has recommended, as a means of diagnosis, an examination of the interior of the pelvis, per rectum in the male, and jier vaginam in the female. Most reliance, however, is to be placed on the symptoms which I have described. Treatment.—The taxis has been employed in a few cases. In one instance, Edscr reduced an obturator hernia in this way, the patient surviving ; but, in another case under his care, death took place, a portion of the walls of the in- ■ testine remaining strangulated. Werner w'as successful in an instance in f which, in addition to applying pressure externally, he introduced his hand into the vagina, and employed traction backwards and upwards. Welsch of Herren- berg reduced an obturator heraia by external pressure ; the patient was ap- parently doing well, when, in a few days, an abscess appeared at the site of the hernia, and he died in seven weeks. At the post mortem examination, the end