ANEURISM. 40 lunteriaii operation, this is effected Ijy deposit from the lessened quantity of blood that flows through the sac ; in the distal operation, it is sought to be accomphshed in the same way, and the success of the operation must necessarily depend, in a great measm-e, npon the extent to Avhich the flow of blood through the sac is interlered with. This operation, however, is rarely suecessM ; lor, independently of the ordinary dangers resulting from the appheation of the ligatm-e to a large vessel, the sac will continue to be distended with, and to receive the direct impulse of, the blood that is driven into it, though it be not transmitted through it. The natural result of the ligature would be, therefore, to increase the tension, of the sac, but, as Holmes points out, the en- largement of the collateral circulation opens, as it were, “ side- sluices ” to relieve this pressiwe, and consequently after a few hoiu’S or days the sac is usually found to be less tense than before the operation. Hence the progress of the anem’ism may be arrested for a time, but it will often speedily increase again, and may perhaps eventually destroy the patient by suppura- tion and sloughing. Of 38 cases in which this operation has been practised on the cai’otid artery, in 25 instances a fatal result more or less speedily followed the operation ; in the remaining 13 cases the patients sm’Hved the effects of the ligature of the artery, though in very few if any cases were they cured of the disease for which the operation was practised. This operation, however, will be considered more in detail in speaking of the particular cases in which it has been practised {vide Chap. xliv.). Indications and Contra-indications of Ligature.— Ligature of an artery for aneiu'ism, by the Hunterian method, succeeds best in those cases in which the tumour is circimi- scribed, of moderate size, slow in its growth, haHng a tendency to consolidation, and unaccompanied by much oedema of the limb. When the anem-ism is undergoing spontaneous cm-e, no surgical interference should be employed, but the case left to nature. In tins way it occasionally happens, dining the pre- paratory treatment of the disease, that the aneinism becomes consolidated. Before the Singeon proceeds to cut dovm upon an artery with the view of tying it, he should, as far as practicable, ascertain by a careful examination of it, whether it appears to be in a healthy and sound state, at the point at which he is about to tie it. He should feel along its course to ascertain if it be smooth, easily com- pressible, and natural to the feel; if it be hard, incompressible, indicatii e of calcification ; if it feel broader than natural; if a bruit be heard in it on applying the stethoscope ; if, in fine, there be evidence ol degeneration oi dilatation of its coats, great caution should be used in attempting to hgatiu-e it. Should the deligation of a diseased ai-tery become unavoidable, the antiseptic catgut ligatm’c would probably be the best material for the pm pose. e Fig. 3C2. — Fe- moral Artery liga- tured for PopUteal Aneurism, oblite- rated at a, the site of the Ligature, and at 6, where the Tumour has become consoli- dated and absorb- ed : between these points the Artery is open, and colla- teral branches en- iiU-ged.