DISEASES OF JOINTS. 232 and of the Avidely deposited and lowly organised exudative material, are tho common results of that impairment of nutrition that results from long con- tinued subinflammatory action. Billroth’s views on the intimate pathological changes that take place in Avhitc swelling are the most recent and exact that we possess on this subject. The following is a summary of them. The disease usually begins Avith chronic synovitis. The tufts are fomid in this stage to be swollen, soft, and succulent, and the Avhole membrane is. thickened. The synovia is increased in quantity and cloudy. These changes. gTadually increase. The synovial membrane becomes thick, SAvoUen, red, and the tufts form masses resembling spongy granulations. These synovial outgroAvths increase in size, and push in between the siufaces of the joint oA'er the cartilages. This groAvth gTadually spreads over the whole cartilage. At first it has no adhesion to the cartilage, but after a time it is found attached to it by vascular processes. Billroth compares it to ivy creeping over a Avail, and becoming attached at parts by its roots. This structure is evidently the same as Aston Key’s vascular synovial fi-inges (p. 221). It is around these vascular attachments that the changes in the cartilage are first noticed. The cartilage is gradually consumed, or rather converted into a tissue resembling that groAving over it from the synovial membrane. The microscopic chaiacters of this ncAv groAvth differ in no Avay from those of ordinary granulations. The changes in the cartilage commence by proliferation of the cells, till by rapid division each cell becomes converted into a group of round cells exactly resembling those of granulations. At the same time the hyaline matrix dis- appears, and at last the place of the cartilage is taken by granulation-tissue. Mter destruction of the cartilage, similar changes proceed in the exposed smfaces of the bones. At the same time that these changes have been going on, the capsule of the joint and the ligaments have become softened, swollen, and infiltrated Avith young cells, the whole cavity of the joint havhig at last- become filled with the new granulation-groAvth. Suppuration may occur at any spot, without necessarily extending to the whole joint. This not uufre- quently occiirs in the synovial pouches above the knee. Treatment.—In the treatment of Avhite swelling, we must beai’ in mind that we have to manage a truly scrofulous inflammation and its effects. Our first object should be to prevent, if possible, the occurrence of suppuration. In the early stage, Avhen the affection has come on insidiously, Avithout any veiy active symptoms, Ave must trust to general antistrumous treatment; to the influence of good diet and sea-air, and to the administration of tonics, cod- liver oil, and iodine. In the local treatment there are three gveat principles to be canled out. 1. Rest, with immoibilitij of the joint, is by far the most imjiortant element in the treatment, without Avhich all the efforts of the Surgeon to prcA ent suppuration and disorganisation of the joint will be futile. 2. Camj))cssion,\!ij means of bandages, strapping, or splints, AviU aid in the absoiqDtion of the plastic effusion in and around tho joint. 8. Countei'-rrritafion by means of issues, blisters, or the actual cauteiy, must be employed. These means, to be of real scmlce, should be used before suppuration has ocemred : aftei this, 1 believe they are of no use. The Hmb should be put into a position AAhich is