339 DISEASE OF THE PATELLA. integuments. The swelling, heat, fluctuation, and redness of a dusky colour, all situated in front of the patella, point out the nature of the The Treatment of this inflammation is simple enough. Leeches, followed hy evaporating lotions, and keeping the patient at rest, are the means to be emnloved Under this treatment, the disease will frequently undergo resolu- tion in the course of a few days. It may, however, go on to suppuration, disease of the patella itself, or sloughing of the bursa. _ Suppuration of the Bursa occurs in perhaps the majority of cases ot inflam- mation This is a matter of great consequence ; because the accumulation ot pus bcino- of large size, and tending to diffuse itself around the knee-joint, is liable to*^be mistaken for abscess in that articulation. Sometimes it will point, and the pus discharge itself externally in the usual manner ; but very generally it gives way subcutaneously, and its contents speedily diffuse them- selves somewhat widely around the joint beneath the fascia lata. The history of the case affords the means of diagnosis. In suppuration ot the buraa patellie, the abscess commences by a superficial swelling and inflam- mation in front of the knee, which, after a time, extends laterally, enveloping the joint, the fluid gra^dtating on each side, but more especially on the outei one, nearly as far, perhaps, as the ham-strings. There will have been none of the signs indicative of acute arthritis accompanying the formation of this large abscess ; no startings of the limb, no laxity or pain in moving the articulation, no grating of the articular ends ; and little if any constitutional disturbance. The movements of flexion and extension of the joint are free up to a certain point, where they are checked by the mechanical obstacle of the purulent accumulation. But perhaps the most important diagnostic sign is the relation of the abscess to the patella. In a suppmating bursa, the patella is imisible, being covered by the fluctuating swelling ; in effusion, whether •synovial or piu’ulent, into the joint, the patella is above, floating upon the fluid. The Treatment of this condition is simple enough. A free iucision should be made through the anterior part of the biu’sa, so as to let out the pus mixed with synovial fluid ; and if there be any biuTovung of matter, as there almost invariably is, comiter-openings must be made in proper dependent situations. Disease of the Patella.—Sometimes, but very rarely, abscess of the bursa patellee will give rise to disease of the patella itself. Caries of this bone secondary to suppiuation of the bursa, is, so far as my experience goes, exceedingly rare. I have seen one case of the kind—that of a woman Avho was in the Hospital, under my care, several years ago. '\^^len admitted, she had seA^eral fistulous •openings on the fore part of the knee-joint, through which the probe led down to a rough and carious patella. On inquiry it was ascertained that she had had inflammation of the bursa patellm—“ housemaid’s knee ”—which had run on to suppuration, but that the abscess had never been freely laid open. The present condition had resulted from that suppuration. The joint itself was unaffected ; there was no pain in it, and its movements were perfectly free. I laid open the sinuses, and, finding the anterior surface of the patella soft and ■carious, removed with the gouge the diseased bone to which they led. About two or three weeks after this, the joint became suddenly swollen, evidently filled with pus, and the seat of acute pain. In consequence of the severity of