CHRONIC ENLARGEMENT OF THE PROSTATE. 859 should be made into it, when pus in gi’eater or less abundance will escape. On careful exploration by a probe of the cavity thus opened up, a deep sinus will probably be found leading into the pelvis, and to the original seat of the abscess. This requires to be opened up by a free incision on one side or other of the perina3um, as if for lateral lithotomy, and a proper and direct exit given to the matter. The cavity must then be dressed with dry lint, and allowed to granulate from the bottom. CHRONIC ENIiARGEMENT OP THE PROSTATE. Clironic Enlargement of the Prostate may be looked upon as a senile disease, seldom occiu-ring before the age of fifty-five, and being commonly met with after this. At that period of life, as Brodie observes, when the hair becomes grey and scanty, when atheroma begins to be deposited in the coats of the arteries, and when the arcus senilis forms on the cornea, the prostate often becomes increased in size. At the same time, however, other changes take place in the genito-urinary system ; thus the urethi’a becomes dilated and the bladder thickened ; and, unless the enlargement of the prostate advance in too gi'eat a proportion to the other changes, so as to interfere with the free escape of the m-ine, no disease can properly be said to be established. If we look upon the diseased enlargement of the prostate as such an amount of hyper- trophy of this organ as interferes seriously with the discharge of the mine, we shall probably not find it so frequent even in old men as is generally supposed. Guthrie states that it is not commonly found in the pensioners at Greenwich Hospital. Thompson found that an enlargement appreciable after death existed in 34 per cent, of men above the age of sixty ; but that such a degree of enlargement as to give rise to symptoms dming life Avas only met with in 15 or IG per cent, of the cases he examined. Though age must be looked upon as the primary cause of this particular hypertrophy of the prostate, there can be little doubt that it may be predisposed to by any continued source of irritation of the minary organs, such as gonorrhoea, stricture, or hard living. Characters.—Enlargement of the prostate is due to hypertrophy of the normal structures—fibrous and glandular—of the organs. Most commonly there is an excess of development of the fibrous structure ; generally, how- ever, when the size of the gland has been very slowly and not greatly enlarged, there is nearly equal hypertrophy of all the tissues. In rare instances, there is excessive development of tlie glandular element ; and in some cases homologous tuinom's are developed. The enlargement generally occupies the whole of the organ, and may cause its size to increase to that of a hen’s egg or a small orange ; in most cases, all the lobes are enlarged equally or nearly so, but sometimes there is a greater development of one of the lateral lobes or of the middle portion. More rarely, the lateral lobes or the anterior commissure alone are enlarged. The enlarged prostate, in the earlier stages, presents to the naked eye an ap- pearance of rotundity and increased fulness : at a more advanced stage, there may be great irregularity of outline. There is usually no change of coloiu,’ externally : and the texture of the gland is generally indurated, though some- times it is found to be looser and softer than natiu-al. On making a section,