SPECIAL ANEURISMS. 120 of tlie axillai’y artery, not arising from wound or injury, has undergone spon- taneous cure, or been consolidated by constitutional treatment. Compression or ligatiu’e of the subclavian in the third part of its course is the only means of cure. Axillary aneurisms arc favourably situated for the employment of digital compremon. By this means the subclavian can easily be commanded as it passes over the first rib. And the success of this treatment is likely to be great; first, because, the sac being usually large, a considerable quantity of the contained blood is well out of the ciUTent of the circulation, readily stagnates, and may thus easily coagulate ; and secondly, because the current of blood through the sac is proportionately small, and thus if coagulation once begin, may easily be completely arrested. Digital compression, therefore, in my opinion, should always be had recom’se to in the first instance. By this means, aided by rest and constitutional treatment, the progress of the tumour may be stayed, and possibly a consolidation of its contents and ciu’e be effected. Tliis occurred at University College Hospital in a patient seventy-one years of age, in whom an axillary aneiu’ism as large as a shaddock and of an actively progressing character was cured by intermittent digital compression continued at intervals for between two and three weeks, during which time compression was kept up in all about twenty-three hours, the consolidation commencing on the third day of compression after seven hours of pressiu’e had been tried. Holmes mentions eight cases in which digital compression has been tried. Three of these, under the care of Ciniselli and Dutoit, and another Siu’geon whose name is not mentioned, were of traumatic origin, and of these two were cured. The remaining five were idiopathic. Three of these, under Cooper Forster, Peatson, and Eizzoli, were cured. Two, imder Tiuet and Vanzetti, failed. In Cooper Forster’s case the compression was applied twice under chloroform; on one occasion for three and a quarter hoiu’s and on the other for eight hom’S. In Peatson’s case the pressiue was apphed at intervals for a period of nearly three months. In Rizzoli’s case the treatment lasted even longer, the cure not being complete for nearly six months. In this case the artery was so dilated and diseased that ligature was impossible. In Dutoit’s case the compression was applied for six hours a day for six days. Compression by instruments on the cardiac side can seldom be made ap- plicable to anem’isms in this situation; inasmuch as the pressiue that is brought to bear upon the subclavian must necessarily at the same time influence the greater part of the brachial plexus of nerves to such an extent as to be unendiuable by the patient. Yet it is not impracticable, and means might be devised to overcome this difficulty. Ligatiue of the artery is, however, still the Surgeon’s chief resoiuce in the treatment of these cases. The part of the vessel universally selected foi the application of the ligatm-e is, in accordance with the Hunterian doctrines, that which lies on the first rib beyond the scalenus anticus muscle ; this part presenting the advantages of being sufficiently removed from the seat of disease to ensiue the probability of the coats of the artery being in a sound state, of being by flu the most accessible, and, when deligated, of allowing the collateral circulation by which the vitality of the arm is to be maintained to remain un- iujiued. Notwithstanding these obvious advantages presented by the ligatuic