987 DIAGNOSIS OF OVARIAN TU2I0URS. le tumour with the surface 011 which it grows. This operation The Treatment of these cases must be of a purely palhative character ; administration of opiates and the use of chloi-inated lotions must bo principally relied on Excision of the diseased cervix has been recommended, and was formerly a good deal practised ; but this is a barbarous procedure, and con- trary to every principle of good surgery, as it is impossible to rid the patient of scirrhous disease by the partial removal of the affected organ, and its complete extirpation cannot lie thought of. Tumom-s, however, of a simple character requiring removal are occasionally met with, springing from the cervix ; they may be excised by putting the patient in the position for lithotomy, drawing the uterus well down with forceps, and removing them with the knife. This has been done during pregnancy, and even dm'ing par- turition, with good effects. Ovarian tumoms of a cystic character are commonly met with. The cysts may be uni- or multi-locuiar, and vary greatly in the nature of their contents. These may be either solid or fluid—often a combination of the two. If fluid, the liquid is usually more or less viscid, albuminous, dark and variously coloured. Ovarian tumour, if left without treatment, invariably ends fatallyin some cases rapidly, in most gradually, occupying many years in its course. Diagnosis.—It is not my intention to enter into the difficult subject of the diagnosis of ovarian tumom’S, which would lead me too far into the pro^flnee of the Physician. From pregnancy, ascites, tumours of the uterus and omentum, dropsical dilatation of the Fallopian tube, hydronephrosis, enlarge- ments of the liver, kidney, spleen, and stomach, hydatids, hysterical tympanites, fat in the omentum, stercoraceous accumulations, distension of the bladder, spinal curvature, abdominal and pelvic abscesses, the diagnosis has carefully to be made ; and that this is a matter of no slight difficulty, is evident from the numerous cases in Avhich errors have happened and are constantly occur- ring to the most experienced practitioners. It is impossible for the Surgeon to be too cautious in effecting a diagnosis before he proceeds to open the abdominal cavity in any supposed case of ovarian disease. And notwithstand- ing the great attention that has been expended on this subject, and the vast improvements in diagnosis that have been effected of late years, such errors are still of constant occurrence—even to the most experienced and skilful in the treatment of ovarian disease. Treatment.—The treatment of ovarian tumour may be conducted :—1, by ^Medical Means ; 2, by Tapping ; 3, by Tapping conjoined with Auxiliary Measures ; 4, by Injection ; 5, by Ovariotomy. OVARIAN TUMOURS AND DROPSY.