OPHTHALMIC SURGERY. 414 light. The Sm-gcon stands behind the head of the patient, so as to use botl\ hands conveniently, and to be out of the way of the light. A towel ■spread on the pillow is thrown from behind forwards over the patient’s head, as far as his forehead, and this, at the temples, may be held, if neces- saiy, on each side, by the hands of an assistant. In some cases the wrists of the Surgeon may be brought, on each side, up against the temples, to steady the patient’s head when he is passive under chloroform. In eye-surgery, the OTms are seldom required to be moved whilst actually operating. In these minute operations often the fingers only, seldom more than the hands as well, m'e necessarily changed from their first position. Perhaps some pronation and supination of the fore-arms may be called for ; but, the patient being under the influence of chloroform, his head even then may be steadied or rotated or moved from side to side, as may be best, by resting the wrists against the temples of the patient. Even the ordinary internal squint-operation may be •done from behind the head of the patient; but, in this case, the Sm’geon is in a better position when he is sitting on the edge of the couch, on the side opposite to that of the eye about to be operated on, so that he may be as little as possible in his own light. In either position, whether from behind or •on one side facing the patient, he will, for one or the other eye, if both should require to be operated on, have to cross his hands, if not so ambidextrous that he can use the scissors with his left hand. And, in this particular •operation, that the Sm’geon is in an unfavourable position as regards light is •of little importance to him. In using the spring-wire stop specuhun to keep •open the lids, it is a point worth remembering that, chlorofoi’m not being used, less paiu will have to be borne by the patient, if, when the speculum has been allowed to open to the widest extent, it be then a very little closed and then so much fixed open. In many very trifling operations a speculum is •often used, when chloroform is quite unnecessary, and when the instrumen would not be wanted at all by a practised operator, who prefers his fingers. The same remark often applies to the use of forceps, for fixing the eye (see Tapping the Cornea, p. 431). It is weU if the fingers can be made to answer the piuqDoses of speculum and forceps ; but such pressure ou the globe of the •eye with the fingers as is required, when they are employed not only to keep the eye open, but to fix the globe, would be dangerous in any case in which any considerable opening is to be made in the coats of the eye, as in some of the cataract operations, iridectomy, &c. Operations on the eyelids and con- junctiva, the skin, and mucous membrane, are probably very much more painful than are any of the internal operations on the eye: therefore an auEesthetic may be used in such cases for the sake of the patient. In the major (internal) operations on the eye we must use the auEesthetic very much for the advantage of the operator; to whom any httle movements of the patient, during an operation, are a great inconvenience, if they be not actually dangerous to the result. • n- i In testing the amount of vision of a cataractous or otherwise blind eye (so called) we must cover the other. So also, to produce perfect seclusion of an eye, whether after operation or not, we must cover both ; because the two eyes, their irides, and the muscles of the globe, act together. And whenever a shade is ordered, it should be over both eyes. Of eye-bandages, the best, unless