902 DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. opened out so as to stretch the stricture to an extent corresponding to the dis- tance at which the blades are screwed apart, has many advocates; and various ingenious contrivances have been invented to efiect this object. More than half Fig. 800.—Tlioiiiiison’s Stricture-Exiiauder. a centiuy ago, Luxmoor attempted it by the use of a four-bladed instrument. Subsequently, Civiale invented a stricture-expander; and of late years two- bladed instruments, having this end in view, have been introduced into practice by Perreve, Lyon, and H. Thompson. The accompanying di’awing (Fig. 80G) is a representation of the instrument used by the latter Sm’geon ; it answers admirably the intended purpose, the expansion of the blades being effeeted by a screw worked by turning the handle. This should be done very slowly, several seconds being allowed to elapse between each tmm of the handle, so that the tissue composing the stricture may be gradually stretched, and the canal of the urethra at the seat of stricture dilated beyond the full size, so as to be over-stretched ; the extent of dilatation may be carried up to 16 or 18, and is marked on a scale attached to the handle of the instrument. If this operation be done slowly, httle if any bleeding results, and there is no evidence of laceration of the wall of the urethra at the strictiu’ed spot. A large gum- elastic catheter may then be passed, and the urine drawn off. It is not usually necessary to leave the catheter in the bladder, though there can be no objection to doing this for forty-eight hours, after which the patient may have one passed occasionally in order to maintain the dilatation. c. The rupture or splitting of the stricture by an instrument acting on the principle of a Wedge, has been recommended by Eeybard, adopted by Holt, and very extensively employed by the latter excellent Surgeon. The instru- ment used by him is represented in the accompanying figure (Fig. 807). It consists of two grooved metallic blades joined at the extremity. Between Fig. 807.—Holt's Instrument for Splitting Strictures. these a tube is slipped along a wire, which in its descent separates the blades at a considerable angle, and thus sphts up the stricture. In this way the contracted part of the urethra is at once enlarged to its normal diameter, so as to admit a full-sized catheter, by which the urine is then drawn off. ihe introduction of the catheter should be had recourse to at first on alternate days, and afterwai'ds at longer intervals. Holt believes that the effects of the dilatation are entirely confined to the morbid contraction, the healthy portion of the urethra not being injuriously disturbed by the expansion of t e instrument (see page 746). _ • i • „ Berkeley Hill has invented a modification of the dilators preMOusly in use