DISEASES OF THE BREAST. 586 The Diagnosis of the aficetion may usually be readily effected by feeling the globular elastic cyst under the skin ; the mammary gland being movable, and not adherent to any of the adjacent structures. In those cases, however, in which the tumour lies deeply, the diagnosis may not so readily be made, more especially from some of the cystic forms of cancer to which I shall afterwards have occasion to advert. In fact, nothing is more easy than to diagnose the true nature of a superficially seated cystic tumour,—nothing more difficult in some cases than to diagnose one deeply seated at the under surface of the mammary gland. For, the whole thickness of the gland intervening between the cyst and the finger, the sense of elasticity is lost, and a solid feel com- municated, which may readily mislead even an experienced Surgeon, When- ever the Surgeon has any doubt about the existence of fluid in a tumour of the breast, he should introduce an exploring tfochar ; when, if the disease be cystic, the fluid will be discharged. If the tumour prove to be solid, no ill consequences will result from the simple puncture. Several instances have ocemTed to me in which, from the want of this simple precaution, very ex- cellent Surgeons had condemned, as cancerous, tumours of the breast which jDroved to be cystic. Unilocular cysts of the breast occasionally attain an immense size, at the same time that their walls remain thin and supple. In some of these instances, the fluid continues to the last of a truly serous character ; in other cases, how- ever, it becomes more or less glairy or mucilaginous, and hence Velpeau has described this variety as the Sero-onucous Cyst. In other cases, the walls of the cysts have been known to undergo calcareous degeneration. When these cysts attain a very large size, their walls being thin, and the skin covering them tense, they may become translucent, and thus constitute trae hydrocele of the breast, resembling in many respects similar serous tumours that form in the neck. 2. Compound Cysts.—In the majority of instances, as has already been observed, no material alteration takes place in the cyst, except, perhaps, its gra- dual increase in size ; but in other instances, peculiar changes occiu’ in it, in conse- quence of which it becomes filled up by a dense solid growth springing from the interior, at last undergoing ulceration, and giving rise to a series of destructive changes (Figs. 662, 663). The pathological phenomena that accompany these changes have been ably investigated by Sir B. Brodie. He finds that, in the fii’st instance, one or more membranous cysts, containing serum, are formed in the breast ; the fluid gradually becomes darker in colour, and opaque ; after a time a fibrinous excrescence, of a lobulated or foliated form, springs up into the interior of the cyst, gradually displacing and occasioning absoi-ption of the contained fluid, and at last fiUing up the whole of its interior; and then coming into contact with the capside by which it is compressed, or with which it may be firmly incorporated, the whole tumour is converted into a solid mass, m which the remains of the cysts still continue to be perceptilile. Sir B. Brodie thinks that there is reason for believing that a growth of a fibrinous substance takes place from the outer side of the cyst as well, thus adding to the general size of the breast. If one of the larger cysts be laid open, or if the pressiue ot the intracystic growth cause inflammation and ulceration of its capsule, t may at last be perforated, and a fungous mass will sprout tlu-ough it, prcseutii „