88o DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. Cystitis, of an acute character, may occur either by the metastasis or the exteusiou of tlie urethral inflammation. When there is metastasis the urethral discharge diminishes or cither ceases, just as in epididymitis ; the patient is seized with intolerable and frequent dysuria, strangury, and general febrile distiu-bance. The urine becomes loaded with muco-pus. The condition is perilous. There is danger to life if the constitution be broken, and there is always danger of prolonged or possibly intractable subacute cystitis. The Treaimejit of this condition consists in the employment of belladonna or opiate suppositories; the frequent use of warm hip-baths ; the application of fomentations to the perinaeum, and of hot poultices to the pubic region. Brodie makes the important practical statement that, if the urine continue acid, the best treatment consists in the administration of calomel and opium. This is entirely in accordance with my experience, and where the patient is moderately young, and the urine acid, with pulse good, calomel -nuth opium, or i Dover’s powder, will give effectual relief. As the cystitis subsides, the urethral j discharg ere-appears. ; Retention of Urine from Gonorrhoea may set in at any period of the acute stage. The obstruction is usually dependent on congestion and inflam- mation of the mucous membrane of the urethra. Leeches to the perinseum, the warm hip-bath, and opiate suppositories, will probably afford relief. It is always desirable to avoid using the catheter, as it is apt to lacerate the swollen i and softened mucous membrane, and thus to occasion troublesome bleeding ;• | and will always produce much pain, and increased in’itation of the canal. j Should, however, the retention have continued twenty-four hours, or longer, it I will probably not give way to the means above indicated, and then it will he- | necessary to use the instrument, when a fuU-sized silver one should be very ; carefully introduced ; a large instrument entering the bladder as easily as a smaller one, and with less risk of injury to the tender walls of the canal. "^^Tien the catheter has been introduced, it is often somcAvhat difficult to^ determine whether it should be left in or taken out. If it be left in, inflam- matory action is increased. If it be taken out, the Surgeon may not be able- easily to introduce it again. The solution to this question is to be found in the- facility with which the instrument is passed. If it have been introduced without much difficulty, it is better to withdraw it after the bladder has- been emptied, and to continue the antiphlogistic treatment, when a second introduction may not be required. If, on the other hand, the catheter have- been passed with great difficulty, and be firmly gi-asped either by spasm or stricture, it should be left in ; but very active treatment must be employed to prevent it from exciting too much inflammation. It must, however, be remembered that the retention may be due to more serious conditions; to prostatitis, to abscess in the prostate or the perinaeum, or to inflammatory exudation in the tissues about the neck of the bladder. In these circumstances, more active antiphlogistic measures will be required, ' with the use of the catheter twice in the twenty-four hours, and probably free incisions into the perina^um, if there be pus or urine extravasated into that region. In many cases of gonorrhoeal retention, an old stricture complicates the clap. Here the employment of energetic antiphlogistic measures and the use of the