977 IMPOTENCE. havino- about a dozen minute apertures near tbe end. In the intciioi is con- tained” a slender piece of sponge, about two inclies long, fixed to the expanded end of a firm stylet that moves within the catheter. The instrument is chaiged by filling the sponge with some solution of nitrate of silver by ivithdiaiui the stylet. It may then be well oiled ; and, being passed down to the spot to be Lnterised, the solution is forced out of the aperture by pushing don n the rod, which compresses the sponge. I have found this synnge-caUietei a safer and more manageable than Lallemand’s or porte-cmskims that aet by protruding a spoon or sponge, which is apt to be grasped by the spas- modic action of the muscles of the part, often being returned with difficulty into the shaft, and not without risk of lacerating the mucous membrane, i o-enerally use a solution of the strength of 5] of the nitrate to an ounce ot water ; though sometimes only a half or a third of this strength can be borne. The application nsnally occasions a good deal of irritation for a time, some- times even a mnco-pnrnlent discharge, and can only be repeated at intervals of from ten days to a fortnight. Any undue amount of irritation, particularly after application, must be subdued by ordinary antiphlogistic treatment. After the nitrate of silver has been used two or three times, the treatment may be advantageously continued bypassing twice a week a similar instrument charged with tannate of glycerine. This acts as an admirable astringent, and suits many people better than the nitrate. 2. Spasmodic Spermatoerhoea, or Spermaspasmos, more frequently occurs between the ages of twenty-five and forty. It is frequently predisposed to by residence in a warm climate, or by the existence of some disease about the generative organs ; such as stricture, varicocele, neuralgia testis, &c. In these cases there is not, properly speaking, a seminal flux ; but complete connection cannot be effected, as erection and ejaculation are either simultaneous acts, or the erection partially subsides before the emission takes place. This form of generative debility is often as much dependent on mental or moral as on purely physical causes. Treatment.—This is a condition of irritability rather than of debility. It often occurs in strong and otherwise healthy men, accustomed to field-sports and out-of-door exercises. There is no evidence of ancemia or of debility of any kiiid. Hence tonics are not necessary ; nor, indeed, would they be in any way useful. The remedy most to be relied upon is the bromide of potassium in doses of 20 to 30 grains, with local cold bathing, and, perhaps, when there is urethral initation, blisters to the perintnum and along the penis, with belladonna to the interior of the urethra. In addition to these means, it is of the first importance to enjoin moderation in food and drink, and above all, a'S'oidance of alcoholic stimuli; for, in many of these cases, it will be found that abdo- minal plethora co-exists, and exercises an injurious infiuence. 3. Impotence arising from absence of all sexual desire or power, or from premature decay of that power, is not unfr-equently met with, and often in individuals who are otherwise strong and healthy ; sometimes, indeed, in those characterised by great muscular power, and much given to athletic exercises. This want of sexual desire may be looked upon in many instances as a natural deficiency in the organisation of the individual, for which medical YOU. IT. 11