542 DISEASES OF THE MOVTII AND THROAT. until at last it becomes impossible to get it tbrongb the constriction. The patient may still be kept aliA-e for some Aveeks by nutritive enemata, but at last dies of exhaustion and starvation. Even in cancerous stricture of the oesophagus, death seldom occurs by secondaiy deposits, or by constitutional contamination, but in the Avay just pointed out. In some cases the disease extends to the posterior part of the larynx, the mucous memlu-ane covering the arytenoid cartilages and the epiglottis becomes involved, laryngeal stridor and dyspnoea ensue, and death may result from laryngeal spasm, unless life be prolonged by tracheotomy, Avhich in most cases becomes necessary. Such is the miserable course and termination of an organic stricture of the oesophagus. But the question noAV presents itself, can nothing be done to cure or even aiTest this disease ? The Palliative Treatment that is usually adopted in these cases consists in the introduction of bougies, and an attempt to thus dilate the stricture exactly as in the case of a constriction of the urethra. In introducing bougies into the strictured part of the oesophagus, there is, hoAvever, often a good deal of difficulty in making the point of the instrument enter the narrowed portion of the canal. This is more particularly the case when the constriction com- mences suddenly ; the oesophagus, as is frequently the case, being dilated into a pouch-hke sac above it, in AA’hich the food is apt to lodge, and the end of the instrument to be arrested, and at the bottom of which a narrow orifice exists, leading into the lower portion of the canal. In these cases, much patience and care may be required in overcoming the difficulty. Besides the ordinary dilatation by gi’adually increasing the size of the instruments used, I haA'e in some cases seen temporaiy benefit result from the use of a catheter, siuTOunded by a tube of vulcanised India-rubber, Avhich admitted of dilatation by the injection of water or air when introduced through the stricture; or from the employment of a tubular instrument, by passing a long small-sized bougie through the constriction, and then slipping a gum-elastic catheter with a rounded terminal aperture over it. It is needless to observe that, in the treatment of stricture of the oesophagus Avith bougies, no force should be used, lest the walls of the canal be perforated. From these means temporary relief may result in some cases ; but can an oesophageal stricture be thus cured ? I believe not. If the stricture were- ordinarily fibrous, as in the urethra, a cure might possibly be expected. But this form of oesophageal constriction must be excessively rare ; and if the disease can be made out to be malignant, but little good, and most probably much harm, Avill result from the irritation of dilating instruments. We may, therefore, employ dilatation as a means of temporary benefit, but not with the hope of effecting a cure. Should the stricture at last become so tight as no longer to allow the catheter to be passed, and food to be thus injected into the stomach, the patient must inevitably die of inanition, unless kept alive by nutritive enemata. By these means I have knoAvn life prolonged, by a fr’ail tenure it is true, for many weeks. In such cases it is an interesting physio- logical fact that, although the patients may continue to be moderately well nourished, and do not feel the pangs of hunger, they suffer excessively from thirst. Has surgery no resource in those cases in AA’hich the stricture has become