OPERATIOX FOR FEMORAL HERNIA. 671 hernia • and I agTCC with the opinion expressed by Sir A. Cooper, that tlie nock of the sheath is the common seat of strangulation in femoral henna ; these transverse fibres, which sometimes appear to be partially reticulated, consisting probably of a condensation of the tendinous fibres that arc normally found m the sheath of the vessels. In order to expose them, it is comumn y neccssaiy to draw the neck of the sac well domi, when they will be seen deeply to indent and constrict it. • i The operation without opening the sac may most conveniently be iiei- formed when the tumour is small, by making an incision by transfixion along the inner side of its neck, and then dissecting through the superficial structures until the fiiscia propria is brought into view and carefully opened, and the sac exposed. The point of the finger should then be carried to the lower side of this, well luider the fascia propria. The finger-nail or flat director may then be insinuated under the sharp edge of Gimbernat’s ligament; which, at the point ef junction with Poiipart’s, may be divided upwards and inwards to the extent ■of a line or two by means of a hernia-knife. By this incision, not only is the •eige of Gimbernat’s and Poiipart’s ligaments dnided, but also the condensed and compressed fascia propria lying between the sac and the inner side of the •crinal arch. The reduction may now be attempted, and often effected : should ■any obstacle exist, the neck of the sac must be well drawn down and exposed, and any transverse bands situated upon it dissected through with the scalpel and forceps, or divided on a director. These bands lie in the fascia propria ; and when they are found, it is usually owing to the Surgeon not having exposed the neck of the sac sufficiently before passing his nail or director under the stricture. It is owmg to the incision being confined to the constriction occa- sioned by the crinal arch only, not including, as it ought to do, the subjacent condensed fascia propria ; a point of very great practical importance. Some- times this condensed and constricting portion of the fascia propria is so closely incorporated with the neck of the sac, that it camiot be divided without open- ing the latter. The operation performed in this way, without opening the sac, is certainly a very simple procedure ; and adds little if anything—nothing more, in fact, than a simple incision through superficial structures—to the danger of the patient. If it be thought desirable to open the sac, or if it be necessary to do so in consequence of its incorporation with the fascia propria, the operation must be performed in a different manner, the parts requiring to be rather fully exposed; and indeed, if the tumour be of any considerable magnitude, even though the sac be not opened, it will be better to expose the part somewhat more freely in the way to be described. An incision should be made parallel to Poupart’s ligament, by pinching up the skin, and then a transverse cut from the centre of this canded over the tumoiu’ so ns to present the follovung shape V : the dissection must then be carried through the superficial fascia, when the septum crurale or fascia propria vnll be exposed ; in some liases, especially if the hernia be a large one, this is thin, and requires to he carefully slit up on a director. In many instances, however, it is so dense, laminated, and changed in structure, as scarcely to be recognised for what it is.