710 DISEASES OF THE LARGE INTESTINE AND ANGS. the only mode of treatment that can be adopted Avill be to introduce a grooved staff into the urethra, and cut through the sphincter upon this, thus laying the-, parts into one, and coiu-crting tlio anal into a perineal fistula. By keeping the catheter in the bladder, and emptying this, granulations null be allowed to spring up, and deep union be accomplished. In cancerous recto-^'csical fistula, colotomy may be had recourse to -with every prospect of mitigating the- patient’s sufferings (Yol. II. p. 708), and of thus prolonging life. Hiitero-Vaginal Fistula.—It has happened that a communication has been set up between the small intestine and the vagina, an artificial anus in fact forming m this cavity. These cases, however, are very rare, and may indeed be looked upon as incurable. Roux and Casamayor have endeavoured to establish, by a deep and difficult dissection, a commimication between the- small and large intestine ; but the operation, as might haA'c been expected,, has. proved fatal. Recto-Vaginal Fistulas may arise from two causes ; 1st, sloughing of the- posterior wall of the vagina, in consequence of some undue pressm-e exercised upon it during parturition ; and 2nd, its perforation by syphilitic ulceration. They are of two kinds ; viz., the simple, consisting of a button-hole opening, (and these are often syphilitic), and those compheated with more or less extensive laceration of the perinmum. The size of these fistulous openings, when uncomplicated with rupture of the perinjBum, varies greatly; in some cases there is merely a small perforation, ’in others there may be loss of the greater portion of the posterior wall of the vagina. Whatever their size, they are necessarily sources of very great discomfort and annoyance, both physical and mental, to the patient. The recog-nition of the disease is of course at once made ; the escape of the ffcces and flatus into the vagina being obvious, and digital or ocular examination through the two-bladed speculum at once detect- ing the seat and extent of the aperture. As there is just the possibihty of the- communication existing between the vagina and the small intestine, it may be- useful to bear in mind that, in this case, the feculent matter that escapes has been found to be yellower and less stercoraceous than when the rectum is- opened. The Treatment v'ill vaiy according as the fistula is simple, or complicated with lacerated periuEeum. SimjAe uncom'plicatecl Recfo-Vaginal, Fistula, if it be small and recent, may occasionally be closed by attention to cleanliness, at the same time that its- edges are touched with the nitrate of silver, a hot iron -wu’e, or the platinum loop. If it be very large, the greater part of the posterior wall of the vagina having been destroyed, it vill probably be incm-able ; but even here the patient should not be left to her fate, and some operation should be attempted which may lessen its size, even if it do not completely close it. The kind of fistula Avhich is here most commonly met with usually consists of a circular aperture, that readily admits the point of the finger, as it is situated just above the- sphincter ani. The operation for the closure of a recto-vaginal fistula of this kind consists, after emptying the patient’s bowels by purgatives and an_ enema, and the bladder by the catheter, in introducing a duck-billed specuhun into the vagina, and freely paring the edges of the aperture. As the fistula is a n a} s low doivn, this is readily'done by placing the patient on her back, and tying-