958 DISEASES OF THE TESTIS AND CORD. disease may be distinguished by attention to the test described at p GOO Vol. II. TuEATJtENT.—The treatment of vai-icocelc must be conducted with reference to the severity of the symptoms occasioned by it, and to the extent of -the disease. When, as is usually the case, it gives rise to but slight inconvenience, palliative treatment is fully sufficient; but il"; as occasionally happens, the disease be a source of very intense suffering, or tend to the induction of atrophy of the testis, or to generative debility, with much mental disquietude or hypochondriasis, then the Surgeon may feel disposed to cndeavoiu- to cure the varicocele radically. The FalliaUve Trealment of varicocele resolves itself into means of various kinds, having for their object the support of the testis and the diminution of the length, and of the consequent pressure, of the column of blood. This is usually most conveniently done by supporting the scrotum in a well-made suspensory bandage ; or pressure may be made upon the part, as well as support given, by enclosing the testis in an elastic bag. In other cases, support may be afforded by drawing the lower portion of the scrotum on the affected side through a ring made of soft metal, covered with leather, or better still, through a small vulcanised India-imbber ring, so as to shorten the cord. And, with the same object, excision of the lower portion of the scrotum has been recommended; so that, by the contraction of the cicatrix, the testis may be pressed up against the ring, and the cord thus shortened. This plan, however, is somewhat severe ; and though it might be attended by temporaiy benefit, the advantage accruing is not likely to be very continuous. The pressure of the pad of a truss on the spermatic cord, as it issues from the external ring, Avill break the length of the column of blood in its veins, and may thus be of service in some cases, though many patients cannot bear the irksome pressure of the instrument. In addition to these mechanical means, the part may be braced by cold douching, sea-bathing, and the general strength improved by the administra- tion of iron. The Radical Cure of Varicocele consists in the obliteration of the enlarged veins by compressing and exciting inflannuation in them, on the same principle that guides us in the management of A'arix in other situations. The circumstances for which operation may be and has been practised in this disease can be arranged in the following categories. 1. "WTien the existence of a varicocele disqualifies the sufferer from admission into the public services, there is, in my opinion, a perfectly legitimate reason for operating. One of the cases in Avhich I have effected a radical cure was that of a man in the prime of life, who, wishing to enlist in the Marines, was refused solely on the ground of having a small varicocele. This I cured by oiicration, and the man afterwards entered the sel^ ice. ^ ^ 2. In some cases, the presence of a varicocele of inordinate size causes a distressing sense of weight and pain in the loins and groins, and often inability to "stand or walk for any length of time. Here, when the patient is in continual discomfort, or more or less prevented from pursinng his ordiiiaiy avocations—in fact, quite crippled—it is perfectly justifiable to lesort to operation.