195 SGMOFULOUS OSTEITIS. the exudations of which undergo caseation, whilst the true grey gTanulations 1 1 fnnnrl The characteristic feature of this disease is the produc- are but rarely circumscribed abscess, caries, and tion of chronic 0 ^ canceUous tissue, •uKl^ronsequentV alfect the epiphyses of the long bones more than the shafts, mid frequently iLl to implication and destruction of the contiguous joints in the Lrt 4nos, as those of the tarsus, they commonly lead to canes and n^-rosis ami affecting, as they often do, the bodies of the vertehrm, Tory frequently give rise to some of the most destructive diseases of the spine, attended^y the formation of large lumbar and iliac abscesses. Under the frLnce of this diathesis, a low fom of inflammation is readily established in the osseous tissue, as the result of any slight exposure to external violence or change of tempcrattme ; and this rapidly leads to caries, wath the toation of cmdy pus in which masses of softened tissue may be seen. If this destruc- tive action take place with great rapidity, portions of the bone will be foimc to necrose in small masses, which he at the bottom of these carious cavities, as may commonly be observed in some forms of strumous caries of the os calcis and head of the tibia. These scrofulous vomicce undermine the overlying articular cartilage, and thus opening up the interior, give rise to the most destructive suppu- rative disorganisation in it. Fig. 418 is a representation of one of these vomicm in the head of the tibia, their most common seat. "When the inflammation has been of a more acute character, it may cause disintegration of the whole of the articular end of a long bone, with separation of the epiphysis. These destructive changes may take place with great rapidity ; I have seen them happen in a lad, whose thigh I amputated for acute strumous infiltration of the lower end of the thigh- bone, in less than a month from the first occuiTence of the complaint; the patient, at the time of the operation, being nearly exhausted by hectic, induced by the abundant discharge from the diseased bone, and from immense abscesses in his thigh. When, on the contrary, the changes are limited to a very small area in an otherwise healthy bone, the diseased portion may, as it undergoes softening, dispose to the occuiTence of circumscribed abscess, at the same time that chronic thickening and condensation of the suiTounding bone takes place. It is in consequence of this condensation of the peripheral portion of the bone liy the deposit of fr-esh layers of osseous tissue under and by the inflamed periosteum, and the difficulty that the contents of the abscess necessarily experience in traversing the hypertrophied osseous structure, that the diseased product is apt, when deposited in the vicinity of a joint, to work its way through the cartilages into the cavity of the articulation ; as on this surface no fresh deposit nor condensation of osseous tissue can take place, and consequently no Fig. 41S.—Scrofuloiis Vomica in Head of Tibia.