SYMPTOMS OF APTJIFJTIS. 2 1 9 cartilage has been removed, thus giving rise to very severe suffering. ^ hums may, however, in some eases be very extensively destroyed and yet na 4tiuo- tLe place ; this is owing cither to the destructive action being limited to the°edge of the encrusting cartilage, the opposed surfaces being souncUr else to the interior of the articulation being filled up AVith plastic mattci attei ti rcmo\-al of the cartilages. But though abscess, either within the jomt oi external to it, usually forms when the lioiies grate and the cartilage disintc- orates yet it occasionally happens that these conditions take place—those symptoms that arc indicative of the erosion of the cartilage, such as painful startings of the limb, grating, and preternatin-al mobility of the joint—and yet no abscess forms ; aU the symptoms subsiding under proper treatment, and the joint recovering, though perhaps vdth a certain degree of ankylosis. But the reverse may also take place. Suppiu’ation may take place in a joint, either as the result of pytemia or of injmy, the synovial membrane and the capsule may give way, extensive infiltration of pus into the deep areolar planes of the limb may occur, and yet no laxity of ligament, no preternatural mobility of the bones, no grating of the osseous siu'face, indicate the disorganisation of the articulation which is in progress. This condition may occur in any joint ; I have most fi’equently met with it in the knee. There the upper and usually the outer part of the capsule generally gives Avay, and the pus diffuses itself deeply through the muscles of the limb, sometimes between the periosteum and the bone even. In these cases the thigh swells greatly, the limb becomes, cedematous, and a deep and obscure sensation of fluctuation may perhaps be felt,, more especially towards the outer and lower part of the limb just above the knee. The swelling of the joint has perhaps subsided, giving a false idea of security, which is confirmed by the absence of signs indicative of disorganisa- tion, such as lateral mobility and grating. But on pressing the thigh doAvn- wards, the joint wall be found to. fill, the patella AviU float again, and there is an evident commmiication betAveen the interior of the synovial membrane and the extensive diffused abscess in the thigh. In cases of this kind the pus Avill first come to the surface about two or three inches above and to the outer side- of the joint; and, on a free incision being made here, immense quantities may be let out. In these cases the fluctuation is often masked by the oedema of the limb, and by the thickness of the overlying mass of areolar tissue and muscle, and Avill require the closest examination and the most practised finger for its detection. After suppuration has taken place, the constitutional disturbance partakes of the irritative type, the patient suffering severe pain, and being Avorn out by Avant of rest. Hectic may occur, and death from exhaustion and irrita- tion, unless the diseased part be removed. In other and less severe cases it falls into a state of chronic thickening, perhaps Avith fistulous openings leading doAvnto the diseased structures ; and in some of the more favom-able instances the patient may recover, Avith a permanently rigid joint. There is occasionally, but A'cry rarely met AA'itli, a form of acute arthritis occiirring independently of any external cause, but dependent on disor- ganisation of the cai’tilages, apparently from simple loss of vitality, in old persons of feeble constitution. It resembles in this respect that form of senile necrosis of bones described at p. 177. In the senile arthritis noAV alluded to the pain is very acute, the enlargement of the joints cousideraI)lc,