740 SECOXDARY DISEASES OF THE UlUNARY ORGANS. will bo increased, while the bladder is over-distended. In hj^ertrophy of the walls, we also find a certain amount of obstruction to the entrance of urine into the bladder, as the ureter has to pass obliquely through the thickened wall, and is doubtless often pressed on by thickened bands of fibres. The swelling of the mucous membrane at the orifice of the ureter in an inflamed bladder probably adds to this obstruction. Here then, although there may be no over-distension of the bladder, there is increased pressure in the ureters and kidneys, as increased force is required to drive the urine, through the partially obstructed orifice of the ureter. The amount of obstruction offered by a hjqDertrophied bladder varies much, as it is not uncommon to find considerable thickening of the wall of the bladder without any marked signs of pressure in the ureters or kidneys. In cases of villous tumour of the bladder, one ureter and kidney only may be found to be affected, and it will then be seen that the growth implicates the orifice of that ureter. In others, both sides may be equally affected, and both orifices healthy, but it will then be found that the growth has obstructed the neck of the bladder, and that the signs of pressure in the m-eters and kidneys are due to hypertrophy or over-distension of the bladder. Diseased Conditions of the Ureters and Pelvis of the Kidney.—■ In such cases as we have been considering, three chief forms are met with: I. The results of simple over-distension ■without acute inflammation : 2. Acute inflammation without signs .of over-distension: 3. A combination of the two. Simple chronic over-distension leads to dilatation of the ureter and pelvis of the kidney, ■with some thickening of their walls. The thickening is in part due to hypertrophy of the muscular coat of the ureter. The miicous mem- brane is of an opaque white colour, and free from pigmentation or ulceration. At the same time that the ureter becomes dilated, it often seems to be in- creased somewhat in length, and is more or less tortuous, and not unfrequently iiTegular pouch-like dilatations occur. The dilatation is sometimes so great that the ureter resembles a piece of small intestine. (See Chapter LXXI.) In inflammation of the ureter and of the pelvis of the kidney, we find the mucous membrane swollen and softened, of an intense red colour, and frequently show- jng patches of a slate-grey, resulting from preAuous attacks, as in the bladder. Ulceration is not uncommon, and often the ulcers are coated with a tenacious slough Idee a diphtheritic membrane. The urine contained in such an ureter and pelvis is often ammoniacal and abominably foetid, and mixed ■with much pus and mucus. There is every reason to believe that this is a consequence ■ of extension of decomposition from the urine in the bladder to that in the • meter. The severity and acuteness of the inflammation in the ureter are pro- ■ bably due to the irritation of this foul and decomposing urine. But it by no i moans follows, because the urine in the bladder is decomposing, that the same ■ condition extends up the ureter. In the great majority of cases, the e.xtension i of decomposition to the pelvis occurs late in the disease, and acts as the fina i cause of death, by exciting acute inflammation in the kidney. This extension' does not take place on account of any incompetence of the valves or regmgi a- - tion of urine, as, on testing the valves in such cases they will bo found to be competent. It probably creeps through the orifice of the ureter, by means o the mucus and inflammatory products, in the wake of the inflammation spreac -