SELECTION OF GASES FOR OPERATION. 603-, a Surgeon who would employ u certain principle of select on, very dillerent and a tar more successful result in Ins practice. Sii B. Biod has^veiT clearly and succinctly pointed out the most important circumstances, by which the question as to the propriety of operating 111 these be determined. Before doing so, ho very justly dwells on the fact that 1 many cases the operation may tail, and the disease speedily recur, thioug the neo-lio-cncc of the Surgeon in leaving portions of the gland, slices of the- tumour or contaminated tissues, and that thus the operation may receive dis- credit for what is in reality the built of the Surgeon who has performed it. ■\\'ith reference to operation, cancerous diseases of the breast may be dmded into three classes :-l. Those in which it is the duty of the Surgeon to dis- countenance excision ; 2. Those in which operation is of doubtful expediency and ;-5. Those in which it is the duty of the Surgeon to recommend it. _ 1. Cases unfit for Operation.—This class includes cases presenting the: following conditions; a. Strongly marked constitutional cachexy ; 1. Disease in both breasts ; c. Secondary deposits in internal organs ; d. Much enlarge- ment of the glands under, and especially of those above, the cla'^icle ; e. Ad- hesion of the tumour to the ribs and intercostal muscles ; /. Hard, bra\vny,. and infiltrated skin, of a reddish-brown colour, having a hard, leatheiy feel,, or a greasy, glazed appearance ; g. Eapid growth of the tumoiu’ in a patient- w'ith a strong hereditary taint; //■. An extensiA'ely ulcerated and fiuigatiug- tumour. 2. Doubtful Cases.—«. If the patient be aged, weak, or anmmic, and the- tumour large, it is seldom expedient to operate, as the shock may destroy life. 1. ATien the skin is merely dimpled in by a kind of pedicle passing; from the tumour to its under surface, an operation may be performed, unless- other circumstances should contraindicate it; but in such cases it is necessary widely to excise the integument surrounding the attached point. The cancer- cells, as I have more than once had occasion to observe, will have diffused themselves extensively through the neighbouring skin, ryhich, to the naked eye and to the touch, has a perfectly healthy appearance, the tumour being- smTounded by a kind of halo or atmosphere of cancer-infiltration, c. "When there is but moderate enlargement of the axillary glands, which are so situated as to admit of removal, the operation may be performed, d. When the cancer- is ulcerated, it is seldom proper to operate ; but, if all other conditions be favourable, this even need not in some special cases be a bar. As Sir B. Brodie has pointed out, the patient’s existence may sometimes in these cases be pro- longed, and her comfort materially increased, by removing the diseased and idcerated mass. Old age exercises a material influence on the expediency of operating for cancer of the breast. As a rule, I do not think it advisable to do so after- seventy years of age, unless the distress from pain or the discomfiture fi’om fetid ulceration be so great as to render removal at any risk justifiable. The danger of the operation is greatly increased by advanced age, more especially if the patient is stout; and if recovery take place the expectancy of life after- seventy -would not be materially, if at all, increased by the extirpation of a disease which would probably recur in a fatal form Avithin two years ; the more so, as the progress of cancer at adA-anced age is often very slow.