646 HERNIA. keen enough to relieve the strangulation, whilst it will push before it any artery that may happen to be in the way. ^ Sloughing of the Sac is of rare occun’ence, and, when it happens, is commonly attended by fatal results ; it is not, however, necessarily so. It has tv ice happened in my piactice ; and in both cases the patient recovered. In an old woman on whom I operated for femoral hernia of very laro-e size the sac sloughed away, exposing nearly the whole of Scarpa’s triangle Avith almost as much distinctness as if it had been dissected ; but, although in much danger for a time from an acute attack of peritonitis, she ultimately recovered. Artificial Anus and Faecal Fistula.—When an apertme exists in the bowel by which the Avhole of the intestinal contents escape externally, the condition is denominated an arMficial amis. When but a small portion so escapes, the greater part finding its way through the natural anus, a fcecal fistula is said to exist. The quantity of feculent discharge necessarily depends upon the extent of destruction of the intestinal coats; and its character on the part of the gut that is injured. The escape takes place involuntarily, and is usually continuous. This condition may occur in several ways. Thus the gut may be acci- dentally wounded during the operation, and the fteces may afterwards continue to be discharged through the aperture so made ; or it may have been gan- gvenous, and have given way into the sac before the operation; or the Surgeon may have intentionally laid open a gangrenous portion of intestine, so as to facilitate the escape of the faeces. In some cases in which the bowel has been severely nipped, and is dark and congested, though it have not actually fallen into a state of gangrene, it may not be able to recover itself after its return into the abdominal cavity, but will give way m the course of three, four, six, or even ten days after the operation. In these cases, a small quantity of fecu- lent matter is first observed in the dressings; and gradually a greater discharge appears, until at last the fistulous opening is completely estabhshed. In such cases, it is of importance to observe that, although the bowel gives Avay within the peritoneal cavity, the fteces do not become extravasated mto this,, but escape externally. This important circumstance is owing to the fact of the portion of the bowel that is nipped losing its peristaltic action, and consequently remaining where it is put back ; the parts in the neighbourhood inflaming, throAving out lymph, and becoming consolidated to each other and to the parietal peritoneum, so as to include the gangrenous portion of the gut, and completely to circumscribe it. It is consequently of great importance, in cases of this kind, not in any Avay to disturb the adhesions, that have formed between the sides of the aperture in the gut and the neck of the sac. The Pathology of Artificial Amis is commonly as follows. The edges of the- apertiu'e in the gut are glued by plastic matter to the abdominal wall; and 1 A\^hether the whole or a portion only of the cahbre of the intestine be destroyed, the apertures of the upper and lower end, though at first lying almost in a continuous line, soon unite at a more or less acute angle. These are at first similar in size, and present no material differences in shape or appearance : as the disease becomes more chronic, they gradually alter in their characters ; the