SPECIAL ANEURISMS. 94 CASES OP LIOATUIIE OP BOTH CAHOTIDS—(c07llinuecl). OPERATOR. ACIR. DISEASE. PATES OK LlCiATURE. RESULTS. 23. G. C. E. Weber. . 20 Epilepsy. Left carotid, Dec. 2; right, Dec. 19, 1857. Recovered. 21. Carnochan Large morbid growtli of face (elephantiasis). Right carotid tied, Eov., 1858; left, June, 1859; Cured. 25. Longmore Gun-shot wound. Right, May 12, 18G3; left. May 18. Death in thirty- eight hours. 2C. Billroth. 27 Ulceration of carotid fi’om syphilitic caries of petrous bone; Haemorrhage. Right carotid, Dec. 13 ; left, Dec. 2G, 18G-1. Return of haemor- rhage on six- teenth day ; death from ex- haustion : no cerebral symp- toms. 27. Buesger. 3-1 Aneurism by anastomosis and wound. Left tied for the ancmism; five years afterwards the right, for a suicidal wound. Disorganisation of right eye: recovery. After a careful examination of tliis subject, I tbink we are warranted in coming to the following conclusions. 1. Ligatme of one carotid artery is followed by cerebral disturbance in more than one-fointb of the cases, above one-half of which are fatal. 2. '\^dien the two carotids are ligatured tvith an interval of mm days or wecics, the operation is not more frequently followed by cerebral disturbance than when only one is tied. 3. Pathological investi- gation has shown that, if the vessels be gradually and successively obliterated, the patient may hve, although one carotid and one of the vertebral arteries have been occluded by disease and the other carotid ligatured, as in a case related by Rossi. 4. As in a case i;ecorded by Davy, an individual may even live for a considerable time, though both carotids and both vertebrals be occluded—the cerebral cumulation being maintained through the medium of the anastomoses of the inferior and superior thyroids and the deep cervical with the occipital artery. 5. The reason why more or less extensive ohstruction by disease of the arteries leading to the brain may, as ajrpears from pathological records, be uirattended by cerebral disturbance, while this so frequently follows ligatiue, lies (as has been pointed out by Pilz), that in the former case the obstruction is gradual, so that the collateral circulation has time to be estab- lished, w'bdle in the latter the inteiTuption is sudden. The Cei'ebral Sym^Aoms that ai’ise from the ligature of one or both carotids may be such as depend upon a diminished supply of blood sent to the brain ; consisting of tvdtchings, tremblings or convulsive movements, syncope or gid- diness, with paralysis, sometimes with complete hemiplegia of the side ojDposite to that of the ligatured vessel, troubled 'vusion, and deafness. In other cases they appear to arise fr'om increased pressiue upon the brain—dimwsiness, stupor, coma, and apoplexy supervening. To a third order of symptoms belong those that are of an inflammatory character, usually coming on a few hoius after the operation. The cause of these symptoms is certainly the disturbance of the cerebral circulation, induced by the ligature of the carotid. ^I'hen a considerable portion of the supply of blood to the brain is suddenly cut off, two sets of symptoms may ensue—one wimediaic, the other remote. The immediate