5°7 CIIEILOPLASTY. unless the latter hare already cut its way out. If silver wire sutures he used, they may be left in for six or seven days without producing irritation. The lip must then be supported for a few days wdth a strip of plaster. In the case of double hare-lip the same plan is to be adopted, fii'st on one side, then on the other 3 but here, as the gaps are wider, and the tension, more particularly when the intennaxillary prominence is very projecting, is apt to. be considerable, it is necessary to support the cheeks, and thus to prevent, undue traction on the stitches, by means of the check-compressor (Fig. C07). In this way all risk of the stitches cutting out before union is completed is avoided ; an excellent and solid union will speedily bo obtained even im cases of double hare-lip, with some intermaxillary projection and fissured, palate. The operation occasionally fails. The probability of the occunence of such an untoward event is, however, gxeatly diminished by the use of the cheek- compressor. It may, however, happen either in consequence of the child s- health being in an unsatisfactory state, so as to prevent union by the first intention; or in consequence of the pins having been withdrawn too early,, before seciu’e cohesion has been effected. In such circumstances as these, an attempt might be made to unite the granulating edges by the re-introduc- tion of the pins or sutures, and by firmly fixing the lip by means of the cheek- compressor. Such- attempts, however, rarely succeed ; should they not do so, it will usually be found most prudent to wait at least a month before taking any further steps, and then to pare the edges afresh and repeat the original operation. CoxGENiTAL Transverse Fissures op the Cheeks, extending from the angle of the mouth to the anterior border of the masseter or up towards the malar bone, are occasionally met with, and have been specially described by Klein and Kicati. In these malformations, which are of extremely rare occurrence, the ear on the affected side is imperfectly developed. As has- been observed by Fergusson, the tragus is detached from the auricle, and is- fixed to the cheek, where it forms a small lobulated appendage. This external ear generally is malformed, the helix being twisted and curled inwards. These malformations require to be treated on exactly the same principles, and with the same attention to details, as hare-hp ; union between the pared edges being effected by means of hare-hp pins and the twisted suture. Cheiloplasty.—Simple plastic operations are commonly practised on the lower lip for the removal of cancroid disease, by cutting out a V”Shaped piece of the lip, including the whole diseased structure, and then bringing together the opposite sides of the incision by hare-lip pins. These operations have alieady been described and figured at p. 400, Vol. II. We shall consider here those cases in which it becomes necessary to repair more or less extensive loss of substance in the labial structures. The restoration of a portion of the lip that has been destroyed by accident or disease, is not so readily effected as that of the nose ; yet a good deal may be done to remove the defoiTuity. The plan originally introduced by Chopart consists, when it is the lower lip that is efomed, in can-ying an incision from behind the lower jaw down to the hyoid bone, so^ that a square flap may result, which is detached from above downwards. This flap is then brought up, and fixed to the pared edges of the