DIAGNOSIS OF GLAUCOMA. 439 sixth of the circumference. The knife, as it is withdra\vn, is then brought once more with its point directed towards the centre of the chamber, so as to make a similar scpiare extremity of the incision, to the end at which it was begun.* Then, as in the excision-operation for artificial pupil, the fine curved iris- forceps is introduced, and the toothed points opened in the anterior chamber (miless the iris have prolapsed, with the flow of aqueous humour, when the corneal wound was completed) widely enough to seize a rather large portion of the iris. This is then drawn fully out, and is first cut through with the iris- scissoi-s vertically on the right side ; then, the blades of the scissors being held flat on the surface of the globe, it is divided along its ciliary attachment, close to the opening into the anterior chamber, and, lastly, it is separated altogether by another vertical cut. The operation is then complete. If much bleeding into the anterior chamber occur, the blood must be, if possible, coaxed out in one way or another, before it has formed a clot. The point of the curette between the lips of the wound, or on its posterior lip, may do this ; or the blood may be pressed out -with the convex back siuface of the same instrument, by passing it, wet with tears so as not to abrade the epithelium, from below upwards over the front sm-face of the cornea ; or, by gently pressing back the wire-speculum upon the eye, it may be squeezed out. If there be bleeding, however, some blood will probably be left, and cannot be removed. The eye is tied up with some lint, wet or diy, over it, and a bandage is applied over both eyes. Diagnosis of Glaucoma.—In the diagnosis of a case of glaucoma, much stress must not be laid on the meaning of the word—the sea-green colom’ in question is often not at all seen in the reflected light fr-om behind the pupil. The chief diagnostic signs are these 1. Tension in excess—varying fr-om the least degree T. 1, to a stony hardness, T. 3. It is appreciated by the two fore- fingers, used much as in trying elsewhere to discover the existence of deep- seated pus, the patient looking down and gently closing the lids ; or the amount of tension may be appreciated by the eye, as well as by the touch, by placing the point of the forefinger on the ciliary margin of the patient’s lower lid, and indenting the globe as he looks up. 2. Pain in and around the eye, which is often intolerable, generally intermittent. Earely does a case of painless (non- inflai^atoiy) glaucoma occm-. 3. Halos are seen around the Light. 4. Pres- hjo^c symptoms are present. 5. There is narroiuing of the field of vision. C. There are olscurations. 7. The appearance of the eye externally : a. Large tortuous \’essels are seen to course over the sclerotic, and dip into it in the ciliary region ; 1. The anterior chamber is shaUow, the lens, and the iris mth It, being by pressure from behind, thrust forwards in approximation to the back surface of the cornea ; c. The pupil is large and inactive ; d. The cornea Has more or less lost sensibility, and reflects light from its sm-face imperfectly ; e. ine lens is perhaps cloudy (not cataractous, not opaque after iridectomy)’ 8 Ophlhalmoscoptc appearances. When the fundus can be seen (and it very 0 en can le, though the aqueous and vitreous humours be somewhat obscured even when the cornea looks steamy and the lens cloudy), the excavation, more keratome or the eouTiter-pmSrS^ f f'oso made with the thrust of a been adopted on principle by some of my coUeapics^ ^ ‘ Cataract, page 440) has, I am glad to lind.