■670 SPECIAL HERE EE. strangulation had already occurred on four occasions ; reduction, however having- been happily effected each time. Treatment.—Tlie treatment of femoral hernia, when it is reducible, must be conducted in the ordinary way by the application of a proper truss. A ■cure, however, is never, I believe, effected by the pressure of a pad, as some- times happens in inguinal hernia ; owing probably to the rigidity and in- compressibility of the tendinous and aponeurotic structures through which this ruptm-e protrudes. It is often difficult to keep this form of hernia up by means of a truss. The best instrument for this purpose is the mocmain truss, which I have found to succeed when all others have failed. When the hernia is in-educible, it should be supported by means of a truss with a concave pad. When a femoral rupture is strangulated, reduction should be effected either by taxis or by operation as speedily as possible, gangrene more rapidly ensuing in this than in any other form of hernia. In attempting the taxis, the structmes in the groin should be well relaxed by flexing the thigh upon the abdomen, und adducting it, which relaxes the margin of the saphenous opening; if it ■do not succeed with the assistance of the means recommended at p. (131, Yol. II., the operation should be proceeded -with at once. The operation for strangulated femoral hernia may be undertaken earlier and with a better prospect of success than that for any other form of rupture ; this is owing to the strictm-e being so commonly seated outside the sac, that the operation usually admits of being ■completed without implicating the peritoneum. The advantage of this mode of procedure in femoral hernia has been fully pointed out by A. Key, Luke, ;and Gay, and is now very generally recognised in practice. Gay, more par- ticmlarly, has pointed out that the stricture may commonly be divided without •opening the sac, by making a very limited incision on the inner sm-face of the neck of the tumour ; and he observes that the operation undertaken in this manner is little more than the taxis with the addition of a superficial incision. There is, however, this important difference between a hernia reduced by the ■ordinary simple taxis and one returned by Petit’s operation, that the strangu- lation in the latter case has been far tighter, or the operation would not have been necessary, and the consequent injury to the protruded parts is much more •severe. The stricture in femoral hernia is often found to l^e occasioned by the pres- sure of the criu’al arch. La-wi-ence states that it may be most effectually nelieved by di^uding the thin posterior border of this arch near the pubes. Other Surgeons recommend that the sharp edge of Gimbernat’s ligament shoidd be divided; and others again that the division should be made at the junction of Gimbernat’s and Poupart’s ligaments—through those ligamentous bands which Avere first described by Hey, under the term of the “ femoral ligament ” (1803), though subsequently (1814) he dropped this designation (they are noA\ some- times called “ Key’s ligament ”)—or at the inner edge of the falciform iwocess; and, indeed, it is in this situation that both Lawrence and Hey direct the incision to be made. In operating for femoral hernia, I have certainly most frequently found the stricture still to continue after the division of these ligamentous structm-es, and to be occasioned by fibrous bands, often very distinct, narrow, and glistening, lying across the neck of the sac in the fascia piopria 0 ic