I>ISEASES OE AliTElUES. calcareous instead of fatty degeneration. The deposit always takes place in the first instance in minute sabulous grains or granules ; these after a time coalesce, assuming different forms according to the seat of the deposit and the age of the individual. Laminar Deposit.—This is the most frequent, and is principally met Avith in the lai-ger arteries, such as the aorta, the iliac, and the carotid. In this variety, calcareous masses and plates of various sizes, from a grain-like sand to a shell-like plate an inch in width, are met with in these vessels. The thick- ness of the patch varies from that of silver paper to two or three lines. The shape is elliptic or tri- angular, the largest diameter being in the direction of the axis of the vessel. The edge of the plate is ragged, rough, and uneven, and the surface smooth and incm’vated towards the cavity of the artery; if large, it is usually fissured or cracked, and surrounded by much atheroma. These patches are situated in the longitudmal fibrous coat, and are chiefly deposited where this structiwe abounds, as at the arch of the aorta, the bifiu’cation of the iliacs, and in the carotid arteries. The inner coat is usually thjekened and opaque where it covers the patch, and the middle much thinned and Fig. 340.— wasted. citicatioii.‘ Annular Calcification principally occiu’S in arteries of the third magnitude, such as the pop- liteal and the femoral. It commences by the deposit of , „ - I, 1 • 1 ^ -> 350.—Tubular granules of calcareous matter (rig. 349), which are arranged Calcification, in lines rumiing transversely to the axis of the A'essel; these lines gradually increase in breadth until they coalesce laterally, the mter- vening spaces being filled up, and the vessel being converted into a rigid tube. This form of calcification I have found to occur in the transA’erse fibres of the middle coat. Bilh’oth beheves it to commence in the muscular fibre-cells of the middle coat. It is accompanied by but little atheromatous matter. Tubular Calcification appears to be an increased degree of the varieties just described, the arteries being conA'erted into pipes or tubes of calcareous matter, with the exception of a few threads and patches, and some atheroma deposited in the coats (Fig. 350). It is especially the tibial and coronary arteries that are liable to this kind of transformation. T\Tien an ai’tery has thus been converted into a tube of calcareous matter, masses of pale, opaque, Avaxy-looking fibrine are deposited in it, and may block it up more or less completely. These masses not imcommonly midergo subsequent atheromatous degeneration. The various forms of fatty and calcareous transformation of the ai'terial coats that haA’c just been described, are constantly found associated together in the vascular system of the same individual, and often indeed in the same A'essel. It has been pointed out by Bizot that the symmetry of the arrange- ment of these morbid appearances in the corresponding A'essels on oiDposite