5i8 diseases of THE MOUTH AND THROAT. by a broken tooth. Or it may gradually dcvelopc in the site of an old syphilitic crack or unhealed fissure. In some instances I have seen it preceded for some years by chronic thickening, apparently of a squamous character, of the mucous membrane of the tongue, which slowly hardens, ulcerates, and at length be- comes epitheliomatous at one part. Most generally, the posterior lateral aspect of the tongue is the one thus affected. If a tubercle or warty growth appear, this is usually flat, indurated, and of a purphsh-red colour, gradually running into ulceration ; if a fissure, this from the commencement has an indurated base, a foul simface, and a callous edge. As the ulceration extends, a chasm with ragged sides, and a sloughy surface that cannot be cleansed, gradually form over a widely indm’ated base ; there are great fetor of the breath, and profuse sahvation ; and, as the disease progresses, implication of the mucous membrane and of the structures of the floor of the mouth, and of the glands under the jaw and in the neck, takes place. Sometimes the whole mass of the organ is infiltrated by cancerous deposit, becoming generally hard, nodulated, ulcerated, and in some parts covered by thin red cicatrices, and in others by foul putty-like accumulations of epithelium. The pain is very severe in most cases : every movement of the organ in articulation, mastication, or deglutition causes great suffering. The friction or compression by neighboming teeth, the profuse salivation, aU aggravate the patient’s distress in this most agonising- disease. The pain is not confined to the tongue, but runs through aU the branches of the fifth nen^e over the side and to the crown of the head, to the face and the ear. The lymphatic glands under the jaw usually become in- volved at an early period ; but in epithelioma the disease may exist for a year or two without their becoming imphcated. Cachexy at last supervenes, and the patient dies fr-om the conjoined effects of exhaustion, irritation, starva- tion, and poisoning of the system. In some instances, when the posterior part of the tongue is very deeply affected, copious and fatal arterial hmmon’hage may occur and destroy life, from the ulceration extending into the lingual artery. If cancer of the tongue be allowed to run its natural course uninfluenced by operation, nothing can exceed the misery of the patient’s death, brought about as it is by pain, hcemorrhage, and starvation. When the patient dies by reciu’- rence of the disease after removal, he has probably obtained some months of immunity from suffering ; and, as the fatal termination usually takes place by secondary deposits and constitutional cachexia, with A’isceral complications, it is far easier than when directly due to the diseased state of the tongue. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of the various forms of disease of the tongue is important. The foul and sloughing ulcm' may be distinguished from all others by the rapidity of its progress, its eroding action, and the absence of all in- dm-ation at its base. Sgfhiliik ulceration, with an mdurated base, commonly closely resembles cancer of the tongue ; so closely, indeed, that it is only with great difficulty that the diagnosis can be effected. This, however, may generally be accomplished by observing that the syphilitic ulcer is elongated, ii-regular, does not rapidly extend, and is associated with mucous tubercles and other less dubious evidences of constitutional syphilis ; while the cancerous ulcer is ot a more circular shape, has hard and eroded edges, is moie paiii u , an Avith gTcater rapidity. The influence also of treatment will after a time