177 CHARACTERS OF NECROSIS. phosphorus matches, and the clavicle and ulna from injury or constitutional causes, are found affected by necrosis. ^ Causes. The causes of necrosis are of very various character. We have just seen that it is Preclisposecl to by the structure of particular parts of bone, and is more frequent in some bones than in others. Among the niore consti- tutional causes, we may rank in the first line those cachectic conditions of the system that result from scrofula and syphilis, and those debilitated states of constitution that frequently follow upon scarlet or typhoid fever. ^ In these various states, the bone may suddenly lose its vitality, more especially if the limb be subjected to slight accident, as concussion, or to exposure to some degree of cold. Sometimes the disease results from the vitality of the bone being de- stroyed by the extension of inflammation to it fr’om the neighboiu’ing tissues, as in some casesof whitlow, orby the bone becoming exposed by a neighbouiing abscess. Age exercises a predisposing influence on necrosis. It is not very common in young children, except as associated with caries of the bones of the hands and feet. When it does occur in the long bones in early life, it is usually very acute. In early adult age it is common in the long bones, more particularly the femur and the humerus, and then is usually the direct consequence of injuiy or of syphilis. In other cases, simply as the result of old age, a bone or a portion of a bone dies suddenly, apparently by simple extinction of ■^’itality, mthout any injury or other evident exciting cause. This I have seen occur in the lower ends of the humerus and of the tibia, giving rise to rapid and usually to fatal disor- ganisation of the neighbouring joints, or to death by abscess and constitu- tional irritation. This Senile Necrosis may be looked upon as the counterpart in the bone of senile sloughing or gangrene in the soft parts. Acute febrile distiu-bance, more particularly scarlet and typhoid fevers, are not unfrequent exciting causes of necrosis in the young. Scarlet fever espe- cially is apt to be followed by pains in the leg and about the knee, which at first appear to be of a rheumatic character, but which speedily run into abscess and are attended by all the symptoms of the most acute form of necrosis. Traumatic causes frequently give rise to necrosis. Thus the denudation of a bone by its periosteum being stripped off, may lead to its death ; but, though the bone thus injined often loses its \dtality, yet, if the membrane be replaced, its life may be preserved ; even when the bone is exposed, adhesions may take place between it and the neighbouring soft parts, or gi’anulations may be throuTi out by its surface, Avhich eventually form another periosteum. Necrosis frequently occurs as the result of the detachment and denudation of a portion of bone in cases of bad compound fracture : so also the application of certain in-itants, as the fumes of phosphorus, may occasion this disease, and hence it has been found that, in lucifer-match manufactories, necrosis of the lower jaw is a frequent consequence of the acrid fumes that are eliminated gaining access to the bone through carious teeth, or being applied to the exposed alveoli. Characters.—In whatever way it originates, necrosis may affect the outer laminae only of the bone, Avhen it may be called peripheral; or the innermost layers that suiTound the medullary canal may perish, and then it may be termed cenlral; or the whole thickness of a shaft, or of the substance of a short bone, may lose its vitality. The necrosed portion of bone, called the Sequestrum' presents peculiar characters, by which its nature may at once be rccoo-niscd VOL. II. f