HERNIA <520 sac, and the anterior abdominal wall, through which its point is caused to pro- trude. A conca^’e boxwood case (B) is then passed over the projecting point of the needle, and fixed by the other end by a screw apparatus to the cylinder (C), so as to compress the inclosed tissues. The apparatus so fixed is left in situ for six or eight days; when, some discharge being established, it is withdrawn, and the iiivaginated scrotal plug supported by lint introduced up its interior, and by a spica bandage tightly applied. The patient is kept quiet for a fortnight longer, when he is allowed to move about, wearing a light truss for three or four months. This method of treatment is easy of execution, and appears to be more suc- cessful than any that have preceded it. Yet it is open to the objections that •attend all plans for the radical cime of hernia; viz., the possible excitation of a dangerous amount of peritonitis ; and the want of adhesion between the lower part of the scrotal plug and the corresponding side of the inguinal canal and Ting, and consequent failure in the complete occlusion of the canal and in the radical cure. So far as the first objection is concerned, I believe that very little weight can be attached to it. I have very often performed this operation, and have never seen the slightest evidence of a disposition to peritoneal inflammation cr other local mischief, except abrasion of the skin in one or two cases. With respect to the second objection, there can be no doubt that failimes are not uufrequent ; but on the other hand successes are not rare, and I have now under observation several cases in which a complete ciu’e has resulted, although •several years, from two to nine, have elapsed since the operation. Wood’s Operation.—In order to secure the more complete obliteration of •the canal, and especially the cohesion of the inner and posterior walls, John Wood has brought forward another operation, for the follovdng description •of which I am indebted to him. The principle of this ■ method consists in the approximation of the tendinous structures forming the boundary of the hernial canal, by the application of a subcutaneous wire sutm-e through a puncture in the skin. In applying this principle to inguinal hernia, in order to promote the adhesion of the tendinous siu’faces, and to protect the sac and ■cord from injm’ious violence, the highly vascular, elastic, and tough fascia ot the scrotum is detached subcutaneously from the skin, transplanted by invagi- nation into the canal and held there by the ligatiu’es till adhesion ensues to ' the walls of the canal and to the spermatic cord. The wire is so applied as to obtain a fair hold in two places upon the structures forming the posterior wall, viz., the conjoined tendon and the triangulai’ aponemosis ; and again upon Poupart’s ligament and the lower portion of the external oblique ajDoneu xosis forming the anterior wall of the canal, hhe effect of the sutiue is to