CHAPTER LX. —»— OPERATIOi^S ON THE AIR-TUBE AND ON THE CHE8T. LARYNGOTOMY AND TRACHEOTOMY. The -windpipe may either require to be opened to allow the formation of a temporary breathing apertm’e, in consequence of the obstruction of the lar}mx by causes that are speedily removable ; or it may be necessary to establish a permanent opening in the air-passage in those forms of chronic laryngeal disease, in which the obstruction depends upon organic alterations of structure which are not remediable. Among the conditions requhing temporary aperture, may be mentioned all ucute inflammatory affections of the larynx that give rise to obstructive oedema •of the glottis ; also traumatic conditions, such as the impaction of masses of food in the gullet, inducing asphyxia, and not capable of being immediately removed ; scalds of the rima glottidis ; the presence of foreign bodies in the air- passage ; and oedema of the glottis from wounds of the thyio-hyoid membrane. The estabhshment of a permanent aperture in the air-passage is especially required in chronic diseases of the larynx, attended by thickening of the mucous membrane, by abscess, or by necrosis of the cartilages—in fact, by any such conditions as do not admit of removal; so also, in cases of epithehoma or warty growth of the larynx, a permanent opening below the obstructed point may be required. Opening the Windpipe in Croup and Diphtheria.—The question as to whether the windjDipe should be opened in cases of Croup has been much dis- cussed. Were croup merely a disease of the larynx, and did death in it result from simple laryngeal obstruction, it would doubtless ofteu be proper to per- form this operation. But in crouj) there are two distinct soiu’ces of dauger : 1, that arising from asphyxia dependent on laryngeal inflammation, obstruction by plastic deposits, and spasm ; and 2, that which is due to the extension of inflammatory action below the larynx into the bronchi and lungs. By tracheotomy we can doubtless remove so much of the danger as arises from the laryngeal obstruction, but we cannot remove that which is dependent on the often concomitant broncho-pneumonia. In this respect, the propriety of performing tracheotomy in the croup of children differs remarkably from the expediency of having recourse to the same operation in the acute laiyngitis ot adults, in which the lungs are rarely implicated to a serious extent. In feet, the question as to the performance of tracheotomy in the croup of children must be answered by the amount of laryngeal asphyxia and the extent of pulmonary implication. If the child be in danger of death from imcom- plicated laryngeal inflammation, obstruction, and spasm, timely tracheotomy