SPECIAL ANEUPJSMS. 98 toenth volume of the DuUin Journal of AMical Sciencp, this ^Yas one of the most marked features : tlie “ appearances of the tumour (as seen by the moutli) Avero most alarming ; the pulsation could be distinctly seen, and the blood ahnost felt under the mucous membrane ; it seemed ready to give Avay and burst into the mouth every moment.” Treatment.—The treatment of these cases does not differ from that of aneurisms connected AAuth the carotid arteries, and seated at tlie upper part of the neck ; but atc are not in possession of a sufficient number of facts to enable us to determine AAuth any degree of precision Avhat the result of surgical inter- ference in them is likely to be. If Ave could gh'e an opinion from the limited number of cases at present before the profession, aa^o should feel disposed not to entertain a A'ery favoiuable opinion of the result of the Hunterian operation, as applied to aneiuism of the internal carotid outside the skull. This is doubtless OAAung to the situation of the aneurism against the mucous membrane of the mouth, being such that the siurounding tissues do not exercise a suffi- cient amount of pressure against the sac after the ligature of the vessel to alloAV the efficient deposition of lamellated coagulum, and consequent occlusion of the artery leading into it, Avhich, in accordance Avith the principles that have been laid cIcaati in speaking of the Hunterian operation, are necessary to success. INTRACRANIAL ANEURISM. Aneiu’isms Avithin the skull may arise from any of the arteries that are met Avith in this situation, though some are much more liable than others to the j occurrence of this disease. Of G2 cases noticed by Sir W. Hull, the basilar artery Avas the seat of disease in 20 cases, and the middle cerebral in 15. In 8 of the remaining cases, the internal carotid Avas affected as it lay by the seUa Turcica ; and in 6 others the anterior cerebral artery AA^as the seat of aneurism. The vertebral arteries and their branches Avere affected in 28 cases, and the carotids and their branches in 34. The greater frequency of this disease in the basilar artery may probably be dependent on its large size, and the consequently greater impetus of the blood to it. Causes.—The causes of intracranial aneiuism are A^eiy obsciue. It might be supposed that the comparatively small diameter of the arteries Avithin the skull Avould render them Mttle liable to the occiurence of spontaneous aneurism, Avere it not that the anatomical characters and physiological relations of these vessels predispose considerably to the occurrence of this affection ; there being no other set of arteries in the body of the same size as these Avithin the skull in which spontaneous aneurism so frequently occurs. This can only be accounted for by the thinness of their coats and want of an external cellular sheath ren- dering them unable to support the increased pressure frum AAdthin, to which ' they are occasionally subjected in consequence of the alteration in pressure of the cerebral circulation at different periods, the result ot some variation in the relative quantities of the different fluids within the skull, or of determination of blood to the brain. This Avould more particularly be the case if their natural elasticity had already been impaired by the occurrence of athei’omatous or other degeneration of their coats. As these changes are the natural consequences