DISEASES OF JOINTS. •affections of joints, in winch amputation or excision is recpiired. In these cases, either as tlie result of violence, or from constitutional causes, the articular ends of a bone, or the whole of a bone if it be one of the tarsal, becomes congested, inflamed, carious, or necrosed, sometimes infiltrated with ■cheesy matter. In consequence of this disorganisation of the osseous tissues, the incrusting cartilag-e becomes detached, its under or attached surface softened, and at last perforation takes place, as in a preceding cut (Fig. 43G i, p. 217), taken from the tibia of a boy whose limb I amputated for acute ■disorganisation of the knee-joint, following carious disease of the head of the tibia. This process of disintegration, and at last perforation and erosion of the cartilage, takes place in a direction fr-om below upwards. So soon as perforation occurs, the whole of the interior of the joint becomes acutely inflamed, and suppuration is set up in it, the ligaments loosen, and complete dis- organisation ensues (Fig. 437). On exam- ining the diseased patch or cartilage in cases of this kind, it null be found to cor- respond to the carious or tuberculous bone, from which it is separated by some bloody fluid ; it nail also be seen that the mider edges of the erosion or perforation in the car- tilages are separated to some extent from the subjacent bone, from which they readily peel off, and that they are bevelled off towards the aperture. 3. That cartilage is susceptible of Primary Change of the Nature of Inflammation or Ulceration, induced by the action of its own vessels, was the opinion of Brodie, Mayo, Fig. 4;!T.—Interior of Knee iiisorgiinisea Liston, all of whom had obsei'ved truG by Acute Pyannie Inflammation. • i- mi- i-i.- vascularisation of cartilage. This condition, however, is extremely rare, and is certainly not one of the more common forms of joint-disease, seldom occiUTing except in the more chi’onic stages of arthritis. While, however, inflammation, as the term is commonly understood, is of rare occuiTence as a primary change in a cartilage, certain of the accessory or constituent conditions of the process are liable to be met with in this tissue. The observations of Goodsir, of Eainey, and of Redfern, all point to the fact that cartilage, like other extravascular tissues, is subject to transformations, independent of the prolongation of vessels into it. The changes that ensue are, according to Rcdlern, ot the following kind. The caitilage-cells ciiLuge, become rounded, and granular-looking ; and, instead of theii containing tuo or three nuclei, a considerable number are enclosed in the cell-wall; eventually these corpuscles break up, and are disintegrated. Ihe matrix ot the caitilago noAV softens, and, according to Redfern, splits up into fibres or bands Avhich become nucleated. A species of tatty degeneration also, as pointed out by Rainey, takes place, and helps to soften and break down the structure of the