55^ LOCAL APPLICATIONS TO THE LARYNX. Ijcfore the profession 1)V Trousseau, and by the i\_nierican Suigeons, especially Horace (Ireen and J. AVarren. n Of the great value of this treatment in laryngeal disease, there can be no i| doubt. I believe it to be almost impossible to bring deeply seated and very I chronic inflammatory or ulcerative affections of this part of the air-passages to L a satisfactory termination by a)iy other means. The mode of application that I is the simplest and is very eliectual, consists in depressing the tongue with a proper spatula, and then passing a throat-sponge, consisting of a small piece of •; this material firmly attached to a curved whale-bone stick (Fig. 044), and ^ satinated with a solution of nitrate of siHer, down to the parts that are 1 diseased, so that the liquid may be applied to the Avhole of the affected surfaces. fl By the help of the laryngoscope, the solution may be V'ery accurately applied > to the inflamed part by means of a large camel’s-hair pencil, firmly attached to a I piece of wire bent to the proper angle, and set in a bundle. This solution Ishoidd vary in strength from half a drachm to a drachm of the salt to an ounce of distilled water ; most commonly, the latter strength will be most useful. This plan of treatment has been much practised of late years in this country, and Anth considerable success in a large number of cases. Some of its advo- cates, however, not content with curing in this way disease that is vdsibly seated in the throat, state that the morbid action extends down the trachea into the bronchi, and that it is necessary to follow it in these situations. They accordingly speak of passing the probang or brush between and beyond the vocal cords, and of sponging and mopping out the interior of the larynx I and the lower parts of the air-tube, and of applying the caustic solution to them, as if this Avere a proceeding that could be adopted with as little difficulty as jAassing the sponge into the nares. I cannot believe, however, that this [practice, though commonly spoken about and professedly employed, is ever in reality earned out. Any one acquainted Avith the physiology of the larynx knows hoAv acutely sensitiA’e it is, and hoAv it resists the introduction of any f foreign body by the most violent spasmodic fits of coughing, in its normal p state ; and any Surgeon Avho has seen the effects resulting fr’om the fair and i complete inhalation of a drop or tAvo of solution of nitrate of silver in a morbid and iiTitable condition of this tube, must feel sure that no sponge saturated Avith a solution of this caustic could ever haA'e been thrust doAvn between and f beyond the vocal cords into the trachea and lAronchi. Ihe utmost that can be done is that, guided by the laryngoscope, a small p brush may be momentarily passed betAveen the vocal cords, but the spasm so is caused renders it impossible to do more. ^ Other instruments have also been passed beyond the true cords, and Avarty growths have been in this Avay removed om the coifrs themselves ; but the moment they are touched, spasm occurs. . e most that can be done is a sudden touch of a brush or snatch Avith a forceps or loop of Avire. Any more deliberate proceeding is impossible. Inhalation of the Nitrate of Silver in Powder is most conveniently