486 DISEASES OF THE JAWS AED THEIR ARRENDAOES. DISEASES OF THE LOWER JAW. TUiAiouRB not unli-cquently spring from the lower jaw. Like those in thc’ superior maxilla, they may either be simple or malig-nant. Amongst the simple,. Avc most commonly find the Fibro-cystic. Fibrous tumours are also occa- sionally met with, and more rarely Osseous and Enchondromatous growths. The malignant tumours are principally rapidly growing sarcomata. These '\-arious grow'ths frequently occur in early and middle life, and usually spring- fr-om the diploe between the two tables of which the bone is composed. They project into the mouth and on the side of the neck, forming large rounded unifonn, or imperfectly lobed masses. Occasionally malignant diseases spring- fr’om the neighbourhood of the bone, and, without invading its structure,, envelop it so as to give rise to an appearance of morbid implication of it. In the Gijstio and Fibro-cystic Tumours of the jaw, the growth, is expanded into cysts, having more or less solid matter iutennixed, partaking of the character of epulis. The cysts are of various degrees of thickness; some being thin and membranous, others having the walls partly composed of fibrous- tissue, and others again ha-sing expanded bony lamellae largely entering into- their composition, so that on pressure they occasionally communicate the semi- crepitant sensation pecidiar to the cystic expansions of the osseous structure. The fluid contained in these cysts is a viscid liquid, usually semi-transparent, yelloAvish, or bloody. Diagnosis.—In the lower, as in the upper jaw, it is of great importance to- diagnose the simple fi’om the malignant affections; as in the latter form of disease an operation is rarely justifiable, the soft tissues aroimd the bone being- usually implicated to such an extent as not to admit of removal, and conse- quently not of the full and complete extirpation of the disease. The malignant tumours may generally be readily detected by the rapidity of their gxowth, by their pulpy or elastic character, and by infiltration of neighbouring parts, wfitli implication of the glands below the jaw. Treatment.—The treatment of tumours of the lower jaw depends in a great measure upon the character of the growth. In cystic tumour of moderate size, with thin walls and but little deposit of fibrous tissue around the cysts, the best mode of treatment consists in cutting down through the gum on the expanded portion of bone, opening the cyst by means of the antrum-perforator, small trephme, or cutting pliers, according to its size and the thickness of its walls r letting out the fluid contained within ; and then, by introducing a plug of lint, causing the cavity to granulate from the bottom, and gradually to contract. When the cysts are so large that they have destroyed the integrity of the bone, or when they are associated with a large quantity of fibrous tissue, so as to constitute true fibro-cystic tumom-s, excision of the diseased bone must be prac- tised. This, also, is the only plan of treatment that can be had recourse to in other affections of this bone. „ . . „ l- e- Excision of the Lower Jaw.—The operation of excision of a portion o the lower jaw for tumour of that bone was first performed by Deadi-^k of Ten- nessee, in 1810, and not, as is generally but eiToneously supposed, by Dupiiytaui. As the gi-owths for which this operation is perfomed are usually situated .)c- twecn the symphysis and the angle of the bone, seldom exten mg eyon