i6 ANEURISM. CHAPTER XLIIl. AITEURISM. By Aneurism is meant a tumour, resulting from the dilatation of the whole or a portion of the coats of an artery caused by the contained blood, and com- municating with the interior of the vessel. Causes.—The causes of anemism are divisible into those that predispose to, and those that excite the disease. Anem-ism is Predisposed to by any affection of the arterial coats that lessens the elastic resihency of the vessel, and at the same time weakens its resisting power. When the arterial walls have under- gone more or less fatty or atheromatous degeneration, whether that consist in the distinct deposit of patches of atheroma, or of molecular deposit of fat-globules in the tissues composing their coats, their natural elasticity and resihency become lost, proportionately to the amomit of subiuflammatory and fatty change that has taken place within them. Hence as the artery becomes less and less able to contract on its contents, and to recover during the diastole from the tension exercised on its waUs during the systolic impulse, it gradually becomes distended by the repetition of the shocks which it sustains, and thus either complete or partial dilatation of its cavity takes place. I beheve that this loss of elasticity and of power of contracting on its contents, which eventually results in the dilatation of the vessel, never ocems except as the result of previous disease of the coats. In the very numerous specimens of dilated arteries that I have examined, I have never found one that had not undergone fatty degenera- tion, or atheromatous deposition. Calcification, on the other hand, rather prevents than favoins dilatation of the artery, by hardening the coats and con- verting them into rigid melastic tubes ; but atheroma softens them, and causes yielding of that portion of the vessel affected by it. I have frequently obseiwed that the whole of the artery might be healthy except at one part, where there was an atheromatous patch, and where the vessel was dilated ; or that the whole of its coats might be calcified except at one spot, where atheroma was deposited, and where consequently the coats had yielded mider the outwai’d pressm’e of the contained blood. As anemism, therefore, may be looked upon as one of the sequences ot atheroma, or at least as being invariably preceded by that form of arterial degeneration, the predisposing causes of the one condition must necessaiily be the same as those of the other. Hence we find that age, cachexy, and sj philis iufiuence the occurrence of the aneurismal disease by laying its loundations in the formation of the atheromatous deposit. Age exercises a powerful predisposing influence on the occurrence of anemism. It is dm’ing the middle period of life, about the ages of thirty and forty,