577 INFLAMMATION OF THE BREAST. mother. The opposite condition will occasionally occur, and an Excessive Flow of Milk may continne, especially in hysterical females long after the child has been weaned. In such cases as these, the (jalactorrhma may be checked by the application of the extract of belladonna to the breast, aided by the employment of tonics, and the administration of acids. Lactelvl Tumour.—It may happen during lactation that one of the lactiferous ducts becomes obstructed, either by its being obliterated by in- flammation or occluded by the deposit in it of a small concretion—a lacteal calculus. In either case the walls or the duct may be expanded, so that at last it constitutes a moderate-sized cyst, fluctuating on pressure, and evidently containing fluid. In some cases, the lacteal tumour has been known to attain an enormous size. Walpy has related a case in which he drew off ten pounds of milk by tapping a collection of this kind. These tumour’s may exist for a considerable time. Dupuytren records an instance in which one had existed for ten months, and Cooper one of a year’s duration. In these chronic cases the milk usually undergoes changes, becoming creamy, thick, and oily ; and in some instances it would appear to leave a solid residue by the absorption of its watery parts. In other instances the milk appears as if diffused through the substance of the gland and its ducts, constituting a spongy semi-fluctuating tumour. Velpeau has pointed out that these lacteal deposits imdergo a series of changes, somewhat similar to those that take place in blood that has been extravasated ,• becoming absorbed in whole or part in some instances, in others remaining fluid, and occasionally becoming encysted. Treatment.—In these cases, the readiest mode of getting rid of the tumom- is, as Sir A. Cooper advises, to make an oblique puncture from the nipple towards it, by means of a trochar and cannula, so that a fistulous track may be left, along which the milk is discharged, and thus got rid of; the child being at the same time weaned, so that the secretion may cease. In some cases after weaning, the milk may be diffused into the substance of the gland, or collected into masses of curd, forming hard nodules, which give a good deal of trouble, and may eventually lead to some of the forms of inflammation that will immediately be described ; these swelhngs are usually best removed by ffictions with somewhat stimulating embrocations, such as camphorated oil, by which their absorption is promoted. INFLAMMATION OF THE BREAST. Inflammation of the Breast may take place at any period of life. In c ildhood It occurs as the result of accidental causes, just before or at puberty m boys as well as in girls, as a consequence of the general development of the organs of reproduction. But far more frequently it is the direct result of the exalted action taking place in the gland during laetation, which, in feeble and antemie women, runs beyond the boimds of a normal standard. It is commonly met with during the first month or two after the birth of the child, and seldom ocems during weaning, but may, as Nunn has shown, be the consequence S’ unduly prolonpd suckling, and thus appear at a late period-the enth or eleventh month. It ie most fteqnontly met ,vith in wcaki, anlic The mflammafon may atToct any one of the eonstitnonts of which Zb oaT^ composed, and may be limited to this ; thus it may take place in the^ “ e P P