application of COMPRESSOP. S3 form of the disease ; yet there can be no doubt that this is also materially influenced by two other circumstances—viz., the condition of the blood within the sac, and the completeness of the compression. AVhen the sac is filled with fluid blood, and the compression is not im- interruptedly complete, the sac appears to empty itself to a considerable extent, and eventually to consolidate by the deposit of laminated fibiine. But, if the sac already contain some solidified layers, and the compression be continuous and complete, the coag’ulation of the remaining fluid part of its blood is apt to take place rather suddenly. But in all cases the contraction of the sac, consequent upon the an-est or restraint of the ciu-rent of blood into it, is an important element in the cme. Illustrative of this mode of cime, there is a prepai-ation in the Museum of University College (Fig. 3G5). From all this, then, it would appear that the consolidation and em’e of an anemlsm by com]n’ession may and does take place in three different ways : 1, by the slow deposit of laminated flbrine ; '2, by rapid coagulation of the contents of the sac ; 3, by contraction of the sac. The particular mode of ciu’e ^vifl. depend upon the completeness of the compression and the more or less perfect arrest of the blood in the sac, the plasticity of that blood, and the shape of the anemism. Circumstances influencing Success. — The success of the treatment by compression depends gveatly upon a scrupulous attention to a number of minor ch’cumstances, which, though each be trifling in itself, become of importance when taken as a whole. Dming the' whole of the treatment, also, the patient’s general health should be attended to in accordance wdth those dietetic and medical principles that have already been laid down in speaking of the con- stitutional treatment of the disease, having for their object the increase of the fibrination of the blood. The irritabihty of the heart and arteries must also bo. subdued, and the irritation of the system lessened, by the use of opiates or of chloral; and the patient should be put into a comfortable bed, mth firm and well-secured pillows and mattresses, so that his position may not be changed. As it is principally hi anemism of the lower extremity that com- pression can be employed, we shall proceed to describe the method of its application here. Application of the Compressor.—The thigh should, if necessary, be shaxed, so as to remove all hair. The skin should then be powdered, and the limb bandaged with a soft roller ; a pad being laid on the tumoiu’. Pillows must then be comfortably arranged under it, the knee being semi- flexed. Much of the success of the treatment will depend upon the kind of instiument used. The ordinary horse-shoe, or Signorini’s tourniquet, was the one first employed, and this will, in many cases, answer the piu-pose perfectly well; Iiut, as it is somewhat difficult to regulate the pressure with this instru- ment, and as it is not unfrequently exorcised too powerfully, it has generally given place at the present day to the very ingenious apparatus of Carte, which, as It substitutes an elastic force derived from vulcanised India-rubber bands for the unyielding pressure of the screw, accommodates itself better to the limb, Fig. 365.—Sac of Tubular .iVjieurisiu cured by Compres- sion : Conti-action of Sac, and iiTegular Dexiosit of Fibrine.