275 OF THE FOOT. GOESER YA T1 YE SURGER Y as a whole. Surgeons did not endeavour to make out the exact^ extent and f il>n iliRR-isc aiiii any case described as “ diseased tarsus was looked rr " Xs amonest tUc rveidthier classes-tl.osc who could afford the excuse of a ''^s, a.uiun„6>u I, mii-itu. mh. nnione-st the noorer -eoAie"°-to amputate a little above the ankle; but, amongst the poorer classes to remove the leg about a couple of inches below the knee, so as to ^vc ^patient a stump which, when bent, would St into the socket of a wooden rin Thus, in the latter case especially: not only was the leg, 1 self perfectly sound, sacrificed, but the patient was exposed to great additional danger ; foi if there be one point more than another which has been indisputably proved by suro-ical statistics, it is, that the mortality after amputation increases, mtms paribus, in exact proportion as we approach the trunk-ev^ additional inch which we remove augmenting the danger to the patient. This practice con- tinued to prevail until Chopart drew some distinctions between the treatment to be pursued, according as the disease affected the anterior or the postenor tarsal bones and articulations. He showed that, when the anterior articulations only were affected, amputation at the junction of the astragalus and calcaneum with the scaphoid and cuboid—an operation which goes by the name of “ Chopart’s amputation ’'—ought to be performed ; thus remo'sdng the whole of the disease, and allowing the patient to recover with a shortened foot, with the heel preserved—one on which he could bear the weight of his body, and which would be highly useful to him. The next step in the conservative surgery of the lower extremity, in cases of diseased foot, was the operation introduced by Syme—that of disarticulation at the ankle-joint. This was certainly a great advance ; for, the flap being taken from the heel, the patient has a stump on which he can bear. The operation is also a very safe one. According to 0. Weber, 17 deaths only have occiin-ed in 101 cases of this operation. I have performed it many times without a death, and this, in the lower extremity, is extremely satisfactory. Since the introduction of anmsthetic agents, Conservative Siirgeiy has taken great strides; and I think Conservatism in Surgery may be regarded as the nccessaiy result of Anmsthesia. For, although operations of this kind were performed years ago by Park, the Moreaiis, and others, and their utility demon- strated, yet the operations of gouging, scraping, and partial resection were so hon’ibly painful to the patient, and occupied so much time in their performance, that patients dreaded to submit to, and Surgeons declined to undertake, them. Of late years Surgeons have learned to discriminate disease of one part of the tarsus from that of another, and to apply appropriate treatment to each. Looking at the subject in a diagnostic point of view—and the treatment is most intimately connected with minute and accurate diagnosis—we find that the pathology of diseases of the tarsus is closely connected Avith its healthy anatomy. Composed of seven bones, it presents four distinct articulations. r>y the teim “ articulation,” applied to the tarsus, I do not mean merely the connection of contiguous bones with each other, but distinct synovial sacs shut off* from communication with other synovial sacs in the foot. These are well represented in the annexed diagram (Fig. 4G4). The posterior calcaneo-asira- (jnloul is tlie first of them ; next comes the {a) aniorior calcaneo'astragaloid, the synovial membrane here serving also for a'irngalo-scaphoU; the calcanea-