1604 DISEASES OF THE BREAST. 3. Cases favourable for Operation.—The exclusion of all the cases that fall under tlie preceding- categories will necessarily limit very materially those in which an operation may be undcrtakeji; it can, hoAvever, be per- formed with every prospect of its being advantageous to the patient, if the tumour be of moderate size, slow or nearly stationary in its growth, uncon- nected with or at least merely attached by a pedicle of the skin, pretty dis- tinctly circumscribed, movable on the subjacent parts, and not complicated hy enlarged glands in the axilla or elsewhere. Tire patient has an especially good prospect of recovery, according to Brodie, if the disease be seated in the aiiijplc. AMien once a tumoiu’ of the breast has been ascertained to be of cancerous ■character, the sooner it is removed the better, unless one of the special reasons adverse to operation that have just been adverted to should exist. I cannot conceive that any good can come of delay in these cases. The disease (for reasons stated at pp. 791—8JO, Yol. I.) appears in the early stages often to be entirely •local : there is no evidence of constitutional infection, but if the operation be delayed the skin speedily becomes implicated, the axillary glands enlarge, and cancerous cachexy sets in. As a general rule, it may be stated that in all cases cf cancer of the breast the Avhole of that organ ought to be freely removed, ■especial care being taken that no slices- of manmiary structure be left behind ; •and after removal the under surface and edges of the gland ought to be careMly examined, with the -^’iew of seeing that the extirpation has been complete. When the cancer is infiltrated, the vdiole of the breast and the surrounding cellulo-adipose structures must be very freely removed, as there is often a halo of cancer-deposit ai-ound the morbid mass, in tissues apparently healthy. It may happen that the tumour, especially if scirrhous, is apparently isolated, and situated at one border of the gland, scarcely, if at all, connected -with that structure. Here the question will arise, as to whether the whole of the organ ought to be removed or not. In determining this we must, I think, be guided by the position of the scirrhous mass and the size of the breast. The cancer-infiltration proceeds in the course of the lymphatic vessels. If the cancer be situated towards the sternal or under aspect, however isolated it may appear, it mil be found that the mammary gland will certainly have become infiltrated, lying as it does between the morbid mass and the lym- phatics. YTien, however, the tumour is seated at the upper or outer border cf the gland; when it appears to be detached from the breast, lying rather in the axiUa or below the clavicle than in connection with the gland ; when tlie breast itself is very large and fat, but healthy to the feel, mthout hardness or retraction of the nipple ; Avhen there is no sign whatever of deep infiltration of the breast—it may then be a question whether it will not be more prudent to extirpate the tumour alone, with the adipose bed in which it lies, and a deep slice of the adjoining mammary gland, than to perform the more serious opera- tion of remoHng the whole of the breast. In determining this point we must, ' I think, be guided by the situation of the tumour, the feel of the breast, and the size of that organ. If the tumom- be distinctly axillary, if the breast tee perfectly soft and healthy, with the nipple projecting, there is no reason to tear infiltration by cancer of the central and sternal portions of the mammary g am . I have found on careful microscopical examination of breasts removed tor