DIVISION OF THE CORD IN CASTRATION. 97* were medullary. The operation consists in exposing the tumour by a free ineision—if necessary, carried through the tendon of the external oblique opening the tuniea vaginalis, enucleating the mass, and tying with care the shortened spermatic cord, Avhich Avould probably be the most difficult part of the operation. The possible co-existence of a congenital hernia must be remembered. But it is remarkable that peritonitis docs not appear to be the chief danger of this operation. In neither of the cases above refeiTed to did it occur, the patient dying of erysipelas in Arnott’s case ; of recuiTent cancel, a year after the operation, in that of Storks.* OPER&.TION OP CASTRATION. This operation may be required for the various non-malignant affections of the testicle that have resisted ordinary constitutional and local treatment, and hai’e become soiu’ces of gxeat annoyance and discomfort to the patient; in the early forms of malignant disease, also, it may be advantageously practised. The operation may be pei’formed in the folloAving way. The patient, having had the pubes shaved, should lie upon his back ivith the legs and thighs hanging OA'er the end of the table. The Surgeon should then take his stand in front of the patient between his legs, and, grasping the tumour at its posterior part with his left hand, make the scrotum in front of it tense. If the mass to be removed be of small size, he makes a longitudinal incision over its anterior surface ; if of large size, a double elliptical incision, enclosing a portion of the scrotum. The incision should commence opposite to the external abdominal ring, and be canied rapidly down to the lower part of the scrotum. By a few touches with a broad-bladed scalpel or bistoury, Avhilst the skin is kept upon the stretch, the tumour is noAV* separated from its scrotal attachments, and merely left connected by the cord, Avhich must then be divided. In some cases, it Avdl be found advantageous to expose and diAude the cord in the first instance, before dissecting out the tumour fr'om the scrotum, as in this way a-better command over it is obtained. The Division of the Cord constitutes the most important part of the opera- tion, Avhether this be done first or last; as, unless care be taken, the cord may he retracted through the abdominal ring into the inguinal canal, where it is extremely difficult to foUoAV it, and Avhere the cut stump may bleed very fr'eely, pouring out the hlood into its OAvn areolar tissue so as to swell up rapidly, forming a large thi’omhus, and, if not j>roperly secured, giving rise to extensive and even fatal infiltration into and betAveen the muscles of the part and into the flank. This accident is prcA'ented by tying a piece of tape tightly romid the cord above the part to be cut, and giAong this into the charge of an , assistant (Tig. 804). The arteries of the cord may then be tied separately. A better and safer plan than this, hoAvever, and one Avhich I noAV invariably adopt, is to ligature the cord as a Avhole. This is done by passing a lAiece of strong AA'hipcord Auider the cord, and tying the Avhole of this structure very tightly before dividing it. In this Avay htemorrhage is most effectually restrained ; and the ligature separates about the eighth day. It is Avorthy of Testia" *^*^*'^ on tliia aubjoct to Cuiliiig’s excellent ■work on tho