URETHRAL CALCULUS. •o-nrl r\Vvi-ki-i<- J.'Urt -i? - 1 I , 1 O J which resists in the most obstinate manner all the ordinary methods of treat- ment. This is not the case after lithotomy ; when a patient once recovers, his bladder usually regains its tone completely, and no trace of evil conse- quences is left. 'Treatment.—In the event of a secondary calculus forming, whether after lithotomy or lithotrity, either method may again be employed, according to the nature of the case. Most generally, the bladder may be cleared of the recurrent calculus by means of the lithotrite. If lithotomy have previously been performed, and it be thought proper again to have recourse to it, this may be done again in the usual way, through the cicatrix left by the former wound; or the Surgeon, if ambidextrous, may adopt Liston’s advice to cut through the right side of the periiiEeum on a staff with a groove to the left of its convexity. As this procedure, however, would entail the use of the left hand for cutting and extracting, most Surgeons would prefer either the opera- tion through the site of the old wound, or, better still, the median operation. Whatever procediu-e, however, may be adopted, it should be borne in mind that the rectimi may have become rather firmly adherent to the membranous portion of the urethra and the apex of the prostate, in consequence of the •contraction of the old cicatrix, and may thus be endangered. Calculi are not unfrequently found impacted in the urethra, especially iri childi-en. These are most commonly formed in the kidney, whence they pass into the bladder, and thence into the urinary canal, through which they usually escape, but in some instances lodge in it, more especially at the bulb or in the navicular fossa. These calculi are commonly of the lithic acid or oxalate of hme varieties; they are generally round, but not uncommonly •elongated or spindle-shaped. But, although most urethral calculi are undoubtedly renal in their origin, formed m the canal. They will then be found to be phosphatic, are usually •consequent upon stricture, and may attain a large size. In some cases these concretions are moulded in the prostatic and bulbous portions of the methra being elongated, rounded at one end, and pointed at the other. In other in- stances, again, they appear to be formed in a pouch that lies to the outside of the imethra, and that is only connected with it by a small aperture. I have UBETHRAL CALCULUS. there can be little doubt that in some more rare cases they may be primarily T/\T*T^T TT^ ___ .__^n J.V *' xemoved a stone of this kind composed of triple phosphates, weiffhin-