EXCISION OF JOINTS AND BONES. 272 recourse to the removal of the diseased articulation in those cases in which its condition did not admit of cure, and would consequently necessitate operation. 11 is, therefore, useless to institute a comparison between the results of excision of the knee-joint and those of treatment for cimable affections of that articu- lation ; but we must compare them with those of amputation of the thigh* for incurable disorganisation of the joint. In 1857, according to Butcher, excision of the knee-joint had been performed H2 times since its revival in 1850. Of these cases 15 proved fatal, and in 8 amputation of the thigh was required, of which 1 case had a fatal issue. In some instances there is reason to believe that the unsuccessful result was owing to want of due attention to the after-treatment of the case. Price has collected the particulars of ICO cases of excision of the knee performed up to December, 1858 : of these, 32 were fatal—8 from pyaemia ; and to these must be added (iO cases collected by Clarke of Bristol, of which 0 died—1 fi’om pyaemia ; in all 220 cases with 38 deaths. Penieres, writing in 18C9, gives the statistics of GOO cases in which excision of the knee had been performed. Of 431 cases operated on for disease, 300 recovered and 131 died—a mortahty of 30 per cent. The result of excision for gimshot injury has already been alluded to at p. 235, Yol. I., as generally unsatisfactory. On comparing the mortality after amputation of the thigh -with that follow- ing excision of the knee-joint, some statistics show no very material difference in the rate of mortality after the two operations. In 18G9, Swain foinid that, in 472 cases of excision of the knee-joint collected by Price, Mac Cormac, and himself, there were IIG deaths, or 24-5 per cent. ; while in 54 amputations of the thigh there were 13 deaths, or 24 per cent. Other recent statistics, again, show decidedly in favour of excision. Y^illett has collected the cases that occurred at St. Bartholomew’s Hospital during a period of six years. He finds that of 38 cases of excision 8 proved fatal; whilst of 84 cases of amputation of the tliigh for disease no fewer than 37 died—shovdng a preponderance in favour of excision over amputation in the ratio of 21 against 44 per cent, of deaths. Bryant, however, says that the mortality after the two operations varies much according to age. Thus, among patients under 20 years of age, in G9 amputations of the thigh for disease of the knee, 3 only died, while of 97 cases of excision, 27 died ; in 119 amputations between the ages of 20 and 40, 38 died, while of 74 excisions, 39 died. He hence concludes that during the earlier period of life excision is afar more fatal operation than amputation; whilst at more advanced ages, though stiff more fatal, the balance in fa\ oui of amputation is less striking. _ 2. The second point that has to be determined, is as to the btihUj oj me Liml) after the Operation. _ j.- t On this point, the result of recorded cases is in favoin- of the operation, in one of Park’s cases, operated on in 1783, that Surgeon states that the patient (a sailor), seven years after the operation, “was able to go aloft able agility, and to perform hll the duties of a seaman.” In some of the lattci cases the result has been equally good. One of Jones’s patients (a boy) “ could run and walk quickly without any aid of a stick, could stand on t limli alone, and pirouetted and hopped two or three yards without putting tne