IX CONTENTS. PACE from Ligamentous Consolidation—Treatment—Contraction of Hamstrings Division of Hamstring Tendons—Contraction with Lateral Displacement—Treat- ment-Osseous Ankylosis of Knee—Club-foot—Varieties—Pathological Changes -Talipes Equinns—Treatment—Talipes Calcaneus—Treatment—Talipes Varus —Treatment—Talipes Valgus—Treatment—Talipes Calcanco-valgus—Contrac- tion of the Plantar Fascia—Contraction of One Toe—Superuumeraiy and Webbed Toes—Congenital Hypertrophy of Toes and Foot—Weak Ankles . . 306—!i8;k Chapter LY.—Diseases of the Head akd Neck. Scalp ard Skull—Fungus of the Dm'a Mater—Natiue—Symptoms—Treatment— Fungus of the Skull—Congenital Hernia of the Membranes of the Brain—Tapping the Head 38-i—380- Ear — Otitis — Otonhoea—Hypertrophy—Gouty Concretions—Fibrous Tumom’s— Bloody Tumours or Htematomata—Concretions in the Meatus—Polypi—Thicken- ing of the Cuticle—Deafness 386—388 Diseases op the Nose and Cheeks—Clu-ouic CataiTh—Foetid Discharge in Chiltlren—Epistaxis—Treatment—Plugging the Nares—Chronic Thickening of Schneiderian Membrane—Treatment—Abscess—Ulcers and Fissures—Necrosis— Lipoma—Lupus and Epithelial Cancer—Polypus—Varieties—Mucous Polyj)i— Symptoms—-Diagnosis — Treatment — Naso-pharyngeal Tumours— Malignant Nasal Tumoui's—Naso-orbital Tumours—-Calculi—Diseases of Frontal Sinuses— Tumours and Ulcers of Cheeks—Salivary Fistula . . . . . . 388—39D> Lips—Congenital Malformations—Hypertrophy—Ulceration—Encysted and Erectile Tnmoiu-s—Malignant Diseases—Epithelioma—llemoval . . . . -jyt) 402. Parotid Gland—Pai-otitis or Mumps—Treatment—Timiours—Diagnosis—Treat- ment—Excision of the Parotid Gland 402 405- Tumours OP THE Neck—Simple and Malignant Growths—Hydrocele—Hydatid Tumoui-s—Enlai'ged Lymphatic Glands 405 407 Bronchocele—Simple Hypertrophy of Thyi-oid Body—Cystic Bronchocele—Pulsat- ing Bronchocele—Treatment—Ligature of Thyroid Arteries—Acute Bronchocele 407—411 Chapter LVI.—Ophthalmic Surgery. Operations on the Eye—Performance of Operations ..... 412 Operations on the Eyelids—Tumours—Molluscum—Sebaceous Tumour—Tarsal lumour—Ptosis—Tinea Ciliaris—Trichiasis—Causes—Excision of Hair-bulbs Symblepharon—Entropion—Ectropion Operations on the Tear-passages—Slitting the Punctum and Canaliculus- Probing the Nasal Duct j^20_ Squint Operations—Object—Determination of Existence and Degree of Squint- Operation ^ ^24 OPERATIONS ON THE EXTERIOR OP THE GLOBE-Pterygiumlopcration-Eemoval of h oreign Bodies external to the Eye—Tapping the Cornea . 49s_ Operations on the iRis-Artilicial Pupil-Incision-Iriddesis-Iridcctomy-For ^•tificial lupil—lor Glaucoma—Diagnosis of Glaucoma—Prolapse of the Iris— bynechim—Corelysis .... CATARACT-Forms-Hard and boftL-Traumatic-Capsular-Geiicnd ilemarks mi pcration-Hard or Scrule Cataract — Extraction by Flap-Operation — By 10^1- Method—Escape of Vitreous Humour—Dis- o'enHionrf^^^ —4K ■420- 424 428. 433 —442 460 466 HIS.