584 DISEASES OF THE BREAST. abscess may form imcler the breast or at the lower edge of the gland, leadina- to very troublesome consequences. '•>. The Avound must not be closed tightly by sutures and plasters. If this be done, the discharges are retained, and bur- rowing of unhealthy matter into the submammary areolar tissue often takes place, leading to extensive suppuration behind the mammary gland, often of a most troublesome and tedious character. I have found it better to leave the wound open, and to dress it from the bottom. When the tumour has been allowed to attain a very large size before re- moval, it Avill generally be necessary to extirpate the nipple and the Avhole of the mammary gland, which will be found either invoh'ed in the tumour, or in an atrophied but otherwise healthy state. Sarcomatous Tumours frequently develop in the mammary gland. They are difficult to distinguish fr’om adenomata, but are usually somewhat softer, more rapidly force their growth, and tend to develop at a later period of life in Avomen aboA'e rather than in those under thirty years of age. The rapidity of groAvth of these tumom-s Avheii soft is very great, and many of the cases that up to a recent period have been described as encephaloid tumours of the female breast, have in reality been these rapidly growing soft sarcomata. Their cha- racters have been so fully described at p. 7G5, Vol. I., that they need not be recapitulated here. They haA^e also been described as rapidly groAving adenomata and “ recurring fibroid ” tumours. In many cases it is impossible to distinguish them accurately fr'om cancers until after extirpation ; and it is to this difficulty of diagnosis, and the confusion that has hitherto existed be- tween sarcomata and cancer—a difficulty that can only be cleared up by the microscope — that “ cancer-cm-ers ” owe much of their success. Igmorantly confounding the simple Avith the malignant gi’owth, they claim to have cured the cancer when they have only destroyed the sarcoma. In some cases sarcoma returns after operation, even though the Avhole of the mammary gland has been extirpated with the tumour. I believe this to be the case most frequently, if not solely, when the sarcoma is of A^ery rapid groAvth. In one case, where I had removed a very large tumom’ of this kind Aveighing about four pounds, with the whole of the iiiA’olved and atrophied mammary gland, from a lady forty years of age, in 1859, reciu'rence took place in 1861, and again in 1863, 1864, 1865, and 1868. The recurrent tumom-s AA'cre developed at some little distance from the original cicatrix, and proved on careful examination to be simple, without any cystic formation 01 can- cerous deposit, or any evidence whatever of malignant action, and Avere suc- cessfully removed. The patient’s general health continued perfectly good throughout. When a sarcoma is not only exceedingly rapid in its growth, but reem-s after removal, suspicions of malignancy not unnaturally arise, as two of the most frequent and important elements of such a condition, exuberant vegetative activity and local return, exist. But the absence of all contamination of neio-hbouring structiu-es, superficial or deep, of glandular implication or of visceral deposit, and of constitutional cachexy, will indicate the benign cha- racter of the disease. In such cases as these, the tendency to recurrence wil in mo"st cases gradually wear itself out; and, after several operations have been required at intervals of months, or a year- or tAvo, the disease Avill cease to be