SPECIAL ANEURISMS. 1 12 on Smyth. I am indebted to him for the further history of this unique case. After ten years of good health, in which the patient was able to follow his emplojunent as a ship’s steward, the pulsation returned and the timiour reached n size larger than before. Thinking it might be fed by the internal mammary, Smyth ligatmed that ^csscl, but without any result. About six months aftci* an abscess formed over the sac, and the anem-isni became diffused into it, and as a last effort to save the patient’s life, Smyth performed the heroic operation of laying open the sac. The ha3morrhage was profuse, and the openings of the ^ esscl into the sac could not be seen, so that the operator had to content him- self with plugging the wound. The patient died a few days after. The post mortem examination showed that the circulation had been chiefly carried by means of the anastomoses between the aortic intercostals and the branches of the axillary artery. In three more cases the operation of ligature of the innominate is said to have been tried udth speedily fatal results; and in four cases, after being commenced, it was abandoned. Death occurred from secondary htemorrhage in seven cases ; from inflammation of the lungs or pleura in one ; from pericarditis in one ; from diseased kidney in one ; from phlebitis and suppuration in one ; and in three from causes that are not mentioned. In one case, that of HaU, the artery was transfixed by the aneurism-needle ; Iia3moiThage occm’red at the time, which was arrested by plugging, and did not recur, the patient dying from other causes. In three cases, those of Mott, Bland, and Lizars, the htemorrhage came on shortly after the separation of the ligatiu-e ; but in Drafe’s it did not occm- for fifty-one days after this, the cicatrix in the artery having then probably given way under the influence of some imprudent movement on the part of the patient. In Cooper’s second case, the patient appeared to be going on well for some weeks, when secondary haemor- rhage appeared. Learning that nothing further could be done, the patient tore oft the bandages Avhen alone, and bled to death. In Bickersteth’s case, the artery had been injured by the previous compression applied by means of a leaden vdre. The ligatiu’e was applied on each side of the bruised spot; but secondary hEemorrhage proved fatal on the sixth day. With such results as these, there can be but one opinion as to the extreme danger of such an operation. As its performance has hitherto in every instance, except in Smyth’s, entailed death, and generally a speedy death, it should without doubt be undertaken with much hesitation ; and there can be but few cases in which a Surgeon would be induced, in the face of the consequences that have hitherto invariably followed the apphcation of a ligatine to the brachio-cephalic artery for subclavian aneiu-ism, again to have recourse to such a procedure. Ligature of the Sxihclavian.—This artery has been tied in the third part of its course for subclavian or subclavio-axillary aneurism in 21 cases (Poland). Of these, nine recovered. The sac was punctmed in two cases—by Liston and Travers. The majority of the deaths were from htemorrhage. Warren relates a remarkable case occurring in a lady aged thirty, who was afflicted by an aneurism just above the clavicle. The patient was excessively deformed from club-foot and ciu’vatm*e of the spine, so that the two fii'st ribs rose above the clavicle, passing obliquely across the neck and carrying the artery upwards and