579 INFLAMMATION OF THE MAMMAEV GLAND. the Pectoral Muscle clittuscs itself over the whole of the areolar layer, and almost invariably runs into abscess with considerable rapidity, giving rise to <n-cat pain, of a deep, heavy, and throbbing character, much increased by moving the arm and shoulder, and attended by swelling, oedema, and a slight red blush upon the skin. The breast becomes prominent, is conical and pro- jecting, the whole organ being pushed forwards by the pressure from behind ; it is not readily movable on the pectoral muscles, the subcutaneous ’^'eins become engorged, and at last abscess forms. It is not always easy in these cases to determine whether suppuration has taken place or not, the depth at which matter forms rendering it impossible in the early stages to detect fluctu- ation until it approaches the surface ; its presence may, however, be suspected on the occuiTeuce of deep-seated throbbing pain, oedema, and some superficial redness. The abscess at last points at some part of the margin of the gland, usually at its lower and outer side, where the matter seems to gnavitate ; after a time, however, it will commonly appear at other points of the circum- ference of the gland, beyond which it always extends, seldom, if ever, per- forating the structure. A series of four or five apertures, forming a large circle round the margin of the gland may thus form. It very commonly happens that the apertines through which the pus discharges itself in these situations, degenerate into fistulous canals, by no means easily closed. 3. Inflammation of the Mammary Gland itself is not of such frequent occmTence as either of the other forms of abscess. When the whole of the organ is aflected, it gives rise to great swelling of the breast, with severe aching and lancinating pain, and much constitutional disturbance, usually of an iiTitative type. Not unfr-equently one lobule only of the gland becomes inflamed ; and then the local signs are proportionately limited, and occa- sionally cease. As Velpeau has pointed out, one lobule after another may become inflamed, so that a succession of abscesses forms in different parts of the gland. As the inflammation advances to suppiu’ation, the skin is reddened, assumes a dusky hue, becomes glazed, has a peculiar greasy appearance, and pits on pressure. VTien matter has formed, the tension of the superficial parts, with oedema and perhaps deep-seated fluctuation, determine its presence. Treatment—1\\ the treatment of inflammation and abscess of the breast occun-ing dining lactation, it must be borne in mind that we have not a sthenic inflammatory condition to deal with, but that the disease almost invari- ably happens in delicate anmmic women, commonly of a strumous habit, and weakened by recent partinition; indeed, the affection appears to be an in- flammation of an in-itative and congestive rather than of a sthenic character. It is therefore obvious that antiphlogistic means of an active nature are not admissible ; and the best plan of treatment appeal’s to consist in keeping up the strength of the patient by proper constitutional support, at the same time that the local inflammation is checked by topical antiphlogistic mea- sures. The fu’st thing to be done is to prevent if possible the occuiTcnce ol suppuration ; if this can be accomplished, Avhich is, however, rarely the case much will he gained. In order to effect this, the breast should be supported in a slmg, so as to lessen congestion of it; the arm at the same time beino- fixed to the side, in order to prevent traction of the pectorals and movement P P 2