CONTENTS. XVI heat Symptoms—Atrophy of Testis—Subacute Orchitis—TrcatmcTit—Of Acutely Inflamed Testicle—Of Subacute Orchitis—Strapping the Testis—Abscess In- flammation of Testis in Inguinal Canal—Inflammation and Abscess of Cord Chronic Orchitis ()^2 94c Hydrocele and H/Ematocele—Hydrocele of Tunica Vaginalis—Congenital Hydro- cele—Symptoms—Treatment—Tapping—Injection of Iodine—Seton—Antiseptic Method—Encysted Hydrocele—Hydrocele of Cord—Diffused Hydrocele of Cord —Hmmatocele—Characters—Symptoms—Diagnosis—Tj-eatment—Haimatoccle of Spermatic Cord—Diagnosis—Treatment 95(5 A’^aricocele-Causes—Symptoms—Diagnosis—Treatment—Eadical Cure . 956—IKK) TirjtOURS OP THE Testis—Simple Sarcocele—Structure—Treatment Tubercular Testicle, Scrofulous Testicle, or Tubercular Sarcocele—Symptoms Strueture Prognosis—Treatment—Syphilitic Orchitis or Syphilitic Sarcocele—Simple In- flammatory Form—Structiu’e—Gummatous Form^—Structure—Proo-nosis Treat- ment—Diagnosis of Simple, Tubereular, and Syphilitic Sarcocele—Cystic Disease or Cystic Sarcoma of Testis, or Cystic Sarcocele—Diagnosis—Cysts containing Coloured Matters—Enchondronia of Testicle—Malignant Sarcocele, or Cancer of the Testis—Characters—Symptoms—Treatment—Structural Disease in Unde- scended Testis 960—971 Operation op Castration 971 972 General Diagnosis op Scrotal Tumours—Eeducible Tumours—Irreducible Tumom-s 972—974 Spermatorrhcea and Impotence—True Spermatorrhoea—Treatment—Spasmodic Spermatorrhoea—Treatment—Impotence—Asperma—Sterility . . . i)74—978 Chaptee LXXV.—Di,seases of the Feaiale Genital Organs. Introduction op Instruments-Speculum Vaginae—Female Catheter . 979—980 Diseases op the External Organs and Vagina—Hypertroiihy of Labia— Condylomata or Verrucae—Cystic Tumours—Imjierforate Vagina—Imperforate Hymen—Absence of Uterus and Ovaries—Hypertrophy of Clitoris—Eemoval of Clitoris—A^aginal Tumours—Prolapsus of Vagina—Eectocele—Cystocele—Dis- charges—Symptoms—Treatment—Uterine Displacements—Vaginal Discharges— Tumours of Uterus—Fibrous—Polypi—Cauliflower Excrescence—Malignant Affec- tions of Uterus—Treatment 980—987 Ovarian Tumours and Dropsy—Diagnosis—Treatment—Medical Means—Tap- ping—Injection of Iodine—Ovariotomy—Statistics—Operation.— Management of Pedicle.—Hernia op the Ovary 987—996 ADDENDUM TO VOLUME II. Treatment of Diseased Spine by Plaster of Paris Bandage .... 997 991> INDEX TO AiOLUME II. .