6^S SPECIAL IIERNTjE. pcriniBiun, the vagina, or through the sciatic notch. Tliesc various forms of Tuptm-e arc of extreme rarity, and present many difficulties in their diagnosis. Perineal Hernia commonly occurs in the middle line, between the- rectum and the bladder in men, or the rectum and vagina in women ; but sometimes the protrusion has been known to take place by the side of the anus, or even in front of this. Of these vax’ious forms of rupture, many in- stances have been collected by Lawrence from different writers. The Treat- ment of such a hernia would consist in supporting the protrusion by means of a pad and bandage ; as the mouth of the sac is very large, strangulation is. not probable. Vaginal Hernia has occasionally been met with ; the tumour protruding- through the posterior or upper wall of the vag-ina, and presenting the ordinary characters of this disease, such as impulse on coughing and reducibility. It. may most conveniently be kept up by means of a sponge pessary. Pudendal Hernia has been described by Sir A. Cooper as very closely j resembling vaginal rupture. The situation of the tumoiu’ may cause it to be- j mistaken for an inguinal hernia ; but from this it may be recognised by the- ' upper part of the labium and the ring being completely free, whilst a tumom' presenting the ordinary characters of a ruptm-e is situated in the lower part of the labium, and forms a prominence along the side of the vagina. Sciatic Hernia.—This rare form of hernia has been described by Sir A. Cooper as passing through the sciatic notch, where it lies between the lower border of the pyriform muscle and the spine of the ischium. It hes in close relation with the sciatic nerve, and with the internal ihac vessels. In the: case related by Cooper, the obturator arteiy passed above, and the vein below the neck of the sac. From the depth at which such a hernia would be seated,, and its small size, it would probably escape observation durmg life ; but, if detected, it might readily be retained by means of proper bandages and a pad. Should operation ever be required, the deep incisions must be carefoUy con- ducted, on account of the great importance of the parts surrounding the sac. DIAPHRAGMATIC HERNIA. Congenital defect of the Diaphragm is occasionally met with.'^ It has consisted, in most of the recorded cases, of an aperture in this membrane,, varying in size from an inch in diameter upwards; and even, in some rare- instances, of an entire absence of one or both wings of the diaphragm. Through these openings, the contents of the abdomen have been protruded the stomach and small intestines being most frequently displaced, and the- spleen and hver having been found in the chest in a tolerably lai-ge proportion of the cases. The hernia has been mostly observed in children at or soon after bii'th ; but in several instances the subjects have hved to adult age, the- hemia-at last apparently taking place accidentally. In some of these latter ■ cases, liOTveyer, it maybe a question whether the opening in the diapiiagni Avas not the result of an accident, perhaps some time antecedent to the occiu- rence of the hernia. The opening has generally been found in the left sic e ; sometimes, however, on the right. * A most complete and interesting account of Congenital Diaphragmatic Hernia n-as published hy Dr. Tholuas Balfour in the Ediiiburgh Medical Journal^ for Apiil, looj.