CONTRACTION' OF KNEE-JOINT. 3°7 • -i? i-r. rrr/-mTifl • Tipiinn t.hfi limb becomes 367 troublesome ulceration. 1 t, i. In the less severe fonns of contracted knee, the inconvenience, though not so <^reat as that just described, is very considerable ; for, as the patient cait never bring the heel or sole to the ^^ound, he rests insecurely on the tips ol' his toes, and walks but unsteadily with the aid of a crutch or stick. Varieties.—This deformity may be of two kinds. 1. It may consist of simple flexion of the leg on the thigh, at a greater or less angle, and with more or less mobility, according to the degree of ankylosis. 2. In addition to this, there- may be horizontal displacement of the bones, the head of the tibia being thrown backwards, the femur and patella remaining in situ, but apparently projecting* more than is natural. In examining a case of contraction of the knee-joint, the patient should be placed on his face, with the thigh extended. The leg on the affected side will then be raised more or less perpendicularly, and the amount of contraction may be judged of by the angle that it forms ivith the thigh. The degree of mobility also may readily be ascertained. In this way a more correct idea of the amount of contraction can be obtained than by examining the patient whilst lying on the back, when, in consequence of the thigh being flexed on the abdomen, the- extent of the angular deformity cannot be so well determined. Causes.—Contraction of the knee-joint may arise from a great variety of pathological conditions. Some of these are altogether external to the joint, being seated in the nerves or muscles of the limb ; whilst others, and the majority, consist in some morbid change that has taken place 'within the joint itself in its ligamentous or osseous structures. As the contraction depends on such very varied causes, the Treatment, having reference to the cause as well as to the actual morbid conditions, must be equally diversified. Contraction from Nervous Irritation is usually associated 'with general hysteria, of which it is but a local symptom, and commonly occurs in girls and young women. In this form of contraction there *is no evidence of disease within the joint ; no redness, swelling, or other sign of inflammation ; but there is great pain and tenderness about it. This pain, as usual in hysterical cases, is superficial and cutaneous, and radiates to some distance beyond the- articulation. Any attempt at straightening the limb not only greatly increases the pain, but also calls the adjoining muscles into such forcible action that it is impossible to improve the position. These local symptoms are connected with the ordinary signs of an hysterical temperament, with spinal irritation,, and often with uterine derangement. The 'Treatment of these cases of hysterical contraction of the knee is simple. The first thing to bo done is to straighten the limb. This can only be effected by putting the patient under the influence of chloroform, wdien, all sensibility