TREATMEXT OF INTERSTITIAL XERHRITIS. 75^^ tlirec hours afterwards a}j;ain rose to 100‘3° F. a little more blood showed itself, and the temperature Further investigation in the same line might lead to some important results. „ , , ., i Prognosis.—The prognosis in acute affections of the kidney,^ secondary to bladder disease, is always gi-ave ; but even the most unpromising cases may recover. Vomiting, delirium, partial insensibility, and a very dry tongue, are all bad signs. A marked diminution of the quantity, and much blood in the urine, are unfavourable symptoms. Treatment.—Prevention is of course first to be aimed at. No patient should therefore be submitted to an operation except in cases of necessity, without a careful examination of the whole day’s urine as to specific gravity, the presence and quantity of albumen, and the microscopic appearances. If possible, the temperature should be observed night and morning for two or thi’ee days. If any suspicion arise as to the condition of the kidneys, that operation should be selected, when practicable, which gives rise to least irrita- tion. Soft instruments should be employed instead of metal, and a sufficient ■interval allowed between their use. Above all, any treatment calculated to cause cystitis, or to give rise to decomposition of the urine, should be avoided. As there can be but little doubt that the causes of decomposition are often in- troduced into, the bladder by catheters or other instruments, these should be kept scrupulously clean. Some recommend oiling the instruments with carbolic acid and oil (1 to 10). If decomposition already exist in the urine, it should if possible be aiTested by washing out the bladder with some antiseptic, for which purpose quinine and diluted sulphuric acid, in the proportion of gr. ij. and m. ij. to an ounce of water, wifi, be found very efficacious. If the cause of the renal mischief be stricture of the m'ethra or stone, some operation must of course be undertaken; but if the temperature be elevated, or there be other ■fiigns of renal disease, it should be delayed until an attempt has been made by rest and other remedies to bring the kidneys into a healthy state. If after a few days no improvement be seen, and it seem probable that the disease is kept up by the presence of the stone or stricture, further delay is useless; and, choosing the least severe and iivitating operation, the Surgeon must operate at once. The treatment of well-marked interstitial nephritis is extremely unsatisfactory. If there be any tenderness in the loins, dry cupping may be of service. The bowels should be well acted on by purgatives, and the skin by hot-air baths, to relieve the kidneys as much as possible. Heroic operations undertaken during acute nephritis in the hope of removing the cause, are almost always, if not invariably, fatal. Quinine and opium have been recommended for the prevention of the rigors that frequently follow operations on the urinary organs. Opium is probably of service, but must be given with great caution if any symptoms of ursemic poisoning exist; but quinine has not, according to most w'ho have tiled it, proved of any use. Diet and stimulation must be regulated on general principles.