567 trachea-tubes. ?n Hip finchea-tube bein" made of uniform calibre throughout, and having an interior tube‘accurately fitted to it, and projecting about one-eighth of an inch V. flip imvpr extremity of the outer tube. It is in the projection of the Lterlal tube beyond the lower end of the external one that the great utility onhfcoiitrivance consists. If the two tubes be of the same long h^^ or still more, if the innermost tube be the shorter, a plug of mucus may be left at the end of the outer cannula, on the withdrawal of the inner tube But if this be the longer of the two, the end of the outer tube wiU be effectually cleared every time it is withdrawn, which may be done as often as any mucus coUects, without in the slightest degree disturbing the patient. The two tubes are fixed by means of a button, attached to the edge of the outer one (Figs. 600, C54) The bivalye trachea-tube (Figs. 650, 651) is constructed on the same Fig. 653.—Trachea-tube, Side l iew. Fig. 654.—Trachea-tube, Front view. principle, the inner tube being longer than the outer; and it possesses the additional advantage of being readily removed for the pui-poses of cleaning, and as easily replaced. When used for lai-yngotomy, the tube may con- veniently be curved on the flat (Fig. 655); the longest diameter being lateral instead of antero-posterior, thus being adapted to the form of the aperture in the crico-thyroid membrane. It sometimes happens that, in consequence of the tube becoming detached from the shield, it slips into the trachea, where it acts as a foreign body. Cases of this kind have been related by Walters of Reigate, and by J. W. Ogle of St. George’s Hospital. The removal of the tubes was effected by means of tracheotomy. For the prevention of such an accident, it has been suggested that the trachea-tube should be formed in one piece, instead of in two pieces soldered together. AVhen a trachea-tube has been worn for any length of time, it will almost always be found that ulceration has taken place in the trachea at some point as the result of pressure. The discharge from this ulcerating surface, and the increased secretion caused by the accompanying irritation, add greatly to the difficulty experienced in keeping the tube from becoming choked. To over- come these difficulties, Mon’ant Baker, of St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, has employed a tube made of India-rubber, such as is used in the manu- facture of the India-rubber catheter. It has sufficient rigidity to prevent its collapsing, but not sufficient to give rise to irritation or to cause ulceration. It is to be introduced after the first twenty-four hours, a silver tube being