667 femoral hernia. Ill the descent of the hernia through this course, it first of all pushes before it Ihetritmieal sac, and then receives an investment of the subserous areolar tissue—the septum crurale, a mass of dense areolar tissue, containing fat mid Ijinphatics, occnpyn'S ""S' “f"” statb eoiDomted ami matted with the contigiions portion of the sheath thus con stitTitim>-the fascia propria of this hernia, which is commonly thichencd, lamtated, and of an opaque fatty structure, like omentum. As the hernia continues to descend, it comes into relation Avith the cribriform fascia, which occupies the saphenous opening, and, lastly, pushes before it the integumental As the tumour descends through this coiu’se, it necessarily comes into re- lation with very important parts (Fig. GS8). Thus it is separated fi;om tho femoral vein solely by tho septum of the sheath of the vessels. It has the- T-ia epigastric arteiy above and to its outer side ; and the spennatic cord in the male, or the round ligament in the female, almost immediately above it. The obturator arteiy, when arising in the normal manner from the internal iliac, does not come into relation with the neck of the sac ; but when it takes its origin, as it not unfrequently does, from the external iliac, the common femoral, or the epigastric, it may have important relations to this part of tho hernia. Most commonly, in these circumstances, it passes to the iliac or outer side of the neck, but occa- sionally it winds round its inner or pubic side, coming into rather close relation with it; and then, as will immediately bo mentioned, it may bo in considerable danger during the operation. The combination, however, of this particular variety of the obturator artery and femoral hernia, is a very uncommon occur- rence ; because, in tho first place, this internal distribution of the artery is rare ; and when it does occur, as it passes directly o-\'cr that portion of the crural ring through which the sac would protrude, it necessarily strengthens this, and so diminishes the chance of rapture. css.—1. Femoral Honiia : 2. Femoral Vein : S. Femoral Arterj’, giying off, 4, Common Trunk of Eiiigastric ami Obturator Arteries, and 5, Ei)igastrie Ai-tei-}'; 6, Spennatic Cord.