LIGATURE OF THE BRACHIAL ARTERY. 133 the musculo-spiral and the circumflex, as far as tlic lower border of the suo seainilaris muscle. The nerves arc easily held aside, and the ligature is passed round the artery. If the ligatimc be applied near the termination of the axillary artery, as it lies over the tendons of the latissimus dorsi and teres major, it will not be in immediate contiguity to any large branch.^ Above this point, it must be applied close to either the subscapular or the circumflex arteries, which would perhaps somewhat add to the danger of secondary luemonfliage. The operation is one which can veiy rarely be necessary in the treatment of aneurism. ANEURISM OP THE ARM, FOREARM, AND HAND. • Spontaneous aneurism rai’cly occiu's below the axilla, yet it may occasionally be met with at any part of the upper extremity. Thus Palletta, Flajani, Pelletau, and others, relate cases of spontaneous aneurism at the bend of the firm ; and Liston states that he once tied the brachial artery in an old ship- caiiienter, who, whilst at work, felt as if something had snapt in his arm. Pilcher has recorded a case of aneurism under the ball of the right thumb, which was produced by repeated though shght blows with the handle of a hammer used by the patient (a working goldsmith) in his trade ; the radial and ulnar arteries were tied immediately above the wist, and the disease was thus cimed. Aneurism has also been met with in this situation after attempted reduction of a dislocation of the thumb. In the Museum of the College of Siu’geous there is a preparation of a radial artery Avith a small aneurism, about the third of an inch in diameter, formed by the dilatation of all the coats of a narrow portion of one-half the circumference of the vessel, a little above the origin of the superficiahs volte. Spontaneous aneinism in the forearm is of extremely rare occurrence. A case has been reported by Todd as occumng in a woman twenty-eight years of age, in which a spontaneous aneurism in the forearm had existed for several years before the brachial Avas ligatmed, AA'hen pulsation in the tumour ceased, though it continued solid and hard for some months after the operation. De Morgan has recorded a case of spontaneous aneinism of the ulnar, and Spanton one of the radial aidery. In neither case Avas any operation performed. In 184!), a man Avas admitted into University College Hospital, for a tumom’ that presented all the characters of anem’ism, situated in the upper third of the ulnar artery of the right forearm. The brachial Avas liga- tined by Arnott, Avhen pulsation and bruit ceased in the tumom, though shght enlargement of the arm continued for some time afterivards. In most of the cases in Avhich the brachial artery and its primary branches have been the seat of spontaneous aneurism, disease of the heart and of the ai’tcrial system in other parts has co-existed. While spontaneous aneurisms are rare in these situations, the traumatic forms of the disease are, as has already been stated (Vol. I., pp. 32(;, 327), of more frecpient occurrence, and may require the ligature of the brachial, or of either of the arteries of the forearm. I-iihArAiExr. Ill cases of aneurism beloAv the axilla, direct pressmo may be tried with advantage, provided the tumour be of small size and unattended by inflammation of tlic superjacent integuments. Compression of the trunk of the artery above the tumour is rarely applicable, on account of the pain that