266 EXCISIOJ^ OF JOINTS AND BONES. the hand in a state of semi-flexion, with the wrist slightly extended (Fio- 454) The thumb is supported by a bar of cork stuck on the under surface so' as to project at the side (Fig. 455). The two great objects in after-treatment are to get the Angers perfectly movable and the wrist Arm. For these purposes Fig. 454.—Lister’s Splint with Cork Support for Haiul. Fig. 455.— Haiul after Excision of Wrist, laid on Splint. passive motion must bo commenced as early as the second day in the Angers, each being bent and extended every day fully, whAe the wi-ist is kept flrmly on the splint and disturbed as httle as possible Wing the treatment of the Angers. Pronation and supination must not be too long neglected. Passive motion must be maintained as long as there is any tendency to the formation of adhe- sions in the sheaths of the tendons. As the hand becomes stronger, the part of the sphnt supporting the Angers may be cut off. The patient must continue some support as long as he feels any weakness in the wrist. There is often some tendency to dropping of the wrist to the ulnar side, which is best counter- acted by a properly constructed gutta-percha splint. The thumb is apt to be drawn in towards the index Anger ; this must be i^revented by a thick pad of lint kept from the earliest time between the two. The essential jioints are, fli’st, exact attention to all the details of the opera- tion, and next, a careful and patiently conducted after-treatment. Results.—Since Lister described his method of operating, excision of the wrist for disease has in several instances been practised successfiiAy by TYest (flve cases), G-illespie, and other Surgeons. In military surgery, however, ac- cording to the statistics of the iVmerican wai’, the resiAts of the operation have been far from encouraging in regard to the amoimt of mobility left to the hand. Haxd.—In the rcmo^'al of diseased or injured portions of the hand, it is, as a general rule, of the greatest importance to sacriflce as little as possible of the healthy or uninjured structures. In all operations on the hand, indeed, we must have two gveat principles in view—the preservation of the utility of the member, and the maintenance, so far as practicable, of its symmetryUtility is necessarily the primary consideration ; but if a part be not useful, it may, as in the case of the head of the middle metacarpal bone in amputation of the corresponding Anger, be sacriflced for the purpose of preserving the symmetry of the maimed limb. The hand is the organ of and of touch; and