957 DIAGNOSIS OF YAIUGOCELE. met with from the a«-G of puberty to about the thirtieth year, Bcldora com- mencing later than this. It usually occurs in feeble mdividuals having the scrotum lax and pendulous ; and in some cases appears to have been brought on by venereal excesses. 'J’he spermatic veins, extending as they do from opposite the lumbar vertebras to the plexus pampiniformis, which constitutes the base of the pyramidal tumour formed by a fully deA'eloped varicocele, arc necessarily subject to considerable outward pressure from the W'eight of so long a column of blood as that contained Avithin them, to Avhich they eventually yield, becoming much dilated and tortuous. The left spermatic veins arc far more fr-equcntly affected than the right; partly OAving to their compression by feculent accumulations in the sigmoid flexuie of the colon, and partly to the obstacle at the mouth, occasioned by their pouring their contents into the left renal vein, at right angles to the current of blood floAving through that vessel into the vena cava. dTe right spermatic veins are rarely affected ; and never, I bclieA-e, Avithout those on the left side participating in the disease. In these cases of double varicocele, the left is almost invariably the more seriously affected ; but I have seen exceptions to this in one or two instances, in which the A'cins on the right side formed the larger tumour. SvMrTOArs.—-The symptoms of A-aricocele consist of a tumour of pyramidal shape, having a knotted or knobbed feel, OAving to the irregularly swollen and convoluted condition of the veins, AAuth its base upon the testis and the apex stretching up to the external ring. The swelling increases Avhen the patient stands up, if he take a deep inspiration, cough, or make any violent exertion. Its size Am’ies from slight fulness of the veins to a large mass, several inches in circumference at the base. When the patient lies down, it goes up to a certain extent, but immediately returns to its former magnitude Avhen he stands up again. It is attended by a sensation of weight and sometimes of pain, Avhich is occasionally A'ery acute, of a severe and neuralgic character, even in the scrotum, the groins, and the loins, more particularly when the tumour is unsupported. This pain is greatly increased on the patient walking or riding ; so much so, that in some cases he is almost debaiTed fi-om taking- necessary exercise, and is prevented from following any active occupation. Debility of the generative organs, with a tendency to seminal emissions and much mental depression, frequently accompanies varicocele. The ruptiu-e of a varicocele may occur from external injury, giving rise to an enormous extravasation of blood into the areolar tissue of the scrotum. Of this Pott relates a case. In one, I have knoAvn this to be attended with fatal conse- quences. A man who, to use his OAvn expression, “ had been romping Avith his wife,” received a bloAV on a varicocele, aa'Iicu an enormous extravasation of blood rapidly formed in the scrotum and the cord, for Avhich he Avas admitted into the Hospital. The tumour Avas incised, and, large masses of coagula haAdng been turned out, the patient, in the absence of assistance, suddenly became faint and died of venous hemorrhage. The bleeding Avas found to have proceeded fr-om a ruptured spermatic vein. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of varicocele is always sufficiently easy ; its peculiar feel, its broad base and narrow apex, the manner in Avhich it goe.s up . when the patient lies down, and returns again when he stands up, are sufficient to distinguish it fr-om all other scrotal tumours. From inguinal hernia the