^9° DISEASES OF THE SPINE. to increase, the patient may live to an adult a<?e, provided care be taken to protect the tumour. If of largo size, it is generally fatal, the child usually dying at an early age of convulsions. In other instances the tumour increases in size, the skin covering it becomes thin and rod, ulcerates, and gives way, and deatlx results from spinal meningitis. Upon the whole, it may bo stated as a general lule, that spina bifida is more dangerous the higher it is placed on the spine. Treatment. In the treatment of spina bifida, the line of practice mxxst be de- termined by the size of the tumour and by the condition of the skin covering it. When the tumour is veiy large, and the skin covering it has become reddened, showing a tendency to give way, tapping and compression combined offer the only chance of safety. The case fr’om which the accompanying drawing is taken was cured in this way. It was that of a yoixng girl. At birth the tumour protruding through the spina bifida was small, but it gradually increased in size, until at the age of thirteen it had attained the following dimensions : — Circmnference at base 25 inches ; length over greatest convexity 19 inches ; breadth llj inches. The tumour occupied the lumbo- sacral region, and stretched over both gluteal regions. It was tense and translucent; the skin reddened, very thin, and becoming darkly congested at the more prominent part, evidently in imminent danger of bursting. Health excellent; development good. I tapped the tumour and drew off 101 ounces of cerebro-spiual fluid. When emptied, an aperture 1|- inch long and three-quarters of an inch broad, could be felt at the lower lumbar and upper sacral regions to the left of the mesial line. The parts were well padded xHth cotton wool and supported by an elastic bandage. No ill effects followed the tapping. This was repeated nine times in eighteen weeks, 985 ounces in aU of clear cei’ebro-sixinal fluid being drawn off; the largest tapping amounted to 120 ounces ; the smallest to 93. After each tapping, methodical comiDression was employed. The ninth tapping xvas followed by signs of irritation in the lining membrane of the tumom*, xvhich became greatly thickened, evidently by plastic deposits. Slight spinal meningitis with a tendency to opisthotonos and convulsive movements came on, but passed off. The sac did not refiU; and, the skin covering it being thickened and corrugated, the patient soon completely recovered, and is now—four years after the last operation—strong, healthy, and actix'e. Cabral of Lisbon operated successfully by tapping and pressure in a case of spina bifida on a child a month old. In cases in which the child is otherwise healthy and strong, the tumour small, with sound skin covering it, and in which little pain or inconvenience arises from pressure on it, means may be adopted for reliex'ing or possibly even cuilng the deformity. In these circumstances, bcai’ing in mind that the disease is not necessarily fatal, we shall probably best consult the welfare of the child liy abstaining Eig. 472.—Large Si>ina Bifida, cured by tapping and x)re.ssure.