452 OlUITUALMIC SURGERY. the corneal opening. At this stage, of course, the slightest continuance of pressure would lead to an escape of vitreous humour. If the curette be at any- time slid upwards too soon, so as to got in advance of some of the soft lens- matter, the tendency is to push it hack from the corneal outlet, and it will probably never be made to escape, or vitreous humour will be lost. Xo frag- ments of lens-matter must bo left in the corneal wound or between the lids. A drop of atropine may be placed between the lids. A piece of fine linen (about G X 3 inches), is placed over hoih eyes, a little pad of fine wool is placed in each orbital space, and over this is fitted a Liebreich’s bandage of elastic knitted cotton, and tied comfortably tight. Sichel’s moderately pointed knife cuts through the cornea better than the very obtuse keratome, or the very acute Von Griife’s extraction-knife ; and in the way it is recommended to be used, the inner and outer openings of the cornea may be made of the same size, square at both extremities, less obliquely through the coats, and the pupillary area is never transgressed. The incision may be less easily done, and less rapidly than is a single movement straight forward with a cutting instrument; but, for the curved incision, a previous determination of the line to be followed and a fiim free hand only are needed. Escape of the vitreous humour is the most important mishap in a cataract extraction operation that is likely to occur. It is not that the loss of any small portion of vitreous humom‘ is in itself very prejudicial, but it is not often that a very small portion only does escape; if a little escape, it is- probably followed by more ; and the quantity is hardly recognised at the time. If vitreous humour be lost in the operation, it infiuences the ultimate result unfavourably ; the eye is so much the less safe as an organ of vision hereafter,, though the proximate result of the operation is successful. In the serous fluid occupying the place of the aqueous chambers and of the lens and the vitreous humour that is lost, the iris falls back out of its place, leaving a very deep anterior chamber, as it were, and has also probably got adhesions posteriorly to some new. false membranes. And all synechise are, as I have said, in any case, incompatible with the prospect of safety for the future result. But if vitieous humour escape in any cataract operation hefore the lens, or that portion of the cataract which it was intended to evacuate by the operation, the operation is. seriously maived; for if then the lens-matter be removed—and, the vitreous body having got precedence, it very likely cannot be,—more and more of the vitre- ous hmnoiu’is allowed to escape by necessity. Even if the major part of the lens be after all removed, the prolapsed vitreous body will retain some considerable- fragments and press them aside against the iris and ciliary body, and so "s eiy likely mechanically set up inflammation. The Surgeon is bound to be alert in detecting the least tendency to or beginning of prolapse of the vi treous body : t e- opaque lens-matter, instead of advancing, perhaps recedes a little, and soon a smaU transparent bead appears in the corneal opening. This opening veiy likely is too small, and needs enlarging; but after this, when the has shoAvn itself once in the wound, still it would be c^angerons to ^ evacuation of the cataract by pressure ; a sharp hook lor a j ‘ spoon or the suction-curette for soft lens-matter, may be vitreous humour will escape at the close of the operation, aftci the lens iias