niEMORRlIAGE FROM PILES. 725 sensation amounts to true tenesmus, and the act of defecation becomes so painful that the patient defers it as long as possible, and then when it does take place in consequence of the accumulation of the excreta and their indurated character, the suffering is much increased. Internal piles now nsuaUy make their appearance, if they have not existed before ; the mucous membrane of the rectum becomes prolapsed, and an increased secretion of thin mucus takes place from the orifice of the gut, moistening the part and soiling the patient s linen. Iiritation in the neighbouring organs is frequently set up; occasionally to so great an extent as to mask the original complaint, the patient referring his principal pain and discomfort to these sympathetic disturbances. There is often a dull aching fixed pain at the lower part of the lumbar spine, and more frequently opposite the sacrum or the sacro-iliac articulation on either side ; this is sometimes very severe, perhaps down the thigh, or round the groins ; iiTitability of the testicles may come on, or irritation about the neck of the bladder, causing frequent desire to micturate, and increasing the patient s sufferings by the straining that takes place. The general health now suffers, the patient may become emaciated, and the countenance often presents a pecu- liarly anxious, drawn, and careworn look. The symptom, however, that first of aU and most prominently fixes the patient’s attention, is Haemorrhage. This varies greatly in quantity ; at first there may merely be a few drops falling after the passage of a motion, or the cylinder of fmces may be stained on one side by a streak or spots of blood, or the bleeding may amount to several oimces or even pints. When moderate in quantity, it often affords relief to the other local symptoms, and seldom proves injiu-ious fr-om the quantity lost at one time; but, if profuse, and occiuTing at short intervals, its effects on the constitution may be alarming. The hmmon’hoidal flux is connected with, and in the great majority of cases dependent upon, the existence of distinct hmmorrhoidal tumoiu’s. Occasionally, however, it appears to occim when there is no distinct separate tumour pro- i jecting above the surface of the membrane ; but in these cases there is general intumescence and congestion of the whole of the mucous membrane of the lower part of the rectum, from which the blood exudes in drops, or it may even spirt in a distinct jet from the open mouth of a blood-vessel. It is fi’equently ushered in by an exacerbation of those symptoms that commonly accompany piles, such as a sensation of fulness, weight, and tension about the parts. But the symptoms that precede its occurrence are often much more imperfectly marked than is usually stated, and are frequently absent altogether. The discharge of blood may be periodical, occurring every mouth, or at intervals of two, three, or six months ; and it may be remittent or inter- mittent. When once it has set in, it usually continues from thrce to six days, increasing in quantity up to the third or fourth day, aud then lessening. When moderate in quantity and short in duration, it is often a source of relief to the patient; but if a very large quantity be lost at one time, or if it continue for too long a period, it becomes a source of great debility ; more harm is usually done to the patient by its long continuance, than by its excessive quantity at any one time. The patient may become much debilitated