536 DISEASES OF THE MOUTH AND THROAT. Ibllowed by want of development of the testes. This I have never observed, i But it is possible that enlargement of the tonsils to such an extent as to impede 1 respiration, and consequently to interfere with nutrition, may lessen the due * de^■elopmcnt of the gcnerati^■e or any other organs of the body. ^ Maugxant Disease of the Tonsil is not of common occuiTcnce. I have, H however, seen instances both of scirrhus and of epithelioma in this organ as fl a primary affection. In these cases the disease speedily extends to the pillars H of the fauces, the pharynx, and onwards to the floor of the mouth, the glands H under the angle become implicated, extensive infiltration of a brawny character H takes place in and around them, the swallowing becomes extremely painful H and difficult, respiration is impeded, the pharynx and palate become congested H and loaded ivith viscid mucus, and the patient eventually dies in a distressing I manner, partly from starvation, partly from constitutional contamination, fl Surgery only offers the means of relief in these sad cases, but can do nothing ■ of a curative character. In a case of encephaloid of the tonsil which was I under my care, I obtained some temporary advantage by removing portions of ■ the soft projecting and veiy vascular tumour by means of the ccrasem*. 9 DISEASES OP THE PHARYNX. H Inflammation of the Pharynx of a diffuse eiysipelatous character, with I loAV fever, not unfrequently occurs ; it is best treated by the application of a ■ strong solution of nitrate of silver, the use of emollient gargles, and the I internal administration of ammonia, with bark, stimulants, and support. If it IB have a tendency to run into sloughing action, the internal administration of J the mineral acids, with bark and stimulants, the nitrate of silver lotion, } and chlorinated gargles, are useful. Sometimes abscess forms in the sub- stance of the velum, and then requires to be opened with a narrow-bladed ' bistoury. ^ Abscess occasionally forms in the areolar tissue behind the pharynx, between the vertebral column and its posterior ivaU, which is consequently pushed forward so as to occlude the posterior nares, giving rise to a peculiar nasal . intonation of voice, if the abscess be situated high ; if Imv down, the conse- quences are more serious, as it may interfere with respiration by pressing upon • Fig. 639.—Pliaii'iigotome. the upper part of the larynx. This kind of abscess is often connected with disease of the bones at the base of the skull, or of the uppei cenical veitebra.. , In many cases, if left to itself, it would bm’st through the mucous membrane into the mouth ; but in others it comes forwards under the stenio-mastoid muscles into the fore part of the neck. By exploring the pharynx wffh the finger, which may readily be done, tension and fluctuation thioug 1 its pos tcrior wall may easily be made out.