ANEURISM. 54 and is less likely to produce injurious compression. This instrument, as well 5is the other contrivances ■which ha'^'c at various times been invented for the treatment of aneurism by compression, are dcscril)ed by Bellingham and Tufnell, in their works on this subject, to which I must refer for a fuller account than I can here give. In applying the compressor, especial care must be taken that it is Avell padded in every part, so as not to gall the skin. In some of the early cases in which I saw compression employed in London by means of the horse-shoe tourniquet, much inconvenience resulted from want of attention to this parti- cular. The tendency to fretting of the skin is much lessened by powdering the limb ; and the removal of the hairs by sha-ving diminishes materially the in’itation produced by the instrument. In order to keep up continuous pressm’e, and at the same time to prevent any one part of the skin fr-om being- in juriously galled, it is of very gi-eat consequence that two mstruments should be used at the same time, so that when one is screwed down the other may be loose; these instruments need not be placed closely together. If the anem-ism be in the ham, it will be sufficient for one (Fig. 3G7) to be applied to the groin, whilst the other (Fig. 36G) is put upon the middle of the thigh (Fig. 3G8). In using the instrument, the gi-eat point, as Tufnell most properly remarks, is to con- trol the circulation ivith the minimum of pressime. In order to do^ this, the first instrument should be screwed doAvn so that all imlsation ceases in the timiour, but still not so tightly as completely to an-est all the flow of blood through it. As the pressure exercised by this becomes painful, the second one must be screwed tight, and then the flrst compressor may be slackened. In this way an alternation of pressiu-e can be kept up without much pain or inconvenience. If possible, the patient should be taught how to manage le instrument himself, and will often And occupation and amusement in doing so. I’ig. 30C.—Compressor for the Middle of the Thigh. Fig. 367.—Compressor for the Groin.