SPECIAL ANEURISMS. 102 “ whizzing ” noise being heard on the application of a stethoscope over one side of the head, and, perhaps, being audible to the patient. This sign, however, exists in but few cases ; but when it does occur, it is uncpiestionably the most pathognomonic of all. I am not aware that it has been met with in any form of cerebral disease except intracranial aneurism. Thus it will be seen by a reference to this list of symptoms that, with the exception of the whizzing noise, no special signs are afforded by aneurisms within the skull, which will enable us to distinguish between the symptoms occasioned by their presence and those of other tumoims of the brain, and of organic cerebral disease. Causes of Death.—The fatal termination may occur from one of four causes. 1. The tumoiu’ may exercise such upon the ivliole cerebral wzassas to occasion death. This mode of termination is rare. I am acquainted \nth one case of this description, which is reported by Ruschenberger. The symptoms in this case were very remarkable, consisting of complete hemiplegia of the left side, with involuntary antero-posterior vibration of the head and body, and paralysis agitans of the right leg. The patient slept heavily, with loud snoring ; he ate voraciously, but occasionally had considerable difficulty in deglutition and articnlatiou ; his intellect was clear, but very slow. After death, an aneiu’ism of the basilar artery as large as a pigeon’s egg, containing an irregular very hard dry clot of blood, was found pressing on the pons Varolii. The sac had given way at one point, extravasation taking place into the sub- stance of the pons, which was softened, and of a bluish colour. 2. The most frequent mode in which death takes place in these cases is by the sudden rupture of the sac and extravasation of blood into the cavity of the arachnoid and the meshes of the pia mater at the base of the brain, or into the lateral ventricles—either from the aneinism projecting into them and there rig 884.—View of the same Aneurism from below, imbedileil in substance of Hemi- sphere. Fig. 383.—Aneurism of the Loft Intemnl Carotid, bursting into Lateral Ventricle. View of Aneurism from above, jirojecting into Ventricle. giving way, or ruptming into these cavities by breaking down the inter\ cuing cerebral substance (Figs. 383, 384). When this mode of termination occurs.