DISEASES OF THE DEEAST. 596 luy observcation, in which u blow or squeeze of the breast has speedily l)ceir followed by the appearance of a cancerous tumour in it, leaves no doubt Avhatever on my mind of the truth of the popular belief that assoeiates the injury with the disease, in the relation of cause and effect. Lacteal wjiam- mations are likewise frequently supposed to tend to the production of cancer of the breast. Of this doctrine, I think that we do not possess at present sufficient proof; though it appears highly probable that disturbance of the- functions of the organ during lactation may predispose to the occuiTence of this disease. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of cancer of the breast from other diseases- affecting this organ is of the first importance, and is attended by coiTcsponding difficulties. The great point is to determine whether the tumour of the breast be of a cancerous character or not; that the Surgeon should go beyond this, matters little in practice—and, indeed, except in some of the forais of cystic disease of this organ, few practitioners would feel disposed to endeavour to carry their diagnosis beyond this point. The great and essential difficulty in determining the nature of a tumour of the breast consists in the fact of the same signs being more or less common to many gi’owths in this region; a hard, circumscribed, indolent mass, chronic in its progress, with a certain amount of pain, being the usual characteristics presented by all sohd mammary tumoiu'S ; and though in nine cases out of ten a tumour presenting these- characters, which has existed for a year or more in an elderly woman, and has- resisted ordinary absorbent and alterative treatment, is scirrhous, yet instances; of the reverse occasionally occur. Nothing can better exemplify the difficulty of diagnosis in tumours of the breast, than the circumstance, wffiich is not un- frequently witnessed, that after the removal of the diseased mass, its section, and careful examination. Surgeons of equal experience will differ as to whether it be malignant or not, and to what class of affections it should be refeiTed ; and, indeed, in many of these cases it is impossible to ascertain its precise- nature -without having recourse to microscoiucal observation. It is exti’emely difficult to lay down any definite rules of diagnosis by which the question as to the malignancy of a tumour of the breast can be solved. In the majority of cases of rustic [iroivih in this region, there is little difficulty the existence of cysts of sufficient size to be readily felt or seen through thc- skin being generally chai’acteristic of the non-malignant cystic growths. It must be borne in mind, however, that cases, such as one to which allusion has already been made, may occui’, in which cysts are conjoined with cancerous- development. The diagnosis between cystic sarcoma and some forms of rustic cancer of the breast is not always easy ; indeed, it may be impracticable, and only be? determinable after remov al by microscopic examination. I have had in the Hospital a patient fifty-nine years of age, in whose breast a hard tumour, as large as half an orange, had existed for five years ; it was perfectly and Ireely movable, unconnected in any Avay w'ith the skin ; there was no retraction of the nipple, and no lancinating pain. On its upper side, several large cysts could be felt, and seen through the skin. On examination after removal, it was found to be encysted scinffins, with large cysts of the size of cherries, con- taining bloody and yellow fluid. The only very suspicious circumstances here