832 URINARY CALCULUS. AVben called, therefore, to a child suffering from this condition, we should always at once suspect urethral calculus as being the cause, and examine the urethra by the perineeum or rectum, or by the introduction of a sound. Treatment.—The treatment of urethral cal- culus will vary in the adult and in the child. In the adult, urethral calculi may be removed by extraction, incision, or lithotrity. When situated towards the anterior part of the canal, an urethral calculus may frequently be extracted by quietly working the stone forwards between the finger and thumb, the patient being under chloroform. Should this plan not succeed, it may be removed by passing a long and very narrow-bladed pair of forceps down to it, by which it is seized and drawn forwards ; occasionally, when it has reached the navicular fossa, it will not pass through the urethral orifice unless this be dilated by incision with a probe- pointed bistoury. If the calculus be too large to be extracted in this way, and appear to be firmly fixed, an incision may be made down upon it, through the urethra, by which it may be removed. It is a good rule not to make this incision in any part of the urethra anterior to the scrotum ; for, in consequence of the coverings of the penile portion of the m’ethra being very thin, the aperture will probably not be closed, but a fistulous opening left. When the stone is situated in the scrotal portion of the urethra, there would be some risk of abscess and of urinary infiltration if the incision were made through the lax tissues of the scrotum. Hence it is better, if possible, to push the stone back towards the membranous portion of the canal, to cut down iipon it, and extract it through the perinmum by an incision in the mesial line. Should it not be thought advisable to cut the patient, the stone may be pushed back into the bladder, and then crushed by a lithotrite. This operation may readily be done by passing a staft^ grooved along its convexity, or an ordinary director, as far as the calculus, and making an incision upon the end of it, so as to lay open the urethra ; the staff is then removed, and the calculus extracted by means of a slender pair of forceps. A catheter should next be passed into the bladder, and retained there for a few days, in order to lessen the tendency to the forma- tion of urinary fistula. It may happen that the calculus, impacted in the urethra, is only one of several; others being lodged in the bladder. In order to ascertain this, the Surgeon should, after removing the calculus for which the operation has been performed, pass a sound into the bladder, so as to ascertain whether any other concretions exist in that organ ; and if so, they should at once be removed by extending the incision of the membranous portion of the urethra into the bladder, by the median operation of lithotomy. I once saw Liston extract two vesical calculi, after having removed one that had blocked up the urethra, by converting the perineal incision into that of lateral lithotomy. Fig. 781.—Extra-urethral Oalculas.