LIGATUllE OF THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTEIll. 123 posterior soapnkr voiy frequently nriscs as a separate braueh ft-om the thirf part of the arteiT, and must be looked out for during the operation It s also said to inllnence the probability of secondary htemonbage. In ni, arteries examined by Qnain, it arose from the third part as a separate biaiicr in 101, or as nearly as possible one in throe cases. The external jugular vein shonld lie close to the outer edge of the s erno- mastoid; but it is frequently more extenial, and must consequently be divided in the operation between a double ligature. In passing the needle round the subclaA’ian, care must be taken that some of the lowei°cords of the brachial plexus be not included in the noose ; and indeed the mistake has more than once been committed of tying these nervous trunks instead of the vessel. Thus, Liston, in the first successful case ot ligature of the subclavian in this country, passed the thread round the lower nenmus cord ; but immediately perceiving his eiTor, turned it to account b} Fi". 3SS.—Diagram of Right Subclavian Arteiy iu the Third Part of its Course. A. Arterj’. N. Brachial plexus of neiTes. v. Plexus of veins. M. Edge of scalenus anticus muscle, inserted into tubercle of first rib. M N A V Fig. :!S9. — Diagi-am of Right Subclavian. Arteiy in Third Part of its Course, crossed by tran.sversalis colli arteiy and vein. a. Sub- clavian arteiy. v. External .iugular receiving transversaiis colli veins, n. Brachial iilexits of nerves, m. Omohyoid muscle. drawing aside the included neiwc, and thus more readily exposing the artery. Dupuytren, in a case of aneurism of some years’ dmation, succeeded, after an operation that lasted one horn and forty-eight minutes, and which he describes as the most tedious and difficult he ever attempted, in passing a ligature round the vessel, as he beheved. After the death of the patient, which occurred from htemoiThage on the ninth day, the artery Avas found to have been perforated by the needle, and one half the vessel and the lower cord of the brachial plexus included in the noose. In a case related by Porter, it is stated that the artery communicated such distinct pulsation to the inferior nervous trunk, that there Avere no means of ascertaining Avhether it Avas the A'cssel or not, except by passing the needle undei’ it. In some cases, as has already been stated, the sac passes upwards beloAV the clavicle into the inferior posterior triangle of the neck ; Avhen this is the case, the Surgeon incurs the risk of puncturing it from its close proximity to the artery, as it lies on the first rib. This accident happened to Cusack Avhilc ligaturing the subclavian in the third part of its course, for a diffused aneurism of the axillary artery. An alarming gush of blood took place, Avhich AVfbs aiTcsted by plugging the Avound ; biit the haemorrhage recurred on the tenth day, and the patient died. In a case related by Travers, in Avhich the sac Avas punctured by the needle, Avhich Avas being passed round the artery, the blood, Avhich Avas arterial, did not floAV im' salftim, but in a continuous stream. “The haemoiThage,” TraA'crs says, “was more terrific and ur.con-