762 UBINARY CALCULUS. course of the sacro-hmibar nerves, the patient complaining of a heavy and dragging sensation in the groins, extending down the outside or back of the thighs, and not uncommonly experienced even in the soles of the feet. The penis is the seat of a good deal of uneasiness ; frequently of a shai-p and cutting pain at the end of the glans. This is especially noticed in children, in Avhom attention is often attracted to the complaint by their constantly squeezing and pulling the organ to relieve the distress they suffer in it. The pain is much increased by any movement by which the stone is jolted about in the bladder, as in driving, riding, or jumping ; and is especially severe in those cases in which cystitis occurs. It is always most severe towards the termination of, or immediately after, mictmition ; as there is then a tendency for the calculus to roll forwards towards the neck of the bladder, where it comes into contact with and is grasped by the most sensitive part of that organ. Hence it is not unfrequent, in cases of calculus in childi-en, to find that the little patient instinctively lies upon its back or side whilst passing urine, and thus escapes much of the agony that it would otherwise sufier. In adults in whom the prostate happens to be enlarged, the calculus usually lies in a depression behind this gland ; and hence, being prevented from coming into contact with the neck of the bladder, occasions less suffering than in other cases. In consequence of the irritation set up in the bladder occasioning chronic inflammatory action of the mucous membrane, there is an Increased Frequency of Miciuriiion. The urine is passed frequently, in small quantities at a time, usually contains some mucus or pus, and is occasionally tinged with blood, or loaded with thick vesical mucus. But in many cases the urine remains remarkably clear, transparent, and free from marked admixtiu'es throughout. If the kidneys be irritated, the lu’ine is commonly albuminous. The presence of blood in the lu’ine is often one of the earliest signs of stone in the bladder, and in children especially should lead to the suspicion of the existence of calculus. It may be in large quantities, and may continue for many weeks, especially in the earher stages. The mine may then clear as the bladder becomes accustomed to the presence of the stone, and the blood may only reappear under the influence of active movement, or of any cause of increased uTitation of the organ. But it is important to observe that the quantity of albmnen, as shown by boiling the mine, will continue to be very great. It very rarely happens that a stone has existed for any time, without the mine becoming occasionally streaked or tinged by blood. An occasional Stoppage in the Flmv of Urine before the bladder is emptied commonly occurs, OAving to the stone being impelled against its neck, and thus blocking up the lU’ethra ; but, on the patient lying on his back or on his side, the stream floAVS again, the situation ol the calculus being changed. As a result of the straining and general irritation about the gemto-mmaiy oro-ans. Prolapsus of the Anus, accompanied by Tenesmus, is by no means un- common, especially in children ; and -in some cases there is very troublesome , AYhen a stone is encysted, those symptoms that depend upon its being loose and rolling about in the bladder, are necessarily absent; thus there is no stoppage of the urine, this fluid is seldom bloody, and the pain is not niatcrially increased by jolts and rough movement; though theie aie aa eight an pain in