781 DIFFICULTIES DURING LITHOTOMY. calculus should he fixed Avith its point against the floor of the bladder, where it may then be seized easily by the forceps. . , „ i i n Dii'TicuiiTrES Lithotojiy.—The difficulties before and during the operation are three-fold ; 1, in Finding the Stone ; 2, in Entering the Bladder ; and 3, in Seizing and Extracting the Calculus. 1. Difficulty in Finding the Stone, either by the staff or the sound, may exist before commencing the operation ; and sometimes it is impossible to find the stone, although its presence may have been distinctly and incontestably ascertained a few days pre^'iously. In these circumstances, the Surgeon must on no account be tempted to proceed with the operation 5 but, aftei a carefully conducted exploration has failed to elicit the actual piesence of the stone, all further proceedings must be deferred to another opportunity. The stone may escape detection in three ways. 1. It may have been passed by the urethra, between the first examination and the time fixed for the operation. A small calculus, especially if elongated and spindle-shaped, may give a very distinct click against the sound, and yet be not too large to pass through the urethra. 2. The stone may have become encysted. 3. It may have become enveloped in folds of the mucous membrane of the collapsed bladder, and so may escape contact with the sound. All these events are more likely to happen in children than in the adult, and it is in them that, for want of attention to these pre- cautions, the unfortunate accident of cutting into the bladder and finding no stone has most frequently occuiTed. 2. Difficulty in Entering the Bladder.—This is rarely experienced in adults. It may, however, arise in consequence of the Surgeon neglecting to keep the point of the knife well lodged in the groove of the staff, and thus letting it slip between the rectum and the bladder ; the tissue of which, being broken up, leaves a kind of cavity that he mistakes for the interior of the bladder. If the perinceum be very deep and the prostate enlarged, he may also experience some difficulty in reaching the bladder ; but he can scarcely fail to do so if he push the knife Avell on in the groove of the staff, and dilate the incision in the prostate with a blunt gorget, if his finger fail to reach the cavity beyond it. Perhaps the most serious obstacle to en- tering the bladder consists in the presence of large tumours in the prostate. The com- bination of a deep perinEeum, an enlarged prostate, and a tumour, certainly constitutes a formidable series of obstacles. In these cases, the finger when slipped along the staff does not enter the bladder, but be- comes involved in the smooth and irregular sinuosities that wind between the prostatic tumours (Fig. 751). In such cases it is nrell to practise the manoeuvre that has already been described ; viz., of using the staff as a guide into the bladder, slipping the forceps along the side and con- cavity of this instrument before it is withdrawn. In lays, gi-eafc and sometimes insuperable difficulty has been experienced Fig. 751.—Tumour of I’roatate, uaUnid size, removed during Litliotomy from 11 man aged (34.