344 DISEASES OF SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES, AND OF MUSCLES. by means of a valvular opening, to squeeze out its eontents, scarify the interior of the cyst, and employ pressm-e. If the ganglion give rise to much pain and weakness, and cannot be made to disappear by the use of the means just in- dicated, it may usually be very conveniently and safely obliterated by passing a seton of two threads through it, and leaving it in for four or five days, until sufficient inflammatory action has been induced for the obliteration of the cyst. Should these means fail, it may be dissected out, if it be thought advisable to have recourse to this somewhat severe procedure, which is attended with some risk of inflammation extending up the sheath of the tendon. I have, however, on several occasions performed this operation, without any troublesome conse- quences ensuing. A Ganglion situated in the Palm of the Hand, and extending under the annular ligament some little distance up the flexor tendons of the forearm, is a very troublesome disease. Syme recommends that the cyst should be laid open, and the annular hgament divided. This seems to me an unnecessarily severe procedure ; and I have in several instances cm-ed the affection by milder means ; in one, by injecting a small quantity of tinctiu’e of iodine into the cyst through a puncture in the palm, and in two or three other cases by the use of the seton. The seton is most easily introduced by squeezing the fluid from the palm into the sheaths of the flexor tendons above the wrist, making a punctm-e into these, and then pushing an eyed probe armed with two or three threads along the tendons imder the annular Ligament into the centre of the pahn, where it is to be dranm out through a small incision made down upon it. In the Side and Sole of the Foot these ganglionic tumours, when of large size, and filled ndth semi-solid fibrinous matter, may require to be dissected out. Inflammation of the Sheaths of Tendons—Tenosynovitis.—This is occasionally met with as the result of strains and twists of the hand, about the wrist, of the extensor tendons, or the long head of the biceps. In this affection there is swelling of a puffy character, with tenderness when the part is pressed on or moved ; and usually a peculiar fine crackling sensation is commumcated to the Surgeon’s hand when he examines the affected part. The crackhng is especially marked in cases in which the inflammation and effusion have become chronic, when the disease appears to partake of the nature of a diffused gan- glion. Treatment.—The treatment, when the disease is acute, consists in leeching and blistering, with rest of the part; when it has assumed a chronic character, the application of blisters and the meremy and ammoniacum plaster will be found most useful. DISEASES OP MUSCLES. The voluntary muscles are not often the seat of primary disease of any kind. Inflammatory aflections of a rheumatic character undoubtedly occur in muscles, and abscess is occasionally met with inside muscular sheaths, more particulaily that of the rectus abdominis. Sypldhtic tumours, or rather inflammatoiy oi plastic indurations of muscles, are not very unfr’equently met with. Tumoues of Muscle.—Organic structiu’al diseases of muscular tissue are rare; yet the records of surgery contain scattered through them no incon- siderable number of cases. Teevan, has, with much industry, collected tie particulars of G2 cases of tumours of muscles of all kinds. About one-thii o