DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. 922 and consequent likelihood of escape of urine between the urethra and the instrument may take place. In order to prevent urinous eliusion over the integuments of the penis and scrotum, a vulcanised India-rubber tube should be attached to the end of the catheter, by which means the flow of the urine is directed away from the patient. Urethroplastic operations may be varied aceording to the seat and extent of the fistulous opening. If the fistula be in the the parts around being thickened and indurated, its closure may often be attained by freely and deeply paring the edges, and then bringing them together with the quilled suture, or by Sims’s button. When the fistula is scrotal, the edges should be freely pared, and the parts around widely dissected up so as to form large and thick flaps of ceUulo-cuta- neous tissue, which may be brought and held together by metalhc sutures or shotted clamps. In this way, if union be not obtained throughout the whole length of the fistula, it may be to a partial extent; and, after a time, a second or a third operation wiU complete the cure. When the fistula is penile, the difficulties in effecting closure become immensely increased. This is owing to the thinness of the integumental structures and the absence of subcutaneous areolar tissue in this region, so that there is not snfficient thickness of the parts for ready plastic union. In these cases, the Surgeon has a choice of four operations. 1. Nelaton has recommended the following procedure. The edges of the fistula ha-vung been pared, the skin around, to the extent of. about an inch, should be dissected up subcutaneously through an opening made below the fistula, the edges of which must then be brought together by a few points of suture. The displacement of the skin covers in the apertm’e in the inethra and causes granulations to spring up, by which the fistula is closed (Fig. 815). 2. The edges of the fistula having been pared and the skin separated widely, lateral incisions may be made so as to take off aU tension, and a slip of India-rubber may then be passed underneath the flaps of skin, in order to pre- vent contact of the m-ine fr-onr dis- tinbing the adhesions (Fig. 816). 3. Eicord, recognising the fact that the occasional intrusion of a drop of urine between the ration: FirstMetiiod. pj,gg|jened edges of the integu- ments brought together to close the fistula has been the most common cause of disunion, has recommended that, in those cases in which a perineal or a scrotal fistula happens to co-ex:st Fig. 810.—Urethroiilasty. NOla- tou’s Operation: Second Method.