234 DISEASES OF JOINTS. increased by tlie sliorteued and contracted state of the muscles around the joint. But this is secondary to, and not an essential part of, the ankylosis. The ill')roidjankylosis commonly results trom rheumatic or scrofulous arthritis, and is the most favourable result that can be hoped for in many of these affections, especially in the scrofulous inflammatory ones. In some cases it arises simply from disuse : the ligaments becoming shortened, and the limb becoming stiffened in the position in which it has been too long detained. Complete or Osseous Ankylosis is of two kinds. In one, all the soft parts within the joint are destroyed, and the osseous surfaces have coalesced, or are fused together by direct bony union ; this is most commonly seen in the hip, knee, and elbow (Fig. 440). In the other kind there has been flbro-cellular deposit, or degeneration within the joint; and the bones, imitcd partly by this, are also tied together by arches or bridges of osseous matter, thrown out externally to the articu- lation, and stretching across from one side to the other. It has been supposed that these masses proceed from the ossiflcation of the liga- ments, or even the muscles ; but from the inequality of their appearance, it is evident that they are new and accidental formations. The true or osseous ankylosis does not often occur as a consequence of scrofulous the result of pyaamic or traumatic constitution. It not nnfrequently Fig. 440.—Osseous Ankylosis of Hip. nrticular inflammation, but is usually inflammation in persons of a healthy happens, in old standing cases of diseased joint, that more or less complete nnkylosis is taking place at one part of the articulation, whilst caries, or necrosis of the bones, is going on at others. It is usually easy to make the Diagnosis between fibrous and osseous ankylosis; the joint being movable, though perhaps only to a very slight degree, in the false, whilst it is rigidly and immovably fixed in the true form of the disease. But cases not xmfi-e- quently occur in which the rigidity of the structures, muscular and capsular, outside the joint, is so great in the fibrous, and the mobihty of the iieighbom-- ino’ bones and joints so free in the osseous, that it becomes very difficult to decide to what degree the joint is stiffened. Here the diagnosis may be made by putting the patient under chloroform; when, if the ankylosis be ■fibrous, the joint will at once be found to yield. In fibrous aiJ:ylosis any attempt to move the joint forcibly is usnally accompanied and followed by much pain, whilst in osseous anlcylosis such attempts, unless very forcible, arc ^ It may be obseiwed as an additional means of diagnosis, that the fibrous ankylosis is often associated with some degree of dislocation of the bones o the affected joint; whereas in the osseous ankylosis the articular ends are usually fused together in their normal relations. „ . ^ i- Treatment.—The treatment of ankylosis is, in the first instance, of a p