ACCIDENTS IN LITIIOTRITY. 817 the rugged fragments; his pulse Avill beeomc quick, his skin hot and perspiring, his tongue dry, the urine scanty, high-colonred, and pex’haps more irritating ; and unless relief be speedily given, nervous exhaustion will set in, and death ensue. In such unfavourable circumstances no time is to be lost. The patient should be anjesthetised, the bladder injected with weak belladonna solution, the • lithotrity-seoop introduced, the fragments broken up as completely as possible, and detritus taken away or washed out. No other means than this, or litho- tomy, will save the patient ; and nothing is more remarkable than to witness the immense relief that the patient derives when the large angular fragments are broken up into detritus. Accide^:ts IK Lithotrity.—In considering the accidents in lithotrity, I put out of consideration those that may arise from the Surgeon acting care- lessly, or with improper force, and thus occasioning laceration of the urethra, or injury to the coats of the bladder ; so also accidents occurring from the bending or breaking of the instruments wiU scarcely happen, if these have been properly tested on a piece of sandstone grit before being employed in the bladder. Impaction of Angular Fragments of Stone in the Urethra.-—This is 1 a most dangerous and painful accident, and not only occasions great local irri- tation, ending perhaps in cystitis or abscess, but may give rise to severe rigors and nervous prostration. It most commonly arises either from the Surgeon attempting to do too much at the first sittiug, or from the patient moving about too much, or straining to pass urine after the stone has been broken. The fragments are especially apt to lodge in the prostatic urethra, or about the bulb, and there give rise to a very great degree of irritation, and even of fatal mis- chief, producing great constitutional distm’bance of an irritative and asthenic type. lYhen the pieces are impacted low down in the urethra, it is absolutely necessaiy to remove them from the canal as speedily as possible, lest the consti- tutional disturbance occasioned by them prove fatal to the patient. This may be done in various ways. Most frequently, they may be pushed back into the bladder, by passing a large catheter carefully down to them. The most con- venient instrument for this pm-pose is one that is open ended, so that the fragment may be received in the aperture at the end of the instrument, and so pushed on before it. Through such a catheter as this a stream of water may be injected, and the fr’agment thus forced back. Should these manoeuvres fail, it has been proposed to crush the fragments in the urethra with a small litho- trite (Fig. 777) ; but this plan is somewhat hazardous, as it is very difiicult to Fig. 77".—Urethral Lithotrite. avoid pinching up the mucous membrane of the canal with the bits of stone, ihe safest practice seems to be, either to extract them through the urethi’al orifice, or to cut them out through the perinamm. Extraction through the urethral orifice may be effected by the forceps (Figs. 778, 779), or by Civiale’s