EXCISION OF TARSAL BONES. 285 „f this implication is such, that excision of the pi-inaarily diseased hone attended by much beneat, and Chopart's ampnta^ tion o/disartiLation at the ankle-joint becomes necessary. _ ^ of the astragalns, I look upon strnmons inflammation and canes of the scapho as most destructive to the integrity of the foot .yenerallv be AVhen the Cuneiform Bones arc the scat of canes, it niU t,enera y found that the middle cuneiform is the bone primarily affecte . ence le disease extends to the lateral ones, or to the bases of the second and third metatarsal bones (Fig. 471). In such cases the anterior tarsal synovial membrane usually becomes extensively implicated, and^ Cho- part’s amputation will be required. But if the morbid action continue to be limited to the middle cuneiform and the contiguous metatarsal bones, and the patient’s general health be good, removal of the diseased osseous structures by the gouge, with extraction of the carious cuneiform, may be attended by successful results. Bxcision of more than one of the Tarsal Bones is sometimes required in chronic disease, and may leave an excellent and useful limb. FTo formal rules for the operation can be laid doATO ; the course of proceeding must depend on the nature of the case and the judgment of the Surgeon. In a lad who was many years since under my care with very extensive and chronic disease of these parts, I removed the lower three inches of the fibula, and gouged away considerable portions of the end of the tibia and of the astragalus, cal- caneum, and cuboid—removing a whole handful of carious .bone ; yet a perfect cure resulted, the patient recovering with a strong and useful foot. The os ealcis and astragalus have been both successfully removed by T. Wakley in 1848, and by Watson of Edinburgh ; and the os calcis, almost the Avhole astragalus, and a part of the scaphoid, by Nicholls of Chelmsford. Mulvany, in a case of disease of the tarsus consequent on compound dislocation, removed the greater part of the scaphoid, half the os calcis, aU the astragalus, and the lower end of the tibia. Fayrer removed the articular ends of the tibia and fibula, the os calcis, astragalus, and scaphoid for disease, in a boy !) years old ; and Lehmann of Polzin, in a case of caries in a man aged 40, removed by subperiosteal excision the entire os calcis, the astragalus, and the scaphoid bones, the foot having a perfectly normal appearance three months after the operation, and the patient being able to walk Avell, without a stick. In infants and very young children, disease of the tarsal articulations and even bones may often be recovered from, without the necessity of having recourse to operation, by attention to the child’s general healtli, and by 2:ivino- the part rest. The Malleoli alone seldom require resection. Should cither of them do so, the operation may readily enough be accomplished, in the outer malleolus, by Fig. 471.- nise.ise of Cuneifoi'iu Bones.