246 EXCISION OF JOINTS. "W hen partial excision of a bone is practised, the result varies according to the tissue that is removed. If a portion of the compact tissue have been cut away, callus is thrown out. If it be the cancellous structure that is scooped out, the ca^dty left is filled up by a dense fibrous mass which may eventually ossify. A^Ticn a joint has been excised, either osseous or ligamentous ankylosis may take place ; and the Surgeon should endeavour to secure osseous union in some cases, fibrous in others. Thus, when the knee has been excised, as a sound and firm limb is desirable, osseous ankylosis should, if possible, be brought about ; whilst in the upper extremity, where mobility is of more use than strength, ligamentous union is most desnable. In these cases the ends of the bones become roimded, and are united by a dense mass of fibrous tissues which envelopes them, and to which the insertions of those muscles that arc natm-ally connected Avith the articular ends that have been removed become attached. The question as to the arrest of the development of the bone, and conse- quently of the whole limb on which an operation of excision has been per- formed, is one of great practical moment. It is well known to physiologists that the longitudinal growth of a bone is chiefly carried on through the medium of the layer of cartilage by which the epiphysis is attached to the shaft, and which does not become ossified until the bone has attained its full length. It has finther been pointed out by Humphry, that the two epiphyses of the long bones of the hmbs do not take an equal share in this development, but that one is a more active organ of growth than the other. Thus the upper epiphysis in the humerus and tibia, the lower epiphysis in the radius and femur, are the most important in this respect. If, therefore, in an excisive operation practised on a grooving child, in whom osseous development has not fully taken place, the whole of the epiphysis be removed, the subsequent gTOAvth of the bone, and necessarily of the whole hmb, Avill be arrested propor- tionately to the share that the epiphysis which is so removed takes in the development of the bone. And if that epiphysis on which the length of the bone is chiefly dependent, be removed—as, for instance, the upper epiphysis of the tibia and humerus, or the lower epiphysis of the thigh-bone—the limb will continue undeveloped and useless for. the rest ol life. In the adult, after ossification is completed, the epiphysis loses its import- ance as an organ of growth; and may be removed, if necessary, Avithout interfering with the subsequent length of the limb, except to the extent of its removal. Instrumeijts.—The instruments required for resection are of a someAVhat varied character; strong scalpels and bistouries, straight and sharp-pointed. In addition to these I have found a strong-backed, probe-pointed bistoury A\uth a limited cutting edge, of great utility in clearing the bones. The pliers should be of various sizes and shapes (Figs. 411 to 414), and gouges will be found useful for scooping out suspicious patches on the cut osseous surfaces. For ordinary purposes, a small broad amputating saw will be found the most coiiA'cnient instrument for dmding the bones ; but in some cases a naiiow keyhole saAv, or that introduced by Butcher (lig. 441), Aiill ansA\ci es . last-named instrument is especially useful AA’hcu it is intended to cut ic one