HERNIA. 640 actiou fi'om the cutaneous wound,, and in other cases from the morbid condi- tion induced by the strangulated gut. In hospital patients especially, in whom all disease is apt to assume a low character, this inflammation is peculiarly liable to occur. lu some instances, it sets in without the appearance of any marked local symptoms of inflammation, such as pain or uneasiness in the abdomen ; but, two or three days after the operation, the patient becomes depressed, with a quick and weak pulse, an anxious countenance, a tumid and tympsmitic abdomen, and rapid sinking of strength. In the majority of cases, however, some of the ordinary local signs of peritonitis are present. After death, the abdominal cavity will be found to contain a quantity of turbid serous fluid mixed mth flakes of lymph ; in many instances in such quantity as to give it a purifoim appearance, and not unfrequently matting together the coils of intestine. In the Treatment, it is necessary to support the patient, and in some instances even to administer stimulants, such as ammonia, the' brandy-and-egg mixture, &c. Depleting measures of aU kinds are quite inad- missible : and, indeed, the remedy that offers the most prospect of benefit ta the patient is opium, in full doses, one grain being given every third or fourth hour until some effect is produced upon the constitution. Opimn not only acts as an useful stimulant in these cases, but has a tendency to allay the increased vascular action. At the same time, a blister to the abdomen, dressed with mercurial ointment, may be advantageously employed ; and tiu-pentine enemata may be administered, with the view of removing the tympanites, which is a soiu’ce of much distress to the patient. Management of Congested Intestine.—The condition in Avhich th& contents of the sac are found in a case of hernia, determines greatly the coiu-se which the Singeon should pursue after the division of the stricture. Most frequently the intestine is deeply congested, being of a reddish pm-ple, a claret,, or chocolate colour. This congested state must not be confounded with gan- grene of the part—a mistake which might happen if the Surgeon were tO’ content himself with judging of its condition by the colour. However dark this may be, the gut cannot be said to be gangrenous so long as it is; polished and firm, free from putrescent odour, and without a greenish tinge. In cases in which there is much doubt as to whether its vitality continues or not, it has been proposed to scarify its surface lightly with the point of a lancet. If blood flow from the punctures, this may be taken as a proof of the continuance of the vitality of the part. Such a procedure as this, however, is certainly attended by some degree of danger, and can seldom be required. When the intestine is merely congested, however deeply this may be, the rule is, that it should be returned into the cavity of the abdomen in the hope of its ultimately recovering itself. This it wiU generally do if it have not been too much handled after the sac has been opened ; but in some cases it will slouc^h a few days after it has been reduced, and, the feces being discharged through the wound, a fecal fistula ^viU be formed; this may happen as late as the eighth or tenth day after the operation. Management of Tightly Constricted Intestine.—men the intestine has been very tightly nipped by a sharp-edged stricture, so that a deep sulcus or depression is left upon it, it seldom recovers itself, uhethci t c u 10 c 0