736 DISEASES OF THE LARGE INTESTINE AND ANUS. and which are a source of great discomfort when occurring in the early part of the day. Curative Treatment.—The relaxation of the mucous membrane of the rectum that essentially constitutes prolapsus may often be obviated by astrin- gent injections or suppositories. The best injection is that of the sulphate of iron, in the strength of from one to three grains in an ounce of water, thrown up in small quantities sufficient for the bowel to retain. In children, injections •of this kind, conjoined with regulation of the bowels by mild aperients, the administration of a moderate quantity of unstimulating food, and afterwards the employment of tonics will commonly remove the disease, unless it arise from stone in the bladder, or some other affection inducing much and con- tinued straining. In mild cases of prolapsus in adults, conjoined ^vith a relaxed state of the mucous membrane of the rectum and relaxation of the sphincter, the use of the iron injection vdll be found particularly beneficial, at the same time that the action of the bowels is regulated by means of an electuary taken in the morning or at night. By thus giving tone to the bowel, at the same time that constipation is prevented, the disease Avill ■occasionally undergo a cure, provided it be not associated with any affection in other organs. In those cases in which the prolapsus is haemorrhoidal or polypoid, the pro- trusion being dragged down by the weight and strain of the pile or polypus, the same treatment must be adopted as has been recommended for the latter disease ; and usually, after the ligatm’e and removal of the pile or polypus, the prolapsus will be cured. In slight cases of prolapsus, in which the disease appears rather to be owing to the relaxation of the sphincter and of the tissues external to it, the muco-cutaneous integument hanging in loose and pendulous folds around the anus, considerable benefit will commonly result from snipping of these pendulous fiaps of skin ; the cut surface that is left cicatrising, and by its contraction bracing up the part, and thus preventing its fiuther pro- trusion. These pendulous fiaps are best removed in a direction radiating from the anal orifice, with curved knife-edged scissors. When the prolapsus is considerable, and the ordinary palliative treatment after a proper trial fails in effecting a ciue, it will be necessary to remove the protruded mucous membrane by operation. This should always be done by the application of the hgatiue ; excision, though easy, being objectionable in this as in the case of piles, on account of the danger ft’om hasmoirhage. Application of Ligature.—The patient ha^dng had the bowels freely opened on the joreceding day, and an enema of tepid water on the morning of operation, should be directed to sit over a pan of hot water, in order to make the prolapsus descend ; it may then be seized with a pair of bioad-ended forceps, such as are represented in Fig. 703, and drawn well forwards. ^ The base must next be firmly tied with a strong piece of whipcord, and a similar process repeated on the opposite side of the anus. ^ Should there be any difficidty on account of the shape of the protrusion in hgatiuing the base firmly, this may be obviated by transfixing it with a hEcmorrhoidal needle, and tying it on each side. I think, however, that it is better, if possible, to avoid doing this. The ends of the ligatiue must then be cut short, the whole protrusion returned into the bowel, the external flaps of skin cut o , am