2o6 STRUCTURAL CHANGES IN BONE. luid occasion to verify, that, although the epiphysis may have been completely degenerated, the cartilage of incrustation and of the neighbouring joint (Fig. 432) never becomes implicated; although the growth may eventually involve and include the whole of the rest of the articulation, by extension to the capsule and its soft parts. When internal organs become secondarily affected in these cases, the deposit will generally be found in the lungs. Symptoms.—There is usually, with much lancinating pain, a rapidly growing enlargement of the bone, having a globular shape, feehng elastic, and some- times semi-fluctuating. The skin covering it, at flrst pale, with numerous reticulated and blue tortuous veins, afterwards becomes discoloured, being even- tually implicated in the morbid mass. In some cases fracture of the bone takes place at the affected part (Figs. 431, 433, 434); the neighbouring tissues are speedily contaminated, the lymphatic glands become enlarged, cancerous cachexy supervenes, and the patient eventually sinks. In other cases, the disease being central, the progress, especially in the early stages of the disease, is less rapid, though it at last developes itself with fearful violence. So long as the disease is confined within the walls of the bone, it developes itself but slowly, and does not show much disposition to affect the constitution. Some years ago I had under my care a man whose thigh I amputated for mafignant disease of the head of the tibia ; the disease had existed for foiu years, eucap- suled, as it were, inside the head of the bone, without contaminating the neighbouring pai’ts. The patient’s constitution appeared soimd, and he made a good recovery. But, Avhen once the soft parts become engaged, the system is speedily contaminated. In some instances pulsation of a thi’iUiug kind, with or without a blowing murmur, is distinctly perceptible, especially in an advanced stage of the affection, when the vascularity of the tumour is gveatly increased. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of malignant disease has to be made from other timioiu’s of bone, and fr’om aneurism. The malignant growths of bone may readily be confounded with those various forms of non-malignant disease that are commonly included under the term spina ventosa. In making the dia- gnosis, we may reasonably come to the conclusion that the growth is mahgnant, if it occur in early life before puberty, or between this period and the early adult age ; if it increase with great rapidity, and with much pain, especially of a lancinating character ; if, to the touch, it present a somewhat diffused pulpi- ness, with much elasticity, great tension, and, at points, a semi-fluctuating feel; and more especially if the veins be greatly enlarged and tortuous, the neigh- bouring lymphatic glands involved, and if cachexy ultimately set in. These conditions, differing from the slow growth, the more circumscribed character, and more soM feel of the non-malignant tumours, which have no tendency to the implication of neighbouring structuros, and which occiu at later periods of life, usually enable us to make the diagnosis. There is one tumour, how- ever, viz., enchondroma, which occasionally, in the rapidity of its growth, closely resembles malignant disease. Here the diagnosis is confessedly ex- tremely difficult ; though the more solid character, the less degree of elasticity, and the absence of lymphatic enlargement or implication of contiguous tissues, will often enable us to establish the .true nature of a tumour before its removal.