547 (EDEMATOUS LARYNGITIS. From the irritability of the fauces, and partly from the large amount of tenacious mucus which usually surrounds the glottis. The_ difficulty in swallmving is often at first the most prominent symptom, and continues throughout; dyspnma, often of a spasmodic character, then appears, the lips becoming livid, the features pale and bedewed with perspiration, the eyes watery and bloodshot, and the respiratory muscles being called into violent action ; the nosh-ils are dilated ; gasping efforts at breathing, and sudden fits of increased difficulty in inspiring come on ; at the same time the pulse becomes feeble, though it oontinues rapid ; and, unless efficiently relieved, the patient will speedily sink. When it proves fatal, the acute usually runs into the oedematous form of laryngitis. Treatment—Y\\q treatment should be actively antiphlogistic. Xo time must be lost, otherwise the patient will fall into a hopeless state of asphyxia. Free blood-letting, the application of an abundant supply of leeches to the larynx, and the administration of calomel in large doses, with antimonials, must be employed. If, notwithstanding the administration of these remedies, the difficulty in respiration continue to increase, the windpipe must be opened before the lungs and brain become irretrievably engorged. It is no easy matter to determine when it is no longer prudent to trust to active antiphlogistic treatment, and when recourse should be had to operation ; indeed, the deter- mination of this point may be considered as one of the nicest questions in singery. As a general rule it may be stated that if, notwithstanding the antiphlogistic means above indicated, the dyspnoea become gradually more urgent, and the paroxysms of spasmodic difficulty of breathing more frequent and severe, then no time should be lost in the performance of the operation, for however short a period the disease may have existed. I can truly say that I have seen several cases lost by delaying the performance of this operation, but never one by opening the mndpipe too early. Indeed, if the opening be even made somewhat early, I do not think that much if any harm results, as the larynx is thereby set at ease; and, on the laryngitis being subdued by the ^ continuance of proper treatment, the apertmn, which has simply served as a i breathing-hole, may be allowed to close by granidation. ' (Edematous Laryngitis is seated chiefly, if not entirely, in the submucous J) areolar tissue, and frequently comes on in the course of chronic affections of ^ the larynx. It may, however, be of a distinctly erysipelatous character, occur- di ring as the result of exposure to infection, or to atmospheric vicissitudes. In ii fact, in many cases it appears to be at times epidemic, and in its pathological conditions resembles closely phlegmonous erysipelas of the part; the mucous membrane becoming red, pulpy, and swollen, and the areolar tissue Ij^ing j beneath it infiltrated with semi-puriform plastic matter. In this form of the < disease, the fauces are reddened, dusky and swollen ; there is much and early *j flyspncea ; the voice becomes hoarse, rough, and speedily extinct; deglutition O becomes very difficult; and, on passing the Anger over the back of the tongue, ‘ft the epiglottis will be felt rigid and turgid. There may be some degree of ® tenderness about the larynx ; Imt the local symptoms, which are less acute, are attended by a greater amount of dyspnoea than in the acute form of laryn- gitis. The dyspnoea is usually peculiar in character in the intervals between the spasms. Inspiration is always more or less difficult, as the swollen and N N 2