3°7 DIAGXOSIS OF SACEO-ILIAG DISEASE. disease, and that from which it is of most importance to make the diagnosis. It is especially from that variety of hip-disease which commences m the acetahnhuu, primarily involves the pelvic bones, and only secondarily im- plicates the joint, that it is difficult to distinguish sacro-iliac disease ; and the importance of effecting this diagnosis is great when we reflect that these cases of hip-disease may now successfully be subjected^ to operative interference, whilst sacro-iliac disease does not admit of relief or removal by these means. The diagnosis between coxalgia in all its forms and the disease we are at present considering may be effected by attention to the following circumstances. a. The seat of pain on pressure varies. In hip-disease the patient suffers most severely when pressure is exercised deeply behind and above the tro- chanter, ill the hollow behind that osseous prominence, or ivhen the com- pression is exercised against the anterior part of the hip-joint through the pectiiieus muscle. In sacro-iliac disease, little or no pain on pressure is experienced in these situations ; but tenderness is elicited by pressure upon the sacrum and along the line of junction between the sacrum and ibum, liehind and altogether away from the hip. d. The movements that occasion pain are different in the two diseases. In hip-disease, abduction and rotation outwards, or pressure of the head of the thigh-bone into the acetabulum, aggravate, to a greater or less degi’ee, often to an mibearable extent, the sufferings of the patient. In sacro-iliac disease the thigh may be moved in aU directions, ab- or adducted, rotated, flexed, or extended, whilst the patient is lying on the back, without any increase of suffering, provided the side of the pelvis be fixed by the Surgeon. Should this precaution not be taken, the movement impressed on the thigh 'wiU be com- municated to the diseased articulation, and wiU necessarily occasion suffering. c. The signs connected with the alteration in the length of the limb differ in the two diseases. In hip-disease there may be, and usually is in the advanced stages, considerable shortening. This never occurs in sacro-iliac disease. In the eailier stages of coxalgia there may be, as there is throughout in sacro-ihac disease, elongation of the hmb. But there is an important point connected with this. The elongation in hip-disease is always appreciable by measuring fr’om the anterior superior spine of the ihum to the inner ankle. In sacro-ihac disease, however, the measurements between these two points on the opposite sides of the body exactly correspond, the seat of the elongation being situated still higher up. d. I he alteration of the level and of the prominence of the two anterior superior spines, in sacro-iliac disease, may be confounded with that arising fr’om the obliquity of the pelvis usually occurring in the early stages of coxalgia. But here also the diagnosis may be effected by obseiwing that the displace- ment of the bone in sacro-iliac disease is poimanent, and is not influenced by position. The obliquity of the pelvis in hip-disease, giving rise to apparent elongation of the limb, is dependent on a twist in the lumbar spine, which may be rectified by placing the patient on his back, and using a little mani- pulation. The alteration in the level of the two ilia, in sacro-iliac disease, is not modified by change of position, or by any movement that may be impressed upon the spine.