dilatation of the prostate. 775 drawal the blade be kept steadily in contact with the staff. Indeed, I believe that there is more danger of doing mischief in the withdrawal than in the entry of the knife; for,‘If it leave the staff for a moment, all guide is lost, and the edge may sweep doumwards through the base of the prostate and its investing capside. As the knife is withdrawn, the left index-finger is pushed forward^into the aperture in the prostate, which is then dilated by its pressure to a sufficient extent for the introduction of the forceps, which are slipped in as the finger is withebrawn, and for the extraction of the stone. This part of the operation may very conveniently be performed, as was usually done by Liston, at the moment when the Surgeon is stooping down, engaged in selecting his forceps. The dilatation of the prostate is readily effected; for this structiire, though dense, is friable, and breaks down easily under somewhat forcible pressure by the finger. In this way, by a mere notching of the pro- state,—by a slight section of its apex or urethral surface, followed by simple dilatation with the finger,—sufficient space will be obtained for the extraction of all moderate-sized calculi, without the employment of any violence, or the infliction of any bruising upon the tissues. But another obstacle exists which will prevent the dilatation of the neck of the bladder to any veiy material extent, without an amount of bruising, or laceration, or even rupture that would probably prove fatal to the patient. This obstacle consists of a firm resisting tissue, which has been described by Tyrrell as “ an elastic ring,” siuTounding the neck of the bladder; by Liston as “ a fibrous or ligamentous band siuTounding the orifice of the bladder, into which the muscular fibres of the organ are inserted.” If this ring or band be ruptured, either by the finger or by the expansion of the forceps, fatal consequences vdll ensue ; but if it be divided, the other tissues, as Liston observes, will yield to an inconceivable extent, without injury to the ilio-vesical fascia. The division of this ring must only be practised co a very limited extent. I beheve that it is always affected in the act of pushing the scalpel inwards into the bladder ; a mere notching of the fibres of the ring, indeed, is sufficient to allow the requisite expansion to talze place when pressure is applied. In thus describing the mode of incising the prostate and neck of the bladder, I have, generally, used the term “dilatation ;” and I believe that, by a simple process of dilatation or expansion of these parts, and without any violence whateA'er, small calculi of or under on inch in diameter may be extracted. In fact, for the removal of such stones, no force whatever is required, either in opening up the prostate or in withdi’awing the calculus. But, in removing stones of greater magnitude than this, I believe that the process of expansion of the prostate and neck of the bladder, whether effected by the finger, by a blunt gorget, or by the opening up of the blades of the forceps, is a process of laceration rather than of dilatation, as I have fi'equently had occasion to observe in experiments on this point made on the dead subject. If this laceration be, however, confined to the substance of the prostate, and do not extend through the lateral ligament of the bladder, and into the fasciae of the pelvis, no hann results. It is difficult, with ordinary force, to lacerate the dense ligament. This structure, therefore, remains as a firm unbroken barrier be- tween the pelvic fasciae and the external wound, preventing the possibility of