DISEASE OF THE HIP-JOINT. 312 at the same time destroyed, it slips out on to the dorsum ilii (Fig. 484). A fungus fibro-plastic mass may sprout up from the bottom of the cavity, and thus tend to push the bone out of it; and, after it has been so extruded, this gTowth will completely fill the acetabulum. The occurrence of dislocation is, in the great'majority of cases, preceded by the formatiozi of abscess in and around the joint; but in some instances it happens in consequence apparently of the softening of the hgaments, the head of the bone being throAvn out of the acetabulum without the supeiwention of abscess or any sign of suppuration. In these cases a false joint may be formed upon the dorsum ilii, where the bone lodges. When it is lying in a suppu- rating cavity it wiU always be found to be in a carious state, and then no attempt, or at most an imperfect one, is made at the construction of an articu- lation aroimd it. Dislocation takes place chiefly in the fmnoral variety of the disease, in which the head of the thigh-bone is more or less destroyed, and the acetabulum is filled with fibro-plastic deposit, which is reparative material, developed in those cases in which the lining cartilaginous surface of the joint has been re- moved, leaving roughened bone, which thus becomes covered. The formation of this material is interest- ing, as showing the pos- sibility of repair in the ace- tabulum when it is only secondarily affected. In the acetabular form, the posi- tion of the head of the bone is more uncertain. In some cases it is dislocated upon the dorsum ilii; in other instances, the head of the bone is not thrown out of the cotyloid cavity ; but this, being carious, and be- coming at last perforated, may allow the upper end of the thigh-bone to shp into the pelvis. G. Ankylosis may occur either with or zvithout pre- vious suppuration. If the joint have suppurated and the head of the bone be throzvn on the dorsum ilii, a false joint may eventually^ form, or osseous ankylosis in a more or less faulty position take place. If the head ot tbc bone continue in the acetabuhmr without suppuration, osseous ankylosis may ensue with but little shortening of the limb. . ip <> • • Pathology.—It is not often that the opportunity presents itsclfof examimiia TTicr 4S4 —Acute Disease of Hiii-joint in nn AiUat. Absorption of Head' of Femur. Softening of Ligaments. Dislocation on the Dorsum Ilii. I