treatment of spasmodic stricture. 887 existence of any muscular fibres in sufficiently close proximity to the mucous meXL to infineiioe it bj their action. The possession of m^uiar contrac- tilitv by the urethra is, however, obvious from the facts that a bougie may occa^sionally be introduced with sufficient case, but that the Surgeon, 011 attemptincT^to withefraw it, wiU find it tightly grasped; so also, occasional y, on infroducing the instrument, he ivill feel it meet with an obstruction, whic on steady pressure will yield with that species of quivering that is peculiai to fibre' Again, the fact that a patient wifi at one time pass Ifis m-ine with the most perfect freedom, whilst, if it be rendered acrid or acid bv drinkino- spirits, effervescent wines, or other similar beverages, almost com- plete obstruction will ensue, tends to prove the existence of an occasional spasmodic constriction of the canal. These facts, though sufficiently con- vincing to many Surgeons, had failed to carry proof of the existence of spasmodic stricture to others, until the researches of KoUiker and Hancock, which have been referred to, set the question of the muscularity of the urethi’a finally at rest. Causes. The causes of spasmodic stricture are generally such conditions as occasion a relaxed and imtable state of system, as long residence m hot cli- mates, especially if conjoined with habitual excesses in drinking, high living and sexual indulgences. The more immediate causes are usually any circum- stances that occasion iriitation of the urethral mucous membrane, which being- propagated to the organic muscular fibres beneath, calls them into actmty, and thus gives rise to the spasmodic affection. The most usual of these are those conditions of the system in which the hthates are largely eliminated ; as exposure to cold and wet, by which the action of the skin is suspended ; or too free an indulgence in spirituous and acid hquors—such as red or effervescent wines, beer, or punch—which are well known to give rise to an attack in many constitutions. Symptoms.—In spasmodic stricture we find evidence of narrowing of the urethra, and consequent impediment to the free flow of urine, rapidly super- vening under the influence of certain causes, and as speedily subsiding. A patient, for instance, in his ordinary health and passing luine freely, if he take such food or drink as wiU give rise to a very acid condition of this fluid ; if he be exposed to cold, or get out of health in any way ; suddenly finds himself able only to pass his urine in a small stream by drops with much straining, or may even be seized with complete retention. Under appropriate treatment these symptoms rapidly subside ; recurring, however, on the application of any exciting cause. At the time of the occurrence of this spasm there is often a sensation of weight and uneasiness in the perimeum, with evident irritation of the urethral mucous membrane, as shown by reddening of the lips of the orifice; in fact, a tendency to a combmation of the congestive Avith the spasmodic form of stricture. There will often be found to be a very shght organic stricture hi cases of the spasmodic form of this disease ; so that, when the spasm subsides, the urethra Avill not be quite so free as natural. Treatment.—If the patient be suffering from spasmodic difficulty in passing urine, a suppository, consisting of half a drachm of laudanum in a little starch, should be thrown up the rectum, or a full dose of Dover’s powder administered, and the warm hip-bath used. As the opium begins to take effect, the mine