EPISTAXIS. 389 but, auDcai-s to be due to some modification of the nasal mucus, connected -svith protracted and faulty dentition. The Treatment should be directed rather to the teeth and stomach than to the nose. ^ Epistaxis, or bleeding from the nose, is veiy common in childi-en and m youn^^ people about the age of puberty, more particularly m girls, antecedently to the mcnstnial period; it may either be active or passive, but is most usuaUy dependent on congestion of the mucous membrane. But in the adult it is more serious, and it may then be associated vnth and dependent on two very opposite conditions—either on a state of plethora ivith tendency to cerebral cono-estion, or on an ansemic and cachectic state, in which the blood is thin, and docs not coagulate readily. In the first condition the epistaxis is often con- nected with° congestion of the liver, and, when occurring in the young and plethoric, it is often a salutary rehef to the system. But when occnriing in cachectie and ansemic people, more particularly in persons advanced in years, it becomes of very serious moment; and in such circumstances the loss of blood may be so continuous and copious that, imless active means be adopted, a fatal termination may ensue, the hiemorrhage being truly arterial. When epistaxis proves fatal, it is by its constant recurrence. In these cases, I believe, the nasal hmmoiThage is always associated with a broken-down and unhealthy state of the blood, dependent upon chronic visceral mischief, especially disease of the kidneys and liver. The worst and most intractable cases that I have seen have been connected with hepatic disease and jaundice. Treatment.—Epistaxis must not be treated simply as a local disease of the nose. It^is usually only a symptom of some constitutional condition that requires remedying before the hemorrhage can be expected to cease. Hence it is of the first importance to treat on ordinary medical principles those states of plethora or cachexy -with which it may be associated, or those conditions of disease of fiver or of kidney that are met with in persons suffering from it. In young people, otherwise healthy, and in slighter cases, epistaxis may com- monly be arrested by the employment of ordinary domestic means, such as the application of cold to the nape of the neck and forehead j and its retmai may be prevented by the use of purgatives, or by attention to the proper regulation of the menstrual function. In plethoric adults the flow should not be too suddenly checked. Should it prove very abundant, dry cupping between the shoulders, and the application of an ice-bag to the forehead, with rest, will be required. In ansemic and cachectic subjects, and in old people, the haemorrhage is often attended by dangerous consequences, and requires the use of active measures for its suppression. In these cases the following plan shoidd be adopted. The head should be raised, an ice-bag applied to the forehead, complete rest and quietude enjoined, and gallic acid in ten-grain doses, or half-drachm doses of the tincture of ergot, administered at frequent intervals. Should the bleeding still be profuse and continuous, the interior of the nose may be sponged out with a solution of perchloridc of iron or tannin. If this do not ^suffice, it will become necessary to plug one or both nostrils. This is best done by means of a plug of prepared sponge, having a quill or a piece of gum catheter passed through it for breathing purposes, and soaked in a solution of per- chloride of iron.