SYMPTOMS OF POTT'S DISEASE OF SPINE. 293 which derive their supply from the contiguous bones, becoming disorganised as these undergo destruction. These changes commonly occur about the middle dorsal vertebivT-; if extensive, they may implicate the upper or lower doi-sal, or upper lumbai-, and give rise to angular projection backwards of the diseased pai-t of the spine, coiTcsponding in extent to the amount of destruc- tion of the vertebrie (Figs. 473 and 474). The mechanism of this excurvation, which is usually the most marked feature in this disease, is easily understood by reference to the pathology of the afiection. The bodies (one or more) of the vertebrie, being thinned and weakened, at last give way mider the pressure of the weight of the upper part of the body ; and, the remains of the disin- tegi-ated bodies being fused together, the upper part bends over, and the spines project posteriorly. The degree of bending forwards and of posterior excur\ a- tion cori'esponds to the amount of the destruction of the bodies of the vertebrie. At the same time that the upper part bends forwards, the lower part of the spine rarely maintains the exact position as it did in Fig. 473. In the great majority of cases there is a compensating incimvation just below the exciuTated vertebrie. In this Avay the upper part of the body is carried erect. The size of the angle of excurvation varies according to the number of the absorbed vertebral bodies and the extent of their disintegration. When one only is diseased it is acute; when several, more obtuse or open. When one vertebra only or chiefly is diseased, three spinous processes will project to form the angle, that of the diseased A'ertebra being the apex. If two or three be diseased, flve spinous processes usually enter into the formation of the angle of exciu’vation, and then the Avhole of this portion of the column will be displaced backAvards, giving a thickened and broadened base to the excurva- tion in the lateral direction. It is seldom that the spinal cord becomes com- pressed, injured, or diseased dining the lArogress of this disease. In some cases, however, more especially in adults, and in those cases in which the posterior excin-Antion is shght, the spine maintaining its erect position, spinal meningitis may be developed. This is owing to the spinal canal being opened in consequence of the salutary and conservative process of angular ankylosis not having been sufficiently developed. Short of this, a certain amount of pai-aplegia may be produced from partial compression of the cord. Effusion into the sheath of the cord then takes place, and, the cord itself becoming softened opposite the seat of cinA'ature, paraplegia Avill be occasioned. In some cases the bodies of the vertebrie, instead of being carious, are simply eioded, or scooped out, leaA’ing a hard, dry, and somewhat rough osseous surface, Avhich has evidently been the seat of chronic osteitis. These cases are quite incurable ; no process of repair taking place. Symptoms.—ibigular cuiwatine, or Pott’s disease of the spine, commonly begins, especially in childi-en, in a very insidious manner. It usually occurs m strumous children, and is generally referred to a fall or blow on the baek Ihe first symptom that most often attracts attention is the child’s attitude* which IS altered and very characteristie. The body is held stiffly straight and upright; it IS neither bent nor turned to one side Avhen the child moves, but tfie spme IS moved as a whole and in a rigidly fixed manner. The shoulders are raised, the chin is throum up, and the toes are slightly turned in. The child Avalks Avith great caution, and very stiffly.