treatment of innominate aneurism. 83 scaleni, be tied, and but a third of the blood circulating through the main nrterv be aiTCStcd, arc we justified in hoping that the circulation through the sac ^ill be so influenced by the deprivation of this small cpiantity, that the remaiuino- two-thirds of the blood, which wiU still pass thi-ough for the supply of the carotid and the branches of the subclavian, will gradually deposit those fibrinous laminie by which obliteration of the tumour is to bo effected ? Should v-e not rather expect that the larger current will be too powerful to allow the formation of these layers, and will continue to distend the sac in such a way as to prevent its contraction ? Sm-ely, if the comparatively small and feeble streams of blood, that pass through the epigastric and circumflex ilii, are suffi- cient to interfere with the cure of an inguinal aneurism after the distal ligatiue of the femoral, the strong current that sweeps through the carotid and the large branches springing from the subclavian, mth the full force derived from close proximity to the heart, will most probably be sufficient to prevent all lamination in an aneurism of the innominate. That the arrest of the circulation through one of these vessels only is not sufficient to influence materially the growth of the aneiu'ism, is evident likewise from what is not unfrequently observed after death in cases of this kind—one or other of the vessels being found compressed und obliterated by the pressure of the sac, or plugged by fibrine, and yet no alteration in the tmnour resulting. These cases, which are tolerably numerous, would of themselves have been sufficient to prove that something more than this amount of obstruction is required, in order to effect proper stratification of fibrine in the sac; and if we turn to the result of the twenty-eight cases in which either the carotid or the subclavian has been ligatured, we shall find that in one case only, that operated on by Evans of Belper, has a ciue been efiected; and in this instance how was it accomplished ? According to the principle on which it was attempted to be established ? Certainly mot; but, as will be seen by attention to the details of the case, and as has -aheady been pointed out vuth much acuteness by Gruthrie, by the accidental setting up in the artery of inflammation, Avhich extended to the sac, and thus obliterated it. In the case (that of Mrs. Denmark) in which Wardrop tied the subclavian for the eure of aneurism of the brachio-cephalic, there is some -reason to doubt whether the aivest of the progress of the tumour was owing to the hgatiue of the subclavian artery, or w'hether it Avas not much influenced by the obstruc- tion Avhich existed in the carotid for nine days after the operation, dming Avhich time so abundant a deposit of laminated fibrine might have occurred as to arrest the progress of the disease for some length of time. In this case, also, Cuthrie supposes it probable that the inflammation of the tumour might have led to its obliteration. From a careful consideration of all the circumstances of the cases in AA-hich ligature of one vessel only, either subclavian or carotid, has been employed for brachio-cephalic aneurism, Ave are, I tliink, fully justified in concluding that in sixteen of the cases the fatal result Avas accelerated, occurring as a consequence of the ligature of the vessel ; in three the progress of the disease Avas not materially interfered Avith ; in tAA’O it AAns arrested, the patients liAung for twenty mortths and two years respectively; and in one case only the disease was cured. The improvement in two of the cases Avas the result of accidental cir-