472 DISEASES OF THE JAWS AND THEIR APPENDAGES. Ill tlic loiuer jaw, tlio question as to whether the dead hone should be ex- tracted thi-ough the inside of the mouth, or by incision from without through the cheek, will be determined partly by the position of the sinuses and partly by the situation and extent of the bone affected. This may in a great measure lie ascertained by the situation of the sinuses leading down to it. If these be ill the cheek, or in the side of the neck, or under the angle of the jaw, it is usually an indication that, if the whole of the corresponding ramus or body of the bone be not involved, the posterior and outer parts are certainly affected ; and, in these circumstances, extraction of the sequestrum is best effected by opening up the sinuses parallel to the line of the jaw, and removing the necrosed bone in the usual way. The incisions for this purpose need not usually be very extensive. If the operation be delayed, m accordance with those principles that guide us in the management of necrosed bone generally, until the seques- trum is quite loose, it may usually be readily extracted, in whole or in pieces, through an opening that wiU leave but a small cicatrix. By such operations as these, the whole of the lower jaw has been extracted piecemeal at intervals in a state of necrosis, first on one and then on the other side. Carnochan has removed the whole of the necrosed lower jaw at one operation, disarticulating first one and then the other condyle in the usual way. If, however, there be no external abscess or sinus—if the gum have been loosened and perforated, with a ragged portion of sequestrum j)rojecting through it into the cavity of the mouth, then no external incisions will be required, but the dead bone may be readily removed from within the mouth. Lai’ge portions of the jaw may thus be removed. I have taken away the whole of the ramus with its processes, entirely through the gums, without any external incision : and, in a negro, the whole of the bone in a state of necrosis has thus been removed in separate pieces, by Perry, tkrough the inside of the mouth. Rrprocluci'WJi of the Jaw after Removal.—The amount of regeneration of bone wiU depend greatly upon the state of the periosteum before the removal of the sequestra. If tins be healthy, and if new bone have ah’eady formed prior to operation, a veiy perfect reproduction of the portions of jaw removed may take place; in fact, complete repro- duction of the whole of the lower jaw, body, rami, and epiphyses, though in a somewhat rudimen- tary and imperfect form, may follow its removal for phosphoriis- necrosis. In the musemn of the BellcAUie Hospital, New York, Wood showed me two specimens, one of the necrosed lower jaw, removed by him for phosphorus- disease from a girl aborrt 10 (Vig. 07.1). Ste died of taaiin-dis^so three after operation! mrd in the same collection is her cranmm iv.th a lepiodueed Fi". 57G.—Wood's Case of Phosiiliorus-Nccrosis of ciitiro ° Lower Jaw.