200 STRUCTURAL CHANGES IN RONE. treatment proper for it, Avbicli consists in exposing it by a double clliptic*al incision, and cutting it off with tbc scalpel, or a small pair of pliers, without amputating tbe toe. There is a species of bony gTowtb, called Osteoma, consisting of an miifonn elongated mass of new bone, deposited on some of the osseous surfaces, some- what resembhng a node, and differing from ordinary exostosis in not being pedimculated. This does not admit of remoyal, and is not amenable to any treatment. The term osteoma is also sometimes applied to exostosis in general. EjfCHONDROMATOUS OR Osteo-Cartilaginous Tumours are often met Avith. These have already been described when speaking of enchondroma and its patho- logy (P- 753, Tol. I.), and need not, consequently, be more than adverted to here. They usually require resection or amjoutation of the affected bone, according to the attachments and size of the growth ; but Stanley states that in some cases, Avhere the cartilaginous tumour of bone is of small size, it may be influenced and eventually dispersed by the local application of iodine and mercmy. Cystic Tumours of bone of various kinds are commonly included under the terms Osteosarcoma and Sjmia Ventosa. The former term has also been occa- sionally applied to various other solid growths, whether fatty, fibrous, gelatin- ous, or cartilaginous, as Avell as to A'arious kinds of malignant tiunour springing from bones ; and hence much confusion in the pathology of these affections has been caused. Structure.—The cystic tumours of bone have been well described by Nelaton. They consist of cysts, having various kinds of fluid and sohd contents. The cysts may be unilocular, and these are commonly filled with solid matter ; or multilocular, and they then contain fluid. The solid masses are usually of a fibro-ceUular or fibro-cartilaginous character, filling up completely the cavity in which they are situated, and often attaining a very considerable size. They occiu' principally about the jaivs, and articular ends of long bones, especially the humerus, the femur, and the tibia. The cysts ivith fluid or semi-fluid con- tents attain a much larger size than the last, being often met ndth as lai’ge as a cocoa-nut or a foetal head. On section, they are found to be composed of multilocular cysts, each cavity having distinct walls, and often communicating Avith others. The fluid contained within these cysts is of various characters, thin and serous, sero-sanguinolent, viscid, or dark coloured, often associated Avith masses of fibrous tumoin, appearing as if it proceeded from the central softening of these large growths. The same situations are affected by the compound as by the single cysts, but they are also met Avith in the shafts of long bones. From AA’hatever part they proceed, their walls arc composed of expanded bone, not uniformly thinned, but thickened and nodulated at various parts, Avhilst it is perforated at others (Fig. 422). These cystic tumoins principally occur in adults, being rarely met Avith in children. They constitute smooth, round, or oA'al gTOAAflhs, increasing slowly, but steadily, Avith little or no pain ; the skin coA’ering them being of the normal coloin, and the A'eins usually blue, enlarged, and tortuous. hen a certain size has been attained, so that the shell of bone is expanded into a a cr} thin lamella, and before it is perforated, pressure oii the tumour occasions a peculiar crackling or rustling noise, like that produced by pressing together