436 OPIITJIALMIG SURGERY. Iridclcsis makes a I’cgnlav oiifclinocl pupil, of moderate size, largest towards the centre of the cornea (Fig. 509). In these diagrams the cornea is never represented : a central leucoma is supposed to exist in the present instance. The dotted circle shows the place of the pupil before displacement. The-, operation does not cause bleeding into the anterior chamber, and its subsequent complications. The pupil may be larger or smaller, but not veiy large ; and as it is made, so it remains definitely. Iriddesis has been much in vogue for cata- ract of that “ congenital ” form (lamellar and nuclear) in which some layers, or some parts of them, are definitely opaque, if centrally, vath a clear marginal part of the lens. This is a stationary form of cataract, and if atropine show a sufficient margin of clear lens, generally behind the iris, we may make there- an artificial pupil by displacement and ligature, and let the patient have the use of the natural lens, rather than substitute a glass. The Operation is done thus. The eye being exposed, and held with speculum and forceps, a broad needle is passed through the cornea at that part of the margin towards which it is desired to place the pupil. An assistant then places a little- loop of very fine black silk over the opening on the wet surface of the conjunc- tiva, and leaves it there. To draw out as much of the iris as is required, either an ordinary silver iris-hook is used, or, if it be desired not to include the whole breadth of the iris to be prolapsed, and the pupillary margin is to be left free, a cannula-forceps is used to seize the iris midway between its greater and lesser circumferences. The part of the iris which is to be secimed being now dravTi out by the corneal aperture, the assistant, holding in each hand a forceps with broad ends, like those used for puffing out eyelashes, seizes the ends of the ligature, and, when desired by the Surgeon, tightens the loop and leaves it. This he does whilst depressing a little the ends of the two forceps, so as to tie the knot-quite close to the cornea ; and he is careful not to pull the ligature -more one way than the other, lest the iris be dragged on one side, oi, being very delicate, and offering no perceptible resistance, it be very easily cut through. The ends of the loop are then cut ofl^ close to the cornea, the eye is closed, and both eyes are bandaged. If the knot have been sufficiently tight- ened, the portion of iris so strangulated and the little loop of silk vnU ffiop off in a day or two ; and the iris, meamvhile, has formed an adhesion within in front (anterior synechia). But by this method of proceeding the tiUimate results are often very unsatis- factory : the iris is confined, and a low chronic recurrent iritis, etc., may be set up which leads to far worse results than the state of things which the operation was intended to remedy. These artificial anterior sjmechise seem to be as per- nicious as are the common iritic posterior synechim. We have seen many instances iUustrative of this disagreeable truth. An excision of ins is a far safer though less attractive operation. If iriddesis be ever to be done, we prefer the proceeding with cannula-forceps, seizing the iris midway, and no the pupillary edge, as in this way much less confinement is caused ; and w icn hut a slifiit displacement of the pupil will effect the purposes of good vision, iriddesis may yet be permissible. , . n i Excision : Iridectomy.—This operation is especially ad^usable when a siderable opacity of the cornea leaves only a very when iritis has caused occlusion of the pupil (Fig. 568), total posterioi synechia