842 DISEASES OF THE BLADDEli. to protrusion of the mucous membrane of the bladder from beneath the new covering at the opening left at the root of the penis (Fig. 786), lead to a gi-adual increase in the size of the opening and a partial return of the symptoms. To prevent this, the fissured penis may be covered in by the following method. The whole front of the scrotum, including the dartos, together with the skin covering the lower side of the penis, are raised so as to form a bridge of skin connected with the groin at each side. This is lifted over the penis, and placed upon a raw surface prepared by turning down a collar or flap from the lower arched border of the new bladder-covering and fr-om the sides of the urethra and penis as far forwards as the gians. A continuous wire suture is apphed to keep the deep flaps in place ; and the transplanted scrotal structures are united to the border of the bladder-covering by a line of interrupted sutures (Fig. 787). The scrotal wound is readily closed by some wire sutm’es. By this means a sort of urethi’a is formed, containing the muscular tissue of the dartos in its roof, which may even give it a slight power of contraction, so as to enable the new bladder to retain small quantities of urine. This second stage of the opera- tion is often somewhat interfered with by erections of the penis. These are best controlled by ice-bags. The knees should be kept drawn up so as to reheve tension, especially in the first stage of the operation. After the cure is complete, the patient is often troubled by the gTowth of hair from the imder surface of the umbihcal flap, and the accumulation of phosphates upon the hairs and in the angles of the new bladder. This is best relieved by extracting the hairs with a pair of forceps, and by using weak acid injections to remove the accumulation of phosphates. CYSTITIS. Idiopathic inflammation of the bladder is of rare occui’rence. This disease most commonly originates either from traumatic causes, as from the passage of instruments, the irritation of broken fingments of calculus, &c. ; or it may arise from irritation produced by the application of blisters, the administra- tion of diuretics, or directly from the extension of gonorrhoea to the interior of the organ. Acute Cystitis.—The Symptoms of cystitis consist not only in local pain and weight about the hypogastric and iliac regions, with tenderness on pressure in these situations, and a good deal of constitutional irritation ; but in the existence of extreme irritability about the bladder. So soon as a few drops of urine collect, they excite so much irritation in this viscus that they cannot be retained, and are expeUed by a kind of spasmodic or convulsive effort, consti- tuting strangury, often accompanied by a good deal of tenesmus^ and great suffering. The urine will be found to be high coloured, mixed with more or less mucus or pus, and often tinged with blood. ^ ^ ■ Tmninatio)i.—K\\ acute attack of cystitis usually terminates in the chronic form of the disease, and thus gradually undergoes resolution. Occasionally, however, it terminates fatally ; and when this is the case, the patient s symp toms commonly assume an ataxic character, the tongue becoming brown an dry, the pulse rapid and weak, and the urine very offensive. On examination after death, it will commonly be found that the inflammation of the bladdci