URINARY CALCULUS. 794 primary disease, but is only induced secondarily Ly the inflammation and sloughing of the areolar tissue of the pelvis spreading to the contiguous serous membrane. The Trealment of such cases must be conducted on the ordinary principles that guide us in the management of diffuse inflammations. It is only by ad- ministering ammonia, with such a quantity of wine or brandy as the state of the system may indicate, together with such nourishment as the patient can take, that life can be preser^'cd. The disease is a depressing one, and requires a stimulating plan of treatment. Brodie has recommended that in these cases a free incision should be made throirgh the sloughy tissues about the wound into the rectum, in accordance with the general principles that guide us in the management of similar affections elsewhere. In one case of that kind that occim-ed under his care, he saved the patient by passing a curved probe-pointed bistoury into the wound to its furthest extremity, to the left side of the neck of the bladder; he then pushed it through the tunics of the rectum, and, draw- ing it downwards, divided the lower part of the gut together Avith the sphincter ; thus laying the wound and the rectiun into one. The relief was im- mediate, and the patient recovered. This plan of treatment certainly seems rational, and worthy of trial in similar cases. 2. Diffuse inflammation of the areolar tissue around the neck of the bladder and prostate arising from Bruising and Over-distension of the parts dining the extraction of a large calculus is, I believe, a more frequent occurrence than infiltration of urine, and fully as fatal. This sequence of lithotomy is especially npt to occm’ in those cases in which, in consequence of diseased kidneys, or the existence of other organic mischief, the patient is more than usually liable to the supervention of diffuse or erysipelatous inflammation ; indeed, it is in this indirect way, I believe, that diseased kidneys constitute such a formidable •obstacle to the safe performance of lithotomy. In the extraction of large calculi, considerable traction is required, and force must be exerted; hence undue bruising and laceration are very apt to be inflicted upon the parts that constitute the line of incision. It is in this way that the danger of lithotomy increases almost in exact proportion to the size ■of the calculus : for here the Sm-geon is often placed betiveen the horns of a dilemma. He must either cut beyond the limits of the prostate, and thus incur the risk of inducing urinary infiltration into, or diffuse inflammation of, the pelvic fascirn : or else, by hmiting his incision to the margin of the gland, .and thus having, perhaps, an aperture of insufficient size, he may inflict severe injury by the bruising and laceration of parts during forcible and possibly prolonged efforts at extraction. It must, howei'er, be borne in mind that, the lai’ger the stone, the more probabihty is there of the existence of old-standing disease of the bladder or kidneys, and of an unfai'ourable result from this •cause. Crosse has draivn up a table that shows A'ery strikingly the influence of the weight or, in other w'ords, of the size of a calculus on the results of lithotomy. He found that when the stone was one ounce and under in weight, the deaths were in the proportion of 1 in 11-25 cases. 'WTien it was fr-om 1 to 2 ounces in iveight, there ivas 1 death in G-Gl cases: when from 2 to 3 ounces, 1 death in 2-18 cases : Avhen from 3 to 4 ounces, 1 death in D57 cases : ivhen from 4 to 5 ounces, 1 death in TGG cases. This table, which has been con-