DISEASES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 398 Calculi are occasionally met with in the nasal foss£e, where they simulate foreign bodies ; and here extraction may he practised with a pair of forceps. But sometimes these rhinolites are situated under the mueous membrane. In two cases I have disseeted round calcareous bodies of this kind, of about the size of cherry-stones, from mider the mueous membrane of the ala of the nostril in children. The Frontal Sinuses, though rarely, are occasionally the seat of disease. Abscess may foiTU here, with much pain and expansion, and possibly caries of their anterior wall, attended by the local signs of inflammation and by danger of concomitant inflammation of the membranes of the brain. In such circum- stances it may be proper for the Surgeon to remove by a small trephine the anterior wall of the sinus, and thus give exit to the retained pus. In other instances, again, the anterior waU of the sinus may be necrosed and perforated, the aperture being felt under a puffy tumour of the scalp. Here also the trephine is required. Distension with serous fluid has also been described as having occuired in some cases. There are a few cases recorded in surgical writings, of Polypi springing from these sinuses, and finding their way down into the nose after producing expansion of it and much inconvenience. Here likewise the propriety of trephining and so extracting the morbid mass would have to be considered. Tumours and Ulcers of the Cheeks.—The cheeks are occasionally the seat of Encysted Tumours and Cancerous Growths, either springing from their inner surface, or taking their origin as Lupoid Ulcers on the outside. cases is always to a great extent and often entirely intermittent, ceasing in the interval between meals, and becoming very abimdant during mastication. 'TLo T^-Dniwicni. is bv 110 mcans Satisfactory, the attempt at union of the The Encysted Tumours in this situation may readily be removed by a little simple dissection. If they be attached to, or lie close under, the mucous membrane of the mouth, they may be dissected out fr'om within, without interfering with the cutaneous structures. Cancerous TJlcm's and Tumours, such as is represented in Fig. 550, seldom admit operative inter- ference. Fig. 550.—Cancerous Ulcer of Clieek. Salivary Fistula.—One of the most troublesome sm-gical affections situated in the cheek is Salivary Fistula, occurring in consequence of injury, abscess, or ope- ration, by which the parotid gland or duct has been opened, so as to cause a trickling of sahva through the external aperture- made into it. The flow of saliva in these