OPERATION' JN FEAIORAL COXALGfA. 3^5 l)j tlic removal of diseased bone. For the same reason—the preservation of life from hcctie—that the Surgeon amputates in an extreme case of suppu- rating disorganisation of the loiee-joint, he excises in an extreme ® disorganisation of the osseous structures that enter into the foi-mation of the hip-joint: amputation is Irere too formidable a proceeding to be mrdertaken, and yet the removal of the diseased bone, the irritotion and suppuration from ■which is rapidly destroying the patient, is an imperative necessity. And licre it is impossible not to be struck with the strange inconsistency o t ose Surgeons n'ho, looking upon caries of the bones entering into the conformation of tire hip-joint as necessarily fatal, yet condemn as improper the only means of saving the patient’s life—viz., the excision of the diseased osseous strrrctm-es —and blame others for performing an operatiorr which has saved the lives of numerous jratients affected by a disease which they themselves have declared to be incurable. The Femoral coxalgia is that form of the disease that is most benefited by operation. In sev’ere and extreme cases of this ■s’ariety of hip-joint disease, the upper epiphysis of the thigh-bone will be found lying in a state of caries on the dorsum ilii, irr a suppm’ating cavity, with sirruses leading dowrr to it. The pelvic bones arc sound ; the acetabulum is filled by fibro-plastic matter of a reparative character, though possibly it may be slightly roughened arrd necrosed at one lip. The soft structures in the gluteal region are thinned and wasted ; the limb is incurably shortened, atrophied, and adducted. In such cases as these, the patient will probably perish, if left to the unaided efforts of nature ; or if he recover, after years of suffering, it wiU be with a limb [shortened, deformed, and but little useful. Resection, being limited to the upper end of the thigh-bone, or at most to the roughened lip of the acetabulum as well, is an easy operation, removes the cause of the wasting discharges and hectic, and in no way increases the already existing shortening, as it is limited to that portion of diseased bone which is already lying above and behind the acetabulum, and which is affected by incurable caries of too extensive and deep-seated a character to disintegrate and crumble away in the discharges, so that a natural cure 'udthout operation could take place. Excision of the head of the femur has hitherto been done almost exclusively in advanced cases of the disease ; but Aiinandale advises that recomse be had to it in the earlier stages. In those cases of hip-disease in which signs of .suppuration are present, he recommends that an antiseptic exploratory incision be made into the joint, and the head of the femin examined ;—if found diseased, it should be removed by sawing though its neck. Should there bo osseous disease beyond this in the acetabulum or in the femur, it must be cut away. Annandale is led to recommend early operation of the kind mentioned m cases of hip-disease in which signs of suppuration exist, by the considera- tion that the head of the femur is usually carious in these cases, and that its caily removal is likely to clicck the further progress of the disease, and to leave the patient with an useful and movable limb. In the Acetab-olar Pel-vic form of coxalgia, the idtimatc result is, I Jjclicve, inevitably fatal, if the disease be allowed to run its own course un- checked by 0])eration. Large portions of the pelvic bones in and around the acetabulum—such as the ischium, the tuber and ramus of the ischium, the