OFHTUALMIG S URGEli Y. 464 brauc. In the centre sometimes is found a button-like projection of some of the soft parts left outside the mucous membrane in the healing of the scar, and constricted by it to a narrow neck in the centre behind the projection. It is easily snipped off with a pair of curved scissors. Less deformity or greater perfection in simulating the appearance and movements of a lost eye may be, no doubt, obtained by abscission ; but it is generally a short-sighted policy, and very often as dangerous in the end, though brilliant at the time, as was the old operation of couching for cataract. There is but one serious mishap after an excision-operation ; and that is, con- tinued bleeding from the deep-seated soft parts many hours after the operation. It arises from parts inaccessible from their being far back in the orbit, and so much the more so when the areolar tissue of the orbit and lids is distended with blood : these become so tense and prominent, and pressure is so difficult of application in the midst of so much infiltrated areolar .tissue and fat, even if one knew exactly whence the bleeding came, that it is difficult to overcome it when it occurs. It has never but once occiuTed to me since I have used the cold water as above described, and the sponge and tight bandage sub- sequently to this, after the operation. In a pre^dons case, very early in my practice, where perhaps in doing the operation I had not merely divided the parts close to the globe of the eye, I was called to the patient in the night after I had operated. The lids formed two enormous red protrusions, and a little stream of blood flowed continuously from between them : I tried the actual cautery ineffectually, and succeeded at last by thrusting long pointed rolls of bnen soaked in tincture of perchloride of iron, in different directions, into the spongy mass. It can never be Avorth while to do the operation of abscission in any case, otherwise faA'Ourable for the operation, unless the patient intend to wear a glass eye ; if he do not, the globe had certainly better be excised at once: and in such case, an operation has sometimes been done to create a permanent artificial ptosis, by removal of a part of the lex^ator palpebrm muscle near its insertion into the cartilage of the upper lid, by an incision through the skin, just below the upper edge of the orbit; the lid then falls, and the vacant space is always covered by it. If, instead of carefully preserving the conjunctiva, as in cases of excision of the eye in Avhich an artificial eye is to be worn, it be all removed, the lids will be evenly and permanently closed, and this I have done in some such cases. As to the old operation for extirpation of the globe, in Avhich a great part of all of the surrounding contents of the orbit were, with it, remOA*ed with a large knife, it is ncA'er necessary, and therefore it is never done by able Surgeons, except in cases in which a malignant or other growth has penetrated the coats 1 of the eye from Avithin, and extended more or less into the soft parts around. ' Then these parts must be Avidely cut array, when the globe is excised, Avith a j knife or scissors, as may be most conA’enient. ^ . , Ajbscission.—A fcAV years ago this operation was much more in use than it now is. It is applicable to cases in which there is no essential pain, m Avhich the disease, stagihyloma cornea, generally, is confined to the fr-ont of the globe, so that by this operation, at least probably and mainly, all the parts disease may be removed.