541 OF QiSOPlIAGUS. treatment OF STRICTURE without assignable cause, or being referred to ^ ^e’^mpk t tion (lenerally, on passing an instrument, we find that P fiCns sSeture it pasL smoothly, and gives no sensation of roughness, no feelin- of lacerating its way, or as if it were passing over an ulcerated sniface , no blood follows its withdrawal, and the patient does ''T£°is\io •and blood, though there may be copious mucous discharge, iheie is 10 material enlargement of the neck, no swelling of the cervical gland, no sigi Stricture.—In the malignant or cancerous stricture the instrument seems to pass over a rough and ulcerated surface, its introduction is fol- lowed by blood, and the patient coughs np blood, or blood and pus, mixed often with shreds of tissue—conditions all indicating a loss of substance (Fig. G40). There is also, generally, an ovoid or elongated swelling at the root of the neck ; the neighbouring glands may be affected ; there maybe cancerous tumours elsewhere; and the symptoms of the cancerous ca- ■chexia may be present. A fibrous stricture may, however, and very commonly does, degenerate into a malignant one—into epithehoma, though, perhaps, not into £cirrhus or encephaloid. The special causes of cancer of the oesophagus are not known. Treatment.—The treatment of stric- ture of the oesophagus will depend upon its nature. In the hysterical variety, the occasional introduction of a fuU-sized oesophagus-bougie, the application of bella- donna to the neck, and antihysterical treat- ment generally, iron, aloetics, douches, and diverting the patient’s mind from her malady, ai-e the means to be employed, advantageously employed large does of assafoetida. . The treatment of organic stricture is more difficult. In it care should be taken that the patient is principally kept upon nutritious slops, or upon meat that has been well chopped up, as larger fragments are apt to become impacted at the seat of constriction. The difficulty in deglutition udll, however, gra- dually increase, the patient being unable to swallow solids, then being reduced to pulpy food, and at last to liquid. After a time, he will not even be able to swallow these ; and then it becomes necessary for the Surgeon to feed him by •the introduction of a gum elastic catheter through the stricture, and the injec- tion of a sufficient’quantity of liquid or semi-pultaccous nourishment into the stomach twice a day. After a lew weeks, the irritation induced by the repeated dntroduction of the catheter will render its passage more and more difficult. Fig. 1)40.—Epitlielioina of Phaonix .aiiil Qisopli.igus causing Stricture. In such cases, Gan-od has very