DIAGNOSIS OF ENLARGED liURSJE. 337 parts of the body ; thus frequent kneeling will occasion enlargement of the buma patellte, hence called “ housemaid’s knee.” Miners are occasionally subject to an enlargement of the bursa lying over the olecranon, hence called “miner’s elbow” (Fig. 501); and in any situation a new bursa may be formed by continuous pressure and friction conjoined. The four follo\nng pathological conditions may occur in the bursee in any part of the body. 1. The bursa may, in consequence of continued pressure or iiTitation, become simply enlarged and filled by the excessive secretion of a clear sero- syno'^ial straw-coloured fluid. 2. Inflammation may take place in the bursa with or Avithout previous enlargement. The inflammation so set up speedily runs on to suppui-ation ; and Avhen the tumom- is opened, fluid, consisting of an admixture of the bursal secretion and pus, escapes. The bursa, Avhen its contents have suppurated, may either give way externally, pointing like an ordinary abscess, and the integuments covering it sloughing ; or the pus may escape subcutaneously, and fonn a vridely spread abscess around the part. 3. The enlarged bm’sa may contain a dark fluid, usually of a broAvnish colour, Avith a large niunber of small flattened elongated bodies, of about the size of gi'ains of rice or of melon-seeds, floating in it. These bodies are of a fibroid or fibro-plastic structure, resembling masses of imperfectly developed exuda- tion-cells, and are apparently portions of disintegrated lymph. 4. The AvaUs of the bimsa may gradually thicken by the deposit of loAvly organised lymph in its interior, until the tumour becomes perfectly solid, or at most contains but a small cavity Avith a little serous fluid in its centre. The section of a bursa thus solidified presents a laminated or foliated appear- ance. Enlarged bursm are readily recognised; forming, whilst their contents are thin and serous, indolent oval tumom-s with distinct fluctuation, commonly occiuring in the situation of some of the normal bursm. As they become more sohd they become elastic and hard, and often crackle on being pressed when they contain the rice-shaped bodies ; but at last they acquire aU the characters of an ordinary solid growth, as the deposition Avithin them increases. ^ Not unfrequently these enlarged burs® inflame ; or, indeed, an. attack of inflammation in them may be the first cause of their enlargement. In either case they become hot and tense ; the skin covering them is red, often c^oughy and cedematous ; and although there is no connection between the- Dursa and the neighboimng joint, yet it may happen that the inflammatory continuity of tissue. Suppm-ation A ey irequently occurs m an inflamed bursa ; the tension increases, the oedema characTor''wr°“!t 7"" considerable, and the pain assumes a throbbing slou^S^fiv ''' shreds of siouguy tissue, is evacuated. tumours must depeud entirely pou then nature and actual condition. When they arc ii flamed rest general ant,-,„flammat„ry treatment, will eommouly subdue the Sated VOL. II.