26i EXCISION OF THE RADIUS OR ULNA. of a"'0, complete reco^'el•y took place. He had a most iiselul arai, regaining the fom- movements of the joint, pronation, supination, flexion, and exten- sion, and this notwithstanding his being of a most striimous habit. Six moiiths after the excision he was obliged to have one thigh amputated for disease of the bone, and he eYcntiially died at the end of two . and a half years, of caries of the spine. Results.—Excision of the elbow-joint, so far as life is concerned, is a very successful operation. The result, when it is practised for compomid fracture or dislocation, has been abeady stated at pp. 41G, 489, Vol. I. AYhen practised for disease it is equally satisfactory; and indeed death can only occur from some unforeseen and accidental complication, such as may and does follou any operation. I have lost only one patient out of veiy many in whom I have excised the elbow-joint. The principal danger after this operation arises from ditfuse suppiu-ation of the medullary canal of the humerus. I have seen this happen in two fatal cases in the practice of others, phlebitis and pymmia de- veloping themselves in a secondary manner in both instailces ; and in a third, in which the patient lost his hfe, it is probable that death, which was attributed to pneumonia, remotely occurred from the same cause. The result, so far as utility of limb is concerned, is equally satisfactory. If proper cai-e be paid to the after-treatment, a strong arm, useful for all the piu-poses of life, uith an articulation capable of the foim normal movements of the joint, viz., flexion, extension, prouation, and supination. If the whole of the articular ends be excised, and if passive motion be employed, or the limb be kept suspended in a sling merely without splints after a few weeks have elapsed, ankylosis uiU but -very rarely take place. Should there be danger of this occiuTence, the patient should be put under chloroform, and forcible flexion and extension employed, or the limb placed on a sphnt with a hinge- joint and rachet apparatus, which will admit of its being moved daily by the Sm-geon; care being taken that it be kept flexed rather than extended. Undue mobility is rai-e ; I have never seen it foUow excision for disease, but have met Avith it in one case—that of a young woman, the lower end of whose humerus Avas completely disorganised by a fall, and the elbow-joint opened. In this case the loAver epiphysis of the humerus Avas excised, together with the articular ends of ^the ulna and radius. A good recovery took place ; but, although every care Avas taken to support the limb on splints, a A'ery movable joint AA'as loft. This I attributed to the whole of the lower epiphysis of the humerus haA'ing heen extirpated, and the union taking place betAA'^eon its shaft and the bones of the forearm in an imperfect manner. Ulxa or Radius.—One or other of the bones of the forearm has occasion- ally been excised with advantage, leaving a sufficiently useftd limb with good poAAcr in the hand. Carnochan of Now York and Jones of Jersey havn suc- cessfully excised the whole idna. In a case recorded, by Weist (U.S.) nearly the AAhole ulna was removed on account of gunshot Avouud. Care Avas taken to preserve as much as possible of the periosteum ; and reproduction of the bone, forming a very useful limb, had taken place at the end of a year. Butts of Virginia has removed the Avholc radius. In a Avoman ayIio Avas under my care about twenty years ago, I also resected successfully the Avhole radius, Avith the exception of its articular head, Avhich Avas sound (Fig. 451); and an useful