DISEASES OF ARTERIES. (loos not always appear to be the case, but that it often is so, is by no means improbable. An artery in which inflammation has taken place may have its nutrition so modified as to become more susceptible to early and extensive degeneration, the plastic matters thrown out being especially liable to undergo changes leading to conversion into fat and calcareous matter. Some arteries are more liable to these structural lesions than others; and the o'elative frequency of the various forms of deposit varies in different arteries. Thus the ascending aorta is most subject to fatty degeneration, whilst the cal- careous transformation is most frequently met vdth in the arch and abdominal portion of the vessel. The arteries of the lower extremities (viz., the femoral, the popliteal, and the tibials) are chiefly affected with calcareous deposits, whilst the fatty are commonly met mth in the vessels of the brain ; and some arteries appear to be exempt from disease ; thus, Tiedemann states that he has never found the oesophageal arteries ossified. The difference in the liability of different arteries to disease is, no doubt, in a gi’eat measure, to be accounted for by the different degrees of development of the longitudinal fibrous coat in different parts of the arterial system—this being, I believe, in most instances the primary seat of the affection. Thus, in the aorta, the coronary arteries, and those of the brain, in which it abounds, we find these transformations frequent. The distance of the tibials from the centre of circulation, and the consequent diminished nutritive activity of their coats in old people, may account for the frequency of their degeneration. Those points of the arteries, likewise, upon which the shock of the onward wave of blood is most directly received, are more subject to degeneration than neighboui'ing parts of the continuity of the Avail of the vessel. This is especially observable at the origins of the arteries that spring from the arch of the aorta, and at the bifurcation of the iliacs, the popliteals, &c. ; in fact, at aU parts of the arterial system on which great pres- sure may be thrown, and Avhere the vessels may consequently be overstrained. It is also not improbable that the increased pressure of the blood upon the coats of arteries that lead to diseased organs, through which the circulation is obstructed, may tend to their degeneration, and eventually to their rupture. Sex exercises but httle general infiuence on the hability to disease in the arterial system, though it specially tends to the occiuTence of those changes in certain arteries. Thus Bizot states that the arteries of the upper extremity are most frequently diseased in women, and those of the lower in men, and Moxon states that amongst women it is most common in, those who follow laborious employments. Amongst men, also, those who are subjected to great strains in their work, more especially if that strain be intermittent as well as violent, arc more liable to degeneration of the coats of the arteries. Iiocal Effects.—The structmal lesions that have just been desci’ibed produce certain local effects, often of considerable importance, on the parts AA^ich the affected vessels supply with blood. For the proper and healthy nutrition of a limb or parr to be carried on, two great conditions arc required, so far as its arteries are concerned :—1, that the integrity of the structure of the A\alls of the vessels continue perfect; and, 2, that their channels remain pervioiAS for, although the arterial system possesses remarkable conservative powera in its arrangement and distribution that tend to counteract these effects, yet, by slow degrees, a deterioration of function and disintegration of structure take place