58o DISEASES OF THE BREAST. of tlie submammary areolar tissue. Tf tlie patient’s strength be good, leeches may be applied ; iu the majority of cases, however, they will not be required, but warm lead lotions or the assiduous application of camomile or poppy fomentations may be substituted in their stead ; at the same time, the milk should be drawn off by means of a breast-pump or sucker, the child being put to the unaffected breast or weaned, and an occasional saline purgative admini- stered. When suppuration is impending, the application of fomentations may be continued, the patient being allowed a more liberal supply of nourishment, with a moderate supply of malt liquor ; and, so soon as matter can be felt, it should be cut domi upon and let out by an aperture in the most dependent position. It is of great importance that the matter should be let out early, and by an opening into the lowest part of the abscess ; if it be not, it burrows deeply, diffusing itself through the areolar tissue under, beyond, and around the gland, and opening at several points, leaves long fistulous tracks perforat- ing the breast in various directions. When suppuration is going on, the patient’s strength must be supported with tonics, the mineral acids, bark, and quinine. Porter must be liberally allowed, and plenty of nourishment given. The sinuses that are left may usually be induced to close by attention to the state of the general health : should they not do so, however, the employment of pressure and the use of stimulating injections may, in time, accomplish this. In the event of their proving rebellious, it has been proposed to slit them up ; but this is au unnecessarily severe practice, and may, I believe, in aU cases be dispensed with. Chronic Abscess of the Breast may assume two forms ; the Diffused, and the Circumscribed or Encysted, Chronic Biffnsed Abscess of the breast may occur at all ages, in the single or in the manled. It usually appears iu the submammaiy areolar tissue, often without any external exciting cause, but as a consequence of impaired health, in strumous or cachectic females, and is often connected with uterine derange- ment. It may acquire a very large size, aud, pushing the mammary gland before it, gives the breast a conical pointed shape. Fluctuation soon becomes apparent, and the ordinary local signs of chronic cold or congestive abscess disclose themselves. The Treatment of chronic diffused abscess ot the hreast consists in making a free outlet for the pus in a dependent situation, and keeping it free with a drainage-tube ; at the same time that the general health is improved with iron or cod-liver oil on ordinary medical principles. Chronic Encysted Abscess of the breast is a disease of great impoitance, inasmuch as it closely simulates various tumours in this situation ; so much so indeed, that it is only with extreme difficulty that the diagnosis is effected in’some cases. The breast has in numerous instances been amputated on the supposition of its being the seat of tumour, when it was merely the seat of a very chronic thick-walled abscess. It usually commences as the result of preg- nancy, whether complete parturition or miscarriage take place sometimes as a consequence ot lacteal jneammation, but usually without any injury or othei direct local cause. An indurated indolent swelling forms, and “ ■ > gradually soften in the centre j but fluctuation may for a long J "ndistineft, and eren absent, being obsetued by the tluclr wall of plastic