142 SPECIAL ANEURISMS. Iroe incisions througli the muscular pianos that arc necessary ; the gToat ad\-antao-e attending- it is, that the external iliac may be ligatured at any part of its course, and that, if requisite, the incision may be extended upwards, und the common trunk secured. In Sir A. Cooper’s operation, the line of incision lies directly across the com-se of the epigastric arteiy, which, as well cis the ciicumflex ilii, if it arise high, and the circumflex vein, which ci’osses the iliac artery at this point, and is often somewhat tunnel-shaped, may be in dan^mr of being wounded. The spermatic cord is likewise somewhat in the way in this operation. Dupuytren actually wounded the epigastric artery in one case ; mid Houston had much difficulty from the circumflex vein in another instance! This operation had also the disadvantage, that by it it is impossible to prolong the incision upwards so as to deUgate any portion of the vessel except that which lies immediately above the crural arch ; but the peritoneum is less dis- tm’bed than in the other case, and there is less tendency to hernial protrusion afterwards. As a general rule, I think we may conclude that, in cases of spon- taneous anem'ism, in which it might, from the size of the tumom- or the diseased ■state of the vessels, be found necessaiy to apply the ligature to a higher point than was intended before the operation commenced, it will be safer to have xecourse to Abernethy’s plan, modified as above described, as in this way we •shall be able to ligature the vessel at any part of its course ; whilst in cases of ha3morrhage after amputation, or of traumatic femoral aneurism, in which the urteiy is not likely to be diseased, recourse should bo had to Cooper’s operation, more particularly if the patient be thin, and the abdomen flat. In comiection with the ligature of the external iliac artery, there are some practical points that deserve mention. Before the operation, the colon should be emptied by means of an enema, and the pubes shaved. The incision in the abdominal wall must be sufficiently extensive ; but, at the same time, it must not be carried too far forwards at its lower angle, lest it implicate the epigastric vessels. These may be roughly stated to lie at first nearly parallel to the course of the external iliac, but soon turn inwards. It shoidd of comse never be allowed to implicate the external ring, lest it give rise to a tendency to hernial protrusion. Care should be taken not to wound the peritoneum ; for, although two patients in whom this was done by Post and Tait both recovered, yet it is of coiu’se a dangerous accident, and should if possible be avoided. The peri- toneum must not be torn up more than is absolutely necessary, lest htemor- rhage or subsequent peritonitis occin ; and especial care must be taken that the fascia transversahs be properly divided, otherwise the iliac fascia may be stripped up vdth the peritoneum, and the artery in this way dragged out of its normal situation into the upper and inner angle of the wound, occasioning gTcat embarrassment to the operator, who may not be able to find it. The separation of the peritoneum is much facihtated by the Sm'geon holding the outer cut edge of the transversahs fascia tightly in his forceps with one hand, whilst he gently raises the bag of the serous membrane udth the other out of the iliac fossa, and separates its areolar connections there. All this must be done with the utmost gentleness and care. Before attempting to pass a hgaturc loiuid the vessel, the thin fascia covering it must be scratched through; and the areolar connections with the vein, which arc very thin and loose, must be sepai’ated by means of a director, or the end of the aneiu’ism-ncedlc. Ihc