477 DIAGNOSIS OF TUMOURS OF UPPER JAW. nature of the disease -will be re^’caled by the integuments becoming involyed, the gums implicated, and perhaps the submaxillary absorbent glands enlarged. Diafjnosis.—In the diagnosis of these tumoiu’S groAving in the upper jaAA’, there are three principal points to be attended to :—1, to distinguish the groAvth from fluid accumulation ; 2, to determine AA'^hether the growth be simple or malignant ; and, 3, to ascertain its primary seat. 1. In making the diagnosis from fluid accumulaiion in the antrum, the history of the case, and the uniform enlargement of the caAity Avithout the tumoiu’ projecting externally beyond any part of its walls, the elasticity and even fluctuation that may, after a time, be detected, more particularly toAvards the outer side of the tumour, and at the junction of the mucous membrane of the cheek and the gum, will enable the Sm-geon to determine that it is not solid. But in many cases that is not sufficient; and it becomes necessary to make an exploratory puncture by means of the perforator, through one or other of the more thinned and expanded parts already indicated. This should never be omitted in cases of doubt; for it has happened even to so good a Siu’geon as <rensoul that, after making incisions through the cheek with the view of ex- tirpating the tumour, the bones were found to be expanded by an antral abscess, mid that, consequently, the operation had been undertaken unnecessarily. 2. In determining whether the growth be simple or malignant, the Sm-geon An'll experience much difficulty, so long as it is confined to the cavity of the antrum ,• but when once it has perforated and passed beyond its Avails, this point is easily solved. Yet, even whilst the tumour is still confined AAithin the antrum, much light may be thrown upon its natm-e by attention to the rapidity of its growth ; the greater this is, the more reason there is to suspect that it IS malignant. Too much importance, however, must not be attached to this sign; for though, as a general rule, fibrous and cartilaginous tumours may increase less rapidly than the malignant, yet they may attain a A'ery great nilk in a short space of time. The age of the patient is of comparatively little value in the diagnosis ; I think, however, that, as a general rule, simple umoms nmst frequently occur in the young, whilst the malignant forms of tue affection are commonly met with at the middle or advanced periods of importance, in a diagnostic point of view, to examine the Xn r . is malignant, they mv ThT indurated at a very early period. In a case under defri^nLrV 1 character of a tumour, whilst still in the antrum, was "lands Ivino-1 i ° ^ indurated lymphatic arily affected ^ become second- ^owth It 1 fi^^o^Ttion, before the bones had been perforated by the run nnJLuZ u' many of the sarcomata Avhich rin" in internal ^ mfiltrating suiTounding parts and reciir- onc'p a TnnT ' s-ffect the lymphatic glands. When thus reliovSTn heyoncl the cavity of the antrum, and is sinuatinv itself e,t " i P®™™'! to bo soft and elastic, In- throuifhftc f ™PS and orbit; its caX nrot™ on the nasal cavity y p lusion into those cavities is especially chai-acteristic of