URINARY GALCULUS. 784 Amyloid Tumours in the Prostate constitute sometimes rather a serious diffi- | culty in lithotomy. They may do this in two ways ; first, by elongating the ' prostatic part of the urethra to so groat an extent as to caiTy the neck of the bladder far from the surface ; and, secondly, by being in the way during ex- traction of the stone. A tumour of this kind, an inch or more in diamotei', necessarily fills up to a very serious extent the space in the wound through which the stone has to pass ; it jams up the orifice and prevents the free play of the forceps. These tumours, however, when caught between the blades or shanks of the forceps, soon shell out, and, rolling out of the wound, allow the easy exit of the calculus after them (Fig. 751). Richets of the Pelvic Bones may constitute a serious or even an insuperable obstacle to the extraction of a calculus. This condition may act in two ways. It may narrow the brim of the pelvis in its antero-posteriox^ diameter, to so gi-eat an extent as to prevent the passage of the stone downwards after it has been seized by the forceps. This condition is more to be feared in children, in whom the bladder, being an abdominal organ and lying high, is altogether above the brim of the pelvis in these cases. Or there may be difficulty in the extraction of the stone through the inferior outlet, owing to the approximation of the rami on each side. The first cause of difficulty once ocemred to me, in operating on a very rickety boy four years and a half old. Of the second I have had no experience. The rickety condition of the pelvis may be suspected in cases in which the lower limbs are much distorted. Its existence may he ascertained by digital exploration of the rectum, and by external measure- ments. If it be found to exist to an extreme degree, it would probably be safer to perform the suprapubic operation. Difficulty deinndiny icpon the Shape and Size of the Stone.-—If the stone be very round, it is usnally more difficult to seize than when flat or elon- gated. Flat, disc-shaped calculi, however, occasionally fall into the fundus of the bladder behind the prostate, and then cannot be readily reached by the forceps, which passes over them. In these circumstances, they are best ex- tracted by the curved scoop. Very flat broad calculi, and those that are round, egg-shaped, or branched, are the most difficult to remove, even though their size be not very great. As a general rule, however, it may be stated that, the larger the calculus, the more difficult is its extraction. This arises not so mixch from the outlet of the pelvis being too naiTow, as from the irecessity of making the internal incisions through the prostate to a very limited extent. There will always be considerable difficulty experienced in extracting calculi weighing six or eight ounces and upwards; though cases are recorded by Cheselden, Klein, and others, in which calculi from twelve to fifteen ounces in weight have been extracted by the lateral operation. Any calcidus above one inch and a half in its shorter diameter will present con- siderable difficulties in being extracted through an incision in the prostate of the ordinary size ; viz., not exceeding eight lines in length, even though this , be considerably dilated by the pressure of the fingers ; and I think it may be safely said, that a calculus two inches and upwards in diameter can scarcely be removed by the ordinary lateral operation with any degree of force whicli it is safe to employ. The practice adopted in such a case, more than a century ago, by Gooch, of Norwich, is probably the best that can be pm-sued. It con-