DEFORMITIES. 372 that in whicli the Ilnmslrmgs are Contradecl, cither alone or in addition to those results of ehronic inflammatory action within the joint that have just been described. Tn these cases the hamstrings will be found to be tight; and, in proportion as the leg is extended on the thigh, they will become more tense, until at last all further extension is resisted, a])parently by their traction, and not by any sudden check or stop -wathin the joint itself. Division of the Hamstring Tendons is in ordinary cases as simple an operation as any in surgery, unattended by any dilficulty, provided the Surgeon introduce the tenotome parallel and close to the side of the tendon to he divided, and cut in a direction from the inside or popliteal aspect towards the skin. The outer hamstring will usually be found to be the most tense, and should first be divided. In doing this, the peroneal nerve might appear to be in danger ; but this may be avoided by keeping the side of the tenotome well against the inner edge of the biceps tendon, then turning the edge outwards, when passed deeply enough. The semitendinosus next requires division. The semimembranosus need not often be cut across. After the division of the tendons, tense aponeurotic bands will not unfrcquently be found to stretch along one or both sides, or perhaps doA\m the centre of the popliteal space. This may lead to the idea on the part of the Surgeon that he has not fairly cut the tendons across ; but this is an error. The bands alluded to are condensed sharp-edged prolongations of the fascia lata, formed during the period of con- traction of the joint by the retraction and thickening of this membranous expansion. Such condensations as these had better be left untouched, as they Avill readily stretch out under gradual extension, or be ruptured by forcible traction of the limb. If, on the other hand, the Surgeon be tempted by their apparently superficial and safe position to proceed to their division, he may lie led into a serious dilemma by being brought more closely into contact with the popliteal A’essels than is desirable or safe. In these cases, the anatomical relations of parts are so much altered by the narroAving of the popliteal space, and by the projection of the head of the tibia backwards, or by its lateral rotation, that the Surgeon is unable to calcidate Avith sufficient nicety the precise position of the large vessels and nerves in the neighbourhood of Avhich he is about to act; and he may thus injure one or other of these at a time AAffien he thinlvS that he is operating at a safe distance from them. After the division of the hamstrings, the knee does not commonly come readily into the straight position, OAving to the shortening of the posterior liga- ment ; and gradual extension, by means of proper apparatus, aauU be required to OA'ercome this and to stretch the adhesions within and around the joint. Contraction with. Lateral Displacement is not unfrcquently met Avith. In these cases the knee is contracted more or less in the angular direction ; but, in addition to this, the lower end of the thigh-bone is diiected iiraards, and perhaps somcAAffiat forAA'ards, and the tibia is rotated outv ards, caiiying the foot with it. There is thus a triple deformity—angular, mesial, and rotatory. I believe the angular to be the primary deformity and the mesial and rotatory to be secondary to this, arising partly from the efforts of the patient to walk by resting on the point of the great toe, and throwing the thigh inwards m order to effect this, and partly from the action of the biceps rotating the leg outAvards.