13S SPECIAL ANEUPdSMS. aortic tonrniqnct. That this instrument may be safely applied to the abdo- minal aorta from the highest point at which the artery can be reached to its bifurcation, is clearly proved by results of the cases above mentioned. In Durham and Moxon’s case, it is stated that “ by positioning the body of the patient, just sufficient space was afforded for the introduction of the pad of the tourniquet between the catilages of the ribs and the aneurism.” In Greenhow and Hulke’s case it was applied midway between the xiphoid cartilage and the umbilicus, immediately above the tumour. That three out of the eight cases have terminated fatally shows, however, that the operation is by no means devoid of danger. In Pollock’s unsuccessful case the patient suffered from hasmaturia, and in Greenhow’s case albumen appeared in the urine after the last operation, thus showing serious interference with the circulation in the kidney. In Marshall’s case the patient suffered from retention of mine for some days after one operation, probably from some injury to the hypogastric plexus. In Bryant’s case the post mortem examination showed bruising of the mesenteiy and intestine and peritonitis, and “ the tissues about the compressed aorta were loaded with effused blood.” In Paget’s case an abscess had formed in the mesentery, peritonitis had been set up, and the mesenteric artery was found to be compressed and flattened, and embolic clots were found in its branches. In Durham’s fatal case there were signs of bruising about the pan- creas, and the anemnsm was found to affect the mesenteric artery. The time diu’ing which the pressiue has been maintained has varied considerably. Mm.’- ray’s case was cm-ed by one appheation lasting five hours; Durham and Moxon’s in lOj hours ; Greenhow and Hulke’s, by three applications, lasting 55 minutes, 4 hours, and 3 hours. In Marshall’s case distal pressure was applied without serious consequences, on one occasion for 18 hoius, and on another for ID hours. Vomiting has been found to be a troublesome complication in several cases. Of the successful cases, Murray’s is the only one in which the pulsation of the tumour ceased permanently immediately after the operation. In Green- how and Hidke’s case it did not finally disappear tiU some days after the last appheation of the toiuniquet; and in Diuham and Moxon’s, although it ceased at the time, it retimied in a few horn’s, and persisted for a month before it finally disappeared. From the above cases, it vdll be seen that there is abundant evidence of the safety of the proximal operation, and sufficient probability of success to justify us in adopting it in every favoiuable case. Fiuther evidence is required before abandoning distal pressiue as absolutely useless. In Bi’yant s fatal case the sac was found to be filled Avith firm clot, which Avas considered to have been sufficient, had the patient lived, to have cured the aneurism. In Marshall’s case the tumoiu was thought to be slightly more solid after the operations, but no permanent effect was produced. The distal operation, hoAv- ever, does not seem a very hopeful one. The number and size of the branches coming off from the aorta at its upper part, and the frequency Avith Avhich the cocliac axis and its large branches are implicated, are very unfavoiuable circmn- stances for distal pressure. The anastomosis of the collateral vessels is, more- over, so small compared to the immense interference with the direct ciicu ation, that the only effect of distal pressiue must be for many hoius greatly to increase the tension in the vessels above. Ill performuig the operation of compression of the aorta under pro-