DISEASE OF THE IIIP-JOINT. 326 Tamils of the pubes and the dorsum ilii—fall into a state of necrosis; that cavity becomes perforated (Pig. 4!)0); and the head of the thigh-bone, still lying in> it, becomes denuded of its cartilaginous investment, roughened and carious, as is well seen in the annexed drawing (Fig. 491), taken from a patient of mine- who died of this form of the disease ; or it may be dislocated in a carious state on to the dorsum ilii. Large abscesses, intra- as well as extra-pelvic, fonn,and the patient dies worn out by hectic ; the natural efforts of the part being entirely unavailing to separate and to eliminate such large necrosed masses, deeply lying, and covered in by the upper end of the thigh-bone. Bemoval of Diseased Acetabulum and Pelvic Bones.—Until a very recent period. Surgeons feared to undertake the removal of large carious and necrosed portions of the pelvic bones, and acetabular disease of the hip-joint was accordingly allowed to run its fatal course unchecked. Hancock was the first Surgeon who undertook the removal of large portions of these bones, and since then the operation has been done several times by others. In no case has, I believe, more extensive disease been removed with a good result than in a girl who was sent to me some years ago by my friend Mr. Tweed, and from whom I removed the upper end of the thigh-bone, the acetabidiun, the rami of the pubes and of the ischium, a portion of the tuber ischii, and part of the dorsum ilii. This patient, when admitted into the Hospital, was in the last stage of disease, exhausted by the constant discharge, and must inevitably have speedily sunk under the effects of the disease, had no effort been made to remove the cause of the prostration. At the operation, she was so exhausted that it was necessary to leave her on the operating-table for some horns before she was sufficiently restored to bear moving into bed. Nevertheless, by the free use of stimulants and nourishing food, she improved rapidly; and when she recovered the limb jiresented the appearance in the drawing (Fig. 4!):2) ; it .was straight, shortened about two inches ; good movement existed at the hi]i; and she could walk with much case. Constitutionally, she was in perfect I’ig. 4StO.—Perforation of tlie Pelvic Bones in Acetabular Coxaigia. Fig. -lOl.—Carious Head of Tliigii-bone in Acetabular Coxaigia.