ANEURISM. The rupture, althougli originating in the internal coat, always extends between ^he layers of the middle one, splitting this np into two laminaj, and in some cases it also separates the middle from the external tunic of the vessel. On examining the artery in a case of dissecting aneurism, its coats will always be found to he easily separable from one another, and to he very lacerablc, often appearing soft and sodden as if macerated. For the production of this disetise, indeed, two conditions are necessary : 1. That there be atheromatous disease of the artery, destroying a portion of the internal and of the innermost layers of the middle coat; and 2. That there be not only a want of plastic matter eflPuscd about the diseased part of the vessel, but also a general softening of the tissue of the middle coat, with want of cohesion between the different tunics of the artery : this, indeed, maybe con- sidered as the essential condition dis- posing to the formation of a dissecting aneurism, and causing the disease to assume this rather than the sacculated form. The rupture constituting dissecting aneurism always takes jfface longitudi- nally along the middle coat, and may often extend to a very considerable dis- tance. Thus it may reach ft’om the arch of the aorta to the iliacs, or from the same part to the bifurcation of the carotids. The disease only occurs, how- ever, in the aorta, and in its princij)al branches—in those arteries, indeed, in which the middle coat is highly de- veloped, and the yellow elastic tissue abundant. Classes.—Dissecting anemdsms ar- range themselves into three distinct classes. 1. In one class, the blood, after having passed for a distance of several inches, or even more, through the substance of the middle coat, bursts through the external coat, and becomes effused into the areolar tissue outside the vessel and around the seat of rupture, or into the neighbouring ca’sdties (Fig. 353). In these cases, which constitute the most common variety of the disease, death usually occiu’s rajndly, the patient feeling intense pain along the line of rupture, and falling into a state of syncope. 2. The external coat may become so thickened and strengthened by the deposit of plastic matter, that it resists the impulse of the blood, which consequently continues to pass between the layers of the middle coat until it meets a softened and athero- matous patch, and then again bursts into the canal of the ai’tcry. In this form of the disease, the patient may live for years after the occurrence of the ruptiu’e; the new channel that the blood has taken becoming lined with a Fig. 353.—Euiiture of Lining Membrane of Aorta, giving rise to a Dissecting Aneurism wMcli burst into PericartUum. Aor-ta mucU dilated and covered with Calcareous Plates, except where the Anemism occurred: there it was atheromatous.