207 treatment of malignant disease. 207 Dsis from aneurism is necessarily unattended by any difficulty Treatment.—No means ai-e of any avail in cases of malignant disease of bone. except the removal of the diseased part by amputation or excision. These operations ai-e, however, not very promising, as there are few forms of malignant tumour in which the disease retmms more rapidly in a secondary manner than in that of the bones. The rapidity of recuiTence wiU, however, greatly depend upon the form of the disease, or the time when aminitatim is perfoiTued, and on the part where it is practised. Amputation should always, if possible, be performed in the earliest stage of the disease, befoi’e glandular or constitutional infection has set in. If the glands be enlarged, and cachexy have akeady occurred, little can be expected in the way of ultimate em’e : yet I have known cases in which, even in these unfavourable circumstances, the patients have made a good recovery, life ha^dng been prolonged for months. I believe that return is much more speedy and certain after amputation in the peripheral than in the central form of malignant disease of bone, provided that in the latter the whole of the bone has been removed ; this is due to the more ex- tensi^-e contamination of the soft parts in the former than in the latter case. The selection of the line at which amputation should be performed is of great importance, and the result wiU materially depend upon the judgment displayed in this. If the limb be removed in the continuity of the diseased bone, there must necessarily be a great probability of a very rapid return of the morbid action in the stump ; and this probability amounts to a certainty in those cases in which the disease is central, and in which the whole of the medullary canal and cancellous structure are implicated, and infiltrated with cancer. In cases of peripheral disease, this return in the same bone may not take place ; indeed, I have seen one case of the kind in which the disease affected the lower end of the tibia, and that bone was amputated in its upper third ; in this case, after a lapse of some months, fatal recurrence of the disease took place in the pelvic bones, but not in the stump. As, however, the peripheral is more rare than the central form of the disease, and as there are no means of ascertaining the precise kind before removal, the rule, I tliiuk, should be definite to amputate at or above the next joint—at the hip-joint, in malignant disease of the fennu’; in the thigh, for that of the bones of the leg ; and at the shoulder, when the upper arm is affected. When the lower part of the femur, however, is involved, amputation through the trochanters may sometimes be substituted for disarticulation at the hip-joint, the latter operation being so formidable and so fatal that the Surgeon may think it