951 INJECTION OF IODINE. introduction of the irritating fluid to restore the two functions of the membrane ; and the tunica vaginalis gradually ^ after the injection, as it would after the simple operation of tapping, it occa- sionally hap}iens that the patient may suffer excruciating of the injection, from the contact of the stimulating fluid with the surface of the testis, and yet little or no inflammation may be excited. Ihe amount 0 suflering, therefore, at the time of the operation is by no moans proportionate to the amount of consecutive inflammation likely to be set up. indeed, tne reverse would appear to bo the case in many instances ; and I have often observed that, in those cases which progress most steadily to a radical cure, there is but a moderate amount of pain experienced at the time of the injection. ^ ^ ^ There is a second way in which injections would appear to fail; a consider- able amount of inflammation is excited, and effusion takes place into the tunica vaginalis, which in the course of three or four days becomes distended to the same size, or nearly so, that it had attained previously to the operation ; but this effused fluid, instead of being absorbed by the end of the second or third week, remains luichanged in bulk, or absorption goes on to a certain point, and then seems to be arrested ; the tmiica vaginalis remaining distended with a certain quantity of fluid. A third way in which the faihu'e arises, is in consequence of the walls of the sac being so thickened that they cannot collapse. The proportion of cases in which the iodine injection fails to bring about a radical cime of the hydrocele is variously estimated by different Surgeons. Thus Sir J. R. Martin states that in India the failui’es scarcely amoimt to 1 per cent.; Velpeau calculates them at 3 per cent. I am not aware that any statistics of this mode of treatment in this country have been collected ; but the general opinion of Surgeons would appear to be decidedly in its favour, as being the most successful as w'ell as the safest plan of treatment that has yet been introduced. In this opinion I fully coincide : yet it is by no means improbable that the success of the iodine injection in this country might not prove to be quite so great as is generally believed. I have seen a considerable number of cases of simple hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis, both in hospital and in private practice, in which a radical cure had not been effected, although recourse had been had to the iodine injection by some of the most careful and skilful Siu-geons of the day, as well as by myself. It is especially apt to fail in men advanced in years. In them there is either not sufficient inflammation excited, or if it be, the fluid that is as a consequence effused into the tunica vaginalis is not re-absorbed. One circumstance connected with the injection of tinctm’e of iodine into the tunica vaginalis deserves note. It is that, although in some cases it occasions but little pain, in other instances the suffering induced by it is of the most severe and agonising character—more so than follows the introduction of any other of the ordinary stimulants into the tunica vaginalis. Seton.—The cure by the introduction of a seton, though formerly much employed, is seldom practised at the present day, chiefly on account of the danger of exciting too much inflammation. It may, however, conveniently be employed in the true hydroceles of children, and in some of those cases in