32 ANEURISM. Causes of Death from Aneurism.—An aneurism may prove fatal in various Avays. It does so Avlren internal, most frequently by p-esswre on parts of importance in its Aicinity, the patient being destroyed by the exhaustion induced by interference Avitb their functions ; this is usually the Avay in which aneurisms of the aorta occasion death. Then, again, death may result by the occurrence of syncope, more especially if the anemism be of large size, and •situated near the root of the aorta. Emholism of the cerebral arteries may occur in consequence of the detachment of a clot. External aneurism most commonly proves fatal by rupture of the sac; this may either take place into the interior of a limb, giving rise to one or other of the diffused forms of •aneurism, and terminate fatally by the induction of syncope or gangrene ; or an aneurism may kill by ruptm’e occurring externally, on'one of the smffaces ■of the body. Suppuration -with sloughing of an aneurismal sac is not of very hoquent occuiTence, but is especially apt to happen in those cases in which the tumour has increased rapidly, or has suddenly become diffused, 'with much heat and tension of neighbomlng parts. It is pecuharly liable to happen in tumoiu’s of a large size that have become partly diffused, that are filled ■with masses of decolorised fibrine, and that are situated in places where the areolar tissue is abundant and lax, as in the axilla. The symptoms of this condition impending are swelling, tension with heat, tlnobbing, and redness of the parts aroimd the tumour ; the integuments covering which pit on pressure, and are -evidently deeply inflamed, at the same time that there is a good deal of fever and general constitutional irritation. As the suppuration advances, the ordi- nary signs of congesthe abscess occur : the skin covering the tumoiu’ becomes red and livid at one part, where pointing takes place ; and if the Surgeon make an incision into it, or if the tiunoiu’ biu’st (as assuredly it Avill if left to itself), a quantity of sanious pus mixed ■with large masses of broken do'«m rig. 357.—Aperture in CEsoi)liagus proiluced by Pressure of an Aortic Aneurism. Fig. 358.—stellate Hupture of an Aortic Anem-isiu iuto Perieaixlium. coagula and fibrine Avill be let out. The discharge of the contents of the aneurismal sac, disintegrated by and mixed up Avith the results of suppuiative