189 XEGROSIS OF PATELLA xiXD RIBS. may be folfc or seen lying, dry and dark, at the bottom of a sinus or unhealed ulcer AVhen the petrous portion of the temporal bone is the seat of disease, thereivill have been ear-ache, followed by profuse fetid discharp from the ear, with perforation of the tympanum, escape of the ossicula auditiis, and deafness. ■\Vhen the s]ihenoid or the ethmoid is affected, deep pains in the head, persistent oedema of the eyelids, and fetid discharge from the nose, will reveal the nature and seat of the mischief. t .i The of necrosis of the cranial bones will vary according to the nature and the seat of the disease. In the dry pitted variety, exposing and scraping the diseased osseous surface or the application of a strong solution of sulphuric acid will often bring about a healthy action, provided the disease have not penetrated too deeply. Should there be reason to think that the inner table has been perforated, it will probably be safer to leave the case te the reparative processes of natiu’e than to trephine. If, however, the anteiioi wall of the frontal sinus be the seat of the disease, or if the supraorbital ridge be affected, the dry and rough bone may be safely removed, as I have on more than one occasion had to do, by the application of the trephine in the first instance, and of the gouge in the other case. AVhen exfoliating necrosis of the outer table, or of the whole thickness of the bone, affects the vault of the skull, the loosened plate may readily be lifted off its granulating bed hj means of the elevator or forceps, after it has been fairly exposed. Xecrosis of the petrous portion of the temporal bone may be looked upon as an inciu-able disease, which is usually fatal fr’om encephalitis. When the sphenoid or ethmoid is the seat of necrosis, little can usually be done by operative interference ; though in the latter case portions of sequestrum may sometimes be extracted thi’ough the nostrils, and in one extraordinary case under my care in University College Hospital, I removed through the mouth the whole body of the sphenoid bone. The patient, a man aged forty-three, had suffered fr’om syphilis for fifteen years, and fr’om disease of the bones of the nose and upper jaw for three years. The anterior part of the hard palate was destroyed, and it was through the fissure so formed that I removed the bone. The fragment included the sella Turcica, and the roots of the j)terygoid processes, but the clinoid processes could not be recognised. The patient had suffered from no cerebral symptoms except occasional headache and some loss of memory. He made a good recovery. The Patella is rarely necrosed. I have, however, met with two instances of primary necrosis of this bone. One case occurred in an eldeily woman. The disease came on without any evident extenial cause, commencing in the anterior part of the patella and gradually implicating the bone, until it became perforated, when rapid suppurative disorganisation of the knee-joint ensued, necessitating amputation. The other case occuiTed after simple fracture of the patella, in a man, and is described at p. 44G, vol. i. Ribs.—AVhen the ribs are necrosed, abscesses and sinuses will often form to a considerable extent on the side of the chest. These must be laid open, and the diseased portion of bone scraped away by the gouge. In doing this, care must of course be taken that the adjacent intercostal space be not punctured by an unfortunate slip of the instniment—an accident that is best avoided by protecting the gouge well with the finger.