EXCISION OF JOINTS. 24S always takes place by granulation, no accurate closing of the wound is neces- sary , but it is sufficient to lay the limb on a pillow, or well padded splint, and to apply water-dressing. "VATien it begins to granulate, more accurate attention to position is required. i). The constitutional after-treatment should be nourishing or stimulating. As there will be a great drain on the system, and a prolonged confinement to bed, the strength must be kept up under it by good diet. These operations are always serious; iu many cases fully as much so as the amputation of a corresponding part, or even more so, owing to the large wound that is often inflicted in the more extensive division of the bones ; to the necessity of making the incisions in the midst of diseased or injured structures ; and to the more prolonged character of the after-treatment. Hence it is of especial importance that the general health should be carefully maintained after these operations. 10. Should caries or necrosis return after the operation, secondarij resection may be required. This I have done successfully at the hip, shoulder, and elbow-joints. In the elbow, in one case I performed a third resection with perfect success; the two previous operations, which had been performed by other and different Surgeons, having failed. The success of these secondary resections will necessarily be greatly dependent on the possibility of establish- ing an improved state of the patient’s constitution. EXCISIONS OP THE UPPEB EXTREMITY. The whole of the upper extremity is subservient to the hand. It is to render this more widely useful as an organ of prehension and of touch that the shoulder, the elbow, and the wrist-joints are endowed with varied and extensive movements. But the movements of each one of these joints so supplement those of the others, that any one articulation may be removed, and yet the limb be left vith a sufficient range and variety of movements to render the hand useful for all the ordinary purposes of hfe. The limb may be shortened, and it may be weakened; and yet, if sufficient length and strerrgth be left to enable the individual to use his hand, an immense gain will result. The limb withorrt the hand would be an useless appendage. The hand left in its integrity is usefrrl in a great variety of ways, however mutilated the other parts of the rqrper extremity may be. Hence, provided the Surgeon carr save the hand, he rreed not hesitate to sacrifice other portions of the hmb ; and the shoulder, elbow, or wrist, may each and severally be removed, and the patient left in the possession of a most useful and efficient member ; shortened, it is true, and to a certain extent curtailed in its movements, but possessing all the delicate and intricate motions of the hand in full perfection and ft’eedom. Shoulder-JOINT.—Excision of the shoulder-joint may be required for two conditions : 1. Disease, and 2. Compound and Comminuted Fracture of the articulation. 1. Hxcisiou for Sisease.—For disease, excision is not so conunonly required in this as in many other articulations ; primary disease of the soft articular structm’es of this joint not being very frequent, and, when it happens, usually terminating in false ankylosis, without siqipiuntion. When carious and necrosed bones are met with about the shoulder, it will frequently be