766 URINARY CALCULUS. give rise to cystitis or profuse and continuous hiemorrhage ; in tlic second, to rigors and nrteinia. ’ Errors in Sounding occasionally occur. The Surgeon may mistake a hardened and fasciculated bladder, having its ridges perhaps incrusted with phosphatic sabulous matter, for a calculus j this is especially apt to happen in children. In these cases, however, the mistake may usually be guarded agaiirst by the absence of a distinct click, though a rough grating sensatioir be expe- rienced, and by the Surgeon being unable to isolate a stone. Yet the difficulty in some cases is great; Velpeau states that he is acquainted with four instances, and S. Cooper with seven, in which patients have been cut and no calcidus found ; and Avhen rve reflect that these accidents have happened to such men ■as Cheselden, rvho on three occasions cut a patient and found no stone, to Crosse, to Eoux, and to Dupuytren, it is easy to understand that in some cases the difficulty of coming to a correct decision must be very great. In ivommi the symptoms of stone closely resemble those met with in men, and the detection of the calculus is usually very easy, orving to the shortness -of the canal and the facility rvith which the stone may be tilted up by intro- ducing the fingers of the left hand into the vagina. The sound used in these cases should be shorter and less curved than that employed for the detection of calculus in the male bladder. Pathological Changes induced by Calculus.—After a stone has existed for some time in the bladder, it induces serious pathological changes in the whole of the urinary apparatus. The urethra usually becomes slightly dilated; and the prostate not unfrequently somewhat enlarged and irritable, in conse- quence of which a kind of pouch is formed behind it, in which the calculus is apt to lodge. The most important changes, howeiBr, take place in the bladder and kidneys. The Madder becomes extremely sensitive, especially about its neck, and is consequently unable to contain as much urine as usual ; hence it becomes contracted. In some rare instances, however, as wiU be more especially noticed when ive come to speak of lithotrity, it falls into an atonic condition, and then is apt to become rather largely dilated. The mucous membrane is commonly a good deal inflamed and irritated by the presence of the calculus; and the muscular coat becomes thickened and hypertro- phied, so as to give it a very fasciculated or colunmated appearance. Cysts occasionally form, containing sabulous matter and fetid pus or urine, and in some cases lodging a concretion, which then constitutes an encysted calculus lying altogether outside the cavity of the bladder, ivith which it merely com- mmiicates by a very narrow aperture, as in Figs. 722 and 723, representing a case that was under my care some years ago, and ivhich is fully described in the Journals for March, 1853. The hidmijs are usually ii-ritated, often con- gested, frequently in a state of granular degeneration, and ultimately become the seat of such structural changes as are incompatible with life. VTien death occurs as the consequence of stone, the patient usually sinks, ivorn out by pro- tracted suffering and kidney-disease. LITHOTOMY. It is not my intention to enter into the general history of lithotomy, an operation that has been practised from the earliest ages ; nor to give a sketch