VOL, II. Pig. G79.—Gangrene of Intestine from Strangulation. MANAGEMENT OF GAN'GliENOUS INTESTINE. 641 coil of <Tut have been thus affected, or the constriction have been limited to a small portion of the diameter of the intestine. It is ^ quickly changes which are incompatible with life may ensue in a poition of gut that has been very tightly strangulated. I have knotvn a coil of intestine, tl at had been but eight hours strangidated before the operation Avas performed, so tightly constricted as not to regain its vitality after reduction (Fig. G7i)). In such cases the patient usually dies of peritonitis in the course of a feAV days, Avithout the boAvels having acted, all peristaltic motion having necessarily been annihilated at the injured point. .On examination after death, the con- stricted intestine Avill be found to pre- sent all the appearances of^«n(/rene,being of a black or ashy-grey colour, Avithout having any flocculi of lymph deposited upon its surface, though these may be in abundance in the neighbouring parts. From the veiy unfavourable result of those cases in Avhich there has been very tight nipping of the protruded boAvel, a veiy cautious progmosis should be given; and, in reducing the gut after the diAusion of the stric- ture, care should be taken not to push it far back into the abdomen, but to leave it near the inner ring ; so that, in the event 01 its ultimately gmng Avay, there may be less risk of feculent extravasation. In those cases in Avhich the nipping has been very severe, the sulcus being distinctly marked, and the intestine excessively dark and congested, though not actually gan- grenous, it Avould, I think, be better, after dividing the stricture, to leave the gut outside the ring than to return it; the reduction of intestine in this state being almost invariably foUoAved by fatal peritonitis. It is important to observe that although intestine, AA'hich has been so severely nipped as this, may not be able to recover its vitahty, and Avill fall into a state of gangvene after being reduced, yet if does not, at the time of its exposure, present the characters of putrescence ; there is no fetor, no green or pulpy appearance, no loss of polish, nor separation of peritoneum ; it is simply of a dark purple or morone colour, and that it has been tightly nipped is eA’ident from the sidcus upon it. There are no signs of gangrene, simply because sufficient time has not elapsed for putrefaction to set in. As, AA hen a pile or naevus has been tied, though vitality be extinct in the part, Avhich is swollen and purple, some time must elapse before signs of putrescence manifest themsehns, so it may bo Avith a strictured gut Avhich may have lost its vitality ; and it should be treated as mortified intestine, though there be no sign of putridity about it. Management of Gangrenous Intestine.—When the intestine is actually gangrenous, the integuments covering the tumour aauII be infiltrated, braAvny and duskily congested, and the structures immediately overlyino- the sac matted together ; the sac will contain fetid dark-colomcd serum or“pus ; and T T