DISEASES OF THE PROSTATE. 86o the cut surface bulges above the level; and the shades of colour are more strongly marked than in the healthy prostate. Not uncommonly, single gland- lobules are found hypertrophied; and in some cases, spheroidal prominences are seen, which are easily enucleated, and which arc tumours formed in the substance of the gland. Of these we shall presently speak. In some instances, an abundance of fluid escapes from the cut siu’face and from the openings of the prostatic ducts ; while in other cases this is entirely wanting. Small cavities, dilatations of the gland-follicles, are occasionally found; sometimes empty, and sometimes containing a yellow fluid resembling pus in appearance, but which consists of the prostatic secretion in a thickened state. The prostate may attain a very large size. The largest that I have seen is certainly one in the Norwich Hospital Museum, taken from a man of eighty ; it weighs more than 20 ounces. Simple Prostatic Tumours.—The nature of simple tumours of the prostate has been carefully studied by Sir Henry Thompson ; to whose elaborate work on the diseases of this organ the student is referred for further information. According to Thompson, tumoiu’s of non-malignant character are met with in most cases of hypertrophied prostate, and also occasionally when there is no eidargement of the organ. He divides them into two classes. “ 1. Tumours which are generally imbedded in the substances of the pro- state, but the structures of which are isolated from those which surrounded it. “ 2. Outgrowths which are continuous in structure with the parts of the prostate whence they spring, but which manifest a tendency to become par- tially isolated, by assuming a more or less polypoid form, and maintaining attachment to the parent organ through the medium of a pedicle only.” 1. The isolated tumours\i\ the substance of the prostate have been recog-nised by Sir E. Home, Cruveilhier, Eokitansky, Paget, and other pathologists. They may occupy any portion of the organ ; but are, perhaps, more numerous in the lateral lobes than elsewhere. They are easily enucleated, having but a loose connection with the substance of the gland. In diameter they vary from ^'^th to f ths of an inch. They are firmer and mostly paler in coloiu than the proper prostatic tissue, and are less vascular. “ The basis of the tumoius appears to be the fibrous basis or stroma of the prostate itself, an admixtiue of unstriped, soft, pale muscular fibres, and con- nective mth a little elastic tissue, closely interwoven. Interspersed vrith this, there are present in most cases small cavities containing flattened polygonal or spheroidal epithelium, like that seen in a pouch at the extremity of a prostatic gland-duct, and sometimes, also, some prismatic epithelium. These cavities ai-e sometimes solitary, sometimes slightly branched, and sometimes of an elongated or tubular form. In a few instances there is very little, or, perhaps no such glandular tissue to be found ; generally, however, a careful search will discover it. In some of the outlying tumours the glandular structure is more perfectly developed—in some it is quite so—and a duct is furnished which evidently caiTies secretion to the appointed destination.” 2. The part of the prostate which is most usually the seat of outgrowth is the middle or luethral portion, which may become greatly enlarged in size, with or without hypertrophy of the lateral lobes. The growth assimies a pyrifoim