291 ANGULAli CURVATURE OF SPINE. from all operative interference, and merely protecting the tumour with a piece of leather or a layer of cotton-wool. If it be thought desirable to attempt a cure, the simplest mode is to employ pressure on the tumour, by means of a compress and bandage ; or, what is better, an air-pad, similar to those used for umbilical hernia, and kept in place by an India-iubbei band. In addition to pressure exercised in this way, the recommendation of Sir A. Cooper may be followed, and the tumour punctured from time to time vdth a small trochar ; care being taken, however, to prevent the ulceration of the punctures, by covering them mth coUodion. In this way, by the combination of puncture and compression, cases have been cured. Gradually applied lateral compression has been successful in a few cases. Thus Wilson removed the tumour by the gradual pressure of a clamp applied to its base, and keeping the parts in close apposition by means of this instrument, so as to prevent the entrance of air, and the consequent occuiTence of spinal menin- gitis. In this case the tumour was as large as an orange, and not pedunculated. If it have a naiTow base, the prospect of ciu’e by this means vill be better. Beynard and Latil applied compression successfully by means of threads passed through quills or small wooden tubes, and gradually tightened. All other- plans of treatment, by which the tumour is opened, and the air allowed to enter it, are fraught with danger, and will, I believe, be inevitably followed by the death of the child, from inflammation of the meninges of the cord, and con- vulsions. In fact, as a general rule, operations for the removal of the tumour- are to be condemned. I have never knowrr arry but a fatal issue follow its removal by the ligature, scissors, or the knife. ANGULAR CURVATURE OP THE SPINE. POTT’S DISEASE. This disease, which consists, in its full development, of destruction of the bodies of the vertebriB, with disintegration of the intervertebral fibro-cartilao-e, m.ost commonly ocem-s in young childr-err, sometimes but a few rrrorrths old ; but it is not unfi-equerrtly met with at all ages up to thirty. It is always, I believe, a scrofulous affection, consistmg essentially in degeneration of the fibro-cartilagcs of the spine, or in strumous ostitis ; sometimes, but far more rarely, in tubercular infiltration of the bodies of one of the vertebrar, followed, as commonly happens in this condition, by congestion, caries, or necrosis of the osseous tissue that is in contact with, or is the seat of, the deposit. When we consider the complicated structure, and the variety and extent of the movements of the spinal colimm, we cannot but be surprised that its organic diseases arc so comparatively rare. The quantity of osseous tissue that enters into its formation—a lai-ge portion of which is cancellous, and hence peculiarly prone to caries—whether simple or tuberculous—would mark it as a part that ought to be peculiarly liable to these pathological changes. The vanety and extent of its ligamentous structure, of its fibro-cartilagcs, the articu- lations between the individual vertebne, and between them and the ribs all give t le necessary elements for chronic disease, which might be considered of proliably frequent occun-once when Ave reflect on the extent, varietv and frequency of its movements. But so admirably is the column as a whole fr-equently the scat of organic disease than might a priori be supposed to be possible.