STlilCTUllE OF THE FEMALE UHETIIRA. 923 ivith a neuilo one, a catheter should be passed through the former into the bladder and left there during the whole of the operative procedures that aie adopted for the closure of the penile fistula. Should no fistula exist in the perinamm, he has proposed, though I believe the operation has never yet been practised, to puncture the bladder—which would most conveniently and safely be done through the rectum—and to keep it emptied in this ivay until the penile fistula has been closed by one of the preceding operations, and then to tdlow the lower apertm-e to close spontaneously; or, if it were situated in the perinanmi, to adopt surgical means for its occlusion. 4. Le Gros Clark has recommended and successfully practised the following operation. Having pared the edges of the fistula, he makes a transverse cut Fig. sir.-- Urethroplasty. Clai-k’s Operation : Fig. 818.—Urethroplasty. Clark’s Operation : First stage. Second Stage. through the integuments of the penis, about an inch in length, above and below it. He then dissects up the flaps of skin so bounded, and brings them together by means of clamps or the quilled suture. By this operation a wide raw surface from each side is brought into contact, instead of a mere raw edge of cut integument, and there is consequently a greater chance of successful union resulting (Figs 817, 818). Death after Operations on the Urinary Organs.—As has already been stated in the preceding chapters, that condition which more than any other infiuences the result of operation on the urinary organs is the state of the kid- neys. If these be sound, recovery, even after the most severe operations, is the rule. Hence in a great measure, doubtless, the low rate of mortality after lithotomy in children. If the kidneys be diseased, the most trivial operation, the introduction of a lithotrite or the passage of a catheter, may lead to a fatal result. When death occurs in Kthotrity in cases of umelieved stone, chronic prostate disease, or during the treatment of a stricture, it most frequently is caused by suppurative inflammation of the kidneys. Stricture of the Female Urethra is rare. When it occurs, it is seated at the external orifice, which will be found to be narrowed and sharp-edged. There is often some thickening of the corpus spongiosum. The disease is always, I believe, the result of gonorrhoea. The symptoms are the ordinary one of iri’itability of the bladder, frequent desire to micturate, and some diffi- culty or delay in doing so.