ADDENDUM TO VOLUME II. Page 300. TREATMENT OF DISEASED SPINE BY PLASTER OF PARIS BANDAGE. ])r. Lewis A, Sayre, of the Bellevue Hospital, New York, has very in- "euiously applied the plaster of Paris bandage to the treatment of caries of the spine with angular cm’vatmc, and to some of the more severe foirns -of lateral curvature. The following is a brief summary of the details of this method of treatment. The shirt being removed, a thin, closely woven vest without armlets is put •on next the skill; and a large pad is placed over the abdomen under the vest. The child then standing under a tripod stand, to the apex of which is attached a block-and-fall arrangement carrying a horizontal iron bar, a padded collar is buckled round the head and chin, while padded stirrups are passed under the ai'uis ; straps are then passed separately from the collar and arm-stirrups to the iron bar above. By adjusting these straps, the relative tension upon the head and arms can be adjusted with nicety. The indication that the proper amount of extension has been made with the pulleys, is the comfort ex- perienced by the patient. When thus suspended, the spine becomes much straighter ; the ears are hfted from the shoulders, and the diseased surfaces of the vertebim are thus prevented from pressing upon one another. The patient is now directed to take a few deep inspirations. Plaster of Paris bandages are carefully applied round the body from the pelvis to the arms ; and strips of thin perforated tin are placed by the sides of the spine, and a second layer of plaster bandages passed round the whole. The straps being now removed, the child is laid upon a mattress. As soon as the case is dry, the abdominal pad is withdrawn ; and the patient, when erect, is foiuid to be one to one-and- a-half inch taller. In cases of caries of the cerHcal region, a head-piece is adjusted to the body-case, by means of which the spine may be relieved of the weight of the head. After two or three months, the case may be slit down the fr’ont and fastened -with eyelets. After such treatment, it is commonly seen that respiration becomes easy and the circulation free, while symptoms due to in-itation of nerves subside. Dr. Sayre strongly insists on the im- portance of praetical details, such as the use of loose-textured bandages and suitable plaster, a closely fitting elastic shirt, and, above all, securing a perfect adaptation of the case. Fiu'ther details as to Dr. Sayre’s practice will be found in his Orihopmdic Surcjenj, 187(! ; the Richmond cmd Loui&viUe Mccliccd Journal, May, 1877 ; and the American Praciitioner. The ess6ntial points in this treatment, are 1st: Extension of the spine by suspension, und 2nd : Fixing the spine when so extended in a firm and light casing.