INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. <586 •contracted ileum. The great practical difficulty in all those cases of obstruc- tion, above the sigmoid flexure of the colon, is to determine the cause of the obstruction, whether it be of such a nature as may be removed by operation or not. In some of the cases mentioned, there may be special symptoms, Avhich lead to a tolerably direct diagnosis. Thus, in intussusception, bloody and mucous stools, and the existence of an oblong indurated swelling, may give a clue ; and in children, as the intussusception usually takes place through the ileo-colic valve, the mass of prolapsed intestine may often be felt in the rectum. In malignant or fibrous degeneration of the colon, the chronic nature of the •disease, the history of the case, and rectal exploration with the bougie, may indicate the nature of the obstructing cause. Treatment.—Treatment of Acute Obstruction.—This must necessarily l)e in a great measure determined by the diagnosis that is made as to its cause. Before proceeding to the employment of any measures, whether medical or surgical, in these cases, the Surgeon should never omit to institute a careful examination of the various abdominal and pelvic apertures for some of the more obscure forms of external hernia ; for in cases of supposed internal strangulation, it has occasionally timned out, after death, that the patient had been labouring under a small femoral, obtiwator, or sciatic hernia. If such a eondition be detected, it must of course be relieved by proper operative means. In the event of no such protrusion being detected, and from the general •obscurity of the symptoms in these cases rendering an exact diagnosis in the earlier stages almost impossible, it is generally expedient to try the effect of proper medical treatment, which will sometimes, even in apparently hopeless cases, afford relief. The only plan of treatment that appears to me of any value is the continued administration of opium or of calomel and opium, with the free application of leeches to the abdomen, followed by fomentations. The opium should be given in the solid form, the dose being one grain every six or eight bours, either alone or combined with half a grain to a grain of calomel. This treatment will in all cases be of considerable service, and in some, even the most hopeless and complicated, will afford satisfactory results. In a very complicated case of intestinal obstruction which I attended mth Garrod, this plan was eminently successful. A patient Avas admitted into the Hospital, haAing symptoms of internal strangulation ; he had at the same time double inguinal hernia, and a small umbilical rupture, as well as the remains of a fatty tumour, which had been partially removed from the abdomimal wall many years previously. There were peritonitis Avith tympanites, steicoraceous vomiting, and much vital depression ; but, as there was no strangulation existing in any of the external hernim, and as there Avas no evidence as to the precise locality of the internal mischief, it was not thought advisable to haverecoiu'se to opera- tion. The patient aatts accordingly treated Avith calomel and opium, when, on the tenth day, the obstruction gave way and the bowels acted, the patient ultimately recovering. n • • ^ Inflation of the Obstructed Intestine, by the injection of air into the rectum, has been recommended in cases of intussusception, and has occasionally been practised with success. In two instances I have successfully had recourse to it. One was the case of an infant, a few months old, seized with symptoms of intussusceptmn, whom I attended with Cousins. The other patient was a