DISEASES OF THE PENIS AND SCROTUM. 93° Til such cases as,these the organ may be greatly improved by dissecting through the cord in front of the urethral orifice, and behind the glans, separating the skin freely on each side, and then bringing it together in the mesial line. But the urethra cannot be lengthened, and hence both micturition and emis- sion take place immediately in front of the scrotum. Epispadias.—The upper surface of the penis is less frequently fissui-ed ; only, I believe, in cases of extroversion of the bladder. This condition, teimed epispadias, may be remedied to some extent by Wood’s operation, described at p. 840, IhriMOSis.—The prepuce is not unfrequently the seat of malformation or disease. The condition of it in which it is so much elongated that it extends beyond the glans, and at the same time is so much contracted that it prevents the proper exposure of this portion of the organ, is termed iMmosis. This may be either congenital, or acquired as the result of inflammation or disease. In Congenital Phimosis, the penis is usually somewhat atrophied, and the development of the glans is prevented by the pressure of the narrow prepuce. In congenital phimosis the skin is abundant and lax; but the mucous lining of the prepuce is short, contracted, and undeveloped. It is in this situation, and not in the skin, that the congenital defect is situated. In the majority of cases this condition is simply a soiu’ce of local inconvenience ; but it may become a cause of disease from a variety of causes. Thus in children the retention of the sebaceous secretion—the “smegma pre- putii ”—under an elongated and tight foreskin, becomes a source of local irritation and inflammation fr'om uncleanhness. The irritation thus kept up leads to local excitement, and favours the development of the habit of early mastm’bation (Fig. 826). In some cases the preputial orifice is so tight as to interfere materially with the discharge of the urine, which passes from the urethra into a kind of pouch between the glans and prepuce, distends this structure, and is then squeezed in a fine jet or in a scattered sprinkling stream through the narrowed preputial orifice, as a consequence of this impediment; and irritability of the bladder, often presenting symptoms simulating calculus, may thus be set up. Calculous concretions may form between the glans and the prepuce in such cases as these, and have been known to do so in enormous quantities. "Whishaw, of Fyzabad, removed no [fewer than 426 calcuh, varying in size from a pin’s head to a small bean, fr'om this situation in the person of a native of India, 60 years of age, who came under treatment for what appeared to be a large tumour of the end of the penis, the true nature of which was not detected until in removing it the knife grated against the contained calcidi. Various affections of the genito-urinary organs in children, such as inconti- nence, intermittent flow of mine, hiematuria, priapism, &c., have been shown by Bryant to be owing to congenital phimosis. Sayre has pointed out the important fact that reflex paralysis and various forms of spastic con- tractions chiefly of the lower limbs are due to the same cause, being readily curable by circumcision. In addition to these I have seen general spasmodic affections in children resembling chorea, resulting from congenital phimosis. Vig. S26.—In-itatod Congeuital Plii- iiiosis.