973 DIAGNOSIS OF SCROTAL TUMOURS. « H-m-c an cnecplmloid tmnonr may co-cxist n ith a hydrocdo of the tunica vaijinalis, and with an encysted hydi'ocelo of the cold. Tumours of the scrotum may, m a diagnostic point o , two distinct classes 1, the Keduciblc ; and 2, the Irreducible. 1. llEDUCiimE Tl'MOUKS.—These are Hernia, Congenital Hydrocele, Diliuse Hydrocele of the cord*^ and Varicocele ; in all of which the swell- ing can be made to disappear more or less com- pletely by pressure and by the patient lying down ; reappearing on the removal of the pres- sure, or on his assuming the erect posture. The mode in which the tumour disappears, tends greatly to establish its diagnosis; though the general character of the swelling, and the history of the case, aftord important collateral evidence on this point. a. In Hernia there are the ordinary signs of this affection, such as impulse on coughing, &c. On reducing the tumoui’, it will be found that its return into the abdomen is accompanied by a gurgling noise, and by the sudden slip upwards of evidently a solid body. lit the other reducible tumours, the diminution and eventual disappearance under pressure are more gi’adual, and there is no reduction of the mass as a whole. b. The gradual squeezing out of the contents of a Congenital Hydrocele, together with its translucency, and the early age at which it occurs, will Fif;. S55. — Enceiilinloid Testicle h Hydroceles of the Tunica Vajii- Fif; xvith —j Tuilis and of the Cord. establish its time character. c. In the Diffuse Hydrocele of the Cord, there is an uniform semi- fluctuating swelling in and near the ring ; in which, however, there is no gurgling, &c., no complete and sudden disappearance as in hernia. It is also less defined, and has a less distinct impulse on coughing. (I. Varicocele may always be distinguished by its pyramidal shape, and its knotted, soft, and irregular feel. After being reduced when the patient lies down, it will, when he stands up, fill again, even though the Surgeon compress the external ring with his fingers. This sign, which distinguishes it from a hernia, occurs also in congenital hydrocele ; from which, however, the varico- cele may be distinguished by the absence of translucency, the want of fluctua- tion, and the general feel of the tumour. 2. Ihreducible Scrotal Tumours are of various kinds ; such as Omental Heniia, Hydrocele, Hmmatocele, the various forms of Sarcocele, and Cancer of the Testicle. These tumours, though presenting certain characters in com- mon, yet ditter somewhat in the predominance of particular signs. Thus, the shape of the tumour is usually pyi-iform iu hydrocele, globular in hmma- tocele, and oval in sarcocele ; though this is subject to much variation. The weight is least in hydrocele and greatest in sarcocele, proportionately to the size of the tumour. The characters of the surface present considerable dif- ferences, being smooth and tense in hydrocele and hmmatocele ; often ir- regular, hard, or knotted iu the other varieties. The rapidity of the formation of the tumour is greatest in hmmatocele.