758 URINARY CALCULUS. Calculi of Vesical Origin.—Though a Ycsical calculus often OAves its origin to the descent of a stone from the kidney, yet frequently there is no evidence of its coming from such a soui-ce, but every appearance of its being deposited in the bladder ; a nucleus being originally formed in this viscus by the aggregation of some sabulous matters, around and upon which fr(fsh deposits take place, until a true calculus is formed. In some instances, A'esical calculi have been found deposited upon and incrusting foreign bodies, acci- dentally introduced into the bladder, such as a piece of straw, a pin, a bit of bougie, fragment of bone, &c. NUMBER.—The number of calculi in the bladder A’aries considerably ; most commonly only one is encountered ; but in about one-fifth or one-sixth of the cases operated upon, several will be found ; from two to six or eight are by no means uncommonly met with. Occasionally several dozens have been detected ,- and there are even'instances on record in which some hundreds of distinct and separate calculi have been found in one bladder. The most remarkable case of this kind is one in which Physick remoA'ed from a judge in the United States upwards of a thousand calculi, varying in size from a partridge-shot to a bean, and each marked with a black spot. Several calculi may become „„„ . matted together in one large concretion, as in the aimexed Acid ^Calculi representation of a calculus (Fig. 720) that I removed from a tiier. child foiu’ years old; it was formed of eleven distinct lithic acid calculi soldered together in this Avay ; besides which, three others were lodged in the bladder. When two or more calculi occur, it is remarkable howjmiform they are often in shape, size, and weight, one being the exact counterpart of the other. When there are several calculi in the bladder, the attrition of one against the other usually causes the opposing surfaces to become smooth, thus consti- tuting “ facets ” (Fig. 721). In some cases, however, when the calculi are numerous, there are no signs of attrition. In a patient of mine who had fifteen calculi in his bladder, all the stones were round, about the size and shape of marbles, Avithout any facets. In other cases, again, there may be more facets on one calculus than companion-calculi in Fig. 721.—Calculi with Facets. bladder. A secoiid stone may occasion two or even three facets on the first, having rolled first to one and then to the other side of it. Spontaneous Fracture of a calculus will sometimes occur Aifithin the bladder. This curious phenomenon may happen to a stone that is single, oi to one among several calculi. When it occurs, great iiTitability of the bladdei is set up. There are several Avays of explaining this fracture, or rather dis- integration, of a calculus. Cmale supposes it to occur by the contraction of the hypertrophied coats of the bladder upon the stone. It is possible that, Avhen there are seA'eral calculi in the bladder, the concussion of one against another may give rise to it; and for the breaking up of a calculus to hapiicn, it AA^ould by no means be necessary that this pressure of the bladdei oi concus