HOLLOW CLUB-FOOT. 381 then the t-nrve of "the plantar arch becomes increased and the plantar fascia shortened ; then certain articulations and their ligaments become defoi-med as in all clnb-feet.” The mechanism is exactly the same as that of the similai disease in the hand. . „ , , ^ i i This disease makes standing and walking very painful when too iirolonged ; for this reason, that from the position of the toes and from the increased arch of the foot, the whole pressure in walking is borne upon the heel and upon the skin covering the unnaturally prominent heads of the metatarsal bones, which latter becomes tender in consequence, especially that over the. In the case fi'om which the drawing Avas made, the disease was congenital, but did not trouble the patient till he was ten years old. When he Avas apprenticed, a long Avalk ahvays gave him pain, and at last he aaus obhged to lay himself up about one Aveek in eveiy month to get rid of his pains. Both feet were affected, but the left much less than the right. By galvanic exami- nation, irritability was found to be entirely lost in the right interossei and very much diminished in the left. The disease is always accompanied by a tendency to talipes equino-varus, “ that is to say, the flexion of the foot upon the leg during walking is incom- plete, and during this flexion of the foot the tibialis anticus (flexor adductor) has a predominance of action over the extensor communis digitorum (flexor and abductor of the foot); or in other Avords, diu’ing flexion, the sole of the foot is turned slightly inAA'ards and the dorsum outAvards.” However, by a careful examination, we And there is really no talipes equinus nor Aveakness in the muscle producing flexion with abduction. This is accounted for by con- sidering the imfavourable conditions in which the long extensor of the toes is jdaced after paralysis of the interossei. The inferior attachment of this muscle is upon a movable point, the posterior and superior extremity of the second phalanx. The tendency to extension is counteracted by the interossei, which sen-e to give a fixed point for the extensor longtis digitorum to act from, Avhen flexing the foot at the ankle. But when these muscles are paralysed, the attachment of the extensor communis digitorum becomes very movable, and AA’c then see at the moment of flexion of the foot upon the leg, that the first phalanges are draAA'u back even more than before upon the metatai’sal bones, at the same time depressing the heads of these bones. The action of the long- extensor as a flexor and abductor of the foot is thus much AA'cakened, and this leads to a predominance in the action of the tibialis anticus (flexor and adduc- tor of the loot), in consequence of Avhich a mild form of A'arus is produced accompanied by some raising of the heel, due to imperfect flexure of the ankle-joint. fl'’o sum up: this variety of holloAV foot (pied creux) is produced by an exaggerated and continued action of the extensors of the first phalanges of the toes—extensor communis digitorum and extensor proprius pollicis, IblloAV- gi’eat toe.