HERNIA. 630 to determine which one is the seat of constriction. This, however, may be iiscertamed by observing greater tension and tenderness about the neck of the- straugidated than of the imconstricted hernia. 5. The co-existence of Early Pregnancy, or a tlireatened Miscarriage may obscure the diagnosis, the Surgeon possibly being in doubt whether the vomiting is dependent on the state of the uterus or on the strangulation of the hernia. Here it may be stated generally that the vomiting of pregnancy never becomes stercoraceous ; that constipation, if it exist, does not resist the action of apeiients or enemata ; and that the local signs of strangulation are usually well marked. ^ Besides these various conditions of hernia, which may be confounded ■with strangulation, there are other tumours which may Ije mistaken for this disease j but these we shall have to consider when speaking of the special forms of hernia. Treatment.—The treatment of strangulated hernia is one of the most important subjects in surgery. The object sought to be accomplished is the- removal of the constriction from the strangled hernial tumom*. This is effected ; either by the Reduction of its Contents by Taxis ; or by the Division of the- ; Stricture. j Taxis.—The reduction of the hernia is effected by the employment of the i taxis, by which is meant the various manual procediu’es employed in putting 1 the rupture back. The taxis, when properly performed, is seldom attended by any serious consequences to the patient. I have never known it followed by death ; and, out of 293 cases of hernia reported by Luke, as having been reduced by the taxis in the London Hospital, none died. It is not unfi’equently followed, however, by rather a shaip attack of peritonitis, which might pro- bably, in some instances, prove fatal; in one instance, I have seen it followed by very abundant hmmorrhage from the bowel, probably owing to the rupture- of some of the congested vessels of the strangled portion of the gut. In using the taxis, great care should in all cases be employed, and no undue force- should ever be had recom-se to. Ho good can ever be effected by violence : the resistance of the ring cannot be overcome by forcible pressure ; and a vast deal of harm may be done by squeezing against it the tender and inflamed gut,, causing this to overlap, and thus to be bruised, or even perhaps torn. The taxis should not be prolonged beyond half an hour ; if it be properly employed for this time, the hernia, if reducible, ■will probably go back. If it be apphed, as it is often very improperly, for a lengthened period, and by several Surgeons in succession, the protruded part becomes ecchymosed, irritated, and disposed to inflammation ; and the chances of recovery after a subsequent operation are much lessened. When the parts are much inflamed, the taxis shoifld be- employed mth great caution ; and, if it have been fanly and fully used by another Surgeon, it is better not to repeat it. When gangrene has occurred,, the taxis should never be employed ; as the putting back of the mortified gut 1 into the abdomen would be followed by extravasation of ffeces and Altai peri- tonitis. In using the taxis, it should be borne in mind that there are two obstacles to overcome ; the resistance of the parts around the ring, and the bulk of the tumom’. The first may be somewhat lessened by relaxing the abdominal