OrEriATIONS ON THE EYE. 4^3 ordinary siirgcry, and arc done according to general rules given in other chap- of the cUscascs of the eye that, oven of mm>y of the internal changes, iritic, cataractons, &c., it was no small advantage that we could their progress, and that their study was instructive inasmuch as it was the more certain. AVith the ophthalmoscope our advantages are tenfold increased, and we may see morbid processes existing even in the choroid or sclerotic coats, in the retina and optic nerve. Amaurosis is an almost obsolete term, or is, as before, at any rate restricted to those (now com- paratively few) cases of blindness in which we cannot see any morbid cliange— to nerve- or brain-diseases more or less affecting vision, and of which, even with the ophthalmoscope, we can find no evidence. But the ophthalmoscope has not added much to our powers of surgical treatment of eye-diseases. ^ VVith its aid, detached retina has been evacuated and foreign bodies or cysticercus removed from the '^utreous chamber. AA''ith it, also, we can often make a pre- vious examination to find if there be any disease to mar the good result otherwise to lie expected of operation. If we include in the term oph- thalmoscopic examination the lateral focal illumination of an eye by a convex lens and artificial light, our prognosis is of course by this often very much assisted in any proposed surgical interference, as it is in the diagnosis of many of the diseases, but only of those whose progress could be less perfectly seen and watched years ago, before the ophthalmoscope was invented and the lens used in this way,—the iriticj cataractons, and other cases of disease, not very deep-seated, above mentioned. This concentrated side light, or obhque illumi- nation, has been used in some operations within the eye, such as those for the removal of foreign bodies in the iris or anterior chamber, at the time of the operation, as well as for the diagnosis and prognosis generally of these and other cases. Performance of Operations on the Eye.—Nothing by way of gaining experience in eye-operations is of much account, except actually operating on the patients themselves. Short of this, it is most valuable to watch carefully the operations of others. In eye-surgery, practising operations on the dead subject is of little or no good to the beginner. AYhen, in general surgery, a limb is to be removed, it is amputated at a distance from the seat of the disease ; or, if an artery is to be tied, it is seciu’ed at a place remote fi’om the aneurism, so that such operations may well be practised on the dead subject. But, in eye-surgery, we can never operate at a distance from the disease ; either we are immediately concerned in the part that is diseased or we are close upon it, as in removing an opaque lens, or in performing iridectomy on an adherent iris. Squint operations (tenotomy), extirpation of the eyeball, tapping the cornea, slitting the eanaliculus, and some of the first steps of the more important eye-operations, such as the making a section of the cornea, may be practised on the dead subject; but, as to all the rest, it is mere waste of time. Almost all operations on the eye are done Avith the patient lying on a hard couch, not quite so high as an ordinary surgical operating table, Avith a hard pilloAv to raise the head of the patient a little, and comfortably. The foot of the couch is in a Avindow, facing the north if possible, and giving a good