MECHANJGAL TREATMENT OF LATERAL CURVATURE. 353 same time that we eutleavour to improre the strength of the system in this way, and that of the muscles of the back, especially by cold bathing and fric- tions, it is essential to adopt means to take off the weight of the head and shouldei-s, and to prevent its continuing to keep up and to increase the deformity. This may be done in two ways : by keeping the patient in the recumbent position, or by allowing her to go about, wearing proper supports. The rmonbenf position in the treatment of lateral curvature of the spine, though a valuable means as an adjimct to other measures, has been greatly abused, by being employed as an exclusive plan. This should not be, except Avhen the patient is unable to stand or walk with comfort, as happens in extreme cases, Avhen it may be necessary to confine her for a time to this position, until the proper muscular power has been restored by other means. These instances, however', are very rare ; too much so to constitute the rule in the treatment. "Whenever the recimrbent position is employed, the prone seems to me far preferable to the supine, for reasons mentioned when speaking of angular ciu'vature of the spine (p, 300) ; and the best couch for the purpose is certainly Verral’s. The patient should be kept on this during the intervals of exercise, not being allowed to sit or stand, even at meals ; she -will very soon become accustomed to a position that at first appears constrained, and null, probably, speedily be enabled to slee]r in it. The Mechanical Contrivances constructed for the pm-pose of taking the weight of the head, neck, and upper extremities off from the Aveakened- spine, are of very A'arious forms, and have had much ingenuity expended in their construction. They all have three j)rincipal objects, hoAvever much their details may vary ; A'iz. : 1, to form a broad basis of support round the poh'is, by means of a strong well-fitting band ; 2, to cany off the Aveight of the head and upper extremities from the spine by means of lateral crutches, Avhich \ transmit it to this band ; and 3, to influence the convexities of the spinal cui’Ae by means of moA’able plates, acted upon by rack-and-pinion or scrcAV poAAcr. The best of these mechanical contrivances for supporting the Aveight of the head and shoulders, is the ap- paiatus represented in the accompany- ing Avoodcut (Fig. r,ir,). Bj it the projection of the right shoulder may be gradually brought down, the left one raised, and the weight of the whole of the upper ]>art of the body supported. By this contrivance alone, properly and carefully adjusted to the condition of the deformity, most pa- thTfpin?beinl ’leccssity of any confinement Avhatcver : ^voL. ir. ” ’’fi^t^red to its proper direction by very gradually A .V Fig. ulo.—Sriniil SuHiort for Lateral Curvutni IT*.