241 EXCISION OF JOINTS. CHAPTER XLIX. EXCISION OF JOINTS. History.—The operation of resection of the articular ends of hones dates from the very earliest periods of Surgery of which we have any record. Hip- pocrates (in his Chapter on Injuries of Joints) speaks of resections of bones at the joints, whether of the foot, the hand, the leg, the ankle, the fore-arm, the wrist, as being for the most part nnattended by danger, except from syncope or consecutive fever. Celsns, in speaking of compound dislocations, says, if the bare bone project it will always be an obstacle to reduction ; that which protiTides should therefore be cut off. Panins iEgineta says that, if a bone project, as after a transverse fracture, we must cut it off. Thus, it will clearly be seen that it was the practice of the ancients in compound dislocations, and in compound fractures, to resect the protruding bones. But that the practice of resection in cases of disease was not unknown to them, is also evident from a passage on fistulte in the works of Panins ^gineta, who directs that, if the fistula terminate -with a bone, and if that be not diseased, it should only be scraped; but if it be carious, the whole diseased portion should be cut out with chisels; and, if necessary, it may have a hole bored in it with a trephine; and a little further on he says, “ the extremity of a bone near a joint, if diseased, is to be sawn off; and often, if the whole of a bone, such as the ulna, radius, tibia, or the like, be diseased, it is to be taken out entire.” Nothing can probably be more explicit than this statement, in which the practice is aJlnded to as of frequent occurrence. But he makes exceptions in the case of the bones of the spine and pelvis, and the head of the femur, which, he ^ys, should not be operated on for fear of the neighbouring arteries. The practice of resection thus known, to and adopted by the ancients, and mentioned by the Arabian writers of the middle ages, fell completely into disuse, and seems entirely to have been forgotten until the middle of the last eentury, when occasional notices of its adoption appear in Surgical essays. It was first employed in eases of compound fr-actures and dislocations of joints. In militaiy practice, the Surgeon, in two or three instances, picked out and cut away fragments of the bones forming the wist, elbow, shoulder, and ankle joints when shattered by gun-shot. This early revival of resection im'olved no principle of treatment: imperfect operations being simply had recourse to on the field of battle as a matter of convenience in particular cases. The Sur- geons who performed them did not recognise any new rule of practice as beino- involved in these chance procedures. The first resection practised for injury in which the articular ends in com- pound^dislocations were fairly, deliberately, and successfully removed, appears II