SPECIAL ANEURISMS. iiS the mnsclc being exposed and drawn to the inner side, the prominent anterior tubercle of tlic transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra was rcadilj felt and taken for a guide. Immediately before this and in a vertical line with it lies the artery. A layer of fascia was now divided ; some loose cellular tissue with lymphatics and the ascending cervical artery were pulled to the inner side ; and a separation Avas made betAveen the scalenus anticus and longus colli muscles just bcloAv their insertion into the tubercle, Avhen the artery and vein became visible ; the latter Avas draAvn to the outer side (this is important), and the needle passed around the former fi’om Avithout inAvards.” ANEURISM OP THE AXILLARY ARTERY. This artery, though less commonly the seat of aneurism than other large vessels, such as those of the ham, the groin, and the neck, yet is sufficiently frequently diseased. This is due partly to its situation, its proximity to the shoulder-joint causing it to be subjected to the very varied, extensive, and often forcible movements, of which that articulation is the seat ; and partly to the arteiy being deficient in that support AA’hich Avould be afforded it by a strong investing sheath, such as is commonly met with in arteries of corresponding magnitude. Amongst the most frequent causes of axiUary aneurism, may be mentioned falls upon the shoulder or upon the outstretched hands, and in many cases the efforts made at reducing old standing dislocations, instances of which are recorded by PeUetan, Flaubert, Warren, and Gibson; the head of the bone in these cases haAung probably contracted adhesions to the artery, in consequence of which the vessel was torn during the efforts at reduction. Axillary, like subclaAdan aneurism, occiu’s more commonly on the right than on the left side, and is met with in especial frequency amongst men; of 37 cases, only 3 occurred in Avomcn. I am acquainted Avith one case only in AA'hich both axillary arteries became aneurismal; it occiuTcd to Fmner of Brighton. In this remarkable case both axillary arteries became affected, an interval of about fifteen months intervening between the formation of the two aneurismal tumours ; and the subclaAuan Avas ligatured on both sides successfully. Symptoms.—In axillary anemism there are three sets of symptoms, attention . to which Avill usually enable the Surgeon to recognise the disease ; these ai’o, the existence of a tumour in the axilla, the pain that it occasions, and the affections to Avhich it gives rise in the limb. The precise situation at which an aneurism of the axillary artery presents externally, will depend upon whether it springs from that lAortion of the a essel that lies aboA'e, beneath, or beloAV the lesser pectoral muscle. If from above, it Avill appear as a tumom seated immediately beloAV the clavicle and occupying the triangular space betAvecn the upper margin of the lesser pectoral and that bone ; if it be loAver down, it will raise the anterior fold of the axilla, being prevented from extending much out of this space by tbe dense fascia that stretches across from one side to the other. The tuinoui, Aihich is at firatso t and compressible, has a AA’hizzing bruit ; and its pulsations, Aidiich are cxpansi e, may be aiTcsted by pressure upon the subclavian artery, aaIicic it passes ovci the first rib. It usually increases Avith great rapidity, oAving to t ic i e resistance opposed by the loose areolar tissue in this situation, and most com