597 diagnosis of cancer. verc the age of the patient, and the existence of one small indurated gland m ‘''l,rthtsc CMS of doubt, tuo safer plan is always to make an exploratory puncture and, if necessary, to examine under the microscope the contents Withdrawn by the groove in the needle or by the trochar ; indeed, if theie be the slightest Liibt as to the nature of the tumour, this should nci-cr be omitted before its removal is determined upon. 1 liaN C more than once seen tumours ivhich had been positively pronounced to be scirrhous, and for ivhich amputation of the breast had been recommended, prove to be Hjystic, and disappear entirely ivhen their contents were i^nthckawn. Between cancer and the onlinary solid tumours of the breast, more especially the sarcomata, the diagnosis is often extremely difficult; but we may arrange the chief signs of the two forms of disease in distinct groups, when, by c-omparing them together, the differences may be more clearly seen. {See Table.) XON-MALIGSANT TUMOUKS. Feel. Modcvately hard, nodulated, irregu- lar in shai)C ; occasionally more or less lobed ; not very distinctly cii'cuni- scribed ; sometimes elastic in parts. Mohilitj/. Considerable, though occasion- ally there is a deep pedunculated attachment. Skia. Of the natural colour throughout, though thinned and expanded with the tumour lying close beneath it. Only implicated in the advanced stage of cystic sarcoma. Xlj)ple. Usually not reti'acted. Vcim of the Skin. Not much dilated. Pain. Often moderate, if severe, continu- ous or of a neuralgic character, much increased by handling. Axillnr]! Glands. Of ifsual size, or but slightly enlarged and movable. Lym- phatics not affected; supraclavicular glands not affected. Constitirtional Infection. None. SCIRRHOUS TUMOUR. Feel. Of stony hardnessj knobby and dis- tinctly cii'cumscribcd, or somewhat square, and occupying the whole of the substance of the gland. Mobility. At first considerable, brrt soon becomes fixed to the deeper stnictures by a broad attachment. Skin. Eai'ly implicated—at first dimpled, then red or purple, and in other cases brawny and leather-like, so that it does not admit of being pinched up into folds ; or nodulated ; pvu’ple-red masses form in it. Niyple. Usually retracted. Veins of the Skin. Very greatly dilated. Pain. Severe and lancinating, especially at night after handling, and when the skin is implicated, but not continuous. Axillary Glands. Enlarged, indurated, and fixed. Indurated mass of lymphatics under and parallel to edge of the pec- toral, stretcliing into the axilla; supra- clavicular glands enlarged. Constitutional Cachexy. As disease ad- vances. Rapidity of y row 111, although always a very suspicious circumstance, cannot by itself and without other signs be taken as unequivocal evidence of malig- nancy of action. I have seen a so-called “ chronic mammary tumour,” probably a sarcoma, increase from the size of a hen’s egg to that of the adult head in less than six months, and after removal not present the slightest evidence of malignant disease, on the most careful examination. Recurrence after removal, though a very suspicious circumstance, is l)y na