966 DISEASES OF THE TESTIS AND CORD. ccalcd by the thickening round it so as to )jc scarcely recognisable. 'I'lic cord and vas deferens are unaffected. The body of the gland feels hard, almost cartilaginous, and the surface is smooth or i^erhaps slightly irregular. There is no pain, except a di-agging sensation in the groin due to the increased weight of the testicle. There is little or no tenderness, and in the more advanced stages the peculiar sensation caused by scpieczing a healthy testicle is absent. There is no tendency to softening or to the formation of abscess. The disease is almost always accompanied by hydrocele, but at the same time adhesions luiiy exist at various parts between the tunica albuginea and the tunica vagi- nalis, dividing the fluid into two or more portions, or limiting it to a small part of the surface of the testicle. Most commouly only one testicle is affected, but both may be attacked. In the localised form the induratiou is limited to one or more portions of the gland, the remainder being soft and healthy. Structure.—On making a section from before backwards, the following appearances are found. If hydrocele exist, the tunica vaginalis will be opacpie and thickened, and probably adherent at various points to the surface of the testicle. If no hydrocele be present, the tunica vaginalis may be uniformly adherent. The tunica albuginea will always be found greatly and irregularly thickened, and from it proceed opaque white dense fibroid processes into the substance of the gland. These may in extreme cases be so abundant that no healthy gland-substance can be seen between them ; in less severe cases, patches of healthy tubular substance are found at various parts of the organ. A process of cicatricial contraction taking place in these fibroid processes may lead to a dimpling of the smface of the organ. The microscope shows that the change is due to an infiammatory small round-celled growth, which afterwards undergoes a development into a dense fibroid tissue, situated in the connective tissue between the tubuli seminiferi. The new growth separates, and presses on the tubules, and may lead to their destruction in large areas, as the result of the pressure. The gummatous form is an aggravation of that just described, and presents the same symptoms, "with the addition of those caused by the presence of the gummata. These fonn hard craggy no- dules on the surface of the gland, the irregulail- ties so produced being £ much greater than those arising from simple fibroid induration. The o-ummata have little ten- O deucy to soften, and dis- charge externally; yet in rare cases they may do so. ^ Structure.—On making a section of a gland in this condition, more or less ot the fibroid induration, above described, will always be found combined with thicken- ino- of the tunics of the testicle. The gummata vary in size, from a spht-pea to a S51.—Syiiliilitic Gunmiata of the Testis, a, h. Guiuiiiata lait across; c. Section of Globus minor and Cord.