OPE EAT 10 X FOR FISTULA IX AXO. 7^7 caiTiecl through the inner opening. In some cases, the existence of this may be ascertained by examining the interior of the bowel with a specnlnm ani, and "jjy jjfiioctiiio* "Water into the external opening. Incomplete or Blind Fistula may be of two kinds, and commonly arises- from constitutional causes. When there is no internal perforation, a mere sinus having been left by the bursting of an abscess, the fistula is termed Umd external 'Ulien there is only an internal aperture, it is called Uind internal The blind external fistula is readily recognised by its being found that the probe does not penetrate the interior of the gut. The blind internal is not so readily detected ; but in this case it will generally be found that the patient suffem from an occasional and tolerably abundant discharge of pus fr’om the interior of the bowel; that there is a good deal of tenderness, with some brawny indication in the ischio-rectal fossa on one side of the anus ; and that the pus may be made to well out in some quantity by pressing upon this part. On passing the finger into the rectum, the ragged internal aperture in the gut through which the pus exudes may readily be felt. Operative interference is usually necessary. It is time that in some rare instances the fistula may be made to close under the infiuence of constitutional management, aided, perhaps, by stimulating its interior with the- nitrate of silver, or by touching it with a probe dipped in nitric acid. This kind of treatment is, however, only successful in the blind external fistula, several instances of which I have seen recover in this way ; but it can never be expected to answer in any other variety of the disease. Occasionally in elderly people a blind internal fistula (or fistulie) will be found, which, falling into a very chronic state and discharging but little, is a source of but very trivial diseomfort, and will continue for years without giving the patient serious local inconvenience, and in no way disturbing the general health. In such cases, I beheve, there is often far less risk in leaving the fistula un- touched, than in subjecting the patient at an advanced period of life to the hazards of an operation. When the fistula is complete, the only plan of treat- ment that offers any chanee of success is the division of the sphincter; so that this muscle, which tends to prevent the closure of the sinus, may be paralysed, and the fistula, being laid open from the bottom, made to heal by granulation. Various plans have been devised for the division of the sphincter, and much ingenuity has been expended in attempts to discover simpler and less painful modes of effecting this than by the knife, but hitherto without success ; and the only plan of treatment that deserves any attention is the division of the sphincter with a curved bistoury. The Operation for fistula in ano should not be performed indiscriminately in all cases and at all periods of the disease. If the fistula be dependent upon stricture of the gut, and more especially if this be of a malignant character, it is evident that no operation can bo attended by a chance of success, and none should be^ attempted. So, also, if the patient be cachectic and broken in health, it is well to improve his constitutional powers before undertaking an operation, lest the wound that results may not readily cicatrise. It is also Avell to wait until the disease has assumed a someivhat chronic form before proceeding to the division of the sphincter ; if this be done early after tlie bursting of the abscess, or at any time if there be much inflammatory action