3M DISEASE OF THE HIP-JOIET. effected, usually Avitli acute inflammation prcscuting the characters of arthritis in other joints, and the disease generally continues limited to those structures tkroughout. Aston Key believed that the round ligament was very fi-equcntly the starting-point of inflammation of the hip-joint, and other Surgeons have referred its origin to each of the other structures mentioned. Without denyinf>- the possibility of disease sometimes commencing in the ligaments, illustrative of which we have a beautiful model in the Museimi of University Colleo-e, I ' believe that it more frequently appears first in the cartilage incrusting the head of the thigh-bone ; for, though it is extremely difficult to prove this, opportu- nities of dissecting this form of hip-disease in its early stages being very rare, yet the symptoms that attend it so closely resemble those accompanying the diseases of the articular cartilage in other joints, that it is difficult not to infer that this may be the case in the hip. ; Symptoms.—In this form of the disease the patient is seized with signs of acute inflammation of the joint, coming on rather rapidly, and with great ' constitutional disturbance and pyrexia. The pain in the joint in these cases is most excruciating, accompanied by spasms and twitchings of the limb, and marked by noctinnal exacerbations. The suffering is so intense, that the patient cannot bear the slightest movement of the limb ; a fit of cougliing, the weight of the bed-clothes, or the shaking of the bed by a person leaning against it will give rise to the most intense agony ; and in the intervals of his suffering the patient is in constant fear of a retinn of the pain, to which he looks forward with much anxiety. In these cases the limb is everted, abducted, perfectly helpless, and motioidess : the nates will be found flattened, and there is usually some fuhiess about the anterior part of the joint, under the pectineus muscle, or to its outer side, above the trochanter. There is also sometimes true elongation of it, in consequence of the capsule becoming distended with ^ fluid, and pushing the head of the bone downwards. On measining the hmb, in order to ascertain its true length, it is necessary to examine the two together, and to place the sound in exactly the same position as the diseased one ; uidess this be done, error will very probably creep in, for, on measuring the lower extremity from the anterior superior iliac spine to the lower border of the patella or the inner ankle, it will be found to be of greater length when adducted or extended than when abducted or bent. In some cases the distension of the capsule with synovial fluid, as the result of the inflammation in the joint, may be so great as to lead to its rupture, and to the sudden dislocation of the head of the bone on to the dorsimi ilii, with great pain and much shortening ; this, however, is of very rare occurrence, the dislocation seldom taking place until after abscess has formed within the joint, and the articulation has been thus destroyed. ' Results.—Ill this, the arthritic form of hip-disease, various terminations may take place ; the result dependmg greatly upon the constitution of the patient, and on the mamier in Avhich the affection is treated. In the most ffxvourable cu’cumstances, as the inflammatory action is subdued, the disease falls into the subacute condition, and recovery gradually but very slowly takes place, with a limb that continues somewhat stiff and partially ankylosed, as ucll as Avasted and somexvhat shortened Ifom disuse. Sometimes complete ankylosis ocems Awthout the proA'ious fonnation of abscess. In the majority of instances.