627 SYMPT02fS OF STRAFGULATIOK there is any external evidence of the occurrence of gangrene within the sac ; JUKI the bowel is i'requently nipped to such an extent as to prevent its regain- ing its vitality, vnthont any iiniisiial condition being presented until the sac is actually laid open and the intestine examined. The fUiiil contained in the hernial sac undergoes changes in appearance and •chai-acter, corresponding to those which take place in the strangled gut. In •earlier and slighter cases it continues clear and but moderately abundant. Sometimes the quantity increases greatly and rapidly, but more commonly the •chief alteration that takes place is in its character. It becomes reddish or brown in colour from transuded blood. Sometimes even pure blood is found in the sac, and I have seen the protruded intestine invested with a layer of •coa^uliun. It gangrene of the gut take place, the fluid becomes tiiibid, daik, and offensive. Suppuration in the sac is very rare. I have only once met with it in a woman, 32 years of age, three months pregnant, who was suffering from an acutely strangulated femoral hernia of sixty hom’s’ dm’ation. In that •case, the taxis had been freely used. Fluctuation could be felt deeply, there was diffused doughy infiltration of the groin, and on opening the sac it was found filled with dark thick pus—about half an ounce ; at the bottom of which lay a small deeply congested but not gangrenous knuckle of intestine, which was replaced after the division of a very slight stricture. The patient Tecovered. In the more advanced cases of strangulated hernia, the peritoneum always becomes inflamed, usually to a considerable extent; the disease affects a diffuse form, and is accompanied by the effusion of tmbid serum, often of a very •acrid and irritating character, and mixed with flakes of lymph, sometimes to such an extent as to give it a truly puriform appearance. This glutinous lymph mats together contiguous coils of intestine, often appearing to be smeared over them hke so much melted butter. SvirPTOirs.—The signs and symptoms of strangulation are of two kinds : 1. The local ones, affecting the Tumom-; and 2. The general ones, influencing the Constitution. 1. Local Signs.—The tumour, if the hemia be an old one, wiU be found to be increased in size ; or it may have appeared for the first time. At the moment of strangulation it will generally be found to be hard, tense, and rounded, more particularly if it be an enterocele. When, however, the hernia is in a great measure omental, it is not unfr-equently soft and doughy, though strangulated. It seldom increases in size after strangulation has occurred, as no fresh protrusion can take place below the stricture ; but I have knovm it to be greatly augmented in bulk after the strangulation had existed for some hours, by the effusion of serum into the sac. If the hemia have previously been reducible, it can no longer ]>e put back ; and there is no impulse in it nor increase in its size on coughing, the stricture preventing the transmission •of the .shock to the contents of the tumour ; and in this way, as pointed out by Luke, the situation of the constriction may sometimes be ascertained lay observing at what point the impulse ceases. 2. Constitutional Symptoms.—So soon as the strangulation has occurred, intestinal obstruction takes place, and the patient becomes uneasy and restless. If the constriction be of an active character, he will be seized with acute pain s 8 2