699 OCCLUSION OF THE RECTUM. CHAPTER LXVI. —♦— DISEASES OF THE LAHOE INTESTINE AND ANUS. CONaENITAL MALFOBMATIONS. Congenital Malformations of the anus and rectum are by no means un- frequent, and are of considerable importance ; for, if unrelieved, they must necessarily be the cause of speedily fatal intestinal obstruction. They may exist in various degrees, which may most conveniently be an’anged under the following heads. Narrowing and Partial Closure of the Anus.—The canal continues pervious, but not sufficiently so to allow of the bowels being completely emptied, the contraction usually merely admitting a full-sized probe. In sonie cases the obstruction appears to depend upon constriction of the anal orifice, in others upon an imperfect septum stretching across it. Treatment.—This consists in notching the contracted anus with a probe- pointed bistoury, and then introducing a sponge-tent, so as to dilate it to the proper size, to which it must be kept by the occasional introduction of a bougie. Complete Closure of Anus.—The anus may be completely closed by a membranous septum stretching across it, usually having a raphe along the central line, and a slight depression, through which the dark meconium can be seen, and on which an impulse can be felt. This constitutes perhaps the most common form of malformation that is met with. Treatment.—In this variety an incision must be made through the septum along the middle fine, and this again cut across on each side, when the meconium vdll freely escape. The four angular flaps that are left must now be removed, and the aperture kept open by the introduction of a well-oiled plug. Occlusion of Kectum above the Anus by a Membranous Septum.— The anus may remain open ; but, at a distance of about half an inch or an inch from its aperture, the rectum will be found occluded by a perfect membranous septum stretching across it. This is a rare and somewhat puzzhng kind of malfoiTuation, as in it the infant vull be found to labour imder intestinal obstruction, and yet, on examination, the anal orifice will be found perfectly formed, and thus the Surgeon may be misled as to the seat of the obstacle. He will, however, detect it by introducing a probe or the end of his httle finger into the anus. Treatment.—The operation, of which the following are the details, will be found to be successful. 1. The child is put in the lithotomy position. 2. A trochar-cannula is then passed down to and pressed against the septum. 3. The stylet is then passed