PHYSICAL GIIAEACTERS OF CALCULI. 759 sion should bo sufficiently strong to resolye the stone at once into fragments. If a crack or fissure merely be formed in it, the infiltration of the lu-ine into this may so soften and loosen its cohesion, that it becomes resolved, without further violence, into a number of pieces. In some instances ^ these become agglomerated together, by the deposit of a quantity of phosphatie matter upon and around them. In other cases, the different fragments may each form the nucleus of a fresh calculus, so that the bladder may afterwards contain numerous concretions. Physical Characters.—The Size of calculi varies from that of a hemp- seed or pin’s head to a concretion of immense magnitude. One of the largest Avith Avhich I am acquainted, was a calculus removed by the high operation by Uytterhoeven of Brussels, Avhich I saiv some time ago in his possession, and of which he has been obliging enough to giA’e me a cast; it is pyriform, and measures 9^ inches in its longest circumference, and 12^ inches round at its broadest part, being inches long, and about 4 wide. In the celebrated case of Sir W. Ogilvie, Cline attempted, but failed, to extract a calculus measuring 1G inches round one axis and 14 round the other. It weighed 44 ounces, and must have been about the size of Uytterhoeven’s. These enormous concretions are happily rarely met with at the present day ; the usual size of stones removed by operation being from about one to two inches in the longest diameter, somewhat naiTOW, and perhaps flattened. The Weight of calculi commonly varies fr’om a few grains to several ounces ; the commonest Aveight is from three drachms to about an ounce or tAvo in weight, occasionally from three to six ; fr’om this they may range upwards until several pounds are reached. Thus, in Cline’s case the stone weighed 44 ounces. Deschamps saw one of 51 ounces, and Morand one weighing Gibs, r none of these admitted of removal. The largest calculi are usually composed of phosphates, in greater part if not in whole. Large and heavy calculi are certainly less frequently met Avith noAV than formerly, owing to operations for stone being simpler and less dreaded since the introduction of aneesthetics, and hence practised in an earher stage of the disease. The Hardness of calculi varies considerably ; the oxalate of lime is the hardest; the lithates come next in consistence, and are often very hard, though brittle; the phosphatie calculi are always comparatively soft and friable. The Shape of calculi presents great A'ariety; most commonly, however, they have an ovoid flgiu’e. Concretions of m’ate of ammonia and uric acid are generally pretty regularly ovoidal, smooth, and disc-like. Those composed of oxalate of lime are usually somewhat globular or square-shaped, and generally rough, nodulated, or spiculated upon the surface. The phosphatie calculi present usually the most irregular outline; most commonly, it is true, they ^e ovoid or globular, but are not unfrequently branched, as if moulded to the interior of the kidney, constricted, or of an hour-glass shape. The cystine calculi are generally tolerably oval and regular in outline. Position. Most frequently calculi lie loose in the bladder; but occasionally they may be flxed, either by being encysted, and then lying in one of the sacculi that have afready been described within the walls of the bladder (Figs. / 22 and 72o); or by being flxed in and embraced by one of the ureters; and m other cases by being deposited upon, and partly included in, fungous groAvths.