748 SEGONDAliY DISEASES OF THE UJilNAliY ORGANS. M’hich is well Avorthy of furtlicr investigation, although, at most, it could but account for a small proportion of the deaths from this disease. It Avill be seen from the above, that in the production of fatal interstitial aiephritis a number of causes are at work, sometimes all together, sometimes singly, and no exclusiA’e theory can possibly explain more than a small propor- tion of the cases. Symptoms of Kidney-Disease in Surgical Affections of the Genito- urinary Organs.—Simple although a condition seriously •endangering the success of any operation on the urinary organs, gives rise to remarkably few symptoms ; and it is surprising to what an extent the structure of the kidney may be damaged by chronic interstitial nephritis arising from this cause Avithout interfering in any noticeable degree Avith the patient’s health. It gives rise to no oedema, no marked anaamia, and no alteration in the fimction of the skin. The most characteristic feature is probably an increase in the quantity of lU'ine, Avith a diminution in the specific gi’aAuty. In a case lately in University College Hospital, the patient passed five pints of urine daily of a specific gravity of 1003 or 1004. In all cases in which it is desirable to ascertain the condition of the kidneys, the urine should bo collected for the whole day, and the specific gTavity taken. If the quantity be large and the specific gravity low, chronic interstitial nephritis may be suspected. The quantity of albmnen is ahvays small, and it may be absent altogether. At most, only a foAV hyaline casts can be found, and often no renal epithelium. The excretion of inea is usually in sufficient amount, as the quantity of urine makes up for the Ioav specific gravity. If the primary disease give rise to much pus and mucus, or to a little blood, the difficulties of diagnosis are greatly increased, and reliance must then be placed solely in the quantity and specific gTavity, and CA’en these may proA'e deceptive. It is rarely possible to gain much information by feeling the kidney. There is no tenderness, and it is seldom sufficiently enlarged for the Sm’geon to form any conclusion as to its condition. Suhcu'ute interstitial nephritis ghres rise to more evident symptoms. The patient is Aveak and languid, and slowly but steadily emaciates. He loses his appetite and has occasional attacks of nausea, though rarely actual vomiting. His tongue is furred and has a tendency to become dry, and occasionally there is thirst. There is no tenderness OA'er the kidney. There may be occa- sionally a slight feeling of chilliness, seldom actual rigors. The temperature will be found to be slightly elevated, especially at night; and for this reason, in any doubtful case, it is essential to obtain the evening temperatine, as in the morning it may fall to normal. It seldom rises above 101 F. The mine is abiuidant and usually of Ioav specific gravity, but by no means always so. It is seldom possible to find casts or to judge of the amount of albumen, as this form of disease usually accompanies bladder-affections, Avhich fill the urine Avith pus or mucus, as chronic cystitis, stone, and stricture. At most, only a fcAv renal epithelium-cells and possibly a hyaline cast or tAVO could be found. This condition may last for weeks or even months, the patient gradually be- coming Aveaker and weaker until he is carried off by some intercurrent disease, or dies of pure exhaustion. More commonly, however, an acute attack siiper- A-encs on the subacute, either spontaneously or as the result of some surgica