9i6 DISEASES OF THE UltETlIRA. The recto-vesical iDoiich of tlie peritoneum will sometimes descend so ab- normally low as to cover the has fond of the bladder as far as the prostate, lea^-ing- no space for a puncture to be safely made. This condition neces- sarily cannot be determined during life, hence its great danger. I have known two instances in which a double puncture was in this way made through the fold of the recto-vesical pouch, half an inch beyond an unenlarged prostate, for relief of retention. In both cases, death from peritonitis occuived. The preparations are in University College I\Iuseum. In a remarkable case that Avas under my care at the Hospital (in 1859), a sequence occurred winch I have never seen noticed ; viz., the diffusion of rectal flatus through the areolar tissue of the pelvis and down the thighs and nates, producing aii emphysematous condition of these parts and the death of the patient. The case was briefly as foUoAA's. A middle-aged man had suffered from traumatic stricture for very many years — indeed, from childhood. He Avas admitted with retention. As no catheter ever had been or could be passed, I punctured the bladder by the rectum in the usual way. The cannula was removed on the fifth day. He then passed urine ■urefhram, and continued to do so up to the time of his death. The day after the Avithdrawal of the cannula he felt very ill, but Avithout any positive or tangible complaint. The next day it Avas found that the back and inner part of both thighs were emphysematous and crackling, evidently distended with air. The emphysema extended downwards and also up the flanks, and ap- peared eA'eii in the right arm. There was no pain or discoloration. He died on the following day, the eighth after the puncture. After death no trace of pelvic inflammation, suppiuation, or luinary extraAmsation Avas found; but there w^as much infiltration of gas under the pelvic peritoneum, and in the areolar tissue between the bladder and rectum. The gas had probably passed through the sciatic notches into the posterior parts of the thighs. It was fetid, like intestinal flatus. 4. Puncture of the Bladder above the Pubes, in cases of retention from stricture, is but seldom resorted to ; although some Siugeons of emi- nence, more especially Paget of Leicester, have strongly recommended and often practised it. This operation, which has been discussed at p. 868, is un- doubtedly easy of performance, and sufficiently safe, though not devoid of the danger of infiltration of urine into the tissues around the puncture, and of the inconvenience of a fistulous opening being left. There is one class of cases to which it appears to be especially applicable, and in which I have had occasion to practise it ; viz., those cases of retention from impassable strictiue, in which. there co-exists an enlargement of the prostate, rendering puncture through the: rectum impossible, the Surgeon’s finger not being able to reach beyond the en- • larged prostate ; and here undoubtedly the safest, if not the only course to i pursue, is the suprapubic puncture. 5. The Employment of the Aspirator for the purpose of emptying am over-distended bladder is, however, upon the whole the simplest method off treatment, and should be preferred to any of the preceding plans, in the first; instance at all events. The perforating trochar of the aspirator should be: passed directly into the bladder above the pubes. The operation is a sunple ■ one, and Avith a little care is perfectly safe. The chief point is not to thrust the