URINARY CALCULUS. 79S as a whole, as wo have as yet no sufficient statistics to enable us to determine- whether the mortality after the median has been less than that which has fol- lowed the lateral. AYc may, hoAvever, compare the modern median operation with the lateral, and endoaTOur to determine in what respects the median is superior, in what inferior, to the lateral, and in what cases it might be em- ployed instead of the latter. For in this, as in lithotrity, the Surgeon should not be too exclusive ; it is his duty to learn and to practise different methods of attaining the same end, and to make use of one or the other according to the- requirements of the actual case before him, and to endeavour to select what is good and to reject what is doubtful in every method brought before him. It would be in the highest degree unsurgical to lithotrise only, or to cut only, every patient with stone coming under care ; and I believe that there is a choice as to the cutting operation to be performed. In fact, there are no opera- tions in Siu’gery that require to be so frequently modified, according to the- necessities of the particular case, as those for stone : the age of the patient, the size and number of the calculi, and the condition of the urinary organs, alt exercise A'ery important modifying influences, and prevent the Sm-geon fr’om confining himself to one method exclusively. In order to make a proper comparison between these two operations—the median and the lateral—we must take them seriatim. The difficulties and dangers of the lateral operation are : 1, the difficulty in some cases of entering- the bladder; 2, hmmoiThage ; 3, the risk of wounding the bulb ; 4, of wound- ing the rectum ; 5, too extensive an incision in the prostate, and opening up- the pelvic fascia ; G, the difficulty in extracting the stone. 1. General Ease and Simplicity of the Operation.—There is no doubt that the Siu’geon wiU be more skilful in that operation which he has more often- performed : so far as ease and simplicity are concerned, there is no gi-eat difference between them. In the lateral operation there is very seldom any difficulty in entering the bladder, though Surgeons have sometimes been foiled in this; but Surgeons of the gi’eatest skill have also had great difficulty in entering the- bladder in the median operation. The bladder tends to be pushed upwards and backwards before the finger, especially in boys, in whom the prostate is ^ not developed; and, unless the neck of the bladder be well opened, there i appears to be great danger of tearing across the membranous part of the- urethi’a, and of pushing forward the separated bladder. In boys, the parts are- so very small and undeveloped, and the space to work in is so very naiTow, that an ordinary finger can only with great difficulty be got through the neck of the bladder unless this have been freely incised. But, by doing this, we depart- entirely from the guiding principle laid down by the advocates of the median operation, viz., dilatation and not incision. So far as facihty of entering the bladder is concerned, the two operations are probably on a par in the adidt: but in the boy the result of recent experience would show that the difficidties in this respect are far greater in the median than in the lateral; although the- ‘ latter operation even is not exempt from difficulty from this cause. 2. Hjemorrhage.—In this respect, the median operation has decidedly the advantage. If the incision be made in the middle line, without woimdmg the bulb, alSiough there may be tolerably free bleeding at the time, yet there is no- vessel that can furnish dangerous consecutive hemorrhage ; whilst in thelatcra