267 COXSEllVATIVi: SUBGERY OF TILE FINGERS. ill 111! opci'tvtioiis ivpplicd to it wc should cudcayoui', as far as practicable, to maintain its efficiency in both these respects. It is also of importance to bear in mind that two groat classes of actions can be carried out by the hand— those that require force, and those that require delicacy of manipulation rather than strength. By a surgical operation we may sometimes succeed in preserv- ing one, though we are compelled to sacrifice the other ; and in this respect, our procedure should be a good deal infiuenced by the occupation of the patient. Thus, by partial excision, wc may leave a hand that ^vould enable a clerk to hold his pen, but which would be almost useless to a labourer or blacksmith. In looking at the hand from a surgical point of view, we may consider it as being composed of two constituents—the hand proper, and the Thimh; the thumb being an accessory hand, an opponent to the rest of the member, through the mediiun of which the movements of ab- and ad-duction are chiefiy performed, and without which the member is susceptible of a comparatively limited utility, being capable of httle beyond fiexion and extension. Hence the thumb is of equal importanee to the rest of the hand : and the preservation of its three bones is as much to be considered as that of the remaining sixteen that enter into the conformation of the metacarpus and fingers. In all cases of injury or disease implicating the thumb, every effort ought to be made for its preser\'a- tion. Even if it be left stiffened and incapable of flexion, it will be a most useftil opponent to the rest of the hand. Should it be found necessary to shorten it, care must be taken that as little curtailment as possible be prac- tised : a portion of a phalanx, or its metacarpal bone even, is of essential utility in giving strength and breadth to the grasp of the hand. In cases of disease, a verj^ useful member may be left by the removal of a portion or the whole of the ungual phalanx, of the metacarpo-phalangeal articulation, or even by the excision of the metacarpal bone, the phalanges being left. These various operations are easy of performance ; an incision through the diseased and dis- organised soft parts will expose the necrosed bone or carious joint, which must be removed by cutting-pliers or a narrow saw. When the thumb has been forced back, or badly lacerated by powder-flask or gim-baiTcl explosions, it may often be saved by being replaced and main- tained in position on a splint, with light water-dressing over it; and, should amputation be required, it must be done in accordance with the rule just mentioned, of saving as much as possible of the injured part. In the conservative surgery of the ringers the preservation of flexion and extension in the part left is the main thing to be aimed at; a rigid stump is always in the way.^ The preservation of these movements becomes more im- portaiff m proportion as the palm is approached. It is of more consequence that the proximal phalanx, which carries the rest with it, should be capable of being bent into the palm, than that the distal can be flexed on the second. If the proximal phalanx can be bent down, a ^•cry small degree of movement in the distal one will be sufficieut to furnish pliability enough in the finger to make It an useful member ; but if the proximal one be stiffened, no amomit of mobility m the distal phalanx can make it useful. In preserviug these movements, it is necessary to be particularly careful of the sheaths of the tendons. If they be in any way opened or injured, it will ,,eneially be found either that the tendon sloughs, or that it becomes con-