TREATMENT OF CONTRACTION OF THE KNEE. 369 flaccid, and feel soft. Not iinfrequently the leg can be extended np to a certain point, Avith as much freedom as in the natuival state, and then further movement is checked by a sudden stop. If this be not dependent on the tibia coming into contact Avith an ankylosed patella, it is OAving to shortening of the posterior or of one of the cracial ligaments, or to the formation of adhesions Avithin the joint. In this form of contraction, the knee is often much dis- torted, in consequence of the head of the tibia being partially dislocated back- Avards, the femur having its axis directed more or less on one side, most commonly inAA'ards, constituting a kind of genu valgum. In fact, in these cases the distortion of the limb is of a threefold character ; there are, 1, con- traction in the angular direction backAvards ; 2,, disj)lacement of the head of the tibia backvA’ards from the loAver end of the femur, which projects consider- ably fonvards ; and 3, rotation of the leg and foot outwards. The angular contraction is dependent upon adhesions in the joint, and on the gradual tendency to flexion that all inflamed joints assiune. The partial dislocation backAvards is dependent on softening and consequent relaxation, either of the ligamentum patelte or of one or other of the lateral ligaments. When the head of the tibia is displaced backAvards, it will most generally be fomid that the ligamentiun patellae has been either partially absorbed, and thus Aveakened ; or that it is elongated, the patella being draAvn upAA^ards or to one side. In either way, the action of the extensor muscles of the thigh upon the head of the tibia is weakened ; and that bone, being consequently brought under the in- fluence of the hamstrings without a countei-poise, is draAvn backwards (Fig. 52!)). In those cases in which there is lateral rotation of the tibia, the faulty position may either haA'e arisen ft’om the attitude that limb has been alloAvcd to assume dm-ing the progress of the disease in the joint or the leg Avas rotated outwards by the action of the biceps overcomino- that of tlie inner hamstrings. When the knee has been chronically contracted for some length of time t^he ligamentum posticum becomes permanently shortened, in consequence of “ '“S >■;,'> “nd its folds becoming i-ience this condition of the ligament offers the chief obstacle to Fig. 529. Chronic Contraction of Knee-joiut * Head of Tibia drawTi backwards. obliterated extension. Knee-Extension of the limb will done oradnTv may either be o ‘ ‘ y by means of the screAv-splint behind the knee, or forcibly and at aXClhelne ''v T? I letter method, not only eir f " f “P“dic3t, but as being perfectly safe and effectual. The mode of effecting forcible extension is M follows. The patient being fuUy ,mlr the ng on his face, the Surgeon, standing aboA'i influence of chloroform, and lyi VOL, IX. ^ B 11