213 CHRONIC SYNO Y1TIS. „,«vboa. in mono ^ f ^emteanc m^n^^^^ ^ - thin pnaulont-looking and eftusec ^o^.p^^scles, floating in a serous liquid, is poured out, fluid, comp = ‘ thinning and erosion of the cartilage, and probably and disintcgiation, ^Mth gTanulations ai-c r'*’'fonf 0? ^ looser portions’of the momtoano, and becoming injeoted S, blolvessels, constitnte fringed and villorrs membraneons expansrons, Ivino- upon the subjacent disintegrated and eroded cartilage. _ SY.nrrOMS.-Acnte Synovitis.-The symptoms of synovitis consist of rain and heat of the joint, with distension and fliiotiiation of it. If it te Hi-o-c and exposed, the jjam is severe, especially at night, being giea y increased by momng or pressing upon the articulation ; it is iisuaUy sharp^ but ivhen the disease occurs in rheumatic or gouty constitutions, of a gnaiving character. In purulent synovitis from pyiemia, it is indeed almost cutaneous. On laying the hand on the joint, this vill be felt to ^^The sivellinfj of the affected joint is considerable, and evidently depends on accumulation of fluid ivithin the synovial sac, the extreme oifflme of which is rendered apparent by the tension to which it is subjected. Thus in the knee it rises up high in the thigh under the tendon of the quadriceps extensoi, to the extent of°three or four inches above the upper border of the patella, the swelliug being higher on the inner than the outer side of the hmb, whilst in the elbow it rises in the same manner under the tendon of the triceps. There is but little if auy effusion into the surrounding tissues ; and hence the out- line of the joint can be distinctly felt, and undulcLtion perceived in it. The limb is usually semiflexed, as giving the patient most ease, and the joint cannot be moved. The constitutional febrile disturbance is tolerably severe, especially if the affection occim in a rheumatic constitution. Chronic Synovitis.—The disease, at first acute, may terminate in a sub- acute or chronic form ; or, subacute at its commencement, it may fall into a chronic condition. Chronic synoifitis is characterised by all the symptoms of the acute variety of the disease, but in a less severe degree. The swelling and weakness of the joint are the most conspicuous local conditions. In some cases, the swelling from accumidated serous fluid is so considerable as to consti- tute a true dropsy of the joint—Hydrarthrosis. This accumulation of fluid, partaking in various degTees of the characters of serum and synovia, is usually preceded or accompanied by evidence of synovial inflammation ; but, though this generally happens, it is not invariably the case. Richet, in paidicular, has recorded instances from which it would appear that inflammation is not a ncccssaiy or invariable accompaniment of the affection, the synovial mem- brane being indeed pretcniaturaUy ivliite, and looking as if it had been washed or soddened ; and though these cases are rare, those that commonly present themselves to the Surgeon being of a decidedly inflammatory character, yet their occasional occun-ence is sufficient to establish the existence of a passive, as well as of an inflammatory form of the disease. The presence of an abnormal quantity of fluid in the joint is always readily perceived by its fluctuation and undulation and by the ])ecuUar shape that it