524 DISEASES OF THE MOUTU AND THROAT. lower jaw, cutting freely backwards so as to liberate the base of the tongue. He now snips across the reflexion of the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth fi-om the lower jaw, and then, laying aside the scissors, separates widely with his fingers the base of the tongue from these parts. As he does this the assistant, who has charge of the forceps, draws the tongue well forwards, and it comes bodily out between the lips. If the anterior pillar of the fauces offer .any obstacle it may be snipped across, and the wire of the ^craseur may then be applied well round the back of the organ, the shaft being pressed up under the base of the tongue. If the wii'e have a tendency to slip forwards, a large double hook should be passed in front of it into the base of the tongue, so as steady it and prevent its slipping. By now working it gradually, the whole organ can be removed. Nunneley, of Leeds, has devised an ingenious mode of applying the ecrasem’ BO as to remove portions of the tongue, or, indeed, the whole organ, as far back as the hyoid bone. This operation consists in passing the chain of the ecraseur through the centre of the mylo- hyoid space by means of a sickle-shaped needle, about 4| inches long and as broad as a bistoury blade. By this needle the chain is brought into the mouth close to the frasnum. Two or three cm’ved and strong hare-hp pins are now passed deeply into the tongue, obliquely, behind the seat of the disease, their points being made to project forwards below the organ, so as to prevent the chain from slipping. The loop is now gradually tightened, and the tongue is cut_or shaved off obhquely from behind forwards. Two ecraseiirs have been successfully used by Chassaignac in removing portions of the tongue. AYhen the disease only occupies one side, and it is not thought necessary to cut away the whole breadth of the organ, two instruments are required, which, as Chassaignac represents (Iig. 627), must be passed through the substance of the tongue in opposite dnec- tions, so as to isolate and detach the diseased portion. ^ In removing large portions of the tongue by means of the ecrasein (Fig. C-8), the instrument should be worked very slowly, in order that tme may be <riven for the vessels to contract; bnt, even with this precaution, hiemorrhap may occm-from the larger arteries to such an extent f ^o refinne the a^^^^ nation of the ligature. Instead of the ordinary ^crasein, Middledorpf s galvamc ecrasem- may most advantageously be used for the removal of ■of the whole of the tongue. It is applied in exactly the same way as oiiuaiy toseur, and has these great advantages that faces all heemorrhage is arrested, aud the action of the wne extends beyond the line of section. (/S'ee page 527.) i • i When the floor of the mouth is implicated m the morbid should be attempted i as it is impossible to extiiyite ptfj bv r“S in this situation, and partial removal of it will only he folio i y P rig. 627.—Two ficraseurs ajiplied to Cancer of Tongue.