375 CLUB-FOOT. ettectctl by the use of properly constructed apparatus. This should be of two kinds : 1. A leg-and-thigh piece securely laced on to the limb, haraig an angular joint opposite the knee, and united posteriorly by a strong baud of vuFcanised India-rubber, the elastic tension of which is constantly striving to overcome the straightened lunb by flexing it backwards ; and 2, a similar apparatus, with rack-and-pinion, instead of elastic, by which the knee can be screwed baek once at least in the day. Ankylosis of the knee in the angular gjos'iHon fonvards, so that the leg is bent upwards upon the thigh, is very rare. Indeed, I am acquainted with only three preparations illustrating this deformity—one in the museum of University College, one in that of St. Thomas’s Hospital, and another exhibited by Adams to the Pathological Society, from a limb amputated by Grant, of Canada, in which this condition occiuTcd in a young man as a consequence of a wound of the joint some years preUously. Club-Foot.—Defonnities of the foot may either affect one or both of the •extremities. They may be congenital or acquired, and may occur in either sex, but appear to be more common amongst boys than girls. There are fom* primary varieties of club-foot, and two secondary ones. Of the fom- primarg forms, in two the deformity is in the antero-posterior direction, in the sense of flexion and of extension: Talipes Equinus, in which the heel is drawn up and the toes pointed downwards ; and its antithesis. Talipes Calcaneus, in which the heel is pointed downwards and the foot and toes drawn up. In the remain- ing two forms the deformity is lateral, the foot being adducted and twisted inwards in Talipes Varus, and abducted and twisted outwards in Talipes Valgus. The foiu’ primary forms of club-foot correspond with and are dependent on a permanent condition of one or other of the four simple move- ments of Avhich the foot is susceptible at the ankle-joint. Thus in Talipes Equinus the foot is extended, the heel being raised, and the dorsum pointing downwards in a line more or less direct with that of the anterior part of the leg. This is due to permanent contraction of those muscles that are inserted into the tendo Achillis. In Tahpes Calcaneus the foot IS draAATi up and the heel is depressed, so that the dorsum fonns an angle more or less acute Avith the front of the leg. Here the tibialis anticus is the muscle chiefly at fault. In Talipes Varus the foot is adducted forcibly, and the inner side of the sole raised sometimes to a right angle Avith the ground ; this is due principally to the action of the tibialis posticus and tibialis anticus’ and m Tahpes Valgus we have the converse, abduction of the foot, and raising of Hie outer side of the sole, due to the action of the peronei muscles. Besides these four primaiy forms, there are two secondary varieties of club- loot ; Talipes Equino-varus, in which the heel is raised and the foot di-awn imvai-ds; and Talipes Calcaneo-valgus, in which the heel is drawn doAATi 10 oot tmned out. I he Talipes Eguinus and Varus are commonly associated, because in these forms the flexor and adductor muscles, A'iz., the s rong muscles of the calf and the tibiahs posticus, those that are supplied by the posterior tibial nerve, are contracted. The Talipes Calcaneus and Valms are associated because in these the extensor and the peroneal muscles, those supplied by the peroneal nerve, are the seat of contraction. In some forms of el»b-f„ot,c»„oc.allyin tl,o v„™ and equino-varus. it will bo fb«“d ^^0