438 OPnTHALMIG SURGERY. turbidity of tlic aqueous and vitreous humours probably, or liaziiiess of the eornea and lens. The operation is best done dvu'ing inflam- mation. (When there is pain, &c.—inthe acute cases.) Operation cannot be deferred. The excision is best made upwards, where it is covered by the xipper lid. The piece of ii’is should be taken specially from the greater circumference. The piece of iris excised should be large. The good result of the operation is im- mediate. The pupil is never afterwards blocked up. ing examination with the ophthalmoscope, quite irrespective of any tui'bidity of the humours, or liaziness of the other media. The operation is only allowable when no inflammation exists. Operation may be put off without harm. The excision should be made any way but upwards: where most convenient, at any exposed part. The piece of ii-is should be probably taken from the pupillary margin. It should be small, or smaller, at any rate, than that in ii'idectomy for glaucoma. The good result appears after a while. Not unfi-equently resultless by secondary iritis and occlusion of the pupil. We see, therefore, in the fii’st place, that in glancoma the portion of iris to be removed must he taken from its whole width, quite np to its greater circum- ference (Fig. 570), so that the preliminary opening made into the anterior- chamber must be in the sclero-corneal junction, or in the margin of the sclerotic itself; not in the cornea, as it should be generally in the formation of ai’tificial pupil by excision. For glaucoma, the piece of iris excised must be larger than is usual for an artificial pupil; and, that the gap made when the iris is removed may be hidden, it should be beneath the upper lid, just where an operation for artificial pupil would be out of the question. The chief steps of the operation are the same as those described ah’eady for operation of artificial pupil. But, chlorofonn having been given, if desired, the -wire-speculum and forceps being used, to keep open the lids and to steady the eye, an opening extending to one-fourth of the circumference must be made in the sclerotico- corneal junction, or even in the margin of the sclerotic, at the upper part. About one-fifth of the whole iris is removed in the operation. For this pm- pose, a lance-shaped knife is generally thrust into and across the anterior- chamber, and the incision is extended, if necessary, as the knife is being- removed ; but an ordinary (Sichel’s) extraction-knife is much preferable. It cuts better, requiring less thrusting force, and -with it the wound in the cornea may be made less obliquely through the coats of the eye, nearer, that is to say, to- the greater circumference of the iris, Avhich we want to reach ; and the point of the cutting instrument always between the cornea and iris may be kept, quite away from the front surface of the lens, instead of being, as when the lance-knife is used, necessarily carried straight across it. In glaucoma, the anterior chamber is very shallow. The point of the knife, which may be held in the right hand for either eye if the operator be not ambidextrous, is intro- duced in the sclero-corneal junction, at the right extremity of the incision to be made, and carried a little way towards the centre of the anterior chamber ; and, when it has well entered this chamber, the cutting edge is directed up- wards and forwards, and being thrust onwards steadily, with a firrn hand, so as not too quickly to evacuate the aqueous humoiu’, is made to cut, aided perhaps by slight sa-wing movements up and down, rather vertically (not by inaking a counter puncture, as some recommend) as far along the extreme margin of the cornea or sclerotic as the length of the incision is to be made, at least one-