LIGATURE OF THE VERTEBRAL ARTERY. 117 of the axillary artery on the face of the stump might here be reckoned like Brasdor’s operation ; yet there is a ^-ast ditfercnce, for in the latter case the same amount of blood which previously passed towards the upper extremity would still find its way down, and probably part of it would run through the sac ; whereas, were the member removed, as the same quantity would no lou<mr be required in this direction, the tumoim might possibly be much more under the control of pressure. The value of such a suggestion remains yet to be tested, however, and it would be futile to reason upon it at present. It might be a judicious ventme fii’st to tic the axillary or subclavian under the clavicle ; and then, if it were found that the aneurism stiU increased, amputa- tion might be performed, cither immediately before or after the separation of the ligatiu-e.” "Were a case of aneimism of the subclavian artery internal to the scaleni to present itself to me, the plan that I should adopt would be, first, the employ- meut of pressure ou the A’cssel at the distal side ot the tumour, if practicable ; should this not succeed, I would, if the disease were situated between or internal to the scaleui, ligature the artery in the third part of its course ; and, did that not succeed in checking the increase of the anemism, I would perform umputation at the shoulder-joint, as recommended by Fergusson. Should the uneimism occupy the artery after it has passed the scaleni, direct pressure on the sac holds out the best prospect of success. Should that fail, 1 would not .attemi^t the ligatm'c of the artery below the clavicle ; as it is an operation the result of which is most unsatisfactory, and would not prevent a large current ±hi-ough the sac for the supply of the collateral circulation of the arm ; but I would at once have recoimse to amputation at the shoulder, and then ligature the vessel as near as possible to the sac. It is true that, even in this case, the hgatm-e would be below the branches that ai’e given off under the pectoral muscles ; but, as the arm would be removed, they could not undergo any increase of activity for the supply of the collateral circulation of the upper extremity. The only case in which this operation has been performed, was by Spence in 18()4. The patient lived for four years ; and, although the anemism was not eiu’cd, the result afforded good promise of success for the futiu’e. For the £rst ton days after the operation, the tumoiu- was scarcely to be felt ; and when the patient left the hospital the tumoiu’ had diminished to one third ■of its farmer size. The artery was tied in two places—where it was cut, and als© just beyond the tumoiU’. Before the patient’s death—which probably arose from iuternal aneurism—the aneurism had increased somewhat towards the cheat. Ligature of the Vertebral Artery.—This bold and difficult operation is •only to bo found recorded in one case in the annals of Smgery—that in Avhich Smyth ©f Ifcw Orleans had rccomse to it to check regirngitant hmmorrhage after ligature of the inuominato for subclavian anemism (p. 111). I Avill give the details of the operation in the words of Smyth.—“ The head^ of the patient being throAvn back and slightly turned to the left, an incision two inches in length was made along the posterior border of the .sterno-mastoid^ muscle, commencing at the point Avhore the external jugular wem crosses this muscle and terminating a little above the clavicle; the cdo'c of