SLITTING THE PUNGTUM AND CANALICULUS. 421 lower punctum is the more frequently everted, obstructed, or obliterated, biravity is perhaps concerned in both. The Surgeon’s attention is seldom caUed to the upper punctimi; if it be too small, altogether absent, or abnor- mally placed, perhaps he is not called on to discover^ the fact ; but, on exami- nation, the punctum is generally found to be in right position and patent, and yet insufficient to prevent lacrymation when the lower punctum, to which the teai-s gi-avitate, is not fit to receive them, or the canaliculus and nasal duct to convey them away. If the lower punctum be so much everted that for any length of time it is dried, it probably becomes narrowed, and would not carry away the tears, even if the ectropion were remedied and the punctum again moistened. Operation.—The patient is seated in a chair, in a good light, wfith his head thrown back, a towel over it, and resting on the chest of the operator, who is standing behind him. A finger or the thumb of the left hand is placed lightly on the lower and outer part of the skin of the lower lid, which is drawn forcibly <loi\ui and outwards, and fixed by pressure on the malar bone sufficiently to over- come the force of the orbicularis. If the punctum be not everted, so that it may be fairly seen, it is well exposed to view by slight traction ■nfith another finger on the skin of the inner part of the lower lid, drawing it downwards a little and fixing it in that position. If the skin of the lower lid be wet with tears or greasy with ointment, it should be first of aU wiped dry ; or a corner of the -towel may be required to be applied between the fingers and ■ the eyelid. The knife employed is very narrow, and about an inch in length altogether. It ends in a small probe, of about .a fine in length, Avith a slightly bulbous extremity, bent some- what towards the, cutting edge (Fig. 5G3, 1). It is held with the probe-point turned downwards and directed into the punc- I turn ; and, when the Surgeon is sure of its being in the right I .position, some little force may be employed, if necessary, for j its passage thi’ough the punctum. If the punctum be quite I •obstructed or disguised, it is well to be as sure as possible I that the knife is rightly directed ; if little pits be made in the | .soft skin or conjunctiva Avith the probe-end, it is so much the » I more difficult afterwards to make sure of the real position of ■the punctum. A minute depression, made oval by traction on ms _ „ the skill of the lid, Avill be detected in the right anatomical position or the punctum, ca'Cii if it be quite imperAfious to the ''• weber’s 'T'Urv •.* 1 . 1 , Knife for Slittini^ ^ais. me iignt position may be judged of by relaxing for an Ciimiiicnius. mstant the dragging force, and, if the lid be bathed in tears, it may be Aviped dry, and a very little quantity of the tears may be detected yiiig in the natural pit or oozing from it. The probe-point being Avithin the punctum, the knife is turned half-round, so that the cutting edge is directed upAvards and toAvaids the nose, and the probe-end, Avhich is not in a line with the rest of the instnmient, is directed in that Avhicli, anatomically, ^ kiioAvn to be tlie direction of the canaliculus. This is then aht up as far as the probe end Avill let the knife go, towards the nose, or, at least, Avell into that part of the palpcbnd conjunctiva in which the tears