824 URINARY CALCULUR. 1G2 cases operated upon by litbotrity by various Surgeons in Pai-is, Ci\'ialc states that death resulted in 38, and a cure in 100 instances; the results of the remaining cases being unknown, or the cures incomplete. In this country it is impossible to say, even approximately, what the average mortality after lithotrity has been ; but I believe there is a very general feeling that, in many of the London hospitals in which it has been performed, lithotrity has not been a very successful operation. The same remark appears to hold good Avith regard to the Parisian hospitals ; Malgaigne estimates the mortality ft-om lithotrity in these institutions at 1 in 4, while he calculates that of private cases as 1 in 8. This difference between the results of this operation in hospital and in pri\'ate practice can easily be accounted for by the difference in the constitutions of the patients, and by their applying for relief in priA'ate in a less advanced form of the disease than in hospital practice. We find that the same holds good with regard to the results of lithotomy. Thus, Coulson states that Dudley lost only 1 in 36 of the private patients that he cut; Mettauer, 1 in 36j ; Martineau, 1 in 42 ; and Mott, 1 in 50. These results are fully as favom’able as Giviale’s statistics of lithotrity, and shoAv the influence which the constitution of the patient, and a proper selection of cases, may exercise upon the results of the cutting operation. The only statistics of lithotrity that we at present possess are those given by Brodie, Fergusson, Keith, and Thompson as the result of their practice. Brodie’s cases were almost entirely private ones ; and many occurred early, before the art Avas perfected, hence they are scarcely fairly apphcable to the present day. He states that, out of 115 cases of lithotrity—not all, however, on different indi- Auduals, the operation haAdng been repeated more than once on several of the patients—he lost 9. Of these, death was directly attributable to the operation in 5 instances ; and in the remaining 4, it Avas dependent on organic disease, brought into activity by the shock of the operation. Fergusson lost 12 out of 109 cases, and Keith 7 out of 129. Thompson’s statistics show by far the most favom’able results that have yet been obtained. He operated in 184 consecutive cases, of which only 3 were under 30 years old, the mean age being 61, the oldest 83, and in 46 cases 70 and upwards. The recoveries, excluding every kind of casualty, amounted to 93 per cent. Ko case was left unfinished; in no case was lithotomy required; and in 13 cases only was a second operation demanded. Lithotrity, as has ah’eady been stated, cannot be applied to aU cases of stone; in most that are unsuited to this operation, lithotomy may be done AA’ith success. In some cases, however, no operation can be practised, in consequence of serious disease of the genitals, bladder, or kidneys, or of some visceral mis- chief that would necessarily interfere with the performance of any capital operation. The necessity of selecting cases of lithotrity is well instanced by a statement that Civiale has given with reference to this point. This dexterous lithotritist considered that, of 838 calculous patients aaLo applied to him diu’ing a series of twenty years, only 548 were fit cases for lithotrity, and 290, or more than one-third, Avere not operated on hy this method ; of the last 322 cases included in this list, 241 were lithotrised, 1 in 3’6 being considered unfit for that operation. Of the 91 cases not crushed, 28 were cut, and in 8 otheis lithotrity and lithotomy were combined. Of these 36 cases subjected to litho-