404 DISEASES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. u the parotid region. These present nothing reinarkablo in their course here In some cases the parotid may undergo cancerous infiltration, the tumour then presenting the characters and running the course of the ordinary forms of malignant disease. Diaf)nosis.~lt is of great importance to effect the diagnosis between the non-mahgnant and the malignant varieties of tumours in the parotid region. In the fibrous, sarcomatous, Jibro-cellular, and enchonclromatous tumours, there is always mobility ; and, although the attachments may be deep, the skin is not involved to any extent. The outline of the mass is usually well defined, square, and somewhat lobulated. The pro- gress of the growth is very slow, often occupying many yeara before it attains any considerable bullc, as in the annexed cuts (Figs. 55!), 5G0), representing a tumour of sixteen years’ standing which I ex- cised. In the scirrhous groivth there is no mobility, but the mass is solidly fixed; its outline is ill defined, the skin soon assumes a reddish pinple colom’, is brawny, and presents the usual characters indicative of subja- cent malignant action. When these tiimom’s ai’e cnceTphdloid, they grow with considerable rapidity, feel soft and pulpy, and are rounded, and ill- defined in their outline, especially under the ear and by the ramus of the jaw. Treatment.—In the treatment of those tumours, extirpation is necessarily the only coiu’se that can be adopted; and this should certainly not bo at- tempted if the disease be malignant; for, as it woidd be impossible to remove its deeper attachments, the growth to a certainty would speedily return. Even if the disease be of a simple character, care must be taken that every lobule and prolongation be extirpated ; for, if any be left, however small, it wiU without doubt become the nucleus of a new tumour. In removing tumours in this situation, the superficial incisions should be free, and either longitudinal or crucial, so that the whole mass may be fairly exposed. It is not wise to remove integument, however redundant this may appear to be, unless it have under- gone infiltration, incoiporation with the tumour, or change of structure ; and even then as little as possible should be taken away. The fibrous or aponeurotic . investments of the timiour must be fairly opened, and the edge of the knife must then be directed against it, and the dissection carried on from below upwards, or from behind forwards, so that one division of the blood-vessels supplying it may be sufificient. After the tumour has boon well loosened by the division of investing fascim and structures (and it is sui’prising how movable it often becomes after this has been done, though it may previously appear to have incoi’porated somewhat solidly with the subjaeent tissues), it should be