510 PLASTIC SURGERY OF THE FACE AND MOUTH. in-cvented by the approximation of the edges of the fissure in the soft Until a few years ago, the operation was always deferred until the patient had attained the age to understand the necessity of remaining quiet during the proceeding, and was able to control his movements, as success depended^n a great measm-e upon his remaining perfectly tranquil and steady durino- the necessary manipulations, which are of a tedious and protracted character Tand upon his assisting the Surgeon by opening his mouth, and not struo-o-lin^ during the introduction of instruments. Chloroform was never adminis°tered from the fear that suflPocation might be caused by the blood from the operation, which is always abundant, entering the air-passages. In 1869, however, Thomas Smith, of St. Bartholomew s Hospital, demonstrated that with proper <;ai’e amesthetics may be safely administered, and at the same time he invented a most ingenious gag, by means of which the patient’s mouth can be kept ■widely open without the Surgeon being interfered with either by the hands of assistants or the instrument itself. By the help of this gag, and the adminis- tiation of chlorofoim, the ojperation can now be performed at any a^e * but as the bleeding is always very free, it is advisable not to attempt it’in too young childi*en. At the age of tkree it may be safely undertaken, and the advantage of having it done before the child has learned to speak is very great. Staphyloraphy.—The operation for the cime of a cleft in the soft palate may be said to have been introduced by Ptoux ; for although several attempts at the cure of this deformity had been made by Surgeons before his time, yet he was the first to establish Staphyloraphy as a distinct operation. Many modifications of Eoux’s plan have been practised by Von Griife, Warren, Dieffenbach, Liston, and others, in order to render it more easy of execution, and certain in its results, and especially by making incisions through the palate so as to take off the traction on the sutures ; but to Fergusson is due the great merit of introducing a new principle of treatment in the operation—viz., the application of myotomy to it, thus paralysing the movements of the muscles of the palate. Fergusson found that the great cause of failure in these operations was the mobility of the parts, and the traction exercised by the muscles, principally the levator palati and the palato-pharyngeus, on the line of union ; in order to ob-Uate this, he conceived the happy idea of dividing these muscles. Before Fergusson laid dovm the principles of this operation, it is true that various cuts had been made in the palate by different Sm’geons, with the ^dew of taking off the tension after the sutures were tied. Thus Dieffenbach, Pancoast, Liston, and Sedillot, all recommend that the traction on the stitches should be lessened by longitudinal cr transverse incisions across the velum pendulum palati. Mettauer practised several small incisions for this puipose ; and Mason Warren divided the anterior pillar of the fauces and its attachments to the posterior pillar, coming nearer than any previous operator to Fergusson’s method. These operations, however, were done almost at hap-hazard, and in an empirical Avay, without the recognition of any distinct principle being involved in them. Operation.—The patient is placed in the recumbent position, the Surgeon standing on his right side. The gag is then inserted, and chlorofoim