SPECIAL IlERNI.E. 672 It not unfrcquently happens that, after the superficial fascia has been divided, an oval, smooth, and firm body is exposed, -which at first looks like the hernial sac, or a lump of omentum ; this is in reality the fascia propria, thickened by the long-continued pressure of the truss, and congested perhaps by the attempts at reduction ; and in the midst of it, the sac will at last be found, after the dissection has been can-ied through several layers of this tissue. In it cysts containing bloody scrum may occasionally be found, and then the difficulty in the recognition of the structures is greatly increased. Though the mobility of this mass, the facihty of tracing its neck, and the roundness of its general outline, often cause it to be mistaken for sac or omentum, it may he distinguished from the first by the absence of the characteristic vessels upon its surface, and from the second by its more rounded, solid feel, and uniform, appearance. When the sac has been reached, it must be very carefully opened, there being usually very little if any fluid between it and its contents ; the^ finger-nail must then be passed under the sharp edge of the stricture, which should be divided in a direction upwards and inwards. The reason why this line of incision is universally chosen by Surgeons in this country at the present, day, is, that it is the only direction in which the strictiu’e can be divided without risk of inflicting serious injm-y upon neighbouring parts. If the section be made outwards, the femoral vein wiU be in danger ; if upwards and out- wards, the epigastric artery ; if directly upwards, the spermatic cord : hence the only direction is either inwards, or upwards and inwards. If the cut be made inwards, the sharp edge of Gimbernat’s ligament alone will be divided, and the crural arch not sufficiently hberated. But if the division be made upwards and inwards, the ilio-femoral ligament will be divided, and thus the tension of the whole of the arch lessened; the only danger that can occur from the division of the strictiue in this direction is the very remote one of the division of the obtiuator artery, when it takes the anomalous coui'se round the inside of the neck of the sac. Guthrie states that he has known some of the best Siugeons in London to lose patients by haemorrhage after the operation for femoral hernia. This accident, however, must be of extremely rare occun-ence, and might in a great measiue be guarded against by slightly blunting the edge of the hernia-knife before dividing the stricture, so that the tense fibrous bands, constituting the constriction would yield, while the artery would probably escape, being pushed before the biunted edge. I have, however, more than once seen blood well up rather freely on the division of the stricture; but it has ceased spontaneously, and I have never kno-wn it to give any trouble. If the division of the stricture be limited to a line or two, there will be but little danger of wounding the vessel, even when it takes the abnormal A^case in which this accident happened is recorded by A. H. Corley, of the Jervis Street Hospital, in Dublin. The bleeding was vei-y free, but was easily controlled by passing the fore finger into the wound and grasping the abdominal waU between it and the thumb. A emwed needle was accordingly passed in through the ring and out immediately above Poupart s hgament an a twisted suture applied round it. The ha3mon-hage ceased, and did ^^ot recim The patient died fi-om other causes, and the imt mortmi examination showed the obtiuator arising from the epigastric and cut opposite the neck ot tiie