DEFORMITIES. 354 increasing- tlic pressure and support of the instrument, at the same time that the general health is carefully attended to, and the patient has the benefit of good air. At first the instrmnent need only be worn dm-ing the day, but after a time it should be kept on at night as well. In long- standing and severe cases of lateral curvature of the spine, when its flexi- bility is lost, and the projection of the ribs has become permanent, a cure cannot be expected, nor can it be brought about by any means ; but the patient will derive gi-eat com- fort and support from the use of this excellent instrument, and the increase of the disease may thus be prevented. The treatment of Posterior Excurvation of the spine, with- out caries or other organic disease of the vertebral column, is best conducted by the use of the instrument here figured (Fig. 516), which is con- structed essentially on the same principles as that for lateral cuivatme, with the ex- j-jg. 517.—siiinai sujiport for ception that the back-plate is Posterior Inciuratiou. so arranged as to press upon the projecting spine, and thus gradually to bring it into proper position. In Posterior Incurvation the apparatus here figured (Fig, 517) wiU be found the most useful apidiance. In fact, all these vai-ieties of spinal curvature may be successfully remedied by instruments constructed on the most simple mechanical principles, if carefully attended to and carried out. DEFOKMITIES OP THE NECK AND LIMBS. s Various deformities, such as squint, wry-ueck, and club-foot, are due to a disturbance of the normal equilibrium that exists between antagonistic muscles, so that, by the paralysis of one set, or by the spasmodic action of the other, the proper balance of power is lost, and the limb or part deviates from the position that is natural to it, being drawn down by the more powerful set of muscles. These deformities may be congenital, or they may be acquired. The primaiy mischief is, in many cases, seated in the nervous system; in others, but more rarely, in the muscular. The ligaments and bones only become secondarily altered in shape, being shortened or compressed on the side towards which the limb or part inclines or is drawn. Fasciie also become shortened and tense, and the disused muscles are apt to become soft, wasted, and flabby. The contracted muscle after a time becomes permanently rigid and shortened. Cause,s.—The causes of these deformities are -\'ery i-arious ; but they may be refen-ed to three heads. ]. Contiiiuons Paulty or Abnormal Position of a limb, as in an unre- duced dislocation or an ankylosed joint, will be lollowed by the disuse of a Pig. 510.—Spinal Support for Posterior Excurvation.