426 OPHTHALMIC SURGERY. it must bo (lone, supposing, of course, that the opposite internal rectus tendon has been cut. Operation.—The operation for squint is thus done. A wire-speculum (Fio-. hOd, a) is inserted between the lids, which are thus Avidcly opened. A small fold of the conjunctiva is then seized with toothed forceps with fine points (^.i§* o64, i), just bcloAv and a little in front of the insertion of the rectus ten- don to be divided ; Avith straight and rather blunt-pointed scissox*s (Fig. 5C4, c). this little fold is cut through horizontally ; the forceps is then inserted, closed, rather deeply in the Avound, and a fold of subconjunctival tissue, fascia, &c., is pinched up close to the sclerotic, and dmded Avith the scissors on its sclerotic side. Now, the forceps stiU holding that which was last taken up with it, the points of the scissors being stiU pressed against the sclerotic, and each time very little opened, a succession of little snips is made, the scissors being pushed backwards to some little distance beyond the insertion of the rectus tendon and below the muscle. "V^Tien none of the fascia in this tunnel-like opening re- mains imcut, when it offers no more resistance, the scissors are AvithdraAvn, and, remembering the direction of the deep little opening just made, and observing that the eye has not changed its position, or, if it have moved, allowing so much for the change of position, the strabismus-hook (Fig. 564, cl) is quickly inserted and carried directly backwards through the length of the opening in the conjunctiva and subconjunctival tissues, and then, the‘point being alwags kept close against the convex sclerotic, the handle is depressed, and the hook passed upwards under the tendon of the muscle to be divided, and brought foi-Avards up to its insertion. The points of the scissors are then carried along the sclerotic side of the hook, and opened a little, so that one blade passes Avith the hook under the tendon, and the other in front of it. This blade Avill jDass beneath the conjunctiva without penetrating it, or if it be too closely adherent, the two blades of the scissors, closed, may, before dividing the tendon, be made to open a Avay in front of the insertion of the tendon. The tendon is then cut a. h. e. rig. 5e*i.—a. AVire-Siieculum. h. Toothed Forceiis witli Fine Points, c. Straight Scissoi-s. d. Strabismus-Hook. e. Scissors for Dividing Optic Nerve in Extirpation of the Eye.