DURATION OF ANFURTSAL 25 expanded or flattened ont, and ribbon-like (Fig. 355), and in other instances tortuous and waving, and being considerably elongated The pain in tho nerves is often one of the earliest signs of the existence of an aneurism. Ihe paiu is usually of two kinds : it is either lancinating and radiating along the coui-sc of the nerve that is compressed ; or, when the tumour presses severely upon neighbouring parts and tissues, more especially if it give rise to erosion of the bones (as in Fig. 373), an aching, burning, tearing, or boring sensation is often experienced in the part subjected to the pressure. In other cases, again, important modifications in the function of parts take place, in conse- quence of the pressme that is exercised upon their nerves. Thus, for instance, the compression of the recurrent laryngeal nerve will occasion hoarseness of I'oice and difiiculty of breathing, depending on spasm of the glottis. On the hones an aneurism may produce very important effects by its pressime, eroding or wasting away the osseous tissue in some instances, and in others giving rise to true caries. If the bone be a flat one, as the sternum, the aneurism may perforate it by making as smooth and round a hole in it as if this had been worked by the trephine. Glandular organs and their ducts in the neighbourhood of aneurisms suffer the most injiuioiis effects from the pressure of these tumours, their functions being arrested, and the passage of their secretions interfered ivith; so, also, by the pressure exercised on the trachea and ocsoiohagus, respira- tion and deglutition may be seriously impeded. XuMBEE.—Anem’isms, though usually single, are not very unfrequently multiple. There may be more than one tumoim of this kind in the same limb ; thus the iliac and femoral arteries on the same side may both be affected. In other cases, corresponding arteries, in opposite limbs are the seat of aneurism; thus the two poiiliteals are not unfrequently found to he the seat of this disease, and occasionally an aneurism may exist in one of the limbs, and others in the arteries of the in- terior of the body. When more than one aneiirismal po^teiior^'Tibki'*^Nen^^^^^ b"- tumour ocem-s in the same individual, the patient is tie aur of said to lie labouring under the aneurismal diathesis. Aumcioiis anemismal tumoiu’s are at times met with in the same person j thus, 1 elletan iccords a case in which no fewer than sixty-five were observed. Ill JiAHOJf. I he diu'ation of an aneurism A'aries very greatly. In young' full-blooded persons it often makes progress with great rapidity ; whereas in elderly people of feeble constitutions, or in those of a cachectic habit of body, accompanied with more or less debility of the heart’s action, the disease may assume a very chronic form ; thus, Hodgson relates the case of an aneurism of the femoral artery of twenty years’ duration. Much also will depend on the situation of the aneurism, the size of the mouth of the sac, and the relation of the sac to the impulse of the blood into it; the larger and more direct the mouth of the tumour, the more readily wiU the blood be projected into it at each impulse of the heart, and the more quickly will the tninour expand.