897 RESULT OF GRADUAL DLLATATIOFf. boiio-ie, it is of Frcncli origin. The soft tapering end will frequently insinuate itself along an irritable urethra, and through a spasmodic and congestive stricture, with the greatest possible ease and comfoit. Results of Introduction of an Instrument.—The introduction of an instniment usually gives rise to a smarting, painful sensation in the urethra ; this is generally most severe as the point approaches the neck of the bladder, and is then sometimes attended by nausea and sudden fexintness. As a general rule, the instrument should be passed every second or third day, and when introduced should be left in for about five minutes, or until the spasm of the urethra induced by its introduction has subsided. If, however, the stricture be extremely tight, a very small catheter only having been in- troduced, the instrument may be left in for twenty-four or forty-eight hours, when it vail be found that, however tightly grasped it originally had been, it has become loosened; a shght discharge being at the same time set up from the urethi-a. It may then be readily withdraxvn, and, w'hen the iiTitation has subsided at the end of a couple of days, a considerably larger one may be introduced. The augmentation of the size of the instrumeut should be very gradual. It is fuUy sufficient to increase it by one number at each time of introduction. Many urethrae vdU not bear even this, and it becomes necessary to pass the same instrument on two or three successive occasions before a larger size can be introduced. The size of the instrument may be gradually increased until that is reached which the m-ethral orifice readily admits ; beyond this, the Sm’geon should not go ; but so soon as the full size, usually No. 12 or 14, can be introduced with ease, it should not be passed so frequently as before ; once a week or ten days, and gradually with less frequency. But for some length of time it will be necessary to introduce it at least once a month or six weeks, lest contraction take place again. If the size of the instrument be increased too rapidly, indtation may be set up, and inflammation of the testicles, and abscess in the perinmum or prostate, induced. I have more than once had occasion to regret being in too much haste to increase the size of the instrument; and, by augmenting it by two or three numbers at one sitting, have seen the patient thrown back for weeks by the supervention of some of the affections just mentioned. By gradual dilatation, properly carried out, most strictiu’es may be con- siderably reheved in the com-se of a few weeks ; and the majority may be cured by continuing the treatment for a sufficient length of time. Some, however, cannot be cured in this way ; it would appear that the tissue of which they are composed is so contractile that, although they may be ex- panded up to a certain size—say up to No. 5 or G—it is impossible to go beyond this. In other cases there is a great tendency to relapse, and to a return of the constriction ; the stricture rapidly becoming tighter so soon as the introduction of the instruments is discontinued, even though it be dilated to the full size of the urethra, up to No. 12 catheter, for instance. In some instances the relapse is almost instantaneous, mictmdtion being as difficult as before as soon as the catheter is withdrawn. In these cases recourse must be had to other measures, which will be described. Accidents attending CATiiETERisji.-The introduction of instruments VOL, II,