ligature of the RRACIIIO-CEPIIALIC ARTERY. 109 • and Corner of Poplar, by means of a leathci-n cup moulded to tbc t: The attempts at obtaining consolidation of the tumour by consMu- or yLno.pmcture, have hitherto haled, except m some very (r iSlnces. A case is reported by Yeatman of the cure of subclavmu nnem-ism by A'alsalva’s plan in eighteen mouths. Galmno-pimctw e has been S ive Les, but only once vith success-in a case under the care of \beille Three cases have been successfuUy treated, two by Langenbeck of Berlin and one by Dutoit of Bern, by the sulcutamous mjection of ngoimmio the integmnents over the tumoiu-. ManipiiMmi, as recomineuded by Fer- <russon, has been tried five times (Holmes); once m the hands of Little suc- ce'jsfully once by Fergusson with partial success, and in the three remaining cases without any advantage. The treatment nndoubtedly deserves a further trial in these cases, when we consider the extreme danger of the disease and the oTeat ivant of success that attends other means of em’e. Ligature of the Irachio-cefhalk, and of the. sulclavtan itself, before, between, and beyond the scaleni muscles, has been practised for the cm'c of this foim of aneurism; it has likewise been proposed to apply the distal operation to the treatment of this disease, and to amputate at the shoulder-joint. YTieu an aneurism is situated on the right subclavian artery on the tracheal side of the scaleni, there is no way in which the flow of blood thi’ough it can be an-ested, except by the ligature of the brachio-cephalic artery. When it is situated beyond the scaleni, oi’ even between them, the hgatuie of the "vessel has been jiractised in the first part of its com’se before it reaches these muscles. For subcla’vdan anemdsm on the left side, in these situations, no operation conducted on the Hunterian principle would be practicable. Let us now proceed to examine the results that have attended these operative procedures. Ligature of the Brachio-Cephalic.—The brachio-cephalic artery, as may be seen by the accompanying table (p. 110), has been ligatured fourteen times, and in every instance but one with a fatal result. In four other instances the operation has been commenced, but abandoned owing to unforeseen difficulties, and this by some of the most skilful operators that their respective countries can boast of. Although, in reasoning on the propriety of performing an operation, it is not in general worth while to take into consideration the difiiculties that a Sin’geon may encounter, provided the operation be at last practicable ; yet, when we consider the fact of the ligature of the brachio-cephalic having been attempted, and in consequence of unforeseen and insurmountable difficulties left uncon- cluded in so large a proportion as one-fourth of the cases, and these in the hands of Surgeons who were as well able as any to accomplish whatever was in the power of operative siugery to do, wo may well hesitate upon the difficulties that beset tlie operation itself, before proceeding to the consideration of its results. The difficulties to which I allude do not consist merely in the position and anatomical relations of the vessel, but rather in the condition in which the artery and the adjacent structures may be found after the vessel is exposed. Thus, in Porter’s case, the aneurism, which was a large one, occupied the whole of the inferior posterior triangle of the neck, being nearly six inches broad ; as no pulsation was traceable in the vessels beyond the aneiu'ism, it was useless to