422 OrilTIIALMIC SURGERY. habitually lie. The nasal duct may now be probed if necessary. If a little clot of blood he between the edges of the wound, it is no disadvantage, as it will hinder their reunion. A day or two after the operation, a probe should be passed along forcibly between the edges of the Avoimd to tear through recent adhesions, if they have formed. After this, the open channel will be patent perhaps not throughout the extent of the incision, but sufficiently for from the pimctum to gain all the advantages to be desired of the operation, whether for- the admission of tears to the sac and nasal duct, when they are in a healthy state, or for the entry now and then of a probe to be passed along the latter- channel if it be obstructed. A small piece of the inner lip of the slit-up canali- culus has been sometimes removed mth advantage, when there is eversion of the edge of the lid of an amount and kind which would suggest it. It is easily done, the lid being fixed and drawn down and outwards, with forceps and scissors. The upper punctiun seems to be alone generally insufficient. I do not remember to have slit it up usefully but once, in a case {OjMJialmic Hospital Reports, vol. iii. p. 4) in which the lower orifice coidd not in any way be found in the dried mucous membrane. The upper punctum was in no way abnormal,, and, when slit, I passed a ernwed probe by it into the sac and back by the lower canaliculus so as to make it emerge at the lower punctum. Then the lower punctum could be sht as usual, and the case was cured forthwith. The upper punctum and canaliculus, even if slit, unfortunately do not make a con- venient way for the probing of the nasal duct, because of the projection of the brow ; and the upper channel alone, even if rightly placed and patent, does nob. prevent lacrymation, or at least very often fails. In acute inflammation or ahscess of the lacrymal sac, the lower canaliculus, must be slit, and the matter, if any, thereby let out on the conjunctival aspect of the lid, or evacuated with gentle pressm’e steadily made with two or three of the fingers over the sac. A new difficulty in this case presents itself in the firm swelling of the soft parts of the neighbourhood of the sac, which makes it very difficult to obtain a view of the pnnctmn so as to introduce the probe- ended^knife. This may generally, however, be done by pressing the point of a finger or the end of the handle of a scalpel into the cedematous tissues just outside the right position of the punctum, so as to evert it, although the- whole hd cannot be everted or drawn aside. An abscess of the lacrymal sac, if neglected, will open through the skin, and leave a permanent scar, but in nO’ case should it be opened externally, imless an external opening should be j)lainly inevitable, and even then the slitting the canaliculus and probing the nasal duct must be done as before. A fistula lacnjmahs is understood to mean a permanent external opening, leading dovm to the lacrymal sac, not to the- gland. It is not an uncommon result of neglect of obstruction of the nasa ' duct. Inflammation of the sac arises, and goes on to suppuration ; and, tins being neglected, the abscess opens externally through the sldn. The pam being reheved, the disease is probably still neglected, and a fistulous opening is- established. A scar cannot then be avoided ; but a fistula in this sitiiation may generally be induced to heal, if the nasal duct be diligently pi o e the natural outlet of the tears re-established. Afhilst there is isc ^ may be well, by the use of a small India-rubber bottle syringe intro uce jy