9S6 diseases of THE FEMALE GENFl'AL ORGANS. composed of equ.al parts of strong mercurial ointment, Avax, and lard, or one containing iodine or the iodide of lead, with the view of acting as an absorbent on the inoi’bid tissue. Polypi are not imfrequently met with, growing from the inner surface of the uterus, usually fi-om its posterior aspect or fundus. These gi-owths are generally oval or pyriform, smooth, hard, insensible, and fibrous in structure. They are often the cause of repeated and dangerous haemorrhage ; and it is a remarkable fact that in many cases the most violent and persistent bleeding proceeds from the smallest tumours. In other cases, the polypi of the uterus are of a soft, fibro-cellular, vesicular, or mucous character, attended, like the harder ones, by free hiemorrhage. Treatment.—Polypi may be removed in various ways. 1. By terrsion. When the tumour is small and situated within the uterine cavity, a long pair of broad-ended forceps may be introduced through the patulous and turgid os, and the polyp readily twisted off from its attachment. 2. Bj excision. When the tumour is large and pyriform, has an elongated pedicle, and projects through the os, the patient may be placed in the position for lithotomy, and the labia opened and held aside by retractors : the gvowth may then be draAvn down by a large pair of vulsellum-forceps, so as to bring its neck well within reach, and this may then be cut across with a long pair of scissors or a probe- pointed bistoury. After removal, a pledget of lint, soaked in a solution of perchloride of iron, should be, pressed against the stump of the pedicle. If haemorrhage occm’, the cut siu’face may be touched by the actual cautery passed up through a speculum. 3. The pedicle of the polyp, having been brought into xdew as just described, may be divided by the ecraseur, the same jerecautions as to hsemoirhage being taken. 4. The pedicle may be ligatured. This may either be done by bringing dovm the tumom as directed above, transfixing its neck with a large naevus-needle carrying a double whipcord ligatiu’e, and tying it in two halves. In order to prevent the annoyance resulting from the decomposition of the ligatmed mass, the pedicle may be cut across immediately under the part to which the ligatine has been applied. In some cases the ligature is gradually tightened. This operation is done by means of a whipcord applied by Gooch’s double cannula, which has been variously modified and a good deal improved by different Surgeons. The ligature usually cuts its way through in from thi-ee to five days ; the tumour swells, and decomposes, often vfith a good deal of foetid discharge, which requires to be carefully syringed away by means of dilute chlorinated lotions. It is a useful precaution not to apply the ligatine too near the uterine end of the pedicle ; as cases have occinred in which, by so doing, the Surgeon has given rise to serious and even fatal inflammation of the womb. Any portion of pedicle that is left after the ligature has separated will graduaUy undergo absorption. Of these various methods, I think that, in the treatment of laige pohqii, removal by the (icraseur, or the transfixion and ligature of the neck ot the tumour and the immediate excision of the part below the ligature, is the safest, most expeditious, and the best. _ Cauliflower Excrescence from the uterus, attended by copious discharge, is a rare and dangerous affection. The only Treatment that appears to be o any avail, is to draw doivn the neck of the uterus by means of a vulseUum, and