6i8 HEllNJA. ai-c reducible into the abdomen, the sac is not; it almost immediately con- tracts adhesions to the areolar tissue, by-wliicli it is firmly fixed in its new situation ; though in some cases, as we shall hereafter see, it may be pushed back. Aitlicatiox of Truss.—In the Treatment of a reducible hernia, our object is, by the application of a proper truss, to retain the protrusion within the cavity of the abdomen. In order to do this, the patient must be provided with a proper kind of truss, adapted to the particular nature of the hernia. In umbilical and ventral ruptures, an elastic pad and belt may most con- veniently be used. In selecting the truss, care should be taken that the spring be of proper strength, adapted to the size and power of the individual; and that it be properly shaped, so that it docs not touch any part of the abdominal wall, but merely bears upon the points of pressure and counter- pressure. The pad should be convex, and firmly stuffed, and of sufficient size to press not only upon the external apertui’e, but upon the whole length of the canal. Before applying the truss, the hernia must be reduced, by placing the patient in the recumbent position, relaxing the muscles by bending the thigh upon the abdomen, and pressing the tumour back in the proper direction; the truss should then be put on, and be worn during the whole of the day; indeed, the patient should never be allowed to stand without wearing it. At night, it may either be left off altogether, or a lighter one applied. In some cases, the skin becomes irritated by the pressiu’c of the pad ; in these circumstances, an elastic air-cushion may be used, or the parts subjected to pressure may be well washed with spirit-lotion. The truss may be knonm to fit by testing it in the following way. The patient should be made to sit down on the edge of a chair, and then, extending his legs, opening them widely, and bending the body for- wards, cough several times. If the hernia do not now slip down behind the pad, we may be sure that the truss is efficient, and will keep the ruptme up in all ordinary circumstances. Radical Curb of Heraua.—Various means have been devised in order to effect the radical cure of a reducible hernia. The only plan that is at the same time perfectly safe and permanently successful, is the compression of a well- made truss. In this way, not unfrequently, the hernia of infants become radically cured ; the same result, however, seldom occurs at a more advanced period of life. In order that compression may succeed in this way, it is neces- sary that it should not only be applied to the external apertime through which the rupture escapes, but to the whole of the canal. It must also be continued for a very considerable time, at least a year or two, and care should be taken that diu-ing the treatment the rupture is not allowed to descend ; every time it comes down, any good that may have been derived is necessmily done aAvay with, and the treatment has to begin, as it were, anew. Radical cure of a hernia by truss-pressime can only be effected in those cases in which the abdo- minal aperture has been left congenitally weak or open. Hence it is only to be hoped for in children and very young adults, and only in those two congeni- tal forms of hernia—the mnbilical and the inguinal. The continued pressure of the truss-pad in these cases seems to determine those adhesive processes which are necessary for the closiu’e of one of the abdominal apeituies. the cm’c is supposed to hai e been effected in this way, the application of tlic