SYMPTOMS OF INTUAORBITAL ANEURISM. 105 a loud snap or crack in the orbit or head. This is followed by congestion of the conjunctiva, difficulty in opening the eyelids, a feeling of tension, and in some instances severe pain in and around the orbit. Loud whizzing bewilder- ing noises are experienced in the head, and are much increased on stooping^ 01 lyhig down. In traumatic cases, a persistence of congestion of the conjunctiya with redness and some oedema ol the eyelids, and the occurrence of noises in the head, are usually the first indications of the mischief that has occurred. In all cases, after a time, the eyeball becomes unduly prominent, and pulsation of a thrilling ^'ibratory character can be felt in the orbit: on the application of the ear, a loud whizzing bruit is discernible, which extends widely over the side of the head. The eyeball itself eventually falls into a state of chronic congestion ; chemosis ocem-s, the cornea becomes opalescent, the aqueous humour tiu’bid, and sight is impaired or lost. The bruit and pulsation are diminished or cease on compressing the carotid artery of the side affected. PuoGXOSis.—I think it is still doubtful what would happen in these cases, if the disease were left to itself ■without operation. It might be supposed that it would probably have a fatal tennination ; that the orbital plate would be perforated ; that rupture of the aneurism would take place into the cranial ca\nty, and that sudden and immediate death would occur. But experience has sho'vm that this is not necessarily so. I was consulted at the end of 18(15 by a gentleman about 44 years of age, who, in consequence of a fall on the head a few months previously, had been attacked with symptoms of aneurism of the left orbit in the most marked manner. The bruit and the pulsation were veiy loud and distinct. The eyeball was greatly protruded, the coujunctiva and eyelids were congested and swollen. Greaves of Burton, with whom I saw the case, agreed ■with me in urging ligature of the carotid artciy as the only means of ciu’e. To this the patient would not consent, and prefeiTed taking his chance. By attention to habits of life, abstinence fi’om stimulants, and ordinary medical treatment, the tumour subsided, the eye retreated within the orbit, and the symptoms diminished greatly ; so that, at the end of fourteen months from the time when I first saw him, I understand that they had to a veiy great extent disappeared. But there is reason to believe that aU the signs of intraorbital aneurism may entirely disappear, the disease undergoing a spontaneous ciu’e. Collard relates the case ol a man 41 years of age, who, in consequence of a fall on the back of his head by which he was rendered insensible, was gradually seized with symptoms of aneurism of the left orbit; bruit, pulsation, diplopia, and pro- trusion of the eyeball, together with congestion of the eyelids, being most mai’ked. After the disease had continued for a considerable length of time, the patient was put upon a coiu’se of piirgatives, A\’ith a calomel and bella- donna pill daily, and cold lotions to the forehead. Under this treatment the symptoms gi-adually subsided, and in three years and a half from the com- mencement of the disease had entirely disappeared. Collard believes that in this case there was a dilatation of the ophthalmic artery and its branches, aris- ing from and maintained by a morbid state of the ophthalmic ganglion, which furnishes vaso-motor filaments to the arteries of the eye. Tliis ganglion he believes to have been injured by contro-coup, and to have remained°in a state of hypeimsthosia, which produced dilatation of the walls of the ophthal-