655 OBLIQUE INGUINAL HERNIA. CHAPTEE LXIII. ——4— SPECIAL HERNLZE. INGUINAL HEBNIA. By Inguinal Hernia is meant that protrusion which occupies the whole or a portion of the inguinal canal, and when fully formed, passes out of the external abdominal ring into the scrotum. Many varieties of this hernia are recognised by Surgeons. Thus it is said to be Gom'plete, when it passes out of the external ring; IncorwgMe, or Interstitial, so long as it is contained within the canal ; Oblique, when it occupies the whole com’se of the canal; Direct, when it passes forwards through a limited extent of it; Congenital, when it lies in the sac of the tunica vaginalis ; and Encysted, or Infantile, when it lies behind this. Inguinal hernise constitute the commonest species of ruptm-e, and would be much more frequent than they are, were it not for the obliquity of the canal, and the mamier in which its sides are applied to one another, and closely overlap the spermatic cord. They occur with most readiness in those cases in which the canal is short and the apertures wide. Although these hernite ai-e commonly incomplete in their early stages, it is seldom that they come under the observation of the Surgeon until the protru- sion has passed beyond the abdominal ring. Oblique Inguinal Hernia, often called External, on account of its relation to the epigastric artery, passes through the whole length of the canal, from one ring to the other ; and usually protrudes through the external one, constituting one of the forms of Scrotal Hernia. Coverings.—As it passes along the canal, it necessarily receives the same investments that the spermatic cord does; although these are often greatly modified by being elongated, hypertrophied, and otherwise altered in appear- ance. If we regard the inguinal canal as consisting of a series of invaginations of the different layers of the abdominal parietes, the outermost being the skin, and the innermost the fascia transversalis, with the peritoneum applied to this, it is easy to understand how the hernia in its descent has these pro- longations drawn over it, thus becoming successively invested with the same coverings as the spermatic cord. Thus it fii-st pushes before it that portion of the peritoneum which lies in a fossa just external to the epigastric vessels ; it next receives an investment from the subperitoneal fat, which, uniting with the fascia transversalis, constitutes the fascia propria of the sac ; as it passes under the internal oblique, it receives some of the fibres of this muscle, in the shape of the cremasteric fascia; and, lastly, when it reaches the external