150 SPECIAL ANEURISMS. In the Treatment, rarions methods have been employed. The sac has leen taut open and the gluteal ai-tcry tied in five cases, all of which recovered, lu another instance, after laying open the sac, the aneurism (gluteal) Avas found to extend into the pehns ; and the internal iliac arteiy Avas tied, Avith a fatal result. Ligature of the internal iliac artery has been performed in eleven cases, six of Avhich recovered. The common iliac artery has been tied in three cases, all of Avhich proved fatal. Injection of the perch!oriite of iron has been used in six cases ; foiu- recovered, one died, and in one the result is not knoAAii. Ligature of the scicUic artery Avithout opening the sac has been performed in tAvo cases, one of which rccoA’cred. Spontaneous recovery is reported to haA’e occun-ed in one case. Ligature of the Internal Iliac.—This vessel Avas ligatured for the first time in 1812. The operation A\'as performed by Stevens of St. Croix, on a negress Avho suffered from an aneurism of the nates, supposed to be of the gliAteal artery, but found after death three years subsequently to take its origin from the sciatic. Stevens in this case made an incision five inches long on the left side of the abdomen, carefully dissected through the parietes, separated the peritoneum from the iliac fossa, turned it on one side, together AAuth the ureter, and passed a ligatime round the artery without much difficulty. Since that time the operation has been done nineteen times ; in six cases A\nth success, by Aimdt, White, Mott (who accidentally wounded the peritoneum), Syme, Morton, and Gallozzi; in thirteen cases uusuccessfnlly, by Atkinson of A'ork (Avhose patient died on the nineteenth day, of secondary heemorrhage), by Bigelow, Torracchi, Cianflone, Porta, Landi, Kimball, AltmuUer, Thomas, J. K. Eodgers, and Higginson ; and twice by the Surgeons in the American Civil War. The success that has hitherto attended this operation is certainly remarkable, AA'hen we take into consideration the depth at which the artery is situated and its gTeat size ; it must, I think, be accounted for by the fact that, although in these cases the patient runs the ordinary risks attendant on the hgatiu’C of the larger peMc arteries from the exposm’e and handling of the peritoneum, yet he is saved the danger resulting fr’om the supervention of gangrene ; the anastomosis between its branches and that of the neighbouring A’essels being so free, and the coiu’se traA'ersed by the blood so short, that no difl&cnlty can arise in the maintenance of the collateral circulation. The steps of the operation necessary for the exposiu’e of the internal iliac artery are precisely analogous to those requisite for the ligatiu’e of the common trunk. When the vessel is reached, it must be remembered that both the external and internal iliac veins are in close relation to it; the one being to its outer side, the other behind it. As these vessels are large, and their coats thin, it is necessaiy that they should be separated by the fingei-nail, 01 the blunt end of an aneiuism-needle, before the ligature is passed round the artery ; care must also be taken not to put the vessel too much on the stretch m applying the ligature, lest the ilio-lumbar artery be ruptured. As the length of the artery varies much, usually ranging between one and two inches, and as when it is short it has a tendency to be placed deeply in the pelvis, it Avould, I think, be more prudent, and occasion less chance of secoiidaiy haimoii lage, for the Surgeon to ligature the common trunk.