SPECIAL ANEUPISMS. 84 ciimstances, wliich Averc unexpected, and unconnected in any Avay Avith tlic principles on AA'liich tlie operation Avas undertaken. These results Avould not, in my opinion, justify any Surgeon in again making an attempt to cure an in- nominate aneurism by the ligature of cither the subela\'ian or the carotid artery alone, the patient having been directly killed by tire operation in tAVO-thirds of the cases. Of the remaining third, in one-half the patients recovered from the operation, but the disease ran its course as if no such procedure had beeit adopted ; and in the remaining slender percentage of cases the improvement that took place in tA\'o, and the cure in the one solitary instance, Avere due to accidental circumstances unconnected Avith the operation, and Avhich con- sequently might have developed themselves equally if none had been perfonned. We have yet to consider the operation in AA'hich both arteries are ligatimed. This double operation may either be performed Avith an interval between the application of the tAvo ligatures, sufficient for the establishment of collateral circulation ; or the tAvo vessels may be ligatured simultaneously. The former plan has been adopted in four cases; the latter in eleven ; not a sufficient number for any safe deduction. In one of the foiu cases in which an interval intervened between the tAvo operations (Team’s), the tiunoiu’ seems to have undergone a ciue, being filled AAdth dense laminated fibrine: but the patient died eventnally of pleiuisy. In another case (Wickham’s) no good results followed the operation, death occiuring from bursting of the tumour. The third case (Malgaigne’s) died from the second operation. The fourth case (Bickersteth’s) also died. In the eleven cases in which both vessels AA^ere liga- tiued simultaneously, death occurred in one instance in consequence of the left carotid and right vertebral being accideirtally occluded, and the cerebral circula- tion being then solely dependent on the left vertebral; in another (Hutchison’s), ^ fr’om compression of the trachea and consequent suffocation; and in a third, from i the aorta being diseased and plugged Avith clot. In two cases only (Heath’s and ; Ensor’s) was the operation foUoAved by marked improvement, though not by Clue of the aneurism, which in Heath’s case proved to be aortic. In Hutchison’s case there is reason to belicA'e that the carotid only was tied, the ligature having been applied to the sheath of the subclavian instead of to that vessel itself, AA'hich, after death on the forty-fii’st day, was found plugged by old coagidum, but with- out any sign of having been tied. In five of the remaining six, the patients died. As I have just said, these cases are not sufficiently numerous or free from modifying circumstances to enable us to draw any definite inference from them : we must therefore revert to the prmciple on AA'hich this operation should be undertaken. This Avill differ materially, according to whether the two arteries are ligatiued simultaneously, or Avith a sufficient interval for the re-establishment of collateral circulation. If an intei’A'al of tAvo years, as in the fii’st case, or even of two-and-a-half months, as in the second instance, be alloAved to elapse betAveen the ligatiue ot the carotid and that of the subclavian, the operation reduces itself essentially to that of the ligatiue of a single artery, AA'hich, as has afready been shoAAii, is insufficient to induce those changes in the sac that are necessary for the accom- plishment of a cure. If the patient surviA'e the effect of the ligature of the carotid for a feAv Aveeks, sufficient time Avill haA'e been aftbrded for the proximal end of the subclaA'ian, the A'ertebral artery, and the thyroid axis