TREATMENT OF LARYNGEAL DLSEASE. 553 and loses its natural smoothness. These morbid appearances are not confined to any one part of the larynx, but may occupy any portion of that organ above the vocal cords. The large plane of mucous membrane covering the arytmnoid and the posterior part of the thyroid cartilages especially becomes involved. The epiglottis Ijecomes thickened and rigid, and the rima glottidis is narrowed. The pharyngeal mucous membrane becomes implicated, respiration is croupy, stridulous, and harsh, deglutition difficult, and there is abmidant muco-puru- lent expectoration, and wasting of the body. These diseases are often of sj-philitic origin, and, after continuing for some length of time, give rise to hoai’seness, cough, shortness of breath, a pale, pasty, and oedematous look about the face, with suffused eyes and constant difficulty in breathing. In these circumstances there is a constant tendency to acute inflammation supervening on the chronic laryngeal disease ; and the affection commonly proves fatal by the induction of oedema glottidis, often coming on with great rapidity. Necrosis of the Cartilages of the Larynx not unfrequently happens in the more advanced forms of this affection, attended by all the signs, consti- tutional and local, of the so-caUed Laryngeal Phthisis, and by the expecto- ration of lai’ge quantities of fetid puriform sputa, often streaked vdth lelood, and occasionally containing masses of the necrosed and disintegTated cartilage. In many cases Abscesses form outside the tube, and after much irritation and distress open externally ; and not unfrequently they are met with to such, an extent, as to undei’mine and disorganise the greater portion of the tissues of the anterior part of the neck. Where they correspond to the necrosed patches of cartilage, they give rise to aerial fistulm, through which bubbles of air escape dmlng respiration. T) eaiment. In the treatment of these more severe diseases of the larynx, the daily application of nitrate of silver A^dll be found of great benefit. It should be freely applied to or injected upon the mucous membrane about the epiglottis, within the lips of the glottis, and more especially that loose and filamentous tissue which is extended over the back of the thyi-oid cartilage, and which is commonly the seat of much chronic in-itation, and the chief source of^ the muco-puriform discharge. At the same time, the internal ad- ministration of bichloride of mercury with sarsaparilla will often be found of great service, more particularly in those cases in which the disease is of a syphffitic character ; the patient being kept in a regulated temperature, not uUoved to exert his voice, and avoiding all laborious exertion. In cases of long-standing and otherwise apparently incurable laryngeal disease, accom- panied by ulceration of the mucous membrane, chi-onic muco-pimdent dis- LS’ r" of ^-oice, and wasting-in fact, m that condition f P thisis, it^ has been proposed by Bryant to perfonii tim'p ° ' the diseased organ rest, and thus givin"- tal - the and ulcerated mucous membrane to to the operat,en being performed here, not for the relief of larrn"-eal c ion, or Mith the view ot rescuing the patient from imijeudine- death =sps “r =b'i £