INTERNAL URETHROTOMY, 9°5 b is applied to the male screw a, and the instrument passed through the strictme. The blades * and h, when closed, about equal a No. S catheter in size. The point b is about equal to a Ivo. 1. The instrmnent having been passed, the vedge e, which contains a knife cl concealed in a shield c, is now inserted between the blades and passed steadily do"wn. The blades thus separated stretch and steady the uretlma; and when the stricture is reached, the shield c stops against it and prevents fui-ther progress. The small con- cealed knife d is then protruded by pressing the button at the top of the instrument, and as soon as the finger is removed it is withdrawn again by the spring 1. The wedge can then be passed I on a httle further, and if it hitch again the knife can be again protruded. By this means the urethra is only cut at the points of stricture, and no more wound is made than is absolutely necessary. The incision is always made downwards towards the floor of the urethra. This instrument may be employed in almost any stricture that will admit the conducting sound. In larger strictures Civiale’s urethrotome (Fig. 811) may be used. In order to use this instrument, the stricture must be dilated up to about No. 5. The end of the instrument is then passed beyond it, and, the small blade having been made to project, the stricture is divided or notched domiwards by a firm and steady pressiu’e to the extent usually of about an inch. The blade is then shut into its sheath, and the instrument is withdraum. As this instrument does not steady the luethra, the penis must be pulled forward so as to put it on the stretch before the division is attempted, and this should be done by a steady pressure or a sawing- motion rather than by a sudden effort. ® Dilator and Uretlirotoino. a, Front View ; n, Side View ; c, Conducting Sound fnr H ^ «• for concBoicd knife ; d, knife protruded ; c, wedge Wades 7i, and i; Uie knife is on tlie posterior aspect of the wedge ; g, rod for carrying the taidml’--^/ ^°r regulating tlie distance to wliich the knife can be pro- hiltton oi A /r *^1 ooncealed, except when protruded by pressing the button opposite a and b. (In Fig. b the button should have been represented as depressed )