554 DISEASES OF THE MOUTH AND THROAT. sudden supervention of oedema glottidis. AVlieiievcr acute inflammation supervenes in these cases, with a tendency to oedema about the glottis, the patient should be narrowly watched, as he may readily be carried off by the sudden swelling of the lips of the rima, or by the supervention of spasm. In cases of this kind, the air-passage may be required to be opened to allow respiration to be earned on ; and this operation must not be delayed until such time as the patient falls into an asphyxial condition. Nervous Affections of the Larynx occur both in children and in adults. In children the affection, commonly called Spasmodic Croup, comes on sud- denly and runs its course with great rapidity. The child is seized, often without previous warning, with difflculty in breathing, uses ’violent efforts to inspire, becomes black in the face and convulsed, and may die before anything can be done for his relief. In other instances he gapes and gasps a few times, and eventually recovers himself with a long deep-drawn whooping inspiration. In cases of this kind, the Treatment at the time of the fits consists in dashing cold water in the face, in exposing the body to a current of cold air, and in using fi'iction to the extremities. If asphyxia occur, artificial respiration must be kept up either through an opening made in the windpipe or by the mouth. In the adult, these spasmodic affections of the larynx may come on either from pure hysteria, or from irritation of the laryngeal nerves by the pressure of tumours or aneiu’isms upon them. In other instances they arise from the presence of some local inflammatory mischief about the glottis. In the hysterical fonn of the affection the ordinary remedies for hysteria, together with cold douches, will be of essential service. In some cases, however, the obstruction to respiration is so great, that the Surgeon may almost think it necessary to have recourse to operation. When the disease arises from iirita- tion to the trunks of the nerves, such a procedure is seldom justifiable, as the occasioning cause is usually in itself of a fatal character. Extirpation of the Larynx.—Billroth has twice performed this opera- tion for cancer. The fii’st case survived, the second died. The operation has also been done by Langenbeck, Schmidt, Heine, and Bottini. It appears to me to bo at best a bairen triumph of surgical skill. If it be done to cure the patient of the cancer, it -will necessarily fail in that object; if it be done to relieve him of sufferings arising from obstructions to breathing, irritative cough, &c., then these objects Avould certainly be more safely, and probably be quite as effectually attained by tia- cheotomy. Tumours or Polypi occasionally form in the larynx. They are commonly gTanular, or small caulifiower- looking bodies, though they occasionally attain the size of a hazel-nut. In structure they are usually epithelial, i occasionaUy fibrous, and eventually may become can- Fig. 646.—El'itheiioma in (]7ig. 640). They ueccssarily produce aphonia, ^ interfere with respiration, and at last may give rise to asphyxia by obstructing the cavity of the laiynx. ThcBC tumoui-s, M'hich formerly coukt ne.tl.er be recognised iv.th ce.ta.nty