46 ANEVMISSL artery, from the deposition of lamellated hbrine. This tendency to consolida- tion of the tiimoiir may be much assisted by moans calculated to lesson the force of the impulse of the blood into the sac, such as compression of the arteiy above the point ligatm-ed, rest, the elevated position, and the cautious application of cold to the part; cold, however, must be carefully applied, lost as the vitality of the limb is diminished, gangrene be induced. At the'same time, direct pressure maybe exercised upon the sac, so as to moderate the flow of blood into it; this has in many cases succeeded in procm-ing consolidation of the tumom-, and may most conveniently be applied by means of a compress and narrow roller. This plan is especially adapted to popliteal and inguinal aneurisms, but cannot so well be exercised upon those situated in the^ieck. Oaie must be taken that the pressure be not at first too powerful, lest ganm’ene result; the object is not so much to force out the contents of the tumom, or to efface this, as simply to restrain and moderate somewhat the flow of blood into it. Should the aneurism be so situated that pressure can be exercised upon the artery above the point ligatm’ed, this should be had recourse to cither by the finger or by instrument, and will be both safer and more likely to be effectual than direct pressure. I succeeded in this way in cm-ing a very remarkable case of recuiTent pulsation in a popliteal aneurism. The patient, a man about thirty-five years of age, was admitted into University College Hospital for an aneurism, about the size of an orange, in the right ham. Treatment by compression was employed, without any effect being iDroduced in the tumour, for three months. During this period compression was employed in all forms—by Carte’s instrument, the weight, the finger, and flexion. I then ligatured the superficial femoral artery in Scarpa’s triangle. The pulsation was arrested in the tumour Avhen the hgatnre was tied, but returned in a slight degree in about an hour, and slowly increased, never becoming at all forcible, but being very distinct. The ligatm-e separated on the fourteenth day. The limb w'as bandaged, and a pad applied over the anem'ism without any effect; and the limb was raised, but still the incessant pulsation continued. Carte’s compressor was again applied to the common femoral artery, and used for about three hours in an intermittent maimer, when the pulsation finally ceased. In the event of the pulsation not disappeaihig under the influence of pres- sure, conjoined with rest, dietetic means, and the local application of cold, there are three courses open to the Surgeon : 1, To hgatnre the vessel higher up ; 2, to perform the old operation of opening the sac ; and, 3, to amputate, if the aneurism be situated in a limb. With regard to ligatiuing the artery at a higher point, I am not acquainted ■with any cases that throw much light on the probable success of such an opera- tion. AVe knOAV that the ligature of an artery high up for secondary hemor- rhage, after pre\uous dehgation of it, is a most disastrous procedure. But here the conditions are by no means identical Avith, or cA’cn similar to, those that accompany recun-ent pulsation. In tlic case of secondary hemoiThagc, there has usually not been time for the full deA'elopment of the collateral circulation ; Avhercas, in the case of recurrent jnilsation, many weeks AAmuld probably have elapsed before the second operation AAmuld become necessary, so that ample time Avould be giA’en for the establishment of the anastomoses ; and