599 OPERATION FOR CANCER. to whether it is scirrhous or not, until they have actually seen a section of it; and even then it often happens that men of ecpial experience mil differ in the judgment they pronounce as to its nature. For these reasons, it is impossible not to receive with the utmost hesitation the cases of supposed cancer of the breast reported as cured by the advocates of compression, and not to suspect that the cases recorded by these gentlemen as instances of the successful employment of this plan of treatment may have been other chronic tumours of the breast, than those of a cancerous character. But, though there is no evidence before the profession to prove the utility of compression as a curative agent in cancer of the breast, I think^ that, when practised with Arnott’s slack air-cushion, or Tanchou’s spring-pad, it is of con- siderable value as Vk imlUalive in some of the earlier stages of this disease; when it may undoubtedly occasionally arrest its progress for a time, diminish the size of the swelling, and lessen the violence of those attacks of lancinating pain which are so distressing to the patient. In conjunction with the pressure, much relief to suffering may be afforded by the use of belladonna plasters, or of atropine or aconite inunctions, together with the internal exhibition of conium, and morphia or hypodermic injections of morphia and atropine. In the advanced stages of the disease, however, when the skin is involved, the pressure is often unbearable, increasing the pain, and acting as a source of irritation to the patient. In some cases of this kind, in which the slack air- cushion could not be borne, I have seen relief afforded by moderate pressure with thick layers of amadou, supported by an elastic bandage, belladonna or conium in powder being dusted on the innermost layer of amadou. A very thin gutta-percha shield, moulded to the part, may sometimes be advan- tageously applied over this, and kept on by turns of an elastic roller. 'Wken the skin is implicated and very tender, the application of belladonna and lead lotion is of use. When the disease has run into an idcerated stage, the inter- nal administration of conium, so as to blunt the sensibility, and the local application of chlorinated lotions to lessen the fetor, together with the appli- cation of the watery extract of opium or of belladonna, wdU relieve. In cases of this kind, the application of caustics has been greatly vaunted, and portions of the diseased surface may be cleansed or removed by these means. The employment of the various antiseptic dressings that are familiar to aU Surgeons is of much service in the advanced stages of ulcerated cancer of the breast, removing fetor, and lessening the inflammatory irritation occasioned by the decomposition of the cancer matter. Caustics, applied in accordance with the principles laid down at ,p. 801, Vol. I., may occasionally be advantageously employed in the treatment of cancer of the breast, when excision is not practicable : as when the patient is alarmed at and positively refuses to submit to the knife ; w'hen she is anmmic or aged, so that the effects of loss of blood arc to be di’caded ; or when the cancer is already ulcerated. Operation.—The constitutional and ordinary local treatment of cancer of the breast being thus, at the most, of a palliative character, the question of operation always presents itself at last. The objects proposed are, in the first place, by the extirpation of the diseased breast, to prevent constitutional infec- tion, and thus permanently to free the patient from her necessarily fatal