696 TUMOURS OF THE GROIN. CHAPTER LXV. , TAPPING THE ABDOMEN.—TUMOURS OE THE GROIN. TAPPING THE ABDOMEN. The abdomen often requires Tapping, either for ascites or for encysted dropsy. This operation, which is one of the simplest in surgery, may be performed as follows. The bladder having been emptied, the patient is seated on the edge of the bed or of a large chair, or if very weak lies on the side, and has a broad flannel roller, split at each end to withm six inches of the middle, passed round the body in such a way that the untorn part covers the front of the abdomen, whilst the ends, which are crossed behind, are given to an assistant on each side, who must draw tightly upon them as the water flows. The Sm'geon then, seating himself before the patient, makes a small incision with a scalpel into the mesial line about two inches below the umbilicus, and through the opening thus made he thi’usts the trochar; as the fluid escapes, the patient often be- comes faint, but this may commonly be guarded against by continuing to draw upon the bandage so as to keep up good pressm’e in the abdomen. After all the fluid has escaped, the aperture must be closed with a strip or two of j)laster supported by a pad and bandage. The incision through which the trochar is thrust need not enter the perito- neum, though if it do it matters little. The trochar itself must be of full size, with a weU-fltting cannula. Sometimes it is convenient to have one fltted with a stop-cock, to the end of which a vulcanised India-rubber tube, as represented Fig. 657, p. 569, may be adapted, by which the fluid is carried quietly and vdthout splashing into the pail destined to receive it. Should the particular character of the accumulation of fluid in encysted dropsy not allow its with- drawal by an aperture below the umbflicus, the abdomen may be tapped in any other convenient situation, except in the course of the epigastric vessels. TUMOURS OF THE GROIN. Tumom’s of various kinds may develope primarily in the groin, or descend , into it from the abdomen. They are of the following kinds1. Enlargement 1 of the Lymphatic Glands. 2. Abscess in or around those glands. 8. Abscess descending into the groin from the abdomen—Psoas, Iliac, Pericecal, Peiiiie- phiitic, &c. 4. Yarix of the Saphena Yein at its entrance into the femoral, 5. Aneurisms of all kinds. 6. Osteo-Aneurisms. 7. Cystic Tumoiu-s, bursal, and developing in the muscular structiues. 8. Simple Solid Humours, asfattj.