940 JDISEA8ES OF THE PENIS AND tlic denudation of parts may be SCROTUM. 1 , - u constitutional management must always be conducted in accordance with those principles laid down in the first division of this work, and with special attention to the maintenance of the patient’s strength. Hypertrophy of the scrotmn seldom occurs in this country, though Liston once had occasion to remove such a mass, weighing 44 lbs.; but in some tropical regions, particidarly India and China, it is of frequent occiuTencc, and may go on until it attain an enormous bulk, forming a tumour nearly as laro-© as the trunk, and perhaps weighing GO or 70 lbs. These enormous growths are of simple character, and constitute the disease termed Elejjliantiasis of the scrotum. Fig. 837 represents a tumour of this kind, weighing 40 lbs., which was successfully removed by Eogers of the Mauritius. It is taken ft’om a photo- •g'rajih of the case, kindly sent to me by that gentleman. Treatment.—Tumours of this kind necessarily require extirpation. In per- forming such operations, there are two points that demand special attention; the first is to preserve the penis and testes if possible, which will usually be c,. on- . found buried towards the upper part Fig. S3 (.—Elephantiasis of the Scrotum. „ 01 the mass, and may be saved if the tumour be of small size; and the second is, to endeavour to prevent the haimorrhage from being too profuse. With this view, the operation ought not only to be performed as rapidly as possible, but the advice given by O’FerraU of elevating the tumour above the level of the body, for some time before its removal, so as to empty it of its blood, may be advantageously adopted. In addition to this, Esmarch’s toiimiquet should be applied round the neck of the tumour and the pelvis. If the gi-owth be very large, it will be better not to make any attempt at saving the testes or penis, which could only be dissected out by a long and tedious operation, in the course of which there would be danger of the patient dying of hiemorrhage. Epithelioma occasionally affects the scrotum; and, as it principally occurs in chimney-sweepers, it has been appropriately enough termed Ghimneu- swee])efi's Cancer. This affection appears to arise from the mitation of the soot lodging in the folds of the scrotum. It commonly commences as a tubercle or wart, which after a time cracks or ulcerates, presenting the ordi- nary characters of a cancerous ulceration. It rapidly spreads, involving at last the greater part of the scrotum, and perhaps invading the testis. After a time, the inguinal and pelvic glands will be affected; and the patient, if deprived of his covering of soot, ■will be found to be cachectic-looking. The Treatment consists in excising widely the diseased portion of the scrotum, provided the inguinal glands be not invofred, or the patient’s consti- tution poisoned. The disease has a great tendency to return, and it is seldom that the patient long escapes with life when once he has been affected by it.