666 SPECIAL IIEUNIJ':. 1 cou^■ertecl into filamentous tissue, but in such a way as to IcaA’e a pouch abo-s-e, Avhich is protruded doAvn behind or into the tunica vaginalis, so that it lies behind this cavity (Fig. (585). There arc no characters byAvhich the encysted can be distinguished from the ordinary congenital hernia. If it should become strangulated, it must be borne in mind that dining the operation the tunica vaginalis will first be opened ; no hernia will be seen here, but the tumour lies behind this sac, and requires to be dissected into through the double serous layer of which it is composed. The stricture will probably be in the neck, and requires to be divided in the usual way. FEMORAL HERNIA. By Femoral Kernia is meant a protrusion that escapes mider Poupart’s ligament, and enters the sheath of the vessels internally to the femoral vein. This hernia passes down to the innermost compart- ment of the sheath, which is occupied by fat and lymphatics, and usually contains a gland or two. It passes first of all through the crural ring, where it has Gimbernat’s ligament to its inner side ; the septum which separates the femoral vein from the inner compartment of the sheath of the vessels, to its outer aspect; Poupart’s liga- ■n-.m-.i-. 5n frnr.1-. • n-nrl thc boiic behind (Fia-. (58G). After passing through the J'ig. GS5.—lufantile Hernia. Fig. G8T.—Feinoi-al Hernia turning ninvards. ^ig. 68C.-1. Femoral .Vrtery; 2. Femoral Vein ; 3. Innermost Sheath of the Vessels, into wlxicli a small Henna is lU’otrudmg , 4. bapntiu > liii. ciTH-al ring, it enters the crural canal, which extends for about an inch and a half down the thigh on the pectineus muscle, and is covered by the ihac pro- longation of the fascia lata. As it approaches the lower corner of the saphenous opening where the canal terminates, it passes under the falciform process of the fascia lata, and out upon the thigh through the saphenous apertine ; hem it expands, becomes rounded, and has often a tendency to turn upWs cnex Pmipart’s ligament (Fig. G87), lying in this way upon the sometimes even ascending to some distance upon the anterior abdominal .