} 972 DISEASES OF THE TESTIS ANJ) CORD. lemailv, that the inclusion of the M'hole cord in the ligature gives rise to no Jifter-pain of any consequence. Sutures are seldom required, the edges coming into apposition of themseh-es; the wound must be lightly dressed, and allowed to heal by gi’anulation, bag- ging in the lower part being pre- ■vented during the after-treatment. In cancer of the testicle, it is of great consequence to divide the cord as high up as possible, for obvious reasons. It will not, however, be safe to do this opposite the abdo- minal ring in the way that has just been described, as there would not be sufficient space for the assistant to hold the cord aboA'e the part to bo divided. In cases of this kind, I have found it a good practice to expose the cord by dissection up to the abdominal ring; then to draw it well down, and to include the Avhole in a strong Avhipcord ligature, tied round it as tightly as possible. The section is then made a quarter of an inch below this, and the operation is completed as usual; the cut stump of the cord may retract into the inguinal canal, but cannot bleed if properly tied, and will ahvays be under command by drawing upon the whipcord. This plan of tying the cord cn masse Avas at one time generally adopted in all cases of castration, but is not now commonly employed. The objection to it is, that by comjAress- ing the spermatic nerves Avith the ligatm-e the after-pain is increased; but this certainly does not ahvays happen, for, in the instances in which I have done it, but little pain Avas complained of; and the practice in malignant disease of the testicle has the advantage of enabling the Surgeon to divide the cord at a higher point than he otherwise could ; which advantage is still further increased by the parts A\dthm and below the ligature sloughing aAvay, and thus eventually carrying the section to a level Avith the point tied. There is one danger that may occur in castration in young children. It is that in young subjects the processus vaginalis testis may not be obliterated, and that thus the peritoneum may be opened up into the wound on dividing the cord. In one case I have knoAvn this condition to lead to fatal peritonitis. Fig. 804.—Divisiou of tlie Cord in Castration. GBNEKAIi DIAGNOSIS OP SCROTAL TUMOURS. The diagnosis of scrotal tumoiu’s is not only of considerable importance, but ' is often attended Avith A'ery gveat difficulty: the more so, as they are frequently associated Avith one another, so that much tact and care are required to dis- criminate their true nature. Thus it is not uncommon to find a hydrocele and a hernia; a hydrocele and a A'aricoccle; or these affections co-existing with a solid tumour of the testicle. In other cases, again, as in the annexed