DIVISIOiV OF THE GUSTATORY NERVE. 519 throw light upon the imtm-e of the disease ; and the scrapings of the can- cerous ulcer, when examined under the microscope, wiU always reveal its Tim Ta^nosis between the sypUUtic gumma and the cam(urous tuUrcle is most important ; here the duration of the disease and the co-existenoe of con- stitutional syphilis must be taken into account. It is also of much moment to attend to the situation of the tumour ; the syphilitic gumma being almost invariably met with deeply in the substance of the organ, whilst the cancerous oi-owth is commonly seated at its edges or tip. It must, however, be re- membered that a tongue which has long been the seat of those morbid changes in the way of thickening and ulceration of its epithelium and mucous mem- brane, which ai-c the usual sequelm of syphilis, may at length become affected by true epithehoma at one side, usually towards the middle third—that a syphiloma may thus by local iiTitation be at length converted into an epi- thehoma, the tongue being simultaneously affected by both diseases. There are three conditions in cancer of the tongue that are of serious import, and that may, singly or in conjunction, lead to a fatal termination. 1. The pain not only weai’s out the patient by depriving him of rest and comfoit in life, but, being greatly aggravated by mastication and deglutition, causes him to avoid these acts, and hence leads to a process of gradual starvation, either by his abstaining fi’om food altogether, or taking a liquid and innutritions diet, because it is more easily swallowed than solid and more substantial meat. '2. The profuse salivation tends still further to exhaust the patient; and 3. The occun’ence of haemonhage, when the disease has eroded so deeply as to open up one of the larger branches or trunk of the hngual artery, may, by repeated recurrence or by sudden gush, destroy life. Treatment.—In the treatment of cancer of the tongue, medicines are utterly useless, except as palliatives of pain. No measures hold out any chance of recovery, or even of prolongation of life, except the complete removal of the diseased structure ; and this it is by no means easy to accomplish, as the cancerous infiltration often extends much farther than at first appears, passing deeply between the muscular fasciculi and planes, into the root of the tongue. In these deep cancerous affections there is usually great enlargement of the glands under the jaw with infiltration of the floor of the mouth and neigh- bouring soft parts to such an extent as to render it impossible to excise or in any other way remove the whole of the disease. There are two operations occasionally practised, having for their object to palliate the suffering or to retard the progress of the disease : viz., Division of the Gustatory Nerve, and Ligature of the Lingual Artery. Division of the Sensory Nerve of the Tongue.—Section of the gusta- tory branch of the fifth nerve was first proposed and practised by Hilton, •with the view of relieving the pain of the cancerous ulcer, retarding the pro- gress of the disease, lessening the profuse salivation, and enabling the Surgeon to apply ligatures for the removal of the cancer to a part that has been de- prived of all sensibility. This operation, which Moore repeated several times, and to which he specially drew the attention of the Profession, undoubtedly accomplishes the objects for which Hilton originally proposed and practised it; more especially so far as relief of pain and diminution of salivation arc