^94 DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. sensibility,'Which sympathises closely with the conditions of the general system, and in which improper violence or too active measures may set np a degree of irritation that will readily extend to neighbouring structures, and thus jeopar- dise the life of the patient. But, though it is necessary to recollect all this, he must not run into the opposite and equally dangerous extreme of adopting 1 inefheient measures for the removal of the obstruction. A bad stricture 5. one of the most serious diseases to which the human frame is liable, and will almost inevitably, if left to itself, terminate fatally by the induction of renal disease, or of serious local complications. We must therefore not hesitate to adopt sufficiently energetic measimes for its removal; and if these be properly conducted, there is scarcely any affection in which the Surgeon can afford his. patient greater relief than in this. At the same time, however, that local means are being used, constitutional treatment should not be neglected. Organic stricture is often more or less associated with a spasmodic or a con- gestive condition of the urethra, and requires the same constitutional treat- ment, modified according to circumstances, that is necessary in these affections —proper regulation of diet, avoidance of all articles of food that generate lithates, and care not to allow the urine to become too concentrated. Attention to the maintenance of the healthy action of the Liver and skin will also tend much to increase the patient’s comfort, and to ward off the more serious consequences of strictiu’e. In all except the slightest cases of stricture it is advisable, before beginning mechanical treatment, to subject the patient to constitutional remedies to diminish as far as possible the congestion and spasm which may be present. If j any serious difficulty be anticipated, and if the ckcumstances of the patient | permit it, he should be confined to bed for a day or more. The bowels should be freely opened, and he should sit for some time in a hot hip-bath, morning and evening. An opium or morphia suppository may be administered at night, and if the signs of congestion be well marked, a few leeches may be applied to the perimsum. Occasionally blisters over the seat of strictm-e, when it can be clearly felt from without, may be of service. By these means alone, a strictine j which at fii’st seemed almost impermeable may be so far reheved as to take a | No. 4 or 5 catheter'. | 1. Crradnal Mechanical Dilatation, as it is eiToneously termed, is the j usual and certainly the most successful mode of treating ordinary strictures ; but it is not the mere stretching or forcible dilatation of the stricture that | cures it. The means employed to produce dilatation tend to promote the absorption of those plastic matters effused in and underneath the mucous membrane, which especially constitute the stricture, and thus to occasion a permanent cure. The instruments that are used for dilatation are either metafile, such as silver catheters, steel sounds, plated or pewter bougies; or made of some , soft and yielding material, as gum-elastic catheters, catgut, wax, or elastic bougies. Though each Siugeon wifi mostly prefer one kind of instrument tO' another, it is well not to be too exclusive in the use of any one ; for it vifi be found in particular strictui’es and certain constitutions that it is advan- tageous to depart from the ordinary practice, and that the Sm'geon ma} modify with great benefit to his patient the mechanical means that he adopts.