969 MALIGNANT SARCOCELE. into the cysts. The disease may assume a malignant form, either 1^7 P^’O' pagating itself in the internal organs like a sarcoma ; or, according to l^m - assuming ileFsch, actual cancerous transformation may take place, the stroma the form of a cancer-stroma, and the epithelium of the spaces assuming t e actiA-e growth of the cells of a true carcinoma. According to burling, cystic disease of the testicle is the result of morbid changes in the ducts of tlie rote testis* Z»%7?os/s.—This affection has been carefully studied by Sir A. Cooper ; who, with great justice, adverts to the difficulty of distinguishing it from other diseases of this organ, more especially from hydroccU. The imints to be especially attended to in distinguishing the cystic sarcocele, arc its want of translucency, the more globular shape of the organ, its weight, and the enlarged and varicose state of the veins of the cord. If there be any doubt, an exploia- tory puncture will resolve this, and should always be pi’actiscd. Treatment.—Cystic sarcocele requires remo^'al of the diseased organ. Cysts containing Coloured Matters.—Occasionally, cystic tumours of the testicle are met with, in which the substance of the organ is atrophied or absorbed, and its place occupied by one or more large thin-walled sacculi con- taining fluids of different colours and consistence, dark or fatty. One of the most remarkable of these anomalous tumours of the testis that I have seen u as imder the care of my colleague ilarshall, at the hospital. The diseased organ, which was about the size of an ostrich’s egg, and felt partly solid and partly fluid, was found after remoi'al to be composed of a large cyst filled with an oily fluid, like melted butter, which solidified on cooling. After removal jMarshall found that the sac contained some foetal deh'is, and was doubtless of an embryonic character. The patient, who was about thirty years of age, liad been affected with the tumour from early infancy. Enchondroiiia of the Testicle.—Cartilage, as before stated, is almost always present in the cystic sarcoma of the testis. It may, however, appear alone, deposited in larger or smaller nodules, or infiltrating the gland. It usually commences in the body, but may invade the epididymis ; but, according to Cornil and Eanvier, whenever it reaches any considerable size it is no longer purely cartilaginous, but is mixed with sarcoma-tissue and complicated with cysts, so that both clinically and pathologically it merges into the disease just described as cystic sarcoma. jMaligxaxt Sarcocele, or Caj^cer op the Testicle, not unfrequently occurs, and almost imuriably assumes the encephaloid character. It is indeed a question whether any other form of cancer ever occurs in the testicle. Walshe agrees with most observers in doubting the existence of the other varieties of malignant disease in this organ. Characters.—Cancer of the testicle most commonly occiu’S in the first instance in the liody of that organ, rarely affecting the epididymis primarily. The ordinary characters of encephaloid are always well marked in this affection ; and the tumour eventually becomes softened dowi, pulpy, and fungous. Inter- mixed with the encephaloid are commonly foiuid masses of a bright-yellow colour, which have sometimes been regarded as tuberculous, but, I believe, erroneously so ; for, in those instances in which I have had an opportunity of examining them, I have found them to consist, as in the simple sarcocele, of