MENINGOCELE AND ENCEPIIALOGELE. 385 Pungus of tlie Dura Mater.—Sometimes ^yithout external or apparent cause, at other times in consequence of a blow or fall, a Fungous Tumour grows from some part of the dura mater, usually on the top of the head or one of the parietal regions. As it increases in size, it produces absorption of the skull coverino- it; the bone becomes thin and expanded, and crackles like parch- ment on pressure, sometimes not being raised above its proper level, brrt more usually being pushed up by the pressure of the growth beneath, which at last protrudes rrnder the scalp. More usually, this perforation of the skull is gradual; but in some cases it woirld appear to have been sudderr, the first intimation that the patient had of disease being the preserree of a tumour- under the scalp. ‘\\Hren the skull is perforated, the sharp edges of the circular opening can be distirrctly felt; and the tirmoiu- which protrudes prrlsates dis- tinctly, as may be proved both by the finger and the eye. SynnAoms.—Symptoms of cerebral distru’bance—double vision, loss of sight, deafiress, or epileptic fits, with fixed pain in the head—usually precede for a considerable time the external appearance of the tumoirr. In some rare cases, no such symptoms have indicated the existerree of intracranial disease ; and the first evidence of the disease has beerr the srrdden protrusion of a pulsating tumour through the skull. If the tumoiu- be compressed, egg-shell cracking of the expanded and thinned cranial bones will be felt, and, if attempts be made to push it back under the bones, giddiness, syncope, and convulsions are produced. As the disease makes progress, death from paralysis and coma supervenes. Treatment.—The result of the treatment of fungus of the dura mater is not vei-y satisfactoi-y^; yet, as the disease appears to be almost of necessity fatal if left to itself, sonaething should be attempted—not, however, until the tumoiu- has fairly appeared thi-ough the bones. The scalp covering it should be turned back by a crucial incision, and the tumour exposed. The aperture in the skull through which it is protruded may then, if necessary, be enlarged by the use of the trephine or Key’s saw, so as to lay bare the fuU extent of the timioiu, which must then be carefrilly dissected away fr-om the diua mater. Fungus of the Skull may occur. At first it closely resembles the disease just described ; it difiers fr-om this, however, it being devoid of pulsation, and incapable of being pushed back. It appears to spring fr-om the diploe of the skull, and may probably be of a myeloid, sarcomatous, or encephaloid character, sometimes secondary to primaiy deposits of a like nature elsewhere. In other cases It appears to be simply vascular, in structure resembling the pulp of a red goosebeny or a broken-down mulberiy. In a case of this kind, which I had an oppOTtunity of seeing many years ago, the gi-owth was successfullv removed by B. Phillips. Hernia Cerebri, arising from wound or ulceration of the dura mater, has been already described (Vol. I., p. 550). Congenital Hernia of the Membranes of the Brain is sometimes met mth m the form of Meningocele or of Encephalocele. In the former sibstancc, riie diagnosis betivocii these two conditions is geiicrnlly diflicnlt ■ and IS of bttlo practical ioiportancc. The disease is tisnSlj speeM; Md! c c