<594 INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. from tlie suiToiinding muscular structures. Very few vessels or nerves are Avouncled, as they for the most part run parallel to the line of ineision ; whereas, if the vertical incision of Calliscn were adopted, they would neees- sarily be cut across. Different Surgeons have variously modified this operation by making the incision vertical or semilunar instead of transverse. Amussat’s operation may be required in a totally different set of cases from those of intestinal obstruction, viz., in cases in which there is no distension of the gut, but in which the patient is worn out by the sufferings induced by the passage of feculent matters over an ulcerated cancer of the rectum, or in which great distress and discomfort arise from the perforation of the bladder or vagina by a rectal cancer, and the consequent passage of faeces into these cavities. In cases such as these, the object of the operation is not to relieve distension, but to give ease to the patient, to mitigate his sufferings, and consequently to prolong his life in comfort, by diverting the passage of the faeces from the ulcerated sm-face through the opening in the lumbar region, and thus removing the main cause of his sufferings. It has proved most successful in affording the desired relief. But in such cases, the opera- tion is somewhat difficult of execution ; for, on account of the contracted state of the colon, that intestine recedes behind the quadratus lumborum, and the folds of peritoneum nearly surround or invest it ; and it is so covered in by fat and areolar tissue, that a very cautious dissection is required to expose it without wounding the peritoneum. The difficulty may to a certain extent be lessened by thi’owing up a large bland enema just before the operation, so as to distend the gut somewhat forcibly. Lastly, it may be required in cases of imperforate anus in children in whom the rectum is absent, so that the gut cannot be reached through the perinteum. In operating on the newly born infant, it must be borne in mind that the kidney is very large, extends far outwards, and is enveloped in very little if , any fat, and that the meso-colon is often so long that there may be a difficulty in opening the gut without wounding the peritoneum. I am disposed to think that in these cases it may be better to open the ctecum in the right flank than the descending colon in the left (see page 701). Comparison of Littre’s and Amnssat’s Operations.—When we compare the different operations that have been proposed for the formation of an artificial anus, it will be found that Callisen’s, as modified by Amussat, is the one to which the preference must be given ; for by it alone the peritoneum is not wounded, and thus the inflammation of that membrane, which is a necessary and often a fatal consequence of the other operations, is avoided. Beside this advantage, which is of the very greatest importance, Amussat’s operation presents several other claims to our notice. As only one side of the colon can be drawn forwards, and not a knuckle of it, as would be the case if the small intestines were operated upon, it is evident that the spur- ^ like process, which has been described by Dupuytren, must exist to a very small extent; and, consequently, if the artificial anus should ever become use- less, the natm-al passage for the faeces having been re-established, it con d readily be closed up. If, however, the peritoneum should be accidental y wounded in the attempt to reach the colon from behind, even then this opera- ion would be preferable to that of Littre ; for, the ca\lty of the abdomen