CAUSES OF AllTERIAL DEGENERATION. ii sides of the body is remai-kably great, the arteries of one limb being often the exact counterpart in this respect to tliose of the other. Causes. The frequent co-existence of these various morbid changes in the same portion of the arterial system points to their origin from one common cause, under the influence of which the coats of the vessel may become converted into cither fatty or calcareous matter. It is quite eriderrt that these are retrograde motamorg)hoscs, to which all fibrous tissues are especially liable imder the irrfluence of a distru’bance or diminutiorr in the rrormal rrrrtritive activity irr the part. Arrd, indeed, arry circumstarree that induces a depravation of healthy assimilation irr the system generally, ■will speedily tend to occasion a trarrsformatiou of the textm’e of the more lowly organised tissrres into products still lower irr the scale of organisatiorr : arrd this win more readily and certainly take place if any localised irrfiammatory attack have been developed. Under such influences, the fibrous tissues of which the arterial walls are composed rapidly undergo disirrtegratiorr, and conversiorr into fatty, granular, arrd earthy matter. That influerree rmder which the Utal forces of the system are most com- monly diminished irr activity is old age; and this diminution may be looked uporr as possible at arry period after the organisatiorr has reached its full matru’ity, whether this be early or late. So frequent, and indeed constarrt, are these transformations of the arterial coats during the dechne of life, that they may be considered as the rratural result of the diminu tion of the rrutrierrt actiUty consequent uporr advance in years. Gmelin has found that there is a progressive increase in the earthy matters contained in the coats of healthy arteries as the individual advances in life. Thus he has ascertairred that the ash of the arteries of a newly born child yields 0'8G per cent, of phosphate of lime ; the healthy arteries of an adult 1-25 ; arrd those of an old man 2"77 of the same salt; whilst the calcified arteries of an aged man contairr 4'01. There is rro precise period of life at which these chairges set irr : age is a relative term, and, so soon as the system has passed its full maturity, in whatever year of life this may happen, there is a tenderrey for these deposits to take place in considerable quantity. These senile trausformatiorrs, there- fore, carr scarcely be looked uporr as pathological charrges irr marry instarrees. But the same process of degradation of tissue may commerree at any, even the earliest periods of life, urrder the influerree of causes that impair the "sital forces. The Constitutional Causes that thus disjpose to or directly occasion degeneration of the arterial system are those that lead to defective orgarrisatiorr or to direct impurity of the blood, such as the various forms of chronic kidney-disease, goirt, and syphilis. To the influence of syphilis, more especially in its advarreed and constitutional forms, Aitkerr attaches great importance irr the production of atheroma. It is easy to urrderstarrd how these various iseases may exorcise a dorrble deteriorating inflirence on the arterial walls ; by the direct impairTnerrt of their rrutritiorr irr commorr with that of the fibrous textures of the body gerrorally; and, secondlg, by thecircirlation through them of blood surcharged with morbid matters, which, by irritating their lining rnembrane, may induce low forms of inflammation of their coats. It is as las been already stated, a favourite supposition with many pathologists! that these changes result directly from inflammatory action ; this certainly