846 DISEASES OF THE BLADDER. done by a careful surgical exploration of the whole of the urinary organs and often of the neighbouring parts ; no mere inquiry into the nature of the symp- toms, no chemical examination of the urine, can do more than establish the fact of the existence of “ irritability of the bladder,” and afford some evidence of a negative kind as to the absence of certain causes. But nothing short of a caicful smgical exploiation by means of the catheter, finger, and sound, of the inethia, piostiatc, and bladder, can enable the practitioner to state noth absolute certainty on what this condition of irritability depends. I have repeatedly seen cases of stone in the bladder, and of prostatic disease, vainly treated by medical means for months as cases of simple “ in-itability of the bladder ; ” the exis- tence of the real cause of the symptoms having been overlooked altogether, until a proper surgical examination of the urinary organs was instituted. So closely, in fact, do the symptoms of vesical irritation, arising from gout, or sympathetic with kidney-disease, simulate those that are occasioned by stone in the bladder, that it is impossible for the most experienced medical practitioner to refer them with certainty to the right cause without exploring this cavity. I have known several patients who had been operated on for stone, and who, some years afterwards, suffered from gouty irritability of the bladder, imagine, but erroneously, that they were labouring under a recurrence of the calcidus, so closely do the two classes of symptoms coincide in character. Treatment.—In the treatment of instability of the bladder it must be borne in mind that this condition is not a substantive disease, but is an assem- blage of symptoms resulting from the influence of a great number of very various causes, which must first be removed before the bladder can recover its normal sensibility and tone. When once the occasioning cause has been removed, whether that be a calculus, or gout, or prostatic disease, or a pile, the remaining local vesical irritation may be removed by the use of weak alkaline and mucilaginous drinks. Many sedatives are of use; some in one case, others in another. Opium and belladonna, either by mouth or in suppository, are amongst the best. Henbane, or Indian hemp, suits some patients; and chloral is amongst the most generally useful remedies. The diet should be carefully regidated, and warm hip-baths used frequently. Cijstotomy.—The disease, when once fafrly chi’onic, may become hopelessly intractable, resisting every means of treatment, local and constitutional; and nothing can be more miserable than the state of the unfortunate victim of an incmrably “ irritable bladder.” In such extreme and long continued cases in which the patient’s life has become a burden to him, in which every constitutional remedy and local sedative has been unavailingly tried, the idea has occurred to Surgeons of incising the inflamed and diseased parts by an operation as for lithotomy. Guthrie, who in 1834 strongly recommended this procedure, states that Sir W. Blizard successfully practised it in several cases as far back as 1806, dividing the enlarged prostate and neck of the bladder with a double gorget. Of late years it has been proposed to make an incision as for median or medio-lateral lithotomy, into the neck of the Ijladder, and, by introducing a caoutchouc tube, allow the urine to drain away. This operation has proved successfid in the hands of Verneuil, and is certainly a proper procedure in hopelessly chronic and otherwise incurable cases. Treatment of Vesical Catarrh.—When vesical catarrh has come on, and