TRli^A.TMENT OF RHEUMATIC ARTlIRITIh. 229 the of cartilage-corpuBclcs. The breaking up of the intercellular substance iuto fflamontsisohavaotoristic otthis disease. The cartilage so altered .sgraeuay Avoni away by the friction of the joint. When the bone becoines exposed, the mechanical irritation to which it is subjected causes the formation of a small quantity of new bone by ossification of the cancellous tissue. The new bone so formed is constantly being woni away by friction as long as motion is le in the joint. These changes are always fouud at the points most exposed to pressure. At the same time osteophytes grow from the bones in the neighbour- hood of the joint, and there is increased vascularity of the synovial mombrEme, with swelling of its fringes, and a slight excess of synovia at first, which is cloudv, fi-om°containing fragments of the grouiid-domi cartilage. The liga- ments may ossify. The osteophytes are more compact in their stnicture than those formed in diseases accompanied by an increase of vascularity, as round carious or necrosed pieces of bone. Loose nodules of bone are not infre- quently found in the subserous ceUiilar tissue. Causes.—This disease appears to be the result of malnutrition. It is not scrofulous, but occurs in persons whose health has been broken down by dyspeptic and other ailments that lead to impaired nutrition ; hence it most irequently occurs amongst the poorer classes. It is commonly met with in men. It usually occurs above the age of fifty; but I have seen several instances of it in individuals little more than thirty years of age, one of whom was a Avoman. Prognosis.—The disease is incurable, and, as it is commonly attended by much suffering, constitutes a source of gveat discomfort to the patient, though it is by no means dangerous to life, the disease not proceeding to suppuration, except in veiy exceptional cases. In fact, the tendency is to imperfect ankylosis; and the only instances in which I have seen suppuration take place have been ivhen it has occurred in persons at an earlier period of Hfe than usual, from thirty to forty years of age. Diagnosis.—It occasionally happens that an individual labouring under this affection, meeting with a fall or contusion on the hip, presents signs of fracture of the neck of the thigh-lone, such as shortening, eA'ersion, Avith some creifitation perhaps, and inability to move the limb. The diagnosis may in general readily be effected by attention to the history of the case, and by eheiting the fact that the symptoms have existed to some degree before the accident, although the pain and inunobility may have been increased by it. Treatment.—Little can be done to cure, but much to relieve and retard. Eest and the continued application of Avann or stimulating plasters AviU afford relief; and, in many instances, the administration of the iodide of potassium with sarsaparilla Avill lessen the nocturnal pain. Smith reconunends an elec- tuary composed of guaiactim, sulphur, the bitartrate and carbonate of potash, and ginger, Avith a small quantity of rhubarb ; and I have certainly seen benefit result from the administration of this remedy in some cases. Ammo- niaemn and cod-liver oil are both extremely useful in some cases. When the disease is once fairly established, and has assumed a very chronic character, it will be found of gi’cat importance to give the affected joint as much rest as possible, Avitliout confining the patient to the couch or house. This is best effected by his Avearing a proper supporting apparatus. This should consist of