TXFLAMMATJOX OF TESTIS IX IXGUIXAL CAiYAL. 945 oro'an has become enlarg-ed and indurated, as the result ot chronic inflam- mation, it may he advantageously strapped cither with simple plaster, or with one composed of equal parts of the emplastrum ammoniaci cum hydrargyro and soap-plaster ; mercury in small doses, more especially the bichloride, being coiitiniied for some length of time, until the plastic matter is absorbed and the hardness disappears. In Strapping a Testicle, the scrotum should be shaved, and then di-awn tightly upwards on the affected side. The Surgeon should next pass a long strip of plaster, above an inch broad, above the enlarged testicle and loiind the coiTcsponding side of the scrotum, so as to isolate it, as it veie. Anothei strip is now passed from behind, in a longitudinal direction, ovei the lowei end of the testis, and upwards upon the anterior part of the scrotum; and thus, by a succession of horizontal and vertical strips, neatly overlapping and drami tightly, the organ is completely enveloped and compressed. To bo of any service, the strapping must be tightly and evenly applied ; but at the same time care must be taken not to strangulate the scrotum by drawing down the upper strips of plaster too forcibly. In a case of “ tuberculo- s}"philitic ” disease of the testis, in which I was obliged to have recourse to castration, the whole of the side of the scrotum had sloughed away, lea^ung the testis exposed and fungating, in consequence of the tight strapping which had been employed before the case came into my hands. Abscess, as the result of inflammation of the testis, is of rare occurrence : sometimes, however, the scrotum inflames at one point, where fluctuation becomes apparent, with thinned skin and evident signs of suppuration ; a puncture should here be made, and the pus let out as soon as formed. Some- times abscess may occur in another way ; inflammation is set up in the tunica albuginea, adhesion takes place between the testis and the scrotum, abscess forms under the fibrous coat, and, this giving way, the pus gets vent externally through the integuments. Into the aperture that necessarily results a portion of the secreting tissue of the gland sometimes projects, and, becoming inflamed, fonns a red, granular, and fungous mass, protruding through and overlapping the edges of the aperture. The treatment of this condition will be considered when Ave come to speak of the scrofulous testicle. lufLammation of the Testis in the Inguinal Canal may sometimes take place, even in adults, when the organ has not descended through the ■external ring ; giving rise to a train of somew^hat puzzling symptoms which elosely resemble those of strangulated incomplete hernia; with Avhich, how- ever, it must be borne in mind that it may be associated (p. G.50, vol. II). On examination, a large in-egular tumour, in some parts hard, in others soft, very tender to the touch, and occasioning a sickening sensation when pressed, Avill be found in one of the groins, in the situation of the inguinal canal. Tliere are usually a tendency to vomiting and some constipation, Avith colicky pains in the abdomen. These symptoms, hoAVCA-er, are generally not very persistent, and the constipation readily yields to the administration of pur- gatives. On examining the scrotum, it will be found that the testis on the affected side is absent; and, on passing the finger into the external ring, the organ can be felt to be lodged in the canal. In consequence of the proximity of the peritoneum to the inflamed testis, this membrane occasionally becomes VOL. II. ..