EXCISION OF JOINTS AND BONES. 274 readily done by slitting up tbe sinuses in a direction so as to expose the sequestruni, which may be then drawn out without difficulty (Figs. 402 and 4G3). After the operation an inner splint must be applied, in order to obviate the tendency to varus which will ensue. In the case from which the annexed drawings are taken, very considerable reparative action was set up in the periosteum and soft tissues along the line of bone that had been removed, new osseous matters apparently being deposited; and the child, when examined two years after the operation, had an excellent, well-nourished, and useful limb. The foot, however, had a tendency to be drawn inwards, apparently owing to the flexors having overcome the antagonism of the peroneal extensors. This de'^'iation inwards was counteracted by the patient wearing a properly constructed l)oot, with which walking w^as perfectly easy. Foot.—In looking at the division of the foot into its three great component parts—toes, metatarsus, and tarsus,—we shall perceive that firmness of gait is given by the foot resting on the heel behind, and on the ball in front formed by the projection of the broad line of the metatarso-phalaugeal articulations, more particularly that of the great toe ; whilst elasticity is communicated to the tread by the play of the toes and metatarsal bones. The elasticity of the foot may be lost Avithout any very serious inconvenience to the patient; but the preservation of stability and firmness of gait are of essential importance ; and as these are secirred by the heel, the baU of the great toe, and the bieadth of the anterior part of the foot, these are the most important parts to preserve in all resections of this part of the body. In no region of the body have the good effects of modern conservatn^e sur- o-cry been more distinctly showm than in the Tarsus. In the “ good old times of Surgeiy, if a person had a white swelling ” of the bones of the foot, or a diseased tarsus, he was at once condemned to amputation of the limb. Ao distinction Avas drawn betAA^een disease of the different parts of the foot, nor any attempt made to save the sound by the sacrifice of the diseased part. Until a comparatively recent period, indeed, “ diseased tai^is aaus escii jec