9°6 DISEASES OF THE URETIIliA. After the operation of internal urethrotomy, a full-sized instrument should be immediately passed, but it is not usually necessary to tie it in. It should however, be passed daily for a few days, and after that every second or third Fig. 811.—Civiale’s Uretlirotome. day for three or four weeks. After that, the patient should be taught to pass it for himself, and continue to do so occasionally for some years. The operation of internal luethrotomy is of course only required in excep- tional cases. These are chiefly resilient or very irritable, and some very tough strictures. In resilient strictiues, dilatation fails because the stricture, though admitting of expansion, immediately relapses. In very irritable strictures, the patient cannot bear the pain of dilatation. In some very tough strictm’es, simple dilatation fads, and then internal urethrotomy is required. In aU these cases, the division of the stricture from within removes at once all difficulty in treatment ; and I have of late years employed this very simple method in several cases of this kind with the most marked and permanent success. In fact, in strictiues of the scrotal or penile portions of the luethra, where one or other of the above conditions—resiliency or irritability—generally prevails, I now very commonly notch the constricted portion of the canal by means of Civiale’s urethrotome, and thus at once, and with great ease, obtain most, if not all, the space required. Result.—The risk attending the operation is not great, and diminishes as the strictm’e approaches the orifice of the urethra. It is not, however, abso- lutely free from danger. The accidents that may happen are, perineal abscess, extravasation of mine, haemorrhage, and orchitis; and in some rare cases it may be followed by pysemia. If the kidneys be diseased, it may, like any other operation for strictiue, give rise to fatal acute interstitial nephritis. Perineal abscess usually results from cutting too deeply, so that the knife completely divides the corpus spongiosum. Such abscesses most frequently form beneath the accelerator urinse, and burrow forwards, directed by the expansion of that muscle to the root of the penis. They contain a mixtm’e of mine and pus, but it is rare to find general extravasation into the scrotum. Hiemorrhage also results from cutting too freely. In rare cases, after the operation, a per- manently bent condition of the penis remains dming erection. We possess as yet but few trustworthy statistics of the results of internal urethrotomy, and there is every reason to believe that untoward consequences follow this opera- tion more frequently than some of its advocates are willing to admit. Statis- tics of this operation done in private are worthless ; those of cases occuiTing in Hospital practice scarcely exist. In University College Hospital, where the operation has been extensively practised, I find from the Keports of the Siu- gical Kegistrar that the results are as follows. In 7G cases operated on from 1871 to 1875, there were 4 deaths, one fr’om tubercular disease of kidneys, lungs, &c., one fr’om pleurisy, one from septicaemia, and one fr'om suppurative