95 DISTAL LIGATURE OF THE CAROTID. symptoms arc those that generally result from functional disturbance of the brain, consequent upon too small a supply of arterial blood. They consist of syncope, trembling, twitches, giddiness, impaiiTuent of sight, and at last hemi- plco-ia. ' After this condition has been maintained for a few days, the nutrition of the organ becomes materially affected, and softening of the cerebral substance takes place; giving rise to a new and more serious set of symptoms indicative of this patiiotogical condition, such as convulsions, paralysis, and death. In other cases congestion may come on, cither by the interference ivith the letiuii of blood through the jugular vein, or as a consequence of that venous turgidity which we commonly observe after the ligature of a main arterial trunk; or perhaps coma may be induced by apoplectic effusion into a softened portion of the organ. Inflammation of the brain may come on immediately after the applieatioii of the ligature, being apparently at once induced by the disturbance of the circulation. In other cases it occurs at a later period, as the result of alteration in the structm-e of the organ. Effects on the Lungs.—Besides the brain, the lungs are not uncommonly secondarily affected after ligatiu’e of the carotid. To this condition special attention has been directed by Jobert and Miller. The lungs appear to become greatly congested, and have a tendency to run into a low form of inflammation. The cause of this congestive condition of the lungs is extremely interesting. It cannot be owing to the simple obstruction of the passage of the blood through the carotid causing a disturbance in the balance of the circulation, and thus a tendency to internal congestion ; for, if this were the ■cause, we ought to meet with it generally after ligature of the arteries of the flrst class. Nor can it be ovlng to any injury sustained by the eighth nerve during the deligation of the artery ; as in many of the instances in which it is stated to have ocemTed, there was no evidence of that nerve having been exposed or damaged, and every reason, from the knoAvn skill of the operators, to believe the contrary. I am rather inclined to look upon the unusually frequent occurrence of puhnonic congestion after ligature of the -carotid, as a secondary condition consequent upon a derangement in the functions of the brain and medulla oblongata, primarily induced by the dis- turbed state of the circulation through that organ : for we know that any cause which depresses the activity of the nervous centres tends to diminish proportionately the freedom of the respiratory movements, and thus, by interfering with the due performance of the act of respiration, disposes to •congestion oi the lungs, just as we observe to happen in injuries of the head, in apoplexy, and in the operation of the sedative poisons. It would appear from the detail of some of the recorded cases, as well as from Jobert’s experi- ment, that blood-letting is of considerable service in the removal of this condition, and should consequently not be omitted. Ligature of the Carotid on the Distal Side of the Sac.—Aneuilsin of the carotid artery, occurring low in the neck, does not admit the appli- cation of a ligature on the cardiac side of the tumour. What, then, is to be done in such to ^ case as thisShould it be left to the remote chance ■of a spontaneous cure, or should it bo subjected to surgical interference ? ■Spontaneous cure in carotid aneurism has never yet, I believe, been met with.