DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. 872 peringeum, the warm hii>bath, and salines, with, perhaps, opiate suppositories and plenty of demulcent drinks. The catheter should not be used in these cases, if it be possible to give relief without it. Urethral Abscess occasionally forms as the result of urethritis, a soft fluc- tuating point behig perceived in the neighbourhood of the canal. As soon as this is detected, it should be opened, when the aperture that results will readily close. If left, it will probably not burst externally, but into the urethra, the tissues ill this direction being less resistant; and then, if it should be opened externally as well, a troublesome urinary fistula wiU result. Perineal Abscess may form as the result of stricture or of urethritis, in whatever way excited ; the patient complaining of a sensation of weight, with pain and throbbing, deep in the perinmum. On examination, a hard tense swelling will be found, situated a little anteriorly to the anus, and extending along the side of the imethra. It presents no sign of fluctuation until it comes forwards into the scrotum. The Treatment consists in the application of leeches, followed by fomenta- tions, and an eaily incision through the perimeum into the swelling. In some cases, the abscess is situated altogether externally to the urethra, and then the aperture closes readily enough, like that of any other ordinary abscess. In other cases, it communicates with the canal, and then fistulous openings are left, through which a certain quantity of urine escapes. These apertures gradually tend to close if they be not complicated with strictime or other urethral disease ; should they be so, they will require special treatment, of a kind that will be hereafter described. GONORBHCE3A. Gonorrlicsa is a specific disease, accompanied by inflammation and an abun- dant muco-purulent discharge ; affecting the urethra most commonly, but also the other mucous membraues of the genital organs, as of the prepuce and the glans in the male, and of the vulva and vagina in the female. The urethra is the usual seat of gonorrhoea in the male ; and the disease may be looked on as an infectious inethritis. It is usually fixed with greatest intensity in the fossa navicnlaris; but it may extend itself over a much greater surface, affecting the entire length of the canal, and even the whole mucous lining of the bladder. In the female it commonly spreads over the extensive mucous surface of the internal organs of generation, and sometimes invades the uterus and Fallopian tubes. Cause.—Gonorrhoea has its origin in the female, and is constantly developed dc novo in prostitutes, that is, without infection from the male. It is a highly infective inflammation of the mucous membrane of the vagina generated by the decomposition of retained semen and of foul discharges, the result of repeated acts of indiscriminate intercom’se without proper attention to cleanli- ness. It is impossible to say where urethritis or vaginitis ends, and infective gonon’hoea begins. In the male, gonorrhoea arises in all cases from the ai^ph- cation of a peculiar animal poison, generated in the female by iminne or indis- criminate sexual intercourse, to the parts which it attacks, and must not be confounded with the various non-specific inflammatory diseases that may afiect