DISEASES OF THE BREAST. 578 ill the subcutaneous areolar tissue lying between the skin and the gland; in the gland itself ; or in that extensive plane of areolar membrane upon which the gland rests, and which intervenes between it and the pectoral muscle. But although the inflammation commonly alfects these difterent parts, in many cases the whole of the breast appears to be affected, and no distinct implication of any special tissue can be made out. Inflammation of the Nipple and Areola.—When the nipple and areola are inflamed, these parts become conical, red, and swollen, Avith much pain, owing to the density of the subcutaneous tissue in this situation. This affec- tion, “ the cracked nipple ” of nurses, usually occurs at an early period of lac- tation in dehcate women, and especially with the first child. It commeilces in the follicles of the part, being accompanied by superficial ulceration, abrasion, fissure, and cracks, with oozing of a small quantity of thin sero- puriform fluid, great pain during suckling—so great, indeed, as to prevent the proper continuance of this act; and usually attended by a good deal of con- stitutional irritation. In some instances, the fissiu’ed state of the nipple would appear to precede the setting in of inflammation ; in other cases, the inflam- mation is the primary condition. The Treatment is as follows. The child must be taken from the affected breast, both for its own sake and the mother’s, the milk being di-awn off" by means of a breast-pump or sucker. The general health must be attended to ; tonics given ; the infant’s mouth examined for aphthae, which, whether as cause or as effect, are common, and must be treated on ordinary medical prin- ciples. If the nipple be not fissured, it should be covered with flexible collo- dion, or painted with an astringent; a solution of nitrate of silver, catechu, or tannin is the beSt. If it be fissm-ed, a pointed stick of nitrate of silver must be apphed to the bottom of the crack daily, or it may, if deep, be divided by drawing a lancet along it. Abscess of the Areola not unfrequently ocem-s in suckling women, with the ordinary signs of local inflammation, terminating in circumscribed sup- puration. The Treatment consists in the application of warm belladonna or lead lotion, and lancing the part early. In doing this, care should be taken that the cut be made from the centre of the nipple towards the circumference of the areola, so as not to divide the lacteal ducts. Inflammation of the Breast, which, as it generally occurs in niu-sing mothers, and terminates in suppm-ation, is usually called Milk Abscess, may occur in three situations ; 1, in the Subcutaneous Areolai* Tissue, Supra- mammary Abscess ; 2, in the bed of Areolar Tissue in wliich the Mammary Gland is lodged, Submammary Abscess; and 3, in the Gland itself. Mammary Abscess. 1. Inflammation, followed by Abscess of the Subcutaneous Areolar Tissue of the Breast, though common dining lactation, occins more fre- quently than any other form of inflammation in this region at other periods of life, more pai-ticidarly about the age of puberty.^ Its symptoms are those of simple phlegmonous inflammation, differing in no way from abscess of this kind in other situations, except that it is abvays distinctly circimi- scribed. , 2. Inflammation in the Areolar Plane between the Mamma ana