SYMPTOMS OF GOMOlUUlCFA. 873 the parts commonly the seat of gonorrlima, and which are all chai-acterised by muco-purulent dischai'gcs. The poison of gonorrhoea differs entirely from those of the venereal diseases described in Chapter XXXVL, as has been fully proved by the unerring test of inoculation ; these diseases not being capable of reproducing one another in any circumstances. The inflammatory siippm-ation which is characteristic of gonoiThoea has these peculiarities: 1. It has a distinct and lengthened period of incu- bation ; 2. It rapidly propagates itself by continuity of tissue along the mucous tracts that it affects ; 3. It is contagious in the highest degree not only when the pus is applied to, and, as it were, rubbed into the mucous sm'faces of the generative organs during coitus, but when it simply touches other mucous surfaces ; and 4. It is attended by remote constitutional phenomena partaking of a pyaemic character. Character.—Gronorrhoea is usually looked upon as a purely local affection of the genital organs. Some Sui’geons, however, amongst Avhom may be espe- cially mentioned Travers, seem to consider it as occasionally assuming a con- stitutional character ; in this opinion I entirely agree. Although, gonon’hoea in the eaily stages is doubtless a strictly local affection, yet it is occasionally followed by a particular train of very characteristic phenomena, that can scai’cely be looked upon in any other light than as the result of constitutional infection ; the more so, as some individuals never have gonorrha3a without the disease being followed by these sequences, whilst others are altogether exempt from them. The parts that are secondarily affected ai’e chiefly the fibrous tissues, the mucous and the cutaneous sm’faces. The affections of the fibrous Hssues give rise to, so-called rheumatism and to peculiar forms of inflamma- tion of the testicle and of the sclerotic. The affection of the mucous mem- branes displays itself in specific inflammations of the throat, and of the eyes ; and the sJcin becomes the seat of certain eruptions. The occm’rence of these various affections, assuming as they do a specific type so distinctly marked that they can at once be characterised as gonon-hoeal, certainly tends to show that the disease impresses the constitution in some peculiar maimer, somewhat analogous to syphilis and pyaemia ; though in a ftu’ minor degree, and with much less certainty, than these diseases. Symptohs,—The symptoms of gonorrhoea in the male may be diAuded into three stages:—1. The Incubative Stage, or the period of Irritation; 2. The Acute Inflammatory Stage ; and, 3. The Chronic Stage. 1. Incubative Stage.—The first stage, that of in’itation, usually comes on from three to Aa’o days after connection, when the patient begins to experience some degree of heat, itching, and general irritation about the penis. The lips of the m-ethra are somewhat red and swollen; its orifice gapes ; and, on squeezing it, some mucus exudes. This stage usually continues for three or four days, but sometimes longer, for six or eight, Avhen it terminates in the second stage, Avhich is one of active inflammation. 2, Acute or Inflammatory Stage.—The discharge nOAV becomes abun- dant, thick, and of a groenish-yelloAV-colour ; there is gx’cat pain in passing urine, Avith considerable heat and smarting, and the urine, AA^hich floAvs in a diminished stream, is passed Avith increased frequency. The urethra is SAVollen,