726 DISEASES OF THE LARGE INTESTINE AND ANUS. and antemic ; nervous headaclics, pallor, palpitations, and syncope may result. In some cases this discharge is of service, acting as a derivative, and prevent- ing disease from falling on more important parts ; it has especially been looked upon as, and doubtless is in many cases, a safeguard from apoplexy and visceral congestions and obstructions, particularly when it occurs in ijlethoric and corpulent persons who habitually live too highly. In other cases it may be considered as critical; especially when it occurs about the cessation of the menstrual period. But, as a rule, the continued loss of blood from piles is undoubtedly injurious to the patient’s constitution. Hmmorrhage from piles is sometimes vicarious with, and at other times arrests, the menstrual flow. In a case, which I attended with Gaivod, the patient had suffered from the hasmorrhoidal flux and piles frem the ago of puberty. She menstruated for the first time when thirty-seven years old ; up to that period the hmmorrhoidal discharge had occurred abrmdantly at monthly intervals. After the late establishment of the menstrual function, the ]Diles continued to bleed, but less regularly, and she became anemic, emaciated, and debilitated to the last degree. When she was forty-four years of age, I saw her for the first time ; the piles, which were very large and vascular, were ligatured, and she made a most perfect recovery in general health. The colour of the blood is most generally florid, as if it came from the small arteries or capillaries of the part rather than from the veins. It would appear that, in consequence of the over-distended and varicose condition of the veins of the part, the onward flow through the arteries and capillaries leading to them is obstructed ; and that, in consequence of the accumulated pressiue on those vessels, their parietes give Avay, allowing the florid blood to escape from the arteries. Very commonly the internal piles, when brought down, present a some- what granular sm’face, in consequence of ulceration haAung taken place, and the whole surface Avill be seen to exude blood in drops. In other instances, the blood appears to come from a cavity in one side of the hemor- rhoid, as if rupture had occurred from over-distension at that part. Occa- sionally, however, the flow' of blood is so rapid and copious that it cannot be supposed to come from exudation, but would appear to depend on ruptiue of the vessels of the part. The hemorrhoidal flux may be accompanied by, or alternate with, a thin glairy mucous discharge from the rectum and diseased structiues ; this would appear to be nothing more than excessive secretion from the membrane, in consequence of the irritation set up by the presence of the piles ; it is seldom in sufficient quantity to produce much annoyance, or to be of much moment to the patient. _ . •. v Complications.—Piles are not uncommonly compheated with othei diseases of the rectum, such as fissures, fistula, or prolapsus. When connected with fissure, the hmmorrhoid often, as Syme has remai-ked, assumes a peculiar form and appearance, presenting itself as a small red-colomed body, like a pea in size, firm, and seated at the base of the fissure, which it often conceals ; to a practised eye, however, the presence of a pile of this peculiar colour and shape is sufficient to indicate the existence of the fissure.