^94 PLASTIC SURGERY OF THE FACE AND MOUTH. The operations for Symblepliaron, Entropion, and Ectropion, liavc Ijecn described in the chapter on Ophthalmic Surgery (pages 417—419). PLASTIC BTJBaERY OF THE NOSE. Ehix0P].astic Operations occasionally require to be performed for the restoration of the form of the nasal organ, which has been destroyed by injury •or disease. This branch of plastic surgery has long received much attention, nnd has been reduced to distinct rules. Either the entire nose, or a portion, may demand operation. Columna.—When the columna and a portion of the septum are destroyed, {I large gap is left at the nasal apertm’e ; and, the nose becoming flattened in ■consequence of its tip falling in, gi’eat deformity necessarily results. The upper lip also, losing that amount of support which it receives from the columna, becomes pendulous, projecting, and thickened at the end, thus adding to the disfigiu’ement. The restoration of the columna is effected from this thickened and prominent upper lip, which, by being reduced in size, is rendered far more shapely. The operation consists in cutting through the whole length of the lip from above downwards on each side of the mesial line, so as to leave a tongue about one-third of an inch in width. This is then turned up ; and its ends being well pared, and the under surface of the tip of the nose properly vmfied, it is fixed by means of a fine hare-lip pin and twisted sutiue, which should be left in for about foiu days. Union takes place in a few days ; but until this is firm, the new columna must be properly supported with naiTOw strips of plaster fixed to the cheek on each side. No twisting of this small flap is required, as the mucous surface speedily becomes cutaneous, and vice versa. The division in the upper lip must be treated in the same way as an ordinary hare-lip, and unites without difficulty, lessening greatly ihe deformity in this part. Ala.—When one ala only is deficient, the rest of the nose being sound, one of three processes may be adopted to remedy the deformity. 1. ^^Tien a small portion only of the free border or of the tip has been lost, an incision should be made (Fig. 593) across the nose, and the remains of the ala and a portion of the nasal integument thus marked out dis- sected down, and attached to the end of the organ. In this way a very excellent result may be obtained. 2. If the loss of substance be greater, a flap of skin, of the proper shape to restore the deformity, may be raised fr-om the cheek, applied to the previously pared edges of the part requiring it, and fixed there by a few points of fine sutm-e. 8 If the loss of the substance of the ala be very considerable, or if it extend to apart of the body of the nose, then it is more efiiciently restored by brmg- ino- a long narrow flap from the forehead in a way that wiU immediately be de- libed. In the majority of cases, the destruction of the ala and of the ^0^7 scri of the nose is so required for the repair of the deformity. Entire Nose.—For the restoration of the entire nose, two pioccdurca considerable, that other plans, to be presently described, are