787 WOUND OF PEIUNEAL ARTERIES. not prove fatal by the induction of syncope, &c., which I ^ rai-ely the case, it is apt to lead to a fatal termination indirectly, and at a later period, by favouring or predisposing to the occui-rcnce of low mflammatoiy diseases, local or constitutional. I believe that patients who lose a large ciuantity of blood at the operation seldom recover. e 1 Hemorrhage from the Division of the Superficial or the Transverse Artery of the Permceum is°seldom very dangerous, though occasionaUy, if these vessels be larger than usual, they may furnish a serious quantity of blood ; m such circumstances their ligature would be required, and might be practised eithei before or after the extraction of the calculus. It is better, if possible, to wait until the completion of the operation, lest the ligatui’e be pulled off duiing the extraction of the stone. 1 ' ^ i. i n j 2. The Division of the Deep Arteries of the perinmum, that of the bulb and the internal pudic, w'Oidd be attended by far more serious, peihaps even by fatal consequences ; as, from the depth at w'hich the vessels aie seated, it would almost be impossible to apply a ligatiu’e to them, unless the patient Avere A*ery thin, and the perinmum proportionately shalloAV. The facility of ligaturing any of these arteries, especially that of the bulb, when wounded, is gi’eatly increased by enlarging the incision upwards. In the event of a hgatiu’e not being applicable, the Sm'geon would have to trust to plugging the wound aroiuid the tube, or to the pressm’e of an assistant s fingers con- tinued for a considerable time. The pressiu’e of the fingers of relays of assistants, kept up for a considerable length of time, is perhaps the sui’est mode of aiTesting the hemorrhage. The pressure must be kept up for many hoiu’s; thus South relates a case in which it Avas maintained for fourteen hours ; and Brodie one in Avhich, after twenty-foirr hours, it succeeded. The assistants should not be changed more frequently than necessary, each keeping up pressiu-e for two or three hours, and removing his fingers as cautiously as possible. It is, doubtless, very rare for these arteries to be wounded Avheu they follow their usual course ; though such accidents have happened in the hands of some of the most skilful lithotomists, such as Home, Bell, Boux, and Desault. It was the opinion of Aston Key that the artery of the bulb was . generally cut durmg lithotomy ; but in this I beheve he was mistaken, so far as its trunk is concenied, though doubtless in many cases the bulb itself may be Avounded, and the mesh of twigs, in w'hich the A'essel terminates, diA'ided ; this, however, would not yield an alarming hmmorrhage. The trunk of the artery of the bulb Avould, hoAvever, be endangered by opening the urethra too high up, and lateralising the knife too early, and might bleed very freely. The internal pudic artery, bound down by a strong fascia and under cover of the ramus of the ischium, runs but little risk unless the knife be lateralised too much, and the incision be carried too far outwards. It is in some of the anomalous distributions of these vessels that the greatest danger Avould be occasioned. The artery of the bulb, the inferior hmmorrhoidal, the dorsal artery of the penis, or the internal pudic, may take such an anomalous course that their division must be inevitable ; and, as the Siu’geon has no possible means of knoAving beforehand Avhether the distribution of the arteries is regular or not, and as his incisions are all planned on the supposition that they are, he is not to blame in the event of a vessel being accidentally divided.