28o EXCISION- OF JOINTS AND BONES. may readily be divided by means of Butcher’s saw. By this operation all injiu'y to the sole is avoided ; and the open angle of the wound being the most dependent, a ready outlet is afforded for the discharges. The drawing (Fig. 407) gives an excellent representation of the state of the foot of a girl before and after the excision of a diseased os calcis—a somewhat flattened but most useful foot resulting. Subperiosteal Excision.—Ollier has described a mode of removing the os calcis, in such a way that the periosteum may be preserved so as to allow the regeneration of the bone. A curved incision, commencing on the outside of the tendo Achillis, at the level of the ankle-joint, is earned down as far as the external tuberosity of the os calcis, and thence along the side of the foot as far as the posterior end of the fifth metatarsal bone. The flaps being raised, the periosteum and tendo Achillis are separated from the bone, which is then fiu'ther denuded of its periosteum as far as can be reached: the hgamentous attachments are divided, and the bone is removed. In fact, in caries of the os calcis, it may often be foimd, as in performing Syme’s amputation, that the thickened periosteum strips off the softened and carious bone as readily as the peel off an orange; hence a formal process of dissection is scarcely needed. History and Results.—Excision of the os calcis is a very successful operation. It seems to have been first performed by Monteggia in 1813 ; the result appeared promising, when the patient died of scrofulous disease. The opera- tion then feU into abeyance for twenty-foiu’ years, when Robert, in 1837, in a case of necrosis of the bone, removed the diseased portion, leaving the healthy peripheral layer. The same Surgeon, in 1844, in a case of caries, removed the whole bone with the exception of its upper articular siu’face and the iimer side of the body. Greenhow of Newcastle, in this country, and Rigaud, in France, appear to have been the first Siu’geons who successfully excised the whole of the os calcis. Their cases both occurred in 1848 ; and since that time the operation has been performed in a large number of cases in this country and in America, and established as one of the many important developments made by Conservative Surgery in late years. In France, it seems to have met with little favoiu’, though it has been successfully performed there in several instances by Ollier, Giraldes, and some other Surgeons. Guerin says that the operation should not be attempted : and gives as his only reason for describing the operative procedure, that Enghsh Sm’geons have not feared to undertake it. ' Polaillon, of Paris, in an able article written in 18G9, with the object of advocating the performance of the operation, has collected the records of G4 cases. Of these he sets aside 9, of which he has not been able to find sufficiently accurate statements as to the result. Of the remaining 55,39 veie successful this term implying that the patients were enabled afterwards to valk without artificial apparatus or support. Of the remaining IG, in G, crutches or other apparatus were necessary ; in 7, subsequent amputation was demanded on account of return of the disease or inutility of the foot; and theie weie 3 deaths. Resection of the entire bone—in a few cases with^other portions o the tarsus—appears to have been perfonned in 39 of the 55 cases ; of these, 30 were altogether successful; in 4, artificial support u as necessary, _ require