877 INJECTION'S IN GONORRHOEA. strikin" ; but it can only be used in the constitutions indicated, and after the more active inflammatory symptoms have subsided. It is during the third stage of gonorrhoea that Injections may advan- tageously be used. j\ruch and 'S'ery unfounded prejudice exists against their use in the minds of many ; but surely it is as safe to apply proper local applications to an inflamed urethra as it is to an inflamed conjunctiva ; and the bad conse- cptences, sueh as stricture and inflamed testicle, which have sometimes been referred to their use, have either been due rather to the long continuance and to the severity of the disease itself than to the remedies employed, or to their application at too early a stage or of too groat a strength. It is in long- standing cases of gonorrhoea, in which the discharge continues for months or years, that stricture results, not in cases of ordinary duration ; and in these it is the result of the chronic inflammatory thickening of the mucous membrane, and has no more to do with the injections than with the copaiba or salines which the patient may have taken. As the ardor urinm subsides, emollient and slightly astringent injections may be used. The best is perhaps the ace- tate of lead in tepid water, of the strength of two grains to the oimce. If this induce irritation, a few grains of the watery extract of opium may advan- tageously be added. As the disease subsides, a stronger astringent is required, and then one or two grains of the acetate of zinc may be added to each ounce of the injection ; or a very weak solution of sulphate or chloride of zinc may he employed, gr. ij of the first, and gr. j of the second, to each ounce of water ; or an injection of gr. of the nitrate of silver to the ounce may be used. During the whole of this stage, the diet and habits of life must be carefully regulated, and all stimulants interdicted. The injections should be discontinued as soon as the discharge has ceased ; unless this be done, they may re-induce it. The mode of injection is of imjDortance. A glass syringe should always be used, with a smooth rounded nozzle. The patient sitting on the edge of the chair and holding up the penis, should carefully insert the end of the syringe between the lips of the m-ethra, and then slowly throw in the injection as far as it will go. Al- though the inflammation is usually confined to the an- terior portion of the urethra, yet it may extend to the bulb, and the injection should be applied to the whole length of the inflamed mucous membrane. If any enter the bladder it cannot signify, as it will immediately be deeomposed by the salts and mucus of the urine. ^ Instead of the ordinary glass syringe, the injector (Fig /.)o) may be advantageously used. This injection is thrown from behind forwards, so that when passed beyond the mflamed part it washes out the discharge, instead of foreing it further on. Treatment of Gleet.—In gleet, much difficulty will rfton be cxpcnenced in cninn the patient of bis discharge. Here mnoh proper remedies, but in care beino- i fill II >/'! /" Ih‘ 11' n”i ii f :1k ''jI /,/> 'ill 'll! ' 11' I hi ill I I' III 'll' ///- nil /III an // llli 'k II i Illl "J il ' II I < I W\\ \iw {I > ; Bi\ li'i Fig. “Di.— leevaii's Injector. depends not only on the administration of