974 DISEASES OF THE TESTIS AND CORD. a. Irreducible Scrotal Hernia may be recognised by its irregular feel, by its impulse on coughing, by its occupation of the canal, and by the testicle being distinctly perceptible below it. l>‘ Hydrocele of the Tunica Vaginalis is always recognisable by its trans- lucency ; and the amount of opacity conjoined with this will enable the Surgeon to distinguish the degree of enlargement of the testis, and how fai- th ere is a sai’coccle conjoined with it. c. In Heematocele the tumour is of sudden or rapid formation, somewhat globular, opaque, but not very heavy or hard, and smooth upon the surface. (1. In Sarcocele genei-ally the tumour is hea-^7- for its size, frequently globular or irregular in shape, sometimes knobbed, and usually attended by a good deal of dragging pain in the groin, and frequently by some enlargement of the cord. In these three forms of scrotal tumour, viz., hydrocele, haBmatoccle, and sarcocele, the diagnosis can always be made at once from hernia, by the Surgeon feeling the cord free above the tumour. The point of most importance in the diagnosis of sarcocele is to distinguish the malifjnant from the non-malignant varieties. In the malignant the rapidity of the growth, the softness and the elasticity of the tumour, the im- plication of one testis only, and the early enlargement of the cord, with its indurated and knobbed condition, are important signs ; especially if the disease occur in young men. In a more adA'anced condition, the softening of the SAvelling at parts with a tuberous condition of the rest, and the occun-cnce of fungus with speedy constitutional cachexy, Avill point to the malignant nature of the tumour. In cases of much doubt and difficulty an exploratory puncture may be made, Avhen the contents of the groove in the needle or of the fine cannula will probably determine the character of the growth. In more than one instance, in which there was much obscurity, I have seen the true natin-e of the disease cleared up in this way. SPERMATOKKHCEA AND IMPOTENCE. Various forms of debility, of loss of power, or of irregularity of action in the generative organs of the male, are confounded together under the terms Spermatorrhoea and Impotence. These conditions require a more careful consideration on the part of the educated Surgeon than they have hitherto receiA'ed, as their existence is a source of the deepest mental depression and distress to the sufferer. They are certainly one cause of conjugal unhappiness, leading perhaps to infidehty on the part of the wife, and occasionally even to suicide of the husband. These affections, Avhich are of extreme frequency amongst aU classes of the community, haAung scarcely as yet received that attention on the part of the profession generally that their importance deserves, the unfortunate sufferers from them are too often driven into the hands ot those pestilent quacks who flourish in the metropolis, and infest almost every town in the country, by Avhom they are not unfrequently ruined in health as Avcll as in purse. The Sexual Melancholia that accompanies these conditions, is one of their more striking characteristics. The patient is languid in manner, depressed in