41 CONTRA-INDIGATIONS OF LIGATURE. ends bciii" cut short, and the wound closed over them, the chance of sloughing and of unhealthy uleeration of the vessel would be greatly lessened. It has occasionally, perhaps more frequently than the profession loiows, ap- pened to Surgeons that they have cut down upon an artery with the intention of tyinc it, and found it in so diseased a state that the application of the liga- ture was impracticable, and that it became necessary to close the wound without completing the operation. Liston and Aston Key have both had the candour to record such cases. In one case that happened to me in which fr was thought necessary to tie the superficial femoral for popliteal aneurism, i found, on cutting down on the artery, that there was a small aneiu’ismal dila- tation just below the giving off of the profimda, and a tubular dilatation of the artery below this, rendering the application of a ligatiu-e utterly impracticable. afterwards tied the external iliac, but iinsiiccessfriUy. It must be remembered that, in such cases as these, not only are the arterial coats softened and incapable of bearing the strain of the ligature, but the vein is usually adherent, and con- sequently liable to perforation in passing the aneurism-needle between it and the ai-tery. And even could the act of deligation be practised, secondary hiemorrhage would undoubtedly occur at an early period in an artery that is incapable of healthy adhesive union. All operation should be avoided when there is any serious disease of the heart, and in cases of multiple anemlsm where the second tumour is situated internally; but it has happened that two aneiu'isms in one limb, as of the popliteal and femoral arteries, have been cm’ed by one bgatiu’e applied to the external iliac. Two anemisms seated in corresponding parts of opposite limbs, affecting, for instance, the two popliteal arteries, may be successfully operated upon. But, if two aneurisms be seated on different parts of the body, as the axilla and groin for instance, at the same time, the aneurismal diathesis would be indicated, and it would certainly not be expedient to operate. In certain cases, the Hunterian operation seldom succeeds ; and these, there- fore, may be considered as unpromising to it. This happens in those instances in which it is necessary to apply the ligatiu’e very close to the sac, so as indeed rather to perfoivn Anel’s operation, as here there is the double danger of in- flaming or wounding the sac, and of interfering with the collateral circulation of the limb. Those cases, also, in which the aneinism is very acute in its progress, increasing rapidly with forcible pulsation, having very fluid contents, and a large mouth to the sac, into which the blood is consequently driven in a full wave at each pulsation of the heart, are rarely favourable for the irse of the ligatm’e, inasmuch as stratification seldom occurs. When the aneurism is situated in the midst of loose and very yielding tissues, as in the axilla, where it readily expands to a largo size, not being bound down by the siuTounding parts, suppuration and sloughing of the sac arc especially apt to occiu’ after ligature. AVhcn it is diffused widely through the limb, with coldness and a tendency to incipient gangrene, the circulation of blood through the part is so much choked that the deligatiou of the vessel will in all probability arrest it entirely, and thus produce mortification. 'WTaen arteries can be felt to be calcified, it is a question whether they can be safely ligatiu’cd, as in all pro- bability they will be cut or broken through by the noose, and the changes necessary for their occlusion will not take place. I’orter, however, recommends