75° SECOXDARY DISEASES OF THE URINARY ORGANS. fatally, varies from a few days to a couple of weeks. In fovourable cases, even after very marked symptoms, suck as the rigors, dry tongue, vomiting, and diarrhoea, the patient may slowly recover. The cause of death in many cases seems to bo septicmmia from absoi-ption of the septic matter from the kidney rather than urtemia. Certainly the mode of death differs greatly fi-om that of acute Bright’s disease, the jn’ofonnd coma and convulsions being rarely present. The DiCKjnosi!^ has to be made from pyjcmia, peritonitis, typhoid fever, and ague. From pymmia the diagnosis is somewhat difficult, the most important jioints being the vomiting, the absence of secondary abscesses, the di’owsy state into which the joatient soon falls, and the fact that the temperatm’e often remains for days before death, below normal. The vomiting and extreme illness may resemble the low, diffuse, painless form of peritonitis sometimes seen in affections of the bladder, but the vomiting has not the pumping cha- racter of that in peritonitis, and the elevation of temperature for the first few days is unlike that form of peritonitis in which the temperature is persistently low. Suppurating kidney can only resemble typhoid fever in rare cases, and the absence of spots, and the temperature will usually serve to distinguish them. In the case above mentioned, the temperature was below normal for three weeks before death. From ague, the disease is diagnosed by the absence of the com- plete intermission after the sweating stage; but it must be always remembered that patients who have suffered fr’om ague are singularly liable to attacks of fever after any operation on the urinary organs. Urethral Fever or Uraemic Fever.—This term has been somewhat loosely used to signify a rigor followed by sweating, and more or less prolonged ele- vation of temperature, consequent on some operation on the urinary organs, or possibly arising spontaneously. It vdll be seen at once that this definition includes acute interstitial nephritis, as above described, and also pyasmia. AVhen a patient has been said to have died of “ urethral fever,” one of these two conditions has been invariably found, although no Surgeon would inten- tionally include pymmia mider lu-ethral fevei’. It is probable that the real nature of the affection is, at least in the great majority of cases, a distimbance of the circulation in the kidney, or some interference with its function, due to reflex irritation fi’om the passage of the instrument, as before described in speaking of the sources of iiTitation to the kidney. That it is not due to absorption of urine from a wound in the urinary passages, is evident fr’om the fact that rigors are rare after lithotomy, and are not a marked symptom of extravasation of urine, and that womids of the urethra anterior to the scrotum scarcely ever give rise to them. This view of the renal origin of so-called urethral fever is supported by Malherbe, in his treatise on Uraemic Fever, as he would caU it. It is difficult to obtain direct proof, but further knowledge might be gained by carefuUy examining hour by horn’ the quantity and quality of the urine secreted after any urethral or vesical operation, and at ‘ the same time accmately observing the changes in temperature, even when the rigor does not occur. Malherbe states that the temperature rises in almost every case ; and in one of the four cases of stricture mentioned before, the temperature rose to 100’3° F. about three hours after the operation, nhen the urine became bloody. It fell to 99'2° F. when the blood disappeared; but