624 HERNIA. poitiiucG ill tlicsc cases to ol)scr\c tliat the iiiflaniination comiiieiices in the body of the sac, and extends into those parts of the abdomen that are eon- tiguous to its nock ; the stomachal and intestinal derangements being secondary to this consideration. The Treatment of an inflamed irreducible heniia must be directed to the peritonitis which attends it. The application of leeches over the sac and its neck, the free administration of calomel and opiimi, and the employment of enemata^ with strict antiphlogistic regimen and rest, will usually speedily subdue all inflammatory action. Incarcerated Hernia.—An iiTeduciblc hernia occasionally becomes ob- structed, then constituting the condition termed mcarreraiecl hernia. This condition principally occurs in old people, from the accumulation of flatus, or of undigested matters, such as cheny-stones or mustard-seeds, in an angle of the gut. In these cases there is constipation, with eructation, and perhaps occasional vomiting. There may be some degree of pain, weight, or uneasiness about the tumoiu'; but there is no tension in it or in its neck, and the symptoms altogether are of a chronic and snbaente character. The Treatment of such a case as this should consist in the administration of a good purgative injection ; the compound colocynth enema is the best, thrown up as high as possible by means of a long tube. Ice may then be applied to the tumour for about half an horn-; and the taxis, as will afterwards be described, may be used under chloroform. The ice may be omitted in those cases in which, on handling the tumour, giu’gling can readily be felt; but the taxis should always be used, as by it the incarcerated gut may be partially emptied of its contents ; or if any additional protrusion should have slipped down, this may be returned. After these means have been employed, an active purgative, either of calomel or of croton-oil and colocynth, should be administered ; and, if any inflammation ensue, this must be treated as ah’eady described. STRANGULATED HERNIA. A hernia is said to be Strangulated when a portion of gut or omentum that is protruded.is so tightly constricted that it cannot be returned into the abdomen ; having its functions arrested, and, if not relieved speedily, running into gangrene. This condition may occur at all periods of life, being met with in infants a few days old, and in centenarians. It commonly arises from a sudden violent effort, by which a fresh portion of intestine is forcibly pro- truded into a pre’V'iously 'existing hernia, which it distends to such a degi’ee as to produce strangulation. But, though old hemim are more subject to this condition than recent ones, it may occur at the very first formation of a hernial swelling, the gut becoming strangled as it is protruded. There are therefore two distinct kinds of strangulation. One may be said to be of a passive kind, , chiefly occunlng in elderly people, the subjects of old and perhaps irreducible hernia ; which, in consequence of some accidental circumstance, becomes dis- tended by the descent of a larger portion of intestine than usual, and this, nndero-oing constriction and compression at the neck of the sac, gradually j become strangulated. The other kind of strangulation is most frequent m