STRUCTURAL CHANGES IN BONE. Treabnent.—Tumours of bone, bowever simple in their character, are neces- sarily entirely beyond the reacli of constitutional or local resolvents, and Suro'cons have consequently been in the habit cither of gouging or cutting out the tranour, or of removing the whole of the bone from which it springs, cither by amputation or excision ; and in malig- nant disease of bone this is doubtless the only safe coih’sc. But in non-malignant tumours of l)one the case is different, and Sir James Paget has ad- duced several instances to prove that the partial operation may be done with perfect success so far as avoidance of recuiTence is concerned, the tumour being enucleated or shelled out of the case of bone in which it is lodged. The great difficulty, as he justly observes, consists in the diagnosis between the benign and malignant tumoim. The points to which he specially directs attention are the fol- loAving. ■ 1. The age of the patient. If below puberty or past middle age the tumoiu’ is probably malignant, unless it be a common exostosis. 2. The age of the tumom’. If more than of two years’ duration, it is probably not malignant. ?>. If a tumour of bone have doubled its size in six months, not being inflamed—if it be situated on the shaft of a long bone—and if the lymphatics be enlarged, it is probably malignant or recurrent. If a coiicm'rence of conditions point to the non- malignancy of the tumoiu’, and if it be found to have grown from within the bone and to have expanded this in the form of a shell over its surface, then enucleation should be attempted ; if, on the other hand, the symptoms point to its malignant nature, amputation or excision of the whole bone must be practised. Hydatids.—Cavities are occasionally, but very rarely, found in bones, in which large numbers of hydatids are lodged ; according to Stanley, both the Fiy. —Myeloid Tumour of Dower Eud of Humerus of two year.s’ gi-owtli, foUowiuj; Fractui'e of tlie Condyles. Femur. acephalocyst and the cysticercus celluloste have been found in this tissue, but most frequently the former. In these cases a cyst forms in the bone, u ic i becomes thin and expanded, resembling the ordinary fluid cystic tumour, Imt