Y1 CONTENTS. Cauotid Atiteey—Ancuvismal Varix of Carotid Artery and Jugular Vein Spon- taneous Aneurism of Carotid—Symptoms—Diagnosis—Treatment—Digital Com- pression-Ligature of Carotid—Effects on Brain—Table of Cases of Ligature of both Carotids—Effects on Lungs—Ligatoe of Carotid on Distal Side Table 86 97 Internal Carotid Artery—Extracranial Aneurism—Treatment . . . 97 yg Intracranial Aneurism — Causes — Pathology — Pressure-effects— Symptoms-— Causes of Death—Treatment Jntraorbital Aneurism—Erroneous Opinion regarding—Causes Symptoms Prognosis—Pathology—Treatment Subclavian Artery—Symptoms—Diagnosis—Results—Treatment—Ligature of the Brachio-cephalicArtery—Table of Cases—Ligature of Subclavian on Tracheal Side —Table—Compression of Ai-teiy on Distal Side—Distal Ligature of Subclavian beyond the Scaleni—Amputation at Shoulder-joint, and Distal Ligature—Liga- toe of Vertebral Ai-tery 107 118 Axillary Artery—Symptoms—Diagnosis—Treatment—Ligatineof the Subclavian in tim'd Pai't of Coiu'se—Ligatm’e between Scaleni—Accidents following Ligature of Subclavian Artery—Thoracic Inflammations—Suppuration of the Sac—Secon- dary Hmmorrhage—Gangrene of Hand and Arm—Treatment of Inflamed AxiRai-y Aneurism threatening Suppuration—Ligature of Axillary Artery . . . 118—13;-> Arm, Forearm, and Hand—Rarity of Spontaneous Aneurism—Treatment—Liga- ture of the Brachial Artei-y—Ligatui-e of Radial and Ulnar Arteries . , 133—13i> Chapter XLV.—Areurisms op the Abdomen and Lower Extremities. Abdominal Aorta and its Branches — Symptoms—Diagnosis—Treatment— Compression of Abdominal Aorta 136—139 Inguinal Aneurism—Symptoms—Diagnosis—Treatment—Ligature of External Hiac Artery—Abernethy’s Modified Operation—Cooper’s Method—Results—Liga- ture of Common Iliac—Results—Compression—Ligature of Aorta—^Aneurism of the Internal Iliac and its Branches—Gluteal and Sciatic Aneurisms—Ligature of Internal Hiac 139—150 Femoral and Popliteal Aneurisms—^Aneurism of Deep Femoral Ai-tery—Aneu- rism of the Superficial Femoral and Popliteal Arteries—Symptoms—Diagnosis— Treatment—Compression—Flexion—Ligature of Common Femoral—Of Super- ficial Femoral—Results—Accidents attending Operation—Wound of Femoral Vein—Secondary HmmoiThage—Gangrene—Return of Pulsation in Sac—Secon- dary Aneurism—Ligature of External Hiac in Popliteal Aneurism—Double Pop- liteal Aneurism—Diffused Popliteal Aneurism—Amputation for Diffused Popliteal Aneurism 151—162 Aneurism of the Tibial Arteries—Ligature of Posterior Tibial—Of Anterior Tibial—Of Artcria Dorsalis Pedis 163—16-1 Periostitis—Symptoms—Treatment—Subperiosteal Abscess . . . . Osteitis—Pathology—Symptoms—Treatment—Linear Osteotomy . . . Suppuration of Bone—Diffuse Suppuration, or Osteomyelitis—Pathology—Treat- ment—Amputation—Chronic Abscess of Bone—Symptoms—Treatment Trephin- ing Bone 167— Caries—Definition—Structure—Relative Frequency—Causes — Symptoms — Treat- 1 CO ment—Operations on Carious Bone Necrosis—Nartu-e—Causes—Characters — Peripheral and Central — Sequestram Symptoms—Separation of the Dead Bone—Exfoliation—Reparative Process- Treatment—Removal of the Sequestrum—Instruments—Amputation—Resection —Necrosis of the Sternum, Sc.apula, or Pelvis—Cranial Bones Patella Ribs Chapter XLVI.—Diseases op Bore. 176—1S9