3S2 DEFORMITIES. the distortion will continue permanently, in whatever position she may he placed. This is not only owing to the deformity of the spine, but to the ribs, and ligamentoirs and muscular structures generally of the trunk, having become fixed in their abnormal position. Treatment.—The treatment of lateral curvature of the spine should be conducted on rational principles ; and, when divested of the mystery with which some interested specialists have surrounded it, it becomes as simple as that of any other chronic siu’gical affection of the bones, joints, or muscles. There are three principles of treatment that require to bo carried out in the manage- ment of these cases. The first is the improvement of the general health,— unless this be effected, nothing can be done ; the second is, to strengthen the muscles of the spine ; and the third, to take away as much as possible the Aveight of the head, neck, and upper extremities. The administration of some of the milder preparations of iron, with a coiu’se of aloetics for the regulation of the uterine function, is of great moment; at the same time, a nourishing diet of animal food should be alloAved, and the patient encom-aged to take exercise in the open air. By these means the nutrition of the system will be improved, and the tone of the muscles gi-eatly restored. The muscular power may be more directly strengthened by haA'ing the back Avell sponged with cold salt or vinegar and water every morning, and methodically rubbed from top to bottom. The friction should be principally directed to the erector spinas muscles on each side of the A'ertebral cohunn, and may be done either Avith the naked hand, or Avith some shghtly stimulating embrocation. At the same time, if the patient’s strength aatII permit it, but not otherwise, the use of the hand-swing may be allowed, or cahsthenic ex- ercises practised; these, however, should not be continued if they induce a feeling of fatigue or exhaustion. A^Tiilst this plan is being persevered in, the patient should be made to he recumbent for a few hours daily, sitting or standing as little as possible. By these means, assiduously continued for some length of time, the muscles of the back may be strengthened, and the increase of the deformity prevented ; and in this Avay the slighter cases of lateral curvature, those in which there is rather a tendency to than a fnh development of the disease, may be cured. In slight cases of lateral curvature, great evils may be occasioned by the- uimecessary employment of cumbersome machinery. The heavy apparatus that is often applied to growing girls overpowers and compresses, rather than supports and directs the imperfectly developed and stih yielding skeleton. By the use of these compheated machines the muscles of the back become Aveakened and atrophied from disuse ; the pelvis is compressed and con- tracted ; and those very evils are produced by the mechanician AA'hich it is the object of the Surgeon to avert or con-ect. \lTien the affection is further advanced, though the spine still continue flexible, if there be decided projection of the ribs on one side, and the shoulder' and hip be prominent, Avith apparent difference in the length of the limbs, and much impairment of the general health, more decided measures of treatment must be had recourse to. In these cases, as in those just described, the^ con- stitutional poAvers must be carefully attended to on ordinary medical principles ; iron, and good living, Avith fresh air, being the basis of the treatment. At the-