2'liEAT}fENT OF lENOMINATE AA EUlilS^f. 77 the subclavian could not be reached ; the patient dying a few days afterwards, the aneurism Avas found to ho aortic, rising up into the root of the neck, the imiominate being sound. . , . , i Treat.aiext.—There are several instances on record in Avhich a properly conducted course of constitutional treatment has cured the patient: thus a case of Luke’s Avas permanently cured by small and repeated bleedings, conjoined Avith the administration of digitalis. In connection Avuth such ti'eatment, distal pressure might be employed, as in a case that deriAcd benefit from this plan in Syme’s hands. In aneurism of the innominate, the vessel is so short, and the sac so situated,, that it is impossible to attempt to apply a ligatiu’e on the cardiac side of the tumour. What resource, then, docs surgery ofFer in these cases beyond the employment of constitutional and dietetic means ? It may be ansAvered te this, that, if these measures fail in arresting the disease, oiu’ choice must lie betAveen two alternatives ; leaving the patient to his fate, or having recourse to the appheation of the ligature on the distal side of the tumour. On looking on the innominate artery with reference to the distal ojieration, we are struck by two peculiarities in the vessel, which must necessarily modify to a considerable extent not only the seat of the operation, but the j)rinciple on Avhich it is conducted. The fii’st pecuharity to which I allude is the shortness of the trunk, which makes it imj)ossible to apply the ligature to the vessel itself, but renders it necessary to deligate one or both of its terminal branches. The other peculiarity is, that in no circumstances can these vessels be so ligatiued as to arrest the whole of the blood sent into the artery ; for, although the circulation through the carotid may be entirely stopped, yet it is impossible, from the seat and extent of the disease, to tie the sub- clavian at any point except beyond the scaleni ; hence that blood which is destined for the supply of the branches of this vessel—the vertebrals, the thyi’oid axis, the internal mammary, and the first intercostal—must continue to be propelled into and through the sac. Three distinct modifications of the distal operation have been proposed and resorted to for the cure of aneurisms in this situation: 1. Ligature of the SubclaAdan alone; 2. Liga- tiue of the Carotid alone ; and 3. Ligature of Both Vessels with an interval of greater or less extent. 1. Ligature of the Suhcla-vian only (Fig. 37G, p. 80) has been prac- tised in four cases, the results of Avhich are exhibited in the folloAvins,’ Table • two were soon fatal, and the partial success in one of the other cases may be fairly attributed in a great measure to the accident of the carotid haAung been occluded. The results of this practice haA’C certainly not been sufficiently favoiuable to justify the Surgeon in repeating an attempt of this kind, opposed as it is to the known principles on Avhich the distal operation effects a cure. For, supposing, as we may safely do, with Wardrop, that only one-third of the blood that is sent into the innominate finds its Avay through the extrascalenal portion of the subclavian, the remainder being destined for its branches and the carotid in crpial proportions, Avhat fact can be adduced or principle laid dowm from Avhich we can expect to obtain the cure of an aneurism in close proximity to the heart, by cutting off so small a proportion as one-third of the supply of the blood sent into it ?