879 COMPLICATIONS OF GONORRIKEA. may bo administcrod ;vith advantage, and the chronic sta^e of gononlKca may be persevered w.th. Sbonld these far, and shoiUd the” olive-headed sound give distinct evidence of a_tender spot, ant perhaps a slight narrowing of the urethra, the passage of a full bonvic every second or third day should be tried. If, after a fair tiial, this faiMo, injection of nitrate of silver by Guyou's injector must next be had recourse to, followed by mild injections and the passage of bougies ; and, lastly, if everything else have failed, and a distinct narroinng of the canal be present, internal urethrotomy may be tried as a last resource. COJIPLICATIOXS OP Go^^ORI^H(EA.—Gonorrhoea, when acute or virulent, seldom runs its course without local complications of some kind, the result of the propagation of the inflammation to neighbouring parts, often of consider- able severity, and occasionally even hirzardous to life ;—such as chordee, phimosis, sympathetic bubo, perineal abscess, irritability of the bladder, reten- tion of urine, hiemorrhage from the imethra, &c. Many of these complications present no special features, but require to be treated on general principles, without reference to their specifle cause. Others demand more special manage- ment, and these we may liriefly consider here. Inflammatioii of the Lymphatics of the Frsenum may occur, stretching along the sides and dorsum of the penis in the form of hard thread-like lines, with much redness and oedema of the integuments, and general swelling of the ■organ, the glans in these cases often assuming a turgid aspect and a dnU brick-red colour. This condition is a very serious one, as it may lead to one of two conse- ■quences, or both may ensue, viz., inflammation and suppuration of the inguinal glands, or blood-poisoning. It is the latter result that gives rise to the most serious constitutional effects in gonorrhoea, closely resembling the less severe forms of pyemia, viz., the so-called gonoirhoeal rheumatism, and abscess in or ■around the prostate. Chordee, or painful erection of the penis, with twist of the organ, coming- on at night, is often a most distressing and troublesome symptom. It is usually best relieved by the application of cold to the part, but more especially by the administration at bed-time of a pill composed of gr. j of opium with gr. v of ■camphor, the camphor acting as a direct sedative to the generative organs. Eiicord recommends a suppository of camphor and opium, gr. x of camphor, and gr. j of the watery extract of opium, to be introduced into the rectum an hour before bed-time, as the best means of remo’sdng the tendency to chordee. Irritability of the Bladder with Spasm of its Heck, Strangury, and Dysuria, may be of two kinds ; either inflammatory, coming on in the ■earlier stages of the disease with pain in the peringeum, and all the symptoms of active inflammation about the part strongly marked ; or atonic, supervening at a more advanced period, without any special signs of inflammation. In the first case, leeches to the perinaium, hot poppy fomentations, the warm bidet, with full doses of Dover’s powder, or of henbane and carbonate of potash or nitre, Avill afford much relief. IVhen the disease is atonic, the administration of tincture of perchloride of iron, conjoined with local soothing remedies, as the poppy fomentations or bidet, and an opiate or belladonna suppository, will be beneficial.