3oS DISEASE OF THE SACRO-ILIAG JOINT. ^ 5. Dkease of the pelvic hones may of course occur independently of any affec- tion of the sacro-iliac articulation ; and, when so occun’ing, it always com- mences at a distance from the joint—the crest of the ilium, the tuberosity of the ischium, or the acetabulum, being the usual seats of the disease. When it occurs in the first of these two situations, the resulting abscess seldom attains a very large size, and is altogether above or below the synchondi'osis, the outline of which can be felt clear and imobsciu’cd by swelling of any kind. '\Wien the abscesses are opened, the sinuses that result will lead directly down to the rough and carious bone, examination of which will leave no doubt as to the nature of the cases. In these cases, also, no change takes place in the length of the limb, or in the position of the side of the ilium. When the acetabulum is pirimarily affected, the difficulty of diagnosis may be greater, in consequence of the large size and often intrapelvic natm-e of the abscesses, and the co-existence of a certain amount of displacement or elonga- tion of the limb. But here the same circumstances that enable the Siu’geon to effect a diagnosis in ordinary coxalgia—viz,, the pain in movement influencing the hip-joint merely, and the increased length of limb, as determined on mea- suring from the anterior superior spines—wiU prevent his falling into error as to the true natime of this disease. Treatment.—With respect to treatment I have but little to say, and that by no means satisfactory. The treatment must be conducted on the same general principles that guide us in the management of cases of carious diseases of the spine. The gveat' object is to prevent the formation of abscess. If the cure be fortunately accomplished, the patient will probably recover with a limb that, though weakened, is but little impaired in utility; for, the sacro-iliac junction being naturally a fixed joint, it matters little if it become ankylosed by disease. Long-continued rest in the prone position ; fixing the pelvis, hip-joint, and thigh by means of a large leather cap and splint, which should embrace the whole of the limb from above the crest of the ilium to the sole of the foot; counter-irritation, in the earlier stages, before suppuration has set in (after that has occurred it is worse than useless); the administration of cod-liver oil, iron, and suitable tonics, ai’e the means to be employed. When abscess forms, this must be opened in a suitable and convenient spot, when large and chronic by valvular incision ; and keeping up the powers of the patient by ordinary dietetic means and medicinal tonics are the means that must be employed, vdth the view of procuring ankylosis; but usually, unfortunately, with little advantage beyond the mitigation of suffering and the prolongation of life for a limited time. When once suppiuation has set in, our hopes of a cure are materially lessened. I am not prepared to state that the affection is inevitably fatal when it has reached this stage, but certainly in the very great majority of instances it is so ; the profuse discharge fr’om the large abscesses connected with it inducing hectic, and exhausting the powers of life. Xo operative inter- ference is admissible.