EXCISION OF THE HEAD OF THE FEMUR. 323 tilloweJ to move about on crutches, having the foot suspended in a sling, as in the case of fractured thigh. In such circumstances, the best result that can usually be looked for is a stiff joint; but, even if this form, the patient’s con- dition will be far from unfavourable, for the want of movement in the hip becomes counterbalanced by the greatly increased mobility of the lumbar vertebriB, enabling the patient freely to rotate the pelvis. As abscesses form, they should be opened early ; no good results from delay- ing to give e.xit to the pus, Avhich only spreads more widely, disorganising the soft structures. Means should be taken, by tonic remedies and nourishing food, to keep off hectic. If dislocation have taken place, and the limb conse- quently have become a good deal shortened or deformed, being perhaps adducted •and inverted so far as to be twisted over the other, or drawn up upon the abdomen, much may be done to lessen the deformity by putting the patient under chloroform, bringing down the limb, and fixing it in a starched bandage. Ankylosis in a good position may thus be sometimes obtained, and the patient’s condition be gi-eatly improved. It is a question whether an attempt at reduction should be made in these cases of consecutive dislocation, as it is very rai'ely that it would prove permanently successful, the acetabulum being either filled up \vith fibrous matter, or the head of the bone so diseased and lessened in size, that it would not remain in its cavity when put back. Occasionally, however, reduction may be successfidly effected. In a woman under my care at the Hospital, with spontaneous dislocation of the hip of about a month’s diu'ation, reduction was effected by means of the pulleys, and the head of the bone re- placed in the cotyloid cavity, where it remained for some weeks ; becoming, however, displaced again in consequence of its being necessary to remove a bandage that was applied, as she became affected with inflammation of the chest, and could not bear its pressure. If ankylosis be likely to occm*, the Siu’geon must endeavour to seem’e it with the limb in a straight position ; otherwise gieat inconvenience to the }Datient may result, especially if it occur ux the position represented in Fig. 495. After a stiff joint has formed, the mobility of the lumbar vertebrax, and more particularly of the lumbo-sacral articulation, will be found to be gi’eatly increased : so that at last the patient wiU walk with httle mconvemence, rotating the pelvis on them. If the ankylosis be not osseous, but the result of the arthritic form of the disease, and especiaUy if the head of the bone be still in the acetabulum, the limb may be straightened by forcible extension and rotation under chloroform, and the heel thus brought to XCISION OF THE HEAD OP THE THIQH-BONE AND OF THE HIP-JOINT. f propose, and Anthony White, 1^ minster Hospital, in 1821, was the first to perform, excision of the nca 0 le emur. This he did on a boy eight years old, who had had disease fx,- n°i or four years, and in whom the carious head of the igh-bone rested on the dorsum ilii. mite removed the head and trochanters fpatient recovered fr-om the operation, dying of phthisis ‘'Afterwards. The preparation is in the IMuseum of the Collegb of r 1 operation was repeated by Hewsou of Dublin, in 1823 • and hen seems to have been forgotten in Great Britain until its revival in 1845