^74 DISEASES OF BONE. licie Sayie s vertobratcd probe (Fig. 40G) is most inTaluablo, being flexible and accommodating itself to the ■windings of the canal. A similar instrument has been also de\ised by Steele of Bristol. Caries is very liable to be accompanied with disease of internal viscera. Billroth, in the cases investigated by him to which reference has akeady been made, found that there were cheesy oi tuberculous deposits in internal organs in 54 per cent. ^ He gH es the proportions in which these were met ■with in disease of different bones as follows : shoulder-joint, 77-7 per cent. ; bones of the chest, G5-5 ; ankle, G4 ; knee’ C2-G ; elbow, G2-3 ; spine, 56'8 ; wrist, 51-2 ; pelvis,’ 50-5 ;’ hip, 4/ 5 ; tibia, 58 ; skull and face, 33‘G. The limgs wei’e most commonly affected. It may be supposed, that in many instances the internal disease arises ■from absorption of morbid material from the diseased bone and its subsequent deposition ; and this Hew is favoimed by the fact that the larger proportions of cases where such disease was found were met with in the shoulder and bones of the chest. On the other hand, as Billroth points out, it is not easy to explain in this way why disease of more distant joints, as of the ankle and knee, should be more frequently accompanied with internal deposits than disease of the hip. Hence the morbid dejrosits in internal orgarrs, accomparryiirg caries, are irr nrany cases at least more satisfactorily explained as being the results of the constitutional vice of which the caries is one manifestation. Certain special diseases of irrteriral organs are also mentioned by Bilh’oth as haviirg been noticed in the cases which he ana- lysed. Among these were subacute or chroiric hydrocephalus : and albumenoid degeneration of the liver, sj)leeir, arrd kidneys. Treatment.—The treatment of caries must be conducted in reference to the constitutional cause that occasions it, the removal of which is the first and most esseirtial elemerrt in effecting a erme. If it arise from syphihs, this must be eradicated; if fr’om struma, the general health must be improved. By the removal of such causes, the disease ■will often cease spontaneously, and even undergo cure, more especially in young subjects. Hence, it is well not to be in too great a himry to interfere, by operative means, in the caries of the small bones of children. I have often seen cases, especially of caries of the bones of the hands and feet, in which an operation for the removal of the diseased bone was apparently indispensable, recover spontaneously on change of air, and attention to the general health of the child ; the disintegrated particles of the diseased bone being eliminated piecemeal. In the first stage of caries, which is inflammatory, measimes should be taken, by means of appropriate local and constitutional antiphlogistics, to subdue the activity and limit the extension of the disease ; and when this has fallen into a chronic stage, constitutional alteratives should be employed. Amongst these, cod-liver oil, the iodides, and change of air, more especially to the sea-side when the patient is young, should hold the first place. Counter- irritation is of little avail in these cases in arresting the progress of morbid