2S3 EXCISION OF THE AX RLE-JOINT. injured, AVhen the ligamentous structures attached to the bone have boon separated, the inner malleolus is cut off* with bone-forceps, and as much as necessary'of the lower end of the tibia removed by a gouge or chain-saw. Fig. 409.—Limb after Excision of the Ankle-joint. Should there be any disease of the articular surfaces of the calcaneimi or scajDhoid, this must be gouged away. The part should then be lightly di'essed, and the limb placed on a Liston’s splint. 3. lATien the disease has extended from the astragalus upicards into the malleolar arch, and downivards into the calcaneum, the line of practice will depend on the extent of the implication of the os calcis. If the gTeater pai’t or the whole of this be involved, no resource is left but amputation—resection not leaving a useful foot. If, however, the calcaneum be only partly involved, its upper surface only being affected, a great deal may be done by conservative siu’gery. The treatment in such cases consists, generally, in removing the astragalus from its bed, and gouging away any diseased bone which may exist either on the upper surface of the calcaneum or on the under surface of the malleolar arch. Very large portions of bone may be removed from this situation. I have taken away the whole of the malleolar arch and astragalus, and gouged out the upper surface of the os calcis very freely; and yet the patient has recovered with a strong and movable foot, but very little shortened or deformed. The accompanying cuts (Fig. 470) are taken from a young man on whom I performed the operation just described. The foot is perfectly useful and strong, and the false joint at the ankle movable. There arc cases, howe'S'er, in which we find that the disease has extended so far beyond its primary seat, that amputation rather than resection is required. But, in the majority of in- stanees, removal of the astragalus and gouging away the upper surfiice of the calcaneum will suffice. The result of excision of the tibio-tarsal articulation is generally good. Spillman says that of 73 cases .'30 were successful. Among these, the outer malleolus was removed iu 22, one of which required secondary amputation, and 4 died. This leaves 51 cases of removal of the tibio-tarsal joint; in 12 of these, the disease was of traumatic origin, and the operation was successful