DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. 886 The disease is apt to degenerate into a chronic glccty condition, leaving a thin | mneo-pnrifonn discharge, which will continue to be infectious for a great i length of time. STBICTUBE OP THE UBETHBA. Much discrepancy of opinion for a long time existed as to the structure of the urethra, some Surgeons admitting, others denying its muscularity. Though the presence of muscular fibres in the urethra had been suspected by many in consequence of the phenomena presented by some forms of stricture being solely explicable in this way, it is only in recent times that their existence has been demonstrated ; KoUiker and Hancock having shown that the tube is surrounded through its entire length with an organic muscular coat. Hancock has demonstrated the coiu’se of these fibres. He has pointed out that the fibres of the inner layer of the muscular coat of the bladder pass forwards underneath the mucous membrane of the prostatic portion of the urethra, and those from the outer layer of the muscular coat of the bladder outside the prostate. These two layers join at the membranous portion of the urethra, forming the mus- cular covering of this portion of the canal. At the bulb, these two layers divide again; the inner lying underneath the mucous membrane, separated from it merely by areolar tissue ; the external lying outside the corpus spongio- sum, between it and its fibrous investment. At the anterior extremity of the urethra, they unite again and form its lips. Thus the urethra is siuTOunded through its whole length by muscular fibres, a double layer of which invests it at the membranous portion, and again at the external meatus. The prostate and corpus spongiosum are included between planes of these fibres. The vesicles and ducts of the prostate are surrounded by layers of organic fibre ; those of the ejaculatory ducts coming from the organic layer of the vas deferens. These fibres are totally distinct from the common muscular apparatus of the perinEBum ; and their existence proves the lu’ethra to be, as had often been suspected, a musculo-membranous canal. By Stricture of the Urethra is meant a na^ro^ving of the canal at one or more points. These may proceed from three distinct conditions; viz.—1, Spasmodic Action of the layer of the organic Muscular Fibres situated outside the mucous membrane ; 2, Congestion of the Mucous Membrane of the canal; or, 3, Organic Changes in the Mucous and Submucous Tissues, consisting of thickening, indm’ation, or the deposit of plastic matter within them. Ac- cording as the disease arises from one or other of these causes, it may be termed a Spasmodic, a Gong&stive, or an Organic strictiu’e. These dift'eient forms of the disease having the one condition—narrowing of the iwethra and its consequences, in common, and in practice being often associated together, present so much variety in their symptoms, in the treatment they require, and in the constitutions in which they occur, as to require separate ' description. • ■ i i Spasmodic Stricture.—The existence of this form of constriction has been much cavilled at. Surgeons, disregarding the evidence of their own senses, and being led away by an imperfect anatomical examination of the urethra, have denied the possibihty of spasm of this canal, not being able to demonstrate the