7°3 SIMPLE STRICTURE OF RECTUM. Absence of Anns: Opening of Rectum into other Canals- The anal orifice may be absent, and the gut may open into one of the neic^hbouring mucous canals, as the vagina, the urethra, or the bladdei. In such anomalous cases there is usually, I believe, but little to be done, except to restore the anal orifice if possible ; but, if this be impracticable, to make a Imnbar orifice, and then to take the chance of the otlier preternatural com- munication closing. This it will sometimes do ; and cases have occurred in which although the whole of the meconium with flatus had escaped urethrcnn, yet, on opening the rectum, the abnormal communication seemed m-adually to close, the fmces being directed into their proper channel. In a case in which I was once considted, there Avas imperforate anus and rectum, and the bowel protruded as a red fleshy tube, discharging meconium, and about four inches in length, from the anterior abdominal Avail, just below the umbiheus, and immediately abov'e an extroverted bladder. In such a com- plicated malformation. Surgery could evidently do nothing. STBICTURE—SIMPLE SYPHILITIC AND MALIGNANT. Stricture may occur in any part of the large intestine, but with very vary- ing. degrees of fr’eqiiency in different portions of that gut. Excessively rarely met AA-ith in the ascending or transverse, of unfrequent occurrence in the descending colon, it becomes more common in the sigmoid flexure, and very frequently occurs at about the junction of this portion of the colon with the rectum. In the rectum itself it is most commonly found either at the upper part, from four to six inches above the anus, or else a little above that aperture. It is of three kinds : 1. the simple, dependent on simple thickening of the intestinal coats ; 2. the sjjj>Mlitic; and 3, the malignciJit, consisting of cancerous degeneration of the walls of the gut, or of malignant masses obstructing the bowel. 1. Simple or Fibrous Stricture, though occasionally occurring in the trans- verse or descending colon, is most frequently met Avith in the sigmoid flexmu or at its junction Avith the rectum, or at the upper part of this gut, from four to six inches from the anus. This form of stricture of the large intestine commonly occurs in elderly people, and with special frequency in women. It is usually the result of long-continued diarrhoea or of chronic dysentery. Symptoms.—The symptoms of simple strictiue of the rectum consist at first of some difficulty in defecation, the patient being obliged to strain at stool. The fasces Avill also appear to be flattened, narrowed, or furrowed, and in many cases, more especially as the stricture advances, are passed in the form of small scybala, A\ith occasionally a kind of spurious diarrhoea, consisting of the passage of the more fluid intestinal contents, Avhilst the solid matters are left behind. At the same time there is veiy commonly pain in defecation, and the occa- sional passage of some mucus or blood ; and dyspeptic symptoms, Avith flatu- lent distension of the abdomen, are apt to come on. If the stricture be Avithin four or five inehes of the anus, it may be reached Avith the finger, and its precise situation and diameter ascertained. If above this point, it must be examined by the introduction of a well-greased bougie, attention being paid to the curve Avhich the rectum makes from side to side, as Avell as fr'om before backwards. In introducing a bougie in order to ascertain the presence of