EXCISION OF THE ELBOW-JOINT. 259 the joint has been laid bai-e in this way, the knife should be carried roimd the tip of the olecranon, and this process removed by cutting-pliers. By forcibly bending the joint, pushing the forearm upwards, and lightly touching the ligaments with the point of the knife, the interior of the articulation will be fully exposed. By means of a small narrow saw, the articular end of the humerus is separated from the rest of the bone ; the upper end of the ulna and the head of the radius may either be removed in this way, or by means of cutting-pliers. There is never any necessity to place a spatula before the bones, as the parts of importance anterior to the joint could not easily be wounded, being completely protected by the brachialis anticus. The ulnar nerve vill occasionally, however, be in some danger, and it must be guarded or dravTi on one side by a bent copper spatula. Should any sinuses exist, espe- cially towards the inner side of the arm, they had better be left untouched. I have more than once known the ulnar nerve cut across by the Sm’geon in laying open what appeared to be very superficial sinuses in this situation. In this operation it is of great consequence, so far as the after-utihty of the arm is concerned, not to remove more of the bones lengthwise than is absolutely necessary ; the shaft of the humerus, for instance, should never be encroached upon, but it will be quite sufficient to limit the excision to the articular sur- face ; should any carious portions of bone extend beyond this, I think it is better to scoop them out with the gouge than to remove them in any other way. The excision of the ulna and radius should not be carried so low as to divide the insertions of the brachialis anticus and biceps. After opening the articulation, a practical question of considerable importance often arises ; viz., to what extent the resection of the articular ends should be carried. If they be aU diseased, there can of course be no doubt as to the propriety of removing the ends of the three bones. So, also, if the humerus and ulna be diseased, the head of the radius should be cut off on a level vfith the section of the ulna. But the important point is, whether, in the event of only one bone being- implicated, by disease or injury, the Surgeon should limit himself to the excision of this alone, or should remove the other two. Formerly, in accord- ance with the principle of conservative surgery, that diseased or injm’ed parts alone should be sacrificed, I have advocated leaving the healthy articular ends, and only removing that which was diseased ; but increasing experience has convinced me that the practice is erroneous, and that, if the joint be only partially excised, ankylosis is more apt to ensue than when the whole of the three articular ends are extiiqDated. I would therefore advise that, in cases of caries involving the elbow-joint, the whole of the articulation be removed, as well as in those cases in which operation is required in consequence of com- minuted and compound fracture of only one of the bones ; as, for instance, when the lower epiphysis of the humerus, or the upper end of the uhia only, is the seat of such injury. In excision of the elbow for faulty osseous ankylosis, a piece of the united bones about three-quarters of an inch to an inch in length should be sawn out; transverse, not wedge-shaped, cuts should be made, and the piece of bone removed must correspond to and include equal portions of humerus and of ulna. In some instances no vessels require ligature, though there may be free general oozing j but most commonly one or two must bo tied. In several cases,