789 SOUIICES OF DANGER AFTER LITHOTOMY. rreon miscalcalato the depth of the perina3um, and, keeping the incisions too Tow, thrust the knife too deeply. It is, I believe, an inevitably fatal accident, as in it the base of the bladder and the recto-vesical fascia are opened, and the patient is thus exposed to the occiuTence of diffuse inflammation of, and infiltration into, the pelvic fosciin. I was present many years ago at the ]wst mortem examination of a fatal case of lithotomy, in which perhaps the most skilful operator of that day had opened the bladder beyond the prostate, leavin" the urethra untouched ; the patient died from the cause just stated. Wound of the Rectum occiu'S more frequently than is generally supposed. It may happen either in consequence of the staff being too much depressed, the edge of the knife turned too directly downwards, or to the rectum being- distended and overlapping the sides of the prostate. I have also known the lower part of the rectum perforated by the Surgeon’s finger, whilst depressing the gut so as to keep it out of the way of the knife. The Treatment of this aecident will vary according to the size and situation of the aperture. If it be of but moderate extent and low down, just above the anus, it wiU probably close as the wound granulates and the lu'ine resumes its passage through the urethi-a. If the incision be more extensive and higher up, the patient will incm- the risk of the miserable infirmity of recto-vesical fistula being induced. In such circumstances, the proper treatment is to divide the sphincter ani from the opening downwards, and thus to lay the gut and wound into one cavity which -nfill j)robably fiU by gTanulation, and thus close the m-inary passages. Wound of the Posterior Part of the Bladder is very rare ; yet it has happened in consequence of the knife being thrust too deej)ly along the groove of the staff, more particularly in operations on children, and would be specially apt to happen in such cases if the bladder did not contain suffi- cient urine at the time. This is an additional reason for injecting the bladder before operating. In children, the lateral operation of lithotomy presents certain special diffi- culties which have already been adverted to. These are : 1, the Surgeon missing the bladder and opening up the recto-vesical space (p. 780); 2, not opening the urethi-a and neck of the bladder sufficiently with the knife, but pushing these parts before the finger, and so tearing across the m-ethra, and thus necessarily being unable to complete the operation (p. 782) ; and 3, i-unning the knife too far along* the groove of the staff into the bladder, and thus wounding the posterior part of that organ. Sources of Danger and Causes of Death after Lithotomy. Litho- tomy, even in healthy subjects, is always a dangerous operation ; and, thouo-h the operator, more is, I believe, due to the constitution and age of the patient and especially to the state of his kidneys. Sir B. Brodie most justly says’ “ Success mhthotomy most undoubtedly depends in a great degi-ee on the mOTinnl olr-ill i-v-P C< T ■-i ^ . _ . _ ^ ® the rate of mortality doubtless depends greatly upon the dexterity and skill*of frirt .!^TT _T_ i it ... . _ ' •' manual skill of the Siu-geon, and on the mode in which the operation is per- formed ; but It depends still more on the condition of the patient with respect