DISEASES OF THE SPINE. 298 In tlie first place, in all these cases there is an absence of that dorsal pain and tenderness, with more or less excnrration, which, though not invariably present, is commonly met with in psoas abscess. Then, again, if the collection be perinephriUc, there will have been previous, or there are co-existing symptoms of renal disease. If it occur in the areolar tissue around the ccmm, the pus will be peculiarly offensive, will present itself in a less distinct manner, and will probably be associated with symptoms of intestinal irritation. I have seen the pus in a pcricmcal abscess pass under Poupart’s ligament, and present as a large sloughy abscess at the upper and outer part of the thigh. In those rare cases in which an empyema has found its way between the layers of the abdo- minal muscles, and presented in the gi’oin, the stethoscopic signs will point out the nature of the affection. In abscess connected ivith disease of the hip-joint, there "will be special e\idences of the source of the pus. The only real difficulty consists in diagnosing large psoas abscess presenting in the thigh or in other parts of the lower extremity, and dependent on disease of the vertebral column, fi'om iliac abscess taking its origin in the loose areolar tissue of the ihac fossa, whether it be coimected or not with disease of the coiresponding bone ; and in these cases the difficulty is often not a little increased in consequence of the ihac abscess finding its way into the sheath of the psoas muscle. In iliac abscess, the disease usually commences at or after the middle period of fife, always in adults ; and, as Stanley has observed, usually presents itself externally immediately abo'\’e Poupart’s ligament, being conducted forwards to this situation by the iliac fascia. Psoas abscess, on the contrary, most com- monly occurs in the earlier periods of life ; and extends down into the thigh along the coiu’se of the psoas muscle, so that it always presents below Poupart’s ligament. It is also commonly associated with some indication of irritation of the muscle in the sheath of which it is situated ; thus, there is an inabiUty to stand upright, to extend the leg, and pain is complained of in walking. Psoas abscess also, in many cases, occurs suddenly, the patient finding, on washing himself in the morning, that he has a large soft tumour in the upper part ot the groin ; whereas iliac abscess comes on more gradually, and presents in a more diffused and less circumscribed manner. Iliac and psoas abscesses also require to be diagnosed fi’om certain forms of aneurism of the abdominal aorta or iliac arteries; which, having become diffused by the rupture of their sac, have formed large non-pulsating extra's'asations in the sheath of the psoas in the iliac fossa. In such cases the previous history, the absence of distinct fluctuation, and possibly stethoscopic examination, together with the sudden appearance of the tumoin, will thi’ow light on the true nature of the case. In other cases, again, when the abscess, after deeply burrowing, has per- forated the fascia lata, its feel closely resembles that of certain fatty tumours. Here the possibility of diminishing the size of the swelling on pressure, and impulse on coughing, enable the Surgeon to effect the diagnosis. From femoral hernia the soft and fluctuating character of the swelling, its gradual retmn when pressure is taken off, its situation external to^ or below the femoral vessels, and all absence of gurgling, constitute the chief distin- guishing charactera. _ . Larye serous collections and hydatid tumours arc occasional!} met wit in