TREATMENT OF ARTHRITIS. 225 rcpoatetl; in this way the deep gnawing pain will usually be^ readily removed, and suppuration of the joint may be averted. For counteiwrritants to be of any use, they must be employed before suppiu’ation has set in ; I believe that it is only torturing the patient unnecessarily to have recourse to these agents when once pus has formed in the articulation. In order that fuU benefit should be dcri^-ed from this plan of treatment, it must be persevered in steadily for a considerable length of time, and should be conjoined with a moderately antiphlogistic and alterative treatment. With this view, the perchloride of mercuryrin doses of fi-om one-sixteenth to one-twelfth of a grain, may be advantageously given with the compound decoction of sarsaparilla, or, if there be much debility, A\fith the compound tincture of bark ; good food and sthnu- lants being conjoined with it, in proportion to the advance of the debility. In proportion as the inflammatory action about the joint subsides, a tonic plan of treatment on ordinary medical principles should be substituted for that which had previously been employed. With respect to the local treatment of the inflamed joint in the inora advanced forms of the disease, it may be stated generally that, so long as it is tender on pressure, applied perpendicularly or laterally, so long as there is any loosening of the ligaments, or pain induced by movement, it must be kept absolutely at rest in sphuts, or what is better, by a starched bandage lyell wadded. During this period great care must be taken to keep the joint in a position most iisefid to the patient in after-life in the event of ankylosis taking place. But every means consistent with the safety of the joint should be taken to prevent its becoming stiff. With this view, as the inflammation lessens, and when pain has subsided, friction, douches, and passive motion shoifld be employed ; and if it be in the lower limb, slight extension by means of a weight attached to the foot may be kept up, so as to separate the articular surfaces from one another, and thus to lessen the chance of ankylosis by plastic bands. Should, unfortunately, these means fail, and suppmation take place in the joint, active steps must at once be taken to let out the pus freely and completely. If the skin covering it be reddened at any one part, the abscess should bo freely opened by one or two lateral incisions, extending fairly into the joint, so as to afford a free exit for the pus. In some cases, even when abscess has formed, the joint being perfectly loose and grating, by perseverance in proper treatment, both local and constitutional, a good and useful limb may be left; and, although there may be mobility and gxating, pronded there be no sign of abscess, the Siu’geon should never despair of obtaining a satisfactory result. The practice of making free incisions into a suppurating joint, as advocated by Gay, is a gi-oat improvement on the former method of merely punctiu’- ing it. If a small aperture only bo made, air is admixed with the pus, which becomes offensive and irritating, and, being unable to escape freely, sinks to the bottom of the articulation with debris of the disintegrated cartilages, &c., gi\ing rise not only to much local mischief, but to proportionate constitutional disturbance. By freely laying the joint open, all this is prevented; exit is given to the pus through one or two incisions that extend the whole length of the articulation; no constitutional disturbance can occur fi’om pent-up and putrid matter, and the joint has a better chance of healthily granulatino- VOL. II. 1