432 OPHTHALMIC SURGERY. ■will not probably be follo'wed by a Icucoma ; the cornea will become and remain tolerably or quite clear when this superficial opacity is removed from its surface. A little olive oil is di’opped upon the cornea, and the eye bandaged with belladonna lotion or fomentation, until the wound has healed and the epithelium is restored. Tapping the Cornea.—This little operation often does much good, in cases generally only medically treated, locally and generally. AVhen there is pus between the layers of the cornea (onyx) or in the anterior chamber (Jiypopyon), or in painful ulcer of the cornea without suppuration, it often acts like a chai’m ; some of the aqueous hmnoirr and pus is evacuated, the pain dis- appears, and the chronic ulceration of the cornea begins to heal kindly. The operation should be adopted in a greater number of cases ; but it must be done properly without wounding the lens or iris, or doing anything but just to make a small clean punctm-e obliquely into the aqueous chamber, and so letting the fluid contents leak away quietly, and not very rapidly. In onyx and hypopyon, the tapping, to be efficacious, may require to be repeated at short intervals ; and if it fail, as it will probably, if it do not from the first seem to have been beneficial, iridectomy must be done, and 'wiU probably succeed. Iridectomy is often performed at once in these diseases; but, in most of the less serious cases, with no increase of tension of the eye, the minor operation of tapping is all-sufficient. Operation.—A spring (stop) speculum to keep open the fids, and a fine- ended and two-toothed forceps to steady the eye and hold it down, may be and are generally employed (Fig.- 564, a and V). But, uifiess pressure on the globe would endanger the good result, they are unnecessary, and are liable to alarm the patient. In performing the operation, the upper hd should be raised, and the end of the forefinger of the left hand laid horizontally and rather flat upon the edge of the lid and on the globe above the cornea, taking* care here, as in other eye-operations, not to touch the eye with the finger-nail. The lowdfr lid is similarly depressed and held down Avith the middle finger of the same hand, on the eyeball below the cornea. The two fingers are separated directed obliquely do^vnwards and across the anterior chamber, as if about to make a counter-puncture at one-third of the circumfeicnce. i c eye tends to roll upwards, the needle, when directed downwards, cannot woimd Fig. 506.—Tapring the Cornea. as widely as necessary, and such pressure is exerted upon the globe backwards as 'will allow no oppor- tunity of closing the lids and of the orbiculai’is regaining its power of action (Fig. 566). The front of the globe is now very promi- nent, and the eye is at least as much under control as if it were held with forceps. With an ordi- nary broad needle, flat forwards, held in the right hand, the punc- ture is made in the cornea near the margin, the point being soon