Ul^INARY CALCULUS. S30 Relapse from the first cause is probably not very eommon. When it occurs •^e recim-ent calculus is of course of the same composition as the primaiy one’ The occasional occuiTence of relapse shows the necessity of continuing consti* tutional treatment adapted to the particular diathesis, after the removal of the •calculus from the bladder. Recurrence of calculus from the descent of a new stone from the kidney every now and then occurs, and is especially liable to be met with in those cases in which the primary calculi are multiple and small. In these cases, the relanse may take place very shortly after the first operation, and will be preceded by the usual symptoms of the descent of the renal stone. Relapse fr-om the retention of a fragment which serves as the nucleus of another stone, will undoubtedly occasionally occur, although its occun-encc is fairly attributable to want of due care on the part of the Siu-geon. It is apt to happen more frequently after lithotrity than after lithotomy, and it is pro- bably to this cause chiefly that we must refer the greater liability to relapse •after the crushing than the cutting operation. But it may happen after lithotomy, that a fr-oigment is left behind when the stone has been broken •diu-ing extraction, and the bladder not thoroughly washed out. But even in this case, the bit of stone will usually be carried out of the wound by the flow of mine through it. ReciuTence from the formation of a phosphatic calculus in the bladder, or perhaps outside it in the track of a partially healed woimd, ydll occasionally ■occui* after either operation, as the result of a low form of cystitis favouring decomposition of the urine and phosphatic deposits. I have known such deposits to form both in the bladder, and in the perimeum, where the wound had degenerated into a sinus. The registers of the Norwich Hospital show 1 relapse in 58 cases; and those of LuneviUe, 1 in 116 cases of lithotomy (Coulson). After lithotrity, relapse is more common ; although it is probably less frequent now than formerly, and will become less frequent as the details of the ■operation come to be better understood, and are more carefully practised. In the practice of Civiale it has occurred about once in every tenth case. But this estimate, high as it is, falls below what happens in surgical practice generally. Civiale states that, of 36 private patients on whom he operated in 1860, 10 had previously been operated on, the stone having reappeared. This must eAudently arise from some fragment of calculus having escaped detection and being left behind, thus constituting a nucleus for a fresh formation. The fr’equency of the occurrence of secondary calculi after lithotrity, even in such practised hands as Civiale’s, if it do not constitute an objection to that opera- tion, shows the necessity of the Surgeon most carefully examining the bladder before he pronounces the patient cured ; and even then watching him for some length of time, in order to meet the recuiTent calculus at its first formation, and to adopt means for its early removal. Lithotrity cannot therefore be said to be so complete a cure in all cases as lithotomy. Not only is reciuTcnce of calculus more common after the former than after the latter operation, but it not uncommonly happens that patients who have been lithotrised successfully, and in whom no recurrent calculus has formed, continue to suffer for a great length of time afterwards fr’om very distressing irritability of the bladder.