operation. In four instances of this kind on which I have operated, it was rERINEAL INCISION. 7°! colon may be opened in the left iliac legion , left lumbar region; and, 3. An opening may 2. It may be reached in the be made into it through the pcnnffium^ Incision—The only advantaaos that the iliac incision or Littrd’s operation presents, are, that it is an operation easy of performance ; and that, whether the Surgeon reach the colon or not, he is certain to hit upon some part of the intestinal tube which may be drawn forwards and opened. The ohjections to this operation are, the inconvenient situation of the artificial anus ; the gi-eat danger that must necessarily result from wounding the peri- toneum ; the chance of not finding the sigmoid fiexm-e ; and, as has often happened, of being obliged to open that portion of the small intestine which firet presents itself. The mariah'tij after this operation is very great. Amussat states that, of twenty-one children thus operated on, only four ultimately recovered. Eochard, of Brest, however, writing in 1859, speaks of twelve cases as having occurred in the practice of himself and other Surgeons in that town, in seven of which the operation was followed by recovery. 2. Lumbar Incision.—The lumbar incision, or Amussat’s operation, has now been several times successfully practised on imperforate children. The advantages of this operation consist not only in the artificial anus being ■situated at a more convenient spot than in Littrd’s operation, but more especially in the possibihty of opening the colon in this situation without wounding the peritoneum. The objections to this operation, as applied to imperforate children, lie in the frequent co-existence of malformation or malposition of the colon with absence of the rectum, and in the impossibility in many cases of determining, before proceeding to operate, whether the anus is only occluded by a membranous septum, or whether the rectum is absent as well. If it could be ascertained beforehand that, though the rectum be absent, the descending colon occupies its normal position in the left lumbar region, I think it probable that the lumbar incision would be attended with less danger than any other operation that could be practised ; but, in the absence of this knowledge, it would scarcely appear to be justifiable to have recourse to it, as the colon might not be found, and the anus might merely be covered by a dense membranous septum. 3. Perineal Incision.—The perineal incision has the advantage of being in the natural situation of the anus, and of being easily practised and perfectly successful in all those cases in which the anus only is imperforate, the rectum being present. It is in those cases only in which there is congenital absence of the rectum that this operation is difficult of performance, and uncertain in its residts. The dissection requires to be carried with caution to a consider- able depth along the mesial line ; the Surgeon taking the cinve of the sacrum and coccyx for his guide, and, bearing in mind the relations of the bladder and large vessels in the neighbourhood, carefully proceeding in search of the gut, which may be found at a considerable depth from the surface. The danger of wounding the bladder must also be considered, and may be materially lessened by emptying this viscus by pressing over the pubes before commencing the