43 MET URN' OF PULS AT I OX. 1. Secondary Haemorrhage from the seat oi ligature presents nothing peculiar, and has aheady been discussed in 'sol. I., p. 30b. * • i 2. The Continuance or Return of Pulsation in an Ancurismal Sac after the ligation of the artery leading to it, is an interesting phenome- non, and one that deser\-es much attention. When the Hunterian operation is snccessfidly performed, though the pulsation in the sac be entirely aiTested, a certain cpiantity of blood continues to be conveyed into and through it by the anastomosing channels, and it is from this that the laminated fibrine is de- posited by which the consolidation of the tumour is ultimately effected. This stream of blood furnished by rcgiugitatioii, or by transmission through the smaller collateral channels, is continuous, and not pulsatory; occasionally, howc\-cr, it is transmitted in sufficient quantity by some more than usually duect and open anastomosing branch, and thus gives rise to a continuance or to a retiun of the pidsation. It is interesting to observe that, in some of the cases in which this has happened, there has been a return of the bruit, but in the majority no sound appears to have been emitted. The period of the return of the pidsation in the sac after the ligature of the artery varies greatly. In by far the majority of cases, at least two-thirds of those in which it has happened, a certain degree of thriU or of indistinct pulsa- tion has been found in the sac shortly after the application of the ligatiue ; at all events, within the first twenty-foiu hours. This may be looked upon as being rather a fai'ourable sign than otherwise, as it is indicative of the free state of the collateral circulation, and generally soon disappears spontaneously, the sac undergoing consolidation. Next in order of frequency are those cases in which the pulsation retiuns in about a month or six weeks after the ligatiue of the artery, the collateral cuculation having been fuUy established, and, after continiung for some length of time, gradually ceases. It more rarely happens that the pulsation returns between these two periods ; that is to say, about ten days or a fortnight after the application of the ligatiue ; though in some instances the shght vibratory thrill, scarcely amoimting to a pulsation, which perhaps is perceptible a few hoius after an artery has been tied, gradually strengthens at the end of a week or ten days into as distinct and forcible a beat as had been noticed before the operation. In some rare instances the pul- sation has re-appeared after the lapse of some months, the aneiuismal tumoiu having in the meanwhile midergone absorption ; then indeed it may with justice be looked upon as constituting a secondary aneurism, and as indicating a reciUTence of the complaint. I he cause of the continuance or of the return of the pulsation in an aneiuismal sac, must be looked for in too great a freedom of the collateral circulation. Indeed, I consider it an essential requisite for the manifestation of this phenomenon, that there should be so free and direct a commuuication between the artery on the proximal side of the ligatiue, and that portion of the vessel situated between the ligature and the sac, or the sac itself^ as to enable the impulse of the heart to be transmitted in a pulsatory manner into the tiunoiu. Ho regurgitant blood coming upwards irom that portion of the aitcry which is distal to the sac, however free it may be, can communicate an impulse, as it neicr flows per saltum except in the special case of a continuous circle ol large anastomoses, such as are met ivith betivccn the arteries ivithin