533 llYFERTIiOPlIY OF THE TONSILS. the residents in hospitals. It may be mistaken for diphtheria, scarlet fever, or erysipelas of the fauces. From diphtheria it is distinguished by the absence of exudation. The mucous secretion from the tonsil may somewhat resemble diph- theritic exudation, but it is readily dis- tinguished by its want of adherence, as it is easily removed with a camel’s-hair pencil. From scarlet fever, tonsillitis is distin- guished by the absence of the red tongue, and by the redness of the throat being pui-ple in tint, and limited to the tonsils and their immediate neighbourhood, and later on by the absence of rash. From erysipelas of the fauces it is more difficult to distinguish, but it will usually be found that the redness is darker in tint and less diffused than in erysipelas, and there is less oedematous swelling, and no tendency to the snper- i^iuuilsci&ioK.' vention of dyspnoea from oedema glottidis. There is also less glandular enlargement Kg. ess.-Forceps-Scissors. at the angle of the jaw. The Treatment should always be commenced by a good purge ; a calomel and colocynth pill will be found most efficacious if it can be taken. This is followed by the appheation of leeches under the jaw, of fomentations, the inhalation of the steam of hot water, and low diet, which need scarcely be enforced, on account of the difficulty and pain in swallowing. If the mouth can be opened, much relief may be given by scarifying the tonsils with a probe-pointed bistoury ; and, if abscess form, it should be opened early with a gum-lancet. The inhalation of the steam from a pint of boiling water, to which has been added a teaspoonfrd of creasote or carbolic acid, will often give much comfort by allaying the foetor of the breath. Hypertrophy oe the Toi^sils.—The tonsils may undergo various struc- tural changes. They may become hardened and enlarged as a consequence of repeated attacks of inflammation, or chronically and indolently hypertrophied by an expansion or outgrowth of their foUicular structure independently of any inflammatory attack ; or this chronic hypertrophied state may be greatly increased by plastic inflammatory deposit. A\ hen the tonsils are chronically enlarged, one usually suffers to a somewhat greater extent than the other. The condition is at once obvious on opening the mouth and depressing the tongue so as to expose the fauces fairly, and cannot be mistaken for any other morbid state. There are two distinct forms of chronic enlargement of the tonsils. Tn