NEURALGIA OF THE BREAST. 575 more than two breasts ; most frequently there is but one supcmuraerary gland, sometimes two ; and occasionally, though very rarely, three have been met wth, constituting quintuple mammm. Supernumerary Nipples have likewdse been found to occur ; two to each breast have been met with, each communicating with the gland, and passing milk. Most frequently the supemnniorary breast is situated somewhere in the neighbourhood of the normal gland, as on the anterior part of the thorax ; and where four are developed, they have been found placed in two parallel rows, one above the other. Occasionally they have been met with in very strange situations ; thus they have been seen on the outer part of the thigh, in the gi*oin, and on the back ; and children are even said to have been suckled by these abnormal breasts. NEUBALGIA. Neuralgia of the Breast occasionally occurs to so severe a degree as to constitute a positive disease, either in girls or at a more advanced period of life, when it not unfr’equently complicates other moi’C serious affections of this organ. It is especially apt to occur in young, delicate, unmarnded females of the hysterical temperament, though it is often met with in strong ruddy-looking women, who are perhaps subject to nem’algic pains in the back, and in other situations. Most commonly the catamenia wdll be found to be in’egular; and uterine congestion, inflammation, or ulceration, will be dis- covered on examination ; indeed, I have scarcely ever failed to detect one or other of these conditions in the uterus in cases of neuralgic breast. Symptoms.—In neiualgia of the breast, the mammary gland may be of its normal size and consistence ; but in some instances the Avhole of it is more or less indurated and hypertrophied. There are always much general pain and aching, deeply in its substance, wdth cutaneous tenderness of its surface, and lancinating or radiating sensations that extend into the axilla and down the arm. These painful sensations are commonly increased before the menstrual period, and not unfr’equently alternate in the two breasts. Diaynosis.—The diagnosis of this affection from more serious mammary disease may usually be effected by attending to the superficial and radiating character of the pain, to the temperament of the woman in whom it occurs, to its shifting seat, and to the absence of any positive signs of disease in the breast. Treatment.—The treatment consists especially in attention to the condition of the uterine organs ; unless this be done in a proper way, the disease wiU prove to be excessively rebellious and troublesome to manage. By using the speculum, however, when necessary, and removing by proper remedies any uterine irritation that may be found, this affection will be subdued wdth far greater readiness than by any local jdan of treatment. At the same time, •antihysterical constitutional remedies may be employed ; the preparations of iron administered, when necessary ; and the local pain relieved by the aiqjlica- tion of belladonna and opiate plasters, or by hypodermic injections of morphia.