376 DEFORMITIES. muscles antagonistic to those that are contracted are in a state of atrophy and defective innervation—in this case the extensors on the anterior part of the leg and the peroneals. In such instances as these, electricity hecoines an important adjunct to the more directly surgical and mechanical treatment. In infants with talipes, Sayre begins treatment at once, as soon as possible after birth, by drawing the foot into position. When this is done, it becomes quite white and bloodless. The traction must then be discontinued, ljut may be resumed again in a very short time, and so repeated. After a time the limb may be fixed in proper position by the application and traction of plaisters; and thus if the tahpes be not cm’ed, it may very early in life be much ameliorated and rendered more fit for treatment. Pathological Changes.—On dissecting a foot affected by talipes, it will be seen that but little alteration has taken place in the condition of the bones. In some preparations of this kind which are in the University College Museum, these are nearly in a normal condition (Figs, 535, 538). Indeed, in talipes equinus and calcaneus, they are scarcely if at all altered ; but in talipes varus, if of old standing, the astragalus wiU generally be found atrophied, more particularly about its head, which may be somewhat twisted, and the scaphoid and cuboid bones wiU be seen to have undergone similar changes. The hga- ments are necessarily somewhat altered in shape, being lengthened on the convexity, and shortened on the concavity of the foot; the direction of the tendons is altered, and the muscles, not only of the foot, but of the leg and thigh, are generally atrophied from disuse, so that the limb in old cases is withered and shortened ; indeed, so great an incumbrance may it occasionally become under these circumstances, that amputation of the leg may be insisted on by the patient, and “with propriety be performed by the Surgeon. Talipes Equinus is cha- racterised by elevation of the heel, and tension of the tendo Achillis, In slight cases the heel may merely be raised a few lines above the ground, and it will be found on exa- mination that it cannot be bent forwards to an acute or even to a right angle with the leg. In severe cases the foot may be extended in nearly a straight line ■with the leg, and the patient v'alks on his toes, which are placed at a right angle to the foot (Figs. 534, 535). In this deformity there is no lateral displacement. According to Tamplin, it is never congenital. It most commonly arises from disturbance of the nel^ous system during teething. In adults, as Avell as in children, it may come on from some disease, such as an abscess in the calf of the leg, by hich the Fig. !)M.—Tiilipeis Equinus. Fig. 535.—Boiic.s m Talipe.s Equinus.