SPECIAL ANEURISMS. 96 l^ho Surgeon, therefore, must endeavonr to treat the disease by ligature, iu'o plans of treatment are open to him—either to deligate the innominate ai'tery, or to tic the carotid on the distal side of the tumour. The fii-st alternative may fairly bo set aside ; for not only are the cases in -which it is possible to find room between the sternum and the sac extremely rare, but, even were sucli an instance to present itself, few Surgeons would, I think, be justified in undertaking an operation which has only once succeeded, even (p. 110) in the most skilful hands ; we are consequently reduced to the alternative of ligaturing the artery on the distal side of the sac. But although this operation is the only alternative that presents itself, yet its application in practice is attended by serious difficulties and pei-plexities ; for the Surgeon must be able to satisfy himself that it is actually an aneurism of the root of the carotid -with which he has to do, and that it is not the trunk of the innominate or the arch of the aorta that is affected. The difficulty in doing this is far greater than would at first appear ; for, on examining the details of eight cases in wdiich the distal operation has been performed for supposed carotid aneurism, three must be excluded; as, after death, the tumour was found to arise from the aortic arch. In the annexed table will be found the result of seven cases, in which the carotid artery has been tied for aneurism of its root on the distal side of the sac. I have excluded an eighth case, as there is reason to believe that in it the artery was not ligatured, but a portion of the sheath accidentally tied instead—an accident, by the way, which S6dillot has witnessed, which Norris states also to have occurred at the New York Hospital, and which I have kno-wn happen to a most excellent Siu-geon in the case of ligature of the femoral artery. AKEUEISMS OF ROOT OF CAROTID TREATED BY LIGATURE OX DISTAL SIDE. OPERATOR. SEX. AGE. RESULT. CAUSE OF DEATH. REMARKS. 1. Waedkop. 1826. f. G3 Recovered. Tumour diminished until fifth day; then inflamed, suppu- rated, and burst. The patient recovered, and was aUve three years after operation. 2. LamBeet. 1827. f. 49 Suceessful so far as aneurism -was concerned. Hasmorrhage fi’om upper portion of artery. Tumour diminished after opera- tion, and became consolidated; sac filled with firm coagulum, and lower par-t of aiieiy closed ; ulceration into artery, just above part ligatured; vessel dilated -w'here ligatured. 3. Bush. 1827. f. 36 Recovered. Suffocation was imminent before operation; tumom’ became ra- pidly diminished after ligatm-e. Alive three weeks afterwai'ds. 4. Mont- QOMEEY. m. 30 Died. Sac suppu- rated. Anem'ism of arch also. Left carotid tied. 1826. 5. Colton de No YOU. 1840. f. 63 Recovered. Tiunoiu- and pulsation dimin- ished. Alive and well tlu-ee years aftenvar'ds. 6. Demme. m. 38 Died. Suppuration of sac : haemorrhage. Anemism of arch: double aneu- rism of cai'otid. 7 T,ane. m. 36 Died. Inflammation Tumour filled with layers _ of 1852. 68th day. of lungs. coagulum. Ulcerated opening communicating with apex of left lung. Left carotid tied.