952 DISUASJilS OF THE TESTIS AND CORD. whicli the injection fails, if practised in tlie manner that will immediately be described. There can be no doubt that, as a hrst remedy, iodine injection is preferable to the seton, in the treatment of hydrocele ; but when the injection has failed, and this from no want of care on the part of the Surgeon, or of attention to the after-treatment of the case, but appaa-ently Irom insulficicnt inflammatory action having been set up in the tunica vaginalis to restore the lost balance between secretion and absorption in this membrane, the seton will, I think, be found to bo the most certain means of accomplishing our object. It is true that several objections may be urged to the use of the seton ; it requires much watching and care, and is occasionally apt to excite a dangerous amount of inflammation in the areolar tissue of the scrotum ; and these objections are, to my mind, sufflciently valid to prevent our employing it as the ordinary treatment for the radical cure of hydrocele. But it must be remembered, that the particular cases to which I am now alluding are those in which ordinary means have proved insuflicient to excite proper action, and in which, consequently, it would appear as if a greater amount of irritation could safely be borne. Indeed, nothing is more remarkable than the difference in the intensity of the inflammation that is set up in different individuals by the means that are commonly employed in the treatment of hydrocele. In some cases the most irritating injections may be thrown into the tunica vaginalis, or a seton may be drawn through the scrotum and left there for days, not only without giving rise to any injurious inflammation, but without setting up sufficient action to bring about a cure of the disease ; whilst in other instances simple tapping may effect a radical cure, or may gi^■e rise to such an amoimt of irritation as to terminate in a fatal sloughing of the scrotum. The seton that I employ in these cases is composed of one or two threads of dentist’s silk. It may be introduced by means of a nmvus needle, the fluid of the hydrocele being allowed to di’ain away through the punctiu’es thus made ; or, far better, by tapping the hydrocele, and then passing a needle about six inches long, armed ^nth the seton, iqD the camiula, drawing it thi’ough the upper part of the scrotum, and then removing the camiula, cutting off the needle, and knotting the thread loosely (Fig. 77, p. 153, Yol. I.). The thread should not be removed until the scrotum swells and becomes red, with some tenderness of the testis and effusion into the tunica vaginalis. YTien these effects have been produced, it may be cut and withdrawn, and the case treated in the same way as when the radical cure has been attempted by iodine injection; viz., by rest and antiphlogistic treatment. The length of time during which the seton must be left in before sufficient, or even any in- flammatory action is produced, varies very considerably. In most instances, the proper amount of inflammation is excited in from twenty-foim to thirty hoiu’S ; but in other cases the seton may be left in for ten or twelve days, giving rise to but little inflammation, although a radical cure may result. The Antiseptic Method has been successfully applied to the treatment of hydrocele by Yolkmann, and Reyhcr of Dorpat. The sac is incised along its anterior aspect, the fluid evacuated, and the parts dressed antiseptica j. This treatment is said to be more certain and less painful than that by in- jection. It would be especially useful in old cases with thickened walls m which the injection had failed.