EFFECTS OF FORMER ATTACKS OF KIDNEY-DISEASE. 745 Pyelitis is absent, but, as before stated, it may 1)C wanting also in cases of interstitial inflammation. The microscope shows an absence of the general changes noticed abo^'e, and if an early stage of a jiymmic abscess can be <letectcd, htemorrhage will be found in the midst of comparatively healthy kidney-tissue, Avhilst the earliest stage of suppurative nephritis is characterised l^y acute cell-infiltration. a. Effects of Former A ftacics from u'hich the Patient has Recovered.—It is possible that the kidney may undergo extensive intertubular change, and yet, if the cause be removed, the inflammatory growth may be completely absorbed, and the organ regain its normal condition. More commonly, however, the new growth undergoes a development into fibrous tissue, a change correspond- ing exactly to that which occurs in the cicatrisation of a gi’anulating sore, and accompanied by a similar process of contraction. Thus we get an increase in the intertubular connective tissue, and at the same time a contraction and induration of the whole organ, so much so that it is sometimes reduced to less than a quarter of its normal bulk. If the pyi’amidal portion hare undergone absorption, this is never repaired, but, as its function seems merely that of a duct, its loss is of no great moment. In a kidney of this kind we find the fat adherent to the capsule, and the cajisule to the gland-tissue. It strips off with difficulty, and is thick and opaque. The siu’face of the kidney is irregular, granular, or perhaps even puckered by cicatrices. Scattered over the surface in most cases are niunerous small cysts. These are supposed to be due to the strangulation of the tubules by the fibrous gTowth. The colour is usually dark and somewhat red, mth numerous small dilated veins showing on the surface. On section, the cortex will be found to be greatly thinned, being sometimes not thicker than a shilling. The pyramids, unless absorbed fi’om previous pressure, are but little altered. The whole organ is of a leathery toughness which is quite peculiar. The pehus may be pigmented from previous inflammation. The microscope shows a great increase of the intertubular tissue, which is of a dense fibroid character. The tubules vary in size ; some are strangulated and compressed, others are dilated above the strangulation. Many°of the ilalpighian coipuscles are obliterated, lea'V'ing merely capsules containing the remains of the obliterated vessels. The capsules of all the Malpighian bodies are greatly thickened. The epithelium may be flattened by pressure, or normal. TTe small arteries usually show some hypertrophy of their muscular coats. Such a kidney as this may undergo a second attack of acute inflammation, and we then find a combination of the form of the contracted kidney with the colour and softness, and possibly the scattered abscesses, of the acute variety. It will be seen from the above description that this form of kidney differs in no ^\aJ to the naked eye from the ordinary granular, contracted, dr gouty 'K ney. > e do not, however, find the general changes associated with that disease. In a case which lately occurred at University College Hospital, in which this concbtion was well marked as the result of stricture of the urethra, there AN as no hypertrophy of the heart, and no change could be recognised in the walls of the small vessels in other parts. ftom ivhat has been said, it is evident that the inflammation of the kidnev arising as the conseqnenee of diseases of the lower urinary tract is primarily interstitial in character, the changes in the epithclinin being secondary.