983 DISCIIAIIGES FROM GENERATIVE ORGANS. be taken to ascertain by proper digital examination, that a portion of the rectum has not been dragged down into its base. VAGixAii IL'Emokuhoius are occasionally though rarely met ^^ith. They chiefly occur towards the anterior part of the vagina, or about the lower wall of the urethra, as rounded, smooth, purple masses of enlarged and congested veins. In one case I have seen a mass of this kind in an old lady give rise to permanent incontinence of urine or dysuria, by keeping the urethral aperture patent. Destnretion by the galvanic cautery is the best method of treatment. l’iiOL.tU>sus of the anterior or the posterior wall of the vagirra may ocerrr, giving rise, in the first instairce, to protrirsion of the bladder, or Cystocele ; in the other, to a Hectocele. In either case, but especially in the first, it occasions very serious and troirblesome consequences, amongst which chronic irritation of the mucous membrane of the bladder, with perhaps phosphatic deposits irr the uriire, are the most marked. These protrusions may be sup- ported by the use of properly constructed belts or pessaries. In some cases the Smgeon may feel disposed to undertake plastic operations, in order to narrow the vaginal orifice by freely paring the opposite portions of its walls, bringing together the freshened surfaces by means of the quilled sutiwe, and thus procuring narrowing of the canal and permanent support to the protruded part. The success of such operative proceedings will greatly depend on attention to details. The mucous membrane at the orifice of the vagina should be dissected off from about half an inch below the meatus on one side, to a corresponding part on the other, in a strip about an inch and a half Avide ; the dissection being carried Avell up posteriorly in the foiu’chette. Two or thi’ee deep, and as many superficial, sutures should be passed ; the deep being left in for about five, the superficial for seven days. Great attention should be paid to cleanliness, the patient lying on her side with a catheter in the bladder communicating with an India-rubber tube to carry off the lu-ine ; and the bowels should be confined by opium. Various Discharges connected with the female organs of generation fall under the observation of the Smgeon ; these may occur from the external organs, from the mucous membrane covering the cervix uteri, or from the interior of the caidty of that organ. These discharges, when proceeding from the mucous membrane covering the external organ, or lining the vagina, are frequently, though not necessarily, of a gonorrhoeal character ; and then require to be treated in the way that has been mentioned at page 855, Yol. II. When they are of a simple natime, proceeding fr-om mere excessive secretion of these parts, astringent injections, and attention to the general health, will usually succeed in effecting a cure. hen these discharges proceed from the cervix or the interior of the os uteri, they will commonly be found to be dependent upon a chronically inflamed or congested condition of the organ, or upon a papillated, granular, fissuied, or ulcerated condition of the mucous membrane, often connected with more or less local thickening and indm’ation of subjacent structures. These ■vaiious conditions, often of a very persistent, insidious, and destructive c laracter, have of late years been fully recognised by the labours of some of the French Surgeons, more particularly of liisfrauc, Emery, and Jobert ; and m this country their pathology has been greatly elucidated by Simpson and