DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. CHAPTER LXII. HERNIA. By Hernia, in its widest sense, is meant the displacement of an organ from the cavity in which it is natiu’ally contained, by being protruded through an abnormal or accidental opening in its walls; when, however, it escapes through one of the natmal outlets of the part, it is not considered hernial. Thus, the protrusion of the brain through an apertime in the craniunr, or of the lung- tlu’ough one in the thoracic walls, or of a portion of intestine through the abdominal parietes, is termed a hernia of the organ ; but the descent of the bowel through the anus does not come under this designation. Here, however,, we have only to consider the hernial protrusions that occur ft’om the abdomert —the common situation of this disease. A hernia may occur at almost any part of the abdominal wall ; though it is- far more liable to do so in some situations than in others, being commonly met with at those points where the muscular and tendinous structures are weakened to allow the passage of the spermatic cord in the male, and of the round ligament in the female ; or for the transmission of the large Vessels to th& lower extremity; hence the inguinal and crural canals are the common situations of this disease. It may, however, occur in various other situations,, as at the umbilicus, the thyroid foramen, the sciatic notch, in the vagina, the pennteum, through the muscular portions of the abdominal wall, the dia- phragm, &c. Strl'CTURE of a Herxia.—In whatever situation it occurs, a hernia is composed of a Sac and its Contents. The Sac is the prolongation of that portion of the peritoneum which over- lies and corresponds to the aperture through which the hernia protrudes. It is in all cases composed of a nech and a lod]]. The Heck is usually nari’owed, though in some old hernias it becomes wide and expanded ; it is commonly short, consisting indeed of a sudden con- striction of the sac in this situation, as happens in many forms of femoral hernia ; but in other cases it is elongated, narrowed, and thickened, and even vascular in structime. The neck of the hernial sac usually becomes greatly thickened and of an opaque colour, by the deposit of plastic matter in or upon , it from the inntation to which it has been subjected by the pressure of the hernial tumour or the truss, by the incorporation of the subserous areolar • tissue lying externally to it, or by the puckering together of its folds, which have been compressed by the aperture in which it lies. The Body of the sac is usually glol)ular or j^yriform, sometimes elongated