6i6 JIERNJA. Surgeons care to jircdict before opening tlie sac wliat the probable nature of the contents may bo. Csacal Hernia necessarily occurs on tlie right side only. It is a large, knobby, and irregular tumour, irreducible, owing to the adhesions contracted by that portion of ccecum which is uncovered by peritoneum. The peculiarity of this hernia consists in the sac being absent, or only partial in the majority of cases, the peritoneum being stripped off as the gut descends. When this hernia is large, and partially invested by serous membrane, a sac usually exists at its upper aspect, into which a portion of small intestine may fall, and which may in some cases constitute a second hernia lying above or before the csecal one, ■which will be found situated at the posterior wall when this hernial pouch is opened. Occasionally the vermiform appendix and the caput coli are found in the sac, but can rarely be returned. The rule of caecal hernia having a partial peritoneal investment only, does not hold good in all cases; and instances have occasionally been met with in which this portion of intestine lay in a distinct sac. Hernia of the Bladder or Cystocele is very rare; and, like that of the caecum, is usually enclosed in a partial peritoneal investment, though it is not neces- sarily so. South states that there is a preparation at St. Thomas’s Hospital, in W'hich the fundus of the bladder, with its peritoneal covering, has passed into a distinct sac. In some instances the cystocele is accompanied by an enterocele. This hernia is always irreducible, is attended by a good deal of difficulty in urinating, with varying tension, according to the quantity of fluid con- tained ; by squeezing it, urine may be forced out through the m-ethra, and fluctuation has been felt in it. Urinary calculi have been formed in the tumour, and have been removed by incision through the scrotum, or have ulcerated out. Causes.—The causes of hernia are usually sufficiently well marked. In some instances the disease is congenital, arising from preternatural patency of the abdominal apertimes ; in other cases, it occurs at a later period of life, in con- sequence of some forcible effort, as lifting a heavy weight, jumping, coughing, straining at stool, or passing mine through a tight stricture. Such causes as these act especially in tall and dehcate people, particularly in those who have a natm-al disposition to weakness or bulging of the groins. The displacement of the abdominal viscera by a gravid tderus, will also occasionally give rise to the disease. Hernia is especially liable to be produced by a combination of causes : thus, if an aged person, one -with a feeble organisation, or whose abdominal apertures have been patent hi consequence of rathei sudden emaciation, make a violent effort, a hernial protrusion is a ery apt to occiu. Amongst the most frequent Predisposing Causes of hernia, are certainly sex, age, and occupation. g0x.—Men are more liable to this disease than ivomen, in the piopoition of about 4 or 5 to 1. Thus, according to Malgaigne, in France, one man in thirteen and one woman in fifty-two are the subjects of hernia. But, though men are more generally liable to hernia than women, they arc less so to certain forms of the disease, especially to the femoral and umbilical. It is to the inguinal that they are particularly subject. According to Lawrence, out ot 83,584 patients who applied to the City of London Truss Society, G/,D8 were