SPECIAL ANEURISMS. i62 effused, that it eompresscs or seals the mouth of the artery leading into the sac, to such an extent as to arrest the passage of blood through it, cither wholly or so that it enters in a feeble stream of insufficient force to communicate an impulse to the fluid that has been extravasated into the limb. This pressure may, as in the case of which an illustration has been given (Fig. 35G), be conflned to the deep parts of the limb, and not give rise to much, if any, general tension of it, the blood being confined below the deep fascia, where it communicates the sensation of a hard, solid, elastic tumour devoid of pulsation. Attention should consequently not be too exclusively directed to the state of general tension of the surface of a hmb, as this is by no means necessarily an indication of the state of the parts beneath : but the Siu’geon should rather look to the presence or absence of pulsation. If pulsation still exist, the blood continues to find its way into the sac, and most probably thi-ough it, the tension of the parts not having yet reached its maximum. If there be no pulsation, he may be sm’e that the entrance of blood into the diffused aneurism has ceased in consequence of compression exercised on the mouth of the artery leadmg to it, by the tense condition of the surrounding and enveloping tissues re-acting on the mass of blood effused beneath them. In such a state of things as this, the vitality of the lower part of the limb can only be maintained by the blood that may find its way thi’ough the anastomosing channels; and this may be sufficient for the piu’pose if the tension of the Mmb be not general, the extravasation being- confined below the deep fascia. If sm-gical interference be delayed in such a case as this, the deep fascia will soon give way by over-distension and rupture, and the blood will be infiltrated into the general areolar tissue of the limb ; and then, by compressing those collateral branches that have hitherto maintained a feeble circulation in it, will infallibly occasion gangrene. If, on the other hand, re- com-se be had to ligature of the main artery, the anastomosing circulation, which may have been barely sufficient to keep up a feeble vitality in the leg and foot, will be so much interfered with that gangrene of the limb inevitably ensues. The only resom-ce, therefore, that is left in these cases is to amputate at once, in order that the patient may be saved the shock of the constitutional dis- tiubance occasioned by the setting in of mortification, as weU as the pain and risk of a previous unnecessary operation. 6. lATien gangrene threatens, the leg and foot having become cold, the skin being either pale, tafionT", and mottled, or discolom-ed, of a purplish hue, with perhaps vesications and much oedema, whether the ligatiue h’ave been previously apphed to the femoral artery or not, or whatever the condition of the anem-ism may be, whether circumscribed or diffused, the patient will stand a better chance of ultimate recovery by having the limb removed at once above the knee. The part at which amputation should be performed in these cases is a point deserving consideration. If the femoral artery have been hgatured, the thigh should be amputated on a level with the ligature, the ai-tery being cut just above this. In this way the double risk which the patient would otherwise run of secondary haemoiThage from the seat of the hgatiue, as n ell as from the face of the stmnp, will be reduced to a single chance of hasmorrhage iiom the stump. If the amputation be the primary operation, it should be done at the lower third of the thigh, provided the extravasation be confined to below the knee ; or higher up, if the effused blood have extended above this joint.