SLOUGHING OF THE SAC. 47 besides this, tlie very occurrence of the return of pulsation may be taken as an evidence of an nmisually free anastomosing circulation. ^ I think, therefore, that if such a case were by any possibility to occur, in which recurrent pulsa- tion could not be checked by the application of pressure, digital or instru- mental, to the artery above the point originally ligatured, aided by the other appropriate local and constitutional means that have been mentioned above, the Sm-geon would adopt the proper coimse by ligaturing the artery higher up, ex. (jr., the common femoral or external iliac, if the superficial femoral had been the one jn’eviously tied. In the event of this not being thought ad\is- able, he must choose between one or other of the two remaining operations, viz., amputation, or opening the sac. Of these measures, I should certainly prefer amputation, as offering the most favourable chance to the patient. The operation of opening the sac, turning out its contents, and hgatining the vessel supplying it, is in any circumstances a procedure fraught with the greatest danger to the patient, and full of difficulty to the Singeon, even when he knows in what situation to seek the feeding vessel. How much greater then must the difficulty be, when he is in uncertainty as to the point at which the artery enters the sac, and cannot know whether there he more than one arterial branch leading into it. In the event, therefore, of all other means failing, and of the pulsation in the tumour continuing, amputation is the only resource left to the Singeon. 3. Suppuration and Sloughing of the Sac.—When, after the ligatine of its supplying artery, an aueinism is about to suj)purate, instead of diminish- ing in size, it increases, with heat, pain, pulsation, and some inflammatory dis- coloration of the skin covering it. This gradually becomes thinned, and at last gives way ; the contents of the tumour, softened and broken down by the inflammatory action and the admixtine of pus, are discharged through the aperture in its wall, in the form of a dark pinplish-brovm or plum-coloured and often fetid fluid, intermixed with masses of soft dark coagula, or of the drier laminated fibrine, which may not -inaptly be compared in appearance to portions of raisins or dates. The escape of these matters, variously altered, may be accompanied or followed by the escape of florid arterial blood. This hmmon-hage, which is the great source of danger in the suppuration of an aneurismal sac, may occur in a sudden or violent gush at the time of the rupture of the tumour, by which the patient may at once be destroyed ; or it may continue in small quantities, which, after ceasing, recur from time to time, thus giadually exhausting the patient. It is this occurrence of secondary htemoiThagc that constitutes the principal danger after suppuration of an aneurism, which otherwise is not a soince of any very serious risk to the patient; about one-fourth only of the cases in which the sac has suppurated having had a fatal termination, and almost all those in which death resulted having proved fatal by hmmon-hage. The patients in a few remaining instances have been can-ied off* by some special accidents, such as the pressine of the sac on the pharynx or oesophagus, or the discharge of the contents of the tumour into the pleura or bronchial tubes. Haemorrhage is more liable to occur when suppuration takes place a few weeks after the ligature of the artery than when a longer interval has elapsed. That haemorrhage does not hapiien more fr-cqucntly after suppuration of the sac is very remarkable, and must be ovino-