70 SPECIAL ANEUEISAIS. liincinatiug, intermittent, and neuralgic in its character, evidently dependent npon pressure on the spinal or sympathetic nerves. This pain is chiefly seated on the left side, and shoots up the side of the head and face, along the upper su’m to the elbow, along the intercosto-humeral nerve, through the chest, or between the scapulm. The second form of pain usually occurs at a later stage of the disease, is continuous, and of a boring, hot, or burning character. It seems to depend upon the perforation of the tissues, more especially the bones, by the aneurismal tumour, and chiefly occurs on the right side of the chest (Fig. 373). 2. Dyspnoea is of very frequent occim-ence in intrathoracic aneurism ; in all probability it is more uniformly met with than any other single symptom. It may arise from five distinct conditions, and its characters vary with its cause. a. From direct jwesslire on the trachea In these cases the dyspnena is attended by much and constant wheezing, cough, often by whisthng sounds in the chest and tubular respiration, and by slow expansion of that cavity. There is usually expectoration of thick tenacious or ropy mucus. j3. From direct pressure on a 'bronchus (Fig. 374). In these cases there are wheezing, cough, and some degree of expectoration, with perhaps diminished respiratory murmm’ in the side affected, and puerile respiration in the opposite lung, as has been pointed out by Stokes. y. From pressure upon the lung. In these cases the respiration is compara- tively little interfered with, the spongy tissue of the lung accommo- dating itself and yielding to the pres- sure of the tumour. After a time, the pulmonic tissue will become in- corporated Avith the wall of the sac ; and then more serious difficulty in breathing, with htemoptysis, Avill siqDervene. S. Dyspnoea may be, and very commonly is, induced by irritedion, comp-ession, flattening out, or stretching of the leftpneumogastric and recurrent largngeal nerves, by the pressme of the tumour. In these cases the larynx becomes the seat of the difficult res- piration, its muscles being driven into a state of spasm, so as to occa- sion paroxysmal attacks of intense difficulty of breathing. The voice becomes hoarse, croupy, or croaking; the cough has a loud croupy or metaUic sound, and is attended by the expectoration of thin fr'othy mucus. The laryngeal spasm and .tiHor often do not occm- in ordmnvy respiration, bnt are prodncod under Fit:. 374.—^iVneurism of Ai'cli of Aorta, of the size of an uliiioml, springing from holoiv left buhcuiMan Arteiy, anil hiireting into left Bronchus.