310 DISEASE OF THE HIP-JOINT. the iliac fossa or side of the pehds; it afterwards becomes severe, gnawng, and deeply seated in the articulation. However slight the pain may be, it is always greatly increased by moving the limb, by pressing the surfaces of the articulation together, or by abduction. Hence the patient usually keeps the foot raised and merely supported on the point of the toes, the knee and hip being flexed and adducted. 2. The Attitude of the limb is peculiar, and varies in different stages of the disease. In the early stage the hmb is usually straight, carried slightly for- Avards, or perhaps somewhat abducted, owing to the initation and contraction of the capsular muscles on the anterior and outer aspects of the joint. The attitude of the limb is as foUoAvs. 1. The patient tilts the pelvis to the opposite side so as to raise the diseased limb off the gTOund ; hence there is apparent shortening, though there may be no difference in the length of the limbs or even actual elongation. The anterior superior spine on the affected side will be foimd to be higher than that on the opposite one. 2. The limb is slightly ab- ducted ; and 3, the patient only puts the toes to the ground, the heel being raised. This is done in order to bring the elasticity of the foot into play and to prevent the pain that would arise from the jar of the limb if the patient trod on the heel. As the disease advances, the limb becomes adducted, so that the knee is carried against the lower part of the sound thigh ; it is also flexed and carried forwards in advance of the opposite limb, the action of the external rotators having become interfered with by Avasting and aggiutmation, and the limb coming under the influence of the adductors and flexors. The length of the limb varies greatly at different periods. In estimating the length, we must be careful to discrimi- nate betAveen apparent and real changes. In the early stages there is often apparent elongation to a considerable extent, owing to the oblique position in Avliich the pehos is carried causing the anterior superior spine on the affected side to be an inch or two beloAV the level of that on the healthy side. Often in these cases of apparent elongation there is actual shortening. All this can readily be determined by measurement from the anterior superior spinous process to the inner malleolus of each side. Real elongation is not common, but may occur in consequence of effusion into the joint, and thrusting doAAm of the head, in acute arthritic coxalgia. As the disease adA^ances shortening comes on, from disintegration or dislocation of the head of the bone. The real shortening is often apparently much increased by the oblique tilting of the pelAo's upAvards on the affected side. The real shortening of the hmb is often very easily obseiwable by placing the patient in the sitting posture, Avith the knees bent at a right angle, when it Avill be found that the knee on the side affected does not project so far forwards as the one on the healthy side. 3. Suppuration is not a necessary consequence of inflammation of the hip- joint, though in strumous subjects it more commonly occurs than not. A\e often see the arthritic variety of the disease run its course AAothout suppuration ; but, in the acetabular and femoral, abscess ahvays forms sooner or later, being the direct consequence of the diseased osseous tissue. ^ In the azetabular form, abscess is often one of the eai’liest signs of serious mischief, preceding the othei signs immediately to be mentioned. The abscesses usually form behind t c joint, under the gluteal muscles; they may open in this situation or burroAA