SYMPT03IS OF STONE IN THE BLADDER. 761 It is a singular fact that in some parts of the same country calculous disorders are of far more frequent occurrence than in others. Thus it is well known that the inhabitants of the east coast of England and Scotland are peculiarly liable to these disorders ; and that in Norfolk stone occurs with especial frequency, the mortality from calculus being much higher here in proportion to the population than in any other county of England (Cadge). In America also, it would appear that the inhabitants of certain States are peculiarly obnoxious to this affection; and I understand that in some districts of Germany the disease may be said to Ije almost unknown, whilst in others it is of common occurrence. The relatiAU frequency of the kinds of calculus also A-aries in different countries. H. Y. Carter, who has analysed and described upwjuds of a hundred specimens contained in the Museum of the Grant Medical College at Bombay, shows that the per-centage of calculi Avith an rn-ic acid or urate of ammonia nucleus is, in India, 5(1’30 ; in England, 71'79 ; Avhile that of calcuh Avith a nucleus of oxalate of lime is in India, 38'6o, in England, IG’87. The calculi composed pmcly of oxalate of lime also greatly exceed in munber those which consist entirely of luic acid or mate of ammonia. To what these differences are OAving it is impossible to say. Peculiarity of race, of con- stitution, and of diet, with exposmn to prevalent easterly Avinds, haA^e all been assigned as reasons for them ; but probably not on very sufficient grounds. SrMPTOJis.—The symjDtoms of stone in the bladder vary according as the calculus lies loose in the caAdty of the auscus or is encysted. Their intensity Avill depend on the size and shape of the stone, the condition of the bladder, and the constitution of the patient. Most commoidy, the severity of the symptoms is in proportion to the magnitude of the calculus. This, however, is not ahvays the case. In a patient whom I once cut, the most intense suffering and repeated attacks of cystitis had been occasioned by a small but sharp-pointed calculus, not weighing more than a drachm; and some years ago I saAv a patient in whose bladder five calculi AA^ere found after death, nearly as large as chestnuts, though their presence had never been suspected during life by the different Smgeons under AA'hose care he had been for stricture, so little distress had they occasioned. In some cases, the symptoms of stone very suddenly declare themselves; and then the Siugeon finds on examination that the patient has a largish calculus, which must have been a long time forming Awthout attracting attention. Bough and angular calculi necessarily give rise to more severe symptoms than smooth ones, owing to their induciiio- a chronic form of cystitis; and as the constitution is usually a good deal shattered and the nervous system very irritable in those conditions of the system in Avhich the phosphates am deposited, phosphatic calculi are usuaUy attended by more local suflering and constitutional disturbance than other forms of the disease. The s^ptoms induced by stone are the result of the mechanical irritation pioduced by the presence of a foreign body in the bladder ; they consist of lam Increased In-equency in Micturition, occasional Stoppage of the Urine and \ arious Morbid Conditions of that Fluid. ^ it symptom that attracts attention • the reo-ioifof tL’^ltlcir^"'’ Th experienced in e„ion of the liLiddei and the permamm, but may radiate Avidely in the