i)ISJ!:ases of tjie breast. 6o2 in which no operation was performed, the average duration of life was 45 months ; in (\2 cases operated on, the average was u(ii months. Sibley finds that the average duration of life in miopcratcd cases was about 32 months ; whilst in those subjected to amputation of the breast it reached b4 months. Thus it will be seen that, independently of the possible chances of a complete cure, the operation holds out the prospect of an average gain of nearly two years of life. There is, hoAvcver, another point of view' from which these operations may be considered ; for, even if they do not prolong life, they may greatly improve the patient’s condition, and place her in a state of comparative comfort during the remainder of her existence. Thus, she may be suffering so much pain from the local aflection, or, if the cancer be ulcerated, may be so much annoyed by the fetor of the discharges, that she may be placed in a position of far greater comfort by having the local source of disease and irritation removed ; and though she die eventually of cancer, it may be with much less suffering tO’ herself and others for her to be carried off by cachexy with secondary de- posits in the lungs or liver, than to be w'ora out by the pain, discharge, and haemorrhages, of a slowdy progressi-^'e ulcerating cancerous mamma. The question as to the advisabihty of operation in any given case of cancer of the breast cannot, however, be determined by abstract pathological reason- ing, by reference to scientific principles, or by calculations founded on sta- tistical results. The Surgeon must minutely examine and attentively w'eigh all the circumstances of the particular case before him, and he must endeavour to distinguish those cases in Avhich the operation may possibly be the means of preserving or prolonging life, from those in w'hich there is no prospect of its being of any service, or in which indeed it must inevitably hasten the patient’s death. 'Whatever the value of statistics may be in determining the question, whether in cases of cancer of the breast generally the operation will effect a cure or prolong life, they ai’e not equally valuable in their apphea- tion to individual cases. When a Surgeon is called on for his opinion respecting the propriety of amputating the breast of the patient before him, it is not sufficient for him to be able to state w'hat the general result ot the operation may be, but he must be able to satisfy himself whether the pai- ticular instance under consideration may or may not be one of those cases, exceptional perhaps, in which there is a possibihty of extirpating the disease entirely from the system, or at all e'S'ents of prolonging the patient s existence. In order to do this, it is necessary to endeavour to lay down some rules that may guide us in selecting those cases in Avhich the operation may be advan- tageously done, and in setting aside others in wdiich w^e know' that it will almost to a certainty hasten the patient’s death. And, indeed, it is the alisence of all such considerations in general statistical investigations into the results of operation for cancer, that deprives them of much of their value as guides m actual practice. , • t • • f Though nothing can be more unsurgical or improper than the mdiscrimma extirpation of cancerous tiimom-s of the breast from all patients who may pm- sent themselves in whatever stage of the disease ; and though such ^ would doubtless be follow'ed by fully as disastrous results as those that oc- curred to Macfarlane, Benedict, and others ; yet there can be little dou