BRONCIIOCELE. 407 lad ao-cd about 18, otherwise healthy, I remo-s’ed a hydatid tumour as larp as a shaddock from the nape of the neck, where it was deeply seated under the trapezius, growing apparently from the substance of the complexus or splenius capitis muscles, and lying close upon the cervical spine and the occipital bone. Enlargement of the Lymphatic Glands of the neck, terminating either in chronic induration or in abscess, is of such common occuiTence as to con- stitute perhaps the most frequent form of glandular enlargement. The tumours thus formed present nothing peculiar in their progress or treatment when occun-ing in this situation ; except that when abscess forms it should be opened early by°a small incision, and in such a direction, corresponding to the natural folds of the skin, as to leave as little scarring as possible. BRONCHOCELE. The thyroid gland is subject to various simple chronic enlargements, which commonly go by the name of Bronchocele, or Goitre. These may be divided into four distinct forms, 1. Simple Hypertrophy.—The thyroid gland may be simply hypertrophied, and may then attain a very considerable size; in some cases forming an immense lobulated tumoin- on the forepart of the neck, such as is met with in- various districts of this countiy and of the continent, more especially in the valleys of the Alps, in which the disease is and has been endemic for ages.* In the majority of instances, however, in England, the tumour is of but very moderate size, commencing at first as a mere fulness and uniform or rounded enlargement of the isthmus, or of one of the lateral lobes of the thyroid gland, and gradually increasing, until perhaps, by the pressure of the growth confined between the sterno-mastoid muscle and the deep structures of the neck, the voice becomes croaking and harsh, and respiration and deglutition seriously affected. It is seldom that the bronchocele distorts the structiues of the neck to one side ; but this may happen. Thus I have seen the larynx and trachea pushed completely over to the left, forming a long convexity in that direction, whilst the carotid sheath on the right side was thrust behind the stemo- mastoid muscle. There is a remarkable connection between tumoiu’s of the thyroid gland of this kind, and a general ana3mic condition of the system. In London nothing is more common than to find a certain degree of bronchocele in pale and bloodless women and girls ; indeed, so frequent is the coincidence that it is impossible not to regard it in the light of cause and effect. Great prominence of the eyeballs is frequently associated with these conditions. In practice we constantly obsen-e this triple clinical combination, viz., anmmia, exophthalmos, and bronchocele; and the connection of these has been commented on by Graves, Basedow, Sichel, White Cooper, Aran, Begbie, and numerous other practitioners. The angemia here is the link between the bronchocele and the exophthalmos. In cases of bronchocele uncomplicated with anrnmia, the pro- trusion of the eyeballs is not met with. Thence, as anmmia is more common in women than in men, the exophthalmic bronchocele is most frequent amonust females. 2. Cystic Broncliocele is due to the development of cystic timiours in * Quis tmnWuiu Guttur mirntur in Aliiibus?