6i FLEXIOK cftecfc of digital compression and the rapidity of cure, would be increased by the application°of direct pressure to tlie tumour, or by manipulation and by the nrmious employment of proper constitutional means. It might be very advan- tageously conjoined with the treatment by flexion ; but its great advantage seems to be, that it is applicable to arteries, as at the root of the neck, to Avhich it might be difficult to apply any kind of compressor, or when the Surgeon is so placed as not to be able to obtain such an apparatus. Esmarch’s bloodless method has been successfully employed in the treat- ment of a popliteal aneurism by Dr. Walter Reid. The bandage and tubing were applied in the usual Avay, up to and on the uhddle of the thigh. The bandaire Avas then taken off, and the circulation airested for fifty minutes. The patient complaining of pain, a Carte’s compressor was substituted for the elastic tubing, when it Avas found that all pulsation had ceased in the sac. The compressor, hoAvever, was used as a precautionary measiu’e for a day or two lon^'cr, lest the iieAvly formed clot should be broken doAvn, and washed away before it had had time to toughen, and the sac to contract. The cure aa as complete and permanent. This means is applicable to many external aneu- risms, and CAudently deserves a further trial. It acts, like rapid comj)res- sion, by the coagulation of the aneurismal blood, not the lamination of its fibrine. Flexiox.—The treatment of aneurism by the flexion of the contiguous joint is a method that is scarcely applicable to any other form of the disease than the pophteal. The history of this plan of treating aneurisms is interesting, as an illustration of the gradual steps by which Surgery usually arrives at its ultimate results. It had been long known to Surgeons that the pulse at the Avi’ist might be arrested by the forcible flexion of the forearm on the arm ; and Malgaigne and Pdchet had recommended this means for the arrest of hemor- rhage from the brachial artery and the arteries of the forearm when wounded. Fleiuy—a distinguished French naval Simgeon—having succeeded in curing a wound of the brachial artery by forced flexion of the elbow, aided by dhect compression, and one of the radial by flexion of the wrist, published in 184G a memoir, in which he stated, as a conclusion from his observations, that any aneurism of the foreaim or leg might be treated by means of flexion of the hmb in AAhich it Avas situated. To A. Thierry is due the honoui’ of having been the first to cure a traumatic aneiu’ism of the bend of the arm by flexion of the limb. This was in .—{Ricliet, Diet, ch Mkl ct da Chinmjic, Vol. II., p. 338.) In 1857, Mannoir of GencA'a apph’ed the flexion-treatment to a large aneurism of the ham. Forced flexion could not be borne on account of the pain it occasioned, and the j)atient AA-as therefore alloAved to Avalk on crutches Avith the leg bent, and supported in a kind of stirrup attached to the opposite shoulder. In less than three AA-eeks the cure Avas effected, Avhich Mannoir found a year aftenvards to be permanent. In the foUoAving year, 1858, Mr. Hart applied this method of treatment successfully in a case of popliteal anciu-ism, and to him is due the merit of haA’ing been the first to introduce it into this country. _ Flexion is necessarily only applicable to arteries situated at the bend of joints, as the elbow or ham, in Avhich the circulation can be directly controlled by bending the limb, or in traumatic aneurisms in the limbs bcloAV these joints.