PROGNOSIS OF HIP-JOINT DISEASE. 3^7 It is about this period that true shortening of the limb takes place, at the same time bLmes ab'dueted and inverted thus assuming ^ position from that which it presented m the early stage of the disease. The diftcrent positions into Avhich the limb falls in the two stages of the complaint are evidently due to altera- tions in the muscular action brought to bear upon it. In the early stage, the strong external rotators, which arc in close relation with the joint, become ir- ritated by the extension of inflammatory action to them, or hy the pressm-e to which they are exposed by the distended capsule ; and hence, these being called into increased action, the hmb is everted, at the same time that it is shghtly flexed and abducted by the irrita- tion to Avhich the psoas and iliacus are subjected. As the disease advances, these muscles become wasted, undergo fatty degene- ration, absorption, or disintegration, by the formation of abscesses underneath and around them ; hence, the action of the adductor muscles being no longer counterbalanced, the limb is drawn upwards and forwards, and turned inwards (Fig. 485). The shortening of the limb may arise, in very chronic cases, from general atrophy of the member, consequent upon disuse ; and this, no doubt, in all instances after a time influences its condition. Most commonly, however, shortening occurs from absorption of the head of the bone, which is usually at the same time dislocated upon the dorsum of the ilium. In these cases, the remains of the dislocated head can be felt through the thin and weakened muscles in its new situation, and in other instances may be found lying at the bottom of a cavity in a carious state (Fig. 48 G). Prognosis of Hip-Joint Disease.—The prognosis in cases of diseased hip must be regarded from two points of view—1, as concerns the Life of the Patient; 2, as to the Utility of the Limb that will be left. Fig. 4se. — Carious Head of Tliigli-boue after Excision. Fi". 4S5.—Chronic Disease of Hip-joint. Sinuses on outer side of Thigh. 1. Life.—Disease of the hip-joint, and of the contiguous osseous structm’es, is dangerous to life in proportion to the abundance and the long continuance of the suppuration; and this is dependent partly on the patient's constitution, but chiefly, and in the first degree, on the extent and nature of the osseous disease. In the arthritic fonn of coxalgia, suppuration is often prevented by rest and appropriate treatment; and when this is the case, the patient null usually recover. If suppuration take place in cases of this kind, recovery need