37 SITUATION OF LIGATUEE. meiit. They fire as follows : 1. liayiiig open the sac ; 2. Ligature of the artery on the cardiac side ; 3. Ligature of the artery on the distal side ; 4. Compression by instruments ; o. Digital compression ; G. Flexion of the limb ; 7. Acupies- sure ; 8. Manipulation ; 9. Electro-puncture ; 10. Injection of the sac Avith coagulating fluids, M these various methods of treatment, however they may differ in their details, have, udth the exception of the fii-st, the same great principle in view, viz.: the consolidation of the aneurismal tumom- by the deposit of coagulum Avitliin it. When the process adopted is of such a nature as to lead to the slow deposit of coagulum, this will be found to be pale, firm and laminated, the active clot of Broca. When the deposit is rapid, it Avail be dark, soft and homogeneous, theJ^^^ss^Ve clot. Ligature.—The application of the ligatime to the feeding artery on the cardiac side of the aneurism, was almost the only method adopted by Siu’geons for the cure of the disease up to a recent date. The manner in which the ligatiu’e should be applied, and the various cautions respecting its use, have been sufficiently discussed (Vol. I., pp. 287, seq^.). The question as to the part of the vessel to Avhich it should be applied in aneiu'ism, remains for con- sideration ; and this inA^olves some important points. Situation.—There are thi-ee situations in which the ligature may lie apphed : 1, above and beloio the sac, by the old operation ; 2, on the cardiac side of the sac, by Anel’s (Fig. 359) or Hunter’s (Fig. 360) opera- tion ; 3, on the distal side of the sac, by Brasdor’s or Wardi’op’s operation (Fig. 361). 1. The Application of the Ligature on both sides of the Aneur- ismal Sac is seldom practised at the present day, when the anemism arises from disease of the coats of the A^essel; but in those cases in Avhich it occurs from traumatic causes, it may fr’e- quently be adopted as the best means of cure, even in aneurisms of the largest size, as has been mentioned in the Chapter on Traumatic Anemism. The older Sm’geons, however, Avere ac- quainted Avith this mode only of treating anem-isms. The mode of applying the ligatme to both sides of the sac is as folloAvs. After having an-ested the cireulation through the aneiu'ism, by compressing the artery leading to it, either by means of a tourniquet, or, where that is not applicable, by the pressure of an assistant’s fingers, the Surgeon slits up the sac, turns out the contained coagula and masses of laminated fibrine, and then, passing a probe upwards and doAvawards into the artery, through the mouth of the sac, ties the vessel on each side, immediately above and below the aperture. This operation, as performed by the older > ur,,eons on any of the laiger arteries, as the popliteal, Avas not only so difficult