CONTENTS. XU , _ PAGE. bymptoms — Modifications of Symptoms — Diagnosis — Treatment — Taxis— Auxiliai’y Measures—Persistence of Symptoms after Kcduction—Treatment C24—G35- Operations for Strangulated Hernia—Operation in which the Sac is Opened —Exposure of the Sac—Opening the Sac—Division of the Stricture—Reduction —After-Treatment—Accidents and Modifications of the Operation—Peritonitis— Management of Congested Intestine—Of Tightly Constricted Intestine—Of Gangrenous Intestine—Of Adhesions—Of Omentvrm—Wounds of the Intestine— Wounds of Arteries—Sloughing of the Sac—Artificial Anus and Fsecal Fistula— Treatment—Operation without Opening the Sac—Reduction in Mass—Causes— Symptoms—Treatment—Hydrocele of the Hernial Sac G35—Gol Chapter LXIII.—Special Herxi^e. Inguinal Hernia—Varieties—Oblique—Coverings—Relations—Direct—Coverings —Relations—Incomplete or Interstitial —Double—In Females—Signs—Diagnosis —Treatment—Operation—Seat of Stricture—Hernia containing Caecum, Sigmoid Flexure of Colon, or Urinary Bladder—Hernia in Tunica Vaginalis, or Congenital Hernia—Signs and Diagnosis—Complication with Undescended Testis—Treat- ment—Encysted Hernia in Tunica Vaginalis, or Infantile Hernia , ' . 655—66G- Femoral Hernia—Course—Relations—Contents—Signs—Diagnosis—Treatment— Operation 666—67S Umbilical Hernia—In Children—In Adults—Treatment—Operation , . 673—675- Ventral Hernia—Treatment 675—676 Pelvic Hernia;—Obtoator—Symptoms—Treatment—Perineal—Vaginal—Pudendal —Sciatic 676—678 Diaphragmatic Hernia—Congenital Defect of Diaplu-agm—Traumatic Dia- phragmatic Hernia 678—680-' Chapter LXIV.—Ixtestixal Obstructiox. Acute Obstruction—Causes—Symptoms.—Chronic Obstruction—Symptoms— Diagnosis of Causes of Obstruction—Duration of Constipation—Fixed Pain— Vomiting—Diagnosis of Seat of Obstruction—Below Descending Colon—Above Descending Colon.—Treatment—Acute Obstruction—Inflation of Intestine— Inversion of Patient—Operation—Gastrotomy—Intussusception Treatment Treatment of Chronic Obstruction—Colotomy—Littr6’s Operation—Amussats Operation—Comparison of Littre’s and Amussat’s Operations . . . 681 695 Chai^ter LXV.—Tappixg the Abdomex.—Tumours of the Croix. Tapping the Abdomen ; • • , Tumours of the Groin — Varieties — Diagnosis — Pulsating — Xon-Pulsating Reducible—Irreducible—Fluid Tumours—Solid Tumours—Treatment—Removal of Cystic or Solid Tumours . 696—60S Chapter LXVI.—Diseases op the Large Ixtesttxe axd Axus. Congenital Malformations—Narroudng and Partial Closure of Anus-Complete Closure of Anus—Occlusion of Rectum above Anus by Membranous Septum- Complete Absence of Anus—Treatment—Closure of Anus with Absence of Rectuiii —Treatment—Iliac Incision—Lumbar Incision—Perineal Incision Absence Anus; Opening of Rectum into other Canals ' ^ ‘ .STRICTURE, SIMPLE, Syphilitic, and MALiGNANT-Simple or Fibrous-Symptoms —Progress—Treatment—SyphiUtic Stricture of Large Intestine—Cancer am