FORCIBLE EXPANSION. 9°i so that the irritability and spasm of the canal may be lessened. Ihe foUowing is the way in which the caustic is applied. A wax bougie, well oiled, is passed do^vn to, but not through the stricture ; the Surgeon then, with the thumb- nail makes a notch on that portion of the instrument opposite to the meatus. Another bougie of similai- lengtli and size is then armed by a piece of potassa fiisa about the size of a small pin’s head, placed in a depression at its end. A mark is now made on it, at a point corresponding to the notch on the fii-st bougie ; it is then passed rapidly down until this mark comes oppo- site to the meatus, and pressed firmly for two or three minutes apinst the stricture, upon which the caustic exercises its action. This application, which is followed by a gleety discharge, is to be repeated every second or third day until a bougie of proper size can be introduced ; and then the dilatation may be proceeded with in the usual way. This practice, stigmatised, not unjustly, by Liston as “ most atrocious,” has now but few advocates ; and, indeed, there appears to be nothing useful effected by it, beyond what can be accomplished much more safely and easily by a catheter or sound in an ordinarily skilful hand. 4. rorcible Expansion or Rupture.—Forcible and rapid dilatation caus- ing the expansion and rupture of the stricture, is a method that, originally proposed and practised many years since by Luxmoor, Arnott, and Buchanan of Glasgow, has of late years been revived in principle, and ingeniously modi- fied in detail, by many Surgeons, amongst whom Eeybard, Maisonneuve, Perreve, Wakley, Holt, and Thompson are the most conspicuous. However varied the means by which strictures are thus treated, the instruments em- ployed may be aivanged in three groups : a. Those that act as sliding tubes ; A Those that expand by a screw mechanism ; and c. Those that act on the principle of a wedge. a. Slidinfj Tiibes were first employed in the treatment of stricture by Desault at the close of the last century, subsequently by various French Surgeons, and of later years by Hutton of Dublin, and very extensively and successfully by Wakley. The mode of appheation of these tubes is as follows. Along conductor is introduced through the stricture into the bladder, and over this a catheter, either of gum or silver, is passed, which in its turn is made to serve as a con- duetor to a larger one. In Wakley’s instrument the conductor, or “ m’ethral guide,” consists of a small silver catheter, which, after being passed through the stricture, has a long steel rod screwed into it. Over this a silver tube is passed, which in its tmm is made to serve as a conductor ; and thus the conductor may be rapidly dilated by passing one tube over another until a full size is reached. The only difficulty in this very ingenious method—which is, however, common to it and cveiy other plan of treating stricture by dilatation—consists in the first introduction of the “ urethral guide ; ” when that has once passed through the stricture, the tubes must follow as a matter of necessity. They cannot pos- sibly go wrong ; and, as no laceration or rupture of the stricture is, or can be, effected by the instrument, it appears to be a peculiarly safe means of employing rapid dilatation when circumstances seem to require it. b. The method of forcibly expanding a stricture by the introduction into it of a small two- or four-bladod instrument, fashioned somewhat like a narrow beaked sound, and which, by Screiu Mechanism in the handle, admits of being