252 EXCISION OF JOINTS. that the upper end of the humerus had been drawn up underneath and between the acromion and coracoid processes, Avhere a false joint had formed. The arm was extremely useful, and all the parts below the elbow were well de- veloped. The upper arm was shortened by two and a half inches. Excision of the shoulder-joint is on the whole a very successful operation, as regards life as well as limb. Hodges has collected 50 cases of excision of the head of the humerus for disease : of these, 8 died and 42 recovered from the operation. Of these 8 deaths, 8 only occurred before the third month, and 3 were from phthisis. In 2 only of the cases did the deaths appear to have been directly occasioned by the operation. In but 17 of these 50 cases Avas the glenoid cavity interfered with; but it is a. remarkable circumstance that in no fewer than 7 out of the 8 fatal cases this caAuty was diseased, and re- quired either gouging, excising, or cauterisation. Thus it would appear that the chance of a fatal termination is greatly increased by the implication of the glenoid cavity. 2. Excision for Compound and Comminuted Fracture.—I\Tien exci- sion of the shoulder-joint is required for compound and comminuted fractm-e from gun-shot injiuy, the operation is of a less formal character. The buUet- holes must be laid freely open in a longitudinal direction, or the deltoid even cut across at its superior attachment, all loose sphnters removed, and the ragged and spiculated ends of bone cut off with pliers or narrow saw; especial care being taken in manipulating towards the inner and imder sides of the joint, in the A'icinity of the plexus of nerves and large vessels. Without going back to the earlier cases of Percy, Lan-ey, and other military Surgeons of the latter part of the last centmy, who frequently practised this operation AAuth the happiest results, the more recent experience of the wars in Em-ope and America demonstrated its great utility, and that it ought inA^ariably to be preferred to amputation at the shoulder-joint in aU cases in which the large blood-A'essels and nerves are intact. Hodges states that in 96 recorded cases fr’om aU sources there were 25 deaths, or a mortality of 26 per cent. But in the Crimean AA^ar the result was much more satisfactory. Thus Baudens relates 14 cases occurring in the Crimea, with only 1 death ; and in the British army, of 14 cases, 12 recovered; AA^hilst of 60 amputations at the shoulder- joint 19 AA^ere fatal. In the American AAmr, the mortality in 5/5 cases of excision of the shoulder-joint AA'as at the rate of 32‘5 per cent. Prmary excisions Avere more successful than secondary : the percentage of mortality in the former (252 in number) being 23’3, and in the secondary (39b in number) 38*G Excision or the Scapula, partial or complete, may be required for caries, necrosis, or tumour of that bone. Caries and necrosis do not A'ery commonly affect the scapula primarily, men the bone becomes the seat of these diseases, it A\dll generally be found that the acromron and the spine are the parts affected. In such cases the progr-ess of disease is usually very sIoav, arre it will generally be found that the carious bone may be effectually gouged orrt, or the sequestrrrm extracted, by laying open sinuses, arrd thus exposing y irregrrlar arrd informal operations the diseased osseous surfirce. ihe_ Avlro e bone has, hoAvever, become affected by rrecrosis, dry caries, and c romc in am mation to an incurable extent. In two instances the Avhole bone has been