recurrence of CALCULUE. 82c> This more especially happens it the middle lobe be enlarged ; and in these circumstances, though the stone may undoubtedly be crushed, yet the fiag- ments would probably require to be removed by the scoop ; the operation would consequently be very tedious and prolonged, and lithotomy would probably be found to answer best. Any inflammatory disease or abscess of the prostate must necessarily prevent the performance of lithotomy. I have said nothing in this comparison between lithotrity and lithotomy of the comparative painfulness of the two operations ; for, as chloroform may be administered with equal adi'antage in both cases, there is little difference in this respect, except that perhaps the advantage lies on the side of lithotomy, as being the shorter proceeding. Froni all that precedes, then, it would appear that, useful as lithotrity unquestionably is in many, even in most, cases, it cannot be looked upon as an universal means of treating stone in the bladder, being only safely applicable in favoimable conditions of the urinary organs, to calculi that are small, or at most of but moderate size, and after puberty ; and that a large number of cases will always be left in which lithotomy offers the sole means of relief. Choice of Operation of Lithotomy.—The particular operation of htho- tomy to which recourse should be had, will also vary according to the cha- racter of the stone. If this be small, and the patient an adult, the medmn operation may advantageously be performed. If it be of moderate or tolerably large size, and more particularly if the operation be practised on a child, the kderal appears to me to be the more applicable. If, again, the calculus be of inordinate magnitude, the suRra^iibic, the medio-hilatercd, or the redo-vesical operation should be the method selected. In fact, the Surgeon should not con- fine himself too exclusively to any one method of operating, but should adopt that procedure which appears to be best adapted to the special circumstances presented by the particular case before him, and should vaiy his method ac- cording to the state of the luinary organs, the age of the patient, and the size and character of the stone. The Result of Operations for Stone will depend in a gTeat measure upon the condition of the bladder, and the character of the stone. If the bladder be healthy, all symptoms will cease on the removal of the calculus, and the patient will be restored to perfect health. This usually happens when the calculus is of the lithic acid or the oxalate of lime variety, and of renal origin. If, however, the bladder be unsound, irritable, and the urine alkaline from de- composition, and disposed to the deposit of phosphatic matters, the calculus, being phosphatic, and chiefly, if not wholly, vesical in its origin, then an irritable state of bladder may be left, or may speedily return after the opera- tion, whieh will consequently have been productive of little, or only of temporary benefit. ^ Recurrence of Calculus after Operation.—This may take place fr’om four distinct causes 1, in consequence of a continuance of the constitutional condition or diathesis, under the influence of which the calculus was originally fonned; 2, from the descent of a renal calculus; 3, from a fr-agment of calculus aving been accidentally left in the bladder ; and 4, from the accumulation of phosphatic deposit in the inflamed fundus of the bladder, or in the line of im- perfectly healed incisions.