INTESTINAL OLSTliUCTION. ^ G8S to, it can be satisfactorily made out that there is an internal straiif^ulation, and jnore especially if tlie intumescence occasioned hy it can he felt, it will evidentlv hc the duty of the Surgeon to give the patient his only chance hy the divisioit of the stricture. AVith regard to the time at which this should he done, the only general rule that can be laid down is probably the conclusion aiTived at l)y Phillips ; that operation is justifiable when three or four days have passed without any relief from ordinary means, constipation being complete, and vomiting of fmcal matters continuing. Gastrotomy then may be required for the relief of acute intestinal obstruc- tion, arising from, 1, internal strangulation of the small intestine in whatcvei- -way produced ; 2, intussusception, or the slipping of the upper portion of a (H)il of intestine into, and its retention by, the lower ; and 3, ^•olvulus, or a semi-twist of the large intestine on itself. The operation of gastrotomy is performed as follo\vs. The room being well warmed, the patient should be laid on a high table, his legs being allowed to- liaug over the end of it, so as to afford a full view of the abdomen. The bladder having then been emptied, chloroform should be administered ; and the Surgeon, taking his stand between the legs of the patient, proceeds to make the incision through the abdominal wall. This should, as a general rule,, be carried through the linea alba directly in the mesial line below the umbilicus, more especially in children, and in thin subjects. If the patient be very fat, it might be necessary to extend the incision higher. It is very seldom, necessary, and never desh-able, to make the incision through the abdominal muscles to the side of the linea alba. By such a procedure the operation would in no way be facilitated, the wound would be more severe, the epigastric vessels endangered, and the after-liability to ventral hernia greatly increased. The- linea alba then having been exposed, the incision must be carried through the- abdominal wall until the peritoneum is reached ; this must then be slit up by means of a probe-pointed bistoury guided by the forefinger of the left hand> The coils of small intestine will now probably protrude through the wound, curling over its edges ; they must be drawn to one side, and be carefully supported by an assistant, who should press upon them with a soft towel, whilst the Surgeon searches for the obstruction. This he does by very careMly and gently tracing upwards the contracted and empty coils, which must necessarily be below the seat of obstruction, or by following downwards the distended intestine. If there be a hernial constriction formed by a dense adventitious fibroid band, he may divide the band that constitutes the stricture on a director by means of a probe-pointed bistoury or hernia knife, or break it through with the finger ; or he may withdraw, from the aperture in the omentum or mesentery into Avhich it had slipped, the constiicted coil ot intestine. If it be a case of volvulus, the colon may be untwisted, as in a case , on which I operated in 18-11). The intestines having been returned, the wound should be closed by the intemipted suture, and the application of some , transverse strips of plaster ; the patient must then have his knees bent over a pillow, and should be kept principally upon ice and barley-water. Opium must be continuously administered, and the case generally treated on the ordinary principles of abdominal wound. The mortality following gastrotomy for the relief of intestinal obstruction is, as might be expected, very high, amounting