EXCISION OF THE ELBOW-JOINT. 257 of the elbow-joint has been more frequently practised than that of any other of the articulations, and the result has upon the whole been far more satis- This operation may be required, 1, for Chronic Disease of the Joint; 2, for Osseous Ankylosis ; and 3, for Compound Fractures and Dislocations. 1. In cases in which the elbow-joint requires to be excised for stiwnous disease in youns; persons, it will generally be found that, after morbid action has existed for considerable time in the joint, the limb will have become useless, and the soft parts aroimd the joint swollen, spongy, and perforated by fistulous openings. When disease of this joint occurs in the middle-aged adult, the mischiefwill usually be found to be principally seated in the bones, the articular structures being only secondarily involved. In these cases there wiU often be A-ery little external evidence of mischief, merely one or tAvo fistulous apertures leading down to carious or necrosed bone in the condyles or the olecranon, the joint being permanently flexed and SAVollen, and the arm so useless that it can- not support the weight of the hand. Oir exposing the articulation, perhaps caries, AAuth complete destruction of the cartilage, Avith or Avithout necrosis of the articular ends, and with loose pieces of dead bone lying in the holloAV of the olecranon, or in one of the condyles, may be found. Most commonly the radius is the last bone that is affected, the ulna and the articular end of the humerus being generally first diseased. 2. If osseous anlcylosis have occurred, Avhether in the straight or in the bent position, excision or simple division of a portion of the consohdated bone may advantageously be practised. This operation was first done in 1827, by Ehea Barton of Philadelphia. When the elbow is ankylosed in the straight position, the arm is quite useless ; and any operation by which flexion of the limb can be obtained, even Avithout mobihty of the joint, Avill add most materially to the patient’s comfort, rendering the hand available for most pui’poses of hfe. In cases of anrjular osseous ankylosis of the elbow, the bony union should be sawn across, or a wedge-shaped piece removed, so that an useful and movable articulation may be substituted for one that is rigid and fix;ed. 3. In cases of compound fracture or dislocation of the elbow-joint, more or less complete resection of the protruding, and possibly splintered fragments, may be required (pp. 416 and 489, Vol. I.). Operation.—Excision of the elboAV-joint may be performed by three differ- ent proccdiu’cs, A'iz., the H, the I—shaped, or the simple longitudinal incision. Each method has its advocates. The H-shaped operation consists in making an incision parallel to, and a little to the radial side of, the ulnar nerve, another along the outer side of the joint, and uniting the two by a cross cut, dissecting up and down two square flaps, and clearing the bones laterally. It Avas soon found by Sm’geons that by this method a very unnecessary amoimt of incision was practised ; and accordingly the vertical cut along the outer side Avas dispensed Avith, and the I—shaped operation necessarily adopted. This consists in making the longitudinal incision parallel to, and a little to the radial pde of the ulnar nerve, and the cross cut over the olecranon to the outer side of the joint.^ More recently still, it has been found that this incision may be still further simplified, and that the cross-cut may be entirely done away with, and the operation reduced to a single longitudinal incision carried nearly vm, TT J