131 LIGATURE OF THE AXILLARY ARTERY. pi-obabilitj, find tlie part in sncli a condition as would prevent tlie possibility of bis completing the operation lie bad commenced. After laying open a large slougbing cavity, extending under tbe pectoral muscles perhaps as bigb as tbe cla^-icle, aud clearing out tbe broken-down coagula and grumous blood con- tained in it, in wbat state would be find tbe artery ? Certainly, tbe probability would bo strongly against its being in sucb a condition as to bear a ligature, even if it eould be ineluded in one. Its coats, in tbe immediate vicinity of tbe sac, could not, in accordance with wbat wo know to bo almost universally the case in spontaneous aneurisms of large size or old standing, bo expected to be in anything like a sound firm state, and would almost certainly give way under tbe pressiu-e of the noose ; or tbe vessel might have undergone fusifonn dilatation, as is very oommon in this situation, before giving rise to tbe cir- cumscribed false aueiu'ism, in which case it would be impossible to smTouud it by a ligatiu-e ; or, again, the subscapular or circumflex arteries might arise direetly from, and poim their recurrent blood into, the sac or tbe dilated arteiy, und, as they would lie in tbe midst of inflamed and sloughing tissues, no attempt at including them in a ligature could be successfully made. In sucb circumstances as these, the danger of tbe patient Avould be considerably in- creased by the imtation and inflammation that AA'ould be occasioned by laying open and searching for tbe bleeding vessel in tbe sac of an' inflamed, suppu- rating, and slougbing aneurism, and much valuable time Avould be lost in what must be a fruitless operation ; at tbe close of which it would, in all probability, become necessary to have recourse to disarticulation at tbe shoulder-joint, and "thus remove tbe whole disease at once. I should, therefore, be disposed to have recourse to disarticulation cd the shoulder-joint at once, in all cases of profuse recurrent bmmon-bage, following slougbing of tbe sac of an axillary aneiu’ism, which could not be airested by direct pressiu’e on tbe bleeding- orifice, after the subclaAflan has been tied. ^ There is another form of axiUary aneurism that requires immediate amputa- tion at the shoulder-joint, whether the subclaAdan artery ha^-e preA’iously been ligatiued or not; it is the case of difiiise anemism of the arnqjit, with threatened or actual gangrene of the limb. Ligature of the Axillary Artery.—Shoifld ligatiue of the axillai-y artery at any time be required, the vessel may be secured in two ivays, in the ^ace that intervenes between the lower margin of the clavicle and the fold of the axilla. fl. he first way is by an ineision, either straight or somewhat semilunar, parallel to and immediately below the inferior border of the clavicle ; this must be earned through the peetoral musele, and, when this is divided, some oose areolar tissue, in which the acromio-thoracic artery ramifies, is exposed. This must be seratched through eaiitiously, until the friscia coi-ering the vessels !)V ^ tbis, whieh must be done in the most careful niaiiiicr by making a small aperture in it, and then passing a grooved director under it the vein fimt eomes into view. This must be drawn doAvnwards, wheiTthe chvifV'1 ' it in the deep hollow formed by the exceedm^iy diflicult one, on account of the depth and narrowness of the wound ami the n,„sc„la:.ch.™ctc.- of it, walls, a, well as from tlm elam«