LATERAL OPERATION. 769 of different sizes, and curved, can most conveniently be used when fixed in a roughened handle (Figs. 734 and 735). The tube should be of silver or gum- elastic, well rounded at the end, and provided with silver rings, and may be petticoated. The searcher is a slightly curved sound, having a bulbous ex- tremity (Fig. 737). The syringe should be j)rovided with Gross’s ball nozzle, which ]iropcls a reversed current. In describing the operation of lithotomy, we shall first of all examine seriatim the different steps of an operation that presents no unusual complica- tion or difficulty; Ave shall then consider the difficulties that may be met with, and the accidents that may occur dm-ing the operation, and the principal sources of danger and the causes of death after its performance. Preparation of the Patient.—Before subjecting a patient to operation, his general health must be properly attended to ; and, indeed, if we find the constitution much broken by prolonged suffering, the bladder or kidneys seriously diseased, as indicated by the existence of pus or albumen in large quantity in his urine, it will be wise to postpone the operation for a time, or perhaps even to defer it altogether. There are few conditions in Avhich a Sm’- geon is placed, that test his moral coimage more severely than the refusal to operate on a patient for stone, and thus allowing him to die unrelieved. For a Sm-geon to do this, unmoved by the entreaties of the patient and of his fi'iends, requires no little self-reliance. Yet, when the patient is greatly emaciated, his constitution broken doAvn, and his kidneys evidently disor- ganised extensively, lithotomy would be attended by an inevitably and rapidly fatal result, and the performance of an operation would be an useless act of cruelty. Supposing, however, that the stone is of moderate size, that the urine is either healthy or contains but a moderate quantity of pus or albumen, that there is no visceral complication to prevent the performance of the ojDera- tion, and that the patient’s health is in a tolerably good state, it will only be necessary to subject hiin to proper preparative treatment for a short time, so as to allay or remove irritability of the urinary organs before jrroceeding with it. With this view he'should be kept as quiet as possible for about a week or ten days preceding the operation ; his diet should be properly regulated, but not too low ; the pain should be lessened by the administration of opiates or henbane, and the bowels properly relieved. On the day preceding the opera- tion, a dose of castor-oil or some other aperient should be administered ; and on the morning of the operation the rectum must be emptied by means of an enema. Lateral Operation.—AU the urine contained in the bladder having been draA\n off, that organ should be filled by the injection of about six or eight ounces of tepid water, in order to steady it and' to facilitate the seizure and extraction of the stone. xYfter chloroform has been administered, the Surgeon should introduce a full-sized staff, which he uses as a sound, in order to feel tor the calculus. If he detects it, he proceeds ivith the operation; if he cannot detect It, It IS usually recommended that he should ivithdi-aw the staff and mtroduce a sound, with wliich he examines the bladder ; and, in the event of his stiiliaihng to discover the presence of the stone, the operation must be deterred, for it is an imperative rule in surgeiy that lithotomy should never bo performed unless the stone can be felt at the time Avhen the patient is actually 3d