9S4 DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITAL OltGANS. fhe'tat f»f ''“""S P»i»W Ottt toll »'“‘''.‘’'“P “f that weve previously but imper- tol? /n ; ““"J' of “-aalW to'Ctiinal (tosos of the uterus are m reality clepeudeut upon eougestion, iufiammatiou, and other structural lesions of this organ. S//m^Aoms.~Thesc uterine discharges, occuring usually as the result of chionic inflammation and its consequences, just as we find on other mucous sui faces, as those^ of the urethra, throat, or eyelids, are attended by various symptoms mdicative of local distress : such as pain in the back and thio-hs and more especially in the left groin, with dysmenorrhoea, and usually a good’deal 0 sympathetic constitutional imtation, terminating in impaired digestion, malnutrition, and anaemia. It is in this condition of the system that many of the so-called hysterical affections are apt to arise ; and the Siu'geon often finds that the most inveterate cases of neuralgia of the joints, the spine, the hip, or the breasts, and of amam-otic and other obscure affections connected with nervous irritation, are primarily dependent on chronic uterine disease ; and it is only by attacking and removing this, that he can remedy the secondary mischief. On examining the condition of the cervix and os uteri in these cases by means of the speculum, various morbid changes are observed in them ; the cervix is perhaps thickened, indurated, or knobbed on one side ; the os is frequently patulous ; and the mucous membrane covering these parts will be observed to be erythematous, congested, and perhaps excoriated, not unfrequently in a granular condition, closely resembling what may be observed in some forms of gTanular conjunctivitis. In other cases, again, true ulcera- tion may exist both upon the cervix and within the os. These ulcers, abrasions, excoriations, or by whatever term they may be designated, are imquestionably a fruitful source of mischief in this situation, giving rise to considerable thickening of subjacent structures, and usually to abimdant muco-piunlent discharge and much sympathetic irritation. In character they closely resemble corresponding forms of disease met with on the mucous surface in other situations, not attended by loss of substance, but by the development of small pointed granulations or papillie, from which the discharge is pomed forth. The Treatment of these various affections of the uterus has been materially simplified since their pathology has been better imderstood ; and practitioners are now generally agreed as to the necessity of the emifioyment of energetic local measiu’es for the removal of these morbid states. To the Singeon who is in the habit of managing local disease on other mucous surfaces, and of removing the structiu’al lesions that result from chronic inflammation in other organs, the treatment of these cases can present little difficidty, as it is con- ducted on precisely the same principles that guide him in the management of similar affections elsewhere. The employment of caustics is of essential seindce in these various forms of chronic uterine disease. In cases of simple ulceration or excoriation, the nitrate of silver in stick, aj)plied every third or fom-th day, will frequently be found to effect a speedy cure. For this jpurpose, the hinged caustic-holder will be found a useful instrument. If there be much chronic induration, conjoined with the affection of the mucous membrane, the i^otassa cum calce, fused into narrow sticks, may very advantageously be used. In doing this, howevei*.