DISEASES OF THE BREAST. 592 scirrlious ulcer, luiviug hard, elevated, and everted edges, a greyish-green or foul surface, and discharging a quantity of very fetid pus. In some cases ulceration may take place at several points, and thus the whole surfaee of the breast become converted into one immense chasm, Avhich may even extend up into the axilla. The skin, when affected, often assumes a red, glazed, hard, and brawny character, being shining, and as if gTeasy upon the surface, having its pores enlarged, and enveloping the side of the chest in a kind of stiff solid casing, attended usually by much pain, considerable cedema of the arm, and an aggravated form of constitutional cachexy : ulceration at last takes place in this hardened mass, and then speedily destroys the patient. In other cases, the cancerous development seems to develop primarily, and to expend its energy chiefly upon the cutaneous structures. The tumour of the gland is small, atrophic, and. implicates the nipple. The cancerous infiltration rapidly spreads into the surrounding integument, which becomes early contaminated, assuming a hard, leathery character, or feeling brawny and infiltrated ; often without discoloration, but presenting a hypertrophied appearance, the pores being enlarged, and the interspaces between them increased. In other cases, the infil- trated skin assumes a brownish or purplish colour, and is covered by rough desquamating crusts, so as to resemble the bark of an old tree. This diseased state of the integuments will extend very widely, without ulceration or fm’ther development of the tumour situated in the gland. I have in this way seen the integuments of the whole front of the chest, from the clavicles to below the mamnite, and from one axilla to the other, infiltrated, hard, and leathery, of a brownish-red colour, forming a stiff cuirass, as it were, but Avithout ulceration. This condition is very chronic ; and it is remarkable that in it the axillary glands are not infiltrated, or the constitution rendered cachectic, at nearly so early a period as when the disease primarily originates in the mammary gland, and secondarily involves the skin. Another way in which the skin becomes involved primarily, is by the formation of a scirrhous tubercle or nodule in it, usually towards the outer or axillary border of the mamma. From this the disease gradually infiltrates inwards, impheating the gland in a secondary manner, and usually but to a limited extent. The Pain is in many cases but trifling in the early stages of the affection ; so much so, indeed, that it is the tumour, often accidentally noticed, that first excites alarm ; as it increases, however, the suffering becomes severe, more particularly at night, is greatly aggravated by handling the diseased mass, and chiefly extends up to the shoulder and doAvn the arm. The pain usually becomes most severe about the time when the skin is first implicated ; but, as the cutaneous infiltration goes on, it gradually lessens, OAvmg probably to the destruction of the cutaneous nerves. Retraction of tlie Nipple commonly commences about the same time that the skin is implicated ; it appears to be owing to the glandular substance becomino- involved in the mass of the tumour, and thus giving rise to shorten- ing of the lacteal ducts ; in consequence of which, by the projection forwm-c s of the general mass of the breast, the nipple appears to become completely burled.'^ This sign has received more importance than it deserves in coiinec-