EXCISION' OF JOINTS AND BONES. 276 culoid (&) IS the third ; and the anterior tarsal synovial mmilrane (c) is the touitli and largest of all, and the most important in a surgical aspect. It ex- tends between the scaphoid and the three cuneiform and the cuboid bones, l)e- tween the cuneiform bones themselves, between the two outer cuneiforms and the bases of the second and third metatarsal bones, and also between the external cuneiform and the cuboid. The articulation between the cuboid and last two metatarsal bones is shown at cl; and e is that between the internal cuneiform and the first metatarsal bones. These two {d and e) are not, strictly speaking, tarsal joints. In the vast majority of cases, so far as my experience goes, it is the osseous structures, and not the articulations, which are primarily diseased. The bones, being cancellous, far re- moved from the centre of circulation, and ex- posed to alternations of temperatm-e, readily become the seat of congestion and caries, but rarely of necrosis ; and in strumous subjects not unfrequently fall into a tuberculous condi- tion. Caries, whether simple or tuberculous, once set up in bones, speedily imjilicates the ar- ticulations secondarily. Now it will easily be understood, on casting an eye on the arrangement of the tarsal synovial membranes, that the extent of disease will, in a great measm-e, depend upon its original seat. Thus, a person may have disease in the os calcis, extending even to the cuboid, with very little likelihood of its pro- ceeding farther for a length of time. Such disease is hmited to the outer part of the foot, does not involve its integrity, and readily admits of removal by operation. But let him have disease springing up in the scaphoid, or in one of the cuneiform bones, or in the bases of the second or third metatarsal bones, and the morbid action wiU rapidly spread through the whole of the anterior and inner part of the tai'sns, and, in all probability, no operation of resection can be advantageously employed. Hence the seat of disease influences materially its amount and extent, and the kind of operation required. The foot is frequently the seat of strumous disease ; to this it is disposed by the alternations of temperature to which it is subjected, by its liability to sprains and injmles, and by the cancellous and spongy structure of its bones, together with its extensive articulating surfaces. When affected by striunous inflammation it becomes painful, the patient being unable to bear upon the toes or anterior ball of the foot. Swelling of an uniform character takes place, with tenderness at some point optposite the bones or articulations that are chiefly involved ; and eventually abscess forms, leaving sinuses through which the probe passes down uj)on softened and carious bone. These evidences of disease are usually much marked about the dorsum and sides, the sole being often comparatively fr’ee—an important jwint in reference to operation. Fig. 464.—^Diagram of Synovial Mem- branes of the Foot.