TREATMENT OF ULCER AND FIESURE. m a frequent desire to urinate, tenderness about the prostate, and seminal emis- sions. The pain is sometimes so severe that the patient c^oids defecation as long as possible, and even abstains from food with the view of lessening the necessity for the fr-eqiiency of this act. Very commonly in women,^ the pains produced by the rectal disease simulate those occasioned by uterine irritation ; and in both sexes tliey may after a time become continuous, and be attended by a good deal of constant uneasiness in sitting, so that the patient is obliged to raise the hip of the affected side. There is often a discharge of a streak of pus or blood on the fteces, and conmionly a good deal of mucous exudation, with some tenesmus on defecation ; but in some instances these symptoms are altogether absent, and the patient never suffers any local inconvenience except from the pain. The constitutional irritation is often very gTcat, the iierA'ous system gene- rally sympathising with the local mischief. The countenance becomes pale, anxious, careworn, and the patient’s expression is indicative of constant suffering. Causes.—This affection most commonly occurs in women, especially in those of an hysterical temperament and weakly constitution. When met with in men, , it is most frequently seen in enfeebled, cachectic, and debilitated subjects, and appears to be the result of a broken state of health. In persons who have been the subjects of the chi-onic dysentery of hot climates, I have several times noticed a peculiar form of patchy ulceration within the rectum, of an extremely iiTitable and very intractable character. I have in several instances observed it in women to be of a syphilitic nature, and in such cases it is situated gene- rally towards the side or the anterior part of the anus. The rectum may be injured by bloAvs or falls upon the sacrum or coccyx. Fissm’e, laceration of the mucous membrane, ruptiu’e of the muscidar fibres, or even the detachment of the whole of the rectiun from its connections with the sacrum and coccyx, may ensue from these injuries. Treatment.—The treatment of fissure or ulcer of the anus, when the disease is met with in the early stages, may sometimes be successfully conducted by the application of nitrate of silver to the fissime, and the use of an anodyne or astringent suppository. I have found a very excellent and useful suppository in this and many other painful affections of the anus to be composed of 2 grains of extract of belladonna, 2 grains of the acetate of lead, and 4 of tannin, made up to a proper consistence mth a little cocoa-butter. This may be introduced into the rectum every night and allowed to dissolve there ; the bowels should at the same time be kept gently open with castor-oil, or the lenitive electuary. In those cases in which the disease has been of some standing these means will not suffice, and it becomes necessary to have I’ecom’se to a very simple operation to effect a cure. This consists in dividing the affected mucous membrane through the ulcer or fissure, with possibly some of the subjacent fibres of the sphincter muscle, by which the part is set at rest, and cicatrisation speedily takes place. The relief after the operation is usually immediate ; indeed, after its performance, a patient who has been suffering severely for months or years, wdl often get complete and almost instantaneous relief. The merit of intro- ducing this plan of treatment for the cure of ulcer and fissm-e of the anus into sm-gical practice is due to Sir B. Brodie. Boyer had previously recommended