ASPIRATION IN STRANGULATED HERNIA. 655 rupture. ITo 'will then find, on examining the part, that there is a total absence of all that fulness Avhich is occasioned by the presence of the sac, even after its contents only have been reduced ; the sac, in such cases, always giving rise to a feeling of fulness and roundness in the part. He will, on the contrary, find that the abdominal ring is peculiarly and very distinctly open ; it is much larf>-er than usual, and somewhat rounded. On pushing the finger into the canal, this will be felt quite empty; but in some cases, on deep pressure with the finger, cspeeially Avhen the patient stands up or coughs, a rounded tumour may be in- distinctly felt behind the ordinary seat of the hernia. In many cases, however,, the most careful manual examination will fail to detect any prominence of this kind. Treatmonl.—If, after careful examination of such a case as this, in w'hich the symptoms of strangulation continue, the Surgeon learn by the previous history that a tumour has existed, but that it has suddenly gone up; and further, if he find that the seat of the supposed hernia presents the negative evidence that has just been described, it will then be necessary for him to push his inquiries a step further by an exploratory incision. Such an incision as this may first be used as a simple means of diagnosis, and, as it does not penetrate the peritoneal cavity, there is no danger attending it; and if the hernia be found, it wiU serve the pm-pose of the ordinary incision required in the operation, and may be used for the relief of the strangulation. The fii’st incision should be made so as to expose the abdominal ring ; if this be found peculiarly round and open, it would increase the pi-obabihty of the existence of the condition sought for. The inguinal canal must next be laid open, and the parts contained within it care- fully examined. If no appearance of hernial sac be found, but the cord be distinctly and clearly seen, still further presumptive evidence wiU be afforded of the reduction having been effected in mass ; for, if the hernia have been put back in the usual way, the sac will necessarily be left in the canal, and will preserve its usual relations to the cord. This supposition will be strengthened almost to a certainty if it be found that the “ condensed cellular capsule imme- diately investing the sac, as it is termed by Luke—^in other words, the con- densed and laminated subserous areolar tissue—has been left in the canal. An opening made into this will, as that Siu’geon observes, allow the finger to be brought into contact with the hernial tumour itself. Should, however, this condensed areolar tissue not be found, it must not be concluded that no hernia is present, inasmuch as this investment may have been accidentally absent. The finger should then be passed into the internal ring, which will probably be found open, and should be carried from side to side ; the tumour, if present m\\ be deteeted lying externaUy to the peritoneum behind the abdominal wall! \V hen found, it must be brought down into the canal by enlarging the ring ; it must then be opened, its contents examined, and the stricture in its neck divided. The intestine that has been so strangled must be dealt with in accordance with the rules already laid dowm. If the tumour cannot be readily u examination of it and its contents, the patient desired to make some propulsive efforts, so as to cause it to protrude If not come do^vn, it must be opened, and the stricture cautiously diyided within the abdomen with a sheathed bistoury. Treatment of Strangulated Hernia by Aspiration.—This operation, in