COMPARISON OF METHODS OF TREATMENT. 909 In the first instance, a dense and contractile cicatricial mass is formed ; in the second case, a linear and scarcely perceptible scar. Comparison of Methods of Treatment.—Gradual dilatation, earned on with patience and gentleness, if need be, on account of the instability of the urethra or the sensitiveness of the patient, with the help of anmsthetics, will suffice for the cure of the vast majority of strictures; and it rarely becomes necessary for a Surgeon who combines patience Avith skill to have recourse to those more scA'cre methods of treatment which have been somewhat unduly extolled and too often unnecessarily practised of late years. The urethra is indeed frequently treated as if it were an inert tube, to AA'hich the various practices of rupture, splitting, forcible dilatation, or incision, could be applied Avith impunity, rather than a highly sensitive canal, A'ery apt to resent, locally or constitutionally, undue violence applied to it. But, AA'hilst we fully recognise this important point, and hold Avith Liston that AA'henever a catheter can be got through a stricture its cure by dilatation is all but certain in the hands of a skilful Surgeon, yet it is undoubtedly the fact that cases do occasionally occur in which simple dilatation fails to effect a cure ; the strictme being highly contractile, and not alloAving expansion beyond a certain point, or relapsing AAffienever the dilating means are removed. In other cases, also, the patient suffers so much pain and irritation whenever an instrument is passed, that he cannot bear the repeated introductions that are necessary, more particularly if the stricture be complicated with fi.stul£e in perin^eo or false passages, which render its cm-e by dilatation tedious and almost impracticable. In such cases as these the Sm-geon, being unable to benefit his patient materially by dilatation, must choose between the employ- ment of jAalliative means or more active measures. It appears to me that there are four classes of cases, in which more energetic means than simple dilatation may not only be advantageously employed, but are absolutely required. 1. Very old dense cartilaginous strictures, often of traumatic origin, which admit an instrument Avith great difficulty, and cannot be dilated beyond a certain point, OAving to the conversion of the lu’ethral structures into a kind of dense, fibrous, almost cicatricial tissue, which neither admits of expansion nor of absoiqjtion by the pressure of instruments ; and in which a considerable extent—half an inch or more—of the urethra is iuA’olved. 2. The same kind of stricture, comj)licated ~^Mhfistidai in the perinmum or scrotum, Avith perhaps considerable plastic infiltration of these parts. In both these classes, I think that the perineal section or external imethrotomy is the preferable operation. 3. Very tight sfrictures, accompanied by excessive sensibility of the urethra ; in which each introduction of the instrument is attended by intense suffering, spasmodic movements of the limbs, and rigors, so that the patient cannot be induced to submit to a proper course of bougies. 4. Very elastic, though perhaps narrow sirichtres, that can be dilated readily enough, even up to the admission of full-sized instruments ; but which, AAffien the treatment is discontinued, immediately begin to contract again, so that the patient is neA'er out of the Surgeon’s hands, and sees no prospect of cure. In these last two classes of cases, I am of opinion that internal urethrotomy