COMPLETE EXCISION OF THE UPPER JAW. 481 laxation of parts can be obtained for the excision of the greater part of the b„nc and floor of the orbit will bo found to be sound. When this happens, they should both be loft; and with this the cheek has been incised as jnst described, a deep horizontal groove should b“^h a narrow straight-backed saw ^-/ow the orbit dunetly acr^^^^ from the nasal process of the maxillary to the edge of the malar bone. Ti e forceps should now bo applied so as to cut downwards and outwards from the end of this incision, and thus to sever the outer connexion between the super ioi maxilla and the malar bone. They are then to cut along the groove that has been traced horizontally with the saw, one blade cutting from the nares along this ; and lastly, the alveolus and hard palate have to be divided. This is best done after the extraction of one of the central incisors, by passing a narrow-bladed saw into the anterior nares and cutting down through the alveolus; the remainder of the section being completed with the forceps. Or the proceeding may be re- versed, and the cut made from the mouth up towards the nasal cavity. Should the disease chiefly implicate the upper- orbital and nasal portions of the bone, leavins: the cheek and roof of the mouth sound, another modification of the operation may be rrrrdertakerr by carrying the knife from the nasal process down the side of the nose and from the nostril across the cheek, dissecting up the flap thus formed, then applying a narrow-bladed saw fi’om the anterior nares across the superior maxilla above its alveolar ridge, making a perpendicrrlar errt from this into the orbit, arrd then applying the cutting pliers along these fines of incision, cutting through the superior maxilla, and finally detaching it by dividing with the forceps the nasal process and the orbital plate. 3. Complete Excision of the Upper Jaw.—The operation of excision of the whole of the upper jaw, together with the malar bone, for tumoiu- of the antrum, was first proposed by Lizars in 182G ; though Gensoul of Lyons was the first Surgeon by whom the operation was actually performed, iu May, 1820. Since then, it has been repeatedly practised ; and the names of Liston and of Fergusson are inseparably connected with it, for the skill mth -which they have devised, and the boldness -with which they have carried out the various steps of its performance. The patient should bo placed in a sitting or semi-recumbent position, oppo- site a good light. The Surgeon stands on the right of the patient. The facial artery should then be compressed as it passes round the lower ja-w ; or an acupressure-needle may be passed under it; and the hannon-hage from the incisions into the soft parts thus materially restrained. The parts to be re- I I Fig. 5S4, Lines of Incision in Liston’s Oiieiu- tion for Excision of Upper Jaw. VOL. II.