UlilFAllY CALCULUS. 756 boon obsen’od by Laugier, Tjangenbeck, and others. It is of extroinely rare occniToncc, and has only been found in four recorded instances in the form of calculous concretions. These ha^•e generally been of small size, with the exception of the one removed by Langonbeck, which weighed 388 grains. For a detailed account of the chemical characters and constituents of this sub- stance, as well as of the other materials of which calculi* arc formed, I must refer to the works of Gr. Bird, Beale, Thudichum, &c. Carbonate of Iiime has occasionally been met Anth as an amorphous powder in allcaline or A-’ery faintly acid urine. Bird states that he has detected carbonate of lime as forming a distinct stratum in some phosphatic calculi; and Thudichum has examined prostatic concretions consisting almost entirely of this' substance—the urinary origin of Avhich, hoAvever, he doubts. But minary vesical calculi composed of carbonate of lime are certainly very rarely met with. STONE IN THE BLAHDEB. Fig. ns.- Section of an Aiternating Calculus. S'L'RUCTURE OF Calculi.—Calculi, though sometimes composed throughout of the same deposit, are not unfrequently made up of layers or strata, differing in chemical composition foom one another, and these usually go by the name of alternating calculi (Fig. 718). Most frequently the nucleus consists of hthic acid; next in the order of frequency comes the oxalate of lime'; and then the concretion of a phosphatic character throughout. It is veiy seldom that the nucleus is absent; but concre- tions have occasionally been met with in which none could be detected, or in which it was even replaced by a cavity. The nucleus is usually as nearly as possible in the centre of the calculus, and is generally nearly regular in shape ; occasionally, hoAvever, it is branched or curiously radiated, and then the concretion generally affects a corresponding outline. Calculi containing tAAO oi three nuclei have sometimes been found, consisting probably of an equal number o concretions agglomerated together. A foreign body occasionally takes the place o a nuc eus. The body of a calculus having the uric acid nucleus is usually composed ot some of the lithates ; but not unfrequently these are incrusted by a deposit of phosphates. In other instances, the body may be wholly composed of some of the earthy phosphates, which more rarely alternate AVith the oxalate ot lime or the triple phosphates. ^ ,. An oxalate of lime nucleus iisuaUy has a body of the same constitution ; but in some cases it is incrusted by phosphates or mates (Fig. 710). When the interior is phosphatic, the concretion is always of the same constitution. The alterations in the composition of a calculus are due to vaiwing conditions of the general health, and consequen y of the character and constituents of the urine, and of the f state of the lining membrane of the bladder. T oSJ'VSrc.-; acid and oxalate of lime nuclei and layei-s ate imdo'.btedl} due to comtitutional causes. The phosphatic whether interposed between the lu-io acid or incnisting the calculus, arc piob.. y