405 TUMOURS OF THE NECK. taken hold of by the hand or a large double hook, and drawn Avell forwards whilst the deep dissection is being canded on. In prosecuting this, the Surgeon must pai’ticultu'ly guard against wounding the tcmporo-maxillaiy artciy and the portio dura nerve, which ai-e especially exposed to injiuy.^ In some cases the di\-isiou of these, especially of the artery, cannot be avoided, as they are incorporated in the mass that is undergoing removal, ihe ha^moirhage will then of com'sc be abundant, but may usually be immediately anested by the ligatm-e of the divided artery; indeed, in most cases the bleeding is profuse, owing to the unavoidable section of nutrient vessels and of lai-ge subcutaneous veins, but may generally be readily arrested by ligature and pressure. In most instances, however, by keeping the edge of the knife carefully against the tumour, and by drawing it well forwai'd, so as to loosen it in its areolar bed ^it each stroke of the scalpel, removal of the morbid mass may be effected without the di'vision of any important vessel or nerve. It is of more consequence to •avoid a wound of the portio dura or of the chief branches of the pes anserinus, than eA’en of the temporo-maxiUary artery ; as persistent and incurable paralysis of the face would result from such an injury. Injury to this nerve is best ■avoided by dissecting out the tumour by incisions parallel to its main trunk; and chief branches, and especially by drawing the mass well forward, and directing the knife towards it. After the extirpation of some small fibrous or ■encysted tumoiu-s in the substance of the parotid, there is often a great tendency to copious secondary hremorrhage, requiring pressure, or even the ay)plication of the actual cautery, for its arrest. If the tumoiu’, though non-malignant, have been allowed to attain an enonnous size, developing at its deeper attachments as well as superficially, with lai-ge lobes lying behind and under the ramus of the jaw, in close relation with the pharynx, the internal carotid, and jugular vein, it will not be prudent to attempt its removal. Excision of the Parotid Gland itself is occasionally spoken of, but is veiy rarely if ever done. I believe that in most, if not all, the cases in which it is stated that complete removal of this gland has been accomphshed, tumours •overlying and compressing it have been mistaken for it. It is evident that a diseased parotid could not be removed without the di\’ision of the external -carotid artery and facial nerve. TUMOURS OF THE NECK. Growths, Simple and Malignant.—Besides tumours in the parotid region. Fatly, Fibrous, Glandular, and Encysted Grmvths are not imlrequently met with in the Suhnaxillai y Space, and in the Trianyles of the Nech. In these situations ey may occasionally attain a considerable size, though they seldom extend veiy deeply, being superficial to the deep fascia. Hence, when the integuments •and supeificial structm-es covering such a growth are divided, it may be insu- a ec wi sufficient lacihty, its fixity being in a great measm-c due to its beino- boimcl down by the investing fiiscia, rather than to its haHng contracted deep a esions. Occasionally, though rarely, a slo^vly growing tumour develops f cep y m e anterior triangle of the neck, lying between the sterno-mastoid ^ e hachea, and the pharynx, possibly even under the carotid sheath, with the rntciy pushed on one side, or e^■cn running over the anterior convexity of the