^32 SPECIAL ANEURISAfS. occasioned by the mimcrous venous and arterial branches which ramify across the space in which the artery lies. After the vessel has been exposed, the passage of the ligature around it Avill bo greatly facilitated l)y bringing the arm to the side of the body, so as to take off all tension from'^the wound (Fig. 8!)0). ffhe safer and simpler operation consists in making an incision from the centre of the clavicle directly downwards, in the course of the vessels, to the middle of the anterior fold of the axilla. In this way the skin, superficial fascia, and greater pectoral muscle, must be successively divided. The lesser pectoral w'ill then be exposed ; and the artery may either be ligatured below this, 'without fimther division of muscular substance, or if it be thought desir- able to deligate it under this, the muscle must be cautiously cut through. Fig. 390.—Dingi-am of Left Axillaiy Artei-y Lelow olavicle. a. AxiUary arteiy gi'^iig off thoraoico- acToiiiialis. v. AxiUaiy vein receiving ceplialic. >•. Bracliial plexus of nen-es. The great pectoral muscle- is cut across. "When this is done, a very distinct and firm fascia will come into view ; this being pushed up, must be carefully opened, when the artery and vein will be- seen lying parallel to one another, the artery not being overlapped by the vein, as it is higher up. The -i'ein having been drawn inwards, the aneimism- needle must be carried from above downwards between it and the arteiy. The gTeat advantage of this operation is, that the woimd is open and free, and that, consequently, the artery can be more readily reached in any part of its- course. The disadvantage is the great di-vision of muscular substance that it entails. Thig, however, need not leave any permanent weakness of the hmb, as by proper position ready and direct union may be effected between the parts. The axillary artery may also be ligatured at any point below the lower border of the pectorahs minor, by making an incision parallel to its coimse in the axilla. The guiding point for the vessel in this situation is obtained by dividing the space between the anterior and posterior folds of the axilla into three equal parts, when the artery wiU be found to lie at the junction of the anterior with the middle third. The arm being held at a right angle to the trunk, so as to make the skin tense, an incision is made, commencing at the thoracic border of the axilla and extending for a distance of about three inches parallel to the course of the artery. The incision must be made so as to dmde the skin only. The fascia being exposed, must be carefully opened, when the axillary vein will come into view, and must be drawn on one side with a bhuit hook. The arteiy will now be seen suiToimded by the nerves of the brachial plexus. Ill front of it or to its inner side is the internal cutanqous. To its inner side are the uhiar and the nerve of Wrisberg. To the outer side are the median, and, for a short distance above, the external cutaneous. Behind aio