523 excision of the tongue. the disease and they should then be tied very tightly, so mass effectually. This may then be cut away by scissors, so as to strangle the as to diminish the • Fig. C25.—Corkscrew-NeccUe. quantity of slough that would otherwise be left in the mouth. Swelling of the tongue, followed by rather profuse salivation and fetor of the breatn^ attends this operation ; but the mass, if properly constricted, will slough awaj in a few days, lea’cing a large gap that readily fills by granulation. When tde disease extends so far back that it cannot readily be reached fiom ^ e mou^ „ Cloquet, iVi-nott, and others, have successfuUy strangled it by making an m- Fig. 626.—Apijlication of Ligature to Cancer of Anterior Part of Tongue. cision in the hyoid region, between the genio-hyoid muscles, carrying the hgatures by means of long needles through the base of the tongue, and then drawing them tight through the aperture in the neck, so as to constrict the diseased mass. Excision of the Whole or of a Large Portion of the Tongue.—This bold operation may be performed in three ways :—1. From the inside of the mouth without any extenial incisions ; 2. By the submental method thi’ough the mylo-hyoid space ; 3. By the division of the lower hp and jaw, and the application of the ecraseur. The excision of the whole tongue from the intmlor of the mouth, without any external incision, was not and could not be safely practised before the intro- duction of the ecraseur into sm’gical practice ; and it is to Chassaignac that we are indebted for this advance in operative surgery. There are many methods by which this operation may be performed, the difference in the minor details being dependent on the extent and situation of the cancer, and the amount of tongue that consequently requires extirpation. The following plan is the one that is most usually adopted, and that will be found effectual and safe in the vast majority of cases. The gag having been applied, the end of the tongue should be seized with hooked forceps and well dravm forwards and upwards. The Surgeon then cuts across the fimnum by means of strong curved scissors, and divides succes- sively the insertions of the genio-hyoid and genio-hyo-glossal muscles into thn