PATHOLOGY OF WHITE SWELLING. 231 cnlai-o-cd and rounded, the bony prominences being elhiced by an uniform, douo-hy, semi-elastic, or pulpy swelling, occupying the interstices of the articu- lation. The integuments covering it preserve their white colour : there is usually but little pain felt, except in moving the limb ; and the position is always that in which the patient has most ease, the joint being generally semi- flexed. There is a degree of stiffness and rigidity in the joint ; and, in conse- quence of the wasting of the limb from disuse, the affected articulation appears more swollen than it really is. The general health does not appear at first to sufler much ; but, as the disease advances, symptoms of iiTitation and hectic declare themselves. This affection is always characterised by a special tendency to run on to suppuration, and in the majority of cases at last passes into this condition, although the tendency may be checked by pioper treatment. The joint suftei-s from exacerbations of interciuTent attacks of inflammation, the limb swells and becomes oedematous, and abscess Anally forms in and ai’ound the joint; often aromid, before it takes place within. When this is opened the constitutional symptoms become more severe, hectic speedily sets in, and strumous deposit in other organs, such as the lungs, at last carries off the patient. Pathological Changes.—In this affection the tissues immediately external to the joint, as the flbrous capsule and the investing areolar membrane, are always much thickened and infiltrated with fatty and plastic matter ; and the great tendency of this gelatinous infiltration to run into unhealthy suppm’ation greatly adds to the mischief that ensues. In the interior of the joint, we find much the same kind of changes that have been described as characterising acute arthritis ; the cartilages have lost their polish, their elasticity, and their firm hard section, being softened, eroded, and disintegrated ; the synovial membrane is removed in parts, and is here and there vascularised ; in others it is replaced, together with the cartilages, either by large quantities of the semi-transparent gelatinous-looking fatty deposit, or by the pulpy gxey or brownish fibro-ceUifiar material that is met with in arthritis. The ligaments are inflamed, softened, and destroyed, being converted into somewhat similar materials ; and the in- terior of the joint is fiUed with a pmulent-looking syno'sdal fluid, thin and yellow, usually containing a large quantity of fatty matter. The bones undergo important changes in this disease, the articidar ends becoming expanded and enlarged ; and, though this was denied by Crowther, Russell, and others, it is affirmed by more modern Surgeons, and I have had repeated opportunities of fietemiining the fact. In aU the cases that I have examined, the osseous tisue has luidcrgonc important changes, the compact structure having become thin and expanded, and the cells of the cancellated portion fiUed with a bloody and fatty serous fluid; or else the bone is softened, often cutting readily with the knife, and, owing to the deposit of fat, presents a yellower and more homo- geneous section than healthy bone. In some cases tuberculous matter is de- posited in it, and it is that that gives rise to the vomiem and circumscribed abscesses. Irom this it would appear, that the principal changes that take p ace in a joint affected with white swelling consist in an unhealthy striuuous in amraation of the parts, and in the consequent deposition of considerable quantities of semi-transparent and lowly organised exudation matter Avhich, in its tura, has a tendency to run into unhealthy suppuration, or to undergo fatty transformation. These fatty degenerations of the cancellous articular ends.