COMPARISON OF OPERATIONS ON TONGUE. 529 0. The noose of the galvcanic ^craseur is passed over the wliipcord stay and behind the needle, and tightened. i i i. 10. The electric ciuTcnt is tnrned on, and the tongue slowly cut thioUot • 11' Durino- this process, the pharynx must be mopped out with sponges. 12'. After "the removal of the tongue the stump must be di-awn forward, and examined for any bleeding point. . 13. The two sides of the lower jaw are then broughttogether by wire sutuies passed throiK^h the drill-holes, and the cut through the lip by harelip pms. 14. A drainage hole should be left behind the symphysis of the jaw, at the lower end of the incision. x> In comparing the relative merits of the simple and galvanic dcraseur tor the removal of portions of the tongue, it may be said that both instrimients are equally efficacious in the performance of the operation itself; that the dmsion of the organ by the simple 6crasem’ is more liable to be followed by hgemor- rhage at the time of the operation, which may always be readily controlled by ligature ; that the action of the galvanic 6craseur is more likely to be followed by secondaiy hjEmorrhage about the fifth or sixth day, at the period, in fact, of the detachment of the sloughs produced by its cauterising action ; but that by the very production of these sloughs the cauterising influence is extended into the stump to some depth beyond the line of incision, and thus tends to destroy morbid deposits or scattered cells, beyond the line of the actual section. In all respects, then, except so far as the liability to secondary haemorrhage is con- cerned, the galvanic ecraseur, in my experience, which, in my own practice and that of others, has been large in these cases, has the advantage over the simple wire one. HaemoiThage, at the time of the operation, may be arrested by drawing the tongue-stump forwards by means of hooked forceps, and tying the cut lingual artery with whipcord. As the tissues are brittle, this should include some sur- rounding structm’e. The ligature ends are all cut short. In one case, a coagulum formed in the pharynx before the vessel could be secured ; and I had to per- form laryngotomy. The patient made a good recovery, dying two years after the operation, from recurrence of the disease in the chest and one of the toes. Secondary hgemorrhage may be restrained by means of ice, the application of perchloride of iron, and pressure on the bleeding part. But if not fatal at the time, it is apt to be so by its recurrence, and by inducing exhaustion. Comparison of Methods of Operation.—In instituting a comparison between the three different methods of dealing with tumours of the tongue by ligature, the knife, and the ecraseur, it shovdd be understood that the same plan of treatment is not equally or indiscriminately applicable to all cases, but that one or other should be adopted according to the size, situation, and extent of the cancerous mass. If this be small and situated at the tip of the organ, this portion of the organ may be easily, quickly, and safely excised. If the disease be situated towards the side, so as to require the removal of perhaps one half of the anterior third of the organ, it may be cut out; but I think that it will be found safer and more convenient to ligature it. If it occupy the whole breadth of the anterior third, or even half of the tongue, I consider that removal by the galvanic (icraseiu- is the simplest and safest pro- cedure. If the posterior part bo superficially affected, the disease may be cut VOL. II. A