LITHOTOMY AND LITIIOTRITY IN FEMALES. 837 extracted. The incision into the bladder through the anterior vaginal wall should bo brought together by metallic sutm-es, as in ordinary operations for vesico-vaginal fistula, and may thus be successfully closed, as has been done by J. Lane, Aveling, and others. ,. ^ On Comparison of those throe operations, urethral liihotomy is certainly the easiest, the least severe at the time of its performance, and the least likely to be attended by after evil consequences. It is quite sufficient for the extrac- tion of all ordinaiy calculi. The only possible evil that may result from it is the want of union of the incision. But should this happen, a plastic procedure at a subsequent period can easily remedy the defect that would thus be left. Both the high and the vaginal operations are easy of performance. In the Mjh operation, there would, mth care, be but little risk of injuring the peri- toneum ; and the chance of nrinary infiltration, Avhich is a serious objection in the male, may be prevented in the female by the introduction of a siphon •catheter into the urethra. The vaginal operation, though easier of perform- ance, is open to the objection of possibly leaving a permanent lu’inary fistula. If, however, the lips of the incision have not been bruised by the forceps, or in I the extraction of the stone, and be immediately brought together by metallic sutures, the risk of a fistula is, after all, not great. Vaginal lithotomy may, in some cases, be the only alternative. I extracted, by this operation, a calculus measiu’ing eight inches by six in circumference, from the bladder of a woman twenty-three years of age, Avho had suffered from symptoms of stone from childhood. The stone by its size offered so serious an obstacle to the descent of the foetal head during parturition, that craniotomy had been rendered necessary ; the anterior vaginal wall had been a good deal bruised, and I feared that sloughing of it might take place ; hence I extracted the stone by the vaginal method. Lithotomy is not so dangerous an oj)eration in the female as in the male ; yet death occasionally occurs, especially in feeble children, from cystitis and peritonitis, more particularly if the extraction of the stone have been tedious and deficient, the bladder being much manipulated. 3. Lithotrity in the female requires to be practised on the same principles as in the male. The details of the operation differ, however, in some important particulars. The chief obstacle in the performance of the operation in the iemale, consists in the difficulty with Avhich the bladder retains m*ine or Avater that is injected into it. In consequence of this there is not only great difficulty in seizing the stone, the bladder collapsing and falling into folds around it, but also danger of injm’ing the mucous membrane Avith the lithotrite. In order to cause the bladder to retain the necessary quantity of m’ine, the pelvis must be AA'ell tilted up, and the m-ethra compressed against the lithotrite. It is well not to dilate the urethra before the introduction of the instrument, as the incontinence is thereby increased. The ordinary male lithotrite is not a very convenient instrument to use in the female ))ladder, the handle being aAvkAvardly long. This is especially the case in female children. Hence I have found it convenient to have a shorter instrument constructed, Avith Avhich it is far more easy to manipulate in the female bladder. If mine or Avatcr cannot be retained, the calculus may more