137 COMPriESSIO^"' OF THE ABDOMINAL AORTA. are eroded, constant lumbar pain will bo frequently present, ot tbe same burn- ino-, boring cluiracter as that felt in thoracic aneurism under similar circum- stinices. In some cases the pressure may aflect the groat intestine, causing considerable ditficulty in defmeation. Occasionally the tumour may attain to an enormous size before death, half filling the cavity ot the abdomen, ihe fatal tennination may bo duo to gi’adual exhaustion from pain and inteifeience with the functions of the abdominal viscera, to sudden rupture of the sac into the peritoneum or subporitoneal tissue, or into some part of the alimentaiy canal, or, more rarely, into the pleural cavity through tlie diaphragm. The Diagxosis rests chiefly on the situation of the tumour, its distinct expansile pulsation, the existence of an aneurismal bruit, and the pressure- signs. Very marlcpcl epiijcisirii' pulsaiion is not an unfrequent symptom in anmmic patients suffering from atonic dyspepsia, and in these cases very slight pressiu'e on the artery fr'om a stethoscope will give rise to a distinct bruit. Vnder these circumstances, it is sometimes not easy to speak positively as to the condition of the artery, but in the vast majority of cases a careful exami- nation under the influence of chloroform will readily determine the nature of the disease. A displaced or enlarged heart also gives rise to distinct epigastric pulsation, but this can hardly be mistaken for aneiuism. A solid mass of fieces accumulated in the. transverse colon may receive a very distinct impulse from the aorta, but the doughy feel of the mass, its superficial nature, and the history of the case, wiU usually readily determine its nature. A prominent lumbar vertebra pushing the aorta forward may also simulate a dilatation of the artery. Cancerous lumbar glands siurounding the artery may give rise to considerable difficulty in diagnosis; and here again a careful examination under chloroform is the most likely means of arrmng at a correct conclusion. Can- cerous tumours growing from the bones may give rise to almost insuperable diffieulties in the diagnosis. From tumours of the various abdominal viscera, the diagnosis must be made on general principles. The amount of fat in the abdominal walls necessarily has a great influence on the difficulty or ease of coming to a definite conclusion. Treatmext.—In aU cases of aneurism of the abdominal aorta, constitutional treatment should be given a fair trial before any more severe measiues are adopted. TufneU has recorded two cases in Avhich a erne Avas effected by diet and rest—in one case in 21 days, and in the other in 37. If this ti'eatment fail, the only resoiuce left is compression of the abdominal aorta. The pain of this application is usually very severe, so that, in order to relicA’e it, patients should be kept under the influence of chloroform for many horns. Ihe credit of introducing this mode of treatment is undoubtedly due to MuiTay of NeAvcastle-on-Tyne. The operation has noAV been performed for aortic aneurism in eight cases. In six, under J\Iurray, Durham and iloxou. Dm ham, Greenhow and Hulke, Pollock, and Sir James Paget, the pressure Avas applied on the proximal side of the sac. Of these, three—Murray’s, Durham and i\Ioxon s, and GreenhoAV and Hulke’s—Avere successful ; one, Pollock’s, failed ; and two, Durham’s second case, and Sir James Paget’s, AA'ere fatal. In tAvo the pressure was applied on the distal side of the sac ; one, under Bryant, teiminatcd fatally, and the other, under Marshall, failed. In every case the pressure has been applied by the instrmnent knoAvn in this country as Lister’s