723 EXTERNA L IIjEMORRIIOIBS. tlieir collnlai- dilatations avo filled with coagulated blood ; the investing areolar tissue is hypertrophied or thickened by plastic deposit ; and, on being cut into, the pile is seen to bo composed of a spongy kind of tissue filled with blood. External piles, when examined after removal, often resemble in structure a mass of hypertrophied areolar tissue, infiltrated with plastic matter, in vdiich a number of small '\'essels of uniform character ramify, but without any ai^pearance of cells. Internal piles, on the contrary, contain more of the venous, and less of the areolar element. They are also commonly fm-nished Avith a small central artery, Avhich is apt to bleed freely, or even dangerously, if the tumour be cut across; hence, provided they are not clogged with coagulated blood, they may readily be injected from the inferior mesenteric artciy. Ill studying the structure of hmmoiThoids, it is of importance to observe that they occur under tivo different forms : one in which there are distinct tumours, within or external to the anus, and another in which there is merely a varicose condition of the veins of this region, without distinct intumescence. In those cases in Avhich there is merely a general varicose state of the veins of the submucous areolar tissue of the anus, without any distinct tumour springing above the lei’cl of the membrane, it will be found that the smaller branches of the hcemoiThoidal plexus, and the small twigs that enter these fiom the submucous areolar tissue, have undergone varicose dilatation, being apparently gi-eatly increased in number, as well as in size. The mucous membrane is of a deep mulberry or port-wine colour, and becomes everted after each motion. There is usually some mucous secretion about the anus, rendering the part moist: and the patient complains at times of Aveight and of bearing doAvn, Avith pains either in the part itself, in the sacro-lumbar region, or m the thighs. The motions, more especially if hard, are streaked Anth blood, and more or less of this fiuid drops in a rapid manner after the passage of the feces. There is seldom much blood lost; but at times there IS an exacerbation of all these symptoms, and the hemorrhage, as AviU more particularly be mentioned hereafter, may become very abundant. This con- dition of the mucous membrane may precede, and is frequently found to accom- pany the true pile, whether external or internal, and may be looked upon as constituting the first stage of this disease. If this state of things be aUowed to continue unrelieved, the tendency to congestion increases ; more and more micous3r protruded after defecation ; the sub- one of piXl aT Before arotlTnTTfi 1T muco-cutaneous tissue. aT^nZZ th usually constitute longitudinal folds W vJvT “■ from a centre. In colour ey Aaiy from that of the natural structiues to a pink or purplish hue • and’ fowl ofTms ““ I’”"’ Tetl t ^ hence the same tumour ly I S mSt ™d ; aS S 7°' ‘han a fold o/in oS ment, and at another may become tense, tumid, and ready to biust. ii A 2