796 URINARY GALCULUS. usual way ; the lithotomist thcu, kneeling or sitting before him, made an incision in the perinmum, not exactly in the raphe, which was thought to be dangerous, but A-ery slightly to the left side, and terminating just above the anus. The knife Avas then carried on to the membranous part of the methi-a, Avhich Avas opened on the groove of the staff; and, the knife being kept firmly pressed against the staff; a long probe was introduced into the bladder by its side. The knife and the staff Averc now Avithdi-awn, nothing but the probe being left in the bladder, to serve as a guide into this cavity. Along this probe, two iron rods, called “ conductors,” Averc noAV passed, and Avith these the operator dilated the prostate and neck of the bladder, by separating the handles—at least, it was said that he dilated them, but, as John Bell pithily observes, “ he dilated, or, in plain language, tore open, the prostate gland.” These conductors being held aside, “ dilators ” Avere introduced so as to enlarge the opening, the forceps was then pushed into the bladder, and the stone extracted as it best could be. The principles of this operation Avere—a hmited incision in the membranous part of the lU’ethra above the anus ; dilatation, and not incision, of the prostate and neck of the bladder ; or, to use the words of Le Cat, “ small incision ; much dilatation.” Its results were, hoAvever, so unsuccessful, that it fell into entire disuse here, and almost so on the continent, merely appearing from time to time under various modifications at one or other of the continental schools. This condition of things prevailed mitil about twenty years ago, when a new form of median operation was devised by Allarton, who with gveat perseverance and equal ability urged it upon the attention of Surgeons in this country, by Avhom it has noAv been extensively practised. Operation.—This operation, for the introduction of which into modem sm’gery the greatest credit is due to Allarton, is performed as foUoAvs. A staff,, grooved along its convexity, haAong been inserted into the bladder, the patient is tied up in the usual mamier ; the Surgeon then, sitting in front, introduces his left index finger into the rectum, and feels for the apex of the prostate, against AAkich he keeps it lodged, in order to judge of the distance of the pros- tate from the siu’face, to act as a guide to the knife, and prevent the rectum fr’om being Avoimded. A straight-backed bistoury is now entered half an inch above the anal aperture, and pushed straight forwards, to a depth of about an inch and a half in the mesial line, so as to enter, if possible, the gvoove of the staff at the apex of the prostate. A small incision upwards is then made in the groove of the staff, and, as the knife is AvithdraAvn, the incision in the skin is also extended upwards; the knife is then laid aside, and a long ball-pointed probe is introduced into the bladder along the groove of the staff, which is then withdraAAui. The probe is now the only guide to the bladder’; and up to this point, therefore, there is but little, if any, difference between the modern median and the old Marian operations, except that the incision is exactly in, instead of a httle to one side of, the middle line. The forefinger is now introduced along the probe, and by Avorking it forwards the prostate is dilated, and^ the finger enters the bladder, Avherr, the probe being removed, the forceps is introdrreed, and the stone extracted. Thus it Avill be .seen that the orrly real point of difference betAveen this and the old Marian operation, is that irr the mo ern