^4 DISEASES OF ARTERIES. and coagiilnm are gTadnally deposited upon it, until the interior of the vessel is blocked up ; or the in-itation of the morljid products may give rise to chronic inflammation in the coats, occasioning contraction, the eflusion of lymph, and consequent occlusion. In one or other of these ways, arteries of all magnitudes may be gradually narrowed and at last completely closed ; and yet the patient may survive, and the parts supplied by the obstructed vessel may maintain their vitality, in consequence of the collateral circulation being sufficiently active to keep up the supply of blood to them. The vessels that are most frequently blocked up in this way are the tibials ; next to these perhaps the carotids ; the other arteries are but rarely so occluded. Yet many instances ha^ e been collected by Tiedemann of this morbid process affecting most vessels, but more especially the iliac, the brachial, and the axillary arteries, and the different branches of the abdominal aorta. Tiedemann records from various sources no fewer than eight cases in which the abdominal aorta was completely closed, in all of which so full and efficient a collateral circulation had been set np, that the vitality of the lower part of the body was perfectly maintained and in most the morbid state was not suspected during life. Besides these cases, he states that there are on record twelve instances of great narrowing of the aorta, at that point where the ductus arteriosus is implanted into it in foetal life. These would appear in some way connected with the closure of the duct ; as in every case the indentation was greatest on the convex part of the aorta, which had been drawn in towards the mouth of the duct, as if the vital con- tractile force necessary for the closure of this had extended itself to the aorta, and produced a similar action in it. When any of the arterial naiTowings or occlusions occiu’in a gTadual mamier in early life, or in a part where the collateral circulation is free, no ill effects result; but in an oj>posite condition the interference with the circulation leads to the death of the part supplied by the diseased vessel. This is particiflarly the case in the lower limbs of old people, where the circulation is extremely teeble, both as the effect of age and in consequence of the distance from the heart ; and it is in this way that the true senile gangrene or mummification of the limb occurs. The symptoms and treatment of this affection have already been adverted to (Vol. I., p. G62) ; but it may be here stated that, whilst some have considered the gangrene as entirely the result of arteritis and embolism, others look npon it as consequent on the occlusion of the vessel fi’om disease of its coats ; and each party has laid down principles of treatment in accordance with its view of the pathology of the affection. From what has preceded, it woifld appear that the arteries of a limb may be occluded, and that, consequently, gangrene may result from either condition. The occlusion from arteritis, followed by gangrene, most frequently occurs in the upper extremities, and in young or middle-aged people, and is preceded by local and constitutional symptoms of inflammation ; and the artery presents on examination the true embolic ping. The occlusion from calcification and atheroma chiefly occims ill the lower extremities, and in old people : it is preceded by a rigid condi- tion of the vessels—by cold feet, cramps, numbness, and weakness of the legs ; and, after removal, the arteries udll be found to be converted into rigid unyielding calcareous tubes, with some deposit of atheroma, and with waxy- looking masses of fibrine filling uji their interior. Besides these two distinct