ANEURISM OF THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. 107 Treatment.—The results of the cases that have been referred to aljove, the uncertainty in which we arc as to the real pathology of this disease, and the certainty that in some instances at least there is no true aneurismal tumour, would justify the Surgeon in having recom-sc to medical treatment, aided by digital compression of the carotid, and, perhaps, the ai^plication of ice to the forehead, before proceeding to operate. That these means are occasionally successful, there can be no doubt. Gioppi, of Padua, has recorded a case in which an intraorbital aneurism of gxeat severity was cured by intermittent digital compression. The compression was kept uj) for periods of a minute or two Avith frequent intervals ; pressure continued for more than one minute caused fainting. It Avas cm-ed in foiu' days. Vaiizetti and Scari’amuzza have published another case, in which intermittent digital compression Avas kept up for five minutes at a time. The case Avas completely cm’ed at the end of com- pression diu-ing seven hoiu’s and twenty minutes, spread over eighteen days. Should these means fail in producing a decided impression on the disease, then the only coiu’se left for the successful treatment of this formidable affection consists in the appheation of a hgatm-e to the common carotid of the side affected. This operation has been highly successful. Out of 21 cases in Avhich the operation has been performed, 15 have proved successful, there having been 3 deaths ; 2 AAme only partially successful, and in 1 the pulsation continued luiabated by the operation. Of 14 cases in Avhich it has been done in England, 13 have been cm-ed. Examination of the body after death is recorded in 2 of the fatal cases. In one, there was softening of the left hemi- sphere of the brain, and the branches of the vertebral and carotid arteries were atheromatous. In the other—a case of traumatic anem-ism—death occurred from hmmon-hage ; the carotid artery was healthy. The statistics collected by Delens, quoted by Holmes, are also remarkably favourable, for of 33 cases in Avhich the carotid has been tied for this disease, only 5 died. In 22 the cure Avas complete, in 5 partial, and in 1 the operation failed. Galvano- puncture has been tried tmee : once it failed, and once it was fatal. Coagu- lating injections have been used three times, twice with success. In a very i^erestmg case which I saw in Velpeau’s Avards in 1839, both orbits were affected ; and, as pressure on the right cai'otid arrested the pulsation and wuit m both, that artery was tied. But though the disease was cured in the lett orbit by this operation, and temporarily ai-rested in the right, it reappeared m the latter situation, and was eventuaUy cm-ed here by the ligature of the leit carotid. ° ANEUKISM OE THE SUBCLAVIAN ABTERY. .Dieurisms of the Subclavian in order of frequency betAveen those of the caiotid and of the brachio-cephalic arteries. They are most frequently met Avith on the right side, in the proportion of about three to one ; aid this Irer? dependent on their being occasioned by diicctAiolence, or by repeated or prolonged exertion of the arm - thus thev ^mmonly occur ftoMfallB, Wo™ upon the shoulder, or oxcessl; mJ S' ex lemi y. From the hict of the anciu-isms arising from external violence no should expect to meet with them most frecpicutly in males and this we do .n a remarhable manner. Of 1.0 cases collected b/poland, md;