^54 SPECIAL ANEUllISMS. ligature ; but experience has sliOAvn that deligation of the vessel here is ])y no means a successful operation when practised for aneurism. It has been attended by better results ndien done for the arrest of secondary hajuiorrhago from stumps and other traumatic conditions. This arises from the shortness of the triudv rendering it necessary to tic the artery in close proximity to the collateral branch that will constitute the most direct and immediate agent in the anastomosing supply,—the deep femoral, so that the internal coagulum would not readily form. In addition to this, a number of small inguinal branches, such as the superficial epigastric and circumflex ilii, the superficial and deep external pudic, and very commonly one of the circumflex arteries of the thigh, more especially the internal, arise from the common trinik in its short course ; and these vessels, though small in size, constitute a source of great embarrassment to the Siu’geon dm-ing the operation; for, if wounded near their origin, they bleed most furiously, and are a cause of considerable danger afterwards, by interfering vdth the proper plugging of the vessel. The ligatime of the common femoral has, however, several advocates, more par- ticularly in Ireland, Avhere the operation has of late years been done nine times, for AA'ound and aneurism, with six recoveries and three deaths. The successful cases were as follows : Porter, sen., three ; G-. H. Porter, one ; Smyly, one ; Macnamara, one. The vessel may be reached either by a vertical or a transverse incision. The statistics of this operation, ^v^ml performecl for aneurism, are by no means faA'ourable. Secondaiy hmmoniiage has been a frequent and fatal occurrence, in several cases requiring ligature of the external iliac for its arrest. I do not, therefore, think that it is advisable for the cure of anem'ism to have recoiu’se to this operation in preference to the hgatnre of the external iliac ; and it may be laid down as a rule in surgery, that in all those cases of aneurism that are situated above the middle of the thigh, in which compres- sion has failed and sufidcient space does not intervene between the origin of the deep femoral and the upj)er part of the sac for the application of a ligatme to the superficial femoral, the external iliac should be tied. Iiigatirre of the Superficial Femoral.—The superficial femoral artery, in its course from the origin of the deep femoral to the aperture in the tendon of the adductor, is divided by the crossing of the sartorius muscle into two portions of unequal length, which have diflhrent relations to neighboming structures. The upper diAusion of the artery, which hes above the anterior margin of the muscle, is of most interest to the Surgeon, as it is in this part of its course that it is invariably ligatured in cases of aneurism. It is true that John Hunter, in the operation which he introduced for popliteal aneiu ism, exposed and tied the vessel in the middle third of the thigh ; but his example has not been folloAvcd by modern Surgeons, on account of the far greater difficulty in reaching the vessel here than in the first part of its course, ihc superficial femoral, Avhere it lies in Scarpa s triangle, being merely coa erec y the common intcgimient, the superficial fascia and the fascia lata may be reached by as simple an operation as any that the Siu’geon has to per oim oi the ligature of the larger vessels. The line to the artery is taken as follows. The Surgeon marks a point exactly midway between the anterior superior spine of the ilium and the symphysis pubis. From this he draws a line directly