663 VAGINALIS. lIEliNIA OF THE TUNICA cuhu- The funicular is that which coiTCspoiids to the cord,_ extending fiom the internal i-iiKi- to the scrotum; the lostimlar is that which becomes the tunica va-inalis. A congenital licmia occiu-3 in consequence of the “ prolongato. not becoming, as in the noi-mal mentous hbio-celluto tissue, but remaining pernous, and thus as a inn of commnnication between the genci-al cavity of the peritoneum and Te tunica vaginalis ; and along the open channel thus left the conpnital hernia descends The reason whv in many cases the hernia is not truly congenital, but occurs ill after-lite, is that the funicular portion is only pai-tially closed or contracted, and that, under a sudden effort, the septum is broken through, and thus a knuckle of gut falls into the tunica vaginahs. _ blernia of the tunica vaginalis, though usually called “ congenital, is lare y so in reality ; the tendency is congenital, but the disease is not. It not unfrp- quently happens, it is true, that these hernim show themselves early in Me, in infants a few weeks or months old ; though at these ages even the funiculai prolongation of the peritoneum may be so completely occluded, that the hernia Avhich occui-s is of an ordinary oblique character. Kot uiifrequently, however, the hernia docs not take place until a considerably later period of life than this, and may suddenly happen in the adult; thus Velpeau relates instances in which it ocem-red lor the first time betAveen the ages of eighteen and twenty-five. I have operated in a case on a man thirty-five years of age, in whom this kind of hernia occiuTed for the first time when he was twelve years old ; and some years ago in a case at the Hospital, on a man about fifty, in Avhom, on the most care- ful inquuy, it woidd appear that the protrusion had not showm itself until he was about thirty years of age. Signs and Diagnosis.—The signs of hernia in the tunica vaginalis closely re- semble those of the ordinary oblique ; most commonly, however, if scrotal, the tumour is much rounded, and the neck feels narrow and constricted. The testis, also, cannot be felt distinct and separate from the tumour, but is sm’- roimded by, and, as it were, buried in the substance of the hernia, through Avhich it may sometimes be felt at the lower and back part of the scrotum. On inquiry, also, it Avill usually be found either that the hernia has existed in childhood, or the testis is still in the canal, or has descended later than usual. A hernia of the tunica vaginalis may be associated with a congenital hydrocele. In these cases, after the fluid has been returned into the peritoneal caAuty by directing the patient to lie on his back, and raising the scrotum, the portion of protruded giit may be felt and recognised by its gurgle and upward slip when reduced. This hernia may be associated with the testis in two conditions— viz., either undescended, lying in the canal or at the anterior abdominal ring, or higher up in the canal. In the first case, the hernia is, of com’se, incom- plete ; in the second, it is scrotal. When incomplete, the diagnosis may be made by feeling a soft swelling with the ordinary hernial signs above the small and laardened testis. When symptoms of strangulated hernia occur in a person in wMom the tesies have not descended into the scrotum, very great difficulty may be experienced in effecting an exact diagnosis. In such cases as these, an oblong or rounded tumom-, tense and painful, Avill be found to occupy the inguinal canal, not passing beyond the external ring, with some abdominal tenderness, and possilfiy nausea