505 OPERATION FOR DOUBLE IIARE-LIR. Indeed, Its use pressor, invented by Hainsby, here represented slaek (Fig. G08). whenever obtainable, this excellent contrivance should be employed, fidds greatly to the success of the operation. Double Hare-lip.—The operation for double hare-lip is performed on the same inlnciple as that for the single form of the disease, viz., of procuring union by adhesion between the o])posite smTaces. The difference in the operations consists chiefly in dealing with the inter- jnediate portion of the lip and alveolus (Fig. 609). The management of the intermaxillary process must vary according to its size and degree of pro- jection. If it be small and rudimentary, or fixed to the tip of the nose, as in Fig. 610, it should be cut off with bone-nippers, as it would prevent the lateral segments from coming into proper appo- sition. Most commonly, when this is done, there is free and even dangerous bleeding from a dental nrtery deep in the bone, which may require to be touched with a red-hot needle or A^ire before the hajmorrhage from it Avill cease. If the central intermaxillary portion be large and iDrojecting, it may be bent or broken back by strong forceps covered Avith vulcanised India-rubber. Fergusson has, however, pointed out that if this be done the incisor teeth contained in the intermaxillary por- /ion wiU, if they develope at aU, project backAvards into the roof of the mouth, as the bone is not pushed into its normal situation, but rather rotated on its transverse axis, the slender neck attaching it to the vomer being bent upon itself. He is of opinion therefore that in all cases it is better to remove the bone than to attempt to force or bend it into a new position. If it be large and not projecting, the soft parts should be well pared on each side, and transfixed by the hai-e-hp pins, and thus be rig. 009. — Operation for Double Hiirc-lip. Right side of Lip^ drawn down by Spring- hook Forceps; longuarr'ow Knife entered at angle: dotted line sliows directioai of the Incision.s. maxillary Portion. ahvajs advisaWeTot^to pared lateral surfaces; indeed, it is Tig. 611. AVhen it is left i awkwardly situated, as in It IS left, though the union may not appear quite so perfect