EXCISIOX OF JOINTS AND BONES. 286 dividino- the bone with cutting-pliers ; but in the inner malleolus, more care is required in aA'oiding the flexor tendons, the artery, and nerve, and the bone had better be cut across witli a chain-saw. The removal of the outer malleolus or rather of the loAver end of the fibula, is apt to be followed by a tendency to twist of the foot outwards—in fact, to a kind of valgus. The Metatarsal Bones with their Toes occasionally require removal. This is more particularly the case Anth the first and the fifth (p. 77, vol. I.). The middle metatarsal bones cannot advantageously be taken away, leaving merely the first and last; but the two, three, or even the Avhole four of the external metatarsal bones may be resected in early life, and a useful foot left. Aston Key has recorded a case in which, in consequence of injiuy, he ampu- tated the four outer metatarsal bones, the cuboid, and the external and middle cuneiform, leaving merely the line of bones supporting the gTeat toe. The first metatarsal bone was left, supported only by the slender articular seiwice of the internal cuneiform; but it soon got firmer attachments, and a very good foot resulted, by Avhich the patient retained in a gTeat measure his elasticity of tread. The Phalanges and Articulations of the Toes seldom require resection ; as a general rule, their amputation is preferable. The only case Avith which I am acquainted in Avhich resection of the phalanx is required, is when an exostosis has formed under the nail of the toe, pushing it up : here the removal of that portion of bone from Avhich it springs is the best course to pursue. The Great Toe not unfrequently requires removal, in Avhole or in part; but, as it enters largely into the formation of the arch of the foot, no more of it should be taken aAvay than is absolutely necessary. It is especially of impor- tance that the ball of the great toe, if possible, be preserved ; and occasionally this may be effected by excision of the metatarso-phalangcal articulation rather than by the amputation of the member. With regard to the removal of the toe and its metatarsal bone, I must refer to p. 77, vol. I. Whenever it is practicable, the proximal end of the bone should be saved, in order that the insertion of the tendon of the peroneus longus may be preserved. AMPUTATION IN JOINT-DISEASES. In those cases in Avhich excision of the diseased joint is not advisable, in consequence of the acute character of the articular disease, the existence not only of considerable suppuration but of gTeat local and constitutional in’itation, or the peculiar nature of the joint affected, amputation may be the sole resource left to the Surgeon. It is especially in articular disease of the fingei-s and toes, of the tarsus, carpus, ankle, and knee, that this operation is required ; and though it is much less frequently practised uoav than formerly, yet the cases of destructive disease of joints requiring amputation are amongst the most frequent in operatiA-e surgery, and Avill doubtless continue to be so. The Sui’geon, however, must be careful, AA'hilst he avoids continuing to make in- effectual attempts to saA'O the limb at the great hazard of the patient s life, not to amputate until it is clear that all other means have failed ; the patient continuing to lose gTOund so that a further jicrseA’crance in local and constitu- tional treatment Avould probably end in his death, excision not being practic-