GAL YANO-TUNCTURE. 63 case. When tlic patient tii-es of one, another may be substituted for it; and thus the good effects continuously kept up with less fatigue and imtation than would otherwise be experienced. So also various modifications of these different methods maybe practised to suit the requirements of any particular case. But for these no special directions can be given ; the ingenuity of the Sm’geonmust sunply the want in each case. _ Maxipulatio^\—Sir AY. Fergusson has proposed to treat some aneurisms by a procedure which he terms manij)uMion. This consists in squeezing the Imeiu-ismal tumour in such a way as to detach a portion of the coagiiliim ivitliin it which, being carried on with the emrent of blood into the distal end of the artery, obstructs this ; and thus, by impeding the circidation through the sac, may lead to the gradual consolidation of the tumour ; and it has also been suggested by Oliver Pemberton that the alteration of the relations of the laminated fibrine in the camty of the aneurism may bring about a further de- position of fibrine on the displaced laminm. This procedure has as yet been employed to too limited an extent to enable us to form au estimate of its value, and can scarcely be considered, nor is it intended to be, of veiy general appli- cation. To aneurisms, hoiveyer, that are not amenable to ordinaiy singical treatment, and that must necessarily prove fatal if left, as those situated at the root of the neck, more particularly of the subclavian artery, it might possibly be advantageously applied. It is scarcely necessary, however, to point out the pbvioiis danger of rupture of the sac, or of the diffusion of the aneurism from the weakening of its wmlls liy the separation of the coagiiliim, to make Singeons adopt due caution in carrying out this method of treat- ment. There is another danger also especially attendant on this procedure, when applied to aneurisms about the neck ; viz., that the detached coa- giilum may be carried by the circulation into the cerebral arteries, and by obstructing them occasion the same kind of cerebral disturbance that ocem’s when these vessels become occluded by fibrinous plugs—cmbola. That tills danger is a real and a great one, is evident from the fact that, in several cases in which manipulation of subclavian and carotid aneurisms has been tried, the patient has been suddenly seized vdth syncope and hemiplegia. Teale has successfully conjoined manipulation with compression in a case of popliteal mieiu’ism, in which the pressure on the artery was slow in consolidating the tumour ; the detachment of a portion of the coagiiliim almost at once led to the consolidation of the tumour. Somewhat analogous to this method is one recommended in 1842 by Blake, who proposed, by the introduction •of a cataract-needle into the sac, to detach some of the laminated fibrine, which might then be washed against, and occlude the aperture of exit. GALViix'o-Pira'CTUiiE.—The attempt to procure the consolidation of an aiiein’ismal sac liy the employment of electricity or galvanism is of conipara- tivcly recent date. It appears to hai’e been first practised by B. Phillips, about the year 1832. Little attention, however, was given to the mode of treatment until a lew years back, when it was revived by some of the French and Italian Surgeons, especially P^trequin, Burci, and Ciuisclli. The principle on which this operation is conducted consists in endeavoining to produce coagulation in the aneiirismal sac by decomposing the blood contained in it by means of the