ANKYLOSIS. 233 not only most easy to tlie patient, but will leave it most useful should a stiff joint result. If it be one of the joints of the lower extremity that is afiected, especial care must be taken that the patient do not bear his weight on it. It the symptoms be of a rather acutely inflammatoiy kind, a few leeches may be applied • these, however, must be used as sparingly as possible, being conhned, cither to the earlier stages of the disease, or to the subdual of any more active iiiterciirrcnt inflammation. Kest is best secured by well-padded leather 01 gutta-percha splints in the earlier stages ; and, at a later period, by the appli- cation of the starched bandage, well lined with cotton-wadding, to the limb. This kind of appheation will be found to give the most efficient support, and will keep the whole of the limb perfectly motionless, so that the patient can take open-air exercise, and walk with the aid of crutches, without risk of injuring the diseased joint. In this respect the starched bandage presents gueat advantages over the short leather splints often used. It may readily be cut open opposite the diseased joint, so as to admit of the application of proper di’essings to it. The actual cautery is extremely beneficial in these cases, apphed as directed (p. 224); or caustic issues may be put in, at a little distance from the articulation, so that there may be no risk of the inflammatory action penetrating to it. After all inflammation has, in this way, been removed, and nothing but thickeniug and stifihess of the joint are left, measures may be adopted for re- moving these conditions, and restoring the flexibility of the articulation by frictions with somewhat stimulating and counter-irritant embrocations, and eventually its strength by douches of sea-water. The swelling and puffiuess. that are left, together with the debility dependent on relaxation of the liga- ments, are perhaps best remedied by the use of Scott’s strapping; but pressure should not be applied so long as there is evidence of active inflammation going' on in the articulation, which it would certainly increase. If abscess form, it must be freely opened by an incision of a proper length, the joint poulticed, and the patient’s general health attended to, so as to pro- mote the evolution of gTanulations, and prevent hectic. In these cases, if the limb can be preserved, its subsequent utility, and the patient’s comfort, will mainly depend upon the position in which it is allowed to become ankylosed. ANKYLOSIS OR STIFF JOINT. Anhjlosis is invariably the result of the impairment or more or less complete destruction of a joint by inflammation, and is one of the modes by which nature effects its repair. It consists in the more or less complete consolidation of the parts around and within the articulation. It is of two kinds : the Incomplete, or Filiro-cellular ; and the Complete, or Osseous. In the Incomplete or Pibro-cellular Ankylosis, the stiffiiess of the joint may be dependent on lour distinct pathological conditions, which may be more or less associated. 1, on thickening and induration of its fibrous capsule; 2, on the fonnation of fibroid bands as the result of inflammation within the joint; d, in consequence of the cartilages and synovial membrane being in part or wholly removed, and their place supplied by a fibroid or fibro-cellular tissue, l)y which the articular ends are tied together; 4, by shortening of the ligaments on the side of flexion of the joint. The stifihess of the joint may be materially