^7(5 DISEASES OF THE JAWS AND THEIR APPEN’DAGES. cavity should he syringed out with tepid water, and the shape of the cheek gradually restored by pressure. Tumours of various kinds spring from the upper jaw, taking their origin either from the surface of the superior maxillary or malar bones, from the interior of the antrum, or from the pterygo-maxillary fossa. Those that gi’ow from the Surfaca of the Bone, are either some of the various forms of Epulis that spring from its alveolar border, and must be treated as already described ; or they are Exostoses growing from the outer smface of the bone, pi’ojecting perhaps ujd into the orbit, and requiring removal Avith the saw, bone-nij)pers, or gouge. In doing this, care must be taken not to destroy the nasal process of the bone, lest the lacrymal sac be opened. The tumours that spring from the Malar Bone, from the Cavity of the Antrum, or from Behind the U'pyyer Jaio, are of very A'arious kinds ; epithelio- matous, fibrous, cartilaginous, osseous, fatty, sarcomatous, erectile, and ence- phaloid growths may all be met with in this situation. In the Musemn of Unh'ersity College, which is very rich in specimens of these tumours, most of the.above-named Anrieties will be found. The Eibroris Tumour is perhaps the most common; it principally occurs in elderly people, and may attain veiy considerable bulk. The large and small spindle celled sarcomata come next in order of frequency ; and the Osseous, Encliondromatous, Epithelial, and Myeloid are extremely rare. The osseous tumours occasionally appear to set up a spontaneous attempt at elimination, by necrosis taking place in them. Situation and Symjptoms.-—Epithelial, sarcomatous, and myeloid tumoms occasionally spring from the surface of the malar bone, pushing forAvard the cheek, spreading into the mouth, and involving, Avith gveater or less rapidity, according to their mahgnancy, the soft structures of the face and the lympha- tic glands under the jaw. They are usually rapid in groAvth, soft and elastic to the feel, irregular in outline, and only secondarily implicate the superior maxilla and neighbouring caA’ities. The various growths that are connected with, or spring from, the mucous onembrane, or that develop Avithin the antrum, in growing, gradually expand and dilate the walls of the cavity, pressing the bones outAvards thinning them, and giving rise to a considerable outward projection of one side of the face, the anterior surface of the superior maxilla being the part that usually first yields to the outward pressme. The tumour thus formed is generally smooth, round, or oval, slightly lobed perhaps, more especially if fibrous, and has in many cases a tendency to hang doAvnwards so as to overlap the lower jaw to a certain extent. As it grows, it encroaches more or less upon the structures lying in the vicinity of the antrum. Thus, it pushes doAAUi the palate, causing considerable swelling in the roof of the mouth ; displaces the alveolar processes and teeth, giving rise to irregularity in their outline, and tending to project into and occupy the ah'eolus. It may encroach upon the orbit, occasioning stiUicidium lacrjTuarum, impairment of vision, and displace- ment of the eye-ball. As the tumour enlarges, it obstructs the nasal cavity, and, stretching back into the pharynx, interferes Avith I’cspiration, and degluti- tion, and sometimes occasions severe epistaxis. When it is of a malignant character, obstruction of the nasal fossa Avill be found to be one of its earliest signs, leading to the suspicion of nasal polypus; but the true and more serious