DISEASES OF THE UHETIIRA. 874 firm, and cord-like to the touch ; the whole penis, indeed, looks generally red and tiirgescont. As the disease advances, and the bulbous portion of the urethra becomes affected, weight and tension in the peringeum -will be com- plained of. If the prostatic portion be the seat of disease, there will be heat and weight about the anus. During the whole of this period there is generally a good deal of constitutional disturbance, restlessness, and fever. One of the most troublesome symptoms in this stage of the complaint is the occurrence of Chordee, which consists in painful erections at night, with a twist in the body of the penis, which is usually curved down towards the scrotum. 8. Chronic Stage.—These symptoms usually continue for about a fort- night, when the third stage, that of subacute or chronic inflammation, sets in. Diming this period of the affection the inflammatory symptoms gradually sub- side, but a thin muco-purulent discharge keeps up, with some degree of heat and irritation about the urethra, and occasional smarting in passing urine. Under proper treatment, this usually subsides in the course of another fortnight or three weeks ; but, if neglected, or in certain constitutions, it may last for many months, or even years, then degenerating into a Gleet. In proportion to the continuance of the affection the inflammatory symptoms subside, though the specific and contagious character does not disappear, and the affection may continue so long as the discharge keeps up. Himter mentions the case of a girl ■who had been two years in the Magdalen Hospital, and who infected a person with whom she had connection immediately after she left that Institu- tion. The persistence of the contagion of gleet is, it is true, more marked in women than in men. So long, however, as any purulent discharge continues from the male urethra, though it be but a daily drop, the patient must be looked upon as infectious. The severity and the continuance of gonorrhoea are often opposed to one another. Thus the disease is most severe in young and plethoric persons, and in first attacks ; but it is most difficult of cure in strumous and phlegmatic constitutions, more especially if there be a gouty or rheumatic tendency co- existing, and is very troublesome to remove alter repeated attacks. I have observed repeatedly that it is very apt to degenerate into a gleet in people who are subject to chronic eczema. There is a form of chronic gleet which continues very persistently after an attack of gonorrhoeal epididymitis. In these cases the discharge is not so much urethral as testicular. It appears to proceed from the increased exuda- tion from the mucous membrane of the secretory and efferent structures of the testis, during the process of resolution of the inflammation. ^ The length of time that the infection of gleet -will continue in both sexes, but especially in the female, makes it somewhat difficult to say whether the poison of gonorrhoea can be generated de novo, as it is not improbable tha many individuals communicate the disease, believing themselves to be perfectly cured, though still suftering from slight gleet. , i Gleet.—The term gleet is apphed to any mucous or muco-purulent dischai’ge, which is very small in amount and persists for an indefinite time unaccompa- nied by any other obvious symptoms. This condition is one which gives rise to great mental uneasiness in many patients, and some varieties are, more ,