3S6 DEFORMITIES. contraction of tlie hamstring muscles arise from the irritation of worms in the intestinal canal, a purgative dose may cure the affection. Electricity has of late years been much and most advantageously employed in the treatment of those deformities that arise from infantile paralysis, and, indeed, generally where the deformity is due to the paralysis of one set of muscles, allowing those that possess their healthy contractility to draw the pai'ts to their sides. “ Localised faradisation ” is the method by which the electric agency is usually applied. But for the details of this method and the general question of the employment of electricity to these cases, I must refer the reader to the works of Duchenne (de Boulogne). In many cases, the contraction may he slowly but very effectually overcome by the use of suitable apparatus, having a constant elastic or tensive action kept up by means of bands of vulcanised India-rubber or steel spnngs. The details of these various apphances, though belonging to the department of the instrument-maker, cannot be too carefuUy studied by the Surgeon, who, after aU, in order to guide and control their action, must be thoroughly con- versant with the mechanical principles involved in their construction. In many of the slighter and less chi’onic cases, the deformity may be remedied by the employment of these milder means; but in those which are congenital or more permanent, the Division of the Tendons at fault is the only mode of restoring the natural condition of the part. This ortlioimd/k department of surgery owes, in a great measure, its existence to the laboiu’s of Delpech and Stromeyer, and its perfection to those of Little, Tamplin, and Adams. Tenotomy.—By tenotomy, as at present practised, is meant the subcutane- ous division of a tendon by means of a naiTow-bladed knife (Fig. 518) intro- duced obliquely through a punctiue by its side. In doing this, it should be borne in mind that the normal anatomical relations of parts are often a good deal disturbed in cases of deformity : and thus tendons may be approximated to arteries and nerves, from which, in the healthy condition of the limb, they are widely separated. The tendon may most conveniently be divided, in the majority of cases, by introducing the blade beneath it side- ways, and then turning the edge against it, scratching through it by a kind of firm sawing movement, the handle of a knife being used as a lever to press the edge against the tendon, whilst the parts are made tense by an assistant. A di'op or two only of blood ai’e lost in this simple operation ; and, as the di'sided tendon retracts with a kind of snap, a gap will be left between the two ends, fr’om half an inch to an inch in width, according to the previous amount of tension in the part. If the muscles have been contracted for some years, it will commonly be found that the fascise in the neighbourhood of the tendon have become rigid and unyielding, forming cords or bands stretching across Fig. 518.- the side of the gap. If these be very tense, they may bo divided in the same way ; but in many instances it will be found, after the lapse of a sliort time, that they will yield, and con^- quently will not require division. After the section has been made, the small puncture should be closed with a pad of hut and a strip of plas n.