WOUND OF ARTERIES IN OPERATION. 645 out; their fluid contents may then be discharged, and the omentum dealt with according to the rules already given. _ ^ Wounds of the Intestine may accidentaUy occur at two periods of the oneration • either from the Surgeon cutting too freely doum upon the sac, and onenhm this before he is aware of what he is about; or else, at the time of the di\dsion of the stricture, from a portion of the gut which lies beneath it ^rettino- into the way of the edge of the knife, and being nicked by it. The flrst Idnd of accident can only happen from a certain degree of carelessness ; but it is not always so easy to avoid woimding the gut, when the stricture is so tio-ht that the finger-nail cannot be slipped under it as a guide to the hernia- knife. In cases of this kind, a very narrow director must be used ; and this is a most dangerous instrument, as, in passing it deeply out of sight under the tight stricture, a small portion of the gut may ciml up over its side into the gi’oove, and thus become notched by the knife as this is slid along it. This accident has happened to the best and most careful Simgeons. Lawrence relates two cases that occm’red to him ; and Sir A. Cooper, Cloquet, Jobert, and Liston have all met with it. It may be known to have occurred by the bubbling up of a small quantity of flatus and liquid faeces from the bottom of the inciSon. The Treatment of a wound of the gut must depend upon its size. When it is very small, rather resembhng a puncture than a cut, the practice recommended by Sir A. Cooper should be adopted ; viz., to seize the margins of the incision with a pair of forceps, and to tie a fine silk thread tightly round them, the ends of which should then be cut off, and the gut returned into the abdominal cavity. Such a proceeding as this does not appear to give rise to much, if to any, increase of danger. In a case that occurred to me many years ago at the Hospital, in which, owing to the excessive tight- ness of the strictiu’e, a very naiTow director only could be passed under it, the gut immediately above it was notched and opened by a kind of punctured wound ; this was tied up in the way mentioned, and after the death of the patient) which took place on the fourth day after the operation from gangrene of the strangulated portion of bowel, the silk hgature was found to be com- pletely enveloped in a plug of plastic matter. If the wound be of larger size, it must be closed by the glovers’ stitch. Wound of one of the Arteries in the neighbourhood of the sac may occm- dining the division of the strictui-e, either in consequence of some anomaly in the distribution of the vessel, or from the Surgeon dividing the parts in a ivrong direction. This accident usually happens to the epigastric or to the obturator artery ; and Lawrence has collected fointeen recorded cases in which it occurred. The result in these has been very various ; in some the patients have died ; in others, after much loss of blood, and conse- quent faintness, the bleeding ceased spontaneously. The proper Treatment Avould certainly consist in cutting down upon and securing the bleeding vessel. In the event of the Surgeon operating on a case of hernia, without having- been able previously to satisfy himself as to its precise character, or if from any cause, in dividing the strictiue, he have reason to dread the proximity of an arteiy, he may safely and readily divide the constriction with a knife that would not easily cut an artery ; and he will And, if he blunt the edge of his hernia-knife by draiving it over the back of the scalpel, that it will still be