7o6 diseases of THE LARGE INTESTINE AND ANUS. tluckcnccl cicatricial annular constriction of tlie mucous membrane. At times there are ulcerations and fissures in and below this constriction, and very commonly the usual evidences of constitutional syphilis. I ha^•e seen these syphilitic ulcerations extend into the vagina, so as to establish a recto-A'aginal fistula. In cases of this truly disgusting disease, the general health is usually good, and the local symptoms of rectal stricture by no means severe. The Trealment consists in the usual means for the cure of constitutional syphilis, local dilatation, with or Avithout notching, and the application of nitrate of silver to the concomitant sores. 3. Cancer and Malignant Stricture.—Cancer of the rectum usually occurs in the form of infiltration of the substance of the Avail of the gut, gi\'iiig rise to considerable indiu-ation and contraction of the boAvel. In other cases, a flat cauliflower growth springs fi’om the inner surface of the intestine, being hard, nodulated, and presenting all the ordinary characters of scirrhiis ; sometimes it is pedunculated, so as to resemble a hmmorrhoidal protrusion. Lastly, a scirrhous tumour may form in the areolar tissue external to the rectum, and at last press upon and implicate the gut. Encephaloid is rarely met with in this region, but has been seen as a large, soft, rapidly growing fungating mass. Epithelioma is rare, and when it occurs is met with at the anal orifice, often as a somewhat notched and protuberant growth. It wiU be found to extend into the interior of the gut, Avhere it is more or less ulcerated. Adenoid Cancer or Columnar Epithelioma of the rectum or sigmoid flexure is far from uncommon. Fihro-plastic tumours will also sometimes develop in the rectum, and run a truly malignant course, with ulceration, sloughing, and rapid impheation of adjacent parts. Most usually cancerous disease is seated from three to five inches above the anus, and may implicate a considerable portion of the bowel, extending upwards rather than doAvnwards, giving rise to considerable induration and contraction, and attended, at least in some cases, by complete occlusion of the interior of the gut. Stjmptoms.—Cancer of the rectum is chiefly met with in middle life, but sometimes does not occm until advanced age. Both sexes are equally liable to it; if anything, it is more frequent in Avomen than in men. It is very insidious in most cases in its early manifestations. A sense of uneasiness, a tendency to dian-hoea, a slight discharge of blood or mucus, a, feeling as if the patient had piles, are usually the only early evidences off the development of this distressing disease. After a time, the rectal pain: becomes very severe. Thei’e is now a constant feehng of pain and aa eight in the gut, Avith a sensation as if the bowels had not been completely relieved, together Avith the discharge of mucus, blood, or pus, and some^ flattening of thei faeces. On exploring the parts Avith the finger, the lower portion of the rectum, Anil usually be foimd considerably expanded, Avhilst the tip of the finger will come into contact with the contracted, hardened, ulcerated, and rugged mass; at one part of Avhich an opening will be found leading mto a rugged, irregular, scirrhous cavity that passes up through the cancerous mass to the healthy gut above. The patient experiences most intense suffering during