357 REF AIR IN DIVINED TENDONS. the admission of air into the wound being carefully guarded against. The whole success of the operabion depends on this. Should air enter, inflam- mation and suppuration will to a certainty be set up ; whereas, if this be avoided, the wound will heal liy the effiision of plastic matter without any inflamm’atioii. It is the entry of air, and not the subcutaneous wound, that gives rise to inflammation. The part should then be simply bandaged and dther left without any apparatus, or supported by a splint in the same position that it occupied before the tendon was cut, no attempt at extension being made for tliree or foin days. At the expiration of this time lymph will have'^been thrown out, and then proper mechanical contrivances may be adjusted for gi’adually restoring the normal position of the limb or part; if this be done°too soon, the cicatrix will be extended at too early a period after the deposit of the plastic matter, and the tendon will become weakened and too much elongated. Chloroform is not always admissible in these operations. ‘WTien the musck is not permanently shortened, but only contracted under its influence, it becomes so much relaxed that the defined edge of the tendon disappears, and the proper section cannot be made. Sayi’e adopts a different method. He makes extension immediately after the division of tendons and fasciae, and I have seen excellent results foUow this practice. It is not, however, applicable in all cases, as, in some instances of tahpes of old standing, the contraction appears to exist in the ligaments as weU as in the more superficial structures. In such cases considerable resistance will be offered, and long continued extension be required. The mode of Repair in Divided Tendons has given rise to some con- troversy, there being two theories with regard to the process. According to one, the plastic matter deposited between the divided and retracted ends gradually undergoes a process of contraction, analogous to what takes place in the cicatrix of a bum, so as to cause approximation of the cut ends of the tendon at the expense of the muscle, Avhich becomes partially lengthened, imtil at last a transverse linear cicatrix merely is left at the line of section. Adams has, however, conclusively shown that this theory is erroneous, and that repair is effected by the deposit of plastic matter betAveen the cut ends, chiefly from the sheaths and sof t parts around ; that this plastic matter under- goes gradual transformation into tendinous tissue ; and that the tendon is actually lengthened and remains permanently so, by the deposit of this new material, Avhich eA'entually resembles the normal structure of tendon so closely that the microscope fails to detect any appreciable difference, and that it can only be distinguished by its more translucent appearance from the old tendon. In fact, the divided tendon is completely reproduced. In cases of congenital malformation, the question frequently arises as to Avhether tenotomy should be performed in early infancy, or delayed to a more adA anced age. As a general rule I think that, if imperative, the sooner these operations are done the better ; they are not more difficult at an early period of life than at any other, no danger attends them, and Avhen they are per- formed during infancy, there is a far loss chance of the deformity being per- manent, than if the operation be delayed for some years. But it must be remembered that many slight deformities and contractions in infants may be