719 after-tbeatment of axal fistula. own fino-cr, as siicli cuts often pro^’c troublesome in healing. Where the external°xperture or iiperturcs of the fistula are at some distance from the gut, the inte<nimeuts being undermined to a considerable extent, perhaps thinned, soft, and bluish, all the superficial sinuses should bo slit up ; and, in those cases in which the course of the fistula runs more or less at a right angle Mith that of the external sinus, it is necessary to do so before the deep or internal fistula can be reached, through which the sphineter must be divided. If the fistula be a Uml exlerncil one, it must at the time of the operation be made complete, by scratching with the end of the knife through tlie thinned struc- tures that intervene between its extremity and the interior of the gut; and the operation must then be completed in the way described. If it be a hlmd mUrnul fistula, a bent probe should be passed up the anus and through the inner opening of the fistula into the canal. The end of this, which can be felt externally, must be exposed by a puncture made through the integuments with a sharp-pointed bistoury, and the operation then concluded in the or- dinary way. When there is an internal aperture into the gut, this will usually be found just above the sphincter ; ljut the fistula does not terminate here, frequently extending up by the side of the gut for an inch or two. In these circum- stances, what should be done with the cul-de-sac above the inner aperture ? If it be laid open, an extensive and deep wound wall be inflicted, which may implicate some of the hmmorrhoidal vessels, and thus give rise to a dangerous amount of bleeding. Hence I think it a safer practice for the Surgeon to con- tent himself with the division of the sphincter and aU the parts intervening between the inner apertm’e of the fistula and the verge of the anus ; the sinus which is left usually contracting and closing without difficulty when this has been done. In some cases it happens, however, that this cul-de-sac is not readily obliterated, but gives rise to a good deal of trouble in consequence of the occasional accumulation of ]dus in it, and the thickening of its apertiu'c into the bowel giving rise to spasmodic contraction of the sphincter and a kind of rectal stricture. This incouA^enience gradually subsides in most cases, under the use of astringent injections or the introduction of a probe armed with nitrate of silver. If the integuments around the fistula have been much undermined and thinned so as to leave loose flaps at the edges of the incision, the cure aauU be materially hastened by cutting these off. The after-treatment should be as simple as possible, consistently with securing closui’c of the wound by granulation from the bottom. A narrow slip of oiled lint should be introduced between the lips of the wound, and this must be left in tor forty-eight hours, during which time the bowels are kept confined by the administration of a grain or two of opium immediately after the opera- tion. On the second day a dose of castor-oil may be administered, Avhich Avill not oidy act upon the bowels, but bring away the piece of lint. The Avound must then be lightly dressed from the bottom, a poultice applied, and care taken at the daily dressing, by the introduction of a probe, to prevent the bridging OAer of gi'anulations. After the AV'ound has completely united, a notch Avill usually be left by the side of the anus, Avhich gives rise to some inconvenience for a time by the occasional involuntary discharge of a little intestinal mucus, and some flatus. This especially happens in those cases in