FACE AND MOUTH. 492 PLASTIC SUllGEUr OF THE serrefute, may Ijo employed, but most generally iuten-upted sutures are the best. The use of collodion, u’here applicable, is of gr-eat adA'antage in plastic surgery, as it not only secures adhesion, but, by excluding the air, lessens the chance of suppuration. For a plastic procedure to succeed, it is absolutely necessary that no morbid action be going on in the seat of operation ; and not only that none be actually in progress, but that all have ceased for some considerable time. This is more particularly the case Avhen the deformity for the remedying of Avhich it is practised has resulted from syphilitic or cancerous ulceration. In both cases it is necessary to see that the constitution is sound, as well as that all local disease has been eradicated ; otherwise the irritation of the operation might sot it up again, and the new flap might be invaded and destroyed. From Avant of this precaution, I have more than once seen disappointment result. "When an operation, as on the nose or hp, is performed for cancroid disease, ablation of the morbid part may be done at the moment of operating—the afiection being a local one ; when for struma or syphilis, the disease is consti- tutional, and care must be taken that all morbid action has thoroughly and completely ceased. As a general rule, plastic operations practised for the re- j)air of mutilations from injmy, or of congenital deficiencies, are more successful than those that are performed after disease. No routine system of treatment should be adopted ; but a few days of rest, good diet, and a dose or tAA'o of aperient medicine, may be prescribed before the operation is proceeded Avith. In the after-treatment of the case, a nourish- ing but unstimulating regimen should be observed. Burow’s Operation.—A plastic operation specially suited for the repair of deformity consequent on the removal of morbid growths from the cheeks and other parts of the face, has been introduced by BuroAV, a Pohsh Smgeou, and successfully performed and described by Stokes (Fig. 589). The steps are as fol- lows. The growth to be removed is included in three incisions, 1, 2, 3 ; and the integuments fr-om AAdiich it sprmgs are then care- fully dissected off, leaAing a raw triangle, the apex of which is on one, the base on the other side of the tumour. The incision 1, 4, 8, is then carried outAA-ards to 5, 8, 7, so that the Avhole distance fr'om 1 to i is exactly three times that of the base of the raAv surface ; a second triangle, 5, (!, 7, is then made, having its base on the outer third of this horizontal incision. The tAA^o triangles must be of equal size, and the integuments are dissected off 5, 6, 7. Tliere ai-e thus two raw smfrices to be covered in. This is done by dissecting up carefully the flaps 1, 5, G, and 2, 3, t. AVhen this is done, the points 1 and 8, and 5 and 7, are respectively diwAm together, each by one suture, and the two raw triangular surffrccs arc tluis covered in. fi */ Fig. 680.—Liiie.s of Iiieisio3i in Buvow’s Operation.