URETHRITIS. 871 CHAPTER LXXII. DISEASES OF THE UEETHRA. UPtETHKITIS. Simple Inflammation of the Urethra is especially apt to occm- in strumous, rheumatic, or gouty individuals, from slight som’ces of irritation, cither direct or sympathetic, that would not excite it in more healthy constitu- tions. In strumous children, it may arise from worms in the intestines, or from gastric irritation; and in gouty or rheumatic subjects, it appears often to occur in connection with an acid or loaded state of the urine. In other cases, the irritation of a stricture, the passage of instruments, or ordinary sexual in- tercourse, may occasion the disease, without there being anything of a specific or venereal character about it. Contact with women who are out of health, pregnant, or suffering from leucorrhoea, may and often does give rise to local in-itation of this kind. Urethritis, especially when arising from sexual inter- course, is frequently mistaken for gonorrhoea; but from this it may be dis- tinguished by the less intense degree of infiammation, and by the absence of the secondary consequences that frequently follow true gonorrhoea; yet, in many instances, the diagnosis is extremely difficult, especially from the subacute forms of gonorrhoea that are common in London. Symptoms.—Urethritis is characterised by heat, pricking, and tension about the urethra for a day or two, followed by muco-purulent discharge, often rather profuse, and accompanied by some ardor m’inte. The symptoms altogether are not severe, and the disease usually subsides at the end of a week or ten days ; but sometimes it becomes chronic, especially if conjoined with stricture, and then constitutes an extremely troublesome affection, more particularly in gouty indiUduals. Treatment.—The treatment of m’ethritis is mildly antiphlogistic. The bowels should be kept open, and salines freely administered ; in many cases small doses of colchiciun, in combination with alkalies, will be foimd of especial service in cutting the disease short. The use of emollient or sfightly astringent injections, such as opiate lotions, or a very weak solution of acetate of lead, with belladonna, will be found serviceable as the disease is on the decline, but not until then ; and when the afiection has reached a chronic stage, small doses of copaiba may be advantageously administered. The diet in all cases should be of the blandest character, stimulants of all kinds being interdicted. If the disease be conjoined with slight stricture, it may not imfrequentlygive rise to temporary retention of urine. This may, however, most commonly be readily relieved by antiphlogistic treatment, cupping or leeches to the