722 DISEASES OF THE LARGE INTESTINE AND ANUS. and luxurious habits of the more opulent elasses, by diminishing tone at the same time that tliey occasion pletliora and a tendency to abdominal en- gorgement, exercise a considerable influence on tlie occim-ence of this disease, which is much more frequent amongst them than in persons in the humlfler walks of life. There are a number of minor conditions which are commonly looked upon as predisposing causes of this disease, though it is extremely difficult to de- termine the precise share that each has in its occun-ence. Amongst these may l)e mentioned intemperance in food and drink ; residence in warm, moist, and relaxing climates ; the use of soft and warm beds, or the opposite condition of sitting on a cold stone or damp cushion. Over-excitement of the generative organs will also occasion it. Excitistg Causes.—Amongst the exciting causes may be mentioned local irritation of any kind. Thus, in some people hard riding will bring on an attack of piles. The haUhial use of drastic imrgatives, more especially of aloes, rhubarb, &c., is well known to occasion the disease ; though it must be obser^-ed that individuals, who make habitual use of these remedies, often- labour under some of those obstructions of the abdommal viscera that have already been noticed as conducing to piles. The existence of other diseases about the rectum and anus, such as fistula, ulcer, or stricture, by inducing local congestion and irritation, may excite the disease ; so also, uterine affections and various diseases of the genito-urinarg organs may give rise to this affection. The most direct exciting cause of piles is certainly a retardation to the return of the portal blood. Any impediment to the onward current of the blood through the htemorrhoidal or mesenteric veins, the trunk or ramifications of the vena portse, exercises a marked influence oji the tendency to congestion of the hmmon-hoidal plexus. Habitual constipation ; the accumulation of hardened feculent masses in the large intestine ; the want of due secretion fr’om the mucous surface ; obstruction to the proper action of the hver, and consequent congestion of that organ ; the pressiu’e of abdominal tumom’s, or of the gravid uterus, are all active exciting causes, interfering as they do with the proper return of the portal blood. In some cases, even the existence of an obstacle to the circulation hi the systemic veins may occasion this disease ; thus it will arise fr’om the pressure of an aneurismal tumour on some of the large venous trunks vdthin the chest. Structure.—A pile, ivhether external or internal, consists essentially in the first instance of a I'aricose condition of a portion of the hmmorrhoidal plexus,. or rather, of the small veins of the submucous tissue that pour their contents • into this ; this varicose condition, becoming prominently developed at certain i points, gives rise to small knots or tumours. A pile in this state is quite soft: and compressible, and can readily be emptied by pressime ; and when cut into,. it will be found to be composed of one or more cells filled with blood, andi surrounded by areolar tissue. The appearance of cells is, however, deceptive,. and is occasioned by a section of the sacculated and dilated veins that enter, into the composition of the tumour. After the piles have existed for some little time, or after they haA'e once become inflamed, the tissues that entei into their composition undergo modifications that induce corresponding altcia- tions in the cliaracter of the tumour. The coats of the veins become thickened,