AXEUlilSM. galvanic ciUTont. When two iieoclles connected with the poles of a galvanic bat- tery fu'e Jiitroduced into a mass of fluid blood, a firm solid coagulum is rapidly formed round that connected with the positive pole, while at the same time a large, soft, spongy clot mixed with bubbles of gas is seen at the negative needle, and a dai-k, tar-like fluid also makes its appearance. If the needle used be made of steel or any other readily soluble metal, further changes occur at the positive pole due to the production of salts of iron with the ac?ds liberated from the blood. These changes are spoken of as secondary electrolysis. The clot formed by electrolysis is, therefore, not composed simply of the fibrine of the blood, but contains also a large proportion of albumen coagulated by the chemical action of the current, and must he looked upon as a foreign body around Avhich we hope ordinary coagulation will occur. The operation of galvano-puncture is best performed as follows. Two steel needles, weU. insulated with vulcanite or gum-elastic, are inserted into the sac of the aneurism and connected with the opposite poles of the battery. The needles should be about one inch apart, parallel to each other, and so inserted that no part of the uninsulated portion of the needle shall touch the sac. The best battery for the purpose is Foveau’s modification of Smee’s, of which from ten to twenty-five cells may be used for a time varying from twenty minutes to half an horn-, or more—according to the effect produced. If the tumour be sufficiently near the siu’face to be clearly observed, as has been the case in several of the aneurisms in which the treatment has been employed, it will be seen to become more tense and Jinn, and the expansile natime of the pulsation will become diminished as the operation progresses. Sometimes bubbles of gas escape by the side of the negative needle, and a little thick brown fluid oozes up. Occasionally the tumour has been found to swell and become resonant on percussion. lATien a distinct effect has been produced the needles may be 'withdrawn, and the small pimctm’es closed "with lint and collodion. The negative needle will be found imaltered, while the positive will be coiroded directly in proportion to the amount of electrolytic action that has taken place. In order to prevent this corrosion of the j)ositive needle, it has been suggested by Dr. John Duncan that platinum may be used instead of steel. There is no e'^ddence, however, to prove that the salts of iron produced give rise to any particular danger; in fact, it is probable they aid considerably in the fomation of the Juni coagnlimi surrounding the needle. The battery used in the operation is of considerable importance. It has been pointed out by Ciniselh, that a current of high tension and somewhat low intensity is less likely to cause the production ot undue heat dmdng the operation, and consequently less prone to lead to inflam- mation and suppuration of the sac. A battery, therefore, composed of a large- number of small elements is superior to one of a few large elements, and all the requisite conditions are found best to be fulfilled by Foveau’s modification of Smee’s. Some operators, and especially Bastian, have advocated the introduction of the positive pole only, the negative being attached to a sponge or metal plate laid on the skin near the aneurism. The only objection to this mode of treatment is the excessively small effect produced. The electrolytic action which takes place is directly in proportion to the intensity oJ the cm- rent; and by the introduction of a considerable mass of the tissues of the- patient in the circuit, the resistance is so greatly increased that electrolysis is