ANEURISM. 48 cither to the scaling .by adhesion or plugging by coagulum of the month of the aneurism, where it communicates with the interior of tlie artery. It is owing to this plugging also, that in many cases the fatal bleeding does not occur at the moment of rupture, but only after a lapse of some days, or even weeks, and then most usually under the influence of some incautious movement of the patient, by which the coagulum or adhesion is suddenly disturbed. Those cases arc most dangerous in which pulsation has returned in the sac after the ligature of the vessel, but before the supervention of suppuration ; as in these the tumour is so freely supplied with blood that, if it burst, fatal hiemorrhage will ivith certainty supervene. ° This accident is much frequent in some situations than in others, and is more liable to occur in aneurisms of the axiUa or groin, than in those of the ham or of the neck. The proximity of the ligatme and the necessary inter- ference with the sac in its application, especially in large axillary or inguinal aneurisms, is undoubtedly a frequent cause of this accident. The large size these tumoui's raj)idly attain, in consequence of the laxity of their areolar con- nections, also favours it. Until recently it was believed that the occmrence of simple coagulation, instead of gradual deposit of laminated fibrine, was an important factor m the production of suppimation of the sac ; but oim late experience of the treatment of aneurism by rapid compression clearly shows that the danger has been greatly exaggerated. In other cases it would appear that the fibrine,. though properly deposited, acts as a foreign body, and gi-^-es rise to inflammation and suppm-ative action in the wall of the sac and the siUTOunding areolar tissue. Besides this, it has been very justly remarked by Porter, that the excessive handling and frequent examination to which an aneurismal tumour occurring in a hospital patient is usually subjected, may induce inflammatory action and give rise to suppuration. The period at which suppimation of the sac may occiu* after the ligatme varies from a few days to as many months. In the majority of instances, it would appear to take place between the third and eighth Aveeks ; later than this it seldom happens, though it may do so after the lapse of several months, as in a case recorded by Sir A. Cooi>er, in which a carotid anemism suppurated at the eighth mouth. Treatment.—When an aneurism is suppm-ating, and is on the point of giA'ing Avay, it will be better to make an incision into it, so as to let out at once the broken down and semi-putrefied contents. Its cavity must then be di’essed like an ordinaiy abscess, with a view to its filling up by granulation ; Avhich, however, Avill necessarily be a slow process, in consequence of the gi*eat size and depth of the opening. During the whole of this time a tourniquet should be kept loosely applied upon the artery above the sac, so as to be tightened at any moment if bleeding take place. If htemorrhage have already supervened, the case is attended with immediate danger. In such a case as this, the first indication is clearly to an-est the immediate floAV of blood, so as to prevent the patient fr’om dying at once. This can best be accomplished by turning out the coagiAla and plugging the sac Avith lint or compressed sponge, retained in sihi by a firm graduated compress, and Avell applied roller. The hremorrhage having thus been arrested for a time, the Surgeon should take into considera- tion what steps should be adopted permanently to restrain it. In some cases.