OSTEO-REINOPLA STY. 499 results. Of late years some modifications have been introduced into it. Thus Langenbeck recommends that the periosteum should be dissected up from the frontal bone together Avith the skin-flap, in order that, by the after-develop- ment of osseous tissue, a finner and better organ should be left. It has been feared by some Surgeons that the exposure of the frontal bone, by stripping off its periosteum, would probably be followed by necrosis. Experience has, however, shomi that this fear is groundless, as, indeed, might have been infen-ed from analogous conditions often observed in injuries' of the head, in which large portions of the pericranium may be detached -without the •e.xposed bone losing its -vitality. But it appears to me that there are more serious objections to “ Osteo-llhinoplasty,” and that it is an unnecessary com- plication of the operation to turn down the pericranium in the nasal flap, for two reasons. First, the pericranium is very firmly attached to the bone, and very loosely to the integumental structures, which glide over it. From the bone it is not detached without difficulty and the necessity of a •certain degree of scraping, by which its vitality is not unlikely to be impaired to so great a degree that it would be of no service as a bone-producing organ in the new nose, and would not improbably, when twisted down, slough away from insufficient vascular supply. Secon^y, even if the pericranial lining of the new nose were to retain its bone-producing power, it seems to me that an osseous layer inside that organ would rather be a disadvantage than of service, and would certainly expose it to greater risk of fracture and other injury than if such brittle material as a thin shell of bone did not enter into its ■composition. The operation practised by Ollier appears to me to be less happy than many of that excellent Singeon’s suggestions. It consists in cutting down the nasal process of the superior maxilla, and then bending it across so as to form a kind of bridge, on which to sustain the integumento-pericranial j Fig. 599. -Opening into Anterior Xnres. 1 Pig. 000.—Opening into .\nterior Nnres closed by Oi)eriition.. flap deflected from to the bridge of the the forehead. But by doing this the lateral supports new nose are removed, and necrosis of the bent or rather K K 2