DISEASES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 388 the head, and to crackling sensations on opening and shutting the mouth. Their presence is best ascertained by examination with a well-constructed ear-speculum ; that introduced by Toynbee, of a double-convex shape, is the most useful. The Treatment of these concretions consists in softening the wax by the introduction of a little glycerine into the ear for a few nights, and then repeatedly washing out the meatus by the injection of tepid soap and water, or water containing a httle soap-liniment, thrown in with a large syringe ; as the fluid regurgitates from the membrana tympani, it will at length bring away dark and hardened ceruminous masses. Polypi are met with, situated deeply on one side of the meatus. They are usually hard and fleshy-looking, though sometimes soft and gelatinous, as in the nose ; sometimes pediculated, but at others situated on a broad base. They produce serious inconvenience by obstructing the external ear, and require to be twisted off by means of forceps, or, if too firmly fixed for this, cut off with scissors or a wire snare ; the surface fr’om which they spring should then be touched with nitrate of silver, so as to prevent a reciuTence of the growth. Thickening of the Cuticle.—Occasionally the cuticle of the external ear, and that covering the membrana tympani, becomes thickened and indurated, assuming a dull white appearance : this condition may give rise to some amount of deafness. In these circumstances, glycerine, citrine ointment, or solution of nitrate of silver, will be extremely useful in restoring the healthy action of the integument of the part. Deafness.—It is not my intention to enter into the general pathology of the various kinds of dea&ess, nor to discuss its causes. It may be stated generally, however, that it may arise from obstruction of the external ear fr’om disease ; from ulceration and perforation of the membrana tympani; from various inflammatory affections, chiefly of a subacute and chronic character, of the internal and middle ear ; fe’om paralysis of the acoustic nerve, either local or dependent on cerebral lesions ; and lastly, from obstruction in the Eusta- chian tube, or fi’om disease of the throat. Toynbee has especially shown that many cases of so-caUed “nervous” deafness, together wth singing, ringing, boihng, and other noises in the head, are in reality dependent upon chi’onic inflammatory affections of the internal and middle ear ; and that the treatment best adapted for their ciu’e consists in constitutional and local means of an alterative and antiphlogistic character. DISEASES OF THE NOSE AND CHEEKS. Ckronic Catarrh, in the form of a thin wateiy mucous dischai’ge, lasting, for many months, is occasionally met with, more particularly in yoimg women,] independently of any structural disease of the mucous membrane. Ihe ment of this affection consists in the employment of tonics and means calculated to strengthen the system generally, and the local application of astringents^ such as tannin, chloride of zinc, &c. But under any plan of treatment tlm affection is apt to prove rebellious. • i r t. A very Fetid Discharge ft’orn the nose will occasionally occur ni dclica t and unhealthy children while cutting their teeth, and may contuuie fc several years. It is not attended by ulceration of the mucous membrane