OF DISEASE OF THE HIP. 319 THE ATM ENT ■> UtiUty of tUo Limb.-Arhou once the hip-joint has become inflamed, nimi 01 ta lameness will im ariably icsnlt, however camfnlly condneted the treatment mav be. The amount of lameness may consist in a more stiftoess 1 ' t the bin a difficulty in abduction, in flexion of the thigh on the pelvis, m i" free rotoMon : or it may extend to absolute usclessnoss of the shortened withered and deformed limb, which hangs powerless from the pehns, suspended as it were l>y the ilio-femoral ligament, and slightly flexed and adducted. The extent of lameness will depend chiefly upon the form of the disease, and to some extent upon the treatment adopted ; but some will ever be lef . ^en the coxalo-ia is arthritic, and suppuration has not taken place, ankylosis of a more or less complete fom will usuaUy ensue ; and if the thigh haye been kept in the straight position, a sufficiently useM limb will be left, but slightly shortened, and possessing free compensating movement in the lumbar spine, cnablino- the patient to swing it with facility as he walks. If suppimation have taken place, and the head of the bone have been absorbed or dislocated, the limb, even under the most judicious treatment, will be left considerably short- ened, weakened, wasted, and more or less adducted, vith the knee carried somewhat forwards, as well as inwards, and the patient walking often most imperfectly and vith great difficulty on the points of his toes. Diagxosis.—In making the diagnosis of coxalgia, care must be taken not to confound it in its early stages with an ordinary attack of rheutaatism, a mistake that not imfrequeutly happens. The alteration in the shape and position of the hmb, the obliteration of the fold of the nates, and the limitation of the pain to one joint, will usually prevent the Surgeon from falling into this eiTor. With disease of the knee, care must be taken not to confound hip-disease, in consequence of the pain in the early stages being commonly refeired to the foiTucr joint; here the absence of any positive sign of disease about the knee, and the existence of aU the signs of disease in the hip that have already been noticed, will enable the Surgeon to diagnose the true seat of the affection. Lateral curvature of the spine, accompanied by neuralgic tenderness in the hip, occasionally gives rise to apparent shortening of the limb with pain and rigidity; but in these cases the existence of the spinal affection, the superficial nature of the pain, and the absence of increase of suffering when the joint is firmly com- pressed, or of painful startings at night, will indicate the true natiu’e of the affection. Alscess may occasionally, though rarely, form in the vicinity of the Irip without that joint being diseased. Should this take place towards the anterior aspect of the articulation under the pectineus muscle, it may, by its pressure upon the obturator nerve, occasion pain in the thigh and knee, as in those cases in which the articulation is affected ; here, however, the soiuid state of the joint at its posterior and outer part, the absence of all obliquity of the pelvis, and of the other signs of the true hip-disease, will enable the diagnosis to be effected. The diagnosis fr’om sacro-iliac disease has been described at p. 307. Treatment.—The treatment of disease of the hip must be conducted with reference to the form of the disease, the acuteness of the attack, and the severity of the local and constitutional sjrmptoms. In all cases, this affection must be managed in accordance vdth those general principles that guide us in the treatment of inflamed joints.