843 CIlRONia CYSTITIS. has ffone on to o-angrene of the mucous membrane, to diffuse peritonitis, or to the formation of abscess, either in the substance of the wall of the bladder or between the bladder and the rectum, with perhaps infiltration of urine in the deep areolar tissue of the pelvis oi the periiicGum. Treatment.—Yha treatment of cystitis is very simple, the disease admitting of little being done in the way of medicines. The free application of leeches to the neighbourhood of the inflamed organ, long-continued soaking in warm hip-baths,°thc application of poppy fomentations or of laudanum and linseed- meal poultices, the injection of emollient cnemata, and the copious adminis- tration of barley water or mucilaginous drinks, will subdue the inflammation and afford the patient great comfort; to these means may be added the administration of antimonials with henbane or opiates. The only salines that are of much use are the citrate and nitrate of potash; and these must be given largely diluted. Chronic Cystitis.—Acute cystitis commonly degenerates into the chronic form of the disease, the symptoms of which closely resemble, though in a modified degree, those that have just been described as characterising acute cystitis, and constitute one of the varieties of the “ iiTitable bladder.” The Treatment of chronic cystitis must be of a moderately anti-inflammatory character, so long as inflammatory action keeps up ; when once this subsides, and the disease falls into an asthenic condition, the management of the disease must, to a considerable extent, be modified. In the early stages, whilst there is tenderness and inflammatory action, leeches, warm hip-baths, poppy fomen- tations, mucilaginous drinks, Avith henbane, and some alkaline remedies, especially the hquor potasses largely diluted, wiU be found most useful, the bowels at the same time being kept open by castor-oil and enemata. If there be much strangury of a spasmodic character, it will best be relieved by cupping or leeching the perinaBum, the internal administration of chloric ether anil opiates, or the cannabis Indica, and the use of morphia suppositories. If the urine become offensive in cystitis, whether chronic or acute, gveat advantage is derived by washing out the bladder vflth a solution of the permanganate of potash or of salicylic acid. Irritability op the Bladder is a condition of very frequent occm’reuce. It is met Avith at all ages, complicates many of the diseases to which the I urinary organs are liable, and arises from a great variety of causes. Symptoms.—The patient has a frequent desire to pass urine ; the fluid is generally ejected forcibly, or even spasmodically, and in small quantities at a time. Its passage is attended by pain of a burning, aching, spasmodic character, then constituting Stranyury, sometimes confined to the body, sometimes to the neck of the bladder, not unfrequently extending to the point ' of the penis, or radiating round the pelvis and doAvn the thighs. The urine : may in the earlier stages, and in some cases throughout, continue to be I healthy ; but more commonly, after the disease has lasted some little time, it I becomes loaded Avith mucus, muco-pus, or pus. When the mucoid secretion is I abundant, viscid, and glutinous, the affection is called Vesical Catarrh. In this stage its duration may be indefinite, more particularly in hidividuals advanced in years and gouty in constitution. I Symptoms of Vesical Catarrh.—In vesical catarrh the symptoms are