760 URINARY CALCULUS. Causes.—Whouever a foreign body of any kind, as a piece of broken catheter, &c., is introduced into the bladder, it will form the nucleus of a calculus, speedily becoming incrusted by calculous, probably phosphatic matter. But the causes of calculi occiUTing spontaneously arc very obscure. There can be httle doubt, it is true, that the different forms of concretion are connected with the vai'ieties of diatheses that have already been described ; and we may Fig. 722.—Exterior of Bl.-ulder, containing Fig. 723.—Interior of tlie same Bladder, showing small an Encysted Calculus at n. Orifice leading into Cyst at n ; 6, Ureter. look upon the formation of a calculus as an indication of the existence, in a greater degree of intensity than usual, of the causes which ordinarily give rise to sediments or gTavel; but why, in particular cases, aggregation into a calculous mass takes place, it is impossible to say. Age exercises considerable influence upon the production of calcuh. Stone may occur in the bladder at all periods of life, and even, according to Stahl, may be congenital. The greatest number of cases occin during the fii’st two decennial periods ; thus, Thompson, as the result of his statistical inquhies, states that one-third of the entne number of cases occurs before seven years of age, and one-half of the entire number before the thirteenth year is completed. Coulson has collected 2972 recorded cases of lithotomy from various som-ces; of these, 1466 occinred under the age of ten, 731 from eleven to twenty, 205 from twenty-one to thirty; 264 from thnty-one to fifty, and 306 from fifty- one and upwards. In many of these cases, although the patient was cut towards the middle period of life, the stone probably began to be formed dm’ing childhood. Children belongmg to the wealthy classes are very seldom the subjects of calculus, owing probably to greater care in diet than can be taken mth those of poorer jieople. By many, the absence of milk as an article of diet is supposed to tend to the formation of stone. Sex influences materially the occm’rence of stone, which is far more frequent in the male than in the female, in the proportion of about twenty to one of cases requiring operation. This, however, does not represent the exact ratio; as, owing to the shortness and large size of the urethra in females, many small calculi are voided by them that would be retained in the male. It would appear that in some farts of the ivortcl calculus is a far more common disease than in others. It is generally more frequently met with in cold than in warm climates. The negi’o race is remaikably exempt from this afiection.