HERNIA. 642 the softened, laccrahlo, or pulpy look of the protruded part, its loss of lustre, and peculiar greenish-black or dark-grey colour, will cause the nature of the mischief to be readily recognised. In the majority of cases there will be much constitutional depression, and clammy skin, tympanitic abdomen, and browi or black tongue ; but in some instances I have known all these symptoms to be absent, and the condition of the patient to present no very unfavourable state. Some difference of opinion exists as to the proper line of practice to be adopted in such cases. Travers and Lawence seem to think that the division of the stricture is unnecessary, or may even be injurious ; whilst Dupuytren, A. Cooper, and Key (with whom I concur), advise that it should be done : that the stricture should be divided in the usual way ; that a free incision should then be made into the protruded portion of bowel, which must be left unre- duced, so as to allow the escape of faeces ; and the wound left open and covered by a poidtice. In this way an artificial anus will necessarily be formed, through which the feculent matter finds exit. The gut in the vicinity of the strictoe is retained in situ by masses of plastic matter, which prevent the peritoneal cavity from being opened. If the intestine should already have given way before the operation is performed, the stricture must be divided, and the part then left imreduced, care being taken to interfere as little as possible with any adhesions or connections lying inside the neck of the sac ; though I fully agree with Key, in thinking that the danger of disturbing them has been exaggerated. When a small portion of the bowel only is gangrenous, the better plan is to return it just beyond the mouth of the sac, without laying it open ; but it should not be pushed any distance into the cavity of the abdomen ; the pres- sure of the surrounding parts wiU prevent extravasation. When the slough separates, it will probably be discharged into the cavity of the intestine ; and the aperture resulting will be closed by the adhesions that extend between its margin and the abdominal wall. Ullanageiueiit of Adhesions.—This varies according to the condition of the bowel, and the nature and situation of the bands. As has just been remarked, if gangrene be present, especial care must be taken not to distimb any connections that have been formed about the neck of the sac, and which constitute the most effectual barrier against feculent extravasation. When the adhesions are recent, consisting merely of plastic matter, in whatever situation they exist, they may readily be broken down with the finger or the handle of the scalpel, and the parts then returned. When of old standing, and dense, they must be dealt with according to then connections. Most frequently these adhesions occur in the shape of thickened bands, situated -within and stretclnug across the neck of the sac. In other cases, they may be found either as fila- mentous bands, or as broad attachments connecting the sac with its conten s, and perhaps tying these together. When of a narrow and constricted form, and more pai'ticularly when seated in the neck of the sac, or stretching 1 *e bridles across its interior, they may readily be divided by a probe-poin e bistoury, or the hernia-knife. If they consist of broad attachments, tli y may be dissected away, by a little cai-eful manipulation, froin the paits in the inside of the sac; though, if the adhesions extensive mi old standing, it may sometimes be more prudent to dissect away ^ 1