DISEASES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. oo the liji; and, if compelled to do so, he must act as will he described in speakin^r ot cancer of this region. (Sec next page.) These gi-owths most frequently occur on the lower lip. ^ Encysted Tumours are usually small and transparent, ivith thin walls con- taining a glairy straw-coloured fluid. These should always be dissected out; mere excision of a portion of the wall being followed by recurrence of the disease. ^ Eiectile Timours of the lip are usually of an active character, and may either be excised, if of moderate extent and implicating the whole thickness of the lip ; or, if of large size and projecting from the mucous surface, they may be safely ligatured (p. 940, Vol. I.) I have had under my care several cases of Ncevus of the upper hp, implicating the whole substance of the part, and have successfully removed them by the repeated application of potassa cum calce. MALiGNAifT Diseases of the Lips.—Not unfrequently Warty Growths and various forms of Ejnthelioma and Cancroid Diseases appear upon the lips. These afiections are not removable by therapeutic means, and require siu’gical interference. The structure of epithehoma has been so fully described at p. 810, Vol. I., that it need not detain us here. The accomj)anying cut is a good illustration of the microscopic characters usually presented by it in the face and lips. Epithelioma of the lip either com- mences as a warty growth, which gradually ulcerates hke the ordinary forms of tubercular lupus ; or it begins as an indm’ated crack or fis- sure, the edges of which have a tendency to spread. The submaxillary glands tend to become involved ; and the disease may eventually prove fatal by the pain, exhaustion, and constitu- tional irritation thus induced. Lip-epithehoma almost invariably occurs in men—I have never met with a case affecting the lower lip of a woman. It is met with after the middle period of life. Of twenty consecutive cases in which I have operated, and of which I have notes, thirteen were above sixty, and six between fifty and sixty years of age ; in one case only did the disease occur under thirty. This disease is at first entirely local, often being induced by some irritation, as by a rugged broken tooth, or by smoking a clay-pipe ; and when removed it does not, I believe, very commonly recur. At least, of the very many patients that have been operated upon at the University College Hospital, I have known but few to return mth a recm- rence of the disease ; I cannot, therefore, but come to* the conclusion that the operation for epithelioma of the lower lip frequently rids the patient permanently of his disease. When return does take place, it is not always in the cicatrix or in the