STRUCTURE OF SCIRRHUS OF MAMMA. 593 tioii with cancer, as it does not occur in all cases of malignant disease, and is occasionally met with in simple mammaiy tumours. . , The Axillary Glands usually become enlarged early in the disease, and may attain a gi'eater size than that of the original tumour; and on close examination a kind of indurated cord may be felt extending in the course of the absorbents, from the edge of the pectoral muscle to the axilla. After a time, the supraclavicular or subclavicular glands may likewise become impli- cated. In fact, the whole of the glandular structures in the vicinity of the shoulder undergo cancerous infiltration. When this is the case, the pressure upon the axillai'y vein may occasion oedema of the arm and hand. The glan- dular infiltration usually increases rapidly after the skin has become implicated. In some cases, scirrhus of the axillary glands is the primary disease : and in other instances, when the glands become affected, the chief virulence of the disease appears to expend itself upon them ; the tumour of the breast ceasing to enlarge, or even wasting, whilst the secondary glandular deposits in the axilla become greatly developed. As the scirrhus extends, it may gradually affect the subjacent muscles, cellu- lar tissue, the ribs, and at last the pleura, giving rise eventually to hydrothorax or secondary visceral deposits. In many instances, however, the disease proves fatal by the induction of exhaustion. The constitutional cachexy is m many cases not very distinctly marked, until after the skin has become involved ; but then it rapidly increases, more especially when ulceration takes place. Indeed, the cancerous degeneration of the skin may be looked upon as an epoch of peculiar importance in scirrhus of the breast, as it is at this period that the pain increases, that the lymphatic system becomes infected, and that the constitution becomes distinctly poisoned. Duration.—The duration of life after the occurrence of scirrhus of the breast varies greatly; so much so, that the disease may be considered as assuming an acute and a chronic form. The acute variety principally occurs in ruddy and plethoric women, and commonly proves fatal in a few months. In those who are of a more feeble and delicate constitution, the disease, as a general rule, takes a slower course. Sir A. Cooper states that the disease, on an average, is from two to three years in growing, and from six months to two years in destroying life after being fully formed. In this estimate, which is probably correct, Walshe agrees ; so that the average dimation of life in cancer of the breast would probably be about three years. As a general nde, the progi-ess of scirrhus is slower in old people, in whom it occasionally ghes lise to a kind of atrophy of the breast, with shrinking and induration of the tumour. There are many instances on record, however, in which cancer of the breast has existed for a far longer period than has just been men- tioned ; for ten, twelve, or even, as in a case related by Sir B. Brodie, for twenty-five years. Pathological Structure.—After removal, scirrhus of the mamma presents considerable variety in appearance. In the majority of instances it occurs as a peculiarly hard, knobbed, and irregular mass, croaking under the knife when cut, and presenting on section a greyish or bluish-grey, semi-transparent surtacc, tra^'erscd in various directions by bands of a more opaque character and exuding on pressure a thin reddish juice. In many instances, masses of Q Q