746 SECOxXJJAllY JJlEEASES OF THE UlilNAllY OUGAiXE. Causes of Interstitial Inflammation.—The following may be stated as the causes which in varying degree take part in the production of interstitial inflammation of the kidney: 1. Tension ; 2. llcflex in-itation of the kidney • 3. The presence of septic matter in the pelvis of the kidney. Each of these acting singly may induce serious disease, or perhaps even cause death, but we seldom see such cases. More often, two at least are in action. 1. Tension. It has been shown before how this is induced by any obstruc- tion to the free entrance of mine into the bladder. Every practical Surgeon i is acquainted with the fact that tension is one of the most powerful irritants to which the living tissues can be exposed. The examples of a tight stitch, pent up pus, and mammary abscess from obstruction to a duct, must occur to everyone. In the analogous case of the mamma, the inflammation resulting from obstruction aflccts the interacinous cellular tissue, which becomes infil- trated with small cells. In the liver, Wickham Legg and others have shown that ligature of the bile-duct causes interstitial hepatitis. In the kidney, no recorded case is to be found of suppuration occurring as the result of simple tension ; but in all cases in which evidence of tension exists, that is to say, dilated mnter or pelvis of the kidney, or some source of sudden obstruction as a more or less impacted calculus, subacute interstitial inflammation -will be found. It seems almost as if the new cell-growth were a conservative change intended to strengthen the tubules to resist the increased pressure. How- ever this may be, a kidney in this condition is in a state in which a httle further irritation from any cause may hurry it on to fatal and acute inflammation. 2. Reflex Irriiation of the Kklmij.—Mechanical injm-ies to the neck of the bladder or posterior part of the urethra, and probably diseases of these parts in which constantly recimlng in-itation is present, re-act upon the kidney through the influence of the nervous system. It is needless here to attempt any ex- planation of the exact manner in which this takes place, as it would be merely a matter of speculation ; but a few facts may be given as proof of the assertion. It is weU. known that several cases are on record, in which death has occurred from suppression of urine following the simple introduction of a catheter, the post mortem examination showing a condition of intense conges- tion of the kidney. Again, patients Avith stone in the bladder occasionally die from acute inflammation of the kidney, often accompanied by suppmation, after the operation of hthotrity. Cases of this kind have occurred in which the cystitis was not increased by the ojperation, in which the decomposition of m-ine remained unchanged, and no altered circumstance existed, except the mechanical injm-y of the passage of the instrument, to account for the sudden supervention of acute nephritis. In these cases signs of chronic disease, which has been rendered acute by the additional irritation, are always present. Lastly, a few cases have been observed at University College Hospital after operations for stricture, with the vieAV of ascertaining if any change could be found in the ' urine as the direct result of the operation. In three cases of Holt’s dilatation, the urine Avas found to be fr-ee from blood, or to contain no more than could be accounted for by the operation, during the first hour or hom- and a half after the operation, and then to become gradually more and more bloody for another hour or hour and a half, and after that to become gi-adually free fr-om blood.