324 DISEASE OF THE HIP-JOINT. l^y Fergiisson. But in the meamvhile it had not entirely escaped the attention of continental Surgeons. Oppenheim, in 1829, and Seutin, in 1832, exeised the head of the femnr for gun-shot injury ; and, in 1842, Textor published an essay on the subject. Since the operation was removed by Fergusson, in 184r.^ it has been frecpiently performed, and may now he looked upon, notwithstand- ing the violence with which it has been assailed, as being an established surgical procedure in appropriate cases. Cases requiring Operation.—Diseases of and about the hip-joint may, so far as the question of operation is concerned, be divided into two great classes —those in which no suppuration takes place, however acute the inflammation may have been ; and those in which abscess forms. To the first class belongs the arthritic variety of the disease, in which the synovial membrane and cartilages are primarily affected. In this foim of coxalgia, the patient commonly recovers with a stiffened or even completely ankylosed, though useful and straight limb, dislocation of the head of the bone not having ocemred. In such cases, I believe that excision is never needed ; at least, I have never had occasion to do it, nor have I ever seen a case that seemed to me to justify such a procedure. The second class of cases—those in which abscess forms—are by far the most numerous. In the great majority of these, however, the head of the femur is the part primarily affected, and in these recovery will take place even- tually, under properly conducted medico-surgical treatment. But the recovery in such cases is always so far incomplete that the limb is left much crippled, and often of but little utility. In cases of this kind, after years of suffering- arid confinement to bed, and after a hard struggle for existence, we find the- rurfortunate patient left eventually with a limb that is shortened to the extent of from two to four inches, wasted and adducted, with a projecting deformed hip seamed with cicatrices ; the remains of the upper epiphysis of the thigh- bone being dislocated from the acetabulum, and adherent to the dorsum ilii by firm ankylosis. The limb is unable to support the body, and cannot be extended, nor can the sole of the foot be firmly planted on the gTOund ; but the leg is to a certain extent useful in progression, the patient using it as a kind of paddle to push himself on with, as he limps on the point of the toes. In these cases it is interesting to observe how nature compensates for the loss of all abduction and rotatory power in the hip by giving an extremely increased degree of mobility to the lumbar vertebim ; so that the patient, in walking, swings the pelvis from these, and thus in a great degree makes up for the loss of the natural movements in the coxo-femoral articulation. But though recovery takes place eventually, in the great majority of cases of coxalgia that have even advanced to suppuration, yet in some and not a few instances the patient’s constitution becomes unequal to the drain im- posed upon it, and fatal hectic eventually supervenes. This is the direct consequence of the wasting and exhausting influence of the long-continued discharge of pus from masses of carious or necrosed bone, too extensive or too deeply seated to be eliminated by the natural actions of the part. It is in such cases as these that conservative surgery steps in, and endeavoura to save the patient’s life by the removal of the morbid cause that keejis up t ic discharge which is wasting it away. The object here is simply to saie i o