230 DISEASES OF JOINTS. a firm leather pelvic hand having a steel rod extending down the outside ol the limb, hinged angularly opposite the hip, knee, and ankle, and fixed into a socket in the sole of the boot, and properly adjusted by means of straps and moulded leather to the thigh and leg. By the use of this apparatus the weight of the limb is taken off, and all rotatory movement of the hip is prevented, to- and-fro motion being allowed. Dry Clironic Rheumatic Arthritis of the Lower Jaw.—Chronic rheu- matic arthritis has also been described by Smith as occasionally affecting the tem- poro-maxillary articulation in individuals of rather advanced life. This disease is mostly symmetrical, and gives rise to an enlargement of the condyle of the jaw, which can be felt under the zygoma, attended with much pain in opening the mouth, a sensation of cracking or gi’ating in the joint, and some enlargement of the lymphatic glands by the side of the neck. The pain is generally increased at night, and influenced by the state of the Aveather. The face becomes dis- torted, the affected side of the jaw projecting and being pushed towards the opposite side ; but Avhen both joints are affected the chin projects, the entire jaw being di-nAAni forwards. Tliis distortion is chiefly owing to the destruction of the articular eminence ; for, when this takes place, the external pterygoid muscle di’aws the jaAV forwards and to the opposite side ; but Avhen both articu- lations are equally affected, those muscles displace it directly forwards : the glenoid cavity becomes enlarged, the fibro-cartilage disappears, and the condyle is sometimes greatly thickened and flattened, and always rough, being devoid of cartilage. In such cases there is little to be done by :nedicines ; but the treatment must be conducted on the same principles as in the same affection attacking the hijD. Dry Chronic Rheumatic Airthritis of the Shoulder.—When it affects the shoulder, chronic rheumatic ai'thritis gives rise to a considerable enlarge- ment of the head of the humerus, wasting and rigidity of the deltoid, and inability to move the elboAV upwards, except by the rotation of the scapula on the trunk. In fact, the scapulo-himieral articulation being fixed, all move- ments of the shoulder are effected thi'ough the medium of the scapula, which becomes more mobile than natiu'al. The articulation is the seat ol much pain, lancinating at times, but generally gnawing and intermittent, being dependent on the state of the weather, and gveatly increased in cold and wet seasons. The whole of the arm becomes wasted, and Aveakened in power. In two instances I have seen this disease in young and otherwise robust and healthy men, betAveen twenty and thirty years of age, coming on without any apparent cause. In both cases the joint continued permanently rigid, though the pain Avas relieved by the use of the iodides and by local counter-irritation. Chronic Strumous Arthritis : White Savblling.—By White Swell- ing is meant a very chronic form of arthritis occurring in scrofulous subjects. _ . . , 1 , This condition has not in many cases any definitive stai-ting point, but appears sloAvly to supervene upon some slight injury, as a tAvist, or bloAA, or strain ; at other times it commences Avith a subacute synovitis, assimiing its peculiar characters by occurring in a strumous constitution, and is cspecia y liable to happen in children and females. j • • f • Symptoms.—disease presents peculiar character. The affected joint is