LIGATURE OF THE BRACHIO-GEPIIALIC ARTERY. Ill attempt ligature on the distal side. On exposing the In-achio-cephalic, that vessel was found to be diseased, and it was not thought desirable to pass the ligature round it. In consecpience of the exposure of the artery, however, the pulsation in the tnmour gradually diminished, and at last ceased entirely, its hulk also becoming less. In Key’s case, it which it was impracticable to pass the ligatiu’e, it was found after death that the brachio-cephalic was diseased, being dilated imme- diately after its origin into an oblong timiour, ivhich occupied the whole of the arteiy. It is remarkable that in this case, as in Porter’s, inflammation seems to have taken place in the artery in consequence of the necessary handling to which it was subjected, and that the pulsation in the sac con- sequently diminished. The difliciflties of the operation are in themselves of serious magnitude ; arising from the depth of the vessel, from its proximity to the centre of the circulation, and from the neighbourhood of large veins, which may become tiu'gid, and a wound of which not only obscures the line of incision with venous blood, but induces a risk of the entrance of air into the circulation. But even when these have been siumounted, and the artery has been exposed, its coats may be found so diseased, or its calibre so increased, that it may be undesirable or impossible to pass a ligatme round it. The failure in deligating the artery would, however, as we shall immediately see, appear to be less disastrous in its consequences than success in that attempt ; for of the three cases that have just been referred to, in which this attempt was made and did not succeed, one was cured of the disease, the artery being obliterated by adhesive inflammation; and in another. Key’s patient, an attempt to set up this action appears to have been made, the tumour becoming solid and ceasing to pulsate ; whereas, in every case but one in which the vessel was ligatimed, a fatal result speedily ensued. The results of the ligatime of the vessel are then in the highest degvee dis- coiu’ag-ing ; for of the fourteen cases in the table in which it has been done, only one has recovered. The only successful case, that in which Smyth of Kew Orleans was the operator, is one of the most remarkable on record, but in reality affords no evidence as to the possibility of safely ligaturing the brachio- cephalic tranlv. For in this case the carotid was also tied so as to stop the regurgitant flow of blood ; yet, notwithstanding this precaution, on the fom-- teenth day severe haemon-hage to syncope occurred. This hmmorrhage recurred at intervals for a period of thirty-seven days, and was temporarily arrested by fllling the wound with shot, till, on the flfty-flrst day after the operation, a “ terrific ” haemon’hage took place, stopped by syncope. As this bleeding came from the distal side and from the subclavian artery, the vertebral was tied, ivith perfect success—no bleeding recurring. This fact is of the utmost surgical value ; it shows that the secondary hmmorrhage, which may be looked upon as the necessaiy sequence of the ligatui’e of the in- nominate artery, may be arrested and the patient’s life saved by the ligatime of the principal arterial branch that communicates with and that carries rco-ur- ptant blood into the distal end of the artery -which was originally ligatured. This fact is entirely new in operative siugery ; and the establishment of it, as well as the skill and comage that were displayed in the operative procedures required m, and the general management of this case, reflect the highest credit