rig. 501. — Cyst of ThyroUl, containing clear Serous Fluid. 408 DISEASES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. the thyi’oid gland, either associated with, or occurring independently of, general hypertrophy of it. These cysts may be single or multiple. When single or of large size, as in Fig. 5G1, they usually contain clear serous fluid. When multiple, they are filled with a fluid that presents the ordinary characters of altered blood, being dark, grumons, or like coffee-grounds, and have often cauliflower- like excrescences projecting into their interior. They appear to be of the nature of hfematomata, and occur in- dependently of amemia in persons otherwise perfectly healthy, and more commonly in young women. 3. Pulsating Bronch.ocele is occasionally met with. The pulsation, which is excentric and distensile, is syn- chronous with the heart’s action, and evidently due to the vascular character of the tumour itself. This form of bronchocele is sometimes conjoined with the cystic. AVhen it is confined to one lobe only, care must be taken not to confound the beatings with those of carotid anem’ism ; a mistake which I have known to occur. The diagnosis of the two affections has been adverted to at p. 89, Vol. II. The Causes of bronchocele have been much discussed, both professionally and popularly. The most generally received belief is, that the disease is directly occasioned by some impurity in, or peculiarity of, the water that the patients drink ; and it has been supposed that water coming through chalk or limestone is particularly apt to occasion bronchocele in this country, and that water resulting from melted snow is its occasioning cause in Svdtzerland. But these ideas are groundless. Hard water is drunk largely hi this country in districts where no'bronchocele occurs, and snow-water is never used in Switzerland ; spring-water, and that of the purest kind, being the only kind that is drunk. It would appear that air and locahty have much more to do with the occurrence of bronchocele than water. In mountainous countries the disease occins almost entirely amongst the inhabitants of valleys, where the air is moist and stagnant ; the inhabitants, especially, of valleys that run north and south, into which the sun does not penetrate readily, or for many hours in the day, which arc always in the shade of neighbouring and over- hanging mountains, are especially prone to it. This is well known to be the case in Switzerland, where the disease is endemic ; so also in large towns, it chiefly occurs amongst the poor who live in cellars and kitchens, or damp, ill-ventilated streets and com-ts. When it is met with in the richer classes, it is mainly found amongst children and young j>eople shut up in school-rooms or devoted to a sedentary and indoor life, unnatural and prejudicial. It is rarely, if ever, met with amongst those who lead open-air and acti\'e lives. Bad food and low living no doubt conduce to it. The tendency is probably hcrcditaiy in some cases; when associated with ‘idiocy, constituting that wretched condition “ cretinism,” it undoubtedly is so. Every race of men is liable to bronchocele, and it occurs in all latitudes, from the Ai’ctic region to the tropics. Thus Franklin found bronchocele amongst the inhabitants of the polar regions, and Mungo Pai'k amongst those of the interior of /Ufica. In this countiy it is most common amongst women.