S°4 PLASTIC SURGERY OF THE FACE AND MOUTH. in the prolabium. The twisted suture is then applied in the usual way (Fig. (>0G), first round the lower pin, and then round the upper one (separate threads, however, being used for each); and lastly, the two are united by a few cross turns, so as to press down and support the whole length of the fissure (Fig. GOT). In Fig. 600.—Axiplication of Twisted Suture. Fig. C07.— A])iilieatioii of Pius and Sutures in Hare-lii). applying the twisted suture the Surgeon must be careful, whilst drawing the edges closely into apposition, not to apply the threads too tightly, lest sloughing result; and in crossing them from one pin to the other, gveat caution must be used not to draw the two pins together horizontally, lest puckering of the line of union take place. The pins are then cut short, the whole is coated with a layer of collodion, and a piece of plaster is put under the ends of the pins to prevent excoriation of the skin. In addition to the pins and twisted sutm-e, I invariably introduce one point of interrupted suture through the mucous mem- brane of the lower part of the fissure, just inside the mouth ; and I look upon this as of great consequence in order to prevent the notching, which is other- wise very apt to occur, in consequence of that portion of the incision between the lower pin and the edge of the lip being kept open by the child in sucking, or protruding its tongue against it. At- the end of fi’om 72 to 9G hours, according to the age of the child, the pin should be withdrawn, or it may be remo\’ed by pushing it through the lip by a gentle rotatory movement, in such a Avay that the cut end does not tear or lacerate the aperture in the lip. The threads, matted together vdth exudation and a little blood, form a good crust. which may be left on for two or three days longer, and then allowed to separate of itself; the less any crusts that form over the line of incision are interfered with, the better will usually be the result. The lip may, if thought desirable, be supported by a strip of adhesive plaster, which should, indeed, be continued for about a fortnight after the operation, so as to prevent stretching of the cicatrix and notching of its loAver part. The point of interrupted suture may be left in fqr about four days. It sometimes, though rarely, happens in single hare-lip that the intermaxillary portion is so large and projecting, that there is difficulty in bringing the lateral segments together over it. Should this be the case, the better plan is to notch it at its alveolar border on the side that is not fissured, and then to break it back so as to remoAC all projection. If the fissure be Avide, and the child restless, so that there is danger of the parts being diagged upon duiiiij, its screaming or crying, it is a very good plan to upply the sjuing chee' com _ Fig. 60S.—Hare-lip; Spring CUcck-comprcssor.