DISEASES OF THE BLADDER. 852 down and washed away by the injection of tepid Avater through a large-eyed or double-current catheter. If the syi-inge of an aspirator be adapted to a large-eyed catheter, the blood, even when coagulated into a single large clot filling the whole bladder, may be easily removed. By the use of this simple contrivance, a complication formerly most troublesome to the Surgeon and most agonising to the patient is overcome without the slightest difficulty. If decomposition occur in the coagulum, giving rise to the formation of flatus in the bladder, a weak tepid saline solution, to which a little creasote has been added, may advantageously be used. I have knoAvn abundant hajmaturia to continue for many years—for twelve or fourteen—probably from villous disease, without deranging the general health to so great an extent as might be expected from so continuous and copious a loss of blood. ATONY OF THE BLADDER. Atony of the Bladder may occur with the opposite conditions of retention and incontinence of urine, according as there is associated mechanical impe- diment or the neck of the organ retains or has lost its contractile power. When the body of the bladder is atonic, whilst the neck preserves its con- tractility, retention of urine wiU ensue in consequence of simple inabihty on the part of the organ to expel its contents, and not from the existence of any mechanical obstacle to the outward flow of the mine. When, on the other hand, the neck of the bladder is paralysed, the urine cannot be retained, but di’ibbles away involuntarily, thus constituting incontinence (p. 855). Atony of the bladder occasionally occurs as the result of a single prolonged over- distension, whether voluntary or involuntary. Atony of the bladder appears in many cases to depend on simple loss of muscular contractility, and to be altogether unconnected with any diminution of nei’A^ous power. The true pathology of this condition has stiU to be made out. May it not, like the analogous atony of the heart, be due to fatty or granular degeneration of the muscular fibres of the affected organ, and the “flabby heart ” have its counterpart in the atonic or “flabby” bladder ? Ebtention of TJuixe.—Loss of tone in the body of the bladder, leading eventually to its atony, not unfrequently ocems in old age as the result of simple diminution of muscular power. It must not be confounded with Paralysis of the bladder as the result of injury or disease of the spinal cord. 1 . T Symptoms.—When this condition comes on slowly as the result ot disease, the patient usually finds that the urine escapes in a dribbling manner ; that there is some difficulty, and at last an impossibihty, in emptying the bladder com- pletely ; and there is not that forcible ejection of the last drops of urine that is characteristic of a healthy tone in the organ ; at the same time, there is not unfr-equently a tendency to the dribbling away of a few drops toivards the end of the emission of urine, and after its apparent cessation. There is also an occa- sional escape of m-ine at night. When complete retention occurs, whether this take place gradually or suddenly, the bladder slowly enlarges, rising at last out of the pelvis into the abdomen, stretching up into the hypogastric rcgio”. reaching even as high as the umbilicus. On examining the lower part ot the