tracheotomy and LARYNGOTOMY compared. 565 number of years, in one case as many as twelve, and in whom no special iiTita- tion lias been occasioned by them. When the windpipe recpiircs to be opened for the extraction of a foreign body, traclieotomy should be performed ni pre- ference to laryngotomy, as the latter operation docs not admit of suftcient space for its expulsion or extraction. In children the larynx is so little I developed, that tracheotomy becomes necessaiy. ^ In my opinion, laryngotomy is the operation that should, in cases such as ! aboA-e mentioned, be preferred in the adult; and this opinion is based on the I following reasons. 1. As ill laryngotomy the air-tube is always opened below the seat of obstruc- : tion, there can be no necessity to make an apertm-e farther from the seat of 1 disease. In laryngitis, whether that affection assume the acute or the chronic ; character, the obstruction to breathing is in a great measure mechanical, and [ depends upon the iiiiiltratioii of the submucous areolar tissue of the larynx, I and partly of the large plane of this tissue, which lies behind the box of the I larynx, and ivhich, by expanding, as it were, into the pharynx, obstructs deglu- ; titioii, and afterwards, by the extension of this swelling and infiltration to the I lips of the glottis and the interior of the larynx, causes an impediment to the 1* entrance of air into the bronchi. But, as has been pointed out by Prescott Heivett, this submucous areolar tissue terminates at the true vocal cords, where the mucous membrane becomes directly applied to the subjacent fibrous struc- tures ; the swellmg and consequent mechanical impediment are hence confined to the limits of the thyroid cartilage, and any opening made below this vdll clear the loAvest limit of the disease, Avhich is always acciu’ately and almost mathe- matically bounded below by the vocal cords. Hence an aperture in the crico- thyroid membrane is quite as effectual as one in the trachea. 2. Lai’yngotomy is a far safer operation than tracheotomy. On this point I need scarcely dwell; a glance at the anatomy of the parts concerned wiU be sufficient to establish it. The crico-thyroid membrane is nearly subcutaneous, and no parts of importance can be wounded in opening it, if Ave except the small crico-thyroid artery AA'hich crosses it, and which might be cut across, but fr’om which I have never seen any trouble arise. The trachea, on the con- trary, is not only deeply seated, but covered by a large plexus of blood-vessels, Avhich, Avhen rendered tm-gid by the asphyxiated condition that exists when an operation is required, pours out a large quantity of dai'k blood, and thus seriously embarrasses and delays the Surgeon at a time when the life of the patient depends on the speedy admission of air to his lungs. 3. Laryngotomy can be much more quickly performed than tracheotomy. This I look upon as an inestimable advantage in many of the cases requiring I operation; a foAV seconds more or less being sufficient to turn the balance t either in favom of life or of death. The rapidity with AALich laryngeal obstruction • —partly mechanical and partly from spasm—sets in, is sometimes so groat, I more particularly Avheu an acute inflammation supervenes on chronic disease of the larynx, that life may be extinguished before the Sm-geon has time to open the Avindpipe, if he endeavour to do so by tracheotomy. In extreme cases, as Avhere the lungs have become slowly engorged, the action of the heart is already enfeebled, and a sudden spasm occim-ing at the glottis, will at once place the patient beyond recovery. But even though life appeal- for the moment extinct.