552 DISEASES OF THE MOUTH AND THROAT. done by mixing it, in proper proportions, with some innocuous impalpable powder, such as ground and dried sugar. The strength may vary ; one part of nitrate of silver being mixed with twelve, sixteen, or twenty of sugar. A small quantity of the powder so prepared should be put into the end of a thick glass tube, which has been bent nearly at right angles, about one inch ft’om its extremity. The Surgeon, placing his finger over the orifice of the stiaight part of the tube, caiTies the bent end behind the tongue, over the epiglottis ; lie then directs the patient to make a sudden inspiration, and at the moment of his doing so takes away his thumb, so as to allow the powder to be draivn out of the tube and into the air-passages along with the current of inspired air. In this way the nitrate of silver may, in some cases, be veiy conveniently applied to the whole of the affected mucous sm’faces without the iiTitation produced by the friction of the sponge. Injection of the Solution of Nitrate of Silver may easily be done by means of the instrument that is here delmeated (Fig. CIo), and which I have had constructed for this purpose. It consists of a silver tube, perforated at the end, and having a small piston moving in it ivith a spouge attached to its lower surface. The instrument is charged by dipping the end in the solu- tion, and then drawing back the piston-rod. It is then passed into the pharynx, or between the lips of the glottis, and the fluid is injected into the air-passages or upon the inflamed sinfaces in a number of fine streams, by pushing down the piston and compressing the sponge. By means of this laryngeal syringe the nitrate of silver can be apphed to any part of the pharynx, wnthout irritating the tender mucous membrane by the contact of a rough body ; and, by applying its nozzle to or between the lips of the glottis, the fluid may be readily thrown down into the interior of the larynx with the greatest certainty and ease. In those cases in which it is wished to apply the solution of the nitrate of silver to the air-passage, I greatly prefer using this simple instrument to the ordinary sponge, the mere pressine of which upon a tender mucous surface may be a source of irritation. When the mucous membrane behind the velum, or that of the posterior nares, is affected, the solution may readily be applied to these parts by turning the end of the instrument upwards, and then injecting it directly on to the affected sinfaces. In whatever way the caustic is used, its application should be repeated about eveiy second or third day, in order to insine its fuU effects. In some instances, however, advantages may be obtained by using it every day ; in others, again, a longer interval is required than that just stated. Results of Chronic Lax’yngitis.—In the more advanced forms of chronic disease of the larynx, the submucous areolar tissue becomes infiltrated with Plastic Deposits. The mucous membrane itself becomes swollen, congested, and ulcerated in patches ; vegetations form, perhaps, at some parts, and deep ulceration takes place at others, so that the whole surface becomes incgular^