DISEASES OF BONE. 170 before rigors have oecurrcd, the amputation may be done with a good prospect of success. Chronic Abscess of Bone.—-■The more chronic form of suppuration of bone usually assumes a circumscribed character, and leads to the formation of abscess. The abscesses are usually mot Avith in the cancellated structure, and occur Avith special frequency in the head and loAVcr end of the tibia. In some instances they arc tolerably rapid in their formation, but in the majority of cases are excessiA’cly chi’onic. I^Ten of a more acute character, they are probably the result of the softening of tubercle previously deposited in the bone ; and, forming in the cancellous structure, are very apt to undermine the contiguous cartilage of incrustation, and eventually to burst into the neighbouring joint (Fig. 403). When of a more chronic character, they are usually of A'cry small size, and are deeply seated in the substance of the head, or in the medullary canal of the bone ; the osseous substance covering them, having long been the scat of chronic inflammation, becomes greatly thickened and indurated. l\Iost commonly the quantity of pus contained in these abscesses is extremely small, and it is often mixed with cheesy or tuberculous matter, or contains portions of necrosed bone intermingled Avith it. In some cases, hoAA'ever, Stanley has observed that abscesses of bone are large, containing a considerable quantity of fluid. The SymiAoms of chronic abscess of bone are usually of the following character. The patient, after the receipt of an injiuy, perhaps, has noticed that at one spot the affected bone has become swollen and painful; the skin covering it preseiwes its natural colour in the majority of cases, but in some instances becomes red, glazed, and oedematous ; the pain, Avhich is of a lancinating and aching character, is usually remittent, often ceasing for days, weeks, or months, and then retmning, under Fig. 403. -Al)scoss iu tlie Ile.iii of the Tibia. the influence of veiy trivial causes, Avith its original severity. It is especially troublesome at night, and is always asso- ciated AAT-th a degree of tenderness of the part; and indeed, in the inteiwals of its accession, it will be found on careful examination that there is abvays one tendei spot in the enlarged and indmated bone. The long persistence, for years perhaps, of these signs wiU tff the existence of a small circumscribed abscess under the thicxened wall of the bone. But it must be borne iu mind that the same_ local_ symptoms may be induced by three other conditions : 1, by the inclusion 0 a sme portion of dead bone ndthin a dense and imperA-ious casing ; 2 by the h the osseous strnctures, greatly thickened and condensed by chionio flammation, and, 3, by the expansion of the bone by “ For all practical pmposes the diagtiosis is of httle L co, - ment is the same, whether the pain and other symp oms .mse flnement of a few drops of pns, from the inclusion of necrosed bone, from the pressure of hypertrophied osseous tissue, or from cys ic isease. cleueiid The danger of chimiic abscess of the end of a long bone aviII gieatly depend