LIGATURE OF COmiOX ILIAC ARTERY. 145 l)y sOj tiiicl tliGrc is Ijcsiclcs tlio ixclclifcionul lisIc of tlic ciicuniflGX ilii 01 cpi^nstric bGin^ "WOunclGcl^ <xs Ixfippciiccl to I\'Iott ^ cind.^ cis tliGSG ciic tlxG piiii- cipiil {igGTits in tliG {xnfistouiosinj^ cii’culfition, tlioir iiijuiy is Ji sciious ciccidGiit. Shonlcfany muscular branches bleccl, they had better be ligatured, so as not to obscure the after-steps of the operation. The fascia transversalis should be opened at the lower part of the wound, where it is thinned for the passage of the spermatic cord, by pinching up a portion of it with the forceps, and dividing it carefully with the edge of the knife laid horizontally ; it will bo found to be much thicker and denser at the upper and outer part of the wound than in this situation. ‘\Mien the peritoneum is well draxvn upwards to the mesial line by the assistant’s fingers or by copper spatulae, the ureter, w^hich crosses the artery in this situation, will be carried up with it, so as not to be seen at all. In this stage of the operation, the patient should be turned on his sound side, in order to prevent the intestines from falling over and pressing the peritoneum into the wound. The vein usually comes into view ; sometimes tm-gid and overlapping the arteiy. The veins on the two sides differ in their relation to the arteries. On the right side the vein is at first beneath, and then to the outer side. The left vein lies to the inner side of the left artery, and then passes beneath the right common iliac artery to join the right vein. By means of the finger-nail and the blunt end of the aneiuism-needle, the vein may be gently separated from the artery to an extent sufficient for the passage of the ligatiue. In determining the length of the incision, and calculating the point at which he would expect to meet with and hgatiue the artery, it is a matter of the veiy first importanee for the Siugeon to remember the different J)earinfjs of the parts in the neighbourhood of the vessels, and the relative freguency with u'hich the origin and termination of the artery corresponds ivilh certain fixed points that may readily be detected. The points of importance are the relations of the vessels to the lumbar vertebrje, to the crest of the ilium, and to the umbilicus. The ordinary place of division of the abdominal aorta is on the body of the foiu’th lumbar ver- tebra, 01 on the iin ertebral disk below it; according to Quain, this was the case in three-fourths of the bodies he examined, or in 15G out of 196. In re- gard to the relations between the situation of the biftucation of the aorta and the crest of the ilium, we find it, according to the same anatomist, to have ranged in about four-fifths of the cases about half an inch above and below the eyel of the highest point of this part of the bone. With reference to the 11m- bihciis, no definite riile_ can be laid down; but in general terms it maybe stated that the bifurcation of the aorta is a little to its left. As a general rule, that given by Hargrave is perhaps sufficiently good for ordinary piir- poses If a point be taken about half or thi-ee-qiiarters of an inch below and a little to the left of the umbilicus, and a line be drawn on each side from this point to the centre of Poiipart’s ligament, we obtain about the direction of the three equal ^o thMsTn^fl! f wdl correspond to theprimitivetrunk,andthelower tWrd t^ he h ft' ® ^^tth the middle third to the bifurcation of the common iliac artery. The^point of dmsion of the common iliac artery is, in the majority of cases.