LITIIOTEITY. 807 CHAPTER LXIX. 4 URINARY CALCULUS {continmd). LITHOTBITY. Thk operation of Litliotrity, by whicb the stone is crushed in the bladder and the pulverised fragments are expelled or extracted through the urethra, is of modern, and indeed of very recent invention ; for, notmthstanding that A'arious rude and incomplete attempts may at different times have been made with this view, it was not until about the year 1818 or 1820 that the subject began to attract serious attention : and to the French Surgeons is undoubtedly due the great merit of having not only introduced but perfected this operation. About this time Civiale, followed by Amussat, Leroy, and others, began con- structing instruments, which, though very imperfect, yet were sufficient to break down a calculus in the bladder. This was publicly done by Civiale in 1822. From this period the system made rapid j)rogress ; and the successive improvements made by the Surgeons whose names have just been mentioned, together with the ingenious mechanical adaptations introduced by Weiss, Heurteloup, Costello, and Charriere, enabled Sm’geons to attack the stone with certainty and effect. It is principally due to the labours of Civiale in France, and of Brodie and Weiss in this country, that the system has been brought to its present state of perfection; whilst the practice of lithotrity has been largely adopted and urged upon the Profession by Sir W. Fergusson, Coidson, Sir H. Thompson, and many other Siu’geons. To Sir Hemy Thompson more especially, the Profession is indebted for having laid down Avith precision those rules by Avhich the operation may be performed vath as much simplicity as safety. For the safe and proper performance of this operation, the Surgeon must not only be acquainted with the general principles on which it is undertaken, but he must be thoroughly conversant with the more minute details in the construction and the manipulation of the instruments employed, as well as with the state of e\'ory part of the urinary organs. It is impossible for any Surgeon who wishes to practise lithotrity successfully, to devote too much time and attention to these points of detail. IXSTRUIIKNTS.—The instruments required for lithotrity are the following. An ordinary so^ind Avith a short beak is required to examine the condition of the bladder. The steel sound should be holloAV, so that the bladder may, if