330 DISEASE OF THE lllP-JOINT. coxulgiti, in which operation could never ha\'e become necessary, nor have been contemplated. But, on comparing the result of operated cases with that of those which recover spontaneously, after caries and destructive disintegration of the upper epiphysis of the thigh-bone have existed for years, we shall find that the balance is by no means against those in which excision has been done. As I do not consider the operation necessary in cases of arthritic coxalgia, I do not compare the result of these cases with that of those operated on, but con- fine myself entirely to those in which there has been destructive bone-disease. In those rare cases of this description, when, after years of prolonged suffering, recovery is at last accomplished by uatinal means, the limb left is more or less completely anlcylosed at the hip, rvasted, shortened to the extent of two to four inches, jrartially flexed upon the pelvis, adducted, with the knee possibly stiffened, semiflexed, and advanced : the patient is just able to put the toes to the ground, without the power of bearing upon or rotating the limb, but, when he wishes to turn, twisting the whole pelvis by the aid of the greatly increased mobility of the lumbar spine. After successful excision, the result is much more satisfactory, as may be seen in Fig. 492. The principal abnormal appearance in the limb is its shorten- ing, to the extent usually of from two to three inches—to the extent, indeed, to which the pre-existing disorganisation and dislocation of the^ head of the bone had previously reduced it. It is well nourished, straight, firm, and admits of easy and rapid progression. The ankylosis is fibrous, not osseous. The patient is then enabled to flex the thigh on the pelvis, and to adduct it; but, just as in cases that have undergone a natural cure, the power of external rotation and of abduction is lost, the mobility of the lumbar spine compen- sating for the loss of these movements. Caries of the Great Trochaxter occasionally occurs with abscess in the npper and outer part of the thigh, at first sight closely resembling hip-disease; but a httle careftil examination with the probe and by manipidation of the limb, will soon convince the Surgeon that the joint is free from disease, and that the morbid action is limited to the trochanter, and possibly the root of the neck of the thigh-bone. In such cases the diseased osseous structures may be successfully gouged away, after having been fr'eely exposed by slitting up the sinuses leading to them. In such operations I have not only success- fully removed the greater part of the trochanter, but have even scooped out a portion of the interior of the carious neck of the thigh-bone at its trochan- teric end ; thus preventing the inevitable disorganisation of the hip-joint which would have resulted if the carious bone had been allowed to remain in close proximity to the articulation. In this operation the Sm’geon necessarily comes into very close proximity with the capsule of the joint; and unless gi-eat care be taken this may be opened, and thus the very mischief induced Avhich the operation is undertaken to prevent. In strumous children long sinuses will occasionally form about^ the p'eat trochanter and gluteal region, leading to the supposition that there is caries of the bones in the vicinity of the hip-joint. The movements ot the articulatmn will, however, be foimd to be perfectly free, and the most careful examination with the probe fails to detect osseous disease. _ Amputation in Cases of Disease of the Hip Joint. The question o