927 TUMOURS IN THE URETHRA. by Bozeman, by what he terms the “ button-suture.” After paring the edges of the fistula, and passing silver wires across in the usual Avay, he draws the parts together by passing both ends of the wire through an aperture in a steel rod, which being carried along them closes the opening. A thin leaden plate. “ the button,” properly perforated down the middle, is then slipped along the wires so as to cover the fistula (Fig. 824); and split shot having been pushed along, their fine extremities are pressed tightly against the button, the wires are then properly nipped, and the apparatus left on for about ten days (Fig. 824); the shot are then cut off, the leaden plate is carefully lifted off, and the sutme wires, having been straightened out, are withdrawn. Whatever kind of suture may be employed, it is always of gneat importance that the edges of the fistula be brought together transversely to the long axis of the vagina. Should the abnormal aperture be close to, or even implicate, the cervix uteri, this part may be drawn down and transfixed with the sutures, thus adding materially to the support of the posterior lip of the fissure. Small Polypoid Tumours are not unfrequently met with inside the urethral orifice. They have occasionally a gonorrhoeal origin, though they commonly arise irrespectively of such disease. They are always very vascular, and are most fi-equently met with in or around the female imethra, where they are of a bright red colour, have a florid hue, bleed freely when touched, and are com- posed of a spongy kind of erectile tissue ; they are commonly conoidal or oval, encircling the urethral orifice on one side, or even forming a complete zone around it. They grow slowly, and seldom attain a larger size than that of a raspberiy. They are not unfrequently aceompanied by a vast deal of sympa- thetic iii’itation, great pain in micturition, attended by an admixture of mucus or pus in the urine, uneasiness of the lower part of the abdomen, and often aching in the loins. These vascular tumours are far less frequent iii the male than in the female urethra. When they occur in men, they usually constitute a small granular florid mass inside the orifice of the canal. ^ When seated in or around the female urethra, these tumours not unfrequently give rise to very great and continuous irritation ; much pain during and after passing urine, radiating through the whole pelvic region, and, in fact, many of the symptoms of stone; so that patients labouring under this affection are often sounded on the supposition of the existence of calculus. Bozeman’s Apparatns for Button Suture. Fig. S2u.—Application of split shot. TUMOUBS IN THE UBETHBA.