FISSURES OF THE HARD PALATE. 513 pushiii" a naiTow-blacled Icnife throngb the soft palate to the inner side of the hamuhu- process, he readily divides the muscular fibres by raising the handle and depressing the point. This method of dividing the levator palati, which is analogous to the plan employed and depicted by SddiUot (Figs. 019, G20, G21), appeam to be more simple and easy of execution than the division of the muscles of the velum from behind. The gap that is left closes without difficulty by gnmulatiou, and seems still more to take off tension from the parts. Uranoplasty. Fissures of the Hard Palate are usually closed by means of “ obturators ” made of gold, Amlcanised India-rubber, or ivory. To ‘VYarren, of Boston, is undoubtedly due the merit of having been the first to close these fissures by a surgical operation. This he did by dissecting the soft tissues fi-om the palatal arch between the margin of the cleft and the edge of the gum, and then uniting them in the middle line by means of stitches in the same way as in fissured soft palate. This operation was first brought before the Profession in this country by Avery and subsequently by Pollock, who have invented some very ingenious instruments for its proper performance. The operation is performed in the following way. An incision having been made along the edge of the cleft, at the junction of the nasal and palatal mucous membranes, the soft covering of the hard palate is carefully dissected or scraped down off the bones by means of curved knives, great care being taken that the mucous membrane and its subjacent fibro-cellular tissue, which varies great in thickness in different cases, be not perforated. Langenbeck has particularly recommended that the periosteum be detached mth the fibro-mucous tissue ; so that the flaps brought down may not only be thicker and stronger than they otherwise might be, but also that they may eventually throw out bone and thus close the gap by a firm solid deposit. In doing this, Langenbeck uses a blunt instrument in preference to a sharp angular one, and takes especial care to avoid the division of the attachments of the soft covering of the hard palate, at those points, anteriorly and posteriorly, where the blood-vessels and nerves enter. lYhen these structures have been well loosened on each side, the covering of the palate will be found to hang down as a curtain fr’om the vault of the mouth— the two parts coming into apposition along the mesial line, or possibly over- lapping. The edges, being then smoothly pared, are brought into apposition by means of a few points of suture, thread or wire, the latter preferable, intro- duced in the ordinary way and without any dragging. On this point great care is necessary. The knots ha^’ing been tied, the patient is confined to bed for several days, and allowed an abundant, but fluid or pulpy diet. Union, if it take place, will usually be found to be perfect at the end of a week. bir William Fergusson, not having found the operation above described as siiccessfal as was at first hoped, was led to devise a different method, which in his hands has proved most satisfactoiy. Instead of raising the soft structures of the hard palate from the bone, he makes an incision on each side of the fissure, and then dividing the bone longitudinaUy with a chisel, forces the two edges into contact. The operation is thus performed. The patient being under the influence of chloroform, and Smith’s or Wood’s gag having been introduced the edges of the fissure in the hard palate arc pared. An incision is then made down to the bone on each side, a quarter of an inch from the margin of the fissurc^andparallel to it. The chisel is then carefully pushed upwards through L li