ENCYSTED CALCULUS. 783 the calculus by means of the finder and scoop, if it can be so reached ; if not, by expanding the forceps in the bladder, to try to push aside the mucous membrane that surrounds the stone. In consequence of spasm of the 'bladder, it is said to have occasionally happened that a calculus has been so firmly fixed as not to admit of the application of the forceps, the blades of which could not be introduced between the walls of the viscus without using an improper degree of force, and giving rise to the danger of rupturing the neck of the bladder. I am disposed to think that this “ spasm of the bladder ” is purely imaginary, and that the real difficulty has arisen from some other, cause, as perhaps a contracted and rickety peh'is. But, whatever may be the real cause of a difficulty that has un- doubtedly been encountered, I think it Avould be safer for the Surgeon to" desist from the operation, and in the course of a few days or weeks endeavour to complete the extraction, and thus perform the operation a deux temps ” of Deschamps. The stone may be so fixed between liypertrophied fasciculi in the interior of the bladder, as to be detached with considerable difficulty. In such cases, the scoop Avill be found to be the most useful instrument for its removal. "When the calculus is encysted, its extraction will probably be impracticable, or attended with most dangerous consequences. Hence, it is expedient not to operate in cases of encysted calculus that are known to be such. If, hoAvever, the Surgeon have been unfortunate enough to cut into a bladder containing an •encysted calculus, he must be guided in the course he should adopt by the eondition in which he finds the stone. If the aperture leading into the cyst be very small, as in Fig. 723, the better plan A\dll be to j>roceed no further with the operation, as it Avill be clearly impossible to remove the stone. If, on the other hand, the aperture into the cyst be large, he might feel disposed to make an effort to extract the calculus. With this view he mio-ht adnnf. f.bp on the eighth day after the operation.