447 EXTRACTION OF CATARACT. by any movements bronglit about directly or indirectly, hinder the healing of the extoi’nal wound, or interrupt the complete rest and seclusion necessary for the recovery, without inflanunation, of the various internal structures that have been disturbed. Before any cataract-operation, belladonna or atropine drops may be well used, although, if the aqueous humour be let out, the iris will contract at once. At any rate the application keeps the pupil dilated iii the beginning of the operation, so that one can see well the cataract; it shows also that the pupil win dilate, and how much it wll dilate, and it inclines the pupil to dilatation during the operation and subsequently. I do not think that the iris is ever brought any more in the way of the cutting edge of the instrument used in opening the cornea, by its expansion, as is asserted. In any operation for cataract, care must be taken not to urge the vitreous humour to escape, nor inadvertently to ruptime the posterior lens-capsule, nor to bruise the iris or cornea ; and not to leave any lens-matter or clot of blood, not only in the former situation of the lens, if, without much interference, they can be thence removed, but also in the lips of the corneal opening, where they will interfere with the healing process. Foimeily, when the only method of extraction of senile cataract was by a flap involving a section of one half the circumference of the cornea, very many piecautionary lules were to be enforced that are now of little or no importance. Then cataiacts weie only extracted in the sjiring time—the time we now only considei to be best. Then, if a patient were intractable, the prognosis was very unfavourable, if the operation were done at all. Now, the administration of •chloiofoim during the operation, and perhaps of chloral subsequently, have almost set aside this objection. The great extent of the surgical woimd in the •cornea,_ then deemed indispensable, was naturally an evil prognostication if the patient were feeble, lest the section should never heal, or the cornea die of malnutrition ; or, if the patient had an habitual cough, it was ominous of vitreous escape thiough so large an opening, or of prolapse of the iris at least m the same way Ins-adhesions, always imfavourable, when no iridectomy objection to an extraction. Our patients now-a-days advantages at least in the improved methods of extraction. But no r]ri an ' ^’^^’S^oal Operation is so beautiful as a successful extraction by the an^stuetised, it may still be done in some few cases ^ ^ >>y 0“ of fto nap-Operation.-Thc old operation of extraction by a couch with his feet O'* ’"‘Ok on a Idgh cantioned the it t ■ “m, liavi™ P lent gainst any irregnlar moTement on his part, puts his isillirfltwrittM Tv'" ^’* edo-e of the nrblf I -fi t. ’ ^ ^0 depresses and holds securely against the cd„e of the o.btt wtthout any press™ on the globe itself. The Snrgel ,vith