INFLAMMATORY (EDEMA OF SCROTUM. 939 similarly be drawn forwards, and the instrument worked slowly, so as to divide the organ, if possible, without indueing haimorrhage. During the healing, the cut surfaces should be kept scrupulously clean with antiseptics, lest septic poisoning takes place, which may readily occim in so spongy and vascular an organ. . I have employed the galvanic ticraseur with 'gveat success in removal oi the penis. The operation thus performed is bloodless. The plan that I adopt is as follows. A full-sized silver catheter having no rings is first passed into the bladder, and is retained there during and after the operation. A naiTOw tape is then tied round the root of the penis to compress the vessels. The wire of the (•craseul- is next slipped over the fore part of the organ, and is worked until the tissues are divided through to the catheter. The separated portion of the penis is then slipped off over the catheter, which is tied in. The object of passing the catheter before dividing the organ is to avoid the difficulty that often occurs in finding the urethral aperture in the stump when compressed and seai’cd by the wire, and the object of retaining it is to prevent contraction of that orifice diu’ing cicatrisation. After amputation of the penis, the lu’ine will not be projected forwards, but always passes directly downwards between the legs. Any inconvenience in this respect may best be avoided by following Ambrose Fare’s advice of adapt- ing a funnel, which may be made of metal or ivory, to the pubes over the stump, and thus carrying the lu’ine clear of the person. Other tumours besides cancer are occasionally met with in the penis. I have seen Encysted Tumours and Ncevus situated under the prepuce (p. 942, Vol. I.); and Fibrous or Fibro-Plastic Tumour may occiu’ in the corpora cavernosa. Such morbid growths if small can readily be removed without injmy to the rest of the organ; if large, they may require its amputation. DISEASES OF THE SCKOTUM. Inflammatory (Edema of the scrotum is an erysipelatous inflammation of this region, and derives its chief peculiarity from the circumstance of its giving- rise to great effusion into and swelling of the areolar tissue of this part and of . the penis, with a tendency to the rapid formation of slough in it, by Avhich the integument may likewise become affected to such an extent that the testes and cords speedily become denuded. This disease usually originates from some local source of uritation, as fissm-es, cracks, or lu'inary extravasation (p. 702, A^ol. I.). There is a peculiar and specific form of “inflammatory oedema ” of the scrotum and penis, which is apt to occiu’ as a sequence of smaU pox and scarlet fever. In this form of the disease rapid and extensh^e infiltration of the parts occurs, Avith a tendency to speedy gangrenous disorganisation of the areolar tissue and skin covering the organs of generation. Treatment.—This consists in elevating the scrotum, fomenting it Avell, and making early and free incisions into it, particularly at the posterior and dependent parts of the scrotum and penis, Avith the review of relie-ving the tension to Avhich the tissue is subjected by the effusion into its cells, and thus preventing the liability to slough. Should this occm-, the case must be treated on ordinary principles, Avhen cicatrisation will speedily ensue, however extensive