INFLUENCE OF AGE IN LITHOTOMY. 791 Chesclclen only lost 1 in every 10^-; and, aecording to South, at St Thomas’s the mortality has not amounted to more than 1 in Of; but a good many of these patients were probably children. Sir B. Brodie states, that ot the 50 cases operated on in all the London Hospitals in the year 1854, 10 died; makino- the mortality as nearly as possible 1 in G. But the more recent and extended statistics collected by Thompson, show that the average mortality in the London Hospitals is 1 in 1\. According to Coulson the average mortality in Eno-land, deduced from 1743 cases of the lateral operation, is 1 in G'03 cases; whilsUn France it is 1 in 5'7 ; and for Europe generally 1 in 5’14. The more recent statistics of Sir H. Thompson show a more favom-able result for lateral lithotomy in England. He finds that out of 1827 recorded cases there were 220 deaths, or nearly as possible 1 in 8. Klein states that, of 448G cases of lateral lithotomy, in Moscow, there were 552 deaths ; the mortality thus being nearly the same as in England. The pcr-centage of deaths after lithotomy in the adult will doubtless be foimd gi-adually to increase with the increasing use of lithotrity. This must not be refeiTed to any defect in the method, or to want of skill in the performance of lithotomy, but to the fact that, instead of, as heretofore, being the general method of removing calculus, it has now become the exceptional one. Almost all cases of small and moderate sized calculi in men vdth other- wise healthy urinary organs are now subjected to lithotrity, whilst those cases in which the stone is too large, or the kidneys, bladder, prostate, or lu-ethra too diseased, to admit of this mode of operating, are reserved for lithotomy ; and as the mortality after this operation increases in the exact proportion to the size of the stone and the disease in the urinaxy organs, we must expect that, when its performance is confined to persons with large calcuh, irritable bladders, enlarged prostates, diseased kidneys, or strictured urethrm, a higher per-centage of deaths vill follow it than was the case when all favourable cases, and not the unfavourable ones only, Avere subjected to it. Age exercises a more marked influence on the result of lithotomy than any other condition. Lithotomy may be looked upon as one of the most successful operations in surgery at early periods of life, a hazardous one in middle age, and an extremely dangerous one in advanced age. At the Korwich Hospital, lithotomy has been found to be foiu’ times as fatal in men as in boys. Coulson finds, on analysing 2972 cases of lithotomy, that the mortality at •each successive decennial period is as follows. Below 10 years it is 1 in 13, and thence gradually augments from 10 to 80 years to 1 in 9,1 in G, 1 in 5, 1 in 4, 1 in 3’G5, 1 in 3‘23, and 1 in 2'71. I he reason of the small mortality after lithotomy in boys, as compai'ed ■with adults, is twofold. In the first place, the urinary oi’gans, more especially •the kidneys, are healthier than in the adult ; and secondly, the urine is less .acrid, less irxitating, less loaded Avith effete mateiials of an unhealthy charactei’, .and is consequently less apt to excite inflammation in those tissues over Avhicli it filtrates in its passage through the Avound. Hence, Avhen boys die after lithotomy, they do not usually perish from the same causes that prove fatal in the adult, viz., kidney-disease and diffuse pelvic inflammation and infilti’ation; but the fatal result is gcixerally the conse- •quence of some accident having occuiTcd or violence been inflicted diu’ino'