DISEASES OF THE BLADDEIt. 848 that aro peculiar to women. 1. It may bo a truly neurotic or hysterical affec- tion. 2. It is often sympathetic : being connected ^viih some local disease of the genito-m-inary organs, with a vascular tumour at the meatus of the urethra or Avith some congestive affection of the uterus, Avhich Avill require to be cured before the bladder can be brought into a sound state. 3. Prolapsus of the anterior wall of the vagina, draAving down the corresponding portion of the bladder, Avill keep up this condition; if so, the prolapsus must bo cured by some plastic operative procedure. In all circumstances, hoAvever, Avhen this state has once been set up, it is very difficult to remove. 4. In many cases it is undoubtedly due to the irritation produced by a morbid state of the urine, dependent on mal-assimilation, and usually connected Avith an excess of lithates. In cases of this kind, careful regulation of diet, and the administration of potash Avith henbane, will afford much relief; but the complaint is of a very intractable nature, and under the most careful treatment will often continue for years. 5. In strumous girls it may be due to a congestiA'e, thickened, and irritated stated of the vesical mucous membrane, similar to that Avhich is met AAuth in other parts of the body, as the eyelids, nose, and throat. In cases such as these, the patient requires to be put upon a general antistrumous treatment, and the bladder should be mopped out Avith a very strong solution of the nitrate of silver. This is best done by dilating the urethra, passing a sdver tube into the bladder, and then through it a small sponge-probang charged with the solution. TUMOUBS AND CYSTS OP THE ELADDEH; AND HJEMATUEIA. Tumours of the Bladder.—The most common tumour of the bladder is the villous. This tumom- is in no way malignant—in the great majority of cases, being more nearly allied to a papilloma. It consists of numerous delicate branched processes floating freely in the urine. On microscopic examination, each process is found to be composed of a capillaiy loop surrounded by an extremely delicate connecth^e tissue, in some parts almost homogeneous, with numerous nuclei scattered through it. The sm-face is covered Avith epithehum similar in character to that of the bladder. These tumours almost invariably grow on some part of the trigone, and usually near the orifice of one ureter. Fragments of them may occasionally be found in the urine, thus”serviug as a diagnostic mark of the nature of the disease. They prove fatal eventually by profuse haemorrhages of a most persistent character, or by the pain they occa- sion and the obstruction to the escape of the mine, thus leading to secondary diseases of the bladder and kidneys (see Vol. I., p. 768). True cancer of the bladder is very rare, and still more rare as a primary growth. When found, it is almost abvays the result of extension of the morbid ^■owth, either from the prostate or from the rectum or uterus. The diagnosis is extremely difficult and uncertain. As the cells usually found in carcinoma resemble in many respects the cells of the bladder epithehum, especially those UTegular epithelium-cells found in the urine daring cystitis, but^ little value can be attached to the presence of such cells in attempting to diagnose this dlS0HiS6 Cancer of the bladder is usually associated with similar disease of the