.s 0 2 OPERATIONS FOR PHIMOSIS. 93^ At more advanced periods of life I have known it to be a cause of impotence, or rather as interfering with conception in the wife, by the semen after emis- sion being retained under the tight and. narrow prepuce until erection had completely subsided. Congenital phimosis especially becomes a source ol inconvenience in after-life if any gonorrhoeal or venereal disease be contracted, as it renders the exposure of the diseased part difficult or impossible, and interferes with the necessary treatment. In the opinion of some Surgeoms, cancer of the penis, if not directly occasioned, is at all events predisposed to, by congenital phimosis. Acquired Phimosis usually results from repeated attacks of inflammation, or of specific disease in the part, giving rise to solid oedema, or to false hyper- trophy of the prepuce. In elderly men, phimosis vdll sometimes slowly come on as a consequence of the initation set up by cracks, fissures, or superficial ulcerations forming round the preputial orifice, which becomes narrowed, so as to prevent the glans from being uncovered. The preputial mucous membrane becomes thickened, and can be felt like a broad band under the loose and possibly slightly cedematous integument of the prepuce. This condition is a source of much irritation and annoyance, and requires relief by dilatation or removal by circumcision. Treatment.—Every child who has a congenital phimosis ought to be circum- cised ; and even those who, without having phimosis, have an abnormally long and lax prepuce, would be improved greatly in cleanhness, health, and morals by being subjected to the same operation ; and it would be well if the custom of Eastern nations, whethm’ it be regarded as a religious rite or only a time- honoimed observance, were introduced amongst us. Phimosis, when not congenital, must be treated in accordance with its cause ; thus, if it have re- sulted from inflammation, that must be subdued; if from venereal disease, that must be remedied, when perhaps the contraction and elongation will gradually subside. If, however, the phimosis, though acquired, be permanent, it should be subjected to operation. Operations for Phimosis may be conducted on three plans ; the elongated and contracted prepuce may be dilated or slit up, or circumcision may be performed. 1. Dilatation of the Phimosis may be done by putting the patient under chloroform, introducing a pair of forceps, and opening them widely, tearing through the naiTOw preputial orifice and tight funnel-shaped mucous mem- brane ; or this may be slit up with a naiTow tenotome on each side, and then dilatation practised. This procedure may be usefully adopted if the prepuce l>e not very long and tight, or if any objection exist to circumcision as too severe an operation. In the acquired phimosis of old men, consequent upon contraction follow- ing cracks of the preputial margin, I have found that dilatation may safely and speedily be effected by the introduction of a two-bladed dilator, such as is iiscd for the female urethra, which, being gradually screwed open, causes the indurated circle to yield. 2. Slitting up of the Prepuce, whether upon its upper or under surface, is, I think, an objectionable procedure, leaving the prepuce of its abnormal length, and more or less fissured and knobbed. In all cases I prefer circum-