136 SPECIAL ANEURISMS. CHAPTER XLV. —♦— ANEURISMS OP THE ABDOMEN AND LOM^ER EXTREMITIES. ANEURISM OP THE ABDOMINAL AORTA AND ITS BRANCHES. As until recently any surgical treatment of these anemisms was considered impossible, they were formerly left entirely in the hands of the physician; but since the introduction of compression of the aorta under prolonged anaes- thesia, by Minray of Newcastle, they have become fairly entitled to a place in a work on Surgery. Aneurism may affect the abdominal aorta at any part of its course, hut the most common situation is near the origin of the coehac axis; and here the disease is frequently not confined to the main trunk, but one or more of the branches are also affected. The next most frequent situation is at or near the bifm’cation. Aneurisms may also form in connection with any of the main branches of the abdominal aorta, most frequently on the superior mesenteric, splenic, and inferior mesenteric. The aneurism may be sacculated or tubular. When growing fium the main trunk, it is most frequently of the former variety. Symptoits.—The chief sign of the disease is the existence of a pulsating tumom, situated in or near the middle line, somewhere between the costal margin and the region of the umbilicus. The pulsation of the tumour is of the expansile kind characteristic of aneinism, and there is frequently a distinct bruit. Walshe mentions a single systolic miumm*, a dull muffled systohc sound convertible into a mm’miu’ by a little pressme, a sharp, abrupt, short systohc mm’miu’ at the left lumbar spine, a systohc minmur audible below the sac, but not over it, and occasionahy a dull second sound, as having been heard in various cases of abdominal aneurism. The exact shape and size of the tumom and the nature of its pulsation can in many cases only be ascertained by fuhy relaxing the abdommal muscles by the use of chloroform. The sen- sation of pulsation in the epigastrium may be very perceptible to the patient, or may be entirely absent. Constant aching lumbar pain is a very frequent symptom. The pressme-signs are not usuahy very marked tiU late m the disease. Pressure on the vena cava to such an extent as to cause oedema of the lower extremities is almost unknown. The sac may press on the plexus, and give rise to signs of irritation in the comse of its branches. The most marked of these are pains in the groin and testicles from irritation of the genito-crural, and occasionally shooting pains down the thigh, in the course of t e anterior cinral or external cutaneous nerve. When the bodies of the vertebral