729 LOCAL TREATMENT OF FILES. m-essm-e ofa >n-avicl uterus or other abdominal tumour, little can be done; except, by local palliati^■es and mild aperients, to moderate the mcoiiTemence hfijf mcr'of piles, but more particularly in those arising fi-om hepatic obstruction, mild aperients are of essential service ; by remoYing- feculent accu- mulations and establishing a free secretion from the intestinal surface, they tend materially to prevent congestion of the portal system. At the same tune, ih-astic puro-atfves of all kinds should carefully be avoided. The most useful aperients arc the electuary of senna, sulphur, and castor-oil ; one or other 0 which should be taken regularly tivice or thrice a week at bed-time, in as smaU a quantity as will be sufficient to keep the bowels free. In many cases, the con- fection of senna may advantageously be given in combination with precipitated sulphur and the bitartratc of potash, equal parts of each of these being made into a mass ivith twice their quantity of the confection and a little syrup ; of this electuary a dessert-spoonful may lie taken every night or every second night. If there be a relaxed condition of the rectum and anus conjoined vuth the piles, as not unfrequently happens in old as well as in young people, the- administration of an electuary composed of eq^ual parts of the confections of senna and of black pepper, or of cubebs, viU be found very useful. ^ In fact, in aU cases in which the black pepper is administered, an aperient should be given from time to time, to prevent its accumulation in the large- intestine. When the liver is much obstructed, the treatment should be specially directed to the relief of this organ; with this view, a course of Plummer’s pill, followed by taraxacum, and, in relaxed constitutions, the mineral acids, will be found especially serviceable, at the same time that the bowels are kept free by gentle aperients. The habitual use of lavements, consisting either of soap and water or thin gi-uel, will be found advantageous in many cases of piles, though in some they appear to iiTitate, and rather to increase the disease. When the piles occur in relaxed constitutions, the lavement should be used cold ; but when the patient is of full habit of body, a tepid one will usually be found to agree best. In the general management of piles, it need scarcely be observed that any habits which favour the disease should be sedulously avoided. The Local Treatment of piles is of considerable importance. The parts should be regularly sponged with cold Avater, morning and evening. If there be much relaxation, and the piles be internal, benefit may result fr’om the employnrent of some astringent injection, such as a very Aveak solution of the sulphate of iron, or of the tincture of the sesquichloride—a grain of the first or ten drops of the second, to an ounce of Avater ; of this about tAvo ounces may be injected every night and left in the rectum. The application of an astringent ointment, such as the unguentum gaUae compositum, or the employ- ment of the anodyne and astringent suppository already recommended, will be attended Avith much benefit. If the piles become inflamed, the patient should keep his bed, and leeches should be freely applied around but not upon the tumours. Tepid lotions, poultices, and poppy fomentations, must be assiduously used, a very spare diet enjoined, and the IjoAvels opened by mild saline aperients. If a coagulum form in an external pile, as the result of inflammation, the tumour should be laid.