644 HERNIA. by Sir A. Cooper and Tia^n’cncc. If it be left iu the sac, inflammation or sloiigbing of it will occur, and the patient can derive no corresponding advan- tage to the danger he will consequently nm. Excision of the mass may be done in two ways, either by seizing and cutting it off at a level with the external ring, or by first inclosing the neck of the mass in a small whipcord ligature, and then cutting it off below this. If the first method be employed, the arteries of the stump, which are sometimes rather numerous, are apt to bleed freely : they must be tied singly by fine hgatures, Avhich should be left hanging out of the wound. There is often, however, a tendency to the retrac- tion of the stump of the omentum into the abdominal cavity ; in which case '• the ligatures, dropping into the peritoneum, and acting as setons, may become sources of gxeat initation : in order to prevent this, the better plan is to knot them together, and to fix their ends by a piece of plaster upon the forepart of the abdomen. The second plan consists in draw’ng down the mass of omen- tiun, passing a strong double whipcord ligature through its neck, tying this i securely on each side, and then cutting off the whole of the mass below the ligature. I have for many years employed it with excellent effect, and indeed noAV generally prefer it to the method just described, over which it possesses the advantages of freedom from hEemorrhage and impossibility of deep retrac- tion of the cut edge of the omentum into the cavity of the abdomen, provided moderate traction be kept up in the ligatures. The constricted stump of omentum sloughs away in a few days, and separates with the hgature. When | this practice is adopted, the wound should not be closed, but must be lightly poulticed. Should it be prefeiTed to do this operation antiseptically, the omentum may be tied with catgut ligatures cut short, a drainage-tube intro- duced, and the usual antiseptic dressings applied. The quantity of omentum that is cut off varies considerably ; the mass removed usually weighs from four to six ounces, but in some instances it may amount to a pound or more. Sacs or Ajoerhires are occasionally foimied in the omentum, in which a knuckle of intestine may become enveloped, or by the mai’gins of which it may be strangulated. These envelopes of omentum around the gut, which have been especially described by P. Hewett, may occur in aU kinds of hernia, at least in the inguinal, the femoral, and the umbilical, and sometimes acquire a large size, completely shutting in the gut. They appear to be formed in some cases at least by the adhesion of the opposite edges of floating layem of omentum aroimd a piece of intestine, which thus becomes mcluded. It is of importance to bear in mind the possibility of their existence, and in aU cases to unravel the omentum before removing it, lest it contain a knuckle of intes- tine, Avhich might be wounded in the operation. Cysts, usually containing pellucid serous fluid, straAV-colom’ed or reddened, though sometimes they are filled with blood, are occasionally met with m the omentum. They appear to be formed in the same Avay as the sacs containing intestine just described, except that they are inclosed on all sides, their serous contents being merely exudations Irom the peritoneal lining of t e cys . They are globular, elastic, and closely resemble in form a knuckle of intestine, occasioning not a little embaiTassment to the Surgeon : by a caieful examina tion and unravelling, however, of the omentum, their true nature will be made