ARTIFICIAL PUPIL. 433 the lens. In this way the blade never passes the pupillary margin ; its point is always in front of the iris, never of the lens (Ffg. 5G6). As soon as the broadest part of the blade has entered the cornea, it is partly withdra-wn, and, cuttino- do^vnwards a little meanwhile, the point of the needle is again directed to the' centre of the anterior chamber. As the opening is now a little larger than the blade, this can be rotated a little ; and, when it is held in this way, the aqueous humour or the contents of the aqueous chamber will flow out beside it, more or less slowly, according to the amount of the rotation. As it is almost all evacuated, the pressure of the two fingers, keeping open and steadying the eye, must be a little remitted ; probably no great effort at move- ment will be made by the patient at this time, but, to prevent possibility of accidents, the broad needle, stiU held flat forwards, should now be brought altogether somewhat forwards, and may thus be used in some degree as a point (Vappui. The operation done, the needle is quickly withdrawn, and, the fingei-s being removed, the eye closes. In this brief and simple operation, every precaution must be taken against wounding the lens and making a trau- matic cataract. This accident may occur whether the eye be steadied by the finger or by speculum and forceps, either when the needle is introduced, or when the last of the aqueous humom- is let out. The operation is attended with little or no pain, even if anesthesia be not employed ; and, if the fingers and one instrument only (the broad needle) be used, the soft parts of the fingers give no pain, and the patient is but httle alai’med. OPEKATIONS ON THE IRIS. Artificial Pupil.—In this operation a piece of the iris is either removed altogether, excised (iridectomy) ; or, by simple incision, an opening is made in the iris-tissue. The term artificial pupil is also applied to any oj)eration by which the natiual pupil is displaced and altered in shape and position, as well as to those by which an addition is made to the natural pupil, or those by which an altogether new opening is made in the iris itself. There are many different directions in which an artificial pupil may be made: (1) central and downwards, or (2) down and inwards, or (3) down and out- wards, or (4) inwards, or (5) outwards. The upper lid so much covers the upper part of the cornea and iris, that it is a forlorn hope only when the operation is done any way upwards, as a direct means of improving vision (see “ Indectomy for Glaucoma,” p. 436). Artificial pupil, is called for in many very different cases. In Partial Opacity of the Cornea, or without iris-adhesions, it is leqmred to make a pupil opposite clear cornea. Sijnechia (exclusion of the pupil), it is needed to a 18 communication betiveen the anterior and posterior chambers, &c. (uutovei^) Teiffc dtoi- nunil »P“““<>“ is perfomcd to bring the p pi opposite clear (non-cataractous) lens. those on the iris essentially are those which the iron^fiK n T They ml 11. n ^ ^ operations done in 1871 at the Eoyal London P P