454 OFHTIIALMIG SUJWEliY. in colour; it has no liaixl nucleus ; aud, especially, it is not at all amber- coloured. 11‘, in any cataract case, a needle-operation be necessary, it should be done without much delay. The earlier in life, and the sooner after the commencement of the cataract, the more quickly it will be absorbed afterwards. Infants, unless at the time very young or sickly, should be operated on ; oi- their eyes, Avhen they begin to observe objects, get wandering oscillatoiy move- ments as a confirmed habit in aftcr-hfe ; and infants particularly well bear the risks of swollen lenses. Though the lenses of young persons, and still more of children, swell up much more, and more rapidly than do those of adults, or still more of old people, when their capsules are lacerated accidentally or by surgical operation, the iris and ciliary processes in them seem very httle inclined to take on inflammatory action by the pressure and mechanical in-itation of the,, in these cases very soft, swollen lens-matter. The immediate result of the use of the needle in this operation is, that the cataractous lens becomes very much increased in bulk by the admission of the aqueous humoiw within its capsule. Operation.—The needles used should be very fine, and should not let the aqueous humour escape beside them. The pupil is to be dilated with atropine,, which must be constantly employed in these cases dmiug all the surgical treat- ment. An anassthetic is sometimes necessaiy. A stop-speculum is inserted between the lids, to keep them apart; and a httle fold of conjunctiva and subconjunctival tissues is to be seized ^vith the toothed forceps just below the cornea, or opposite to the point at which the needle is to be introduced, as may be most convenient, to steady the eye. The needle, held in the other hand, is made to enter the anterior chamber through the cornea, at some part near the margin, wherever it may seem best, probably at the upper and outer part; it must not be passed very obliquely through the coats of the cornea, or in its use they will be much twisted. The point of the needle, having passed the- pupillary margin, is then carried on down to the centre of the anterior sm’face- of the lens, which is nearer to the cornea, according to the youth of the patient, and made to enter its substance a little way, and the capsule is tom open by moving the needle-point in various dhections to and fro. If the operation be performed for the first time in a very yomig patient, the lens is so soft that it is very readily broken up by the to-and-ft’o movements, and by rotation of the needle (driUing), but it soon afterwards swells up very much, and therefore but little should be done. If the needle be passed far into the substance of ther lens towards the nucleus, it wiU, unless the patient be very young, become- fixed in the denser substance, and the lens will move about as a whole on the- needle, and may become dislocated. If the patient be older, or have beeix before operated on, one needle will not, perhaps, freely lacerate the tough anterior capsule, and two may be required. The fixing forceps must then be- entrusted to an assistant; or, one needle being entered some distance m the- anterior chamber, it may be used, the patient being then quiet, for an mstant, as a fixing point, holding the eye forwards, until the needle in the other hand has been also entered, and then the eye is perfectly under command. If one- needle only be required to be used, it is better to use neither speculum nor forceps, but the fingers of the other hand (Fig. oGG) instead of both, unless the eye be small and deep in the orbit. If two needles aie to )c use , n> speculum must be employed, and then, choosing an opportunity when the eye