“94 DISEASES OF THE SPINE. 0}ie of the earliest symptoms complained of is often an iU-defined superficial pain, extending round the trunk, more severe, perhaps, on one side than on the other, and occasionally referred to the stomach. After a time the child becomes unable to stand upright, has a tendency to lean the body forwards, or to support it by resting the hands on the knees, or by seizing hold of anything Fig. 475.—Natural Cun'e of Spino. J'ig. 476.—First early Change of Cui've in Angular Curva- tiu-e. Pig. 477.—Cliange of Ciu-ve of Spine in Advanced Stage of Angular Curva- ture. that will serve as a temporary support. It will also be found that the patient experiences great difficulty in raising himself without assistance from the hori- zontal into the sitting position, or in turning himself sideways in bed without the use of his arms. On examination, one or two of the spines about the middle of the back will be found to be a little more prominent than the rest; and, on pressing or tapjring upon them, pain will be complained of. The child usually becomes stimted in its growth ; and, if the disease be not an-ested by proper treatment, the patient continues more or less hump- or round-backed for life. In other cases the disease will run on to the formation of abscess, as Avill immediately be described, strumous manifestations occurring elsewhere, and death eventually resulting. In adults, the danger and the symptoms will vary greatly according to the seat of the affection. It is most dangerous, and rapidly fatal, when the cervical vertebrm are implicated ; for, as the bodies of these are shallow, caries readily penetrates to the spinal canal, and the cord or its membranes may thus be irri- tated. AVhen the dorsal or lumbar vertebrm become diseased, the affection is not so immediately serious to the life, as it may be to the figure of the patient. In adults it often commences with flying obseme pain in the loins or back, apparently of a rheumatic character, shooting round the body or down the thighs. On examining the sj)ine, which feels weak to the patient, and Avhich, as in the child, is incapable of supporting him or of enabling him to raise or tiuTi himself without assistance, tenderness on pressure or on tapping will be experienced at one point, and he will wince when a sponge Anmiig out of hot