449 VON GRAFE'S OPERATION FOR CATARACT. G a ■wards into the deeper parts of the eye, but be forced out of it by this move- ment. The iris no'w being in position, the pupil clear, and nothing being left between the edges of the corneal -wound or within the palpebral aperture, the lids are gently closed, a smooth oblong piece of linen rag, with a slit in it for the nose, is placed over both eyes, then a little -s^-ool is put in the orbits over the rag, and a bandage over it round the head. The patient is kept in bed for a day or two, and fed -with spoon meat. He may then get up and walk about the room a little. Extraction with a Traction-Instrument.—In this operation chloroform is given, and a wire speculum to keep open the lids, and forceps to hold the eye, are used. The Surgeon either thrusts in at the upper part of the sclerotico- corneal junction a lance-shaped knife in his right hand, or, what is preferable, the point of a Sichel’s extraction-knife, at the right extremity of the incision which he intends to make in this part of the eye, and, holding it almost vertically, he cuts on as far as he intends, perhaps one-fourth of the circumference, to the left. He then makes a eonsiderable iridectomy, larger than for artificial pupil, and not so large as in a case of glaucoma. Then -with the pricker he lacerates the lens-capsule. He then passes the end of the traction-instrument (Critchett’s spoon) between the lips of the wound, vertically, to the upper edge of the lens and within the capsule, rather posteriorly; and, remembering anatomically the emre of the hinder capsule, he passes it along the curve just behind the lens itself. He then tilts forwards the end of the spoon, and, watching that the lens is coming with it, he begins to withdraw the instrument and the lens together. If the spoon will not go on between the lens and its capsule, it may be introduced perhaps a little sideways; and as soon as it has begun to pass between the two, it may be passed aU the way ■without difficulty. If the lens is being pushed before the point of the spoon, instead of the latter passing behind it, it will be seen, the front surface of the lens being purposely watched, to be passing downwards; and we must try some other way, sideways, as above directed, or farther backwards, and not of course push on the instrument so as to displace the whole lens downwards. The piece of iris excised must be so large that what IS left does not become compressed between the spoon and the cornea, in theremoval of thelens ; and the corneal opening must be so large that not muc c ragging is required. The main body of the cataractous. lens being extracted the concavity of the posterior capsule, in which it rested, is-pressed ^ ® so, if any fragments of opaque om ] ® ^ ^ presented forwards in the pupil, and a spoon may be No blood-clot, nor any lens- cornral womi'd iricfectomised iris, must be left in the operation has in recent Mile Mtaricts faronr with ophthalmic Surgeons, and almost all is the S“Tfonnrl "r tWs opemtion modiLS. operators hare built their we mnv oli ®®^ails according to their oim iiiclinationg. First of all Z TL ““ ““““ ‘'’O principal feet”: o^nii hX«r:fi’h‘‘" —f ‘“'-S' ““ "on. II. ^ o^tl flap-operation-