AFTER-TREATMENT IN OVARIOTOMY. 995 son in 1858, and, after having’ undergone A’arious modifications, is now, in some shape or other, employed by very many ovariotomists. Tlie object of the clamp is to compress the pedicle securely until loosened by suppuration. The clamp originally employed was a pair of carpenter’s callipers : those now used by Spencer AVells are here figured (Figs. 8G0, 8C1). They are so con- structed that, after their application, the handles can be removed, and the compressor alone left on the pedicle. The action of this instrument is obvious. The pedicle, being seized, is firmly compressed, and then cut through about half an inch above tlie clamp. 'J’his, being concave on the upper surface, allows the stump to )je dressed easily, and acts as a saucer to collect any discharge. The ligature of independent-vessels may also be combined Avith compression of the Avhole pedicle by the clamp. Cauterisation Avith compression Avas introduced by Baker Brown as a means of securing the pedicle and arresting hgemorrhage. It is a method that has not been very generally adopted, OAving to the liability to recun-ent ha3raorrhagc that accompanies it. According to Lloyd Boberts, of Manchester, in an excel- lent paper on the treatment of the pedicle, this happens in one out of four cases. It is apt to occur Avhen only the cut surface of the pedicle is cau- terised ; the eschar being then too weak to restrain the pressure in the arteries. It is best guarded against by searing and coagulating at least an inch of the pedicle. Shoidd it be thought desirable to use cauterisation, the best instrument would be Chambers’s actual cautery parallel clamp (Fig. 862). The incision in the abdominal Avail should be closed by the continuous sutine passed from Avithin outAvards. For this purpose a silver wire or carbolised silk suture may be used, and care should be taken that the ojAposite sides of the peri- toneum are brought Avell into contact and fastened together. The abdominal wall must be still finther supported by broad and long slips of plaster, and a laced napkin round the body. Should it unfortunately be found, during the progress of the operation, that adhesions exist, so close and extensive as to prevent the removal of the tumour, the wound in the abdominal AA’all must be closed, and the same after-treatment adopted as in the successfuUy completed operation. The After-treatment of the case will require the most careful attention, although it presents nothing of a very special character, or that differs from the management of ordinary ab- dominal operations. The dangers to be apprehended are from peritonitis, exhaustion, aiid secondary htemorrhage. Perito- nitis rcquiies to bo more carefully guarded against than perhaps any other co;ai- plication : of 150 fatal cases, it Avas the cause of death in O-f, or -12 per cent. Pure air, perfect cleanliness, complete quiet, and the undiA'ided attention of a skilled nurse, arc, according to Spencer Wells, the main requisites. The patient should bo kept in bod, in a uniform temperature. Nothing but ice and barley- or Seltzer-water, brandy, and beef-tea should be allowed for several days; and opium given, if necessary. The urine must be drawn off thrice in :s s 2 Fig. Sl52. — Cliiim- Ami-s’s Actiuol C.uitciy Claniii.