OPHTHALMIC SURGERY. 460 imperceptibly the capsule, but it may have become toujo;h, aud oiler some resistance ; or, in an old neglected case, although it may be perforated, it is so A’cry tough and clastic that it cannot be torn, Anthout the help of another 'needle entered on the opposite side of the cornea. And Ave may not merely regard the opening that is to be made Avithout considering the force used: the operation must be done Avithout any dragging upon the ciliary processes and surrounding parts, or iritis or e\-en ophthalmitis may bo set up in the eye. Sometimes after cataract-operation, a fragment of opaque lens-matter, en\'e- loped in capsule, remains in the pupil; as it is a deformity, but chiefly be- cause it obstructs A'ision, it must be displaced or removed. With a needle it may be detached at the parts at AA'hich it is least firmly attached in the cir- cumference, and then it may be pushed aside, and perhaps it Avill be retracted behind the iris, and remain out of sight, and, as regards the patient, olfer no obstruction to vision : it does no harm and may be left there, but, if it remain very loose, sometimes or ahvays appearing in the pupil, and interfering Avith Adsion, or if in the former needle-operation it seem to be but slightly connected Avith the surrounding parts, then it may be removed Avith iris or cannula for- ceps, introduced by a sufficient opening made in the margin of the cornea Avith a knife or a broad needle. This may only be done if its attachments be Aveak ; if they be strong, perhaps they can be cut through fii’st of all Avith iris or cannula scissors, and the forceps then used. With iris-forceps aud iris- scissors Ave haA'C much more poAver and certainty than Avith the cannula instru- ments ; but for their use aa'b must, of course, have a larger corneal opening. Sometimes, and not unfrequently, an opaque band or tAvo are found behind the pupil, after cataract-operation, in the level of the posterior capsule ; if one of these be in the Avay of Adsion, it may, if recent and not thick, and if it cannot be broken through AAdth a single needle, be twisted and broken by two needles introduced from opposite sides, or dndded with scissors : then it AviU retract and remain out of sight. The tAvisting operation is somewhat dangerous, by reason of the dragging it may cause upon the ciliary processes, &c. Expe- rience in this and in other eye-operations only will inform us how much force may be used ; but if the eye be otherwise useless, some operation must be done at all eA^ents, and I think in such cases probably it is best boldly to make a quarter section of the cu'ciunference of the cornea with a knife, then to introduce the points of a pair of iris-scissors, having one point blunt to be kept next the cornea, and the other sharp to be thrust within the pupil, behind the band, and so to divide it and leave it in two parts. The can- nula instruments, forceps and scissors, are introduced by making for them, with a broad needle, a preliminary opening in the margin of the cornea, w'herever it may be most convenient, not very obliquely, or in use they AA'ill bruise the cornea, and only just sufficiently large so as to retain as much as possible of the aqueous humour, and as large a space in the anterior chamber as may be for the use of the instruments. _ 1 • • • In all the above cases, I have presumed that there are no considerable u'ltic adhesions, certainly not any occlusion of the pupil; if either exist, it is pro- bably best to make an iridectomy in the situation best adapted for an artihcia pupil, and if by this, behind it, some remains of the cataract be exposed, o incise the membrane, or to divide it Avith scissors.