OPERATION FOR SQUINT. A^I throuirli ; the hook being at the same time everted a little to allow one blade- of the scissors to pass between it and the sclerotic. The scissors blades are opened as little as may be required, so as to prevent any unnecessary disturb- ance of the parts, or tearing open of the external opening. An mexperienced operator is likely to be misled by a want of knowledge of the feel of the scle- rotic Avhen it is reached as the hook is passed along beside the globe upon it or by a fear of keeping close to the globe of the eye. There is no fear, espe- cially for an anatomist, of cutting into the sclerotic. The tendon, before it is lost in the sclerotic, lies for some, or all, the distance along the surface of this membrane ; so that, to insert a hook beneath it, the end of it must be brought to bear at a point inferior to and behind the insertion ; and then, being steadily pressed against the sclerotic with some little force, it must be cairied. upwards and backwards and then a little forwards. In these operations for- the division of tendons we must also recollect how wide is the insertion, and at what distance from the margin of the cornea ; and in this they vary a httle. The opening in the conjunctiva should be made no larger than will be enough. The conjunctiva, when the tenotomy is completed by this method, prevents- the eye from being carried unrestrainedly in the opposite direction. The object is not merely to divide the tendon ; but, according to the degree of dis- tortion, the operator will separate, more or less, the tendon and muscle fi’om its sun’oundiugs. In an extreme case, any minor tendinous insertions lying beneath the chief portion of the muscle concerned must be searched for and divided; while, in trifling cases, these, or at any rate the areolar tissue in con- nection with the tendon, should be undistimbed. It is not advisable, however,, in extreme cases, that the operation should be made to resemble the old squint- operation, by dividing the conjunctiva over the insertion of the tendon. If this be done in internal strabismus, it leads to retraction of the carimcle and the phea semilunaris, and a staring look of the eye, although it be made to act in a parallel direction -with the other. To ob^date the difficulty of an exten- sive accidental rent of the conjunctiva during the operation, especially if it seem to be thin and liable to be torn open, the forceps, instead of a second time being made to grasp the parts to be divided, may at first be made to seize the subconjimctival tissues together with the conjunctiva in a fold in a radiat- ing direction from the centre of the cornea, and the conjunctival opening made far back from the margin of the cornea ; the scissors also should be less blunt- pointed than those figured, and by pressing their separated points towards the eyeball firmly before closing them, to make the division, the operation may be completed without using the forceps in the wound at aU. In extreme cases,, the corresponding tendon of the opposite eye certainly should be divided. The test of complete tenotomy in these cases is that, when the hook has becu passed so that if any fibres were uncut they would be caught in it, the con- ca\dty of the instrument can be brought up to the convex edge of the cornea under the conjunctiva, and will remain there passively, without any drao’gino’ force. ° ° As squint-operation is a painful one, at any rate as compared with most, eye operations, it is usual to give an anmsthetic ; but, during and after the in- hakation, the muscles of the eyes do not act together as they would without its having been used, and, at any rate, at such times the patient cannot be made