153 LIOATUltE OF rilE COMMON FEMORAL ARTERY. 1 oTcit tendency to become diffused ; these conditions will, r'‘” ivim'uiy depend on the side of the arterj from which it springs. Wtai i u^es^ron, the entevior aspect, next the bone, it increases slowly, hen It aiiscs no ch-uctnres before it. In this case, howeyer, may talce place in two directions. If it be femoro-pophteal, it may pye yay into the general areolar tissue of the thigh, the blood diffusing itself as hig cerhaps as Scarpa’s triangle. When it is confined to the ham, it may either Wve way undei the integuments, and into the superficial structures of the hmb or^elsc under the deep fascia of the leg, where it will compress the posterior tibial nerve and artery. In all cases, the diffusion of popliteal aneurism is likely to be followed by gangrene. -> n, jjiaqnosis.—ThQ diagnosis of pophteal arrerrrism has to be made fr-om chr-onic abscess, from bursal enlargements, and from sohd trmours. In dis- tino-uishing it from chronic abscess, no serious drfficulty can well be experiencec; but it may happen that, when an aneurism has suppmated, considerable difficulty arises in determining its true natrue ; rvhether it be merely an abscess or not. On such cases as these, the state of the circulation in the lower part of the limb ivdl throw much hght. Bursal tumours, often of large size and midtilocidar, are not iinfrequently met rvith in the ham ; but I have never formd any great difficulty in determining their true nature, their elasticity and roundness, together with their mobility and want of pulsation, being sufficiently indicative of their character. The most serious diagnostic difficulty may arise from confounding solidified aneurisms of the ham with solid twnow s, of ■a sarcomatous character, springing from the tibia and femur ; and I have kiiovTi one case of aneurism in this condition, in which amputation was per- formed on the supposition of its being a solid tumour (Fig. 859). Treatment—The treatment of femoral and pophteal anemism may be con- ducted either by compression or by ligatm’e of the vessel leading to the sac. As a general rule, for the reasons already stated, compression should be em- ployed in preference to the ligature ; but yet cases may arise when, from the faihue of compression, or for other reasons, it may be necessary .to hgatiue the femoral artery. The Treatment by Cominession is peculiarly apphcable to these aneurisms, and indeed it is to them that it has chiefly been employed. I need, therefore, say nothing special about it here, but would refer the reader to Chapter XLIII., page 51, for a description of the suliject. Flexion of the knee, which may be considered a modification of compression, is also applicable to these cases, either alone or in combination with compression of the main trunk. It is peculiarly applicable irr those cases iir which the aneirrism is well in the ham (see page Gl). Ligature of the Common Femoral.—Irr lookirrg at the femoral artery, it might at first be supposed that the common trurrk, situated superficially between the infer-ior edge of Poupart’s ligament arrd the origin of the deep femoral, would be the most convcnieirt situatioir for the applicatiorr of the