149 GLUTEAL AAD SCIATIC ANEURISMS, In this operation, there ai'e not only all the dangers attendant ligature of arteries of the first magnitude, but also the risk of producing fa al peritonitis, whether the abdomen be cut through, or the vessel sought for by strippino- up the peritoneum from the iliac fossa ; and it appear^ to me that a n tiait sufibrim^ W an inguinal ancmism as to justify ligature of the aorta, would liaA'e a better chance of recovery, or rather ol prolongation of life by the adoption of proper constitutional treatment, together with piessuie upon the tumour and the distal ligature or compression of the artery. Lister s aortic compressor might be applied in such cases, so as to modei-ate the flow of A^muiiisw OF THE Lvterxal Iliac .vnp its Branches.—Aneurism of the Triinlc of the Internal Iliac Artery is extremely rare. The only case with which I am acquainted is one related by Sandifort. The three principal branches of this ai-tery—the Gluteal, the Sciatic, and the Pudic—hoNB aU occasionally, though rarely, been found affected by this disease. Of these branches, the glutc°al has been most frequently found anem-ismal, the sciatic next, and the pudic least frequently ; indeed, I am acquainted with only one instance of Ruem-ism of this vessel. It is the preparation 1701 in the Museum of the College of Surgeons ; and it exhibits an anem-ism of the trunk of the pudic nearly an inch in diameter, full of fibrinous lamime. Anerufisms of the Gluteal aud Sciatic Arteries may be either traumatic or spontaneous. Fischer of Hanoi'er has pubhshed vdth comments, in the ArcTiiv fur KUnische Chiruryie, the records of thirty-five cases of gluteal and sciatic aneiu’ism : to which must be added a case of gluteal aneurism described by Gahozzi of Naples and one by Bickersteth of Liverpool. In twenty-seven of the cases the aneurism was distinctly gluteal; and in six distinctly sciatic. Thhteen of the gluteal anemisms, and two of the sciatic, were of trau- matic origin ; foiu'tcen gluteal and four sciatic aneurisms were spontaneous. The gluteal aneurism has been generally found situated at the upper part of the great sciatic notch ; but may extend over a large portion of the buttocks. Sciatic aneurism hes more deeply; and a portion of the sac may be -within the pchis. The size of these aneiuisms varies fr'om a slight swelling to a tumoiu’ as large as a child’s head. In almost aU the recorded cases there has been strong pulsation, isochronous with the heart’s beat and whirring and buzzing murmm'S are heard on auscultation. There is almost always pain in the tumom’ itself and in the course of the sciatic nerve, ivhich may be followed by paralysis of the parts supplied by it. The affections with which these aneurisms are most likely to bo confounded are abscesses, medullary tumours, cysts, and sciatic hernia. The diagnosis is sometimes difficult : thus Guthrie ligatured the common ihac artery for a large pulsating tumour in the gluteal region, which presented all the characters of aneurism, but which proved, on the death of the patient eight months after the operation, to be a pime encephaloid tumour. Gluteal aneurisms have on several occasions been opened by mistake for abscesses. According to Holmes, this accident has most frequently happened when the aneiuism has been more or less diffused, and in such cases he suggests that the aspirator should be used to render the diagnosis certain.