892 DISEASES OF THE DUET HR A. flow of the urine causes in-itation of the bladder and kidneys, the secretion fi-om which becomes less abundant than usual; in consequence of this, the actions of the skin and other depurative organs are deranged, and thus the system at largo is influenced and sufters. In other cases, again, the constitu- tional symptoms are rather of a nervous character; the patient suffering not only gi’eat pain in micturition, but being seized with rigors, followed by neivous prostration, each time the urine flows over the tender and irritable surface. ihe Local Sic/ns of stricture are ahvays well marked, are very unequivocal, and are dependent simply on the mechanical obstacle presented by the con- tracted urethra to the free escape of the urine. The disease usually com- mences with the retention in the urethra of a few drops of urine after evacua- tion of the contents of the bladder ; these escape and wet his clothes. The patient finds that he has to pass urine more frequently than usual, particularly at night; there is some straining, perhaps a slight gleety discharge, and a feeling of weakness about the genital organs. The stream of urine has changes impressed upon it diming its passage through the stricture, by ivhich its shape and direction are modified ; thus, it may become forked, scattered, twisted, fan-like, or be discharged in a double ciuTent—one projected directly forwards, the other dropping perpendicularly downwards. As the disease advances, these signs necessarily become more marked, imtil they may termi- nate in complete retention ; they, however, often come on in a yery insidious manner, and when the patient seeks advice he is found to be already the subject of a very tight and intractable stricture ; indeed, in some cases, the fii'st circumstance that directs the attention of the patient to his complaint is the sudden occurrence of retention of urine. Examination of the Urethra.—The existence of strictime can be deter- mined with certainty only by the introduction of an instrument down the urethra. In exploring the canal in a suspected case, two points have to be ascertained— the existence of a stricture, and its degree of tightness. The existence of a stricture may be determined by passing a plated steel sound, or a silver catheter of medium size, about Ho. 8, well oiled and warmed. This will readily pass as far as the constricted point, but wiU then be arrested. In this exploration, too small an instrument must not be used, lest it hitch in the fossm of the urethra or against the verumontanum, and this accidental arrest be mistaken for the obstruction produced by the stricture ; or it may pass through the stricture, and thus mislead the Simgeon. The existence of a strictime having been ascertained, the next point is to determine its degree of tightness. This is best done by withdrawing the instrument previously used, and then introducing a smaller one about the size of the stream of urine that the patient passes. If this fail to enter the strictme, a smaller one stiU must be used, until that size is reached, which can be introduced with but a moderate • degree of force. In this way the existence, the seat, and degree of tightness of ' the stricture, are ascertained. The tact of an experienced Surgeon will also lead him to judge to a certain extent of the length, degxee of indmation, &c., ot the constriction. The slighter narrowings of the nrethra ai’e most easily recognised by means of the conical or olive-headed sound (Figs. 800, 801). The conical shape of