26o EXCISION OF JOINTS AND BONES it is said, the bleeding has proved extremely troublesome. This, however, I have never seen. After the operation, the limb should be laid upon pillows, nearly in the extended position, so that the cut portions of bones may be in close approximation with one another. If the excision have been practised through a single straight incision, there Avill be but little if any gaping of the wound, the flaps falling closely together. If any transverse cuts have been made, the edges cannot so readily be brought into apposition. At the end of a week or ten days, when granulations have sprung up, the arm may be put on a slightly bent leather splint, and, as the healing process goes on, this may gradually be flexed, until at last it is brought to a right angle. The flbrous union that takes place between the bones null be closer, and a more compact and useful false joint will form, than if the osseous sm’faces be too widely separated in the first instance, and be allowed to unite by a lengthened liga- mentous tissue. Until the contraction of the cicatrix has fully taken place, and the neighbouring tissues are quite firm, the joint should be supported by one lateral leather splint on the inner side of the arm. The splint should then be removed, the arm put in a sling, and passUe motion had recourse to, in order to prevent osseous ankylosis. Should there appear to be, as sometimes happens in children, a special tendency to this, the limb may be laid, before cicatrisation has taken place, upon a splint jointed opposite the elbow. Much of the success in the result of excision of this, as of other joints, wiU depend upon the care and attention bestowed on the after-treatment of the case. The position of the parts and the relation of the bones to one another should be scrupulously attended to, bagging of matter prevented, and exuberant granu- lations reiu’essed. At the same time, the patient’s strength must be kept up by constant attention to diet, fresh air, &c. In this way good liga- mentous union will take place. In two cases which I have had the opportunity of dissecting, one sixteen months and the other two years and a half after the operation, it was found that the ends of the bones were rounded and finnly united by a dense fibroid or ligamentous struc- ture. In this way a most excellent and useful limb will result, having the four movements of flexion, extension, pronation, and supination nearly perfect, with but little deformity, as may be seen by the accompanying cut (^ ig. 440), which Avas taken nearly two years after operation from a patient of A coachman, Avhose elbow-joint I excised, was able to driA’e, to hft a pail of Avatcr, and to do all the duties of his employment, nearly as well as if t c aiTu had retained its normal condition. • ^ _ Should recuiTcncc of disease take place, resection may e again lesoi c o with success. In one case, indeccl, which had been unsuccessfully operated on twice by other Surgeons, I excised the bones about the elbow foi the thiu time Avith complete success, remoAliig a consideiab e poition, ^ ^ inches, of the necrosed shaft of the humerus, and the canons iippei en ® ® radius and ulna. In this case, Avhich was that ol' a boy about fourteen jea Fig. 449.- Arm after Excision of Elbow.