DISEASES OF JOINTS. 2 12 CHAPTER XLYIII. DISEASES OF JOIXTS. The various joints of the body may become the seat of Inflammatoiy Affec- tions of an acute or chronic character; of Strumous Disease ; or of various, other morbid conditions, such as more or less permanent rigidity, or Ankylosis,, the formation of Foreign Bodies vithin their ca^dties, or their Malignant Degeneration, and Xeuralgia. In studying these various articular affections, it must be borne in mind that a joint is composed of a nmnber of different tissues; of synoA’ial membrane, cartilage, ligament, bone, and capsule, or investing fibrous- expansion. In any one of these structures the disease may primarily begin,, though eventually the morbid action often spreads to other tissues besides that which was originally involved. The merit of having been the fii-st to point out the true mode of studying these affections in reference to the different structiu’es. in which they have originated, and to ha's'e set aside that coarse pathology which, under the general terms of “ arthritis ” and of “ white swelling,” con- founded together these ’^•arious diseases, is certainly due to Sir Benjamin Brodie. SYNOVITIS. Inffamuiatioii of tlie Synovial Membrane, the most common perhaps of all the articular affections, may be acute, subacute, or clironic. Causes.—Whatever form it assumes, synovitis usually results from exposme to cold, especially in rheimiatic or syphilitic constitutions. In these cases it commonly happens that more joints than one are implicated at the same time; and the affected articulations are more frequently those that are most exposed by having the thinnest covering of soft parts, and by being especially subjected to transitions of temperature, such as the knees and ankles. Injuries of joints, as blows, bruises, wounds, or sprains, will also frequently occasion this inflam- mation ; but when arising from such causes, it is usually associated with inflammation of the other textures of the articulation. Pathology.—As imcomplicated acute synoAutis is never fatal, we seldom have an opportunity of studying its pathology. It would, however, appear from the examination of joints in cases of synovitis from injury, as well as from the experiments of iliehet. Bonnet, and others, who have induced trau- matic syno^dtis in animals, that there is in the first instance an mflammatory congestion and vascularity of the membrane, with loss of its peculiar satiny polish. The synovia is then increased in quantity, and becomes thin and serous, and after a time intermixed with plastic matters which arc poured out with it. If the disease progi’css favourably, these products are more or less comp e e y