236 DISEASES OF JOINTS. j^ood one, it ■will generally be ■wiser for the Surgeon not to interfere ; except in the case of the elbow-joint, which, in these circumstances, may be excised with advantage, so as to substitute a mo^N'able for an immovable articulation. If the position bo faulty, the osseous union may be sawn, drilled, and broken through subcutaneously ; or a wedge-shaped piece of the bones may be taken out, and the position of the limb thus rectified. 4. Amputation may be required in cases of faulty anlcylosis with so much atrophy of the limb as to render it useless, or in cases in which there is necrosed or carious bone co-existing with ankylosis and rigid atrophy of the muscles of the limb. LOOSE CARTILAGES IN JOINTS. It sometimes happens that the synovial membrane of a joint assumes a Warty Condition, as the result of chronic irritation of the articulation. This warty state of the membrane usually consists of flattened fibroid de- posits upon its surface. In other cases these may become pedimculated, and pendent into its interior. For this condition, which gives rise to occasional uneasiness and pufiiness about the joint, with a crackling or creaking sensation when it is moved, but little can be done beyond the application of discutient plasters and the use of elastic bandages. Loose Cartilages, as they are termed, arc not unfrequently met -with in the different articulations. In many cases they are not truly cartilaginous, but appear to be composed of masses of condensed and indurated fibroid tissue, not very dissimilar in structure from the warty syno\ial membrane just referred to, and from which they appear to be detached. In fact, the flattened and tuber- culated fibroid deposits forming warty growths, the pedimculated fibroid masses, and the same detached or lying loose in the interior of the joint, appear to be successive stages or conditions of the same pathological formation. Though commonly fibroid, it is probable that in some cases these bodies may be truly cartilaginous. There can be no doubt that occasionally they are portions of articular cartilage which have been chipped off by some injury. Characters.—These bodies vary in size fr’om a barley-corn to a chestnut. When small, they are round ; when large, they are somewhat flattened or de- pressed on the surface. They are smooth, shining, and usually of a yello’wish or greyish-white colour. They are most frequently met with in the knee ; but not uncommonly occur in the elbow or the joint of the lower jaw, and occa- sionally in the shoulder. Most commonly only one is found ; but their number may range from this up to fifty or sixty. Symptoms.—The severity of the symptoms will to a great extent depend upon the mobility of the loose cartilage, and its consequent gTcatcr or less liability to be nipped between the opposite articular surfaces in the movements of the joint. When these bodies are tolerably firmly attached to the synovial membrane, they may merely occasion weakness of the joint, with occasional synovial effusion. When loose they usually give rise to a very distinct train of symptoms. The most marked of these is the very severe pain which occiu’s in particular movements of the limb. This comes on suddenly, jirevents the patient from either straightening or flexing the joint completely, and is often so intense as to cause faintness or sickness. It is usually followed by a degree