URINARY CALCULUS. instrument (Fig. 257, Vol. I.). Should these means fail, or should the frao-ment be very deeply seated, as in the membranous portion of the urethra, and the local and constitutional irritation produced by it be so groat as to threaten abscess or a fatal termination, the better plan would be to make an incision directly down upon it, and to remove it through the perimeum by a median Fig. 779.—Uietluul Forceps, with AJligator-jaw action. The smaller figure presents the Jaw of Forceps opened. operation of Kthotomy. If such an operation as this be required, the Siu’geon might possibly feel disposed to extend the incision a little, and empty the bladder of any remaining detritus by means of a scoop. The Clironic Enlargement of the Prostate of old people corqjjlicates seriously the operation of hthotrity, not only in rendering the introduction of instruments more difficult, but in offering an obstacle to the expulsion of the fragments. Enlarged prostate cannot, however, be considered to be by any means an insuperable bar to hthotrity ; as, after the stone has been crushed, the bladder may be emptied by means of the scoop, by Clover’s apparatus, or by Sir P. Crampton’s device, which consists in exhausting the air from a pro- perly constructed bottle, fitted with a stop-cock, and then attaching this to a catheter previously introduced, and opening the stop-cock, when the pressine of the atmosphere drives the contents of the bladder, mine and grit, into the exhausted bottle. As a general rule, it is not desirable to turn the blades of the lithotrite downwards, lest the fioor of the bladder be injured. But in •some cases in which a small stone is lodged, or fragments have fallen into a pouch behind the prostate, or in which the prostate is enlarged so as to form a bar which rises above the floor of the bladder, it vill be impossible to seize the calculus or the fragment, imless this manmuvre be adopted. In doing this, risk of injmy vill be materially lessened, if not altogether removed, by some- what depressing the handle of the lithotrite, and thus preventing all downward pressure of the blades, which are gently opened and closed over the base of the bladder.