rEEPARATION OF PATIENT FOR LITIIOTRITY. 809 I' ig. 701. Fig. TOi Fig. 703. nmount of strengtli and power that no calculus can resist. The bent-up instru- ment is composed of an outer tube of metal, as represented in its transverse section (Fig. 7G2), in which the internal blade fits less accurately (Fig. 7(if), and which possesses less strength, csiDcciall^^ at the elliow, than the lithotrite cut out of the solid. The scoop may, however, be constructed of bent metal without danger. Civiale’s lithotrite, such as is repre- sented in Fig. 7()5, has a most ingenious double action, enabhng the Siu-geon to work it either by the hand or by a screw. In this instrument, there is no fenestra in the female blade. It is of two kinds. In one, the male blade is much naiTOwcr than the female ; in the other, it is nearly as broad. The first kind is useful in crushing through moderate-sized stones ; the second kind, with the broad male blade, is used Fig. 704. Section.s of Litliotrites. in completely crushing up and removing the detritus of small calculi, and the large fragments into which a stone has been broken by the onen-bladed lithotrite. Weiss and Thompson’s lithotrite (Fig. 7G0) somewhat resembles Civiale’s in Fig. 760.—Wcis.s and Tlioiiiii.sou’s Iiniiroved Lithotrite. Its action, but is more handy. It is made with a fenestrated female blade for mg the stone, or with a scoojj for crushing fragments. PAriENT.-Before proceeding to the operation of 'I y, It IS necessary that the patient’s constitution should be carefully bowels should be freely opened, and the condition of the li^estne organs regulated, aud, more especially, all local irritability about the 111 iiiaiy organs should be subdued by ordinary medical treatment. This is oyen o much greater importance in lithotrity than in lithotomy. In lithotrity we m^t always expect that any existing irritation or inflammation of the b^ be increased by the necessary introduction of instruments, and b^thc l>resc„oo of fragments of calcolu, i„ bladder, and tboir J ge aW