714 DISEASES OF THE LARGE INTESTINE AND ANUS. that the sphincter should bo cut completely across, in order that its action might be paralysed ; but Brodie found that the ulcer could be made to heal as readily by the limited incision above mentioned. The operation is readily done by introducing the left fore-finger into the rectum, guiding along it a piobe-pointcd bistoury, and then cutting downwards and outwards, carrying the knife about the eighth of an inch in depth. No dressing is required after this operation ; but, if the incision do not readily heal, it should be touched fi'om the bottom with the nitrate of silver. The patient’s bowels should be well opened befoie the operation, and a dose of castor-oil may be given on the second or third day alter it. During the process of cicatrisation it n ill often be advantageous to give iron, and to jmt the patient on a noiu’ishing diet. Spasmodic Contraction of the Sphincter Ani is usually associated with fissme 01 ulcer of the anus, or inflammatory irritation of some ncighboiu’ing organ ; but occasionally it occurs without this complication, and in all cases it may be connected Avith a neimalgic condition of the part. In hysterical Avomen, this neuralgia and spasm are especially apt to occur ; though it is not improbable that, in many of the so-called cases of neuralgia of the anus, some positiA’e disease, such as a small ulcer or fissme, may be detected on close examination, as I have had several occasions to verify. The Treatment of contraction of the sphincter, Avhether associated Avith. neuralgia or not, consists in the employment of local sedatives, especially the extract of belladonna, gr. j. to gr. ij., as a suppository ; the boAvels being kept relieved by enemata and confection of senna. Should these means fail, the patient must be antesthetised, and the sphincter forcibly dilated with the Simgeon’s fingers. Atony of the Rectum is common in middle age, in those who lead seden- tary lives, and especially in women. This condition is the consequence of and leads to habitual constipation, the Avails of the rectum becoming expanded and pouch-like. It may occasion the retention and impaction of hardened feces. A mass of clayey consistence, and as large as the foetal head, forming in the rectum and interfering seriously Avith defecation, becomes a source not only of great discomfort but of serious ill health. Like all retained excreta, it slowly poisons the system, giving rise to foul breath, dirty greyish complexion, and mental depression. The Treatment of atony of the rectum consists in scrupulous care in empty- ing the boAvels by the adruinistration of cold enemata. If impaction of feces have occurred, this is to be remedied only by putting the patient imder chloroform, forcibly dilating the sphincter with the hand, and breaking down the hardened mass with a lithotomy scoop or iron sjioon, Avasliing it away Avith enemata, and thus clearing out the bowel. (See p. G70.) ABSCESS AND FISTULA. Abscess not imfirequently occurs in the vicinity of the rectum and anus. It may either be superficial, being confined to the muco-cutaneous structures, and presenting the ordinary characters of acute subcutaneous abscess; or it may bo deeply seated, forming in the ischio-rectal fossa. It is these rectal abscesses