833 IMPACTED AND PliOSTATIG CALCULI. Impaction of a Calculus in the deeper portion of the urethra of a boy may lead to very serious consequences. In tlie majority of instances it occa- sions mo]-e or less complete retention of urine, which requires relief. This may be given in one of two ways. 1. If the stone be near the urethral orifice, it may be extracted, and, 2, if situated more deeply, it may be pushed back to the perinecum—there fixed by the finger, and cut down upon in the mesial line. It should never bo pushed back into the bladder, as such an act would lead to the necessity of lithotomy. If the stone is allowed to continue fixed in the urethra very serious conse- quences may ensue, by the ulceration of the urethra by the pressure of the stone, which escapes into the areolar tissue, the formation of urinary abscess in the perinmum, followed, perhaps, by the extravasation of urine into the scrotum, aud its diffusion along the superficial fascia in the usual direction, with the ordinary disastrous results of inflammation and sloughing that accompany and follow such infiltration. In this condition, the boy, after suffering from the ordinary symptoms of vesical calculus, will become affected by intense instability of bladder, the urine passing with much pain every few minutes ; or incontinence even Avill set in. Some purulent discharge will be observed about the meatus, and there vnU be some hard ill-defined swelling in the perinaBum, Avith much tenderness in this region. On passing a sound, no stone probably Avill be found, as this has escaped from the urethra, and is lying in a pouch in some part of the perinmum, and in the midst of broken-doAvn areolar tissue and pus ; into this cavity the sound aauU readily pass. The Treatment in these cases is simple. It consists of introducing a grooAmd staff, placing the boy in the lithotomy position, and then freely incising the mesial fine of the perinmum, so as to open up the luinary abscess ; in this the stone may be found, or it may be so enveloped in the sloughy tissues as to escape detection ; perhaps it will escape through the wound in a few days, and be found lying on the bed. Should there be much hcEmorrhage, a petticoated lithotomy-tube should be introduced. If extravasation of urine have occurred, free incisions must be made in the usual way, and the child Ido put upon a stimulating diet. PEOSTATIO CALCULUS. Prostatic calculus differs from all other urinary concretions in situation and composition, being formed in the ducts of the prostate gland, and composed prmeipally of phosphate of lime and some animal matter ; usuaUy about 85 per cent, of the phosphate, to 15 of the organic ingredients. Sometimes, also, the concretion is said to consist of carbonate of lime (p. 75G). It generally occurs m old people, though it may sometimes be met with in young subjects. From a ad of nineteen, Avhom I cut for vesical calculus, I extracted two prostatic calculus is usually of a grey or ashy colour, some- Avhat triangular m outline, smooth and polished (Fig. 782} ; havino- facets cing veiy hard, and seldom much larger than a cheny or plumstone T thouo-h may occasionally attain a considerable bulk, haAung been met with as lai^e 3 H