I TREATMENT OF INTUSSUSCEPTION. 689 to about 80 per cent. Thus Ashhurst finds that, in u7 cases in which the opera- tion was done, there were 11 recoveries only. . „ Intussusception, or the invagination of an upper into a lower ot intestine, is a common cause of intestinal obstruction, especially in chilcli'en. It may occur in three situations—viz., in the ileiun, at the ileo-caecal valve, or in the large intestine. The order of the frequency of its occm-rencc is in that ot its seat, as just given. These intussusceptions vaiy gi’eatly in length, ihey are short, not more than two or throe inches in length when occurring m the ■ small, 12 to 18 inches long when occurring in the large intestine. The intus- susception may be acute or chronic, according as it is more or less tightly strangulated. When acute, the symptoms of urgent intestinal strangu- lation are well marked, usually accompanied by spurious diarrhoea, caused by bloody mucous or glairy discharge from the included bowel. In such cases the patient, especially if a young child, -will die in the course of three to five days fi’om collapse. If older, he may recover by the iiivaginated portion of gut ■ sloughing away, and the continuity of the intestine being restored by the cohesion of the opposed serous surfaces at the neck of the invagination where the inversion has taken place. If chi’onic, the patient may live for some weeks , until worn out by irritation and pain. The acute intussusception is usually situated in the ileum. The chronic is at the ileo-cmcal valve, or in the large intestine. In all cases of intussusception there is a tumour at the seat of disease, caused by the doubling in of the inverted portion of gut. If the invagination be iliac and the patient thin, this tumour can be felt thi’ough the relaxed abdominal muscles. If the intussusception be ileo-cmcal, or in the large intestine, it can be felt by passing .the finger up the rectum. In one case, related by Hutchin- •son, the intussusception was of such a length that the inverted ileo-cmcal valve ^ was extruded for some inches beyond the child’s anus, and had been mistaken : and treated for a prolapsus. Treaimmi.—There can be little doubt that spontaneous disentanglement ocem’s : in many of the shghter cases of intussusception. In others, again, reduction of : the iiivaginated bowel may be effected by the forcible injection up the rectum I of tepid water, or the inflation of the bowel by air. These means, however, 1 cannot be expected to succeed in any case of intussusception, except that of the I large intestine. If it be at or above the ileo-cmeal valve, little good would result ; fi:om such measures as these. If these means fail, the only chance of recovery ■ without operation lies in the sloughing away of the invaginated portion of gut. And what is this chanee by natural care ? The answer given by statistics is as follows. J. L. Smith, of New York, collected the details of 50 cases ; of these / recovered. Haven, of Boston, found that of 50 cases, there were 10 ; and Huchaussoy, that out of 135 cases, there Avere 20 recoveries. The chance of life by natural means, therefore, is about 18 per cent., or rather more than one in five not a veiy hopeful one, truly. In these circumstances. Surgeons have natuially looked to gastrotomy, and the manual disentanglement of the in- vaginated gut, as offering a better prospect of life. And this operation has undoubtedly in many cases been followed by recovery, since, under the directions of hiuck, the first avcII authenticated successful operation of this kind Avas per- formed. Ashhurst has colleeted the particulars of 13 cases in Avhich abdominal VOL. II. Y Y