ABSCESS IN SA-CRO-ILIAC DISEASE. 305 out^Yarcls under the gluteal muscles, nor does it iiirade the natural hoUow behind the trochauter. As the disease advances, and suppuration takes place, the swelling increases materially, and assumes different and peculiar characters, owin" to the formation and diffusion of abscess. ^ 8. ^Lameness is an early symptom. The patient walks insecui'ely ; has a feelin" of want of proper support to the body ; leans forward, and uses a stick.” He puts the foot on the affected side to the ground, but does not tread upon it so fii-mly as upon the other. He cannot stand on the foot of the affected side, or twist himself suddenly round. As the disease advances, the powers of support and progression diminish, and at last the patient becomes unable to assume the erect position, lying in bed usually on the sound side. . 4. Alteration in the Shape of the Hip and Length of the Limh is an eai-ly and marked symptom. From the veiy commencement of the disease, the limb on the affected side will seem to be longer than the sound one ; the tip of the inner malleolus being usually, as the patient hes on his back, half an inch below the level of the same point of bone on the opposite side. But on close examination, it will be found that the measm’ement from the anterior superior spine to the inner malleolus gives the same result on both sides ; hence the elongation cannot be owing to any change that has taken place in the bones or in the three large joints of the lower extremity, but must be dependent on some disturbing cause situated beyond the anterior superior spine of the ilium. On more close investigation, this point of bone is found to be at a lower level, and at the same time more prominent, than its feUow on the opposite side : the displacement is thus produced, not by any obliquity of the peMs consequent on a twist on the lumbar spine, as in hip-joint disease, but by the tilting forwards and rotation downwards of the whole side of the pelvis ; for the displacement which takes place is a double one. The sweUing of the affected articulation not only pushes forwards, but rotates downwards, the anterior and superior portion of the ilium ; and hence the anterior superior spine is not only at a lower level, but is also more prominent on the diseased than on the sound side. The limb itself usually hes straight, and is wasted and enfeebled. 5. Abscess occurs only at a late period of the disease. Many months, a year or more, may elapse before suppuration is fairly established, or, at all events, before the formation of pus is so abundant and so circumscribed that it can be recognised as an abscess. I have obseiwed abscess in connection with this disease in five situations—viz., over the articulation, in the gluteal and in the lumbar regions, rvithin the pelvis, and in connection with the rectum. 1 he first indication of abscess is met with over the diseased articulation. The puffy swelling which is there perceptible in the earlier stages of the affection, ^adually softens, until at last fiuctuation is established in it. From this point it may spread outwards into the gluteal region, nearly as far as, but not enveloping, the trochanter ; or it may take another course and stretch upwards, forming a considerable accumulation in the loin, upon and just above the crest of the ilium. These forms of sacro-iliac abscess are extra- 2Jclvic; the other varieties are inlrajmlvic. These latter are of three kinds In VOL. II, X