DISEASE OF THE SACRO-ILIAC JOINT. Clements of the joint. _ These are nonnally but imperfectly developed in le sacro-ihac articulation, and may, probably enough, readily undergo dis- organising changes somewhat analogous to those which take place in the so-called “pulpy degeneration of the synovial membrane” in strumous joints. MPTOMS. The symptoms chai’acteristic of this affection aiTange themselves ill five distinct groups viz.. Pain, Swelling, Lameness, Alteration in the Shape of the Limb, and Abscess. These we must study separately. 1. Pain.—One of the earliest symptoms is a sensation of painful weakness at t le lowei part of the back and sacrum, increased by movements of the body in walking, stooping, or even in standing, giving the sensation as if the body were falling asunder. The pain is increased by any effort that calls the respiratoiy muscles into action, such as coughing, sneezing, or laughing, and is greatly aggra- vated by straining at stool. As the disease advances, the pain becomes more continuous, and of a gnawing or rheumatic cha- racter. Its intensity varies greatly; in some instances it is throughout slight, except on movement, in others it is most intensely agoni- sing, the patient shrieking with agony, and unable to obtain rest in any position. It is accom- panied by a peculiar feeling of weakness, of falling asimder, or of want of support in the lower parts of the body. This pain is Fig. 4S3.—Snero-iliac Disease, more advanced. Confined tO the gluteal region and gi’oin, and does not extend far dovm the limb. When the patient is lying on his back or side, the limb on the affected side may be ab- or adducted, or the head of the thigh-bone may be pressed up against the acetabulum, without any increase of pain, provided the pelvis be fixed by the pressure of the hands. If this be not done, considerable, even intolerable pain will be experienced on moving the limb. So, also, if the Surgeon seize the sides of the pelvis in his hands, and move them to and fro, or press them together transversely, or separate them by pressing the anterior superior spines asimder, pain iviU be elicited, the affected joint being then influenced by the movement communicated to it. There is often general and diffused tenderness on pressure over the gluteal region ; but this is less about the hip-joint than in coxalgia, and gradually increases as the finger is pressed backwards upon the sacro-iliac articulation, so that it may at last be localised in a small spot. 2. Swelling.—A puffy intumescence is perceptible early in the disease, along the line of the affected articulation. It assumes a somewhat elongated appearance from above downwards, and does not extend to any distance