DIA PUR A GJ/A TIC HERNIA. 679 1 Diaphragmatic heniia is sometimes obviously of traumatic origin, being the result of a vound or laceration of the diaphragm. It usually attains a lar<>-e size, and commonly contains the stomach or the transverse colon with a portion of the omentum, which forms a tumour in the thoracic cavity, encroaching upon the lungs, and pushing the heart to one side. The hernia is not enclosed in a peritoneal sac, but has been found partially enveloped by the pleiura. It occurs generally on the left side of the chest, but cases have been reeorded by Percy and others where the injury of the diaphragm was on the right side. The following ease affords a very good instance of this rare affection. A man, seventy-four years of age, was admitted into University College Hospital. About twelve months before, he fell into an area about ten feet deep; he believed that he injiued his chest and head, as from that time he had suffered much from shortness of breath and occasional sensation of suffo- cation, had a hacking cough, and could not lie domi without feeling some difficulty in breathing. At the time of the accident, he coughed up about three spoonfuls of blood. Ever since the accident, he suffered much from dyspeptic symptoms and constipation, though before he met with the injury he had experienced no inconvenience in this respect. About a month before admission, the difficulty in breathing increased ; and four days before he came to the hospital, Uolent pain in the abdomen came on, and his bowels ceased to act, although he took a variety of aperient medicines, and had enemata contain- ing croton oil. On admission, the abdomen was much distended, tense, and tympanitic, with pain around the umbilicus; the tongue was coated with whitish-brown, moist fur ; the pulse was small, quick, and somewhat resisting; there was nausea, but no vomiting. The skin was cool, and the countenance anxious ; the bowels had not acted for seven days, but he had frequent desire to go to stool. He Avas ordered an aperient draught every third hoiu\ As this had no effect, he Avas directed to take calomel and elaterium piUs, and to, have turpentine enemata, Avhich afforded him some reh'ef, though they brought away no faeces. The patient became more restless, the skin cold and flabby, the countenance more anxious, the breathing shorter, and the abdomen more tympanitic, and he died tAvo days after admission, and nine from the commence- ment of the obstruction. Examination of the Body hventij-four hours after death.—abdomen was distended and tymj)anitic, and the peritoneal sac contained about six ounces of fluid, Avith here and there patches of recently effused lymph. The small intes- tines AAeie not distended : the large Avere greatly distended with flatus, the caecum extending into the caA'ity of the pelvis ; the ascending and the trans- Aerse colon AAere much distended, and it Avas found that a lai’ge loop of the rai^Aeise and of tlie descending colon had jiassed through an opening in the diaphragm into the pleural sac, and Avas there strangu- a e ( ig 089). ^ The eolon beloAV the stricture Avas contracted, and entirely ^ opening the thorax, the loop of intestine, fourteen inches in length of a pale slate-coloin, and distended Avith gas, was found in the left pleural sac. It reached as high as the fifth rib, touched the pericardium, and ir r'is col ° ai™guiato<i, it ™ of a darker colour- than clsowhore. Tire openiug iu tire diaphragm.