20 ANEURISM. Fig. 852.—Sacculated Aueurism of Asceiidiu; Aorta. Death hy Pressure. springing from the side of an artery or of a tubular aneurism, with the interior of which it coinmmiicates by a narrow aperture, called the mouth of the sac (Fig, 352). It is generally divided into the True and Fcclse ^m’ieties. True Sacculated Aneurism.—By this is meant a partial dilatation of all the coats of the vessel. Its existence has been denied ; thus iScarpa doubts the occurrence of such a disease, and Bizot seems disposed to coincide with him. With these eminent pathologists, however, I cannot agree ; and though I am mlling to admit that many of the so-called “ true ” aneurisms are not so in reality, yet I can- not doubt, from repeated observation, that Hodgson is right in saying that in their early stages sacculated aneurisms are not unfrequently of the true kind. Thus, we occasionally find, as Peacock has pointed out, small digital pouches springing from the walls of some of the larger arteries, through the whole of which the external, middle, and internal coats can be demon- strated by maceration to exist; and in those aneurisms which are formed by the dilata- tion of a comparatively large portion of the arterial wall, it not mifrequently happens that the tumoin remains of the true kind for some time, as I have ascertained by careful dissection. But after an anemdsm has attained a certain size, its coats become so fused together, and so closely incorporated with the neigh- boining tissues, that their precise structine cannot be made out. Indeed for a sacculated aneurism to be of the true kind, I believe that two conditions ai-e necessary :—1, that the tumour itself be small; and 2, that the mouth of the sac be of tolerably large dimensions. Porter says that he has never met vidth a true aneiu’ism larger than a small orange ;• and, certainly, none of those that I have seen, provided they were of the sacculated kind, have exceeded this size. In true sacculated aneurisms, also, it is necessary that the mouth of the sac, or that portion of it which communicates with the interior of the artery, should be of good size, and not bear too great a disproportion to the wan of the tumour. I cannot conceive a large sac with a small mouth to be a true aneurism ; for, as the mouth of the sac corresponds exactly in size to that portion of the arterial coats which has been originally dilated, it is not easy to understand how a large and thick sac can be expanded out of a small segment of the wall of the artery. It must be remembered that in all cases of true aneurism, however small they may be, the size of the sac greatly exceeds that of its mouth. It is therefore clear’ that there must have been not only expansion, but a degree of hypertrophy and overgrowth of the wall of the vessel, just as in the tubular aneurism, otherwise the sac would be thinned in the exact proportion of its expansion. False Sacculated Aueurisiu is that variety of the disease in which the