92 SPECIAL ANEURISMS. from tlie vertcbrals ; whilst in other .animals, as the horse, the brain derives nearl}’’ the whole of its blood from the carotids, and but a very small quantity from the A’ertebr.als. Hence, in one case the csirotids may be ligatured without danger, whilst in the other their deligation is inevitably fatal. The statistics of ligature of the carotid in the human subject have been collected by Norris, Ehrmann, and others; .and more recently by Pilz of Breslau {Archiv fur KUnische Ghirurgie, 18G8), who has collected COO cases of the operation, including 27 in which the artery was tied on both sides. The causes which led to the oper.ation were, hEemorrh.age, in 228 cases ; aneurism, in 87 ; erec- tile and other tumours, 142 ; extirpation of tumours, 71 ; cerebral affections (epilepsy, &c.), .84 ; and in 38 instances the distal operation was performed for aneurisms of the aorta and innominate artery. In the 228 cases of ligatm’c for haemorrhage, the presence of cerebral symptoms is noted in G9 out of 1G7 —no information being giA'en in regal’d to G1 ; and, in these G9 cases, death took place in 40. Excluding, however, these from calculation, inasmuch as the br.ain-disorder may have been in many due to the haemorrhage rather than to the operation, we derive from Pilz’s statistics the following table showing the proportionate frequency of the occurrence of cerebral disease and of deaths fr'om this cause. TABLE OF LIGATURE OP CAROTID FOLLOWED BY CEREBRAL DISEASE. CAUSE OF OPERATION. NDJIBER OF CASES. CASES IN WHICH CEREBRAL AFFECTION ENSUED. DEATHS FROM CEREBRAL DISEASE. DEATHS FROM ALL CAUSES. NO RECORD REGARDING CEREBRAL SYMPTO.MS. Aneurism .... 87 32 16 31 5 Erectile and other Tumours . 142' 32 20 49 3 Extirpation of Tumours . . 71 13 8 23 8 Cerebral Affections 34 8 1 3 Distal Operation . . . 38 11 7 25 0 372 <J« 51 131 h-' By this it Ydll be seen that the most common cause of death after ligature of the carotid is cerebral disease induced by the operation (as was, I believe, fii’st pointed out by Chevers): and this result appears to have been rela- tively more frequent after the distal than after the Hunterian operation. If to these cases we add 14 in which the brachio-cephalic artery was hgatiu’ed, we aret a total of 38G cases, of which 96 were attended by cerebral symptoms; or, as nearly as possible, 25 per cent. We should necessarily expect that, in those cases in which both vessels had been ligatm-ed, there would be a greater tendency to cerebral distiu’bauce than in those in which only one had been deligated. It would however appear,^ as is shown by the following table, that of twenty-seven instances in which the double operation has been performed, death is recorded to have happened but in two cases from this cause ; while in another, in which convulsions took phacc, a fatal result did not occm’, .and thi’ee other cases were attended by mere temporary disturbance of vision. In the only case (that of Mott, No. 16) n leie both carotids were ligatm’ed simultaneously, with an interv.al of only a ew minutes between the operations, coma and death resulted.