PEllSISTENT PlilAPISM. 935 Treatment.—The disease requires to be treated on ordinary antiphlogistic principles. The continued application of lead lotion, with the internal admi- nistration of salines, will generally remove it; but in many instances the most elfectual plan will be found to consist in rapidly sweeping the inflamed sur- faces with a stick of nitrate of silver passed down between them on one side of the frainum, and carried round to the opposite side. Herpes of the Gians and Prepuce is characterised by the formation of small A’csiclcs or excoriated points upon the mucous membrane of this region, attended by much smarting and itching, and chiefly occm-ring in persons of a gouty habit of body, with an iiritable mucous membrane. Treatment—Tn\s, slight affection is often very rebellious to treatment. In many instances, local means alone will not suffice ; for, though relief may be obtained by powdering the part with the oxide of zinc, or by using slightly astringent and cooling lotions, yet no permanent benefit wiU be derived unless constitutional irritation be removed by treatment of a cooling or alterative character, modified according to the circumstances of the case. Hypertrophy of the Prepuce not nnfrequently occurs as the result of chronic imtation or disease ; it is usually of limited extent, and requires no special interference on the part of the Sm-geon ; but in some instances it may become so extensive as to require operative interference. The disease then usually consists of a sohd oedema of the areolar tissue of the prepuce and of the subintegumeutal structures of the body of the penis, the organ being very greatly enlarged and becoming club-shaped. In these cases circumcision of the hypertrophied prepuce, with the excision of a V-shaped piece from the dorsum of the penis, wiU usually be found to leave a good and satisfactory result. But a greater magnitude than this may be attained. Thus Vidal has related and figined a case that had attained such an enormous size, that the organ reached to below the knees, and was as large as a thigh. This monstrous growth was successfully excised. Warts on the penis have aheadybeen described. They may attain a very large size, as in Fig. 834, and are best treated by being snipped off with cmwed scissors. Horny Excrescences have been observed to spring from the gians penis. The most remarkable •case of this kind in record is one by Jewett of Con- necticut. It was that of a yoimg man, in whom, after operation for congenital phimosis and the removal of warts, a horn grew from the left side of the gians penis, and attained a size of three and a half inches in length by three-fourths of an inch in diameter at the base. It could be handled and cut without pain, and the patient “ was accustomed to amuse the inmates of the ward by lighting the end of the hom and allowing it to burn.” It was excised, and did not return. Persistent Priapism, lasting for many days, is occasionally met with, as the result in most cases of excessive venery. The erection of the penis is not accompanied by any sexual desire, but is attended with great pain, a sense of Fig. 834.—Warts on the Gians and inner side of Prepuce, -which is slit ui>.