TREATMENT OF BRONGUOCELE. 4°9 TiiEATMETr-Thc treatment of lironchocelo must vary according to the iiiEATME. ■ tumour, and the constitutional condition associated :r;t XrsXiS .sedated .ith anemia, and of comparative^ rccL formation, it is best treated by improving the general condition of the patient This may be done in various ways : by the administration ot good food • by eban^^e of air from a low and damp to an elevated and cliy and liealtliy Situation. The change to a higher, and drier, and more lo<^ality has been much insisted on by those who have studied the disease in those valleys of Switzerland in which it is endemic ; and establishments ha^ e been erectLl several thousand feet above the level of the sea, on mountain-tops, with the view of curing patients thus aftected. Guggenbuhl has been particu- larly successful in these endeavours. In towns, the patient, if ^viug on t e basement floor, should be moved to the upper storey, if possible, and should be encouraged in habits of outdoor ratber than of sedentary or indoor occu- pations. Besides these hygienic measures, which ai'e of the first importance, the disease may be treated medicaUy by the administration of iron internally, •especially the iodide, with the external application of iodine or of iodide ■of lead ointment. Indeed, in the soft bronchocele occurring in anmmic cxophthahnic females, iron is of the utmost service, and acts almost as a specific. In bronchoceles of large size, hard, and unconnected with anmmia, the chief xeliance is to be placed on the free and continuous use of iodine internally as well as externally. The iodide of potassium is the best form in which to give the iodine internally. The quantity of this medicine should be gradually increased, until from 20 to 30 grains are given three times a day, either alone, in milk, or in combination with some preparation of iron. The iodide is pro- bably the best. But iron is very necessary in all the anmmic and exophthalmic forms of the disease. Iodide of lead and compound iodine ointment may be used with advantage. It has been recommended by Mouat that the biniodide of mercury ointment (10 grs. to the ounce) should be well rubbed in for ,several days ; and then, the tumour being covered with it, the patient should be exposed to the strong heat of a mid-day summer sun. This method of ireatment, which is said to have been extremely successful in India, has not been tried in this country to a sufficient extent to enable an opinion to be formod of its merits. In some instances jjressure has been of use, especially in conjunction with the iodine inunctions ; though it is not so easy to apply •this means, and any considerable degree of it can necessarily not be borne, on •account of the increased difficulty of respiration that is thus occasioned. In fact, the compression exercised upon the tumour by the sterno-mastoid muscle in some of these cases is occasionally so considerable that it becomes necessary •to divide its tendon subcutaneously, in order to relieve the trachea from the constriction to which it is subjected. When the tumour is cbiefly cystic, the fluid contents may be diuwn off by tapping, and an endeavour may be made to cause the cysts to close by inducing inflammation in them by the injection of tincture of iodine. When bronchocele is very large, and very chronic, its absoiption cannot, I think, be expected to take place by these or any other means ; and the question then arises as to the propriety of having recourse to operative interference. The introduction of a seton across the tumour is