DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. 92S Tiikatjiext.—Vascular uretliral tumours may be removed in four ways ; by Excision, Ligature, Caustics, or the Actual Cautery. 1. Excision. When situated within the male urethra, the tumours should be snipped off by a fine pair of curved scissors. When situated in or around the female urethra, if of small size and pedunculated, they may readily enough be removed by the scissors or dissected away ; the canal of the urethra being encroached on as little as possible. This operation is, however, always attended or followed by very considerable and continuous arterial haemon-hage, which has even, in some instances, been fatal. Hence, when the tumour is large, and the patient weakly, excision should be practised with much caution. If it be done, the hasmorrhage may be arrested by the introduction of a catheter into the urethra, and by firm pressiue on the bleeding surface by means of a pad of lint, supported by a T-bandage. 2. Ligature is not a convenient mode of removing these gvowths; its applica- tion is difficult, very painful, and tedious. 8. Caustics, particularly strong nitric acid or potassa cum calce, may be very conveniently employed where the tumour is of small size and very vascular. In applying them, the upper waU of the canal must be protected by a broad director introduced along it. 4. The Actual or Galvanic Gcmlery is the most convenient agent for the removal of vascular tumours from the female urethra. By it th,ey are at once destroyed without hmmon’hage ; and the eschar that is formed protects the subjacent raw siuface from the iratation of the luine. If they be situated deeply vdthin the urethra, and of small size, the galvanic cautery or a red-hot wire will most easily reach them ; but if they be At or around the orifice, I employ a small olive-shaped cautery. During its application, the siuTOimding parts may be protected from the action of heat by a wooden spoon having a hole cut in the middle through which the application is made, and the upper Avail of the luethra by a director or silver catheter, which should be retained after the operation.