281 EXCISION OF THE ASTRAGALUS. subsequent amputation ; and 3 died. The operation, according to Polaillon, has been more successful in children than in adults. He states that, of 12 cases imder 10 years old, all were successful; between the ages of 10 and 20, there were 14 successful cases, and 3 failures ; between 20 and 30, 7 successes and 0 failm-es ; and between 80 and 40, G successful cases and 3 failures. Repro- duction of the bone occuiTed in 12 cases; 11 being in individuals mider 20 years of age. The Astragalus is situated in a position of great surgical importance. Articulating with the malleolar arch above, with the calcaneum below, and with the scaphoid in front—forming, as it were, the keystone of the foot—it is perfectly evident that any morbid action commencing in it is very likely to spread to and involve all the more important structmes of the foot. Seldom, indeed, does chsease originating in this bone long remain confined to it; and, so far as my experience goes, gouging operations, even if performed at an early period, are rarely of much benefit, the morbid action continuing to extend notwithstanding their employment. Indeed, in diseased astragalus, I believe that excision ought, as a rule, to be practised in preference to gouging, contrary to what is the case in the calcaneum. Disease primarily originating in the astragalus may spread in three direc- tions : upwards into the ankle-joint, downwards to the calcaneum, andforwai’ds to the scaphoid, and thence tlu'ough the large anterior synovial membrane to the rest of the tarsal bones. The treatment will vary according to the direction and extent of the disease. It may be arranged under four heads. 1. hen the astragalus alom is diseased, we find what is seen in the drawing' (Fig. 4G8), which represents the ° to?LTuowr 1 ““y be be unrip • ' four to six inches in length shoidd be made immediately behind the outer malleolus, and carried Wnl n The divTsio?oahc\tte “1 ff*"! Of the external lateral hgameut of the anlde-jouit are then cut