REMOVAL OF TOFGUE BY GALVANIC ECRASEUR. 527 mouth slightly detached from the bone, the two sides of which arc drawn asunder ; and the tongue then removed from the hyoid bone by a stroke of the kniie. The lingual arteries bleed freely, and must be at once secured. Fiddes of Jamaica recommends that the artery be divided and tied, first on one side and then on the other, so as to avoid all danger of haemorrhage. The opposite sides of the jaw-bone are then brought together, and held in position by wire twisted round the teeth, or passed through a hole drilled on each side, before the division of the bone. If Sedillot’s angular cut be adopted, the bone may be kept in situ much more easily than if the vertical incision to which he first I of all had recourse, and which is commonly adopted in this country, be 1 practised. The incision in the lower lip must be united in the usual way by hare-hp pins or sutmes. This operation was first done in this country by Syme and Nunneley, aud has of late years been very extensively practised by many Sm-geons. By it the whole tongue can be freely exposed and cut out from its deepest attachments. As soon as the tongue is separated, the stump should be di-awn foi*wards • and any bleeding point tied. Ice should be freely used for some days. Should secondary heemorrhage occur, it will be foimd that the actual cautery or the perchloride of iron, the free use of ice, or a spray douche of ice-cold water, will suffice to arrest it. A tendency to dyspnoea is sometimes manifested after the operation, owing to the hyoid boue Ming backwards. This is remedied by opening the mouth and drawing the stump forv^ard. The patient will not be able to swallow for some days,—the food, liquid as well as semi-solid, ac- cumidating in the cavity left by the removal of the tongue. He must there- fore be fed by enemata, and through an India-rubber tube passed down the oeso- phagus. There is often trouble from profuse sahvation for two or three weeks, O'rting to the patient being unable to swallow the Hseid saliva secreted by the wounded and irritated glands. This is best controlled by alum and pyrethrum gargles, and by binshing over the inside of the mouth with a solution of nitrate of silver as it is always tVblcso.e aa/Zcmfficuin: Fig. 631 --Renioyal of Toiigrie by Division ol Lower Jaw anil iScraseur.