ULCER AXJ) FISSURE OF ANUS. 711 the luvncls and feet together, as in lithotomy. The vaginal mncous membiane slionld be dissected olf towards the fistula. The next point is to bring its edges into apposition, in a direction transverse to the axis of the vagina ; and in doing this, the recommendation made by Copeland and Brown, of dividing the sphincter ani, should always be acted on, as it is a most important auxiliary to the success of the operative procedures that are required ; for, as there is always loss of substance in these fistula), there is necessarily a tendency to tension on their sides when any attempt is made to draw them together ; and it is also of importance that any muscular movement about the parts in the neighbour- hood of the fistula) should be aiTested, as this might otherwise break down union after it had taken place between the edges. The sides of the fistula must then be drawn into apposition by silver sutures introduced by means of the hollow needle. I have generally found that these sutures are most easily introduced if passed/rowi alove downwards—the, mucous membrane being then drawn upon by the needle, which more readily transfixes it than if it be introduced from below upwards, when it is left to push the membrane before it. The Avires are then passed across the fistula and out through the vaginal mucous membrane, half an inch beyond the freshened surfaces, care being taken not to include the rectal mucous membrane. They may then be twisted, or brought through a leaden plate and clamped by shot. The success of the procedure depends not only on the proper completion of the steps of the operation, but greatly on the after-treatment. This should consist in the administration of opium, to pre- vent the bowels from acting for ten or tAvelve days ; indeed, until firm union has taken place between the edges. They may then be moved by means of laxatives and oleaginous enemata carefully given. During the treatment, the parts should be disturbed as little as possible, the patient lying on her side Avith a gum catheter tied in the bladder. The parts should be well syringed tA\-ice a day Avith cold water. The patient must be kept upon a A'ery moderate diet, and the stitches may be left in for eight days, when they must be cut out and carefully removed. Should any point of the fistula not be closed, the appheation of the nitrate of silver may induce proper union of it. If, as very commonly happens, the Recto-Vaginal Fistula he complicated -with a Lacerated Perinceum, the operation for that condition, described at p. 655, vol. I., must be performed, and the edges of the fistula, being deeply pared, bi’ought together at the same time. Sometimes in these cases it happens that the perinteum unites, leaving an aperture above this in the recto-vaginal septum ; if this aperture be but small, it may be closed by its edges being touched from time to time Avith the actual cautery ; if it be large, so as to allow the introduction of the finger, I believe that it is generally useless to attempt to close this apertmn by itself; but the perinteum should again be divided, and the Avhole operation repeated. ULCER AND FISSURE OP THE ANUS. This disease, though trivial in point of size and in its pathological relations, is of great practical importance, on account of the excessive local pain and great constitutional iiritation to Avhich a patient labouring under it is often subject. Ulcer and fissure commonly exist together in this situation, though it by no means unfrequently happens that the two conditions occur separately.