FUOSrHORUS-NECROSIS OF THE JAW. 471 Avay as the last; but they are soft, purplish, very ^■ascular, grow rapidly, and are speedily reproduced after remo^-al: they principally, so far as my obser- vation goes, occur in males advanced in life. These tumours require the same operation as the simple epulis ; and, as much htemorrhage usually follows their removal, a red-hot iron must be applied to the bleeding surface. If a malignant epulis be very large, it may be necessary to remove a portion of the whole thickness of the bone, through an external incision, as will be described in the section on Excision of the Lower Jaw (p. 48G). necrosis of the Jaw is commonly the effect of blows, of salivation by mer- cury, of syphilis, of fever, or of exposure to the fumes of phosphorus. I ha^^e, however, seen the disease occur idiopathically in otherwise healthy subjects, without any assignable cause. In this way I have seen the whole of the alveolar process of the upper jaw exfoliate in a young lady, otherwise perfectly healthy ; and I have several times had occasion to remove large portions of the lower jaw—in one case more than half of the bone—for necrosis that could not be refeiTed to any of the causes mentioned above, or indeed to any assignable reason. The disease begins with deeply seated pain resembling inveterate tooth- ache, which nothing will allay; the gums become swollen ; the teeth ai’e loosened, and eventually di’op out. Before they do so, however, pus usually wells up thi’ough the alveoh. Abscesses form inside the mouth and under the angles of the jaw, having fistulous openings thi-ough Avhich bare bone is reached by the probe. The general health suffers greatly, more so than in necrosis generally, doubtless in consequence of the patient swallowing some of the pus from the dead bone. Aecrosis of the jaws, arising from the inhalations of the fumes of phosphorus during the manufacture of lucifer matches, fii-st noticed by Lorinser of Vienna has been especially described by Yon Bibra and Geist, who had abundant opportimities of observing the disease at the large maniffactories at Mu’emberg. This Lucifer match disease was some years ago very frequent, but, in con- sequence of the adoption of precautionary measiues, is now much more rarely met vith. It consists in necrosis of the jaws, and is attended by the symptoms above described, but in a more severe degvee and an acute form. The affected bone midergoes a remarkable change, assuming the porous aspect and gi-ey colom- of dirty pumice stone. Both jaws are equally liable to be affected ; but commonly one only at a time is diseased, and the whole of the bone may die and be separated. Thus of ol cases observed by Von Bibra, both ja\vs were affected m five instauces only—the upper alone in 21 cases, the lower'in 25. According to Jiangcnbcck, the local disease is preceded in many instances by general symp'"- toms ot phosphorus-poisoning ; and there is a considerable amount of bony deposit from periostitis, which encloses the necrosed bone. It has been believed tnat orkmen having sound teeth are not easily if at all influenced by the fumes Ptiosphorus acts through carious teeth: but Laugenbeck has bscned that the teeth have been sound in cases of the disease. Tho vT treatment of necrosis of the jaws presents nothing special T c_removal of the sequestra should be effected as far as practicable throuo-h the mtenor of the mouth, by free incisions through the gums. n the jaw, where the necrosis seldom extends beyond the alveolar border or the palatal process, this may always readily be done