48o diseases of the jaws and their appendages. the antrum, after turning up the cheek from the anterior surface .of the superior maxilla, is one on the propriety of which there is a difference of opinion •nmong Surgeons. Liston, whoso experience in these diseases was in his day ■unrivalled, strongly denounced all “grubbing” operations ; andSymestrongly <lisappro^’ed of the practice. But other Surgeons, Avhose views on the subject •ure entitled to the highest respect, advocate and practise this proceeding. For my own part, I look upon the practice as nnscientific in principle and dis- Fig. 5S3.—Saw with Movable Back, for Operations on the Upper Jaw. astrous in its results. It is only applicable to the softer kinds of tumours: and these are chiefly myeloid or sarcomatous. Now I hold it to be impossible by gouging, scooping, chiselling, or scraping, to extirpate these from any bone in •which they may be developed. It is impossible in this way faudy to go beyond the’limits of the disease into healthy structiu’es. Tissues that appear and feel •sound, are in reality infiltrated : and hence speedy recun-ence takes place. This has happened in every case in which I have seen this operation practised ; and the reciuTent is worse in all its features—more rapid, more luxiuiant, more malignant—than the primary disease. In fact, there is no reason why, in operations on the jaws, we should depart from that principle which is found necessary in operations on other parts for the removal of malignant growths, of being guided in the extent of the removal by the anatomical boimdaries of ithe part afiected, and not by the apparent extent of diseased structme. It seems to me to be as reasonable to scoop a myeloid or a malignant tumom out of the head of the tibia instead of amputating the affected bone, as it is to ■scrape it out of the antrum, instead of extirpating the superior maxilla. 2. Partial Excision of the Superior Maxilla.—Although I do not ■consider the scoopmg away of the tumour from the antrum to be a proper oi surgical procedure, I would not advocate the removal of more of the bones of the face than is absolutely necessary for the complete extirpation of the disease, more especially when that is not malignant. The disease may be limited either to the upper or to the lower part of the superior maxilla. In these cases, the practice of Sir W. Fergusson had led to great advances in our method of re- moving such disease with the ’least possible disfigiuement and the least loss of ■bone. With regard to the external incisions in these cases, Fergusson has sho-wn that they often need to be but very limited ; all that is necessaiy being •a cut fr-om the angle of the mouth upwards and outwards through the cheek, or, in other cases, a slit through the upper lip on the mesial line, the knife Being can-ied along the side of the base of the columna in the no^rils. Jiy ihesc simple incisions, this distinguished Surgeon has shown, suflicient re-