CYSTIC TUMOUR. 585 reproduced, and a cure will be thus established. But instaiiees are not wanting in which the tendency to the local reproduction of the sarcoma has been so active that it out-ran all possibility of complete cxtii;pation, and eventually destroyed the patient. For reference to a case of this kind, see p. / 08, \ oi. . Painfal Mammary Tumour.—It occasionally happens that the chiomc mammary tumour becomes the seat of very severe and paroxysmal neuralgic pains, attended with very considerable cutaneous sensibility, constituting the form of disease that goes by the name of the painful mammary tumour, i his condition most fi-cciucntly occurs in early life, and in women of an irritable and delicate constitution ; it is commonly associated with disorder of the uterine functions, the pain increasing at the catamenial periods,^ and appearing to be essentially owing to the implication of some of the twigs of the intercosto- humeral nerves in the disease. The Treatment of this affection must have special reference to the removal ot the neuralgic condition. This is commonly best effected by the internal ad- ministration of alteratives and tonics, more particularly of the preparations of iron and zinc, with cod-liver oil if necessary ; and by the inunction of the iodide of lead ointment, conjoined with belladonna or aconite, into the affected breast. In many cases the application of a few leeches from time to time, csiiecially in the vicinity of the axilla, wiU lessen the neiu'algia more effectually than any other jilan of treatment; and in others, again, pressure wdll be found sernceable. If all other means fail, excision of the tumoiu’ may in this, as in ■ the last case, ultimately be found necessary. Cystic Tuxiour of the Breast is one of the most common of the non- malignant affeetions of this organ. It may occiu' in three distinct forms: 1. As a Single Unilocular Cyst ; 2. As several of these cysts ocemving together, a Compound Cyst; and 3. As the Cysto-Sarcomatous Tumom’, in which the cystic development appears to be superadded to a structure analogous to that of the chronic mammary tumour. Besides these forms of non-mahgnant cystic tumour, we occasionally meet with Cystic Cancer of the breast. 1. The Single or Unilocular Cyst of the female breast, described by Sir B. Brodie as the Sero-Cijstic Tumour, and by Sir A. Cooper as a variety of hydatid tumoiu, usually occurs at first in the form of a small thin sac of about the size of a filbert, containing a clear serous fiuid, imbedded in the glandular substance of the breast, and movable under the skm. Sometimes more than one cyst of this kind is present in the breast; though, as one attains a gxeater development than the others, the smaller one may readily escape detection. These cysts when single and small always contain a clear serous fluid, but as they increase in size, or become multiple, their contents may assume a gi’eenish-brown or blackish tiuge from admixtiue vdth a small quantity of effused blood. They may continue for a great length of time of small size ; but in other cases they gradually increase until they contain several ounces of fluid. They then become very tense, with the skin drawn tightly over them, through which they shine if superficial. Sir B. Brodie is of opinion that they are originally formed by a dilatation of the lactiferous tubes, and refers to a preparation in which this position can be demonstrated. This may be the case in some instances, but in most cases they are undoubtedly, as often happens with cystic growths in other organs, of independent formation.