OPHTHALMIC SURGERY. 468 the deep-seated morbid appearances within the eye. Tlie preliminary use of atropine should bo dispensed witli as soon as possible in learning the use of the ophthalmoscope, and always afterwards, when the diagnosis without it is not made incomplete. Or at least it may be employed in weak solution, for one eye only (that of which the patient is independent—the worst eye—the least useful), and the patient forewarned of its temporary effects. Waiting for the pupil to become dilated expends time, and if atropine be indiscriminately used the increasing mischief, in some cases of nerve-blindness, &c., will be often ascribed to it. And for ophthalmoscopic diagnosis, it is only absolutely required in some obscure cases of commencing cataract or of vitreous and other opacities in the fundus oculi, &c. With the ophthalmoscope, a lens or cataract dislocated by a blow into the vitreous chamber, and lying quietly at the bottom of that space, or gTa^sitating perhaps to either side, may often be detected. Operation follows, of course, in this case the diagnosis afforded by the ophthalmoscope, which without it certainly would be impossible: an attempt at least must be made to remove the lens “couched” thus accidentally, in anticipation of the irritation and inflam- mation that it AviU set up. Dixon (Ojphthalmic HospilalRejJorts, 'S'ol. I. pp. 280-5) reports a case in which he discovered by the use of the ophthalmoscope, in the ordinary way, a foreign body (a chip of metal) entangled in some remains of blood-clot hanging in the vitreous chamber. Thus aided, and having per- fectly satisfied himself of the exact position of the foreign body, he made an opening through the sclerotic at a point opposite to that at which it was sus- pended, and succeeded in removing it with forceps. Also it is indispensable, previously, in desperate operations for evacuating the fiuid of detached retina. Bader uses it, indeed, whilst he is actually operating. That is to say, he passes a long needle in through the sclerotic, &c., at a point opposite to the most prominent part of the detached retina, and, looking thi’ough the ophthal- moscope, he makes the needle enter this prominence ; then he gives to an assistant the ophthalmoscope, to direct the light into the eye ; he then passes a second similar needle, also through the sclei’otic, at a third of an inch fi'om the first, and, not passing it further in than the first, he directs it to the same spot, so that it may also enter the detached retina ; and he makes them touch. Finally, by approximating the handles, without any other change of position of the two needles, he makes the rent in the retina. To be sure that this is done, he withdraws now the second needle, and examines the fundus again | with the ophthalmoscope himself, to see if the subretinal fiuid has entered the | vdtreous chamber, to see the rent if possible, or some evidence of the success of j the operation. If there be none, he re-introduces the second needle, to repeat j the operation. ^