CONTENTS. TUI PAGE Chaftkii L.—Diseases of the Spine. SiMNA Bifida—Characters—Prognosis—Treatment 289—291 Angdlak Cuevatuee or Pott’s Disease—Changes in Sphial Coliunn—Symptoms —Abscess—Diagnosis—Prognosis—Treatment 291—iiOl Diseases of the Ceevical Spine—Diseases of the Atlas, Axis, and Occiput- Treatment ;501—302: Chapter LI.—Disease oe the Sacro-Iliac Joint. Saceo-Iliac Disease — Nature—Pathology—Symptoms—Pain—-Swelling—Lame- ness^—-Alteration in Limb—Abscess—^Prognosis—Diagnosis—Treatment . 303—308 Chapter LII.—Disease op the Hip-Joint. Hip-Joint Disease—Characters—Forms of the Disease—Pathological Conditions —Pain — Attitude— Suppuration—Sinuses—Dislocation—Ankylosis—Pathology. —Aetheitic Coxalgia — Symptoms—Results.—Acetabulae Coxalgia— Symptoms. — Femoeal Coxalgia — Symptoms — Prognosis of Hip-J oint Disease—Life—Utility of the Limb—^Diagnosis of Coxalgia—Treatment . 309—323- Excision of the Head of the Thigh-Bone and of the Hip-Joint—Histoiy— Cases requiring Operation—In Arthritic Coxalgia—In Femoral Coxalgia—In Acetabular Coxalgia—Removal of Diseased Acetabulum and Pelvic Bones—Method of Operating—Results.—Cabies of the Great Teochantee.—Amputation IN Disease of the Hip-Joint 323—331 Ankylosis of Hip-Joint—Operation for Osseous Angular Ankylosis . . 331—335. Chapter LIU.—Diseases qp Synovial Membranes and op Muscles.. Diseases of BuRSiE—Situations in which Biu-saj exist—Morbid Alterations—Dia- gnosis—Trcatment.—DlSEASES OF THE Buesa Patella:—Inflammation—Sup- puration—Disease of the Patella—Sloughing of the Bursa Patellse—Enlargements —Housemaid’s Knee—Treatment—Chronic Enlai'gement— Pathology — Solid Tumours—Treatment.—Bunion—Treatment 33C—342: Diseases of Sheaths of Tendons—Ganglion—Simple Ganglion—Compoimd Ganglion—Treatment—Ganglion in the Hand and Foot—Tenosynovitis—Treat- ment 343—344 Diseases of Muscles—Inflammatory AfEections—Syphilitic Disease—Tumoiu-s Treatment 344—34T Chapter LIV.—Deformities. Lateral Cuevatuee of the Spine—Nature—Mechanism—Cyphosis and Lordosis —Causes—Signs of Lateral Ciuwatru'e—Treatment of Lateral Giu'vature Recum- bent Position—Mechanical Contrivances—Treatment of Posterior Excui-vation —Of Posterior Incurvation • 34S—.lu4 Deformities of the Neck and Limbs—Causes—Treatment—Tenotomy—Re- pair of Divided Tendons ^ Deformities affecting the Face and Neck—Wiy-Neck—Nature—Causes— rn i i ... 358—3GO Treatment . • n- a i- Defoemities of the Arm and Hand—Conteaction of the Arm Stiaig 'y losis-Acquii-ed Contraction of Muscles of Foreaim-Paralysis of Extensors .and Supinators—Club-hand—Contraction of the Fingers—Pathology—Treatment- Congenital Dcfoimities of Fingers and Hand . . • • ■ ■ Deformities of the Leg and Foot—Knock-knee — Treatment — Contraction of the Knee-joint—Varieties—Causes—Contraction from Nervous Irritation- Treatment—Contraction from Inflammation—Chronic Contraction—Contraction