929 CONGENITAL MALFORMATIONS OF PENIS. CHAPTER LXXIII. —♦— DISEASES OF THE PENIS AND SCROTUM. DISEASES OF THE PENIS. CoxGEiaTAL Malfoemations.—Adhesion of Penis to Scrotum. I have once, and once only, met with a very curious malformation of the genital organs, the penis being tied down by its under surface to the scrotum, so as to lie in a deep sulcus between the testes. In this case the raph6 of the scrotum appeared to be continued in a narrow rather firm band upwards to the imder surface of the penis, so that this organ was always bent or bowed down- wai’ds. The patient, a man of 30, passed his urine downwards, apparently from the under surface of the scrotum ; when erection took place, the penis ■curved up in a semicircular form, the convexity upwards, the glans penis being tightly tied down to the scrotum by the narrow tense band continued up from the raphe. In fact, the condition of this organ was very like that which is met •with in the tongue when “tongue-tied.” This malformation was remedied by cutting through the frsenum which tied the penis do'wn, and thus liberating the organ. Hypospadias.—It occasionally happens that there is an aiTest of union in the mesial line of the'penis, so that a slit or fissm’c is left communicating -with the urethra. This gap commonly occiu’S on the under surface of the organ, constituting hypospadias, and is confined to the glans and upper part of the penis; though it occasionally extends backwards to the root of the organ, and may then be associated with some of those kinds of malformation that are erroneously considered as examples of hermaphroditism. These conditions are mostly incurable, though plastic proceedings have occasionally been devised and practised for their rehef. Absence of Corpus Spongiosum and Urethra.—In some cases the methra terminates at the anterior part of the scrotum. There is a depression, but no canal, in the glans penis at the seat of the meatus. Between the glans and the point at which the urethra terminates, and whence the urine issues, the corpus •spongiosum is deficient, and is replaced by a dense band of fibroid tissue •somewhat resembling in hardness and tension the cicatrix of a burn. Hence there is not only absence of the penile portion of the urethi-a, but an absolute want of development of that part of the corpus spongiosum that lies between the glans and scrotum. When erection takes place, the organ assumes a •crescentic shape, wth the convexity upwards, the tense and hard cord that has just been mentioned stretching across its arc like the string of a bow, thus rendering connection impossible, and the sufferer practically impotent!