474 diseases OF THE JAWS AWE THEIR ARPENDAGES. Fig. 577.—Cystic. Tumour of Antrum. blocked lip, the secretion may increase to so great a degree as to occasion serious inconvenience by its outward pressure. In such cares the accumulation of fluid may after a time expand and absorb the osseous walls of tile ca^nty, so as to constitute a true cystic disease ; and in this way the cheek is rendered round and prominent—an indolent semi-elastic tumour forming in it and protruding it outwards, and giving rise to the egg-shell or parchment-like crackling on prcssm’e (Fig. 577). The floor of the orbit or the roof of the mouth may be caused to bulge, and the nasal cavity may be encroached upon. According to C. Heath, we find that Denti- gerous Cysts may occiu- in either jaw. They arise in connection with teeth which from some cause have been retained in the jaw. They are almost invariably connected with the permanent teeth. Tomes believes that they arise from the excessive formation around a retained tooth of a fluid which is normally found after the com- plete development of the enamel, between it and the soft tissues investing it. The tooth is not unfrequently fomid to be inverted. The cysts may occim at any age, but are most common in young adults. In the upper jaw they may form cysts in the antrum. In the lower jaw, they form prominent isolated tmnoiu-s. They have been mistaken for sohd tmnoiu’s, and the jaw has in consequence been partially removed. Occasionally they may suppm-ate. Heath also men- tions dentinal tumours, i.e. irregular masses of dentine growing from a tooth and forming tumours of the jaw ; but they seem very rare. Treatment.—When the accumulation of fluid is small, vflth moderate expan- sion of the superior maxilla, catheterism of the antrum may be practised by passing a cmwed probe along the side of the nostril between the superior and middle turbinate bones ; where, in the middle meatus, about its centre, the ■aperture leading into the sinus may be felt. Should this treatnient not suc- ceed, or should the anterior ivaU be much expanded, the antrum must be opened from 'without : this is done without incising the lips or wounding the face, by thrusting a trochar and cannula into the most thimied and expanded part of the tumour under the cheek ; or, if necessary, by dissecting up the cheek from the gum, and thus making an opening into the ca-vity of the antrum with a strong pair of scissors or a perforator, through its most expanded and thinnest part, so as to allow the dischai'ge to escape fr-ecly. In order to prevent a re-accumulation of the fluid, it will be better to cut away a small portion of the thinned and expanded wall of the antrum, and thus to establish a permanent apertme iu it. The shape of the cheek may be restored by the gradual pressure of a spring pad or double-headed roller. Suppuration may take place in the antrum. It is usually excited by the irritation of a carious molar tooth, or by some injury of the face, and may occasion much throbbing or lancinating pain. The jms, as it foi’ms, ill .sometimes overflow, as it were, into the nose through the aperture into