CONTENTS OF HERNIAL SAC. 613 and cylindrical ; it may vary from the size of a cherry to a tumour as large iis the head. When recent, it is usually thin and transparent, though in sorne eases it becomes greatly thickened, having arborescent vessels ramifying m it, nnd being almost laminated in structure ; this is especially^ the case in old femoral herniie. In other instances, lioweA'er, it becomes thinned and atro- phied as the tumour expands, so that the contents become visible through it. This is especially the case in old umbilical hernim, in which I have •.seen it as thin as the finest gold-beater’s skin. In some cases the hernial sac undergoes degeneration, becoming converted into a fibrous or even cal- careous layer. The sac, though usually forming a perfect inclosure to the hernial contents, •occasionally constitutes but a partial investment to them, more particularly in such organs as the cmciim or bladder, which arc naturally partially uncovered by peritoneum. In other instances it may be ruptured, or altogether absent. The sac is absent when the hernia occurs as the result of a wound, injury, or ^abscess of the abnormal wall. It cannot be said to exist in a congenital hernia, und may be absent in ctecal and in umbilical hcrniEe. More rarely a double hernial sac is met with, one being protruded into or placed behind the other. There ai’e instances of three sacs occurring together; and Sir A. Cooper relates case in which six were met with in the same person. The abdominal parietes outside the sac undergo important changes. The ;aperture through which the hernia protrudes usually becomes circular ; after a time, indurated and rounded at the edge, and considerably enlarged ; when situated in the movable portions of the abdominal wall, as in the inguinal region, it becomes displaced in old hernim, being dragged doAvn by the weight of the protrusion, usually towards the mesial line. The subserous areolar tissue always becomes greatly thickened, often indui-ated and fatty, so as to constitute one of the densest investments of the sac, and, in some old cases of hernia, closely to resemble omentum. The more superficial structures, such as the integument and fascia, are much elongated and stretched ; often tense, but not uufi-equently hanging in folds ; they are usually thinned, but, if a truss have been long worn, they become thickened and condensed by the pressure of •the pad. Contents.—The contents of the sac vary greatly ; every ^dscus except the pancreas having been found in hernial tumours. Most frequently a portion of the Small Intestine, more particularly of the ileum, is protruded, constituting the form of hernia called Enterocele. The quantity of intestine within the sac may vary from a small section of the calibre of the gut, the whole diameter not being included, to a coil several feet in length, with its attached mesentery. After a portion of the intestine has once descended, the protruded part tends to increase in quantity ; until, as in some large and old hernim, the greater l^ortion has been known to lie in the sac. The Large Intestine is rarely lound in a hernia, though the emeum is occasionally met with. When in- testine has been long protruded, it usually becomes thickened in its coats, and nail owed, greyish on the surface, and more or less deranged in its fimc- tions. I he coixesponding mesentery becomes thickened, hypertrophied, and vascular. Omentum is often found in hernial sacs, together with intestine ; but is not