379' TALIPES VALGUS. with a slmro scalpel iiitrodiiccd directly downwards, and then to diidde it in a direction fonvards, away ftom the vessel, with a blunt also be less risk of this accident ocenn-mg, it the line of the tibia be clea j felt and taken as the guide for pniictiu-ing the fascia over the tendon. Unless erreat care be taken in cutting through the tendo Achillis, there is also some- S of "ou^^^^ arteiT ; as, in bad cases of varus, these two structures he- nearlv parallel to one another, the tendo Achillis being drawn out of the median line towards the inner ankle. Indeed, in one instance I have seen the posterior tibial arteiy punctured during the division of this tendon, or rathei in an attempt to divide some tense bands that lay beneath it; the bleeding, which was veiw free and in a full jet, was however, readily stopped by pressure,, no bad consecpiences resulting. The proper plan of treatment ^Uien such an accident occurs, is, when the artery is merely punctured, to cut it completely across, and then to apply firm pressime, by means of a pad and bandage, over the bleeding orifice. Tamplin states that he has seen no iU effects follow this accident. If a circumscribed false aneun'sm form, it must be laid open, the clots turned out, and the vessel tied. Uo extension of the foot should be practised for some time in such cases, lest the coagulum be disturbed. In ordmary cases of varus, after a lapse of four or five days, Scai’pa’s or Little’s shoe, or Aveling’s talivert (Fig. 540), a most ingenious and useful in- strument, allowing every movement necessary in club-foot, may be applied ; or the foot may be well abducted by means of a wooden splint, fixed to the outer side of the leg, and provided with pegs, so placed that the toes can be drawn up, and the foot well tiu-ned out, by rollers and tapes attached to them. rig. 540.—Aveling’s Talivert. , Talipes Valgus—Plat or Splay Foot.—Is the antithesis to varus. In it there is a tendency in the first instance to obliteration of the arch of the in- c step, so that the sole becomes perfectly flattened ; and, as the disease advances, 3 a tendency to eversion of the foot usually takes place (Fig. 541). When it J has advanced to this extent, the toes and anterior part are often somewhat ^ raised, so as to constitute the variety termed Calcaneo-valgus. In talipes L valgus the ligaments of the sole of the foot, which bind the bones together so I as to form the arch, are weakened and elongated, and the peroneal and extensor tendons are commonly tense. In the more advanced cases, the foot becomes everted at the calcaneo-cuboid and astragalo-scaphoid articulations, and the head of the astragalus projects inwards, being as it were partially , dislocated from the scaphoid. This being pressed upon, is often a source of ,, much pain. Valgus is not so ft-equent a form of club-foot as the other ^ varieties. It commonly affects only one extremity, being often met within