DIVISION TRIED. SURGICAL DISEASES. [CONTINUED.] CHAPTER XLII. —t— DISEASES OF ARTERIES. ARTEBITIS. Acute Arteritis of an idiopathic character, unconnected with traumatic lesion, is a disease that has probably been more frequently described than seen. Its very existence is indeed by many considered to be doubtful, and its causes, phenomena, and symptoms are still unsolved pathological problems. Subacute and Chronic Arteritis is famihar to every Sm’geon in con- nection with the contusion, laceration, wound and ligatiu’e of arteries ; for it is by that process that, under the varying circumstances of injiuy or of surgical operation for the arrest of haemorrhage, these vessels are ultimately and securely plugged and obliterated. For a description of these processes, the reader is referred to Yol. I., Chap. XIV. Both the coats of the artery and the contained blood undergo important changes in this disease. It becomes often very difficult to dissociate one of these pathological conditions from the other, and to determine in which the primary departiu’e hum a normal state is to be found, except in those cases in which the arteritis arises from real traumatic causes, which necessarily fall under the observation of the Surgeon, and which serve to him as typical cases by which to study the other and primarily less distinctly marked instances of the disease. Formerly pathologists described two distinct forms of arteritis, viz., the Diffuse or Erysipelatous, and the Limited, Plastic, or Adhesive; and this idew has hitherto been adopted in this work. But more recent investi- gations have led to considerable doubt as to the existence of the diffuse or erysipelatous form of the disease. The symptoms with ivhich it was supposed to be coimccted are probably in reality dependent on some of the various foms of blood-poisoning ; and the pathological appearances that were believed to be indications of its existence are now generally held to be the result of changes in the blood, either during life or shortly after death, giving rise to "vaiious pseudo-morbid appearances produced by simple imbibition or staining of the arterial coats, causing them to become soddened, softened, and variously discoloured. Embolic Arteritis may arise from two distinct sets of causes ;