926 DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. the ragina. Sims then passes the uppermost free ends through holes made in a narrow leaden bar, on which they arc clamped, by having split shot fixed upon them in the same way as is done on a fishing line. The unclamped Fig. S22.—Hollow Suture Needle. wires are now drawn down until the bar is pulled close to the upper sutm-e holes ; and a second clamp is then fixed to these ends and is pushed up against the lower suture apertures. In this way the edges of the fistula are brought and held together on each side by a clamp, which may be allowed to remain in from seven to ten days. The clamps may then be removed by clipping off the flattened shots from the anterior one, which is thus detached from its bed. The posterior one, with the wires attached, may then be hooked up, pushed backwards, and lifted out of the vagina with forcejis. Instead of a clamp, Simpson used a splint made of annealed iron wire, which surrounds and sup- ports the tissues around the fistula. In many cases, however, where the fistula is of but moderate size, the clamp and splint may be dispensed with, and the edges of the opening brought together mth the suture wires only. In the after-treatment, especial attention is required: and here the great point is t6 prevent the contact of the urine with the edges of the fistula. With this view a catheter should be introduced, and worn in the bladder, so that no urine may collect in this organ. For this purpose, Sims has invented a very ingenious catheter, represented in the annexed cut (Fig. 823), which may be worn with more comfort, and vuth less chance of slipping, than the ordinary in- strument. After the patient has been put to bed, and the catheter introduced, a full opiate should be given, and continued thi-ough- out the treatment, with a view of preventing the action of the bowels, a point on which Sims lays much stress, and to which the success of his operations may be in a great measure attributed. It is very seldom that they require to be opened for ten^ or fifteen days, provided the patient be kept on a rigid ’diet. During this treatment the catheter may be removed once or tvdee a day, in order to be cleai^ed and to be kept free from phosphatic or mucous accumulations ; and free ablutions of the external genitals by sponge or syringe and wann water should be practised during the whole of the treatment. After the removal of the sutures, Sims advises that the catheter should be continued, and great care taken that the patient do not move too soon, lest the weak cicatrix be A very simple and successful mode of closing these fistuke has been invented Fig. 823.—Sims's Catheter.