537 STRICTURE OF THE (i:SOFlIAGUS. Ill these cases the Treatment simply consists in letting out the matter by puncturing the tense membrane covering it. 'L’his may be done by means ot a shai-p pointed bistoury properly protected, the ordinary abscess-knife, or a pharyngotome (Fig. 08!)). The pus let out is usually oflensive, even though. the bones be not atf'ectcd. i . • Tumours are occasionally met vith in the postpharyngeal areolar tissue,. giving rise to the same swelling, difficulty in respiration and deglutition, and. lateral projection, as occiu- in abscess of this region. These growths are mostly cancerous, and speedily prove fatal. Polypi in the pharynx usually come down, from the nasal ca’iities, but sometimes spring Irom the inside of this canal on one or other of its margins. They are usually, when truly pharyngeal, of a. , malignant chai'acter, and gTOW with groat rapidity. The uses of the part ar& necessarily interfered with, and death may eventually result from obstruction to deglutition and respiration. Epithelioma of the phaiynx has occasionally been met with (Fig. 040). This form of the disease, which is of rare occurrence, does not differ from similar growths elsewhere. STRICTURE OP THE CESOPHAGUS. All diseases of the oesophagus have a tendency to constrict and eventually to occlude its passage, and hence are commonly described as Strictures of it. In some instances, the constriction of the oesophagus may be of a pimely nervous or spasmodic character; but in the majority of instances it is th^ result either of fibrous or of cancerous degeneration of the walls of tho: canal, and is then termed organic stricture. The simple non-malignant or- fibrous strictm-e in most instances eventually degenerates into epithelioma, and hence appears to be more rare than in reahty it is, as it is seldom met with after death in its undegenerated form. Scirrhous and encephaloid growth:i may, though rarely, develop in and around the oesophagus. d'ho great feature of oesophageal stricture is difficulty of deglutition ; but dysphagia may arise from many causes besides oesophageal strictm'e. Hence its diagnosis is in the highest degree important. CoxniTioxs PRODUCING Hysphagia independently of Stricture.— There are at least eight different conditions met with in the neck and chest capable of giving rise to dysphagia by compressing the oesophagus, indepen- dently of any strictine of that canal. 1. Tumours connected with the Pharynx.—Putting out of considera- tion tumours of the tonsils, which would always be readily discovered, polypus. ot the phaiynx may hang down and offer obstructions to the passage of food^. ^ In all polypoid growths connected with the jiharynx (which are exceedingly ^ rare) the nature, connections, &c., of the growth may be made out by drawing the tongue well forward, keeping it fixed w-ith the tongue-spatula, and passing V the finger well down behind the root of the organ ; the pharynx can thus A be explored, even below the root of the epiglottis, Avithout much difficulty., V A hscess may exist between the posterior wall of the pharynx and the spine, # possibly arising from caries of the cervical vertebne ; or a ywstpharymjeal -I tumour, as, for instance, a sarcomatous growth, may bo doA'elopcd from the ■ bodies of the vertebrm, and push the pharynx foi’AA^ards. d’hc eye is often