582 DISEASES OF THE BREAST. the breast-gland, is principally due to Sir A. Cooper ; and this important de- partment of sm-gical pathology has of late years been much extended by the researches ot Velpeau, Birkett, and Paget. It is only very recently, however, that the confusion that has hitherto surrounded this very intricate subject has been clcared up, and it is chiefly by the recognition of the characters and by the study of the natural history of the various forms of sarcoma that affect the breast, that this has been accomplished. NON-MALIGNANT TUMOURS. The non-malignant tumours of the breast comprise the Chronic Mammanj Tumour, the different varieties of sarcoma and Cijstic Grotvlh, the Painful Tahercle, Hydatid Cysts, and various forms of Fibrous, Cartilayinous, and Osseous Groivths. Chronic Mammary or Adenoid Tumour, or Adenoma, is perhaps the most common variety of these benign structures. It usually occurs as the result of blows, squeezes, or lacteal irritation, and is almost invariably met ■with in young women under thirty years of age ; usually in women otherwise healthy ; and most frequently in those of a sanguineo-nervous temperament. It is often associated ■with the hysterical temperament, and connected with, if not dependent on, uterine iratation and sexual excitement of an irregular kind- This tumour is generally of small size when first perceived, and may remain stationary for many years ; or it may slowly increase, and at last attain a considerable bulk. In other cases it may veiy rapidly grow to a great size. In a case on which I operated some years ago, the tumour had continued for eighteen years about the size of a wahiut, but in the course of six months it increased to an enormous magnitude, and on removal weighed nearly five pounds. This tumoiu’ usually commences as a small, movable, finely nodulated growth, attached by a pedicle to one side of the mammary gland ; it is hard and incompressible, often appears isolated, and is not generally painful; it in- creases slowly, without discolouring the skin or becoming attached to it, and is frequently many years in attaining a moderate size. It is often floating, as it were, in the substance of the gland, into which it can be pushed back. This tumour is frequently mistaken for a cancerous gvowth, and the diagnosis is often as difficult as it is important; though in many cases the otherwise good health of the patient, the mobility of the mass, the absence of all impUcation of the skin or glands, the Avant of hardness, and its circumscribed character, will indicate its true natiue. On examination after remoA'al, an adenoma appears to be irregularly lobu- lated, is encapsuled, and its cut surface is found to present a bluish or gieyish- white colour, Avhich, after exposure to the air, assumes a rosy tint; and, on pressure, cfrops of a thick creamy fluid are often seen to exude. Under the microscope, it has been found by Birkett to consist of imperfectly dcA elopcc hypertrophy of the glandular tissue ; the terminal cells of which are^fiUed^Avitli epithelial scales. For microscopical characters, see Figs. 290,291, p. / 04, 0 . Adenoma, though usually very chronic in its progress, may at times assume extreme rapidity of growth, so as almost to simulate malignant disease, inis