STRUCTURAL CHANGES IN LONE. 194 In childbearing women the disease appears to have a remarkable predilec- tion for the pelvis ; it is probable, howe^-er, that a careful examination of all the bones has not been made in all cases. State of the Urine.—In all cases that have been recorded, the urine has been seen to contain large quantities of earthy matter. Solly pointed out that this is phosphate of lime, which has been absorbed from the bone, and thrown out by the kidneys in the urine ; and sometimes the elimination of this matter is so abundant that it forms, as in one of the cases which he relates, a soUd calculus, clogging up the interior of the kidney. In MacIntyre’s case, the earthy matters of the bone appear to have been, in the first instance, absorbed, and carried off from the kidneys by the urine ; but afterwards an animal matter, of a peculiar and apparently previously undescribed character, was discharged in abimdauce. SymjHorns.—These ai’e, in the early stages, extremely obscime and insidious. The patient complains, in the first instance, of Avandering pains about the limbs and trunk which assume usually a rheumatic character, though they have been observed to be of a much more severe, persistent, and intractable nature than those that occur in any form of rheumatism. The patient becomes debilitated, unfitted for exertion, and emaciated. Spontaneous fr’acture now occiu’s in some bones under the infiuence of the most trivial causes; others become bent, and the body consequently greatly misshapen and distorted. The urine presents some of the abnormal characters above described, and death eA'entually residts from general exhaustion. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of this affection has to be made in the early stages from rheumatism. This is not always easy, and, indeed, is at first impossible ; but after a time, when the peculiar phosphatic condition of the mine and the fragility or distortions of the osseous system manifest themselves, the true nature of the affection becomes apparent. With riclcets it cannot possibly be confounded, as rickets is a disease of childhood, and osteomalacia is peculiar to adult or advanced life. The severe pains and the great distortion, with the tendency to spontaneous firacture which is observed in this disease, are never noticed in rickety children. Treatment.—With regard to treatment, but little can be done ; the admi- nistration of tonics, and a general supporting plan of treatment, may an’est for a time the progress of this terrible affection ; but when once it is declax’ed, it usually progresses from bad to worse, and at last destroys the patient. Opiates may be employed to allay the pain, and in MacIntyre’s case some temporary advantage appeared to result from the administration of alum ; but no remedy has appeared to exercise any continuous advantage in this complaint, which, there is reason to believe with SoUy, is truly mahgnant. A form of osteomalacia, gi^ang rise to excessive liability to fr’acture, is some- times met -ndth in the insane. In such cases, numerous fr-actiu-es of bones, espe- cially the ribs, have been found, and in many of them repair has taken ]fiace. Scrofulous Osteitis.—The scrofulous aflections of bone constitute an important section of the diseases of this tissue in children and young people. Avho are the subjects of this diathesis. They have been for the most part described as the results of the deposit of tubercle in this tissue, but are almost always connected Avith chronic inflammatory processes of a Ioav type.