DISEASES OF THE TESTIS AND CORD. 95^ to contract and to granulate from the Ijottom, when the obliteration of the ca\ ity of the tunica vaginalis necessarily results. If the tumour Avere of veiy large size, and the tunica vaginalis much thickened, hardened, and parchment-like, with adherent and laminated fibrine, castration might possibly be rec|uircd. In the instance to Avhich I have already referred, and which is represented in Fig. 842, this was rendered necessary in con- secpience of these conditions, and Avas success- fully done. Haematocele of the Spermatic Cord has been obsei’A'ed by Pott, Curling, BoAvman, and others ; it is a rare disease, and usually occui’s in the form of tumour of considerable mag- nitude, suddenly arising after a strain or some to a rupture of a varicose spermatic A'ein. It canal, and thence extends doAvnwards along the Fig. 84-2.—Iliumatocjele vith Tliiok- , eiiecl Tuuica A'agiimlis and adlicieut Fibrinous Deposit. violent exertion, giving rise commences in the inguinal course of the cord, through the abdominal ring into the scrotum ; but it does not surround or implicate the testis, which can be felt free and movable at its loAvest part. On incising such a tumour as this, a quantity of blood, partly fluid and partly coagulated, has been found, sometimes contained in a cavity, occasioned by the laceration and separation of the tissues of the cord and scrotum. The most remarkable case of this kind on record is one related by BoAvman, in Avhich the tumour, after existing for ten years, had attained so enormous a size, that it reached to the patella, and was so heavy as to require both hands and a considerable effort to raise it from its bed. In this case, death appears to have resulted from decomposition of the contents of the tumour. Dic/f/nosis.—In its early stages, htematocele of the cord Avould run consider- able risk of being confounded Avith an inguinal hernia. The more diffused character of the swelling, however, its regular feel, its semi-fluctuating sen- sation, and the impossibility of reduction, might enable the diagnosis to be made (p. G59, Vol. II.). Hasmatocele of the cord may alAA'ays be distinguished from an acciunulation of Mood in the tunica vaginalis, by the testicle not being implicated in the former case, but surrounded by the fluid in the latter instance. The Treatment of this disease must in the earlier stages be of a palliative kind ; consisting in rest, support of the tumour, and the application of evapo- rating lotions. Care should be taken not to incise it at this period, lest the loss of blood from the ruptined vein, after the evacution of the contents of the tumom, become uncontrollable. In one instance I haA'e knoAvn fatal con- sequences from this cause to ensue in half an hour after making an incision into the tumour and turning out the coagula. When, hoAvever, the disease has reached a chronic stage, and is no longer increasing, it may be incised ; and, its contents being turned out, the cavity may be allowed to suppurate and granulate. VABICOOELE. Varix, or Enlargement of the Sjoermatic Veins, is a disease that is commonly