STRUCTURAL CHANGES IN BONE. 204 various groups to which they pathologically belong, class them together under the one general broad designation of Malignant Tumours of Bone. Two distinct forms of malignant timrour of bone are met ■with. In one form the morbid growth is central, springing from the medullaiy canal; in the other it is peripheral, being only attached to the compact osseous substance. In the central malignant disease of bone, the tumour is found to gi’ow in the substance of, or to spring from, the interior of the medullary canal. It is usually situated at or about the articular ends, expanding the bone, which becomes completely enveloped and incoi'porated in the structm-e of the growth, either in the form of osseous rays diverging from the centre of the tumour, or more rarely as a thin shell of bone siUTOimding the mass, as in the more simple growths springing fr-om this tissue. In either circumstance, it is important to bear in mind, this form of disease is never locahsed, but always invades the whole of the bone. The freedom of communication between the upper and lower ends of a long bone is so great, that, as has been sho^Yn by Richet, water injected at one end exudes in a few seconds at the other ; hence the juices of a malignant structm’e may easily traverse the whole length of the bone, and we accordingly find, on examining the osseous tissue at a distance from the tmnour, that there are red patches in it here and there indicative of its infiltration vith the morbid structme. These central mahgnant tumoms of bone are in most cases sai’comata, or rapidly growing and soft enchondromata. Fig. 420.—Calcifieil Nodule of Sarcoma of the Lung, secondary to a similar giowth in a long Bone (18S diam.) a. Becalcitied. Tlie flat grey Sm-face represents the Calcified Stroma, n. Not decalcified. Shows the "listening bars of Calcified Stroma passing hetween the granular cells, which in some parts also are calcified. Fig 4.30 —Jlyeloid Tumour of Lower Jaw (TO diani), showing the manner in which the bone is invadhl n. Tiie deep surface of tiie section. Many of the malignant tumours of bone undergo calcification or ossification, and the same changes may be seen in the secondary deposits (Fig. method in which a tumour involves neighbouring healthy bone is illustrated in Fig. 480. , . , . in fUo Iwiiixa peripheral ioxm of malignant disease of bone, which is pio a y ^ most common variety, the osseous tissue is not so completely im a e , oi.