BQ UINT-0 PE It A TIONS. 425 and 32 for divergent strabismus. Tbe superior or inferior rectus tendons are very i-arely divided. A squint dotvmvards is hardly ever seen but in hydro- cephalus, of which it is supposed by some to be pathognomonic ; it is, in these cases, of both eyes, and only occurs at intei-vals. To ascertain the existence or the degTCc of squint, the patient is placed standing before the Sm-geon, who observes which eye seems to squint. The Surgeon, if, for instance, the patient’s right eye be tmaied inwards in looking at him, extends and closes the fingers of his right hand, bringing them with the back of the hand to the face of the patient, close up before his left eye, without touching it; then, the patient still regarding the face of the Sm’geon, the left eye being shut out, the right eye is everted from its former position and turned -out sufficiently to continue the steady gaze of the patient in the face of the Surgeon. The Sm-geon now removes his hand quickly from before the left eye, and this is observed to be turned inwards, as the right was ; j)robably it now ■quickly adjusts itself, and, as at first, the right is again inverted. Or the Surgeon, if the right eye do not now seem to be again turned in, uses his other hand, and excludes, without closing, the patient’s right eye, to see, as the patient is always looking steadily in his face, if the other will now seem to con-ect itself; and so he proceeds, successively and alternately, to confirm his diagnosis. It is vei-y improbable that, if there be some degree of convergent strabismus, even though not constant but recurrent, it will not be manifested when the patient is under the excitement of a formal examination, and is regarding a rather near object, the face of the Surgeon. If there be no squint and the previous diagnosis were in error, whichever eye is shut out in the way described, the other will not move or change its position, for it continues to look at that at which it was desired to look. If we desire to estimate exactly the degree of strabismus, the j)atient is desired to look straight before him at any object. A little mark is then made on the skin near the edge of the lower lid of the VTongly directed eye, at a point vertically corresponding mth the outer (or inner) edge of the circmnference ot the cornea. Then the other eye of the patient is closed with the hand; and the patient vnthout timiing his head, is desired still to regard the same object. e squin in^, eye is then lighted ; and another mark, again con-esponding to margin of the cornea, is made on the lower lid. Then the ^istence between the two marks is measui-ed, and the squint is said to be of so ihree r ’ ^ of convergent squint, the interval be of as much as recta 7’ ! ,'f of both the internal ostensiblv t at once, rather than that alone of the eye only squint it is Let ” fbe more common and less degrees of conrergent of the'eve habihiill * only the internal rectus tendon first onention «b n ^mde the other afterwards only if the be oSd on e? r'T- ™=“<"oient. To determine which eye is to eye S lemh T f®'' ohort time, corering neither CO 4md fore ^ of the patient may be r4peatcdty same internal rectify, “i- As to repeated divisions of the experience is rather unfu-om-'l^' lremained inverted, tner unU^ omable ; but il without it the defect be not remedied.