87 DIAG^^OSIS OF CAROTID AFEURIS2I. difficulty in deglutition and respiration : souictiuics the salivary glands are much irritated. After a time, the cerebral circulation becomes interfered with, giving rise to giddiness, impaired vision of the coiTesj)onding eye, noises in the car, and a tendency to stupor. These symptoms may each be owing to com- pression of the jugular, or to difficulty in the transmission of the blood through the timaour. The size that these aneurisms may attain varies greatly : usually they ai-e confined to the space under the angle of the jaw, but not unfrequently they may occupy the greater part of the side of the neck. If they be allowed to increase without interference, death may happen, either by ruptm*e exter- nally, or into the pharynx or oesophagus; by asphyxia, from pressure on the larynx or recuiTent nerve ; or by starvation from compression of the oesophagus. Aneiu’isms of the carotid are usually of slow growth, and may sometimes exist for a considerable niunber of years without giving rise to any special inconvenience : this is more particularly the case when they are seated at the bifm’cation of the artery; when at the root, they are more likely to be attended by injiuious pressime-effects. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of carotid anemism is without doubt more diffi- cult than that of any other form of external aneurism : the best proof that it is so, may be found in the fact that, of the cases in which the carotid artery has been ligatured for suj)posed aneurism of it or its branches, in several instances no such disease existed—solid cysts, or other tumours of the neck having been mis- taken for aneurism, and this by Siu’geons of great and acknowledged repute. The diagnosis of aneiu’ism of the lower part of the carotid from similar disease of other arteiies at the root of the neck, as of the sub- clavian, vertebral, and brachio-cephalic, and the arch of the aorta, is surrounded by difficulties, which can only be cleared up by a careful stethoscopic examination of the part. In some aneurisms of the arch of the aorta, the sac rises up into the neck, so as closely to simulate a carotid aneurism, as in the annexed cut (Fig. o70) ; and this greatly increases the difficulty of the diagnosis. In such cases. Holmes suggests that the effect produced by carefully applied distal'pressure may aid in the diagnosis. If, after a few hours, when the collateral circula- tioii shoiJd be commencing to enlarge, the sac shows no signs of flimini.bM tcmion, the case is very probably one of aortic aneurism. The principal affections of he neck, however, with which aneurism of the caro«rmaT be confomded, are varix of the internal jugidar vein, enlai’ged lymphatic A dilated arter;/ doubled upon itself may closely resemble an aneurism when situated at the root of the neck. Such a case is recorded by Co Zn I occurred m an old woman of 88. No tiPatment was adopted, Ld atr doath