461 extirpation of the eyeball. extiri*-A.tion of the eyeball. If an eye bo rendered useless, especially if it be in consequence of some former iniury it is probably best to remoye it ; certainly if any irritation or inflammation exist in the other eye, or if it be unsightly, or if there be any foreiom body remaining Avithin it, or if the patient be one who cannot pro- bably at a future time, at once obtain good advice lyhen sympathetic irritation may haye arisen. In the latter case, that of the labouring man or of the needle- woman the sight of the seeing eye will be secured ; and, then, even if the natient’eannot afford an artificial eye for the future, the deformity of a vacant palpebral aperture is comparatively of very little importance. But if, when the least occasion may arise, the patient be in the way of good advice, and be duly convinced of the importance of not neglecting any trifling and transitory pains and obscurations in the sound eye, and the one lost be also in appearance an eye, it may be left. In some cases, that are not urgent, the value of appearances may turn the scale in determining whether or not to recommend extirpation. An eye should certainly be excised if it be blind and painful, or, if sympathetically without pain, the other eye be threatened in .the least degree. The operation of excision is iir(jently called for, in cases of intraocular morbid growths, as soon as detected Avith the ophthalmoscope or otherwise ; when a foreign body is known to remain within the eye, and camiot be ex- tracted from it, even if the eye be not quite blind, or but very little painful or tender at the time ; also at once, in cases of suppuration of the eye after' ophthalmitis, or of hEemorrhage and clot filhng the eye, at the time Avhen an operation has been done. A lost, blind, and painful glaucomatous eye, or a glaucomatous eye that is blind and has been painful, should be removed ; for in the latter case it is useless, and the pain Avill return ; or, if iridectomy Avere to be done to prevent the recuiTence of pain, it is a blind eye at all events, and rather unsightly. The probability of much pain to be experienced in a disorganised globe would decide the question in faA'our of the operation. And, Avheiiever it is to be recommended, it must be strenuously urged ; and, if it be not adopted, the responsibility of the decision must be plainly made to rest A\dth the patient. Sympathetic irritation in a blind eye aftecting- the other may be allayed ; but the sympathetic inflammation folloAving the loss of an eye for practical purposes, by old injury or deep-seated inflammation, is one of the most teirible and intractable and destructiv'e with Avhich we are acquainted. And if it be subdued, it Avill recur : each time Avith some more impairment of vision aftenvards. An eye totally blind Avill never see again. And, Avith a good artificial eye adapted, the defomiity of the extiiqiation Avill not be much. In this place it seems to bo necessary to distinguish between blindness as the Avord is used by ophthtdmologists—a Avant of perception of light—and blindness in the common acceptation of the term. By blindness is generally meant no more than a greater or less degi’ee of Avant of useful vision, but real blindness of an eye is only to be diagnosed in some such Avay as the following. The palm of the Surgeon’s hand is closely applied over the eye not in question, the patient being placed opposite to a noiseless gas-burner, or other very bright.