AMPUTATION OF xiu^ scirr were •1ms afc the axillary border, that the above-named parts of the glancc entirely free ft-om all sign of disease. If the mamma be small and shrnnken, the whole may be removed without any increase of danger ; if it be- vervlaro-c the Burgeon best consults the patient’s safety by simply removing the tumour with a deep triangular slice of the contiguous portion of the gland > Imt if there be any hardness or suspicious nodulated feel about the mammary «dand if the line of demarcation between it and the tumour bo not defined,, and particularly if the patient be thin, so that the operation is not a very severe one, the extirpation of the whole of the breast ought certainly to be- practised.' However widely the parts are removed, the line of incision usually comes together readily and ei’enly, owing to the laxity of the integuments in the mammary region. I have observed in those cases in which it becomes necessary to extirpate tumoiu's of the mammary region, without removal of the gland, that eiysipelas has more frequently followed the operation than when the gland, being affected,, has required removal. Return of Cancer after Operation may take place in three situations ^ in the cicatrix of the part operated upon ; in the' neighboming lymphatic glands ; or in some internal organ. When cancer recurs in the neighbourhood of the previously affected part, it is probably owing to the cancer-cells having diffused themselves so widely into the skin, the subcutaneous areolar tissue and muscles, or neighbouring lymphatic glands, and after the removal of the tumoiu- these cells become the germs of new growths. In these circumstances it may recur in the cicatrix and then implicate the glands ; or in the glands, without the cicatrix having been pre\'iously affected. In local relapse of this kind, it often happens, that the disease, so reproduced, runs its course more rapidly than if no operation had been performed ; the increased action set up. in the part during the healing process appearing to give augmented force to- the reproductive energy of the cancerous growth. In some cases it even rctuins in the wound before cicatrisation is completed, the ulcerated surface- then assuming the ordinary character of the cancerous ulcer. In other cases, the cicatrix, some weeks or months after it is fully formed, assumes a dusky red or puiplish tinge, becoming hard, stony and nodulated at points ; these nodules being round or oval, often very numerous, and varying in size from a pin’s, head to a pigeon’s egg, studding the whole length and breadth of the cicatrix, and at last running into true cancerous ulceration. In such circumstances, the only hope of prolonging the patient’s life lies in the speedy excision of the- whole of the diseased stractures, or their extirpation by caustics, i^rovided there bo no deep affection of the glands, nor evidence of internal secondary deposit. But if the axillary glands be much enlarged, either alone or together, with recurrent disease in the cicatrix, or if there be any sign of internal cancer, further operation will be imin’oper. Amputation of the Breast.—The question of amputation of the breast should always be raised and discussed with more than ordinary regard to the. feelings of the patient. A woman looks upon her breast as alike the emblem and the ornament of her womanhood. She shrinks from the idea of its being affected by disease. She suffers acutely in mind when it is invaded by tumour of any kind : the horrid dread of that disease being cancer ever haunts her