DANGEll OF CUTTING BEYOND PROSTATE. 793 by A. Dalrjmple, -^vas occasionally successfully practised by that excellent litliotomist, his father. Cystitis is, in my experienee, a rare sequence of lithotomy. I ha-^'e, how- ever, seen it occur, attended by the secretion of largo quantities of ^'iscid, ropy mucus from the bladder, coming aAvay two or three days after the operation, with tenderness in the suprapubic region. It may exist before the operation, or may be de'\’cloped by long-continued or rough manipulations with the forceps in searching for the stone, or from the irritation of the tube. The symptoms are apt to simulate those of pelvic peritonitis. The Treatment con- sists of fomentations above the pubes, abundant diluents, and washing out the bladder with tepid water injeeted through the wound. Diffuse Inflammation of the Areolar Tissue of the Pelvis, especially of the layers around the neck of the bladder, between it and the rectum, and that extend from thence under the peritoneum, is the most frequent cause of death after lithotomy. This inflammation, which is always diffuse or erysipela- tous, followed by rapid sloughing of the textures that it invades, may arise from two causes : 1. From the urine being infiltrated into the areolar tissue, in consequenee of the iucision extending beyond the limits of the prostate, into the loose layers of tissue that he behind the recto-vesical fascia and around the bladder; 2. In consequence of the hruising and laceration to which the neck of the bladder, the prostate, and the textures between it and the rectum, are subjected, in prolonged attempts to extract a large calculus through too small an incision. 1. The danger of Cutting legond the Limits of the Prostate in the adult has already been adverted to. In the extraction of calculi of ordinary size, there can be no necessity to extend the internal incision ; but when the calculus is of considerable magnitude, the Sui’geon, wishiug to get as much space as possible, may inadvertently cany his knife beyond the prostate ; or, if he make a out into the right side of this gland, he may perhaps prolong it a little too far, and thus open the loose areolar tissue or fascia which lies beyond it, and which is continuous Avith the pelvic and subperitoneal planes of areolar merubrane. By dilating the incision in the prostate downwards and outwards, either with the Anger or with a blunt gorget, injmy to this tissue is prevented. If the ineision extend beyond the prostate, the urine, as it escapes through the Avound, soaks into the meshes of the loose areolar tissue over which it floAAS, and thus gives rise to infiltration, foUoAved by rapidly extending inflam- mation and sloughing, which speedily involve the Avhole of the neighbourino- texflures. This misehief generally occurs within the first forty-eight hours" indeed I have never seen it come on after the third day. It is indicated by the patient being seized with rigors, followed by dry heat of skin, a quick pulse, Avhich, after a time, may become intermittent, and a diy and broAAn imvoT' f f ® complain of some tenderness about the Ibp bn^ a^.t^omen, and in tlie gi-oins ; the beUy becomes tympanitic, the body covered Avith a profuse sweat; hiccup comes on, the pulse becomes more Aveak and fluttenng, and death usually occurs about the fourth or fifth y aftei the operation. In some cases, there are more decided sio-us of peiitoiieal inflammation; but, as Brodie very truly remarks, this is not the