EXCISION OF JOINTS. 254 luemorrhagc need not be very great, as the main trunk of the subseapular artery, or oven the dorsal artery of the scapula, is not necessarily divided. If tlie tumour spring from and be connected with the spine and acromion, only projecting forwards over the shoulder and leaving the rest of the bone sound, and the joint unaffected, it may be freely exposed, the spine of the scapula j sawn or cut across with pliers, and the mass turned off from the point of the | shoulder, without injury to the articulation or the implication of vessels of any importance. j When the tumoim occupies the upper half of the scapula, the case is much more formidable, and the line of practice to be adopted must depend upon the j parts involved. If the disease involve the body of the bone, encroaching upon j the supra- or infra-spinous fossa, extending forwards into the axilla below the j neck of the scapula, and thus coming into relation with the subscapular artery, it would be wiser to remove the whole bone, than to attempt the resec- tion of the upper half, leaving only the lower angle, which would be useless to the patient. Ilffien the body of the scapula is involved in a morbid growth, extending over the greater part or whole of the subscapular or infraspinous region, and stretching forwards under the latissimus dorsi muscle into the axilla, the case becomes infinitely more serious, as not only must the whole of the scapula be removed, but the subseapular artery must be divided, and the axUlary plexus of nerves and vessels brought into the field of operation. In these cases, also, the question as to the preservation or removal of the arm has to be considered. Whenever the joint is sound, and the upper part of the limb free from disease, it should be preserved ; and, as these conditions usually exist where the disease originates in the scapula, the contemporaneous or antecedent amputation of the arm is seldom required. Operation.—Excision of the scapula may be performed by exposing the bone freely by means of crucial or T incisions, extending from the acromial end of the clavicle across the body and to the lower angle of the scapula. The flaps thus formed are then dissected up and turned back, the acromio-clavicular articulation, the clavicle itself, or the base of the acromion, is then to be cut thi’ough, the shoulder-joint opened, and the muscles attached to the coracoid process divided. The Surgeon may now adopt one of two courses; either dissecting at once down into the axilla, dividing and seeming the subseapular artery ; or he may cut across the muscles attached to the upper and back part of the scapula, pass his hand under the bone and draw it forwards, then com- plete the division of its axillary attachments, thus reserving the most critical stage of the operation to the last, and having the bone more fully exposed and more completely under control than when the opposite course is pursued and the operation commenced at the axillary border. In this operation the hcemor- rhage is necessarily copious, and may be dangerous. In one of the earliest cases of removal of a portion of the scapula, in which Liston removed the upper part of that bone for a vascular tumour, the bleeding was Irightful, and was only aiTCsted by most energetic measiues. In all cases in which the whole of the scapula is removed, the hemorrhage must necessarily be considei’ablc. The suprascapular and posterioi sc.pu .u arteries bleed freely, but the hemorrhage from them and their branebes is