WUTZEirS OPERATION. 619. truss must be coutinued for a very considerable length of time, lest by any unfortunate movement the ruptui’e descend again. • u The Operations that have been devised for the radical cure of hernia aie all founded on one of two principles ; viz., the excitation of such an amount of peritonitis in the sac, or its neck, as to cure its obliteration ;• or the plugging of the hernial aperture by invagination of the intcgumental tissues. If the accomplishment of these conditions would always prevent the recur- rence of the ruptiu-e, the radical cure might frequently be undertaken. But it is impossible to look upon the agglutination of the walls of the sac, or the closure of the abdominal aperture, as the sole conditions required. To accom- plish the radical cure, it would be necessary in many cases to effect changes in the shape and connections of the abdominal contents, to alter the size of the abdominal cavity, and indeed to modify in various ways many conditions inde- pendent of those immediately connected with the hernial protrusion. Many of the means of radical cmc, by which obliteration of the interior of the sac or of its neck is sought to be effected by the application of sutures or ligatures,, by the introduction of caustics, by excision, scarification, puncture, or injec- tion with tincture of iochne, are attended with so much danger from peritonitis, and are so seldom followed by any good results, that their consideration need not detain us here, the more so as they are universally abandoned by Siu’geons. of the present day. The operations that are now practised for the radical cure of hernia are con- ducted on two principal plans, however much they may be varied in their details by the ingenuity of particular Smgeons. The fii’st method of treatment consists of invaginating simply a portion of the scrotum, and fixing it in the inguinal canal, where it becomes adherent, and so occludes the aperture of exit. Of this kind of operation, Wutzer’s is- the best example. The second method of treatment consists in excising a portion of the integumental structines, and then by means of sutures attaching these and the deeper parts together, and thus leading to the consolidation of the canal. Of this. Wood’s operation is the best example. The following are the details of these procedures. Wutzer’s Operation.—The late C. W. Wutzer, of Bonn, adopted a plan of radically curing reducible inguinal hernige, combining the two principles on Avhich the older operations were fomided, viz., the agglutination of the neck of the hernial sac by the excitation of inflammation in it, and the closure of the inguinal canal by the invagination of the scrotum ; and he carried out these objects in a safer and more successful manner than by any of the methods pre- A'iously employed. His plan of treatment consists in introducing a plug of the scrotum into the ingiunal canal, and fixing it there by exciting adhesive inflam mation in the neck of the sac. The details of the operation are as follows, ihe patient lying on his back, and the hernia being reduced, the Sm’geoui pushes his index-finger up the inguinal canal as high as the internal ring, canying before it a cone of the scrotsd tissues ; a box-wood hollow cylinder, about four inches long (Fig. C), Avell oiled, is then pushed up as the finger is withdrawn, so as to occupy its place in the inguinal canal. Along the interior of this cylinder a flexible steel needle, gilt (A), fixed in a moA'able handle, is then pushed, so as to traverse the invaginated scirotum, the hernial