TllEATMKXT OF CARIES OF THE SPIA^E. 299 tlic iliac tosia and groin, presenting in their progress, their size, and their fiuc- timtion, all the character's of chronic abscess; from which, however, the chai-acter uf the fluid let out on puncturing them will immediately distinguish them. PnoGXOSis.—The prognosis is necessarily unfavourable, ^ It has two aspects: 1, As to the persistence of Deformity ; 2, As to the Life ot the patient. ’ 1. Deformity.—So fill- as the defonnity from angular curvatm-e of the spine is concerned, it may be pronounced to be incurable. The diseased spine is soldered and held together by the fusion of the softened and disintegrated in- tcn-ertebral structures and vertebral bodies ; and any attempt at straightening or at unfolding this exemwation would be attended by the gveatest risk, from danger of exciting irritation of the spinal meninges, or opening the spinal canS. When exciirvation has taken place, there has been loss of substance ; and this cannot be repaired. Hence the spine must remain shortened in front and bent out posteriorly. 2. Life.—So far as life is concemed, the prognosis will mainly depend on several conditions. The first is the extent of the caries: if several vertebrm be affected, so that the emwe is veiy long, the disease is necessarily liighly dan- gerousfrom the extent of osseous structure implicated. It was long ago remarked by Boyer, that the most fatal cases were generally those in which the spine preserved its straight position ; whereas, when it was much curved, death seldom residted. The truth of this remark I have had frequent occasion to verify ; and the circumstance would appear to be owing to the fact that, when the spine continues straight at the same time that the bodies of the vertebrm are tuberculous and carious, ankylosis cannot occin, so that the spinal canal is open and the cord hvitated ; whereas, when they have fallen together and very considerable gibbosity has resulted, ankylosis more readily takes place, and thus an imperfect cine is effected. The size of the abscesses, and the amount of discharge from them, must also necessarily seriously influence the result. If they be very large, and continuously discharging, hectic and consequent death will probably supervene, Treatmext.—In infants, the utmost that can be done is to direct that they be laid prone upon a pillow or small couch constructed for the purpose ; that the general health be improved by tonics suited to their age : that they have the advantage of coimtry or sea air ; and that some counter-irritant, as the tincture of iodine, be applied by the side of the spine. In children that are somewhat oldei’, and in adults, great ad^'antage may be derived by strictly for- bidding them to walk, stand, or sit erect; confining them rigidly to the prone couch, and adopting a general plan of tonic treatment. In fact, the principles of treatment are extremely simple : the improvement of the general health by good diet, tonics, and sea-air, in order to remove the strumous condition with which this disease is ahvays associated. AVith regard to the value of active pyogenic counter-irritation, by means of issues or the actual cautery, much dis- crepancy of opinion exists. I cannot but think that these means are employed far too indiscriminately, and often in cases in wdiich more harm than good results from their use. The rule for their employment appears to me to be this that in the earliest stages of caries of the spine, and before the formation of abscess, they are of considerable service, possibly in aiTestiug the progress of the disease in the osseous structures, and certainly in relieving pain and remov-