253 rARTIAL EXCISION OF SCAFULA. excised for disease of this kind follomng caries of the Immcrus. The operators were Rigaud of Strasbui^, and i^e pre!e°rttTmro?^n^^ after removal of the scapula is a matter of very eonsideLble importance. The Savgeou who first ventured on t e «ra- tion of Removal of the Whole Scapula was Gumming, in 1808. Gaetam Bev in 1880, first amputated the arm and then proceeded to extirpate the shoulder-blade. In 1810 Liston removed the whole of the upper two-thiids of the scapula from a lad without sacrificing the arm. In 1828 Luke renmved nearly the whole of the scapula from a girl of fourteen for malignant disease, sawin" across the bone through its neck and the root of the acromion, and thus leaving the glenoid cavity and the acromion process. Hayman, Janson, Wiitzer and Textor have all performed similar operations, removing the gTcater’part of the bone, but leaxung the glenoid cavity and more or less of the parts above the spine. In 1837 Mussey (U.S.) excised the whole of the scapula and the clavicle for an enormous osteo-sarcoma ; the patient, a man, was, according to Gross, in excellent health fifteen years after this operation. In 1850 Gross removed the whole of the scapula, with the exception of the "lenoid cavity by sawing through the neck of the bone, for an osteo-sarcoma weighing seven pounds. Indeed, the American Sm'geons haxe distinguished themseh’es highly in this department of surgery. Thus, in 1838, McClellan removed the whole of the scapula with the clavicle for encephaloid disease, but the patient died. In two cases Gilbert (U.S.) removed the scapula, hall of the clavicle, and the upper extremity, one patient living a week, the other three months, after the operation. In 1845 Mussey successfully operated by the removal of the scapula, the outer half of the clavicle, and the upper extremity. In the case of Gross, the only portion of the scapula left attached to the upper extremity was the glenoid cavity. In 1856 Syme went a step further in this dnection, and, by disarticulating the bone instead of sawing tlu’ough its neck, removed the scapula with all its processes entire fr’om a woman seventy years of age, also leaving the arm untouched. Since that period complete removal of the scapula, leaving the arm untouched, has been done several times by Syme, Jones of Jersey, Cock, Fergusson, PoUock, and others. The arm so left becomes useful, capable of performing all the under- hand movements and of lifting considerable weights ; and it may now' be looked upon as an established rule in surgery that it should never be disarticu- lated unless it be the seat also of disease, rendering necessary that addition to the excision of the scapula. Fergusson prefers sawing through the root of the acromion to disarticulating that process, so as to give greater roundness to the shoulder and to preserve the attachment of the trapezius. Partial Excision of the Scapula has usually been practised for tumours of that bone. The extent of bone requiring excision will necessarily -s'ary greatly according to the size and character of the tumour, and the ser'erity of the operation Avill mainly depend upon whether it is the upper or the lower portion of the bone that is the seat of disease. AVhon the tumour is formed of a fibroid or osseous structure and situated towards the lower angle of the bone, it may be exposed by a crucial orT-shaped incision, and the body of the bone sawn through transversely below its neck and spine. In such cases the