700 DISEASES OF THE LARGE INTESTINE AND ANUS. down the cannula and through the septum, 4. The trochar being pushed into the bowel, is withdrawn, and the cannula left in. 5. A probe is passed through the cannula, which is then slipped out over it and along the probe, or a director which may be substituted for it, a naiTow-bladed pair of dressing forceps is pushed up and opened out so as to dilate the opening in the septum. During this process, the retained fasces will have escaped. The apertm-e must be kept free by the occasional introduction and expansion of the forceps or of a lamiuai’ia tube. It is important to observe that, although the anus may bo perfectly formed and patent, with a canal above it about half an inch long, the rectum may be entirely absent, the sigmoid flexure terminating in an immense cloaca opposite the sacral prominence. In such cases it is of course impossible to reach the gut through the anus. In a case of this kind, in an infant four days old, iu which I was un- able to reach the gut through the anal aperture, I performed lumbar colotomy. Complete Absence of Anns.—The anus may be completely absent, being blocked up by a dense mass of flbro-cellular structm’e, from half-an-inch to an inch in thickness, above which the rectum terminates in a kind of cul-de-sac. Treatment.—An incision about an inch in length should be carefully made, from the point of the coccyx forwards, and the dissection carried down until the gut is reached ; this must then be punctured, and the meconium allowed to escape. If the cut surface be left to granulate, with a plug of lint merely interposed between its sides, it ■will gradually contract, and degenerate into a fistulous opening, through which the meconium will escape Avith difficulty ; and, as this track is not lined by a mucous membrane, the probabihty is that the irritation set up along it by the intestinal matters will ultimately prove fatal to the child. Indeed, it commonly happens in these cases that death results in a feAV days, from irritation occasioned by the absorption of the excreted fluids. In order to obviate this soiuce of danger, Amussat thought of bringing down the mucous membrane of the bowel to the anal orifice, and fixing it there by sutures, so as to afford the meconium a mucous canal to pass through, and thus to preA'ent the diffuse inflammation which is apt to take place in the areolar tissue of the pelvis, by the contact and absorption of the effused matters. In many cases it is by no means easy to do this, but it should ahvays be attempted, as I beheA'e the whole safety of the child depends upon this being carried out. For some considerable time after the operation, the aperture should be kept dilated by means of bougies; a gum-elastic or pewter tube, through Avhich the faeces are allowed to escape, may be fixed in the part. Closure of Anus with. Absence of Rectum.—It has already been stated that in some cases of perfect formation and of patency of the anus the rectum is absent, but more commonly the anus is closed when the whole of the rectum is Avanting ; the intestine (colon) terminating in a large and expanded pouch, situated high up at the brim of the pelvis, opposite the sacral prominence. A case of this kind differs from the last oifiy in the extent of the occhision, and cannot indeed be distinguished from it until the Surgeon has made an incision in the site of the anus, and has failed to reach the gut at the usua distance. mi . Treatment—Tuxqq com’ses present themselves to the Surgeon, i. J-uo