DISEASES OF BONE. i68 Diffuse Suppuration: Osteo-myeUtis. In this disease the medullary membrane is primarily affected, the inflammation rapidly extending through the ■\vhole of the medullary canal and adjoining cancellous structure, which speedily become filled with pus. Stanley observes that the medullary membrane becomes ^•ascular like the conjunctiva in chemosis, and is often black and gangrenous. Osteo-myelitis commonly occurs as a consequence of injm-ies by which the medullaiy canal is opened, such as compound fi’actures, more particularly of the femur. It may also be developed as the result of the injmy sustained by a bone in an amputation or excision. The presence of the disease may be suspected when, after an injury to or an operation involving a bone, the limb swells, and becomes tender, abscess forms, and profuse suppimation is established, more abundant and more persistent than can be accounted for by the amount of inflammation in the soft parts around the bone. The suppm’ation may’ amount to many omices of pus in the day, and the discharge is often dark and fetid. The soft parts retract from the bone, and this where exposed is dry, yellow, and dead, being denuded of periosteum. This disease is midoubtedly most dangerous, usually proving fatal. In it death may ensue in two ways—either by the exhaustion consequent on the prolonged and profuse suppuration, or by pymmia dependent on thrombosis of the veins of the bone and consecutive blood-poisoning. There is a triple pathological sequence of osteo-myelitis, osteo-pHebitis, and pya3mia, which is of a marked character. Pathology.—Osteo-myelitis is a diffuse inflammation of the medullary mem- branes of the long bones, the interior of which has been opened up to the air by accidental or surgical wound. It is of an erysipeloid or diffuse character, and in the majority of cases affects a septic type of disease. It is, in fact, one of the septic diseases that add to the fatality of the larger amputations and severe injuries of bones. Sir Joseph Fayrer, Avho has had abundant opportunities of studying this disease in India, and who has done much to point out its connection with pyaemia, makes the following important practical remarks as to its causes. “It (osteo-mye- litis) is no doubt to be classed among the large group of evil results Avhich are to a great extent caused by what has been recently called ‘ Hospitalism,’ and it sometimes appears almost in an epidemic form, but it may and does occur periodically under the most favourable circumstances.” After death, the appearances presented by the inflamed bone will, if it ha’\'e been the seat of compoimd fractiu’e, be conflned to the upper fragment; if it have been the seat of amputation or excision, they will extend thi’ough the whole of the bone that is left. They are as follows. The periosteum and outer surface of the bone will appear to be slightly injected. On making a longitudinal section of the bone, the part that is inflamed will be found to present the follovdng appearances. The medullary canal is fllled with pus or a reddish puriform fluid ; the medullary membrane is swollen, soft, pulpy, of a deep red or reddish-brown colour ; the compact bone has a pinkish tinge, and the cancellous osseous structure is often of a bright rosy hue. In a case of compound fracture, the contrast between the deej) coloration of the inflamed portion of bone and the naturally pallid apj^earance presented by that Avhich is not diseased, and more particularly the deoj) red hue of the medullary mem-