J’niXARY CALCULUS. •Si 4 -long-couLinuccl contact of instruments ^vith the interior of tlie Ijladdcr ; in this way groat irritalnlity, or an atonic condition of this organ’ terminating in low cystitis and pyaemia, is apt to lie produced, and death ■may thus result. The shorter the sittings, the more likely will the case be to do well, ihe first sitting should not exceed four minutes, and the subse- • quent ones be as short as possible. In the repetition of the sittings, the Sur- ,geon must be guided by the effect produced on the stone and on the bladder. The calculus may be entmely destroyed in one sitting, but most commonly from, three to five or six are required ; these should, if |3ossiblc, l)o conducted at in- tervals of three or four days, though this must depend upon the amount of irritation induced by them. At the first sitting, it is sufficient to break up the stone; the frag- ments being left to bo dealt with subsequently. This sitting is by far the most important of all; it should not occupy more than about a very few minutes. After the stone has been broken up, the patient should be made to lie in bed on his back for about twenty-four hom-s, be kept warm, and be plentifully supplied with diluents. He should pass water in an urinal, and not be allowed to stand up or to loan forward, lest the fragments fall against or become fixed in the neck of the bladder, whore they may produce great irritation and distress. Much of the success of lithotrity will depend upon the gentleness with which the proceedings are conducted during the first sitting, and the care with which the patient is managed for a day or two subsequently. Before withdrawing the lithotrite, the Sm’geon must be careful to see, by the scale on the handle, that the male blade is well home. If this be not the case, and the instrument be enlarged by any fragments or detritus being entangled between the blades, laceration of the neck of the bladder or urethra might occiu- in attempting to withdraw it. After the stone has been broken, little detritus will usually escape during the first twenty-four hours ; but after this it is expelled, iu some cases in con- siderable quantity, each time the urine is passed. In others, it docs not escape so readily ; and then the Surgeon requires to introduce Civiale’s instrument (Fig. 765), by which he can seize the smaller fr'agments, crush them, and, screudng the instrument home, extract the beak filled with detritus. In using this instrument, however, care must be taken not to get hold of too large a fragment; for in breaking this up, whether by the hand or screw, the Ijeak may Be clogged with the detritus in such a way that it does not readily close, and then there may be considerable difficulty in withdrawing it. Should this ■accident occur, the scoop may be emptied by passing its beak back into the bladder, tapping sharply upon the instrument, and moving the male branch to and fro. In crushing ffagments behind the prostate, Civiale turned the concave part of the beak downwards, and seized the fragment this position (Fig. 769). In doing this, however, great care must be taker, not to nip the mucous membrane of the bladder. There is a difference iu the practice of Surgeons Avith respect to Avashing out the bladder. Thompson very usually does not do so ; other Siu-geous Avash out the bladder after each sitting, except the first, with tepid v'ater. Ibc most convenient instrument for this purpose is a full-sized silver catheter.