DISEASE OF THE IIIP-JOINT. 332 If, however, the ankylosis he not complete, but fibrous, even though the limb be straight, the freedom of movement may be much increased, and any faulty direction as to abduction or adduction may be in a gTcat measure remedied, by douches, friction, pressure, or even forcible movement, and occasionally by the subcutaneous section of tense bands of fascia, or of tendinous and muscular structm-es about the anterior superior spine of the iliuni. Itj unfortunately, the limb have become ankylosed in the flexed or angular position, means must be adopted to straighten it ; and this must be done whether the ankylosis be fibrous and incomplete, or osseous and complete, ' For here the deformity and inutility of the limb are always considerable ; and increasingly so, the more the ankylosis approaches to a right angle. In rectangular ankylosis of the hip, the foot cannot be put to the ground so long as the spine is straight (Fig. 495). In order that the toe should touch the ground, it be- comes necessary that the body be bent forward ; and the lumbar spine will con- sequently be thrown into a very considerable arch with the convexity forwards (Fig. 496). The extent of the angular’ deformity in this kind of ankylosis can always be easily measured in the fol- lorving way. If the patient be laid flat upon his back, so that the lumbar spine touches the mattress on Fig. 495.—Ankylosis after Ilip- .joint Diseiiso: Angular Flexion of Limb on Pehus. which he is lying, the knee Fig. 490.—-Uikylosis after Hip- joint Disease : CiUTature of Spine in plaeing Foot on Ground. will be raised above that of the sound limb, and the angle formed between the thigh and trunk will be at once very perceptible. But if the knee be depressed so as to be brought to the same level as that of the sound limb, then the anterior supei-ior space of the ilium is rotated forwards, and the lumbar spine arched forwards to an extent proportionate to the angle of deformity. This angular ankylosis of the hip-joint requires to be corrected, and the limb to be brought into a straight position, so that, even if it be shortened, the patient may, by means of a high-heeled boot, rest it upon the groimd, and use it as a means of support and of progression. This may usually be ettected without much difficulty, when the ankylosis is fibrous, by forcible extension under chloroform, the limb being thus often brought straight at once withou nuy material difficulty. But in other cases this cannot be done by simple extension, resistance being ottered by the muscles on the anterior and upp part of the thigh. In such circimistances, those that olfer most resistance