rElUTOXlTIS AFTER OPERATION. 639 and from ;5() to 40 m of laudammi given. The loowels will probably act ni the course of twenty-four hours ; should they not do so, a castor-oil and. gruel enema may be thrown up. It is of veiy great importance not to administer any purgatives in these cases, and to take little heed of the bowels not acting, even for three or four days after the operation. If the mechanical obstacles have been removed they will be sure to recover their proper action ; though, in consequence of the gut having been severely constricted and almost wounded by the pressiu-e of the stricture, it may require to be left quiet for a few days 1! before it can recover its peristaltic action. The administration of purgatives, I by still further irritating it, will increase the risk of inflammation in it, and { will probably do much harm. The patient, of course, must be kept upon the k simplest and most iiiiiiTitating diet—indeed, he should only be allowed barley- water and ice for the first day or two, and afterwards some beef-tea ; but no solid food must be given till the bowels have acted, and all risk of peritonitis has passed. Accidexts axp ]\Iodificatioxs of the Operatiox.—The operation ha\*ing been thus described, we have next to consider in detail certain accidents •attending it, or modifications which may be required ; such as Peritonitis, the , Management of the Intestine according to its conditions, the Management of Adhesions and of the Omentmn, Wounds of the Intestine and of Arteries, Sloughing of the Sac, Artificial Anus, and Pa3cal Fistula. Peritonitis after Operation.—The gxeat danger to be apprehended after ■operations for hernia is the supervention of perifo?iitis. This may have existed before the operation, may be impending at the time, or it may be occasioned, or at aU events gi’eatly increased, by the necessary wound of the peritoneirm. Two distinct kinds of peritonitis commonly follow operations for hernia ; the active or acute, and the passive or latent. Acute Peritonitis is commonly met with in strong and robust people, other- A\ise healthy, who are the subjects of the operation. It presents the ordinary symptoms of acute idiopathic inflammation of the abdomen ; there is tender- ness of a diffused character, with lancinating pains. The patient lies on his back, Avith his knees drawn up, has an anxious countenance, a quick, hard pulse, a diy tongue, and much inflammatory fever ; the respiration is prin- ■cipally thoracic, and tympanites soon comes on. The bowels are usually con- stipated, though sometimes irritated. The Treatment of this form of herniary peiitonitis is best conducted by the administration of opium, either alone or in combination Avith calomel. A pill containing gr. j of opium may be gWen every fourth or sixth hour. If the patient is young and strong, gr. j of calomel should bo added, and leeches, followed by hot fomentations, applied to the abdomen, and the patient confined to barley-Avater, milk, and ice. MTien the in- flammatory action is subdued, the constipation which is occasioned by it Avill be relieved Avithout the necessity of administering any purgatives. The tympanites may best be removed by tui’pentine enemata, and any lurking tenderness by the application of blisters. Latent or Passive Peritonitis appears to be of a diffused or erysipelatous character. It chiefly occurs in old people, or in Aveakly subjects, and is especially apt to folloAv upon inflammation of the omentum and its consequent :suppuration ; or it may occur in consequence of the extension of diseased