SPECIAL ANEURISMS. 7S AXKURISMS of IJTXOJrOATE TREATED BY LIGATURE OF SUBCLAVIAX OXLY. nEMAIlKS. Subclavian ligatured immedi- ately above clavicle. Tumour diminished, but pulsations con- tinued. Aneurism of subcla- vian, with dilatation of inno- minate and aorta. Subclavian ligatured beyond scaleni; the pulsations in and size of tumour diminished, and respuMtion became freer ; on the ninth day pulsation re- appeared in right carotid, in which it had previously been absent. (We may ascribe success of operation to this cireumstance.) Vessel ligatm-ed immediately above clavicle. Aneurism of brachio-cephalic; aorta was dilated, and right carotid obliterated by the pressure of the tumour. Tumom’ had not much dimin- ished, but became harder. Afterwards increased in size. 2. Ligature of the Carotid only (Fig. 377, p. 80) has been practised in about twenty-four cases, as recorded in the annexed Table, and in one case only does the disease appear to have been materially benefited ; and in that instance the good effects can scarcely be attributed to the operation, but must rather be looked upon as an effort of nature to effect a spontaneous cime, the sac becoming inflamed and suppurating, and the arteries of the arm and head on the side affected undergoing obliteration. Key’s patient died in consequence of the left carotid becoming occluded, and the brain being deprived of its proper supply of blood. And in several other cases death is referred to hemiplegia and other cerebral diseases. OPERATOK. SKX. I AC!K. REscri/r. CAUSE or DEATH. ' 1. Dupuy- TBEN. ni. 40. Died on ninth day. Exhaustion, following cough and secondary hicmorrhage. 2. Wardeop. 1S27. 4o. Died two years after operation. Exhaustion. 1 1 3. Laugier. 1834. m. o7. Died a month after operation. Asphyxia. 4. Broca. 18C2. i m. .50. Died six months after i operation, i Gangrene of lung. ANEURISMS OF INNOMINATE TREATED BY LIGATURE OF CAROTID ONLY. OPERATOR. SEX. AGE. RESULT. CAUSE OF DEATH, REilARKS. 1. Evans. 1828. IB. 30. Recovered : living in 1863 —thirty-four years after operation. Tiimoiu’ diminished for a few days after oi)eration, but at end of seven days inflam- mation of the sac set in. followed by obliteration of arteries of right arm and the branches of the carotid. At the end of a year tumour still existed, with constant pulsation. Next year the sac suiipnratcd, and dis- charged much pus.