USE OF THE CATHETER IN ENLARGED PROSTATE. 865 copaiba or Peru, or turpentine. If hjEmorrhage occur, tincture of sesqui- chloride of iron, infusion of uva ursi, or gallic acid, will be useful. Counter- in-itation, the application of iodine, and other measures calculated to promote absorption of the enlarged gland, are of service. In the treatment of enlarged prostate, it is of great importance to use the catheter regularly, in order to empty the pouch that forms in the l)as fond of the bladder behind the prostate ; and which, being below the level of the urethra, tends to collect an accumulation of viscid mucus and fetid urine which the patient cannot expel without aid, partly from their gravitating into this pouch, and partly from the muscular power of the organ being impaired. The removal of these matters is of great unportance ; as, independently of any retention, they may, by undergoing putrefaction, give rise to septie infection. The bladder should be effectually emptied at least twice everij day. This may best be done by the introduction of a gum catheter of full size, which should be passed without the stylet. This the patient should be taught to do himself; and thus the habitual distension of the bladder, or retention in it of a quantity of urine, will be prevented, and aU the accompanying constitutional distm’bance averted. Sometimes, in order to reach and empty the bladder thoroughly, a prostatic catheter must be used. This instrument should be made of silver, and be of large size, equal to about No. 12. In oi’der to properly enter the bladder, which is carried away from the surface by the elongated urethra, the prostatic should be about four inches longer than an ordinary catheter ; and, as the neck of the viscus is usually pushed up high behind the pubes by the projection upwards of the lateral lobes, the curve of the instrument should be gi’eater and longer than usual. I find the best-shaped prostatic catheter to be one, the curve of which is exactly the third of the circumference of a circle five-and-a-half inches in dia- meter. The eyes should be large and rounded ; and I have found it of use to have the lower end of the stylet pro- vided Avith a piston-plate, so that, by Avithdrawing this, the mucus may be sucked in through the eyes of the instrument. In some cases, however, a moderately curved gum-elastic catheter, of full size, enters the bladder most easily ; in fact no one curve nor one kind of instrument will answer in all cases. In introducino- the catheter, care should be taken Avhen the point enters the prostatic portion of the urethra to depress the handle well between the thighs, lest the end against the enlarged middle lobe (Fig. 792) or do not sweep sufficiently Fig. r92.—Enlarged Middle Lobe of Prostate arresting progress of the Catheter. ’