inniTABILITY OF THE BLADDER. 847 the disease has lost its active inflammatory character, appe^ing rather to con- sist of atonic exudations from the mucous membrane, a different plan of treat- ment will require to be adopted. In such cases as these, the greatest benefit vnll be derived from warm stimulating and balsamic diuretics. Amongst the best are infusion of buchu or matico in large doses. These remedies are useless, unless taken in quantities of a pint or a pint and: a half in the day. They may be conjoined witla nitric acid and tincture of nux vomica, if the urine be alkaline and the bladder atonic. But no remedy appears to me to possess so much in- fluence over the mere ropy mucoid discharge as the balsam of copaiba. Turpen- tine, cubebs, and tincture of the scsquichloride of iron, will be found useful. It is often difficult to say beforehand which diuretic will suit best, and I can lay doivn no precise rules to guide the practitioner in this respect. But they may often be tried or alternated with advantage. In many cases great tempo- rary relief is obtained fr’om each new remedy, which fails to be maintained. In the more advanced forms of the disease, when typhoid symptoms come on, bark and ammonia will be found most useful, together Avith the administration of the brandy-and-egg mixture. In these cases also it is of great importance to empty the bladder, by means of the catheter, of the viscid mucus that accumu- lates in it, and the putrefaction of Ai’hich, together Avith that of the residual urine, tends to engender the depressed state into which the patient sinks. In some cases, this may advantageously be done by washing it out Avith AA'arm water infections through a double-cmTent catheter. In this stage of the disease, benefit may occasionally be derived from the employment of slightly astringent injections. Amongst the most useful of these will be found the nitrate of silver, in the proportion of one grain to fom- or six ounces of tepid distilled water. Brodie employed water slightly acidulated Avith nitric acid. Irritability of the Bladder in Children appears to be an affection closely allied to the congestive and subacute inflammatory conditions of the different mucous membranes, as of the eyes, nose, and throat, that commonly occur in stramous subjects. In this disease the child passes ui'ine with great frequency and with much pain ; the urine is offensive, and usually phos- phatic; there is much uneasiness complained of about the groins and along the penis ; in fact, many of the ordinary symptoms of stone are present. On sounding the bladder, it wiU be found roughened, fasciculated, and often con- tains sabulous matters mixed with mucus. Occasionally there is a. good deal of gastro-intestinal initation, and not unfrequently worms are present. The Treatment consists in attention to the general improA’^ement of the health, in the removal of intestinal initation, in the regulation of the digestive func- tions, and in the administration of copaiba in small doses, either alone or con- joined Avith a few minims of liquor potassae, at the same time that general antistnunous treatment must be properly canied out, and the bladder washed out from time to time Avith a Aveak solution of the nitrate of silver. Irritability of the Bladder in 'Women often simulates stone so closely, that It IS only after very careful sounding that the Surgeon is satisfied that no calculus exists. This condition depends on a morbidly sensitive state of the mucous membrane of tlie urethra and bladder, that may arise from a A'ai-iety of causes, similar to those described at p. 844, as occasioning irritability of the male bladder. There are some conditions, however, in which it occurs