734 diseases of the LARGE INTESTINE AND ANUS. Pruritus Ani is often an extremely troublesome affection, the iteliing and general irritation about the anus being almost unbearable, fn many instances it appears to be a true prurigo of this part; in other cases it seems to be connected with the indtation of external piles, worms, or some similar affec- tion. The Treatment must in a great measure have reference to the cause. If there be an external pile, the removal of it, or if worms, their expulsion, will probably ciu-e the disease. If it arise from prurigo, it will require some special treatment. In some cases the arsenical preparations -will be found useful, to- gether with the local application of chlorinated lotions, or those containing hydrocyanic acid. “ PROLAPSUS ANI. Prolapsus Ani consists in a protrusion of the mucous membrane of the rectum through the anal orifice ; the areolar tissue that lies underneath it being also in the majority of instances much thickened and elongated. In the ordinary prolapsus, the muscular structures of the gut are not protruded ; yet occasionally the muscular coat descends with the mucous membrane, an invagination of the howel taking place, which constitutes a far more serious condition than the ordinary prolapsus. Causes.—Prolapsus not unfrequently ocem-s in children, especially those who are feeble, or who suffer from much irritation of the digestive or urinary organs. In weakly persons generally there is a natural tendency to prolapsus ; the shght protrusion of the mucous membrane which takes place during defe- cation being increased by any constitutional condition that gives rise to atony of the muscular system, especially if irritation of the intestinal mucous mem- brane be conjoined with this, as in dysentery, chronic dian’hoea, &c. So again, the habitual constipation, often occurring in persons of a relaxed habit of body, apparently proceeding fi’om want of power in the rectum to expel its contents, and requiring constant straining at stool, predisposes to this affection. It is especially common in those who labom* under stricture, stone, or any other disease about the urinary organs that require a considerable effort to be made in expelling the contents of the bladder. In persons whose constitution has been relaxed by a long residence in India, this disease also frequently occins. In other cases, and indeed most usually, the prolapsus is associated with piles, the weight and dragging of the hasmorrhoid drawing down the mucous mem- brane 'with it. This is especially apt to happen, when there is general haemorrhoidal tendency about the anus. In fact, the causes of prolapsus may be summed up under three heads ; 1. Simple relaxation of tissue, such as is met with in children and in weakly persons ; 2. Sympathetic irritation, as in chronic tenesmus, stone in the bladder, &c.; 3. A htemorrhoidal or polypoid condition of the mucous membrane of the rectum. Diagnosis.—Prolapsus is readily recognised. It consists in the protrusion of a ring of mucous membrane of a red or purphsh colour, and having a somewhat turgid look, rather lobulated in shape, and varying in size from half a walnut to a small orange (Fig. 707). The mucous membrane covering this ring will be found to be continuous with that investing the sphincter, and this constitutes the mark of distinction between ordinary prolapsus and invagina- tion of the whole thickness of the gut; for in the latter affection, which is