29 DIAGNOSIS OF ANEURISM. the artery leading to it, its fluctuation, and want of circumscription, will usually point out its nature. Especial attention should likewise be paid to the flicts that the pulsation is a distinct heaving up and down of the tumour, and neither exccntric nor distensile, and that the swelling may often be wholly or partly separated, by raising it up, from the artery lying beneath it. By at- tention to these points, abscesses in the axilla, under the pectorals, at the root of the neck, and in other situations where pulsation may readily be com- municated to the fluid mass, can be distinguished fr’om anemisms; yet eiTors in diagnosis have happened, and will continue to do so, from the intrinsic difficulty of these cases, and from no want of skill or care on the part of the Surgeon : and those will be most charitable in their criticisms of the mistakes of others, who have most frequently had occasion to experience these difficulties in their own practice. Tumours that do not pulsate, either by theii- own vessels or by those that lie beneath them, are not so readily confounded with aneurism as the class of affections that has just been described. Yet it must be borne in mind, that in some instances even aneurisms do not pulsate, or but very indistinctly so, having become filled with a dense and firm coagulum. The non-pulsating tumours that chiefly require attention are glandular, scirrhous, or thyroid ■sivellings, seated over the cai’otid artery at the root of the neck, or in the popliteal s]3ace. If these be .of a fluid character, then* fluctuation, unvarying size, and the want of pulsation in them, sufficiently indicate that they are not connected -with the artery, fr-om which they may also frequently be sepa- rated, and upon which they may be dis- tinctly moved. If solid, they ai-e usually in-egular and nodulated on the surface, and can fr-equently be detached by the fingers being passed underneath them and raising them from the subjacent vessel. There is much danger of mis- taking a consolidated aneurism Avhich is undergoing or has undergone spontaneous cure, and in which there is consequently no pulsation, for a solid tumoiu’ of some kind. I have known one instance in which the thigh was amputated for a very painful solid tumour of the popliteal space, Avhich proved on dissection to be a consoli- dated aneurism pressing upon the posterior tibial nerve (Fig. 35G). Aneurisms, more particularly those that nrc diffused, have not unfrequeutly been mistaken for abscesses • and if- I tins supposition, has been diligently poulticed, Aucunsm of Cnlf, uncler- ? ‘■i “'‘t'lueous cure, mistaken for Tii- Sulum Iv- (») Black recent bdne CM P ? Barainated Fi- • (w) 1 ostorior libial Nerve strctclied. IS 110 anem-ism which, under or painted with iodine. I