INTRODUCTION OF TRACHEA-TUBE. 5^3 U 0 0 2 I grooved along its convexity, as Edwards recommends (Fig. C4-8), is to be mtro- ! duced imder the cricoid cartilage, and the air-tube pulled up and opened by ^ sliding the sealpel along the groove of this hook-director, I have found it j advantageous in some cases to open the trachea with a cutting hook, such as is Fig. 649.—Cutting Trachen-liook. \ here represented (Fig. 64!)). By means of an instrument of this kind, the E trachea is first fixed and then divided without danger to the patient, ' The danger from haemorrhage, and the difficulty in opening the trachea, arc i much gi-eater in children than in adults. Before the age of puberty, this tube is \ deeply seated, covered -with a quantity of loose granular fat, containing many I veins, and is of small size, so that a slight deviation of the incision to one side 3 or the other may readily lead the Sui-geon astray, and into dangerous proximity I with the carotid artery. , 4. After the trachea has been opened, the next point is to Introduce a : proper Tube. In doing this, special care must be taken not to push the tube I into a sort of pouch which always exists at the lower angle of the woimd, between I the trachea and the deep fascia of the neck. This error is not only embarrassing I in the highest degree to the Surgeon, but dangerous to the patient by the delay I it occasions, by the compression exercised on the trachea below the opening 5 into it, and by the suction of blood into the aperture in the air-tube. It is I best avoided by expanding the tracheal opening with the dilator (Fig. 652), and * passing the tube between the blades of that instrument. In the first instance, - a tube of a conical shape should be employed, as it is not only introduced more ^1 readily than a cylindrical one, but fills up completely the aperture in the J f di-aming of blood into the lungs. In passino- the i tube into the rachea some difficulty may be experienced, owing to the elasMcitv .f the sides of the incision in the windpipe, in consequence If M