OrUTlIALMIG SURGERY. 462 light, but not so near that the heat of the flame is appreciable ; when questioned A’ery many times, the patient, if blind, cannot rightly tell the flame from the absence of it, when it is turned down so low that no actual light remains. The patients have had the power of A'ision, they may be habitually truthful, but they are glad to deceive themsehxs unconsciously (avc need not tell them so) ; they feel the warmth of the sun’s rays, or of the fire, and, knoAving what is the cause of this, they think that, as they used, they still perceive the accom- panying light: they hear the shutters shut and the lamp set on the table, and they picture to themselves the light, and even the objects lit up by it, in their ■accustomed positions. Or, they subjecUveltj see flashes of light Avhich are ■symptomatic of their complaint, and are analogous to the light we see in the dark with oiu’ eyes shut when the eyelids are violently rubbed. They say they can find their way about, but then it is m their own homes. They say they can count fingers, and then they hold up then- own to count. They are loth to belieA’e that they really see nothing at all, and therefore it is that in all cases it is necessary rigidly to cross-examine ex'ery patient in whose case we haA'C reason to suspect total blindness or the absence of any perception of light. A few questions will be only misleading, and every such case must be treated as if we suspected the patient of malingering, as it is called by army Sm-geons. The Operation is thus done. When the patient is under the influence of an amesthetic, a (spring) Avdre speculum is inserted between the lids to keep them open ; the conjunctiva is seized fluth toothed forceps, at any part near the margin of the cornea, and a small opening is made in it with rather blunt- pointed scissors. In the next place, the conjunctiva is to be divided all around the cornea. This may be done by inserting one blade of the scissors beneath the conjunctiva where it has been opened, and draAving the globe with the forceps one Avay or the other, as may be most convenient; or by seizing the conjunctiva with the forceps at the part to be next cut through, if it be too closely adherent to the subjacent parts to allow the passage of the point of the scissors. Or the strabismus-hook (Fig. 5G4, cl), inserted at the opening made in the conjunctiAm, may be carried round the cornea, and the conjunctiva, raised a little in this way, may be conveniently cut through if it be loose. When the circular incision of the mucous membrane is completed, the subcon- junctival tissues, seized at different parts in the wound, are cut through Avith the scissors, the points being dhected backwards and kept as closely as possible to the globe. An opening still deeper, close to the globe, in some part of the circumference of the womid, is made with the scissors, and then the strabismus- hook is passed beneath the tendon of one or other of the rectus muscles, which is divided, and so are then the other tendons in succession and other inter- A'enino- parts close to and connected Avith the globe. The tendons of the ^ oblique muscles being directed to the temporal side to be inserted, the hook must be directed towards and kept very close to the globe to secure them. But ■only the four rectus muscles are generally Avorth a sepm-ate seai-ch. All tlic •tendons being cut through, the divided ocular insertion of the internal rectus is seized with the forceps and the eye drawn outAvards ; a pair of scissors emwe on the flat (Fig. fiCI, e) is canied down beside the globe on the nasal side, as, -on this side, the optic nerve enters the globe and is most easily reached ; 1 scissors are opened a little and advanced, and the nerve is at one stroke dmdea.