SPECIAL JIERNTJI 6sS Signs.—The signs of inguinal hernia vary somewhat according to its character, whether interstitial, complete, or scrotal, oblique or direct. In ] the mtcrsHHal hernia, a degTCC of fulness will be perceived in the canal when L the patient stands or coughs ; and, on pressing the finger on the internal ring, H or passing it up into the external ring, and directing the patient to cough, a I distinct impulse, together wdth tumour, may be felt. In the ordinary ohlique K inf/uinal hernia, a tumour of an oblong or oval shape, oblique in its direction, V taking the course of the canal downwards and forwards, will be felt protruding 1 through the external abdominal ring, and presenting all the usual signs of a | hernia. So long as it is confined to the neighbourhood of the pubes, it is of ] moderate size ; but when once it enters the scrotum, where it meets with less resistance, it may gradually enlarge until it attains an enormous bulk. The testicle, however, may always be felt tolerably distinct at its posterior inferior part. In women this form of hernia descends into the labium, but never attains the same magnitude as in men. When of large size, these ruptures usually contain both intestine and omentimi, most frequently a portion of the ileum, though the various other viscera, such as the cascum, bladder, &c., have been found in them. In the direct inguinal hernia, the symptoms closely resemble those of the oblique, except that the tumour is more rounded, and usually not so large; the neck is wider, and situated near the root of the penis, wdth the cord on its outer side. Roser directs attention to the important fact that the oblique or external inguinal hernia is most common in young males, whilst the internal or direct inguinal hernia is almost confined to elderly men. This appears to be owing to the imperfect closure of the fascicular process of the peritoneum being the common cause of the first, and adipose absorption of the second form. The different forms of inguinal hernia are not unfrequently complicated with various other affections ; either vdth different kinds of rupture, or 'with diseases of the cord or testis, such as hydrocele of the cord or of the tunica vaginahs, or varicocele. These various complications necessarily make the diagnosis somewhat more obscure, but wdth care and practice it may generally easily be made out. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of inguinal hernia is usually readily effected, the characters and position of the tumour enabling the Surgeon to detennine its true nature. In most cases it is useless to endeavour to ascertain whether the hernia is oblique or direct; all old oblique hernia having a tendency to drag the inner ring downwards and inwards, approximating it and bringing it nearly opposite to the outer one, shortening and destroying the obliquity of the canal. Hence the direction of the neck and of the axis of the tmnour in these cases so nearly resembles what is met vdth in the direct form of hernia, that the Surgeon should not attempt to undertake an operation, more particularly the division of the stricture, on any imaginary diagnosis. ^ Some forms of femoral hernia may occasionally be confounded with the inguinal; the distinguishing i points between these two forms of the disease will be considered in the section on femoral hernia. _ ...... i ^ The diagnosis of inguinal hernia from other diseases in this vicinity has to be considered under the two conditions in which the rupture is found,—!, %n the canal, and 2, in the scrotum.