MANNER OF HOLDING THE KNIFE. 773 Surgeon’s fingers, proncled the edge be never turned upwards, but be always kept well lateralised, and the point steadily pressed into the groove of the staff. Provided a Sui’geon know Avliat he as best suits liis own con^'enience. In the fii’st incision, most operators, I behcA'c, hold the knife under the hand, as reijrescnted in Fig. 748 ; a position which that excellent lithotomist and accomplished Smgeon, Fergusson, pre- serves throughout the operation. Lis- ton, in the early part of his career, appears to have held the knife, in the second stage of the operation, above the hand; and in all the representations, published as weU as mipubhshed, that he has left off his operation, he has de- picted the kinfe and hands in the ' position shown in Fig. 744 ; which, in the last edition of his Practical Surgery, he describes as a correct sketch of “ the position of the hands and knife ” at the commencement of the second stage of is about, ho may safely hold his knife Fig. 742.—Arteries of Periiifeum and Deep Fascia. the operation. There can be no doubt, however, as Fergusson has pointed out, that in actual practice, at least after his first few years as an operator, he held the knife under the hand, with the index-finger upon the side or the back of the blade. For my own part, I behove that every Surgeon will hold the knife in the Fig. 7iS.—Position of Hand and Knife (Fergusson). Fig. 744.—Position of Hand and Knife (Liston). way which he finds most convenient, and, as it were, natural to him. If any rules can be laid down on this point, I should say that, in operating on a child, or on an adult -with a shallow peri- naeum, the knife is most com'eniently held as represented in Fig. 745. But if the patient be fat, and the peri- nasum deep, then I think that it is a question whether greater steadiness may not sometimes be secured by Position of Ilnnd and Knife (.VutUor). holding the knile somewhat in the manner of a gorget, with the index-finger.