^30 SPECIAL ANEURISMS. slougiiing of the sac, and pericarditis, the gangrene being confined to two fingers : and in Brodic’s ease, it occurred in both the lower as well as in the upper extremities, and must, therefore, have proceeded from some constitu- tional cause altogether independent of the mere arrest of circulation thi’ough the subclaA'ian. Treatment of Inflamed Axillary Aneurism threatening Suppura- tion.—The case of an axillary aneurism becoming inflamed, and tlu-eatening to run into suppuration lefore the Surgeon has had an opportunity of liga- turing the subclavian artery, is one that is full of important practical con- j siderations, and that admits of little delay; for if the sac rupture, or be i opened, fatal hmmorrhage is the necessary and inevitable result. It would I obviously be impossible, in a case of spontaneous aneurism, with any fair chance of success to lay open the tumour, ton out the coagula, and ligature ■ the vessel above and IdcIow the mouth of the sac ; the coats of the artery, i being not only diseased, but still further softened by inflammation and super- vening suppiu-ation, would not be in a condition to hold a hgature. There are two other com’ses open—viz., ligato'e of the vessel, or amputation at the shoulder-joint ; and in the selection of one or other of these, the Sm’geon must be guided by the progi’ess the disease has made, the condition of the limb as to circidation and temperature, and the solidity or fluidity of the contents of the tumour. If the tumour be of moderate size and circumscribed, and the arm of a good temperatiue and not very oedematous, ligature of tlie artery may hold out a reasonable chance of success. It is true that this is but a chance : for the blood wiU, immediately after the noose is tied, be carried by the suprascapidar and posterior scapular arteries into the subscapular and circumflex, and by them into the axillary at no great distance from the mouth of the sac ; or it may enter directly into the month of the latter, if the subscapular or circumflex should chance to take them origin from the dilated portion of the vessel. Hence, the only safeguard against the supervention of hmmorrhage as soon as the sac has burst or been opened, or has discharged its contents, wiU be the occlusion by inflammatory action of that portion of the artery which intervenes between these two collateral branches and its mouth, or the accidental entangle- ment in the latter of a mass of laminated fibrine. Yet, in the circumstances as to the condition of tumour and limb that have just been mentioned, it would be but right for the Surgeon to give the patient a chance of presendng his limb. Should, however, htemorrhage occm’ on or after the discharge of the con- tents of the sac, the subclavian having previously been hgatured, what should be done ? If the bleeding be moderate, an attempt should be made to arrest it by plugging the Avound, and by the application of a compress and bandage. If it recur, or be so profuse as to threaten the hfe of the patient, Avhat course should the Surgeon then pm’sue ? Two hnes of procediuc are open to him . cither to cut thi’ough the pectoral muscles so as to lay the sac open fuUy, and ; attempt to include the bleeding orifice betAveen tAvo ligatures ; or to amputate ; at the shoulder-joint. _ _ f ! If a Siugeon Avere to undertake the fii’st of these alternatives in a case o , spontaneous aneurism, of Avhich alone Ave are uoaa^ speaking, he Avould, in all ^