UlilNAEY CALCULUS. 776 the infiltration of nvinc into the internal subperitoneal areolar tissue, and lessening materially the chance of the extension of diffuse inflammation into the pelvic fasciaj. But if, in the withdrawal of the stone, or by an undue expansion of tlie blades of the forceps, the Sin-geon feel a sudden giving way of a tense annular structure, he may be sure that the lateral ligaments have been torn, and that fatal mischief will ensue. Extraction of the Stone.—A forceps of sufficient length, and of a size proportioned to that of the calculus, and previously warnred by immersion in tepid water, must be slid along the index-finger, which is kept in the wound, and by which the neck of the bladder should be drawn somewhat down so as to meet the instrument. In this way, also, the stone may often be fixed Ijy the point of the finger, and its position thus acciu-ately determined. The forceps having been introduced closed, the finger is withdrawn, when a gush of urine Avill usually take place through the wound, if that fluid have not already escaped at the time when the incision is made through the prostate. By this gush the calculus may, as Fergusson observes, sometimes be carried into the gi’asp of the instrument; most commonly, however, the stone requires to be felt for with the closed forceps. When its position has been ascertained, usually at the inferior fundus, the blades of the instrument are opened ; and, by pushing one against the wall of the bladder, and giving it a slight shake, the calculus generally drops between them; though occasionally it is somewhat troublesome to seize, and this, indeed, often constitutes the most tedious and annoying part of the operation. The blades, having the stone in their grasp, are then closed, and the stone is drawn do^vnwards through the womid. If it be small, it may be extracted at once without any difficulty ; if it Ido of moderate size, the finger should be introduced along the blades, in order to feel whether it is in a proper position for extraction. If its long axis lie across the wound, this must be changed ; and it must then be withdravm by a kind of to-and-fro movement in the direction of the axis of the pebds (Fig. 717). Should unfortunately the stone be broken, or shoifld there be several small calculi, the fragments or the small calculi may generally be best removed by means of the scoop (Fig. 748). In the event of fr’actm'e occurring, it null be necessary to wash out the bladder freely and repeatedly with tepid water, injected by means of a brass syringe through a tube introduced by the wound. If the perinteum be very deep, and the pros- • f tate enlarged, it may Fic. 747.—Direction of Forceps m Extraction of stone. ,, 7 ^ e happen that the neck oi the bladder is so far removed from the sm-face that the finger cannot reach I