66 ANEURISM. compression. In internal aneurisms, or in tliose cases in -whicli the disease is so situated at the root of the neck, that the artery can neither be ligatured with safety nor compressed, galvano-puncture is certainly justifiable, especially when conjoined with proper medical treatment, as we have ample proof that ■with the knowledge and means now at our disposal we can perform the opera- tion wdth scarcely any danger to the patient, and in favourable cases Avith much hope of relief. Much will depend upon the selection of the case. Cini- selli has pointed out that the conditions favourable to success, are that the aneurism shall be sacculated and opening into the vessel by a narrow month, of slow growth and of medium size, and, when thoracic, situated entirely within the thorax, and that it shall not in any serious way have interfered with the general health of the patient. These conditions seldom occur ; and Avhen they are absent, the most that can he hoped for is temporary aiTest of the progress of the disease and some relief to the patient’s sufferings. Injection avith Perchloride of Iron.—The injection of aneurismal sacs with a solution of the perchloride of iron has also been practised, Avith the view of coagulating their contents ; such treatment, however, is attended Avith great risk of embolism, and is in every way vastly inferior to the ligature or com- pression of the artery leading to or beyond the sac, and should never he employed if these can be practised. Aneiu’ism of the gluteal artery has been successfully treated by injection of the perchloride of iron in at least one case. In cases, hoAvever, in which, either from the situation of the disease, its complication Avith other and exten- sive disease of the arterial system, or its multiple character, hgature and compression are not applicable, an endeavour might be made to procime the arrest of the blood in the tumour by distal compression of the artery, before attempting to coagulate its contents by injection of the perchloride ; and I cannot but think that a satisfactory result might thus be obtained. Hypodermic Injection of Ergotin.—Langenbeck adA^ocated the hy|io- dermic use of a watery extract of ergot in cases of aneurism, mider the impres- sion that it might act on the muscular fibres scattered over the sac of the anemism in the same way as it acts on the muscular fibres of the uterus, and by causing contraction might gTaduaUy diminish the size of the anem’ism, if not cure it. He seems to haA'e tided it in tAA'o cases only. One Avas an aneurism in the supraclavicular region (exact natm’e not mentioned), Avhich had been preAdously treated Avith moxas, and almost cimed. The symptoms having retunied, hypodermic injections of ergot were tried. The quantity injected varied from about J gi’ain to 3 gi'ains of Bonjean’s Avatery extract of ergot, diluted with three times as much spirit and glycerine. The injections Avere repeated every three or foim days. Decided improvement is said to have occurred, but pulsation never quite ceased. The improvement commenced after the second injection. No unpleasant symptoms occim-ed after the injec- tions. In the second case a man, aged 42, had a sacculated aneurism of the radial artery of the size of a hazel-nut. An injection of two grams and a half of the Avatery extract cured it in one day, as the next day it could not be felt. The injection gave rise to some inflammation of the siuTOunding cellular tissue, Avhich disappeared in a AA'eek.