REDUCIBLE HERNIA. 617 males and lo,78C females. Of 43,-21-1 applicants at the same institution dm-iiig the emht years 18(;0-1HG7, 3G,1G1 were males and 7,07)3 females. Of these, 34,788 males and 3,085 females had ingiiiiial hernia; 1,373 males and 3,<)G8 females had femoral hernia. _ Age e.\crcises a very material influence upon the frequency of hernia. Mal- gaigne, who has carefully investigated this subject, finds that in infancy the disSise is sufficiently common, owing to the prevalence of congenital hernia at this period of life ; and, that in the first year after birth hernia occurs in the liroportion of 1 in every 21 children. It then goes on decreasing in frequency, there being 1 in 29 at the second year; 1 in 87 at the third year; until, at the thirteenth year, it has friUen to 1 in 77. Shortly after this, its fr-equency begins to rise again, and then goes on progressively increasing until the close of life ; thus, at the 21st year, there is one case in 32 ; at the 28th year, 1 in 21; at the 35th, one in 17 ; at the 40th, 1 in 9 ; at 50, 1 in G ; from GO to 70, 1 in 4 ; and fr-om 70 to 75, 1 in 3. In women, according to Malgaigne, hernia most fr’cqucntly occiu’s from the 20th to the 50th years.* Malgaigne’s figures give the ages of the patients when they came luider his observation. Ehngdoii has investigated the question of the ages at which the hernia commenced. He states that out of 9,29G cases, 5,G59, or GO.8 per cent., had commenced before 35, and 8,G37, or 39.2 per cent., after that age. The tendency to hernia is often hereditary, and congenital hernia is common in the children of hernial parents. Some races of men are less subject to hernia than others. Thus it is less fr'equent in the negro than in the white man, except in the ventral form. Occupation.—Those occupations in which the individual is exposed to violent muscular efforts, more particularly of an intermitting character, pre- dispose strongly to the occurrence of hernia ; and in these employments the tendency to the disease is often greatly increased by the injurious habit of wearing tight girths or belts round the waist, which, by constricting the ab- domen, throw the whole pressure of the abdominal contents upon the inguinal regions. CoxDiTioxs PEESENTED BY Heenia.—The Conditions in which a hernia may be foimd are very various, and entail corresponding differences in the result and treatment of the affection. When first formed, most hernim may be said to be Incomplete, being for a time retained within the orifice of the canal through which they eventually protrude. When they have passed alto- gether beyond the abdominal walls, they are said to be Complete; and this is the condition in vdiich they are usually presented to the Singeon. A hernia may also be Redmible, Irreducible, or Strangulated. REDUCIBLE HERNIA. A hernia is commonly at first Reducible; that is to say, it may readily be pushed back into the cavity of the abdomen, protruding again ivhen the patient stands up, holds his breath, or makes any exertion, and having a distinct and forcible impulse on coughing. Though the hernia contents, in these cases. elaborate article l>y A.