900 DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. mcnt away from it, not to enter it, lest during the introduction of the catheter ho raise with the point of the instrument the valvular angle that intervenes between it and the urethra ; every time that this is opened up it tends to lessen the chance of a closure of the aperture, whilst, overlapping the urethra, it interferes with the onward passage of the instrument into the bladder. By withdiaiving the instrument and changing its direction, the false passage may often be aA'oided, and the bladder reached. Should there have been much difficulty in introducing the catheter, the better plan Avill be to alloiv it to remain in the bladder for two or three days, when the false canal may possibly close. It has already been stated that, in certain forms of strictm-e, gradual dilata- tion does not succeed in effecting a permanent cure. In these cases four plans of treatment have been recommended—continuous dilatation, the de- struction of the stricture by caustic, forcible dilatation, and its division by the knife. These methods will now be described. 2. Continuous Dilatation is merely a modification of the preceding mode of treatment, and is useful only in very tight organic strictures. A small instrument is first passed and tied in. In from twelve to twenty-four hours, although it may at first have been tightly grasped, the catheter will be found to be quite loose, and urine will escape beside it. It must now be changed for a larger one. In doing this, the fr-esh instrument shoidd be ready, so that the moment one is removed the other may be introduced. A neglect of this pre- caution, especially when false passages are present, may seriously increase the difficulty of passing the fresh catheter. By the second day a shght discharge Avill be found to have been set up from the inethra. The treatment should be continued till the urethra reaches the size of No. 5 or 6, which it wiU do in a few days at most, after which it is not necessary. The catheter may be closed with a small Avooden plug, so that the patient can draw off his own urine, or, better still, an India-rubber tube may be attached so as to drain the bladder. In cases in which a gum-elastic catheter cannot be passed, a small siNer one may be tied in, and replaced by a gum-elastic at the first change. When nothing but a filiform whalebone or catgut bougie has been passed, it may still be tied in, as the urine aaoII usually find its Avay beside it even when it seems to be tightly grasped ; and in twelve hours or more it may, in most cases, be changed for a fine gum-elastic catheter. This plan of treatment is of great use in cases in which considerable difficulty is found in introducing the instrument, but it has the disadvantage of being extremely liable to set up cystitis. If the treat- ment be continued beyond three days, the mine will almost always be found to be alkaline; and this is scarcely to be wondered at AA'hen we consider the Avay in Avhich the bladder is, as it were, opened up to the air. The risk of cystitis is much diminished by draining the bladder, as then no mine is left to decom- pose, and the mere contact of the soft instrument Avith the Avails of the bladder seems to cause but little irritation by itself. In rare cases, sloughing of the urethra may take place at the seat of stricture, leading to perineal abscess. A case of this kind occmred not long ago in University College Hospital. 3. Caustics.—In the treatment of stricture by caustics, two objects are endeavoured to be attained ; the first is the destruction of the strictme ; the second, the diminution of the sensibility of the surrounding mucous membrane.