595 CAUSES OF CANCER OF THE BREAST. is always extremely rapid, particularly in yoimg and otherwise healthy subjects. Colloid of the brc?,st is of rare occurrence, and, when met with, is usually associated with scirrhus or encephaloid. It may, however, occur singly ; and, slo\vly gro\\-ing, may attain a very large size. I have removed from the breast ■of a lady a colloid tumour which, after growing for five years, had attained a Aveio'ht of six pounds. Its colloid character was established after careful exa^ mination by G. Harley. In this case the tumom- was smooth, somewhat lobed, but not adherent to the skin or subjacent parts. On section after remoAval, it was found to be of a yellowish-brown colour of varying shades, and composed of a dense, smooth stroma, with numerous loculi and sacs filled with glaiiy, transparent colloid matter. Causes of Cancer of the Breast.—These are usually extremely obscure. Sex is certainly the circumstance that has the most marked influence on the occuiTence of mammary cancer, the disease being, as is iveU known, almost ■entirely confined to women ; yet instances in which this affection is met with in the male breast occasionally occm-. Its peculiar frequency in the female may possibly be owing to the gveat and sudden alternations of the functional -acti^•ity of the breast in women. The changes impressed upon this organ at puberty and diu’ing pregnancy, the various alternations which it undergoes, the inflammatoiy affections to which it is subject diu’ing lactation, the frequent iiritation to which it is exposed by sympathising with uterine derangement, and the diminution in its vital activity that takes place at the change of life, ure sufficient to explain the great liability of this organ to disease generally; nnd may not improbably give a clue to the reason why it is peculiarly the seat •of cancer in women. Age.—The age at which cancer of the breast most frequently occurs is between the thirtieth and fiftieth years. According to Birkett, it is most com- monly met ivith between the ages of forty-five and fifty—a period of life that is popularly looked upon as specially obnoxious to this malady. At these ages, cancer of the breast usually affects the form of scirrhus. When it ocem's, •as it very rarely does, in early life, it more fr-equeutly assumes the encephaloid •character. I have, however, removed a scirrhous breast fr’om an unmarried woman twenty-three years of age. In elderly women also, scirrhus is the prevalent form ; though I have seen several instances of encephaloid at an iidvanced period of life, one case in a woman upwards of seventy years of age. Indeed, cancer in either form may affect this organ up to the latest period to which life is prolonged. j\Iarried women are said to be more liable than single ones to cancer of the breast; it may, however, fairly be doubted whether they are proportionately so ; and it is a common belief; founded, I think, in some degree on truth, that the disease is most common in women who have not borne children. Injaiies inflicted'upon the breast, such as blows, squeezes, &c., are coni- Srcatly dreaded by women, as the causes of cancer. la they might be so in constitutions otherwise predisposed to the affection < ocs no appear impioljable ; and that they are so in reality in many cases I l.avo,.ot tl,c least <lo„bt. The number of instanees that ^mvo foliL Set- Q Q 2