728 DISEASES OF THE LARGE INTESTINE AND ANUS. smooth, rounded, snid somcAvlmt lobulated annular protuberance, irom the isolated tumours of piles. In polypus, the history of the case, the pedunculated and solitary character of the tumom-, its large size, and comparatively slight tendency to periodical haimorrhage, will enable the Surgeon to make the diagnosis. From condyloniata the diagnosis is easy ; the soft, flat, mucous, and wart-like character of these gTowths, their history, and their occurrence at other points, as the perina3um, scrotum, vulva, and buttocks, udll enable the Surgeon to distinguish them without any difficulty. 2. The Hsemorrhoidal Flux must be distinguished from other intestinal haemorrhages. This may be done by attention to the chai'acter of the blood, which will enable us in many cases to determine its source. When it comes fr’om piles it is h'quid, of a more or less florid colour ; and not unfrequently is quite bright, staining or coating the faeces rather than being mixed up -with them. When, on the contrary, the blood is poured out at some higher point in the intestinal canal than the usual seat of haemorrhoids, it is of a dark, sooty character, mixed up with hquid faeces either in a diffused form or in small black coagula, and no fr’esh or bright blood will be visible. Digital exploration of the rectum in cases of piles, and the presence of symptoms indicating the existence of mischief at a higher part of the intestine than the anus in cases of melmna, will also serve to point to the seat of the flux. Treatment.—In conducting the treatment of a case of piles, that Sm-geon will succeed best who looks upon the disease not as a local affection, merely requiring manual interference, but as a symptom, or rather an effect, of remote visceral obstruction and disease, the removal of which may alone be sufficient to accomplish the cui’e, without the necessity of any local interference ; or, should it be thought necessary to have recourse to operative procedure, this must be made secondary to the removal of those conditions that have primarily occa- sioned the congestion and dilatation of the ha3morrhoidal v^essels. The treat- ment of piles, therefore, must be considered, 1, as regards the Eemoval of these Constitutional Conditions or Visceral Obstructions that occasion the disease, together with any Topical Applications that maybe considered necessary ; and, 2, with reference to the Operative Procedures that may be required for the removal of the affection. ]. The Constitutional Management of piles necessarily varies consider- ably according to the condition of the patient in whom they occur, and the vdsceral obstruction to which they may be referrable. Thus, when they occiu in debilitated persons, apparently from relaxation of the vessels, most benefit will be derived from a mild tonic and nutritious plan, at the same time that the bowels are kept regular by some of the aperients that will immediately be mentioned. In these cases, also, much advantage is often obtained by the administration of the confection of black pepper, which acts as a useful local stimulant to the vessels of the rectum. In the great majority of instances, however, more particularly when ocemuing about the middle period of life, piles are connected with a plethoric state of system, and obstruction of the ab- dominal viscera. In these circumstances, our eftbrts should be directed to the reduction of the plethoric condition, by putting the patient upon a proper regimen, prohibiting the use of stimulants, and lessening the_ quantity ot animal food that he is in the habit of taking. When piles arise from