STRUCTUllAL CHANGES IN BONE. 2o8 advisable not to subject the patient to so serious a risk ; or amputation might be performed through the trochanters, and then tlie head of the Imne extir- pated from the acetabulum. In this -vvay the severity of the operation and the extent of incised surface would be lessened, whilst the whole of the diseased bone would be removed. In some forms of malignant bone-disease, however, the muscles inserted into the aftccted bone become speedily contaminated, and this contamination may spread wdely through the substance or along the sheath of any particular muscle. Hence I think the rule in these cases should be to amputate not only above the diseased bone, but, if practicable, above the origins of the muscles in the neighboiu'hood of the disease : thus, if there be a malignant tumour of the bones of the forearm, amputation should be done not only above the elbow-joint, but above the humeral attachments of the muscles of the forearm. The propriety of excision of some bones, as of those of the face, in this disease, must depend on whether the morbid deposit is limited to the structures that can be excised. This operation can rarely be advantageously practised in malignant tumom'S, there being in general too great an impheation of the soft structm-es in the neighbourhood to justify it. SANGumEOUs Tumours are occasionally met with in bones. Stanley describes them as appearing imder two forms :—1. As tumoiu’s composed of a vascular substance, having the general characters of erectile tissue, and Fig. 435.^—.Viieui'isiii by Anastomosis of one of the Parietal Bones. bearing on section a close resemblance to certain nsevi (Fig. 43f)) ; tumours of this kind may be removed without the hability to reiwoduction : 2. As cysts formed in the cancellous structure of a bone, and containing either fluid or coagulated blood. According to Stanley, these tumours expand the osseous walls, and gradually cause ulceration of the skin and profuse InemoiThage. The Treatment cofisists in the amputation of the limb, or the excision of the affected bone, as was successfully done by Travers, who removed a clavicle that was the seat of this disease. OsTEo-Aneurism.—Fulsalhnj Tumours of Bone, or Osteo-Aneurisms, thougn of unfr-equent occurrence, are of considerable importance to the practical Sur- geon, on account of the difficulty that often exists in establisliing a diagnosis