DEFORMITIES. 358 removed without operation, by attention to proper meehanical and hygienic moans. The Surgeon should, therefore, not be too ready to operate in slight cases at tender ages. DEFOBMITIES APPEOTINa THE PACE AND NECK* WuY-NECK.—Wry-neck, Torticollis, or Caput Obstipum, arises from spasm of one of the sterno-mastoid muscles ; the head being drawm to the aliected side. On close examination in wry-neck, it wiU be found that there is a triple displacement of the head, which is drawn do-wnwards, rotated out- wards, and inclined laterally towards the affected side. The features lose their symmetry. The half of the face, and even of the head, on the affected side, becomes less perfectly developed ; and the true line of the eyebrows, eyes, and mouth becomes displaced and lowered. In torticollis, the affected sterno-cleido-mastoid will be found hard, defined, and shortened ; sometimes both divisions of the muscle are equally tense, standing out in strong rehef, so as almost to look like two distinct muscles. In other cases, one division, and then most usually the sternal, is chiefly affected. After a time the cervical vertebrae participate in and maintain the displacement, becoming rotated on their axes and curved. Eventually the whole spinal column participates in the disj^lacement, and lateral curvatiu'e sets in. The deeper muscles also become shortened, and the anterior margin and clavicular attachment of the trapezius wiU often be found tense and j)re- ternatui-ally defined. Causes.—Wry-neck occasionally appears to be congenital : more frequently it is acquired, coming on in childhood after measles or scaiiatina, usvially as a consequence of inflamed cervical glands, and is then due to the position instinctively assumed by the head in order to relax muscular tension on the inflamed side of the neck. It not unfrequently commences with an ordinary stiff neck from cold. In other cases, again, it is pimely spasmodic, the tension of the muscle varying at different times, disappearing when the child is an£esthetised, and being overcome by gentle traction. In these cases the spinal accessory nerve is probably at fault, and it is owing to the irritation of it that the sterno-mastoid and trapezius muscles take on a spasmodic action. In spasm of both sterno-mastoids the head is thrown forwards, the muscles projecting in gTeat rehef. In these cases, the disease will usually be found to have had a rheumatic origin. Deformity in this situation may also occui from diseased cervical vertebrEC, or fr'om the traction of the cicatrix of a burn, ihe condi- tions here, however, are peculiar, depending upon causes that are irrespective of the state of the muscles, which are not tense, and may thus readily be dis- tiuo'uished fr'om the true form of the disease produced by the causes above mentioned. TrealmenL—The treatment of torticollis ailsiug fr'om permanent spasm of one of the sterno-mastoids, which is the common form of the aftection, maj best be conducted by dividing the inferior attachment of the muscle, and thiis EiUowing the head to regain its proper position. The division of the muscle is a somewhat delicate operation, on account of the important structures that he immediately behind it. By making the incision, however, tlirough it, from * For Squint, vUh Chapter ou “ Oiihthnlmic Suigerj.