SPECIAL IIERNIJE. <668 Contents.—The contents of a femoral hernia are usually intestinal, and most commonly consist of a portion of the ileum. Occasionally omentum is •contained within the sac, but seldom in large quantity. I have, however, •several times had occasion to operate in cases of old femoral hernia, in which it became necessary to remove large portions of adherent omentum ; in one, ■ten and a half ounces, and in the other alDOut seven. In each case there was ;a small knuckle of intestine strangulated behind the omentum. The ovaries. Fallopian tubes, &c., have been known to bo strangulated in this variety of Jiernia. Signs.—The signs of femoral hernia are usually well marked. They consist ■of a tolerably firm, tense, and unyielding tumom-, of a rounded shape, ■situated in the groin, to the inner side of the femoral vessels, and to the outer side of the spine of the pubes, having its neck under Poupart’s ligament, though, as it increases m size, its base may be turned above the structure; sometimes, though rarely, it passes downwards upon the thigh. Its size varies •considerably ; most commonly it is not larger than a walnut or a pigeon’s egg, s,nd then is deeply seated in the angle between the body of the pubes and the femoral vessels ; but occasionally it may attain a considerable bulk, as large as ■the fist or a French roU. "When large, this hernia usually rises up above Poupart’s ligament, and extends outwards in a direction parallel to it, so that it assumes an elongated shape ; it is then usually somewhat doughy and soft, •even when strangulated ; very different from the excessively tense feel that it lias when small. In some rare cases the femoral hernia has been found lying external to the vessels, the mouth of the sac being between them and the iliac spine. In these circumstances strangulation cannot well occur, inasmuch as the mouth Avill be the widest part of the sac ; but, as Hesselbach has observed, if the fascia iliaca be torn by the pressure of the tumour, the rupture may be strangled in the apertoe thus formed. Should an operation ever be required in such •circumstances, it must be borne in mind that the circumfiex ilii artery may be in some danger. As a femoral hernia passes out through the crural ring, it comes into very •close relation to the femoral vein, being merely separated from the vessel by the septum, which divides the imier from the middle compartment of the femoral sheath. Were it not for this septum, as Poser has observed, the femoral vein would be compressed by the tense hernial tumour protruded between it and Glimbernat’s ligament, and the inevitable consequence would be oedema of the whole lower extremity. As the hernia pushes down in the •track of the crimal canal, it can make no impression on the inner or on the posterior wall of the canal—both of which are unyielding ; but, pushing the anterior wall upwards, it drags upon the septum on the outer side of the neck of the sac, renders this tense, and thus saves the femoral vein from compression. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of femoral hernia is not always easy. "When the hernia is large, and more particularly when it rises up above Poupart’s liga- ment, which some hemim, even of very moderate size, are apt to do, it might at first be mistaken for an inguinal rupture. The diagnosis, howe^•cr, may usually be effected by ascertaining the relation that the neck of the sac as o