45 TREATMENT OF RECURRENT PULSATION. superficiiil femoral beinc: too diseased to admit of a ligature, the pulsation ceased completely for a time as I was tightening the ligature, but then re- turned, and became A'cry marked in a few hours. In this case compression had been unavailingly employed before the artery Avas tied. The iimjnosis of these cases is on the Avhole favourable, but feAV of them having eventually proA'ed fatal. Of 20 patients in Avhom pulsation recurred, I find that three died ; and in all of these the fatal result was occasioned by inflammation and sloughing of the sac. In all of the tliree instances, the pul- sation recurred Avithin the first tAventy-four hours. When it returns at a more advanced period, there is little risk to the patient, as it is usually readily amenable to proper treatment. A Secondary Aneurism is of extremely rare occurrence ; indeed I believe there are only tAA'O unequivocal instances of this affection upon record, both of which took place in the ham ; the original tumoim haA’ing disappeared entirely after operation, the secondary disease made its appearance after a lapse of six months in one case, and in the other after four years. It is of importance to distinguish between a secondary aneurism and secondary or recurrent pulsation in an aneurismal sac. The term ^‘secondary aneurism" should be restricted to those cases only in which an aneurismal tumour appears in the site of a former one, which has undergone consolidation and absorption after operation. The question may be raised, AA’hether aneurisms of this kind are in reahty secondary, or whether they may not originate in the dilatation of a portion of the arteiy contiguous to the seat of a former disease. It is certainly not very easy to understand hoAV an aneurismal sac that has once undergone consolidation and absoi-ption, can again become dilated into a pulsating tumour ; and I think it most probable that, although the consecutive aneiu'ism may be found in the same sm-gical region as the primary one, it in reality takes its origin from a slightly higher part of the artery, where the same structural changes may have been in progTess that determined the disease in the first instance at a loAA'er point. Double aneurism thus arising is, indeed, occasionally met with in the ham as a primary disease. I have seen a case in which an aneiu’ismal tumom* was situated in the ham, and another at or immediately above the aperture in the adductor muscle : if the artery in such a case as this had been tied before the second tumour had attained any magnitude, we can easily understand hoAv, Avhen this became dilated, it might have been considered to be a new enlargement of the original sac, whereas, in reality, it was nothing more than a new anem-ism forming in the close vicinity of the old one. The enlargement of an aneurismal sac ivithout pidsation, after the lio-ature of t e artery leading to it, is an interesting phenomenon, and one that mio-ht cause the true natimcof the tmnom-to be misunderstood, as it closely resembles m Its slow and gradual increase the gi-owth of a malignant tumour It is occasioned by the distension of the sac by the dark regurgitant blood broim-ht mto .fc through the distal end of the vessel, AAdthout sufficient force to clause Lots of casos of socoo- uai-y pulsation, this phenomenon ceases of tself in the course nf n weeka by the consolidation of the sac, in the sa.ne