AGE FOR OPERATION IN HARE-LIP. mcntaiT condition; to this a triangular labial nodule r many cases this is pushed forwards, and tilted on its base, so that the I'i},'. 001.—Single Here-liii. Fig. 602.—Ordinary DouWe Hare-lip. Fig. 60:i — Orclinarj' Double Hare-lip. Side View. iilveolar border projects forwards. Sometimes the projection is so con- siderable that it is at- tached to the tip of the nose. Median fissure is so rare that there are scarcely nny authentic cases of it in the records of surgery. Delahaye, however, mentions one instance of mesial fissiu'o of the upper lip with two lateral fissures, and Isicati has described one in the lower lip, the only case of the kind that I have met with on' record. The cleft in hare-hp coiTCsponds to the line of junction between the embryonic intermaxillary bones and the superior maxilla. The fissme, when single, may be confined to the lip ; but in the majority of cases it extends to the alveolus of the upper jaw, giving rise to a deep notch between the outer incisor and the caniue tooth. When it is double, the fom incisors, usually imperfectly and irregularly de- veloped, are included in the central intermaxillary tubercle. Meckel and Nicati have described a rare foim of hare-lip, in which the fissm’e coiTesponds to the line of junction between the central and lateral incisors. In many cases the fissure extends back into the palate ; this more frequently happens when the hare-lip is double, and in these cases every variety of palatal deformity is met Anth (Fig. 60-1). Age for Operation.—The cure of hare-lip can only be effected by a properly •conducted operation. In the performance of this, the first point that has to be determined is the age at A\diich it should be done. On this there has been, •and is still, a good deal of difference of opinion. Surgeons generally arc, hoAV- ever, 1 think, agreed that it is better not to perform the operation during den- tition ; at all events not during the cutting of the incisor teeth, Avhen there is much local excitement and general in-itability of the nervous system ; but they are not agreed as to Avhether it should be done before or after dentition. In support of the opinion that it is more prudent to Avait until after this period, it is alleged that very young infants arc especially liable to convulsions ; that the perfonnance of operations on them is troublesome ; and that it interferes Avith. suckling. These statements, however, are not can'icd out by Avhat Ave meet Fig. 604.—Skeleton of Jaw iu Double Hiire-liii, ami Cleft Palate