UlUXARY CALCULUS. S28 lithotrity. xV very irritable and sensitive bladder not only will be the seat of {severe sulfcring on the introduction of instruments, but may not be aide to hold sufficient urine to make the operation a safe one, and may readily become dangerously inflamed in consequence of the repeated introduction of instru- ments, and the presence of angular fragments. Hence, if the ordinary opera- tion of sounding occasion much distress ; if the patient cannot hold his imine long, but pass it in small quantities ; if it be bloody, or much loaded Avith Auscid mucus, he Avill scarcely be able to bear the procedures necessary for the operation. In some instances, however, the irritability of the bladder may be •overcome, and in all it may be materially lessened, by keeping the patient in bed, and, as Brodie recommends, daily injecting tepid AA'ater. If the bladder be sacculated, there Avill still be a greater risk of an unfavourable result; the •sacculi not only retaining fragments of calculus, but also becoming the seats of unhealthy inflammation, in consequence of which asthenic cystitis of a veiy serious character, followed by pysemic symptoms and metastatic abscesses, may result, leading in some cases to perforation of the peritoneum. In such cases as these, early lithotomy offers the only chance to the patient. The existence of a moderate amount of vesical catarrh, if the bladder be othenvise healthy, is no objection to lithotrity. In encysted calculus, lithotrity is, for obvious reasons, inadmissible. Atony of the htadeter is not only a serious inconvenience, but a great soincc of danger in lithotrity. It caimot in all cases be positively ascertained before- hand ; though it may be suspected if the patient can hold his urine for a great many hours, and can bear without complaint the injection of a large quantity—eight or ten ounces—of fluid, the interior of the bladder feeling large and smooth to the sound. This condition chiefly occurs in old men of feeble habit of body; and, if ascertained, calls for the performance of lithotomy. As Civiale has pointed out, this condition may be a source of great danger after lithotrity, the organ not possessing sufficient expulsiA^e poAver to rid itself of the fragments with Avhich it is encumbered, and of the presence of which it seems to be insensible, so far as the feelings of the patient are con- cerned ; Avhile its low vitality renders it peculiarly liable to subacute cystitis, excited by the presence of the fragments in the loAver fundus. It must be borne in mind, that this atony of the bladder may, especially in feeble and aged individuals, be induced by the contact of the instrument, and especially by prolonged sittings. If the urethra be the seat of strictiu-e, or be very irritable, lithotrity which may require the frequent introduction of instruments of large size, and A\ill entail the continued passage of fragments of calculus cannot be perfomied. Stricture of the urethra does not, however, absolutely preA'ent the peifoimance of lithotrity, but only retards the operation until the constriction can be pio- perly dilated. Should this, however, be not practicable to the Ml extent of the urethra, lithotomy on a small staff must be practised. Moderate enlargement of the prostate, such as is often met AVith m elderly people, does not necessarily prevent the performance of lithotrity ; undoubtedly compheates the operation. The introduction of the hthotri c Avill be attended by considerable difficulty; and the fragments have a tendency to become lodged in a pouch of the loAver fundus behind the enlarged glam .