PERINEAL SECTION. 9°7 1 il i) nephritis. Perineal abscess occim-ed in 8 cases ; extravasation of nrine m 1, and epididymitis in 4. There was htemorrhage in 5, and in 2 the patient was left with permanent chordee during erection. _ i i (For the effects produced on the kidneys by splitting strictures and internal urethrotomy, see Chap. LXVII.). _ .,7 ^ i External Urethrotomy.—The division of the strictm’e from without by incision through the perinteum, may be performed by two distinct operations ; the one being only applicable to those strictures that are pervious to an instrument; the other to those which are impermeable. In the fii-st case a gi’oovcd staff' is passed through the stricture, and the section is made upon this. In the second case, the Surgeon cuts through this and the stricture, Avithout any guidance except such as his anatomical knowledge may afford. Operation for Permeable Stricture.—The first of these operations, introduced by Syme as Ureihrotomij, and commonly called Perineal Section, is comparatively a simple procedure. The instruments required for its performance are a staffs a No. 8 silver catheter, a pointed scalpel, and a broad director. The staff should vary in size from No. 1 to No. 6, according to the tightness of the stricture; it should be grooved along its convexity, either the whole of the way, or better, merely for the lower third (Fig. 812). The stem is smooth and of full size, and joins into the lower grooA’ed pai’t by a distinct shoulder, AA^hich, being passed doAAm as far as the stricture, forms by its projection a guide to that part of the urethra requiring division. In those cases in which there are false passages, a hollow staff' of the same size and shape may be advantageously used; the flow of urine through it indicating with certainty its passage into the posterior part of the uretiu’a. Performance of Perineal Section.—The operation is performed as follows. The staff' having been passed well through the strictm’e, so that the shoulder rests against the upper part of the constriction, the patient is tied up as for lithotomy, and the Surgeon, seating himself in front, pushes the scalpel, Avith the back of the blade doAATiAvards, into the mesial line of the perineum a little above the rectum, and cuts upAvards for an inch or more into the raphe. The dissection is earned on Fig. si2. very carefully exactly in the median line until the staff is fo^erinii 1“ reached, when the knife must be entered into its groove behind the strictm-e, and carried forwards through this. The staff, having been pushed on to ascertain that all is free, must be withdraAvn, and a No. 8 catheter introduced, which is to be kept in for forty-eight hoius ; it must then be taken out, and at the end of eight or ten days the urethra must be dilated by the introduction every second day of a full-sized silver catheter. Urine escapes for some little time by the perineal incision ; but, as this heals by granulation, the floAv^ of fluid gradually lessens and at last ceases entirely. The principal points to be attended to in this operation are— 1. To see that the staff is fairly through the stricture, and to be especially careful in determining this if ffdse passage exist.