858 DISEASES OF THE PROSTATE. with stranguiy, and perhaps retention of urine, occur. In many ca.ses the perinmnm becomes brawny ; in others, tenderness of the gland and deep fluctuation may be felt throng] 1 the rectum. When left to itself, the abscess most usually gives way into the urethi-a or nock of the bladder ; jjut it may, especially when occurring in the prostatic capsule, open externally into the perinmum, or even into the rectum. In many cases, the abscess presenting on the urethral surface of the prostate is burst diu-ing the introduction of the catheter, used for the relief of the retention of urine induced by the pressure of the tumefaction ; the matter escaping along the side of and through the instrument. Treatment.—It not unfrequently happens that the first certain indication afforded to the Siu’geon of the foi’mation of a prostatic abscess is the escape of pus by the urethra, or mixed with the mine, so as to give this fluid a thick milky appearance. In such circumstances, the only available treatment is that which is directed for the relief of the strangiuy and local vesical irritation on ordinary medical principles, such as have aheady been described. But if, as sometimes happens, the pus come forward into the perinmum, then a more decided line of treatment is required. In these cases a hard brawny mass will be felt lying deeply on the side of the perinaeum ; and into this a deep incision should be made. The Surgeon must not wait for fluctuation, but must cut deeply in the direction of the matter, keeping, however, as nearly as possible in the mesial line, with the back of the knife towards the rectum. Even if no pus escape at first, it may do so if the part be well poulticed for a few hom's ; and thus communication with the m’ethra or rectum may be prevented. Bietention of Urine from Prostatitis.—In prostatitis, retention may occur from the swelling of the organ, from the infiltration of exudation-matter around it, or from the formation of pus in it. In these cases the neck of the bladder will be carried to a considerable distance from the siuface, and may very probably not be reached by an ordinary catheter, which may be biu’ied up to the rings and yet not enter the cavity of that organ. In these circumstances a silver prostate-catheter should be employed; and this must be carefully introduced, lest, by entering the cavity of an abscess which has already biust ]3er urethram, it might be supposed to have entered the bladder itself. In introducing the instrument in these circumstances, care should be taken to keep its point constantly in contact with the upper sm’face of the urethra, and to hook it round the pubes. The iipper smfface of the urethra is a sm’e guide to the bladder ; for any abscess, false passage, or irregularity of direction will always first affect the lower aspect of this canal, being siurounded by yielding structiu'es; whilst the upper part, being firmly supported by bone and liga- ment, cannot so readily alter its direction. Deep-Seated and very Chronic Abscess will sometimes slowly form in the pelvis, between the bladder and rectum, or behind the prostate, giving rise ^ by its pressm-e to a long train of obscure symptoms, indicative of irritation about these organs, such as dysiu'ia, strangury, occasional admixture of pus with the urine. On careful examination of the perina3um and rectum, some slight hardness may perhaps be deeply felt in the mesial line, or towards one side of it. This slowly increases, and perineal abscess of an ill-defined chai’acter devclopes itself. When this has become sufficiently evident, a free incision