TREATMENT OF CANCER OF THE PENIS. 937 Fis 836. —Epithelioma of the Penis. disease is rare, Ave cannot draw any conclusive inference from this observa- tion. It is, howei'er, very probable that the epithelial form of the disease may arise from the local irritation resulting from congenital phimosis. The scin-hous form of the affection, however, can occiu- in indiidduals who have not suffered from jihimosis ; of this I have seen several instances at the University College Hospital. Epitlielioma, commencing as a tubercle in the prepuce, may, after a time, gii'C rise to a large irregular and sprouting mass, having a granular fungous appearance, bleeding with much fetid discharge, gTOW- iiig rapidly, eiiA'eloping and at last implicating the glans (Fig. 830). In other cases it commences as a hard scirrhous mass of a pale reddish-white colour, situated on the glans, or between the prepuce and the glans. This increases in size, at last cracks, and allows a serous fetid discharge to exude. Ulceration then rapidly takes place. Sometimes the disease appears to be very distinctly locahsed; but after its removal it Avill always present the character of infiltrated cancer. It is, I believe, always primarily situated at the anterior extremity of the penis, not occiuTing in the body of the organ except as a secondaiy dejiosit. Diagnosis.—Epithelioma of the penis requires to be diagnosed fr'om fungoid loarts. This may usually be done readily enough, by comparing the indm-ated state of the malignant with the soft and lax condition of the non-malignant affection. From chancrous induration of the glans, the history of the case and the way in Avhich it is infiuenced by treatment AAnU enable the Surgeon to effect the diagnosis of scirrhus. In indurated lolastic effusmis into the corpus spongiosum, no pain is experienced, and the disease remains in a stationary condition. Treatment.—The treatment of cancer of the penis will vary accordmg to the natiu-e and extent of the malignant affection. In the Epithelial form of the disease the Surgeon may, if he see the case early, whilst the morbid growth is small and limited to the prepuce, content himself with chssecting off the affected patch. Should the epithehoma, how- ever, haA^e attained a large size (Fig. 836), and more particularly if it have implicated the glans, then amputation of the organ is indicated. ihe treatment of Cancer of the"penis must be conducted on the principles that guide us in the management of malignant affections whereA'er situated ; viz., to remove the diseased organ at as early a stage as j)ossible, whilst the affection is locahsed, before the glands are implicated and the constitution poisoned. In the penis, this may readily be done by an operation that is snnple in its execution and nearly devoid of danger. In many cases a return may take place, and that speedily, either in the part itself or in the neighbouring lymphatic glands ; yet, even if this occur, it is clearly the duty of the Surgeon to rid the patient of a loathsome disease, and to put him in a state of comparative comfort for some time ; the more so, as there is reason to believe that, in some instances, the disease may be entirely extirpated from the system, evincing no tendency to return. Indeed, I believe