EXCISION OF JOINTS AND BONES. 268 soliclateci, and matted to its sheath in such a way that all movement is lost, or at least greatly impaired. The only phalanx that can be excised with advantage is the distal one. It often happens, in the destructive disorganisation which results from whitlow, that this necroses ; when, instead of amputating the end of the finger, it may be remo\-cd by an incision on its palmar aspect. Disease of the phalangeal articulations usually leads to amputation of the afiected finger. The rides for performing these 'v arious operations have afready been laid down at pp. G2 ct set}., Vol. I., to which I must refer the reader. Itesection of the Metacarpal Bone, either of the thumb or index finger, Avithout the remoA'al of the coiTesponding digit, is occasionally required, more particularly in cases of injury ; it may readily be done by making a longitudinal incision over the dorsal aspect of the bone to be removed, carefully detaching it fr’om surrounding parts by keeping the edge of the knife close against the bone, avoiding the tendons, and then either disarticulatmg, or (Avhat is pre- ferable) cutting across the neck of the carpal end of the bone, turning it out, and separating it from any distal attachments which it may retain. After the removal of the metacarpal bone of the index finger in this way, but little deformity results, and a very useful hand wiU be left, more particularly in children, on whom I have more than once had occasion to practise this partial resection AAuth success. If the periosteum be saved, the bone may be to some extent reproduced, but in order to obtain this result it is necessary to keep the finger draAvn forwards by an elastic extending apparatus, to prevent the first phalanx from being pulled back on to the carpus by the muscles attached to it. CONSERVATIVE SURGERY OP THE LOWER EXTREMITY. In all conservative operations that are practised on the lower extremity, it is of essential importance that a good basis of support, of sufiicient length and stability, be left to the body. These operations differ thus in some important resj)ects fr’om those that are practised on the upper extremity. In the latter, the preservation of the hand, even though in a mutilated condition, is the thing at Avhich the Surgeon aims ; and, provided this be attained, it matters com- parath'ely little hoAV much the arm may be shortened or impaired in poAver. In the lower extremity, however, strength, length, and solidity are essential to the patient’s comfort and utility, aud unless these can be secm’ed, his interests are better served by the remoAml of the limb, and the adaptation of some artificial contrivance, than by leaving a shortened, wasted, and crippled mem- ber, Avhich is unequal to support the Aveight of the body. Hip-JOINT.—Excision of the head of the thigh-bone has of late years been a good deal practised in some cases of hip-joint disease. This operation may, hoAvever, most conveniently be considered in connection AAuth that affection (Chapter LII.). Knee.—Excision of the knee-joint may be required either as a substitute for amputation in cases of extensive disease and disorganisation of the articula- tion, or may be practised in some rare cases of faulty ankylosis resulting old disease or injury, by which the limb has been rendered useless. ^ operation, originally pei'formed at the close of last century by Paik, hilkin, and the Moreaus, fell into disfaA'our until it was revived in 1850 by Forgusson, since which time it has been extensiA'cly practised.