530 DISEASES OF THE MOUTH AND THROAT. out. But if the organ bo so deeply alfoctod that the whole of it requires extir- pation, the galvanic dcraseur will be found to be easy of application, safe and efficient in execution ; and the Surgeon must have recourse to Sedillot’s opera- tion of the division of the lower lip and jaw in tlie central line, and the complete extirpation of the cancerous mass. Effect of the Removal of the Tongue on Speech.—Although distinct- ness of articulation is necessarily affected for a time by these operations on the tongue, yet it is usually completely restored when only the anterior third or half is removed ; the tissue of the organ recovering its normal mobility with remai'kable facility, and indeed appearing to possess a very considerable reparative power, so as almost to seem to be capable of repro- duction to some extent. Even after removal of the whole of the tongue, the power of deglutition is preserved, and that of articulation, although at first somewhat imperfect, eventually returns, so that the patient is able to speak so distinctly that strangers would not be aware of the loss he had sustained. Amongst the tortures to which Chi-istian martyrs were subjected in the early ages, and the punishments which have been inflicted on heretics, “ cutting out the tongue ” was one of the most barbarous. Martyrologists in describing this horrible mutilation have remarked with wonder, that, although it was practised with the view of depriving the sufferers of the power of speech, yet it often failed in its effect, and those who had been subjected to it were enabled to speak afterwards as plainly as before. This they have attributed to direct mhaculous intervention. But, as modern Surgeiy has shown that the power of speech retmms equally, whether a cancerous tongue have been extirpated by the kiiife of the Surgeon, or a heretical tongue by that of the executioner, we must rather look upon the return of speech as a physiological act, than as a miracle specially wrought for the benefit of those mutilated in and for the propagation of the true faith. Encysted, Fatty, and Erectile Tumours are met with not only in the tongue, but underneath it in the floor of the mouth. They require extirpation by the ligature, or enucleation by the scalpel, according to their situation and size ; and for these irregular operations no special directions can be given. In re- moAung such tumoiu’s as these, when situated under or by the side of the tongue, the knife must necessarily be used with much caution. It must, however, be borne in mind that, if these growths cannot be reached from the inside of the mouth, they may be got at by incision through the mylo-hyoid region, where there is but a slight thickness of soft parts between the smface and the floor of the mouth. E.annla, the most remarkable and common of the buccal tumours, may j occur under two forms. 1. A globular swelling, semi-transparent, evidently containing fluid, and often attaining the size of a walnut or a pigeon’s egg, may be situated under i| the tongue, pushing this organ upwards and backv'ards, and consequently in- terfering with deglutition and speech (Fig. 633). The walls of the cpt are usually thin, with small vessels ramifying on them ; its contents are glairy and very unlike saliva. This form of ranula is usually said to be a^ dilatation AVharton’s duct ; but there is no proof of the disease being of this nature, nor is it very easy to understand how so small a duct can be dilated to so ^ size as is occasionally attained by these tumours, which seem, in some cases a