437 IRIDEGTOMY FOR GLAUCOMA. or very considerable adhesions, whicli cannot be detached by the use of bella- donna, or by operation : when perforating ulcer or other cause has ended in complete or almost complete adhesion of the pupillary iris to the cornea. But in all the cases requiring artificial pupil operation, an excision of iris is in a very lai'ge majority the best. Operation.—An anmsthetic is first given, and the eye is kept open and steadied in the usual manner with speculum and forceps. An opening into the anterior chamber, of at least one-eighth of the circumference, is made in the corneal margin with an extraction (Sichel’s) knife. If now it should be necessary that the eye be held in order that the corneal wound may be exposed, the forceps to hold the eye is handed to an assistant; and the iris-forceps, closed and held in the left hand, is introduced into the anterior chamber. A sufficient quantity of the iris is seized and drawn out ; and, with the iris-scissors laid fiat on the surfiicc, it is snipped off close to the cornea. The operation, with extra pre- cautions at the time and subsequently, is described below (see “ Iridectomy for Glaucoma ”). An artificial pupil should not be very small, as it wiU more probably become closed by subsequent inflammation, or, if not closed, contracted tdl it is much too small for useful vision. The iris must be seized -with forceps : a hook may tear through rotten or firmly adherent iris, or vffil draw out too little. No blood should be allowed to accumulate iu the anterior chamber, if it can be prevented. No clot should certainly be left between the edges of the wound in the cornea. And, if the iris, close to the part where it has been cut off still hang in either angle of the corneal wound, it must be retimned with the little spatula made for this purpose, or with the end of the cm-ette. Besides the operation for glaucoma, for artificial pupil, and for recurrent iritis wth adhesions, in which iridectomy is called for, there are a great many other ■cases in which nidectomy is now usefully employed. In some of them, as, for instance, in acute ulceration of the cornea and hypopyon, simple paracentesis cornem may be sufficient; so that, if we doubt the necessity for iridectomising, we can give it a trial meanwhile. If, after an iridectomy for glaucoma or lecuirent iritis, the disease retiu’u, the operation may be repeated : the portion of iris removed being opposite to that excised on the former occasion. An mdectomy in the first instance for total posterior synechia or for hypopyon, should be a large one, and upwards as in glaucoma cases. Iridectomy for Glaucoma.—Although the common operation for ai-tificial pupil, to which I have just referred, or for recurrent iritis, may be quite correctly caUed iridectomy, as it used to bo before the cure of glaucoma was iuvented by Von Grafe, yet the operation and all about it is widely different from that lor glaucoma, as may be seen briefly in the following comparison of the two IrUIcctomy to cure Glmicoma. There is no permanent opacity of cc nor any obstruction of the pupil, leadi the operation. V>e beco .altogether hazy at the time The globe is hard to the touch. Jhe fundus would be well seen, bt Iridectomy for Artificial Pupil. Ihc operation is done for pennanent opacity of the cornea, or obstruction of the pujiil, or both. Both cornea and lens cleai-, at least some part; at this the operation is done The globe may be soft, or hard, or nornial. Iliere is opacity or obstruction prevent