964 DISEASES OF THE TESTIS AND CORD. becomes studded with small hard nodides, not growing in the septa, but in the glandular substance of the testis. In their earliest stage these are merely hard semi-transparent granulations ; but they soon show signs of undergoing fatty degeneration in the centre, so that the majority have the appearance of small bodies about the size of a millet-seed, having a yellow opaque centre, and a delicate greyish semi-transparent gi’owing margin. Still nearer the coi-pus Highmoriannm these yellow spots coalesce, and fomi a solid cheesy substance, continuous with a still larger mass of the same kind, which represents the epididymis, and half surrounds the body of the gland in the shape of a crescent. In this larger mass patches of softening are found fomiing the tubercular abscesses above described, and these may extend into the body of the gland. On making transverse sections of the vas deferens, its walls will be seen to be thickened, and its centre filled up with a yellow cheesy material. If the disease be fhrther advanced, the whole gland may be converted into a single cheesy mass, in which softening may be taking place at various parts. The exact natime of the change that tabes place in the production of the condition above described, has given rise to much difference of opinion ; some authors maintaining that the primary change consists in an overgTowth of the epithelium of the tubuli seminiferi and epididymis, which afterwards undergoes fatty degeneration ; and others asserting that the primary growth takes place between the tubuli, and that the changes in the epithelium are secondary. The accompanying drawing (Fig. 850) represents a section of one of the Fig. S50.—Tubercular Testis. «. Tubuli seminiferi; h. Giant-cells (40 diaiu.). small outlying nodules in the body of the gland, as described above. It will be seen that the change chiefly consists in an accimiulation of small rouncl cells in a more or less perfect reticulate stroma between the tubules, sepa- rating them from each other. At the same time the walls of the tubules lun-e undergone a change, being infiltrated with cells in the same way as the sin-