INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. 692 Colotomy may be required for the following conditions :— 1. Intestinal obstruction below the descending colon. • 2. Intense pain in defincatiou, in ulcerated cancer of the large intestine or rectum. 3. Cancerous fistula between the rectum and bladder. 4. Congenital absence of the rectum (p. 701). The following is the way in which Colotomy by Amussat’s operation may be performed. A transverse incision is to be made two finger-breadths above and parallel to the crista ilii of the left side, or rather in the middle of that space which is bounded by the false ribs above and by the crista ilii below; the incision should commence at the external margin of the erector spinas, and extend outwards for about four inches. The spinous processes of the lumbar vertebrte, the crest of the ilium, and the last false rib, are the principal guides. The superior margin of the crista ilii is, however, the safest of these ; and the transverse incision may be said to correspond to the middle third of this part of the ilium (Fig. 691). According to the ride laid down by Allingham, the centre of the incision should be exactly half an inch behind a line drawn Fig 601.—Line of Incision for LuniLar Colotomy. Dotted line indicates situation of Descending Colon. vertically upwards from the mid-point between the anterior and posterioi superior spines of the ilium. It is just under this that the colon will be found. After the skin and the more superficial tissues have been divided, the muscular layers of the abdominal wall are next to be incised as they present themseh es ; if necessary, the external border of the quadratus lumber urn may also be cut across. These structures should be divided to the same extent as the incision of the skin, otherwise the Sm-geon will continue to dig a deep and conical pit, and will certainly fail to recognise at the bottom of it the gut of which he is in search. The dissection is then very carefully to be carried thi-ough the fine but firm layers of areolo-adipose tissue, which lie immediately upon the intestine. When the patient is fat, these are loaded with adipose matter; when thin, they are semi-transparent and membranous, closely resembling peritoneum, for which, indeed, they may readily be mistaken. These layers immediately over- lie the colon, which may usually be felt and seen to bulge through them. After their division, the colon ivill, in general, readily present itself, and may at once be recognised by its greenish colour and distended appearance (Iig. 692b The operation may then be completed by passing a tenaculum, 01 a needle armed with a strong waxed thread, into the most projecting part of t