CONDITION OF UNINARY ORGANS. 827- As a general rule, it may be stated that, the greater the inflammatory tendency of the urinary organs, the loss successful will hthotr ty be. The repeated introduction of instnments, however carefully and skilful y conducted • the presence of fragments of calculus, and their tendency to impaction or entanglement in the urethra, necessarily dispose to inflammatioiv ci-en in the most favourable cases, and very readily excite it, if there be any tendency to such action existing in the parts. If, however, the stone be sma , or of moderate size, and friable ; the bladder healthy, and of good contractd& power • the urethra capacious ; and the patient of soimd constitution and quiet tempciiment, the stone may often be broken up and the fragments expelled with comparatively little suffering. In fact, in such a combination of favour- able circumstances, lithotrity ought unquestionably to be preferred. If, however, the bladder be very irritable, or if the patient’s constitution be- an excitable one, so that he does not well bear the introduction of instru- ments ; more particularly if it be found that this local and constitutional sensitiveness, instead of being blunted by the methodical introduction of sounds or bougies, is rather increased thereby ; and especially if the stone be- of such size that several sittings would be required—lithotomy should be- employed. The existence of organic disease, however, about the urinary organs, con- stitutes the greatest obstacle to lithotrity ; and, when extensive, must form a complete bar to the performance of that operation. It is not easy, however, to determine the amount of local disease that should thus be held to contra- indicate hthotrity. On this point the opinions of Surgeons differ much ; and it is particularly in the management of these cases that the advantage of the- tact and dexterity in the use of the crushing instruments, which habit can alone give, is well exemplified. The condition of the Mdneys merits special attention. If these organs be diseased, as indicated by the presence of casts of tubes, or of a considerable quantity of albumen in the urine, or in any other way, the performance of a scries of operations in the bladder would be likely materially to increase the mischief in them, and consequently ought not to be undertaken. Organic disease of the kidneys is a more serious obstacle to lithotrity than to lithotomy, on account of the prolonged nature of the operation, and the greater liability to sympathetic or propagated inutation in these organs, giving rise to purulent nephritis. It is not only by the operation increasing the renal mischief that harm might result, but also in consequence of the tendency to low and diffuse inflammation of the bladder, prostate, and surrounding areolar planes, and to pyainia, that always co-exists with kidney disease. Ihe conditions of the bladder that interfere seriously with lithotrity ai’o partly functional, partly organic. The functional derangements are of two ■\-ery opposite kinds ; viz., a state of extreme irritability of the organ, and an abnormal want of sensibility of it—a state of atony. The organic lesions con- sist of hypertrophied, fasciculated, sacculated, and permanently contracted states of the viscus, which is then most commonly irritable as well. A chronically inflamed or irritable state of the bladder, more particularly if the organ be thickened and fasciculated, so that it will not bear the injec- tion of a few ounces of tepid water, seriously interferes with the success of