LitUotrity Catheters. Fig. 773.—Eyes at Extremity. Fig. 774.—Eye in Concavity. Fig 775.—Bye in Convexity. EXPLORATION OF BLADDER AFTER LITUOTRITY. 815 nearly straight, and haying a large eye in its concavity (Fig. 774). This .acts as a scoop, and will bring away large quantities of fragments that ■will not readily escape thiough a ■catheter with lateral eyes, or that Inas an opening at its convexity, hoi bringing away the finer detritus, vhen mixed with mucus, a double cuiiont catheter is useful. In using the latter instrument, the point of which should be directed towards the in- ferior fundus, a considerable quantity •of water may sometimes with adi^antagc lie pumped through the bladder by •udaptiiig a flute-valve syidiige or elastic bottle to it. Clover has invented a most ingenious ■tind simple instrument (Fig. 776), for washing out the bladder. It is es- pecially useful in the latter stages of the operation, and more particularly in clearing the organ of the last fragment. The interval between the sittings will vary according to the effect produced. If all go well, the second sitting may usually take place about five or six days after the first, and they may then be repeated at intervals of from three to four days; each sitting should be short—not exceeding five to eight minutes. A¥hcn the Surgeon believes that the bladder has been •emptied of all fragments and detritus, Vk final exploration must be made. This last aet of the operation is necessarily one of the greatest importance, as on the precision with which it is conducted depends in a great degree the future immunity of the patient from a recurrenee of the disease ; any fr’ag- 7nent, however minute, that is left behind necessarily constituting the nucleu.s •of a further calculus. The exploration is best conducted by means of a small lithotrite, the bladder containing but a moderate quantity of urine. The w'hole of the in- terior, but especially the part behind the prostate, should be carefully •explored ; and if any fragment be found it must be crushed, and the detritus •extracted. Civiale employed the “ trilobe,” allowing the urine slowdy to trickle •out through the shaft of the instrument, at the time when he drew and closed :the blades over the floor of the bladder, by pushing the tubular shank over them. As a measure of additional safety, the exploration should be repeated .after the lapse of a wnck or two, and the bladder be well washed out after each proeedure. During the whole of the treatment, it is necessary to adopt means to allay arritation. AVith this view the patient should be kept in bed, or on a couch ; .a moderate diet only should be allowed, plenty of demulcent drinks given', such as bai’ley-water, soda-water, or milk; and opiates or henbane, if neces.sarv, .should be administered.