7i8 diseases of THE LARGE INTESTINE AND ANUS. goino- on, the M'ouncl is apt to assume a somewhat sloughy condition, and to heal with great difficulty. The most important question usually connected with the operation for fistula, is the propriety of performing it in phthisical subjects. It is a well-known fact that fistula in ano is especially apt to occur in consumptive individuals, and it is often a nice point to determine whether an operation should be performed or not in them ; how far the drain from the fistula may keep up or even generate the tendency to phthisis, or how far it may be salutary in acting as a counter-irritant, and in preventing the morbid ■condition of the lung from developing itself. Theophilus Thompson has stated that the co-existence of fistula with phthisis appears to retard the progress of the latter disease, acting as a derivative ; and doubtless in some instances this may be so. I have, however, in several cases found consider- able advantage result from operating for fistula in the early stages of phthisis, or in suspected cases of that disease, the patient’s health having considerably improved after the healing of the fistula. In such cases it may be of use to put an issue in the arm or side of the chest. But in confirmed, and still less in advanced phthisis, no operation should ever be practised ; as the wound will not heal, and the patient must be weakened by the additional discharge. The operation for comiAde. fistula should be performed in the following way. The bowels having been well cleared out the day before with a dose of castor- oil, and an enema administered on the morning of the operation, the patient should be laid on his left side, -with the nates projecting over the edge of the bed ; a probe must then be passed through the fistulous track into the rectum, and the Surgeon, introducing the forefinger into the gut, feels for the end of the instrument; he then passes a short strong-bladed probe- pointed bistoury of about the size and shape of that represented in the an- nexed figure (700) through the fistula, using the probe as a guide, though in some cases this may conveniently be dispensed with. Vl hen he feels the end of the knife projecting into the rectum thi-ough the internal aperture of the fistula, he, after withefi-awing the probe, hooks his forefinger over it (Fig. 701), and by a sweeping and pressing cut, raising the handle of the instrument at the same time that he pushes doum its point, brings both finger and blade out at the anal aperture, cutting through the whole thickness of the parts between this and the fistula, so as to lay the two ca^ufres into one. Care slioidd be taken to divide the sphincter in a direct anc not an oblique manner, lest a flap or fold be left which will interfere with the proper healing of the wound. In ration, the Surgeon should cut with his left hand if the fist a •be upon the left side ; and in cither case should be careful not to Dionne Fig. 701.- -Operation for Fistula in Ano. Fig. 700.— Froljc-pointed Histoui-y for Fistula.