702 DISEASES OF THE LARGE INTESTINE AND ANUS. necessaiy to proceed to a depth of at least one and a half or two inches l)cfore the bowel was reached ; which, on account of the naiTowness of the wound and the small size and important relations of the parts, is not an easy matter. If it could he ascertained before proceeding to operate, that the rectum is absent it might be wiser to search for the bowel in the lumhar region. But, as the Surgeon has no means of ascertaining, before making his incision, whether the rectum be one inch or three inches from the surface, he must cut into the perinEeum in order to obtain the necessary information ; and if once he have penetrated to such a depth as to pass beyond the levator ani muscle, or into the deep fascine in this situation, a great portion of the immediate danger of the operation will have been inciUTed, and few would think it advisable to leave the perineal operation unfinished, and expose the child to the additional risk of opening the colon in the lumbar region. Yet, if he have gone as deeply as he dare ventime, and have not encountered the bowel, there is no alternative but to open the intestine through the abdomiuEil wall, or to leave the child to its fate. In this alternative, Amussat’s operation should be performed. This has actually been done, and with success. I saw, some years ago, a young gentle- man eight years of age, who had thus been operated upon in Mexico for con- genital absence of the anus and rectum. An incision had first been made in the perina3um, but, no intestine being met with, the colon was opened in the left lumbar region. The boy was in good health, well nourished, had no great trouble with the artificial anus, which was covered with a truss pad, and only suffered occasional inconvenience from prolapse of the mucous membrane. There was a kind of sphincter-like action in the muscles about the orifice, hy which the finger was gripped. I have several times operated in this way on imperforate children ; but in all instances unsuccessMly. In one case, there was an anal apertme, hut with complete occlusion of the rectum. I operated on the fom-th day, first attempt- ing to reach the gut through the anus ; but, failing in this, performed the lumbar operation on the left side. There is one point in connection with the perineal operation to which it is of much importance especially to attend, not only as respects the immediate result of the operation, but as regards the ultimate success of the procedm'e ; I mean the bringing down of the mucous membrane of the gut, and fixing it to the lips of the external wound. Unless this be done, the fine of incision between the termination of the gut and the apertm’e in the integuments wiU degenerate into a fistulous canal; which, hke all fistula, will have a tendency to contract, and will be a source of endless emban’assment to the Surgeon and to the patient. If the mucous membrane can be brought down and fixed to the opening in the integument, this source of inconvenience wiU be removed, and the patient wiU be saved all that danger which results from the passage of the meconium over a surface of recently incised areolar tissue. This, however,, can only be done when the intestine tenninates at a short distance from the surface. If the perineal incision be two or three inches in depth, there wiU be little probabihty of the Sm-geon being able to bring the intestine down to such an extent. In the case that I have related I attempted to do so, but found that the gut was too firmly fixed to be removed by any traction that it would have been safe to employ.