359 TREATMENT OF WRY-NECK. behind forwards, close to the sternum and along the clavicle, there can, if ordinary care be employed, be little risk of doing any damage, as these bones carry the lower attachment of the muscle forwards, and separate it from sub- jacent parts. The tension also, into which it is thrown by its spasm, di-aws it away fi-om the carotid sheath. In several instances in which I have had occasion to perfonn this operation, no difficulty whatever has been experienced in dividing the sternal attachment of the muscle, Avhich is usually very tense and prominent, by passing an ordinary tenotome behind the tendon, with its hat side towards it, just in front of the upper margin of the sternum, and then cutting forwards, whilst the muscle is put well upon the stretch. In dividing the claAicular insertion, the safest plan, I think, consists in making a puncture ■with a scalpel upon and do\^m to the clavicle in the cellular space which lies between the two attachments of the muscle, and then pushing a long, blunt- pointed, naiTow-bladed tenotome between that bone and the insertion of the muscle, dividing this in a direction forwards. Care must be taken to divide the muscle completely, but not to carry the incision too. freely or deeply. I have heard of more than one case in which, from want of due precaution, abundant haemoirhage occurred, and of three in which fatal results followed the operation. After the opei’ation, the position of the head must be gradually rectified by proper apparatus. The best instrument for this pui’pose is the one invented by li^re figured (Fig. 51!)). It consists of a peh'ic band, a vertebral stem, and arm-pieces, the object of which is to secure a firm basis of support to the neck lever (1), and the maxillary lever (2). The neck lever passes round the head, and takes its bearing against the tem]Doral bone on the side towards which the head is deflected. The maxillary lever acts against the lower jaw on the opposite side— that which is turned up. By means of a ratchet- joint the neck lever, the action of which is vertical, tiims the head from the side to which it is deflected, whdst the maxillary lever, acting horizontally, rotates the head on its vertebral axis. By the combined action of these two forces the head is restored to its vertical position, and the chin replaced in the mesial line. Jn this way the curvature of the cervical vertebrte may gradually be corrected ; should it, however, have existed for a considerable time, it may have assumed a permanent charactm-, and a twist in the neck will tendon, the deep SoX ,o '.If F in firm and tense bauds • these bo^ sometimes be found stretching across they will yield in tlmf^id “d f "'ith. as vessels would attend any atteinnt it tf “"hdavian and carotid of the spinal accessory nerve Im been r ^ ® exposure and division ™rj non e has been piactised, but not, I lielicve, with much Kit 510 —Bigghs Apimratus for Wiy-iicck.