MORTALITY AFTER EXCISIOK OF UJF. 329 Jlesu/ln The result of excision of the hip-joint has to he considered from hvopoiutiofviow:-!. So fill- asHic Moi-UUity immediately refe^ opciLi, is coucemod; and M. As to the Utility of the L.mb that ,s left after JtoMHi/iifler IJif Ojmrdmi.—iiiiyK of New York, in I8C0, coUeeted the statistics of UK) cases i of these, recovery took place m 71, d'od, and in two the result is noted as being unsatisfactory. I-eisrink of Hamburg has -mostly pya3mia , , _ ])cr cent., died within a fortnight from exhaustion ; 14 others died between this time and the end of the first month—most from exhaustion, one from amyloid disease, and two from phthisis. From the beginning of the second month to the end of the year after the operation there were 27 deaths, or 15-?> ■per cent.; while nine died in the coimse of two or more years, of phthisis and other diseases. Leisrink states that in 17G cases of excision of the hip, there Avere idtogether 98 deaths. Of this apparently high mortality, however, only about one half, or 2(i per cent, of the whole cases, can be ascribed to the operation itself, or to the intercm-rence . of pyiemia and other diseases Avhich are liable to attend operative procedures. The other half of the deaths Avere produced by extension of the disease, by diarrhoea, or by phthisis or other disease of internal organs—probably in many instances existing at the time when the operation AA'^as performed. The mortality foUoAAung the operation appears to have been much loAver in England and America than in France and Oermany. The result of my own experience is, that the mortality directly referable to the operation itself is but small. I haA'e operated in twelve cases. Of these, only two have proved directly fatal; five are noAV AA^ell and going about; three J have lost sight of, after their recoA'ery and discharge from Hospital; and two haA e died, one eleven months and the other two years after the operation, from constitutional disease unconnected with it. When we consider that all these eases Avere instances of advanced femoral or acetabular coxalgia, which Avould speedily have proved fatal if not subjected to operation, Ave may with justice look upon them as successful, so far as the preseiwation of hfe was ■concerned. And, in this respect, excision of the head of the thigh-bone or of the hip-joint stands in a different position from similar operations practised on other joints. The Surgeon excises the elboAV, shoulder, or ankle, in order to restore an useful limb to the patient. Excision of these joints is a substitute for the loss of the limb by amjAutation—not, as in the case of the hip, to pi’cvcnt the almost inevitable loss of the life of the patient by continuance of hectic. 2. In estimating the 'ulililij of the Ibnb left after the excision of the hip-joiiit, Ave must compare it Avith the kind of member that Avould be left in the event of the patient surviving sufficiently long for a natural cure to result. It Avould be manifestly absurd to compare a limb Avhich had become seriously crippled, Avithered, diseased, and shortened, before any operation Avas undertaken, Avith one in Avhich no morbid action had ever taken place. So also Avould it be unjust to compare it Avith the state of a limb left after a slight attack of