encysted hernia of tunica vaginalis. 66s tl,c hitonal ring « iH rcquiro division, tbo iutcsthio must be reduced, and the testis T)ut back in the canal. _ . in- TreLuenf.-Thc treatment of congenital lieniia consists in the the tumour, and the application of a proper truss, the pad of which should compress the whole length of the inguinal canal. In children a radical cure may be etfected in this way ; but, in order to accomplish this desirable result, the truss must be worn for several years. The applicatmn of a truss with an_ air-pad will in many instances be found especially useful, as it applies itseii with fn-cater exactness than an ordinary incomprossMe one. In applying the truss,*carc must be taken not to compress the testis if undescended. In order to avoid this, the lower end of the pad may be cut out so as to be conca'^ e, and thus press down the testis while it supports the hernia. ■\Vhen strangulated, congenital hernia does not commonly admit of reduc- tion, and thus necessarily renders an operation imperative. The procedure is more commonly req^uired for this kind of hernia in adults than in infants. The operation is the same as that for oblique inguinal hernia, but the parts concenied are usually thimier, the timica vaginalis serving for a sac ; hence more caution than usual is required in these cases. The sac commonly con- tains a hu’ge quantity of fluid, usually clear, but often dark in coloim, there being, in fact, a hydrocele conjoined with the hernia. The strictiu’c will iilways be foimd in the neck of the sac, which appears to be condensed, elon- gated, and narrowed ; hence it is useless in these cases to endeavour to relieve the strangulation, without laying open the sac, and dividing its neck from within. As the congenital hernia is always external to the epigastric vessels, the section of the strictm’e may be done with perfect safety in a direction up- wai’ds and outwards, though, if the Surgeon should have any doubt as to the exact nature of the case, it wiU be better to divide the strieture directly upwards. The strictme, in fact, appears to be formed by the imperfect contraction of that portion of the funicular prolongation of the peritoneum, wkich normally becomes obhterated before birth, and establishes the separation betw^een the tw'o serous sacs of the tunica vaginalis and of the peritoneum. The reduction of the contents of the hernia will in the adult often be prevented by adhesions in the neck of the sac, or between them and the testis. I have found both the gut and omentum closely incorporated with this organ, and requiring some nice dissection to separate them. In operating upon infants of a very tender nge, much caution wiU necessarily be demanded, on account of the tenuity of the coverings, their tension, and the small size of the apertimes. The testis, as well as the spermatic cord, the veins of which are excessively tm’gid, come into view', and will usually be found much congested, and of a black or bluish- lack colour. A species of congenital hernia has been met with in the female, especially in children, in which the protrusion takes place into the canal of Nuck, which invests the round ligament. In one instance, I have seen a double inguinal hernia in a girl of five years old. It is of extremely rare occiuTence, and requires the same treatment as the coiresponding disease in the male. Excysted Heuxia of the Tuhica Yaginajhs, ok Infantile Hernia, as it has been somewhat absiu’dly termed, occurs in those cases in which the funicular portion of the tunica vaginalis is partly obstructed by a septum, or by being