ABSCESS IiV DISEASE OF SPINE. 295 Fig. 478.—Attitude of Uliild in Angular (Jun'ature in Ad- vanced Stage. water is applied to this pai-t; although there may be no appearance of excurva- tion, yet the skin covering it is hyperaisthetic. In these cases of caries 'mthout angular curvature, it will be found that the spine has lost its natural free mobility and flexibility, moving flxedly, stiffly, and as a whole, when the patient leans forwards or sideways. The patient, when laid flat on his back, cannot raise himself into a sitting position without the aid of his hands or elbows, and he cannot turn shai-ply and suddenly over upon his face. Occasionally the incipient curvature, when it occurs, assumes more of a lateral than of an angular direction ; and in one fatal case I have seen the spine actually bent back- Avards, so as to be incurA’ated at the seat of disease. In some rare cases, the true angular exciirvation dependent on caries of the bodies of the vertebrae may be associated lAith the ordinary lateral ciu've of debility. The lower limbs now become iveak, and the patient v^alks with a peculiar shuffling tottering gait, the legs being outspread, and the feet turned out. The Aveakness of the limbs is especially marked in going upstairs, and may be tested by directing the patient to stand unsupported on one leg, and raise the other so as to place the foot upon the seat of a chair, which he wiU probably be unable to do. Not mifrequently there is more or less of a neuralgic affection associated Avuth the muscular Aveakness—a species of neiu’algic motor paralysis which is very characteristic. Sensation is not only perfect, but over-acute in parts, Avhilst there is an ataxic state of the muscles of the lower extremities which presents a peculiar and characteristic train of nervous phenomena. The deformity of the spine may sloAvly in- crease ; the patient may become unable to stand ; and spasms of the muscles of the loAver extremity may come on together Avith a tendency to relaxation of the sphincter ani, and retention of urine. Abscess noAV commonly makes its appearance ; and in some cases it occurs before any of the other signs except pain and weakness of the spine, but cer- tainly before any deformity has taken place. When the abscess forms, as Stanley has observed, the pain and irritation of the spinal cord and nerves are usually lessened for a time. It must not, hoAvever, be supposed that abscess necessarily forms in all cases. In children Ave often meet Avith gi'eat excurvation Avithout any abscess. In adults, however, it is very rare to see angular ciu’vature Avithout suppuration. l>ut the liability to abscess Avill depend not only on the age of the patient, but on the primary seat of the disease, Avhether it commence in the intervertebral Ino-cartilages or in the bones of the spine ; and, if in the vertebras, on its 01 igin, Avhether tuberculous or not. If the disease commence in the interver- tebial structures, consolidation of the diseased spine Avill often take place Avit out the foniAation of abscess. But AA'hen it is situated primarily in the vertebne, this is much more doubtful; here, hoAvever, much Avill depend on the onn of the disease. Simple congestive or inflammatory caries of the spine may take place to a veiy considerable extent, and yet no suijpuration occur ; t le sodics ol the vertebrae undei-going erosion and absorption, and coalescing