DISEASES OF BONE. i8S that it can be removed, it must be excised, even though not detached. 'When the ilium and pelvic bones are affected iiidepeudeutly of the hip-joint, it is seldom that any operative measure can be employed Avith advantage : here we must leave the patient to the chance of the bone being at length so loosened as to admit of extraction. In some cases, however, if the disease be limited to a portion of the crest of the ilium, or to the tuber ischii, the dead bone may be removed ; although in these instances it not uncommonly happens that disease of a similar kind exists elsewhere about the sacrum or spine, that will eventually destroy the patient. In a case in Avhich I removed a portion of the crista ilii for necrosis that Avas apparently confined to that bone, it Avas found, on the patient dying some AA’eeks aftenA^ards of erysipelas, that the lumbar vertebrm Avere also diseased. Of late years, considerable portions of the pelvis haA-e been successfully excised for necrosis, as aaoU l^e more fuUy mentioned Avhen I come to speak of ^^ision of the hip-joint. The tuber ischii, when affected, may readily be extirpated. Necrosis of the Cranial Bones is of frequent occAirrence as the result of struma or syphilis, or the two conditions conjoined. When met Avith in child- ren, it is usually strumous, often occurring after measles or scarlet fever ; iu adults it is usually syphilitic, though by no means invariably so, being some- times the result of blows in people of otherwise healthy constitutions. There are four situations in which necrosis of the cranial bones may occur, viz., in the vault of the skuU, the frontal bone, the temporal bone, or in the sphenoid and ethmoid bones. When idiopathic necrosis affects the vault, it is usually syphilitic ; when it occurs in the other situations, especially in the temporal bone, it is commonly strumous. Three forms of necrosis affect the cranial bones. In one case, the outer table is alone affected : this perishes, separates, and exfohates; granulations then spring up from the outer surface of the iuner table, and a process of repair is thus established. In the second form of the disease, the Avhole thickness of the skuU necroses, separates from the dura mater and surrounding healthy bone in the usual Avay, and may be detached in large irregularly shaped pieces, some- times of large size, occupying scA'cral square inches. In the third form, the necrosis is hard, dry, rough, and pitted or worm-eaten, penetrating through the d-iploe to the iuner table, separating A'ery sloAvly, and lasting an indefinite period. Results.—In necrosis of the cranial Ijones, there is always the special danger of extension of morbid action to the membranes of the braiu, and the consequent occurrence of inflammatory effusion Avithin the skull, leading to coimilsions, coma, and death. This danger is greatest when the petrous portion of the temporal bone is affected, as the structure of this bone is homogeneous, and the dm-a mater is continuous with the lining of the caA'itics by which it is per- forated. Cerebral complication is less likely to occur Avhen the ffontal bone is the scat of disease, more particularly the loAver part of this boue, Avhere, by the intci’A’cntion of the frontal sinuses, the anterior Avail is altogether carried uaa ay from the inner table, and from all dangerous proximity to the membranes of the brain. _ -in The Si(jns of necrosis of the cranial bones are very obvious.^ hen the A-ault or forehead is affected, there is tenderness, Avith some puftiucss, and gra ua elevation of the scalp into an abscess. When this is opened, the necrosed bone