8o2 URINARY CALCULUS. Indications for the Median Operation.—The median operation may with propriety be performed in the following classes of cases. 1. In cases where foreign bodies, such as pieces of bougie, of tobacco-pipe, &c., are lodged in the bladder, the median is preferable, the body being small, elongated, Ld easily extracted. 2. It may be employed to remove stones not exceeding one inch in their smallest diameter. But then, it may be said, calculi of this size can generally be safely subjected to lithotrity. That is true ; but, in certain of these cases, lithotrity is not admissible ; so that the median operation is in- dicated in cases of small calculi in which lithotrity cannot be practised in con- sequence of irritability of the bladder, or of the patient being too weak to bear repeated sittings. If a small calculus be lodged just behind the prostate, in a pouch which occasionally forms at a lower fundus of the bladder, we may come down on it at once by the median incision. 3. When there arc numerous small calculi, lithotrity is not desirable, and then the median operation appears to be preferable. 4. In cases in which lithotrity has been performed, and the patient is unable to expel the fragments, we may perform the median operation, and readily extract the detritus by the scoop, as it lies behind the prostate. 5. In the case also of calculi which are too large to be successfully subjected to lithotrity, but which, if removed by the lateral operation, are attended by a frightful rate of mortahty, it seems to me that the median operation might possibly be advantageously combined with lithotrity. The stone having been broken up at one sitting, the fragments might at once be extracted through a limited incision in the mesial line of the perinteum. 6. In cases in which the patient is so anmmic that the loss of an additional ounce or two of blood might turn the scale against him, median is preferable to lateral lithotomy. For, although it is by no means almost a bloodless operation, as is supposed by some, yet there is less hmmorrhage during the performance, or rather, perhaps, less continuous oozing after its completion, than in the lateral, and there is certainly not the danger of the profuse bleeding that is sometimes seen in that operation. Where we have to do with a stone of large size, the median is not, in my opinion, safe ; such an amount of traction must be used as will infalhbly bruise and lacerate the neck and base of the bladder, and expose the patient to infiltration of urine and deep pelvic inflammation—to all the dangers, in fact, of the old Marian opera- tion ; dangers which were so great that more than half the patients subjected to it perished, and which caused it to be abandoned for the lateral. I have said nothing special about the performance of the median operation in boys. Under the age of puberty, lateral lithotomy is a very successful operation ; certainly the most successful of all the great operations in surgery. The median can scarcely prove to be superior to it in this respect; and unless it can be shovm to possess decided advantages over the lateral in ease of exe- oution—and in this particular respect, in my opinion, it falls far short of the lateral—it does not appear to me to be desirable to abandon an operation ol proved safety for one that is still on its trial. Bilateral Lithotomy.—The bilateral operation introduced by Dupuytren is a modification of the old median. In it a curved transverse incision is made across the perinmum half an inch above the anus, towards which its concavity looks, the horns of the incision extending to two-thirds of the distance between the anus and the tuber ischii on each side (Fig. 754). The dissection is care-