lOO SPECIAL ANEURISMS. filling up tlio hollow on each side the sella Turcica, which Averc evidently (hlatations of the carotid arteries ; and from their being filled with laminse of coagulated blood, there could bo little doubt of their being aneurisms of these arteries. The one on the left side Avas the largest; that on the right side communicated AAfith the caAity of the artery, which Avas not the case Avith the other.” A case occurred in University College Hospital some years ago, under the care of A. T. Thomson, in Avhich a someAAdiat similar condition existed. A man, forty-nine years of ago, had fallen on his head some months before ad- mission into the Hospital. Since then he had been garrulous, silly, and very in-itable—becoming readily intoxicated. He suddenly became insensible and comatose, Avith vomiting and laborious breathing ; he could close both eyes, but the right pupil Avas dilated ; the left side was paralysed. He Avas treated for apoplexy, and became slightly better, but died in ten days from the first attack. On examination, an aneurism a little larger than a hazel-nut Avas found on the trunk of the right carotid, where it gave off the middle cerebral artery, and another small one on the com’se of that artery. There was a globular aneurism on the corresponding artery of the opposite side ; the basilar artery was thickened, Avhite, and opaque, as were also the other larger arteries of the brain ; there Avas softening of both anterior cerebral lobes, especially the right one. The arteries of the brain are very commonly healthy in these cases. Out of four instances of intracranial aneurism that have fallen under my observation, the other vessels of the brain have been healthy in three cases, and atheroma- tous in but one. In one case I have seen aneurism Avithin the skull associated Avith aneurism elseAvhere—in the thoracic aorta. PaBSSURE-EFFECTS.—The pressm’e exercised by an aneurismal sac situated Avithin the skull is always exclusively directed against the yielding cerebral sub- stance, which is often extensiA'ely disorganised. The bones of the skull, how- ever close their proximity to the sac may be, frequently escape, and seldom suffer much. This peculiarity in the effects of anem’ism in this situation may be partly OAving to the A’^ery dense and compact character of the inner layer of the skull, but is doubtless principally due to the very soft and yielding nature of the contents of the caAuty. Absorption of the subjacent bone, howeA’er, sometimes takes place to a limited extent; thus in one case (Moore s) the body of the sphenoid bone was indented and partially absorbed. The parts compressed in each case aauII A'ary according to the situation of the tumoiu’. But those that principally suffer are necessarily those seated at the base of the brain, and forming the floor of the lateral ventricles. In Moore’s case, one of the optic nerves was flattened by the pressure of the substance of the anterior lobe ; the lamina perforata, the roots of the olfactory tract, the anterior part of the corpus striatum, and a considerable quantity of the neigh- bouring Avhite matter of the anterior lobe, Avere removed. ^ In a case by Lager, the portio dura of the right side Avas paralysed Irom this cause. In IL B. Smith’s case, the floor of the third ventricle, the tuber cinoreum, and the origins of the optic and olfactory nerves, suffered ; the optic nci’A e of the opposite side Avas flattened and softened. Besides the changes that take place in the cerebral substance as the resi t o