217 CAUSES OF ARTHRITIS. bcino- arrested or modified hy the morbid state of the subjacent bone. 'When once the eai'tilage becomes affected, the nmole ■of the interior of the joint speedily sup- purates, and is destroyed. In other cases, inflammatory congestion, but without the formation of tuberculous matter, takes place in the articular ends, which become somewhat expanded ; and then, without any suppuration occurring in the osseous structiu’e, the cartilage gradually sepa- rates or peels off’, and becomes softened and necrosed. This condition is often met Avith in disease of the tarsal articula- tions. Fi''. -tliO.—«, Caries of Head of Tibia: 6, Perforation of Cartilage. Al’thritis commonly results from luoiuuls of joints or 'injuries, such as sprains and iVactm-es occuiTing in their vicinity, more particularly in young people and in those of a lymphatic constitution. It also occurs as a not mifrequent accompaniment of pijce'nin (Vol. I. pp. 716, 121 \ and of some of the morbid conditions of the puerperal state. The puerperal infiammation of joints is of a very destructive character, most generally speedily terminating in suppurative disorganisation. One or several joints may be affected, and the knee is the one that is most frequently and seriously involved. Puerperal arthritis probably depends upon a purulent infection of the blood, the result of uterine jrhleljitis. Arthritis not unfrequently occurs as a consequence of scarlatina; the knee-joint is often affected in a destructive manner after this disease. In some forms of albuminuria there is also a great tendency to inflammation of the joints ; and, indeed, I have so frequently seen that form of renal dropsy Avhich follows scarlet fever accompanied by serious, sometimes destructive, inflammation of some joint, as almost to look upon one condition as the .sequence of the other. Acute Arthritis of a single large joint is never rheumatic. In rheumatism more joints than one are always affected. Where one single joint, such as the knee, is attacked by disorganising inflammation, the disease arises from one of three diseases, viz., struma, pyaemia, or gonon’hoea. When strumous, it Avill usually partake of the character of white SAvelling, or commence in the osseous articular ends. When commencing in the synoAual membrane and confined to the soft articular structures, it will be found (when not tramnatic) to be either pyaemic—possibly in women puerperal—or gonoiThocal. In either case the prognosis is bad—in the first to life, in the last to the joint. In old people, acute disorganising arthritis is occasionally set up Avithout any injury or other extcnial exciting cause. I have in this Avay seen the joints of the foot, the ankle, and the stcnio-clavicular articulation rapidly destroyed, Avith great local inflammatory excitement and severe constitutional distiu-bance