SPECIAL ANEURISMS. 148 'bilious, the fingers being passed between the convolutions of the intestines, and tlie peritoneum covering the artery being scratched through. The patient survived forty hours. James ligatiu’cd the aorta much in the same way as Sir A. Cooper did, in a case in which he had previously employed the distal opera- tion for an inguinal aneurism ; but without success, the patient speedily dying. Mm'ray ligatiu’cd the vessel by making an incision on the left side, in front of the projecting end of the tenth rib, and carrying it downwards for six inches- to the anterior superior spine of the ilium. The parts were then carefully divided to the peritoneum, which was separated from the iliac fossa and the- psoas muscle, when, noth great difficulty, and by scratching with the end of an elevator and the finger-nails, room was made for the passage of the ligature round the artery, which was tied three or four lines above its bifurcation. The patient died in twenty-three hours. The most interesting case on record is that by Monteiro, who tied the aorta for a large false anem-ism. on the lower and right side of the abdomen ; here the incision was made much as in Murray’s case, and the artery ligatured with gxeat difficulty. The patient lAed till the tenth day, wffien he died of secondary haemorrhage. In South’s case, the aorta was tied behind the peritoneum by an incision on the left side of the abdomen. The patient died in forty-three hours. McGluire’s patient had an aneurismal tumour of the size of a goose’s egg in the left iliac region. Digital pressure- near the umbilicus was attempted, but could not be done. The operator’s intention was at first to tie the left common iliac artery ; but, finding the disease more extensive than he expected, he enlarged the incision and tied the- aorta. The sac burst dming the manipulation necessary to reach the aorta, and about a pint of blood was lost. The patient died in eleven homs. Stokes compressed the aorta wdth a silver wire passed round it in the way of a ligature. He made a crescentic incision five-and-a-half inches in length in the left side of the abdomen, extending fr-om an inch below the tenth rib to the middle of Poupart’s ligament. The abdominal muscles and fascia transversalis were then incised, and the peritoneum exposed and drawn out of the iliac fossa. It was accidentally, but only slightly wounded. The patient being turned on his right side, the arteries and aneurism were exposed, aud the wire passed by means of an aneurism-needle round the aorta immediately above its bifurcation. The patient died in twelve hoiu’S. Perhaps the most interesting point in this remarkable case is the fact’of the pulsation retiuning in the left (sound) femoral artery nme hours after the operation ; showing how rapidly the collateral cir- culation can be re-estabhshed. Czerny’s case scarcely belongs to the present category, but may be mentioned here. The patient was a French soldier, the- upper part of whose thigh had been shattered by a ball during the Franco- German war. Secondary hEemorrhage occim-ing, Czerny tied the common femoral, and also the superficial femoral below the origin of the profunda. This arrested the luEmorrhage for a time ; but in six days it recurred. Czerny then tied the common iliac ; but, as the hemorrhage continued, he thought that he had tied the external iliac, and proceeded to apply another hgatiu-c-- which he placed by mistake on the aorta. The patient snmved twenty-six hours. In this case too, twenty-two hours after the operation, the iniured limb was cold and as if dead, while the opposite limb was warm, and retained sensation and motion.