199 treatment of exostosis. • . nnlp^s it Dvoicct iuto fviicl coinpress size, Bcldom produces iimdia tumour of this kind importuut parts. Thus Cloquet r ola^ - „acasionaUy growing ft-om table of the sktdl, upon the found to project into t^ , become stationary after a time, brain. When been known to necrose, and to slough away, as it were, tml’^i^ich it has heen situated. Of this termination Hilton and Boyer relate instances. OeUular Exostoses grow rapidly, often Xhe Spongy, ^ ° ^ary commonly muitiple. Exostoses attain a considerable size, and J covered of this form are primarily their develop- with a thin layer of cartilage, whic < ^ > m,merous, they will often be ment. They are usually pedunculated. .. .„5ment Not unftequently found to be somewhat over joints, and thus Sers spinous f in struetme and chemical —" 'XS, ihftS^r - = ^is'es has b^en descidbed and illustrated, \ol. I., p. 75G. i o Urn-rl thick and The Sijmjtoms of exostosis are simply those produce ^ y < , > slowly growiug tumour, connected with a bone and pushing 01 ,■ p2"corerinlit. In many cases it produces serious ^ pressm-e, either upon neighbouring organs or mucous canals ; 01 it Ln ulceration of the skin lying above it. In some bone maybe connected with an aiTest of development of the bone horn whic it It would appear as it there were a perversion rather tlmn an leL'of proper ossification in these oases. Thus I have seen the lower third of the ulna completely arrested in its development by the formation of - the exostoses at the lower pai't of the middle third, the bone being pel- mauently shortened and dwarfed below this point. ^ ^ Treatment.—It an exostosis be so situated as to occasion inconvenience or deformity, it w'ill be necessary to remove it; and as it is a local disease, t^ere is no fear of its return, proAuded this be fully done. If, however, the ivhole of it be not taken away, it may groiv again ; and Stanley accordingly recommends that if it be so situated, as upon the skull, that its base cannot be extirpatec, . potassa fusa or nitric acid should be applied to the part that is left, so as to produce exfoliation of it. The removal of these tumours is best effected by a Key’s or a chain saw, or cutting pliers. In some situations, as when close upon joints, or springing from the cendcal vertebrae, they cannot be interfered with ; and in other cases, as occasionally happens in the neighbourhood of the oibit, their density and hardness may be such that the saw can scarcely work its way through them. There is one A’ariety of exostosis Aidiich deseiw es special attention. It is that form of the disease wdiich springs from the upper surface of the ungual phalanx of the great toe. It forms a small rounded mass, usually about half as large as a cherry, projecting under or beyond the nail, and giilng rise to much pain and inconvenience in ivalking. Diipiiytren, who first described this peculiar variety of the disease, has pointed out the