TREATMENT OF OSTEO-ANEURISM. Ill this he M-ill be fui-ther cassisted by its giving on compression a , flm-ivession surrounded by an \ doubted that, when tumours of tliis kind occur m some ot the ordinary . situations of aneurism, as about the brim of the pehds, and in the popliteal space, the diagnosis is surrounded with difficulties which no amount of surgical skill or tact may be able to overcome. From ordinary tumours of lone, the existence of pulsation and bruit lull always suffice to distinguish the growths under consideration. Treatment.—Incision into a pulsating tumour of bone, or any attempt to^ i-emove it without its osseous connections, is clearly contrary to the. rules ot good surgery; and when it has been practised, the haemorrhage has been of the most alarming and dangerous character. Resection has been had recoiuse ' to in some instances, as when the disease has been seated on the cranial bones, but without success. Liston, in a tumom of this kind growing from the scapula, which he called “ an ossified aneurismal tumour of the subscapular artery, “excised the greater portion of the bone from which it sprang ; but fungous growths reappeai’ed in the wound, by which the patient was at last exhausted. When the disease has proceeded to such an extent as to produce extensive alteration in, and destruction of, the tissue of the bone affected, amjputahon of the limb is the only resource left to the Surgeon. This operation is also called for in those cases in which the disease retinns after other means, such as the liyature of the artery, have been practised. In these cases, if the disease partake at all of the malignant character, the limb must be removed at a point above the affected bone. The result of ligature of the main artery leading to the tumour depends .greatly upon the nature of the growth. When it is partly composed of sarco- matous or other solid tissue, but little good can result from this proceeding— the tumour continuing to increase by an inherent growth, which will continue as long as the vitality of the limb is maintained ; and we accordingly find that, in all such cases in which this operation has been practised, the progi’ess of the tumour has either not been retarded, or, if the pulsations have been stopped and its size lessened for a time, the activity of the symptoms has speedily re- turned, and amputation has been rendered necessary. When, however, the tumour has partaken more of the characters of true osteo-aneurism, then a more favourable result has followed the ligature of the main artery of the limb. In a case of this kind seated in the radius, in Avhich Roux ligatured the brachial artery, a complete cure resulted. The same also occurred to Lallemand ; and in a patient of Dupuytren’s there was no return of the disease for six years, when it recim-ed, and amputation became necessary. These results arc suf- ficiently satisfactory to justify the Surgeon in having recourse to the ligature, or perhaps the compression, of the main artery of the limb, in those cases in which the tumour can be ascertained not to partake of the nature of malig- nant growth.