DISSECTING ANEURISM. 21 infcenial, or the internal and middle, coats have been ruptured, and arc co^e- quently deficient. This is by far the most frequent form of sacculated aneurism, and is that which is met with of so gi’cat a size. In by far the majority of cases, the internal coat, and the innermost layers of the middle coat, have been destroyed by atheromatous degeneration, leaving an erosion or depression in the interior of the artery, with weakness of the coiTCsponding portion of its wall, which becomes expanded by the outward pressure of the blood. In these cases the sac is principally formed by the expansion of the outer coat, to which some of the layers of the middle may still be adherent, but which is essentially strengthened and thickened by plastic deposits, and by adhesions to neigh- boiu-iug parts, Avhich have become fused into its composition. In these cases there are outgrowth, hypertrophy, and new deposit in and upon the external coat, as is e^■idenced by its actually becoming thicker, instead of its being thinned, as it would be were it only expanded. The formation of an aneurism by the hernial protrusion of the internal and middle coats through an ulcerated aperture in the external coat has been described ; but, though there is a preparation in the Museum of the College of Surgeons that is supposed to illustrate this fact, I doubt the existence of such a form of the disease, and after careful examination think that the preparation in question represents I’ather an artificial dissection than a true rupture of this dense and elastic coat. A false aneiuism may always be readily distinguished from a true one, by the greater magnitude that it attains, by the size of the sac being out of all proportion to that of its mouth, and, on a section of this being made, by the middle coat being seen to terminate abruptly in a thick and dense ring, imme- diately around the mouth and neck of the sac. A false aneurism may either be so from the very first, the internal and middle coats having been destroyed by softening and erosion, and the external expanded and hypertrophied into a sac ; or it may originally have been a true aneiuism, and have been converted into the false variety of the disease by the giving way of some of its coats. Surgeons generally recognise .two varieties of false aneiuism—the circumscribed and the diffused. By the Circumscribed False Aneurism is meant that form of the disease in which the blood is stiU contained ivithin a sac, formed by at least one of the arterial coats, however expanded and altered in its struckire this may be. The term Diffused False Aneurism includes two distinct varieties of the disease. In one case there is ruptiue of the sac, with general and widely spread extravasation of blood into the areolar tissue of the limb or part. In the other case it happens that the sac formed by the dilatation and hypertrophy of the outer coat of the artery is ruptured, and the blood, although effused beyond this, is still confined in a sac of condensed areolar tissue, formed by the raattei- together with coaguliun and lymph of the structures into which the blood has been effused. 8. Dissecting Aneurism is a remarkable form of the disease, originally described by Shekeltou, in which the sac is situated in the wall of the artery between its coats. It originates in consequence of the internal coat of the vessel becoming eroded, and giving way before any of that adhesion and matting together of the tissues around the patch has taken place, which pre- vents the blood from being forced between the different tunics of the arter5\