irdUTABlLlTY OF THE BLADDER. 845 place : mucus, pus, sabulous matter, and even calculous concretions, not un- frequcntly being met with in these situations. It is the retention of urme> mixed with mucus or pus in these cysts, where it undergoes decomposition, that is a common cause of the great fetor of the urine in such cases. Causes.—Irritability of the bladder may ai-isc, as has already been stated, from a gi-eat variety of causes. These differ somewhat as the disease occurs in men, in women, or in children. The causes of irritability of the bladder in men may be arranged under the following heads. 1. Alorhid Conditions of the Urine.—If this secretion bo preternaturally acid and acrid, and loaded with lithates and the products of imperfect assimilation, it is especially apt to occasion an in’itation of the bladder, attended by pain and a frequent desire to expel the offending fluid. Urine containing oxalates in lai-go quantity is sometimes, though more rarely, a source of irritability of the bladder, which in these cases is perhaps increased by the morbidly sensitive state of the nervous system usually co-existing with these conditions of the urine. In gout, in-itability of the bladder is not unfrequently met Avith. This may in some cases be owing to the acid and acrid character of the urine ; in others, to the excitation of a distinct gouty inflammation of the bladder and prostate, co-existing or alternating Avith the articular form of the disease. 2. Renal Disease, more particularly the lodgment of a stone in the kidney, AviU often occasion sympathetic pains in the bladder, Avith much iiTitability of that organ, so as closely to simulate vesical disease, or even to lead to a suspicion of the existence of stone in the bladder. Tuberculous pyelitis wiU often occasion in-itability of the bladder, so as to closely simulate the symptoms of stone. The presence of the unorganisable deposit in the hilus of the kid- ney, whether it be tuberculous, or calculous, wiU produce the same local symptoms, and is not unfrequently attended by sympathetic in-itation of the bladder, simulating the presence of stone in that organ. 3. Disease of the Bladder itself, as a chronically inflamed state of its mucous membrane, will give rise to pain and irritation on the accumulation of a small quantity of urine, Avith a frequent desire for its expulsion. So, also, when the interior of the organ is fasciculated, or contains cysts, and more especially if there be a tumour in a state of ulceration, a degree of morbid irritability A\'iH be induced, often of the most severe and intractable kind. 4. The Lodgment of a Stone in the Bladder will ahvays, by its mechanical action, by its weight and pressure, by rolling about Avhen the body is in motion, imtate the interior of the organ ; and, in fact, the “ rational symp- toms ” of stone in the bladder are simply those of irritability of that organ. 5. Inflammation, Ulceration, Abscess, or other Diseases of the Prostate, and inflammation, gonorrheal or simple, and abscess or stricture of the deeper por- tions of the urethra, also not unfrequently occasion irritability of the bladder. 0. Various Diseases in Neighbouring Organs Avill occasion this condition. Amongst the most frequent are fissm-e and ulcer of the rectum and anus, piles, prolapsus, intestinal Avorms, gall-stones, and varicocele. Diagnosis. The diagnosis of in-itability of the bladder is easily made ; but it is often a matter of no little difficulty, though of the very flrst importanccv to diagnose the piecise cause ol that irritability. This can of course only be