735 treatment of e no lapsus ani. , 1 r.vp Hiorc is a deep and distincfc sulcns between the protrusion and extremely laie, tlieie is a t i is when the protrusion is stricture. In chronic cases, the anal aperture appears to be per- manently relaxed ; and, on intio- ducing the fing'ei’ into it, it is found to be widened and iveak- ened. The folds of skin in its neighbourhood are relaxed and elongated, radiating from it as from a centre; they are commonly bluish, soft, somewhat swollen, and pendulous, and often the seat of a good deal of irritation. The protrusion at first occurs only after defecation, and then readily goes back of itself, or is reduced by steady pressiu’e upon it; after a time, however, it AviU come down at other periods ; thus it may protrude after riding, walking, or even standing, and is returned noth much difficulty. Strangulation of the prolapsus may occasionally occur, if it be allowed to protrade for a considerable length of time ynthout a proper attempt being made to push it back. It then becomes swollen and livid, with great pain and tenesmus, discharges a fetid ill-conditioned pus, and may eventually fall into a sloughy state, and thus separating, undergo a spontaneous cure. There is a form of prolapsus that arises from complete atony of the levator and sphincter ani muscles. Tor this nothing can advantageously be done by operation. Palliation by simple support is the sole treatment. Treatveent.—The treatment of prolapsus may be said to be palliative and curative. The Palliative Treatment consists in the first place in reducing the tumour when protruded. This, in ordinary circumstances, the patient does for himself; but, if it become congested, it requires the help of the Siu’geon to put it back. This may occasionally be readily done by laying the patient on his side, or making him lean over the back of a chafr ; and then greasing the mass "with some oil, seizing it with a soft towel, and gradually compressing it, Avorking it back. It may be kept np by Avearing a belt Avith a pad and elastic support. Olive-shaped pewter pessaries are occasionally employed, with the vicAv of preventing the protrusion ; but I have never seen them of any service, the sphincter being usually too relaxed to keep them up, and their pressure appearing to excite irritation. The regulation of the boAvels is as important in prolapsus as in piles. It is usually best done by tlie administration of those laxatives that have been recommended for the latter disease. It is a good plan in prolapsus to get the patient to have his daily motion at bed-time instead of at the usual hour in the morning ; the recumbent position and the uniform temperature of the l)cd preventing the imtation of the sphincter and spasm of the anal muscles that commonly continue for some time after the reduction of the prolapsus,