609 A A'ILLO-MAMMAR Y CA NCER. pectomi muscle, and the dissection requires to be earned doeply into tte axilla or raider the pectoral. The danger here is threctold ; I, ftom hiemoi- rlia<re • 2 from the entry of air into a yein ; 8, and chiefly, from opening lip "the deep foscia of the axilla, and the risk of the occiiiTence of deep cellulitis. When death follows these operations, it is usually the result of erysipelas or of pyaemia. There are two dangers which attend excision of the breast rather more fre- quently than other operations ; viz., 1st, a congestive or low form of pneamonia, not dependent on any blood-poisoning, but arising from defective aeration occasioned by the breathing being shallow and restrained either by tight banda^^ingof the chest, or by the pain induced by the movement of the chest- walls hi respiration ; and 2nd, embolism of the pulmonary artery. I have known several instances of death from each of these causes. The first danger can obi iously be guarded against; the second cannot. The Male Breast, though very rarely the seat of disease, may occasionally become affected in a somewhat similar manner to the mammary gland in the female ; being, in some instances, hyperiro^Jhied, in others the seat of an ahiormal secretion of millc, in other cases, affected by the formation of n/stir, sarcomatous, and scirrhous tumours. These gi’owths require removal by the same kind of operative procedure that is adopted when they affect the female breast, though of a less extensive character. Axillo-mammary Cancer presents some peculiarities that deserve special consideration. It developes at the outer and upper angle of the mammary gland towards its free border, so that, instead of growing into its substance and remaining imbedded in it, it tends to push into the direction of least resist- ance to its out-growth, and thus to extend into the areolar space at the lower border of the axiUary edge of the pectoralis major, and lie between it and the latissimus dorsi muscle. The tumour feels hard, nodulated, and is rounded in shape. Sometimes it appears to be scarcely attached to the mammary gland. But on closer manipulation it will be found to extend deeply into its sub- stance, which towards the base of the tumom’ feels hard and thickened. The greater portion of the gland, the median half and much of the lower part, •will continue long unaffected by cancerous infiltration. The nipple is not retracted until a very late period in this form of the disease. It and the areola continue to preserve their normal appearances, long after the skin above them has become involved and the axillary glands enlarged. The mamier in which the skin is implicated and the appearance it presents is peculiar and characteristic. It becomes involved early by dimpling from below in a trans- verse direction at the upper and outer border of the mamma, Avhere there is a tendouey naturally to a fold ov crease in the integument. There the skin liccomes infiltrated in a transverse line of hard scirrhus, red, depressed and puckered in, with much feeling of constriction and difficulty in raising the arm from the side. The disease, when once it has reached this stage, will of course make rapid progress both locally and constitutionally. That these axillo-mammary cancers commence in the breast-gland there can be no doubt, although their rapid development beyond its limits may, at first, lead to the suspicion that they have commenced outside it. It is only towards the upper and outer border of the mamma that those VOI,. II K R