CYSTS OF THE BLADDER. 849 prostate or neighbouring structures, and in Avonien may be secondary to cancer of tbe uterus. According to Walsbe, it does not appear before tbe fortieth year. These tumoui-s, -whether simple or malignant, occasionally become encrusted with 2}hosj)ha(ic matter, deposited upon them by the urine ; and then they will resemble still more closely a calculus when the bladder is sounded ; from it, however, they may be distinguished by their fixed character, and by the impos- sibility of passing a sound around them. Some difficulty is often experienced in examining the bladder in these cases ; for, as the fungous mass pushes back the posterior wall of the viscus, it has a tendency to elongate the prostatic jDortion of the urethra and the neck of the bladder, so that a very long instru- ment may be required to reach it. Little can in general be done in the way of Treatment in this disease ; though the example of Civiale might, in some cases, be advantageously fol- lowed, who removed a small gi’owth seated at the neck of the bladder by seizing and twisting it off with a lithotrite. Warner has recorded a case in -which a tumour of this kind, of the size of an egg, was tied in the bladder of a woman after dilating her urethra. Billroth has, however, recently successfully removed a -villous gi’owth from the bladder of a boy by performing suprapubic and median lithotomy at the same time, and guiding a knife passed in through the perineal wound Avith his finger inserted at the suprapubic opening. > Cysts of the Bladder have already been mentioned at pp. 759, 765, and 844, in connexion -\Aith stone in and with irritability of that organ. We have now to consider them as a separate disease. As such they may be single or multiple, small in size, not larger than a cherry, or attaining the magnitude of the foetal head, and even larger than this. They no doubt commonly occur in the bladders of elderly men who have suffered from severe mechanical obstacles to the passage of the urine, in the shape of strictiue or enlarged prostate, are associated -with a generally thickened fasciculated state of the organ, and appear to be the result of simple dilatation of some weakened spot in the periphery of the bladder by the compression of the contained mine during efforts at expulsion, causing extrusion of the mucous, of the thinned muscular, and of the expanded serous coats at some points of least resistance. But there is another kind of bladder-cyst, the origin of which cannot be explained in this way, and that would appear to be a distinct out-growth of the bladder. These cysts may be single or multiple, and may attain an enor- mous magnitude. The largest I have seen occurred in a man 35 years of age, otherwise perfectly healthy. He Avas admitted into University College Hospital, and Avas under the joint care of Dr. Wilson Fox and the author. There Avas a tense clastic tumour, smooth and rounded, occupying the Avhole abdomen and extending into the pelvis, so as to be felt through the rectum. Had it occurred in a Avoman, the disease Avould probably have been pronounced ovarian. The tumoAu- had existed for six months, had gradually increased, but occasioned no uneasiness except by its pressm’e-effects. There was and had been no difficulty in passing urine or in defecation. The tumour was aspirated at its most prominent part, and se\en pints of clear lu’ine Avere draAvn off. The patient suddenly became taint, and died of syncope. On examination after death, tAvo enormous cysts Avere found connected with the bladder, one on each side, by a rounded opening