LATERAL LITHOTOMY IH BOYS. 779 be removed to a bed, which should be properly aiTanged by having a largo square of :Maciutosh cloth put across it. On this a folded sheet should be laid, which must be rolled up on the further side, so that, as it becomes wetted by the escape of urine, it may be drawn across irom under the patient. This niiist be changed frequently in order to keep him clean and dry. A full dose of tincture of opium in barley-water should then be given ; a waim flannel laid across the abdomen ; plenty of barley- or giun-water allowed for drink, and nothing but rice-milk or light pudding for diet durmg the first three or four days. After this some broth may be allowed, and the quality of the food gi-adually improved. Occasionally, however, it may be necessary to depart from this routine system of dieting the patient after lithotomy ; and I have, with great advantage, allowed wine, and e\'en brandy, a day or two after the operation. At the end of thirty-six or forty-eight hours the tube may be removed, the sides of the incision by that time having become glazed over, and little danger of infiltration existing. The patient, who up to this time has been lying on his back, should then be directed to change his posture, first to one side and then to the other. The buttocks and hips should be well oiled, so as to prevent the irritating effects of the luinary drainage. The urine continues to flo^v entirely through the wound for the first foim or five days. About this time it frequently suddenly ceases to do so, escaping by the urethra. This is owing to the prostate becoming tiu'gid by inflammatory action, and thus blocking up the aperture in it; but as this swelling goes down, in the course of a day or two, the urine usually escapes by the wound again, and continues to do so in gTadually decreasing quantities until the aperture is finally closed, which usually happens at about the end of fourteen or eighteen days ; though in patients who have suffered from phosphatic calculus it sometimes takes a longer period, owing to the broken state of the general health. Should the wound fall into a sloughy state, the patient must be put on a very generous diet, even a free allowance of stimulants : and the tinctime of benzoin may l)e daily applied. When slow of healing, it may be stimulated with nitrate of silver apphed to the bottom ; and, should a fistulous apertirre be left, that may be touched with the electric cautery. After the operation, appropriate constitutional treatment should be continued for some time in order to prevent a recurrence of the disease. Lateral Lithotomy in Boys under the age of puberty is, perhaps, the most successful of all the great operations in surgery. It is performed much in the same way as in the male adult ; there are, however, some points of modification or of difference in the operation when pi’actised on young subjects. The following arc worthy of note, and should be remembered by the Surgeon in proceeding to operate on children. 1. Ihe urethra in boys AviU commonly be found larger than would perhaps at first be expected from their age, readily admitting a No. 8 or i) staff. 2. fihe perinajum is usually proportionately more vascular in boys, in consequence of the straining produced by the inltation of the calculus. ?}. 'J.herc is often from the same cause a tendency to prolapsus of the rectum.