EXCISION OF THE LOWER JAW. 48; middle line, the operation is generally limited to one side of the face. In some instances, however, the tumour may encroach so far that it may be Mcessary to remove more than the half of the bone ; and in other cases again, though of veiT rare occim-ence, the whole of the bone has been disarticulated. When the tumour is of moderate size, and is situated about midway hehveen the symphysis and anyte of the jaw, it may be reached by making a semilunar- incision of sufficient length under the lower edge of the bone, and canying the- anterior extremity of it well forward upon the chin, but not dividing, if pos- sible, the lower lip, nor cutting into the angle of the mouth ; then dissecting- up the flap thus formed, and canying the knife cautiously along the inner side of the jaAV, so as to detach the mucous membrane of the mouth and the mylo- hyoid muscle to a sufficient extent. In doing this, the hemorrhage is often veiy profuse : the bleeding from the facial artery is particularly forcible, the blood being throiTO in a larger and stronger jet than would seem possible fiom the size of the vessel. The hemorrhage should be at once controlled by the application of ligatures to both ends of the bleeding artery, and to any other points from which it is more than usually abundant. Unless this be done, the after steps of the operation will be rendered much more obscure and difficult. One of the teeth on each side of the tumour having been prcvdously drawn, the jaw must now be deeply notched through their alveoli into its base -with a naiTow strong-backed saw, and cut through with pliers, or completely divided with the saw. After the fragment of diseased bone, with the attached tumour, has been removed, and aU bleeding vessels have been secured, the flap of cheek should be laid down smoothly, and retained in situ by means of hare-lip pins. Occasionally the dental artery in the cut jaw gives trouble ; the hemorrhage from this source may be checked by the application of a piece of solid per- chloride of iron. In aU operations for the removal of portions of the lower jaw, it is most important to avoid, as flu* as possible, opening up the mucous membrane of the mouth, so as to prevent the entrance into the buccal cavity of blood dining the operation, and of discharges after it. The patient must be fed with slops, which should be sucked in through a tube. At a later period, when cicatrisation is well advanced, the teeth should be tied together with strong silver wire ; or a silver cap should be fitted upon the teeth of the two portions of bone that are left, and attached by an elastic spring to another silver cap put on those of the upper jaw, so as to prevent the displacement that would otherwise occur in the smaller Iragment. Union takes place after a time by fibrous tissue, w^hich becomes sufficiently dense to make the jaw strong and useful. In those cases in which the tumour eno'oaclies upon the angle and ramus of the jaw, it is usually better to remove the bone at the articulation on the affected side ; for, if the articular end including the coronoid process be left, it -will be displaced forwards and upw'ards by the action of the temporal and external pterygoid muscles, and be a source of much incom cnience and irrita- tion to the patient, not compensated by any coiTesponding utihty. In these cases, the removal of one lateral half of the jaw will consequently be required, and the operation may be performed in the following way. The point of a strong bistoury or scalpel should be entered immediately behind the articulation, carried down the posterior margin of the ramus behind the angle, and under