DISEASE OF THE HIP-JOINT. 334 distinct principle. His object was twofold ; &st, to go above tlio trochanter minor in the section of the bone, so as to retain the attaehment of the psoas and iliacus muscles to the shaft for the purpose of flexion ; and seeondly, by cutting out a semicircular piece of bone, Avith its com'exity upwards, and then rounding off the upper end of the lower fragment, more nearly to imitate the natural shape of the joint, for the purposes of motion and to prevent slipping of the bones. The accompanying Fig. 497, shows the situation and shape of Sayre’s seetion, and of the piece of bone that he remoA-es. The seetion of the bone is effected after its exposure, by means of the chain saw; the transverse section being first made, the convex one next (Fig. 498). W. Adams has deAused a much more simple opera- tion, haAdng in view the same objects. His plan is to divide mbcuiamously the neck of the thigh-bone about its centre. This idea he put in praetiee in De- cember, 1869, when he performed the first subcutaneous ;section of the neck of the femur for the relief of deformity resulting from •ansular ankylosis. This operation is done as follows. The tenotome having been introduced a little above the top of the great trochanter, is carried S'ig. 407.—Lines of Section in , Sayre’s Operation for Anky- “ iosis of Hip-joint. Fig. 49S. Application of Chain Saw in Sayre s Operation. .Straight down to the neck of the femur, dividing the muscles and opening the capside freely. The knife being withdraAvn, a saw of this size (Fig._499), set in a strong anguhu- handle, is passed down to the bone, Avhich is cut thi’ough from before backwards (Fig. 500). The section of the bone takes a few Suites, and is as much an act of filing as of sawing. The Avound is then closed by a pad, and the limb brought straight. Before this nould be done in Adams’s first case, it was necessary to divide the Ion W of the rectus, the adductor loiigus, and the tensor vagma3 femom muscles In performing this operation, as Adams justly obseia es, it is of ^ rXco J the Suv;eon to he«- in mind the altered of the femm-. which is usually adducted as wel as flexed ^ division of the nock may he made at right angles to the ^0™ a not oblicinely, or in a direction more or less parallel to he shaft Affti^^the operation in Adams’s first case, an endeavour was made hy pass