ANEURISM. 6o elation of the tiunour after the ligature that liad pre\’eutccl tlic success of the couipression-trcatmcut. AVith regard to the Ihcility of ligaturing an artery such as the femoral, after compression has been tried and foiled, it must be admitted that the difficulties are increased. The sheath of the vessels is apt to become tliickcned, infiltrated, and the artery and vein perhaps less easily separable than when pressure has not pre^dously been employed. In fact, it mnst be said, that in such cases the Surgeon has iiot to do with a ■s’irgin artery. It shonld also not be forgotten that in some cases, as when aneurism is com- pheated with heart-disease, or occurs in a very broken and unhealthy constitu- tion, in Avhich the operation necessary for ligatime would scarcely or not at all be admissible, compression may be safely employed. After carefully considering the relative merits of the two plans of treatment, I think we may conclude that, though in some few cases neither ligature nor compression can be adopted, and amputation is the sole resomce, yet in others compression can be employed when it would not be safe to have recourse to the use of the ligatm-e ; and that, in all ordinary cases of femoral and popliteal aneurism especially, compression should be preferred to the ligatm-e, inasmuch as it is not a more tedious, and an infinitely safer method of cm-e. At the same time, it must not be forgotten that its success depends very gi-eatly on the continuous care bestowed upon the case during the progi-ess of the treatment. Digital Compression.—Shortly after the introduction of the treatment of aneurism by instrumental compression, the fingers were used as an adjunct to the mechanical means in use. Thus Greatrex, in 1845, directed a patient to keep up compression by means of the fingers, where the toimiiquet had been used, and required to be loosened. In the following year (184G) Vanzetti, then Pro- fessor of Surgery at Charkoff, tried, but unsuccessfully, to cm-e a lai'ge popliteal anem-ism by compression of the femoral with the fingers only, continued for two days. It was not until seven years later, when Professor at Padua, that Vanzetti had an opportunity of putting this method successfully into practice, and to establish it as a distinct means of curing aneurisms. But although this merit is undoubtedly due to Vanzetti, ive must credit Knight of Newhaven {U. S. A.) with the first successful case—he having, in 1848, cured a very laige popliteal aneurism by digital compression, maintained for forty hours. In this plan of treating- anem-isms, no apparatus of any kind is used ; but the circulation through the artery leading to the tumour is controlled by the pressure of the finger. In order to carry it out efficiently, there must be relays of assistants, each one of whom compresses the vessel for about ten minutes at a time. The pressure should be apphed in the way that is represented in Ing. 5, Vol. I., p. 35. The fotigue may be very materially lessened by placing a six or eight lb. weight on the compressing- finger. With such aid each assisfout may readily keep up the pressm-e for half an horn- at a time. So soon as his fingei-s become fatigued, but before he relaxes the pressin-e, aiiothei assistan presses the vessel; and thus the circulation through it may be mini eiiiip ec j controlled. In this way aneurisms of the popliteal artery, in the orbit, at the bend of the arm, and in the groin, hai'e been success y rca ec ic tumour having in some instances become consolidated in a eii ouis.