192 STRUCTURAL GHANGES IiY BONE. these cases drag on the lower ribs. In rickety chilch-en there is a general delicacy of appearance, and occasionally a strumous habit of body, thouo-b according to Rolvitansky, they are not usually tuberculous; if they live^ however, past the age of puberty, they may eventually become sufficientlv powerful in frame. ^ The T) ecittnent of must be conducted on the same general principles that guide us in cases of scrofula ; pure air, good food, and plenty of it, regular exercise, and the administration of tonics, especially cod liver oil and the pre- parations of iron, with scrupulous attention to the general habits of life of the child, AviU generaUy improve his condition to the utmost limits compatible Avith the powers of his constitution, and will, by improving the nutrition of the system, tend to the moi'e healthy deposition of osseous matter. In some cases, the administration of lime-water Avith mills; seems to be of service in suppljong those elements that are required by the system. It is of much importance in preventing deformity in these cases not to allow the child to walk or stand much, but to let it take exercise in donkey-panmers or hand-chairs, and to support those limbs that have a special tendency to become exemwated, Avith properly constructed steel supports, which Avill be found of much use, provided they are not too heavy, or interfere -with the action of the muscles. Methodical friction should also be employed, so as to stimulate the muscles ; as these become more vigorous, their osseous attachments have a tendency to become stronger. Mollities axd Fkagilitas Ossitoi—Osteomalacia.—A most destructive and dangerous disease of the bones, characterised by softening and fr-agihty of the osseous stnicture, is occasionally met Avith. This affection has been studied AAuth much attention by Curling, Solly, Stanley, MacIntyre, and Litzmann; and it is principally from their labours that we are acquainted with the principal facts relating to it. In this disease the bones are bent, their epiphyses swollen, and their shafts broken in various parts of the body. Occasionally, though very rarely, only one is fractured ; but in other cases, as in Tyrrell’s, there may be as many as twenty-tAvo fractures, or, as in Arnott’s, thirty-one. These fr’actures are imattended by any attempt at the formation of callus. The body becomes singularly and distressingly distorted. On examining the bones after death they Avill be found to be hght, soft, and someAvhat gritty—bending, and at the same time readily snappmg across ; occasionally they are expanded and thickened. This happens especially with the skull, which becomes often con- siderably increased in substance. ’ On cutting the bones, AA^ich are soft and yield something hke cartilage, the knife usually encounters a kind of gritty substance. On making a section of the bones they appear of a deep reddish- brown or maroon colour, and will be seen to contain cavities of A’ai'ious sizes,, small or large, but always of a circular or oA'al shape, and generally filled Avith an oily red and grumous fluid, though sometimes they contain clear serum. On examining this red gxinnous matter under the microscope it shoAA’s a cell- development ; hence Solly remarks that it is probably an adventitious morbid product, and not simply fatty matter altered by the effusion of blood into it. Dalrymple has shown that this material is composed of granular matter, nucleated cells, and a few caudate coiqmscles : he therefore believes it to be a