SPECIAL ANEUPiISMS. 144 It is a very remarkable circumstance in the liistory of tliis operation, that lour deaths resulted from tetanus. This sequence of this particular opera- tion it is difficult to account for, as it is a most unusual occurrence after the ligature of arteries, and is equally rare after wounds of the abdominal Avail in other operations, as for hernia. The only probable explanation that offers itself is that in these cases the genito-crural nerve, or its genital branch, may ha\-e been unduly irritated by or implicated in the ligature. The ligature of the external iliac for aneurismal varix in the (jrom affords a striking contrast Avith that for spontaneous aneurism ; the four cases recorded all proving fatal, tAvo dying of gangrene, and tAvo of hsemon-hage. In these cases Guthrie has recommended that the tumour should be laid open, and the artery ligatured above and beloAv the aperture in it. During the operation the artery may be readily commanded above the seat of disease by the application of the abdominal toiumiquet, either to the aorta or to the common iliac at the brim of the pelvis. Aneiu’ism occasionally takes place in the groin and ham of the same side; here the ligature of the external iliac Avill cime both diseases. Of four cases in Avhich this complication occurred, the operation Avas successful in three ; one patient dying of gangTene, and in him the popliteal aneurism Avas on the point of bursting at the time of the operation. In tAvo of the thi-ee cases that re- covered, pulsation returned in the inguinal aneurism, but disappeared after a time. Ligature of the Common Iliac.—This artery Avas first tied by Gibson, in a case of gun-shot injury, the patient dying of peritonitis and secondary hEemorrhage on the thirteenth day. The great American Surgeon, Mott, AA'as the first Avho tied it for aneurism, the patient making a good recovery. If the aneiu’ism in the groin extend so high that there is not sufficient space for the exposure and ligature of the external iliac artery, it becomes necessary to tie the common trunk. This may be done by extending the incision that serves for the ligature of the external iliac upAvards and slightly iuAvards toAvards the umbiheus, to an extent corresponding to the degree of obesity of the patient, so that it assumes a someAvhat semilunar form. Or a semilunar incision may be made fr’om the end of the last rib on a point about tAA'o or three inches above the mn- biheus, and carried doAVUAA^ards and iuAvards to a corresponding extent beloAV it. The incision is then successively carried through the different planes of muscular fibre AAith great caution and on a grooved director, until the transversalis fascia is exposed ; this must be carefully opened and fr’eely divided, so as to expose the peritoneum, Avhich noAv comes bulging into the Avound, pressing foi’AA'ard AA'ith its contents. This must be held aside, draAvn upAvards by the fingers of an assistant, and gently stripped from the iliac fossa by the Surgeon carefully insmuating his hand beneath it. When he arrives at tlie brim of the pelvis, he Avill readily be conducted to the external iliac arteiy, Avhich guides him to the parent trunk. The ligature must then be passed round the artery fr-om Avithin outAvards, a slight scratch haAdng been made through the fiiscia cover- ing the vessel by means of the finger-nail, by AAffiich it may also be sepai'atcd from the accompanying vein. In planning the incision for the ligature of this arteiy, care should be taken that it be not carried too Ioav doAvn or too far foi’Avards ; nothing can be gained