EXCISION OF IIAIR-BULBS. 417 in which it grows. But a patient will twitch it out quickly with his tweezers at right angles to the direction of the growth of the lash, and so it is very liable to be broken off. If only one or two lashes grow in they may be pulled out, once or twice, in the hope they will not grow again, nor again bo so misdirected. But if many lashes grow in, or if a few only be always gi-OAving in, they must either be excised vdth their hair-bulbs, or an attempt must be made, by producing cicatrisation, to give a right direction to their future growth. The latter operation, being more tedious and less certain in its results, is not worth per- forming, except on young persons or those to whom personal appearance is important. When the hair and hair-bulbs are extirpated, the whole row of lashes of each lid operated on should generally be removed, though some only here and there be inverted, unless those which are turned in be all at one part of the margin of the lid. In such a case, a small round piece of the skin and all the structiu’es down to the cartilage may be excised, close to the edge of the lid, so as to expose the roots of the inverted lashes, and the lashes drawn outwards with many fine sutures, inserted wherever they seem to be most required ; after which the scar may effectually evert the ingTown lashes. If the whole row of lashes, or, perhaps, even if some all along the edge of the lid, be growing in, a similar operation to that last described, but extending the whole length of the margin of the lid, may be done. If this should fail, the lashes may afterwards be wholly extirpated. The excision of a part of the row of haii--bulbs is very often unsatisfactory, because the subsequent cicatri- sation at the extremities of the wound will often draw in and invert some of the nearest lashes of those rightly directed. Excision of Hair-bulbs is thus done. A forceps (com^ressormm\ having for its lower blade a slightly curved plate of metal, has this blade placed under the lid, between it and the globe. The other blade, the skin of the lid being drawn away from its margin, is then brought down upon the outer surface, and is screwed down, so as to steady the eyelid between the two blades and hold it just firmly enough to control the bleeding, which in any operation on the eyelids is liable to be considerable and troublesome. This upper blade, to admit of operating, unlike the lower one, is but a skeleton, leaving all the centre of the lid and its margin, on the outer side,_exposcd (Tig. 5C2). With a scalpel, two ancisions are made along the margin of the lid, one on each side of the row of eyelashes, carefully including all of them ; the knife, for both incisions, being held in the direction of and made to cut incision are curved the piece of skin, is detached altogether the growth of the lashes deeply. The ends of the into each other, and then &c., including the lashes, YOL. II. Fig. 502. -Forcejia applied for E.\eision of Uair-bulbs. with scalpel and forceps. n E