URINARY CALCULUS. 764 explore the bladder, first on one side, then on the other. Slionld the rational symptoms of stone be Avell marked, though no calculus be struck, the Singeon must not give a decided opinion in the negative after the first exploration, but should examine the pa- tient again a few days later, with the bladder in different states, as to its contents. In making: this second examination, I have fomid it of gi’eat service to use a hollow steel sound, by which the organ can be injected or emptied at pleasure (Fig. 727). The patient should on this occasion have his bladder injected through such an instru- Fi^. 726.—Sounding for Stone above Pubes. ment aS this, udth folU’ or six ounces of tepid water, so as to distend the organ slightly, and prevent the folds of mucous membrane from overlapping any concretion that may exist in it. Its interior is then carefully explored in the way already described ; and, if the Fig. 727.—Hollow Sound. stone camiot then be detected, the contents of the bladder are gradually allowed to escape through the sound, and the patient is desired to stand up whilst the exploration is being proceeded with. In this way, by examining a patient in different positions and in different conditions of the bladder as to capacity, a calculus is sm-e to be detected if one exist. A hthotrite may occasionally be advantageously used as a sound for the detection of small calculi lying behind the prostate, a situation more readily reached by its short beak than by an instrument of larger ciu’ve. These examinations must not, however, be too pi'otracted ; the time occupied should not exceed above five minutes, lest cystitis be induced. When a stone is struck by the sound, there is not only a characteristic and distinct shock commimicated to the instrument, but' there is heard a tolerably loud click, which can be detected by the bystanders, and frequently by the patient, as well as by the Siugeon. By conducting the sounding properly, the Sm-geon may usually ascertain not only the existence of a stone, but its size and hardness ; Avhether it be single, if it be encysted, and the general state of the bladder ; with all of which it is of importance that he should be acquainted before undertaking any operation. A good deal of this information may be elicited by the ordinary sound, but some of the points can only be accurately determined by sounding wdth the lithotrite.