S50 DISEASES OF THE EL A DDES. bladder, it may be the result of congestion of the mucous mcmbianc, 0 that would admit the little finger. These orifices were situated symmetrically equidistant from the mesial line, and about one and a half inch above each ureter. These cysts were thin-Avallcd, chiefly composed of mucous membrane and peritoneum, possibly having expanded muscular fibres in their composi- tion. The two cysts Averc emptied through the bladder by the one puncture. The- peh'is of the kidneys, the ureter, and the bladder Avere all dilated; the urethra and prostate quite healthy. There Avas a total absence of all mechanical obstruction. It looked as if the Avhole of the urinary apparatus betAveen the calyces of the kidneys and the neck of the bladder had taken on a dilating out- groAvth. For certainly the dilatation of the canals and the formation of the cysts could not be occasioned by exccntric pressure, due to mechanical obstruction. ILiiiMATimiA.—The admixture of blood Avith the urine may usually be recognised by the colour that it communicates to this fluid. If the blood be in large quantity, the urine AAnll be dark broAvn, chocolate, or morone-coloured, and Avill stain red the bottom of the utensil or a piece of Avhite blotting-paper. If it be in smaller quantity, the urine will be broAvn in varying shades— smoky, or having something the aspect of thin beef-tea ; and in other cases it Avill be little discoloured, but will deposit a red or broAAn sediment on standing. Under the microscope, blood-discs may be detected in large numbers. Heat coagulates the blood into a brownish-grey deposit, leaving a clear supernatant fluid. Htematiuia may arise from a constihdmial condition or from a local cause. When constitutional, it is usually the consequence of scurvy. In those cases it Avill necessarily be associated Avith other, and probably marked, evidences of the disease. A form of haematuria, depending on the presence of a parasite— the Billiarzia lumiatoUa—is prevalent in Africa, and has been ably investi- gated by Leuckart, John Harley, Cobbold, and others. ■\^TAen arising from local causes, hasmaturia is a symptom of disease existing in some part of the urinary apparatus ; but it often assumes so great an importance from the loss of blood induced, that it must be looked upon as a substantive disease. Sources.—Htematuria may arise from, 1, the Kidneys ; 2, the Bladder ; 3, the Prostate ; or 4, the Urethra ; and from each source several distinct causes AAill produce it. The recognition of the precise morbid condition that gives rise to hgematuna is of the first importance in its treatment. 1. H£emorrh.age from the Kidneys.—When occurring fi’om the kidneys, the bleeding may be the result of congestion, acute inflammation, or malignant disease of those organs, of acute, tubercular, or calculous pyelitis, or of passage of a calculus down the ureter. The most certain evidence that the blood comes fr’om the kidney is the presence of blood-casts of the renal tubules. The renal congestion may be inflammatory or passive ; in either case the m-ine will present, after the discharge of blood has ceased, evidences of chronic renal disease in the form of albumen, pus, or casts of tubes. hen the hamion-hage arises from renal calculus, either stationaiy or descending, the symptoms of that morbid condition, described in p. 7o7, vol. II., aviU be Avei Hemorrhage ft-om the Bladder.-If the Mood proceed from the