CHRONIC RHEUMATIC ARTHRITIS. 227 If remove tlie remains of the inflammation that may he going on within it. recovery ha^'e left the joint somewhat stiffened without being actually anky- losed, the natural movement must be restored by warm bathing, fomentation, friction, and passive motion. Warm water, in any way applied, is particu- larly and, indeed, singularly useful in a way difficult of explanation in restonng the mobility of stiffened joints. _ Ciiiioxic RuEinMATic Arthritis.—A disease has been described especially by R. Adams and R. W. Smith, of Dublin, to which the name Chronic Rheu- matic Arihritis has been given. It commonly affects the hip, but has been met with in the temporo-maxillary articulation and in the shoulder. I have met "with cases of disease of this joint presenting all the characters of this affection during life, though, as there has been no opportunity of examining the state of the parts after dkth, it is impossible to speak positively as to the true nature of the disease. Chronic rheumatic arthritis is an active disease of the bones and fibrous expansions about the joint: it is especially characterised by con- siderable increase in the size and by alteration in the shape of the osseous structures, which become porous in some parts, porcellanous in others; by thickening of the fibrous capsule of the joint, with deposition of masses or jilates of bone in it, and ultimate destruction of the cartilages and synovial membranes. The suffering is considerable; the disease greatly cripples the utihty of the joint, at last produces incomplete ankylosis, and is incurable. Dry Clironic Rheumatic Arthritis of the Hip.—This form of the disease commences with pain in and about the joint, increased at night, and especially in damp or cold ■weather, presenting in this respect the ordinary cha- racters of rheumatic affection ; as the disease advances, the pain, which is continuous, is much increased by standing or walking, and the movements of the joint become gradually more and more impaired. The patient experiences the greatest difficulty in bending the body forwards from the hips ; he consequently is unable to stooj), or to sit in the ordinary position, being obliged to keep the limb straightened in nearly a direct line with the trunk. The difficulty in walking, in standing erect, in stooping, and in sitting increases. The trochanter will be felt to be thickened, and in- creased breadth of bone is distinctly perceptible in this part of the thigh. The limb, at first perhaps slightly lengthened, eventually becomes shortened to the extent of about an inch or more, owing to changes that take place in the head of the bone. The pelvis also assiunes an oblique direction, and hence the apparent shortening becomes considerably greater. Ihe knee and foot may either be inverted or everted, and the heel is raised. The shape of the hip also alters considerably ; it becomes flattened posteriorly, the gluteal muscles waste so that the fold of the Rates diminishes and sinks to a lower level, but the trochanter projects Fig 438.—Diy Chronic: Rheu- matu! Artliritis of Right Hin- Jomt. '