8s 6 DISEASES OF THE BLADDER. also liable to occur iu cases of enlarged prostate ; being here preceded by- distension (see page 8(;4). In old people it may occur from simple debility, and is commonly associated -witli a tendency to retention. li cntmcnt, fhe treatment must depend upon the cause. TVhen the incon- tinence occuis in weakly childi’cn, if it be not connected with worms or gastro- intestinal irritation, which should then be removed, the administration of tonics will be found useful—either quinine or the tincture of sesquichloride of iron, alone or conjoined with tincture of cantharides. If there be irritation of the mucous membrane of the bladder, the administration of alkalies, in conjunction with a tonic, as the potassio-tartrate of iron, or a little copaiba mixed with honey, will be found very serviceable. Cold sponging, light clothing at night, and means calculated to break the habit, such as waking the child at the time at which it generally occurs, changing his position in bed, &c., should not be omitted. Of all remedies for incontinence of urine in children, belladonna is the most successful. Einger advises it to be given in full doses ; from 10 to ' 20 minims of the tincture three times a day. When incontinence ocem’s at a more advanced period of life, if there be any source of sympathetic irritation, this must be removed : if none can be discovered, recourse' must be had to ' tonics, especially iron and cantharides -with strychnine, and galvanism, together Avith cold douching or shower-baths, and in old people the daily use of the catheter. j Hysterical Hetention and Incontinence of Urine not unfi’equently ' occur in nervous girls, and require to be treated by antihysterical remedies, amongst Avhich preparations of sesquichloride of iron, either alone or with valerian, -null be found most useful. Cold douches are also of great service. In cases of hysterical retention, it may sometimes be necessary to use the catheter ; but in such circumstances it is well not to employ this instrument |: too fi’equen-tly, as the patients are apt to get into the habit of having it intro- ; duced, and wiU, with that morbid propensity that characterises hysteria, con- ; tinue for a length of time to require its introduction. If left to themselves, though the bladder may become much distended, it will not bui’st, but will probably empty itself without fru’ther trouble, particularly if the patient be put. into a tub and well douched over the hip and loins with cold water. In some cases, these morbid conditions in women appear to be connected with some local irritation about the m’ethra or uterus ; and then proper treatment must be directed to these organs before the disease can be removed. Painful Conditions of the Bladder.—The bladder may be the seat of severe pain, either continuous or remittent, without any disease being dis- cernible iu it on the closest examination ; the pain being either a kind of nem-algic condition, especially occurring in hysterical or hypochondriacal , patients ; or else being sympathetic with, and dependent on, disease at a ; distance, as in the kidneys, uterus, rectum, &c. At the same time it must be borne in mind, that the secretion of acid or irritating urine aauII, in some V individuals, be a source of much and constant suffering ; and that any disease i, seated about, or coming into contact with, the neck of the bladder, as tumour, | stone, &c., is especially apt to give rise to severe suffering, and will, in mam cases, be accompanied by ft'equeut desire to mictiHate, with much spasm about the part.