Fit 705 — Speculum Aui. DANGERS ATTENDING REMOVAL OF PILES. 733 1 1 vPPnmraeiK'led by Houston of Dublin and II. Lee, and may certainly ndvantao-consly be adopted. It must not, however, be applied to the external m* to tiio intcro-extemal pile, as it will pvoduce extreme m-itation , nor can i l.e looked upon as a substituto for tbe ligature in intenial niles o-cnerally. It is especially in the granular pile, having an ulcerated surface, that this mode of treatment is iisefu ; as in these cases it appears, by destroying a portion of the raucous membrane, not only to cure the pile to which it is aiiiilied, but, by producing an ulcer, to give rise to a cmatrix, which by contracting, consolidates the parts in its vicinity, and so lessens the relaxed state of the rectiim, which favours the haimon'hoidal tendency. The acid may conveniently be applied tlu-ough a speculum ani, having an aperture on one side (Fig. 705). This should be introduced well oiled, until the pile projects through the opening in it, when it must be fi’eely rubbed \Hth a piece of stick, or a glass rod, oi brush, dipped in the acid ; the sm-face is then immediately iviped with a piece of lint saturated with prepared chalk and water, and the instrument removed. Or the gilt chp (Fig. 706) may be used, so as to effectually protect the neigh- bouring parts from the action of the acid. A thin slough separates, leaving a raw siu’face, which gradually cicatrises and contracts. The application of the acid occasions but little pain when fairly made within the rectum ; but if a drop of it acci- dentally come into contact with the muco-cutaneous surface, a vast deal of irritation and inflammation is excited. This plan of treatment, though useful in particular forms of pile, as ivhen the tumour is granular or flat, so as not to allow ready removal by the ligature, should not be practised when the ligature can be employed, as it is by no means so certain a mode of treatment. It caimot be considered altogether devoid of risk ; for I have known one instance in which fatal erysipelas followed the cauterisation of piles with nitric acid. Dangers attending Operation for Piles.—The operation for the removal of piles may be attended by three sources of danger. After excision, and even the application of the ligature or of nitric acid, erysipelas may develop. If the objectionable practice of transfixing the pile by the needle be followed, and it be tied in two separate parts, a hfemorrhoidal vein may thus be opened, and its sides held apart by the action of the ligatures, and thus a tendency to direct pyaemic infection be induced ; and lastly, I have seen a kind of erysipe- latous colitis induced, leading to profuse muco-purulent discharge and high fever. I have also in one case seen pelvic cellutitis set up. But all these various secondary affections—erysipelas, pyaemia, colitis, and cellulitis—are happily of rare oecun’ence. A permanently moist condition of the skin around the anus is not un- frequent, as the result of portal congestion or a hmmorrhoidal tendency. It is best removed by the habitual use of aperient salines, or of aperient mineral waters, as those of Pullna or Friedrichshall. Fig. 705.—Gilt Clip.