OPERATION WITHOUT OPENING SAG. 651 died. The result, therefore, of Luke’s operations is most favom-able, ^Yhen contrasted with those in which the sac was opened. . The operation without opening the sac may be practised in all foms ot hernia, but is much more readily done in some varieties of the disease than in others. It is espeeially applicable in cases of femoral hernia, in which the stricture is commonly outside the sac, as will be mentioned when speaking of that form of the disease. Of 31 cases of femoral hernia, operated on by Luke,, the sac required to be opened in 7 only. In inguinal hernia it is not so easy to perform Petit’s operation ; indeed, in the majority of cases the Sm-geon wiU fail to remove the stricture in this way. This is owing to the constriction being usiiaUy seated in the neck of the sac, and is especially observable in con- o-eni°al hernia. Of 20 inguinal herniEe operated on by Luke, the sac required to be opened in 13 instances. _ _ . For the various reasons that have been mentioned, I am decidedly of opmioii that tills operation should always be attempted, in preference to the ordinary one of opening the sac, in those cases in which the hernia, not having been long- strangulated, presents no sign of the occm-rence of gangrene in it, and more especiaUy when it is femoral or umbilical. Even if the Surgeon fail in com- pleting Petit’s operation, in consequence of the incorporation of the strictiu'e in the neck of the sac, or the constriction of this part, no harm can have resulted for the sac, after being exposed, may at any time be opened in the ordinary way, and the operation completed by dividing the stricture from within. 'VlTieu the hernia is of large size and irreducible, it is of especial importance to avoid opening the sac. If it be opened, the contents will inflame, and fatal peritonitis commonly ensues. In these cases, as Luke has pointed out, it rai-ely happens that the old inherent parts are seriously strangulated, but the- whole mischief seems to be occasioned and to be received by the new protrusion, that has taken place, and that gives rise to the tension; and if this can be liberated and reduced, the Surgeon has done all that need be accomplished. The evidence of the reduction of the recent protrusion, although the old adherent and in-educible hernia be left, is usually sufficiently obvious ; the portion of gut returning -with a slip and a gingle, with considerable diminution in the general tension of the tumour. Operation.—With regard to the mode of performing Petit’s operation little' need be said here, as it is precisely identical with the steps of the other operation up to the period of the exposine of the sac; except that, when it is not intended to open this, the incisions should be can-ied more directly over its neck. The stricture, if situated outside the sac, will then be found either in some of the tendinous structures surrounding it, or else in the subserous areolar tissue lying upon it. After the division of the constricting bands in this situation, by means of a probe-pointed knife carried underneath them, or by dissecting down upon them, an attempt at the taxis may be made by compressing the tumour in the usual way, at the same time that its neck is steadied by the fingers of the left hand. If the contents can be reduced, the incision in the superficial structiu’cs is brought together by a few strips of plaster, over which a pad and bandage may be applied. Bhould peritonitis come on, as the result of the strangulation, it must be ti-eated in the usual way. If, after the Sm’geon has fairly divided all the structures outside the sac, he find still that the return of