410 ])ISEASi:S OF THE HEAD AND NECK. occasionally attenclod by beneficial results. This operation, however, is not unaccompanied by danger ; a patient in the neighbourhood of fiondon, on whom it was being performed some years ago, lost his life by the puncture of H vein at the root of the neck, into which air was spontaneously admitted. Injection of perchloride of iron by means of the syringe figured at p. !)35, A ol. I., is likely to be of service in some cases of very vascular and pulsating bionchocele; but it is not without the special danger of forming a plug in the ciiculation, and lapidly fatal embolism has followed its use. In one instance of imlsating bronchocele in which I employed it, although much local inflam- mation and deep-seated suppuration were induced by it, the patient was in the end materially benefited. Ligature of the Thyroid Arteries has been practised by some Surgeons, with, it is stated, a certain degree of success. The difiiculties and danger of the operation, the uncertainty of its results, and the readiness with which the arterial supply would be forwvarded to the tumour from other sources, have caused it to be but little resorted to by Surgeons of the present day. In one case of pulsating bronchocele in which I had recourse to this treatment, no benefit resulted from it. Excision of the Tumour is seldom to be thought of; the disease, even though of large size, not being iTsually detrimental to life, and the danger of the operation itself extreme. The vascularity of the tumour is so great, and the arterial supply that it receives from both sets of thyi’oid arteries so- abuudaut, that any attempt at extirpation must generally be attended by such profuse hemorrhage as necessarily to endanger the patient’s life, and perhaps to prevent the completion of the operation. Cases have, it is true, occun’ed to Roux, Warren, Greene, and others, in which large bronchoceles have been successfully extirpated ; but these operations must be looked upon as altogether the exception in the treatment of the disease ; and instances are certainly not often met wdth, in which a Siugeon would think it proper to midertake so serious a procedm’e for an affection that is not necessarily mortal. Cases, how'- ever, occasionally occim in which, from pressure on the trachea, oesophagus, and jugular vein, the dyspnoea is so excessive, the dysphagia and vertigo so serious, that there is no escape from death except by the removal of the tumour. In such cases I have more than once been tempted to remove large pendulous pediuiculated bronchoceles, but close examination has satisfied me in aU such cases that the pedicle of the tumour was so vascular, containing large ai’terial and venous branches, and so intimately connected with the sheath of the carotid, stretching imder the sterno-mastoid, which was expanded over it, that no operation could be safely imdertaken. But cases have occiured in which operation has been successfully practised; and of all the methods for the removal of enlarged thyroid gland, P. H. Watson’s operation is probably the safest in execution, and most satisfactory in results. It is done as follows. A free linear incision is made in the mesial line from the upper to the lower end of the tumour, the fascia being as freely opened as the skin; but the delicate fascial investment of the thyroid gland, which is a prolongation of the sheath of the thyroidal vessels, should be left intact. The vessels on each side of the tumour, superior and inferior thyi’oidal, are then to be securely ligatured within their sheath, by passing an aneurism-needle through this, and