UlUNARY CALCULUS. 8o4 ;Ikdjo-Bii,Atkrai. Oi-KIIATION,—Civiale has rocominciKled a combinatioi> ot the median and the bilateral operations of lithotomy, by which the chief objections to both are got rid of. This operation is best suited for the extrac- tion of large stones from the bladder ; for those calculi, in fact, which cannot be remo'^’cd by the ordinary median operation without too gi’eat an amount of force, and consequent bruising or laceration of the parts. It is easy of execu- tion, seeins likely to be attended by little risk of htemorrhage, of urinary extravasation, or of pchde inflammation, and opens the Ifladder at the part Avhich is nearest the perineal surface. Ihe operation may be performed in the following manner. The patient ing been tied up, and a deeply grooved rectangular staff passed into the bladder, the urethra is opened at the membranous part with the edge of the knife turned upwards, as described in the median operation (p. 706) ; the double lithotome is then slid along the staff into the bladder, its concavity turned downwards, the blades expanded to but a limited extent, and the prostate, or the bilateral gorget (Fig. 758), invented by Dr. J. Wood, of New York, may be pushed along the staff, and the soft structures between it and the surface incised as it is withdrawn. If the stone be not very large, the incision may be confined to one side only, and made with a probe-pointed bistoury. It will be found that sufficient space is obtained by the perpendicular incision of the skin ; whilst the limited internal transverse cut removes that tension and resistance of the deeper structures,, which in the ordinaiy median operation interfere seriously with the manipulation of the forceps and the extraction of the stone ; and, by the division of both sides of the prostate to a limited extent, abundance of space is obtained. More ex- tended experience has shown, however, that the advantages, are rather theoretical than practical, and that its performance- in this country has been attended by unsatisfactoiy results two of the principal dangers being w'ound of the rectum, and tearing through the sphincter. Many other modifications of the median and the bilateral operations have been practised by varying the direction of the external incision, and by making' the internal one on one or both sides of the prostate, or by notching this- structure in ■\'arious directions. Hif4H OR Suprapubic Opbeatiox.—Although the median and lateral operations for lithotomy are perhaps the safest for the extraction of stones of small or moderate size, yet there can be no doubt that their results are extremely unfavoiuable when the calculus exceeds a certain magnitude ; and in these circumstances it may be deemed expedient to perform the “ high operation ” in preference to them. It is fortunate, however, that large calculi are comparatively rarely met with, and will doubtless become more rare, as the diagnosis of stone can now be made at a very early period of the existence of the calculus, and as the treatment is now generally preventive. Thus, of the 703 Norwich cases, that form the basis of Crosse’s tables, and indeed of our chief information on these points, 520 were mider 1 ounce in weight; 110 Pi^. 758.—Wood'.^ Bilateral Gorget.