SYMPTOMS OF ORGANIC STRICTURE. 891 other times and more commonly they take a somewhat obhque direction (Fig. 79!)). It is not very clear how these bridles or frmna stretching acioss the urethra are formed. It can scarcely be by thq effusion ol plastic matter ; it is more probable that they are occasioned by a valvular projection of the mucous membrane which has been perforated, perhaps by the iwint of the catheter, and thus has had apertures produced in it. These various kinds of organic stricture are haixl and elastic; sometimes, when old, almost cartilaginous in their density, feeling gristly and rough to the instrument that passes over them. Amount of Constriction.—varies greatly in organic stricture, from merely slight narrowing of the channel to almost complete obstruction of it. A question has arisen whether the canal of the urethra is ever rendered com- pletely impermeable by a stricture. In answering this, it is necessary to be agreed upon the meaning of the term ‘impermeable.” If by it be meant impenetrable to the passage of a catheter, there can be no doubt that such strictures may occasionally, though very rarely, occur ; the channel being so naiTow, oblique, or tortuous, that the instrument cannot be passed through it. Strictures, however, of this description may usually be ultimately made per- , meable to instruments by proper and careful treatment. If by “impermeable” is meant generally impervious to the passage of urine, there can be no doubt that such a condition does not exist. It would clearly be incompatible with life, unless a fistidous opening existed behind the stricture, through which the urine might pass out; and, even wdth such an aperture existing, I have never heard of or seen a case in which no urine whatever escaped by the meatus, unless in consequence pf injury or disease a portion of the whole calibre of the urethra had sloughed awny ; and it is clear that, so long as any urine passes out in this way, a stricture cannot be looked upon as truly impermeable. Mechanical Results.—When an organic stricture is once formed, it will continue unless removed by surgical means ; and, as it usually becomes more closely contracted, it will offer an increasing obstacle to the free flow of the urine, and thus eventually tend to give rise to important structm'al changes in the ininary apparatus. The urethra behind it becomes increased in diameter, sometimes dilated into a true pouch, in which sabulous masses, and even small calculous concretions occasionally collect. The Madder, subjected to increased pressure by the necessity of overcoming the obstacle to the passage of the urine, becomes thickened, fasciculated, and contracted. The ureters are often found dilated, from a tendency to a reflux of the urine, or to compression of their vesical orifices, in consequence of the altered structure of the bladder. The ^oelves of the hidneys become the seat of chronic suppuration; and the kidneys them- selves become irritated, congested, and at last the seat of some of those vai'ious secondary changes which have been fully described in Chapter LXVII. Symptoms.—TAiQ amount of constitutional distinbance set up by a stricture will vary greatly in different cases. In many, and indeed in most instances, it is not VC17 great. The extent to which the constitution is influenced will pnerally be in proportion to the tightness and duration of the stricture ; but it is surprising how much constitutional in-itation is set up in some systems by <a stricture, even though it be not very tight. The interference ivith the free