TREATMENT OF UjEMATURIA. 851 in-itation of a calculus, of villous disease, or of the ulceration of malig-nant disease. When it depends on vesical congestion, there will be a sensation of wei<^ht in the region of the bladder, with frequent desire to pass urine ; when on calculus, the special symptoms of the existence of stone will be present. When it occurs from villous disease of the neck of the bladder, the quantity of blood lost is usually very great and the hicmon-hage is persistent. The blood will bo found uniformly mixed with the urine. If it arise fr’om malignant disease, the diseharge of pus, and of the delris of the idcer ating tumour, will afford unequivocal evidences of the true source of thi hiemon-hage. 3 Hseniorrliag'e from tlie Prostat©.—If tho prostate be the source 01 hicmon-hage, the discharge may be occasioned by congestion of that organ, or by its ulceration, simple or malignant. In these cases, exploration by the rectum and lu’ethra will indicate the true cause of the bleeding. In general, when the hajmaturia is renal, the urine will be uniformly mixed with the blood ; when it is prostatic or vesical, the first mine that passes, or that is drawn off by the catheter, will be pale and less bloody than the last, and at the termination of the flow nothing but blood may escape. 4. Hemorrhage from the Urethra.—The bleeding may arise from simple congestion of the mucous membrane, from inflammatory irritation of it, or may follow rupture of the walls of the canal, consequent on injury or on the introduction of instruments. Blood fr-om the lu’ethra usually flows independently of micturition, as in recent injuries, or passes with the first few drops of urine. It may, however, occasionally come with the last drops expelled. This is by no means uncommon in gonon-hcea, or in cases of gleet dependent upon a granular condition of the mucous membrane of the bulbous portion of the nrethra. It seems, then, to be due to the contraction of the ejaculator urinae squeezing a drop or two of blood fr’om the inflamed spot. Treatment.—The treatment of hmmaturia must necessarily have reference to its cause. When it depends on a morbid constitutional state, as scurvy or malarial poisoning, the treatment of the disease, of which the hmmaturia is merely a symptom or an effect, must be conducted on ordinary medical prin- ciples. If it arise from inflammatoiy congestion of the kidneys, bladder, or prostate, cupping, or the application of leeches over the affected part, demul- cents, and saline drinks, will be most efficacious ; if from passive congestion, it will usually be found that the hepatic portal system is at fault, and a dose or two of blue-pill or calomel, follow^ed by a purgative, and afterwards by the use of astringents, AviU speedily induce a cessation of the haemorrhage. The astringent that exercises the most marked influence in arresting haematuria, Avhen that condition is purely passive, is undoubtedly gallic acid. This may be given in five or ten gvain doses, frequently repeated, in infusion of buchu or nva ursi. As a general rale, it is better not to use the catheter in these cases ; but sometimes the bladder becomes distended by a large soft coagulum, filling up its interior, and causing it to reach to the umbilicus, forming a rounded solid tumour, like a gravid uterus. In such circumstances, the fluid contents may be draAvn off by a large catheter, and the more solid portions broken 3 I 2