ISCJlIO-llECTAL ABSCESS. 715 that arc of most practical importance. Tlicy may be of two kinds—Acute and Chronic. Acirte Ischio-rectal Abscess.—This foi’ms dceidy in the fossa, Avith throbbing, shooting, and stabbing pains tlirongh the anus, rectum, and pcrinajnm ; on examination, a liard brawny substance may be felt in the areolar tissue by the side of the gut, either by examination from Avithout, or by exploration through the rectum. It speedily softens, and Avill, unless an outlet be made for it, either burst externally, or into the cavity of the gut, or both Avays. This acute form of abscess usually occurs in persons of otherwise strong and healthy constitutions. Chronic Ischio-rectal Abscess, on the other hand, occurs insidiously in persons of cachectic, broken, or phthisical constitutions. Without much pain or local inconvenience, it forms a collection of pus, Avhich is usually limited to one side of the ischio-rectal fossa, but in other cases acquires considerable magnitude, denuding the gut to a considerable extent ; in fact, almost sur- rounding the rectum, and then spreading widely on the nates or hip, presenting all the ordinary characters of a chronic abscess. This kind of purulent col- lection may form in this as in any other situation in the body, as the result of congestion or of some local irritation. I hax'e scA’eral times seen it follow kicks, blows, or bruises of the loAver part of the body, or as a consequence of the lowering of the Autality of the mass of areolo-adipose tissue on the ischio-rectal fossa by weakly persons sitting on a cold stone, or standing for a long time on the ice or snoAv. In other cases the mischief appears to originate- ai’ound the prostate, and an abscess forming in this situation may find its Avay doAvn by the side of the rectum. Sir B. Brodie attributed these abscesses,, and the consequent fistulm, to perforations of the mucous membrane of the- gut; and although I think he exaggerated the frequency of this mode of pro- duction of the abscess, yet there can be no doubt that, in some instances at least, it occurs as the result of perforation of the boAvel; either by ulceration- fiom Avithin, by the formation of a fissiu’e, or by some foreign body, as a fish- bone, transfixing it, and thus inducing inflammatory action in the areolar tissue outside the rectum. Tteatnient. In the treatment of these abscesses, the principal point to be- attended to is to prevent the extensive denudation of the gut. In order to do- this the abscess must be opened, so soon as the formation of j)us can be ascer- place, by making a free, and, if necessary, a deep incision in 0 ^ e ISC 10-rectal space by the side of the bowel. Unless this be done, it may mt ei burst into the interior of the gut, or spread widely upon the nates, an en give Avay. The pus that is let out of these collections is always ex reme y offensive, even though not mixed with any feculent matter ; thn near neig oiirhood of the boAvel appearing to determine some change in it that renders its smell peculiarly stercoraccous. After the evacuation of the abscess the patient feels easy, and thinks that all is well, the discharge gn:adually essening and the caAlty contracting; but it does not close, and a fistula Avdl be left, which continues to exude a thin watery pus, in Avhicfi feculent matter, perhaps, accumulates from time to time, giving rise to fresh outbreaks and extensions of the disease. Bisto-la in Ano.—The sinus loft by the contraction of the cavity of an