351 ^^JQXS 0 F LA TEli A L C UR 1 A T URE. -nvii-v mi one side looking to the right shoulder, and on double nature, tl^e coji - ^ty ^ commonly it the other to the Mt lo condition that frequently attracts commences in a giadual ma , scapula, which is supposed to be “ “’f ,ft L" :il-^icSl k the seme Ze, ov some have been observed to project. Whenever the l“LTs eo^sultcd for sneh symptoms, be should at once «am™ the qnne Avhich he will generally find to have an inclination to the right side. In the early stao-es of the disease, when the deviation is not very distinctly mai^ Se readiest mode of detei-mining it is to let the patient stand upright taking te Sat the feet are weU placed together, and that the attitude is not forced but natural; the Smgeon should then run his finger down the back from one spinous process to another, touching each as he passes it with a pen dipped in ink ; in this way, when he has reached the lower part, he will have mapped out the com’se of the vertebral column, and thus may see at a glance the nature and extent of its displace- ment. At the same time, he will probably observe that the two hips do not exactly cor- respond, the left being somewhat thrown out. Very commonly there is a good deal of neuralgic tendemess about the spine, and at this early stage there may be antemia and sym- ptoms of impaired nutrition. As the disease advances, the emwatme becomes more distinct, and at the same time, owing to the torsion of the column, assumes a shghtly angular character where most convex. The ribs on the right side are thrown out and bulging, and Fig. 514.—Lateral Ciu-vature of Siiine. carry up the scapula with them, whilst those on the left are sunk and depressed (Fig. 514). In fact, the whole of the right side of the chest and body partakes in the projection of the spine on that side, and thus adds much to the general deformity; ivhilst the left side of the chest is coiTespondingly hollowed and sunk in. When the disease has advanced in this way, it always occasions great general debility, emaciation, and pallor ; the nutrition of the body being impaired, partly by the compression to which the thoracic and abdominal organs are subjected, and partly, doubtless, by imtation of the spinal cord induced by the curvature. During the early part of the disease, the spine preserves its flexibility ; and whilst the curve is still recent, and the patient young, if the weight of the head and shoulders be taken off, it will at once resume its straight direction. Thus, if the patient be lifted off the ground by raising her up ’with the hands under the axillge, or if she be laid down on her face on a flat couch, the back will fall into a straight position, or may readily be made to do so by slight traction. After the disease, however, has existed for some years, or if the patient have passed that age at which consolidation of the bones and ligaments takes place,