165 SUBPERIOSTEulL ABSCESS. DISEA-SES OF THE ORGANS OF SUPPORT AND MOTION. CHAPTEP. XLVI. —♦— DISEASES OF BONE. PERIOSTITIS. Inflammation of tlie Periosteum is of common occuiTence as a result oi iniuries, as a morbid process dependcut on disease of the subjacent bone, or as a consequence of syphilis and rhemnatism. It often affects the membrane covering the shaft of a bone, and very commonly the articular end, becoming associated Avdth inflammation of the contiguous joint. When it is acute, the membrane becomes thickened, soft, and vascular, and loosens from the sub- jacent bone. When chronically inflamed, the periosteum becomes thickened by the deposit of plastic matter within and beneath it, and the subjacent bone usually participates in the changes, undergoing hypertrophy and indmation, constituting a node (Vol. I., p. 8G7). SyAiPTOiis.—The symptoms of periostitis consist of a hard, elongated, but somewhat puffy swelling without cutaneous discoloration—a node—not dis- tinctly circumscribed, and attended by much pain in the part, especially at night, with tenderness on pressine. Treat3IEXT.—In the treatment of the acute form of the affection, the free application of leeches, udth hot fomentations, and the admmistration of calomel and opimn, will ainest the disease, and gii^'e relief to the patient. In the more chronic form, the continued administration of the iodide of potassium wiU take dowTL the swelling, remoA^e the noctiunal pains, and materially improA-e the local condition of the part. In those cases of periostitis which are of syphilitic character, iodide of potassium may almost be looked upon as a spcciflc. Added to this, the occasional application of leeches and repeated blistering will be of essential service. If there be much thickening, the parts suffer from the tension of the structures ; here considerable relief Avill be afforded by the free diA’ision of the periosteum down to the bone, either through the skin, or subcutaneously by means of a tenotome slid under it. Subperiosteal Abscess is an acute disease attended by great swelling and redness of the limb, deep tensive pain of the most severe character, and great constitutional febrile distm’bance. The limb becomes oedematous after a fcAV days, but without relief to the symptoms ; the swelling localises itself, and at last deep fluctuation may be detected. The bone that is most commonly affected is the tibia, at its anterior part, doubtless OAving to its exposed situation subjecting it more readily than other bones to the common causes of this inflammation, viz., blows and cold. Subperiosteal abscess of the tibia usually occiu’s iu children and in very young adults.