721 CAUSES OF ILEMORRIIOIDS. vessels into which it pours its contents, the Avhole pressure of the column of blood in the portal system may be brought to bear upon the hmmorrhoidal plexus. The circulation through the portal system is likewise subject to much interference in consequence of hepatic and intestinal obstruction, and in these changes the blood in the hmmorrhoidal plexus also participates ; and, were it not for the provision that exists by which this plexus may free itself to a certain extent from over-distension by its communication with the internal iliac through the medium of the middle hmmoiThoidal vein, piles would be much more fr-equent than they even now are, as a consequence of obstructed portal circulation. Another great cause of hmmorrhoidal enlargement is to be found in the want of support that the veins of this plexus experience on their mucous aspect during defecation. Situated as they are in areolar tissue, between a plane of muscular fibres on one side, and yielding mucous membrane on the other, when distended by the eonstriction w%ich they undergo during and after - the expulsion of the contents of the rectum, they necessarily give way on that side on whieh they have the least support, being forced down and elongated, together with the mucous membrane under which they ramify, and which has a natural tendency to become sbghtly everted diu’ing the act of defecation. It Avill be found that all the more immediate or excitinsr causes of O piles act by unduly increasing one or other of those natural tendencies that exist in the system, by favouring the local congestion or determination of blood, at the same time that they produce a lax 'state of fibre. A(jq exercises considerable influence in predisposing to piles. This disease is not unfrequently met with in young men of eighteen or twenty years of age ; more especially if they be of a relaxed and phlegmatic temperament with languid circulation, and be obliged to lead a more sedentary life than is natural or proper at that age. After this period, the liability to the disease diminishes until middle age is reached, when the tendency to hmmorrhoidal affections is again increased, and becomes more marked than at any former period of life, owing to the more active operation of those causes that tend to impede the return of the portal blood. Sex appears to exercise more influenee on the occurrence of hmmonhoids at particular periods of fife, than on the general liability to the disease. It certainly appears to be more frequently met with amongst men at an early age, than in young women ; but at a later period of life, so far as my obser- vation goes, the disease oceims with nearly equal frequency in both sexes. The comparative exemption of young women is readily accounted for, by the periodic discharges from the uterus preventing the congestions that might otherwse occur in the parts in its vicinity. The greater frequency in females at a later period of life is attributable not only to the tendency induced during pre.^ancy by the pressure of the gravid uterus, but also, after the cessafron of the menses, to the determination that is apt to be set up in certain organs of the female economy, and to the retardation of the pLal chTflv r"" • ® of fat and other causes; these condLons chiefly occur m women of a sanguine and plethoric habit of body. KsnJmiarn hfe with indolent habits constitutes, perhaps, the most powerful joined with want of proper and sufficient exercise. Indeed, the artificial VOL. II.