HERNIA. 648 it becomes necessary to support tbe patient’s strength by a sufficient quantity of good and nourishing food ; this is of greater consequence the higher the fistula is, as the interference with the earlier stages of the digestive process, and the loss of nutritive material by the discharge of the chyme, is propor- tionally gTeat. Spontaneous cure will occasionally take place, even though a perfect artificial anus exist. In a case under my care at the Hospital, a whole knuckle of intestine was gangTenous, and sloughed away, leaHng an artificial anus, which discharged the greater part of the intestinal contents, hut gradually contracted and closed without any local application or treatment beyond attention to cleanliness. If the aperture become a permanent artificial anus, surgical means must, if possible, be adopted in order to effect a cure. In accomplishing this, two important indications have to be fulfilled: the first is to diminish or destroy the projecting valvular or spur-like process, and thus to re-establish the continuity of the canal; and, after this has been done, the external wound may be closed, by paring its edges, and bringing them together with hare-bp pins. The first object is best accompbshed by Dupuytren’s enterotome (Fig. 680); this consists of an instrument something like a pair of scissors, mth blunt but serrated blades, which may be brought together by acting upon a screw that traverses its handle. One blade of the instrument (a) is passed into the upper, the other (&) into the lower portion of the intestine ; they are then approxi- mated slowly, and fixed by means of the screw in such a way as to compress on each side the spur-like process (Fig. 681). Veiy gradually, day by day, this screw is tightened so as to induce sloughing of this projection, and cohesion 01 its serous surfaces. As this action goes on, the initation caused by the instru ment wiU occasion plastic matter to be thrown out in the angle foimed by t e intestine, so that the peritoneum and mesentery become consobdated, and ail opening into the peritoneal cavity is avoided. Should the spur-hke process e accidentaby cut through before the lymph is thrown out in sufficient quaiitity, the peritoneum would be opened, and death would probably ensue, len the necessity for caution in this procedme. So soon as the bla es 0 Fig. 6SO.—Dupuj'trens Enterotome. Fig. 681. —Enterotome applied.