704 DISEASES OF THE LARGE INTESTINE AND ANUS. a, stricture above tbe upper eud of the rectum, but little information can be gained in many cases, as the point of the instrument is apt to hitch in folds of the mueous membrane, or opposite the promontory of the sacrum ; and thus, its onward passage being prevented, an appearance of constriction may present itself, which in reality does not exist, and unless care be taken the mucous membrane may actually be lacerated, and the instrument forced through it into the peritoneal cavity. In other cases, the bougie will appear to pass, when in reality its point, meeting wth an obstruction, curves downwards into the rectum. The Progress and termination of a simple stricture vary in different cases. In many cases persons vdll live on in very good general health through a long series of years, who present aU the symptoms of this simple stricture of the rectum. In others the contraction of the stricture may go on increasing, until at last complete occlusion takes place, with retention of faeces and all the symptoms of obstructed bowels. This condition usually comes on slowly, and, after the obstruction is complete, life may continue for several weeks ; but in some instances the obstruction seems to take place rather suddenly, and with all the symptoms of acute intestinal strangulation, death occumng in a few days. Abscess occasionally forms in the neighboiu’hood of the stricture ; and, passing down into the pelvis, may bm’st either into the ischio-rectal space, or into the vagina, or may present upon the nates. The diseharge of pus from this source, as well as from the mucous membrane lining the sfrictm'e, which falls into an ulcerated state, may induce extreme emaciation and hectic, to which the impairment of nutrition consequent upon the distiu’bance of diges- tion adds materially. Treatment.—The bowels should be kept moderately open, but purgation carefully avoided, as it is a source of much irritation. Castor-oil, Carlsbad salts, or saline aperient mineral waters in small doses suit best. The diet should be carefully regulated, and the strength kept up. The surgical treatment of simple stricture of the rectum must be conducted on the principle of dilating the canal at its constricted point. If this be within reach of the finger, the dilatation can be readily carried out. If it be above the upper part of the rectum, and the stricture be tight, it is extremely difficult to introduce the proper instruments with certainty. When the stricture is Ioav down, so that the end of the finger can be introduced into it, it may readily be dilated by introducing a rectum bougie every second day, and gradually increasing the size of the instrument. If the strictine yield but slowly, and be very tight and indurated, I have found it a convenient plan to introduce a sheathed probe-pointed bistonry into it and to notch it towards its posterior aspect, where this may be done without danger to the peritoneum, A tent of compressed sponge should then be introduced, and left in for twelve hoiu’s. On its withdrawal, bougies may more readily be passed ; or the dila- tation may be carried, on by means of tents of compressed sponge, IMien the stricture is above the reach of the finger, a good deal of management vdll be required to make the bougie enter it. This is best done by laying the patient on his left side, and using a moderate-sized wax or elastic bougie, which miis be passed without the employment of any force. When onee the Surgnon has introduced one, others can readily be made to follow in the same trac', le