EXCISION OF JOINTS. 244 1. The disease should not he too extensive, so that its removal would entail such an amount of mutilation of the limb, as to render it less useful to the patient than an artificial member would be. This is especially important in the lower extremity. If the bones be so extensively affected as to recpiire to be shortened by a considerable extent—for several inches—a limb would be left, which, instead of serving as a proper basis of support to the patient, would only be an useless incumbrance. In the upper extremity, length and strength are of less consequence than in the lower; the preservation of the hand is the chief thing to aim at, and, if this be effected, the bones may be encroached on to a greater extent than is proper in the lower limb. 2. The disease for which resection is practised should be allowed to become chronic before any operation is undertaken : for this there are two reasons. First, in the acute stage of disorganisation of a joint, it is not always possible to say, however unpromising the case may appear, whether ankylosis may not result, so that as useful a limb Avould be left as could be obtained by resection. And, secondly, if the joint be excised whilst acute and active disease is going on, inflammation and diffuse suppuration of the medullary canal are liable to set in—a condition very apt to be followed by phlebitis and pyeemia. In the only fatal instances of resection of the elbow-joint that I have witnessed, death resulted from this cause; the operation having been performed Avhilst the articular affection was acute. 3. The soft parts about the joint must be in ct sufficwntlij healtluj state. There are two morbid conditions connected with the soft parts that may interfere Avith the success of resection. First, they may be so thinned and permeated by sinuses, and so adherent to the bones, that an insufficient covering Avould be left. Or, secondly, the long-continued existence of strumous disease in joints and bones may give rise to a great deposit of loAvly organised plastic matter aroimd the articulation. This material becomes insusceptible of healthy organisation, and sloAvly suppurates. Sinuses form in it; the integuments covering it become blue and doughy ; and the soft parts around the seat of operation fall into a state of strumous disorganisation, that prevents alike the formation of a false joint, osseous ankylosis, or the healing of the wound, and thus leads inevitably to the ultimate amputation of the limb. Even though this exudation-matter do not exist in large quantity, if the joint be peculiaily loose, OAving to softening and disorganisation of ligamentous and tendinous structimes, excision is not A'ery likely to succeed, especially in the ankle oi 4. The state of the patknt's constitution must necessarily influence the Surgeon materially in his determination whether to resect or to amputate. ^ If the constitution be tolerably sound, or even if the general health have given Avay as the simple consequence of pain, irritation, and continued discharge, resection Avill have a fair prospect of success. In fact, Avhen the patient is hectic in consequence of continued suppurative action, the removal of tlic joint or bone that maintains such action may be advantageously practised. But it there be a state of in-itative fever in consequence of continuance and spreading of morbid action, the operation is likely to occasion erysipelas, phlebitis, or pyiemia, and is not a safe measure. So, also, if the constitution appear to be very much broken down, the patient being amcmic, wasted and cachectic.