treatment of uric acid diathesis. 753 ■V V'lrietvor rathev an admixture, of these sediments, constitutes the lateritious thvosif so common in gout and rheumatism. These deposits disappear com- pletely’on boiling, which distinguishes them from any other sediments. The red sand or gi-avel is a crystallised variety of the lithic acid sediment. I may be compared, in general appearance, to Cayenne pepper, and under the microscope presents the characters seen in Fig. 711. It is not unfrequently met with in children of a strumous habit, ivho lu’c allowed more animal food than they can well assimilate. Occasionally crystals of imic acid are found intennixed uith these deposits, presenting the characters figured in ^Calculi. The calculi that occur in tliis diathesis are of two kinds ; the unc acid, and the urate of ammonia. The uric acid calculus (Fig. 713) is usually of small or moderate size, varying fi'om a pin’s head to a pigeon’s egg ; it is oval, somewhat compressed and fiattened, smooth on the surface, and oi a fawn colour. On section it is seen to be laminated, and to present various shades of a light brown or fawn tint. The mate of ammonia calculus is of very rare occmrence ; when met with, it is chiefly in children, and is composed of concentric rings, having a fine earthy appearance, and being clay-coloured. " The uric acid calculus may be distinguished ft’om the urate of ammonia by heating a fr’agment in solution of caustic potash: both dissolve, but the mate of ammonia evolves ammonia in the process of solution. Treatment—The treatment of the mic acid diathesis must be directed to the removal of the prirhe causes of this • con- dition, viz., mal-assimilation, defective oxygenation of the blood, and the ingestion of too large a quantity of stimu- lating food. AU these may be remedied by attention to ordinary hygienic measmes ; the patient must live sparely, should avoid fermented liquors, espe- cially red and efiervescent wines, and abstain fr’om sweets, pastry, &c. He should take plenty of out-door exercise, and keep the skin in healthy action by warm diy air or vapour bathing, and the use of horsehair gloves. The bowels must also be carefully regulated by means of saline and other aperients, with occasional alterative doSes of blue pfil; to which, if the constitution be pecu- liarly rheumatic or gouty, some colchicum may advantageously be added. Preferable to aU medicines, perhaps, are the natural aperient saline waters of PiiUna, Friedrichshall, or Carlsbad, taken fasting. The patient may also be directed to drink some of the natmal alkaline waters, as those of Vichy, Vais, or Fachingen. The Vichy waters, containing a large quantity of carbonate of soda, with free carbonic acid, are extremely sendceable for the correction of this diathesis. If they cannot be procured, a very good alkaline drink consists of a scruple of bicarbonate of potass and five grains of nitre dissolved in a tumbler of cold or tepid water, to which about five grains of citric acid or a table- spoonful of lemon-juice may be added, and taken early in the morning or in the middle of the day. The preparations of lithia are of essential seindce in remo\dng uric acid gravel or in clearing the urine of urates. They may be given alone, or in combination with the citrate or carbonate of potass. Fig. 713.—Uric Acid Calculus. IVlien uric acid calculus has actually formed, it is weU not to give the 3 c VOL. IX.