127 surruiiAi'ioN of axillary aneurism. iramodiatc contact with it, and thus disposes it to run into suppuration. The more speedily the solidification takes place, the more disposition will there be to the oecurrcnce of tliis accident ; the neighboiu'ing parts being unable to accommodate themselves to the sudden c.xtension and compression they arc comixilled to undergo. It is probable also that the proximity of the ligatuie, and perhaps aetual injury done to the aneurismal sac during the operation arc, in many cases, the immediate causes of the inflammation and suppuration. The statisties collected by Koch show' a much greater mortality in those cases in wdiich the subclavian artery has been tied for spontaneous aneurisms extend- ing aboA'e the upper border of the pectoralis minor, than in those below' that po'int. Of 17 of the former 13 were fatal, of 22 of the latter only 10 died. The period at w'hich suppm’ation of the sac may be expected to occur in cases of axillary aneurism, after the ligature of the subclavian, must necessarily in a great measure be dependent on the state of the sac at the time of the operation. If inflammatory action have been already set up around it, it may happen in a few' days after the artery has been tied. But if this morbid action have not already commenced, the period at wdiich suppuration may most probably be expected is between the first and second month. The period at which suppuration and rupture of the sac take place does not influence the probable termination of the case to any material extent ; as, in the cases that proved fatal, death occurred at various periods betw'een the seventh day and the second month ; in Aston Key’s case, on the ninth day ; in Mayo’s on the twelfth ; in Belardini’s and Griife’s, at the end of the first month ; in Eigaud’s at the sixth week ; in B. Cooper’s, in the second month. The recoveries, likew'ise, took place at all periods after the ligature of the vessel, between a few days, as in Porter’s, and six weeks, as in Halton’s case. An axillary aneurism that has suppm-ated may burst either externally, or into the hmgs or pleura, or both. It is most usual for it to burst externally ; the tumour enlarges, with much pain and tension ; a part of the skin covering it becomes inflamed ; fluctuation can be here felt, and, if an incision be not made, the tumour will give way, discharging most usually a quantity of dark- colom-ed pus, mixed, up w'ith more or less broken-down and disintegrated coagulum and fibrinous deposit, and perhaps sooner or later followed by a stream of arterial blood. Occasionally, but more rarely, the sac extending backwards becomes adherent to the pleura, and may give Avay into its cavity ; or, by pressing upon the lungs, may become incorporated with them. Of this remarkable termination two instances arc recorded, in one of which recovery took place. Ihe first case of the kind, is one in which Bullen ligatured the subclavian su'tery for axillary aneurism. Eighteen days after the operation the tiuuour began to increase, and to take on the symptoms that are indicative of suppu- ration. On the twenty-sixth day six or eight ounces of bloody pus were expec- torated during a paroxysm of coughing, and the tumour suddenly diminished to one half its size; it was now punctured, and five ounces of the same kind of matter were let out with great relief. 'Wlicn the patient coughed, air passed into and distended the sac througli an aperture between the first and second ribs, near their sternal extremities, through which the contents of the tumour had escaped into the lung. The discharge from the external aperture greatly