DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. 9C4 Ton ent form of cnfctmg- stylet is the one figured here, which has a probe end that IS introduced through the strieture, and seiwes as a guide to the blade wnich IS projected and caused to retract into its cylinder by the action of a spring ig-. 308). dividing strictures within the urethra is by cutting/rm Dimiig the last few years, great improvement has been made in the instru- ments en^loyed in this operation, and it has consecpiently risen much in favour Cutting from before backwards without a guide proved so dangerous that^ It has been finally abandoned. On the other hand, the operation of cuttmg^ from behind forwards could not, until recently, be performed unless the stricture was capable of admitting a No. 5 at least. The Surgeons to whom we are most indebted for improvements in the instruments employed, are Van Bureii, Gouley, and Otis of New York, Maisonneuve of Paris, and Berkeley Hill of London. The objects which these Surgeons have had in view have been, first, to provide a safe and certain guide for a small cutting instrument to the bladder, and secondly, so far to diminish the size of the instruments as to make them available for strictures not capable of taking more than a No. 1 catheter. Lastly, as it was found that the great mobility of the m-ethra ren- dered it difficult in many cases to divide the stricture, a combination of stretching and cutting was introduced by Otis, which greatly facfiitates the operation. The guide to the bladder may be obtained in two ways. A fine whalebone bougie having been passed through the stricture, the urethrotome may be so constructed by being tumieUed for a short distance at its point, as to shde Fig. S09.—Otis’s Dilator and Uretlirometer. over this into the bladder. Or a better plan is the employment of Maison- iieuve’s sonde conductrice, or conducting sound. This is a very fine gum- elastic bougie, provided with a male screw at the end (Fig. 809, a). This is first passed on till it is sujiposed to be in the bladder. A small catheter corres- ponding to a No. 1, having a female screw at its extremity, is then screwed on and passed onwards, while the small conducting sound coils up in the bladder. If the mine flow, it is then certain that the conducting sound has passed in the proper direction. It is now withdrawn again, the conducting sound being left in position. The catheter is now replaced by the urethrotome, which screws in the same way. Berkeley HiU has invented a very ingenious urethi’otome for cutting fi’om behind forwards, in which a very fine knife can be protruded from an instrument not larger than a No. 2. Another instru- ment invented by the same Surgeon for cutting from before backwards is represented in Fig. 810. It combines the principles of several others, and has been foimd to ivork most successfully. It is thus employed. The conducting soimd having been passed and ascertained to be in the bladder, the female screw