DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. 884 or plastic form of gonon-hocal rheumatism is not unft-equently accompanied by inflammation of the testicle or of the sclerotic. It commonly affects the fleshy parts of the body, as the hips, the shoulders, and the thighs, and not unfre- quently occurs in the soles of the feet. It is always very painful at night, but is not commonly attended by any very severe constitutional disturbance. The suppurative, more rare, appears in truth to be a variety of pya3mia, directlv due to self-infection of the patient from pus retained in the deeper portions of the urethra or contaminating the system through the medium of the lymphatics. In these cases, the inflammation, when it affects a large joint, is always monar- thritic. The knee is the one that specially suffers, permanent ankylosis conse- quent on destruction of cartilage resulting. The synovial form presents the ordinary characters of severe and often destructive inflammation of the joint, the knee or ankle being chiefly involved. Ankylosis is the chief danger to be apprehended as a remote result of gonorrhoeal arthritis, and it is mostly incurable. Treatment—In the plastic form small doses of calomel and opium, followed by iodide of potassium, should be steadily given. In the more truly arthritic form of the disease, mercurials are not so much needed, and the chief reliance should be on the iodide of potassium with alkaline tonics. The local joint affection must be treated by absolute rest, blistering, and mercmlal inunction. The most favom’able termination will be in ankylosis, which must be treated as described p. 235. Cutaneous Eruptions, chiefly consisting of roseola, with shght pityilasis, and perhaps a few patches of psoriasis with very flimsy scales, occasionally occur in rather severe cases of gonorrhoea, usually appearing from six weeks to three months after the commencement of the attack. They are chiefly diffused about the chest and belly, and present no sign of coppery redness. At the time of their occmrence, the fauces commonly become similarly involved, presenting, as was first pointed out by Travers, a diffused superficial redness on the velum palati and pillars, with perhaps superficial ulceration on these, the tonsils, or the uvula. The occin-rence of these affections is usually pre- ceded by slight febrile action, which, however, subsides on their full evolution. The roseolar eruptions occiuTing dining gonorrhoea must not be mistaken for the rash occasionally produced by copaiba. The Treatment consists in the administration of salines, followed by iodide of potassium in moderate doses. Mercurials are not required. Gonorrhcfia in the Female differs from the same affection in the male in not being so severe, though it is usually more extensive, and of longer dination. The severity is less, on account of the shortness of the female urethra preventing the occurrence of the retention of urine as in the male, and also from the absence of such parts as the prostate, testes, &c., the implication of which constitutes the principal som-ce of difficulty in men. , Gonorrhoea in the female may affect the part to very different degi-ees; ' thus the vulva alone may be implicated, or, as most commonly happens, the inflammation may spread to the whole of the mucous membrane of the vao-ina The urethra is less commonly the seat of disease, though occa- sionally implicated with other parts ; and, lastly, the interior of the uterus may become affected by this specific inflammation. In some cases it will