OPHTHALMIC SURGERY. 4i6 it is to be taken ; and if it seem to raise the lid enough, and not too much it is cut aAvay with scissors to just that extent, and an oval wound is left. The loose and vascular skin of the lids will very soon heal without the application of sutures. Tinea Ciliaris is veiy common, but only among the very poor. Great cleanliness is required. The eyelashes should be kept cut as short as possible, for the better application of any ointment or lotion that may be prescribed, and for the more effectual removal by bathing of any accumulations of discharge from the edges of the lids. In cliroyiic cases these dried accumulations should be at once removed by bathing and viping, or with forceps, and, the lashes being cut close with scissors, the excoriated parts beneath lightly touched, at intervals of a week, with the solid nitrate of silver. The edges of the lids shoidd be kept greasy always, meanwhile, with the citrine or some other ointment. Trichiasis.—Trichiasis is an ingrowing of some of the lashes, as distin- guished from Entropion, Avhich is an intiuming of the Avhole lid. In both, the lashes are in contact with the globe of the eye ; but in entropion the lid may be temporarily rectified and held in proper position, and the lashes are not then turned in ; whereas in trichiasis the eye cannot be fi:eed from the lashes that are in contact with it without the lid being drawn aAvay, apart from the globe of the eye, as it is abnormally in Ectropion. Causes.—Of the causes of trichiasis the commonest is, perhaps, the treat- ment of “granular” lids by solid caustics applied too exclusively to the lining membrane of the lid just within the margin, whereas any local appli- cations of the kind should be, at least equally, applied far back. (In these cases entropion and trichiasis are often combined—see “ Entropion.”) Yas- cular nebula and pannus may then very probably result from the irritation ; first, of the gi'anidar conjunctiva, and, secondly, of the superinduced trichiasis. It is, perhaps, because granular conjunctiva chiefiy affects the upper lid, that trichiasis most often ocem’s in it, and so, of course, paimus appears first at the upper part of the cornea. As to the so-called Distichiasis, the disease has no real existence ; there are no cases in which two rows of lashes exist separately. Cases of trichiasis vary so much, and the modes of operating are necessarily so various, that only a few of the operations can be here detailed, and a few practical facts noted. The practice of pulling out the ingrowing eyelashes is worse than useless ; because they only grow again, the hair-bulbs being left. The case is therefore only temporarily reheved, and, in the end, vascular nebula of the cornea and consequent blindness are produced by the constant mechanical irritation of the inverted eyelashes. Lashes should only be pulled out as a temporary expedient. Patients sometimes come^ to the hospitals, almost blind, who have been taught by Surgeons to practise the pulling out of their ingrowing lashes ; they have done it for years, they have their own tweezers and looking-glass for the pui-pose, they are ^^elieved each time temporarily, but, far from being cm-ed, are always by little and little becomin„ worse. Again, they not unfrequently break off the lash, and then the broken •end causes more in-itation and pain than the whole lash had done before. An eyelash, when it is to be pulled out, should bo properly seized, near the skin, with broad and rough-ended forceps, and very steadily drawn in the direction