621 wo on's OPERA riox. close also the external abdominal ring, the pillars of which are included la L ™ By the close adhesion which is thus produced between Im posterior and anterior walls of the canal, the former is made to ^e th^ limb of a valve in preventing the descent of a henna into the canal, ihns. a permanent resistance to the reproduction of the rupture is provided,, which remains even after the temporarily effused lymph has been re-absorbed. The impulsive force of the abdominal contents tending to protrude at the- intenial ring, is resisted by the valve-like action of the posterior wall, and is not enabled to exert itself upon the recently formed adhesions. The use of the truss, except as a tempoi’ary adjunct in the cure, is londered unneces- sary by this operation. 0])ei-ation.—Hh.Q patient being laid on his back, with the shoulders well raised, and the pubes and scrotum shaved, the hernia must be reduced and held up by an assistant pressing upon the internal opening. The operator,, standing at that side of the patient whieh is about to be operated on, makes, with a small tenotomy-knife, an incision about three-fourths of an inch long- through the skin of the serotum over the lower part of the tumour ; or, if this, be large, about two and a half inches below the pubic spine. Then the knife, being inserted flativise between the skin and the faseia, is made to separate them ai-ound the incision over an area of about a two-ineh circle ; a pro- ceeding which the loose attachment of the skin easily allows. The knees of the patient should next be drawn up towards the abdomen, and held together- so as to relax the structures connected -with Poupart’s ligament. The fore- finger is next passed through the opening in the skin, and made to invaginate the detached fascia through the external ring into the canal, which is best done by using the right hand for the right side, and vica versa, keeping the- palm dhected forwards. The invagination of the fascia should be commenced from as low a point as the cutaneous incision will permit, so as to push the- invaginated finger as mi-ich as possible between the sac of the hernia and the- spermatic cord. When the finger is in the canal, its point should reach the- internal opening of the hernia, and the cord should be distinctly perceptible to it and protected by it. The point of the finger will then be placed behind the lower border of the internal oblique, and must render this point prominent at the surface by being hooked forward. The Surgeon will then be sensible of the edge of the conjoined tendon, raised in relief to the inner side of the iuvaginating finger, and in contact with its radial border. Next, the needle, stout, blunt-pointed, and curved, mounted on a strong handle, is to be- passed along the radial border of the finger as far as just beyond the- extreme joint, at which point it is made to pass through the conjoined tendon and tlic external oblique aponeurosis, till it is seen to raise the- skin. The latter is then to be drawn upwards and inwards as far as possible before the needle is pushed through it. Then a stout coppei- Avirc, silvered, about two feet long, and bent into a convenient hook at each end, is hooked on to the eye of the needle ; and the latter is withdrawn and unhooked, leaving the lower end of the wire in the scrotal incision, and the upper end in the groin-puucture. The iuvaginating finger is then- jilaccd on the outer side of the cord, behind Boupart’s ligament, as far from the border of the external ring as possible, raising the ligament on its point.