788 UrjNARY CALCULUS. ■when it takes an abnormal direction, with which it is impossible to he acquainted until after the accident has occurred. If the incision be commenced too high up, and especially if the upper part of the first incision be made by pushing the knife in too deeply, the corpus cavernosum and its vessels may be wounded. It may be stated as a general rule, that serious hfemon’hage is usually best avoided by making the incisions low ; and indeed, I believe that the great secret of success in the lateral operation of lithotomy consists in making all the deep incisions as low as practicable ; the knife entering the groove of the staff from below upwards, rather than fr'om above downwards. 3. Venous Hcemorrliage may occur from two sources—the superficial or the prostatic veins. It is very seldom that any trouble arises from superficial veins ; but in one case I have seen veiy considerable loss of blood occur from a large vein running transversely to and near the upper angle of the wound, lying almost immediately under the skin, which had been incompletely divided. From the prostatic plexus hsemorrhage is most likely to occur in old people, in whom the veins in this situation are often enlarged—almost hEemorrhoidal. Whether the venous bleeding take place fr’om a superficial or fr'om a deep source, it is very apt to find its way back into the bladder, to mix with the urine, and thus to escape through the tube rather than fr’om the wound itself; or the blood may probably coagulate in the interior of the bladder, distending that organ and producing a feehng of dysm’ia. Should it proceed from a superficial source, it may be necessary, as was done in the case just alluded to, to pass a hgatiu’e under the vessel, and thus arrest it. If it occur from the prostatic veins, the better plan wiU be to plug the wound. This is done by passing long strips of lint, either dry or soaked in a solution of perchloride of iron or of alum, along the side of the tube, which must be left in the wound and kept pervious ; or the lithotomy tube may have a “ petticoat ” of thick muslin tied around it, into which the slips of lint are stuffed. The advantage of this arrangement is, that the whole apparatus may very easily be removed together at the end of forty-eight hours. Haemorrhage frrom any of the above-named sources, but more especially fr’om the deep arteries and veins, may take place into the bladder. When this occurs, the urine that escapes vfiU be seen ^to be deeply mixed with blood, and coagula mil form in the interior of the viscus, which becomes distended and rises above the pubes, with dulness on percussion in the hypogastric region. The patient ■will become pale, faint, and cold. In such circumstances, the coagula must be washed out of the bladder with cold water, the soiuce of In-emorrhage ascertained by an examination of the wound, the farther flow of blood arrested by plugging, the ligature, or the actual cautery, restoratives administered, the pelvis placed high, and the patient keep cool. Wound of the Bulb is not of very nncommon occurrence in lithotomy ; and, I believe, is of no consequence beyond furnishing a small additional quantity of blood. Indeed, the bulb is so situated,_ in many cases overlapping the membranous portion of the urethra, that this can scaicely be openc without wouuding it. , ,, Missing the Urethra altogether, and opening up the bladder through oven altogether beyond the prostate, is an accident that may happen if the Si