bilateral lithotomy. 803 fully earned down to the central point of the perintenm, and the membranous portion of the urethra is opened on a grooved me- dian statf previously intro- duced ; along this the double lithotome cache (Fig. 755) is passed with its concavity turned upwards. The Surgeon, having well ■assured himself that the ■instrument is fairly in the bladder, turns it so that its concavity looks dov\ n ^ -54,_Li,ie of incision in BUaternl Litliotoiny (Duimjtrcn). towai'ds the rectum; the spring ill the handle is then pressed, and the blades expanded to a proper ■ distance previously regulated, and both lateral lobes of the prostate divided to Fife. Too.—Duiiuytren’s Litiiotonie Caclie, Oi'sned. Fig. T56.—Biinter.1l Section of Prostate. •a coiTesponding extent downwards and outwards in withdrawing the instru- ment (Fig. 75G). The extraction of the stone is then effected in the usual way. This operation appears to me not to have received the attention from Surgeons in this country that it deserves. By being careful not to open the intestine, and to introduce the lithotome into the membranous portion of the canal, the arteries of the bulb are not endangered, and indeed the transverse and super- ficial arteries of the pcrinaium are also above and beyond the line of incision. The prostate is divided ef|ually on both sides in its greatest diameter ; if the expansion of the lithotome be carefully guarded, there is no danger of going beyond the limits of that organ, or of wounding the internal pudic .arteries (Fig. 757) ; and the interior of the bladder is reached by the most direct and the readiest passage. In withdrawing the litho- tome, the handle must be well depressed, and great care must be taken that the instrument be kept securely in the mesial line, so that the section may not be made more freely in ■one side than the other. The operation has not been performed with sufficient frequency in this country fur • any reliable statistics as to the results. But Eve of Nashville has done it jn 78 cases of all ages, with a mortality of only 8. Fig. 757.—Line of Incision in the Prostnte in Bilateral Lithotomy, showing its relation to the Bnlh ami the intenwl I’lulic. Artery. 3 K 2