ligature of the subclavian artery. I2I of the subclavian over that of the axillary artery, m other words, by performing Hunter’s instead of Aiicl’s operation for the cure of spontaneous axillaiy aneurism, there would appear to be a tendency in the minds of some Surgeons to advocate the latter instead of the former of these operations ; and to sub- stitute for one that offers the advantages that have just been mentioned a procedure that is not only much more difficult in its performance, and that interferes with the collateral circulation, but that is practised upon a diseased part of the vessel, in dangerous proximity to the sac. Ligature of the Subclavian in the Third Part of its Course.—In order to apply a ligature to that portion of the subclavian artery Avhich inter- venes between the acromial edge of the scalenus anticus and the lower border of the first rib, the patient should be placed in the recumbent position, the arm depressed as much as possible, and the liead turned somewhat to the opposite side. The integuments of the lower part of the neck should then be put on the stretch by being drawn downwards over the. clavicle, and an incision about four inches in length made upon the bone through the integument, the super- ficial fascia, and the platysma. When tension is taken off the part, this in- cision udll be found to traverse the base of the inferior triangle of the neck ; a vertical incision should then be made at right angles to, and falling into the centre of, the first, and the two flaps of integument and fascia should then be turned up. A quantity of loose areolar tissue will now be exposed, in which a A'enous plexus and the lower end of the external jugular vein will commonly be fomid. These vessels should be carefully avoided, and the areolar tissue dissected or scratched through with the point of a knife and a blunt probe ; should any vein be wounded, a double ligature must be passed underneath it, and both ends tied. If the trausversahs coUi or humeri arteries, as occasionally happens, should inconveniently traverse this place, they must be draAvii out of the way with a blunt hook. By the combined action of cutting and scratch- ing through the areolar tissue, the external edge of the scalenus anticus is reached ; this is the “ directing line ” down which the finger is run until the tubercle of the first rib is felt. This is the guide to the artery, which wiU be found immediately above and a little behind it, covered, however, and bound down to the rib by a dense fascia. This must now be very carefully opened ■with the edge of the knife, and the needle passed from before backwards. In doing this, attention must be paid to the brachial jjlexus, situated above and behind the artery (Figs. 387, 388, 389). I here are several points in connection with this operation that deserve special attention. In the first place, it is necessary that the shoulder should be depressed as far as possible, so as to bring the superior margin of the clavicle <lo^\^l. This is a matter of much importance ; for, if the clavicle be thrust upwards by the pressui’e of a large aneurism, the Surgeon will have to find the artery at the bottom of a deep narrow wound, instead of on a comparatively plain surface. A case occurred to Sir A. Cooper, in which the attempt to ligature the subclavian artery for a large aneurism of the axilla was forced to be abandoned, in consequence of the clavicle being thrust up to too great a height to enable him to reach the vessel. The extent of the difficulty occa- sioned by this elevation of the clavicle must necessarily depend in a <>-reat measure upon the height at which the subclavian artery happens in any*^par-