463 EXTIRPATION OF THE EYEBALL. The globe now generally comes forward suddenly. It is dra^m forward by holding it at the point of insertion of one of the rectus muscles or Avherever it may be secured conveniently, and any remaining adherent soft parts are divided, always of course as before, close to the globe. Dixon finds it con- venient to leave the insertion of the internal rectus muscle to bo at last divided after all the other muscles have been cut through, and the optic nerve also. Sometimes, if the globe be stapliylomatous or enlarged, so that after the division of the rectus tendons it is difficult to reach further back with two instruments within the comparatively small palpebral aperture, it is convenient then to remove the spring-speculum, and with the points of the fingers vdthin the two lids to force them backwards, so that the eye comes to stand out in fi'ont of the lids ; and this being done, the optic nerve may be easily reached with the scissors and divided, and the remaining soft parts dis- sected from tho globe. Or it may even be necessary to enlarge the palpebral aperture at the outer canthus, or to evacuate some of the fluid contents of the eye. After the four rectus tendons have been divided in this operation, the removal of the globe should be completed as quickly as may be, to prevent loss of blood, or its being extensively effused in the orbital and palpebral areolar tissue ; for, if the latter take place, it is so much the more difficult to reach the deeper surrounding parts to divide them, and the wound is longer in healing, and the lids of the patient are for so much the longer time discoloured after- wards. Hence we must stop the bleeding as soon as possible after the globe is effectual way is, perhaps, the speculum beino- still within the lids, or reintroduced, to have a basin of cold water broimbt and a sponge fiill of it held at some height, so that the water falls from it in a con- muous stream and with some force into the vacant orbital space, a We emiitr sponge being also placed against the temple of the side of the extirpation to receive the flow of water. It should be continued untd the oozing of blood fr-om between the hds has ceased. Then a small round empty spono-e com- passed to make ,t go between the lids and a little way into the mtLlfpace” ro, ? tn'T’ closely with a bit of cotton bandage, tied tiohtlr It the 1* loft so for sk houre 8 h ™ter-dres8ings applied nntil"”! at ‘0 he it should be of course th.n be given to it —less ill those cases in which tlescribed, of abscission, or than ployed, the:,\l:,^ tS L"s^ ™ the ill-result of sonm snro-,V.!i n . ? ^ ^ accidentally or by behind the lids. The cicatrix in^Th suffered to remain rally cruciform : an i idic't on of th^ conjuimtiva, after an excision, is gene- Of tl.0 four rectus muscles'