95° diseases of THE TESTIS AND CORD. Tn order that the radical cure, in whichever way undertaken, should be safe and efficient, it is necessary, in the first instance, that the disease should ha\-c been allowed to attain a chronic condition, more particularly if the hydrocele have been of rapid growth. In order to prevent its attaining too large a size, it will be well to adopt palliative tapping once or twice before attempting the radical cure. Care must also be taken to remove all inflammation and tender- ness about the testis, before having recourse to this means of treatment. If attention be not paid to this, recurrence of the hydrocele will probably ensue. After the proper amount of inflammation has been set up, it will be well to treat the patient as if he were suffering under an ordinary attack of orchitis, confining him to the bed or to the couch for a few days ; indeed, care in the after-treatment is of very considerable importance in securing a favom'able result. The treatment by Injection is that which is commonly employed. It consists in tapping the tumour in the usual way, and then throwing a sufficient quantity of stimulating fluid into the tunica vaginalis through the cannula, so as to excite a proper amount of inflammation in it. The liquids that are employed are genei’ally either port wine, or a solution of the sulphate of zinc of the strength of 5! to 5xij, or most commonly the tinctiu-e of iodine. If the port wine or a solution of the sulphate of zinc be em|)loyed, a sufficient quantity partly to distend the sac should be injected from an India-rubber bottle or brass syringe that can be adapted to the cannula ; six or eight ounces are commonly required for this purpose, and it should be allowed to remain in for some minutes before being evacuated. Injection of Iodine.—The injection of tincture of iodine, originally introduced by Sir J. R. Martin, whilst practising at Calcutta, is now commonly prefeiTed as a more certain and safer mode of treatment than any other. The quantity of tincture of iodine injected should vary from two dracluns to half an ounce, according to the size of the tumour. It may be used piue or diluted ■with an equal quantity of water. After injection, the Sm’geon should rub the scrotum gently over the testis, so as to diffuse the injection equally over the surface of the sac. One half the quantity thrown in should then be allowed to escape, the cannnla removed, and the puncture closed -ndth a piece of plaster. The cannula used for this purpose should be made of platinum and not of silver, which is apt to become corroded and made brittle by the action of the iodine. A good deal of inflammation, with fr’esh effusion into the sac, will usually be set up, on the subsidence of which, the cure ^vill be foimd to have been effected. Useful as the iodine injection is, it sometimes fails in producing a radical ciuc of hydrocele. This is attributable to two causes : the first is, that in some cases sufficient inflammation is not set np to induce that condition of the tunica vaginalis which is necessary for a radical cure. It is well knomi that, when a hydrocele fls radically cured by injection, it is so, not by any adhesion 1 taking place between the two opposite surfaces of the tunica vaginalis and a consequent obliteration of its cavity, but by the inflammation that is artiflcially induced exciting such a modification of this membrane as to restore the balance between the secretion and absorption of the fluid by which it is naturally lubricated. Now, in some cases, sufficient inflammation is not induced by the