187 XECROSIS OF FLAT BONES. sufficient strength to maintain the limb of its proper length and shape and that it will bend or break under the action ot the forces and weight to which it is snbiected. In order to prevent this accident, it will be necessary to put it up ill light splints, or in a starched bandage. After the removal of the dead bone, the sinuses will speedily close, and the limb eventually regain its normal size and shape. Amputation.—If the necrosed bone be so situated that it cannot be removed, occupying too gi-eat an extent and continuing to be &-mly fixed ; and if at the same time the patient’s health have been worn down by constant discharge, and symptoms of hectic come on ; or if the limb have generally been greatly disorganised by the morbid processes going on in it, recourse must be had to amputation as a last resource. It is especially in the lower third of the thigh- bone that these severe forms of necrosis occur, necessitating amputation of the limb. When necrosis affects the flat posterior surface of this bone above the condyles, a special source of danger occurs in the possibihty of the sequestrum causmg ulceration or woinid of the popliteal artery. In cases of this kind, suddenly fatal htemoirhage might occur. Should the haemorrhage, though abundant, not be fatal, what com-se should the Siu’geon adopt in such cases ? Should he attempt to ligatiu-e the vessel, or should he amputate the hmb ? The line of jiractice must, I think, be determined by the condition of the hmb itself and by the state of the patient’s health. If these be both tolerably good, the limb not too much disorganised, and the powers of the system not too much reduced by hectic, an attempt might be made, by slitting up the sinuses, to expose and secure the popliteal arteiy at the seat of injury in it, and, by liga- turing it, to save hfe and limb. But should this attempt fail, as I have known happen, or should it not be thought prudent to make it, owing to the low state of the patient’s strength, or the disorganised condition of the limb, amputation must be done -without delay. As an idiopathic disease, necrosis of the tibia requiring amputation is rarely met with ; but when it is the result of bad com- poimd fractures, or of other serious injuries, removal of the limb may become imperati-\-e. In acute necrosis of the lower end of the thigh, or of the shaft of the tibia involving the contiguous joints, and attended by deep and extensive abscess of the limb, amputation is imperative. Resection of the whole of the necrosed bone may be advantageously per- foiuned in such cases as those of the metacarpal and metatarsal bones, or in those of the forearm or leg, where sufficient stability of limb is seciu’ed by the remainmg bone or bones to leave an useful member. The diseased bone may be thus removed in necrosis of the ungual phalanx occurring from whitlow, where, by the excision of the dead bone, the end of the finger may be preserved; also in necrosis of some of the metatarsal and tarsal bones, or those of the fore- ann, the inferior maxilla, and the fibula. The remarks that I have hitherto made apply chiefly to necrosis of the long- bones ot the extremities. As there are a few special considerations connected with the necrosis of the flat bones, w'C will now consider these briefly. Necrosis of the Stei-num, Scapula, or Rones of the Pelvis, is an ex- cessively tedious process, there being but vexy little teixdency to the formation of the line of separation and the detachment of the seqixestrum, which will continue bare, rough, and adherent for many years. Should it be so situated