DEFORMITIES. 382 ing on a Aveaknoss or leebleness of their antagonists—the interossei, adductor, 5Uid short flexor of the gi'eat toe. Consequently any excess of action of these same extensor muscles, Avhatever may be its cause, ought to produce exactly identical results. The knowledge of this fact explains the origin of the holloAved claAv-foot that AA'e see produced in talipes equinus, Avhen the long extensor of the toes has pre- served its voluntary contractility; and it Avould be as well here shortly to con- sider the cause of the alteration in the foot in talipes equinus. As soon as the talipes commences to oppose the flexion of the foot upon the leg, the opposing muscles act AAith increased vigoim to prevent the deformity. This leads to an ■abnormal extension of the first phalanges of the toes (to AA'hich the extensor longus and extensor pollicis are attached), and ultimately to a subluxation of these phalanges upon the dorsal surfaces of the heads of the metatarsal bones. Every attempt at flexion then depresses the heads of the metatarsal bones into the sole of the foot, so increasing the plantar arch. This is most marked in the great toe. The tonic force of the antagonists to the extensors is unable to withstand the exaggerated action of the long extensors. That the mechanism here given is correct, may be shoAra by the foUoAA'ing fact. In a Avell marked case of a patient affected with a “ hollow claw-footed equinus ” (griffe pied creux ^quin), we should see that any attempt to flex the foot at the ankle leads only to further extension of the toes, which become draAvn back over the heads of the metatarsal bones, pressing them down and increasing the arch of the foot. Hence, so far from any raising of the extremity of the foot taking place, it is rather depressed. The Treatment of this condition must be conducted on tAAm principles : 1. The stimulation of the paralysed interossei, adductor, and short flexor of the toe by means of faradisation ; and 2. The division of the tendons of those muscles which by their tonic contraction maintain and increase the deformity. Those Avhich I have usually found it necessary to divide are the extensor of the gTeat toe, the tendo Achillis, and in addition to these a very tight band of the inner diAUsion of the plantar fascia. The Scarpa’s shoe that is used after the opei’ation should have hinges across the middle and be provided Avdth a rack-and-pinion moA’ement, so that the depressed heads of the meta- tarsal bones may be raised by the anterior half of the sole. Contraction of One Toe is not of unfr-equent occurrence. In this complaint the proximal phalanx is either on its normal level or slightly draAATi up; the two distal ai-e bent doAvn at an acute angle, the apex of AA'hich is formed by the articulation of the first with the second. This contraction more commonly affects the second toe, is often symmetrical in the tAvo feet, and is frcquently a souice of groat ineonvenience, and even permanent lameness. It appears to be di;e to contraction of the digital prolongation of the plantar fascia, and is best Congenital Hyiiertropliy of Toes and Foot. Fig. 543.—I’lantai- Aspect. Fig. 544.—Dorsal Aspect.