of the treatment of aneurism by compression 59 COMPliESSJON. of these two plans, not so miioh hy the question of submittinR tlwir ‘o ■i sIMitlv more miiifnl or tedious treatment, ns by tbo compaiativo risk of "teSnt^on one or other method. Upon this point the stat,st.es have yet hav’: rfyctCn s,'and partly because the nnsuoeessW CMS of li.itnrc have not been so commonly published .as the successful miM » houU°r we compare the 33 cases of fcmoml and pophteal a.,eur.sm treated in’ Dublin up to Februaiy, 1861, as given by Bellingham {Meil.-Chirwg. Tt ms- mlions vol. 84), with the results of 188 cases of femoral and popliteal aireui.™ record^ by Norris, in which the artery was ligatured, we shall ^ 33 compiession-cases 3(1 were cured ; in 1 the ligature was applied after pres- sure had failed ; in 3, amputation was performed ; in 1, death ocemred from erysipelas i in 1 ftom chest-disease. and in 1 case the pressure w^ discon- tinued Thus it would appear that 0 out of the 83 failed, being m the propoi-- tion of 1 to 0-3 cases, and 2 died, being in the ratio of 1 to 10. Of the b cases in which the artery was ligatured, 142 were cured, 40 died, 0 were amputated, in 10 the sac suppurated, and in 2 gangrene of the foot occnrrec. Thus the deaths after ligature were in the proportion of 1 to 4, and the failures or serious accidents in that of 1 to 3, showdng clearly a very con- siderable preponderance in favour of the treatment by compression. Besides this, in many patients Avho recoA’ered after the ligature, various accidents, such as gangi-ene, erysipelas, secondary hfemorrhage, &c., resulted as the direct consequences of the treatment; and these do not happen when pressure is employed. The perfect safety of the treatment by compression has been fully confirmed by the statistics collected by Holmes, and published in his lectures on the Surgical Treatment of Aneurism ; but the proportion of success is not so great as in Bellingham’s cases. Of 124 cases of compression for popliteal aneurism collected fi’om the records of British hospitals for a period of 10 years, 66 suc- ceeded and 58 failed. Hone died directly fi’om the consequences of the operation. Of the 58 failures, 44 underwent ligature of the femoral, in 8 amputation w^as performed, one died of plemisy, and the subsequent history of the remainder Avas uncertain. Thc failmes were, therefore, 1 in 2'1. On the other hand, of 77 cases, in which the femoral was tied directly, 11 died, or 1 in 7. In 1 gangrene occurred, but the patient recovered, and in 1 secondary hmmorrhage Avas successfully treated. The 11 deaths were caused as follows : pymmia 3 ; Avound of vein and phlebitis 2 ; secondary haemorrhage 2 ; gangrene 1 ; small pox and disease of the kidneys 1 each, and 1 Avas uncertain. If compression fail, ligatm-e may often be advantageously applied ; in some cases Avith a better prospect of success than if compression had not preArously been tried, that treatment having caused the collateral circulation to eidarge, and thus lessened the tendency to gangrene. If, however, avc take the general average of those cases that have been submitted to ligature after the failure of compression, we shall find that the result is not so satisfactory as AA'hen the ligature has been employed as the primary method of treatment. Thus I find that, out of 40 cases in AAdiich the ligature was employed after compression had i'ailed, there Avere 16 deaths. This is probably not so much due to the previous employment of compression, as to the same causes interfering Avith the consoli-