42 ANEUEISM. that the ligature should be applied in such cases, though I cannot hut doubt the propriety of this advice. When inflammation has been set up in the sac, with a tendency to suppuration of the tumour, it is a debatable question -whethei- the ligature should be applied or not. In these cases I agi-ec with Hodgson, that the artery should be tied ; for even if the sac eventually suppurate, there will be less risk to the patient if this event occur after the application of the ligatm-e, than if it happen while the artery leading into the tumour is pervious. If suppuration have ah'cady taken place in or around the sac, the application of the ligature above the inflamed tumour on the point of bursting would be worse than useless. In such cases, the hne of practice must be determined by the seat of the aneurism. If this be in the axilla, groin, or neck, it should be laid freely open, the coagula scooped out, and the artery tied above and below the mouth of the sac—a most formidable and doubtful operation, but the only one that holds out a chance of success. If the aneurism be in the ham or calf, amputation would probably be the best course to pm-sue. In some instances, there is no resoiu-ce left to the Sm’geon but to amputate. 1. Amputation must be performed when the aneurism is associated with carious bone or a diseased joint, as when a pophteal anemlsm has produced destruction of the knee. 2. If the artery be so diseased that it will not admit of the appHca- tion of a ligature, and the aneiu’ism be so situated, as in the ham, that it admits of amputation of the limb. 3. If the aneurism have attained so great a magnitude that it has abeady interfered seriously with the circulation through the limb, as indicated by considerable oedema, lividity, and coldness of the part, mth distension of the superfleial veins, it is a question whether the appheation of the hgature may not immediately induce gangrene, and whether the patient would not have the best chance of recovery by submitting to amputation at once ; this is more particularly the case when the aneurism, whether previously lai’ge or small, has become diffused with impending gangi’ene, when removal of the limb must not be delayed. 4. If gangrene have actually supervened, and the patient’s strength be sufficient to bear the operation, amputation should be done without delay. 5. If a diffused aneurism, whether suppiu’ating or not, in the lower extremity, have been opened by mistake for an abscess, there is no resoiu’ce left but immediate amputation. The ligature fails from various causes in a very considerable number of the cases in which it is employed for the cure of aneiu'ism. Thus, in 25G cases of ligature of the larger arteries for anemism, collected and tabulated by Ciisp, it would appear that the mortahty amoimted to about 22 pear cent. Poita flnds that, among GOO cases of ligature of arteries for diseases and injuiies ot all kinds, the mortality amounted to 27 per cent. It must be borne m mind, that these are collections of previously reported cases, and that, fr the unre- corded cases could be got at, the rate of death would, in all probability, be found to be much higher even than that above stated. Accidents after Ligature for Aneurism.—The accidents that may foUow the application of the ligature in a case of aneurism, are : 1, Secondary Hiemon’hage fr’om the seat of ligature ; 2, the Continuance oi t le te ° Pulsation in the Sac ; 3, the occurrence of Suppuration and Sloughing o c Tumour, with or ivithout Hiumorrhage from it; and 4, Gangrene o e Limb.