ANEURISM. but must ill nil probability have been the result of the effusion of nlastio of that r ^ ''''' tl^ere is little ov any of that stiatified arrangement that is observable in the fibrinc which k hi k J f a laminated hbiine just described, and is evidently the result of simple coagulation It is the passive clot of Broca. The use of the deposited hbrine appears to be in a gi-eat measure to strengthen the waUs of the sac, and thus to prevent the too rapid increase of the tumour. Another groat pm-posc that it serves is to lessen the capacity of the sac, and thus to diminish the distending force of the blood which is injected at each stroke of the heart—the outward pressme depending as much on the area of the sac as on the force with which the blood is di’iveii into it. Then again, the lining of the walls of the sac with such a tough and elastic material as the stratified fibriiie, must greatly tend to deaden and break the force of the shock of the wave of blood that is projected against what would otherwise be an unprotected and expanded mem- brane. In those cases in ivliich the laminated fibriue is small in quantity or altogether deficient, the aneurismal tumour rapidly increases with a forcible pulsation that is not met with in other cii’cumstances. Pressure-Effects.—As the sac of an aneurism enlarges, it exercises in- jurious and often fatal effects by its pressure upon contiguous parts. These pressure-effects deserve attentive study, as they constitute an important and, in some instances, the sole element in the diagnosis of the anem-ism. One of the most common pressure-effects of aneurism is the occurrence of oedema of the limb or part, owing to the compression exercised by the tumour upon the large and deep venous trunlcs in its ■sicinity. The consequent ob- struction to the venous circulation in the interior of the bmb may also give rise to a distended or varicose condition of the subcutaneous vessels, and in some instances it may even go on to the production of gangrene. The pressime of the sac, also, on neighbouring arteries, or even on the uj)per part of the A'ery vessel from which it springs, and its interference with the general capillary circulation of a part, is commonly associated Avith the A’cnous compression, and may considerably increase the ill-consequences resulting from it. The pres- sure upon a neighboiu’ing artery may go on to perforation of the A'essel by the sac, and so a communication betAveen the tAvo may be set up ; thus aneurism of the aorta has been known to perforate and communicate Avith the pulmonary artery. By its pressure upon neighbouring nerves, an aneurismal sac may give rise either to great pain in the part supplied by them, or to distiu’bance of their function ; the nerves themselves becoming, in some cases. Fig, 354,—Large Aneurism of Asceiuling Aoi-tn, projecting against (and protruding outwards) tlie ribs. Layers of Laminated Fibrine arranged in the direction of tlie Current of tlie Blood.