SPECIAL ANEUIUSMS. i6o Biffused Popliteal Axeuiusm.—Wlien a circumscrihed popliteal aneurism suddenly becomes diffused, the patient is seized with faintness or sickness, with pain, numbness, and a hot trickling sensation in the limb, the temperature of which fells at the same time that its bulk inereases, and the integument assumes a ivhite, shining, mottled appearance, with more or less purplish dis- coloration. This condition usually occurs after a circumscribed aneurism has existed in the ham for some weeks or months, and on the occurrence of some sudden exertion. In some cases, however, the disease appears to have been diffused from the very first, the coats having given way, and extravasation having taken place into the areolar tissue of the limb, without the previous consolidation of the parts around the artery, or any attempt at the formation of a sac. In these cases the extravasation into the limb may either be con- joined with much oedema ; or it may be confined to the areolar tissue of the ham, and to the upper and back part of the leg, or may extend downwards under the muscles of the calf. When the patient comes under the observation of the Surgeon, the tumour is found to be solid, elastic, and irregular, without imlsation or bruit; the limb oedematous, cold, and congested. The diagnosis of this form of aneurism is often extremely difficult, and there is great danger of confounding it with simple extravasation into the caff, with abscess, or, possibly, with maligmant tumour of the leg. Treatment.—The danger attending on popliteal aneurism is greatly increased by its becoming diffused. In these circumstances the ligatiu'e of the artery usually affords but a slender prospect of success, the collateral vessels being so compressed and choked by the pressure of the effused blood as not to admit of the circulation being carried on through them ; hence, in many of these cases, the only resource left to the Surgeon is to amputate the limb. Amputation for Diffused Popliteal Aneurism.—The question of Anvputaimx in cases of diffused popliteal aneurism is not veiy easily submitted to any very positive or definite rules, except where the impending gangrene is so evident as not to admit of doubt. There are, however, certain general considerations that may guide the Surgeon in deciding on this important point. 1. In some cases, the sac has either given way to a I'ery limited extent; or else its walls, havhig become thin and expanded, are yielding rapidly under the pressure of the blood, becoming confused with the surrounding parts. Here we should hgature the artery without delay : for although it is but seldom that a limb can be saved when once the blood has become infiltrated into the general areolar tissue, yet it is possible that such a fortimate occurrence may happen. 2. In other instances the aneurism has not fr’om the fii’st been I'eiy dis- tinctly circumscribed. It has followed the infliction of some mechanical injury, and in the course of a week or two has acquired a considerable size, Avithout definite or distmet hmitation, being solid or but little compressible. Such a case as this can scarcely be considered, strictly speaking, a diffused aneurism ; but yet, if by circumscrihed we mean that the blood is contained in a defined cyst ivith walls, it scarcely complies with such a definition, the fluid blood being rather prevented from escaping widely by a temporary barrier ot coagula entangled in the loose areolar- tissue of the part, and the vessel being