DIAGNOSIS OF STRANGULATED HERNIA. 629 which arc usuaUy met vnth in strangulated hernia. They may, however, be modified in some important respects. , , i i, • 1. There may be little or no tension in a strangulated hernia, the tumour continuing soft and lax ; this is especially the case when the hernia contains omentum, and in congenital hernias when strangulated. It may also occur in the case of double herni® on the same side, in consequence of the outer sac beino- empty, or merely fiUed vnth serum, and the posterior one being pro- tnided against this and strangulated, but its tension being masked by the lax state of the outer one. i i • <- 2. Vomiting sometimes does not take place from first to last, there being at> mo'st a little retching ; at other times the patient vomits once or twice, and then there is no recurrence of this symptom so long as he remains quiet, and keeps the stomach empty ; but, on moving or taking noiu’ishment of any kind, oven fluids, it comes on again, and thus the Surgeon may elicit this symptom, .should it be necessary in a diagnostic point of ’^dew. 3. Extensive peritonitis, with copious effusion of a puriform liquid, may occm’ without any pain, and with but little tenderness and no elevation of iemperatiire ; the anxiety of countenance and sharpness of pulse being the only symptoms that lead to a suspicion of its existence. 4. Death may result from exhaustion consequent on vomiting and peritonitis, without any sign of gangrene in the constricted portion of intestine. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of strangulated hernia requires to be made from the following conditions. 1. Obstructed Irreducible Hernia.—In this there are no acute symptoms, and the rupture will generally be found to be a large one of old standing. It may become somewhat tense and swollen, but is not tender to the touch, and always presents a certain degree of impulse on coughing. There is no sign of peritonitis. There may be constipation ; but there is no vomiting, or, if there be any, it is simply mucous and bihous, consisting of the contents of the stomach. The speedy restoration of the intestinal action, by the treatment already indicated as proper in these cases, mil remove any doubt as to the nature of the affection. 2. Inflamed Irreducible Hernia.—Here there are great tenderness and pain in the tumour, with pyi-exia, and some general peritonitis, but there is no vomiting ; or, if the patient have vomited once or tmee, he does not continue to do so with the same degree of 'sdolence, or in the same quantity, as he would if the peritonitis were the result of strangulation. Again, the constipation is not absolute and entire, but flatus and hquid fasces will usually pass. 3. General Peritonitis conjoined with Hernia.—Here the diagnosis is often extremely difficult, especially if the hernia be an irreducible one. In these cases, however, it will be observed that the peritonitis may be most intense at a distance from the sac ; that there will be little or no vomiting, or, if there be, that it is simply of mucus and the contents of the stomach j and that the constipation is by no means obstinate or insiu'mountable by ordinary moans. 4. In Double Hernia, one tumoiu’ may be strangulated and the other not, though iireducible. In these circumstances, it may at first be a little difficult