DISEASES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 402 natural level, thus preventing any material deformity from being left (Pin- b55). In some cases the disease occupies a square surlace, and then it is neces- sary to excise a portion of the lip: when this is done, a considerable gap is left, requiring to be filled by some plastic operation of the kind that will be considered in a subsequent chapter, which may be most conveniently done at the time when the excision is j)er- formed. When the disease occurs at the angle of the mouth, it assumes a more intractable character than when af- fecting the free part of the hp. The same operation—that of free excision —^may be apphed to it here as in the former case ; but with less prospect of success. Should the disease be as extensive as at Fig. 55G, the lines of incision must be so planned as „ . completely to surround and to iso- Fig. 5oo.—Extensive E])itheboma of the Lip : i . • Liiitis of Incision. late it. C. Heath has very successfully ex- tended this operation to cases in which the cancer of the lip had invaded the gum, and had involved the lower jaw, by removing a portion of the implicated bone, together with the disease, in the soft parts. Pig. 557 gives a good idea of the cases to which this operation is apphcable. DISEASES OF THE PAROTID GLAND. Fig. 557.—Eintlielioma of Lower Lip involving Jaw, successfully removed (Heath). to the testicle or breast occasionally qrgan is the consequence, which in Parotitis, or Mumps, is a specific inflammation of the parotid, and sometimes of the other salivary glands. It is common in children, though it not unfr-equently occurs in adults. It is highly infectious, and appears to be of a specific character. Both sides of the neck are usually affected, and the swell- ing, stifihess, and pain are often considerable, though it very rarely happens that suppuration occurs, unless it be in the lymphatic glands of the neighbourhood. l\Ietastasis occins. Inflammation of the affected the testis goes on to atrophy. This