540 DISEASES OF THE MOUTH AND THROAT. These, so far as my experience goes, are the eight conditions which are likely to simulate stricture of the oesophagus ; and such are the points to be attended to in the diagnosis of these allectious from each other. With regard to their diagnosis from sti-icturc, the process is rather a negative than an affirmative one, proving the absence of tumour, aneurism, &c. The conclusion that the difficulty of deglutition can arise from no other cause than stricture is arrived at by a process of exclusion : and the situation and extent of the stricture are ascertained by exploration with a gum-elastic catheter or bougie. Forms op Stricture.—There are three forms of this affection which it is necessary to distinguish from each other, inasmuch as they differ greatly in the mode of treatment, and in the ultimate result. These are—1. Hysterical or Spasmodic Stricture ; 2. Fibrous Strictiue ; 3. Cancerous Stricture. 1. Hysterical or Spasmodic Stricture is met with chiefly in young females under twenty-five, though it may occur in much older persons of the hysterical temperament. It is possible for it to occur without evident organic disease or change of any kind. But I believe that the simple andpime uncom- plicated hysterical stricture is of very rare occmTcnce. In the majority of instances it will undoubtedly be found to be associated with and dependent upon some local change of structure, most commonly of a simple kind, such, as chronic inflammation of the pharyngeal mucous membrane, ulcerative abrasion of it, or follicular inflammation about the epiglottis and posterior part of the larynx. The disease in many cases is supposed to be dependent on or originally occasioned by the patient swallowing some foreign body, as a fish-bone, bead, bristle, &c., which after many mouths is still thought to be impacted. This is almost always erroneous. The foreign body may have been swallowed, and may have been the starting-point of the slight inflam- matory or ulcerative action that occasions the dysphagia, but it has long since disappeared, merely leaving a series of troublesome consequences in its train. The obstruction is generally high up in the phai’ynx, rather than in the (Eso- phagus ; being produced by the contraction of the constrictor muscles of the pharynx. The dysphagia is intermittent; Avhen the patient’s mind is allowed to dwell long on the affection, and she becomes anxious about it, \hen the difficulty is greatly increased ; whilst at other times, Avhen her thoughts are diverted from it, food passes easily. It will be found also, in these cases, that on attempting to pass a probang or large bougie, its progress will at first be resisted, but, by patiently and gently pressing down upon the strictm-e, the instrument will soon pass easily. 2. Fibrous Structure.—There are two kinds of organic strictm’e of the oesophagus—namely, the fibrous and the cancerous. Between these the dia- gnosis is often very difficult; strictimes originally fibrous sometimes degenerat- hig into or assuming a malignant form ; while others continue fibrous from the first. The fibrous stricture is scarcely ever idiopathic. It almost invari- ably orio-inates from the cauterisation of the interior of the oesophagus by the accidental or suicidal swallowing of some corrosive fluid, acid or alkaline, as the strong mineral acids or soap-leys, by which the mucous membrane is destroyed, chained as it were, and a cicatrix as of a burn forms. 1 he etmlogy, in fact, is an important element in the diagnosis, che fibrous strictiue be „ almost invariably the direct result of escharotic action, the cancerous occmii