355 TREATMENT OF DEFORMITIES. certain set of muscles, which consequently become shortened and atrophied, and acquire a rigid state. This condition is consecutive to the displacement, but renders it permanent; it is apt to oceur after fractures, if the parts be kept for too long a time in one position, and more particularly if they be bound and matted together by the pressure of tight bandages. A somewhat similar cause sometimes operates on the foetus in utero : an abnormal position in the uterine cavity being very frequently the immediate occasion of some of the vai’ieties of congenital club-foot. These deformities must not be con- founded with congenital dislocations, in which there is always an arrest of development of some of the articular ends of the bones connected A^ith the alfeeted joint. 2. Irritation set up in the Central Portions of the ITervous System may produce deformity by deranging the proper antagonistic action of certain groups of muscles. This condition gives rise to many of the con- genital as well as of the non-congenital deformities. It may act by producing more or less complete paralysis of one set of muscles, the contractility of their antagonists continuing normal; and thus, the relative balance of action being destroyed, the stronger wiU draw the part over to their side. The influence of this want of proper balance of parts in paralysis, producing deformity, may be well seen in the peculiar deformity of the hand and forearm described at p. 415, Vol. I., from paralysis of the musculo-spiral nerve in certain fractures of the humerus, and in palsy of the portio dura, where the face is distorted by being drawn to the sound side ; or in squint, where, the sixth nerve being paralysed and the external rectus muscle having lost its motor power the eye is drawm inwards by the action of its antagonist, the internal rectus. ^ ccording to Tamphn, deformity from paralysis is never congenital, thouo-h it isnotimfrequentlymet with in infancy. Central initation may occasion detoimity in another way, by producing tonic or permanent spasm of one set other remaining perfect in their contractility, but overbalanced by the continued contraction of their antagonists. This would appear to be the case in some foms of squint. Little has made the important observation t Perils , It ® and instrumental labours, mnscife »d occasion contraction of the ™rrTlnrfroi?r ™ oommonly sec happen in cases of contraction actions of the part."’ consequently unfitted for the proper exercise of the the'caut™rth7onta^^^ JrmfeMnt of deformity consists in removing l-ipheral, or ne™„rSt ™ ^ o f arise from pressure unon t e hr squinting when the congested vessels are Sved, rti^ cZ7fluS atatd “a A A 2