780 UlUNAliY CALCULUS. 4. As the prostate is a rudimentary organ in the boy, the deep incision necessarily passes, in most cases, beyond its limits into the neck of the bladder. b. In boys the tissues are more yielding, and more readily lacerable under the finger. 0. d'be most important point, however, is, that in the boy the bladder lies high, being rather in the abdomen than in the pelvis ; hence, it is of import- ance to raise the point of the knife somewhat more than in the adult in making the deep incision, and to be careful that it do not slip into the tissues between the rectum and the bladder, which may happen unless this precaution be taken. I have known this to occur in several instances to Hospital Sm-geons of skill and experience, the forceps being passed into this space under the supposition of its being the bladder ; and in every case the patient died unrelieved. This accident is the more likely to happen, because in boys the parts are very yielding, and readily admit of being pushed before the knife or finger ; and the finger may thus pass between the neck of the bladder and the pubes, or into the loose areolar tissue between the rectum and the bladder. The urethra being opened, urine escapes ; and the Surgeon introduces his finger into a dis- tinct cavity, which he believes to be the interior of the bladder, but which is not so, but the recto-vesical space. ’ The liability to the occurrence of this dis- tressing and fatal accident is materially lessened by injecting the bladder fully with tepid water, by which it is steadied and brought lower down. But in young boys lithotomy is from this cause always an anxious operation. It falls to the lot of but few Sm’geons of experience in hthotomy to pass through an active professional life without meeting with difficulty and anxiety in operating on boys ; and when such an untoward accident ocems, those will be the most charitable in their judgment of others, who have themselves had the most experience in the operation and have had most frequently to en- counter its intrinsic difficulties. In order, then, to obviate the special dangers that have just been mentioned as likely to occiu' in the lateral lithotomy of boys, the following points should be attended to. 1. The bladder should be injected with two or three ounces of tepid water. 2. The point of the knife, wfoen it has entered the groove of the staff, should be kept very fii-mly pressed against its side, and carried somewhat upwards instead of straight forwards. 3. When the knife is laid aside and the Sm’geon proceeds to pass his finger into the bladder, he will find the following manoeuvre to facilitate this step of the operation very greatly, and lessen materially the danger of ^ pushing the neck of the bladder before him. Placing the nail of the left index in the groove of the staff j he should not carry it along the convexity of this instrument, but, shdiug it over to the concave side, gently but steadily work his way along this into the bladder. In doing so, he passes the finger between the roof of the urethra, which is a fixed part of the canal, and the staff", mstead of between this and the fioor of the urethra, which is mobile and yieldmg. There is the additional advantage that, by pressing dovm the staff as the finger goes above it, the urethra and neck of the bladder are somewhat dilated._ 4. So soon as the finger enters the bladder and the staff is withdravm, the