POLYPUS OF THE NOSE. 393 nose from tlie frontal sinuses and antrum. Llost frequently it gi’ows from the inferior spongy bone towards the outer side of the nostril, sometimes from the roof of the nares, but never fi-om the septum. The polypi are usually numerous and of all sizes ; as they increase they commonly extend forwards into the anterior nares, but, when lai’ge, they may be seen to reach into the posterior fauces, hanging down behind the palate. Symptoms.—The symptoms occasioned by the presence of nasal polypi depend on their interference with respiration and speech, and on the visual changes which they occasion. The respiration through the affected nostril is impeded, the patient being unable to blow through it when directed to do so, and his speech is thick and nasal. There are snuffing and mucous discharge fi'om the nostril : and all these symptoms are worse in damp than in dry weather. On examining the interior of the nose, by opening the nostril widely with the forceps or nasal speculum (Fig. 548), and then dfrecting the patient to blow down, the lower end of the polyp may be distinctly seen, and, if large, will descend to a level vdth or even beyond the nasal aperture. By the intro- duction of a probe, the size and extent of the tumour, together with the position of its pedicle, may be readily ascertained. As it gi’ows, it impresses changes on the shape of neighbouring hones, producing expansion and flatten- ing of the nose ; it induces caries of the spongy hones ; and, interfering vdth the flow of tears down the nasal duct, occasions a watery state of the eyes, which, together Avith the change of shape in the featiues, and the peculiar' character of voice and re- spiration, enables the Surgeon at once to recognise the nature of his patient’s disease. Polypi chiefly occur in young adults after the age of puberty: but they are not unfrequently met with at later periods of life. Their Causes are very obsciue. Most commonly they are referred either to a blow or to a prolonged catarrh. They are more common in women than in men. Eiagnosis.—\. Mucous nasal polypi may be distinguished from chronic tkichening of the mucous mmnhrane covering the spongy hones, by the absence in the latter of any pedimculated growth around which a probe can be passed, by the florid red character of the thickened membrane, and by the fact that the subjects of this thickening are almost invariably strumous children. 2. In abscess of the septum, the history 0 e case, and the fact of the polyp neyer being attached ^ this part of the nose, Aiill establish the diagnosis. 3. iherc 18 a, peculiar malformation, consisting in a deviation oj the sop um to one side, that may at first be a little puzzling • but here the “ntr f the discoyery of a de^-ossioVof one nature of the projection on the other, will reyeal the true be found to diffor’a m ^ malignant tumours of the nostril will ! sufficiently in consistence and appeai-ance fi-om the ordiiiai-v polypi to preyent their being confounded with them in many 7ase 3 : toTSn-n;, Fig. 54S. Nasal Spuculuiu.