423 FllOBING THE NASAL DUCT. the fistulous opening, if it have not begun to contract, or by the slit-up canali- culus, to inject tepid Avater or astringent lotions from time to time. Probing the Nasal Duct.—The normal punctum admits only so very small a probe, that, when the nasal duct is in any Ayay obstructed, it must be slit up as described. Thenceforward a sufficiently large probe can be passed, Avhen it is required, to act as a bougie to overcome such slight obstructions as not unfrequently are the cause of the endiu-ing lacrymation, or, it may be, of the subsequent serious inflammation and suppuration within the lacrymal sac ; to evacuate the muco-pm-ulent matter, and then aftemards to obviate the obstruction by sIoav degrees. BoAvman’s probes are of six sizes. Fig. 563 represents the largest. No. 6, of the actual size. It is the most useful size, and, although very often it cannot at once be passed through the nasal duct, we always aim at so doing in the fiu’ther treatment by probing of any such case. Lacrymal probes (for the nasal duct) have two slight bends at perhaps one- third and tAvo-thirds of an inch from the end, the one bend being made at a quarter turn from the direction in which the other bend is made. By haAung these different bends, the end of one of these probes vdll so much the better find its Avay and pass along the nasal duct, either unassisted, held loosely in the fingers, or being slightly rotated by the Surgeon as it is pressed downwards. The patient being seated with the back of his head against the chest of the Sm-geon, who is standing behind him, the probe is held horizontally in the right hand for the right eye, and vice versd ; Avith one finger of the other hand the skin of the lower lid is ch’aAvn doAAm and outwards, as in the operation of slitting the canalicidus. With another finger, the skin of the same lid is draAAm doAvn a httle just at the punctum, so as thus to evert the lid and shoAV the orifice by which the probe is entered, the point of it being kept doAvn a little, so as to feel the bottom of the open mucous channel as it is passed along ; and, the parts being stretched at the same time, it is hardly possible to make a false passage. The probe is known to be in the sac by the resistance that is felt, and by the absence of any elasticity ; and, when the lower hd is no longer kept on the stretch, pressing the end of the probe inwards towards the nose, if the probe be in the sac, does not pucker the skin of the parts concerned. If the probe have met with any obstruction in the canaliculus, if it have folded the lining membrane and cannot therefore pass, it should be withdraAvn a little tmd then passed onwards again, the lower lid being always drawn very much down and outwards, so as to make sure that it is in the right direction ; then, by steady pressure, with slight rotation of the probe, the obstruction may be soon overcome , if not, a smaller and a smaller probe must be used until one IS passed. Then the size of the probe is noted, and each succeeding time larpr one is attempted to be passed. It may be well, perhaps, to leave it a short time Avhen it is passed through a stricture. he probe, having been introduced into the lacrymal sac, has yet to be passe a ong the nasal duct. To do this it is very necessary to proceed in no made. ^^ay yet be encountered, and a false passage xr-iii Tf F^ 1, ?! probe, noAv in the sac, is against the bony imier A all It must be he d there whilst the probe is brought up from the horizontal to the vertica position. It will then, at least, begfn to pass alono the nt 1 duct, If It will not traverse the eaiial. The direction of the nasal dnet-domi- a in