DISEASES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 394 Treatment,—Tlie spontaneous separation and expulsion of nasal polypi is of rare occiUTonce. I haA'e, however, seen one case in which, after the assiduous use of chloride of zinc injections, a very copious discharge of large sloughy polypoid masses took place from one nostril which had been blocked up by them for many months previously, and fr-om which they had even descended into the pharynx. Nasal polypi may generally be most readily removed by avulsion with forceps ; occasionally, but rarely, when they are very large, with a broad base, and especially Avhen they extend into the throat, they require the application of the ligatiu'e. In removing these growths by the forcejos, instruments of good length but very slender construction should be used,—those generally sold are too thick ; the interior of the blades should be properly serrated, and have a longitudinal groove, so that the root of the tumour may be tightly grasped. The patient should be made to sit on a rather low chafr ; and, as there is generally a good deal of bleeding, a towel should be pinned over his clothes, and a basin placed before him to receive the blood and expectorated matters. The Siu’geon then, having ascertained by the introduction of a probe, or by means of the blades of the forceps, the situation of the pedicle of the polyp, grasps this firmly and puUs it off with a twisting movement of the hand. He proceeds in this manner, testing off rather than puUiug away polyp after polyp, until the whole of the nostril is cleared, which may be ascertained by examination, and by directing the patient to compress the somid and to blow through the affected side of the nose. The bleeding, which is^often very free, stops on the application of cold water. At about the end of a fortnight the patient should be examined again, as it not mifrequently happens that small polypi, which had been prevented from descending into the nares by the presence of the larger ones, now come down and require removal. These procedimes must be had recom’se to from time to time, until all tendency to fresh formations of this kind has ceased. The ligature is chiefly required for those polypi that pass into the pharynx through the posterior nares. They may best be tied by passing a loop of strong whipcord, by means of a double cannula, through the nose ; and then, after expanding the noose round the tumour in the throat, and making it gi’asp its pedicle, knotting it tightly. In some instances the polypi attain a great size, producing absorption of the nasal bones, and of the nasal process of the superior maxilla. In such cases it may be necessary, in order to extract them, to slit up the nose, and clip away with forceps the osseous simface fr'om which they spring. . Naso-ph.ar3rngeal Tumours.—When the tumour, more especially it fibrous or fibro-plastic, hangs down in the phaiynx behind the soft palate, its pedicle may be hgatured by conveying a thread through the nostril by meaiis of a BeUocq’s somid, and attaching to this a loop of silver wire, whi J, as it is withdrawn through the nostril, embraces the base of the tumour. The noose may then be tightened by twisting up the ends of the mre, or by running a silver cannula along them. The intranasal fibrous tumour (sarcomatous or fleshy polyiius) is usua j attached to the posterior part of the nasal septum, descending to the pharjmx It is globular, smooth, fii-m, and has little disposition to bleed or iilceiatc. I