857 FRO STATIC ABSCESS. CHAPTER LXXI. —♦ DISEASES OF THE PROSTATE. The prostate is subject to Acute and Chronic Inflammation, to Hypertrophy, and occasionally to Atrophy, Malignant Disease, Tubercle, and the formation of Calcuh. PKOSTATITIS. Acute Iiifiamination of the Prostate, or Prostatitis, reiy rarely occurs as an idiopathic affection. When met with, it is usually the result of . gonon’hoea. Or of the use of strictiu'e-instruments, more especially in middle- aged men. Symptoms.—These are—deeply-seated duU pain, with heat and weight in the perinaeum, a frequent desire to pass urine, and very great and spasmodic pain accompanying the act; in fact, the irritabihty that is set up about the neck of the bladder is perhaps the most marked and distressing feature in the disease. These symptoms are, however, common to various inflammatory affections of the m’inary organs, and they can only be distinctly referred to the inflamed prostate by rectal exploration. On introducing the finger into the gut, the prostate wiU be found much enlarged and exquisitely tender to the touch ; and the patient often suffers considerably from the pressure of the inflamed organ upon the rectum during defecation. Treatment.—This should be of an active antiphlogistic character, so as to prevent, if possible, the formation of abscess. The perinseum must be cupped or weU leeched ; warm hip-baths and poppy fomentations assiduously employed ; and sahnes with antimony administered. In this "way, the for- mation of abscess within or aroimd the prostate mav, in many cases, be prevented. Prostatic Abscess may happen either as a consequence of acute inflam- mation running into the suppurative stage, and in this way it is not very unfrequently met with as a complication of gonorrhoea ; or it may occim with comparatively little antecedent inflammation—as sometimes happens in pyaemia, or if the organ be accidentally bruised during lithotrity. In these cases, abscess perhaps as frequently forms in the areolar envelope as in the organ itself. Idiopathic suppuration of the prostate, irrespective of any of the above causes, is, however, of rare occiUTence ; but it may occur in individuals of broken health, the matter then usually accumulating in large quantity, and discharging itself into the bladder. Symptoms. When inflammation of the prostate terminates in abscess, rigors.