361 CONTRACTION OF THE FINGERS. Vjfr 520 —Contraction of Suiiinators of Forearm and Extensoro ° of the Hand. the Hand is occa- sionally met ivith in adults. I Imve seen it in two opposite conditions ; that ot forcible extension (Fig. 520), and that of forcible flexion and pronation (Fig. 521). In both in-' stances it appeared to have been the result of excessive use of certain muscles ; in the first case in ■wrmging out clothes, in the other in cutting with very heaiT" shears. In the case of flexion and pronation, it was interesting to observe that, when the fingers were extended, the wrist became flexed, and when the m’ist was extended the Angel’S became bent in. In these cases change of occupation, friction, and galvanism, with the use of a straight splint, were advantageously re- sorted to, a cure being eventually effected. Paralysis of the Extensors and Supinators, owing to injury of the musculo-spiral nerve consequent on fracture of the humerus, with or without tonic contraction of the flexors and pronators, has been described at page 415, Fig. 521.—Contraction of Flexors and Pronators of the Hand. Vol. I. Club-hand.—A deformity resembling club-foot has occasionally, though very rarely, been met with in the hand. The contraction may occin- in two directions ; either in the sense of preternatural flexion, or in that of abnormal extension of the member. It has been described by Cruveilhier, Voillermicr, and Smith of Dublin. In most of the cases that have been met with, there was a certain amount of deformity of the lower end of the radius, w’ith con- genital dislocation of the wi’ist; and in Smith’s case there was an accessory semilunar bone in the carpus. Little, if anything, can bo done by siu’gery for the relief of this deformity ; though some benefit might possibly result from the division of any tendons that were preternaturally tense. Contraction of the Fingers.—One or more fingers may bo bent in con- sequence of contraction of the flexor tendons ; the skin and fascial structures of the palm remaining sound. But this is not the form of contraction that is