EXCISION OF JOINTS. 242 to have occurred to Cooper of Bungay, before or at latest about the luiddle of the last century. The precise date of this case is unknown ; but Gooch -wTitino- in 17o8, says that it occun-ed “many years agothat the ends of both tibia and fibula Avere sawn off in a compound luxation of the ankle ; that the limb was preserved, and was so useful that the patient was able to walk and gain his livelihood. In or about the year 1758, Wainman of Shripton sawed off the lower end of the humerus in a case of compound dislocation of the elbow-joint with perfect success, the patient recovering Avith an arm as movable “as if nothing had ever been amissand his example was shortly afterwards folloAved by Tyne of Gloucester, who in a similar case removed two and a half inches of the lower end of the himierus. From this period, the operation of excisions of the articular ends of bones in cases of compound dislocations and fractures into joints became an established practice, and was extensively adopted by Percy in France, Avho, in 1794, exhibited to Sabatier nine soldiers in whom he had successfully excised the head of the humerus for gun-shot injury; by Bilguer in Germany, and by Hey of Leeds, and by numerous other Surgeons in this country and abroad. The first case in which a methodical attempt at resection for disease of the articular end of a bone was made occurred to White of Manchester in 17G8, Avho thus removed a large portion of the upper part of the humerus, though it is doubtful whether he actually excised the head of the bone. However this may be, he had prevdously satisfied himself by experiments on the dead body that this operation AA-as practicable. Although the head of the humerus may not have been removed by White in this case, it certainly was three years later by J. Bent of Newcastle, who in 1771 excised by a formal and pre- arranged operation the carious head of the humerus Avith complete success. His examjAle was followed in 1778 by Orred of Chester, aaLo also operated successfully in a similar case. About the same time, 1775, Justamond, Siu- geon to the Westminster Hospital, removed, in a case of disease of the elbow- joint, the olecranon and two inches of the ulna. In 1762, Filkin of Northwich removed the articular ends of the femur and tibia, together with the patella, in a man affected with disease of the knee- joint, resulting from a fall from a horse. Filkin AA’as led to this operation as a substitute for amputation of the limb, to which the patient refused to submit, in consequence of having experimentally practised it on the dead subject. The patient recovered rapidly, had an useful limb on which he Avas able to Avalk long distances, and was certainly ahve nearly thirty years after the opera- tion. This remarkable case seems to have attracted little, if any, attention, and indeed Avas not published until 1790, after Park of Liverpool brought before the Profession his second successful case of excision of the knee-joint, Avhich occuiTcd in 1789. That Surgeon had performed his first operation of this kind most successfully, as regarded utility of limb, iu 1781, apparently Avithout any previous knowledge of the operation that had been done by I ilkin nearly tAventy years previously. The example thus set by the English Surgeons was speedily followed by the Moreaus in France, who, between the years 1786 and 1789, sent A-arious memoirs to the French Academy on this subject. The operation, hoAvever,