ING UINA L HERNIA. 657 li6rniti pusses tliroiigh the cxtcrntil £ibcloiiiiii<il it receives ftom it the intercolurnnai’ ftxsciti find fibres, tind lastly is invested by the common fascia and integuments. In the direct ingiunal hernia which lies alove the umbilical artery, Avhich is of rare occurrence, the protrusion may pass under the lower edge of the transvcrsalis muscle, and then receives a partial investment of cremas- teric fascia, especially on its ihac side, as it comes into relation with the internal oblique. This form of direct inguinal hernia, therefore, receives very nearly the same covering that the oblique does, though its investment by the cremaster is not so perfect. It does not come into relation with the conjoined tendons. Relations.—In the direct inguinal hernia, the spermatic cord lies to the outer side of the sac ; and its elements are never separated from one another, as occasionally happens in the oblique. The epigastric artery also is on the outer side, but usually arches very distinctly over the neck of the sac, some- times indeed completely encircling the upper as well as the outer margin (Fig. G82). IsrcoiiPLETE OR Interstitial Hernia is usually of the oblique kind; but Lawrence has observed that it may be of the direct variety. It often escapes notice, but may not unfrequently be observed on the opposite side to an ordinary inguinal hernia. Double Inguinal Herniae, on opposite sides, are of very common _ occun-ence, and they may be of the same, or assume different forms. In some * instances, the two forms may be observed on the same side (Fig. 683). In females, inguinal hernia are much less frequent than in males. They Fig.C82 .—Double Direct Inguiiml Heniia : Neck of Sac crossed by Epigastric Arteiy. Fig. 0S3.—Double Inguinal Heniia on the same side : ObUque above. Direct below ; separated by Epi- gastric Vessels. may occur at aU ages, but seldom come under the notice of the Surgeon except at advanced periods of life. They have the same relations as in the male except that the round ligament is substituted for the spermatic cord VOL. II, ^ ’ u u