SEGOXDAliY ILEMOmUIAGE AFTER LIGATURE. i57 Rf-if-ps that nearly one in four die after this operation ; authors; operated on in London, ten were Hutehmson finds tl^ ,,, fatal, eollcctetl directly fl'om hospitals and not from mUished catfsbow very favourable results. Of eighty-seven cases in which li o nripmtion Avas performed for femoral or popliteal aneurism, thirteen died, Ind in three the operation firiled to cure the disease. Gangrene occim-ec twice and suppuration of the sac not once. Of the deaths, one rras fro smll-pox, twoLm wound of the vein and phlebitis, three from pymmm, one from gangi-cne and amputation, one from disease of the kidneys, and the rest from various other causes. _ i -mnoi- Accidents.—Wound of the Femoral Vein is without doubt the most serious accident that can happen in the operation for ligature of the superficial femoral artery, and is one of which there is especial risk when recomse is had to this operation for aneurism ; as in this disease the_ fine areokr tissue Avhic naturaUy connects the two vessels often becomes thickenecl ami indura e , in consequence of inflammatory action having extended upwards from the sac to the sheath of the vessels. It is best avoided by passing the needle in the way that has been afready recommended, from within outwards, and rotating dose round the artery, unarmed and vdthout the employment of force. This accident is almost invariably fatal, there being but very few instances on record in which patients have survived it; death usually resulting from difirise phlebitis, or the supervention of gangrene. The true cause of the fatal result in these cases was first pointed out by Hadrven, who showed that, Avhen the vein is wounded by the aneurism-needle, it is transfixed at two poiuts, between which the thread is drawn across ; and Avhen this is tied, a segment of the vein is necessarily included with the artery in the noose. It is this inclusion of the ligature within a portion of the vein, where it acts like a seton, and keeps up constant irritation, that occasions diffuse inflammation in the interior of the vessel; and it is consequently this circumstance, and not the mere wound of the vein, that determines the great fatality of this peculiar accident. Guided by this vieiv of the mechanism of the injury, the indica- tions in its treatment become obvious. They consist in removing the ligature at once, and thus, by taking away the main source of irritation, converting the wound into a simple punctme of the vessel, which readily assumes adhe- sive action. The Surgeon should, therefore, as soon as the accident is per- ceiA'ed, withdraw the ligature, and, opening the sheath about half-an-inch higher up, re-apply it to the artery there. The hmmon’hagc from the punc- tured vein readily ceases on the application of a compress. The occurrence of Secondary Haemorrhage after the ligature of the superficial femoral is a troublesome accident, and one in which the Surgeon, to use Fergusson’s expression, “ Avill most assuredly find himself in an eventful dilemma ; ” and in Avhich it is necessary that his line of action should have been Avell considered beforehand, as he may not have much time to spare for reflection when such an event takes place. In cases of this kind four lines of treatment present themselves, \h.: the employment of pressure ; ligature of' the vessel at a higher point; deligation of the bleeding artery in the wound or amputation of the limb.