GALVANO-PUNCTUliE. 65 reduced to a scarcely appreciable amount, the positive needle appearing almost unchanged after the operation. Others, again, have introduced the negative needle only, hut as the coagulum fonned at the negative pole is ^ soft and frothy, but little good can be expected from this mode of operating. Dr. Julius Althaus, irho has superintended the operation in five cases, is strongly of opinion that “ the most effective application of the emrent is that where both poles are inserted into the sac.” Ciniselli operated in this Avay, and Dis. Duncan and Fraser, to whom we are indebted for many important observations on galvano-puncture and for the inA'ention of reliable insulated needles, support the same view. The operation is accompanied by but little pain, and it is only occasionaUy that chlorofoini is needed. The effect of a single operation is seldom sufficient to cause any marked improvement in the condition of the patient, and it requires usually to be repeated several times. The clot formed as the result of galvano-puncture is somewhat soft and yielding, and unless supported by a moderately firm sac soon flattens out or chsappeai's, and the condition of the aneurism becomes much the same as it was before the operation. Little more than the most temporary relief can for this reason be expected in many cases; and whenever the aneurism has become diffused, the operation can only be productive of mischief by hastening the inflammatory changes occirn’ing round the sac. It might be supposed that so soft a clot woidd readily break up, and that the danger of embolism would be great in consequence ; but experience has shown it is not so, no such accident having happened in any of the recorded cases. Suppm’ation of the sac has occasionally ocemred, but its occurrence has been much less frequent since the principles of the operation have been more fully luiderstood. The formation of sloughs round the needle-punctures, and consequent hmmorrhage, has not been noticed except when the needles have been imperfectly insulated. In fact, it may be said that in almost every case, even when the operation has fixilcd to give relief, it has at any rate done no harm. The statistics of the operation have not been fully compiled, but the general results of the pubhshed cases have not been unfavourable when we consider the hopeless nature of the cases in Avhich it has been performed. Of 13 cases of aneurism of the aorta treated by Chiiselli’s method, five were cured, and no evil consequences followed in any case. Of the same number which have been operated on in this country during the last few years, none have been ciued, but at least six experienced more or less relief; and in almost all, it may be said, the operation only aimed at rehef, the disease being too advanced to waiTant any hope of cure. About sixty other cases of aneurism of "V arious arteries have been collected by Ciniselli as having been operated on before 18G8; but in these the methods used were so imperfect, that they cannot be fairly considered as bearing upon the question at the present time. '\\ffien we compare galvano-puncture with ligature or compression in the treatment of external aneurism, it is, I think, impossible to hesitate fora moment in giving a decided preference to the latter modes of treatment, as the results that have hitherto been obtained are not such as would justify a prudent Surgeon m submitting his patient to an operation of this kind, when he pos- sesses such certain and comparatively safe modes of treatment as deligation or VOL. II. ° F