APPLICATION OF COMPIiESSOR. 55 Fi''. 368.- -Two Compressore applied for Femoro X)opliteal Anemism. If, however, it excite much pain or imtation, as it does iii some subjects, it may be necessaiy to give opiates or chloral hydrate. The pressure should, if possible be continued during sleep ; but if it prevent the patient from taking his natural rest, the suggestion made by Tuf- nell, of unscrewing the instrument slightly, and, when the patient is asleep, gently tightening it again Avithout aAvakeniiig him, may ad- vantageously be adopted ; it is indeed sui-prising how very little unscrewing Avill relieve the pain of the compression. A large cradle should be placed over the patient’s body, so that the weight of the bed-clothes may be , taken off the apparatus, and that the patient may manage it Avithout risk of disturbance. Should there still be much uneasiness, the instrument might be taken off for a feAV hoims, and compression kept up in an intermittent manner. Even in such circum- stances as these, consolidation of the sac may ensue. In some cases, where, from the situation of the aneurism, deep and severe pressme is required to control the circulation, the pain becomes so miendur- able that the patient cannot submit to the treatment sufficiently long for a good effect to be produced. In such cases opium or chloral hydi’ate may be given Avith advantage, so as to enable the patient to bear the pressure. But . in some instances more complete narcotism is necessary for him to endure it. In these cir- cumstances, chloroform becomes a most useful adjunct; and by maintaining the anaesthesia for soA'cral hours, the amount and duration of pressme requisite to effect a rapid cure may be maintained. In this Avay W. Mmray of NeAvcastle-on-Tyne—to Avhom is due the merit of employing prolonged anaesthesia as an ad- jimct to compression—cured an aneiu'ism of the abdominal aorta by keeping up pressure on that A’essel for five hours under chloroform. Heath of the same tOAvn cured an aneurism of the external iliac by compressing the abdominal aorta for seven hours under chloroform; Mapothcr ol Dublin treated an ilio-femoral aneurism suc- cessfully by compressing the common iliac artery for four and a half hours ; and LaAvson treated an Fig. !i09.—P. H. AA’^atson’s Weight Comiu-essor. Tlie circular dotted lino shows tile position of the limb. inguinal aneurism successfully by pressure on the abdominal aorta for four horns. In tAvo cases of popliteal aneiu’ism, I kept up completely obstructing