DISEASE OF KIDNEY FROM PRESSURE. 741 jng If after washing urine that l)y continuity of tissue from the bladder to the ureters It ah out a bladder with Condy’s fluid, or some other antiseptic, the first enters from the ureters and flows from the catheter be ammoniacal, the con- dition of the patient is always serious, as the decomposition has spread ttom the bladder to the pelvis of the kidney, where no local means can reach it Morbid Conditions of the Kidney.—The conditions found m the kidney itself vary considerably. They may be divided as follows : 1. Changes result- iim from pressure by obstruction to the entrance of urine into the bladder: •>°\cute interstitial inflammation: 3. Acute interstitial inflammation with scattered abscesses: 4. The results of former acute or suliacute attacks fi-om which the patient has recovered. 1. The Rcsulls of Pressure.—K case lately occurred at University College Hospital, which afforded an opportunity of examining the uncomplicated effects of pressure uffth great advantage. The ureters had been pressed upon by two enormous sacciili, which projected from the bladder immediately behind the trigone. The bladder was much dilated and hypertrophied, but the cause of disease was uncertain. There were no signs of old or recent cystitis, and no instrument had been passed during life. In this case both ureters were greatly dilated, and the pelvis on each side Avas expanded so as to contain many ounces of fluid. The kidneys Avere somewhat increased in size, and before being- opened felt like great thick Availed bags of fluid giving all over a distinct sense of fluctuation. On being cut open, each presented the following appearances. The capsule Avas tough and opaque, and separated with difficulty from the kidney-substance, slightly tearing it in so doing, and leaving the surface coarse and irregular. The surffice Avas uniformly pale, and whitish in colour. No trace of the pyi-amids was to be seen, but where each should have been was a deep hollow lined with a smooth membrane continuous with the pelvis of the kidney. The cortex was of about normal thickness, but in some parts thinner than natural; it was somewhat tough in consistence, and presented an imiform opaque whitish tint. The whole kidney was thus converted into a great sac- culated bag, composed on one side of the dilated and thickened pelvis, and on the other of the expanded cortex of the kidney. There were no signs of past or present acute inflammation. On microscopic examination of a thin section of the cortex, the chief change noticeable Avas an abundant small round cell infiltration of the intertubular tissue of the kidney. Every tubule was sepa- rated from its neighbours by rapidly growing young connective tissue, croAvded Avith small round cells, and this, by pressing on the vessels, had given rise to the pale colour above noted. The neAv groAvth was most abundant round the ^Malpighian liodies, the capsules of Avhich Avere greatly thickened ; so much so, that in many the vessels had been strangled and obliterated. The amount of change Avas not uniform, the ncAV groAvth being more abundant in some parts than in others. Hie tubules themselves shoAved no great signs of change. They Avere slightly dilated in some parts, and the epithelium looked as if flattened by pressure, but in other respeets it Avas perfectly healthy. This case shows that uncomplicated tension fi’om partial obstruction of the ureter gives rise to a gradual absorption of the pyramids, and to a condition of interstitial inflammation of the kidney, probably varying in severity Avith the degree and acuteness of the obstruction. In more extreme cases than that above described.