652 HERNIA. the hernia is prevented hj some constriction in its neck, it will be necessaiw to lay this open and divide the constriction in the usual way. Reduction in Mass.—The reduction of the hernia in mass consists in the return of the sac and its contents into the abdomen still in a state of strangu- lation. When it is said that the parts are returned into the abdomen, it must not be understood that they are pushed back into its cavity, but that the external protrusion is caused to disappear by being pushed into the subserous areolar tissue behind and underneath the parietal peritoneum, between it and the abdominal muscles. This remarkable accident, which was first described by the French Surgeons of the last centiuy, received but little notice from practitioners in this country until attention was drawm to it by Luke, by whom its pathology has been carefully studied. Birkett, who has also investigated this condition wdth much care, is of opinion that the' sac is not torn from its connections in the scrotum or canal, and pushed back, but that it is ruptured, usually at its posterior part at its neck, and that thus the contents of the sac ai-e forced through this rent into the subperitoneal areolar tissue ; whilst the month of the sac, stiU constricting the hernia, and thus keeping it in a state of strangulation, is pushed back from the internal ring. It appears to me that both explanations are correct, and that we must admit two forms of reduction in mass ; the sac being pushed back intact in a state of strangulation, in one form, as descilbed by Luke ,• whilst in the other, as observed by Birkett, the sac is ruptured, and the hernia, strangulated by the displaced mouth of the sac, is forced out through the rent. Causes.—The reduction in mass has been far more frequently observed in cases of inguinal than in those of any of the other varieties of hernia. It has been met with in femoral hernire, but very rarely, and, so far as I know, not in any other form of the disease. This comparative frequency of its occurrence in inguinal hernim is doubtless due to their large size, and loose areolar con- nections. The accident has more often occiured from the patient’s own efforts at reducing a strangulated hernia, than from those of the Simgeon. It is a remarkable fact that, in most of the instances in which it has ocemred, only a very shght degree of force appears to have been employed in the reduction of the tumoiu’; and the accident would seem to have resulted from the adhesions between the sac and the neighboming parts being much weaker than natmal, so that a moderate degree of force caused the whole to shp through the canal. It may, hoAvever, occm* from the Sm’geon’s efforts, if these be too forcible or long continued. Symptoms.—The symptoms indicative of this accident are constitutional and local. The constitutional symptoms consist in a continuance of those that are indicative of the existence of strangrdation, notwithstanding the disappear- ance of the tumour. The vomiting and constipation persisting, the patient speedily becomes much depressed in strength, being seized with hiccup and prostration of all vital power ; signs of gangrene then evince themselves Avithin the sac ; and death ensues. An examination of the parts in hernia will usually enable the Simgeon to recognise the nature of the accident; he will ascertain that a tumoiu’ had pre- viously existed, and Avill learn from a description of its general characters, and the symptoms occasioned by it, that it Avas in aU probability a strangulated