2. Saccxdated Aneurism.—By the sacculated aneurism is meant a tumour fusiform or tubular aneurism. as markc.1 aa its dilatation, and is always very the aorta may attain a length of several inches, v ith a considerable space lcUv”n the oWgins of tbe innominate, the carotid, and the snbclavtan, at the !,:i:o“:;ue that its wans are ^-catly thickened, nodulaM So-- times several tubular or fusiform aneurisms arc met vith in the same v essel, with healthy portions of the artery between them. From these dilatations, sacculated aneiii'isuis not uncommonly spring. On examining the structure of a fusiform aneurism, it will he found that it is always composed of an iinifonn expansion and outgi’owth of all the coats of the artery, which are at the same time somewhat altered in character ; thus, the outer coat is thickened, the middle rigid and inelastic, and the inner one stiffened, rugged, and tiihercu-’ latcd by the deposition beneath it of A'arioiis plastic and atheromatous masses. iSio coagula, however, are found in the dilatation, but a few filamentary shreds of fibrine are occasionally seen to be at- tached to the inner wall. The arteries that are usually the seats of fusi- form aneurism are the arch of the aorta Fig. 351.—Large Fusiform Aneurism of Ascend- ing Aorta bursting into Pericardium. (Fig. 351), the iliacs, the femorals, and occasionally the axillaries. This par- ticular form of aneurism ocem’s most generally in vessels in which the yellow elastic coat is largely developed, and hence is rarely met with in arteries smaller than the femoral; it occurs, however, in the basilar artery of the brain. The fusiform dilatation, especially when seated in the arch of the aorta, may attain a very considerable magnitude, and may consequently exercise very injurious pressure on contiguous parts, thus producing great distress and danger of life. It is usually extremely chronic, increasing very slowly, and being compatible with existence for many years ; but at last it usually destroys the patient, and may occasion death in several ways. Thus, if it be situated in the aorta, the great mass of blood in the sac may, by impeding the circulation, overpower the heart’s action, so that it may be unable to recover itself, and fatal syncope may be induced. Then, again, death may result from pressure on important parts, as on the bronchi or oesophagus. In general, however, the cause of death is the ghing way of a sacculated aneimism springing from the fusifoiTU one. When, however, tubular aneurism of the arch of the aorta occupies the intrapericardial portion of the vessel, it not unlrequently happens that, owing to the absence of a sheath in this situation, the artery may rupture. It most commonly happens that a fusiform aneurism remains quiescent, being- a source of discomfort, but not of death, until the sacculated form of the disease springs from its side ; and then this, becoming the more formidable affection, may destroy life in some of the ways peculiar to it.