712 DISEASES OF THE LARGE INTESTINE AND ANUS. The ulcer is usually of small size, seldom larger than a silver three-pence, of a circular or longitudinal shape, situated between the folds of the mucous mem- brane in the npper part of the anus, or rather the lower part of the rectum, just above the ring or ledge formed by the sphincter, and is usually met with towards the posterior part of the gut on one side of, or opposite to, the point of the coccyx. Occasionally more than one ulcer exists in this situation. If a fissure accompany the ulcer, it commonly leads from this across the face of the sphincter to the verge of the anus ; but in many cases one or two fissures, sometimes even three or four, exist without any ulcer. The fissures are usually slightly indurated and cord-like, extending merely through the mucous membrane, scarcely, if at all, implicating the deeper structures ; and not un- frequently their external termination is concealed by a small red pile or flap of integument. The existence of the ulcer may usually be determined by exploring the rectum with the finger, which, if practised in these examinations, udll detect a small, soft, and velvety patch at the diseased spot; on touching this, the patient will usually complain of acute and biuming pain. In some cases the ulcer may be brought into view by examining the rectum with the speculum ani, here delineated (Figs. 698 and 699). The fissmn may always readily be detected by everting the mucous membrane of the anus, and by lifting up or turning aside the pile that covers the lower end of the crack. During this examination, it wdU usually be found that the sphincter ani is in a more or less spasmodically contracted state, admitting the finger and instrument with difficulty. Symptoms.—The symptoms of ulcer or fissure in the anus are very character- istic. The patient complains of pain, nsually of a severe binning character, on the passage of a motion, especially if a hard one ; occasionally it occurs at the time of defecation, but more frequently commences a few minutes afterwards. Fig. 698,-Aual Dilator. Fig. C99.-Sreculum Ani. and continues from half-an-hom’ to several hours. This pain is very severe, and peculiarly wearing and burning ; it is generally most felt opposite the sacro-iliac articulation, but not unfrequently radiates roimd the pelvis or doivn the thighs. In many cases it produces a good deal of continued irntation about the genito-urinary organs, giving rise to symptoms of spasmodic stricture;