5o6 PLASTIG surgery OF THE FACE AND MOUTH. and iniiform as it would if the lateral halves liad been directly united, yet eventually the case will turn out better ; the central portion becoming deve- loped, and forming the natural mesial projection of the lip, which is lost when the lateral halves are directly united. Butcher has invented some very simple and ingenious forceps for the partial section and bending back of the inter- maxillary process. In some of these cases great nicety is required in planning the incisions, and in the introduction of the sutures. The central portion is most advantageously pared in a somewhat concave manner, so that the freshly cut edges of the lateral halves are received into and more accurately fitted upon it. Should, as often happens in single as well as in double hare-lip, one of the lateral segments be tied down to the gum and alveolus by a doubling of mucous membrane, this must be freely divided, and the portion of lip, with perhaps the corresponding ala of the nose, freely dissected up from the osseous structimes, so as to admit of its being moved forwards without too much traction being put upon it. In those cases in which the intermaxillary portion is projecting, and attached to and fused with the cohmma of the nose, as in Figs. 610 and 611, I have performed the following operation with great success. 1. The triangular flap of skin covering the intermaxillary portion is dis- sected up as thick as possible. 2. The intermaxillaiy process is then cut away at its root, which is small and pedunculated, with a pair of scissors. 3. The edges of the lateral fissures are then pared in the usual way. 4. The free lower margins of the pared edges are brought together by one hare-lip pin and twisted suture. 5. The leaf-shaped flap is then laid dowm in the triangular hollow left above the pin, and retained there by one or two points of silver suture on each side, the gap being thus completely filled up by it. Treatment by Simple Suture.—During several years I was in the habit of treating hare-lip of all kinds, double as well as single, with the simple interrupted sutm’e alone, without using any pins. I have in this way treated most successfully many cases in children, whose ages have varied from a few days to four years, with most satisfactory residts, and with less marking of the lip than I have ever seen attend union by means of the twisted suture. I prefer the simple to the twisted suture as being equally safe, more simple, and followed by less scarring of the lip, provided the case be not too com- plicated, nor associated Avith very Avide fissure in the palate, or AAuth great projection of the intermaxillary bones. In these circumstances, the pins should be preferred. AVhen the fissure is single, the edges, having been pared in the usual way, should be brought together by tAvo points of suture ; the first passed deeply near the free edge, and in such a way as to compress the cut coronary artery ; j the other nearer the nasal angle. These sutures should be of thick well- 'I waxed dentist’s twist that AviU not cut out too readily, or, Avhat is better, of silver Avire. A point of fine inteiTupted suture should then be inserted through , the mucous membrane inside the lip. The tip may then be supported by tAvo narroAV strips of plaster, one placed between the sutures, the other between the upper suture and the nose. On the third day the upper suture s ou i be taken out, but the lower one may be left in for a day or two long-er, ay en ; it and the one through the mucous membrane may be removed togetnei.