544 DISEASES OF THE MOUTH AND THROAT. DISEASES OF THE LARYNX. The laiynx may be the seat of a great variety of morbid conditions. Acute €cdematons, and follicular inflammation ; ulcerations and chronic thickcnin^rs of the mucous membrane ; inflammation and necrosis of its cartilages ; and the formation of tumours or polypoid gi'owths in its interior, may all occur. Laryngoscope.—It is of the utmost importance in the diagnosis, and for the proper treatment of many of these affections, that a view should be obtained of the parts that are the seat of disease. This can only be done by means of the Laryngoscope. The introduction of this instrument into practice and its perfection have been a work of time. It appears to have been invented and first used in 1829, by Babington, who, under the term “ Glottiscope,” described an instrument consisting of a small mirror fixed to a wire shank, which, being placed against the %late whilst the tongue was held down, enabled him to view the glottis and upper part of the larynx; more especially when he illuminated these parts by throwing reflected light upon them from a mirror held in his left hand. Liston, Trousseau, and Avery, all made attempts in the same direction. But it was the celebrated singer Garcia, who, by throwing the sun’s rays into the back of his mouth from a mirror held in his left hand, and then introducing a dentist’s refiector into his mouth, saw the image of his own larynx and studied its movements in the reflection of the looking-glass. Hitherto, however, laryngoscopy had not been employed in the study and diagnosis of diseases of the larynx, and it is undoubtedly to Czermak that the merit is due of having been the first to make this application of the art. The Jaryngoscojje essentially consists of two instruments, a refiector (Fig. 641), which may be attached by an elastic band to the Simgeon’s forehead, and a mirror (Fig. 642), which is held in his right or left hand, according to circumstances. The mode of appheatiou and of use is extremely simple, and is illustrated in Fig. 641. The patient sits with his back to a good light; that of the sun does very weU if it can be obtained, but usually artificial light has to be employed. This may be obtained from a moderator or paraffin lamp. The flame of the lamp should be a little above the lei'el of the patient’s ear. The Siu’geon, facing the light, arranges the mirror in such a way that, whilst both he and the jDatient are in easy positions, a well defined circle of light covers the patient’s mouth. If, as in many arrangements, the muTor be over one eye of the Surgeon, he must so place it that he sees clearly thi’ough the hole in the centre, and can consequently employ both eyes in examining the throat. The patient now having the head very slightly inchned backward, opens his mouth and puts out his tongue. The Surgeon grasps the tip of the tongue gently between the fore-finger and thumb of his left hand, covered by a cloth or pocket-hand- kerchief He must be careful not to drag on the tongue, but merely to hold it steady ; and this is best accomplished by resting the fore-finger on the patient’s chin, fie now takes the small mirror and warms it over the lamp, so tliat the patient’s breath may not condense on it and obsciu’e the image of the larynx. Haling wanned it till he sees the cloud of condensed moistm-e from the lamp disappear, he tests it against his oivn check to feel that it is not too hot, and