7°8 DISEASES OF THE LARGE INTESTINE AND ANUS. cancer of the rectum is, tliat the diseased mass ulcerates and necroses more rapidly than it gTOAVs into the hoAvel, and thus an irregular chasm is left in its. centre, through Avhich the faeces pass. Treahncnt.—This must necessarily be palliative. The hoAvels must he relieved by occasional doses of castor-oil or by emollient enemata. Large doses of opimn, or of morphia injected hypodermically, arc required after each action of the bowels to lessen the patient’s distress. Little good can he ex- pected from more active measures ; dilatation only imtates the disease and Avould tend to increase the mischief. The application of caustics, such as potassa fusa, offers no prospect of advantage, as only a superficial slough could in this way be formed without very serious risk of perforation ; it is, besides, an excessively painful remedy. Amussat has proposed to crush and break down the morbid mass by means of the finger and forceps; but from such treatment as this little good can be anticipated. The recommendation to excise the cancerous mass, as made by Lisfranc and other French Surgeons, is contrary to every principle of good surgery ; as it is impossible to extirpate the whole of the disease, without either laying open the peritoneal cavity, or destroying the patient by the profuse heemorrhage, Avhich could scarcely be arrested. If palliative means fail in affording the requisite relief, and the patient suffer much local pain and constitutional irritation during defecation, the propriety of establishing an artificial anus in the left lumbar region by colotomy may be discussed ; not nnth a view of saving life, but rather in the hope of prolonging existence, and lessening suffering by preventing the exhaustion and agonising pain that attend the passage of the feculent matter over the ulcerated surface (p. G92, vol. II.). Colotomy may be required in cancer of the rectum for one of three reasons : 1. To relieve the intense agony resulting from the passage of freces over the ulcerated cancerous masses ; 2. To relieve the suffering and gi'eat discomfort occasioned by the freces passing into the bladder or vagina ; 3. For the rehef of more or less complete obstruction giving rise to stercoraceous distension of the abdomen. In any case it is only a palliative ; but by its means life may be prolonged as well as rendered more endurable. Cancer of the Anns.—This is not a very common affection ; it usually occurs secondarily in consequence of scirrhus of the rectum spreading to andl involving the margin of the anus. When it occurs as a primary disease,., it is usually in the form of epithelioma, and may then form about the anus,, just as it does at other muco-cutaneous apertures. If limited, and detected ini the early stage, it may advantageously be excised ; but at a more advanced! period of the disease, such a practice can scarcely be adopted with any prospect- of success, in consequence of the impossibihty of removing the whole of the: structines implicated. Fihro-Plastic Tumour of the Kectum is occasionally met Anth, forming, large and somewhat pale tuberose masses, projecting into the interior of thei gut, or even protruding through the anus, and giving rise to the same train ot local symptoms as characterise cancer of the gut—although the pain is kss intense. In such cases as these the disease may, if limited or pedunculated, be removed by double whipcord ligature or by the ccraseur. By means ot this instrument, I have removed from the inside of the gut a tumour of this kind