51 principle of compression. Tlie limb must the limb • and the sooner amputation is done, the better, always bo’rcmovcd l.igl. up above the sac, and, if possible, not oidj at some ft-om the pasts that have inoi-tifled, but also above the part to ■which the serous infiltration that precedes mortification has extended. The uinier extremity must generally be removed at the shoulder-joint; the lower above the middle of the thigh. In these cases there wi •reiierally be a considerable amount of hemorrhage, and many vessels avi 11 require to bo tied in the stump, in consequence of the enlargement of the collateral circulation. _ CoJiPiiESSiox BY Instktoients.—In consequence of the dangers and dim- culties attendant upon the use of the ligature, Singeons have for many years past endeavoured to treat aneurism by compression. The employment of direct pressure on the anemism was almost naturally suggested as a means to counteract the extension of the disease by the pressure of the blood from Avithin, and has consequently been applied from a very early period in the treatment of the affection. This plan of treatment AA-as first employed by Bourdelot at the close of the seventeenth centiuy ; afterwards by Genga, Heister, Guattani and others. These Surgeons made the pressime directly upon the sac ; and Guattani and Flajani relate seA^eral cures that they effected in this Avay ; but the method Avas so uncertain in its results, and so dangerous, fr’om inltating and inflaming the sac, that it fell into disuse. The French Siugeons introduced a modification of the pressiue plan, by laying •open the sac, clearing out its contents, and applying the pressure directly over the opening into the vessel. Deschamps exposed the artery leading to the sac, and compressed this Avith an instrument which he termed the “ presse-artm’e.” These barbarous modes of treatment, however, Avere entfrely set aside by the facihty and eomparative success of the Hunterian operation • and compres- sion in aneurism Avas rarely practised by Sm-geous after the great step made by John Hunter in the treatment of this disease. Yet Ave find that John Hunter himself, Blizard, and Freer attempted, though Avith but little success, to cure this disease by pressure on the artery leading to the sac. Pelletan and Dubois appear to have been the fii’st who applied the pressure to the artery aboA'e the sac, instead of to the aneurism itself; this Avas in 1810. After this period, various attempts were made methodically to treat aneurisms in this Avay ; but the merit of haAong introduced the practice of ■compression in the treatment of aneurism into modern sm’gery, of haAin. gi\'en it a definite place in our art, and of having established the true principles on Avhich it acts, incontestably belongs to the Dublin Siu’geons ; amongst whom the names of Hutton, Bellingham, Tufriell, and Carte deserve especial mention. Principle of Compression.—In the early trials of the cure of aneurism by compressing the artery on tlie cardiac side of the tumour, the Singeoiis who employed this method acted on an erroneous theory ; and, the principle not being understood, the practice was bad. It Avas supposed that it Avas neces- sary, in order that a cure might take place, that the iclioU flow of blood through the artery should be entirely arrested ; that inflammation of theA^essel at the point compressed should Ijc set up ; and that the consolidation of the aneurism depended upon the obstruction of the vessel consequent upon this