be made in the Idadder by it, inovidiicl these advantages are maintained, it is i APrUCABILlTY OF MEDIAN OPERATION. 8oi base, and offering a material obstacle to the introduction of the forceps and the extraction ot the stone. _ 11 i The second obstacle lies in the prostate ; but, as it is easily removable by dilatation, it cannot be considered a serious one. _ The third, the deepest and most important, is situated at the neck ot the bladder. AVe find here a narrow tense ring beyond the prostate ; and this bar remains intact in spite of the dilatation and laceration to which the prostate has been subjected. On introducing the finger, we shall feel it pasped tightly by this rino-. I have found, by experiments on the dead subject, this inner rintr of th^neck of the bladder cannot be expanded to a size more than sufficient to extract a calculus of one inch in diameter without laceration or incision : and its laceration or rupture is well known to be one of the most dangerous and fatal accidents in lithotomy. It is in consequence of the obshicle offered by this, that the median operation is not available for the extraction of large calculi. A calcidus two inches in diameter cannot be extracted by the median operation without the employment of great violence. But, though much force is usually required in order to extract a calculus of even moderate size through this tense ring at the neck of the bladder, it is an undeniable fact that serious consequences seldom follow the violence so used, and that a degree of force, which would be fatal in lateral lithotomy, may be employed without danger in the extraction of a calculus by the median operation. In this respect the extraction of a calculus by the median operation resembles the removal of one through the dilated urethra of the female; the great point in favour of the median over the lateral procedure, and the cause of its com- parative safety, Ijcing that the pelvic fascim are not incised, nor otherwise opened. But, it may be said, what is easier, when the finger is in the bladder, than to push a probe-pointed bistoury along it, and cut downwards and outwards through these structures into the ischio-rectal fossa, if the stone be large, and thus get plenty of space ? Nothing could be easier or more simple ; but what would be the consequence ? AVe at once reduce the median to the conditions of the lateral operation. A free incision in the neck of the bladder and prostate increases the tendency to hasmoiThage, opens up the fascia, and exposes the patient, in fact, to all the dangers of an ill-contrived lateral operation, destroy- ing at once and altogether the principle of the median operation—viz., dilata- tion, and not incision ; and, if we do not gain space by incision, but attempt to extract a moderately large stone by dilatation of the parts, we shall certainly not succeed, but our dilatation will end in a laceration, not only of the substance of the prostate, which is safe, but of the neck and perhaps of the base of the bladder, which will be fatal. Urinary fistula was common after the old Marian operation. It remains to be seen whether it will be so after the modern median. In conclusion, then, it appears to me that the median operation, when per- formed in suitable cases, has the advantages over the lateral of being attended by less risk of arterial haemoiThage, and less danger of injmy to the pelvic fasciaj; but, that in consequence of the very small size of the opening that can only applicable to stones of at most a medium size, and that it cannot in all cases be substituted for lateral lithotomy, as the general operation for stone, where lithotrity is not admissible. TOL. II. 3 p