967 niAGNOSIS OF SAFGOCELES. hazel-nut. They are of an opaque yellow colour, irregular in shape and of dense leatheiy hardness. They may he tolerably shai-ply circumscribed to the naked eye, biit are usually suiTOunded by a zone of fibrous induration of an opaque white colour. The microscope shows around them the ^me sma - celled growth above described, situated between the tubules. iSearei the centre the tubules are found to be pressed upon and destroyed, and the cells of the new gi-owth commence to undergo degeneration ; until, in the yellow part of the gumma, nothing but granular ilehris are to bo recogmised. ibe Fig. S52.—Syphilitic Testis, o. Tubuli Seininiferi; h. A part of the round-celled growth heginiiiiig to undergo fatty degeneration (ISO diam,). gummata may be distinguished from tubercle by their greater toughness and more opaque yellow colour. Tubercle is rarely limited to the body of the testes ; gummata, on the other hand, rarely affect the epididymis. Prognosis.—If the disease be recognised and treated early, complete recovery may be confidently hoped for ; although relapses are of frequent occurrence. In the more advanced stages, the prognosis is not so hopeful, as, although under proper treatment the new growth may be absorbed, the gland will re- main shrunken, puckered, and indurated. This is but what would be expected; as the tubuli seminiferi, as above stated, become more or less extensively destroyed by the pressure of the new growth in the later stages of the disease. The Treatment is that laid down in Chapter XXXVI. for constitutional syphilis. Locally, the hydrocele may be tapped (but on no account injected), and pressure may be applied, by strapping over some mercurial ointment. Diagnosis of the Simple, Tubercular, and Syphilitic Sarcoceles.—The diagnosis of these affections is in some cases easy, in others very difficult. What- ever the form of disease may be, if it be complicated by hydrocele, this must first be tapped in order that the gland may be accurately examined. The hydrocele in these cases may not be translucent, as the tunica vaginalis is often thickened. It must be remembered that hydrocele is a very rare complication of cancer, or of cystic sarcoma; it is rare with tubercular sarcoccle ; less I'are with simifie chronic orchitis, and very common with syphilitic disease. From hmmatocele and tumours, the diagnosis may be made by attention to the rules laid doAvn on p. 974. It having been determined that the swelling is due to one of the