PUNCTURE OF BLADDER THROUGH RECTUM. 915 3. Pxincture of the Bladder through the Rectum. Atfccr emptying the bowel by means of an enema, the Surgeon passes the left index-finger well into the gut, feeling for the posterior margin of the prostate; he then ciirries the trochar and cannula, which aic long and somewhat curved, upon this as a guide, and, when the extremity of the instrument has reached the jiosterior edge of the prostate, he pushes it upwards into the bladder (Fig- 734). The seat of the punctime between but in fronc of the uretere is well shown in Fig. 814, which represents the bladder and strictured urethra of a man who died some days after this operation had been per- formed for retention from stricture. In performing this operation, the Surgeon perforates the liladder in that portion of its fundus which is uncovered by peritoneum, being bounded behind by the reflection of the serous membrane, anteriorly by the prostate, and on each side by the vesiculm seminales. In order to avoid wounding any of these structures, he should keep strictly in the mesial line, and . puncture immediately behind the prostate. In through Reetmu lu a case of stnc- introducing the instrument into the rectum, the Surgeon should withdraw the point of the stylet into the cannula, so as to avoid wounding the gut, and not push it forwards until he has the end of the cannula fixed against the spot where he intends to make the perforation. After withdraMung the stylet and emptying the bladder, the cannula should be tied in by means of tapes. It is often difficult to prevent the cannula from slipping out of the wound when only tied in, and thus exposing the patient to the danger of urinary infiltration. It may be securely retained by means of a stitch of silver wire passed on either side through the slit in the guard and the contiguous skin of the nates. The cannula should be retained for a few days until urine begins to pass by the urethra, or until a catheter has been passed through the stricture, when it must be withdrawn and the aperture left to close. In consequence of the irritation of the mdne being remox’ed fr'om the urethra, a catheter may often be passed a few days after the operation ; and the stricture vdU readily yield to dilatation in the ordinary way. This operation has the advantage of being far easier of performance than the last, and may doubtless occasionally be requii’ed in those very rare cases of retention from stricture in which there is no sign of abscess or extravasa- tion in the perinasum, in which the urethra appears not to be dilated behind the stricture, in which the prostate is not enlarged, and in which, under chlorofoiTn, and with patience, a catheter cannot be passed into the bladder ; a combination of circumstances that will but very rarely indeed occur to a '>Surgeon skilled in the use of his instruments. The operation of puncture through the rectum is not devoid of danger; peiitonitis, urinary infiltration, and pelvic inflammation and abscess, mav vesult from it. ^ :> X 2