DEFORMITIES. 360 boiiolit. When my-neck is sccondaiy to disease'' of the cervical vertebras, little can be done except to maintain the spinal cohunn in as steady and fixed a position as possible, by means of mechanical support (vide Fig. 254, Vol. I.). In those cases in which the wry-neck appears rather to be dependent on paralysis of one stemo-mastoid, than on spasm of the other, electricity, and tlie application of strychnine to a blistered surface over the muscle, will be found most useful. DEPOBMITIES OP THE ABM AND HAND. Contraction of the Arm is not of very common occiUTence, except as the result of burns. I have, however, met with four distinct forms of contraction of the forearm. 1. There may be ankylosis of the elbow-joint, the foreai-m being bent at a right angle with the arm, the result of disease of or aroimd the articulation, if the ankylosis be fibrous, and the muscles strong and firm, a very useful limb may be restored by breaking down adhesions, under chloroform, by forcible flexion and extension, and then using passive motion, friction, and douches. Should the muscles be very flaccid and wasted, forcible extension )nay leave a permanently weakened limb, over which the patient has lost the power of flexion. In such cases I have found gradual extension, made by means of an angular splint, acted upon by a ratchet-apparatus, the safest means of restoring the utility of the arm. If the ankylosis be osseous, the bones should be resected, a wedge-shaped piece being sawn out, and a false joint allowed to form. 2. The biceps may, by its contraction, occasion a permanent flexion of the arm. This contraction of the biceps may be hysterical or rheumatic. When hysterical, occurring in young women, it requires the ordinary constitutional treatment of hysteria ; should this fail in removing it, extension may be made, under chloroform, and the arm kept in the straight position for a time. When it is rheumatic, or of organic character, and j)ermanent, section of the tendon and its aponeurosis may be practised, due care being taken of the artery and nerve. This operation is most safely done by introducing the tenotome to the inner side of the tendon, slipping it rmder, and cutting upwards and out- wards ; the artery being guarded and pushed to the inner side by the pressure of the left forefinger. 3. The forearm may be forcibly pronated and flexed as the result of chronic inflammation of the radio-humeral articulation. Here forcible supination and extension, imder chloroform, is the best remedy. 4. The forearm may be bent on the arm in consequence of the contraction of the cicatrix of a burn along the inside of the limb. In this case, the plastic operation described at page 261, Vol. I., must be practised. Ankylosis of the Arm in the Straight Position is a condition of very serious inconvenience, the limb being almost useless for all oi’dinary jjurposos of life. In cases of this kind, the treatment to be adopted must depend upon whether the ankylosis be fibrous or osseous. It it bo fibi’ous, however fii’ni, the forearm may always I'eadily be brought into a I’ectangular position by flc.xion under chloroform, and the mobility ot the joint may then be improved