992 DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITAL ORGANS. ns amputation at the liip-joint ibr tumour, or the ligature of the innominate and subclaTiau arteries for aneurism, or even lithotomy for the extraction of vesical calculus of large size in the adult—ive cannot consider the mortality after ovariotomy so gi-eat as to interfere with the performance of the operation, if other circumstances justify it. It has further l^een objected to ovariotomy, that it has not nnlrecpientlv happened that, after the operation has been commenced, it has been found impossible to complete it, owing to the existence of adhesions between the tumour and the contents of the abdomen. This objection is certainly a grave one ; but I bclieA e that, with care in examining the tumour, and ascertaininij its mobility during respiration, the existence or absence of crackling under the abdominal v all dining the respiratory movements, the freedom from connec- tion with the uterus, as determined by finding that organ floating on the intro- duction of the uterine sound, and the previous non-occnrrence of peritonitis, this mistake is not now so likely to happen as formerly, Avhen the h’abilityto it was not suspected. Operation.—On the day preceding the operation, a dose of castor-oil should be administered, and on the morning of it an enema, so that the bowels may be completely emptied. The room should be airy, warm, and well ventilated. Chloroform having been administered, and the bladder emptied by the catheter, the patient must be placed upon a table covered with blankets, in such a way that the legs hang over the end of it, and the abdomen is faMy and evenly exposed. The Surgeon, taking his stand between the patient’s legs, or at her left side, makes an incision, usually about four inches in length, from the um- bilicus downwards, directly in the mesial line ; by a few touches of the knife, the structures, which are usually much thinned, are divided along the linea alba, and the abdominal cavity is opened. There has been much discussion as to the length to which the incision in the abdominal wall should be made ; some practitioners recommending that this should be of very limited extent, others that it should reach from the ■ensiform cartilage to the pubes. No definite rule, can be laid down upon this point. The incision must be proportioned in extent to the size and nature of the tumour, and the existence or absence of adhesions. If the tumour be cystic and unilocular, and not adherent, it may be readily enough extracted by making an incision only an inch or two in length in the mid-line, tapping it thi-ongh this, and then drawing the emptied cysts forwards by means of a vnlsellnm. If, on the other hand, the ovarian growth be chiefly solid, a larger incision, from four to six inches in extent, wiU be required. Should adhesions exist, it may even be necessary to go beyond this ; though I cannot believe that it is ever necessary to rip up the abdomen from the sternum to the pubes, for the removal of any tumour, however large or adherent. In making this incision, the Surgeon must be careful to open the peritoneum fairly, and not to mistake it for the cyst-wall, and so strip it off the inside of the abdominal muscles. The tumour now comes into view ; if cystic, it must be tapped with a large and long trochar, and the fluid evacuated. Especial care should be taken not to allow this viscid ovarian fluid to escape into and flood the alidominal and pelvic ca^dties. This may often be avoided by conducting it away from the