ARTHRITIC COXALGIA. 313 ti hip-joint in the earlier stages of coxalgia, before complete disorganization of the joint has taken place. The following were, however, the appearances that were fomid in a child about eight years of age, who died in the Hospital of ■pneumonia, and whose body was carefully examined by Wilson Fox. The disease of the hip had only existed about six w eeks. The joint, which, including the acetabulum and capsule, was removed entire, contained a considerable quantity of dirty yellow pus. The ligamentum teres was flattened and covered with spots of yellow lymph ; it was much softened, so as to tear -with the gveatest ease. The synovial membrane was generally gxeatly thickened, intensely injected, of colom* varying from^ bright red to dull orange, and covered by spots of yellow lymph. The cartilage lining the acetabulum appeared to be healthy, except just around the insertion of the ligamentum teres, where it was softer and more gelatinous-looking than normal for about one to two lines. The cartilage iucrusting the head of the femim appeared at first sight to be entirely unaffected. On making a vertical section through the acetabulum, and the head and neck of the femur, the great trochanter was found almost entirely unossified, with the exception of a point m its centre, and its connection to the bone was weak and easily tom asunder. The epiphysis of the head was completely ossified ; the fine of junction being still, however, marked by a band of bluish and very hard cartilage, which extended for about three lines on each side across the bone. In the centre of this, extending both into the epiphysis and the diaphysis, was an eburnated portion of bone, yeUow, hard, dense, and com- pact, these pecuharities being most marked in the portion belonging to the diaphysis. In both j)arts this mass contrasted strongly in colour and in consistence with the reddened cancellous tissue. The incrusting cartilage, though generally appearing healthy externally, could now be seen to be a good deal worm-eaten internally, and indeed, destroyed at one or two points. Where the mass of hard bone came near the surface, the refiexipn of the synovial membrane was destroyed. Below this, in the neck and the upper part of the shaft, the cancellous tissue was very lax, the walls being very thin, and the medulla filling them extraordinarily red. The medulla at the com- mencement of the medullary canal, about one inch and a half below the tro- chanter, was exceedingly red and vascular. Occupying many spots of the cancellous tissue, and also one or two of the reddened medulla, were many little masses of the size of miUet-seeds, looking like transparent cartilage, hard and resisting, yielding no juice, not breaking down at aU easily under the finger, tom with difficulty by the needle, and when torn showing great numbers of nuclei and fibres. They pervaded the whole bone, and were also found in t e acetabulum, but in smaller numbers. Some of them could easily bo enu- cleated where the medulla was soft, others could only be separated with diffi- culty from the cancellous bone. Fiom this account it is easy to perceive that the disease was tuberculous,- that It commenced in the osseous structures, chiefly of the femiu ; and that it secondarily implicated the soft articular structures. Arthritic Coxalgia.—The arthritic form of hip-joint disease may com- mence m any of the soft structures of the joint; in the capsule, the synovia membrane, the cartilages, or the round ligament. These are alone primarily