239 KEUliALOIA OF JOINTS. This pain, which is purely neuralgic, may either have its origin m some local irritation of a nerve leading to the sensitive part, or it may be dependent on constitutional disorder of an hysterical character. It is this class of cases, pccuiTin- in young women who are either the subjects of hysteria, or are of a hio-hlv ner^•ous temperament, that should especially be considered as Neuralgia of” the Joints, to which the attention of the profession has principally been directed by the labours of Sir B. Brodie. . SviiPTOiis.—It is generally found that the hip, knee, ankle, or shouldei is the joint affected—the hip and the knee more especially. The neuralgia is usually localised in a particular joint by some slight injury that the part has sustained. But it is important to observe that in these cases the pain often does not develop itself for some days, or e^'en weeks, after the injury that is the alleged cause of it. Severe pain in the joint is complained of; and the limb is rendered eompai-atively useless, often with a good deal of distortion or contrac- tion. On examination, it wiU be found that the pain, which is commonly very severe, is supei’ficial and entaneous, not existing in the interior of the articula- tion, nor increased by pi'essnre of the articnlar siu’faces against one another ; and that it is not strictly confined to the joint, but radiates for some distance- around it. This pain is often intermittent in its character, and is frequently associated with nem-algia elsewhere, as in the spine ; and not unfreqnently with uterine inltation or disease. At the same time, it will be observed that all the signs that ought to accompany a severe attack of inflammation in a joint, such as would be attended by a con-esponding amount of pain, are absent; there being no painful startings of the limb at night, no heat, redness, or swelling of it, nor constitutional fever and irritation ; and the suffering being increased by causes, such as mental and emotional disturbance, that do not influence organic disease. Attention to these various circimistances will usually enable the Surgeon to diagnose the nature of the attack without much difficulty ; the- only cases in which he will really experience any, being those in which the tissues around the joint have been thickened, indmated, and altered in their characters by the application of issues, moxte, &c.; or by some slight articular disease having at some time existed, but hamng been cured. Causes.—The neuralgia is often referable to the irritation of some particular ncr\'e, either at its origin or in its course. This is particularly the case with neuralgia of the hip and knee, which will often be found to be dependent on irritation of the obtmator nerve, owing to intrapelvic inflauunation, congestion, or adhesion. In one case of secondary abdominal cancer under my care, the patient was seized with the most intense pain in the right hip and knee, so as to lead to the suspicion that these joints were diseased. On examination after death, it was found that the pain resulted from the implication of the obturator ner\-e in a mass of intrapelvic cancer, the joints themselves being perfectly sound. fuEATiiEXT.—The treatment must be constitutional, directed especially to re-establish a healthy condition of the uterine organs. If there be amcnorrhoca and amemia, aloetics and the preparations of iron must be given; if uterine irritation or ulceration exist, this must be removed by proper local moans, and the general health attended to. General nervine antispasmodics and tonics, such as valerian and bark, or assalectida and quinine in full doses, should be