DISEASE OF THE SACRO-ILIAO JOINT. 303 CHAPTER LI. 4 DISEASE OF THE SACRO-ILTAC JOINT. Disease of the Sacro-Iliac Articulation is a rare affection. With but few exceptions, systematic writers on Surgery are altogether silent npon this subject. Boyer and Chelius mention the disease ; but it is only by N^laton that any detailed description of it has been given. This may be partly accounted for by its rarity, and partly, perhaps, by its haring not nnfrequently been confounded with some of the varieties of coxalgia or of spinal disease. The sacro-iliac disease is essentially a very chronic affection, lasting for months or years. It appears to be strumous in its origin, partaking of the nature and ordinary character of “ white swellings.” I have never seen it in young children, and in all the cases which form the basis of these observa- tions it has occurred in young adults from 14 to 30 years old. The exciting- causes of the disease are obscure : I have not been able to trace it to blow' or injui-y in any of the cases that have been nnder my care, althongh there can be very little doubt that such causes might excite it. Pathology.—The disease may commence primarily either in the pebdc bones, or in the articular strnctnres of the sacro-iliac junction. The annexed ffrawdngs (Figs. 481, 482), taken from a boy who died of tetanus fr-om the in'itation of an issue, six weeks after the commencement of disease in the sacro- iliac articulation, show erosion of the cartilages in patches, and clearly illus- trate the existence of primary disease in those structures. The next drawing (Fig. 483), taken from a man abont 30 yeai-s of age, who died of this af- fection after nearly two years of suffering, •shows the disease in its most advanced stage. The bones, though bare and rough, ai-e neither carious nor necrosed ; they appear simply to bo deprived of their incnisting cartilage. There is no deep erosion of them, no cavity, no sign of tuberculous infiltration ; no •e^udcnce, m fiict, of primary osseous disease. The ligamentous structures Hlso of the articulations arc only partially destroyed. The interosseous lio-a- men w-as especially in a sound state ; it had preserved to a great extent I S mmess, and required to be dixided with the scalpel in order to exnosc e mtenor of the joint and the opposed osseous surfaces. The structm-es at appear chiefly to have suffered are the synovial and cartilao-inous Saoro-ilian Disenso in its early stage. Fig. 4S1.—Sacrum. Fig. 4S2.—Ilium.