822 URINARY CALCULUS, by them, and the uncertainty and diffieulty of clearing away all fragments by means of forceps, scoop, and injections, are very considerable. The accident is one that is justly dreaded and guarded against as far as possible by the practical lithotomist. Resulls.—Tlio results of perineal lithotrity do not either appear hitherto to- have been very brilliant or even satisfactory. In thirty operations there were five deaths, which, considering that at least four of the patients were under twenty years of age, is folly as high as, if not higher, than what ocem's in lateral lithotomy, and far exceeds that resulting from lithotrity. Apphmhililij.—When we compare perineal lithotrity with ordinary lithotrity, or lithotomy, whether lateral or median, it presents positive disadvantages in many cases, no advantage in others, and appears only to be apphcable to a few exceptional instances. In cases of small or medium-sized calculi, the results of ordinary lithotrity are infinitely more satisfactory ; and no object can be gained by complicating this operation with an incision into the urethra. For ordinary calcuh, too large for lithotrity, the lateral and median opera- tions offer fully as successful if not more successful results than those which have been obtained by perineal hthotrity; and very few Surgeons would, when once they had seized the stone, trouble themselves to break it up before extracting it, or subject their patient to the delay in the operation that always occurs, even when the stone is accidentally broken after seizure—a delay oc- casioned by the prolonged manipulations which then become necessary, and which are not without their own special dangers. The only cases, indeed, in which I can conceive perineal lithotrity to be adopted by a Siu’geon, are those in which he has to do with a very lai’ge soft phosphatic calculus. As such a stone almost inevitably crumbles down when seized before extraction, it might possibly be as weU to convert into a step of a regular operation that occurrence which would otherwise happen as an accident in ordinary lithotomy. Should it become necessary, after ordinary lithotrity, to cut a patient for the speedy extraction of the fragments, Dolbeau’s method of dilating the neck of the bladder, and his small forceps, might be found useful. COMPARISON BB TWEEN LITHOTOMY AND LITHOTRITY. Lithotomy and hthotrity differ so entirely from one another in principle and detail, that it is useless to attempt to establish a comparison between the different steps of these two operations. It is, however, a question of the very first importance and interest to ascertain by which operation a patient can most safely have a calculus removed from his bladder. In determining this point,^ it is not only necessary to make a comparison between the general results ol cases that have been subjected to the two procedures, but more especially to ascertain those circumstances that infiuence the result of each operation in particular cases—to determine, in fact, in what cases lithotomy, and m what lithotrity, holds out the best prospect to the patient. It is, I think, m the highest degree unpractical to enter into a discussion as to which should be the