^78 DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. taken attentively to regulate his habits of life. It will eonstantly be found that, after the disease has apparently been cured, excesses at table, and more ospecially the drinking of beer, or of effervescing or acid wines, Avill brin<^ back the discharge. It will also return after connection, though it have pieviously ceased entirely. This is especially the case in strumous, gouty, or xheumatic constitutions, in which all urethral inflainmations are with difficulty removed. In these cases, then, abstiirence ffiom alcoholic liquids and dietetic stimulants, and a continent life must be strictly enjoined ; but the local treat- ment requires careful attention. The conditions of the urethral mucous membrane has already been fully described. This condition is difficult of cure ; for, as Desormeaux has pointed out, no injection, which the healthy portion of the urethra is capable of bearing, will have much effect upon the inflamed patch. He therefore recommends the application of a very strong solution of nitrate of silver through the endoscope ; but equally satisfactory results may be obtained by the use of Guyon’s injector (Frg. 796). This consists of a hollow bulbous sound perforated in the bulb, and Fig. 796.—Guyon’s Injector. Tlie SmaUcr Figure represents the Nozzle. fitted with a small syringe. The bulbous sound having been passed first up and down the urethra till the exact situation of the inflamed spot is found by the tenderness and shght cling before mentioned, the perforated head is held fixed ■at the diseased spot, and a few drops of a solution of nitrate of silver (ten to twenty grains to the oimce of water) are injected. The patient should pass lu’ine immediately before the injection, and not again for some hours if possible. Berkeley Hill, who has had great experience of this mode of treatment, states that, if the patient keep quiet for some time after, no complications are likely to follow ; but neglect of these precautions may be followed by swelled testicle or even perineal abscess. After the operation, a weak astringent injection must be used for a few days, and the passage of bougies for a short time after is usually necessary to complete the cure. Otis, of Hew York, is of opinion that every prolonged gleet is the result of a narrowing of the canal, and he recom- mends internal urethrotomy as a ciu’e—cutting the m-ethi-a up to its normal size by the method described under the treatment of strictm-e of the urethra. The operation is somewhat severe, and should ne^’er be had resort to till milder means have failed. The treatment of gleet may therefore be summed up as follows. The patient must be carefully examined, in order to detect if possible some con- stitutional condition, such as struma, gout, or rheumatism, which may serve as a guide as to general treatment, diet, and use of stimulants. Change of air and sea-bathing are often of essential service. At the same time, the electuary of cubebs and copaiba, or one composed of cubebs and the sesquioxide of iron.