220 DISEASES OF JOINTS. tlio wasting of muscle rapid and great. Tlie constitutional disturbance is pro- portionately severe. The joint that it most frequently atlects is the knee. I have also seen it in the wrist. This form of arthritis must not be confounded with tlie dry rheumatic arthritis of old people. It differs from this form of the disease in the acuteness of its local symptoms, and the severity of the constitutional disturbance. On examining the joint after remo-s-al, the cartilages will be found to be ulcerated, the synodal membrane softened, swollen, and injected ; the ligaments softened, and the articular osseous ends ■\'ascular. The Treatment must be conducted on the ordinary principles of rest, fomentations, opiates, and supports. But at last, in order to save destruction of hfe by pain and exhaustion, the question of amputation vdll arise, and serious as this may be in old people, it will be the only alternative and chance of escape from a painful death. Diagnosis.—AJjscess may form externally to, but close upon, the capsule of a joint, and closely simulate disease of the articulation. In these cases the absence of serious constitutional disturbance, the irregularity of the swelling, gTeater on one side than the other, its extension over bony points, as the j^atella or olecranon, the superficial character of the fluctuation, the absence of all rigidity about the joint or of that preternatiu'al mobility in a horizontal direction which arises from softening of the ligaments, and of other severe local symptoms, such as pain, starting, looseness, or grating, will enable the Simgeon to effect a correct diagnosis. Pathology.—In arthritis, the principal changes are undoubtedly found to take place in the cartilages ; at the same time, it must not be supposed that all morbid appearances that are found in these structures are the result of inflam- mation, as erosion and absorption of their tissue may take place independently of any inflammatory action. The long-continued disuse of a joint, as in the treat- ment of fractures, may occasion this ; and in old people it is very common to meet Avith a porccUauous or ivory-like deposit on the articular ends of the bones, AA’hich, hoAA"eA*er, does not prevent the joints from being used, though it may occasion stiffness and pain in them. According to Quekett, this porcel- laiious deposit is of two kinds ; one consisting of imorganised earthy matter, the other of true bone having the HaA'ersian canals filled AAoth phosphate of lime. In acate arthritis, the cartilages are usually found nicerated and eroded in patches of varying size, exposing bone, AA'hich is rough and vascular. The remains of the cartilage are softened, inelastic, opaque, and thickened, and separate easily from the subjacent bone, which can be felt rough and grating. The synovial membrane is usually much thickened and very vascular; the A-ascularity being most distinct about those parts where the erosions and grooA’es in the cartilage are deepest, and often assuming a dentated or fringed appear- ance. In other parts, especially about the circumference of the joint, smooth and semi-transparent masses of plastic matter, having a somewhat fatty look, arc deposited underneath and upon the synovial membrane ; the ligaments are relaxed, vascular, and softened, and the interior of the filled Avith thin, flaky, and light-coloured pus. The capsule and the ceUular tissue around arc thickened, and cither infiltrated Avith pus oi c oggee aai i