SPECIAL ANEURISMS. 72 descending thoracic aorta, dysphagia may be one of the most marked signs. In snch cases as these, stricture of the cesophagus has eiToncously been sup- posed to exist, and the patient has even been treated by the introduction of bougies on this supposition—an eiTorof practice that has terminated fatally by the perforation of the aneurismal sac, where it projected against the oesophagus, by the point of the instrument. The difficulty in deglutition in cases of compression of the oesophagus by aortic aneiu-ism, is almost invariably rcfeiTcd to the episternal notch. The dysphagia is cmmnonly associated with pain, or Avith the sensation of a cord draAvn tightly around the body. 4. (Edema, with more or less lividity of the upper extremities and head and neck, occasionally but rarely occiu-s. It is generally most marked on the left side, and arises from the compression of the superior cava or the inno- minate veins by aneimsms springing from the fore or upper part of the arch. Pulsation and Tumour, in intrathoracic aortic aneurism, so far as they are observable externally, are always absent in the early stages of the disease, and vei’y frequently continue so throughout the progness of the aflection ; indeed, in aneurisms sprmging from the intrapericardial aorta or the concavity of the arch, death usually takes place, either by ruptm’e into one of the serous cavities or the air-tube, or by the exhaustion induced by dyspnoea, long before the aneurism has attained a sufficient size to be recognisable externally. There are, however, three portions of the thoracic aorta which, when affected by anemism, yield external evidence by the existence of pulsation or tmnom' of the true nature of the disease. These are—1, the anterior aspect of the ascending aorta ; 2, the summit of the arch; and 3, the posterior aspect of the descending aorta. 1. When the anemism is situated in the anterior aspect of the ascending aorta and commencement of the arch, pulsation may be detected by pressm’e betAveen the intercostal spaces on the right side of the sternum, and a thrill, as weU as distinct impulse, may often be felt over that side of the chest, before any external tumour becomes visible ; thus simulating the beat of the heart, in addition and opposite to the seat of the true cardiac impulse. As the aneurism increases an external tumour appears, the Avail of the chest becoming absorbed and perforated opposite the point of greatest impulse. 2. When an anemism springs from the summit of the arch, a pulsating tumour appears at the root of the neck, behind or even above the margin of the sternum, most commonly towards the right side, and occasionally rises so high out of the thorax, and is so distinctly felt in the neck, as to rim the risk of being confomided with aneurism of the brachio-cephahe oi caiotid arteries (Fig. 379, p. 87). This error, which has frequently been committed, and Avhich has led to operations on the arteries at the root of the neck, may usually be avoided, except in the case of the brachio-cephahe, by the im- possibility of tracing with the finger the lower boundary of the timiom-, and the existence of distinct dulness on percussion, possibly of impulse or of auscultatory evidence of aneiuism, beloAV the level of the upper miugin of the sternum or clavicle. 3. When aneiuism springs fr-om t\\Qposterior tvatl of the descending aorta, a pulsating tumoiu may gTadually develop itself to one side ot the spine oi