UlUNAEY CALCULUS. 792 the operation, such as l)y mistaking the recto-vesical space for the interior of the bladder, the tearing across of the urethra and non-extraction of the stone, -wounding of the recto-vesical fold of peritoneum, or perforation of the back of the bladder by the point of the scalpel. It is by these accidents usually that death happens in boys that arc cut for stone, and not from unavoidable circumstances that may follow the most skihully performed operation. The Shock of the Operation occasionally proves fatal, though probably much less frequently since the introduction of chloroform than was formerly the case. Yet, even now, patients occasionally die from this cause, induced either by a very much prolonged operation, or by the system being weakened, and having lost its resisting power in consequence of disease of the kidneys, perhaps of a latent character. The State of the Kidneys influences the result of lithotomy in the adult more directly than any other condition. If these organs be sound, the patient win usually recover ; hence in children, in whom the complication of renal disease rarely exists, lithotomy is very successful, even though the operation is proportionately far more severe in them than in adults. If, on the other hand, the kidneys be extensively and chronically diseased, the patient will commonly die, even though he have been operated upon with the utmost care and skill. The condition of the kidneys that is especially fatal has been fully de- sciibed in Chapter LXVII. This morbid condition may be evidenced by the presence of albumen in considerable quantities in the urine, and granulai* casts, with muco-pus. If the albumen, in subsiding to the bottom of a test- tube, after being coagulated by heat and acid, form a precipitate that does not amount to more than one-tenth of the bulk of the mine, the case may, I think, be looked upon as tolerably favourable ; but, if it amount to one-sixth, the case is decidedly unfavomable, though even under these circumstances I have often seen recoveiy take place. Yet, with kidney-disease that -will fmnish such a quantity of albumen as this, the patient vdU be very liable to the occurrence of low and diffuse cellular inflammation. A Prolonged Operation, even under antesthetics, is dangerous; and, although it is certainly not well to operate against time, yet it is undoubtedly advantageous to flnish the operation ■v^dth as little delay as is consistent -with the safety of the patient, even though he be an'sesthetised. Hemorrhage does not so often prove fatal, either shortly after the opera- tion, or at a later period, as might be expected from the great vascidarity of the parts incised. Secondary hEemon'hage, of a dangerous or even fatal character, may, however, come on six, eight, or ten days after the operation. I have known it as late as the fourteenth day. It must be borne in mind that, when hemorrhage takes place after the operation, the blood may find its -\Wy into the bladder rather than escape externally, distending the viscus with coagula, but not giving any external evidence of the mischief that has occurred. Secondary hemorrhage will usually cease on plugging the womid with sponge or lint soaked in alum solutions. Should it prove serious, hmv- ever, the actual cautery may be advantageously employed. In a case tha occun-ed to me, the bleeding on the ninth day was stopped by wiping out the wound with the actual cautery, a practice which, I have been iiitormo