SPONTANEOUS CURE OF ANEURISM. 31 Ifod'^on, and more recently by Bellingham ; and the pathology of this process is ot”considerahle interest, from its bearing upon the cure of the disease by snrgical operation. The spontaneous cure may accidentally, though very rarely, occur by inflammation of the aneurism and consequent obliteration of the artery; but most frequently it is by the gradual deposition of laminated fibrine in the interior of the sac that it is filled up completely. This process can only take place in aneurisms affecting arteries of the second or third magnitude, and ne'^ er in those of the aorta ; and it can only happen in sacculated aneimisms, the fusifoi-m not admitting of it, it being necessary that the blood flowing through the sac be somewhat retarded in its passage, so as to give time for the deposit of its fibrine upon the interior of the tumour. This process, which is a very different one from the coagadation of the blood, is the increase of a natural condition always going on in the sac. In all cases of sacculated aneurism, there is a tendency to the production of a spontaneous cure, though this is rarely ac- complished. The tendency to it is shown by a contraction and partial occlusion of the artery Moiv the sac, and the consequent diminished force of the circu- lation through it, by which the deposition of fibrine is greatly increased, at the same time that the collateral vessels given off cibove the sac often enlarge to a considerable extent, and thus divert fr’om it blood which would other-' ■\rise have passed through it. This condition of the vessel below the sac may be looked ujjon as the first and most important step towards the consoli- dation of the tumour. The process is also materially assisted by the mouth of the sac being small, and so situated that the blood cannot be directly driven into it. For spontaneous cure to take place, it is not necessary that the whole current of blood should be suddenly arrested. If such an accident occur, the aneu- rismal sac becomes filled with a large dark soft clot, which soon yields, if from any cause a pulsating stream of blood be again admitted, but which under favourable circumstances may lead to a complete cure. If blood continue to circulate through the sac, deposit of laminated fibrine Avill take place if the impetus with Avhich this fluid is sent into the tumour be considerablv diminished. This may happen fr-om the occimrence, in the distal portion of the artery or the mouth of the sac, of some or other of those con- ditions that have akeady been described. So, also, it has been found that, in those cases in which two anemisms are situated upon one artery, the distal one is very apt to undergo partial or even complete consolidation, the blood losing its impetus in its passage through the fii-st sac. Any constitu- tional cause or condition also, by Avhich the impulse of the heart is lessened, and the force of the flow of blood through the sac diminished (as the occur- rence of phthisis), will favour greatly the deposit of laminated fibrine and the consolidation of the tumoiu’. As the aneurism undergoes spontaneous ciu’e, the pulsation in it gTadually becomes more and more feeble, until it ceases entirely ; the bruit proportion- ately lessens, the tumour becomes harder, and at last completely consolidated ; at the same time, the anastomosing circulation is sometimes fonnd to be. established in some of the collateral vessels of the limb. Eventually the* solidified tumour shrinks in size, undergoing a species of drying and absorp- tion, with ultimate conversion into a small mass of fibro-areolar tissue