546 DISEASES OF THE MOUTH AND THROAT. a spatula. In some patients, the fauces arc so irritable that the slightest touch causes violent retching. This may he allayed by sucking ice for a short time before the laryngoscope is employed. Lauyngitis.—Inflammation of the larynx principally occurs in adults, from exposm-c to cold, to the infection of erysipelas, or to the general occasioning causes of the low forms of inflammation. It differs essentially fr-om the croup of children, which is attended by an albuminous exudation, and spreads down- wards into the bronchi; whilst in laryngitis there is no effusion of plastic matter, and the disease is confined to the larynx itself. Laryngitis may not only be of an acute or a chronic kind, but the acute form like’wise presents two distinct varieties, according to the parts affected, the cause from which it arises, and the condition of constitution in which it occurs : in one, the true Acute Lar3mgitis, the inflammation is chiefly seated in the mucous membrane ; in the other, the (Edematous Iiai'3rugitis, the affection chiefly occiu’s in the submucous areolar tissue, within and around* the larynx. In all inflammatory affections of the larynx, whether acute or chronic, there is gi’eat danger to life ; the rima glottidis, that narrow chink through which aU the air destined for respiration must enter, becomes readily occluded, and asphyxia consequently results. This may happen either by the swelling of the lips of the glottis, frrom the effusion of plastic matter within or upon them ; or by the occurrence of spasm in the larynx ; indeed, there is always more or less spasm conjoined with aU the inflammatory affections of this part of the air-tube ; and this spasm, being superadded to already existing mechanical occlusion, commonly proves fatal. These laryngeal spasms do not at first recur oftener than at intervals of half an hour or an horn'; but as the disease advances they become more frequent, and in any one of them the patient may be carried oft. It is of importance to bear in mind that death may occur in these cases, although a considerable portion of the cavity of the larynx continue free. Thus Cheyne states that there are always in croup at least three-eighths of the cavity of the larynx open for the transmission of air; and that death must conse- quently result from some other cause than mere mechanical obstruction. This freedom from permanent occlusion commonly occurs in cases of laryngitis; and the immediate cause of death in the majority of instances appears to be spasm, conjoined with defective arterialisation of the blood, which, becoming dark and poisonous, causes congestion of the lungs or brain, and thus low pneumonia and convulsions. Ac'u.'te Laryngitis.—The Symptoms are those of local inflammatoiy action of an acute kind, conjoined with those of interference with the proper admis- sion of air to the lungs. The mucous membrane is the part principally inflamed, and but little effusion takes place under it; hence the symptoms are not always indicative of such early or intense interference with respi- ration, as is met with in the oedematous form of the disease. In acute laryngitis there are pain and tenderness on pressing upon the larymx, more especially about the pomum Adami. The voice at first is harsh and rough, then stridulous or sonorous ; and deglutition becomes difficult. ^ There is expectoration of frothy mucus, sometimes tinged with blood. U ith t e laryngoscope the intensely injected state of the mucous membrane o larynx can be seen ; but this is not accomplished without difficulty, partly