STRUCTURE OF AN ANEURISM. 23 dense smooth membrane, and resembling closely the interior of the artery, from Avhich, however, it is separated by a kind of septum or mediastinum. Tbe appeai-ancc here presented by the vessel has occasionally been erroneously described as constituting a double aorta. 3. The blood may find its way between tbe hunina3 of the middle coat, but docs not escape farther by rupture of the external, or by the giving way of the lining membrane of the vessel. A sac is consequently formed in the substance of the middle coat, which may become chronic, but will at last undergo external rupture. Process of Formation of an Aneurism.—The progression of the changes leading to the formation of an aneurism is briefly as follows. The coats of the artery°undergo fatty degeneration, and atheroma is deposited at one part ; this softens, and the lining membrane covering it, perhaps with a portion of the inner layers of the middle coat, becomes eroded ; or the walls of the vessel may be weakened at this point wdthout any destruction of their coats. Cohesion, however, takes place between the tissues of the vessel at the eroded or weakened spot ; and the outer coat becomes strengthened and thickened by the deposi- tion of plastic matter. Dilatation next takes place at this point ; if of the entire coats, a true aneiu’ism is formed ; if of the eroded tunics, a false aneurism occurs : but if no cohesion have previously taken place between the different coats of the vessel, the blood becomes effused into and between them, thus constituting a dissecting aneurism. Structure of an Aneurism.—An aneurismal sac, if it be composed of a dilatation of all the coats of an artery, may be recognised on dissection by the atheromatous and calcareous deposits which are met with in the tissues of which it is composed. If it be a false aneurism, it will be found that there is little, if any, of these deposits in the walls of the sac ; that the middle coat usually terminates abruptly at its mouth, and that the external coat is greatly thickened and strengthened by the depiosition of plastic matter. An aneu- rismal sac may vary in size, from a tumour not larger than a cherry to a growth of the magnitude of a cocoa-nut or large melon. The mouth, which is o^•al or round in shape, I’aries greatly in size, being always very small in proportion to the sac. Usually the interior of an aneurismal sac con- tains a quantity of decolorised fibrine, arranged in concentric laminse of but moderate thickness ; these laminte of fibrine are of a pale-buff colour, dry, and somewhat brittle where they are most closely applied to the waU of the sac ; the more external ones appear to bo those that are first formed, and occasionally are found to have undergone a kind of atheromatous degeneration ; as we approach the interior of the vessel, they become softer and more coloured, and at last, in the central portions, dark masses of coagulum are often met with. This decolorised fibrine, called by Broca the active clot, proceeds from two sources. It is partly deposited from the blood which is beaten up in the interior of the sac, and thus deposits its fibrine much in the same way as when it is whipped in an ordinary vessel; this is probably the manner in which the principal masses are found deposited, and the fibrine so deposited is aiTanged in lamina; that take the com’se of the current of the blood, as inirig. 351. In some cases, liowever, it would appear as if it were formed by deposition from the wall ot the aneurism ; for the mass, not being out of the cuiTent of the circulation, cannot well have been deposited from the blood.