237 TREATMENT OF LOOSE CARTILAGES. of sniovial inflammation, and by relaxation of the ligaments. These attacks of pain and of sudden imtability of flao_part come on at the result of movements of it: they commonly happen in the knee whilst the n^tait is walking. It is difflcult to say to avhat this severe pa, u is due Sachet thinks it W be owing to the synovial bemg pmehed between the foreign body and one of the articular surfaces. I think that it s most probably due to the foreign body being drawn in between the opposite surfaces of the joint, when these are separated anteriorly 111 the act of flexion of the knee, and then, when the limb is extended, acting as a wedge between these, tending to keep them separate and mteifering with the complete straif^htenino- of the limb. In consequence of this w^edge-like action of the loose” cartilage the ligaments are violently stretched, and the sickening pain consequent on this act is experienced, followed, as happens in a violent sprain, by rapid synovial effiision. The sensibility of the ligaments of a joint is of that peculiar nature that it is only called into action when an attempt is made to stretch them, and thus forcibly to counteract or destroy their natm-al use. Ligaments may be cut without any suffering, but they cannot be stretched, cither by accident or disease, without the most severe pain. In some cases the loose cartilage can be felt by carrying the finger over the joint, when it may be detected under the capsule, slipping back when pressure is exercised upon it, and often possessing great mobility, gliding from one side of the joint to the ■other, so as to be extremely difficult to be fixed. Treatmext.—The palliative treatment consists in supporting the joint with ••an elastic bandage or knee-cap, so as to limit its movements, and thus prevent the liability to the recun-ence of the attacks of pain ; and in this way the fixing and ultimate absorption of the cartilage may sometimes be obtained. 'This I have several times seen to occur in patients who either refused to be •operated on, or in whom an operation was not thought advisable. Any infiam- mation that has been excited requires to be subdued by proper antiphlogistic treatment. If the cartilage occasion great and frequent suffering, so as to interfere •.seriously with the utility of the limb, and if it appear to be of large size, and io be loose and single, means may be taken for its extraction. But it must be borne in mind that, whilst the loose cartilage is at most an inconvenience, though perhaps a serious one, any operation for its removal by which the joint is opened, becomes a source of actual danger to limb and even to life. It is far less dangerous, in fact, to leave the foreign body than to perform the ■operation necessary for its extraction. Hence an operation should not be lightly proposed or undertaken, without warning the patient of the possible consequences that might follow. No operation should be undertaken so long as the joint is in an instated state, as the result of a recent attack of pain and inflammation ; this must be first subdued, and then the operation may be pro- ceeded with ; nor should it be done if the patient’s health be broken. The extraction used to be effected by directing the patient in the first instance to make those movements by which he usually gets the cartilage fixed in the joint. So soon as the Surgeon feels it (as this operation is commonly required in the knee), he should push it to one side of the patella, where he must fix it firmly with his forefinger and thumb; ho then draws the skin covering it to one side