TREATMENT OF GONORRIKEA IN THE FEMALE. 885 even spread along the Fallopian tubes to the ovaries : and ovaritis and fatal peritonitis may also bo induced. _ i i The Symptoms of gonorrhoea in women arc sufficiently well marked :n the early stages, when there is an abundant muco-purulent discharge from the parts affected, with a good deal of inflammatory irritation, accompanied with pain in micturition, and a frequent desire to pass urine.^ As the disease becomes chronic, however, it is more difficult to determine its true character ; it being apt to be confounded with some of those accidental and leucorrhocal discharges to which females of all ages are subject. Diagnosis.—In the majority of cases, goiioiThoea may be distinguished from all other muco-puruUnt discharges of the female organs, by the presence of inflammation about the external parts, and the mucous membrane of the vagina and urethra. In these cases it will be found, on introducing a speculum (which, however, occasions considerable pain, and is flrmly grasped by the con- traction of the vagina), that the discharge comes from the vaginal wall, and that the uterine oriflee is free from it, or nearly so ; whereas m leucorrhoea the discharge proceeds in a great measure from the interior of the uterus, the os and cervix of which udll probably also present signs of diseased action. It must, however, be borne in mind that the discharge in gonorrhoea may occa- sionally be in a great degree uterine ; and that that of leucoiThoea may be an exudation from the mucous membrane of the vagina. In such circumstances, when the disease is chronic, it is almost impossible to arrive at a correct con- clusion as to the natiue of the case from simple inspection ; and in these cases of doubt the Sm’geon had better give a very guarded opinion, lest he be led into the error of inculpating an innocent woman. The difficulty is increased, and a good deal of obsem-ity thrown over the case, by the fact that leucorrhoeal discharges will occasionally give rise to urethritis in the male, which closely simulates gonoiThoea, Female Children also are occasionally subject to an acute inflammation of the vagina and nymphm as the result of simple initation, of constitutional disturbance, or of teething ; these cases require to be recognised, as they have frequently been the cause of unfounded accusations. The Treatment of gonon’hoea in the female must vary, according as the disease is acute or chronic. In the acute stage, general and local anti- phlogistic means—salines, low diet, rest in bed, and emoUient sedative fomentations—must be used. As the disease subsides into a chronic con- dition, astringent injections must be employed; a weak solution of acetate of lead, or the liquor aluminis compositus largely diluted ■with tepid water, being especially useful. In other cases, a weak solution of nitrate of silver may be used with much advantage. These injections should be employed three or four times a day and in large quantity. After they have been thro'wu up, a piece of lint well soaked in the lotion should be introduced between the opposed mucous surfaces, so as to prevent their coming into apposition, the discharge being in a great measure kept up by their friction against one another.^ In order that the injection may be properly given, the woman should lie flat on her back, and pump in the fluid by means of one of Kennedy’s elastic bottles. In the treatment of gonorrhoea in women, specifics are of no use unless the urethra be affected, when copaiba may be given, as in the male.