3o6 DISEASE OF THE SAGliO-ILIAG JOINT. one form the pus passes out of tlie sciatic notch, and under the gluteal mus- cles ; in the other varieties it gravitates downwards into the ischio-rcctal fossa, and presents by the side of the rectum ; and in the third variety which I have ohscn'cd, the abscess opens into this gut, abundant puriform discharge takes place per anum, and, flatus from the bowel passing into the suppurating cavity, a tympanitic abscess results. Progijosis.—The prognosis of this disease is always most unfavourable. I am not prepared to say that it is of necessity fatal, but I have never seen a patient recover after the full development of the disease, and after suppuration had set in. I have, however, seen a case cured, in which, from the history of the symptoms, the thickening over the sacro-iliac articulations, and the permanent displacement of the side of the pehis, there was every reason to believe that this disease had existed. But in this instance no abscess had foimed. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of sacro-iliac disease is important, and not always easy. There are five distinct affections with which it may he con- founded—viz., neuralgia of the hip, sciatica, spinal disease, coxalgia, and disease of the pelvic hones. 1. Neuralgia of the hip in young females may readily enough be confounded with the earlier stages of sacro-iliac disease. But the Avidely spread and super- ficial nature of the pain in the neuralgic affection, the co-existence of the hysterical temperament, the sex of the patient, and the absence of all limita- tion of morbid action to the neighbourhood of the diseased articulation, render the true nature of the affection sufficiently clear. The obliquity of the pelvis Avhich occasionally occurs in neuralgia of the hip, and causes apparent elonga- tion of the limb, is readily removed when the patient lies on the back ; whereas, in sacro-iliac disease, position does not affect the displacement of the limb on the affected side. 2. Sciatica.—In this affection, the age of the patient, usually more advanced than that of the SAibjects of sacro-iliac disease ; the seat of the pain, beloAV the articulation, and its extent doAAn the back of the limb ; Avith the absence of elongation, Avill enable the Surgeon to effect the diagnosis. 3. From spinal disease, the diagnosis is usually sufficiently easy ; for, although the situation of abscess resulting from caries of the vertebrae may in many cases be the same as that Avhich is occupied by the collections of pus resulting from sacro-iliac disease, yet in caries of the spine, in the vast majority of instances, excinvation of the vertebrae has become prominently marked by the time that the abscess has assumed so great a magnitude as to occupy the inferior lumbar or gluteal regions. In those rare cases in Avhich, as in an instance that Avas some time ago under my care, caries of the vertebrae, with consecutrie abscess, takes place without any angular curA'ature, it will bo found that the patient complains of tenderness on the Surgeon percussing the spine opposite the seat of disease ; that the spinal column has lost its flexibility, moving stiffly and as a whole ; that there is an absence of that elongation of the limb on the affected side, dependent on displacement of the wipg of the pelvis, Avhich is so early obseiwablo in sacro-iliac disease ; and lastly, that examination of the sacro-iliac synchonch'osis neither elicits pain nor reveals .SAvelliiig or any of the other signs of disorganisation of that articulation. 4. Coxahjia is the affection that is most easily conibunded with sacro-iliac