DIAGNOSIS OF UjEMOERIIOIDAL TUMOURS. 72? In that form of fistula in which the aperture is near the anus, one or more external piles of small size are often found situated at the orifice of the fistida; and prolapsus rarely, if ever, is met with in adults, without the simultaneous occuiTcnce of piles. a i i Tkujuxatioks.—Hiemorrhoidal tumours may terminate by bubsiaence, Coagulation, Suppuration, or Sphacelus. Subsidence.—Complete subsidence of the pile can only take place when the disease is of recent occurrence. AVhen of long standing, and after it has been exposed to successive attacks of inflammation and turgescence, it never subsides completely ; and the areolar tissue and the muco-cutaneous structures, becoming hypertrophied, form elongated pendulous flaps around the margin of the anus. Coagulation of the contents of the pile is the result of inflammation ha^^ng• taken place in it, and probably terminating in plastic effusion by which the vessels leading fiom it are obstructed. When it takes place, the tumom, after more or less active inflammation, becomes hard, incompressible, and indolent, peimanent in size, and of a piu’plish or plum colom*. The coagulum thus formed may remain persistent, may excite suppiu’ation, or may be absorbed, the hypertrophied tissues forming one of the usual anal folds. In some rai’e instances, the coagula may become converted into structm’es resembling phlebolithes. Coagulation more frequently takes place in external than in internal piles, owing to the great impediment to the return of the blood from them, and to theu’ greater liability to inflammation, their exposed situation leading them to be braised or otherwise injured. "When it occims in internal piles, it most commonly affects those that are of a columnar or longitudinal shape, and least frequently the globular variety. Suppuration is not an uncommon termination, if acute inflammation have been set up in internal piles, more especially in those that have previously been coagulated. When the abscess is discharged, small coagula escape with its contents, the cavity gTanulates, and becomes obliterated, and the pile is cured. Sphacelus.—In some cases, when there is much elongation of the mucous membrane from which the pile springs, prolapsus of that membrane and of the piles may take place ; and, this being grasped after it has descended by the contraction of the sphincter, the same effect may be produced as if a ligature were applied. The tumom’ becomes much swollen, hard, livid, and tense ; there are much constitutional distiu’bance and restlessness ; but after a few days the part that is constricted sloughs and drops oft!, and all the symptoms arc relieved. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis must be regarded in two points of view ;— 1, as concerns the Hctimorrhoidal Tumours; and 2, with reference to the Hcomorrhoidal Flux. 1. Haemorrlioidal Tumours must be diagnosed ft’om prolapsus ani, polypus of the rectum, and condylomata about the anus. From prolapsus the diagnosis is not always easy ; indeed, the two diseases are so generally associated, that it is of little mornent to attempt it. In true prolapsus, ocular examination will suffice to distinguish the membranous wall of the intestine, forming a