49° PLASTIC SURGERY OF THE FACE AND MOUTH. Yol. I.) to the performance of plastic operations on the permanim. In tde CHAPTEE LVIII. — < PLASTIC SURGERY OF THE FACE AND MOUTH. By Plastic or Reparative Surgery is meant the performance of opera- tions for the repair of deficiencies in structure, whether resulting from injury, from disease, or from malformation. It has been long knoAvn that partially detached portions of the body may retain their 'vitality sufficiently to become again adherent, when attached but by a very narrow tongue of tissue to the part from which they have been all but separated. This has often been observed in injuries of the face and fingers, portions of which have been nearly completely severed, and yet have- united again on being replaced. But there is a sufficient number of cases on record to show that certain parts, when completely separated, may, after being- rejjlaced, again become adherent. The most remarkable instances of this kind are those which are related by Hoffacher, and attested by Chelius and Yelpeau. Hoffacher was officially appointed to attend as Sm’geon at the duels which were at one time frequent amongst the students at Heidelberg ; and, as at these encounters broad-swords w^ere used, he had an opportunity of seeing a. considerable nmnber of incised wounds, and has related no fewer than sixteen cases in which portions of the nose, bps, or chin had been sliced off, and, being- put on again, contracted adhesions. Amongst the most remarkable of these,, is one in which the end of the nose was sliced off by a cut with the broad- sword, and fell under a chest of drawers; it was not found for some time, but, on being recovered and washed, was stitched on, and became firmly attached. In another instance, a dog that was in the room snapped up the detached portion of the organ as it fell to the gTOund, but the nose, being immediately taken out of the animal’s mouth and put on again, becam& fii’mly fixed. In order that union shoidd take place between parts that have been separated completely or nearly so, and the rest of the body, it is necessary that they be soft and -vascular, and more especially that then structure be of a homogeneous character, such as is met -wdth in the tissues of the face ; where no very large blood-vessels, nen-es, tendons, or bones are found. It is the same in plastic operations, which succeed best under similar conditions of tissue, and which are conducted on the same principle as an attempt at ivnion in a partially severed structure. It is principally for defonnities and loss of the nose and hp that plastic operations are of much service; they may, however, occasionally be had recourse to in other situations, as about the cheeks and eyelids, but seldom with an equal amount of success. Reference has afready been made (p.