i8i eeva ra ti ve process. M-ticuta cuds of a long bo.io, tlio process is precisely similar, though the line of scDJiTtVtioii is not quite so leguLu. , „ ,• ^ • r Wh”i once the dead hone has hcen detached by the formation of this Ime of wiitioii, nature takes steps for its ultimate removal ft'om the body. Iheie ill contact with proliferating „ , i i diminution. J^Iiescher has shown that the detachment of smaU scales of bone may take place by the disintegi-ation of their substance by a process of “ insen- sible exfoliation,” as he terms it. This process is a pm-ely mechanical or physical one, and probably goes on in all dead bone that is in contact witb pus, just as we see it take place in the ivoiy pegs used in the treatment of ununited fracture. This disintegTation of the siu’face of the dead, together Tvith the absorption of the margin of the living bone, in the formation of the line of sepai-ation, explains the fact that the sequestrum will always be found to be of much smaller size than the ca’^ity in which it is lodged. The ultimate expulsion of the loosened or exfoliated sequestrum is effected by the growth of the granulations below it pushing it off the sm'face, or out of the cavity in which it lies. AVhen the necrosed bone is 2’>er-ipheral, it will be readily thi’ovm off in this way, although it may for a time be fixed and entangled by the mere pressure and extension of the granulations. AA^heii the sequestrum is viva- (jinuted within old or new bone, the process of elimination is necessarily very tardy, and may be difficult or impossible without siu’gical aid. The time required for the exfoliation and separation of dead bone varies gi'eatly. AVhen it is superficial and small in size, a few weeks may suffice ; but when the long or fiat bones, as the femur, the scapula, or the ilium, are affected, the process may be extended over several years, and may terminate in the death of the patient from exhaustion before it is concluded ; the con- stitution being harassed and worn out by hectic induced by profuse suppura- tion. Or the disease may fall into a chronic state, the limb becoming rigid, and the tissues much condensed, vuth fistulous apertures leading down to exposed but attached bone, and thus being a source of constant annoyance and suffering to the patient. Reparative Process.—The reparative process adopted by nature for the restoration of the integrity of the bone, a portion of which has necrosed, varies according to the extent of the loss of substance. AA^hcn the outer lamellte alone are necrosed, new bone is deposited by the surrounding periosteum, and the depression that has formed on the surface of the old bone is filled up by a kind of cicatricial fibrous tissue, which ultimately ossifies. If the Avhole of the inner lamelUe of the shaft die, constituting central necrosis, the outer layers of bone l)ecome greatly consolidated and thickened by osseous matter deposited from the periosteum ; in which, in the majority of cases, the circular or oval apertures termed Oloacce form for the ultimate extrusion of the sequestrum (Fig. 4(.)8). In some cases, however, no cloaca; form, the dead bone con- tinuing to be incased in the thickened outer layers. AA^hen the whole of a shaft dies, the reproduction takes place fr’om A’arious sources, principally from the periosteum, which is, indeed, essentially the organ of reproduction of bone, and perhaps from the medullary membrane, if that be left; these become