UniXARY CALCULUS. 8oo Now, in the lateral operation, in rnnning the kniCe clown the groove of the staff, the Surgeon may readily, unless care be taken, and very often, I iDclievc, docs actually and almost unavoidably go beyond the limits of the prostate, and thus exposes the patient to all these dangers. In the median this cannot be done, if the knife be not used after the urethra is opened, the prostate being dilated solely with tlie finger. So far as this point, then, is concerned, the median may be regarded as safer than the lateral operation, it l^eing im2}ossible to open up the pelvic fasciae with the finger in the median, whilst they mmj be opened by the knife in the lateral. In fact, the neck of the bladder and the prostatic portion of the urethra are in the median operation placed very much in the position of the female urethra when that is dilated for the extraction of a calculus ; being dilated to a gi-eat extent, somewhat lacerated perhaps, but not torn through so as to admit urine into the fasciae of the pelvis ; and in that I believe the gi-eat and essential superiority of the median over the lateral operation to consist. 0. Manipulation of the Forceps and Extraction of the Stone.—In the adult, the main difficulty of lithotomy does not lie in entering the bladder, but in the completion of the operation, that for which the operation has been undertaken—the removal of the stone. And the difficulty and danger increase in proportion to the size of the calcnlus ; the tissues between the neck of the bladder and the perineal integuments must either be widely cut or extensively torn and bruised to allow the passage of a large stone. No amount of simple dilatation of which these tissues are susceptible can make a passage through them that will allow the extraction of a stone 1-| or 2 inches in diameter; such a stone must either be cut or torn out. Now, what space have we in the median operation for the introduction of the forceps and the extraction of a large stone ? Here, I think, is the weak point of the median operation. In it the incision is made, and all the manipulation is practised, towards the apex of the narrow triangle formed by the rami of the pubic bones. The base of this triangle is represented by a horizontal line corresponding to the level of the membranous portion of the m’ethra, and consequently does not occupy the widest part of the perinseum ; it is formed by the lower portion of the deep fascia, supported and filled up by the rectum and the tissues which are attached to and support the gut on each side. These parts form a rigid wall or ban’ier stretching across the periufeum, which cannot be depressed, and requires to be divided laterally into the ischio-rectal fossa before a stone of any considerable magnitude can be removed. It was in consequence of the extensive bruising and laceration of these structures, and the difficulty experienced in bringing the stone through them, that the old Marian operation fell into disuse. / In performing the median operation there are three points, or rather planes, of obstruction, between the siu’face and the interior of the bladder. The first is occasioned by the muscles of the perina3um, and, perhaps, also by the under portion of the deep perineal fascia. In the lateral operation wo cut across this ' plane, and lay open the ischio-rectal fossa, giving abundance of room for the manipulation of the forceps and the extraction ot the stone, along the base of the triangle formed by the rami of the ischiatic and pubic bones. But in the median we have to extract towards the summit of this space, at the apex of a naiTow triangle, having the muscular structures forming a tense bar along its