DISEASES OF THE FEAIALE GENITAL ORGANS. 990 growing belief sprung up that this mortality, groat as it Avas, did not by any means represent the whole extent of the fatal cases, and notwithstanding that to operate, ovariotomy was in great danger ot tailing into such disrepute as to be excluded from ordinary Surgical practice. In 1857 appears for the first time in connexion with ovariotomy the name of a Surgeon, Avho Avas not only destined to revive ovaidotomy, but to re-establish it fiimly and definitively amongst the great operations in surgery; for in December of that year Spencer Wells performed his first operation of this kind. Tliis case, the first of a series of 500 cases that have been published up to the year 1872, led to a revival of the operation. In Spencer Wells’s hands ovariotomy assumed a iieAv shape ; its performance was guided by certain definite rules, and the results were of the most brilliant and successful kind. Not only has the success of these operations been unprecedentedly great, but it has been steadily increasing ; of the first series of 100 cases, 34 died and CO recovered ; of the second series, 28 died and 72 recovered; of the third 100 cases, 23 died and 77 recovered; of the fourth, 22 died and 78 recovered; and in the fifth, 20 died and 80 recovered. Up to the end of 1876, the total number of cases operated on by Spencer Wells had amounted to the large number of 820, Avith 618 recoveries and 202 deaths. The last series of 320 cases showing 245 recoveries against 75 deaths; the last 20 cases being all successful. These results, admirable as they are, will probably still be im- proved upon, and Wells is of ojAinion that the mortality may be still further reduced so as to bring it down to 10 ]Aer cent. This Ioav death-rate has been nearly attained by Keith of Edinburgh ; Avho, in his series of 50 cases recorded in June, 1875, had only 6 deaths. In addition to this, the diagnosis of ovarian diseases and ol other abdominal tumours has been greatly perfected, so that the number of cases in Avhich the operation is attempted but cannot be com- pleted, has greatly lessened. In the face of such results as these it is no longer necessary to enter into any formal arguments as to the propriety of performing ovariotomy. Without doing so at any length it may, hoAvever, be stated that the operation has been chiefly condemned and cavilled at on tAvo grounds ; 1st, that, as the disease for which it has been proposed is not necessarily fatal, or, at all events, not incompatible Avith long life, it is not proper to subject the patient to a hazardous procedure for its removal ; and, 2nd, that the mortality ft’om the operation is so high as not to justify a Surgeon in performing it. With regard to the fii'st objection, it may be stated that ovarian disease is attended by very great discomfort and inconvenience in all cases ; that it pre- vents a Avoman from discharging the active duties of life, and, amongst the poorer classes, from obtaining a livelihood ; and that, so far from being a com- paratively innocuous affection, it Avastes and enfeebles the patient, interfering seriously with nutrition, and Avith the actions of the abdominal or pelvic organs, and is not generally compatible Avith prolonged existence. R. Lee states that about 80 per cent, of the cases that are not operated upon, die Avithin one year and three quarters after the appearance of the disease. When it groAvs rapidly, or so soon as it attains such a size as to require tapping, death takes place- much more quickly. Safford Lee states that of 46 patients Avith OA’arian dis- ease, Avho Avere tapped, 37 died, and only 9 recovered ; and that of the 37 Avho