623 INFLAMED IRllEDUGJBLE HERNIA. (VvusESOFliiiiEDUCimuTY.-The irrcclucibilitj of a rupture maybe de- pendent on either its on the existence of adlmions ox on its ^ery nalure If the sac become the scat of an hour-glass contraction, or its nec' become elongated and narrowed, the hernial contents may continue per- manently protruding. So also, the expanded condition ot the lower part of the omentum, and the iiaiTOwing of its neck, may prevent a return of the rupture The existence of adhesions, cither between the sac and its contents, or between protruded intestine and omentum, will commonly render a hernia irreducible • and most frequently these arc associated with changes in the shape of the sac or of the omentum. Hernite of the cfficum and bladder can never be returned, on account of the anatomical conditions, to which reference has already been made. .Sy.wPTOMS.—An irreducible hernia is usually a source of gi’eat incon- venience ; it has a tendency to increase if left to itself, until at last it may contain, as in some extreme cases it has been found to do, the greater portion of the abdominal viscera, forming an enormous tumour, inconvenient by its size and weight, in which the penis and scrotum are buried. Even when the irreducible hernia is of small size, it gives rise to a sensation of weakness in the part, with dragging pains, and is very frequently accompanied by colicky sensations and dysjieptic derangements. The patient also, in these circum- stances, is in a state of considerable danger lest the ruptm-e become strangulated by violent efforts, or injured and inflamed by blows. Treatment.—For the above reasons it is necessary not only to protect a ruptmn of this kind from external violence, ljut to endeavour to prevent its increase in size. This may best be done by letting the patient wear a truss with a large concave pad, which supports and protects it ; provided the rupture be not of too great a size for the application of such an instrument. If its magnitude be very considerable, it must be supported by means of a suspensory bandage. Bransby Cooper has recommended that an attempt should be made to convert the irreducible into a reducible hernia, by keeping the patient in bed for several weeks, on low diet, with the continued appli- cation of ice to the tumour ; and, if it contain much omentum, giving smaU doses of blue pill and tartar emetic, so as to promote the absorption of the fat. For these remedies I have advantageously instituted the iodide of potassium. This plan, which appears to have answered well in some cases, certaiidy deserves a further trial. Inflamed Irreducible Hernia.—The occurrence of inflammation in an irreducible hernia is a serious complication, and one that simulates strangu- lation very closely. When this complication occurs,' the part becomes swollen, hot, tender, and painful; there is not much tension in the tumour, which is seldom increased beyond its usual magnitude ; there is a good deal of pyrexia, and symptoms of peritonitis spreading from the vicinity of the inflamed rupture set in. In some cases there is vomiting ; but it is not constant, and never feculent, occun’ing generally early in the disease, and consisting principally of the contents of the stomach ; being apparently an effort of nature to get rid of an indigestible meal. If there be constipation, as usually happens in all cases of peritonitis, it is not complete, flatus occasionally passing fer amm, together with a small quantity of fluid faeces. It is of im-