949 TREATMENT OF JlYDROGELE. I have known an old man to die from inflammatory after having been tapped. After tapping, it usually happens that hydro- cele slowly forms again, attaining its former bulk at the end of a or months. Occasionally it will be found that the hydi-occle returns more and more slowly after each tapping ; so that, by repcatmg_ this sirnple process at intervals of three, then six, then twelve months, the disease will finally isap- pcar. This kind of progressive cure by simple tapping I have several times seen, chiefly in old men. When a congenital hydrocele has been tapped, the sac soon fills again by drainage into it from the peritoneum ; and indeed, in such a case the fluid of an ascites has been drawn off by tapping the tunica vaginalis. ■ ■ ^ ^ ■ Jn tapping a hydrocele a few precautions are necessary, the prmcipai being to avoid puncturing one of the scrotal veins, or injuring the testis. In the majority of cases the testis is situated at the back of the tu- mour, and is consequently alto- gether out of the Avay of the tro- char, if this be introduced as it shoidd be, by the Siu'geon putting the anterior part of the hydrocele on the stretch by gTasping it be- hind with his left hand, and then pushing the trochar into the lower part of its middle third in front, carrying the instrument at first directly backwards (Fig. 840, a), but, as soon as it has perforated the sac, directing its point upwards (Fig. 840, V). If the testicle have been found, cither by pressing the swelling and observing the sensation of pain thus pro- duced in the patient, or on examination with a lighted candle, to be on the fore part of the tumour, where it may sometimes be felt as Avell as seen, the hydrocele should be tapped at the side or behind. Before using the trochar, it is well to see that the cannula fits closely round the neck of the stylet; and, above all, that the instrument has not become rusty by having been carelessly put aside after use on a previous occasion. As the fluid of the hydi’oeele escapes, it will sometimes be seen to acquire a pulsatory movement, appa- rently communicated to it by the arteries of the cord. The Curative Treatment has for its object the excitation of a sufficient degree of inflammation in the tunica vaginalis to restore the lost balanee between secretion and absorption ; but it is not necessary that the serous cavity should be obliterated by adhesions between its opposite sides, though these not unfrcquently take place. The means by which the Surgeon sets up this inflammation are either throwing a stimulating injection into that cavity after tapping it, or the introduction of a small seton into the tunica vaginalis. hichever plan is adopted, a certain amount of inflammation ought to be set up. This is always attended by considerable swelling of the testis, and by the ctlusion of a fi'csh quantity of fluid into the tunica vaginalis. As this is absorbed, the part gradually resumes its noimal bulk, and the disease will probably not return. Fig. 840.—Tapiiing in Hydrocele : a, Introduction of Troclmr : h, Position of Cannula.