OPERATIONS FOR OPENING THE WINDPIPE. 559 the knife she sank bank, apparently dead. I immediately completed the opej tion a^ introdneed a large silver tnbe, throngh n-hich the kings were mflated; in the coni-se of a few minutes, the action of the heart recommenced, and the patient eventually recovered. She has never, however, been able to breathe without the silver tube, which she wears in her windpipe up to the present time In another case to which I was hastily simimoned by my fiiend Mr Tweed I found the patient, a young woman, in the last stage of asphyxia from acute disease of the larynx. I immediately proceeded to operate, wth the assistance of my then house-surgeon, now the Professor of Chmeal Surgery at Edinburo-h j\Ir. luster. As the patient’s neck was short and thick, and the veins excessively’turgid, there was profuse hemorrhage on the first incisions being made • while we were waiting a minute or two until this would cease before opciiiuo- the windpipe, the patient fell back and apparently expired. I lost no time in plunging the scalpel into the crico-thyroid membrane, and cutting down through the cricoid cartilage, so as to make a fr-ee aperture into the air- passage. On endeavouring to set up artificial respiration, I foiind^ the chest clogged with inspissated mucus, which prevented the entrance of air into the lungs ; the life of a fellow-creature being at stake, and dependent on the immediate and full estabhshment of artificial respiration, I felt that there was only one thing to be done—to empty the chest of the matters loading it, and that this must be done instantaneously. I accordingly applied my lips to the wound, and sucked out three or fom- mouthfuls of blood and mucus, when I had the satisfaction to see that air could be made to enter the lungs. By keeping up artificial respiration for some time, the heart began feebly to act, the face to become less livid, and the circulation to be re-established; the patient eventually did well, and is now alive and in good health. Operation's.—In opening the windpipe, the Siugeon has the choice of two situations in which he may make the aperture ; either in the crico-thyroid membrane by Laryngotomy, or hi some part of the trachea by Tracheotomy. Besides these two estabhshed operations, some Siugeons have performed a third—Laryngo-tracheotomy, by opening the crico-thyroid membrane, and diidding the cricoid cartilage with the upper rings of the trachea. Whichever operation is performed, so soon as the windpipe is opened, the patient is seized with an attack of spasm and convulsive cough, often attended by much struggling and distress, during which the whistling occasioned by the passing of the air through the new passage is very loud and marked. The patient, however, soon recovers himself, and then breathes naturally and easily, the signs of asphyxia disappearing. The windpipe may require to be opened either by laryngotomy or trache- otomy for the following conditions (L = Laryngotomy : T = Tracheotomy):— 1. Acute laryngitis with oedema of the glottis in the adult (L). 2. Chronic oedema of the glottis with suffocating spasms (L). 3. Syphilitic or other ulcerations of the glottis with chronic oedema (L). 4. Croup in children (T). i). Diphtheria in children (T); in adults (L). G. Necrosis of the cartilages of the larynx with obstructive thickening of tissues (T or L). 7. Epithelioma of the epiglottis (L).