ACrTE INTERSTITIAL NEPHRITIS WITH ABSCESSES. 743 A cssels from the small cell infiltration, it closely resembles the fotty kidney or some cases of catarrhal nephritis. The microscope alone can decide the question with certainty. Even in such a kidney the secretion of urine may be moderately abundant. In a case at University Collep Hospital the patient excreted over 300 grains of nrea on the last day of his life. 3. Acute ■Interstitial Nephritis ivilh Scattered (Suppuration of the ki jiiej—suppurative nephritis: when accompanied by pyelitis—pyelo-nephritis (Uayer) .) This is usually found in conjunction with that form of acute pyelitis in which the pelvis of the kidney is filled with putrid urine, pus, and mucus, but is by no means constantly so. In one case which was observ'ed at University College Hospital, both kidneys were equally riddled with abscesses. Fi" 70S.—^Aeute Interstitial Nephritis : Scattered Absce.sae.s. iMargin of abscess to the right. Jlnlpighian body in the middle. Comparatively healthy tubules with inter-tubular ceU infiltration, to the left. but in one the pelvis was acutely inflamed and filled with foul urine, while in the other it was free from disease, and the urine it contained acid, and with- out unpleasant smeU. The kidney is generally swollen and enlarged. The fat surrounding it is usually abnormally adherent to the capsule. The capsule is thick and opaque, and marked by ramiform vessels, shovflng clearly on the surface. It separates easily, but in so doing tears the kidney-substance. The surface of the kidney presents a more or less mottled appearance. _ The chief tint is the same as in the diflPuse form just described, and is, in fact, due to the existence of the same condition ; but here and there, scattered usually in groups, are bright yellow spots, surrounded by a dark red areola, and varying in size from a pin’s head to a split pea. On cutting into these yellow spots, each is found to contain a drop of pus. These minute abscesses are usually grouped in areas corresponding to that part of the cortex which belongs to a single pyramid. If now a section be made of the kidney, the points of suppura- tion will not be found to be limited to the surface. Often they are continued down towards a pyramid, and arc connected with a yellow streak running parallel to the straight tubules as far as the papilla, or, if that have been partly destroyed by pressure, as far as the point at which the tubules open into the pelvis. This condition is not invariable, as sometimes the abscesses are perfectly isolated, and show no connection whatever with the pyramidal portion of the kidney. Occasionally one or more of the abscesses may burst beneath the capsule, separating it from the kidney, and giving rise to further suppura-