SEAT OF MOLLITIES OSSIUM. 193 disease essentially malignant in its nature, but differing from other malignant affections ; for, “ instead of progressively reproducing and developing them- selves without limitation, the new and morbid formations which replace the original and sound structime seem to have been at an early stage of their existence removed by absorption and canned out of the system ” (MacIntyre). It is, however, more reasonable to consider with Virchow that this condition merely represents a retrogade conversion of osseous substance into medullary tissue, which under certain circumstances appears as an extraordinarily soft and very vascular structure, rich in cells ; or as a gelatinous and semi-fluid sub- stance. An excessive production of medullary spaces takes place by absorption of the laminated structure, whilst the osseous corpuscles either become converted into the new cells, or disappear. Paget suggests that two diseases are included under the title of mollities ossium ; one, more common in England, marked by fatty degeneration, but distinct fr-om the condition in which atrophy is accom- panied by fetty deposit: and another, the osteojmosis of German winters, more common in France and Germany, in which there is a simple removal of the earthy matter. He believes that the former affects especially the bones of the extremities, the latter those of the trunk. In chemical compositions, the diseased bone has been found by Leeson to be composed of 18‘75 animal matter, 29'17 phosphate and carbonate of lime, and 7)2‘08 of water in every hundred parts. Cause.—The cause of the comjilaiut is obsciu’e. It would appeal’ that it is frequently connected mth a rheumatic tendency ; as, in every case recorded, the affection has been jireceded or accompanied by severe pains, or distinct rheumatic attacks. In some instances the patients have been affected with syphihs. In a majority of cases it appears to have a connection with the childbearing state : Paget believes that it is simple osteomalacia, rather than fatty degeneration, which occiu’s in these circumstances. It most commonly, though not invariably, occiu’s in females, as pointed out by Kilian. Among 131 patients whose histories have been collected by Litzmann of Kiel, there V ere 80 females, in whom the disease either appeared diu’ing pregnancy and labour, or was modified in its coiu’se by these conditions. Of the remaining 4G patients. So were females, and 11 males. It most generally attacks adults, hanng been observed in few cases under the age of 20 : and it may occur even at veiy advanced age. according to Litzmann, v’aries according as it occurs within the childbearing period, or independently of this. In 80 childbearing jvomen, the whole skeleton was affected in G cases only, and all except the lonos 0 le ead in two ; while in 4G other cases, all parts of the skeleton \ere diseased in 21, and all the bones except those of the head in G. The of the disease in various parts is shown in the Pelvis . >S])inal Column Chest .... Lower Limb . Upper Limb Head 85 cliild-lioanng 40 other eases. wonii'ii. !)() 87 n-t 87 :ii 80 17 78 12 (!2 8 o2 VOL. II. o