444 OPHTHALMIC SURGERY. when a commencing catai’act is examined with a side light, and the ophthal- moscope lens only used (oldique illumination), the striic appear whitish against the dark pupil ; for the light is reflected from the front surlaceof opaque parts of the still partly transparent lens (Fig. 572). Thus, by these two methods, we have, in doubtful cases, a means of checking our diagnosis. The cases of hazy central commencing opacity of the lens, which are to be called cataract, have been defined already. Of course, in case of a patternless non-striated opacity of the lens, far advanced, the xohole lens so evenly opaque that no part of it ■allows an inspection of the fundus, there need be no question of the existence of cataract. That the opacity is not in the cornea, or in any part behind the lens, is found at once by observing the apparent change in the relative position of the parts, when, in a good light (oblique illumination), the observer moves his head from side to side, whilst the patient keeps his eyes fixed on some other object. That it is no opacity in the pupil, is known by the use of atropine, which must of course always be used beforehand for the diagnosis of cataract, in doubtful cases, and which will not D’egularly dilate the pupil if this be not free. Of course there may be obstructed pupil and cataract behind it; but then we cannot certainly make out the latter. Or, if there have been iritic ofiusion and adhesions now freed, there will be evidence of old iritis. Or, if the opacity be in the vitreous space, it will be evidently so far behind the level ■of the pupil as to show its situation by oblique illuminatiou. Besides the idiopathic, there may be, at any time of life. Traumatic Cataract. Any wound of the lens, unless it be a slight clean cut or puncture, ■and not very deep, is followed by opacity of the wfoole lens. The sm’gical treatment of senile or hard cataract, of soft cataract, and of traumatic cases, is very luilike in many respects. In the latter only is there urgent need of any operation being done. Wounds of the eye (and lens), as of other parts, when ■they have occurred, are generally found to have been in young persons, or at least not in old people. Hence traumatic cataracts generally resemble the more the soft cataracts, so called, in being soft and whitish. In older persons, when the opacity follows a W’ouud of the lens, it wdU be found to have a hard nucleus, if it be not altogether hard. The wounded lens becomes opaque, swells up considerably, except the nucleus in old people, and in young people very rapidly, by the admission of the aqueous humour ; and herein usually lies the urgency of the call for siu-gical interference. The swelling of the whole lens and the gaping wound of the lens-capsule, by w^hich an iiTegidai* protrusion of swollen lens-matter takes place, if the lens be not whol y sw o en, press upon and rub against the his and ciliary processes in their movements, Ld set up iritis and deeper-seated inflammation, which will not, of coui-se, subside until the exciting cause is removed. Those opacities of lens, a so, which foUow blows on the eye, or severer blows on the head external wound of the eye), by which the lens is dislocated fr’om its natural connexions, so that it, and conseqiien y ^ ^ " ti. q. what tremulous), must be included among the traumatic catamets I is m traumatic cases, accidental or surgical, and in these on y, o ’ curette delay is permitted if an operation be required : the curette, the ; or the spoon must be employed at once, and as much of the cataiactoiis . onatter removed as can be without much intciterencc.