INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. 690 section was porfoi-mod for intussusception. Of these five succeeded; and more recently the operation has been successfully practised by Hutchinson and others. But the prospect of success will gi-eatly depend on the nature and seat of the intussusception. If the strangulation be very acute, and if the disease be seated in the ileum, the chances are not so favourable by any means as in the more chronic form of the affection, when the large intestine is the seat of the invagi- nation. In these cases the gut is incarcerated rather than strangulated. There is, as Hutchinson has well pointed out, no hope of natural cure by gangrene of the included portion, and the patient Avill die, worn out by irritation and pain, unless relieved by operation. As to the time at which the operation should be performed, it will necessarily vary gveatly in the acute and the chronic cases of intussusception, and whether the obstruction is seated in the ileum or the large intestine. If the invagination be attended by acute symptoms of strangulation, and if it be situated in the ileum, the operation must not be delayed after a fair trial has been given to such means as injection, inflation, inversion, and opium. If the invagination be chronic and colic, the urgency for early operation is not so great, though the necessity be eventually gTeater. The operation itself presents no difficulties. The mcision should, as a rule, be made in the mesial line, and the tumour is a guide to the seat of the strangulation. lYhen the invaginated gut is reached, it must be drawn out by a combined process of gentle traction and of kneading. It need scarcely be said that if collapse, tympanites, or symptoms of gangrene have set in, no operation should be undertaken, and that it is always of very doubtful expediency in young infants. After the operation, the usual treatment of opium and milk and ice should be adopted. Treatment of Chronic Intestinal Obstruction.—Gastrotomy is here not needed except in the one instance of chronic incarcerated intussusception, to which reference has already been made. With this exception, chronic in- testinal obstruction will be foiuid to arise from one of thi’ee conditions, viz.: faecal impaction, compression of the rectum by pelvic tumom’ of some kind, or stricture of the large intestine. Fcacal impaction is most common in elderly women. When it is suspected, the rectum should be explored, and if it be found to be blocked up by a rounded mass of indin-ated and impacted faeces, the Surgeon must condescend to undertake the duties of the nightmau, and empty the human cloaca of its fetid accumulations. This is best done by anaesthetising the patient, then dilating the sphincter ani with the hand, breaking down the indurated inass • with an iron spoon or lithotomy scoop, and washing it away by copious^ enemata. If the obstruction arise from the gradual compression of the rectum by an 1 intrapelvic tumour, or from the slow constriction of it or the colon by • lignani disease of the walls, purgatives will be worse than useless ; they vnll, irritate, will often induce vomiting, and will always considerably increase the patient’s distress, and should not be repeated. The patient should be kept' quiet in bed, and have a nourishing diet: one leaving little residue is to be ■ preferred,—the best consists of beef-tea, eggs, and a small quantity of ^ and the passage should be opened by enemata, and the introduction of the tuDc