932 DISEASES OF THE PENIS AND SCROTUM. cisioii as tlae simplest and speediest operation, and as leaving the most satis- factory result. 3. Circumcision for Congenital Phimosis in Boys.—It may be gathered from what has already been stated with respect to the evil effects resulting from congenital phimosis, that circumcision in this condition may be required to remove an elongated and possibly adlrerent prepuce, which oc- casions much local irritation, or which is the exciting causes of reflex and dis- tant nervous distm'bance of a paralytic or spastic character. So great are the evils resulting not only from congenital phimosis, but from an abnormally long, though not phimotic prepuce, that it is only humane and right from a moral point of view, to practise early circumcision in all such cases. This operation is easily and safely performed according to the Hebrew rite, which I have several times had an opportunity of •witnessing, and winch is done as follows. The child being held on the lap of an assistant, the operator draws the foreskin slightly forwards, and then grasps it just in front of the glans by dra\ving it thi’ough a slit in a silver guard. This is not held perpendicularly domiwards, but is inclined from above slightly forwards and downwards, so as to avoid cutting the frmnum as much as possible, and to slice off the prepuce in an oblique or quilled manner. This is done by one stroke of a broad round-ended knife. The mucous membrane is then torn open between the finger and thumb along the dorsum of the penis, and is tiuned back so as to be brought into con- tact -ndth the cut edge of the skin. A strip of dry lint is then t'wisted round the organ in the sulcus behind the glans, so as to keep back the mucous mem- brane, and also to restrain hmmorrhage by its pressm*e. Union is perfect in a few days. This operation, which is practised on the eighth day after bh’th, is very rarely attended by any ill consequences. I have, however, seen it in one case followed by fatal erysipelas, and have heard of another instance in which death occm’red from hgemorrhage. Circumcision in the Adult for Disease of the Prepuce may most conveniently be performed in the following way. The Sm’geon restrains hEemorrhage during the operation, by tying a tape tightly round the root of the- penis, or by compressing the organ in Clover’s ch’cumcision-toiu’niquet (Uio-s. 827, 828), a most useful instrument, which can be slackened or tight- ened at any time. He next draws the elongated prepuce slightly forwards, until that portion of it which corresponds to the back of the glans is brought