720 DISEASES OF THE LARGE INTESTINE AND ANUS. which the incision has been made anteriorly to the anus into the porimcnm and where incontinence of feces may, for a time, be left. Shoiild\au incon' venient or dangerous amount of hcemorrhage occm- at the time of the operation the wound should be plugged with dry lint, and a firm pad applied by means of a T-bandage. Should profuse bleeding, in consequence of the division of some of the hmmorrhoidal vessels, come on a few hours after the operation all coagula should be cleared away, the gut washed out with ice-cold water and then securely plugged either -with a piece of compressed sponge, or with a lithotomy or oesophagus tube, surrounded by lint soaked in °a solution of perchloride of iron, and pushed into the bottom of the sinuses that have been laid open, HEMORRHOIDS OR PILES. By Hemorrhoids or Piles is meant a morbid condition of the blood- vessels of the anus and lower part of the rectum, especially of the veins of the submucous or subcutaneous areolar tissue, giving rise to more or less intumescence of the part, which may or niay not be attended with a discharo-e of blood. Surgeons are commonly in the habit of classifying‘piles, accordino- as they bleed or not, into Open or Blind ; or, according as they are situated above or below the verge of the anus, into Internal pr External; the in- ternal being always within the gut, the external habitually protruding out of or around the anal apertime. The first may either bleed or not; the latter are always blind. To this division into external and internal, B. Cooper has added an intermediate variety, the Intero-External, which is partly 'within and partly without the anus. These divisions are of much practical moment, as the treatment is very materially modified according as the haemorrhoid is situated above or below the anal verge. Predisposing Causes.—We must look to the peculiar arrangement of the veins of the rectum as directly predisposing to the occurrence of piles. The lower part of the rectum and the verge of the anus are composed of a plane of muscular fibre and a muco-cutaneous surface, with an intervening stratum of dense areolar tissue. In this areolar membrane is situated a close interlacement, or net-work, of tortuous veins. The blood, from this plexus of haemon-hoidal veins, finds its way into the general system through two distinct channels. By far the greatest portion of it is carried into the inferior mesenteric vein, and thence into the vena portm, through the medium of the superior htemoiThoidal vein, -w^hich may be looked upon as the extreme radicle of the portal system ; and a certain quantity passes into the internal iliac vein through branches that accom- pany the middle and inferior hmmon-hoidal arteries. We may, therefore, look upon the hmmorrhoidal plexus as being placed midway between the portal and general venous systems, being the point indeed at which they touch ; but as belonging rather to the portal than to the systemic veins. In these aiTangements we see all the elements that would predispose to congestion, and consequent dilatation ^ of the vessels of a part. There is a large and intricate plexus of veins in which, as in all similar net-works, there is a tendency for the blood to circulate slowly at times ; the natural tendency to stasis of the blood being much increased by the dependent position of the part, and by the anatomical fact that, in conse- quence of the absence of ■\'alves in the superior htemorrhoidal vein and in the