4i8 OPHTHALMIC SURGERY. The inner of the two horizontal incisions is the important one. It must be made, with a firm hand, within eyery ingrowing eyelash, but in a regular curve, so as not to make an iiTegular edge to the lid. This incision often carries away with it a longitudinal strip of the cartilage, which gives shape to the lid. It should not trench on the conjunctiva or on that aspect of the lid. Then, if any of the bulbs have been cut through and are left, they should be removed : they are easily seen in the wound as little dark points. No sutures are necessary ; the skin of the lid is abundant. Symblepbaron, etc.—When the palpebral and ocular conjuiictivae or the margins of the lids have become united, the bands may be divided, and, to hinder their reuniting, their cut surfaces maybe touched with nitrate of silver, oiled lint interposed, and a probe passed along the track of the wound occa- sionally. But, unless a probe can be, in any such case, in the first instance passed freely under the bands, so that they may be isolated, they will probably reunite to such an extent, that the operation will have been almost useless. A better plan, perhaps, than dividing the band when the union is inconsiderable, is to tie a strong bgatm'e, passed beneath such a band, around it, and then let it drop out in the com’se of time. If a probe cannot be passed under and around the adherent smTaces, or union of the edges of the lids, it may be first of all advisable to pass a few silk threads, to be seem-ed and left for some weeks, so as to make a fistulous track which shall be the limit to which it is intended to free the hd, when the parts united are afterwards cut through. Entropion.—If, in a lax state of the lids, as when a patient has lately become thin, anything should excite the action of the orbicularis muscle, those fibres next the edge of the lid not unfrequently cause it to become rolled inwards ; and then the irritation of the lashes against the ocular conjunctiva tends always to aggravate this state of the parts, set up, accidentally as it were, in the first instance, by some other irritation. This abnormal condition is most commonly seen in the lids of old people, and especially in the lower lid, which is kept out less than is the upper lid, by the convexity of the globe of the eye. For in- stance, it is a not uufrequent occurrence, and must be looked out for, and at once remedied if it occui’, after the operation for senile cataract. The lids of old people contain but bttle fat, the skin lies in many folds, and after an opera- tion, the skin of the lid is bathed in tears, and so the more easily becomes in- verted ; very often, too, water-dressings are applied. Some slight initation or pain produces—voluntarily or involuntarily—an extra contraction of the orbi- cularis, and the edge of the lid is tilted inwards. Though the irritation of the lashes is, in these cases, very much less than might be expected, and is not at aU comparable to that arising from trichiasis or entropion in younger persons, in whom the lashes are stiller or grow irregulaily, the orbicularis is stronger and the lid altogether firmer, it must be closely looked for and prevented. ' The patient should be taught, when the inversion occurs, to put his finger on the skin of the lid, and so puU it down and replace the inverted edge of the lower lid and the lashes. Water-dressings must be avoided. Very probably, however, this will not be sufficient; and then, the skin of the lower lid being drawn down and well di’ied, some collodion should be painted along the edge of the lid with a large brush, and the parts kept still until it is dried. If this be insulficient to remedy the abnormal condition, the following operation, applicable