140 SPECIAL AN-EUniSMS. and punctured for abscesses, an error that has three times fallen under my own observation, and one Avhicli has in every instance prov'ed fatal. The diagnosis of an inguinal aneurism, solidified by tlie deposition of laminated fibrine, and pulsating but indistinctl}^ from piilsating encejjhaloul ov osseous tumour in the groin, is surrounded by the greatest difficulty, and cannot, I bclieA’e, with the means we at present possess, be accomplished with absolute certainty. The fact of the two diseases having in two instances been confounded by two of the most distinguished Surgeons of the day, Stanley and Syme, is sufficient evidence of the difficulty attending their diagnosis. Treatjient.—It occasionally happens that inguinal anem-isms, even of a very large size, undergo spontaneous ciu’e, or become consolidated by dii-ect pressure conjoined with constitutional treatment; but these instances are of such rare occm’rence, that such a result caimot be relied on in any one case. Compression of the aorta under prolonged anresthesia has of late years been found so successful, that in no case should a trial of it be omitted when possible (see p. 137). Should it fail, it becomes necessary to tie the vessel leading to the sac. In the majority of instances the tumour, though it may have encroached on the abdomen, AviU not have reached too high for the external iliac to be ligatiued ; should it have done so, however, the Sm’geou may have to tie the common ihac ai’tery ; but in some instances even this may not be practicable, and his choice must lie between the slender chance offered by constitutional treatment, and the fearfid alternative of ligatming the aorta. Ligature of the External Iliac Artery.—There are two modes of tying the external iliac artery—the one originally practised by Abernethy, somewhat modified by Liston ; and the other introduced by Sir A. Cooper. Ahernetliy’s modified operation (Fig. 395), on the right side, consists in com- mencing an incision at a point rather more than Lvo finger-breadths to the inner side of and ^ little aboA'C the anterior superior spme of the ilium, carrying it in a somcAvhat curA'cd direction, with the convexity of the emwe ouLvards and the concaAnty looking towards the middle line, to a point that is as nearly as pos- sible opposite to, but about an inch or an inch and a half above, the middle of Poupart’s ligament. When the operation is on the left side, the incision should be begun below, and canded upwards between the two points indicated. It is about four inches in length, and, if necessary in fat subjects, may be extended at the upper end. After dividing the ^n and superficial fascia, the fibres of the external oblique tendon are carefully cut through. The internal oblique and the transA'ersalis muscles are then dh’ided AAuth great caution, Avhen the trans- A’ersalis fascia is reached, AAffiich is recognised by its dull yelloAvish-AAhite appear- ance. A small portion of this membrane, at the loAver angle of the wound, Avhere it is thimied and expanded for the passage of the spermatic cord, is iioaa care- fidly raised Avith the forceps, and cut through Avith the blade of the scalpel laid flat. A broad hernia-director is then introduced, and passed underneath it, Avhen it should be laid open upAvards and outAvards to the lull extent of the woiuid. The whole of the inner side of the wound is next drawn towards the mesial line, the peritoneum being gently separated from its loose areohu connections in the iliac fossa by the Surgeon’s fingers ; it must be kept out of the way by an assistant, who holds it up with a broad bent copper spatula or a butter-pa . The opening of the transversalis fascia is the most critical pint of the operation;