MEDIAN LITHOTOMY. 795 structccl on the results of 703 cases, illustrates very clearly these facts, that the operation for the removal of a large calculus is far more dangerous than that for the extraction of a small one, and that the danger increases in the direct ratio of the size of the stone. The symptoms of diffuse inflammation of the areolar tissue arising from this cause very closely resemble those from infiltration of urine, and the •treatment must be conducted on precisely similar principles. Peritonitis may occim after lithotomy, as a consequence of the extension of inflammation from the bladder or the pelvic fascim to the serous membrane, from wound of the posterior part of the bladder, or from extension of inflam- mation from a sacculus of the bladder to its immediate investment of peritoneum. To one or other of these conditions, more especially inflammation of the pelvic fascim, it will always be found to be secondary. Sloughing.—In persons of a feeble and cachectic habit, especially in those who are the subjects of phosphatic calculi, the wound vdll often assume a sloughy condition, and heal slowly, or its surface may become coated by phos- phates. In such cases a liberal allowance of stimulants voll be required, together with the local ap25hcation of compound tinctme of benzoin ; and, in order to facilitate contraction at a more remote period, a solution of nitrate of sih'er, or the tinctme of cantharides. The phosphates may be removed by injection of the dilute nitric acid lotion. Having finished the consideration of the ordinary lateral operation, we shall now proceed to that of other methods for extracting the stone by cutting pro- •cedm'es. These are the Median, the Bilateral, the Medio-lateral, and the Biipraimlic operations ; each of which has its advocates, to the exclusion of the others, and each of which undoubtedly possesses certain special advan- tages. In addition to these, there are various modifications of these different •operations which the ingenuity of Surgeons has deAused, but which have usually little to recommend them in the opinions of any except of theh •originators. iVlEDiAif Lithotomy. The median operation of lithotomy is that procedure by which a stone is extracted through an incision in the raphe of the perinmum, oxtending into the urethra behind the bulb. Histm y. The history of the median operation affords an illustration of the mutability of professional practice, and makes it appear as if there w^ere a cycle of opinion in surgery, as in fashion, politics, and philosophy. The median opeiation was introduced three or four hmidred years ago, and continued to be practised up to the middle of the last century, when its tediousness, its painful character, and the excessive mortality foUowing it, caused it to faU into disuse as soon as the safer and simpler method of Cheselden was introduced. Of late years, however, it has been revived under a somewhat modified form ; and it IS t IS modem median operation, and its supposed advantages over the lateral, that we must here consider. The old median operation—called also the “ Marian,” fr-om Sanctus Ma- iManus, who AVTote on it, though it did not originate Avith him, and the opeiation of the apparatus major,” fr-om the number of instruments used in I was performed in the following manner, according to John Bell A grooved staff Avas introduced into the bladder, and the patient tied up in the