2IANAGEMENT OF LARGE CALCULUS. 785 sists in drawing- the stone well down with the forceps, and then letting an assistant carefully divide the tissues that resist. In this way, by a process of traction, twisting, and division, the stone may be brought out u-itli safety. In the facility with which the calculus is extracted, however, much wll depend upon the make of the forceps. As Liston most truly observes, “ There can be no more fotal error than to attempt the extraction of a large stone with short and shabby forceps.” In these cases the open-bladed forceps (Fig. 731) will be found useful, the absence of metal in the most convex part of the blade lessening materially the bulk of the instrument when grasping a stone. In the event of the calculus being too large to be extracted by the ordinary lateral operation, what course should the Surgeon pimsue ? Three are open to him : 1. Division of the Right Side of the Prostate from the interior of the wound ; 2. Crushing the Calculus in the Bladder, and then remov ing it; and 3. The performance of the Recto-vesical Operation. The Incision of the Right Side of the Prostate gives considerable additional space, and is sufficient for most ordinary purposes; very large calculi being fortimately seldom met with. This section may be made by introducing into the wound a probe-pointed scalpel (Fig. 730), guided by the index-finger, and very cautiously dividing the right side of the prostate downwards and outwards, in the same direction that the section of the left has been made. This procedure must be ■cautiously done. The parts, being put well on the stretch as the stone is drawn forwards, are carefully notched, and thus yield to the traction. In two cases I have seen Liston do this. In one the patient recovered, in the other he died of diffuse cellular inflamma- tion. I have practised it once on a patient at the Hospital, who made an excellent recovery. 1 he second plan, that of Crushing the Calculus in the Bladder through the wound in the perinsBum, would certainly be a hazardous procedure. The in-ita- tion that vmild necessarily be set up by the large lithotrite or crusher (Mg. /0-) that has been invented for this purpose, by the presence of the _agments of stone, and by the necessary difficulty and delay of clearing em out of the viscus, would probably be fatal to the patient. In the event if wmilriT” extract the calculus through the perinteum, I think /• 0 adopt the third course, and to perform the rcr/o-m/m? oimakon, which will presently be described. Should, however, the unusually large size ^ the stone have been recognised before the commencement of 2 Fig. 752.—Lithotomy Crusher and Drill for large Calculi.