258 EXCISION OF JOINTS AND BONES. oyer the centre of this joint in the middle line from above downwards. In comparing these different methods of operating, I decidedly give the preference to the single longitudinal incision, as being quite sufficient in all ordinary cases for the complete and easy removal of the articulation. Should the soft structures towards the outer side of the joint not yield sufficiently, a cross cut can at once be made, so as to liberate them, and give the Surgeon more room, by turning up the two triangular flaps that will thus be formed. The following is a detail of the successive steps of the operation as practised by the 1—shaped or the single longitudinal incision. The arm being held across the chest, the perpendicular cut should be made parallel to, and a line or two to the outer side of, the ulnar nerve ; being commenced at least two inches Fig. 44C.—E.'ccision of Elt)Ow-joint: 1—shaped Incision. Fig. 44S.—Excision of Elbow-joint by Longitudinal Incision. / / /■ Fig. 447. — Excision of Elbow by 1—shaped Inci- sion. Bones exposed. Ulnar Nerve indistinctly seen. above the point of the olecranon, and caivied do\m to about three inches below it. The transverse incision may then, if necessary, be made directly across the end of the olecranon, to the outer side of the joint, and extended as far as the extremity of the outer condyle (Fig. 446). The two triangular flaps thus made must be dissected up, the knife being carried close to the bones (Fig. 447). Or the transverse incision may be dispensed -with, and the bones readily exposed and tiuned out by the third method, that of the single perpen- dicular incision (Fig. 448). This must be of sufficient length to allow of the sides being held well apart, and then it constitutes the simplest plan of excising the elbow that can well be devised. After the bones have been fairly exposed, they must be cleared to the inner side of the joint. In caiTying the incision in this direction, the edge of the knife should always be kept against the bones, and their sinuosities closely foUowed, so that the ulnar ner\e, being dissected out from behind the inner condyle, may escape _i^«ry. It i incision be properly planned, and the knife kept in contact nerve ought not to be exposed during the operation, more paiticulaily as it usullly embedded in a qLtity of plastic tissue. When the posterior part of