6 OF AliTElUES. arc almost structureless, gelatinous, sometimes rosy-lookiug, and cut Avitli a hard cartilaginous section. This plastic deposit appears to come mostly from the circulating blood, to simulate, when membranous, so closely in structure to the lining membrane of the artery as scarcely to be recognisable from it, and not to be an inflammatory product. The plastic deposits ou the attached sur- face of the lining membrane are opaque, semi-transparent, yellowish-white, elastic but hard masses, composed essentially of plastic matter -with some oily globules intermixed. These are subinflammatory. 2. Fatty ajtd GrRAJfULAU Degenbratioxs.—These are of the most in- teresting character, and play an important part in arterial diseases. They occur under the different forms of Atheroma, either in the arterial coats them- selves, or in the plastic deposits upon or underneath them. Charactei'.—The atheromatous deposits occin- in very different forms, accord- ing to their age, &c. Their fii'st appearance is in the shape of fine white opaque streaks, situated in the substance of the fining membrane of the artery. As such, they are most commonly met with in the upper part of the arch of the aorta and in the neighbourhood of the orifices of the large arterial trunks ; especially along that part of the vessel from which the intercostals arise. Here they may be seen at a very early age. I have met with them in children of three, five, or seven years old. As the disease advances, these streaks aggi’egate together so as to form a large, white, and opaque patch. The middle coat now becomes thinned by the pressm-e of the patch, and, from being yellow and elastic, is altered into a grey, semi-transparent, and inelastic membrane, which often becomes stained by imbibition Avith Ifiood, and presents a condition which corresponds to the “ steatomatous deposit ” of Scarpa and Hodgson. In the third stage the patch softens, becoming converted into a pultaceous or cheesy mass, and eA’en sometimes undergoing complete liquefaction into a yellow creamy flifid, which has often been mistaken for true pus. These changes will be found to be mainly dependent on the abundant formation in it of fat- globules and scales of cholesterine. The softened atheromatous patch will be found to be situated in a kind of pouch or depression in the internal or middle coats of the artery, usually of a more or less oval shape. At the same time Avhen the changes just described are going on in the coats of the vessel, an important alteration is taking place in the connection between the internal and middle coats at the edge of the atheromatous patch ; here they become firmly incorporated together by inflammatory action, so that the one cannot be peeled away from the other, and the diffusion of the softened atheroma betAveen the tAVO membranes is arrested. Thus also, when the internal coat is completely eroded, and when the atheroma is washed aAvay by the cm-rent of the circulation, the infiltration of the blood between it and the middle coat and out of the pouch thus formed in the walls of the artery is prevented. These changes in the internal and middle coats of the vessel ai-c destructive, and tend to its ruptme ; but, coiucidently Avith these, the external coat bccoines thickened and indm-ated by the deposit of plastic exudative material, Avhich becomes developed into connective tissue, thus strengthening the softened and weakened artery by the formation of a new layer of tough and firm tissue ou its outside. It is especially opposite the deeper and more eroded atheromatous