TREATMENT OF RETENTION OF URINE. 913 eventually becomes complete ; the bladder speedily fiUs, and rises above the pubes ; there is much distress and constitutional disturbance ; and, it rebel be not’alforded, the distended portion of the urethra behind the stricture will ultimately give way, and extravasation of urine ensue. In these circumstances it becomes imperatively necessary to empty the patient’s bladder as speedily as possible. TTj- Treatment.—This varies with the severity of the symptoms and irritaDiiity of the patient. If the retention have not continued very long, and if the patient be not very irritable, an endeavour might be made at once to give relief by passing a small catheter into the bladder. In this the Surgeon may often succeed more readily than might have been expected, the stricture frequently yielding before an instrument more easily when there is retention, than when this condition does not exist. Even if the catheter do not enter the bladder, its point or that of a catgut bougie merely being introduced Avell into the strictme, it'null generally happen, as Brodiehas pointed out, that, on the with- drawal of the instrument, the urine wiU follow in a full stream ; but if a sufficiently small catheter be used (in many cases not larger than half of No. 1 is admissible), the instrument may usually be made to fairly enter the bladder. If the patient be very initable it is better, before attempting the introduction of the instrument, to give him an opiate enema of a drachm of laudanum in about two ounces of starch, and to put him into a warm hip-bath ; the intro- duction of the catheter may now be attempted, and will very generally succeed. Should it still fail, the effect of the inhalation of chloroform should be tried, when it almost invariably may be made to pass without the employment of any great or dangerous degi’ee of force. There are no cases in surgery in which chloroform is of more value than in these; under its influence it is seldom, indeed, that the catheter wiU not pass. After the instrument has been passed into the bladder it should be left there, being tied in by means of tapes passing from its rings under the patient’s thighs, to a bandage that is passed round his waist. Antiphlogistic remedies must then be employed in rather an active manner ; a free purge, leeches to the perinseum, if there be tender- ness in this region, and salines with antimony. The catheter will be found to be loosened at the end of forty-eight hours, when it should be withdrawn, and the cure by dilatation proceeded with in the usual way. There are two conditions which in retention of urine may eventually call for operative interference. The first is the necessity of a very frequent intro- duction of the catheter, owing to an irritable state of the bladder. In these cases, it may eventually be thought safer to puncture the bladder and to estab- lish a direct opening, either through the rectum or above the pubes, rather than subject the patient to the constant teiTor of repeated catheterisms, which will end by exhausting him. Eveiy act of catheterism inflicts a certain shock to the system, greater in some, less in others ; and if this have to be repeated every three or four hours, less danger will probably result from puncture of the bladder than from the frequent repetitions of the use of the instrument, espe- cially as in these cases the patient cannot allow it to be tied in for the same reason, that of extreme irritability, that necessitates its repeated introduction. I he second condition that calls for operation is a different one, viz., the necessity of relieving retention of urine. For if the Surgeon be unable to