190 STRUCTURAL CHANCES IN BONE. CHAPTEE XLYII. STRUCTURAL CHARTGES IN BONE. The bones are liable to various structural changes, by vRich their size, shape, and consistence are modified, or in consequence of which they become the seat of tumoin-s of various kinds. Hypertrophy op Boye.—Under this term two conditions may be included : viz.. Sclerosis or Thickening of the Osseous Tissue ; and Increased Length of Bones. Sclerosis or hardening of bone sometimes occurs. It may attack several bones at the same time ; and, in the long bones, may lead to filling up of the medullary and Haversian canals with bony substance, with some thickening of the bone. This condition is generally not capable of being recognised -with certainty during Life ; and it may occur without being preceded by any signs of inflammation. It is allied in character to some of the forms of exostosis that will be presently described. Increase of Length of Bones.—Allusion has aheady been made at p. 1G7 to the hypertrophy of bone which sometimes follows chronic osteitis. This increased growth of bone as a result of morbid conditions of that tissue, has been investigated by Stanley and Paget in this country, and by Langenbeck and others on the continent. It has been observed in connection with necrosis, osteo-myehtis, and chi’onic abscess : and also with clmonic hypertemia of the soft parts of a limb. Langenbeck, from his observations, concludes that morbid changes which give rise to irritation and hypertemia of the osseous tissue lead, as long as the growth of bone continues, to an increase both in the length and in the thickness of bones ; and that the increase of growth in length affects especially the diseased bones, but may also occur in a healthy bone of the same limb. Sometimes, as Paget has pointed out, the long existence of an ulcer of the integuments in a young person may produce thickening and elongation of the bone. lARen the femiu’ undergoes elongation in this way, the inequality in length of the hmb, unless the opposite limb be lengthened by artificial means, may lead to talipes of the foot of the lengthened limb or to lateral curvature of the spine. The tibia sometimes becomes elongated, wlnle the fibula remains of its normal length : and in such cases the former bone becomes curved. The diagnosis of this condition fr’om the curvature of rickets consists, according to Paget, in the marked elongation : in the absence of thickening of the ends of the bone, which are usually even more nearly equal in size to the shaft than in the natural state, on account of the thickening of the latter ; and especially in the fact that “ the rickety tibia is compressed, usually curved inwards, its shaft is flattened laterally, and its margins ai’e naiTow and spinous ; while, in the elongated tibia, the ciu’ve is usually directed forwards, the margins