NASO-ORBITAL TUMOURS. 397 An oblique cut upwards should then be made across the upper and inner part of the superior maxilla deeply into the orbit, the cut bones uudely separated, and the nose turned completely over to the sound side of. the face. The tumom- at the nasal side of the orbit may now be felt, the eye being held to the outer side and protected with a retractor, without its capsule being opened. The orbital tumour may now be enucleated with the finger and curved scissors. The nostril is then cleared by means of polypus-forceps. The bleeding should be aiTcsted by plugging; and, after all the morbid growth has been fairly extir- pated, the nose should be pushed back and moulded into shape. The soft parts are then brought together Avith a few points of suture. Care must be taken in this, as all similar operations, that blood does not find its way into the trachea. But occasionally the disease has extended into the integuments at the inner angle of the eye. Then the operation becomes more complicated. The fol- loAving cases, operated on by me at University College Hospital, are good illustrations of this operation. The first case was one of the most marked epithelial character, springing -deeply fi*om the ethmoidal cells, passing out through the lachrymal bone and the orbital plate of the superior maxilla into the orbit, blocking up the right nostril, and extending some way down the cheek, overlying the superior maxilla. It was growing rapidly in a woman 44 years of age, and required extensive remoA’al of the bony structm-es in the situation from which it sprang. The next case was one of a woman 64 years of age, in whom a fibro- plastic tumom- developed with great rapidity in the situation of the lachrymal sac, invading the nose and orbit, and destroying the upper and inner part •of the superior maxillary bone. The eye Avas pushed outAvards, the eyelids became impUcated at their nasal third, and an idcerated opening formed over the centre of the tumour. Its growth was attended by very severe tensive pam. The operation consisted in dissecting away the diseased part of the integument, including the nasal third of each eyelid, then tm-nino- doAvn a flap frnm the cheek and cutting away with pliers the osseous stnictures including the inner part of the floor of the orbit, a considerable portion of the superior maxilla, and part of the nasal bones. In order to repair the gap made by the removal of diseased skin at the side of the nose and by the remoA^al of so large a portion of the eyelids, a flap of integument was dissected off the ? aperture, to the edges of which and tL mfrl 1 Pl^ce, and e patient made an excellent recovery. The immediate effect of the opera- tion in both aesc cases was to relieve the patient of the agonisino- pain^pre gio™ h patient, a man aged 78 had a -YD 2. “Mdle of the feco. The h u-« ‘ commencement were those of nasal polyijus. In removing it ™ necessary to cut close to the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone “and ?or be r ? '™ tansplaited from ‘it ead, not so much to form a new nose as to cover in the cavity left Ti patient was able to leave the hospital in a few weeks. ^