632 HERNIA. When the strangulation is less acute, or occurs in a more aged or less robust subject, it is well to omit the bleeding, and to trust to the warm bath and chloroform. ^\Tien the strangulation is of a passive character, and occurs in feeble or elderly people, other measures may be adopted with the view of lessening the buUc of the tumour ; which, rather than the tension of the parts, offers the chief obstacle to reduction in these cases. In such circumstances, especially when the tumoui’ is large and not very tense, it is well to dispense with the hot-bath, which has sometimes a tendency to increase any congestion that may ah’eady exist in the hernia ; I have in more than one case seen a strangulated rupture enlarge considerably after the employment of the bath. In such cases, more time may safely be spent in attempts at reduction than in very acutely strangulated hernim. It is a useful practice to commence the treat- ment by the administration of a large enema ; which, by emptying the lower bowel, will alter the relations of the abdominal contents, and may materially facilitate the reduction of the tumour. The best enema is one ot gruel and castor-oil, with some spirits of turpentine added to it; it should be injected through a full-sized tube, passed high up into the gut, and with a moderate degree of foi’ce. In administexlug it, care must be taken that no injmy be done to the bowel. It would scarcely be necessary to give such a caution as this, were it not that I was summoned, some years ago, by two very excellent practitioners, to see a woman with strangulated femor^ hernia, to whom an enema of about two quarts of tepid water had been ad- ministered ; and as this had not returned, and did not appear to have gone up the bowel, they suspected that it must have passed out of the rectum into the suiTounding areolar tissue. As the patient, however, did not seem to be suffering from this cause, and as the symptoms of strangulation were ingent, I operated on the hernia. Death suddenly occurred, apparently from ex- haustion, in about eight hours; and, on examining the body, it was found that the rectum had been perforated, and the fluid injected into the meso- rectum, separating the gut from the sacrum, whence it had extended into the general subperitoneal areolar tissue, which contained a quantity of the liquid ; some of the water also appeared to have entered the peritoneal cavity. In the large hernim of old people, more particularly the umbdical, in which there is a good deal of flatus, after the enema has been administered, a bladder of ice may be applied for thi’ee or fom’ hours with excellent effect. Chloroform may then be given, and the taxis employed under its influence. Of late years, indeed, I have been in most cases in the habit of trusting almost solely to chloroform as a relaxing agent, and have often even dispensed with the use of the warm bath. If however, this can be conveniently used without too much delay, it should be employed. After this, I put the patient at once under chloroform, and then try the taxis for a period not exceeding half an horn-: if this fail, the operation should be done without making any further attempts at reduction, which are not only useless, but injm-ious by bruising the pro- truded parts. Persistence of Symptoms after Iteductiou.—After the reduction of the hernia, the symptoms of strangulation may continue unabated. This unto- wai’d occurrence may arise from four distinct conditions : 1. The hernia may