INTERNAL URETHROTOMY. 9°3 which pi-eseiits sCYcml advantages. Ho thus describes it. “ The instmmcnt consists of a split sound, wliich equals in calibre a No. 2 or 3 catheter, ihc halves of the split sound ean ho separated by passing between them a wedge fixed on a slender stem. The w^odge is prevented by two dovetail gi-ooves at its hinder pai-t, from loa^'ing the sound which acts as a guide diu’mg the passage of the wedge down the m-ethi-a.” “ The advantages claimed for this instrument are : simplicity of construction ; the central guide of Holt’s in- strument is not needed, hence the split sound can be passed through naiTOwei strictures. Next and chiefly, diminution of resistance, and consequently the more immediate application of the rupturing force—the wedge—to the impedi- ment to be overcome. The force needed to push Holt s dilator is sometimes very great, and the attempt has been abandoned, or the instrument has broken, evenTn skilful hands, from this cause. ]\Iuch of the force is expended on the continuous friction outside the tube along the spht sound, and inside along the guide. In the wedge-dilator the friction-surface is reduced to two dovetail grooves, which together do not exceed half an inch. For this, the force reqiiu’ed is so small that one haild suffices to overcome the resistance. The instrument can, if requhed, be adapted to a conducting sound, such as is described afterwai’ds under Internal Urethrotomy. 4. Division of the Stricture may be practised either from luithin the . urethra, or from tviiliout, through the perina3um. Internal Urethrotomy.—The division from ivitMn may be performed in two Avays ; either by cutting through the stricture fr’om before backwards, or by passing a proper instrument through it, and dividing it from behind forwards. The first operation—that of perforating the stricture/rom lefore l)achwards— may be performed by passing a concealed steel stylet doivn to the strictme, and then pushing forwards the lancet-like Imife, attempting to perforate the obstruc- tion. This plan is necessarily attended by the most dangerous consequences, if an attempt be made to thrust a stylet through the strictm’e without a guide ; the probability, indeed almost the certainty, being that the j^ointed cutting blade win pass by the strictme and divide the healthy wall of the urethra. It is, indeed, almost banished from surgical practice, and is only applicable with safety to those strictures that are situated in the part of the methra anterior to the scrotum, where the canal is straight. In the deeper and more cm’ved parts, any attempt at perforation would obviously be fr-aught with danger; for, as it would of course be impossible for the Smgeon to guide the stylet exactly in the direction of the urethra, it would be more likely to perforate the Avails of this canal than to pass through the stricture. In hard and resisting con- Fig. 80S.—L.ancetted Stylet for Division of Strictoe. tractions, hoAvever, in the sti’aight portion of the canal anterior to the scrotum, such an instrument may occasionally be used Avith advantage. A very con-