DISEASE OF THE HIP-JOINT. 309 CHAPTER LII. DISEASE OF THE HIP-JOINT. Hip-disease presents so many points of peculiar and serious importance, that it is usually, and not improperly, considered as a distinct affection, apart from other joint-diseases. Like all these it may be acute, subacute, or chronic, most commonly occiuTing in strumous subjects; indeed, I think its connection Avith scrofula is generally more distinctly marked than that of most other affections of the joints. It almost inyariably occurs before the age of puberty. Out of 48 consecutive cases of this disease, of ■which I took notes, I find that in 16 only did it take place at or after fifteen years of age, and, of these, in 6 cases only it happened above the age of tiventy. The collected statistics of cases appears to give a very similar proportion; thus it may be considered essentially a disease of childhood or early youth. It commonly comes on from very slight causes ; being usually attributed to over-exertion in a long walk, a sprain in jumping, a fall, or sitting in the wet. Fokais oe the Disease.—AU the inflammatory affections attacking the coxo-femoral articrdation are usually confounded under the term “ Hip- Disease” or “ Coxalgia.” This is too general an expression ; and we shall find included under it several distinct forms of disease that differ from one another in pathology, symptoms, result, and treatment. On looking at the hip-joint in a surgical point of 'view, we find it to be composed of three distinct parts ; viz., the soft structures, the acetabulum, and the head of the thigh-bone. Any one of these may be principally or primarily affected ; and Ave may accordingly diAude hip-joint disease into three distinct forms—Arthritic, Acetabular, and Femoral. This division is not purely pathological, but is also practical, espe- cially in its bearing on the question of excision. General Pathological Conditions.—Before proceeding to describe each separate fonn of coxalgia in detail, we may consider briefly the six pathological conditions Avhich are more or less common to each variety of the affection—viz.. Pain, Attitude, Suppmation, Sinuses, Dislocation, and Ankylosis. 1. Pain.—The pain in the hip-joint disease A'aries greatly according to the form which the affection assumes. In the more chronic forms of the disease it is at first slight, and, perhaps, rather referable to the knee than to the hip • this is particularly the case in the femoral Amriety, and may be explained by the iiTitation of the articular branch of the obturator nerve. In the arthritic form it is always veiy acute, even intense, seated in the joint itself, and gi-eatly increased by any movement, however slight, of the limb. In the acetabular form of the disease the pain is not at first refeixed to the joint, but rather to