380 DEFORMITIES. Fig. 541.—Talipes Valgus. young adults, as tlie consequence of over-fatigue of the foot from long-continued standing, and from the habit of sliding the left foot in walking, or twisting it, so as to press upon the inner side. When both feet are everted, there is usually knock-knee as well; and then this affection is met with at a much earlier period of life. Treatment.—In the earlier stages of acquired talipes valgus in young adults, more particularly in young Avomen, the deformity may often be remedied by putting the patient under the influence of chloro- form, forcibly draAving the foot iiiAvards so as to overcome the tension of the peronei muscles, fixing it in a Dupuytren’s sphnt, and afterwards restoring the arch of the foot by a convex sole in the shoe. In the more confirmed cases, the treatment consists in the division of the tendons of the peroneus longus and brevis, behind the outer ankle ; and of that of the extensor communis on the dorsum. Scai’pa’s shoe may then be applied, and the arch of the foot restored by wearing a pad under the sole for some considerable time. In Talipes Calcaueo-valgus the projection of the heel backwards is obliterated, and the outer side of the foot curved round towards this, so that the little toe ap- yoroaches the point of the heel. It is not a congenital affection; and, as it commonly arises from a partially paralysed state of the gastrocnemius, the treatment is not very satisfactory. Hollow Club-foot.—As in the hand, the interossei not only move the toes laterally, but poAverfully flex the first phalanges, at the same time that they extend the tAvo last. In paralysis of the interossei, and of the short flexor, and the adductor of the great toe, the toes take the constant position of a claw, i. e., the fii’st phalanges are extended upon the metatarsal bones, and the last two phalanges flexed upon the first under the influence of their antagonists the extensors of the first and last phalanges. These deformities are often complicated by paralysis or atrophy of some of the muscles of the leg, giving rise to various forms of club-foot. There is a form of deformity of the foot, usually cougenital, and not uncommon, the origin of AA'hich has remained unknOAAm up to the pre- sent time. This is a variety of club-foot wliich Ducheuue calls “holloAV claAv-foot,” resulting from atrophy or paralysis of the interossei, and of the adductor and short flexor of the great toe. The accompanying diagram (Fig. 542) shows, 1st, that the first phalanges are extended almost to the point of being subluxated upon the head of the meta caqml bone, Avhilst the last phalanges are flexed upon the first and foim thus <i claw; 2nd, that the curve of the plantar arch is considerably incieased. ic origin of this “ grille pied creux ” is as folloAVS.