377 TALIPES VAIWS. eastrocuemius muscle is crippled, shortened, and contracted. It is the most important, and at the same time the simplest in itself, of all the fonns of club-foot; it commonly complicates the varus. The Treatment consists in clividmg the tenth Achilhs, and bringing the heel ■well down. . . . , The tendo Acliillis is best divided about an inch above its insertion into the os calcis. The patient should bo laid prone ; the Siugeon, gTasping the foot, extends it forcibly, so as to thi-ow out the tendon in good relief, and make it tense; he then slides a tenotome beneath it, and cuts slowly through it from beneath upwards, bearing well upon the foot; ..as the division proceeds, he will hear 'the tendon cracking as its fibres are sirccessively cut through. The divi- sion should not be made from above doAvnwards, as the posterior tibial artery or its maUeolar branches might readily be wounded. Talipes Calcaneus is an extremely rare variety of club-foot. In it the heel is depressed, the toes and anterior part of the foot bemg elevated (Fig. 53G) ; it is usually, I believe, congenital—in one case, however, that of a girl twelve years of age, it was acquired. It arises from contraction of the extensor tendons. Treatment.—In order to bring down the foot, the tibialis anticus, the ex- tensor communis, the extensor poUicis, and the peroneus tertius tendons, may all require to be di'^ided as they pass over the dorsum ; a straight splint should then be applied, and the foot dra-wn down to it. A minor degree of this afiection consists in a peculiar projection upwards of one or two of the toes, associated with some tension of the extensor tendon ; by dividing this, and keeping the foot on a flat splint, the deformity may commonly be corrected. In some cases, however, the toe is so prominent, and the contiguous ones are squeezed under it in such a manner, that the foot is completely crippled, and amputation of the displaced digit is required in order to restore the utihty of the member. Talipes Varus.—In this deformity the foot is twisted inwards, and the inner side of the sole is raised, and the sole is contracted ; the patient Avalk- ing on the outer side of the foot, where the skin covering the tarsal end of the fifth metatarsal Iroue often becomes excesswely dense and firm, and a bursa occasionally forms (Figs. 537, 538). In most cases there is some elevation of the heel, the afiection partaking somewhat of the character of talipes equinus. It is the most common form of congenital dcforinity, both feet being found similarly affected ; but it m.ay be non-congenital, dependent on infantile para- lysis of the extensors, and then is often limited to one foot. The Treatment consists in the successive division of the tendons of the tibialis anticus and tibialis posticus, Avhich are the muscles principally at fault. After these have been cut across, the tendo Achillis should be divided ; but its Fig. 536.—Taliiie.s Calcaneus.