rickets. I9T m-c broad and round, the surfaces are convex,^and the compression or flatten- intr if ihere be any, is from before backwaids. _ , • -i "(trophy of Boxe.—This term comprises two conditions : one in which the bone is wasted, and another in which an arrest of growth occin-s. Wasting Atrophy occurs, as a natural result, in old age ; the change tl a takes place in the lower jaw being a familiar example. In other cases it hap- pens aL consequence of fracture ; the nutritious artery of the bone having Len torn across, and one of the fragments consequently receiving insufficient vascular supply. Atrophy of bone also commonly ocem's fr-om disuse, as is the case in old dislocations. In atrophy, the bone becomes thinner, lighter, and more porous than usual; the compact structure disappearing and the cancellous being expanded. Arrested Growth of bones is an occasional consequence of disease, its occun-ence in rickets wiU be presently refeiTed to. It may also be a result of various diseases of the epiphysis and joints, or of the resection of the epiphysis in children, and may follow the formation of cicatrices after bums in the neigh- bourhood of joints. The effect of paralysis on the growth of bone varies. ^ It is common to see normal groAvth of the bones in limbs affected with paralysis of sensation and motion, even in young subjects, in whom the muscles are wasted ; while in other cases the growth of the bone has been materially impaired, especially at the articular ends. RICKETS, MOLIilTIES OSSIUM, AND SCBOFULOtrS OSTEITIS. Rickets is a disease of early life, never occun’ing after the age of puberty. In it, according to Virchow, the histological elements of the bone are normally constituted, but the earthy matter is deficient; so that the bone continues to be soft, fiexilile, and cartilaginous in structure, at an age when its tissue ought to have undergone proper consolidation. It appears to be atrophied, and the cancellous structm-e to be expanded into ca’^ities of varying magmitude, which contain a brownish-red serous fluid. In consequence of the change of structure and the loss of firm ness in the bones in this disease, considerable distortion of the body takes place. The hmd early appears large and expanded ; indeed, Ivilian states that rickets always first appear in the head, the forehead being especially protuberant; according to Stanley, this arises not from enlargement of the cranial bones, but in consequence of the want of development of those of the face ; the head thus appearing large from its disproportion to the small face. The shape of the liinbs is much changed and distorted, in consequence of their yielding to the pressure of the superincumbent weight ; the pelvis becoming contracted, and the thighs and legs bent either forwards or outwards. Humphry and Langenbeck have called attention to shortening of the bones in rickets. Humphry says that the humerus and femur are one-fourth shorter in rickety subjects than in healtliy individuals of the same age ; and liangen- beck regards this shortening as more constant and more characteristic of rickets, than bending and deficiency of earthy matter. The yow?/s usually appear swollen, from the articular ends of the bones being enlarged. In early life the chest will be observed to be deformed in a peculiar manner, being nanowed above, where the upper ribs are contracted and pressed in, but expanded below, apparently from the weight of the abdominal viscera, which arc often tumefied, and in