NEEDLE-OPERiiTlON FOR CATARACT. 455 is still, one needle, and then quickly that in the other hand, is introduced ; and the operation is completed with the two needles, opening out the lens, whilst at the same time they keep the eye steady. The needle-operation is always the best for infantile cataract. So, in child- hood, if one of these so-called congenital cataracts have been left so long for operation, it should be broken up with the needle for its ultimate gradual removal by the natural process of absorption. Children and young adults hai’dly ever have any other kind of cataract than the congenital, unless it be the result of some wound or mechanical injury of the lens : then also, if the lens have become opaque, unless already the lens-capsule be sufficiently lace- rated, the needle must be employed at once, and again and again whenever it may seem to be necessary to expedite and complete the process of removal, after a longer or shorter time, according to the rapidity with which the absorp- tion proceeds ; and this will be more or less, in inverse proportion to the age of the patient. Though the anterior chamber is so small and the iris so close upon the lens, in infancy, still it seems that nothing is to be feared. In no juvenile cataract will it ever be necessary to make a large opening and remove the lens as a whole. If the lens, wounded either accidentally, or by the surgical operation, swell much, or, Avhatever swelling occurs, should there be any symptoms of inflam- mation of the ii’is and ciliary processes, more at least than a very slight redness in the ciliary region and no marked tension, which may be disregarded, (and this is more hkely the older the patient may be,) the process of absorption is arrested ; the lens-matter, or some of it, must for both reasons be removed'at once by use of the broad needle and suction-curette, and if among the diffluent lens-matter and aqueous hiunoui- be found a sohd nuclear portion of the lens remaining, the corneal opening should be enlarged with a knife for its removal with a scoop, if without one it will not escape. Of course, unless it follow an accidental wound, the lens should not be so much exposed by so extensive a laceration of its capsule as to admit of so much swelling that inflammation follows ; but this cannot always be calciflated beforehand. In first operating m any case on an eye by the needle-operation, imless, perhaps, in infants and very young children, it is well not to make more than a small opening in the lens-capsule, for fear of this mechanical irritation and after inflammation ; also 1 would not extensively at first break up the lens within this opening, or the consequent swelling may open out the whole lens, though the opening made in the capsule, by the needle, was not large. Within a week, even in the older patients, m any case, I think, the greatest amount of swelling consequent on neeffie-operation will be reached. After that, so long as the bulging lens- matter shows in the wound it may be left-the pupil being merely kept consffintly dilated with atropine drops or belladonna lotion, whilst absorption 18 going on. ^ In a few weeks, more or less, the lens-matter, which was bulging, no lono-er surface is perhaps rather flattened, and the situation of the lens-capsule is somewhat excavated. The needle then ould he used again ; and at the second or at least the third time of usino- it after siifficient mter^nls, there is no fear of the remaining lens-matter srilinc: enough to bnng about any infl„n,„.ation, and it is much more