589 q'jlj<j^[TMENT OF CYSTIC SARCOMA. f T^lumbi Tn other eases, blistering and the application of the ttalt of ioclL may I.e sci-viccablo. Under those plans of treatment, I have Fig. (iiU.—Uli-.crateil Cy.stic Tumour Fig. 665.—The same Cystic Tumour. si.K mouths of Breast, of 20 years’ duration. later, witli Cancerous Deposit. several times seen the tumour disappear. Occasionally it will suppurate spontaneously, and is thus got rid of; or it may be opened, a tent of lint intro- duced, and thus suppuration established in it. Operative Treatment.—If the tumour be unilocular and single, containing* serous flitid, possibly with fibrinous matter.in its interior, it may often be dissected out of the areolar bed in which it lies, and be separated from its attachment to the mammary gland, this structure and the nipple being other- wise left intact. In this way I have successfully removed large unilocular cysts of the size of a shaddock. If the cyst be compound and numerous, the case is more serious, and then their extirpation only is not advisable. '^^^len the disease is truly a Cgstk Sarcoma, it is better either to leave the tumour and treat it by palliatives, or to remove the whole breast; partial removal of the breast, extirpation of the tumour with its lobe of the mammary gland only, is not usually a very successful operation. Eecurrence of cystic development will almost certainly occur ; and often very severe inflammation of the gland and of the ad.iacent textimes is set up. This I have seen on several occasions, and therefore think it better that the breast should either be left, or removed in ioto. Such an operation, however, should not be under- taken in the early stages ; as the tumour may continue for many years without seriously troubling or endangering the patient, and may perhaps eventually undergo atrophy or absorption. If, however, it show a disposition to increase, to become troublesome by its bulk, or painful, it should then certainly be extir- pated ; and this operation may always be performed with a good iwospect of success, inasmuch as the disease is not malignant, and docs not tend to contami- nate the constitution. It is a remarkable fact, however, which has been adverted to by Lawrence and Brodie, that, even though the whole of the breast be extir- pated, a similar affection occasionally recurs in the cicatrix, requiring subsequent operation ; and then, perhaps, being pennanently eradicted. This^’miist either