EXCISION' OF TARSAL BONES. 277 Strumous disease may commence either in the bones, or in the articulations of the foot. The bones that are most frequently the seat of primary disease are the calcaneum, the astragalus, the scaphoid, the cuboid, and the metatarsal bone of the great toe. AVhen disease is limited to one or two of these bones, excision is usually practicable ; but when the morbid action extends, throug the influence of the connecting articulations, to other bones of the tarsus or metatarsus, partial amputation will probably be required. Primar}’’ disease of the articulations of the foot is a less frequent cause ^ 01 operation than caries of the tarsal bones leading secondarily to an implication of the contiguous articulations ; and the particular operation required will, in a great measure, depend upon the extent of implication of the synovial mem- branes of the foot. When the calcaneo-astragaloid or the calcaneo-cuboid articulations are alone affected, with their contiguous bones, resection of the bones and joints implicated will often be attended by very satisfactory results , but when the large anterior tarsal synovial membrane is in a state of chronic disease, either as the result of primary morbid action set up in it, or secondaiily to diseases of the scaphoid, the cuneiform, or of either of the metatarsal bones connected with it, then resection is scarcely admissible, and Chopart s ampu- tation offers the best means of relief. The inflammation of the large and com- plicated anterior tarsal synovial membrane commonly commences in disease of the scaphoid. It may, usually, readily enough be recognised in its earlier stages by the pain and swelling that take place across the line of articulation between the scaphoid and cuneiform bones, the pain being greatly increased by bending the foot down, and extending across the whole breadth of the foot. For, although it is usually most severe at the inner side, which is the first affected, yet the external section of this complicated articulation, that between the ex- ternal cimeiform and the cuboid, becoming involved, causes suffering to be experienced on the outer side of the foot as weU. In the more advanced stages of this particular disease, the foot assumes a remarkable bulbous or clubbed appearance ; the symmetry of the heel and the outline of the ankle are unim- paired, but the forepart and dorsum of the foot are greatly swollen, glazed, and possibly perforated by sinuses discharging thin unhealthy pus. I look upon this disease of the anterior tarsal synovial membrane as a distinct affection of the foot, requiring to be diagnosed from the other strumous inflammations, and in its advanced stages demanding Chopart’s amputation. It may be stated generally that the result of disease of the tarsus will be mainly dependent upon whether it is acute or chronic, progressive or stationary, diffused or limited. When it is acute, its limit cannot be defined, and after the removal of one portion the morbid action may be lighted up afresh in the structures, osseous or articular, that have been left. When progressive, there will be found to be a general tendency to disease in, or disorganisation of, the tarsal structures, and partial operation can be productive of little good. When it is diffused, extending into the large anterior tarsal or tarso-metatarsal articu- lations, partial operation can a^•ail nothing. In is in those cases in which the disease is chronic, limited, and stationary, or nearly so, that excision and partial operation can be beneficial. Excision of Tarsal Bones.—Any one of the tarsal bones may be the scat of primary disease, which may be limited to the bone originally implicated, or