943 ATROPHY OF THE TESTIS. orchitis in such cases is in all probohility a kind of constitutional affection, intimately associated with inflammation of other fibrous tissues, especially with gonorrhoeal rheumatism ; the inflammation of the epididymis, arising fi-om gonorrhoea or other irritation of the m-inary passage, appearing to result from direct extension of morbid action along the vas deferens. Si/mpfoms.—These necessarily vary to a certain extent, not only according as the disease is of an acute or of a chronic character, but as it primarily affects the body of the testis or the epididymis. When it commences in the latter structure, it is the inferior globus that is commonly first affected, which becomes swollen, hard, and tender. The disease may be confined throughout to this part; but most frequently it invades the whole of the organ, which becomes unifoimly enlarged and somewhat ovoid ; it is frequently accompanied by a good deal of effusion into the tunica vaginalis, then constituting the Acute ’Hydrocele of Velpeau. As the inflammation subsides, the different characters presented by the enlargement of the two constituents of the organ again become apparent. The swelling is therefore due partly to general enlarge- ment of the organ, but in some cases to inflammatory effusion into tne tunica vaginalis; and this effusion may either be purely serous, or partly. , plastic. The pain is always very severe, with much tenderness and a sensation of weight, and commonly extends up the cord into the groin and loin. It is generally greatest when the body of the testis is affected, owing probably to the enveloping fibrous tunic preventing the expansion of the organ. Hence it is often spasmodic and paroxysmal, extending up the course of the cord. There are usually considerable swelling and redness of the scrotum, with turgescence of the scrotal veins, and a congested state of the cord, with sharp pyrexia, nausea, and perhaps occasional vomiting. As the disease subsides, the body of the testis first resumes its normal character and shape, the epididymis often continuing hardened and enlarged for a considerable period. In fact, the induration that forms in the epidi- dymis may become somewhat permanent, owing to the effusion of j)lastic matter into it, leaving a hardened mass, and implicating the whole or a portion of its convolutions. Atrophy of the Testis is more liable to follow the metastatic orchitis of mumps in young men above the age of puberty than any other form of inflammation of the organ. It is remarkable how rapid and how complete the wasting of the testis will be in these cases. A few weeks after the subsid- ence of the inflammation the testis will be found to be shrunk away, so as to form a small soft mass not larger than a filbert. Atrophy of the testis may also sometimes gradually ensue as a result of chronic epididymitis, and the consequent induration of this structure. Stran- gulation of the vascular supply to the testis occurs, and the whole organ at last wastes so as to leave nothing but a small hardened mass in the scrotum. Gosselin has shown that this induration of the epididymis following inflamma- tion frequently causes complete obstruetion of the canal, and if occurring on both sides produces sterility. In 10 such cases he found spermatozoa absent from the semen, and the patients consequently incapable of procreation, although the appearance of the testes and of their secretion was scarcely