TIIEATMEXT OF IIJEMATOCELE. 955 reiice, arising- apparently li-oin the ruptnre of an enlarged speimatic vem mto the tnniea vaginalis. It attains a larger size, and is altogether a more formid- able atleetion, than the traimiatic luomatocelc. Characlers.—In whatever way occurring, a haimatocele slowly but gradually increases in size until it attains about the magnitude ot a ducks egg, oi even that of a coeoa-nut. It is seldom that it becomes larger than this ; but cases are recorded in which the tumour has attained an enormous magnitude. 1 once operated in a case in which a spontaneous Innmatocele had existed for six yeai-s ; it was as large as a good-sized melon, and contained, besides about a quart of dark thin blood, a handful of partially decolorised and tough fibriiie, the greater portion of which was firmly adherent to the inside of the gTcatly thickened tunica vaginalis in filamentary and laminated masses, with here and there nodules interspersed. The whole of the interior of the tunica vaginalis closely resembled an aneurismal sac. The fluid contained in the ha3matocele, when the disease is recent, consists of pure blood. The blood so effused will continue fluid for years ; but at last it may decompose and set up fatal inflammatory mischief; in some rare instances the tumour becomes partly solidified by the deposit of masses of , fibrinous coagulum lining the interior of the tunica vaginalis, which are sometimes decolorised and arranged, as in the case just referred to, and in one recorded by Bowman, in a laminated manner, like the contents of an aneu- rismal sac. When the h^ematocele is of old standing, changes take place both in the effused blood and in the sac. The blood in old htematoceles becomes at first dark and treacly. As decomposition advances it becomes converted into a dirty-brownish fluid, full of shreds of partially decolorised fibrine and crystals of cholesterine. The tunica vaginalis becomes thickened and indiu-ated, and in extreme cases may midergo calcification. This change I found in a patient whose disorganised testis I removed for a htematocele of nearly forty years’ standing. Symjttoms.—These are generally sufficiently obvious. The occuiTence of the ' tumoiu- subsequently to a blow', strain, or injury when traumatic, its gradual increase in size, its somewhat heavy but semi-elastic feel, its pyriform shape, and the absence of transparency, together with the freedom of the cord above and the want of impulse in it on coughing, null indicate its true character. Diarjiiosis.—Ha3matocele of the tunica v'aginalis may be confomided with inguinal hernia : from which it may be distinguished by attention to the signs described at p, G(i(), Vol. II. It is perhaps more frequently confounded -with solid tumours of the testicle; and upon this fact is founded the excellent rule of practice never to remove a doubtful tumour of the testis without first ascertam- by an incision into its substance, that it is not a htematocele. Treatment.—This must v'ary -with the size and duration of the tumour. W hen it is small and recent, and has fluid contents, the Surgeon may try the effect of tapping it; it is possible that, after the evacuation of the blood, closure and obliteration of the tunica vaginalis will take place. This hap- pened in a case under my care, in which, though the disease had existed for three years, a complete cure follow'ed the operation of tapping. Such simple treatment as this, how-ever, cannot be depended upon ; and it usually becomes necessary to lay the sac open, treat the rvound antiseptically, and to cause it