Sgo DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. common belief amongst Surgeons, that tbe membranous portion of the eanal is the most frequently afleeted by this disease. This, however, there can be little doubt, is an erroneous opinion. H. Smith has examined 98 specimens of stric- ture contained in the different London museums ; of these he found only 21 seated in the membranous portion of the m’ethra, whilst 77 were anterior to the triangular ligament; the majority of these being either in the bulbous portion of the urethra, or a little in advance of this. Sir H. Thompson, in his excellent work on Stricture, states that, in an examination of 320 strictures, he found 215 at the junction of the spongy and membranous portions of the urethra; 51 in the spongy portion, from an inch in front of its commencement to within two inches and a half of the external meatus ; and 54 at the external orifice, or within two inches and a half of it. The part most fi’equently affected is the first inch of the spongy portion; in the membranous portion, strictm-e is extremely rare. He also states, “ I may confidently assert that there is not a single case of stricture in the prostatic portion of the urethra to be found in any one of the public museums of London, Edinbiugh, or Paris.” Occa- sionally strictures are multiple, two frequently occm’ring, and sometimes as many as four or five. Characters.—The characters of organic strictm-e vary greatly. In some cases it is annular, encircling the whole of the canal, and occasionally for some little distance. The elongated annular stricture usually arises from consohdation of the corpus spongiosum by plastic matter compressing the urethra, as in Fig. 797. In other cases, again, annular strictiues may be narrow and sharp-edged, and are then called “pack-thread” or “bridle” strictures ; consisting of bands stretching across the luethra (Fig. 798). Sometimes there are several of these in close proximity to one another, leaving merely narrow passages between or under them. These bands occasionally stretch directly across the canal, but at Fig. 797.—Stricture from Con- solidation of Corpus Spon- giosum. Fig. 798.—Bridle-Stricture. Fig. 799.—Stricture at the An- terior part of the Uretlira.