403 DISEASES OF THE PAROTID GLAND. -coiaclition wll be more fully described in the chapter on Diseases of the The Treatment of this atlection is simple. If it be severe, the appheation ■of hot fomentations and leeches, the administration of salines, and, when the nffection is on the decline, frictions Avith camphorated oil. Anil hasten its resolution. Tumours.—Tumours of the parotid gland itself are not so frequent as morbid giwths situated upon it or in its vicinity ; yet occasionally they <;onsist in an actual transformation of its structiu'c. 'The tumours met AAuth in this region may be simple or ma- lignant. When simple, they are often ■enqisted; they are hard, deeply attached, but movable on careful manipulation; Toimd, and of very great size, becoming ■even as large as a cocoa-nut; the skin covering them is thin but not adherent, and not imfiequently a network of veins covers the mass. These growths frequently send prolongations under the ramus of the lower jaw, and then occupy the AA'hole of ^ the space between its angle and the mastoid process ; when finnly bound doAAm, they involve the blood-vessels and nerves in this impor- tant region, coming into relation Avith the ■styloid process and its muscles, AAuth the internal as well as the external carotid, and even j)ressing upon the pharynx and projecting into the fauces, as Avas the case Avith the patient fi’om whom the annexed cut (Fig. 558) Avas taken. In such cases as these the deep relations of the tumour •are so intricate, important, and extensive, that no operation for its remoA'al can be undertaken, and the patient usually eA'entually dies in consequence of disturbance cf the cerebral circulation, or of compression of the pharynx and larynx. In consequence of the large size that these tumours may attain, they have a tendency to produce atrophy of the parotid, and often, by interfering Avith the cerebral circulation, occasion va- rious congestiAC symptoms about oost.-simiiiuTumom'iiri’iiiotiiL the brain. Besides the fibrous, various other tumours, such as aarromata, adeno- maiu, eiuhondromata, Avith which myxoma is often associated, and encysted, occur Fig. uuS.—I'Aliruus Tinnoiu' of Parotid, too deeidy seated for Reiiio\’al. n D 2