DISEASES OF THE TESTIS AND CORD. 954 The tumour of the encysted variety is smaller, more irregular in shape, and does not envelop the testis completely, but is situated behind it, and rather in connection with the epididymis. Ihe Diagnosis from ordinary hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis may be made by observing : 1. That the testis is below and not covered in by the encysted form of the disease ; 2. That the tumour is more globular or irregular, and less pyriform ; 3. When tapped, the fluid will be found to be opalescent. The Treatmmt consists in injecting the sac with tincture of iodine, or in incising the tumour and allowing it to granulate from the bottom. The in- jection by iodine, though successful in some cases, is not so frequently so in this as in the last A’ariety of the disease, but usually deserves a trial; if it fail, the incision of the tumoim Avill always effect a cure. In encysted hydi’ocele, the iodine injection should not be so strong as that Avhich is used for injecting the tunica vaginalis. It shoidd be diluted with tAvo or three parts of Avater, as it comes more directly into relation Avith the structiu'e of the testis. Hyduocele oe the Coed.—This disease is characterised by the presence of a round or oval tumour, situated on the cord, below or Avithin the inguinal canal. It is smooth, elastic, and, if of sufficient size, may be semi- transparent on examination by transmitted light. It can be pushed up into the abdomen, but receives no impulse on coughing, and does not alter in size on being steadily compressed. It appears to be formed, in some cases, by the funicular portion of the peritoneal investment of the cord being im- . perfectly closed and consolidated at points ; though it is possible that in other instances it arises as a distinct cystic groAvtli. These tumours may occur at all ages, but are chiefly met Avith in the young, and are not unfrequent amongst children. The fluid of a hydi’ocele of the cord is lighter in colour than that of one of the tunica vagiualis. Treatment.—The obliteration of the cyst is best conducted by passing a seton through it, or by making an incision into it, treating it antiseptically, and letting it granulate from the bottom. Diffused Hydeocele of the Spbematic Coed consists in the infiltration of the cord A\dth serous fluid, contained in rather distinct cells, and giving rise to an oA’al or oblong irregular circumscribed tumoiu’, extending below and into the inguinal canal. The Treatment consists in the application of blisters, or of comiter-iiTitant iflasters. Should the disease prove very troublesome, an incision might be made doAA'n to and into the SAvelling, so as to let out the fluid and aUoAV the cyst to become consolidated. ILeaiatocele.—By Hcematocele is meant an acciunulation of blood in the tunica vaginalis, distending that sac, and compressing the testis. It is of two kinds, 'Traumatic and Spontaneous. The 'Traumatic is the most common form i of the disease, usually arising from a’ bloAV on or a squeeze of the testis, by Avhich one of the veins ramifying on the surface of the gland is ruptured, and blood is poured into the tunica v’aginalis. It may also arise in tapping a hydi’ocele, from the point of the trochar being pushed too directly backAiai’ds and puncturing the testis. Spontaneous Hiematocele is a disease of rai’e occiu-