349 MECHANISM OF LATERAL CURVATURE. middle dorsal region, the convexity tending towards the right side ; the second, or compensating curve, occurs in the lumbar region, the convexity lookino- towards the left. In some instances there is a quadruple curve (Fi"’. 511). At the same time that these lateral curves take place, there is a tendency to rotation of the bones of the spine upon one another, in such a way that the bodies of the vertebra3 forming the dorsal curve are twisted slio-htly to the right, while those which enter into the foimation of the lumbar curve are turned slightly to the left (Fig. 510). This twist is some- times slight; but in other instances it is very marked, so that there is a double displacement—lateral and rotatory. On examining the bones and intervertebral fibro-cartilages after death, even in cases of very considerable distortion, no disease will appear in them; except, perhaps, that the bodies of some may have been slightly compressed where they form the jDrincipal concavity of the arch. The ligaments appear to be stretched, relaxed, and somewhat weakened ; and the muscles are usually pale, flabby, and apparently wanting in power. MECHAJsnsn.—From a consideration of the pathology of this affection, and from the particular age at which it manifests itself, before the bones have become completely ossified, or the ligaments have acquired their due degTee of rigidity, its mechanism becomes sufficiently apparent. The spinal column, being composed of a number of separate bones, possesses no firmness in itself, or power of self-support, but is maintained in the erect position by the close manner in which its separate elements are knit together by ligamentous and muscular stnictures, and by the way in which, when thus bound together as a whole, it is supjDorted on each side by the strong mass of the erector spinte muscles and their prolongations. The proper tension of these ligamentous supports and muscular masses is especially necessary for it to maintain the weight of the head and shoulders, which is thrown on the cervical and the upper portion of the dorsal spine. If, from any cause, the ligaments become relaxed, and the muscles lose their tension, or if the weight of the upper part of the body increase disproportionately to the augmentation in the strength of the ligaments and muscles that support the spine, the vertebral column will ne- cessarily give way under the pressure to which it is subjected in a direct line from above down- wards, and will consequently become curved. Most commonly, indeed almost invariably, this takes place in a lateral direction, the spine yielding more readily in this than in any other. In some rare cases, however, the lower portion of the cervical or the upper dorsal region will project backwards in an angular manner, constituting the disease teimed Cyphosis (Fig. 512); and in other cases, of still less frequent occurrence, there may be incun'ation of the spine in the dorso-hmibar reo-ion giving rise to Lordosis (Fig. 513). ^ The directions m which those various curves take place are exaggerations of Fig. 512 Cyphosis. Fig. 513— Lonlosis.