ligature of internal piles. 73^ Fig. 702.- Ring Foi'ceps. Fig. 703.—Biishe’s Needle for applying Ligature to Piles. f civuilfl have an abundant lavement of warm water administered Xrt r\.ortLre the sm-gcon arrives ; and he should then be directed to fnr b-ilf an hour on a bidet, or over a pan containing hot watei, beaung Ti if the same time, so as to cause the piles to protrude. AVhen all is ready, ho slio'uld he laid on the bed on his left side noth the Sur^reon then seizes the most prominent pile with a hook, vulseilum, ring-forceps (Fig. 702), draws it well for- J^v, wards, and ties its base as tightly as pos- sible with a thin whipcord ligatiu'c. The ring-forceps may be tightened by a clip or by°a strong India-rubber ring on the shanks, which closes them if drawn down to the handles. He does the same to one pile after the other, until all that can be met with have been strangulated in this way. In some cases the pile is so broad at the base, that the ligature will not include it. In such cases some Surgeons employ transfixion ; this may usually be done readily enough by means of a nasvus- needle, or by the instrument represented in the annexed drawing (Fig. 703), Bushe’s Needle, which consists of a steel shank fixed in an ivory handle, and having its free end perforated for the reception of a needle-eye near its point. In this instrument not only is the angle formed by the needle and the shank a very convenient one for passing a ligatine through a pile inside the anus, but more particularly, as the needle can be detached, it may, as soon as it is carried across the base of tlie tumour, be separated and so withdrawn more readdy than it otherwise could. Transfixion of the pile and its ligature in two halves is, however, a very dangerous proce- dure, and should never be had recourse to if it can possibly be avoided. The danger of this operation consists in the possibility of a hfemorrhoidal vein being transfixed, and the two halves then tied separately. In this Avay the vessel is left open and cannot collapse, and the risk of direct septic absorption becomes very gi-eat. Transfixion may usually be avoided when the pile is large and round, by snipping through the cutaneous portion by means of cinved scissors, thus leaving a deep groove for the reception of the ligature, which then constricts only the substance and mucous sinface of the haemorrhoid. If the pile be longitudinal, it may be deeply notched with scissors in a direction upwards nt its lower attachment, at the line of junction between the skin and mucous membrane, and the ligature tied in the groove thus formed. In Avhatever Avay the ligatures arc applied, care should be taken that they are tied as tightly as possible, so that the piles may be effectually strangled at once ; as in this way they separate much more readily, and with far less pain to the patient than if loosely tied. When all the tumours requiring ligature have been tied, the ends of the threads must be cut off close, and the strangulated mass pushed If there be any external piles, these must now be cut back into the bowel.