DISEASES OF TILE PENIS AND SCROTUM. weight about the pcriuajum, mueh anxietj^ and constitutional disturbanee. The organ is singularly hard and unyielding. The pathology of this condition is obscure. By some it has been considered as the result of extravasation of blood into the corpora cavernosa ; by others, as dependent on sympathetic or reflex nervous irritation. The olfect of treatment would lead to the inference that the latter view was coiTcct. The incisions into the corpora cavemosa to let out the blood supposed to be extravasated have been productive of no great result, u'hilst the erection has rapidly subsided under full doses of the bromide of potassium. Gangrene of tlie Penis.—Sloughing of the integuments of the penis, to a greater or less extent, not unfrequently oceurs in persons of broken constitu- tion as the result of inflammatory phimosis, simple or gonorrheal (Fig. 831); or in consequence of the invasion of syphilitic phagedsena, and indeed the glans and body of the organ may often be extensively destroyed by the latter cause. These various forms of the disease have been described in different parts of this work. The true idioyatMc gangrene of the j>enis is, however, a very rare disease ; and Demarquay, who has specially directed attention to it, finds but few instances of it in the records of surgery. It has chiefly been met with in people of advanced age or of broken constitution, who, whilst sufiering from some local disease of the organ, have been affected by acute febrile disease, such as typhoid or smaU-pox, or have become the subjects of pytemia. In some cases it is probably embolic. The disease, when affecting the body of the penis, is often fatal—possibly by hajmorrhage on the separation of the slough. When the glans only is attacked, the prospect is better. But in either case— especially in the former—mutilation of the organ to a serious extent wiU result. The Treatment of gangrene of the penis presents nothing special, with the exception of restraining htemorrhage by means of the actual cautery, and preventing or repairing loss of substance in the lu’ethral wall, if it have been invaded by the disease and involved in the destruction resulting. Pibroid Tumour of the Penis.—The penis may be the seat of fibroid and other tumours. The accompanying drawing (Fig. Fig. 835. — Filiroid Tu- nioiu- of tlie Penis, success- fully removed. affection. 885) is an illustration of one Avhich I removed some years ago from the under surface of the organ. Cancer of the Penis is of two distinct kinds, occur- ring as Scirrhus or as Epithelioma. ^\Tien cancer assumes the° Scirrhous form, it usually springs from the sulcus behind the glans, and may thence invade the neighboiu- ing portion of the organ. It may assume the piimary form either of a tubercle or of infiltrated cancer of the glans. It has been supposed, and with some show of reason, that congenital phimosis predisposes to the affec- tion ; probably by confining the secretions, and thus keep- ing up irritation of the part. Hey fomid that, of 12 patients with this disease who came under his observa- tion, 9 had congenital phimosis ; and Travel's states that Jews, who are circumcised, are seldom subject to this But as they are a limited community in this coimtry, and as the