594 DISEASES OF THE BREAST. an opaque appearance and yellowish tint may be seen in the midst of the tnmonr. These, which look like tnbercnlons deposits, consist in reality of fatty degeneration of the scirrhous structure. In other cases again, on pressino- the tnmonr, small drops of a thick creamy fluid will appear to exude at various points. This seems to be the inspissated and altered secretion of the gland retained in the ducts. Cysts arc occasionally, though rarely, met with in scirrhns of the breast; these are usually small, and contain clear fluid, beino- deeply imbedded in the substance of the tumour ; in other cases they may be large and globular, and filled with a bloody or dark-green liquid.. The microscopical characters of scirrhus of the breast are such as are represented in Fig. 305 and 306, Vol. I. Encephaloid.—Encephaloid of the mammary region and gland is by no means of such common occurrence as scirrhus, yet all the varieties of this form of cancer have been met with in the breast; and fungous hasmatodcs has been seen to spring from the bottom of cystoid gTowths previously developed in this region. Encephaloid of the breast may sometimes acquire a considerable size ; thus, Cruveilhier relates a case in which the tumour weighed nearly twelve pounds. The structure of this disease does not differ from that of the same affection in other situations ; both the hard and the soft varieties may be met with, and in some advanced cases the true fungus htematodes occurs. But undoubtedly many forms of rapidly growing and fungating tumour of the mamma, which up to a recent period were considered, described, and figured as encephaloid, are in reality not cancerous at all, but simply forms of soft sarcoma, with a tendency to rapid growth, fungous sprouting, and interstitial hemorrhage. Encephaloid usually begins deeply in the substance of the breast, though sometimes, but more rarely, at a little distance from the gland, as a soft globular tumour, which rapidly increases in bulk ; the integuments covenng it are not at first adherent, but are usually pushed before it, and speedily become permeated by a largely ramified network of veins. In some cases I have seen the integuments, early in the disease, cedematous and inflamed, so as to mask the subjacent tumour. The mass at first feels as if composed of seA'eral soft and rounded tumours, which communicate an obscurely fluctuating sensation, perhaps causing the Surgeon to mistake the growth for a cystic formation or an abscess ; with Avhich it is especially apt to be confounded in those cases (rare, it is true) in which the skin is inflamed and cedematous. The breast now rapidly assumes a very prominent and conical form ; the skin covering it at its most projecting part becomes thinned and reddened, and at last gives w^ay, leaving a large circular ulcer, from which a fungous mass of gi-eyish or reddish-brown colour speedily sprouts up, with a good deal of discharge of a foul, bloody, and offensive character. From this, disintegrated masses are occasionally detached by a kind of sloughing action; and cases may even occur in which the whole of the fungous protrusion sloughs away, and ' cicatrisation taking place, a tolerably perfect cure may result. These in- stances, however, arc so rare as scarcely to influence our prognosis of the necessarily fatal character of the affection. Implication of the glandular structures in the vicinity of the tumour, followed by constitutional cachexy, occurs in this as in true scirrhus of the breast. The progress of- the disease