ORGANIC STRICTURE. SS9 jx;riii£eum, pain in micturition, and sometimes uneasiness in defecation. This state of things constitutes a very troublesome aflection, intimately connected with the various forms of urethritis, and exceedingly apt to relapse from apparently very trivial circumstances, slight errors of diet, dyspeptic derange- ments, or any local sources of irritation. The Treatment in these cases should consist in careful regulation of the diet and habits of life, and especially in the administration of the citrate of potash, and the saline aperient mineral waters, as those of Carlsbad or Friediichshall. If there bo much tenderness or weight about the perinmum, the application of leeches to this part, together with the use of the warm hip-bath, will be serviceable. Congestive stricture, though more influenced by constitutional than by local means in many cases, yet requires the introduction of bougies in order to pre- vent the constriction from becoming permanent. In some instances a wax, in others a silver or pewter instrument, will be found to answer best. Whatever is used, care should be taken to introduce it slowly and with every possible gentleness. With all care, some haemorrhage usually follows the passage of the instriunent; not from laceration, but simply as the result of compression of , the mucous membrane ; and the discharge of blood appears rather to be beneficial than otherwise. Organic Stricture.—This, the true form of strictiu’e, is the result either of chronic inflammation of the m’ethra, leading to thickening of the mucous membrane, or of injiuy from blows or kicks in the perinmum, by which a portion of it is torn and heals by a contracted cicatrix. Repeated gonorrhoeas and long-continued gleets are the most fertile causes of this disease. In the urethra as elsewhere, plastic matter is deposited in and around the mucous membrane in the submucous areolar tissue, as the result of inflammation ; con- solidation of this takes place, followed by contraction of the canal. The long continuance of inflammation is more to be dreaded than its intensity in occasioning this mischief; hence it is of great importance not to allow gleets to run on indeflnitely, as they wiU almost to a certainty be followed by con- striction of some portion of the urethra. Arje.—Stricture of the urethra may be met with at any age after puberty. The causes that usually give rise to it seldom come into operation, however, before the adult age ; hence strictures are not A'ery common before 25 years of age. Between that period and the age of 40 they most commonly originate, and may then continue for an indeflnite period. The earhest age at which I have seen true organic strictiu’e of the urethra has been in a boy 14 years old, when it had aheady existed for more than 12 months; it was situated one and a half inches fr’om the meatus, and was so tight as oifly to admit of Ho. 1 catheter. It was complicated with and had given rise to a flstula in perinmo, through which the greater part of the urine escaped. The boy in whom it occurred could give no explanation of its occurrence, but it was probably traiunatic. His attention was first directed to it by a sudden attack of reten- tion. A he stricture was hard and gristly, about half an inch long, and required urethrotomy for its relief. There was no calculus. Seat.—The seat of organic stricture vailes considerably ; indeed, any portion of the urethra may be affected by it, except the prostatic. It appears to be the