MODIFICATION' OF MEDIAN OPERATION. 797 The first, which I think of some staff, a rectangular one gi-oovcd from about one inch above the elbow nearly to the point, re- sembling the staff introduced by Buchanan of Glasgow (Fig. 753). Its use and advantages are that, when in the bladder, the angle rests against the apex of the prostate, and can be felt in the perinosum, and the Sm-geon can judge of the exact point where to enter the knife (directing it so as to open the groove just below the Fig- 753,-Median operation with Rectangular Staff, angle), which he cannot do with the curved staff; the incision upwards also is limited, and there is, besides, less danger of wounding the rectum, the urethra being drawn upwards away from it, and not pushed down against it, as with the ordinary staff. The knife should be straight-backed, having the back not more than two inches long ; so that the Surgeon can tell to what depth he has entered it. I have found it advantageous in practice to carry a beaked director, shaped like a large hernia-director, along the groove, after the incision has been made in the urethra, so as to open up the canal and thus to clear the passage for the finger. And haAfing opened the urethra, I think it better to dilate the prostate before withdrawing the staff; by pushing the finger slowly, with a rotatory movement, along its side, the bladder is entered Avith more ease and certainty ; whereas, if only the probe be used, it may not be stiff enough, and the Surgeon is apt to push the bladder before him. It has been proposed to employ mechanical means of dilatation, instead of the finger, to open up the prostate and neck of the bladder ; and I have had some dilators for this purpose constructed by Coxeter on the principle of the two-bladed dilator of the female urethra. I have tried them on the dead subject ; but I have not ven- tured to use them on the living, lest, by the employment of screAv-power, the same deep lacerations of the neck of the bladder should result that were so fatal in the old Marian operation. Indeed, I believe that their use AA'ould, be fraught AA’ith danger from their liability to occasion rupture of the neck of the bladder ; and, if persisted in, I cannot but fear that they Avill bring discredit on the operation, reducing it to the condition of an old Marian, and repeating the dangers of that procedure. No safe dilatation can be effected except by the finger, with Avhich no harm can be done, whilst it appears to me that the greatest possible mischief may be done Avith scrcAV-dilators. COAIPAllISOX BETAVEBN THE MEDIAN AND THE LATERAL OPERATIONS.—The tAVO operations, the lateral and the median, cannot Avith propriety be compared