47S CYSTIC DISEASE OF THE ANTRUAI. lower jaw, consisting of an entire semicircle of bone, about 5-8ths of an inch broad, with all the epiphyses. This unique and most interesting case has already been described, and the regenerated bone figured (p. 182, Fig. 413). In it the periosteum must have been presciwed entire, and thus led to the repro- duction of the bone. Should no new bone have formed before the operation, a dense fibroid cicatricial structure will replace the removed bone. DISEASES OP THE ANTRUM AND UPPER JAW. Oiu- present knowledge of the operative procedures necessary for the removal of diseases of the jaws, is chiefly due to the labours of Gensoul, of Lizars, ancL of Liston. Sir W. Fergnsson has greatly distinguished himself in this field of surgery, and has simplified and extended it much in its operative department aiuf C. Heath has made important contributions to its literature. O’Shatigh- nessy also, who has had many opportiuiities of witnessing these affections- amongst the natives of India, has added much to our acquaintance with their pathology and treatment. The vai’ious large and irregular cavities that lie amongst the bones of the- face may become the seat of disease, primarily originating either in the mucous- membrane by which they are fined, or in the osseous structures that compose their walls. In this way the frontal smuses, the ethmoidal and sphenoidal coUs, and the antnim, may either be seats of chronic inflammation of theh” mucous finings, -with more or less profuse muco-purulent discharge ; or the mucous membrane may take on more serious orgam'c disease. Thus epithelio- matous, fibroid, fibro-plastic, myeloid, or cancerous tumours may develop fr’om it, and, after distending the cavity in which they were originally formed, may thin and destroy its osseous walls; and, thus passing outwards into other- situations about the face and the base of the skuU, where they are freed from the pressure of sun’ounding bone, they may take upon themselves greatly in- creased development, blocking up mucous canals, as the nose and the lacrymal sac and ducts, displacing the eye, and producing great disfigiu’ement of the side of the face. These secondary developments, from the rapidity of their um-e- strained growth, and the amount of deformity and distress which they occasion,, may readily be mistaken for the primary disease, the real starting point of which will often be found in a deeper and more limited locality. That the bones con- stituting the walls of these facial cavities may also become the original seats of morbid deposits, more particularly of the enchondromatous, myeloid, and ence- phaloid kinds, there can be little doubt. These deposits run a similar coiu’se to those originating irr the mucous membranes. Dropsy and. Cystic Disease of the Antrum, from accumulation or rather development 'within this cavity of glairy mucus, like the corrterits of a ranula or ganglion, or of a thirr browrrish serous fluid containirrg cholesterirre, occasionally occur. But in most instarrccs the accumulatiorr of fluid is serous, and not mucoid, and the disease is evidently a true cystic development, uith an acth e growth independent of distention. In some cases, distention of the- antrurn appears to be simply the result of the accumulatiorr of its natiu’al secretion ; for, as the aperture leading from this carfity into the nose is a little abo-v e rts floor, there may be a natural tenderrey for the fluid secreted here to accumulate to some extent before it is discharged ; and if this aperture be