456 OPHTHALMIC SUllGER F. that a fragment of lens should be detached and so set up inflammation. Hence the needle may be used in the latter operations more and more freely each time. And the needle must be employed whenever the bulging out lens-matter no longer protrudes, and the wound in the lens-capsule seems to be a little exca- vated ; for, if the repetition be long deferred, the lens-capsule in front may become so tough that it can never be thoroughly broken uj^, and it will be di-awn in at the edges of the sm-gical wound, enclosing some portions of white opaque lens-matter which, if not in the centre so as to obstruct vision, will show when the pupil is large, and are a defect, in appearance, in the good result to be expected from timely interference. If the capsule be toughened, the lens will perhaps move about on the end of the needle as it is moved about, and the lens-capsule is no more torn open. A second needle must then be introduced from the opposite side of the cornea, and then with it the lens may be held and steadied while the needle in the other hand tears open in various directions the capsule, and breaks up the lens-substance freely ; or, if it be very tough, the two needles, introduced from each side of the cornea, and meeting at the same aperture in the lens-capsule, may have their points sepa- rated, so as to make a large rent in it. The posterior capsule is throughout to be carefully preseiwed from any accidental wound. If it should be wounded, whilst the lens is still bulky and softened, and it let the vitreous body come forward and protrude in the midst of the lens-matter, the vitreous body pushes aside the fragments of broken up lens against the iris and ciliary processes, and mechanically sets up inflammation, which commonly ends badly. It is very difflcult—if not impossible—to remove snch fragments by the curette or the syringe, without injuring the vitreous body, which lies in the way ; it vdll, however, be better to lose some vitreous humom- than to leave much lens- matter pressing upon the iris, &c., if such a mishap should occur, and the fragments can be removed. In the final stage, however, of “solution” or keratonyxis (as the needle-operation has been called), very httle of the lens being left, the carefully preserved joosterior lens-capsule has not unfrequently to be pmposely torn open, and a rent, through which the vitreous body pro- trudes, to be made ; for small opaque fragments often remain upon this cap- sule, after most of the lens-matter has been removed little by httle ; or delicate grey webs and streaks and puckerings appeal' in or upon it, visible, perhaps, only by nse of the oblique illumination, and yet interfering very much with good vision. There are now no fragments of lens that can be displaced and excite inflammation. In old people, or even in adults, a needle-operation is a very tedious process. The lens-matter, though swollen, has iiTegular hard margins, and will very likely set up inflammation of the iris and ciliary processes, &c. A detached fragment of the hard senile cataract left after an extraction will be very likely to do the same ; and elderly people, in any inflammation of the eye, are always more likely fr’om their age to get a glaucomatous complication of the disease. But if a young adult have one useful eye, a cataract in the other may be got rid of by repeated use of the needle, doing each time very little with it; and the process, tedious as it is, is safe from the greater risks of extraction ; and the inconvenience of the delay, in such a case, "will not be^ felt. ni ^ is process of solution thei'e should in any case appeal to be incicasc tension