HERNIA. 650 inflammation sets in until one or two days after the operation is performed; and then it ocenrs evidently as the result of this procedure. That the fatality of the peritonitis, even if existing before any operation be practised, must be greatly increased by interference ivith the serous sac, is e’S'ident from the fact already mentioned, that death very rarely ocem’s (not more than once in many hundred cases) after the reduction of a strangulated hernia by the taxis. Fully admittino-, therefore, that in many cases the peritonitis exists before the operation, and is occasioned by causes independent of it; it is, I think, impossible to deny that the inflammation is frequently directly occasioned by opening the peritoneal cavity, and handling the viscera ; and that, when already existing, its fatality must be greatly increased by this procedme. In fact, there are two causes for peritonitis in cases of operated strangulated hernia—viz., the constriction of the strictm-e, and the wound of the peritoneum. That form of peritonitis which arises from the pressme of the strictme is equally liable to happen, whether Petit’s operation or that by opening the sac be practised, and often precedes the operation ; whilst the peritonitis which arises from wound of the serous membrane does not occm’ in Petit’s operation, but is necessarily confined to that in which the sac is opened. There are, however, two objections that may be mged against Petit’s opera- tion with more justice than that it does not tend to prevent the occmi’ence of peritonitis. The first is that, if the intestine be not seen, it may sometimes be retmned in a gangrenous condition ; and the second, that the gut may possibly be retiu’ned stiU strangled by bands of adhesion, or by inclusion in an omental aperture. With regard to the first objection, it may be stated that, if the intes- tine be in a gangrenous state, there wiU usually be some evidence of this, either in the change that has taken place in the general symptoms of the patient, or in the condition of the sac and its coverings, which will enable the Singeon to guess at the condition of the enclosed parts, and will of course induce him to expose them fully and examine them thoroughly. This objection, however, cannot apply to those cases in which the strangulation has only existed for a time that would be insufficient to allow the occurrence of gangrene, and does not therefore oppose the performance of Petit’s operation in recent cases of strangulation. With regard to the occiuTence of internal strangulation, it is excessively rare ; and when it does occm, it still more rarely happens, whether the strangulation be effected by bands of adhesion or by an apertme in the omentum, that the parts can be retmned without opening the sac, adhesions usually existing also between this structure and its contents. But the best answer to the objections against the operation without opening the sac, are the results that have followed this practice. Luke, who has had great experience on this subject, states that he has operated in 84 cases of hernia. In 25 of these the sac was opened; in 59 the sac remained unopened. Of the 25 in which it was opened, 8 died ; whilst, of the 59 in which Petit’s operation was performed, only 7 died. If to Luke’s cases we add those reported by N. Ward, we shall find 36 deaths in 153 cases of Petit’s operation. That the ordinai-y operation, indeed, of opening the sac, is an exceedingly fatal one, is well known to aU hospital Smgeons, and is folly proved by smgical statistics. Of 77 opera- tions for hernia, reported by Sir A. Cooper, 36 proved fatal; and of 545 cases, recorded in the Journals, and collected by Tmner, 260 are reported to have