292 mSEASES OF THE SPINE. Changes in the Spinal Column.—Ang'ular curvature of the spine, or “ Pott’s disease,” as it is familiarly called, may originate in disease of two different structures of the spinal column ; viz., 1, the intervertebral fibro- cartilages ; 2, the bodies of the vertebrm. The seat of origin exereises an important inflnence on the character and progress of the disease. When it commences in the intervertebral fibro-cartilage, it is seldom fatal, the disease consisting in a strumous and inflammatory softening of these structures, going on to their absoi-ption and the consequent falhng together and fusion by bony ankylosis of the bodies of the vertebra:. In these cases, abscess seldom or never occurs, and the angular projection is usually limited to three vertebral spines at most. AATien the disease occurs in the bones of the spinal column, it primarily originates in and is usually confined throughout to the cancellous structure of the bodies of the vertebrm, leaving the spines, the arches, and the articular processes, unaffected ; but in some instances even those structures become implicated. The disease may begin in two distinct ways : 1, by the develop- ment of ordinary strumous osteitis : 2, by the deposit of tubercle in the can- cellous structure of the bone. The tubercle so deposited excites inflammation, and leads to disintegration of the suiTounding osseous structiue. The disease. whether simple strumous osteitis or tuberculous caries from its commencement, attacks the bodies of the vertebrm, which are cancellous, in preference to the other parts of these bones which are composed of compact osseous stiucturc. The bodies of the affected vertebrae become thin, eroded, and p-adually hollowed out anteriorly. In this way the bodies of fi’om three to six or eight of the vertebi’cB may be destroyed ; the corresponding intern ertebral fibro-caitilagcs. Fig. 473.—Angular Curvature of the Dorsal Spine from Caries and Ankylosis. Fig. 474.—Caries of Bodies of Lumbar Vertfcbroj: no attempt at Anky- losis.