88 SPECIAL ANEURISMS. the supposed aneurism was found to be a I’eduplieation of the common carotid sinrounded by indurated cellular tissue. From varix the diagnosis may readily he made by attention to the follow'ng circnmstances : that in varix the tumour is always soft, does not pulsate ex- pansively, and diminishes in size dining a deep inspiration, and on compressing the vein on its distal side. Gkmdular tmnours of the neck are often very difficult to distinguish from aneinism, more particularly when the artery passes through and is embraced by the tumour, so that the whole mass distinctly moves at each pulsation. In these cases also there may be an apparent diminution in the size of the tumour on compression, by the artery mthin it being emptied, or by the growth reced- ing into some of the areolar interspaces of the neck. But in the great majority of instances, attention to the globular, oval, and nodulated feel of grandular swellings, the possibility of raising them up and pushing them away fr-om the vessel, which may best be done by feeling the carotid ivith the ends of the fingers of one hand, and then pressing upon the tumour with the other, ■will clear up the true nature of the case. From abscess of the neck the diagnosis must be made on general principles. The coexistence of ill-defined hardness and of enlargement of the glands, of an inflamed state of the skin, the ready detection of fluctuation, and the absence of expansive pulsation in the tumoui-, will show that it is not aneuiismal, however similar its other characters may be. It is also of import- ance to observe that an aneiu’ism that fluctuates is always forcibly distended ■with strong pulsation, and can be materially diminished by pressme, neither of which circumstances can possibly occur in abscess. But if abscess may be mistaken for aneimsm, the converse also holds good ; and an aneimsni may, unless care be taken, be mistaken for abscess—a far more fatal error. And there is one variety of false aneurism, that to which Liston has invited special attention, against which the Sui'geon must be carefully on his guard, on account of the many points of resemblance between it and aneurism : I mean the case in which an artery has given way into the sac of an abscess. In this case, fluctuation and pulsation will exist, although not perhaps of a distending kind. An important diagnostic mark will be, however, that the outhne of an anem’ism is distinctly defined and limited, while that of an abscess never is. Aneurism of the internal carotid has been found by Syme to simulate very closely abscess of the tonsils. Tumours of various kinds—carcinomatous, fatty, and fibrous—may occur in the neck, and cause some little embarrassment in the diagnosis fr'om aneuiism; thus Lisfr-anc, O’Reilly, and Ken* of Aberdeen have recorded cases in which the artery has been ligatured in such cases by mistake for aneurism. The diaonosis of such tmnoiu-s as these must be effected on ordinary principles. I have in several instances met with a small, hai-d, distinctly circumscribed tumoiu-, lying directly upon the carotid artery, and apparently connected with it and receiving pulsation fr’om it, usually produced ^ by a fit of coughing oi lauo-hing. This tumour, with the true nature of which I am unacquainted, remains stationary, and does not require any operative interference. The thyroid body is not unfrcquently the seat of enlargements, that may be and have been mistaken for aneurism. These consist chiefly in a