STRUCTURAL CHANGES IN ARTERIES. ^3 in the part immediately supplied by the diseased vessel. Thus, in the limbs, we have all the signs of a defective circulation—coldness of the feet, cramps, and spasms of the muscles ; whilst, in organs, softening of tissue, fatty degene- ration, and other evidences of the want of a proper supply of blood leading to impaired nutrition, manifest themselves. Further Structural Changes in Arteries.—Beside the changes that take place in the parts to which the diseased arteries are distributed, ulterior effects are produced upon the vessels themselves, which may lead to important consequences. These consist in Ulceration of the Coats of the Artery ; their Spontaneous Rupture ; Contraction or Occlusion of the Interior of the Vessel ; and, lastly, its Dilatation into some of the various forms of Aneurism. Ulceration of Arteries, though frequently spoken of, in reality seldom occiu's ; the so-called ulceration being in general an erosion occasioned by a patch of softened atheroma and its investing membrane ha\dng been carried away by the ciu-rent of blood, which then washes the base of the depression thus produced in the middle coat, but is prevented from extending between the coats by the process of inflammatory fusion and cohesion Avhich has taken place in them around the patch. This apparent ulcer is deepened by the deposit around its margin of flbrine from the circulating blood, often in large gelatinous-looking masses. When true ulceration of an artery takes place, it is by destructive action commencing from without, attacking first the external coat, and not by any of the disintegrating processes commencing within the vessel. Spontaneous Kupture of an artery is rare, and never happens without previous disease of its coats. Experiments made by Peacock, w^hich I have repeated, and the accuracy of which I can fuUy confirm, prove that a healthy ai’tery will sustain a very great pressure from w^ater injected into it, without its walls giving way. But, if these have been softened or weakened by disease, they may be unable to resist even the ordinary impulse of the blood ; and if this be driven on by any unusually forcible action of the heart, as under the influence of sudden ^fiolent strain or exertion, they may give way. This occur- Tence would be much more frequent than it is in atheromatous and calcareous patches, were it not for the inflammatory consolidation of the external coat of the vessel supplying that resistance which has been lost by the softening or ■destniction of the internal and middle tunics. Hence this rupture is most frequent in those vessels the outer coat of wUich is thinnest, and in w'hich, ■consequently, it can least supply the place of the others, as in the arteries of the brain and in the intrapericardial portion of the aorta. The liability to rup- ture of a diseased artery by the distensile force of the blood impelled into it, is neatly increased by the existence of an obstacle to the free flow of the blood out of its terminal branches in consequence of a congested, infiltrated, or •chronically thickened state of the organ or part supplied by it. Contraction and Occlusion of arteries are by no means rare sequences of the structural lesions of these vessels. We have already seen that these con- ditions may arise from inflammation of the coats in any wvay excited, as by the • pressure of tumours ; but, besides this, the structural changes that take place may produce narrowing and closure of the vessel in various w\ays. Thus the diseased patch may project into the artery in such a manner that plastic matter