UrdNARY ABSCESS. 919 gut may not be woiindccl, and then pushing a long sharp-pointed bistomy deeply in the raphe of the periincum, cut upward to a sufficient extent into the extravasation, and in the direction of the urethra. A catheter should then, if possible, be introduced, secured in the bladder, and left unplugged, with an india-rubber tube attached ; in this way no further effusion can occur, an out- let will be afforded to matters already effused, and the greater part of the ui-ine will connnonly be found to escape after a time by the aperture thirs made. Should the case not be seen until extravasation has spread widely, a free incision should not only be made into the perinmum, extending to the aperture in the urethra, but also into the scrotum on each side of the septum, into the penis, and wherever else swelling is observed. The sole chance of safety for the patient lies in making these free incisions, through which the parts may, to a certain extent, empty themselves. However extensive the infiltration and serious the mischief may be, rve need not despair of the patient if a free outlet can be obtained for the acrid and putrescent urine and effused matters ; and in order to secure this, the infiltration must be followed by incisions as high as it extends. The parts must, at the same time, be covered with chlorinated and yeast poultices; and the constitutional powers of the patient mnst be supp(p:ted “ by good nourishment and a sufficient supply of stimulants. If the patient survive the immediate impression upon the system produced by the gangrene and the urinary infiltration, he must be prepared to go through a severe trial to liis constitutional powers, in the separation of the sloughs, the profuse discharge, and other sonrees of irritation that are set up. During this period he will require abundant support; the brandy-and-egg mixture, ammonia and bark, with any nourishment that he can take ; and much attention should be paid to the removal of the sloughs, to giving a ready outlet to the discharges, and to keeping the patient as clean and as free from all local irritation as possible. Urinary Abscess may be considered in many cases as a limited effusion of mine mixed with pus, and circumscribed by plastic matter that is deposited in the tissues with which the mme comes into contact. It is generally occasioned by the iiritation of the passage of instruments, but may arise simply as the effect of stricture, or from inflammation of some of the urethral follicles. From some cause of this kind a small abrasion or aperture forms in the methra, a drop or two of urine escapes into the subcutaneous areolar tissue, and this becomes bounded or circumscribed by plastic deposit around it, so that extra- vasation does not occur. Such an abscess as this may fonn at any part of the methra ; but it is most frequently met with in the perineeum, appearing to take its origin from the bulb or membranous part. It is rarely dangerous, but is chiefly of consequence by being commonly followed by minary fistula. The extent and the amount of mischief done by an urinary abscess wiU greatly depend on the side of the methra on which it is situated. Whma, as usually happens, it forms at the lower surface of the canal, it readily comes forward without much or extensive buiTowing. But when situated on the upper wall of the methra (which, however, is very rare,) or at the upper part of the side of the canal, it may buiTow widely before it points or is discharged exter- nally, occasioning great induration, infiltration, and mischief in neighbourino- parts. °