DISEASES OF THE MOUTH AND THROAT. 532 made to extirpate them from without, the profuse hajmorrhagc, the finuness with which the cyst-wall is incorporated with surrounding parts, and the danger attendant on the free use of the knife in the neighbourhood of such important parts as lie between the mylo-hyoid muscle and the tongue, will render such an operation not only unsatisfactory, but hazardous. Salivaby Calculi are occasionally met with in connection with the sub- lingual, submaxillary, and parotid glands. They are most common in the sublingual gland, and will then be found to be situated in the Whartonian duct. From this situation I have two or three times removed them. Gross mentions a case of calculus in the duct of the submaxillary gland. '\\'herever occurring, they obstruct the duct and produce retention of saliva in it. Hence, when the salivary glands become actively secreting, as at mealtimes, the calculus, by preventing the escape of the sahvary fluid, causes distension of the gland, with pain and tenderness, so as to render mastication difflcult. The Treatment is simple. It consists in dividing the mucous membrane over the calculus and then extracting it with forceps. The largest which I have removed was of the size of a small damson-stone; it was loose in ■Wharton’s duct. DISEASES OP THE UVULA AND TONSILS. Elongation op the Uvula.—The uvula occasionally becoming elongated and hanging down into the pharynx, so as to touch the ejiiglottis and sensitive mucous membrane in its neighbourhood, gives rise to a great irritation of the fauces, and to a tickling or spasmodic cough, which can only be cured by re- moving the pendulous body. This little operation may be readily done by seizing the end of the uvula with a pair of polypus-forceps, and snipping it across near the root with a long pair of scissors. It is better not to remove the whole of the uvula. If this be done, throat-irritation is apt to continue. I have been most satisfied with the result of those cases, in which a stiunp from a quarter to the third of an inch in length has been left. For some years I have been in the habit of using a pair of “ vulseUum-scissors ” (Fig. 634), by which the uvula is cut off at the same moment that it is seized, thus rendering the operation easier and less irritating to the patient. A very ingenious American instrument, consisting of a pair of forceps and scissors combined, may be employed with the same view ; by closing the handles of this instrument the uvula is first seized, and is then immediately cut across (Fig. 635). Tonsillitis or Quinsy.—The tonsils are not unfrequently the seat of tlisease, becoming inflamed or permanently enlarged. When inflamed, they become swollen and red, with much pain in the side of the neck and ear, increased by any attempt at swallowing; there is usually rather a iirofiise secretion of saliva, and a good deal of swelling under the angles of the jaws ; the tongue is much coated with thick pasty mucus, and the voice is thick and nasal. The disease comes on suddenly, often accompanied by high fever, chills, and occasionally even delirium. The thermometer frequently rises to 105°, or even higher. In some cases, a trace of albumen may be found in the urine. Tonsillitis is often caused by exposure to impure air, such as results from the escape of sewer-gas into a house, and it is not uncommon amongst