8o8 URINARY CALCULUS. necessary, be injected through it after or during sounding, without the neces- sity of changing the instrument (Fig. 750). This will be found of much service in the later stages of the operation for detecting small fragments. A Irass sijrimjo, with rings, and having a large piston rod, so that it may work easily, should be at hand, and admit of adaptation to the liollow sound. The Surgeon should also be provided with silver catlieiers of three different kinds : one with large lateral eyes, another with a large eye in the convexity, and a third with a large eye in the conca's'ity near the. point (Figs. 773, 774, 775) ; all having an elastic gum bougie fitted to the interior, instead of a stylet, to clear out the fragments (Fig. 776). These should also fit to the syringe. The instrument foy breaking the stone consists of a lithotrite, as represented in the annexed cuts (Figs. 760, 765, 766) ; or a similar instrument worked by a rack and pinion is employed by Fergusson. The hthotrite must be made of well-tempered steel; and should be tested by being made to crush a piece of sandstone grit, of about the size of a walnut. It should be of as full a size as the urethra will readily admit; it must have the male blade well serrated, and the female or under blade open at the beak, with an oval apertuio, through which the detritus of the crushed stone is forced, and thus any entanglement of it between the blades is prevented (Fig. 760). The object of this open-bladed Hthotrite is to break the larger and harder stones into pieces ; but it is not intended to pulverise smaller calculi and fragments. 759. Litliometer Somul for measuring stone. It is liollow, so tliat the bladder can lie emptiwl ’ and injected through it. The Hthotrite should be cut out of a bar of solid steel, and not, as is the case with some instruments, made of a plate of this metal, tmmed up at the edges , as such an one possesses too little strength to be used with safety on large and hard calculi. Those cut out of a bar of metal have an external blade, ha^ng a gi-ooved shape, as in Fig. 764. In this, the male or internal branch, cut to fit accurately (Fig. 763), slides smoothly, the whole instrument possessing an