1 684 INTEBTINA L OESTJi UGTl OX. \'omitiug, and tUo stomach may reject its contents as often as anything is in- troduced into it ; but the vomiting will not be feculent in the majority of ■cases, however obstinate the constipation may be, and however long it may last. It, however, there be complete meehanical occlusion, feculent vomiting anost commonly sets in early, frequently by the third day, or even sooner ; and will continue until the cause of occlusion bci’cinoved. The vomiting, however, is not continuous, but will usually occur only after food has been taken into ■the stomach. It is true that feculent vomiting is not sufficient by itself to de- •termine the diagnosis ; and that it may occur in cases of pure spasmodic ileus, in which the obstruction is removable by medical means. Of this I have seen several instances,—the feculent vomiting being very persistent, and the patient presenting all the othei’ symptoms that are usually considered to be dependent on internal strangulation ; but eventually recovering under the use of opium, and other medical means directed to the relief of spasm, without •the necessity of operative interference. It is, therefore, as necessary to bear in mind the occasional dependence of feculent vomiting on pure spasmodic ileus, •or on other conditions that are removable by medical aid alone, as that it may be absent in cases in which the obstruction, Avhether seated in the small or in the large intestine, can only be relieved by surgical assistance. But a careful ■exploration of the abdomen and rectum, and a proper inquiry into the history •of the case, will most generally prevent the Singeon from being led into any serious error by trusting too implicitly to the presence or absence of this one symptom. The following is a summary of the general diagnostic signs of the various ■conditions, leading to acute internal obstruetion. 1. In Internal hernia the suddenness of the symptoms, the prostration or even syncope, fixed pain, ■and Ammiting, will throw light on the condition. '1. In Inhissuscejjtion, the early age, the fixed pain, with elongated tumour to be felt on palpation, and possibly through the rectum, Avith bloody mucous stools and tenesmus, are the chief signs. 3. In Volvuhts the signs of internal strangulation, Avith A-ery imequal distension of the abdomen, great tympanites on one side and flattening cn the other, are met with. 4. In Chronic stricture suddenly occluded, the .sudden aggraAction of the previous long-continued difficulty in defecation will clear up the diagnosis. II. After determining Avhether the obstruction be dependent on causes that are remoAmble or not, the next most important point is doubtless to asceitain Avhether the obstruction is seated in the laxge or in the small intestine. In general, there may be no great diflficulty in coming to an accurate opinion on this point, if it be borne in mind that, Avith the exception of a ohmlus, obstructions of the large intestines are most generally chronic, Avhilst those of the small ai-e, in by far the majority of cases if not invanably, acute in their character. The earlier occm-rence of feculent vomiting Avhen the obstruction is in the smaU intestine, the greater tympanitic distention and bulging in the com’se of the emeum and colon Avhen it is seated in the laige mtestnie ( e amount of minary secretion being, as was pointed out by Hilton and te. hir , less in the former than in the latter case, OAving to the diminis e , intestinal surface capable of absorption of liquids), and the result of ^ai exploration of tlie rectum, will most commonly enable the Surgeon to clecid