626 HERNIA. of adhesions stretching across this, or of the indurated edge of an aperture of the omentum tlirough which a portion of the gut has slipped. liOCAL Effects of STRAEauLATiON.—The changes induced in the strangu- lated parts result from the pressure of the stricture, and the consequent inter- ference ^vith the cirmxlation through them. If the strangulation be acute, that portion of intestine which lies immediately under the stricture will be seen to be nipped or mai-kcd by a deep sulcus, occasioned partly by the pressure to which it has been subjected, and partly by the swelling of the congested tissues beyond it. The changes that take place in the protruded intestine rapidly increase in proportion to the duration of the strangulation. The tightness of the stricture and the acuteness of the strangulation have, however, even more to do with these changes than its duration. I have seen the bowel so tightly nipped that, though the strangulation had only existed eight hom’s when the operation was performed, the vitality was lost in the part constricted (Fig. 07!)) ; and in other cases I have known the part to re- cover itself, although strangulation had lasted for five or six days before the operation was performed. The first change that takes place in the protruded parts in the case of strangulated hernia is their this rapidly runs on to inflammation, and speedily terminates in gangrene. The protruded bowel becomes, at first, of a claret, morone, or pm-plish-brown colour, sometimes ecchymosed on the surface, with thickening and stiffening of its coats, owing to effusion into their substance ; some liquid is also usually poured out into its interior. In this stage, that of congestion, the omentum -will also be found with its veins a good deal congested. When inflammation has set in, the bowel preserves the same colour as in the congested condition, but usually becomes coated here and there with flakes of lymph, which gives it a rough and viUous look ; the omentum has a somewhat rosy tinge, and there is usually a good deal of reddish fluid poured out into the sac. AVhen gangrene occurs, the bowel loses its lustre and polish, becoming of an ashy grey, or dull black colour, soft and somewhat lacer- able, so that its coats readily separate from one another ; the serous membrane especially peeling off. The omentum is dark pm-plish, or of a kind of dull yellowish-grey ; and there is usually a considerable quantity of dark turbid serum in the sac, the whole contents of which are extremely offensive. Most usually, when gangi’ene occurs in a strangulated rupture, inflammation of the sac and its coverings takes place, accompanied, after a time, by a reddish-blue or congested appearance and some tenderness on pressure ; and, if the part be left imreduced, eventually by emphysematous crackling. If the case be left without being relieved, gangi-ene of the skin will at last take place ; the sac driving way, and the fecal matters being discharged tfeough the softened and disintegrated tissues. In such circumstances as these—which, however, are very rjwely met wth at the present day—the patient usually eventually dies of low peritonitis, from extension of the inflammation to the serous mem- , brane. No effusion, however, of feculent matter will take place into the peritoneal cavity, even under such favourable conditions ; the portion of bowel immediately wthin the stricture becomes adherent by plastic matter to the peritonemn on its internal surface, and thus the escape of any extravasation into the cavity of the abdomen is prevented. It does not always folIoA\ tha