465 STAPHYLOMA. Staphyloma is a term appliocl to any bulging of a part of the coats of the eyeball, primarily of the sclerotic or cornea, or of any tissues replacing these proper coats. Staphyloma cornem generally begins at a part at which there is by imperfeet tissues that give way, , A selorotic staphyloma will involve the other coats within it, which also become expanded and thinned. A corneal staphyloma frequently candes vuth it the iris, whieh had become adherent to the posterior surface of the cornea, when the disease, the first cause of the staijhyloma, brought them into contact, and thus it is expanded over the bulged cornea behind it. A corneal staphy- loma generally has a central white patch, ill defined in the comparatively clear tissues around it, the leucoma marking the old disease in which it had begun. A small partial corneal staphyloma, in a seeing eye, may be, if sufficiently well defined, simply removed vdth a knife, leaving the remaining clear cornea, in the hope that it vill firmly cicatrise, and not again bulge, and afford still useful vision ; but such a case is not often met Avith, nor is the hope then often ful- filled. If an eye vdth total but inconsiderable staphyloma cornete retain some vision, one can only do abscission or excision, if the patient decidedly vush it; then it may be done because it will only go on from bad to worse, and at u fritm-e time the operation will be inevitable. But in a case of extreme cor- neal staphyloma, the eye, very probably, still retains perception of light ; and ■of this, unless it be all the patient sees, the other eye being lost, no account must be taken, and the operation must be recommended. Pain alone does not contra-indicate the operation of abscission, but it must be apparenfry such as is due only to the disease of the anterior parts of the eye, to the irregidar surface and prominence of the quasi-corneal tissue, some- times even exposed for some time to the air, and drying, as the lids can’hardlv close OA’cr it. ^ The object of the operation is to remove, an useless and painful or un- sightly feafrire, and to gain, instead of it, a low stump as a good foundation tor an artificial eye. If we are. careful to remoA'e the lens, which is liable to Chalky and other degenerations, and the ciliary body, which is full of muscular tissue, nerves, and blood-vessels, together with the offending parts, we get rid nfk chances of irritation the other*e^^ sympathetic irritation and inflammation in is “■ c^sion, one or the other, In thc^rises of*m undoubtedly advisable, tivelv «r„,1 “‘“Phyloma corneas, the deeper parts are only comp.ii-a- mde irthoo 'T’ ' ='l>«ission,L s unn, “ounded and shr n? “'<= "«cidLtally cases occur. The cisiTof eo^™ 1 '‘t “l'T“ "'bonever the persons, to whorTwsolrT “'ose of y„„„g VOL. II. ^ appearance is more important than to those H H