SPECIAL ANEURISMS. io8 Ill females, caiid in 4 of these iustanees the disease resulted from inimy ; in 2 cases, both arteries were affected. The disease may be seated in any part of the vessel on the right side, though most commonly it is not dilated until after it has passed beyond the scaleni. On the left side aneurism never occurs before the artery has emerged from the thorax ; and then, as on the right, it most commonly happens in the third part of the coiu’sc of the vessel. Sub- clavian aneurism may occur at any age above 21. It is most common in middle life ; and, according to Poland, is three times more frequent in Eng- land than in any other country. Symptoms.—An aneurism of the subclaidan artery is characterised by a pulsating compressible tumour of an elongated or ovoid shape, situated at the base of the posterior inferior triangle of the neck, immediately above the cla-sucle. If it be small, it will disappear behind this bone on the shoulder being raised ; as it increases in size, it fills up the whole of the space between the clavicle and the trapezius, often attaining a veiy considerable bulk. In consequence of the pressure which it exercises on the brachial plexus of nerves there is pain, often attended by numbness, and extending dovm the arm and fingers, usually with some weakness of these jjarts. In some instances there is a spasmodic affection of the diaphragm, owing to irritation of the phrenic nerve. The external jugular vein is commonly distended and varicose, with oedema of the hand and arm, or even of the side of the body. The tumour does not increase rapidly in size, owing to its being tightly compressed by the siuTonnding parts ; and, as the disease never extends inwards, it does not interfere Avith the trachea or oesophagus. In some cases it has been Imown to extend doAAmwards and backAvards, so as to implicate the pleura and the summit of the lung. DiAGifOSis.—The diagnosis of subclaA’ian aneiuism is usually easy, and presents no point of a special character. ]\Iayo, however, mentions a case in which an exostosis of the first rib j)ushed forward the subclavian arteiy in such a Avay as to cause it to simidate an aneurism, and eA'entually to arrest the pulsation in it. Results.—As a subclavian aneurism increases in size, it may become diffused, and burst either externally or into the pleural sac. A spontaneous ciue has more frequently occurred in this than in any other external aneurism. Treatment.—The treatment of subclaAdan aneurism is in the highest degree imsatisfactory. Comjiremon on the cardiac side can only be employed when the artery is so irregularly distributed that it rises sufficiently high in the neck to admit of pressure being applied betAveen the scalenus and the sac. Such a combination of irregular anatomical distributions with aneurism must of necessity be excessively rare. But in one case in AA'hich it occurred, Poland succeeded in effecting a cure by digital compression, kept up foi ninety-six hours. The tumour then Avas smaller and harder, but stiU pulsated. The patient left the Hospital, and, at the end of a month, the tumour was found to have become solid, and to have ceased to pulsate. The number of cases m Avhich compression is possible, may perhaps be increased by pcifoiming t e operation under prolonged antesthesia. Direct Pressure on the sac has succeeded. It has been tried in tlnce cases, and in all successfuUy. Warren of Boston made the pressure by means of a