OPERATIONS ON THE AIR-TUBE AND GUEST. 562 the bleeding from other sources. When it occurs, it chiefly happens fi-om the wound of some anomalous branch, or from that of tlie small tracheal vessels, Desault has, however, mentioned a fatal case, in which death arose fr-om a Avound of the carotid. The arterial anastomosis of the isthmus of the thyroid body may, if this part be enlarged, occasion some difficulty in the performance of the operation ; but the main source of danger unquestionably proceeds from the venous Ueeding. Not only are the plexuses of veins of large size, more particularly where they cover the lower part of the trachea, but they become immensely gorged by the asphyxia that necessitates the operation. Hence, when they are wounded, the bleeding may be so abundant as scarcely to be controllable, and may very greatly retard the after-steps of the operation. Many Surgeons of authority in these matters advise that the Avindpipe should j not be opened until all, or nearly all, the bleeding has ceased ; lest the blood, entering the bronchi and lungs through the aperture, asphyxiate the patient, j But in this way much valuable time may be consumed, and the patient may be ; fatally exhausted by a tedious and prolonged operation, and by the loss of an unnecessarily large quantity of blood. The haemorrhage in this operation is almost entirely venous, and is, in a great measure, dependent on the distension of the veins of the neck, which occurs in asphyxia as the result of the accumu- lation of blood in the right cavities of the heart, consequent upon the obstructed circulation through the lungs ; and the bleeding aauII continue so long as that obstruction remains unmoved. But as the respiratory process is re-estabhshed, this obstruction to the puhnonic circulation diminishes, the cardiac cavities become unloaded, the venous turgescence of the neck subsides, and the hsem- orrhage proportionately lessens. This I have repeatedly found in asphyxia ' artificially induced in animals ; and I have often seen it in the human subject, ^ in cases in which it has become necessary to open the Avindpipe at once, Avithout waiting to arrest haemorrhage. Hence, except in those instances in which an arterial tAvig or large venous trunk has been Avomided, and which must of course be secured, the occurrence of bleeding, though tolerably smart, need not deter the Surgeon from opening the windpipe; as the relief ' afforded to respiration will induce a corresponding and rapid diminution in the venous tmgescence of the neck, and in the consequent flow of blood from the wound. 3. Another difficulty in tracheotomy sometimes attends the process ot Opening the Trachea after it is exposed. In consequence of the convulsive breathing of the patient, the sterno-mastoids are put upon the stretch, thus increasing considerably the depth of the wound in the neck ; and, at each short and gasping respiration, the air-tube is rapidly pumped or jerked to and fro, approaching to and receding fr’om the surface in such a way that the scalpel cannot be thrust into it with safety. In order to do this Avith the least risk. Fig. 048.—Trachea-hook-Director. a sharp-pointed hook should be passed between two of the rings, and the tube being thus fixed, opened by cutting upwards (Fig. C47). Or the hook, bem^