328 DISEASE OF THE IIIF-JOINT. inwards, and pushed upwards by an assistant, and tlie soft structures separated by a probe-pointed knife from around the upper end of the bone, so that the whole amount of disease may come into view. The carious epiphysis is then cut off with a saw, the soft parts around being protected, if necessai-y, l)y means of retractors. There is one practical question with regard to the amount of the upper end of the thigh-bone to be removed, which requires consideration; and that is. Should the bone be sawn through below the great trochanter ; or through the neck only, leading the trochanter ? The practice should, I think, differ according to the natime of the disease. If this be femoral, it is best to take away the great trochanter, as the caries has generally reached its cancellous structure, or it may be infiltrated with tubercle. But if the disease be aceta- bular, and the peMc bones be the parts most extensively and deeply affected, it will suffice to remove the head only, leaving the trochanter, which is not affected in these cases. After removing the head of the bone, the upper end should be examined, and any carious parts gouged out. After the epiphysis of the thigh-bone has been removed, the acetabulum must be examined, and any rough or necrosed bone lying at its edge should be gouged away. In the acetabular form of the disease, where large portions of the pelvic bones require removal, the early stages of the operation requh-e to be con- ducted in the way just described; the incisions, however, being made more freely, but not carried so far forwards as to endanger the anterior crural, or so far back as to woimd the sciatic nerve. After the removal of the head of the thigh-bone, all loose necrosed pieces are to be taken out, and then, by means of ordinary cutting or gouge-forceps, the acetabulum and other carious osseous structm-es cut away piecemeal. Those portions of bone which have necrosed are 'irsually separated, and lying loose, or else may generally be readily separated by the finger, or by the handle of a scalpel, fi’om the sub- jacent soft structm-es; and the muscles and fascite fining the pelvic bones, being thickened and infiltrated vdth lymph, effectually protect the contained parts fr'om all injm-y. , i , After the operation the wound must be dressed m a sunplc maimer, and a lono- splint applied. Fergusson recommends that the extension should be made from the opposite thigh, round the upper part of which a socket is fixed, to which the band is attached (Fig. 494). Much advantage avi c derived fr-om the use of the bracket thigh-splint, fr-om which extension may made by means of a ivcight (as in Fig. 184, \ol. I.).