OPERATION FOR CANCER OF THE 6or already adverted to, that it is oidj comparatively recently that it has been pos- sible to distinguish, ei-en after removal, certain forms of sarcoma from cancer and that all statistical statements in reference to the question of recnrrence of cancer of the breast after operation, made anterior to this period, must be utterly valueless, inasmuch as hard sarcomata were generally mistaken for scirrhus, and the soft and rapidly growing ones were confounded with encephaloid. The only inference fairly deduciblc from those inquiries is that in a certain proportion of cases, whatever the precise ratio be (and this is still undetermined), « disease supposed to be cancer has been effectually removed by extirpation of the breast. 2. As to the second question,—whether as a general rule life may not be prolonged by the performance of the operation,—it would appear, if the statistics collected by Leroy D’Etiolles be accimate, that hitherto it has not been so. Walshe comes to the conclusion that the operation cannot, as a general rule, be regarded as a means of prolonging life, but that in the majority of cases, death is hastened by such interference. Sir A. Cooper and Sir B. Brodie both agree that, in most cases, the disease returns in two or three years after the operation, and then kills the patient. But, though the general result of a statistical inquiry into this subject, based iipon the imperfect materials and probably very incoiTect figm’es at present before the profession, leads to the conclusion that operation for cancer of the •breast, when indiscriminately performed, has hitherto not only failed to cure the disease, but has actually in a great number of cases hastened its fatal termination, yet it must be admitted that instances have occurred in which life has been prolonged by this means considerably beyond its average dura- tion in this disease. Thus, Callaway operated on a case in which no return took place for twenty-two years. Velpeau states that he removed encephaloid tumours of the breast, and that the patient remained free fr’om the disease for eight or . ten years. Sir B. Brodie and other Surgeons relate similar in- stances in which the patient’s life has been prolonged for many years •after the operation ; and the experience of the most eminent practical Biu’geons is decidedly in favoiu of having recoiu’se to it imder certain cir- cumstances. But, high as is the authority that must necessarily attach itself to the statements of such great Surgeons as Velpeau and Brodie, it is impossible not to suspect that some of the tumours may not have been cancers, but only sarcomata, which the means of diagnosis possessed by these eminent men were insufficient to distinguish from true cancers in all cases. Ihe most trustworthy statistics that we possess on the relative dui’ation of life in cases of cancer of the breast, with or without operation, are those col- lected by Sir James Paget, Morrant Baker, and Sibley. Paget states that, of 11J cases, 6G were not submitted to operation ; of these the average diu’ation of life was a little more than 48 months. Of 47 operated on, the corresponding average was also a little more tlian 49 months. In the first two years of the disease the proportion of deaths was much less in those operated on than in those who were left—being in the former 24 percent., in the latter 3G percent. I he longest duration of life in cases not operated on was 18 years ; in those operated on, a little more than 12 years. Alorraut Baker finds that in 84 cases