598 DISEASES OF THE BREAST. means a proof of malignimcy. Eapiclly growing sarcomata will recur. This I liave seen happen five times in a lady, otherwise in perfect health, and without a trace of malignant disease in the system or in the tumour (sec page 584)., So also the recurring fibroid tumour has been removed eight or ten times from the breast, before its complete extirpation has been eft'ected. TuEAT:\rENT.—In cases of cancer of the breast, the first question that presents, itself to the Surgeon is, whether any plan of treatment short of the remo'^-al of the tumour holds out a prospect of cure, or even of relief; and if not, whethei- the extirpation of the cancerous breast can be undertaken with a prospect of ridding the patient of an othenvise fatal disease, or at least of prolonging her existence. To these questions the remarks made at pp. 790 et seq., Vol. I., on the general treatment of cancer, may be considered applicable. The manage- ment of cancer of the breast, however, involves so many special considerations- of importance, that it becomes necessary to consider its bearings somewhat in detail. No constitutional means appear to be of the slightest service in arresting,, and still less in removing, cancerous tumours of the breast. The ad-s’autages. stated to have been derived from the use of arsenic, conium, iron, various, preparations of meremy, &c., have not been borne out by experience ; and,, indeed, it may be stated generally that these and all other known remedies are^ perfectly valueless in the emutive treatment of this disease. Compression by various means, whether by plasters, as employed by Young ; by agaric, as used by Recamier ; by the spring-pads of Tanchou ; or by the slack air-cushion of Arnott, has been much praised, not only as a. palliative, but as a ciuative means of treatment in this disease ; and cases are- recorded, which, however, even the warmest advocates of this plan of treat- ment are forced to admit to be altogether exceptional, in which the employ- ment of this means has been stated to have'effected a complete removal of the- tumoiu’. But, although I am not prepared to deny that hard and chronic tumoiu's of the breast may have become absorbed during the employment of tins treatment (and indeed I have had occasion to observe this in my own practice, in cases of chronic mammary growth), I think that evidence is- altogether wanting to show that an undoubted case of cancer of the breast has. ever been ciued by this means. And, notwithstanding the high authority with which some of these alleged cures of cancer have been brought before the pro- fession, no positive proof has been adduced to show that the tumour that was. observed was really and truly of a cancerous character, and that it may not- have been either a chronic mammary tumoiu’, o]’ an encysted abscess of the- breast. Every practical Sin’geon well knows that it is utterly impossible, im the present state of science, to diagnose in many cases with complete certainty the true natine of a tiunour of the breast, and must frequently have witnessed, cases in which, after extirpation, the morbid growth has been found to be of a. different character from Avhat had originally been supposed. I am^ acquainted • with at least eight or ten cases in which some of the most experienced Sui^ geons, both in this country and in Paris, have amputated the breast for supposed iin-hus ; when, after removal, it was found simply to haA-e been the seat of a chronic abscess with very dense walls. And vdth regard to a hard, chrome, and indolent tumour of the breast, few Surgeons will hazard a positive diagnosis as