TREATMENT OF INNOMINATE ANEURISM. 8i tied (Fig. 378). lu one of the most favourable of these, that by Fearn, two yeai-s elapsed between the ligatiue of the carotid and that of the subclavian ; the patient dying three months after the second operation : the sac was filled with laminated coagnlum, and appeared to be undergoing spontaneous cure. {See Table, below.) The third case is remarkable as being the fii’st instance in which both the vessels were tied simultaneously, and from the patient ha-n'ng hved for six days after the occlusion of all the arteries supplying the brain except the left vertebral. Heath’s case is remarkable, as being the fii’st in which simidtaneons ligature of both arteries was followed by recovery. AXEUEISilS OF INNOMINATE TREATED BY LIGATURE OP CAROTID AND SUBCLAVIAN. OPEEATOR. 1. FEAK>1. 2. 'WickhjVM. SEX. AGE. f. 2S .^5. Eossi. 4. Malgaigne G. Bickeesteth 1864. G. C. Heath. m. uo. m. 34 32 CAROTID LIGATURED. SUBCLAVIAN LIGATURED. Aug. 30th, 1836. Se2)t. 25th, 1839. Aug. 2nd, 1838. Dec. .3rd, 1839. Carotid and subclavian simultaneonslv. April 3rd, 1845. May 10th, 1864. Oct. 17th, 1845. Seven weeks after liga- ture of carotid. Subclavian and carotid simultaneously. Nov. 21st, 1865. Died nearly four months after second operation Horn pleurisy. Sac of aneurism of innominate filled with dense organised coagu- lum; except a channel of the size of artery for the passage of the blood. Tumour diminished after ligature of carotid, and dys2moea ceased for a time; but sym2itoms re- turning, subclavian was tied. Relief of symptoms ensued; but tumour increased, and patient died two and a half months after fii’st bm’sting of sac. Death in six days. Occlusion of left carotid and right vertebral arteries; circulation of brain caiTied on by left vertebral only. Died on the twenty-first day after the second operation. Carotid obliterated ; subclavian still pervious. Marked improvement after liga- tnre of carotid. That of sub- clavian very difficult, owing to close proximity of the sac. Died Sept. 20. Heath’s patient lived a very in- temperate life for four years after the_operation, and died fi-om the giving way of the aneurism in front of the sternum. The pre- paration in the museum of the College of Surgeons shows the aneinism to have been entirely aortic,_ springing from the right side of the ascending portion of! the arch. Tlierc can be no doubt that the patient was benefited and her life prolonged by the 02ieration, the disease bciucr sta- tionary for two years. ^ VOL. u. G