INDICATIONS FOR EXCISION 243 was Tiolontly opposed by the great body of Surgeons, and, with the exception of the occasional removal of the head of the humerus, fell into almost com- plete neglect both in this country and abroad for a period of nearly forty years, during which time the records of Surgery do not contain as many cases in Avhich the articular ends of bones were excised for disease. The operation of excision of diseased joints, though occasionally practised, continued in this languid state until 1831, when it received anew and vigorous impulse, so far as its application to diseases of the elbow was concerned, by the publication of Syme’s essay on that subject, and by the practice of Liston some years subsequently at University College Hospital. In 1845 these operations were again prominently brought before the Pro- fession ))y the performance of excision of the head of the femur by Fergusson ; and although exeision of the knee-joint had occasionally been practised by Synae, Crampton, Textor, Demme, Heyfelder, and others, it was not until its revival in 1850 by the same accomphshed Surgeon, that it came to be exten- sively practised. Since that period, the operation of excision has been applied to almost every joint withhi reach of the Surgeon’s knife. Before proceeding to discuss the different resections in detail, we must endea- vour to lay down some general rides for their performance in those cases in which they are alone admissible. IxDiCATioxs FOK Excisioif.—The excision of an articulation may be prac- tised for the foUoiving reasons :— 1. As a substitute for amputation in cases in which the joint is so extensively diseased, that the patient will be worn out by the discharge or pain, unless it be removed. Here an useful limb may be secured by the sacrifice of the diseased part. 2. In some cases of articular disease in which amjndation woxdd not loe justi- fiahle, excision may be done in order to hasten the cure, and thus to save years of suffering to the patient. Z. Excision may be done in cases in which amimtation is not ’practicable ; as in disease of the hip-joint or of the temporo-maxillary articulation. 4. As a substitute for other and less efficient treatment, in order to restore the 'Utility of a limb or joint; as in osseous ankylosis of the elbow, or in faulty osseous ankylosis of the knee. ^ 5. Excision may be required in bad compound dislocations and fractures into pints especially in yun-shot injuries ; more particularly in those of the head of the humerus, and of the elbow. As a general rule, resections are more required for diseases of the articidar ends of bones than for simple disorganisation of joints. If only the soft s nictures of a joint be involved, it usually happens that, without the necessity ot resection or operation of any kind, an useM limb will result; in the upper mobility of the articulation; in the lower with more or Qf-f ^ ° fm.i.ylosis, sufficient for a fair basis of support. But when the n 1 u ion IS very strumous, or the bones are primarily or extensively affected bc^comeuTehd!^^^^^^*^ recover to such an extent as to CoxDiTioxs OF Success.—For resection to succeed, the following condi- tions appear to me to be necessary. mnoving condi-