135 LIGATURE OF RADIAL AND ULNAR ARTERIES. to the median basilic vein. As soon as the integumental structures ai-e divided, the strong process of fascia from the tendon of the biceps will come into view, beneath Avhich the artery lies accompanied by its veins, in the triangulai- space bounded externally by the biceps tendon, and internally by the pronator teres. In performing this operation, the veins at the bend of the arm, with the filaments of the internal cutaneous neiwe, must be di\dded to some extent, though they should be spared as much as possible. The artery Avill be found about half an inch to the inner side of the tendon, accompanied by the median nerve, Avhich is to its ulnar side (Fig. 392). Ligature of the Radial and Ulnar Arteries.—These arteries should never be ligatured above the middle third of the arm, except in cases of direct Avound. Any attempt at tying them in the upper part of the fore- arm Avill not only be attended Avith great difiiculty, but Avith the danger of cripph'ng the muscles in this situation, and thus impairing the after-move- ments of the arm. Ligature of the brachial artery may ahvays be substituted advantageously. The Ulnar Artery above the Avrist may be readily ligatured by making an incision about two inches in length, a little above and one-third of an inch to the radial side of the pisiform bone, parallel to the tendon of the flexor carpi iflnaris, Avhich is the “ directing line ” to the vessel. After the fascia covering it has been diAuded, the artery, Avith its two accompanying veins, Avill be found to the radial side of the ulnar nerve (Fig. 393). The Radial Artery may be ligatured near the Aviist, by making an incision, about two inches in length, half an inch to the outside of the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis—the “ directing fine ” (Fig. 394); when, after the division Fig. 393.—Diagram of Left Ulnar Artery at wn.st. A Ulnar arterj-. n. Ulnar nen-e. t. ienuoii of Flexor carjn lUnaris. Fig. 394.—Diagram of Left Radial Artery at AVrist. A. Radial artery, t. Tendon of Flexor carpi radialis. of the superficial and deep fascife, the artery, accompanied by its two veins, will be exposed, and may be tied in the usual way.