38 ANEURISM. in itself that Surgeons were seldom ■willing to undertake it, but was so fatal in its results, being commonly attended by secondary bajmoiTbage in consequence of the artery being ligatm-ed in a diseased part, or by diliuse inflammation, suppiu'ation, and gangrene in the deeper tissues of the limb operated upon, that recoTcry after its performance was considered a marvel, and most Sm-geons preferred submitting the patient to amputation at once. 2. The Ligature of the Artery on the Cardiac Side of the Aneu- rism, without opening the sac, was first done by Anel, in the year 1710, in a case of brachial aneurism. This operation, though attended with the risk of wounding or inflaming the sac, which was in close proximity to the seat of ligatm-e, constituted a considerable advance in the treatment of the disease ; inasmuch as it did not necessarily lead to the opening up of the aneurismal tumour, and to the dangers that were inseparable from that mode of procedme. As Anel, howev'er, performed his operation as a mere matter of convenience in a particular case, and Avithout the recognition of any ncAV principle of treatment being involved in it, it attracted but little attention at the time, and does not appear to have been repeated by any of the Siu’geons of his day. It was reserved for John Hunter to make the great improvement m opera- tiA’e surgery of ligaturing the artery at a distance from the sac, where its coats Avere healthy, and Avhere there Avas no danger of interference vdth the aneurism itself. In this way the objections to Anel’s operation Avere av^oided : for though, like Anel, Hunter tied the arteiy on the cardiac side only of the sac, yet he differed from him in doing so in a healthy part of its coiu’se, and at a considerable distance above the tumom, where the apph- cation of the ligature would be attended with less risk of htemorrhage, and AAuth no danger of opening, irritating, or inflaming the sac, which is insepai-- able from Anel’s operation. The folloAving are the reasons, given in Sir Everard Home’s own Avords, that induced John Hunter to adopt the operation that is now generally knoAvn in siu’gery as the Hunterian. “ Mr. Hunter proposed, in performing this operation, that the artery should be taken up at some distance from the diseased part, so as to dimmish the risk of hcBmorrhage, and admit of the artery being more readily seemed should any such accident happen. The force of the cii’culation being thus taken off from the aneurismal sac, the cause of the disease would, in Mr. Hunter s opinion, be remov'^ed ; and he thought it highly probable that, if the parts were left to themselves, the sac, with the coagulated blood contained in it, might be absorbed, and the whole of the tumoiu’ removed by the action of ' the animal economy, Avhich would consequently render any openmg into the sac unnecessary.” Hunter’s first operation was performed in December, 1785, in a case of popli- teal anemism. The femoral artery was ligatured rather below the middle of ^ the thigh, underneath the sartorius muscle ; and from that time his method 1 Avas almost exclusively employed by Surgeons in the treatment of anemism, 1 until the introduction of compression in 1842. , , e } The Effects produced upon an aneurismal tumour by the ligature ot the artery according to the Hunterian method, deserA'e cai-cful attention. The ;■ immediate effect, on draAving the ligature tight, consists in a cessation of pm- ,