7i6 diseases of the large intestine and anus. iscliio-rectal abscess constitutes a fistula in cino; an affection that has attracted a good deal of attention from the frequency of its occuiTence, and from the difficulty of curing it without ha'V'ing recourse to operation. Extent.—Sometimes a fistula is very limited, being merely the sinus left in the submucous areolar tissue of the anus after the biu’sting of a superficial abscess in this situation, extending to a short distance up the gut inside the sphincter. This form of fitsula constitutes, however, a kind of spimous variety of the disease ; for the true fistula in ano is outside the sphincter in the surrounding areolar tissue, extending always as high as the upper margin of that muscle, and fi’equently stretching to a considerable distance up the side of the gut, i\Iost frequently the lower and external aperture of the fistula is single, and is situated by the side of the anus in the ischio-rectal fossa, just beyond the sphincter ; but not unfrequently the aperture is in the perinaium, or posteriorly in the coccygeal region. Occasionally there is a fistulous opening on each side of the gut; or several openings may exist, and then sinuses ex- tend fr’om these upwards and outwards to a considerable distance, undennining the integuments of the perinaeum about the buttocks, even stretching away towai’ds the trochanters, and opening at a gveat distance from the bowel. These extensive fistulas and sinuses are frequently connected vuth strictm’e of the gut ; but they may occur without this in old and neglected cases of the .simple disease. The fistulas are usually oblique, but straight in their direction from a point half ail inch or an inch from the anal apertiu’e, running upwards to above the sphincter. In some cases they are tortuous ; and, occasionally, when opening at a distance from the gut, and extensively undermining the integuments, they are angular, having, as it were, an elbow at that point where the super- ficial sinus meets the deep fistula. This peculiarity will prevent the passage ■ of a probe through their whole length until the external sinus has been slit up, and the commencement of the deep fissme reached, and may lead to the suppo- sition of the fistula being more superficial than it in reality is. Varieties.—Fistula in ano is said to be Complete when it communicates by one end with the interior of the rectum, and opens by the other upon the external surface. It is said to be Incomplete when it has only one apertm-e, whether that be external or internal. Complete Fistula is the most common form. It probably arises in the majority of cases from some som’ce of irritation seated within the bowel, by which the mucous membrane of the rectum has been perforated, and an a.bscess has formed in the areolar tissue outside the gut. The external opening in this form of fistula is usually from half an inch to an inch from the margin o the anus ; though it may be seated at a greater distance than this, as upon the hip. It is commonly small, and has avascular granulation projecting from or occluding it; and a thin purulent discharge usually drams away fr-om it m ■ small quantities, moistening the surrounding integuments. The internal open- ing is usually situated just above the sphincter, where the rectum begms _o expand. But the fistula does not terminate at this internal aperture ; ^ or m the majority of cases it runs up into a kind of cnUte-sac, to a consi em e is . tance further. The internal aperture may readffy be detected by introduc „ * blunt curved probe into the fistula ; when, by a little management, it may