u u 2 C59 DIAGNOSIS OF INGFIiYAL HERNIA. 1. Whilst still lyinc; in the canal, inguinal hernia requires to be diagnosed from the following conditions, a. Ahscess^, descending from the interior of the nbdomen or pelvis through the canal, and passing out through the abdominal ring. The diagnosis may here be ellected by recognising the soft fluctuating foef of the abscess, wliich, though reducible on pressime, and descending on ■coughing with a distinet impulse, does not present the more solid characters mKUhc°gurgling sensation of a hernia, h. Encysted or Diffused Hydrocele of the Cord, lii the encysted hydrocele there is a smooth oval swelling situated on the cord, which can be apparently reduced, being pushed up into the canal, und descends again on coughing or straining; but it may be distinguished from hernia by being always of the same size, by not being reducible into the cavity of the abdomen, by the absence of all giu’gle, and by its very deflned outline. In the diffused hydroceleoit\yQ cord, the absence of distinct impulse on coughing, the impossibility of retimning the swelling completely within the abdominal ca^•ity, and of feeling the cord in a free and natural state, will prevent the disease from being confounded with hernia, c. Hmmatocele of the Cord. Here the soft and fluctuating nature of the swelling, the ecchymosis, the impossi- bility of complete reduction, and the absence of gurgling, will indicate its true nature, d. Fatly or other Tumours occasionally form on the cord; but the cir- ■cumscribed character and limited size of these swellings, the absence of impulse •on coughing, and of reducibility into the cavity of the abdomen, will point out that they are not hernite. e. Lodyment of the Testis in the Inguinal Canal give rise to a tumoiu', which closely resembles incomplete inguinal hernia: and if it should happen to become inflamed in this situation, the difficulty of the •diagnosis from strangulated hernia may be very considerable. In the ordinary undescended testis, the absence of that organ in the scrotum on the affected side, the peculiar sickening pain occasioned by the pressime of the tumoiu’, the iibs ence of gm’gling, and of aU possibility of reduction, w^ill enable the diagnosis to be effected. /. Inflamed Undescended Testis. From this it is not always at •once easy to eflect the diagnosis of incomplete inguinal hernia in a state of strangulation, mth which indeed it may be complicated. This diagnostic point will be more fuUy treated of in speaking of congenital hernia. In the mean- while, it may be stated that the absence of persistent and continuous vomiting ?md constipation, the feel of the tumour, hard below, elastic abms’e, and the peculiar pain when it is compressed, will enable the Surgeon to recognise the true nature of the tumour as being a retained and inflamed testis. 2. hen the hernia has descended into the scrotum, it may be confounded with : a. Ilydrocele of the Tunica Vaginalis. In this disease there is an •oval or pyriform tumour, usually translucent, unchangeable in size or shape by pressure, and having the cord clear and distinct above it, with an absence of impulse on coughing, or of gurgling in attempts at reduction. In cases of •congenita,] hydrocele in children, in which there is still an opening commiuii- cating with the peritoneal cavity, the tumour may be diminished in size by steady pressure, but gradually returns, fluctuates, and is translucent. In these cases its translucency, and the gradual manner in which the sac is emptied and is refilled, very different from the sudden slip np and protrusion of a hernia, ■enable the Surgeon to establish the diagnosis. It not unfrequently happens that icrnia is complicated vnth hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis. In these cases the