625 SEAT OF STRICTURE. younger ind.iTicIua.ls ; in it tlic symptoms arc more active, the bowel becoming protruded in consequence of violent exertion, and undergoing rapid strangu- lation, the tension of the parts not having been lessened by the previous long existence of an irreducible hernia. jMechanism of Straxgulatiox.—Strangulation has been attributed either to a spasmodic action of the walls of the aperture through which the hernia protrudes, or to changes taking place in the protruded parts, subsequent to and occasioned by their constriction by the tissues external to them. The strangulation cannot, .1 think, ever be regai'ded with justice as of spasmodic character ; the aperture in the abdominal wall, through which the hernia escapes, being tendinous or fibrous, and certainly not in any way contractile, though the action of the abdominal muscles may undoubtedly increase the tension of its sides. The continued and permanent character of the strangu- lation, when once it has taken place, would also discountenance this opinion ; those forms of hernia, indeed, as the ventral, which occur in purely muscular structures, are very rarely strangulated, and, when they are so, the constriction is generally occasioned by the formation of dense adventitious bands upon or within the sac, and not by any muscular agency. Strangulation is characterised by congestion of the protruded parts, induced by the constriction to which they are subjected ; the mechanism being as follows. A knuckle of intestine, or piece of omentum, is suddenly protruded during an effort of some kind. This immediately becomes compressed by the sides of the narrow aperture thi’ough which it has escaped ; the return of its venous blood is consequently interfered with, and sweUing and oedema rapidly ensue, together wdth 'stagnation of the blood in it. If the constriction be excessively tight, the walls of the ring being very hard and shaiq), the part that is so strangulated may be deprived of its vitality in the course of a few hours. If the strangulation be less severe, the congestion will run into inflammation, the changes characteristic of this condition speedily supervening. In proportion as the congestion augments, and the inflammation comes on, the return of the protruded parts is necessarily ren- dered more difficult by the increase of their swelling. Seat of Strictueb. — The stricture is most commonly situated outside the neck of the sac, in the tendinous or ligamentous structiues surround- ing it; not unfrequently in the altered and thickened subserous areolar tissue. In other cases, and indeed with great fi-equency, it is met with in the neck of the sac itself (Fig. C73), which is nar- rowed, elongated, and tubular ; or constricted by bands that arc incorporated Avith it. More rarely it exists in the body of the sac, Avhich may have assumed an hour-glass shape. In some cases, it would appear as if this particular shape Avere owino- to an old hernia having been pushed doAvn by a recent one above it. The stricture is sometimes, though by no means frequently, met with inside the Fig. 673.—Stricture in the Neck of tile Bae, laid open. VOL, ir. sac, consisting of bands