386 DISEASES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. Vi. Laurence finds that, of 80 instances in which it occurred, 21 were males, 18 females ; that the protrusion may vaiy fi’om the size of a pea to that of a timionr exceeding the child’s head; and that the occiput is its chief seat—of 70 cases, 53 being in this situation. The hernia may occur at any of the nnossi- fied points of the skull; and has even been observed, in a case described by Inchtenberg, to protrude from the base of the skull through the mouth. In 0 instances, the subjects of this malformation reached an adult age ; in all the remaining cases they died eai’ly, or were still-born. Surgery offers little in these cases ; though in one instance Paget used injection of iodine with success; and in another, where sloughing of a portion of the tumour was taking place, Annandale applied a ligature to the peduncle, and removed the tumour, the child recovering completely in spite of an attack of measles. In another case, the portion of brain was successfully sliced off, the patient surviving. Tapping the Head.—It occasionally happens in childi-en afflicted with acute hydrocephalus, and sometimes, though more rarely, in cases of the chronic form of the disease, that the distension of the head and the compression of the brain by the intracranial accumulation of fiuid thi'eaten immediately the life of the patient. In these circumstances, the only chance of life is the evacuation of the serum by tapping. This is best done by means of a fine trochar pushed in through the coronal suture, about midway down. The point of the instru- ment should be directed inwards and backwards, so as to penetrate the lateral ventricle, and thus to evacuate a portion of the contained serum. This should be done very gTaduaUy, so as not to disturb the circidation through the brain. After a moderate quantity of fluid has been withdrawn, the small aperture should be closed ■with a strip of plaster, and, if necessary, an elastic bandage should be applied round the head so as to compress and to confine the bones : this is more especially necessary in chronic hydrocephalus. It is scarcely necessary to observe that the prognosis in these cases is not of a very favourable character, In chronic hydrocephalus the operation can scarcely be expected to succeed, as all the structures, osseous as well as cerebral, have undergone organic changes. In the cicide forms of hydrocephalus, immediate rehef of the coma ensues on the withdrawal of the fluid, and there is just the possibility of the evacuation of the fluid permanently reheving the com- pression of the brain, whilst the small punctiue is not hkely to add to the mischief that is going on in the interior of the cranium. DISEASES OF THE EAE. Inflammation of the External Ear, Otitis, or Ear-ache, is usually a rheumatic affection occm-ring in debilitated individuals, and is characterised by intense pain, generally associated with hemicmnia ; a kind of combination, indeed, of inflammation and neuralgia. This pain is much increased at mg , by warmth of the bed, and is generally accompanied by throbbing and noises in the ear. The Treatment, at first antiphlogistic, generally and locally, may advantageously, after a time, give place to quinine and mdide ot with the extei nal application of aconite. Occasionally the ™ the formation of abscess in one of the ceruminous tolhcles oi the meatus