T T 2 MANAGEMENT OF OMENTUM. 642 tion of the sac which is in connection with them, or even to leave them nntouchccl, and the adherent intestine or omentum nnreduced rather than to endeavour to separate them. They may, however, attach themselves m such situations that it becomes necessary to divide them ; thus I have, in a case of congenital hernia, found it necessary to dissect away some very extensive and widely spread adhesions that had formed between the omentum and the testicle, and indeed had almost completely enveloped that organ. Internal Adhesions between the omentum and intestine or mesentery occa- sionally exist, consisting usually of rather firm bands stretching across from one pai't to the other, sometimes connected with the inner wall of the sac, but in other cases confined to its contents. As these bands may constitute the real strictime, continuing to strangulate the gut after the division of the structures outside and in the neck of the sac, they must necessarily be divided. This operation requires great care, lest the neighboming intestine be wounded. It is best done by passing a director underneath, and cutting the bands through with a probe-pointed bistoury ; or if this cannot be done on account of their connections, they must be seized with forceps, and carefuUy dissected off the gut. In a case of large inguinal hernia, containing both gut and omentum, on which I operated some years ago, I found, after dividing the stricture, and taking hold of the omentum in order to push back the intestine, that this could not be reduced. On searching for the cause of difl&culty, and drawing the mass well down, I found high up, in the part corresponding to the neck of the sac, a narrow band. Like a piece of whipcord, stretching across fi’om the omentum to the mesenteiy and firmly tying down the gut. On dissecting this earefuUy through, the constricted portion of intestine subjacent to it sprang up to its full diameter, aU constriction being removed, and was then very readily reduced. Management of Omentum.—The omentum may require to be treated in one of three ways : 1. It may be retinned ; 2. It may be left in the sac ; 3. It may be cut off. The method of treatment must vary according to the state in which the omentum is found. If it be small in quantity, healthy in character though congested, and apparently recently protruded, not having undergone those changes that occur in it when it has been a long time in a hernial sac, it should be reduced after the intestine has been put back. If, however, its mass be very large, if it be hypertrophied, indiuated, or otherwise altered in structure, or if it be closely adherent to the sac, at the same time that it is congested. Surgeons are agreed that it should not be returned into the abdominal cavity ; as inflammation of it, E^iploitis, will pio la y set in and terminate fatally -with effusion into the peritoneal sac. So a so, 1 e omentum be in large quantity, and have become inflamed in the sac. It should not be returned ; as the inflammation in it is very apt to run on ° condition of the whole mass. If gangrenous, it should sac bu/vltho hypertrophied and adherent to the sac, but without evidence of inflammation, it may be left in the sac • but in many of the cases of hypertrophied, and in all cases of inflamed or ganorenous omentum, the best practice consists in cutting off the mass, as rccLmended