343 GANGLION. DISEASES OF SHEATHS OP TENDONS, The Synovial sacs connected with the sheaths of tendons are hable to two forms of disease : viz., the accumulating of the fluid in the interior of the sac, forming a cystic swelling, known by the name of Ganglion ; and acute and chronic° Inflammation, or Tenosynovitis. The tendons of the hand are most liable to both these affections. c- 7 G vis'G LION.—Two distinct kinds of ganglion are met with: the Limple, situated upon the sheaths of tendons; and the Compound, consisting in a dilatation of the sheath itself. Simple Ganglion consists of a cyst varying in size from a cheiTy-stone to- a large marble, and containing a clear transparent fluid of a yeUowish colour, which is sometimes thin and serous, sometimes gelatinous and semi-coagulated. It occurs as a smooth, globular, elastic, and tense tumoim, usuaUy situated on the back of the wrist, where it forms a distinct round projection ; it may also occiu’ on the dorsum of the foot. In both situations it is distinctly connected vdth. the sheaths of the extensor tendons ; and, indeed, Paget looks upon it as being a cystic transformation of the cells enclosed in the Mnge-like processes of synovial membrane lining these sheaths. As ganghon increases in size, it often gives rise to painfid sensations in the parts below it, by pressing upon the neighbouring nerves ; thus, a ganghon at the back of the wrist often produces pain and weakness in the hand, by compressing some of the branches of the musculo-spiral nerve which are stretched over it. Ganglion is by far the most common of aU the tumours that occur on the hand. In all cases of oval or rounded, smooth, elastic tumour on the hand or fingers, whether painless or neuralgic, the flrst point to determine is whether it be ganglion or not; but ganglion should always be suspected. Compound Ganglion is chiefly met with in the pahn of the hand, and the dorsum, sole, or inner side of the foot. It consists of a dilatation of the sheaths of the tendons in these situations : it may often attain a very considerable bulk, and then usually becomes irregular in shape, owing to several tendons being implicated by it. Often, in this form of ganglion, the sheath is thickened as well as dilated; and the contained fluid is clear and yellowish, though usually thinner than in the simple ganghon. The sheath itself is vascular, and lined by a red, fringed, and velvety membrane ; the fluid may then be dark and bloody, and contain masses of buff-coloured flbrine or a large number of gi-anular bodies, like those met -with in certain forms of enlarged bm’ste. These I have found to be composed of imperfectly developed granulations, in which the re- mains of blood-vessels were visible, probably thrown off’ from the inner wall of the vascular sheath. This form of the disease, at times, puts on almost a malignant appearance, is extremely chronic, and may occupy a very extensive siu’facc ; in a case that was under my care some time ago, the dorsum and gi’cater part of the inner side of the foot were involved. Ireatment.—The treatment of a ganglion must depend upon its character and size. 'When small and simple, as on the back of the wrist, it may commonly be got rid of by being ruptured by forcible pressure with the thumb, or by a blow with the back of a book, or by being tightly compressed, by means of a coin wrapped up in a piece of lint and firmly strapped upon the swelling. If it do not disappear in this way, the best plan is to puncture it subcutaneously