34 ANEURIUM. irritability of the heart and the foj’ce of its action lessened, and the blood brought into a healthy condition, may be advantageously employed, in the modified manner that has been recommended and adopted by some modern Surgeons. Pellatan, and Hodgson, and Tufnell especially report very favourably of this treatment, and I have seen several instances in which it has proved decidedly beneficial. As recommended by Valsalva, this method of treatment was in- tended to carry out two important points ; 1, by a process of gradual starvation and depletion to reduce the quantity of blood in the system, the power of the heart’s action, and consequently the pressure exercised upon the walls of the aneurism ; and, 2, after fhe patient had in this way been reduced, the plasticity of the blood was to be improved by feeding him up m a gTadual and careful manner, so that the tendency to the deposit of laminated fibrine might be in- creased. . Valsalva endeavoured to carry out the first of these objects by sub- jecting the patient to small and repeated bleedings, and by gradually reducing the quantity of food that was daily taken, until it was lowered to half a pound of pudding in the morning, and a quarter of a pound in the evening. In this way the patient’s strength was reduced until he could scarcely be raised up in bed without fainting ; the quantity of food was then gradually augmented, so that the plasticity of the blood might be restored. It is seldom that Surgeons carry out Valsalva’s plan of treatment in the precise manner indicated by him; it is most commonly found to be more convenient to modify it somewhat according to the circumstances of the case, though the principles on which it is conducted are essentially the same. In adopting any‘constitutional treatment in cases of aneurism, the fu’st and most essential point to be attended to is, to keep the patient perfectly quiet in bed and free from all mental, emotional, or conversational excitement. The diet should at the same time be very carefuUy regulated, being gradually re- duced in quantity, and being made to consist principally of farinaceous food, Avith but a very small quantity of meat, but httle liquid, and a total absence of all stimulants. Perhaps the best regimen is that recommended by Belhngham, consisting of two ounces of bread and butter for breakfast, two ounces ot bread and the same quantity of meat for dinner, and two ounces of bread for supper, Avith about two ounces of milk or water with each meal, or occasionally sipped in small quantities. At the same time pingatives should be administeied, especiailly such as give rise to watery stools, and remove obstructions of the portal and renal systems ; with this view a scruple of the compound jalap powder may be given tAvice a Aveek. In some cases, if the heart’s action be particularly strong, recourse may advantageously be had to small bleedings •from time to time. Iodide of potassiiun, in doses A'arying from fiA^e to thirty grains three times a day has been given in several cases of intrathoracic and abdominal aneinism, especially by Chuckerbutty of Calcutta, G. W. Balfour of Edinburgh, and . Roberts of Manchester, and its good effects lend some Aveight to the supposed syiihilitic origin of many aneinisms. In a large proportion of the cases thus treated, the sufferings of the patients have been relieved ; there has been diminution of the size of the sac, and in several instances the cure luis been apparently perfect. The enforcement of the recumbent posture is, as Baltour rightly insists, of high importance as an adjuvant in this treatment. There