EXCISIOy OF HEAD OF HUMERUS. 249 ibuiid that the coracoid or acromion processes, or the scapular spine, are at fault rather than the osseous structimes of the joint itself, and extrac ion of the sequestra formed there may prevent excision of the articidation some cases a small sequestrum lying m a carious cavity in the head of t humerus may be removed by slitting up sinuses, without the necessity of excising the head of the bone. ^ -j. nor. When excision has been required for disease of the shoidder-joint, it ha usually been for caries commencing in the head of the humerus, especially 111 childi-en and young adidts. In these cases it ivill be usually found that the atfection is limited to the head of the bone, which is the part primarily attacked. The o-lenoid cavity mostly escapes entirely, or, if it be implicated, it is so secon- darily and to a veiy hmited extent. Although in malignant diseases excision has been practised, this operation is not usually advisable in such cases. Bickersteth has successfully removed the head of the humerus for exostosis. In cases of intracapsular fracture through the neck of the humerus, with detachment of the head of the bone, disorganisation of the joint has resulted. This has been laid open, and the loose head of the bone removed in two instances by Brainard of Chicago ; the patients recovering with useful limbs. Operation.—Paartial Excision of the head of the humerus in some cases of caries has been practised by shtting up sinuses and the application of the gouge to the diseased osseous siuface. Occasionally, as in cases reported by Fergusson and Sedillot, these operations have been attended by successful results. Bub not mifrequently they fail in effecting a cure, the disease extending, and the sinuses not healing, so that eventually excision of the whole of the diseased head of the bone has been requhed. Complete Excision of the head of the humerus is the operation usually requhed. It may be practised in several different ways—the lines of incision through the soft parts being varied according to the conditions of the case. They are alu'ays made on the front or outer side of the joint through the deltoid muscle, which must of necessity be more or less sacrificed. They consist of a single longitudinal vertical incision, and its modifications the ~[ and T shaped ones, and the elliptic (J or flap operation. The operation by the single longitudinal incision (Fig. 4I2) may be performed as follows. The patient lying on his back, the Surgeon enters the knife a little to the outside and above the coracoid process, and caiTies it do'wnwards for about four inches, cutting down to the bone. He then looks for the long tendon of the biceps, and if it be found still undestroyed by disease, he dissects it out from over the head of the humerus and has it held on one side with a blunt hook. The assistant then rotates the arm forcibly outwards, so as to bring the small tuberosity well into the wound, and the Surgeon divides the tendon of the subscapularis and the inner side of the capsule of the joint. The arm being now rotated inwards, the three muscles inserted into the great tuberosity and the outer part of the capsule are divided. The limb is now allowed to fall o'N’er the edge of the table, and the assistant forces the head of the bone up into the wound, whilst the Surgeon divides the posterior part of the capsule, and care- fully clears the upper end of the bone all round. Ho now takes the limb in his own hands and, having the soft parts well retracted, he pushes the head of