^52 SPECIAL ANEURISMS. the thigh, which had not been very closely examined during life, proved to bo a circumscribed aneurism of the deep femoral artciy. Two cases arc recorded by P. ]\Iarshall and J. Watson. In the case which was under my care in the llospital, the disease was recognised by the following signs, which arc characteristic of it, 1. A large tumour extended from three inches below Ponpart’s ligament to the middle of the thigh, raising and slightly separating the adductor muscles and the rectus femoris. 2. All the ordinary aneurismal signs were present in this tumour—the most marked being a peculiarly loud and harsh bruit, and a dry forcible thrill. 3. The superficial femoral artery could be felt running over the anterior and inner aspect of the tiunour, but clear of, and distinct from it. 4. The pulsation in the popliteal and its divisions was strong and perfect, o. All the anemismal signs ceased on com- pressing the common femoral artery, and retm-ned on removing the pressure. The only disease with which an ancm-ism of the deep femoral artery can readily be confounded is pulsating malignant tumour of the femur. The diagnosis from this must be left to the siu’gical tact of the practitioner. In the Treatment of these anem-isms, the Singeon has the choice of three methods ; viz., compression in the groin, or ligature of the external ihac, or of the common femoral. If the common femoral ever should be hgatmed for aneurism, this appears to me to be the case best suited for it. But the choice between the ligature of this artery or of the external iliac must in a great measm’e depend upon the Surgeon’s judgment as to the relative expediency of either operation, and on the height to which the aneinism extends up the gi’oin. But neither artery should be ligatured until compression has been fairly tried and has failed. This may be done digitally or by Carte’s instru- ment, where the artery passes over the brim of the pelvis. It is especially likely to succeed in aneurism of the profunda, owing to the shortness of the trunk and the way in which it breaks up into many anastomosing branches. Hence there is not a free current of blood passing from one large vessel of entry to another of exit, but, as it is broken up and has to filter out through a number of minor vessels, its coagulation may readily be brought about. In the case treated by me, compression effected a cure in twenty-four hom’s, though the aneurism was very large and active. Aneueisms of the Superficial Femoral axd Popliteal Arteries.— These commonly occiu’ about the middle period of life, and are almost invari- ably met with in males, being at least twenty times more frequent in them than in women. Both sides are affected with equal frequency, and occasionally at the same time. According to Crisp, sailors would appear to be more hable to this variety of the disease than any other class. These aneurisms are most frequently sacculated ; in the ham they are always so, but in the thigh they are sometimes tubular. Sijm^otoms.—TAiQ symptoms of Femoral Aneurism present nothing peculiar ; the tumour usually enlarging with considerable rapidity, nith all the characteristic signs of the disease, and assuming a pretty regulai o'soid shape. Popliteal Aneurism usually commences with stifihess and a good deal of pain about the ham and knee, which I have more than once seen mistaken for rheumatism ; there is also a difficulty in straightening the limb, which is generally kept semi-flexed. The tiunour increases usually with great