DISEASES OF DONE. 178 It is of a dirty ycUowish-white colour, and lias a dull opaque look, and, after exposure to the air, it gradually hecomes of a deep broivn or black tint; the margins are ragged, and more or loss spiculated, and the free surface is toler- ably smooth, but its attached surface is very irregular, rough, and uneven, presenting an eroded or worm-eaten appearance. This eroded appearance is well marked in sequestra that form in the interior of the terminal end of the femm- in a thigh-stimip after amputation, and is well illustrated by Pig. 14, where the lower smooth part is composed of the whole thickness of the bone, the upper rough and spiculated portions of the central portion of lione being sejiarated from the outer layer, and hence being apparently eroded on their exterior. "WTien the sequestrum forms in the cancellous structure, it is usually of a blackish-grey coloiu’, irregular but somewhat ovoid in shape, as if the bony matter had been partially dissolved away ; and here it is fr’equently con- joined with caries of the siuTounding bone. Symptoms.—The symptoms of necrosis are divisible into two distinct periods. In the first, the bone dies and undergoes separation, and an attempt is made by natiure at the expulsion of that portion of it which has lost its vitality. In the second period, the reparative processes for the restoration of the proper length and shape of the shaft are carried on. The particular character of the symptoms depends, however, not only on the stage, but also in a great measure on the seat and extent of the necrosis. In acute necrosis of the shaft of a long bone, the symptoms are extremely ingent. This form of the aflection chiefly occurs in children and young adults. The jDatient is- seized ndth a rigor, has great elevation of temperatiue, and complains of pain in the limb affected, which is often supposed to be of a “ rheumatic ” character. But the limb rapidly swells, becomes red, glazed, and oedematous ; the outline of the bone is obscm’ed by infiltration of the tissue, and the irritative fever is very severe. The severity of the symptoms nfiU depend on the extent of the necrosis, whether it be superficial or mvade the whole shaft. The abscess which forms is under the periosteum, between it and the bone. The pus is bacterial, often offensive when let out. When the necrosis occius in older persons, it is less acute, but in all cases it is ushered in by symptoms of local inflammation of a more or less intense and painful character ; the skin becomes glazed, oedematous, and of a purplish-red tint; abscess, often of large size, and discharging great quantities of fetid or bloody pus, forms in the limb, and burrows 'widely, in proportion to the extent of the necrosis, amongst its areolar planes. If the suppiuation be so extensive as to jeopardise life, as occasionally happens when the thigh is the seat of the disease, the patient sinking into rapid hectic, the su2Dpurating cavity will gi-adually contract, leaving fistulous and sinuous tracts, often of great length mid extent, leading to rough and bare bone, discharging a fetid and ichorous pus, and having their orifices surrounded by protuberant and glazed granula- tions. All these symptoms of inflammation, abscess, and widely siiread supini- ration, have for their ultimate objects the separation and elimination of the dead bone, and the proper formation of now bone as a substitute for that winch has died. They are in the first instance occasioned by, and are not the cause of, the death of the bone. When a bone or a portion of a bone necroses,_it becomes to all intents a foreign body. The adjacent soft tissues resent its