496 PLASTIC SUPGERY OF THE FACE AND AIOUTII. Fig. 594.—Dingi'am of Flap iii Eliiuoplastio Operation. extent of loss tlmt Las to be repaired. When the whole of the nose requires restoraMon, it is usnally necessary to make it abont two and a half to three inches in length, by abont the same in width at the broadest part. It may either be taken from the middle of the forehead, or obliquely from one side : if the latter, the right side is the most con- venient. It must now be dissected off the forehead ; in doing this, care must be taken to cut the flap as thick as possible, especially at its root between the eyebrows. It must also be but little handled, and, above all, not pinched, either with fingers or forceps. The dissection should be com- menced at the root, so that the outline may not be obscured by blood ; and this part should be left long, in order to admit afterwards of a very gradual and easy twist. In order to facilitate this, it is also desirable to make the incision on the right side a little lower than that on the left. After the flap has been raised throughout the whole of its extent, a piece of wet lint should be applied to the forehead, with a view of arresting the bleeding, before the next step is taken. This consists in paring the surface and edges of the stump of the nose, and removing the integu- ments from it in such a way as to leave a triangidar raw surface. In doing this care must be taken—whilst a good base of attachment is left—not to remove the parts too widely, lest the cheeks, by separating, have a tendency to gape too much, and the nose to become flattened out. The integuments also should be dissected away in such a manner as to form a deep groove shelving inwards, so as to receive and hold the flap more securely and Avith less overlapping of the edges. The operation must now be discontinued for a few minutes until all bleeding has ceased, and the cut surfaces have be- come glazed ; this point is of great importance in securing direct adhe- sion, and must be carefully attended to. The bleeding having been arrested by exposure to the air, and by the tor- sion rather than the ligature of any spouting branch, the flap fr’om the forehead should be brought down by a twist fr’om' left to right, and attached by a few points of fine suture on each side to the edge of the ineision, around the nasal aperture. A pledget of soft lint, moderately greased, should now be gently insinuated under the flap, the lower part of the incision in the forehead drawn together by a point of suture, but not so as to constrict the root in any way, and the rest of the exposed surfaee covered with water-di'cssing. The will then present the appearance of Fig. 595. Dciuesseil Nose.