331 ANKYLOSIS OF THE JIIF-JOIXT. uuiputation in cases of disease of the hip-joint is one that must often hare presented itself to the Surgeon when he has contemplated the shortened, Avasted, and deformed member that is frequently left in the more advanced form of the disease, and which can never be rendered useful as a basis of support to the body by any mechanical contrivance however skilfully designed, but must always remain not only an useless but a cumbrous, appendage. It appeal’s to me that in the more adA’anced chronic cases of hip-joint disease, this operation is justifiable, and, indeed, is to be advocated in certain circiunstances. These are as folloAV. 1. In cases Avhere the disease is confined to the head of the femur, or AA'here, if any portion of the peh’ic bones be attacked, it be to so hmited an extent as. to be readily removable by the gouge, excision Avould necessarily be the usual practice. But if the patient’s health be too Ioav or iiTitable to bear this, or if the limb be so shortened, atrophied, and deformed by long disuse as to be incapable of furnishing proper support to the patient, then amputation at the hip-joint would, I think, be a proper procediu’e. I do not think that the mere destruction of the cartilaginous lining of the acetabidum should mihtate against the perfomiance of the operation ; for we constantly see in hip-joint disease Avhen the head of the bone has been dislocated, or after amputation at the hip-joint for accident or ordinary disease, that the acetabulum fills up AAuth a dense fibroid mass after the destruction or removal of its cartilage. But, if the pelvic bones be so far diseased that the necrosed or carious part does not admit of removal, then necessarily amputation Avould not be justifiable. 2. When the diseased action involves the shaft of the femur, which may be necrosed, or thinned and atrophied to such an extent and degree as not ta leaA'e a sound hmb after removal of the upper epiphysis, amputation Avonld be- proper. ^ 3. Amputation would be justifiable after excision has been tried and has failed in securing an useful result to the patient, the limb being left shorty weak, loose, and oedematous. ANKATLOSIS OF THE HIP-JOINT. Anhjlom of the Hq)-Joint, following its inflammation, diflPers in its degree o completeness and in the position of the limb. Thus, it may be fibrous or osseous ; or the hmb m either of these cases may be straight, or more or less ncxed on the abdomen and adducted. ‘'iP these cases is the direction of the. liml). If biif Hffl! the trunk coiTespond, bone i! required, or indeed possible. When the head of the stnictils I Avith the limb in this direction, the osseous too-othoT el 1 femur and of the acetabulum being fused The lumbar °sA° ^ nothmg can be done to improve the patient’s condition, direction and Sir T- increased mobility, especially in a rotatory arisin- from the T' difficulty