968 DISEASES OF THE TESTIS AND CORD. tlireo above-mentioned causes, it remains to aseertain wliich it is. This may be done by attention to the following points. Tlie cord is often thickened and tender in simple chronic orchitis ; in tubercular sarcocole, the vas deferens alone IS affected, being frequently considerably enlarged ; in syphilis, the cord is perfectly healthy. In simple chronic orchitis, the epididymis may be swollen, but the chief enlargement is in the body; in tubercular disease, the epididymis is almost always the starting point of the disease, and is enlarged more than the body ; in syphilitic sarcocele, the body is first and almost exclusively affected. In chronic orchitis, the enlargement is usually uniform and smooth, and fluctuation is rarely present; in tubercular sarcocele, the enlarged epididymis is craggy and nodular, and spots of softening may be felt; in syphilitic sarco- cele, the body of the gland is greatly indurated, often nodulated, and soften- ing is very rare. The testicle is usually painful and tender in chronic orchitis ; in tubercular sarcocele it is sometimes tender, seldom painful; in syphilitic disease, it is almost invariably jDerfectly painless, and free from tenderness. The constitutional condition of the patient should also be care- fully inquired into. Chronic orchitis usually arises as a sequence of injury, or perhaps gonorrhoea, in patients possibly strumous, gouty, or rheumatic ; tubercular disease occurs almost always in cachectic subjects, with a tuber- cular history and a tendency to phthisis. The lungs should therefore be carefully examined. In syphilitic sarcocele, the ordinary symptoms of consti- tutional syphihs may be present, or a syphilitic history may be obtained. In tubercular sarcocele, the vesiculte seminales may be felt to be enlarged through the rectum. Cystic Disease of the Testis, or, Cystic Sarcoma of the Testis, or Cystic Sarcocele.—In this disease the testis becomes enlarged, indimated, of a yellowish-white and opaque appearance, and studded with a multitude of cysts, that vary in size from a pin’s head to a cherry, containing clear amber- coloured or brownish fluid (Fig. 853). The disease may run a simple or a malignant coiu'se. The enlarged testicle may reach a very great size, without showing any signs of general malignancy. In the simpler forms, the disease somewfoat resembles the adeno-sarcoma of the mamma. The new' grow'th is fomid to be composed of a stroma, consisting of various modifications of coii- necti-^n tissue in all stages of growdh, in the midst of which are spaces lined with epithelium. The stroma shows great irregularity of structure. In the same specimen may be found fibroid tissue, cartilage, myxoma- tissue, spindle-celled and round-celled sarcoma-tissue. Paget has found the cartilage to be arranged in beaded branching lines, resembling the course and shape of the lymphatic vessels, and has showm that it actually lies within them. The epithelial spaces arc irregulai- in shape and size. It is difficult to say wdiether they represent the remains of tubuli seminiferi or not. The cysts arc formed by dilatation of these spaces, and are lined by a squarish epithelium. Intracystic growths may be found, as in the mamma, projecting Fig. 85S.—C.ystio Sni'coiua of tlie Testicle.