273 EXCISION OF THE BONES OF TUE LEG. sound limb to the gi’Oimd.” In several of mj o^vn cases an excellent strong and straight limb has been left, useful for all ordinary purposes. In a case ■which I examined seven years after the operation, the limb was well nourished, straight, firmly ankylosed, and but very little shortened. The patient, a lad of twenty, could walk eight or ten miles, and even jump and stand on the operated limb without the least pain, sign of weakness, or difiiculty. In very young children the result of the operation is not satisfactory, the leg continuing shortened and wasted, not developing -with the rest of the body. This is appa- rently due to and dependent upon the removal of the epiphysis of the tibia, on the integrity of which the growth of the limb is dependent. After the operation, osseous anlcylosis takes place with a firm cicatrix ; the hmb is shortened from one to three inches, according to the amount of bone removed, but by means of a high-heeled shoe this inconvenience is greatly remedied. It has been urged against excision of the knee-joint, that convales- cence is tedious and prolonged ; but this argument can rvith justice have but little weight. If an useful limb can be preserved to the patient, it can matter but little if a few additional weeks be devoted to the procedure by which it is obtained ; and, indeed, it is a question whether in many cases the patient may not be able to walk just as soon after the excision of the knee-joint as after amputation of the thigh : for, as has been very properly remarked, though the amputation-wound may be healed in three or four weeks, it may be as many months before an artificial limb can be worn. On^ the whole I think it may be fairly said that, although excision of the knee-joint may in some cases leave an excellent result, and thus be preferable to amputation, yet, when we consider the uncertainty of this result, the greater mortality attendant on excision than on amputation of the thigh for chronic disease of the knee-joint, especiaUy in the two earlier deinnial periods of life, we should practise excision as the exceptional operation, and I would still feel disposed to give the preference to amputation in the majority of cases. In addition to these considerations, there is an additional element which cannot altogether be discarded in enabling us to form a judo-ment as to the preferable operation. And it is this, that, in consequence of recent im- provements in surgical mechanics, artificial limbs are now constructed of so durable and useful a character, as to supply to a great extent the loss sustained by amputation and this more particularly if the limb have been removed eaidv m hfe, when the patient can more readily adapt himself to new methods of progression. Boxes of the Leg.-TIib Tibia is very frequently the seat of caries in the upper and lower epiphyses, and of necrosis in the shaft, requirino- partial sK'r portions. Occasionally a ?ery con- sideiablc extent of the shaft, indeed the whole of it, maybe remo-v-ed in a state tom strengthened bj the deposit of new bone. Such opera- ons present nothing special, and the result is usually A-ery satisfiictorv the lunb that is left being strong, useful, and sound. ^ sansiactoiy, the Ihe Fibula is less frequently the scat of operation, but it like the tibi., may reepnre partial removal. In one case, Jt of a cLild six y t , „ “ / snecessfnlly^remov^^ the whole of the necrosed Hbula. Thfs :;ratr’il