DISEASES OF THE SPINE. 300 ing- irritation of the cord and spinal nerves ; but that, after abscess has formed, and IS presenting either in the lower iliac fossa or in the thigh, they are not only useless in arresting mischief or inducing repair, but injurious by weaken- ing, and being a source of additional irritation to, the patient. Eest in the horizontal position is the most important element in the treatment; if the patient be allowed to stand upright or to sit, the weight of the head and slioulders will tend to ciu’ve forward the weakened spine, and by their pressure increase the already existing irritation in it. The horizontal position relieves the diseased parts ol this additional source of distress. In these cases the prone position is preferable to the supine, and the patient, if old enough, should always be laid upon a properly constructed prone couch. The prone posi- tion is certainly the best; for not only is the projecting angle formed by the exciuwated spine not injm-iously compressed, as it would be in the supine or lateral position, but the patient is more comfortable ; and it is far easier to make the necessary application in the way of issues and moxte than could other- wise be done. At the same time, the back not being the lowest part of the body, there is a less tendency to conges- tion of the spinal veins, and to consequent increase of the inflammatoiy softening of the bones. When the disease has in this way been arrested, for Avhich many months—at least twelve or eighteen—will be required, the patient may be allowed to get up azid move about, by wearing proper ap- paratus so as to support the trunk. This may be constructed on the plan shown in the accompanying figiu’e (Fig. 179). It combines three jn’inciples in its action—1, a broad pehic band, making a firm basis of support round the lower part of the trunk ; 2, lateral upright stems, terminating in crutches, by Avhich the weight of the head and shoulders is taken off the diseased spine, and transmitted directly to the pelvic base ; and 3, a posterior plate, which by means of a rachet can be brought to bear directly upon the excurvated part of the spme, and support, and in some degree rectify, the position of this. Taylor’s support (Fig. 480) is also an a|)paratus of great utihty, more especially in the advanced stages of angular curvature of the spine, where ankylosis has taken place between the diseased vertebrze. It has a tendency, in consequence of the upright iron dorsal rods being jointed backwards, to uplift the head and shoulders, and thus often improves considerably the attitude of the patient. But this very advantage in the later stages becomes a source of inconvenience if not of positive danger in the earlier periods of the disease, as it tends to separate the vertebrae in process of consohdation. It is of considerable im- Fig. 470.—Apiiamtiis for Su]i- portuiK till! Trunk in Vertebral Caries. Fig. 480.—Taylor’s Spinal Sujiport.