143 RESULTS OF LIGATURE OF EXTERNAL ILIAC. arteiy must be well cleared, and especial care taken that the genital branch of the genito-criiral nerve is not included in the noose. It is better not to use the knife deep in the wound ; and, lastly, the sac, if it extend high, must not be weakened by having its peritoneal covering stripped off. Results.—Ligature of the external iliac arteiy was first practised by Aber- nethy in 179(>. Dm-ing the following fifty years it was done in at least 100 recorded instances for inguinal aneurism (Norris); of these, seventy-three were cm-ed, and twenty-seven died. In one remarkable case, both external iliacs were ligatured successfully at an interval of eleven months, by Tait. In some few cases also, there was the complication of an aneurism in the ham with that in the gi-oin. Of ninety-two cases in which the aneurism was solely seated in the groin, seventy were cured and twenty-two died. Death resulted from gan- grene of the limb in eight, from secondary hiemorrhage in four, from sloughing of the sac in three, fr’om tetanus in three, and fr’om causes of a more general character in foiu' cases. Pulsation returned in the sac in six cases ; in some not until several weeks had elapsed after the operation; and in one instance only was this phenomenon followed by death. Siqjpuration of the sac was of frequent occmTcnce, happening in thirteen in- stances, doubtless owing to the large size that these tumom’s are often allowed to attain before being subjected to sm-gical interference. It is remark- able, however, that in three cases only was this accident fatal; and in two of these tkree instances the sac had been 0}>ened before the operation, on the supposition of its being an abscess. Secondary hccmmrhage occmxed but in six cases, foiu- of which proved fatal; a very small proportion when com- pared with what happens in other situations. This must doubtless be attributed in a great measure to the absence of any collateral branches springing from the trunk of the external iliac ; the distance between the point ligatured and the epigastric and circumflex ilii arteries affording abundant space for the safe obliteration of the vessel. In one of the fatal cases, pulsation had previously retiumed in the sac; in the other three the patients died on the seventeenth, the twenty-seventh, and the forty- third days respectively. Ganyrene of the limb is the most common cause of death after deligation of this vessel. It occuiTed m nine instances, of which eight proved fatal • one being cm-ed by amputation. The period at which the mortification supervened varied fr-om the third to the fourth week. The principal cause of this gangrene is narrowing or obliteration of the neighbouring venous trunk Iw piessuie of the tumour. In the accompanying woodcut (Fi<r <-1 ™u Illustrated; the vciu opposite the aueimsm being compieMy cteil “