396 DISEASES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. and cutting pliers, and then in a similar way into the orbit beyond and tbrouo-b the nasal bones, and the nasal process of the superior maxilla above the tumom, and thus extirpating the growth. In this operation there is often free bleeding^ udncb may be an-ested by the actual cautery, and by pledgets of lint soaked in the percbloride of iron, which have the additional advantage of destroying any portions of the tumour left behind in the in-egulai- and cellular cavities of this region. Naso-Orbital Tumours are growths that, commencing in the posterior pait of the nasal fossa or in the ethmoidal cells, perforate eventually the thin imier wall of the orbit and .expand into the interior of that cavity, displacing the eye forwards, downwards, or outwards, in two, sometimes in all three of these directions. Vision is often but little if at aU disturbed. The nostril on the affected side is blocked up by a polypoid growth. But the outline of the superior maxdlla and of the hai-d palate is normal, no pro- jection of the bone, in whole or in part, being perceptible. In fact, the disease and the deformity produced by it occupies a part of the face which is above a hori- zontal line drawn across the cheek on a level with the upper or orbital border of the superior maxdla. The disease always commences primarily in the nose or in the cavities contiguous to it. The extension into the orbit may not occm for many months after its primary development. It occurs at aU periods of life, from early childhood to commencing old age. At first it may present the ordhiary characters of bem'gn nasal polypus. This is removed, recurs rapidly, is again removed, with much haemorrhage, and then the orbital implication is developed. The Diagnosis of the naso-orbital from the naso-pharyngeal tumour may be made by observing the displacement of the eyeball and absence of all tumom* behind the soft palate in the fii’st case ; whilst, in the other, the naso-phai’yn- geal, the orbit is intact, while the upper part of the pharynx is occupied by a morbid growth, and the superior maxilla is possibly pushed bodily forwards or to one side. In the naso-orbital tumom’, the deformity is above the horizontal line of the upper edge of the superior maxilla ; in the naso-pharyngeal, it is below this. The nature of the tumour varies. It is usually a large or small spindle- celled sarcoma, but it may be truly cancerous. 'Treatment.—The operation for the removal of naso-orbital tumom’ may be done as follows. An incision should be made fi’om the nasal process of the superior maxilla directly down along the side and round the ala of the nose, so as to open the nasal cavity. The soft parts on the orbital side of this cut arc then dissected down into the orbit. One blade of a cutting pliers being passed into the nose, the nasal bone is cut through dii’ectly upwards along its outer bordei.