TREATMENT OF AORTIC ANEURISM. 73 mute tho scapnlu, commonly o.i the lelt side ; and it may attain an oxcos- sive development, fully as lar^e as tbo head, before the patient is destioyed by the ruptiu'c of the tumour externally. . . r. ,i .i • Siu-ical interference usually avails but little in anemisms of the thoracic aorta and in many cases it is more humane to allow the patient to die in peace than to tortm-e him by any experimental surgery, which may only tend to hasten the fatal termination of the case. The only treatment adapted to aU cases is constitutional, conducted on the principles laid down in pp. 33—35, and no operative procedm-e is justifiable before this has had a fair trial. Cases do, however, arise in which relief at least may be hoped for as the result of operative interference. The interesting pathological observation having been made by Dr. Coclde, that if the left carotid artery became occluded, there was a tendency to spontaneous cime in an aortic aneiu’ism^ situated at its cardiac side, it was determined to make a direct application of this observation to practice by tying the left common carotid in aneurisms of the first and second parts of the aortic arch. Accordingly in 1872 Chris- topher Heath ligatined the left carotid with much benefit to the patient in a case of anem'ism of the ascending and transverse aorta under the care of Di. Cockle. Other Siu’geons have tried to obtain consolidation of the tumour by endea- vom’ing to coagidate its contents by thrusting coils of iron-wire or cat-gut into its interior, but it need scarcely be said that in no case has any permanent success attended such operations. The mode of treatment which has been more frequently adopted than any other is galvano-puncture ; and it seems probable that in well-selected cases this may be productive of considerable good, or even occasionally lead to a complete cure. In 27 cases of aortic aneinism thus treated, Avhich have been collected by John Duncan, 5 were cured, 10 relieved, 9 unrelieved, and 3 died. Experience has shown that with the latest improvements in the operation— well insulated needles and a suitable battery—there is scarcely any danger to life, and that even where it does no good it does no harm. It has been applied in all stages of the disease, from the time when the tumour becomes sufficiently superficial to allow the safe introduction of the needles, to the time when it has perforated the chest-waU, and is on the point of binsting. In one of John Dmican’s cases, the life of the patient was undoubtedly prolonged for nearly three months after the time at which, if left to itself, the aneurism would have burst externally. The cases best suited for galvano-pimctme, and in which even a cure may be occasionally hoped for, are those in which the tumour is of slow growth, has not yet perforated the chest-wall, and in which it can be diagnosed as sacculated and communicating with the aorta by a comparatively small opening. It is important also that the patient’s health should not be too much broken by suffering or visceral disease. "When the tumour projects through the parietes of the thorax, forming a secondary sac outside, the pros- pect of cure is infinitesimally small; but even then, progress may be delayed, and much relief given to the patient. If the tumoiu- have become diffused, as may occiu when it points at the back, galvano-puncture can only do harm by increasing the tendency to inflammation and suppuration already existing. For the details of the operation, see page 04.