172 DISEASES OF BONE. freely from the cut bone. Should uo pus escape, perhaps a portion of dead bone, or some dark gritty masses of disorganised osseous tissue, are exposed ; if so, they must be removed with a gouge. But if neither of these conditions be found, the Surgeon must not be disappointed, but pierce the neighbouring osseous tissue in diftcrent directions by means of a perforator, when perhaps the abscess will be opened; should it not be so, the patient ^vill still in all probability be materially benefited by the removal of the circle of bone, and the consequent relief to the compression of the osseous tissue. After the operation, the cavity left must be dressed from the bottom with Avet lint, and a poultice be afterwards apphed ; it Avill gradually fill up Avith fibrous tissue, lea\'ing the limb unimpahed in utility and strength. In very chronic cases of circumscribed abscess of bone, chronic osteitis of a considerable portion or the Avhole of the shaft may sloAA'ly take place, the bone becoming greatly enlarged, thickened, and generally diseased from end to end. Fig. 405 is a representation of a section of the tibia in such a state of com- bined suppuration and infiammatory hypertrophy, removed by amputation from a Avoman AA^ho had suffered for 23 years from the disease. In such cases, am- putation or excision is the sole means of relief. CARIES. By Caries some Siu’geons mean a kind of ulceration of bone; others, a species of disintegration of the osseous tissue ; and Stanley includes under this term the various changes consequent on chronic suppimation of the cancellous structure. But caries, I think, properly means a disease of the bone, charac- terised by increased vascularity, softening, and ultimate disintegration of the osseous tissue. It appears to consist in a breaking down of the organised portion of the bone, in consequence of which the earthy matters become elimi- nated in a granular, molecular, and almost diffluent form in the pus formed by the infiammation of the siuTOunding more healthy structimcs. Steuctube.—On examining a portion of carious bone, it aaIII be found to be porous and fragile, of a grey, broAAm, or blackish colour ; partly broken doAvn in softened masses, and partly hollowed out into cells, which contain a reddish-broAvn and oily fluid. The process of Avasting which goes on in the bone, appears to be partly the result of ulceration, and partly ot disintegration of its tissue. In many cases, small masses of dead bone lie loose and detached in the carious caAuty. Around this carious portion, the bone, as well as the medullary and periosteal membranes, are usually extremely Avascular ; and, in many cases, hardened compact masses of osseous tissue Arid be found deposited around the carious cavity, or even forming its exterior wall. These changes are most commonly met with in the cancellous structure, but the compact tissue may likcAvise be affected. As caries frequently occurs in tlie cancellated tissue, it is commonly met AA'ith in the heads of bones ; and here the disease is extremely dangerous, being apt to imdermine and destroy the contiguous articular cartilage, and thus implicate the joint. This caries of the articular ends of bones is consequently a most serious affection, and is a very fr-equent cause of incurable joint-disease, such as suppiu’ation and destruction ot cartilage, folloAvcd perhaps by partial ankylosis. Kelative Feequency.—Bilh’oth and IMenzel of Vienna have examined the question of the relative fr-cqucncy of caries in different bones. In lOOl)