i82 DISEASES OF BONE. thickoncd, vascular, and detached from the necrosed hone. That the perios- teum takes tlio principal share in the reproduction is c^■ident from the fact that, where it is deficient or has been destroyed, aper- tures {cloaccc) are left in the case of new bone ; and if it be remo^-ed altogether, osseous tissue is either not thrown out at all, or most sparingly by the contiguous old bone, or by the epiphyses. The soft tissues, also, of the limb gene- rally, if thick, as in the thigh, contribute to the fonna- tion of plastic matter, which gradually ossifies, and so tends to strengthen the new case ; and, lastly, the articular ends of the old bone, still presen'ing their vitality, con- stitute most important agents in the reparative process, throwing out sufficient osseous matter to consolidate them- selves fiimly to the new shaft that is formed. The im- portance of the periosteum as the organ of regeneration of bone after the removal of the osseous structures, whether experimentally or surgically by resection, or by necrosis, has been conclusively demonstrated by Ollier of Lyons. This Surgeon has shown by many ingenious experiments, that in the lower animals reproduction of a whole bone may take place, as in the case of the radius in rabbits and pigeons, after it has been removed from within the periosteum ; and that, if the periosteum be dissected off in slips, and twisted here and there between the muscles of the limb, new bone of various shapes may be formed on and by this partially detached membrane. He has further shown that, although in man, after operations and disease, new bone may be formed by the contiguous osseous tissue, and even by the neighbouring soft parts, yet the periosteum is essentially the organ of the regeneration of bone : thus confirming, by new and ingenious experiments, and by additional observa- tions, the views that have just been expressed. The whole of a necrosed bone may, after separation, be repro- duced by the periosteum. This is ad- mirably illustrated by the annexed drawing, taken from the photograph of a preparation in the museum of Hr. J. Wood of New York. The whole of the inferior maxilla had separated as the result of phosphorus disease; the patient, a girl, lived for three years, the lower jaw having been reproduced as a peii'ect riirg of bone, as represented in Fig. 40!). Thus it will be seen that the new bone is formed by the vascular and healthy tissues generally that surround the scat of disease, though in this reparative action the periosteunr and the medullary membrane take the chief share, the epiphyses and old bone the next, and the areolar tissue of the lim> but a very secondary and supplemental part. In acute necrosis, thcie is no Fig. 408.—Central Necrosis. New Bone witli Cloacie; included Sequestrum. Fig. 409.—Beiu'oduction of Bower Jaw after Pliospliorus-Xecrosis.