DIAGNOSIS OF CARIES OF THE SPINE. 297 taken, several fragments of bone thus came away in an abscess that opened m the fore part of the thigh. _ _ , i i. Di vgxosis.—The diagnosis of caries of the spine is made at the hrst sight of a patient 'affected by the disease, when once the angular deformity has taken place. It is, however, difficult before excurvation occurs, being only indicated at this period by the existence of pain in the back, and by some symptoms of spinal irritation. At this stage it may be mistaken for sinnal or intercostal neundgia, for rheumatism, or for chronic nephritis. The persistence, however, of a continuous fixed pain in the back should always lead to a suspi- cion as to the true nature of the disease, lest the gxievous error be committed of treating as mere neuralgia or rheumatism what may tmm out to be incui- able diseas°e of the spine itself. Here the tenderness on pressime, the increased sensibility to the application of heat will determine the seat of the^ affection. The pain elicited by rotation or by antero-posterior movement is a very valuable symptom. In most cases pain on bending backwards is most com- jilained of. The patient can stoop forwards, but if bent backwards suffers much. So also pressm’e on the head or shoulders greatly increases the pain or the part affected. The shape of the back also, as also there is loss of the natural and graceful ciu’ves of the spine with a tendency, though it be very slight, to projection of some of the spines, the feeling of weakness in the back, the difficulty iu rising from a sitting or horizontal position, in turning, or in standing on one leg unaided, the loss of the natm’al flexibility of the spine, and especially the occmTence of these symptoms in early childhood or youth, at a period when the other diseases rarely occiu', and are still less rarely persistent, would lead one to suspect the true nature of the affection. The diagnosis between abscesses localised in the situations mentioned and those arising from diseased spine, is not always easy ; as purulent collections of various kinds may form in the different planes of areolar tissue in the neigh- bourhood of the vertebral column, without any disease existing in it. Thus, a large psoas abscess descending in the sheath of the muscle and presenting under Poupart’s ligament, may occm* fr’om some disease or irritation of the areolar or fascial structirres without any disease of the vertebrae themselves. In these cases of simple abscess, the diagnosis from psoas abscess dependent upon verte- bral disease is usually easy, as there will be an absence of all excm’vation of the spine or even of tenderness along it. As psoas abscess dependent upon verte- bral caries almost invariably presents in the groin, and a large abscess in the groin may arise fr’om various other conditions, independently of such vertebral disease, the Hurgeon must attend carefully to the diagnosis of these various conditions. Abscess in the groin may arise from the following causes :—1, from large lymphatic collections in the subcutaneous or intermuscular planes of areolar tissue ; 2, from disease of the areolar tissue around the kidneys ; 3, from peiicaecal abscess (on the right side only) ; 4, fr’om iliac abscess, Avhcther form- ing merely in the iliac fascia, or dependent on disease of the peh'ic bones ; o, from hip-joint disease, the abscess being pelvic ; G, from large buboes or glan- dular abscesses ; 7, from an empyema perforating the pleura and finding its nay down behind the diaphragm ; and 8, from serous or hydatid cysts. These various collections may, howmver, with a little caution be readily distinguished from the ordinaiy form of spinal abscess that descends along the psoas "muscle.