278 KXCI8I0N OF JOINTS AND BONES. lay extend to neighbouring articulations, or through the whole tarsus. There may be looked upon as the most frequent centres of tarsal disease—viz., the Os Calcis, the Astragalus, the Scaphoid, and Cuboid • and tliey are commonly affected in the order given. _ The Os Calcis, from its exposed situation, large size, and spongy structure, IS more frequently the seat of caries and necrosis than any of the other tarsal bones. Very commonly the disease is limited to this bone ; in other instances It extends into the calcaneo-astragaloid or calcaneo-cuboid articulations. When the disease is situated in the imhrior or lateral j)art of the hone, the neighbouring articulations are seldom involved, and then the removal of the morbid structures by gouging ivill usually succeed in effecting a cure. I have frequently had occasion in this way to scoop out great portions, sometimes the whole of the interior of the calcaneum, with the most excellent results. Even when the cuboid is extensively implicated as well, and the calcaiieo-cuboid artic- ulation is the seat of diseased action, the disorganised structures may often be removed by gouging and partial resection, as in the case of which the cut (Fig. 4G5) is a good repre- Fig. 4C5.—Disease of Os Calcis and Cuboid, and of Caltoneo-Cuboid Joint: Lines of Excision. seiitation, where, by means of a _L-shaped incision, these bones were exposed, and them carious portions gouged out. Should, however, the caries have affected the superior or anterior 2wrtions of the hone, then the implication of the astragaloid or cuboid articu- lations may render the excision of the whole bone necessary, as the only means of preventing extension of secondary morbid action to the tarsus generally. So mifrequent, however, is disease of the articular aspects of this bone, that its complete removal is very seldom necessary. Out of at least fifty cases of caries of the os calcis that have been under my care, I have only had occasion to excise the whole bone once ; and Fergusson states that he has never yet foimd it necessary to do this operation. Indeed, excision of the os calcis should not be lightly rmdertaken. The large size of the bone, its importance as a basis of support to the body, and as the point of attachment to the strong muscles of the calf, should induce the Simgeon, whenever practicable, to avoid its complete extirpation, and to limit himself to the application of the gouge, even though he may have to scoop out the whole of the interior of the bone, leaving little more than an osseous shell. This will fill up by the deposit of a dense fibroid tissue, which probably, CA'cntually undergoing partial ossification, leaves the foot as useful as ever for all purposes of support and progression. Operation.—Excision of the os calcis is usually performed by timning a heel- flap back, as in disai-ticulations at the ankle-joint, and then carrying incisions forward into the sole of the foot, by which another flap is turned up, and the calcaneo-cuboid articulation exposed and opened (Fig. 4GG) ; after Avhich the knife is carried between the astragalus and calcaneum, and the latter bone