UIUNARY CALCULUS. 786 operation, it might be thought more safe to practise at once the high than the lateral operation. Difficulty from Fracture of tlie Calculus.—The difficulty of extraction is greatly increased if the stone be broken. Fractm-e of a calculus is of two kinds. In the one case the stone is simply broken into several fragments, or splinters, so to speak, are detached from it. This accident may happen to hard as well as to soft calculi, and is generally owing to the Surgeon employing too much pressure on the blades of the forceps, fearing that the stone may escape fr’om between them ; or it may arise from the large size of the calculus requiring some foi’ce to be exex’cised in its extraction, when the Surgeon is very apt to compress the forceps as he draws the stone doum. When this accident is found to have occurred, the Siu’geon must remove with small forceps the fragments that have been detached. He should then wash out the bladder by coixious injections of tepid water, and very carefully examine its interior for any loose pieces. It is seldom that any worse consequence results from this occurrence, than delay in the completion of the operation. The second mode of fracture consists in the crumbhng down of the calculus so soon as it is seized by the forceps, into a soft mortary mass ; the stone is not broken into large pieces, but, having natm’aUy little cohesion, disinte- grates into a mass of softish fragments, none of which probably exceed a cheny-stone in size, and Which indeed resemble a wet sabulous aggregation, rather than distinct pieces of calculus. This crumbling down can only ocem- in phosphatic calculi, and is most likely to happen with the triple phosphate. It is in no way the fault of the Sm’geon, but arises from want of cohesion hi the calculus, so that the blades of the forceps bite, as it were, through it. It is an unpleasant accident to occur, as it becomes extremely difficult, if not impossible, to clear away the whole of the soft mortary detritus from the- interior of the bladder, to the lining membrane of which it tenaciously adheres, small masses lying under the folds into which the contracted organ is thrown. As much as possible should be removed by the scoop, and the re- mainder washed away, as far as practicable, by copious injections; with all care, however, some will be left, and may be discharged through the wound some days, or even two or three weeks, after the operation. When this happens, the bladder should be thoroughly washed out every day, or every second day, by warm water injections thrown in through a catheter passed down the urethra and allowed to regm’gitate through the wound ; and this plan must be persevered in so long as any foreign body escapes.^ Shoidd the wound have healed, the detritus must be treated as in lithotrity; and the- bladder must be washed out every second or third day by a large-eyed catheter,, until all is removed. Accidekts during Lithotomy.—The principal accidents that may occiu* during the performance of the lateral operation of lithotomy are Hcemoirhage, Cutting the Bulb ; Missing the Membranous Portion of the Urethra ; Wound ' of the Rectmn ; or Wound of the Posterior Part of the Bladdei. Hgemorrhage dming lithotomy may occur fr’om three som-ces : 1. 1 o Superficial Arteries of the Perinieimi; 2. The Deep Arteries of this region; and, 3. The Prostatic and other Veins. 'When excessive, from ^^tever source it proceeds, it is always a very serious complication ; for, even if it do