TREATMENT OF SIMPLE STRICTURE OF RECTUM. 705 great clanger in introducing a bougie high up, is to mistake the obstruction offered by its point coming into contact with one of the valyular folds of mucous membrane that occur in this situation, for that of the stricture, and, by pushing on the instrument, to perforate the bowel—an accident that would ; probably occasion fatal peritonitis. During the introduction of bougies, the I bowels must bo kept regular by means of lenitive electuary, and the occa- ! sional use of emollient enemata. If much pain or in-itation should be occa- i sioned by their iwesence, opium should be administered internally or in the I form of suppositories. Though a simple stricture of the rectum may be much I relieved by the use of bougies, it is seldom, I think, cured by this means ; I there being a great tendency in it to contract so soon as the treatment is I discontinued. ! Dilatation may sometimes be very conveniently effected by the use of Todd’s dilator (Fig. 694). This is introduced closed, covered with a thin vulcanised India-rubber sheath, so as to avoid nipping the mucous mem- brane. It is then expanded to the required extent by press- ing on a trigger in the handle. If complete obstruction occur, an endeavour should be made ' to relieve the patient by the use of enemata of gruel and linseed-oU, and the strength should be supported by a diet that is nourishing, at the same time that it leaves little or no solid residue ; the bowels may eventually act after a consider- able lapse of time, the strictiue apparently giving way. In a case to which reference has already been made, the stricture gave way after obstruction had lasted for about five weeks, some hardened fieces with bloody mucus being discharged, which were speedily followed by abundant feculent motions. Should the obstruction, however, continue, and the patient consequently be in imminent danger of death from this cause, the intestine should be opened, if possible, by Amussat’s opera- tion, perfonned in the way already described (p. 692, vol. II.) This may require to be done either on the right or the left side, according to the seat of stricture. In the majority of instances, this ndU be situated below the descending colon, so that relief may be given by opening this intestine in the left loin ; but if it be impossible or even very difficult to deter- mine the precise seat of the obstruction, the operation may as readily be performed in the right Imnbar region. In those rare cases in which the stricture is seated in the transverse colon, there would probably be considerable distension of the right loin, with- out any corresponding enlargement of the left; in these circumstances, the proper plan would be to open the cajcum. 2. Syphilitic Stricture of the Large Intestine is met with in the rectum fr’om one to three inches above the anal aperture, and chiefly in young women under thirty, rarely in men. They are essentially Hospital cases, seldom if ever seen in private practice. This form of stricture is usually situated an inch or two up the rectum. It feels as if there were a