OPElxATIOX FOR ANGULAR ANKYLORIR. 333 must be di\ idecl subcutaneously ; and these will usually be found to be the rectus, tensor vai^inai femoris, pectincus, and gracilis. After the limb has, in this way, been straightened, and maintained for some time in the straight position* by means of the long splint or weight apparatus (Fig. 184), means may be adopted by passive motion and frictions to restore the mobility of the joint. Operation for Osseous Angular Ankylosis.—When osseous ankylosis of the hip has occmred in the angular position, the case necessarily becomes much more serious ; and the rectification of the position of the limb, and the resto- ration of its mobility, can only be effected by surgical operation. The operation l)y which these objects are accomplished consists in the divi- sion of the Upper Part of the Femur ; through its neck, if any remains of that structure still exist, or, at all events, above the trochanter minor. The first operation of the kind was performed by Rhea Barton, in 182G. It was done in the case of a sailor, 21 years ago, Avho, in consequence of an injury, had an osseous ankylosis of the hip in a nearly rectangular position. Barton, according to Gross, made a crucial incision over and down to the great trochanter. The muscles were detached and turned aside, and the bone sawn through, the great trochanter and part of the neck of the femur having been divided transversely. Whether a simple section of the bone was made, or, in conformity nrth Barton’s usual practice in ankylosis, a v-shaped piece of bone was removed, I know not, for on this point American authonties differ. But the limb was brought into a straight position, and put up in a fractiu’e-appa- ratus for twenty days. At the end of this time, passive motion was com- menced, and at the end of four months the patient had a movable false joint, so that he could rotate the limb, abduct it for twenty inches, and carry it backwards and forwards to a still greater extent. The case.was therefore eminently successful. The operation appears, however, to have attracted but little notice, and to have been but rarely followed by others. It is true that Barton himself operated a second time ; and that Rodgers of New York, in 1830,^ did so successfully on a man 47 years old. The example of these American Siu-geons was followed in Europe, by Textor in 1841, and by Maisonneuve in 1847, on a girl of 18, successfully. Ross (U. S. A.) operated in 1857, on a woman of 23. In the two latter cases no false joint was made ; but the bone, after being straightened, united again by callus. In 1 larch, 1869, I performed a similar operation at University College Hospital, on a girl of IG, who had rectangular osseous ankylosis of the right hip-joint' ibo patient made a slow but a good recovery with a straight and usefuriimb rsllZ^ T!? Z- of a false joint, but consolidation took place at the line of section. position of tho 1 ^1 the rectification of the fn H the establishmcut of a mobile false joint r-iblp* *""ted coxo-femoral articulation, was thus shown to be piLti- cabie ; yet It had scarcely taken a place in surgical literatine or practice until Sayre of .New York, in 18G2, by performing it in two cases successilly prominently before the Profession, and has led to its establishment "^ , cc ^ised operation for the remedying of these deformities. Sayre is iiu' oubtedl^ entitled to the graat merit of having established the operation on a