247 OFEB AT ION OF EXCISION obliquely, or u’hon the space is limited ; for, as the blade is nanw and its ano-li can be changed at pleasure, any required direction can be communicated to "the cut I almost im-ariably use it in preference to all others in resections But some Surgeons prefer, especially in resection of the knee-jomt a short and very broad-bladed saw; the blade being of more than sufficient breadth to take in the whole thickness of bone to be divided. The chain-saw is perhaps not used so frequently as it might be. Operation.—The steps of the operation must of course vary with the different resections ; but there are some general rules that may be laid down as ajiplicable to all cases. 1. The incisions through the soft parts should be sufficiently fr’ee to expose thoroughly the bones to be removed. By making them, as far as practicable, parallel to tendons, blood-vessels, and nerves, parts of importance may readily be avoided. 2. As little of the bone as possible should be removed. The gouge may be applied to any carious or tuberculous cavities or patches that appear upon the surface of the fr’eshly-cut bone ; and, in this way, shortening of the bone by the saw may be materially avoided. 3. In young children the epiphysis should never be entirely removed, as it is on the growth of this portion of bone, or rather on that of the epiphysial cartilaginous layer adjoining the shaft, that the development of the bone in length is mainly dependent. 4. In adults in whom the bone has attained its maximum longitudinal development, the epiphysis may be more freely removed, if necessary. But the shaft should not bo encroached upon if it can be possibly avoided, and especial carc should be taken not to open the medullary canal. 0. The periosteum should be carefully preserved, being stripped off the bone uhere it is thickened and loosened, and manipulated very gently, so that its vitality may not be in any way impaired. 0. It is ot great importance not to confound bone softened by inflammation, but otherwise healthy, or roughened deposits of now osseous matter, with that which is carious or necrosed. 7. Skin, however redundant, should seldom if ever be cut away. The flaps, at fiist too largo, soon shrink do urn to a proper size, and, if trimmed, are very apt to become too scanty. 8. After the operation, light dressings only should bo used. As healing