774 UIUSAltY CALCULUS. perhaps a little more upon the side of the handle (Figs. 741 and 745 ); in this way the point is firmly pressed into tlm gi-oove of the stafh out of which it cannot slip, as it is secured and supported by the index-finger being some- what under it. The section of the prostate is thus made by a steady push or thrust of the knife forwards, and not by any cutting movement downwards. No danger can result in the deep incision from pushing the point of the knife up into the groove of the staff; but there is great danger of missing the bladder, and entering the recto-vesical space, if it be at all depressed and the handle raised, though this cannot always be avoided if the staff be pushed deeply into the bladder. 2. The Incision into the Prostate in the adult should be of very limited extent: on this point, I believe, all Surgeons of the present day are agreed. Scarpa advises that the incision into it should not exceed five lines in adults, and two in children. It is difficult to measure the extent of the incision: it is sufficient to say, that it should be as limited as possible; and if care bo taken to push the knife in, with the point w’ell pressed against the groove, and the l)lade forming but a hmited angle with the shaft of the staff, and especially in Avithdrawing it that it be brought carefriUy back over the finger and still in contact with the instrument, there will be no danger in cutting too Avidely, or in doing more than merely notching the apex of the prostate (Fig. 746 a). The danger, however, it must be borne in mind, does not consist in the section of the prostate itself—AA'hich is in reality a structure of but little importance —^but in cutting beyond it into the reflections of the pelvic fasciae, which AviU be opened up if the base of the prostate be cut, and the wound of which Avill, almost to a certainty, be followed by m-inary infiltration and diffuse inflammation. That distinguished anatomist Elhs has, I beheve, for many years taught that the true separation be- tAveen the cavity of the pehns and the internal parts, in Avhich a lithotomy wound can be safely made, is not the sheath of the prostate, but the lateral and anterior true ligaments of the bladder; or in other words, the recto-vesical fascia. Hence the incision may be safely car- ried thi-ough the whole length of the loAver and outer side of the prostate up to the very neck of the bladder, provided it do not pass beyond the at- Fig. 746.-inci3ion in Prostate. tachmciit of the lateral liga- ment to the bladder, and so open up the loose _ subperitoneal tissue around i In the section of the prostate, then, two points have specially to be attende to : one is, that the knife in entering be not pushed angle Avith the staff, so as to cut AVidely; and the other is, that in