excision of the wrist. 265 palmar aspect. The knife must be carried close to the ulna, so as not to wund the artery and nerve. The pisiform bone is to be separated and lel’t attached to the tendon of the flexor carpi uluaris, which is not to be cut. ihe flexor tendons are to be raised from the metacarpal bones, but in doing this the hook of the unciform bone must be clipped off with the bone-forceps, and care must be taken not to cut below the bases of the metacarpal bones, for fear of wounding the deep palmar arch. The tendons must be relaxed diu-ing this part of the operation by flexing the -VTist. The bone-forceps may now be introduced, first between the carpus and radius, and then between the carpus and metacarpus ; by this means the Avhole of the carpal bones (except the trapeziimi and the pisiform bone) are separated from their connections, and may be extracted in one mass with a larger pair of sequestrum-forceps, any bands which retain them being touched with a knife. The ends of the radius and ulna may now be easily protruded from the ulnar wound. If on examination they be found only slightly diseased, the ulna may be saivu obliquely so as only to remove its articular surface and to leave almost the whole of the styloid process. A thin slice may be taken off the end of the radius, so as only just to remove the cartilaginous surface ; and its articular surface for the ulna may be removed by cutting longitudinally with the bone- forceps. By leaidng the ulna as long as possible and by saving the styloid process, the tendency to displacement to the ulnar side is somewhat counteracted. If the bones be extensively diseased, the gouge and boue-phers must be used •freely. The next step is to expose the bases of the metacarpal bones, and to treat them in the same way as the radius and uhia, saving as much bone as possible, but removing all cartilaginous surfaces. The second and third are most easily protruded from the radial, and the fourth and fifth fr'om the ulnar wound. The trapezium may then be dissected out, being held in a strong pair of forceps. In doing this care must be taken, first, not to woimd the radial artery, which is in close relation with its outer side ; and, secondly, not to cut the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis which lies in its gToove. When the trapezium is removed, the base of the metacarpal bone of the thumb may be jDHshed up and cut off with the bone-pliers. It is better to remove it, as it may suffer from recm’rence of the disease, and by its removal the thumb is reduced in length to the same extent as the fingers. Lastly, the pisiform bone may be examined, and either removed entirely, or its cartilaginous siuface cut off, as the case requires. Dmlng the operation, the only tendons necessarily divided are the extensors of the 'wi’ist. The flexor carpi radialis may escape, fr’om its attachment being situated low on the bases of the second and third metacarpal bones, and the flexor ulnaris is left attached to the pisiform bone. AU the extensors of the thumb should be uninjured. All the tendons necessarily divided must bo cut as long as possible, so that they may form new attach- ments in the most advantageous positions ; and, in raising the flexor and extensor tendons they must be distiubed as little as possible. A/ler-lreafment.—The radial wound maybe closely united with sutures. The ulnar woimd may be closed at each end, but the middle of the wound is to be kept open by means of an india-rubber di’ainage tube to allow fine exit of discharge. Ihe hand is to be placed on a splint. The most convenient is a simple wooden splint, “with an obtuse-angled piece of thick cork” stuck on it so as to maintain