DISEASES OF THE LIP. 39f> chronic, operative measures will require to be put in practice. The closure of an old salivary fistula in the cheek is a very troublesome matter. In these cases the Stenonian duct appears to be obstructed or partially closed ; and it is useless to attempt to occlude the opening in the cheek until a proper aperture for the escape of the saliva has been made into the mouth ; the escape of a few drops of saliva through the fistulous opening rendering the attempt to close it completely nugatory. The plan of treatment which I have found to answer best is a modification of Desault’s. It consists in passing a small hydrocele trochar into the fistula in the cheek, pushing this obliquely forwards and inwards into the mouth, as nearly as possible in the direction of the parotid duct, withdrawing the stilet, and then passing a small silk seton through the cannula, so as to bring one end out of the mouth, and the other through the fistula in the cheek. The cannula is then withdrawn, and the seton tied loosely. It should be left in for about three weeks, so as to establish a sinus into the mouth. It is then to be cut and withdrawn, and the sinus in the mouth kept patent by the daily introduction of a probe, by leaving a small piece of gum catheter in it, or, if it show mirch disposition to close, by the introduction of a. laminaria tent. In this way the saliva is diverted from the external opening- and made to flow into the mouth. The external aperture hi the cheek may now be closed by touching its edges with a pointed stick of the nitrate of silver or the galvanic cautery ; or, if large, they may be pared and stitched together. DISEASES OF THE LIPS. Congenital Malformation of the Lips is of common occurrence. Con- genital Contraction, or even complete closure of the orifice of the mouth, has been met with at birth ; such a condition must be remedied, according to cir- cumstances, by the skiU of the Smgeon. By far the most common malforma- tion, however, is the condition termed Hare-lip, which wiU be noticed in detail in the chapter on the Plastic Surgeiy of the Face and Mouth. Hypertrophy to a great extent occasionally occurs in either or in both lips. It is often of an oedematous character, being kept up by the irritation of fissures or cranks ; if so, these must be cured, when the size of the lip will gradually dimmish. Sometimes, however, it becomes permanent, continuino* after the cure of the fissure ; in these circumstances it may be necessaiy to excise an elliptical portion of the mucous membrane of the bp in a horizontal direction, and then to bring the edges together by means of sutures oi- OTceration is not unfrequently met with on the prolabium, frequently of Lrof It is often dependent on a Lrdered ut L of “““only yield to the application of nitiateofsilyer, to proper constitutional treatment, haying for its obiect the Sre™ K adminiLrati® 01 the preparations of arsenic. Encysted and Erectile Tumours.—The lips may be the seat of encysted and erectile tumours, requiring extirpation by the knife or ligatimc. In diJml he should, If possible, avoid cutting through the whole thickness of