OPHTHALMIC SURGERY. 430 •cornea, especially if tlic iris be dark-coloured, as they are also generally. In order to detect the presence of a foreign body, the Surgeon must open ■U’idely the patient’s eye in a good light, and bid him look in various directions cr on all sides, successi’^'ely ; when, if the iris be light-colomcd, the foreign body is probably soon detected as a dark speck, and may be removed forth- Avith. If the foreign body be hght-coloured or transparent, its situation may be detected on the eye itself by A'iewing the convex mucous surface, in all its parts successiAcly, Avith the light of the Avindow reflected from it, and then, at this point in particular, the light is irregularly reflected as it is in case of a simple abrasion, or loss of substance, when there is no foreign body. If it be not thus detected, the lower lid must be pulled doAvn with a finger placed on the skin of the lid, and the patient desired to look very much upwards, so as to expose completely the palpebral and ocular conjunctival surface of the lower part of the eye. It is, however, more probable that, if the foreign body be ruider either eyelid, it is the upper one. In this case the Sm-geon, standing before the patient, places the end of his forefinger sideAvays on the lid near its outer edge, without inAmlving any folds of loose skin ; and pressing a little on the eye, makes the hd slide downwards, as far as possible, over the lower nfraid of them as of any instrument. The little operation cannot, howeA^er, be done the first time it is attempted. The patient may move back his head just as the tinn is to be completed (therefore the head of the patient must be steadied by being placed against the wall, or the back of his chair, oi by the other hand behind it); or the lid is not seemed between the finger and thiunb before the eversion is attempted ; or the lashes only and not the lid are held ; or one fears to press the forefinger sufficiently into the eye to effect the ever- sion. It is very much more difficult if the patient be fat, the eye deeply set, and the orbicularis strong, or the lid thickened and contracted—inclined to be iiivm'tp.d—bv old results of oiDhthahnia. The upper lid being everted, it is Fij;. 665.— Eversion of Uiiper Lid for Deteidioii of Foreign Bodies. lid. The lid (not the lashes) is then seized firmly by the end of the thumb applied sideways ; and the end of the forefinger is tm-ned downAvards, while the lid is held firmly by the thumb and finger. The hd is thus everted (Fig. 5G5). This is a better plan than using a probe, or a pen laid horizon- tally on the lid, and then pulhng the lid by the lashes over the barrier so as to evert it. The fingers are ahvays avail- able, and the patient is not so much