DISEASES OF THE BREAST. <6o6 thoiiglits, not so mucli from the fear of the possibly impending operation, but rather from the distress of mind, in many eases amounting to a sense of humiliation, at the idea of the mutilation of whieh she is about to beeome the A-ictim. The operation for the remoyal of a breast, whether affected with •cancer or with other disease, may be performed in the following Avay. d’he patient should lie upon a table, with the arm hanging over the side, tied down ■or held by an assistant. If the tumour be large, and the loss of blood a mattci of much consccj^uence, another assistant should compress the subclavian artery on the first rib. The haemorrhage ^vill, however, depend more on the natui'e than on the size of the tumour. In all cancerous tumours, but espe- •cially in the encephaloid, it is considerable, and from many enlarged vessels. In simple tumours, even of very large size, it is often trivial. I have remoA-ed ■a simple tiunour of the breast of many pounds weight, and only had to tic •one spouting vessel. Indeed, nothing indicates more conclusively the enor- mous vegetative activity of cancerous tumours, and the great drain they must •exercise upon the system generally, than the large size and gi-eat number of their supplying arteries, compared with those sent to a simple tumour many times larger than the malignant one. If the veins about the part be much •dilated, measures should be taken to aiTCst the flow of blood from them, as it may sometimes be dangerously profuse; indeed. South relates the case of a patient who died from this cause during the operation. In amputations of the breast for malignant disease, there are thi-ee principal and vital points that must be attended to : 1. Always to remove the whole of the breast-gland ; 2. Always to remove the nipple ; 3. Always to remove widely all dimpled skin. The direction of the incision through the integuments is varied by difierent Surgeons ; some prefer a transverse, others a perpendicular one. I think that no definite plan should be followed, but the direction of the cut made to vary according to the situation and size of the tumour, and the amount of integu- ment that requires removal. In all cases, the nipple should be included. In ■ordinary cases, as a general rule, I prefer an oblique incision following the course of the fibres of the great pectoral muscle ; as it enables the Surgeon, if necessary, to extend the cut into the axilla for the removal of enlarged glands, and, after cicatrisation, alloAvs the movements of the arm -without undue traction. An oblique elliptical incision, of sufiicient length, may thus be made, fii’st below, and next above the nipple, so as to include a sufficient quantity of integument (Fig. (!(){)). In some cases, where the skin is somewhat involved, a transverse incision may be made in addition to this, so as to include the affected integu- ment in a triangular manner. When the tumour is very large and prominent, a double vertical incision may very conveniently include the nipple and the most suspicious parts of the skin. The dissection should then be rapidly canicd down, by a few strokes of the scalpel, to the pectoral muscle, and the Ijreast removed from the cellular bed in -which it lies. When the tumour is of large i size, and especially if it be of simple character, this part of the operation may be done very expeditiously by drawing doum the mass and touching the areolar tissue with the scalpel, when the whole tumour will peel off the pectoral muscle, and can readily be detached. Alter the removal of the diseased breast, it and the tumour, as well as the whole interior of the wound, must be carefully