0 FEE ATI ON FOE SINGLE IIAEE-LIP. 503 compressor. But the details of the treatment vary so much, according as the fissure is sino-le or double, or complicated by more or less projection of the intermaxillary portions, that the steps of each operation require to be separately Single Hare-lip.—The operation for single hare-lip is performed in the following way. The child having been well pinned in a jack-towel that swatheslt tightly, the Surgeon, sitting down, places his feet on a stool so as to raise them; and, covering his knees with a piece of tarpaulin, holds the child, s head firmly between them. The bleeding from the coronary artery of the hp may be arrested, either by an assistant or the Suigeon grasping the lip between his forefinger and thumb, 01 by compressing the lip with the little contrivance heie figiu-ed, which consists of an ordinary ring-forceps con- verted into a compressor by having a vulcanised India- rubber ring slipped over the handles. This little con- trii'ance will be found to be invaluable in many opera- tions about the face and jaws. The lower this ring is drami doivn, the tighter will the forceps grip. The Surgeon first freely divides the frmnum and all mem- branous connections between the angle of the cleft and the gum of the upper jaw, and then, putting the lip on the stretch by seizing the extreme edge of the cleft with a pair of artery-forceps or a tenaculum, he pares the edges of the cleft by transfixion with a narrow-bladed bistoury, or fine scalpel, from above dovnawards, first on one side, then on the other; taking care that the in- cisions unite neatly and cleanly above the upper angle of the fissure, which must be well cut out; and that they extend sufficiently far outwards to cut away the rounded portion of the pro- labium which forms the side of the base of the fissime. Care should be taken that enough is cut away; there is more danger usually of taking too little than too much. In single hare-lip, where the lips are very lax, the incisions may be straight; but if the gap be wide and the tissue deficient, or in double hare-lip, they should be somewhat concave inwards : in this way there is less likelihood of an unseemly noteh being left (Fig. 608). Fine hare-lip pins, made of soft iron wire, with steel points, should then be deeply introduced through the lip from one side of the fissure to the other. The pins should be entered at about a quarter of an inch from the pared edge on one side, and brought out at a con-esponding point on the other; care being taken that, though they are passed deeply, the mucous membrane is not trans- fixed : if it be, it will be doubled into the wound, and thus interfere vdth. union. Two pins are usually required; if the child be some years old, and the fissure very long, three may be used. The lower pin should be introduced first underneath or through the cut labial artery, in such a way that its pressure may stop the bleeding from this vessel, which is often rather fr’ee : in passing this pin, gi’eat care should bo taken to bring the opposite sides of the fissure well into contact, so as to be on a level below, that no irregularity may be left Fig. G05.—Elastic Com- pressor applied over Coronary Artery.