6i4 HERNIA. imfrcqnently mot with alone, constituting; Epix>locele. After havinj^ l^eeii protruded for some time it hccomcs tliiekcncd, brawny, and laminated, losing its ordinary cellulo-adipose texture, and becoming indurated. Its veins usually assume a somewhat varicose condition ; and the mass of omentmn becomes, triang-ular, the apex beino- upwards at the abdominal aperture, and the base- below, broad and expanded. In some cases it can be unfolded ; in others, it is matted together into a cylindrical mass. Occasionally apertures form in it,, through which a coil of intestine may protrude, thus becoming secondarily strangulated within the sac. In other instances, cysts are met with in it. containing fluid, or into which the intestine may even slip. AYhen intestine and omentum together are found in a hernia, the disease is termed an Entero- epiplocele ; and in these circumstances the omentum usually descends before and occasionally envelopes the intestine. Besides these, the ordinary con- tents of hernise, the stomach, liver, spleen, sigmoid flexm’e of the colon,, bladder, uterus, and ovaries, have aU been found in them. In a case described by Scanzoni, the gravid uterus and ovaries were enclosed in the sac of an inguinal hernia. Adhesions commonly form within the sac in old-standing cases. These may take place between the contained viscera merely, as between two coils of intes- tine, or between these and the omentum ; or they may form between the wall of the sac and its contents, either by broad bands, or else by bridging across, from one side to the other, and inclosing a portion of the viscera. In recent cases these adhesions are soft, and may readily be broken down ; but when of longer duration, they are often very dense, and are especially firm about the- neck of the sac. Besides the viscera, the hernial sac always contains a certain quantity oifluui secreted by and lubricating its interior. In most cases, this is in but small quantity ; but in some instances, when the sac is inflamed, or the hernia, strangulated, a very considerable bulk of liquid has been met with ; I have- seen as much as a pint escape from a large hernia in an old man. inienj abundant, it is generally of a brownish colom, though clear and transparent; it is met with in largest quanti- ties in inguinal hernia. Hydrocele of the Hernial Sac.—In some in- stances the fluid becomes collected in a kind of cyst Avithin the sac, formed by the omentum contracting- adhesions to its upper part, and leaving space below for the fluid to collect, in Avhich this acciunulates- between the omentmn above and the wall of the sac below; this condition, represented in the amiexed drawing (Fig. G71), has been called IIydi ocele oj the Hernial Sac, and constitutes a somewhat rare form of disease. The fluid is often in considerable quantity; in a case which I tapped some years ago, nearly thiec- pints of dark-brown liquid had thus accumulated, and were di-aAvn off. i • wi - If we limit the term hydrocele of the hernial sac to those cases m which there is a slow and gradual accumulation ot fluid at the bottom of an o c emu ri-A. U71.—H.vdroccjle of Heriiiiii Sai-.