245 REPAIR AFTER EXCISIOFT. with some iiTitativc fever, but with no open abscess in connection with the ioint to account for the cachectic condition, excision of the larger joints, as of the knee and hip, is not desirable. If the patient be very highly strumous, or decidedly phthisical, there will be little prospect of his being able to bear up through the long convalescence that follows resection. A slight degree of pulmonaiy disease, however, which appears to be rather the result of the long- continued in-itation of the local affection, than of any constitutional taint, need not be a bar to operation. In such cases I have several times had occasion to observe that the general health improved rapidly after the removal of the local clisenso* 5. The extremes of life are unfavonraUe to resections. In very early child- hood, these operations are seldom necessary ; the natural processes usuaUy sufficing, with A’ery httle assistance, to eliminate diseased bone, and the dis- organised joints admitting readily enough of ankylosis. If the disease be too severe for this, it wull usually be found to be associated Avith so strumous a constitution as to interfere with healthy reparative action of any kind. Another serious objection to these operations in young children is that, should the epiphyses be removed, the development of the limb will be arrested to a great extent, if not entirely. At advanced periods of life, destructive joint-disease is not very common, and when it does happen, it is generally in constitutions not fitted to stand up against the prolonged drain consequent on these opera- tions. It is at the early adult age when the diseases most frequently occur that render resections necessary, that these operations are best borne. Eepair after Excision.—The mode of repair after resection differs according to the circumstances of the operation. When, as A'ery commonly happens in cases of necrosis, the periosteum, thickened, infiltrated, and loosened, can readily be detached, or, indeed, is already separated, without injury to itself, from the dead bone, reproduction of new osseous tissue to a very considerable extent may be expected. My own obseiTations on the fibula, tibia, and ulna, and those of Ollier and Maisonneuve, prove the importance of the periosteum as an organ of repair after the extrac- tion of a dead shaft or bone from within it. Eepair in this way is, I belicA’e, chiefly to be looked for in the shafts of the long bones ; although some Surgeons, as Annandale of Edinburgh, haA^e described the os calcis as having been reproduced after subpei’iosteal excision. The remarkable osteogenetic properties possessed by the periosteum haA'e been fully and conclusively esta- blished by the expei’iments and observations of Ollier. He has shown that a bone is much more rapidly and perfectly reproduced after remoA'^al, if the periosteum be left, than if it be removed, and he states that the osteogenetic * properties of this membrane are greater in the long than in the short bones. e is also of opinion that resections performed by the subperiosteal method ea\e bettor results, so far as the shape and formation of the new joint are concerned, than if this membrane be sacrificed. These observations, indeed, conclusively establish the importance of making in all cases every effort to prcseive the periosteum during a resection. \\ hen a short bone, as the os calcis, has been entirely removed, with its periosteum attached, it is never, of course regenerated, but its place is occupied by a thick, firm, fibrous cicatrix.