287 AMPUTATION IN JOINT-DISEASES. able. So Hiv fi’om amputation being an opprobrium to surgery iir such cases as these I look upon it as one of the gi-eatest triumphs of our art, that by a simple and easy operation, rvhich removes the spoiled and useless limb, the life of the patient may be saved, and his health speedily restored. In amputating in cases of chronic joint-disease, where the limb has been the scat of prolonged suppuration, it will be found, just as m cases of many secondary amputations after injuries, that the condition of the muscles of the limb is peculiar. Instead of, as in cases of primary amputation, being dark in colour and retracting forcibly and unequally when cut across, they ivill be found to be pale, soft, flabby, and retracting but little, if at all; lesembling in this respect the muscles in a dead body, with the intermuscular areolai tissue often infiltrated. In consequence of this alteration in their structure and physiological properties, the flaps need not be cut so long in amputation foi chronic suppurative joint-disease as in cases of primary amputation. Circunistances influencing Mortality.—The mortality after amputation for joint-diseases is especially influenced by three conditions : viz., the Seat of the Operation, the Acute or Chronic Character or the Disease, and the Con- stitutional Condition of the Patient. The influence of the seat of operation has already been discussed at p. 53, vol. I. The duration of the disease exercises a most important influence, especially in the larger joints—more particularly the knee. As a general rule, it may be stated that, the more acute the suppurative destruction of a joint, the less successfid is the amputation of the limb hkely to be ; pytemia and low secondary inflammation being especially apt to supervene. (See p. 5G, vol. I.) In very acute cases, the Surgeon ought to evacuate the pus by means of free incisions, and endeavour to delay the necessity of amputation until the active suppurative stage has passed, and the affection has subsided into a chronic form. In chronic cases, the success of amputation is very great. It commonly happens that a patient who has been racked with pain, and been wasting in body for weeks before the local source of irritation was removed, sleeps soundly tho night after the operation, and rapidly gains flesh and strength. In determining upon the adrdsability of resecting a diseased joint or of amputating the limb, the Surgeon must be guided not only by the amount of disease in the articulation, but by the constitutional condition of the patient. In amputation the chief dangers are immediate—from shock, or secondary hoenron-hage. In excision the shock is not so severe, in consequence of the incision being farther from the trunk, and through comparatively superficial and unimportant parts ; no large blood-vessels, nen'es, or even muscles are dir'ided, and there is no danger of secondary harmonhage. But in excision the dangers are chiefly remote ; the suppurative process is long continued, and the discharge of pus abundant; the patient may consequently not have suffi- cient constitutional power to carry him through. So far as erysipelas and pytemia arc concerned, the danger is probably the same in both operations, n addition to this, it must be borne in mind that a patient will often consent to have a joint or bone excised who would not agree to part with a liml). As phthisis not unfrcqrrontly co-exists with the advanced forms of strumous