214 DISEASES OF JOINTS. coiumimicatcs to the part. Thus in the knee, which is the nrost common seat of this affection, the patella will he felt to float, as it were, on the subjacent liquid ; and the capsule of the joint projects distinctly in three situations, viz.,, on each side of the ligamentum patellte, and above that bone. In the elbow, there is a soft and fluctuating swelling on each side of the olecranon, and under the tendon of the triceps ; and in the shoulder there is a general round- ness and distension of the articulation. It is said that, in some cases, the distension of the joint has been so gveat that the synovial membrane has been riqjtured, and the fluid pormed forth into the siuTOunding areolar tissue. In theso»cascs, however, it is probable that some destructive change in the sjmovial membrane preceded its rupture. In some cases of chronic synovitis distinct crachUnf/ wiU be felt in thc' interior of thc joint, on laying the hand over the articulation whilst it is freely moved. This appears to me to be due to the existence of plastic bands or deposits in the interior of the joint, through which the fluid is pressed by the- articular movements, and thus occasions the sensation which is met with under other but similar circumstances in enlargements of the bimsje, and in fluid ■ effusions in the sheaths of tendons. TEmiiXATiONS.—The termination of synovitis will depend mainly on its cause. IITien simple and uncomplicated, arising as the result, perhaps, of rheumatic influences, it will in most cases terminate in complete resolution. In other instances, however, plastic matter may be throvTi out, which either assumes the form of warty vegetations or concretions within the joint, or of bands stretching across its interior or incorporated with its capsule, occasion- ing more or less permanent stiffness, '\^^len synovitis arises from wound, it usually goes on to suppuration vdthiu the joint, with superficial erosion or disintegi’ation of the cartilage, and eventually, if the limb be not removed, to complete disorganisation of the interior of the articulation, and to more or less complete ankylosis. The same happens in the puei’peral and pytemic inflammations of joints ; in which cases the morbid action commencing on the synovial membrane extends downwards to the cartilages, eventually destroying them. The chronic or subacute synovitis and hydrarthrosis usually terminate favom’ably, although the joint is generally left in a weak, relaxed condition, w'hich may take many months to recover ; but occasionally, more particularly in striunous constitutions, the disease runs on to suppurative destruction of the joint. This, however, is rare ; yet its occurrence, in some instances, should make the Surgeon careful not to confound the fluctuation of serous accimnda- tion with that of piu’ulent collection. In the latter instances, the symptoms of inflammation vdll always have preceded. Treatment.—The treatment of synovitis depends partly on the seventy ot the symptoms, and partly on the cause of the disease. If a joint have been injured, and syno'vitis be apprehended, or indeed ha'S'e commenced, no tieat- ment will be found more efficacious than the continued application of ice in India-rubber bags of sufficient size to envelope the whole of the joint. In this way the inflammation may often be checked or completely arrested, t le joint being, of course, kept at the same time perfectly at rest on a sphnt or in a sling. Should thc disease have made progress, and should the ice iail in