rHESSUEE-EFFECTS OF ACUTE ANEUEISiV. 69 j the arch, will enable the Surgeon to judge of their complexity and importance, r They will ncccssm-ily vary according to the size of the aneimism and the portion J of the aorta affected by it; more according to the latter than to the former I condition. "When the aneurism arises from the root of tJie aorta, and more i especially when it is intrapcricardial, it is usually of small size, and its pres- • siu-e-cffects nill be little obvious. AVheu the aneurism arises from the termi- '1 nation of the arch, or the descendimj aorta, it may often attain a considerable I amount of develoiDment without any very obvious pressure-effects being induced. I Aneurisms that arc situated within the concavity of the arch necessarily give i rise to ^■ery severe effects, by the compression they must exercise upon some } one or other of the very important structures that are spanned by and included j within the aortic arch. When the anterior part of the aorta is affected, the aneurism may attain a 's'ery considerable bulk, even coming forward so as to project and pulsate between the intercostal spaces, Avithout any very noticeable pressiuc-effects being induced. But AAfren the posterior ivall of the artery is the seat of the disease, then severe symptoms are early set up by the compres- I sion and erosion of the structmes lying contiguous to the artery and along the Fig. .'5(2.—Erosion of Inten-erteliral aubstanco liy asinall Anem-ism of De- scending Aoi'ta pressing backwai’ds. Fig. 373.—Aneurism of Descending Aorta, eroding and traversing Vertebrje. spine (Fif,. 372). When the upper part of the aortic arch is the seat of aneu- rism, a peculiar train of cerebral symptoms, such as vertigo, insensibility, or e ec i\e Aision, may be induced by its interference Avith the circulation through the carotids. The pressm-e-effects that need chiefly engage our attention, are 1, Pain • Dyspnoea ; 3, Dysphagia ; and 4, (Edema. IS usually one of the earliest symptoms of iutrathoracic aneurism, marked f ^ diagnostic point of vicAV, as it is often most marked AA hen the other symptoms are the least developed. It is generallv rathCT than th fusiform anemdsms, and when the posterior lather than the anterior aspect of the vessel is the seat of disease. The pain as ecu pointed out by LaAv, is of tAvo distinct kinds. The first kind is