CANCER OF THE PROSTATE. 869 A procedure that was formerly recommended by Brodie, Liston, and most Siu-geons of authority in these matters, was Forcible Cathetensm, or Tun- nelling the Prostate. As the retention is generally owing to an enlai^gement of the urethral portion of the prostate, relief was allbrded by pushing the point of a silver catheter through this obstacle into the bladder. A false passage was thus purposely formed, in Avhich the instrument was left for about forty-eight hours, when it would generally enter it again with sufficient readiness on being re-introduced. This practice has, however,' been very generally rendered uniie- cessaiy by the use of improved instruments, aided by chloroform inhalations ; and “ timnelling the prostate ” may be looked upon as belonging to a past age of Urinary Surgery, ruder than the present. After the retention has been relieved, the bladder will often remain in an atonic state for a time, the mine flowing out, but with no power of expulsion, for some weeks. In these circumstances, the catheter should be used twice in the twenty-four hours ; good diet, with wine, quinine, and extract of nux vomica may be given, and blisters applied to the sacrum ; afterwards, the patient should be taught to pass the catheter for himself once or twice daily. The radical cme of the impediment to the flow of the m’ine has been pro- posed to be efiected by removing the enlarged middle lobe of the prostate by ligature, by excision with a lithotrite, or by lateral or median incision of the perimeum. Such operations, however, from their difficulty and danger, should not be hghtly undertaken ; perhaps the least dangerous mode of removal ivould be by median m’ethrotomy. OTHEB DISEASES OF THE PBOSTATE. Atrophy of the Prostate sometimes ocem’s. It may be the result of exhausting disease, especially phthisis, of old age, of mechanical pressure from tumoms or calculi, or of local disease of the gland itself. The atrophy may also be congenial. Cancer of the Prostate.—The prostate is very rarely attacked by cancer, probably more rarely than any other structure in the body. When cancer occurs in this organ, it is usually of the encephaloid and htematoid forms. I have, however, seen true scirrhus in the case of a man about 70 years old. He died with secondary deposits in the abdominal gland, and -with the liver studded with scuThous nodules. Eare as the disease is, I have seen at least three instanees of it, and can therefore scarcely agi'ce with the estimate of Tanchou, given by Walshe, that it only occurred five times in upw^ai-ds of eight thousand fatal cases of cancer. The SymjJtoms are those of ordinary enlarged prostate. But digital examination y?er rectum wdU probably detect a large, hard, ill-defined mass entering up into the pelvis and abdomen ; and the gradual development of secondary deposits in distant organs wiU reveal the true nature of this inciu’able afiection. The only Treatment that can be adopted is that calculated to relieve the bladder from the mechanical obstacle to the escape of lu'ine, and to palhatc suffering by ordinary means. Tubercle of the Prostate is occasionally, but rarely’, met with ; and is to