539 CAUSES OF DYSPHAGIA. side of the head, and a vavicose condition of tlie superficial veins of the chest, arc the si^iis on which we place our chief reliance in diagnosing the exist- ence of a'tumour. Indeed, in the diagnosis of aneurism of the aorta and of mediastinal tumour, I look upon the combination of dyspnoea with dysphagia, and fixed wearing pain between the shoulders, as of the greatest importance. , 7. Dislocation of the Sternal End of the Clavicle Backwards, whether merely a simple dislocation, or produced in consequence of excessive curvature of the spine, may give rise to difficulty of deglutition. Of the latter kind there is at least one case on record, which is nan-ated by Sir Astley Cooper, in which the sternal end of the clavicle by its pressure so obstructed the passage of food, that the patient was brought into a condition of extreme danger. The Surgeon, under whose care the patient was, very skilfully and creditably sawed through and detached the sternal end of the clavicle, and thus relieved his patient from the imminent danger in which she was placed. 8. Impaction of a Foreign Body in the Gullet.—If a man swallow such a thing as a piece of mutton-bone, or the settings of artificial teeth, it generally lies aci’oss the gullet in such a manner as to be easily felt Ijy the Sm’geon on passing a probang ; but there are other cases in which a foreign body becomes so lodged in the canal as to escape detection and remo^-al. Home years ago I Avas requested to see a j^atient Avho was said to have swallowed a piece of gutta- percha. He had, it appeared, in consequence of having lost several teeth, endeavoured to construct an artificial masticatory apparatus for himself, AAffiich had become loose, and he had accidentally swallowed it. A few days after- wards, finding that deglutition continued difficult, he consulted a very able Surgeon, who carefully examined him ; but, not detecting any foreign body, he considered that the piece of gutta-percha had passed into the stomach, and that the msophagus had been scraped by it in its passage down. Inability to swallow solids came on. I saAV him six months afterwards. The question then waSj whether the foreign body Avas still impacted in the oesophagus, or Avhether the symptoms arose from damage inflicted on that tube. I examined the oesophagus most carefully, but failed, as other Surgeons had previously done, to discoA'cr the existence of any foreign body. I thought that the oeso- phagus had been injured in some way, and that probably epithelioma was developing itself, and Avould, sooner or later, prove fatal. One day, Avhile at dinnei’, the patient suddenly A'omited a large quantity of blood, and fell down dead. On examination after death, Ave found that the piece of gutta-percha had formed for itself a bed in the wall of the oesoj)hagus, lying parallel Avith the inside of the tube, and that the ulceration of the mucous membrane caused by its presence had opened some oesophageal A^essel—AAffiich, we could not ascertain (it was not, however, either the carotid artery or the jugulai’ Affin) ; thus giving rise to the copious and suddeii haemorrhage Avhich had caused the patient s death. The surfaee of -the gutta-percha Avhich looked into the oesophagus, being constantly covered and smoothed over by mucus, and being proteeted, as it Avere, by a rim of SAvollen mucous membrane all around it, had alloAved the probang to pass easily Avithout its presence beiiif detected. °