129 SUPFURATION OF AXILLARY ANEURISM. The principal danger, and the most frequent cause of death after the suppu- ration of the sac, is the supervention of profuse arterial hmmoiThage. Ihis may either occur from the distal extremity of tHe artery opening into the sac, or from one of the large branches which serve to support the collateral circula- tion round the shoulder, such as the subscapular or posterior circumflex, coming- off either immediately above or below the sac, or fr-om the sac itself. When hmmoiThage does not take place after the suppimation of the sac, it must be fr-om the fortunate circumstance of the occlusion of the main trunk, where it opens into the tmnour. It can scarcely be fr’om the occlusion of the principal collateral branches : as there would, in this event, be a difficulty in the preser- vation of the vitality of the limb. It is easy to understand that, if the sac sprang fr-om the axillary, at a httle distance above the oi-ifices of the subscapu- lar and circumflex arteries, all that portion of the main trunk which inteiwencs between the tumour and these vessels might be occluded, and thus hiemorrhage be prevented on suppuration taking place ; whilst the collateral cii’culation Avould take place iminterruptedly through these vessels. If this portion of the artei-y have not been occluded by inflammatoi-y action, the safety of the patient must depend upon the accident of a coagulran or piece of laminated fibre being fixed or entangled in the mouth of the sac. This may prevent for a time the escape of arterial blood, which, on such a plug bemg loosened, may break forth with impetuosity, and either at once, or by its recurrence at intervals, carry off the patient. Another danger may be superadded in these cases on the suppm-ation of the sac and the supervention of hiemorrhage—namely, the occiuTence of inflamma- tion of the pleura, lung, and pericardimn, from the extension inwards of the morbid action going on in the sac. Secondary Hcemorrhage does not frequently occiu' in cases of Mgature of the subclavian arteiy in the third part of its eourse, except as a consequence of sup- puration of the sac. I am acquainted with two cases only in which death occun-ed from the hmmorrhage taking place from this artery at the part liga- tured. One of these happened to Liston, and the preparation is preserved in the Museum of the College of Surgeons (No. 1695). In this case, it may be seen that the artery was diseased at the point ligatimed, and that the bleeding ocemred, as usual, fr-om the distal side of the ligature. Gangrene of the Hand and Arm is but seldom met with as a sequela of the operation we are considering. This is doubtless owing to the freedom of the anastomosing circulation between the branehes of the transversales colli and humeri, and those of the subscapular, circumflex, and acromio-thoracic arteries, as well as between the superior and long thoracic and the branches of the intercostals and intei-nal mammary, by which the vitality of the limb is readily maintained. The principal risk fr-om gangrene would doubtless arise fr-om the subscapular artery being in any way occluded or implicated in the disease, as it is on the anastomoses of this vessel that the limb is mainly dependent for its supply of blood. But, at all events, this danger is small, the only case in which it appears to have g-iven rise to a fatal termination being one in whicli Collis tied the artci-y ; gangrene of the limb came on after much constitutional disturbance of a low tyi^c, v-ith rapid, weak pulse, thirsts, sweats, restlessness, and delirium. In Blizard’s case, there Avere VOL. II. K