DISEASES OP THE MOUTH AND THROAT. 526 muscles and mylo-hyoid space are now exposed. These must be successively divided ; the anterior bellies of the digastrics arc cut across, the mylo-hyoid muscle divided transversely at its anterior part; and the attachments of the genio-hyoid and genio-hyo-glossi are then to be detached from the lower jaw by a few touches of the scalpel, and by sepai-ating with the fingers the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth. An aperture is then made into this by pushing the scalpel through it, and its reflexion from the inside of the lower jaw is divided as far back as the outer angles of the external incision. The submaxillary glands are pushed aside, and the tip of the tongue being seized with {I strong hook or ^ailsellum-forceps, the organ is drawn out to its full extent on to the anterior part of the neck, between the jaw and the hyoid bone, when the whole of it may be removed close to its attachments to the latter bone by means of the knife or the dcraseiu’ (Fig. 030). The latter instrument is to be preferred, as its use is attended by less haemorrhage than follows that of the knife. It will occasionally be found that the anterior pillar of the fauces is somewhat in the way of the appheation of the instrument. Should this be inconveniently so, it may be snipped across before the wire of the ecraseur is applied. By means of this operation, which I have several times performed, the whole of the tongue may be shaved off clean from the base of the epiglottis and hyoid bone. After the removal of the tongue the hfemon'hage will usually be found to be trifling ; but should one or other of the lingual arteries bleed, it may readily be seized and ligated. The line of incision in the skin must then be stitched up and supported by strips of plaster. The Buccal Operation.—Fm-neaux Jordan has introduced an operation winch consists in dividing the cheek on the affected side backwards as far as the ramus of the jaw, care being taken to go below the parotid duct. The tono-ue is then seized in the usual way, and cut off by two 6crasem’s worked simultaneously, the chain of one dividing the organ transversely close to the pillars of the fauces, that of the other severing the tissues along the floor of the mouth. I have performed this operation in one case of imilateral cancer of the tongue, and found that the organ could readily be reached, commanded, und a portion removed thi’ough the gap in the cheek After the operation is •coircluded, this is closed by bar e-lip pins. ^ Excision of Tongue after Division of the Lower Jaw.—SediUot of Stras- bui-o- described, in 1855, a method of removing the whole of the tongue, rvhich he stated that he had practised for some years with success. The operation consists in making a vertical section through the lower lip, sawmg through the inferior maxilla at its symphysis, separating the bone on each side, draudng the tongue forward and removing it. In performing this operation, its inventor recom- mends that the section of the lower lip should be made carefully through the nnedian line, and can’ied across the chin as far dovoi as the hyoid bone. Ihe lower jaw is then savm through at its symphysis. In order to fix the bone more •arefully after the operation, he recommends that, instead of making on rortkal incision, two oblique cuts should be practised nith the saw in this shape >, so as to form a triangle, the point of which corresponds to ti middle of the body of the bone, so that the two opposite sides may be locked “getr ate of the tongue. After haring th! muscles conneeting it to the tongue should be cut across ; the floor car V