896 DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. passages. Should difficulty be experienced, the introduction may be facilitated by injecting and slightly distending the uretlira with olive oil before passing the instrument. If the stricture be not only very tight, but twisted, it inay be somewhat difficult to get a metallic instrument through ; and then the plan recommended by Brodie may be advantageously employed. This consists in taking a fine catgut bougie, and bending it, as repre- sented in rig. 808, about an inch from the point, so as to follow the track of the stricture more closely. In this way, strictures that are otherwise impassable may be rendered pervious with comparative ease. Under the influence of chloroform, however, many strictures may be readily passed with metallic instruments that are not pervious in any other way. The Surgeon repeatedly Cc t^'°t Bou U passing catheters through very tight stric- iihit to Shape tures, which had been impenetrable for months or years without of stricture. , . , this agent. Gum-elastic bougies and catheters, and wax bougies, are not as a rule so manageable as metallic instruments, as they may bend back against tight organic strictiues. In those of a spasmodic and congestive kind, however, in Avhich a large instrument will readily pass, they are of much service. They are usually best introduced whilst the patient is standing, and they generally o-lide most readily into the bladder if they have been slightly curved before being passed. When they are of wax, it is useful to smooth them down between the fingers before introducing them. In using the elastic catheter, a stylet is usually requued; but in some cases the instrument ajipears to enter more easily without. In others, it may be passed with the stylet doivn to the strictm'e ; and then, on partially withdravdng it, the point of the catheter will start up, and thus more readily slip in. Soft conical bougies and catheters with a lulbous end are often extremely useful (Figs. 804: and 805). Their introduction excites far less irritation and pam, with much less likelihood of bleeding fr’om a congested mucous membrane. Fig. S04.—Conical Bulbous Bougie. than does that of metallic or even gum-elastic instruments. ^ It is, of com-se, quite impossible to make a false passage with them; and in most cases of ordinary strictm-e they wiU be found to be the safest and most agreeable in- Fig. 805.—Conical Bulbous Catlieter. struments to use. They will often glide through a tight irritable stricture, when all other instruments, especially metallic ones, finl to pass The filiform lowjie is another very useful instrument; like the bulbous