169 treatment of osteo-myelitis. iIa • 1.1 onri t-lio nale Tcllo'vvish waxy-lookiii};’ fat filling fclie mednllaiy bmc ui he 0.^0 a„ ™™rkablc. Fayi-or ctacribos the rddlary ianal, in advanced stages of the disease, as being.filled with a mass nf ripifi lilackened medulla, dehris ot bone, and pus. . i i consists in supporting the patient’s const.tut.onal porvers by a tonic and stimulating regimen, and by scrnpulons atten- tion to hygienic rules. i i „ So far as the affected bone is couccrued, nothing can be done to it except its removal; but whether this should be done in the continuity of the bone or at a higher joint, is a question on which different opinions arc entertained among surgical au- thorities. If an operation be performed upon the continuity of a bone affected with diffuse suppuration in the medullary canal, the injury inflicted by the saw is very liable to set up m-eat inflammatory action, and to develop the disease in the part of the bone which is left. Hence, if secondary amputation of an injured limb should be rendered necessary, the bone being affected with osteo-myelitis, it is strongly m’ged by some Surgeons, especially J. Roux, that the operation should be performed at some joint above the injured and diseased bone, in preference to amputation through its continuity. Roux, ’5\-ho had extensive experience in the Italian war, successfully disarticulated the thigh at the hip-joint, in four cases of osteo- myelitis consequent on gunshot injuries of the lower end of the femiu’. Of 22 cases in which he performed secondary disarticu- _ lation of other joints for osteo-myelitis, all recovered ; whereas supimration of every soldier died, Avhose limb was secondarily, amputated Excision of' the through the continuity of the injured bone after the battles of Eihow-Jomt. jMagenta, Montebello, Marignano, and Solferino. On the other hand, Lairey does not consider disarticulation absolutely indispensable, even in cases of acute osteo-myelitis ; and Longmore has met with cases in which recovery has followed the simple removal of portions of dead bone —the disease in these instanecs having assumed a clironic form. Fayrcr advises that, where osteo-myelitis is suspected to be present in a stump after amputation, the moduUa should be examined by a probe. If this soon impinge on healthy bleeding medulla, the Surgeon may wait for the efforts of natime to throw off the diseased l^one ; if, on the other hand, the probe encounter only dead bone and pus, then the sooner amputation is performed, the better. The special danger in osteo-myelitis consists in the tendency to the super- vention of osteo-phlebitis and pyaemia ; and, in determining upon the amputa- tion or excision of a bone thus affected, it is of the first importance not to delay the operation until pyaemie symptoms have set in. There is a period between the development of the local osseous inflammation and the constitutional pyaemia, which it is most important not to allow to slip by. During this period the patient is affected by surgical fever, but there are no rigors. If onee the charactenstie rigors and the high temperature and profuse sweats of pyaemia have set in, I believe that operation can be of no use, as the patient will certainly perish of secondary deposits or of pyaemic blood-poisoning. But, Fig. 402. — Diffuse