994 DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITAL ORGANS. previously ascertained to Idb free from blood-vessels, and then securely knotted on each side. Great care must be taken in tying the pedicle -s'cry tiglitly, for undoubtedly one of the great disadvantages of the ligature is that, owing to the shrivelling of the pedicle, it is apt to slip, and thus to lead to a fata! haemorrhage. There are two methods of dealing with the ends of the ligatures. The fii-st is, to leaA'e them and the stump of the pedicle out of the wound, securing them to the edges of the abdominal incision, or to the harelip pins ley -which it has been brought together. This method I formerly used and advocated ; but more recent experience leads me to concur with those who consider it as favouring suppuration, sloughing, and purulent deposits in the lower part of the w'ound and the pelvic cavity. With respect to the question of keeping the stump out of or allowing it to drop into the peritoneum, opinion is divided. Some of the earlier American ovariotomists, especially D. L. Rogers, cut the ligatures short and returned the stiunp of the pedicle into the wound. This practice was revived by Tyler Smith in 18Gl, and has been adopted by him, by T. Bryant and others, with excellent results, the ligatures either becoming encapsuled or being discharged after a time through a suppurating track. But when the clamp is used the case is different. Here the opinion of Sj)encer WeUs, backed as it is by his extensive experience, is as positive as it is valuable. He strongly advocates the practice of seeming the pedicle ■with the clamp outside the wound, so that it should not drop down between the lips of the incision in the skin and abdominal wall. The mortality of cases so treated was 19.7 per cent. He strongly deprecates aU minor and mixed methods of keeping the pedicle out of the incision, as being far inferior to the clamp in effecting tliis object. The mortality after the wi/ra-peritoneal treatment of the stump was 38‘6, or as nearly as possible double that of the ea:b*«-peritoneal plan of treatment; and these figmes appear to be conclusive as to the relative merits of the two. I forbear to speak of the employment of silver, lead, or other metallic ligatures, as they have fallen into disuse, and been aban- doned by the most experi- enced ovariotomists; as also have the methods of bringing the ends of the threads out through the ‘‘ fovea inguinalis interna ” or the vaginal septum, which are manifestly not worthy of adoption. Fig. soo.- -Si>i-‘:u;ei‘ Wells's Elliptic Claiuv. ligature possessnn ■Tiiaiigular Clami . The the obvious disadvantages of fayooriiig Biippiiratioii, and of not being a positively effectual seenrily a-ainst tomorrhage, the Clamp was introduced as a substitute by J. Hntclnn-