OF THE FEDICLE. 993 MAN AGE ME XT patient, by means of a vulcanised India-rubber tube attached to the caiinula. In this way, the size of the tumour may be so much lessened as to admit of its more ready extraction. If cystic, and emptied, it may now perhaps t>c draA\n out through the incision in the abdominal wall without further difficulty. It it be solid, or if there be any adhesions, the Surgeon must introduce his hand, and, liy sweeping it round the tumour assist in removing the mass. ctiiet difficulty in the'opcration will consist in the presence of adhesions. Should none exist, nothing can be simpler than the extraction of the tumour, iidiich has a tendency to protrude forwards into the wound. Should they be slight and confined to its anterior part, attaching this to the abdominal wall, they may readily enough bo broken through by the hand being swept round the forepart of the tumour. If they be firm, deep, and extensive, then the real difficulty of the operation will have to be encountered. It is, however, important to observe that adhesions of this kind will chiefly be found at the anterioi part, betn een the tumour and the abdominal wall; comparatively seldom posteriorly, or con- nected with any of the abdominal viscera, except the uterus. If possible, these adhesions should not be cut across, as they often contain vessels that would bleed freely if so divided; but they should rather be torn no slight foice occasionally being required to detach them. Should the tumour be so closely adherent to any viscus that its separation is attended with danger, it might be safer to cut across the cyst-w'all, and leave the adherent portion of this, than to run the risk of laceration of the liver or intestine. During the withdrawal or protrusion of the mass from the abdomen, an assistant on each side must press gently upon the sides of the incision Avith the hands or Avith soft napkins, so as to prevent the protrusion of the intestines, Avhich, if possible, should not be seen dining the operation. The tendency to intestinal protrusion some- times occasions considerable trouble ; especially if the patient have taken chloroform and begin to vomit, Avhen it may be necessary to discontinue the operation for a time. The Management of the Pedicle, including its seizure and division, is the next step in the operation, and probably the most important. It is the one on Avhich the greatest amount of difference of practice exists. There are three methods of seem-ing the pedicle adopted by different ovario- tomists and Surgeons, viz., the ligature, the damp, and the damp conjoined Avith cauterisation. The proper treatment of the pedicle involves two points : fii’st, and necessarily, the aiTest of hmmorrhage from its divided vessels ; and secondly, the question as to whether its stump should be left out of the wound or allowed to drop into the peritoneal cavity. The earlier operators used the Ligature; and many still employ it. This is certainly the simplest, and appears to me to be the safest, method of guard- ing against haimorrhage from the cut stump. A strong, Avell-Avaxed whipcord ligature should be used. "When the pedicle is long and narroAv, there can be no difficulty in applying this ; Avhen short, thick, or broad, the ligature is not so easily applied. The tumour must then be drawn fonvards, and the struc- tures of the pedicle either expanded out or unravelled, as it Avere, Avhen a double ligature can be passed across it, the loop snipped, and the pedicle tied in tAvo portions ; or the whipcord may be passed by means of a na3vus-ueedle, Avhich is made to transfix the pedicle at some point Avhich the Surgeon has. VOL. n. •] g