results of excision of shoulder-joint. 251 mined ; if this be carious, it may he removed most conveniently by means of gouge-forceps and the gouge, care being taken that all diseased bone is thoroughly scooped away. After the operation, the flap must be laid down and re- tained in position by two points of sutme, and the arm well supported in a sling, the elbow especially . being raised. A pad should be placed in the axilla to prevent the tendency of the pectoralis major, teres major, and latissimus dorsi to draw the arm inwards. The union, which is by gTanulation, is usually slow, and must be conducted on ordinary principles. Result.—The shoulder-joint in its normal condition possesses five distinct movements ; 1. Rotation ; 2. Abduction and Elevation; 3. Adduction ; 4 and 5, movements in the antero-posterior direction. These movements vary greatly in importance in the course of the ordinary affairs of life. The most useful are those of abduction, and the two in the antero-posterior direction. These are Tccjuisite in aU ordinary trades and for the guidance of the hand in most of the common occupations of life. The movements of elevation are seldom required except by those who follow climbing occupations, as sailors, masons, &c. Kow the mode of performing the operation, as well as the operation itself, will materially influence these different movements. Thus, if the deltoid be cut completely across by means of an elliptical mcision, the power of abduction of the arm and of its elevation, will be permanently lost. If its fibres be merely split by a longitudinal incision (Fig. 442), they may be preserved or regained in great part. All those movements of rotation, &c., which are dependent on the actions of the muscles that are inserted into the tubercles of the humerus will be permanently lost; for, in all cases of caries of the head of the humerus requiring excision, the Surgeon ^vill find it necessary to saw through the bone below the tubercles—in its surgical and not in its anatomical neck. Hence the conneetions of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus, the teres minor, and subscapularis will all be separated, and their action on the bone after- wards lost. But those muscles which adduct and which give the antero- posterior movements, viz., the coraco-brachialis, the biceps, the pectoralis major, latissimus dorsi, and teres major, will all be preserved in their integrity ; and hence it is that the arm, after this excision, is capable of guiding the hand in so gi’cat a variety of useful under-handed movements. In tlie case of a man whose shoulder-joint I removed many years ago, I last saw the patient about fifteen years after the operation had been performed, and then found