8o6 UEINAMY CALCULU;:<. incisions tliroiigli the pcrinieum into the membranous portion of the urethra or neck of the bladder, thus complicating seriously the operation ; but this accident may best be prevented by introducing a gum elastic catheter into the urethra, and leaving it there for a few days until consolidation has taken place and the wound shows a disposition to close, pressure being at the same time kept up on the lips of the incision. Another cause of danger in this operation is w'ounding the peritoneum,, which may occur in consequence of the contracted state of the bladder causing it to lie low in the pelvis, and thus preventing the proper introduction of instruments to cany it up above the pubes. Dulles finds that the suprapubic is far less favourable than the lateral in its results for calculi below 53'. in weight. For those between 5j. and ^ij., there is little difference, whilst for calculi above 5ij., it is far more favour- aide. He states that, of a gross total of 465 cases of the suprapubic operation, in both sexes there had been 135 deaths, or a mortality of 1 in 3‘44 ; the mortality being about 1 in 3 in males, against 1 in 8’2 iii< females. This high rate of mortahty may to a certain extent be accomited for by the fact that the patients subjected to suprapubic h'thotomy were on an average one-third older, and the stones four and a half times heavier, than in the cases subjected to the lateral operation. Dulles gives a table of 43 cases operated on by American Surgeons, of which 14 died, or as nearly as possible 1 in 3. This agrees with the statistics pre^■iously published by Humphry, who collected 104 cases in which this operation had been performed ; of these 31 proved fatal, chiefly from peritonitis and urinary infiltration—the mortality amounted consequently to 1 in 8^ ; and SouberbieUe, one of the greatest jnodern advocates of this operation, lost 1 patient in 3. The general result, therefore, is not veiy satisfactory ; though, as in many instances the operatioir , was performed in cases in which the lateral method was not applicable on account of the size of the stone, we cannot with justice compare the two pro- cedures in regard to the mortality attending them.