GANGRENE AFTER LIGATURE. 49 iiidccil though these are exceptional, the plug and compress may be sufficient to prevent arecm-rence of the bleeding ; but in general it will not do to trast to these means, unless the anatomical relations of the part be such as to pre- clude the possibility of adopting any more active measures. Ahu-ious plans suggest themselves to the Surgeon for the permanent sup- pression of the bleeding. The sac may be laid open, and an attempt made to li<rature that portion of the artery from which the blood issues. But this can scm-cely be expected to succeed, as, in the majority of the cases, the coats of the vessel being softened and pulpy, there would bo little prospect of its holding a ligature, even if it were possible to expose it before the patient perished of haimoiTliage. Indeed, though this plan has been se\eral times tiied, I am not aware that”by it the Siu-geon has ever succeeded in arresting the bleeding from a suppurating aneiu’ismal sac. The application of the actual cautery to the bleeding orifice would, I think, hold out a better chance, more particularly if the blood were poured out fr-om a collateral vessel of a small size. In this way Mon-ison, of Monte Video, suc- ceeded in aiTesting the bleeding of an aneiu'ism in the groin that had suppu- rated. Should this means, however, not suffice (and it is the only means that can be applied m many situations, as in the groin and axilla), there is no coiu*se left but, in those situations in which it can be done, either to ligatme the ai-teiy higher up or to amputate. The application of a ligature nearer the centre of the circulation, even though jnacticable, appears to me to be of very doubtfid utihty ; for the probability is, that the circulation through the limb, embarrassed as it must have been by the first ligature, and by the subsequent distension and suppuration of the sac, will be so much interfered with when the ai’tery is tied a second time, that gangrene will result ; or else that the collateral circulation, if sufficiently active to maintain the vitality of the limb, will also keep up the ha^monfrage fr’om the opening in the artery cofumunicat- ing -with the sac. In these circumstances, the only course left to the Stu’geon is amputation of the limb when the anemism is so situated that it can in this, way be removed. 4. Gangrene of the Limb.—The general subject of gangrene of a limb, following injury and ligature of the main artery, has already been described (vol. I., p. 310); and we have at present only to consider those cases in which’ it occins after the operation for aneurism. Causes.—If the aneurismal sac have attained a large size with great raijidity,, it may, by its pressure on the anastomosing vessels, or on the veins in its. vicinity (Fig. 3G3), produce such an amount of disturbance in the circulation of the limb, preventing the influx of arterial or obstructing the efflux of venous, blood, as to occasion a great liability to the occurrence of gangi’eue. But perhaps the principal source of danger consists in the aneurism 'becoming suddenhj and ividelg diffused, more particularly in those cases in which the anatomical relations of the anastomosing vessels are such, as in the ham, that they may readily and uniformly become compressed by the eflPused blood. In these cases, the additional embarrassment induced in the circulation of thc' limb by the ligature of its main artery Avill readily induce gangrene ; andlmnce- it is that, in diffuse aneurism of the lower extremity, ligature of the arter/is so- commonly folloAved ])y mortification. VOL. II.