HERNIA. 636 If It be thin and not opaque, so as to admit a view of the subjacent parts be may dissect it through with the unsupported hand. In this way he proceeds until the sac is reached, which is usually knomi by its rounded and tense iippearance, its filamentous character, and by the arborescent an-angement of vessels upon its surface. In some cases the Surgeon thinks that he has Tcached the sac, when in reality he has only come upon a deep layer of con- densed aieolar tissue in close contact with it; here the absence of all appear- ance of vessels, the dull and opaque character of the tissue and its more solid feel, together with the absence of the peculiar tension that is characteristic of the sac, will enable him to recognise the real state of things. In other cases, it may happen that the sac is so thin, and the superficial structures are so little ■condensed, that the Surgeon lays it open in the earlier incisions before he thinks he has reached it. In these circumstances a portion of the intestine protruding might be mistaken for the sac. This dangerous eiTor may be avoided by observing the peculiarly smooth and highly polished appearance presented by the dark and congested gut, the absence of arborescent vessels, and the non-existence of any adhesions between its deeper portions and the tissues upon which it lies. If the sac be prematurely opened, the escape of fluid will indicate this ; and if omentum protrude, the granular appearance and peculiar feel of this tissue will at once cause its recognition. Opening the Sac.—The sac, having been exposed, must be carefully epened ; this should be done towards its anterior aspect; and, if it be a small ■one, at its lower pai’t. It may best be done, if the sac be not very tense, by seizing a portion of it between the finger and thmnb, and thus feeling that no intestine is included; a small portion of it is then pinched up by the forceps, and an opening is made into it by entting upon their points with the edge of the scalpel laid horizontally. If the sac be very tense, it cannot be pinched up in this way, and then it may best be opened by introducing the point of a fine hook very cautiously into its substance, raising up a portion of it in this way, and then making an apertiu-e into it. There is little risk of w'ounding the gut in doing this ; for, as the tension of the sac arises from the effusion of fluid into it, a layer of this will be interposed between it and the gut. In these cases, the fluid sometimes squirts out in a full jet, and occasionally exists in a very con- siderable quantity. I have seen at least a pint of slightly bloody serum escape •on opening the sac of an old strangulated inguinal hernia. Most frequently, however, there is not more than from half an ounce to an ounce ; and some- times the quantity is considerably less than this. Sir James Paget very visely attaches great importance to the character and appearance of the fluid in a hernial sac ; if this fluid be clear and transparent, of a yellow tint like serum, it is a good sign, as probably no great amount of congestion has taken place. If reddened by extravasation of blood, it is an evidence of increased congestion; and the deeper the discoloration, the browner, the more muddy the fluid, the greater probably has been the change induced in the strangled parts by the , congestion or inflammation resulting from the stricture. In some instances scarcely any fluid exists ; and then it becomes necessary to proceed with extreme caution in opening the sac, as the gut or omentum is applied closely to its imier wall. In such cases as these the sac is not unfrequently sufficiently translucent to enable the Surgeon to see its contents through it: and he