ANEUlilSM. 28 ot the oxtravasatecl and semi-coagnlated blood upon its vessels, more particulaidy the large A-enous trunks. In consequence of this, gangrene ot a moist kind usually makes its appearance, and speedily destroys the patient’s life. Diagnosis.—The diagniosis of aneurism may in many cases be effected with the greatest possible ease by a student in surgery ; in other instances it requires a vast amount of care, and the most experienced judgment, to come to a correct conclusion as to the nature of the tumom-. This is easily done Avhen the aneu- rism is superficial, recent, and circumscribed, the blood in it being fluid, and all the signs of the disease well marked. The diagnosis is often replete with difficulty when the aneurism is deeply seated, or, if external, when it is old and filled with coagula ; also, if suppurative action have taken place about it, or if it have become diffused. In effecting the diagnosis of aneurism we have, in the first jilace, to ascertain the existence or absence of a tiunour ; and, after this has been done, to ascertain whether it be aneurismal or of some other character. Both points, the latter especially, are difficult to determine in internal aneurisms ; in the external, the doubt is not as to the presence of a tumour, but as to its nature. The tumours with which aneiu'isms may be confounded may conveniently be di'^ided into two classes—those that do and those that do not pulsate. Every pulsating tumour is not an anetu'ism. Thus there may be pulsation in various kinds of encephaloid tumour or soft sarcoma, or in (jroxvtlis composed of erectile tissue. In such cases as these, many of the signs of aneurism are present; thus the size of the tumour may be diminished by compression, and the distinct influx of blood into it may be felt on the removal of the pressure, the tumour returning to its original size with a soft swelling pulsation : there may also be a bruit, often of a loud and distinct character. But these tumours may generally be dis- tinguished from aneurisms in not being quite so distinctly circumscribed —in being soft, spongy, and elastic, without the sensation of fluid that is met with in some forms of aneurism, or of solid coagula that occurs in others. Again, the bruit is either soft, blovfing, and more prolonged, or else sharp and superficial ; the pulsation, also, is not so distinct, and is more of the nature of a general swelling and heaving of the tumour than of a distinct thump. Much light is also occasionally thrown upon these affections by their being met with in situations where aiiem’ism cannot occm’, from the absence of any arteries of sufficient size to give rise to it, as, for instance, on the head of the tibia or the side of the pelvis ; but if a tumour of this kind be situated upon or under a large artery in the usual site of an aneiu-ism, then the diagnosis is certainly replete with diflicidty, and cannot indeed in many cases be made. Several instances have of late years occurred, in which Surgeons of the greatest skill and experience (as Guthi’ie and Stanley) have ligatured arteries on the sup- position that they had to do Avith anemism, Avhen in reality it Avas one of the pulsating tumours just mentioned that closely simulated it. Pulsation may be communicated to a tumour of a fluid character seated upon an artery ; hero the diagnosis, though often difficult, is more readily made than in the last case. Attention to the history of the case, to the im- possibility of diminishing the tumour by pressiu’c, either directly upon it or on