391 NECROSIS OF THE NASAL BONES. The Treatment consists in attention to the general health ; more specially to the eradication of the strumous diathesis. Much benefit may also be derived from the local application or injection of astringents, as a strong solution of the nitrate of silver applied by means of a camel’s-hair brush, and sulphate of zinc and oak-bark lotions snuffed up, or injected by means of a proper syringe. In many instances, when the disease occurs in strumous childi’en, change of air will effect the greatest amount of benefit. Abscess occasionally forms either on the mucous membrane or on the septmu, and thus may lead to necrosis of the cartilages and bones, separation of these, flattening of the nose, depression of its bridge, and great deformity. These various forms of abscess, followed by necrosis, are commonly syphilitic, and then are associated with ulcers and a foul and foetid discharge, which has a tendency to cake upon their surface, forming dark and rugged crusts, and constituting the different kinds of Ozeena. The septum may be the seat of chronic ulceration consequent upon the irritation of decayed teeth, producing disease of the antrum, and escape of morbid secretion from this into the cavity of the nose. The Treatment of these conditions must be conducted by the local applica- tion of nitrate of silver, black wash, and the chlorinated lotions ; the general treatment consists usually in the administration of the dilute mineral acids, iodide of potassiixm, and sarsaparfila. Ulcers and Fissures, of a less serious character, though veiy ]3ainful and chronic, often occur at the angle of the ala and septum, or between the ala and tip. Their Treatment consists in touching them from time to time with nitrate of silver, or in the application every night of white precipitate or citrine ointment; at the same time that the general health is attended to, cachexy removed, and the strength restored, by the administration of iron, bai-k, and sai'saparilla. Necrosis not unfrequently ocem-s in the loose bony structures lying in the nasal fossre or in the nasal bones themselves. In these cases the septum nasi participates in the morbid action, and commonly separates or is perforated. ISecrosis may occur in these situations either as the result of syphilis, the abuse of mercury, or from external injmy. I have, however, seen cases, more particularly in women and children, which are not refemble to any of these exciting cause, and in which scrofula was probably the occasion of the disease. infrr^f! suspected fr-om the great foetor that in on Iv. characteristic odom- of dead bone being emitted, but by exolorlHir existence may always be positively determined y exploration of the nasal cavities with a probe. Simple, and must be conducted on ordinary medical and a ifdiBeasobe The foetor mav lio^l ^ constitutional treatment must be adopted. -P of disinfeLing the bone is bosened if 1permanganates. So soon as away in soft blank o extracted with polypus-forceps, coming bicmorrhage after Ls e“ftraaf’ “fTl'a ““ abundant tms e.Uraction, but I hare never had seriora trouble given