LAXGENBECICS OSTEOPLASTIC OPERATION. 485- 5ittachccl by periosteum mid mucous membrane.. The nose ivas thus fully OT)ened and tlie polyijus was remo^•ed. The bones were then replaced and.sup- iiorted in position by a plug of charpie. The wound healed readily, and there was no exfoliation of bone. Langenbeck’s second operation was undertaken for a tumour springing from behind the superior maxillary bone in the pterygo- maxillary fossa. Two incisions were made ; the first began at the inserhon of the ala nasi aud ran along the lower border of the malar bone, describing an arch with the convexity downwards and terminating at the'middle of the zygoma ; the second began at the nasal process of the frontal bone, and, fol- lowing tiie lower margin of the orbit, crossed the frontal process of the superior maxillary bone, and joined the lower incision. The soft parts were not dissected up. The lower incision was then carried to the bone, and the masseter dis- sected fr-om its attachment to the malar bone. By depressing the lower jaw so as to remove the coronoid process out of the way, the finger could be forced through the spheno-maxillary fossa, which was dilated by the tumour, into the nose through the sjiheno-palatine foramen. A narrow saw was now passed along the finger—its point being protected by the forefinger of the left hand intro- duced into the nostril—and a cut was made directly forwards through the ascending process of the palate bone and the body of the superior maxillary bone, across the caA’ity of the antrum, parallel to the hard palate and imme- diately above it. The ujiper incision was noiv deepened, and the soft parts Avere raised from the floor of the orbit and fr’om the angle betAveen the zygoma and the malar bone ; and, the saAv being again introduced, a cut Avas made through the malar bone into the spheno-maxillary fissure, and thence across the floor of the orbit as fiir as the lacrymal bone. The Avedge-shaped piece of the superior maxillary bone included betAveen these cuts Avas now only attached by its connections with the nasal and frontal bones, and by the soft parts covering it, Avhich were untouched. By introducing an elevator into the cut in the malar bone, the AAfrole piece Avas lifted up, bending upon its attachment to the nasal and fr’ontal bones as upon a hinge, until it Avas completely turned inwards and upwards over the opposite side of the face. The tumour, which Avas fomid to have extensive connections in the pterygo-maxiUary region, was now removed. The bone AA'as then replaced, and the Avound closed. On the sixth day, the gi-eater part of the Avound was healed ; on the sixteenth the Avound had com- pletely healed, and no mobility could be felt in the bone. Ollier remoA*ed a polyjms from the nasal fossa, by making a horseshoe-shaped incision from one ala of the nose up to the root, and then across the root and doAvn to the other ala. He then saAved through the nasal bones and the nasal process of the supeiior maxillary bone, and so opened uj) the supierior meatus of the nose. These operations have been successful in many cases Avhich would haA^e necessarily been fatal if left. But they must not be lightly undertaken, as the danger of the operation itself, and the possibility of death during or soon after its performance, must be borne in mind. There are thi*ee main sources o peril m t^hese cases, viz., hmmorrhage, asphyxia fr-om the passage of the blood into the pharynx and larynx, and shock to the nervous system, fr-om the close proximity of the operation to the base of the brain. The daiio-er of asphyxia from hmmon-hage into the air-passages may be obviated by a nre- Acntne tracheotomy, and the use of Trendelenburg’s apparatus.