CONCHETIONS IF THE MEATUS. 387 cxtemus, attended by excessively painful tensive throbbing. To relieve this, leeching, poidticing, and early lancing will be required. Otorrhoea.—This is a fetid discharge of a muco-purulent character, usually occurring' in strumous children, especially dui’ing dentition, and often asso- ciated \\-ith enlarged glands under the angle of the jaw. It may be of three kinds: 1, proceeding simply from the mucous surface of the external ear, apparently depending on subacute inflammation of it; 2, proceeding fr-om the middle ear through a perforated membrana tympani, the mischief extending to and the discharge Iprocceding from the mastoid cells; 3, connected with necrosis of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, associated with disease and destruction of the tympanum, and necessarily of the internal ear. These discharges are especially apt to supervene in measles and scarlatina. Their Froffmil's and Treatment will depend on their precise seat. When occurring from the external meatus only, however tedious, they are never dangerous. Attention to the state of the general health and to that of the teeth, ivith the use of lead, chlorinated or carbolised injections, will usually arrest them. When occiuTing from the middle ear, through a perforated tympanum, they are far more intractable and also more serious. Not only wiU hearing be impaired to a gi’eater or less extent, but they may continue for an indefinite time, resisting aU means of treatment. If they proceed from the mastoid cells and the internal ear they are far more serious, and the patient is exposed to a double danger. The dura mater covering the bone may become in- flamed, and, the membranes at the base of the brain becoming imtated by the extension of the morbid action to them, convulsions, coma, and death usually at last result. This is especially the case when the petrous portion is the seat of disease. When the mastoid process is chiefly affected, phlebitis of the sinuses and the cerebral veins ensues, and pytemia is developed, which proves fatal. Special Affections of the External" Ear.—The external ear is occasion- ally the seat of special affections; thus in idiots. Hypertrophy of this structm’e is sometimes met with; and in gouty subjects. Tophi, or Gouty Concretions^ are occasionally deposited in it. Paget, Brack, and Yanzetti have described a rihrous Tumour that occasionally fonns in the lobule of the ear from the irritation produced by piercing it, and as “ one of the penalties attached to- the barbarism of ear-rings.” These tumours are semi-malignant, like the- warty growths of cicatrices ; and, after excision—their only treatment—are somewhat apt to retm-n. Bloody Tumours, or Hsematomata, are occasionally developed in the external ear of the insane or idiots. They may attain a large size, and are often multiple. Unless they become inflamed, I think it better to leave them untouched, when they "will gi’adually be absorbed. If inflamed, they must be opened. Concretions in the Meatus.—We not uncommonly find that the meatus Ixjcomes blocked up by accumulations of wax, dark, indurated, and pipie-like, or foiming balls and masses that lie in contact with the membrana tympani. These chiefly occur in individuals of the bilioso-phlegmatic temperament, and are a common source of temporary deafness among young people. They not only materially impair the sense of hearing, but are very apt to give rise to noises in c c 2