203 malignant disease of bone. which on examination, is found to contain the entozoa. Tlie T,mtment,^ Stanle’y observes, must depend on the situation and extent of the disease ; 1 1 Fig. 420.—Spincllc-ceUed Sarcoma Tumour sin ingiiig from the Sciipula. Fig. 427.—Microscopic Characters of tile Tumour in its second Recur- rence. Multinucleated Myeloid Cells. he a long bone that is afPected, and it be much expanded, recourse must be had to amputation ; if it be a flat bone, the cavity must be scooped out, and dressed from the bottom with stimulating applications, so that it may fill with healthy granulations. JIaligxaxt Disease or Bone.—Up to a very recent period, various tumoiu’s grovung from the long bones and having certain com- mon characteristics, such as extreme rapidity of growth, a tendency to pulpy degeneration, and to sprouting fungus, were looked upon as cases of cancer of bone, and were variously described under the terms of osteo-cancer, osteo-cephaloma, &c. More recent pathological observations have, however, throivn much doubt on the correctness of this ^uew of the real nature of these very formidable tumom’s. And if the opinion be correct that true cancer can only be developed in connection with epithelial surfaces, we must discard the possibility of the existence of such a disease as primary cancer of bone. Virchow, indeed, refers most of the tumours that were formerly considered typical of this affection to the various classes of fibromata and sarcomata (Vol. I., p. 751). It would only be in such bones as the superior maxilla, and those generally in connection vuth the mucous membrane lining the cavities of the face, that true cancer could develop itself; and even here the osseous tissue would only be involved secondarily, and not be attacked as the primary seat of the disease. As these tumoiu’s of bone that have generally, though probably erroneously, been considered to be cancers, present many characters of malignancy, and as their true anatomical structure may in many cases still be somewhat uncertain, I shall in this chapter speak of them from their clinical rather than from a histological point of view ; and instead of attempting to arrange them into the Fit . 42S.—Cells from Siiindlo-oelleil Sarcoma Tumoiu' of Scapula : First recurrence.