520 DISEASES OF THE MOUTH AND THROAT. concerned. And it deserves to be considered as one of the most efficient modes of relief to the suffering produced by cancer of the tongue, in all cases in which an operation for the remo^^al of the disease is not desirable or practicable. The division of the gustatory nerve may bo done in two ways ; one origi- nally employed by Hilton, the other adopted by Moore. Both operations consist in dividing the gustatory nerve, in that part of its course which extends from its emergence between the internal pterygoid muscle and the jaw to the point where it enters the tongue. Opposite to the second molar tooth, the nerve lies under the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth. There it can be easily reached by the division of the mucous membrane covering it, when it will be found close behind the sublingual gland. It may be raised by a blunt hook, seen, and divided. It was in this situation that Hilton practised its section. The advantage of this choice of place is, that the nerve can be seen and its division thus rendered certain. The disadvantages are, that the guides to the spot are not quite certain ; that the cut is apt to be obsciu-ed by haemorrhage ; and that, when the disease has extended to the floor of the mouth, the operation is inapplicable. Moore consequently recommended, and in flve cases practised, the section of the nerve ftu-ther back. The guide to it in this situation is the last molar tooth ; and a line drawn from the middle of the crovTi of the tooth to the angle of the jaw will cross the nerve in the exact place where it should be cut. The nerve lies about half an inch fr-om the tooth, between it and the anterior pillar of the fauces, parallel to but behind and below the bulging alveolar ridge, which can be felt in the lower jaw ascend- ing towards the thin coronoid process. By entering the point of a knife, therefore, into the mucous membrane of the mouth, three-quarters of an inch behind and below the last molar tooth, and cutting down to the bone, the nerve must be divided. Moore advises that for this purpose a ciu’ved bistomy be used, as the projection of the alveolar ridge would protect the nerve fr-om a straight blade. The good effect of the operation is instantaneous ; pain ceases in the tongue, ear, face, and head, and the flow of saliva is greatly dimi- nished : and the relief is continuous, for it does not appear that the nerve re-unites. ligature of the Lingual Artery may be requu-ed to restrain profuse haemorrhage from an ulcerated cancer of the tongue. This operation has also been practised with the view of starving the morbid growth and thus retarding its development. That it does so for a short period is undoubtedly the case, but that it does so permanently is a fallacy. This operation has been recom- mended for these purposes by Hemarquay, and has been performed in this country by Moore and C. Heath. The lingual artery may be exposed and tied in the following manner. The artery is reached with most certainty in the digastric triangle of the neck, where it hes beneath the hyo-glossus muscle. A curved incision from close to the symphysis menti, reaching down to the level of the hyoid bone, and prolonged upwards to near the angle of the jaw, Avill expose the lower bordei of the submaxillary gland. This being drawn up, the central tendon of the digastricus and posterior edge of the mylo-hyoideus will be brought into view, and the hypoglossal nerve with a vein will be seen lying horizontally upon the