STATISTICS OF LITHOTOMY AND LITIIOTBITY. 825 o-eneral method of treatment in cases of stone. That Surgeon shows his practical skill the best, who knows best which operation is the one most appropriate to the particular case before him, and who knows best howto apply the operation that ho selects to the case to which it is applicable. Both operations haye been reduced to great simplicity and certainty ; but neither should be exclusively practised. It is undoubtedly the duty of the Surgeon to make himself familiar with the practice of both, and to adopt that one which promises best in the particular instance with which he has to do. In all cases in which it is practicable, and in aU cases even in which the chances of the two operations arc evenly balanced, lithotrity should as a matter of humanity be preferred to lithotomy. Probably about four-fifths of all cases of stone occuiTing in the adult are proper for lithotrity, and the proportion would be much greater if the patients applied earher for relief, or if, instead of being subjected to medical treatment, they were at once put under proper Surgical care, and the stone detected. Statistics.—The statistics cannot represent the true state of the question so far as a general comparison between the operations is concerned. For it must be borne in mind that those cases that are lithotrised have invariably been picked ; whilst hthotomy has been performed on almost ah patients indiscriminately as they have presented themselves. For lithotrity to be suc- cessfully done, it is necessary that the stone be of moderate size, and that the urinary organs be in a healthy state and free from irritation ; and this is the state in which most of the cases have been, in which crushing has been done. In hthotomy cases, on the other hand, the Surgeon has had to contend with all the difficulties of large or multiple calculi, diseased bladders, and bad con- stitutions. Hence, in comparing the statistics of the results of lithotrity with those of hthotomy, we compare the statistics of the results of operations per- formed under the most favoinable circumstances on a series of selected cases, with those of cases taken indiscriminately and often presenting most unfavour- able conditions. Another cause of uncertainty with regard to the statistics of hthotrity has been this ; that up to a recent period those which we possessed were chiefly from a professed lithotritist, Cmale, the accuracy of which had been denied in a veiy decided and emphatic manner by many of the leading Surgeons in Paris, who had inquired fully into the matter; and the conclusions from which must necessarily be received with much hesitation in this country, where it is difficult to anive at the real truth of the statements advanced on either side. If we compare Civiale’s statistics of hthotrity with those of hthotomy, as practised liy the most skilful Surgeons, Cheselden, Liston, and the Norwich operators, we should at once decide in favour of the crushing method; for Civiale states that out of 5!)1 operations ho had but 14 deaths, or 1 in 42’2 ; whilst, as we have seen, the most skilful lithotomists in this country, where tlie results of the cutting operation have been far more successful than else- Avhere, can only boast of such a rate of mortality as 1 iu 7*0, or at most in 10. But though the success is thus stated by Civiale to have been great in his own cases, the accinacy of this statement has been denied by other French Suro-eons and it is certainly voiy different from what has occurred elsewhere. Thus of