I CHRONIC LARYNGITIS. 549 I ploymeiit of the means that have been indicated and their failure, the less delay I there is in opening the aii'-passage through the crico-thyroid membrane, the S better. The Sm-gcon should not wait until extreme and continuous dyspnoea i lias set in ; this may never occur, the difficulty in breathing being rather i spasmodic than continuous, and in one of the spasms of dyspnoea life may { suddenly become extinct. The lungs may become fatally congested, if the t •difficulty in breathing be allowed to continue too long. The operation adds D but little to the patient’s danger, but the increased risk is immense if it be [ delayed to an ad\-auced period. Not unfrequently this operation is delayed 3 until too late ; there is, I think, more risk of doing this than of opening the » Avindpipe too early. When once dyspnoea with laryngeal spasm has fairly set ] in, every moment is precious, and the patient may at any time be carried 3 off by the recurrence of the spasmodic seizures. The patient does not die j g-radually asphyxiated, but is suddenly seized Avitli a spasm that terminates il his existence. If the oedematous laryngitis become chi'onic, sloughing and putrid suppura- i tion of the submucous areolar tissue may occin, as in phlegmonous erysipelas ,( -of other parts of the body, and the patient may die partly from asphyxia and (, partly from typhoid symptoms, with putridity of the breath and mouth. In I these cases the administration of stimulants and tonics, more particularly ( port wine and bark, with free sponging of the part with a strong solution of j nitrate of silver, viU be ui-gently required. Chronic Laryngitis.—The larynx is liable to various chronic diseases of a K serious chameter, some of which are incurable, leaving a permanent impair- i ment of the vocal and other functions of the larynx. Those affections present || gTeat variety: and many give rise to Ajohonia, or loss of voice. Chronic I laiyngitis may ailse from cold in relaxed and debilitated subjects, or after pro- longed over-exertion of the Aroice in speaking or singing. This form is common amongst clergymen, and hence is familiarly known as the Clergyman's Sore- Throat ; it is also of frequent occurrence amongst singers, but may be met Avith among all classes of the community. Other forms arise fr’om deposit of tubercle, or in coimexion with tubercular disease of the lungs ; and others, I again, as the result of sy|Dhilis. In fact, so common are these two causes, that [ in all cases of chronic laryngitis not arising as the dii’ect result of OA*er-exertion ^ ■of the A'oice, one or the other of these diseases should be suspected and care- \ fully seai-ched for. In simple chrome laryngitis the A'oice at first becomes hoarse, and after- 3 A\aids reduced to a whisper. There is an increased secretion of mucus, and the patient is constantly troubled by a tickling or spasmodic cough, and at the J same time there is usually a feeling as if there AA^ere some constant cause of irrita- , tion in the throat, attended by a desire to cough up and expectorate. Examina- I tioii, by means of the laryngoscope, shows the mucous membrane of the thi-oat ^ congested, relaxed, and thickened. The true vocal cords have lost their shai’p I someAvhat rounded, and at the same time, instead of the pm-e white colour natural to them, they are usually of a pink tint. Occasionally smaff A\art-hke gi-owths may appear on the vocal cords or elsewhere, as the result of simple chronic laryngitis. In the ha«rmlar variety the symptoms are at first much the same as in the