recto-vesical FJSTUUE. 709 ncai-ly as large as the fist. Rccm-rence may of course he expected, but the patient will get relief for a time. _ , 1 , Papilliform tumours are also met with in this region, causing much obstruc- tion, irritation, and Inemorrhage. They may be removed in some cases by dividing the sphincter, dilating the gut, and then extracting or destroying the mass. Polypi sometimes form in the rectum, constituting large pendulous tumours of a fibro-miicoiis character (Figs. G9G, G!)7). They often give rise to profuse Fit; GOO.—Poljinis of the Rectum with Pedicle, Kg. 097.—Polyims of the Rectum cut oiien, removed from child 7 years old. showing cysts Uueil hy Coluiimar Eiuthelium. and repeated htemon-hages. They may safely be removed by the application of a ligatm’e to their neck. RECTAL PISTtrL.ffil. ■ Fistulous openings occasionally occur between the rectum and the bladder in men ; or between this gut and the vagina in women. Recto-Vesical Fistulae are not of common occurrence, and usually result either from organic disease of a cancerous character, establishing a communica- tion between the rectum and the bladder ; or from a wound of the gut during the operation of lithotomy. In these cases the urine escapes per anum in gi’eater or less quantity, occasioning constant irritation or excoriation, with a sort of liquid diarrhoea ; and the wet state in which the patient is kept by the di’ibbhng of mine gives rise to an offensive ammoniacal odour about him. If the communication between the rectum and bladder be a free one, feculent matter and flatus get admission into the minary organ, and escape from time to time by the urethra ; perhaps even more abundantly than the mine does per • anum. This is especially the case when the fistula is carcinomatous ; and it is remarkable how little inltation is often set up by this admixtme of feeces with mine in the bladder. The flstulous apertmn in the rectum can ahvays readily be detected by passing the finger into the gut, or examining its interior with ! the speculum ani. Treatnieni.—If the disease be cancerous, nothing can be done in the way of I treatment beyond keeping the parts clean ; but if it be traumatic in its origin, I of small size, and more especially if it. be recent, its closm’e may not unfr’e- I quently be accomplished by touching it with the nitrate of silver, or a red-hot wire through a speculum ani. In these cases the galvanic cautery might advantageously be employed. If, however, the fistula be of old standing, and the aperture large, cauterisation will probably not succeed ; and then perhaps