770 URINARY CALCULUS. on the table. It is, however, safer not to proceed with the operation unless the stone can he felt with the staff; lest the point of this, though apparently in the bladder, be actually engaged in a false passage. The stone, then, having been felt, the patient is to be firmly tied up and brought to the end of the table, so that his nates project beyond it, where he is to be securely held on each side by an assistant, who grasps the foot in his hand, places the patient’s knee under his arm, and draws the limb well aside, so that the perinmimi may be fairly exposed. It is desirable that the perinaeum be thus fully exposed to the Surgeon. In a patient, however, on whom I once operated, this could not be done, owng to the left hip being stiffened by chronic rheumatic arthritis ; but I did not experience any particular difficulty in the operation, though somewhat in- convenienced by the position of the limb. The Surgeon then, seating himself before the patient, shaves the perinaeum—if this have not already been done—and in- troduces his finger into the rectum to ascertain that the gut is empty. He then gives the staff into the charge of a trusty assistant, who stands on the patient’s left, and who raises and draws aside the scrotum with the left hand whilst he holds the staff in the right (Fig. 738). The Surgeon then sees that the staff is held in the way in vffiich he prefers it. There are two ways in which it may be held ; it may either be drawn well up into the arch of the pubes, or it may be pushed somewhat down, and slightly tmuied towards the left of the peringeum. Liston always employed the first method, which I certainly think is the best, as it tends to increase the space be- tween the lu’ethra and the rectum, and consequently lessens the danger of wounding that gut, which more than counterbalances the advantage of the other method—that of approaching the membranous portion of the urethra to the surface. The external incision is made by entering the knife in the raphe of the peri- nteum, one inch and a half above the anus, and cariying it downwards and outwards, until it reaches a point that is just below the anus, but about one- third nearer to the tuberosity of the ischium than to the margin of the anal aperture (Fig. 738). It is useless to prolong the incision beyond this, as any freer division of the structures of the scrotum and on the nates cannot facili- > tate the extraction of the stone ; but it must occupy the extent indicated, otherwise considerable difficulty may be experienced in the later steps of the operation. The depth to which this incision should be caiTied must vary ! according to the obesity of the subject; usually from about three quarter of ' an inch to an inch, but not so deeply above as below. By this incision the j Fig. 738.—Position of Patient and Line of Incision in Lateral Lithotomy.