PLASTIC ARTERITIS. 3 part of tlic artevy in whicli tliey have originally formed ; or they may be primarily deposited in one ot the larger arteries, the aoita, oi e\en the left ca\-ities of the heart, and thence be washed by the current of the blood into one of the secondary arteries, becoming aiTcstcd at some point of bifurcation or narrowing of the vessel, as the termination of the common femoral or popliteal in the lower extremity or the axillary in the upper, and, there blocking up the ■\’csscl, occasion sudden gangrene of the limb. When thus broken up and circulating they form einhola (Vol. I., p. 721). If one of these embola be driven into a visceral artery, structm-al changes in the part supphed by the vessel Awll necessarily ensue ; and if the organ be one immediately essential to life, as the brain, instantaneous death may be the consequence of this plugging of one of its arteries by a fibrinous mass formed at and carried from a distant part of the arterial system. The subjects of plastic arteritis and of emboKsm are so intimately asso- ciated that it becomes in the highest degree difficult to separate them, and in many cases, when an arteiy is plugged by a plastic mass with imbibition of and effusion into its coats, to say whether the fibrine of the blood has become adherent to and almost incorporated with the coats of the vessel in conse- quence of primary changes of an inflammatory nature taking place in them ; or whether the converse has been the case, and the primary change has taken place in the blood, the alterations in structure in the arterial walls being . secondaiy to these. But it is not easy to understand how or why impure or diseased blood should select one particular limited patch or spot in the arterial system upon which to deposit its coagulum or fibrine, unless there have pre- ■\iously been such changes of structure, inflammatory or otherwise, at this point of the ai-terial walls as to dispose the blood to stasis at this point, and to deposit of adherent blood-clot on the inner coat of the artery. In the ab- sence, therefore, of any such structural changes as atheroma or calcification of the coats of the vessel itself, it is more than probable that a primary change of an inflammatory character has been set up there, in consequence of which the thrombosis and subsequent embohsm have resulted as secondarv consequences. The changes that take place in the arteiy at some localised spot may commence either in the external or in the internal coat of the vessel. The Surgeon is familiar with both these as starting-points for plastic arteritis. Thus, if an a,rtery be contused (Vol. I., p. 2G5) in an external wound, the inflammatory iiTitation in which it participates in common with the other injured stincturcs may determine the thrombosis of the vessel. The same ^\ill happen in cases in which an artery has been cut down upon and exposed without being tied, or where a temporary ligature has been used. Plastic arteritis as a consequence of inflammatory action, beginning in the inner coat, is of daily occiUTeiice in surgical practice, when a large artery has been tied (Vol. I., p. 294). ^ Any external agency, then, that is sufficient to produce inflammation in the external or intcnial coats of an artery, will be sufficient to determine in the artery that condition in virtue of which the blood circulating throuo-h it de- posits Its fibrine upon its lining membrane at the seat of injury, and thus the foundation of a thrombosis.