EXCISION OF JOINTS AND BONES. 264 longior vrill escape for the present, and the angle formed by the two parts of the incision should be close to the inner side of its insertion. If the first part of the incision be carried too far, there is danger of wounding the radial artery. The soft parts are then to be separated carefully from the bones on the radial side of the incision, the tendon of the extensor carpi radialis longior being now cut as close to its insertion as possible. The tendon of the extensor secundi in- ternodii pollicis and the radial artery are to be jmshed outwards out of the way. The trapezium must then be separated fr’om the rest of the carpus by cutting in the longitudinal part of the incision with the bone-forceps. The soft parts on the ulnar side of the radial incision are now to be dissected up as far as can Pig. 452.—Diagi-am of Wrist. A. Deeii Palmar Arch. U. Trapezium. C. Articular Surface of Ulna over which Radius moves. (Lister). dicator. D. E.vteusor Communis Uigitorum. E. Extensor Minimi Uigiti. F. Extensor Priiiii Iiiternodii PoUici.s. G. Extensor Ossis Metacarpi Pollicis. H. Extensor Carpi Radialis Longior. I. Extensor Carpi Radialis Brevior. K. Extensor Carpi Ulnaris. L.L. Line of Radial Incision. (Lister.) be conveniently done, the remainder being raised from the ulnar incision. "VATiile this is being done, the tendons must be relaxed by extending the joint. The trajpezium is not to be removed yet, as any attempt to dissect it out before removing the rest of the carpus would endanger the radial artery and the ten- don of the flexor carpi radialis. The ulnar incision is now to be made. It must be a free incision, commencing at least two inches above the end of the ulna and immediately to the palmar aspect of the bone, and caiT’ied directly downwai’ds between the flexor carpi ulnaris and the ulna, and then straight on as far as the middle of the pahnar aspect of the fifth metacarpal bone. The tendons and soft parts on the dorsum of the carpus are now to be completely raised. In doing this the tendons must be relaxed, and they are to be raised as little as possible fr'om the radius or metacarpus. The extensor carpi ulnaris is to be cut as near its insertion as possible, and the dorsal and internal lateral liga- ments may now be divided. Then the soft parts are to be raised from the