ANEURISM. 44 the skiill, or in tlie pabuar and plantar arches. If any of the direct collateral or feeding vessels happen to be sufficiently large at the time of the operation to transmit the wave of blood, the pulsation in the sac will be continuous, or will return almost immediately after the application of the ligature. If they Idc at first too small for this, they may become enlarged as part of the anastomos- ing circulation, and then the pulsation wiU return so soon as their calibre is sufficient to transmit the heart’s impulse. Besides these conditions in the size and distribution of the vessels of the part, it is not improbable, as has been supposed by Porter, that certain states of the blood in some individuals may, from causes with which we are unacquainted, render it less liable to coagulate than usual, and thus dispose to a return of the pulsation in the sae, which remains filled with fluid blood. The phenomenon under consideration has been noticed in all parts of the body after the performance of the Hunterian operation, though it occurs with different degrees of frequency after the ligatime of different arteries, and is certainly of more common occinl’ence after operations for carotid aneurism than for any other form of the disease. Thus, of 31 cases in which the carotid artery has been tied for aneurism, I find that pulsation in the timiom- continued or returned in 9 instances ; Avhereas of 92 cases of inguinal anemism, in which the external iliac artery was ligatmed, the pulsation reemred in G cases only ; and in several of these it is interesting to note that there Avere two aneurismal sacs in the same limb—one in the groin, the other in the ham ; and that the pulsation, though permanently arrested in the popliteal, reemred in the in- guinal aneurism. In the ham and axilla, pulsation occasionally though very rarely recurs. This difference in the frequency of the reciurence of pulsation in different aneurisms, is evidently owing to the different degrees of freedom of communication that exist between the sac and the collateral branches in various forms of the disease ; thus, in a carotid aneiuism, the im- pulse of the heart may at once be brought to bear upon the contents of the sac, through the medium of the circle of Willis. But, in the case of inguinal, femoral, or popliteal anemism, the anastomoses, consisting rather of the in- osculations of terminal branches than of open communications between large trunks, are less liable to transmit the blood in a pulsatory stream. 1 or the same reason—the great freedom of the communication between the vessels of opposite sides—the pulsation has more frequently been found to continue un- interruptedly and distinctly, though reduced in force, after the ligatiue of the arteiy in carotid aneurisms, than in those in any other situation. The cases in which it retiuns after the cessation of a few horns only are perhaps as frequent in the groin and ham, as in the neck. In those instances in which the pulsation returns within the fii'st twenty-foiu hours after the hgature, it usually ceases again in a few days, though it sometimes continues a Aveek or tAvo. AVhen it recius at a later period, it is apt to last somoAvhat longer. Compression antecedent to the ligatiue may so enlarge the collateia vesse s as to favour a continuance or return of pulsation. I haAC once vUOAaii e pu sa tion continue, though very much lessened, in a popliteal aneurism, after the ligature of the superficial femoral, in a case in Avhich treatment by compression had unaAmihngly been tried for nearly three months. n ano er case, in which I tied the external iliac artery for popliteal aneurism, owing to the