493 nLEPUAllOPLAHTY. Operations of various kinds arc frequently performed on the eyelids, which •are truly of a plastic character. • i • Blepharoplasty, or the operation hy which the eyelids arc repaired, is occasionally required for loss of substance—the result of wounds, cicatrices, or operations. It is loss satisfactory in its results than most of the other plastic procedures about the face ; yet it may, in some cases, improve materially the patient’s appearance. When the upper eyelid requires repair, the flap is taken from the forehead ; when it is the lower lid, from the cheek or temple. This operation may be performed either by the gliding method, or by twisting a flap into its new situation. By the gliding method, a triangular flap is cut and partially detached (Fig. 5!)(), cb), and then (h’awn gently forwards until it coiresponds to and fills up the gap that requires repair, when it is there fixed by a few points of suture. "lITien the twisting method is employed, an oval flap is detached (Fig. 590, V), except its jiediclc, and twisted down, to be planted on the raw surface. Occasionally neither of these methods is applicable ; and then the procedure, that I successfully adopted in a case of which the annexed cut (Fig. 591) is a representation, may be followed. In this case, which was that of a lady who had received a severe mutilation of the face by the explosion'of a ginger-beer bottle, there was a deep and hard cicatrix across the lower eyelid, causing- depression and eversion of its outer portion, and adhesion of the inner part to the ball of the eye. After dividing the adhesions and removing the cicatrix, I made a semilunar incision so as to dissect up the eyelid, and then fixed it by points of suture in its new situation, when it became firmly adherent (Fig. 592), and scarce any apparent deformity was left. In another very similar Fig. 590.—Operation for Rejiair of Eye- lid : (a) Gliding Method ; (b) Twisting Jlethod. Fig. 591.- Lower Eyelid defonned l.y Cieiitriy. Fig. 592. -I.ower Eyelid after Oporatiou. i case, in which a girl had been bitten through the lower eyelid by a dog, a similar operation was practised with equally good results. In both these cases, the eyeball, having been injured, had become atrophied, with opacity of the cornea. But, when an artificial eye was adjusted to the shrunken globe, the appearance of the patient was most satisfiictory.