DISEASES OF THE UllETllRA. 9i8 ficial fascia to giyo way, and the urine, then gravitating backward, to give rise to extensive sloughing in the ischio-rectal fossas and about the nates, denudin" the rectum. ” Local Effects of Extravasated Urine.—The elfects of urine that has become acrid, decomposed, and concentrated by long retention, are most dele- terious upon those tissues Avith Avhich it comes into contact. It acts as an irritant poison on all that it touches. The vitality of Avhatevcr portion of areolar tissue it infiltrates is immediately destroyed ; the tissue becoming con- A’erted into a kind of putrid stringy slough, intermixed Avith and soddeued by a quantity of fetid dark-coloured acrid pus and urine. The ravages of extra- vasated mine are often extensive ; the urethra giving Avay suddenly behind the stricture, the fluid is driven Avith all the force of the vital and physical con- tractihty of the over-distended bladder into the perinseum, and thence rapidly flnds its way through the scrotum upAA'ards. In other cases, again, the extra- vasation occurs more slowly ; a feAv drops appear first of all to escape from the urethra through a small rent or ulcer in it ; these gwe rise to inflammation in the sm-rounding structures, by which the progress of the extravasation is for a time limited. It is especially upon the areolar tissue of the scrotum that the effects of the extravasation manifest themselves in their full intensity, causing great distension and rapid sloughing of it. The skin speedily participates in this action, becoming of a dusky-red or purple colour, and then falling into a state of gangrene. In this Avay the testes may become denuded, and the cords exposed. It is remarkable, however, if the patient surAuve these de- structive effects, Avith Avhat rapidity reparative action goes on in this region. It is seldom that infiltration extends higher than the gToins, or the anterior- portion of the abdominal wall; but it may reach the costal cartilages before proA'ing fatal. When the extravasation is deep, the m-ethra being opened betAveen the layers of the triangular ligament, the patient, after suffering from retention, experiences a sensation of relief, as if he Avere emptying his bladder, and as if something had giA'en way in the perinaeum, followed after a time by a hot, bm-ning, and throbbing pain. There may be but little swelling for a day or tAvo, but then a doughy red diffused intumescence takes place in the scrotum and rapidly extends forwards. When the ruptm-e is altogether anterior to the deep perineal fascia, then rapid swelling and infiltration, partly m-inous, partly inflammatoi’y, take place in the scrotum and penis ; these parts become enor- mously distended, oedematous, crackling, and emphysematous, Avith the local signs that have already been mentioned. The Constitutional Disturlance is always considerable ; at first it is of an irritative type, but is speedily folloAved by asthenic and typhoid symptoms, by Arhich the patient is at last carried off. The Treatment consists in making a free and ready outlet for the urine as early as possible. This should be done, as soon as the extravasation is knoAni to have occim-ed, by a deep incision into the middle of the pciinaium. So soon as any pain and throbbing, with diffused SAvelling, occur in the perineum, with redness and more or less oedema of the scrotum, the patient should be draAATi to the end of the bed and placed in the position for lithotomy. The Surgeon should next introduce his left index-finger into the rectum, so that the