liESULTS OF OVARIOTOMY. 99^ died, more than one-half did so in four months from the first tapping, and 27 out of the 37 within a twelvemonth, and of these 18 were tapped once on y. In those who survive, repeated tappings arc required at constantly decreasing intciwals. i a rn The second objection can have little weight with any practical burgeon, i he mortality after ovariotomy is not so high as that after maiy operations which no Surgeon would hesitate for a moment in performing. It is true that in some of these cases, as in the ligature of the larger arteries for aneurism speedy death would be the penalty of non-interference ; whereas, in ovarian disease, a miserable existence may be protracted for some months after the tumour has attained so great a hulk as to render surgical aid necessary. But in other surgical diseases in which operations of the gravest character are performed without hesitation, as in the removal of the upper jaw for tumour, or in am- putation at the hip-joint for tumours of the femur, the same objection would hold good. The diseases for which these great and dangerous operations are performed, are not incompatible with some months or even years of painful existence*; yet the Surgeon does not hesitate to give the patient the chance of a doubtful recovery, in order to extricate him from the miseries of prolonged suffering. It is not necessary, in order to justify an operation even of a dan- gerous character, that the patient be in immeduitR peril of death. It is suffi- cient that the death from the disease which it is proposed to remove should ultimately be certain, though it may be delayed by months or years of previous suffering. From this point of view ovariotomy appears to me to be a perfectly proper and justifiable operation, and it presents the advantage of the cure, if the patient recover, being complete and permanent. In it there is no mean ; the death is speedy, or the cure complete. Clay of Birmingham, in the appendix to his translation of Kiwisch’s Chapters on Disease of the Ovaries, has collected from various soiuces the parti- culars of oG7 cases. Of these, the operation was completed by the removal of the entire ovarian tumour in 425, or about three-fourths ; the mortality being- 183, or about 43 per cent.. In 24 cases, the tumour was only partially re- moved ; of these 14 died. In 13 cases, extra-ovarian (mostly uterine) tiunours were removed ; the mortahty here amounted to 10. Of 105 cases in which the operation was abandoned, there Avere adhesions in 82 ; and in 23 the disease Avas mostly extra-ovarian, Avhile in a foAv no tumour Avas found. Amongst these 105 abandoned cases, 27 died. The results of ovariotomy in the hands of those Avho have most extensively practised it of late years—as Baker BroAvn, Tyler (Smith, Spencer Wells, Keith, Atlee, and Kocberle—are, however, much more favourable : especially those of Spencer Wells and Keith. The mortality after ovariotomy appears to be increased by the existence of adhesions. When these complicated the operation, in those cases in Avhich the- ovarian tumour Avas completely removed, 49 per cent, of the cases died ; Avheu they did not exist, only 32 per cent. Avere fatal. In Wells’s first 500 cases, the proportions Avere about 33 and 20 per cent. rcspcctiA-ely. AVhen Ave compare these returns, not only Avith the mortality Avhich folloAVS operations of immediate urgency—as primary amputation of the thigh for injury—but with that Avhich attends great operations for diseases that might be palliated and in which existence migdit be protracted for some little time