DISEASES OF JOINTS. 23S so as to make it tense, and cuts directly down upon the cartilage by a suf- ticiently iree incision to allow its escape. The Avoiind, which, when the skii» IS relaxed, will be somewhat valvular, is then closed by a strip of plaster and the limb is kept at I’est for a few days until it has united. Severe inflamma- tion of the joint less frequently follows this coarse operation than might have been expected, the synovial membrane haA'ing probably undergone some modification of action that renders it little liable to this process. It has, how- CAei, happened, that acute synoAutis has set in, and this has teiminated in suppuration of the joint, causing the patient’s death, requiring amputation, or leading to ankylosis. It has been proposed by Chassaigne, in order to obviate the dangers of direct and open Avound into the joint, to remove the loose cartilage by subcutaneous section ; this he accomplishes in a way that I have seen practised by Liston, and have often done myself, auz., by passing a tenotome obliquely under the skin, after fixing the foreign body in the way that has aheady been described, dividing the synoAial membrane freely, and then squeezing the cartilage into the areolar tissue outside the joint, where it is finally fixed by plaster and bandage, and then may be left to be eventually taken up by the absorbents of the part. Goyrand recommends the same subcutaneous mode of removal of the foreign body fr’om the inside of the joint; but, instead of leaving it to be absorbed, extracts it at the end of eight days, by a fresh incision, from the areolar tissue in which it has been lying. A most useful modification of this method has been practised by Square, of Plymouth ; it consists in fixing the loose cartilage, cliAiding the capside sub- cutaneously over it, and then pressing the foreign body into the opening thus made, retaining it there by a compress and plasters. In operating by this method on the knee, the cartilage should be fixed below and to the inner side of the patella, between it and the head of the tibia ; a long naiTOAV tenotome is then introduced obliquely under the skin from a distance of about tAvo inches below the loose cartilage ; the capsule of the joint is freely divided, the sub- cutaneous areolar tissue freed by a slight SAveep of the blade, and the loose cartilage then pressed into the cavity thus made to receive it, and slid along the areolar tissue for about three inches. It is fixed in situ with a firm pad and adhesive plaster ; the foot and leg are bandaged up to the edge of the cartilage, and the limb is placed on a splint. If no inflammatory symptoms ensue, the cartilage is excised about a Aveek after the operation ; or it may be left to be absorbed. By the adoption of these subcutaneous methods, there will be but A'ery little danger of inducing undue inflammation in the joint, the entrance of air being prevented, Avhich, and not the mere section of the capsule and synovial membrane, constitutes the chief risk. Should there be more than one loose cartilage, the operation must be repeated, but not until any inflammation induced by the former one has been subdued. In this way I haA^e successfully removed in succession five loose cartilages from one knee. NEUBALOIA OP JOINTS. Pain of a scA’erc character is often experienced in or aimmd a joint, closclj' simulating, but not dependent upon, inflammation or other structural disease.