SPECIAL ANEUPJSMS. io6 niicartery audits branches, increase of the pulsations, and the other symptoms which have been described above. Pathology.—The precise pathological change that takes place in inducing this remarkable disease is to a ^’ory considerable degree uncertain. The earlier observers supposed that an erectile tumour, an “ aneurism by anastomosis,” formed in the orbit. The fallacy of this opinion was pointed out by Busk, who referred the symptoms to a rupture of the ophthalmic artery and the de'S’elopment of a circumscribed traumatic aneurism of that vessel, ilore recently Nunneley has called in question the coiTectness of this view, and has referred the symptoms, in some of these cases, to a peculiar vascular con- dition of the parts, dependent more upon an affection of the veins than of the arteries, and somewhat analogous to what takes place in the ex- ophthalmos of bronchocele ; and in others, in which an aneurism really exists, he has pointed out that it is situated not in the orbit, but in the cranial cavity. In these latter cases, the prominence of the eyeball is due to distension of the veins of the orbit from obstruction to the return of blood ; and the pulsation is communicated to these distended veins from the aneu- rism in the cavernous sinus. In one such case examined after death the aneurism was found to affect the carotid as it takes its last bend, and in another it was situated on the ophthalmic artery, just beside the seUa Turcica, close to its origin from the internal carotid. Of the four cases collected by Delens, in which the symptoms undoubtedly arose from arterio-venous aneu- rism in the cavernous sinus, one was spontaneous, three arose from injmy, one was fr'om a direct wound from the point of an umbrella thrust into the opposite orbit, and two were from severe blows on the head, probably accompanied by fr’actnre. Pathological anatomy has as yet thrown httle light on the true nature of the disease. In one instance in which the patient died after the hgature of the conunon carotid artery in a case which pre- sented all the phenomena of intraorbital aneurism in the most marked degree, and which was recognised as such by some of the most able ocuhsts of the day, no trace of aneiu’ism or of other vascular disease could be found on dissection. Is it possible that some derangement of the vaso-niotor influence of the sympathetic may really occasion the symptoms of increased vascular activity that are so characteristic of this singular disease ? The secondary phenomena that are observed in these cases, such as conges- tion of the eyelids, of the palpebral and ocular conjunctivm, amomiting even to chemosis in many cases, and the muddiness of the aqueous humoui and lens, are doubtless due to an interference with the return of blood from these parts tlu'ough the ophthalmic vein, to the consequent congestion of the smaller vessels and to effusion of serum into the subconjunctival areolar tissue. The protrusion of the eyeball is due to the vascular tumour, whatever its precise nature may be, and the derangement in vision to an alteration in the axis of the eye consequent on this extrusion. It is remarkable that the Inut m these cases should be so loud, not only to the patient’s own senses, but to the ear ot the Surgeon ; and this can only be accounted for by some acoustic exaggera- tion of the sound, dependent either on the thin and flaccid sides of the vessels through which the blood rushes, or on the proximity of the cranial bones, which may act as conductors of sound.