572 OPERATIONS ON THE AIR-TUBE AND CHEST. llO^YevGl•, it is of grccit consequence to prevent the entrance of air ; and hero every precaution to this end shonld he taken. Drainage-Tubes.—Goodfellow and De Morgan have advantageously adopted the use of Chassaignac’s drainage-tubes in the treatment of empyema, with the view of preventing the accumulation of pus, its fetid decomposition, and conse- quent irritative fever, and of allowing the gradual expansion of the previously comimessed Imig, or collapse of the chest-wall. The mode of introducing the drainage-tubes into the pleural sac, adopted by De Morgan, is the following. A puncture with a trochar having been made in the usual situation between the fifth and sixth ribs, a long iron j)robe, slightly bent, is passed through this opening, and pushed downwards and backwards. It is then made to press against the thoracic wall at its lower and posterior part; and, being felt through the intercostal space, it is cut down upon, and its end exposed. A silk thread carrying the drainage- tube is now passed through the eye of the probe ; and as this is drawn out at the lower opening, the thread and tube necessarily follow. The ends of the tube projecting fii-om the opposite openings are then tied together, leading the body of the tube in the pleural sac. The pus drops out as it forms ; and thus the chest is kept empty by drainage through the tube and the lower counter-opening. Tapping the Pericardium.—In hydrops pericardii, attended with immi- nent danger of immediate death, it may be necessary to tap the pericardium. This may most safely be done by making an incision about half an inch in length through the skin and areolar tissue in the fifth nitercostal space, in the cardiac region, and then slowly and carefully introducing a fine trochar at that point where percussion and auscultation have indicated the greatest amount of fluid. The trochar should be passed obhquely; and, as soon as it appeal's to have entered the pericardium, the stylet should be sheathed and the cannula pushed forwards mitil the serum escapes. The operation is, however, much more safely done with the aspirator. From experiments made on the dead body, Dieulafoy concludes that the operation may be performed in the fomth or fifth interspace, the fifth being perhaps preferable, as it is nearer the apex of the heart and corresponds with a more dependent situation of the fluid. The puncture may be made from 2 to 2^ inches from the left margin of the sternum. The spot having been selected should be marked with ink. If the patient be anasarcous, the inter- space must be determined by carefully pressing away the oedema. The needle to be employed should vary with the case. If the diagnosis be certain, No. 2 (one miUimetre, or roughly inch in diameter), should be used; but if the diagnosis be uncertain. No. 1, half this size, should be chosen, as ivith this needle, it is said, the heart may be punctined ivith impmiity. The best form of aspirator to use is one such as is represented in Fig. GGO, as needles of such small size are apt to be plugged with small flakes of lymph, and if such an accident occin, they may be cleared again by reversing the syringe and forcing n smaU quantity of fluid back into the pericardium. Before using the aspirator, it should be carefully tested with some carbolised water to see that t e needle is pervious, and the whole apparatus in working oidei. Aiaciuim having been created in the aspirator by drawing back and fixing the piston.