209 SYMPTOMS OF OSTEO-AXFUIUSM. bct^veen them and ordinary aneurisms. It is only of late years that this kind of disease has been fully reeognised ; and it is principally to the labours of llandysidc, Xelaton, Stanley, and lioux that we owe an acquaintance with its Tumom-s springing from bone, whether of a cartilaginous, fibrous, or cystic character, may have pulsation communicated to them from a neighbouring artery; but the true pulsating tumours of bone owe them pulsations to some inherent peculiarity of structure, which appears to consist either in the development of a vascular tissue of abnormal character, or else in the simple enlargement and dilatation of the vessels of the bone. In the former and more fr’equent class of cases, those in which a new tissue is deve- loped in the osseous structure, we usually find the tumour to partake of the character of malignant growth ; a creamy, curdy, or brain-like, soft, and very vascular mass is formed as an essential and principal constituent of it. This form of disease has been termed an encephalo-osteo-aneurism. This abnormal mass will be found to present every shade of transition, from true malignant growth to a purely vascular tissue of an erectile character. Billroth has described a somewhat similar condition as occuiTing in sarco- matous tumours of the bones of the lower extremity, in which numerous small anem'ismal dilatations existed on the vessels, forming a network through- out the mass. In the second and rarer form of the disease, there is developed in the bone a structure, which originally, and in many cases throughout, is a vascTilar erectile growth, closely resembhng capillary naevus in its structiu’e, composed of an infinity of blood-vessels, interlacing in every possible way, so as to form a soft reddish-yellow tumoiu’. In a third form, a hoUow cavity is fomed in the bone, scooped out of the cancellous structure and filled with blood, partly liquid and partly coagulated, and having arterial branches freely opening into it. The shell of bone sm-rounding this cavity is very thin and expanded, being usually absorbed at one point, where it often becomes at last perforated. This constitutes the true aneurism of bone. Situation.—These various kinds of pulsatory tumour of bone have been met with in almost aU parts of the body; most comuionly the cancellous articular ends of the long bones, more particularly of the tibia, the radius, the humerus, and the femur, have been found affected. The pelvic bones are also not unfrcquently the seats of these growths ; and they have been encountered in the skull and the ribs. Sijmpioms.—In its early symptoms an osteo-aneurism closely resembles the ordinary fonns of spina ventosa, being oval in shape, uniform, and elastic to the touch, growing slowly, without enlargement of the veins or discoloration of the skin ; these characters it possesses in common with most other tumours of bone. The special signs by which it is characterised, hoAvever, are its pulsation and bniit: the pulsation is very distinct, superficial, and commonly of a thrilhng character ; in other cases it is directly impulsive, and distinctly expansile ; the bruit is most usually soft and blowing, but not uiifrequently harsh, loud, and whizzing. In some cases the bruit is absent, though the pulsation continue distinct; this, according to Nclaton, is most frequently the case in tine osteo-aneurism. In the pulsating malignant form of the disease, I have heard the bruit peculiarly loud, rough, and superficial. On compressing VOL. II.