3^5 TREATMENT OF WEBBED FINGERS. Ijroacler above. It may extend the whole length of the fingers, or only a por- tion. The Aveb does not interfere A\ith the movements of the fingers in flexion or extension. This deformity is readily remedied by operation. The web may be di\ided in different ways. The plan that I have always successfully adopted consists in separating the fingers widely, and then cutting through the Aveb from its ft-ec edo-e, keeping accurately to the middle line as far as the l^ase of the finger, makino- the incision longer on the dorsal than on the palmar aspect; or the Aveb may be transfixed at the base, and the incision made forwards. Some Surgeons transfix the base with a ligature or Avire, and, bringing it over the fi-ee edge, gi-adually tighten it, and so divide the abnormal bond of union. The objection to this process is that it is sIoav and painful. After the division of the Aveh, the hand should be put on a splint, and a piece of lint interposed be- tAveen the separated fingers during the whole process of union, so as to prevent any chance of re-adhesion. When the septum is very dense, the folloAving operation, invented by Didot of Liege, may be adA'antageously practised. Sup- posing the index and middle finger to be Avebbed, the foUoAving would be the procedure to be adopted, Avhich is of com’se equally applicable to any of the other fingers. 1. The Singeon makes an incision along the median line of the palmar aspect of the index finger, extending the whole length of the web. 2. Two small transverse incisions are now made at the upper and lower ends of this longitudinal incision, extending from it to the ends of the web. 3. The rectangular flap thus defined is dissected back as thick as possible, so that its base corresponds to the mid-line of the web. 4. A coiTesponding longitudinal incision is noAv made along the dorsal surface of the middle finger, but comes rather further doAvn on the hand. The two transA'-erse incisions at its upper nnd lower ends are next made, and the flap thus defined is dissected back, and AA'hen the knife reaches the mid-line of the web the tAvo fingers Avill be found to be separated. 5. The next and last step of the operation is to AATap each flap round the raw surface of the finger to Avhich it continues to be attached, and to fix it in situ by three or foin points of sutine. Thus the raw sinface on the index finger will be covered by the flap taken from the dorsmn of the middle, and vice versa, as is seen in the accompanying diagram (Fig. o20). Fig. 02iJ.—I)iiip-,nn of Hap.s h, Oiicnitiou for AVcblwd I'inger, with thick Seiituiii. a b I'lg. 527.—o. Tlu; line.s of the two incisions uniting, so us to divide the Web nnd lenve a Flap on each side. b. The Flaps de- taclied from the op]iosite Fingers to those to wliich they are adherent, e. Tlic Fliiiis np|)liod to tile Fingers, and covering in the raw nnd exposed surfaces. shoAvn accompanying cut (Fig. 527), tlie transverse section of the finger is