RESULTS OF RETENTION FROM ATONY OF BLADDER. 853 abdomen, the organ will be felt hard, elastic, rounded, and pyiifoim in shape, projectiiif^ above the pnbes, and feeling much like an enlarged uterns. In this situation,” also, percussion will elicit a dull sound; and on exploring the part through the rectum, the bladder will be found to project in this direction also ; and on tapping with the fingers above the pubes, fluctuation may be felt through the wall of the gut. Atony of the bladder is a sufficient cause for incomplete retention of urine. But it does not appear to me to be adequate to explain the complete retention with distension of the bladder that is commonly seen. For this to occur there must be some mechanical obstacle, however slight, to the outward flow of the urine—contraction of the neck, or a congested or enlarged prostate. Could complete retention occur from a merely atonic bladder, we should meet with it in women as well as in men. But simple atony of the bladder is a cause of incontinence, not of complete retention, in the female. It is the mechanical obstacle at the neck of the male bladder which intensifies the effects of its atony and leads to the complete stoppage. After the bladder has once become distended, it commonly happens that a quantity of urine continues to dribble out of it; in fact, the amount that escapes in this manner may be very considerable, though the retention continue um'eheved. This retention tvith drihlling is a condition of much practical importance, as the continued escape of mine may lead the patient, and even the Surgeon, to overlook the true nature of the disease ; the more so, as in elderly people retention slowly induced often occasions but httle inconvenience. I have di-awn off nearly a gallon of mine from a patient in whom it had not been saspected that retention existed, in consequence of the continuance of this dribbling. In women, retention is not by any means so common as in men, but the bladder will sometimes attain an enormous size, rising as high as the umbilicus ; and such large bladders have been tapped under the supposi- tion of the tumour being an ovarian cyst, or some similar growth. I once witnessed such a case in which the Smgeon, to his surprise, on tapping the tumour, drew off a quantity of clear and healthy urine, instead of ovarian fluid; fortunately no bad effects followed. This retention with dribbling occurs in consequence of the bladder, as it rises out of the pelvis, elongating its neck ; and as the body becomes bent forward over the pubes a shaiq) curve or angle is formed at the junction of the neck and body of the viscus, through which a small body of urine continues to dribble away, and escapes rather by its own gravity than by any expulsive effort on the part of the patient. Diagnos'is.—Retention from Atony can easily be diagnosed from retention from Ohstruction. In the former, on introducing the catheter when the patient is lying on his back, the instrument will not only readily enter, but the urine will simply flow out in a slow uniform stream, not being projected in a jet by the contrac- tion of the walls of the organ, but rising and falling in obedience to the respiratory movements. In retention from obstruction, there will be expe- lienced some difficulty in passing the instrument at some one point; and when once it is introduced into the bladder, the mine will escape in a free and far projected stream. Results. The habitual retention of a small quantity of urine in an atom'c