DEFORMITIES. 366 DEFORMITIES OF THE LEO AND FOOT. Knock-knee.—The deformity termed Genu Valgum, Knock or K-Knee, usually affects botli extremities, though it is generally more fully developed in one than in the other. In it the knee forms the apex of a triangle, the base et which would be represented by a line drawn from the trochanter to the outer ankle. It is usually conjoined with some cmwatiu’e of the bones of the leg. It is not congenital, but commonly occurs in consequence of children being jmt upon their feet too early, the limbs thus giving way under the weight of the body. Bock states that, out of 221 cases which he examined, 17 originated about the period of the first dentition ; and about 200 between that age and the loth or 18th year. Some occupations are said to predispose to it, smiths being especially liable to the disease. In it there is relaxation of the internal lateral ligament; the biceps, the external lateral ligament, and often the vastus externus, are very tense; and the patella is thrown outwards. The externai condyle of the femur will generally be found to be small, and the hollow of the- ham to be obliterated. Treatment.—The treatment consists, in the slighter cases, in applying an- apparatus consisting of a well-padded iron stem along the outside of the leg and thigh ; this must extend from the trochanter to the outer ankle, being fixed to a pelvic band at the upper part, and into a boot below (Fig. 528). Where it corresponds to the knee it should be- provided with a hinge, and should have a broad well-padded strap passing from its under side, over the inner side of the joint, and attached by buckles to the upper part of the stem, in such a Avay that by tightening these the knee may be drawn outwards. This apparatus should be con- stantly worn for many months ; and, if properly adapted, may effect a cme. When the deformity is of old standing, and the parts about the outer side of the joint very tense, the biceps tendon may require division.. In doing this, cai’e must be taken not to injure the peroneal nerve. In some cases the vastus externus and contiguous portion of the fascia lata may also be advantageously divided, and the apparatus then applied as directed. There is a form of bandy-leg which appears - to be due not to cmwature of the shaft of the tibia, but to a displacement inwards of the lower' epiphysis of the bone, which at its line of junction with the shaft, appears to have yielded under the weight of the body, and so doubled inwards, carrying with it the foot. ■ • ^ • f Contraction of the Knee-joint.—Contraction of the knee-joint is one of the most distressing deformities to which the human fr-amc is liable. If it be severe, the leg is bent at nearly, or perhaps at quite, a right angle with c thigh. It is fixed in this position, so that the patient cannot put the sole o Fig. 528.—Aiiimratiis for Knock-knue.