■654 HERNIA. Avliicli it is attempted to render a strangulated hernia i-educible by withdrawing its gaseous and fluid contents by means of the pneumatic aspirator, was introduced into practice by Dieulafoy, and is thus performed ;—An aspirator of the form represented in Fig. COO, page 571, is to be preferred, and the needle must not exceed inch in diameter. The aspirator having been proved to be in working order, and the needle clear, a vacuum is made by withdrawing the piston. A few drops of water may be left in the bottom of the piston, so that gas may bo recognised as soon as it enters. The needle is now introduced into that part of the tumour, where, from resonance on percussion, or elastic feel, the gut is supposed to lie, and as soon as its eye is covered the vacuum is turned on. The needle must now be carefully and steadily pushed onwards. If there be fluid in the sac this wiU rise into the syringe, and as soon as it ceases to flow, the needle must be again carefully pushed onwards, until, from the appearance of gas or faecal matter in the syringe, it is known that the gut is reached. The needle must be held steadily and pushed in one direction only, as any lateral movement would tend to scratch or tear, the gut. The gas may be sufficient in quantity to abolish the vacuum, and if this occur, the cock must be tinned, the syringe emptied, and a fr'esh vacuum made. If one punctiue fails to diminish the bulk of the tumour, the needle must be with- draiim and inserted at a fresh spot, and this may be repeated two or three times. If the needle become plugged, it is better to abandon the operation at once, as further attempts would probably meet with no better success. After the operation taxis may be immediately employed, and if it fail the ordinary- operation must be performed. Further evidence is required to establish the true value of aspiration, but it has been performed sufficiently often to show that if needles of the proper size be used carefully, it is almost, if not absolutely, innocuous. Dieulafoy records 27 cases, 20 of which were suc- cessful, reduction of the gut by taxis following the operation. In the remaining 7 it was haimless, and of these 3 died and 4 recovered, after the ordinary operation for hernia. At University College Hospital aspiration has been tried 7 times. In 1 case only was it followed by reduction ; in 1 the fluid from the sac only was withdrawn, yet the impulse returned and the patient recovered, though the hernia remained um-educed ; in 4 it failed entirely, and the ordinary operation was performed in 3 cases successfully. In the fatal case two days after the operation the punctures could not be found at the post-mortem examination. In the remaining case the patient was moribund at the time, and died a few minutes after the operation. At the post-mortem no gas or fluid could be squeezed from the pmictiues in the gut. It seems, therefore, that the danger of fsecal extravasation is very small, although it is said to have occuiTed. The operation may fairly be tried in suitable cases, especially when the hernia is resonant on percussion, and only recently strangulated. It would be unwise to attempt it when fr'om the diua- tiou of the strangulation inflammation or gangrene of the gut might be . suspected.