685 SEAT OF OBSTRUCTION. this question with sufficient precision to guide him in tne choice of an operation. Yet cases do occur in which, tliough the obstruction be seated m the largm intestine, the symptoms are aeuto, and evidently not dependent on ctronm obstructive disease, and vomiting is of early occurrence, the distension of the- abdomen slight, the exploration by the rectum yields no result; and it is in cases of this description, presenting a train of symptoms of mixed and' uncertain character, that the diagnosis of the precise seat of the obstructioiii cannot be made with sufficient precision to justify operation. The most important point to determine in reference to the relief of intestinal’ obstructions by surgical operation, is whether the seat of the occlusion be above or below' the lower end of the descending colon. If situated at or below this, relief may be afforded by “ Amussat’s operation,” by which the colon is opened behind, and not through, the peritoneum. If above this point, except in those very rare cases in which the obstruction is in the transverse colon, it will be necessary to do “ Gastrotomy,” an operation by which the peritoneal cavity is. opened, and thus the peril to the patient greatly increased. 1. When the obstruction is situated below the descending colon, explora- tion of the rectum wffil usually determine to what cause it is more immediately referable. Thus it may be owing to fiecal impaction ; to strangulation of in- ternal piles ; to compression of the rectum by an over-distended bladder ; or to an enlarged uterus, engorged and tilted backw'ards so as to compress and constrict the gut, and thus to lead to the supposition of the existence of tumoiu'. If the intestinal obstruction be owing to one or the other of these causes, it may readily be relieved by appropriate treatment. It, however, more commonly proceeds from other conditions in this situation, that do not admit of relief except by oyierative interference ; as from constriction, simple or malignant, of the upper portion of the rectum, or of the lower part of the sigmoid flexure of the colon, produced by the pressure of a peh-ic tumour, or by a stricture from flbrous or cancerous degeneration of this part of the wall of the gut. In these circumstances, the obstruction may be as complete as in a case of internal strangulation, and the patient will inevitably perish unless relieved by operation. It is in this group of cases that relief may be given without intei'fering with the cavity of the peritoneum, by the operation of opening the descending colon in the left, or the emeum in the right lumbar region, between the reflections of the peritoneum at the part where the gut is not covered by that membrane. 2. When the obstruction is situated above the descending colon, it almost always occurs in the small intestine, rarely in the cincum or transverse colon,, and may be dependent on various causes, some of wffiich are removable, and others not, and of which preparations may be found in all the large patho- logical collections in London. Thus, it may be the result of internal strangu- lation, either occasioned by the small intestine falling into a pouch formed by the mesentery, or by the constriction of the gut by the passage across it of adventitious fibrous bands. It may be occasioned by intussusception, by the lodgment of biliaiy or other similar concretions, or by mere spasm of the smalt intestine, which may be so persistent as to prove fatal. This is, doubtless, a rare occun-ence; but cases of the kind arc on record, in -which the only post viortem appearance that could be discovered has been a spasmodically