7 ATHEROMA. patches that this consolidation of the external coat takes place, thus preventing the perforation of the artery in this situation. This change, which is un- doubtedly inflammatory, is strictly conservative. The new deposit is not confined to the external coat of the artery, but extends to the sheath of the vessel, and, by soldering it to the contained artery, greatly adds to the strength of the A'ascular walls. Thus in these diseased arteries a process of repair or rather of strengthening takes place in two directions. In the interior of the vessel the lymph-masses that ai-e deposited there act as breakwaters lessening the force of the impulse of the blood against, and directing its current away from, weakened parts of the ai'terial walls ; whilst these in their turn are strengthened from without by the consolidation and thickening and incoi’poration of the external coat and sheath by exudative material. Atheroma essentially consists, as Avas first pointed out by Gulliver, of a fritty and grauulai- disintegration of the arterial coats ; the transformation into fatty and granidar matter taking place both in old fibrinous deposits upon and in the internal and fining membrane itself. The atheroma when fully formed 'consists of gTanules, oil-globules, and cholesterine, in various proportions Figs. 345, 34G), the plates of cholesterine being largest and most abnndant in those cases in which the atheroma is the softest (Fig. 347). The primary seat of the changes is the fining membrane of the vessel, in the outer layer of Avhich, corresponding to Henle’s fenestrated coat, they are fii’st met Avith, as I have often obsei’A^ed, after macerating and dissecting diseased arteries. That atheroma consists essentially in a fatty and granrdar degeneration of a portion of the arterial wall there can be no doubt. With this degeneration inflammatory products are found associated. The questions have hence arisen. Is atheroma the result of the inflammatory action that has given rise to these pioducts ? Or is the atheromatous degeneration the primary disease, and the evidences of inflammation secondary to it ? Fig, 345.—Fatty Deiiosit in Internal Coat. I' ig. <HG.—Early Stage of Atlieroiiia, The older patbologists, judging of softened atheroma simply from the naked eye eharacters and appearances, looked upon it as a kind o pVand e?et d presence to a pre-existing maammation. The nucroscopic “slnh of (julluer demonstrated the fallacy of this ,dew of the dS and t ha, dStreomni^^ atheromatous eposit nas composed essentially of granular and fatty matter and more or less