DISEASES OF THE LAliOE INTESTINE ANJJ ANUS. 730 open with a lancet, and its contents citlier sc|ucezed, or turned out with the flat end of a director. ]f abscess form, it must be punctured in the usual way, and the part afterwards poulticed. Should strangulation of the piles take place, the protruded swelling must be returned by gentle steady pressure, and the part afterwards well poulticed. 2. Operation, ihe means above indicated are usually sutticient in ordinary cases ot jnles ; but it the disease attain an inconvenient size, giving rise to general irritation and local uneasiness, or if the abundance of the hEemorrhage be such as seriously to interfere with the health of the patient, it will become necessary at last to have recourse to operati\'e interference, with a view of removing the diseased structiu’es. No operation should ever be undertaken whilst the pile is in an inflamed state, lest unhealthy inflammatory action to an undue extent be set up in the part ; it is also Avell to get the patient’s health into a good state, as erysipelas may otherwise follow the operation ; and before proceeding to perform it, care should be taken that the bowels have been well opened. There are three plans of treatment adopted by Surgeons for the removal of piles; y\z., the excision of the tumoiu', its strangulation by ligatm’e, or destruc- tion by caustics. These methods of treatment should not be employed indis- criminately. The first is alone applicable to external piles ; the last two may be adopted in the internal form of the disease. Excision.—The removal of external piles is readily effected. The tumom’ should be seized with a vulsellum or hook, di’awn forwards, and snipped off with a pair of knife-edged scissors, curved upon the flat. At the same time when the external piles are removed in this way, any pendulous flaps of skin in their vicinity should be excised, lest they become irritated, and constitute the basis of a fresh pile. After the excision of external piles, there is usually but trifling hmmorrhage, which may readily be arrested by the application of cold lint, or a pad and T-bandage ; should any small artery bleed, it may be pinched, and the hmmorrhage thus stopped. The hEemorrhage attendant on this little operation is sometimes rather profuse. Ligature.—Internal piles are usually removed by the ligatm’e ; in fact, it may be laid down as a rule in sm’gery, that all external piles should be cut off and all internal piles tied. The reason of this difference in the practice to be adopted, according as the pile is situated above or below the margin of the anus, is the liability to hEemorrhage in the one case, but not in the other. The bleeding that follows the excision of an external pile is not only small in quantity, but may readily be arrested by cold or pressm-e. With internal piles, however, it is different ; these tumom’s are not oidy more vascidar, being often fed by a large centrEil arterial twig, but are deeply seated, and do not readily admit of the application of means for the arrest of the flow of blood from them. So difficult is it to stop the bleeding fr-om an internal pile in spme cases, that patients have actually lost their lives from this cause after its excision, even in the hands of some of the most distinguished Surgeons. The excision of internal piles has consequently been very properly abandoned. The Operation for the Ligature of Internal Piles mExy most conveniently be conducted in the foUowing manner. The patient, having had^ his bowels cleared out by a dose of castor-oil on the day preceding that fixed for the I