LATERAL LITHOTOMY COMPARED. 799 MEDIAN AND opci-ation there are the dangers of arterial and of profuse the knife coiuino- into close relation with the artery of the bulb and others of some size If the object were, therefore, simply to save blood, the median is so far better than the lateral. But, after all, it must in fairness be said that the daimer of excessivo hemorrhage in the lateral operation is but very sma . "With care, it will rarely happen that the patient loses a dangerous amoun o 3 Wound of the Bulb.—This may occur in both, but is more difficult to avoid, and indeed is very likely to happen, in the median, as the bulb some- times so overlaps the membranous part of the urethra, that it is difficult not to cut it; whilst in the lateral operation, by cutting low down, and entering- the oi-oove of the staff well back, and from below upwards, this may always be avoided. It is true that division of the bulb in the mesial line seldom gives rise to much heemoiThage ; but cases have occurred to my knowledge, though not in my practice, in which patients have died from this cause after the perineal section, the blood regm’gitating into the bladder, and filling^ that viscus. 4. Wound of the Rectum.—This gut is not in much danger in the lateral operation, unless it be distended. In the median, on the other hand, tne rectum is in considerable danger. If this operation be performed on the dead body, it -will be found that the back of the bistomy comes very, I may say imcomfortably, close to the finger in the rectum ; and if another finger be- placed in the woimd, they will come into very close apposition just anterior to the prostate. In the old Marian operation, the rectum used to be very frequently cut, gas and farces issuing from the rvound. 5. Treatment of the Prostate.—As to the difference in this respect—i.e., dilatation in the median, section in the lateral operation—I believe it to be more imaginary than real. I think that it is very nearly the same in both operations when properly performed. All are agreed that in the lateral opera- tion but a limited incision should be made in the prostate and neck of the bladder, these structures being merely notched, and the opening being dilated with the finger, so as to avoid opening up the pelvic fascia. The difference between an incision that opens the capsule of the prostate, and dilating this structm-e by the finger, is very great. The great object in lateral hthotomy is not to open up the pelvic fascia with the knife ; and it is difficult, if not impossible,, to tear this Avith the finger. If we take an aponein'osis out of the body, it will be found to be very difficult to tear ; but if touched ever so lightly with the knife, it separates at once. So, in the median operation, the prostate may be dilated to a considerable extent Avithout opening its capside. I have used the Avord “ dilate ; ” but dilatation appears to me to be an erroneous term. I believe that the prostate is not simply dilated, but partially lacerated : that there is an actual laceration of the substance of the prostate, but not extending into or through its capsule. I have often examined the prostate in the dead subject, after it has been subjected to this process of “ dilatation,” and have ahvays found its substance more or less tom. A laceration of the substance of the prostate, hoAvcA’cr, is of no consequence, and only becomes dangerous Avhen it amounts to rupture of the capsule, when it exposes the patient to the fatal accident of extravasation of urine and diffuse inflammation of the pelvic fascia.