862 DISEASES OF THE F HOST ATE. _ Ihe elongation and expansion of the prostatic portion of the urethra gives rise to an increase in its capacity, so that it sometimes holds two or three ounces of urine ; and the elongation will caiTy the neck of the bladder upwards and behind the pubes, to a considerable dis- tance from the urethra. AVhile the lateral enlargements cause the urethra to assume a somewhat tor- tuous course, the middle lobe, if hypertro- phied, may readily occasion retention, by projecting against the entrance to this winding channel, and falling over it like a valve whenever the patient attempts to pass mine, as in Fig. 790. Then, again, if the middle lobe continue small whilst the enlargement of the lateral lobes takes a direction up towards the bladder, widen- ing as they go, the vesical neck may be sa dilated that incontinence and a continuous dribbling will occur through a kind of fis- sure that extends between the lateral lobes. The obstacle ofiered to the passage- of the urine by an enlarged prostate wiU usually eventually give rise to a chroni- cally thickened, fasciculated, and sacculated bladder, the fundus of which descends dilated; ciironiti below and behind the enlarged gland, fonning a kind of pouch that cannot empty itself, and in which mucus and morbid concretions are apt to collect. The ureters often become dilated and the kidneys chronically diseased; a series of changes well illustrated by the annexed cut (Fig. 791). Moral Effects of Enlarged Prostate.—The irritation of a congested and enlarged prostate Avill excite libidinous ideas in the aged, which may lead to the perpetration of acts of indecency—such as exposure of the person, &c., or to a general impairment of the moral tone. But not only does the diseased state of this body thus excite a depraved condition of the mind ; the converse will alsa happen. And if the true history of many cases of prostatic congestion and. hmmorrhage were told, it would be found to begin in imdue or in-egular sexual or erotic excitement, by which the genital organs have been injm-iously Fig. 791.—Besults of enlai-ged Prostate; Bladder enlarged: Ureters Disease OT Kidneys. over-stimulated. SvjVIPTOMS.—The symptoms of enlarged prostate arise primarily from the mechanical obstacle offered to the escape of the urine. The first symptoms usually consist in the feeling of a necessity to strain slightly before the urine will flow; and then, after the bladder has been apparently emptied, in the- involuntary escape of a small quantity of urine. The patient also finds that he is much longer than usual in emptying the bladder ; for, though the stream flows freely enough so soon as it has once begun to escape, yet it cannot be properly projected, the viscus having, to a certain extent, lost its tonicity.