484 DISEASES OF THE JA]VS AND TllEIll APPENDAGES. IB were successful (viz., B of the former and r> of the latter). So far as recur- rence of the disease is concerned, all will depend on the natiu’e of the tumoiu\ and the extent of the operation. If the disease he malig-nant or e'S’en myeloid,, speedy recurrence will certainly ensue if partial excision or scooping be prac- tised. Nothing, indeed, can be more disastrous than the result of partial operations in these cases. Even though the whole maxilla be excised, the- incisions being, carried Avide of the disease, recurrence is the inA-ariable rule, though the more complete operation secures longer immunity. The liability t» recurrence is remarkable in these cases, Avhen Ave consider how isolated the upper jaAv is, being bounded on tkree sides by the cavities of the mouth, nose, and orbit, and hoAV completely it can be excised. It is, I believe, mainly due tO' tAvo causes—early implication of the soft parts, and extension of the mischief through the fissures and sinuses behind the bone. These recurrent malignant groAvths, after removal of the primary tumour, do not admit of extirpation. When the tumour is benign, the result is most satisfactory and the enre- usually complete. Tumours that spi’iug from behind the Superior Maxilla haA’C already been adverted to in speaking of the diagnosis of tumours of the upper jaAv (p. 478). They may grow from the sphenoid bone, or from some of the deep caAnties lying betAveen it, the palate bones, and the ethmoid, constituting various foi’ms of naso-pharyngeal, palatine, or naso-palatine polypi. Formerly these tumours AverC' either left untouched, or Avere extirpated together with the- superior maxilla or after its removal. Of late years various operations have- been devised Avithout the necessity of removing that bone, which is either turned up, doAAm, or on one side. The best operation on the whole for their removal is Langenbeck’s Osteoplastic Section of the Superior MaxUla with displacement of that bone. The first operation was performed in 1859. Since- then, Langenbeck has performed it 13 times, with 10 complete ciu-es and B- deaths. It has also been performed in Germany by Esmarch, Wagner, Simon, Nussbaum, and Billroth. The last two performed it for removal of the superior maxillaiy nerve for neuralgia. In America it has been performed twice by Cheever. In one case, it was done for removal of a tumoiu- groAving from tho body of the sphenoid bone ; the tumour recuiTed, and the operation was repeated at the end of eleven months, AAuth perfect success. In the other case, both bones were displaced at the same operation ; but the patient died on the- fifth day of “ prostration Avith excitement.” In Langenbeck’s fii'st operation, the incision was made from the middle of the nasal eminence of the frontal bone towards the right, over the nasal process and downwards to the ala of the nose. The edges of the Avound were dissected up so as to expose- the whole nasal process of the superior maxillary bone and the nasal bone, the periosteum remaining untouched. The cartilaginous portion of the no c- was separated from its bony attachments. The nasal bone AAas the through with bone-forceps, close to the septum, and upwards as far as the ntsal process of the frontal bone; by a second cut the nasal piocess- S trsupcAr maxillary ,vas dh iclcd iato tho antrum. The out nhe o tho nasal process o( the superior maxillary bone forms the louci bolder orbit tL upper part of the nasal process of the superior maxillary and the ::^aibo« the‘n prised up and were turned on to the forehead, being still