DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. 898 occcasionally gives rise to certain troublesome and even dangerous sequences. Amongst these, syncope and rigors, hmmorrhage, and inflammatory in-itation about the urethra or testes, are the most common. Rigors.—In some persons there is a great tendency to the occurrence of shivering and faintness during the passage of an instrument, more particularly as it approaches the neck of the bladder. These effects usually go off after the 'withdrav'al of the catheter, but in some cases they may continue for many hours, or even come on after the lapse of some time, perhaps as late as the following day, more especially if the patient have been exposed to cold. The rigors in these circumstances are very severe and intermitting, so much so as to resemble an ague-fit. During the rigor the temperature rises considerably, often to 104° or 105°. The subsidence of the rigor is marked by profuse sweating, and is usually attended by great exhaustion. This occun-ence is always very alarming, and, although usually not attended by positive danger, yet leaves the patient weak and exhausted ; and if he be old, of broken constitution, or the subject of chronic urmmia consequent on kidney-disease, a fatal result may rapidly ensue. In these distressing cases, death may occur at different periods and in different ways. The earhest period at which I have seen a fatal termination has been in nine hours ; usually it takes place in from 24 to 48 hours after the occurrence of the first rigor. The cause of death may be coma, exhaustion, or cardiac syncope. The cause of the occurrence of these rigors and sweatings is exceedingly obsciu’e. Constitutional nervousness or timidity has certainly nothing to do with them. I have seen them occiu’ in the strongest and most courageous men, and they very rarely follow the use of the catheter in women. I have only once seen these effects in the female. That was in the person of a young married lady, strong and healthy, who had a strictm’e of the orifice of the urethra, which I dilated by a two-bladed dilator. Twenty hoius after the operation, she had three most intense rigors followed by profuse sweatings. In men they may occur after dilatation of any part of the urethra, but are most frequent after deep dilatation, possibly because the deeper portions of the canal are more commonly strictured. I have, however, heard of one case in which a fatal ri°'or followed incision and dilatation of the orifice of the urethra. I o doubt whether these rigors occur unless there have been some lesion, abrasion, or rupture of the mucous membrane of the urethra. Eigors certainly follow the use of metalhc instruments more frequently than that of the softer kinds. They more frequently occur in old cases of stricture, and are probably then dependent on a chronic urmmic state. In this condition Ave know that the neiwous system readily becomes affected—that coma or conA’ulsions easily occm; and it is in this state that the additional irritation inflicted on the urinary organs by the use of an instrument developes the rigor. The Treatment consists in Avrapping the patient up in blankets, with hot bottles to the feet, and giAung hot brandy-and-water, and full doses of quinme Avith citrate of potash and mucilage frequently repeated. ^ 'When there is a tendency to rigors, it is Avell to giA'c a full dose of quinine immediately on the Avithdrawal of the instrument, as a preventive means. Hemorrhage, Avhich is sometimes rather profuse, may follow the introduc- tion of a catheter, especially if the stricture be congestiA'e, and the instrument