URINARY CALCULUS. S20 Disease of the Kidneys is in Lithotrity as in all other operations on the urinary organs, the most common cause of danger and of death. The various forms of fatal kidney-disease have been so fully described in Chapter IjXVI [. that I must refer the reader to it. Constitutional Disturbance.—Very considerable constitutional disturbance occasionally follows lithotrity. The patient is seized with severe and long- continued rigors, followed by profuse sweating, lasting for many hours. These, serious symptoms are most apt to come on after the first sitting, and are ana- logous to those nervous phenomena that are apt to follow upon the intro- duction of instruments in strictures, &c. They may pass off, leaving merely a temporary debility; or a typhoid state may set in ; the pulse becoming cpiick, feeble, and intermitting, the skin hot and dry, and the tongue bromi. This condition is apt to prove fatal, either directly, or by intercurrent visceral mischief; it appears to arise in many cases from causes independent of the operation, or that are called into activity by the shock and slight constitu- tional disturbance induced by it. This is more especially apt to happen, when there is latent disease of the kidneys. Indeed, there is no condition of system that is more directly antagonistic to the success of lithotrity than, chronic disease of the kidneys. When this occurs to any considerable extent, with or without much albumen in the urine, casts of tubes and blood, the increased irritation induced by the operation will almost to a certainty prove fatal. In other instances, again, the fatal result is more directly dependent. on the irritation induced by the operation leading to the formation of abscess in the neighbourhood of the prostate, or around the neck of the bladder; and in other instances, again, oir the supervention of unhealthy suppuration in some of the sacculi that are occasionally met with in this organ. From whatever cause arising, this condition is usually eventually fatal by the supervention of suppuration of the kidneys or septiceemia, and is un- doubtedly often predisposed to by the previous existence of chronic renal disease. The Treatment of this state of things should consist in the free adminis- tration of stimulants—brandy, ammonia, and ether—followed by a full dose of opiate, and abundant warm diluents. Especial care must be taken not to repeat the sitting for at least a week or ten days after the rigors have passed off. Perineal Lithotrity.—After a stone has been broken up in the ordinary operation of lithotrity, it occasionally happens that the fragments become a source of so much irritation that the crushing operation has to be abandoned, and lithotomy is required, in order to relieve the patient. Again, during the operation of lithotomy, the operator may meet with so largo a stone, that he cannot extract it with safety, and he then breaks it up in order to remove it in a fragmentary manner, or the stone may be so soft that it crumbles imdcr the pressure of the forceps. These circumstances, familiar to all lithotomists, have led various Sm'geons to recommend, as a formal operation, the breaking up of ' calculi before extraction, in order that the removal of the broken stone might be effected through a smaller incision than would be required foi its extraction if entire. Without going back to the records of ancient or even mediceval surgery for illustrations of this operation, it suflices to say that in modern times such a procedure has been advocated by many distin-