DIAGNOSIS OF FEMORAL HERNIA. 669 Toupart’s ligament, the inguinal hernia being situated ahove, tlic femoral Moi(}- this cord. 'Vhen, however, a small femoral hernia in a fat man rises upwards, so as to lie over' Poupart’s ligament, it resembles very closely an incomplete- inguinal hernia ; but its characters may be determined by the passage of the- finder up the inguinal canal, which will be found to be free, and the hernia can only be felt through its posterior and inferior wall. In the female the- finger cannot be passed up the canal, but the inguinal heniia will descend into the''labium, and may thus be recognised from the femoral, which lies 111 the- upper and Inner part of the thigh. In both sexes the relations of the neck of the sac to the spinous process of the pubes, which can abs^ays be felt in the- fattest subjects, arc most important in a diagnostic point of view. In femoral hernia the spine is to the inner, in inguinal hernia to the outer side of the- protrusion ; and, should a patient happen to be the subject of both inguinal and femoral hemia3 on the same side, the spine would be felt between the two. After reducing a femoral hernia, the finger also can usually be pushed into the inferior aperture of the crural canal, Avhen the situation and sharp outline of the falciform process Avill determine the nature of the opening through which the protrusion has occuiTed. The diseases occurring in the groin, Avith A\'hich femoral hernia may most readily be confounded, are—1. Enlarged Lymphatic Olands in this situation. From these it may be distinguished by the absence of impulse in the glandular tumoin, and by the simultaneous enlargement of several glands. A small strangulated hernia may, however, co-exist Avith these ; being subjacent to, and covered in by them. I^Tien this is the case, and the local signs of hernia are obscure, whilst the symptoms of strangulation continue, an incision should be- made into the part, and the dissection carefully carried through and underneath the glands, with the view of determining AA'hether the hernia exist or not. 2. A small Fatty Growth has been met with in the crural canal, closely simu- lating a hernia. The want of impulse on coughing, together Avith its limited and doughy character, and the absence of circumscription in the tumour, will enable the Sm’geon to distinguish it from hernia. 3. Psoas Abscess not unfr-e- quently points very nearly in the situation of femoral hernia: fr’om this it may, hoAA'ever, be distinguished by its fluctuating feel, by its soft yet semi-elastic- character, and by the general history of the case. The impiflse on coughing,. Avhich is very distinct in the abscess, is commonly more forcible and direct than that of a hernia ; and although the purulent collection may in many cases be squeezed back into the abdomen when the patient lies down, yet it returns Avithout a gm-gle, and without that distinct slip AA’hich accompanies the reduction of a hernia. 4. Varix of the Saphena Vein is in some danger of' being confounded Avith heimia. It may, hoAvever, be distinguished from this by the impulse in it being less distinct than in hernia, and by the- cnlargcment of the loAvor part of the A'ein being marked in the varix, but not existing in the rupture. Femoral hernia most commonly occurs in women, and very seldom under the age of twenty ; differing in both these respects from the inguinal rupture. )Sir A. Cooper states that he had only seen three cases under the above age. It Aery seldom becomes strangulated at an early period of life, CA'en Avhen existing. I have had a girl of nineteen under my care with femoral hernia, in whom