528 DISEASES OF THE MOUTH AND TllllOAT. bleeding ressels. If the knife be used for the removal of the tongue, the lingual arteries necessarily require ligature; and hence, if the organ have to be taken off near to its root, it is better to do this by one of the operations which open up the cavity of the mouth, such as division of the lower jaw, as in that Fig. 632.—Galvanic iScraseur. way the requisite space can be obtained to draw the root of the divided tongue well forward and to apply the hgatures. In using the ordinary ^craseur, much depends on the thickness of the wire or chain. Should this be too thin, it will cut at once through so fragile an organ as the tongue, and profuse bleeding will ensue. But if the 6craseiir have a moderately thick wire and be worked very slowly, the tongue may be removed with httle or even no loss of blood. In order to secure this desirable result, the galvanic ecraseur should be used in preference to the simple one. By working this slowly, using a platinum wire, and not employing too high a temperatm-e—a good red heat is quite sufficient—the whole organ may reachly be removed without the loss of a drop of blood. This I have done in several cases, in which the whole tongue required removal, from the inside of the mouth, without any cutting through cheek, jaw, or submental tissues. The operation is thus greatly simphfied, for all that is required is to divide, by means of a pair of scissors, the insertion of the lingual muscles into the lower jaw, to tear up the mucous membrane on each side by the finger, and perhaps snip the anterior pillar of the fauces, when the tongue can be drawn fairly out and its section completed. The following is a summary of the steps for the removal of the whole tongue from the hyoid bone by means of the galvanic ecraseur. 1. Chloroform, not ether, must be administered, as ether-vapour will ignite when the ecraseur is used. 2. An incision is made exactly in the median line through the lower hp, carried over the chin, and as far down as the hyoid bone. 3. The mucous reflexion, from the lower hp to the gum on each side, is dissected back. 4. The lower jaw is drilled on both sides, half an inch beyond the median line, midway between the alveolus and symphysis. ^ _ ' 5. The lower jaw is sawn through exactly in the median line. [ 6. A whipcord noose is passed through the forepart of the tongue. 7. The two fragments are separated ; the genio-hyoid muscles, &c., are cut -with scissors, and by means of the fingers and scissors all the soft structures on each side of the tongue are separated. _ 8. The tongue is then drawn forwards, and a stout najvus-needle is passed up through it behind the disease. ■ I