SEIZURE OF THE STOXE. 8if is to distend it with fluid to such an extent as to prevent the mucous membrane from being seized in the grasp of tlie lithotrite, or injured by the splintering ol the stone. The instrument is then withdrawn, after the situation of the stone- has been detected by it, and the lithotrite is introduced. Should the patient be able to hold enough lu’ine to protect his bladder from the action of the lithotrite or the fragments, the injection may be dispensed with, and the lithotrite may .-7 at once be used. As this is straight, with a sharp clboAv near the beak, some little skill is required in passing it. In / doing this the Surgeon must / keep his eye upon the short ; curved beak of the instrument. ! the direction and position of i which must be constantly ob- served or rather judged of; and especial care must be taken, in canying it under the pubes, not 'to injure the ‘OV.-IntroUuction of tUe Lithotrite. m’ethra by pushing the heak of the lithotrite forwards too suddenly, instead of winding it, as it were,, under the arch of that bone. The instrimient should first be introduced nearly parallel to the abdomen, the penis being held between the left fore- and middle fingers, and drawn over it. As the lithotrite passes down, it must be gradually raised to the perpendicular position ; and as its curi'e passes under the pubes, the handle should be depressed between the thighs (Fig. 767). The direction of the curve is the thing to bear in mind ; and the position of the handle must be varied in accordance with the course which this takes. The hthotrite should be well greased with olive oil, so that the branch and screw may work smoothly. Lard or ointment should not be used for this puiqDosc, as it is apt to clog, and to entangle gritty bits Of calculus. 2, Seizure of the Stone.—The next point is to seize the stone, which will generally be found in the situation where its presence was detected duiing tlie sounding of the bladder. If large, the stone will probably lie low', near the neck of the Idadder ; if small, it is most frequently met "with at the right side, or at the inferior fundus. Should it be situated in a depression in this region, it may most readily be seized by introducing a finger into the rectum, and raising up the lower part of the bladder ; or, better still, by raising the pelvis on a hard pillow, and so causing the stone to roll up on the posterior surface. Brodie strongly advises that the lithotrite should never be used as a sound to- asceitain the position of the stone ; if this be done, the patient suflers pain, the bladder is in-itated, the urine is expelled, and the stone not readily