SPECIAL ANEURISMS. 134 is indiiccd bj tlic pressiu’c upon the neig'hl)ourin" nerves, Avhich cannot he isolated from the artery. Besides this, the brachial artery is so mobile, and the humerus so small and round a bone, that the vessel cannot be steadily compressed against it for any length of time, but will roll away from under the pressure, even if the patient could bear the pain of it. Iiigature of the Brachial Artery.—The brachial artery may be ligatured in the mMclle of the arm, which is considered the seat of election of this opera- tion, by making an incision, about three inches long, parallel to and upon the inner edge of the biceps, which is the “ directing line ; ” the fascia, which is exposed, must be opened carefully to a corresponding extent, when the median nerve will commonly be seen crossing the wound ; tliis must be drawn dovm- wards with a blunt hook, when the artery, accompanied by its two veins, will be exposed ; these vessels must then be separated from one another, and the ligatiu’C passed and tied in the usual rvay. In perfomring this operation, the priircipal point to atteird to is to cut dorvn upon the inner edge of the biceps, which will be the sure guide to the artery (Big. 391). If the Surgeon keep too low, he may faU rrporr the rrhrar rrerve and the iirferior profrrnda artery, which might possibly be mistaken for an abrrormaUy small brachial; by taking care j to expose the fibres of the biceps in his early incision, he will avoid this error. Iir the iipper 2Kirt of the arm, the brachial artery, where the axillary ter-mi- i nates in it, wiU be formd lyirrg immediately bchirrd and covered by its vein. On drawing this to the inner side, the artery will be seen, surrourrded by nerves. It has irr frorrt the irrrrer cutaneous ; the rrlnar arrd rrerve of Wrlsberg' j ' to the irrrrer side ; behirrd, the mrrsculo-spiral; and on the outer side, the • | median. Irr ligatrrriirg the artery irr this situatiorr, care rnrrst be taken to Fig. 391.—Diagrniii of Ilight Brachial Artery in iniilcllc of its course, a. Brachial arteiy. v. yeiue coniites. n. Median nen'e. it. Bdge of hieeps muscle. Tills diagram slionld he viewed ho- rizontally. Fig. 392.—Diagram of Right Brachial Arteiy at hend of elbow, a. Arteiy. a. Median nerve to inner side. T. Biceps tendon to outer side. divide the integuments, which are extremely thin, vdth gi’eat caution. B} rotating the arm outwards and bending the elborv, the arteiy will be thiovn forward and rendered less tense, so that a ligature can easily be passed round it. At the lend of the arm, the brachial artery may be reached by making an incision, about two inches in length, in a direction downwards and orrtvar s, about half an inch internal to the edge of the tendon of the biceps, paral e