disease of the atlas AM) AXIS. 301 povtauce that the patient should not be allowed to get or sit up ^nthout proper Lipport too soon before the consolidation of the diseased vertebrte has taken place, otherwise he will to a certainty suffer a speedy relapse, and cxcurvation will sreatly increase. . AVhen abscess has fomied, the Surgeon should be in no_ huny to open it; but, in accordance with the principles laid down when treating of this affection, he should delay doing so, lest injiu-ious fatal constitutional iiTitation be set up. AVhen it becomes necessary, from the approach of the matter to^ the surface, to give exit to it, this should be done by aspiration or valvular incision, closed, as soon as the pus has been discharged, by means of hare-lip pins, or in the way described on p. 152, A^ol. I., or by the “antiseptic method” (p. 154, Vol. L). The hectic or constitutional imtation that supervenes about this period, must of course be treated on general principles. DISEASE OP THE CERVICAI, SPINE. AVe have hitherto considered caries as affecting the dorsal and lumbar spine. But the same disease may be developed, though much less frequently, in the cervical region. The reason of its gi’cater rarity here arises, I believe, from the comparative absence of cancellous structure in the ceiwical vertebrm, and hence the less tendency to strumous or tuberculous osteitis, the disease probably commencing rather in the ligamentous than in the osseous structures. The signs are the usual ones of pain, rigidity, swelling, diffused and ill- defined. But there is in the cendcal region no tendency to angular incurva- tions. This is owing to the shallowness of the bodies of the vertebrm not admitting that coalescence after their destruction, which is characteristic of the same disease in the dorsal and Inmbo-dorsal regiojis. But the patient is unable to support or to ton his head ; he holds it in his hands when in the upright position, and rotates the whole body when he attempts to look round. There vill be pain on any attempt at movement, whether rotatory or antero- posterior, and on pressure on the vertex. Although no angular curvation can, for the reason just stated, take place in this region, the spinous processes may become irregular, one or two projecting more than the other. Disease of the Atlas and Axis, and between the Atlas and Occiput, constitutes one of the most serious forms of vertebral caries. In these cases- there are pain and swelling, with great difficulty or absolute inability in moving* the head ; after a time indication of the areolar tissue, with swelling and fluctuation behind the pharynx, come on, pushmg forwards its posterior wall against the nasal apertures, causing the tongue to be extruded, occasioning* much difficulty and distress in breathing, and giving rise to a peculiar nasal tone in the voice. The formation of this rctro-phar}*ngeal abscess in young* people should always lead to an examination of the cervical spine. The abscess- uiay point here, or may extend outwardly under the muscles of the neck. Patients affected by this disease truly present a remarkable as well as distressing* appearance. The sterno-mastoid muscles are remarkably tense and prominent, and, the neck being perfectly rigid, they are unable to turn the head, but when they Avant to look round have to twist their whole liody; at the same time, the weakness in the neck usually compels them to support the head with both hands, putting one under the chin, the other under the occiput, and so holding