ANEURIS2r OF THE INTERNAL CAROTID. 97 On analysing' the cases in which the trunk of the common carotid has been ligatured on the distal side of an aneurism ol the root of that vessel, there are ■se^'cral points of interest that arrest our attention. Thus we find that in every case the tiunonr, immediately on the ligatiu-e being tightened, underwent a considerable diminution in its bulk, with cornigation of the integuments ■covering it, and considerable subsidence in the force of its pulsations. In one .case that of Bush—respiration, Avhich before the operation had been attended with great difficulty, became easy ; and in two others inflammation of the sac took place ; being in one (that of ’Wardrop) unattended by bad consequences, and in the other (Demme’s case) followed by death. It is not safe to deduce any general conclusion from so small a number of cases ; yet the result of these is so uniform, that I have no hesitation in stating it as my opinion that, Avhetherwe regard the principle on which this operation is foimded, the amount of success which has hitherto attended it, the necessarily fatal result of these cases if left to themselves, or the absence of any other means that hold out a Teasonable hope of benefit, the Siu’geon is justified in resorting to the hgature of the trunk of the common carotid on the distal side of the sac, in cases of aneiu'ism limited to the root of that vessel. ANEUKISM OP THE INTERNAL CAROTID. The Internal Carotid Artery may be the subject of aneurism before or after it has passed through the carotid canal and entered the ca^fity of the skuU. The symptoms of these two classes of cases differ necessarily in almost every respect, as likewise do the termination and the susceptibility of the case to surgical interference. Extracranial Aneurism.—When an aneiu'ism affects the trunk of the internal carotid before its entrance into the skull, the symptoms presented by ‘this disease do not materially differ from those of aneurism at the bifiu’cation, ■or of the upper part of the common carotid, except in one important respect, which was, I beheve, first pointed out by Porter of Dubhn—\iz., tendency to the extension of the tumour inwards towards the pharynx, and to its protru- ■sion into that cavity. The reason of this is obvious ; when we consider the anatomical relations of the internal carotid artery, we at once see that its phai'yngeal aspect is that ivhich, if one may so term it, is the most superficial, ■and that between it and the surface the smallest amount of soft parts inter- venes—nothing lying between the vessel and the mucous membrane except the thin paper-like constrictor, some lax areolar tissue, and a few filaments •of the superior laryngeal nerve ; whilst externally there are interposed be- tween it and the integument the layers of the cervical fascia, the margin of the stenio-mastoid, the digastric and three styloid muscles, and the styloid process. hen dilatation, therefore, of the vessel takes place, it has a necessary ten- deiicy to push fonvards that part of its covering where it meets with least resistance ; and, this being to the pharyngeal side, more or less prominence will •consequently be found in this ca-vity. In a case that occurred to Syme, this was especially well marked, the aneurism of the internal carotid simulating closely an abscess of the tonsil. In two cases related by Porter in the seven'^ VOL. II. II