OPERATIONS FOR IMPERMEABLE STRICTURE. 911 enter the bladder, but without success, the stricture not only being exces- sively tight, but the urethra acutely sensitive ; under chloroform I succeeded in inLducing No. i silver catheter into the bladder, and speedily cured the ^ The influence Anccsthetics in facilitating the passage of instruments through apparently impenneable strictures is very marked. Shortly after the introduc- tion of ether as an anaesthetic agent, Liston was going to cut through a stricture that had resisted all attempts made by his most dexterous hand at introducing an instrument into the bladder ; but no sooner was the patient put on the table and fairly rendered insensible, than the No. 8 silver catheter, which had been passed down as far as the stricture, and the point of which was to serve as a guide to the knife, slipped into the bladder, and thus rendered a dangerous operation unnecessary. Yet no Surgeon can doubt that cases do occasionally, though rarely, occur, in which, in consequence of extravasation of urine and old inflammatory action, the urethi’a has become so tortuous and narrow, and the perinaeum so indiu’ated and disorganised, that an instrument cannot be passed through, even though the urine pass out readily. It must be borne in mind that a stricture may be permeable to urine, but impermeable to a catheter, even in the most dexterous hands. It does not follow necessarily that, because a fluid will trickle out of a nan’ow and tortuous channel, a catheter or solid sound can be passed into it from without. In a case of extravasation of lu’ine following stricture, consequent on injury of the perinreum, sent to me by Corrie of Finchley, in which no catheter had been introduced for eight years, it was found after death that, although the urethra had been converted into a mass of cicatricial tissue at the part injured, it was yet permeated by a narrow tortuous passage, through which the urine had escaped. Hence cases will occasionally occm’, in which the perineal section is not practicable. In the event, therefore, of a stricture being so tight and tortuous that no instrument wiU pass through it, or where, a portion of the urethra having sloughed away, its canal is obliterated, neither the cure by dilatation nor urethrotomy can be performed, and it may then be necessary to have recourse to incision of the stricture without a guide. Operations for Impermeable Stricture.—Two operations are practi- cable for the relief of this constriction. The flrst consists in opening the urethra from T)e]imcl, and cutting forwards through the constriction ; the second in opening the urethra in front, and dividing the stricture from before backwards. Operation from hehincl.—This operation is perfonned as follows. A No. 8 silver catheter is passed down to the stricture ; the patient is then tied up as if for lithotomy ; and the Sm-geon, sitting in front, pushes a bistoiuy with the back turned towards the rectum into the raphe of the perinjeum as far as the apex of the prostate, so as, if possible, to open the dilated urethra Uhind the stricture. He then cuts forivards through the stricture on to the point of the catheter, and, having thus opened a passage, endeavours to pass that instru- ment on into the bladder. It is often extremely difficult to find the posterior part of the urethra. When the tissues of the periniBum are hard and gristly, altered by the efiFusion of plastic matter, and condensed by repeated attacks