S76 DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. In the aaile injiammaiorij attended by heat, swelling of the organ, gToat ardor urinaa, and abundant muco-purulent discharge, the treatment must be entirely antiphlogistic, the activity of the measures being proportioned to the intensity of the inflammation* If this be very severe, leeches may be applied to the perinmum, or to any very tender point along the urethra. If it be not so intense, warm liip-baths, poppy fomentations, or the envelopment of the penis in warm-Avater dressing, will be of essential service. At the same time the urine must be diluted, and its acidity lessened, by the patient drinking large quantities of alkaline diluents—barley-Avater or linseed-tea containing a little nitre or carbonate of potash in solution, or soda-water ; and the skin and bowels may be kept in action by the administration, every second night of a dose of blue pill, and every fourth or sixth hour, of a powder composed of a drachm of sulphate of magnesia, 5 grains of nitre, and yVth of a grain of tartar emetic, dissolved in a wine-glass of Avater. All stimulants must be avoided, the diet being restricted to light slops, and perfect rest enjoined.. By such means as these, the acti\dty of the inflammation will be gradually lessened, the discharge becoming thinner, and smarting in micturition less severe, and the erections less painfal. The patient should also be desired to j pass his urine frequently, so that it may not be too concentrated. I When the third stage of the disease has been reached, specific treatment ' may be employed with great advantage ; while, if recoimse were had to it at an earlier period, it would certainly increase the inflammatory action and give the patient much distress. Even in this stage the specific remedies, such as copaiba and cubebs, must be cautiously given ; the Surgeon feeling his way Avith them, and being prepared to discontinue them and to retmm to strictly ' antiphlogistic measures, if he find that they increase the irritation. Should the disease, however, from the commencement, haA'e assumed a subacute character, ; the specific treatment may Avith safety be adopted at a much earlier period. Copaiba and cubebs are the remedies that are almost unh^ersally used in this stage of gonorrhoea. Of these, copaiba is the least irritating, and con- sequently most' generally to be preferred. It may be administered in a variety of Avays ; in capside, pill, draught, or extract. The capsule is generally to be preferred, on acount of the nauseous taste being thus more readily disguised ; but in many cases it acts with more certainty, and Avith better effect, if given in cither of the other forms. When the capsules are given, the patient may take from six to eight or ten in the day, and should at the same time have an alkaline mixtme, which increases materially the effect of the drug. A very excellent mode of administering copaiba is to rub it doAAUi into a mass with biniit magnesia, and to let the patient take about a drachm of this paste three times a day, in a bolus wrapped in wafer-paper ; or, if the taste be not much objected to, he may take it most advantageously in mucilage, with liquor potassm and tincture of henbane. In some relaxed constitutions, and more particidarly after frequent clap, ' cubebs will be found to cine the patient more readily than copaiba, or rather most successfully if given in combination with it. An excellent plan is to pi about half an ounce of powdered cubebs into a mortar, and to rub it up wt 1 ns much copaiba as AviU form a stiff' paste, of Avhich the patient shoidd take a drachm as a bolus thrice daily. The effects of this electuary are often most