176 DISEASES OF DONE. wise liealthy tiiough somewhat softened bone, be cut away together with that disintegrated by caries. The cavity that is left should be lightly dressed from the bottom, and allowed to heal by granulation, when it will gradually fill up by the deposition of fibrous material in it. Instead of removing the affected bone by means of instxmmcnts. Pollock has recommended that it should be dissolved by the application of a strong solution of sulphuric acid. The treatment is carried out as follows ; the carious surface or cavity being exposed as before described, a solution of equal parts of strong sulphuric acid and water is applied by means of a glass brush or rod, and this may be repeated daily tiU the whole surface is quite free from diseased bone. In deep ca'^ities a piece of lint soaked in a weaker solution (one part of the acid to five or six of water) may be stuffed in and left for two or three days. The slough resulting may in a day or two more be peeled off 'with forceps and the application repeated if any diseased bone can still be seen. The treatment is said to be efficacious, and the pain accompanying it is not severe. IVTien caries affects the articular ends of the bones, as those that enter into the formation of the elbow or shoulder-joints, itymay be so situated as not to admit of removal in the way just indicated, but to require Excision of the diseased articu- lation : this operation we shall consider in a subsequent Chapter. When caries involves a bone so extensively that neither of the preceding plans can successfully be put into operation, it be- comes necessary to perform either the Resection of the whole of the bone, if it be of small size, or Amputation of the limb, if of greater magnitude or if the neighbouring joints be extensively affected. Thus, for instance, resection of the os calcis may be required for caries of that bone ; while, if the whole of the tarsus be afiected, amputation is the only resom’ce. NECROSIS. Fig.407 >rnr- sliall’s Osteotiitc. The transition from Caries to Necrosis is easy. Caries may be regarded as the granular disintegration or molecular death of the osseous tissue, conjoined with suppm-ation of the sur- rounding healthy parts—a condition closely analogous to ulceration of the soft tissues : whilst necrosis must be looked upon as the death of the osseous tissue as a whole—a condition indeed, closely resembling that of gangrene of the soft parts. Whilst caries, however, chiefly affects the cancellous structiu’e, necrosis is met with in the compact tissue of bone, and far more frequently occurs in the shafts than in the articular ends of the long bones. It is, howeA'er, an error to suppose that the cancellous structure is exempt from necrosis ; thus in the head of the tibia, or in the os calcis, small masses of necrosed bone are not unfrequently found Ij’ng in the midst of carious or suppurating cavities. Different bones are afiected by necrosis with varying degrees of frequency. Tlie tibia at its anterior part is most frequently diseased ; the femur in its lower third is also very coinmoiily affected. The lower end of the humerus is not so often necrosed ; but not uncommonly the phalanges of the fingers from whitlow, the skull ftom syphilis, the lower jaw from the emanations evolved 111 the manufactiiic 0