OPUTIIALMIQ SURGERY. 412 CHAPTER LVI. —♦— OPHTHALMIC SUKGERY. [This Chapter has been wi-itten and contributed by J. F. STREATFEILD, F.R.C.S., Surgeon to the Royal London Ophthalmic Hospital, Moorfields, anl Ophthalmic Surgeon to University College Hospital.] OPEEATIONS ON THE EYE. Operations on the eye are in many ways peculiar. They specially demand an accurate knowledge of the anatomy of the parts concerned, of their relative connection and position. In eye-operations, any small error in estimating the relationships of the dehcate parts constituting the organ of vision is much more likely to be injurious than in operations on other parts of the body. Again, as the eyeball is enclosed in dense firm membranes, capable of little or no extension, inflammation is fraught with very much danger to the futme integrity of the parts. An external opening made into the globe in all probability soon heals ; but the parts within, if there be inflammation, are perhaps in so much the greater danger ; and, as the ch’cumference of the globe is limited, the inflammation is so much the more and more continually aggravated. The re-absorption of inflammatory effusion, and the retinn to the healthy state, are hindered by the unaccommodating natm-e of the sclerotic and cornea. The optic nerve will give way, after some time has elapsed, in any case of intraocular pressm’e, with, of course, serious injury to vision (see Glaucoma, p. 438). The sclerotic or cornea may allow extension j and a corneal or sclerotic staphyloma, when these structures have been weakened and dete- riorated, is formed, but very slowly, and the bulging is a permanent deformity almost always very seriously interfering with good vision. Inflammation of the eye, as of other parts—such as the testis—which are enclosed in inex- tensible fibrous coverings, is attended vith pain m proportion to the unyielding nature of the envelope ; but the functions of the eye are more readily de- stroyed, and we caimot in the same way relieve tension by strapping or by simple incision, nor can Ave so well apply cold externally. If one eye be destroyed by internal inflammation, especially of a traumatic natme, whether accidental or sm’gical, the other Avill not improbably follow it and also become blind by a pecuhar “ sympathetic inflarumation,” to Avhich the eye, among duplicate organs, is specially liable. In some cases this is almost certain ; so that the Simgeon has then fm'ther a clear duty to perlorm. Inflammatox’y effusion or suppuration within other organs, is folloAved generally by much less destructive results as regards the integrity of the AA’hole ; in them, abscess probably soon finds a harmless outlet. A few ophthalmic operations, espe- cially on the parts aromid the eye, resemble operations in similm cases in