I^ISEASES OF TIIE HEAD AND NECK. seriously to obstruct the breathing. I Should, however, the hasmorrhage still continue, the blood forcinc its wav ackwai-ds into the throat, or perhaps being swallowed, the posterfor nares equiie to be plugged as well. This is best done by can-ying a long piece of s rong whip-cord along the floor of the nose through the posterior nares into the pharynx, by means of Bellocq’s sound (Fig. 54C), or, if this be not at hand by threading the cord through an elastic catheter, and can-ying this into the phar^x, then seizing the cord as it appears behind the soft palate, and drawing 1 orwards into the mouth, at the same time that the catheter is taken out of e nostril. In this way the string wiU pass through the nose, roimd the back of the soft palate, into and then out of the mouth (Fig. 547). To the centre 0 be piece of string that hangs out between the lips, a plug of lint, about the size of the first joint of the thumb, or better still, a piece of compressed sponge, shoidd be fii-mly tied; this is then di-awn up into the posterior nares by pulling on the end of the ligatm-e that hangs from the nose, being guided in its passage behind the palate by the fingers introduced into the mouth. When the bleeding has ceased, it may readily be withdrawn by means of the string that hangs out of the mouth. As the epistaxis is very apt to recur, it is a wise precaution, when the plug is removed from behind the palate, to leave a loop of string in the nose and mouth, which may be knotted and fixed by a slip of plaster behind the ear. In this way the plug may, if occasion occur, be readily replaced without the necessity of re-introducing the sound-or catheter through the nose, which is often a troublesome operation. Chronic Thickening of the Schneiderian Membrane.—The mucous 'I membrane of the nose is not unfr-equently chi-onically inflamed, especially in strumous childi-en ; that portion of the membrane covering the turbinate bones becoming thick, soft, and vascular, and projecting like a broad fringe I from their surface. It is usually of a bright red colour, and covered Avith | muco-pus. This swelling at all times produces snuffling and a peculiar intona- I tion of voice, but increases in wet weather, and then may become so great as I