SURGICAL TREATMENT OF ANEURISM. 35 sertainly appears to be sufficient e^ffilcnce to wan-ant a trial of the iodide m the •onstitutional treatmeiit of aneurism. tp • 7 udiciously ean-ying out these plans of treatment and modifying- them iccordin. to the circumstances of the case, consolidation of t le aneunsmal tumour may occasionally be produced ; or, if this be not attained, the progress of the disease ivill be very materially retarded. When aneurism occurs m old, feeUe, cacMctic, or a loAvering plan of treatment is altogether inadmissible : here, the blood bein deficient in fibrine, and the system in an irritable state from results follow such a course as will improve the plasticity of the blood, and reo-ulate the action of the heart. With this view, complete rest, the admnis- tratioii of the preparations of iron, a dry but nourishing meat diet, and the occasional employment of opiates to relieve pain and to quiet the system, will be attended by the best results. In aneurism occurring in elderly people, and amongst the poorer classes, this plan is perhaps more successful than any In the Local Treatment of aneurism but little can be done inth the view of checking its progress, except by the employment of direct surgical means. The application of ice to the smface of the tumoin- is said to have acted beneficially in some cases ; but it is a painful remedy, and may occasionally be attended by sloughing of the skui to which it is applied. When the pain attenchng the increase of the tumour is considerable, much relief may be obtained from the hypodermic injection of morphia, the application of bella- donna plasters, or the use of an embrocation composed of equal parts of oil and of the strong tincture of aconite. These means comprise the only local measures that can be adopted in those cases of internal aneiu’ism, which are beyond the reach of sm-gical interference. SITRGICAIi TREATMENT OF ANEURISM. In all those cases in which it is possible to delay with safety, no sui’g-ical proceeding should be undertaken for the cure of anem-ism until the patient has been subjected to proper constitutional treatment for some time ; the success of the more direct surgical means depending gTeatly, in the liypermmic forms of aneurism, on the heart’s impulse being lessened, and on the blood being brought into as healthy a state as possible; whilst, in the anaemic form of the disease, an increase in the plasticity of the blood is essential for the cure of the casefor, as the occlusion and consolidation of the sac, after siu’gical procedure, depend on the same conditions being induced that arc successful after medical treatment, the same constitutional means should be adopted in one case as in the other. Before proceeding to the employment of any direct surgical means for the cure of an external aneurism, it is necessary to ascertain that there is no internal aneiu-ism present, and that the heart is fi’ee from disease. From want of this precaution, it has happened that patients have died on the operating table at the moment when the artery was being ligatured, or that they have expired shortly afterwards, from the disturbance of circulation consequent upon the necessary surgical procedures. There is not a more interesting chapter in the history of Operative Sm-gciy