TREA TMENT 0 F RETENTION FROM ENLARGED FROST A TE 867 French “ elbowed ” catheter—the “ cathetere a coucle,” of the size and shape here represented (Fig. 7i)8). The stem is soft and pliable, but the angle and eyed point are made of firm gum-catheter material. By keeping the point well up against the methra, it ^viU often slip in very easily and smoothly in cases of enlarged prostate. A flexible India-rubber catheter is also a useful instrument in the treatment of prostatic retention. Hutchinson states “that in almost all cases of prostatic xetention, a flexible India-rubber catheter wdthout a stylet can be passed into the bladder.” Its use is so perfectly painless and free from danger, that it may always be tried before adopting more sereie measuies. If from anj cause it be necessary to retain such an instrument, hlutchinson uses a nozzle wdth rings passed into the orifice of the India-rubber catheter, and fitted with a “ styletted plug.” The nozzle is about three-quarters of an inch in length, and is fitted accurately by the plug. The stylet reaches about two inches down the catheter so as to stiffen it. With such an instrument in use, the patient need not be confined to bed. 2. The next question in connection with the rehef of retention in these cases is, whether the catheter should be left in the Uadder, or be tvithdremn after the wiscus is emptied. As a general rule, it is certainly far better not to leaye the catheter in, for the reasons given at page 85-1. The instrument should be introduced twice in the twenty-four hours ; and care should be taken, if possible, to empty the pouch behind the prostate by depressing its point. When the instrument is used habitually in this way, the gum-catheter may be employed. Should the mucus be very viscid and offensive, the bladder may be washed out with tepid water through a double current catheter. After the bladder has been emptied for the first time, it wiU be found to refill in the course of a very few hours, usually in six or eight, the secretion of the kidneys appearing to be set free on the removal of the pressm-e. Should any great diflBculty be experienced in introducing the catheter, it may be thought desirable to leave it in the bladder for two or three days ; and then a gum-elastic one is always to be prefen’ed, as,in these circumstances it presents a great advantage over the silver catheter, becoming soft, accommo- I dating itself to the shape of the parts after the stylet has been taken out, and 1 not being so liable to irritate the mucous membrane wdth its point, w^hich, I dipping down into the pouch behind the prostate, acts as a syphon, emptying t this part of the bladder far better than a silver catheter could do. I 3. The third question in connection with the relief of retention from I enlarged prostate, is as to the course that should bo pursued if no instru- ment can l)e introduced into the Uctdder in the ordinary way. In these cases, which, however, very rarely occur, three lines of practice may be adopted ; puncture of the bladder above the pubes, punciure through the rectum, ox forcible catheterism.