TREATMENT OF INGUINAL TUMOURS. 697 tibro-ccllular, fibro-plastic, and fibroid. !). Malignant Tumours, primarily de- veloping- in the soft structures in this region, extending into it from the bones, , or secondarily from contamination of the glands. 10. Hernim of different I kinds—inguinal, femoral, and obturator. Diagnosis. In effecting the diagnosis of these various tumours, we must 1 fii-st distinguish the pulsating from those that do not pulsate. The Pulsating Tumours°rnust either be aneurisms, osteo-aneiu'isms, or cancers or abscesses \ with communicated pulsation. The diagnosis of these different forms of : disease has already been so fully given at pages 28 and 210, vol. II., that I i need not enter upon it here. The Non-Pulsating Tumours are to be divided into two great classes, I viz., the ReducihU and the Irreducible. ! The Reducible Tumours of the groin are either hernia, varix of the saphena ! vein, or abdominal abscess presenting under Poupart’s ligament. The diagnosis of these different conditions is given at pp. G59, GGO, vol. II. These all have an impulse communicated to them in coughing. ! The Irreducible Tumours of the groin have further to be divided into those that contain Fluid and those that are Solid. ' The irreducible tumours containing Fluid are either abscesses in or around the lymphatic glands, or cystic growths of various kinds. The diagnosis here is easy ; the irregular hardened outline of glandular abscess, its rapid develop- ment, and softening from a previously indurated state, will distinguish it from the tense, clearly defined outline, smooth and elastic feel of the slowly develop- ing and very chronic cystic growth. In irreducible hernia the impulse on coughing, the gm-gling, and other peculiar signs characteristic of that disease, will prevent the possibility of error in diag-nosis. The Solid tumours in the groin may either be simple or malignant. The history of the case, the feel of the tumour, the rapidity of its progress, the extent of contamination of neighbouring parts, and the other signs that serve as diagnostic differences between simple and malignant growths, will enable the Surgeon to effect the diagnosis with sufficient accuracy. The Treatment of many of these tumom-s, such as abscess of various kinds, aneurism, varix, and hernia, has already been so fully considered in the various chapters devoted to these diseases, that I need not enter upon it here. But the question of operating for the removal of cystic or solid tumours of the groin, is one that presents several special points for consideration. These are, the relations of the morbid mass, 1st, to the femoral vein ; 2nd, to the femoral artery ; and 3rd, to the abdominal cavity. If the tumoiu- lie upon or com- piess the femoral vein, oedema of the foot and leg mU be the result ; and, should the compression have been prolonged and very ckronic, this oedema may assume a semi-solid character, so as to occasion a condition of the limb closely resembling elephantiasis. Although an intimate relation such as this between the tumoiu- and vein would obviously inculcate the necessity for extreme caution, it need not necessarily preclude the idea of operating for the removal of the tumour, which may possibly be altogether above and unattached to the sheath of the vessels. I once successfrilly removed a nmvoid and lipo- niatous tumoiu- of many years’ standing, in a case where the limb was in a state o spurious elephantiasis from compression of the femoral vein, but the vessel