125 ACCIDENTS AFTER LIGATURE OF SUBCLAVIAN. l)ct\vccn the sctilcni. this is the cfisc, there 'would piobfibly be iDut slender chiiuce of the occlusion of the firtcry by liguture in this situfvtiou. The transversalcs colli and humeri arteries, though in some • danger, whilst crossing over the scalenus anticus, may be a'\'oidcd by keeping the incision iii the muscle between and parallel to these vessels. One principal danger in ligaturing the subclavian artciy at any point above the first rib, certainly arises from interference Awth the fine areolar tissue which lies between it and the scalenus muscles, separating’ it from the pleura, and which is continuous with the areolar membrane of the anterior mediastinum, being indeed the deep portion of the ascending layer of what Sir A. Cooper has described as the- “ thoracic fascia,” and which tends to form the superior boundary of the chest, being continuous in the neck with the deep cervical fascia. After the deeper- layers of the cervical fascia have been opened, this fine areolar membrane pre- sents itself; and, if inflammation be excited in it, the morbid action will readily extend by mere continuity of tissue into the thorax by the anterior- mediastinum, invading ultimately the pleura and pericardium. Hence, when- ever it is practicable, the Singeon should keep the point of the needle close to that part of the artery which hes upon the first rib, as there is less risk here of' opening into the deep areolar tissue of the neck. Accidents following Ligature of the Su'bclavian. — The general rcsidt of the ligature of the subclavian artery in the third part of its coiu’se, for spontaneous aneurism in the axillary, is by no means satisfactory. Thus,, of forty-eight cases of aneurism of the axillary artery, not dependent upon any external wound, in which the artery was ligatmed above the clavicle, I find twenty-three cures against twenty-five deaths. This result is so unfavourable,, and so different, indeed, from what I anticipated, that I have been led to- analyse carefrdly the causes of the deaths. I find them as follows :— Inflammation -svithin the chest, &c. Suppuration of the sac . Suppurative phlebitis Hremon-hage Gangrene of hand and arm General gangrene .... Not stated .... 10 fi 1 3 1 1 3 cases. Thrw it will be seen that the tw'o most fi'cquent causes of a fatal result- follotving the operation for axillary aneurism, are not those that are usually met with after the ligature of the larger vessels. It would therefore appear to be otving to some special condition, dependent either upon the appheation of a igature to the subclavian arteiy in the third part of its coiu'se, or upon the situation and nature of the disease for which that operation is had recourse to • and the important point to be determined is, whether these conditions arc the accidental or the necessary consequences of the application of a ligature in this situation for the cm-c of aneurism in the axilla. Inflammation of lU Contents of the Thorax proved fatal in 10 out of 25 cases or in 2-1), and is the most frequent cause of death, though not, I believe thi most frequent untoward complication of this operation. It mio-ht at first bo Bupposod that, in this respect, the operations on the suboiavL „rte^.