521 OPERATIONS ON THE TONGUE. hyo-"lossus muscle. These structures being draym up out of the way, the fibres of the hyo-glossus must be divided horizontally about a quarter of an inch above the hyoid bone, when the lingual artery will at once come into view (Fig. G23). Fig. 023.—Ligatm'e of Lingual Artery. Operations on the Tongue.—The operations that are practised on the tonguCjWhen it is affected by cancer consist in the removal of a portion of the organ only, or its complete extirpation from the hyoid bone, according to the situation of the disease and the extent to which the tongue is implicated. Unless the disease can be very fully and freely extirpated, it is better not to attempt any operation ; for in no organ is there a greater tendency to recurrence of cancer than in the tongue. No operation should be under- taken when the disease extends to the floor of the mouth, implicates the arches of the palate, or has largely infiltrated the submaxillary glands. Three methods of operation may be employed when a portion only of the tongue has to be removed—viz., by the ligature, the ecraseur, or the knife. "When the extirpation of the whole organ is decided upon, the ligatm’e is not applicable, and recourse must be had to the knife or the ecraseur. For the purposes of operation the tongue may be divided into three regions ; n'z., the anterior third, the central lateral portion, and the posterior part. When the tip or anterior third of the organ is cancerous, the hgatm-e or the knife may be equally used. The Ecraseur, though preferable to either, and applieable, is not needed. When the more central and lateral part is involved in disease, and requires removal, the knife, the ligature, and hcraseur, are all available. "When the posterior part is involved, so that the whole organ requires removal, the Surgeon should choose between the knife and the (icraseur. In all operations upon the tongue, throe precautions must be taken ; 1, to prevent the patient Irom biting it; 2, to expose it thoroughly ; and, 3, to keep it under control. The first object is attained by placing a screw-gag between