677 TREATMENT OF OBTURATOR HERNIA. of the vermiform appendix atos found projecting through the thyroid foramen, with its tip laid open by the suiipirrativc process. In ten cases, an operation lias been performed, followed in three cases by .'•ocovcTy, and in seven by death. The recoveries occiuTcd in the practice of ObreS Bransby Cooper, and Lorinser of Vienna ; and the deaths in cases operated on by Heath of Ncwcastle-on-Tyne, Nuttall of Leicester, Heiberg <and Zahrtmann, Ariitz of llingkjdbing, Uh-ich and "Wilms of Berlin (two oases). In Obre’s case, the patient was seized with symptoms of strangulation, but no tumour could be detected in any of the ordinary seats of hernia. “ On uncovering the upper part of both thighs at the same time, the eye detected a slight degree of fulness in Scarpa’s triangle on the right side ; this triangle of the opposite limb ivas well marked with a hollow, or depression passing down its centre, but this was lost on the affected side, and the w'^hole contour of this part of the limb was visibly fuller than that of the corresponding one. There was no tumour or circumscribed swelling ; but, on standing over the patient, 4ind using firm pressiu’e with the ends of the fingers over the neighboiu’hood of the femoral artery, and a little below the saphenous opening, a distinct hard- ness could be felt (slight in its extent), giving an impression as if the sheaths of the vessels were being pressed on.” Taking the dangerous state of the patient into consideration, Obre acted in accordance with the best rules of surgery ; ^ind, thinking that there might be a hernia deeply strangulated in the femoral •canal, he made an incision downwards in this situation, but was disappointed •on finding, when the saphenous opening was exposed, that there was no in- testine confined there. As, however, a hardened structure could be deeply felt •at the inner border of the opening, the fascia lata was exposed, and the pectineus muscle divided to the extent of about two inches, when a hernial sac of about the size of a pigeon’s egg, and containing intestine, came into view. In this operation the saphena vein gave some trouble, lying in the course of the in- ■cision. The sac having been laid open, the stricture was dividedj_upwards, ■during which part of the procedure the vein was accidentally cut, and required ligature ; no other vessel was tied. The operation, which reflects the greatest •credit on Obr^’s diagnostic skill and dexterity, was perfectly successful, the patient making an excellent recovery. In Bransby Cooper’s case, the patient, •a woman aged forty-nine, recovered from the operation, but died of bronchitis before leaving the hospital. In Lorinser’s case, the existence of the tiunour was detected by vaginal examination. On cutting down on the hernia (on the •eleventh day of the symptoms) the intestine was found gangrenous. A fmcal fistula resulted, but subsequently closed ; and the patient survived eleven months, dying at last of tuberculosis. Considering the results which have followed the operation for obturator hernia, I think that when, in addition to the ordinary signs of strangulation, ■there are also present the altered contour of the limb (perhaps even distinct local swelling) and the pain which have been above described, these symptoms not only justify, but demand, that an exploratory incision be made through ■the stiuctures overlying the obturator foramen so as to examine it. If a hernia be found there, it must be dealt with by the general rules ah'eady laid down, according to the state of the intestine. Besides the obturator, various other pelvic hernim may take place, as into the