OPERATION' FOR ACUTE OBSTRUCTION. 687 Toun- lady about ten years of age, to whom I was called into consultation amth kr T. AVaion, Dr. Murphy, and Dr. West; inflation was performed on the fifth day after the setting in of sjanptouis of acute intestinal obstiiiction ap- parently dependent on intussusception. The proceeding uas followed by perfect success : the child felt “as if a bone broke ” in the abdomen the ob- struction was removed, and motions followed in three hours though all the previous treatment had been unavailing. For the convenient perfoimance of this operation, I have had an apparatus constructed, consisting of a circular double-action belloivs, with a long Aulcanised India-rubber tube, furnished with a stop-cock and rectum-tubes of different sizes for children and adults. Should this not bo at hand, a well-fitted stomach-pump will answer the pui-pose. AWieii the air is pumped in, it is doubtful whether it passes beyond the ileo- cmcal A-alve ; but this is of little consequence, in children especially, in whom the inflation of the large intestine alone may be quite sufficient, the obstruction often consisting of the slipping of the portion of the small intestine through the ileo-caecal aperture. Inversion of the patient, and shaking him violently when in this position, is an empirical method of treatment that has occasionally proved successful in the relief of cases of internal strangulation of an obscure character. This rude operation is done as follows. The patient is anaesthetised ; he is then taken by the legs and suspended over the shoulders of a strong and tall man, who, jumping up and down several times, violently shakes the inverted and un- conscious patient. As the patient is hanging with his head downwards, and the other viscera as ivell as the abdominal are shaken up by this process, it need scarcely be said that care must be taken in its employment, and it would scarcely be safe, except in the young. I have knoAvn it to succeed in one case of obscure acute intestinal obstruction; and I have seen a case of fatal obturator hernia—um’ecognised during life—in which, at the j^ost mortem examination,, it seemed probable that immersion and shaking would have effected reduction, and so saved the patient. Operation for Acute Intestinal Obstruction.—AVhen a patient is suffering from the symptoms of internal strangulation which resist medical treatment, and have not yielded to inflation or immersion—if it have been thought expedient to employ either of these means—he will almost to a certainty die, unless relief can be afforded by operation ; and tAvo great questions AAflU at last press themselves upon the Surgeon’s attention :—1, whether it is advisable to have recourse to operative interference ; and, 2, when it is proper to undertake it. The solution of these questions is fraught with difficulty, and must ahvays be a matter of the most anxious consideration to the Surgeon. It is not only that he knoAvs that, if the patient be left unrelieved, he must neces- sarily die ; but that he is aAvare that the only means of relief, gastrotomy, is probably nearly as fatal as the disease for AA'hich it is undertaken. But the difficulties that present themselves in the solution of the question are much increased by the great obscurity in diagnosing the cause of the obstruction, for in many cases it is absolutely impossible to determine with certainty AAffiether it be dependent on ileus, or arise from mechanical causes ; and by the fact that apparently desperate cases occasionally recover Avithout operation. If, howeA'er, by attention to any of the points that have been pretty fully adA’erted