SCIRRIIUS OF THE BREAST. 59^ OccasioiiaUy the eiicephaloid form of the disease is met with, but colloid is very rare Cancer of tlie breast, whatever form it assume, is invariably Tirimary :'it may afiect one lobe only, or be infiltrated into the whole gland ; and it may commence in the nipple or in the skin covering the breast. Most frequently one breast only is affected ; but in some cases both mammary glands ai’e implicated. ... Sciuiuius.—Scirrhus is the form of cancer which is commonly met with in I the breast. It may occur in several ways : either affecting the nipple, impli- \ eating the skin, being primarily deposited in the form of an intramammary tumour ; or iiifiltratiiig the whole substance of the organ. It most commonly : commences as a circumscribed tumour of small size, at first perhaps smooth : and round, hard and indolent in its character, with little or no pain ; it is readily movable, may be situated in one lobe, and is attached perhaps to the ! rest of the gland by a distinct pedicle. As it increases in size, it becomes hard, knobbed, and in-egular, perhaps presenting a finely gi’anular feel, and ' becoming fixed to the gland and subjacent parts. When the disease begins as I scirrhous infiltration of the breast, the mass is from the first hard, rugged, iiTe- : gular, nodulated, and heavy; often someivhat square in shape, and early accom- jianied by adhesions to subjacent parts. In other cases, the development of the scirrhous mass is accompanied by a corresponding atrophy of the mammary gland, which becomes shrivelled and disappears entfrely. In some instances, rather large cysts may form in connection with the sciiThous mass. In a woman, whose breast I once removed for what was supposed to be cystic sarcoma, but which proved after the operation to be a scirrhous tumour, the mass contained several cysts as large as cherries, filled with dark or greenish fluid, and projecting from its surface ; and in a lady under my care for scirrhus of the breast, a tumour as large as a pigeon’s egg, containing sanguinolent fluid, formed on the surface of the tumour. As the swelling increases in size, it has a tendency to be more fixed to the subjacent parts, becoming adherent to the pectoral muscles and incorporated ■with the areolar tissue at the border of the axilla. The tumour also besrins O to form a distinct external projection, and becomes- more irregular in shape ; it is the seat of severe pain, more particularly at night; and is usually covered by a plexus of blue and dilated veins. The ordinary symptoms of cancerous cachexy now appear, and the disease then makes stiU more rapid progress. The tumour may in some cases remain for a great length of time without implicating the Skin; but most commonly, after it has existed for a few months, this tissue becomes more or less involved in the morbid action. In- stead of being loose and movable over the surfiice of the cancer, it ^\i\\ be found, on being pinched up between the fingers, to dimple at one jDai’t, where it may be felt to be attached by a kind of cord-like process to the tumour bcnca.th it. After a time, that portion of the skin which first became fixed m this way acquires a reddish or purplish colour, and is covered with thin scaly epidermic desquamations, and becomes permeated by a number of small ramifying vessels. A crack or fissure eventually forms in this ; a small exuda- tion of a mucous fluid takes place, which dries into a scab ; under this, ulcerative action sets in, which speedily assumes the ordinary chax’acters of a