39 DISTAL LIGA TUBE. sation and bruit in the tumour, which at the same time subsides, becoming partially emptied of its blood. The supply of blood to the hmb being in a ‘>reat measiue cut oft’, it becomes numb and cold, with a diminution of muscular power The more remote eft'ects consist in an increase of the activity of the collateral circulation, by which the vitality of the limb is maintained. At the same time, and, indeed, hi consequence of this, the temperature of the limb often rises, until it becomes higher than that of its fellow. The consolidation of the aneurismal tumoui’ begins as soon as the ligatoe is apphed, and is usually completed in a few days, by changes taking place within it similar- to those that occm- in the spontaneous cure of the disease. This important change is effected by the gradual deposit of stratified and decolorised fibrine in concentric layers within the sac, and occasionally by the sudden coa- gulation of its contents. For the cure to be accomplished by the deposit of laminated fibrine, it is necessary that, though the direct fiow of blood through the tumour be an-ested by the hgature of the main trunk, some should yet be carried into it by collateral channels. This is a condition very favourable to the success of the ligatm-e ; for, if it happen that all the fiow of blood through the tumour is airested, coagulation of that which happens to be con- tained in it will ensue, and a soft yielding clot be formed, which is more likely to lead to unfavourable results than the fii’m products of slow coagulation. It is of importance to observe, that the proper consoUdation of the aneurismal tumoin, by the deposit of laminated fibrine, will occm even though a very considerable quantity of blood continue to fiow through it. In the Museum of University College there is an exceedingly interesting preparation that illus- trates this point. It is one in which Sir Charles Bell ligatmed the femoral artery for pophteal aneurism. The patient died a week after the operation, from erysipelas ; on examination, it was found, and is shown by the prepara- tion, that the femoral artery was double, and that, though only one portion of the vessel had been ligatured, the tumoin, which continued to be supplied by the other branch, was completely consohdated. Hence it would appear that, if one half only of the infiux of blood be arrested, obhteration of the sac by deposition of laminated fibrine may be expected to occm. After the anemis- mal sac has been thus occluded, it progressively diminishes in size, and is at last converted into a small fibro-cellular mass. The artery that has been ligatured becomes closed at two points—at the part deligated (Fig. 262, a), and where it communicates with the sac (Fig. 362, V). In both these situa- tions, it -will be found to be converted into fibro-areolai- tissue ; whilst between them there is an open space, through the medium of which the collateral circulation is freely earned on. 3. Distal Ligature.—In some cases in which the ligature cannot, for anatomical reasons, be applied on the proximal side of the anemism, as in the arteries about the root of the neek, it was recommended by Brasdor that an endeavour should be made to obliterate the anemism by ligaturing the vessel on its (kstal side. This operation, although proposed by Brasdor, was first practised by Ueschamps, and has been especially commented upon by Wardrop. In jninciple, it resembles the Hunterian operation, the object being to arrest so much of the flow of blood through the sac that the consolidation of this may take place in the usual way, by the deposit of laminated fibrine. In the