SYPJIILITIC ORCHITIS. 965 rounding parts. The tubules also are choked with epithelium, wliich in sonic parts of the same testicle was found to bo undergoing flitty degeneration. Towai’ds the centre of the nodule the intcrtubular growth also becomes caseous. Scattered through the now growth are many large masses of proto- plasm containing inany nuclei, the so-called giant-cells. Those are not con- stantly present in cases of tubercular testis. It is most probable, theiefore, that the change commences in the lymphatic tissue in the walls of the ducts of the epididjTuis and between the tubuli seminiferi, and gh’es rise to secondary proliferation of the epithelium ; both the intortubular gTOwth and the proliferated epithelium afterwards undergoing fatty degeneration, and forming cheesy masses. Frof/nosis.—The prognosis of tubercular disease of the testis is extremely bad. Treatment is of little if any avail, and the patient almost in^■ariably dies sooner or later of disease of the lungs, from general acute tuberculosis, or ft’om extension of the disease to the bladder, prostate, and even, in rare cases, the kidneys. In some cases, however, after the abscesses have burst, the cavities may heal, and the testicle remain Avithered, but free from active disease. 'Treatment.—The treatment of tubercular testis must be conducted on general principles ; alteratives, tonics, especially the iodide of iron, Avith cod- liver oil, and general hygienic means calculated to improve the health, must be steadily persevered in for some length of time. Local applications are of little avail. The abscesses must be opened when they form, and some simple dressing applied. If fungus form, it is of little use to try to treat it by the methods before described, as if the body of the testis be deeply infiltrated Avith tubercle, no good could result. If the gland gi\'e much trouble to the patient, and if there be at the same time no very marked constitutional affection, and the lungs be not in a state of very actiA'e disease, the operation of castration is j)erfectly justifiable ; although in most cases it is at best only calculated to giA'e the patient temporary relief, as the disease usually extends along the vas deferens beyond the reach of the knife, and will continue to progress in the vesicul® seminales and prostate, unless the patient succumb early from disease of the lungs. Syphilitic Orchitis, Syphilitic Sarcocele.—Syphilitic disease of the testicle appears under tAvo forms, a simple inflammatory and a gummatous. I he latter has frequently been confounded Avith tubercle, under the name of tuberculo-syphilitic sarcocele. The error arose before the exact nature of the syphilitic gumma AAns understood. Syphilitic orchitis of both forms may occur either as the result of inherited syphilis in infants or of acquired syphilis in adults. It is usually one of the later manifestations of the disease. The Simple Inflammatory Form, which has been accurately described by VirchoAv, consists essentially of a chronic inflammation of the connectiA'e tissue between the tubuli seminiferi. The disease may uniformly aftcct the AA'hole gland or be limited to localised patches. If the AA'hole gland be affected, the organ sloAvly enlarges to perhaps more than double its natural size. The enlargement will be found to affect the body of the gland, the epididymis undergoing but little if any change ; in fact, it may be to a great extent con-