SYMPTOMS OF ACUTE OBSTRUCTION. 68s importance ; attention as to Avhether it assumes the acute or the chrome fornv will throw some light upon the conditions that occasion it. It is often difficult, to determine whether the obstruction is mechanical, or whether it depends, upon a spasmodic or inflammatory affection of the intestine, fihe piactice to- be adopted in any particular case must at last be determined by a history of the symptoms, by a careful exploration of the abdomen and rectum, and by the.- light that can thus be thrown upon the question, as to whether the obstruction be dependent on causes that ai-e removable or not by medical means. In many instances, the history of the case, the assemblage of strongly marked symptoms,, and the residt of abdominal and rectal exploration, enable the Surgeon to deter- mine, without much difficulty, that the obstruction is dependent on causes that, are not removable by any means short of operative interference. But, in othex" cases, no moans that we possess enable us to anive at a coiTCct or even an approximate diagnosis. Cases are recorded that have ended fatally from obstruction in forty-eight hours, without sickness, fixed pain in the abdomen,, or tympanites. These, however, are certainly exceptional, and do not bear" upon the question as to the propriety of performing gastrotomy in those in- stances in which it can be satisfactorily determined that a mechanical obstacle,, not removable by medical means, exists. That the diagnosis may so far be- effected vdth tolerable certainty is evident, from the fact that, in all those: cases of gastrotomy which have been of late years practised in this country,, mechanical obstruction, iiTemox'able by any but operative interference, had. Ixeen diagnosed and was found. The symptoms that vdll chiefly engage the Surgeon’s attention are—1, the- Dm’ation of the Constipation ; 2, the Occurrence of fixed Local Pain in the. Abdomen ; and 3, the Character of the Yomited Matters. 1. The Duration of the Constipation does not necessarily throw much light upon the cause. Indeed, if patients be naturally costive, constipation may last for a considerable number of days, or even weeks, without producing any very serioixs consequences. Most practitioners mxist have seen cases in which constipation has continued for three or four weeks, without destroying th& patient. Johnson mentions a case, in which it lasted during forty-five days.. In these cases, howevei’, constipation has usually come on gradually, being, as. it were, an aggravation of the patient’s natural condition. It is the character I’ather than the mei’e duration of the constipation that is important. The: sudden occmi’ence of iiTemovable obstruction, both of flatus and feces, ii\ pei’sons otherwise regular in their bow-els, and the sense of its dependence on a fixed cause, are points of importance, as tending to show that it arises from an acute mechanical condition. In acute internal strangidation, the constipation IS a ways sudden, and is accompanied or speedily followed by other symptoms, mdicating obstruction. 2. The Occurrence of Fixed Pain is common to many conditions of the: when taken in conjunction with the sudden supervention 0 o s luction to the course of the feces, with more or less tumefaction corres- ponch^ng to the seat of pain, and more especially with the next symptom ta which I shall advert, it is not without much value in the diagnosis. 3 Character of the Vomiting.—Even when the obstruction is not depen- dent on complete mechanical occlusion of the bowel, there may be incessant