DISEASES OF JOINTS. 224 accounted for by simple disuse. The muscles chiefly alfccted arc those above the joint; the gluteals in coxalgia—those of the thigh in inflamed knee—those of the arm in affections of the elbow-joint. This acute atrophy of muscle occurs equally in cases of arthritis that arc non-suppurative, as in those in which pus is formed. It woidd appear as if the local afflux of blood was diverted towards the inflamed joint and the articular structures outside it, and that thus the nutrition of the capsular and neighbouring muscles was impaired, Trcalment.—lu the treatment of acuta arthritis, perfect rest of the articulation is of the first moment. Unless this be secured, no other treatment can be of any avail. The limb should be comfortably supported on piUows, or laid upon a well-made and softly padded leather splint, or slung in a cradle. But not only is rest, amounting to absolute unmovability of the joint, imperatively required as the first means of cure, but there is a second means M'hich is almost of equal importance, udth the view of removing pain, and preventing destruc- tive disorganisation of the articulation and consequent ankylosis,—I mean slight extension of the limb, so as to separate the articular surfaces very slightly from one another, and to prevent the excessive and agonising pain, that results partly ft-om the pressure of one inflamed articular surface against the other, by the semi-contraction of the muscles of the limb, partly ft-om the spasms that shake the limb and body from time to time, when the patient falls to sleep. These pains are not reheved entirely by simple rest and pressure—^more espe- cially that pain which results from the spasmodic action of the muscles of the limb : but they are usually at once removed by extension, by means of a Aveight attached to the loAver part of the limb. This is particularly the case in in- flammations of the hip and knee joints. It is in these cases that the weight- extending apparatus, combined with perfect rest, is so advantageous. The weight should be proportioned to the age of the patient. Its use will often at once relieve pain, and enable the sufferer to procure sleep. Fomentations and usual topical soothing treatment may be combined Avith these means. In the acute stage of the disease, the internal remedy from Avhich the most essential service may be derived is the calomel and opium pill (gr. ij. and gr. every fourth or sixth hour, at the same time that a strict antiphlogistic regimen is persevered in. After the Auolence of the symptoms has been subdued, and the disease has assumed a chronic suhacuie form, some modification must be made in the treatment. In this stage rest, absolute and immovable, is equally im- perative as in the acute stage. It may be secured in the same way. But in many cases I knoAV no more efficient method of steadying the inflamed joint than the application of the starched bandage, the limb haA’ing been previously enveloped in a thick layer of soft Avadding. The joint may be repeatedly blistered ; but in many instances most benefit Avill be deriA-ed from the appli- cation of the actual cautery. This agent, when properly applied, yields much more certain and successful results than any other form of counter-irritation with Avhich I am acquainted. The patient haA-ing been auKsthetised, a cauter- ising iron, heated to a black-red heat, should be rajAidly draAvn OA'er the diseased articulation in a series of parallel lines, across Avhich an equal niuAiber of cx’oss- bars are again draAvn, so as to char, Imt not destroy the true skin. A good deal of inflammatory action is thus set up, folloAved by slight suppuration. "When this has subsided, the apiflication of the hot iron may, if nccessar}, be