938 DISEASES OF THE PENIS AND SCROTUM. that amputation of the penis for cancer is more successful in its results than ( IS the extirpation of malignant growths from most other situations. In the i epithelial form of the disease it is especially a useful operation. In some of ' Hoy’s cases, which continued under his observation, there was no recurrence ■ of the disease for several years. 1 have seen several patients who, after a : lapse of six or eight years, have continued free from a recurrence of the disease ; and I have also seen a gentleman who had his penis amputated for cancer more than twenty-five years ago, and in whom no return has taken place. The . fact is, that we see and hear of those cases in which a recun-ence takes place ; but those patients who remain free from a return of the afiection do not divulge , their infirmity; and it is exceedingly rare in hospital practice to find a patient ' come back with recurrent cancer in the stump of the penis, which he would | certainly do if relapse took place. In those cases in which the operation is i not successful, it has usually been delayed too long, the disease having already ' implicated the lymphatic glands in the groin, and thus contaminated the patient’s constitution. I Amputation of the Penis may be practised either with the knife or with | the dcrasem*. Whichever instrument is used, the operation should always be 1 performed towards the root of the organ, so as to be well clear of the disease ; at the same time, care must be taken not to remove the organ too near the pubes, lest the stump retract under that bone. Before proceeding to operate, means must be taken to restrain undue haemorrhage. This is best done by [ tying a narrow tape tightly round the root of the penis, or by encirchng this j part by Clover’s tommiquet (Figs. 827, 828), appfied as in cncumcision, only j nearer to the pubes and more tightly. The operation with the knife may | readily be done by the Surgeon putting the penis upon the stretch, drawing j the integument weU forward, and then severing the organ at one stroke of the bistoury. As the corpora cavernosa retract more than the integument, ! it is well not to leave too much skin ; lest the flap, falling over the face of the stump, make the search for any bleeding vessels somewhat difiicult, and i afterwards pucker inconveniently. There aic usually five arteries requiring ! ligatm-e : the dorsales penis, one in each corpus cavernosum, and one in the septum. In securmg these, trouble is not unfrequently experienced in con- sequence of the retraction of the stump that is left. The danger of htemor- rhage scarcely exists if the tape or the tommiquet have been properly appfied before the operation, as every artery should be secured before the compression is taken off. By these means we may prevent the reti’action of the stmnj), which may otherwise cause it to be buried imder the pubic arch, almost in the perinmum. Should it do so, and oozing continue, a female catheter must be passed into the m’ethi-a, and a fii-m compress appfied with a T-bandage. During and after cicatrisation, the methi’a! orifice has a tendency to contract. The liability to this may, however, be lessened by slitting up the lower wall ■ of the m’ethra with sharp-pointed scissors for about a quarter of an inch, drawing forwai’d the mucous membrane, and then stitching it to the edge of the cut skin. If the amputation be performed high up, this may be some- what difiicult; and then it may be safer to introduce an elastic catheter before the operation, to perform the amputation upon and through this, and to lea’s e it in dining cicatrisation. When the ecraseur is used, the skin should