631 TAXIS AXD AUXILIARY MEASURES. muscles, aiicl consequently diminishing the tension exercised upon the tendino^ apertures and fasciie of the groin. In order to effect this, the patient should be placed in a proper position, the body being bent forwards, the thigh ad- ducted, and semi-flexed upon the abdomen ; the Surgeon may then, by employ- ing steady pressure on the tumour, endeavour to squeeze out some of the flatus from the strangled portion of intestine, and thus to effect its reduction. In doing this, the^neck of the sac should be steadied Ijy the fingers of the left hand ; whilst, with the right spread over the tumour, the Surgeon endeavours to push it backwards, using a kind of kneading motion, and sometimes in the first instance drawing it slightly downwards, so as to disentangle it from the neck of the sac. The direction of the pressm-e is important; it should always be in the fine of the descent of the tumour. These means may be employed as soon as the patient is seen by the Surgeon, when, by steadily carrying on the taxis for a few minutes, he ‘will perhaps hear and feel a gurgling in the tumour, which will be followed by its immediate reduction. If the patient be thin, and the outline of the aperture through which the hernia escapes toler- ably defined, the protrusion may be reduced, after failure of the taxis in the ordinary way, by passing the tip of the finger or the nail under the edge of the ring, and pulling this firmly and forcibly on one side, so as to steady and at the same time dilate it, pressiue being kept up on the tumoiu with the other hand. This manoeuvre can be practised with more facility and success in femoral hernia, where the upper edge of the saphenous opening is sharply defined, but may also successfully be had recourse to in inguinal and umbilical protzTisions. In some cases reduction appears to have been facilitated by placing the patient on his head and shoulders, and raising the body in the vertical position whilst the taxis was being employed. Should, however, reduc- tion not ensue, it will be desirable to have recourse at once to further means, the object of which is, by relaxing the muscles and lessening the bulk of the tumour, to enable the hernia to be reduced. Auxiliary Measures.—The means to be employed must be modified ac- cording to the condition of the strangulation, whether it be of the active or of the passive kind. If it be very acute, occurring in a young, robust, and other- wise healthy subject, the patient may have about tivelve or sixteen ounces of blood taken away from the arm ; he should then be put into a hot bath, where he may remain for twenty minutes or half an hour, or until he feels faint; and, whilst he is in the bath in this condition, the taxis should be employed. If it do not succeed, he should be taken out, wrapped up in blankets, and have chloroform administered. When he is fully under the infiuence of this agent, uhich is certainly the most efficient which we possess for relaxing muscular contraction, the ta.xis may be tried once again. Should it still fail, operation should be immediately proceeded with. No good can possibly come of delay in these cases, and repeated attempts at the taxis should be carefully avoided. If the hernia do not admit of reduction in the early stage of the strangulation, it will necessarily be much less likely to do so when the parts, squeezed and biuised much by manipulation, wiU have had their congestive condition greatly increased. The frequent employment of the operation without opening the sac, of late years, very properly renders Surgeons much less averse to early dn ision of the stricture than was formerly the case.