498 PLASTIC SURGERY OF THE FACE AND MOUTH. hood of the adhesions between it and the cheeks, then near the columna, next m the bridge, and thus the organ at last has its sensation restored ; for this however, several months will usually be required, and the part in’which it returns last of all is its central portion, Ihe annexed cuts (597, 598) give a very faithful representation of a patient on whom I operated, before and after the restoration of the lost organ. The success of the case will depend very greatly upon the minute attention which the Sm-geon bestows on the details of the operation, and on the care which he takes in the after-treatment. During the operation, the chief points to be attended to are, that the flap be made of sufficient size, that all oozing have ceased before the cut edges are brought into contact, and that no tension nor constriction be exercised. A principal source of failure in the operation, or in the result so far as concerns the after-appearance of the patient, is gangrene of the flap, in whole or in part, arising from the root being too narrow or too tightly twisted, or from the flap being too roughly handled in its dissection. So also, if it be cut too small and not properly supported afterwai-ds, the result will not be very satisfactory. Other acci- dents occasionally happen ; thus, erysipelas may oeem’, destroying at once the vitality of the flap, or coming on at a later period, and causing the new nose to slough under the attack of inflammation, which it has not sufficient vitality to resist, as happened in one of Liston’s earlier cases; or the new uose may be destroyed by a retiun of the lupus which proved destructive to the old one. Haemorrhage may also occur from underneath the flap. In the last case operated on by Liston just before his death, and which was com- pleted by Morton at University College Hospital, hiemorrhage to the extent of more than a pint took place on the ninth day, without any evident cause, from under the flap, and could only be arrested by plugging. Fiuther, the operation is not without its dangers. Dieffenbach lost two patients out of six on whom he operated in Paris ; their constitutions having probably been in an unfavourable state. The operation as just described will usually be attended by very satisfoctory Fig. 597.—Patient before Eliinoplastic Operation. Fig. 59S.—Same Patient some months after Operation.