DISLOCATION^ IN HIP-JOINT DISEASE. 3^^ fTio fmci-i hta and present on the outer aspect of the thigh below the to SOI- vi-inic t'emoris. Sometimes they occiu- in front of the joint under the Sneut° and in the acetabular form of the disease they are conmioidy inta- rehic for’min.^ in the iliac fossa, and presenting above or under Pouparts lig^mtor passing down by the side of the rectum or through the serat.c notch and then downwards upon the hack of the thigh. 4 Siaiuses —An attentive examination of the position and direction of these is of oTcat importance in forming an opinion as to the seat of the osseous diseasQ. There are thrL situations in which sinuses are met with, which ^ ary accoid- inc- to their point of origin from the abscess, and the positmn of the diseased hmie : hence it is of importance to note their site and direction. 1 ^Tienthe sinus opens two or three inches below and a little m front of the great trochanter, about the insertion of the tensor vagime femoris muscle, the disease is almost invariably femoral. 2. When the sinus is in the glutea,! region, i may inchoate femoral, but not unfi’equently is dependent on felvic disease ; the acetabulum, or a portion of the dorsum ilii, being the part involved. ^ 3. Tj,ie sinus may open in the pubic region, either above or below Poupart’s ligament: in this situation it is almost certainly diagnostic of disease ol the joelvic bones, especially the pubic aspect of the acetabulum. When it appears aloove the ligament, it probably leads to intrapelvic abscess : on the other hand, ivhen it . opens Moio Poupart’s ligament, there is generally disease of the rami of the pubes or ischium. The situation of the sinuses, as well as their direction, will thus be found to be of the greatest value in leading the Surgeon to a more accurate diagnosis of the seat and extent of the osseous disease than he could otherwise form. And, indeed, it is only by attention to these circumstances that he is enabled in many cases to form an approximate opinion on these points ; for the diseased bone is often so covered in by healthy osseous structure, as when the inner aspect of the great trochanter is affected, or by plastic matter, that the probe cannot touch it; or the sinus may be so tortuous that a straight probe cannot follow its A\dndings. Sayre’s vertebrated probe (Fig. 406) is veiy useful in these cases. But there is other important information obtainable fi’om an attentive con- sideration of the situation of the sinuses. It is with reference to the probable natiu-e of the osseous disease. In femoral coxalgia, this is almost invariably caries —sometimes simple, in other cases tuberculous; hence those sinuses that indicate the existence of primary disease of the upper epiphysis of the thigh-bone prove this to bo of a carious natm’e ; whilst, on the other hand, sinuses occuiTing in the pul)ic region and by Poupart’s ligament are almost invariably dependent on the presence of necrosed bone—necrosis being the form of disease that affects the acetabulum and pelvic bones. 5. Dislocation.—In the advanced forms of hip-disease, dislocation of the head of the thigh-bone commonly occurs, and may arise from three causes. a. The joint may be destroyed ; the capsular ligament having given way in consequence of inflammatory softening and ulceration, and the head of the bone being thrown out of the cavity by the action of the surrounding muscles. b. Caries and partial absorption of the head of the thigh-bone may have taken place, so that it no longer fills up the cotyloid cavity ; and, the ligaments being