2 DISEASES OF ARTERIES. one operating directly on tliio coats of the artery itself, the other influencing them indirectly by inducing changes in the contained blood. To the firsl belong traumatic causes of all kinds, as the bruising, laceration, division, or ligature of the vessel, and others that more slowly influence it, as the implica- tion and consolidation of its coats in and by the growth and pressure of neigh- bouring tumours. To the second set of causes, those that act on the coats through the medium of the contained blood, belong blood-changes induced by gout, rheumatism, syphilis, &c. In the simplest form, arising for instance from the pressm-e of a tumour upon an artery, the coats become thickened, and are fused together, as it were, so as to form an impervious cord ; in the more acute forms of the disease, the sheath and more especially the external coat become pulpy and vascular, with effusion of exudation-matter in and around them. The middle coat does not seem to undergo any primary change, but after a time becomes contracted, thickened, and somewhat softened. The internal coat becomes softened, pulpy, and stained by imbibition of the colour- ing matter of the blood. In consequence of these changes in the coats, the vessel loses its elasticity, and becomes softened and brittle. After the inflammation has existed a short time, a or thrombus is deposited in the diseased part of the artery. This plug assumes two distinct forms. It may be deposited as a membranous layer of decolorised fibrine, usually thin, but sometimes ac- cumulated in masses, occluding the orifices of collateral branches (Fig. 348); but most fi’equently it is deposited in the form of a conical plug, which com- pletely Ifiocks up the vessel at the part inflamed, below which the calibre of the artery is somewhat contracted (Fig. 344). The plug or thrombus is formed of Fig. 343.—Tiiromi)osis of two distinct materials. The middle and lower parts consist of a mass of a yellowish or reddish colour, composed of inflammatory exudation-matter, intenningled with fibrine deposited upon it by the circulating blood, and adhering firmly to the contiguous walls of the vessel. The upper portion of the plug is black, and consists of simple coagulum, deposited upon and tailing on to the decolorised mass ; it is usually long, narrow, and stringy, and is not ad- herent to the sides of the vessels. The plug may continue per- manently to block up the artery, which gradually contracts upon vxir it so as to be eventually converted into a fibro-cellular cord ; or im-y Artery, ocou- it may ])e partly absorbed or channelled through the centre ; or lastly, it may be entirely removed by absorption, the calibre of the vessel being freely restored. These plugs may continue attacl.ed to the