26 ANEURISM. Syjipto.aes.—The symptoms of an aneurism are of two kinds ; I. Those that are peculiar to this disease ; and 2. Those that are simply dependent on the presence of the tumour occasioned by the enlarging sac. The peculiar or patho- gnomonic signs are those that are dependent on tlie communication of the sac with tlie artery ; they consist of signs afforded by the manual and auscultatory eXcuninatioa of the tumour ; those that are dei^endcnt on the mere size of the growth are the pressure-effects. It is of course only in external aneurisms that those signs which are ascertainable on manual examination of the tumour can usually bo recognised. In internal aueiuisms, in the majority of cases, the auscultatory signs and the pressure-effects afford the best indications of the piescnce and natme of the tumour ; though, when this approaches the surface, much information can be gained by palpation. Symptoms of External Circumscribed Aneurism.—The tumour is usually round or oval, distinctly circumscribed, and is situated upon and in close, connection with some large artery. It is at first somewhat compressible, but afterwards becomes more and more solid as fibrine is deposited in it. The most marked sign is, perhaps, the pulsation that is felt in it from the very first. This is of a distensile, exceiitric, and expanding character, separating the hands when laid upon each side of the tmnour, by a distinct impulse fi'om within out- wards. The pulsation is most forcible in an aneiu’ism in which there is but little laminated fibrine ; and as this increases in quantity the pulsation gradually loses its tense expanding character, being converted into a dead thud, and in some cases ceasing entirely. When pulsation is obscure, the compression of the artery below the sac will cause it to become more distinct, or it may be in- creased in distinctness by elevating the limb or part affected. When the artery above the sac is compressed, the flow of blood into the tumour is necessarily arrested, and a considerable quantity of its more fluid contents may be squeezed out by gentle pressme. If the hands be then laid upon each side of the tumom, and the pressure suddenly taken off the artery, the blood will be found to rush into and distend the sac by a sudden stroke, separating the hands from one another. This may be looked upon as one of the most characteristic signs of anemdsm. The hruit or sound emitted by the blood in its passage through an aneiu’- ismal sac was first noticed by Ambrose Pare. It varies much in character, Ijeing usually loud rasping or saufing—loudest and roughest in tubular aneurisms. Occasionally the bruit is double, and if so, it clearly indicates the saccu- lated nature of the aneurism. It is possible, however, that when great aortic regiu’gitation is present, the backward emrent of blood in the large vessels might give rise to a feeble diastolic murmur in a fusiform auemism. In many cases it is altogether absent ; this especially happens in sacculated aneurisms with small mouths, or in those that are much distended uith coagula and blood. The absence of sound, therefore, in a tumour must not be taken as a proof that it is not an aneurism. The sound is usually best heard in aneiuisms that are not too fully distended with blood ; indeed, it is usually most distinct when the sac is partially emptied. Thus, for instance, it not un- frequently haj)pens that, in an aneurism of the ham or thigh no bruit, or but a very faint one, is audible so long as the patient is staiidiiig ; but if he lie down, and elevate the limb so as to partly empty the sac, then it may be distinctly heard. Another sign of considerable importance consists in the diminution in