COMPLETE EXCISION OF THE UPPER JAW. 483 below tlic orbit, by entering the point of the knife where the first incision has been ■commenced, and canying it directly outwards at the junction of the lower eyelid with the check, along the edge of the orbit as far as the zygoma. A flap is then formed and thrown outwards. 1 his line of incision has the great advantage over the one Tcprcscntcd in Fig. r>84, that the arteries •and nerves of the face arc cut near their ter- minations, and not through their larger branches. This line of incision, to which "C. Heath gives the in-eference, is most :suitable to tumours of moderate size. The next step in the operation consists in the di^^sion of the bones. This may best be done with a narrow saw and strong •cutting pliers ; the bone being first deeply notched with the saw, and then divided with the pliers ; the zygoma should be first cut across, the external orbital angle next di'S'ided in the same way, and then the internal angle cut through by putting- one blade of the forceps into the nostril and the other into the orbit (Fig. 080). The palatal arch must finally be cut across by notching it deeifiy with a Hey’s or a narrow-bladed saw, and then, passing the pliers into the mouth and nose, cutting through the line of the groove and the alveolus of the incisor that had been extracted. Or the whole of these steps may be reversed, as the tSurgeon finds most convenient. In cutting across the bones, the Surgeon may stand either before or behind the patient. In the third stage of the operation, the whole mass, having had its osseous j connections separated, is depressed, drawn forwards by the fingers on the “ lion ” I forceps, and readily removed by breaking down adhesions with the finger, or ; by the division of a few remaining soft parts with the bistoury or scissoi*s. 1 <L'are should be taken to leave the whole of the soft palate intact. I Should haamon-hage occur from any of the deeper vessels, this must be t sirrested by ligature, or by the application of the actual cautery. Some strips of dry lint, having a thread attached by which they can be removed when necessaiy, should then be pressed into the deeper part of the wound, •■and the cheek-flap laid down in proper position. It must be retained in siln byhare-hp pins through the upper lip, and by metallic sutures along the other lines of incision. However much the skin may ha\-e been stretched and thinned, inone should be removed unless it have been actually incorporated in or infil- trated by the tumour. After cicatrisation is complete, the deformity resultinn- from such a procedure will be far less than might at first be anticipated. , The result of operations for the removal of the upper jaAV is very satisfactory, so far as the operation itself is concerned. Though most serious the operation is not veiy dangerous. Of 17 consecutive cases coUected by utchinson as having been practised in the London Hospitals, it was successful n U ; and of IG ca.ses (10 of total and G of partial removal) done by Esmarch, 112 Fig. 5S0.—Line of Incision in Excision of the Upiier Jaw hy External Flan.