99 PATHOLOGY OF INTRACRANIAL ANEURISM. of advance in af?e, we shall find the tendency to the occmrence of this disease increase with advancing years. Thus, accoi’ding to Sir William Gull, of 58 cases in which the patient’s age is given, only 12 cases occurred in persons under twcnty-fi-\'e, 5 of the patients being under twenty ; of the remaining 40 cases, 13 occurred in persons under forty; of the remaining 33, 2!) were met with between forty and sixty, and 4 in persons above sixty. Of the 58 cases, 35 were males, and 23 females. Church believes that, in the young, intracranial aneurism is due to embolism ; partial obstruction and consequent dilatation of the artery leading to interference with its nutrition and degeneration of its coats. The immediate exciting cause of the disease is most commonly involved in obsciu-ity : sometimes it may be traced to a blow on the head, to a fall or con- cussion, or to excess in di'inking ; but more frequently the symptoms manifest themselves suddenly, Avithout being in any way attributable to such external influences, and occur in vigorous and apparently healthy persons. Pathology.—Intracranial aneurisms are almost always formed by the uni- form ddatatiou of the Avhole of the calibre of the artery—the false or sacculated vai-iety being rarely if eA'er met with: I am not acquainted Avith any instance of this. The coats of the arteries in this situation being very thin, and unprovided Avith any external cellular sheath that would support the impetus of the blood, rupture of the vessel would rather occxu- than partial dilatation, if oue portion only of the circumference Avere diseased. Oc- casionally, though rarely,_ the dilatation is fusiform : when this does occur, it is pro- bably confined to the basdar artery (Fig. 382). The disease Avould appear to be of sIoav gi-owth, and the sac sometimes becomes Fig. 382.—Fusiform Aneurism of B.osiiar Artery laid open. filled With laminated coagula so completely as to occlude the orifice of the artery from which it springs. results is some- mes considerable : thus, in a case of aneiuism of the basilar artery, that occurred some years ago at the University College Hospital, the tumoiu Avas cxioeM Ihif sL? "e W 's'" “ somewhat vol VYV mo f ' ’ Ficihri Journal of Ahclical Sdmce, . XXV., mentions a case of multi locular aneurism of the left posterior cerebral tho'"oIliTr “ '"’■S* “S a hen’s egg On mom 1 P'-ovo fhtal by rupture before havino- Maehed mo e tim, a very small s.ze-not harger than a pea or a imt. ° It IS seldom that more than one of the arteries of thn bvuLv ddatation. In the Museum of the Colleo-e of Suro-eons bn "