74 SPECIAL ANEURISMS. I here is one point in the treatment of some forms of aortic aneurism, tliat^ falls moi’e within the province of the Surgeon, and on which his opinion may be sought. I mean the advisalhlity of opening the windpipe, to relieve the patient from the distress oceasioned by the laryngeal spasm that commonly attends many of these cases. The decision of this question is ahvays an anxious one; for it must be borne in mind that, as the disease that occasions the spasm of the larynx is necessarily and inevitably fatal, the operation can only be expected to give temporary relief, and perhaps but a brief prolongation of life. In determining this question, the Surgeon must boar in mind that simple laiyngcal spasm is rarely, if ever, the cause of death in aortic aneurism ; that, although the patient may suffer greatly from this complication, he does not die of it; but that the ultimate cause of death is usually intrathoracic pressure, rupture of the sac internally or externally, or exhaustion. The operation, therefore, would be justifiable in those cases only in which it could be deter- mined that the spasmodic dyspnoea was purely laryngeal, and was not depen- dent on compression of the air-passages within the chest by the aneurismal tumour, but simply on the irritation produced by the implication of the left recmTent laryngeal nerve. Such cases are very rare pathologically, and necessarily most difiicult of acciuate diagnosis. As the Surgeon wiU usually get the credit of having killed the patient if he be induced to perform the operation, and the relief be not immediate and great, I would advise him not to operate unless the diagnosis be most clear, or in circumstances of im- minent death from laryngeal spasm, with the view of affording immediate, even if it be temporary, relief. If any operation be done, it should certainly be laryngotomy, and not tracheotomy. ANEUHISM OP THE INNOMINATE ARTERY. Aneurisms of this artery may be either of the tubular or the sacculated kind, and usually give rise to a train of serious and dangerous symptoms, fr’om their pressure upon important parts in their neighbourhood. Indeed, a glance at the relations of this artery wiU show the important effects that must be pro- duced by the pressure of a tumour spi'inging fr’om it. Before it lies the left innominate vein; to the outer side or behind, the superficial cardiac nerve ; to its left is found the trachea, and more posteriorly the msophagus ; on its right are the innominate vein of that side, and the summit of the costal pleura ; externally and posteriorly it is in relation with the pneumogastric, and more posteriorly and internally it lies below the right recurrent laryngeal ncr\ e. SyjMPTOMS.—The general symptoms of an aneiuism of this ai'tery are the existence of a pulsating tumour of a globular shape behind the right sterno- clavicular articulation, attended with pain, and perhaps oedema of the light side of the face and arm, ivith some difficulty in respiration, laryiigeal cough, and dysphagia. The tumour is usually soft and compressible, filling up more or less completely the hollow above the sternum, and even rising as high in the neck as the lower margin of the cricoid cartilage ; it pushes foiuaids, fiist the sternal, and afterwards the clavicular portion of the stemo-mastoid muscle, and has occasionally been seen to extend into the posterior inferioi triangle of the neck ; and, indeed, is generally most distinctly defined towards its brachia