338 DISEASES OF SYNOVIAL AIEMBEANES, AND OF MUSCLES. If suppuration take place, they must he freely opened and the pus evacuated. AVhen they are in an indolent condition, the Surgeon has the choice of various plans of treatment, conducted on different principles.' If the sac he thin, the fluid of a serous character, and the disease recent, it may often he removed by blistering, more particiflarly -when it occurs in the ham or under the deltoid muscle. In some cases it may conveniently be obliterated by puncturing the cyst, and then employing pressure upon it. The surest mode, however, of closing the sac consists in exciting inflammation in it, either by the injection of iodine as recommended by Velpeau, or by passing a small seton through it. The injection is readily effected by tapping the cyst with a moderate sized trocar, and then throwing in about a drachm of the compound tinctme. Inflammation will be excited, some discharge will usually take place, and on its cessation the walls of the cyst wiU have become agglutinated together. In these cases I generally prefer, however, as the most certain method, the introduction of a seton composed of a double silk thread. This may con- veniently be passed through the cannula after tapping the sac, in the way flgured in page 153, Vol. I. (Fig. 77) ; a poultice should afterwards be apphed, and the threads left in for about six days. Discharge will take place through the aperture by which they have been introduced, and which may, if necessary, be enlarged ; the cyst gradually contracts around them, and after their removal it ■will be found to be closed. When the cyst contains a number of the rice-like bodies, the seton may still be used, but it should be thicker than that just recommended, and the aperture by which it is introduced should be very free, in order to allow the escape of the pus and granules. If the walls of the cyst be very thick, or its contents semi-solid, or if the tumour have become sohd, it must be dissected out. This operation is most commonly required for solid binsal tumoms, situated over the patella or the tuberosities of the ischium ; from both of these situations they may be removed with facility. Diseases oe the Bursa Patellhs.—The exposed situation of the binsa patelte, covered as it is only by the integumental structures and fascia lata, and its liability to pressure and irritation in kneeling, render it in all respects more prone to take on diseased action than any other similar structme in the human body ; and the morbid conditions which it presents may be looked upon as typical to a great extent of the diseases of the binsae generally. The various affections to which the binsa is liable, may be di'vided into two classes : 1. Inflammatory Affections ; and 2. Enlargements, of a Fluid or of a Sohd character. 1. Inflammatory Affections.—This bursa is frequently the_ seat ot Simple Difiammation. Undue pressine in kneehng upon a hard, iiTegular, and cold sinface, such as stone, is likely to excite inflammation : hence its frequency in housemaids, whose occupation obliges them to kneel a great deal on floors and stone steps ; and hence, also, the common title of “housemaid s knee,” given to this and to many other affections of this bursa. But this disease, although fi’equent amongst housemaids, is not limited to them ; for it occurs in females following other occupations, and in men as well as in v omen. In simple inflammation, however occasioned, the bursa becomes rather sud- denly swollen, tense, red, and hot, with some fluctuation deeply uiic ei le