DEFORMITIES. 350 the natural inclination of the spinal column. In lateral curvature, the chief conTcxity takes place tou'arcls the right side, causing a projection of that shoulder winch in most people is somew'hat more prominent than the other. In cyphosis, the excurvation takes place in the lower cervical and upper dorsal regions, which are naturally prominent; and, in lordosis, the incurvation IS most marked in the lumbar region, in which there is naturally a curve forwai’ds. Causes.—These various kinds of deformity, as has already been stated, chiefly occur in girls about the age of puberty; at a time of life when the tonicity of the muscular system not unfrequently becomes lessened by the occurrence of anaemia and those states of impaired health that so frequently attend the establishment of the uterine function ; and before the osseous and ligamentous structures of the body are fully developed. At this period of life, also, it frequently happens that the spine becomes rather suddenly elongated by a rapid increase in growth ; or that it becomes overweighted by the body developing itself, and the shoulders and bust becoming stout and expanded. Indeed, so frequent is the occurrence of a certain degi-ee of lateral emwature of the spine from these various causes, about the age of puberty in girls, that few escape a tendency to deviation ; of so slight a kind, however, as not to admit of recognition as a disease. But if this tendency be allowed to go on unchecked, or if it be increased by injurious habits, amongst which are all one-sided postures in which the body is twisted, as in playing some musical instruments, or in leaning over a table in drawing and writing, the slight deviation may rapidly increase until it assume the true characters of lateral emwature. I do not think that there is any evidence to show that this is either a striunous or a rickety afPection; indeed, so far as my observation goes, I should certainly say that strumous girls are less liable to the disease than those of a nervous temperament. A rickety tendency would, of course, increase the disposition to the afiection ; but I think this is very rarely associated with it. Amongst the more common predisposing causes must undoubtedly be reckoned the in- dolent and sedentary occupations, and the luxurious enervating habits that are commonly encom’aged in girls in the higher ranks of life, and which, by pre- venting due muscidar development, at the same time that they induce a general loss of tone in the system, may directly occasion the disease. In growing lads, lateral emwature may be produced by a habitually maintained faulty position, as in writing at the desk, or in certain occupations. That the real cause of lateral cmwatiu’e of the spine is to be found in faulty habits of life, and not in sex, is evidenced from the rarity of the affection amongst girls of the labouring class, as compared with the frequency amongst those of the wealthier orders of society. Who ever saw lateral cmwatiu'e of the spine in a housemaid ? It is in the dramng-room and not in the servants’ hall that it is met ■with. The causes of the antero-posterior curves are usually to be found in some faulty habits of the jDatient; either giving rise to an habitual stoop, and thus laying the foundation for cyphosis, or throwing too great a weight on the loins, and thus giving rise to lordosis. A kind of spurious lordosis is developed in some cases of ankylosis of the hip-joint. Signs of Lateral Curvature.—The signs of this affection, when it is well marked, are distinctly obvious. The serpentine character of the curve, its