868 DISEASES OF THE PROSTATE. Puncture above the Pubes can vci’y seldom be required. Since the University College Hospital was opened, only three cases have presented them- selves in which it was thought proper to adopt such a procedure for retention from enlarged prostate ; and in one of these cases, Avhich was under my care, the enlargement of the prostate was complicated with impermeable stricture, which was, indeed, the main cause of the retention. The operation consists either in pushing the trochar at once through the abdominal wall; or else, as in tapping for ascites, making a small incision about half an inch in length through the integuments, exactly in the mesial line, immediately above the i pubes, and then passing a curved trochar, with its concavity do\vnwards and backwards, into the bladder behind that bone, and consequently underneath the reflection of the peritoneum (Fig. 794). After the bladder has been emptied, the cannula or an elastic gum tube must be left in for the escape of the urine, whilst the continuity of the natural passage is being restored. When the bladder is gTeatly distended, in consequence of retention from enlargement of the prostate or any other cause, the peritoneal reflection is car- ried lip Avith it, and a considerable portion of the anterior wall of the organ i uncovered by peritoneum is left above the pubes. In a case of unrelieved re- j tention from stricture, in which the patient died suddenly during the adminis- tration of chloroform, and which I had an opportunity of dissecting, I found i that the fundus of the bladder reached to five inches above the symphysis i pubis, and was only two inches below the umbiheus ; that the line of reflec- tion of the peritoneum was 3|- inches above the bone ; and that the space uncovered by serous membrane was 2^ inches wide. The bladder contained nearly forty ounces of urine, the | retention having lasted dm’ing forty-eight hours. Brander of Jersey and others have modified this operation by puncturing through the symphysis pubis, by means of a trochar and cannula. There is not, however, sufficient evidence to enable us to decide as to the merits of this procedure. Puncture tlirough the Rec- tum is not generally a safe pro- cedure in retention from enlarged prostate, in consequence of this structure encroaching on that i (Fig. 794).