175 JtEUOVAL OF CARIOUS BONE. -iction. By means of blisters, iodine, and issues, thickening of the pcnostenm •md of the soft structures covering the diseased patch of bone may be lessened, and pain subdued ; but the real progress of osseous disease cannot, I think, be influenced by such means, when once it has passed the earlies staf>-e of inflammatory congestion. _ When the disease has fallen into a chronic condition, and natime seems unable to eliminate the carious bone, all reparative action having ccascd,^ or beino- inefficient for the restoration of the integrity of the part, an operation becomes necessary. When the operative procedure has reference to the diseased part itself, it is impossible to be too careful in delaying it until the acute stage of the disease has passed, and the inflammation in the bone and siuToundiiig tissues has subsided into a chronic state. Unlep this be done, the excitk°action set up by the operation ivill infallibly give fresh impetus to the disease, which will make more rapid progress, and may perhaps terminate ill diffuse suppm-ation of the bone. Operations.—The operations practised upon carious bones are of foiu’ kinds ; consisting either in simple Removal of the Diseased Portion of Bone ; in Excision of the Carious Articular End ; in Resection of the whole of the Bone afiected ; or in Amputation of the whole Limb. Before proceeding to the Removal of the Carious Portion of the Bone the limb should be rendered bloodless by Esmarch’s method, as the operator will then be able to see exactly what he is doing, instead of working in a deep hole filled with blood. The bone is best removed by means of the gouge. This instinment is especially useful in those cases in which short, thick bones, or the articular ends of the long bones, are affected, with- out the neighbouring joints being implicated. In applying the gouge, the diseased portion of bone should be exposed by a crucial incision, and, if neces- sary, its cavity opened by a small trephine. The gouge, fixed in a short round handle, is then freely applied, and the diseased tissues are scooped and cut out. In order to do this efficiently, it is desirable to be furnished Avith instruments of different shapes and sizes, so that there may be no difficulty in hollowing or cutting away every portion of bone that is implicated. I have found the rjoufjeforcein (Fig. 414), a very useful addition to the gouge in clearing away angular fragments and projections of bone, and thus removing the Avhole of the diseased structures. In some cases Marshall’s osteotrite (Fig. 407) will be found a very serviceable instrument, clearing away the softened carious bone without risk to the siuTouuding healthy structures. In removing the carious bone with these instruments, the Surgeon may be sometimes at a loss to know when he has cut away enough. In this he may generally be guided by the difference of texture loetween the diseased and healthy bone ; the former cutting soft and gritty, readily yielding before the instillment, whilst the latter is hard and resistent; so that, when all the disease is removed, the walls of the cavity left will be felt to be compact and smooth. Ill some cases, the healthy bone may have been softened by inflam- mation ; should there be any doubt as to the condition of what has been gouged out, it may bo soh'cd by putting the detritus into water, when, if carious, it will become either white or black : whereas, if healthy, but inflamed, it will preserve its rod tint. In operating on young children espe- cially, it is well not to have the gouge too sharp, lest the inflamed, but other-