2 21 DISEASE OF CARTILAGE. the same kind of plastic matter that is seen in the interior of the joint. The articular end of the bone is enlarged, soft, and A’ascular; and m strumous cases may be the seat of tuberculous infiltration (Fig. 430). Nature of the Changes in Cartilage.—The changes that take place ni the cartilage in this disease have excited much attention amongst Surgeons, and a good deal of difference of opinion exists as to the mode in which they arc induced. Many Surgeons hold the doctrine that, cartilage being extrayas- cular, the changes that take place in it are accomplished through the medium of the contiguous sjmovial membrane or bone, and consequently are secondary to disease of these tissues. lYe may, I think, conclude that this disease of cartilage may arise in three Avays: 1, through the medium of the Synovial Membrane ; 2, through the medium of the subjacent Bone ; and, 3, by means of changes taking place in the Cartilage itself, 1. The destruction of cartilage, as the result of Sijnovial Disease, may best be studied iu cases of wound of a joint. In these cases it will be found, if the joint be examined before complete disorganisation of it has occurred, that the diseased action spreads from the free surface, where it is most intense, doAvnwards into the substance of the cartilage, which, superficially diseased, appeal’s more healthy the deeper the examination of it is caivied. Immediately under the sirollen, gelatinous-looking, brightly injected synovial membrane, the cartilage wiU be found to be reddened, roughened, and softened. On examining a thin slice of this, it will be found to be composed of granular matter and nuclei of cells whose Avails have disappeared. At a little greater depth than this it aaIII present an opaque matrix, with cells, some perfect, others imperfect or disintegrating ; and below this level Ave come to healthy white cartilage, Avith clear matrix, and weU-formed cells. The disorganisation of the cartilage wifi, eventually go on to its complete removal, and to the exposure of bare and roughened bone. It is in this way that destruction of joints, as the result of punctured wounds, pyaemia, or puerperal inflamma- tion, results. Aston Key adA'oeated the doctrine that a peculiar disease Avas set up in the synovial membrane, so as to form a fimbriated or fringed vascular network or tissue, by means of Avhich the cartilage Avas absorbed ; and that, as this mem- brane extended, so did the removal of the cartilage go on. That an appearance of this kind in inflamed joints is of common occmrence, is doubtless true; but Goodsir has attempted to prove that Key erred in attributing the disin- tegration of the cartilage to this membrane ; he states that a flbi’ous tissue forms in a diseased jouit as the result of the disintegration of the cartilage, and that this, Avhich is connected with either the synovial or the osseous siu’faces, speedily becomes A'ascular. >So far, therefore, from being the organ by which the cartilage is removed, it is the result of prior disease in this structure. At the same time it cannot be doubted, that an injected A'illous state of the synovial membrane does modify the nutrition of the subjacent cartilage in such a Avay that disintegration, erosion, and apparent ulceration of it Avill ensue ; and this vicAv is strongly supported by the researches of Billroth. 2. Disease of cartilage primarily dependent on Morh id Action in the Sidrjacent Done is, I believe, one of the most frequent modes of disorganisation of joints in strumous subjects, and most certainly leads to those rapidly destructive