MEDICAL TREATMENT OF ANEURISAL 33 action, may be followed by so profuse a gush of arterial blood that the patient the case of Liston, the sac of the aneurism which caused the death of that oreat Surgeon had actually given way, a mass of coagulum projecting from it into the trachea ; yet death resulted from the iratation induced by pressure upon the inferior laryngeal nerve, and not fr’om h^moirhage. Treatmext.—The treatment of aneurism is of two kinds—constitutional and local. In many cases, as in the various forms of internal aneiu’ism, for instance, the constitutional treatment can alone be employed ; and in aU cases of external aneurism it should be had recourse to as an important adjunct to any local measures that are adopted. In the Constitutional or Medical Treatment of aneurism, the great object is to bring about the same condition as that by which the spontaneous cure of the disease is effected, and, indeed, to put the patient and the part in the most favourable state for nature to consohdate the tumour ; and, though it may not be possible in the great majority of cases to effect a cure in this way, at all events the disease may be palliated, and its progress retarded. The sacculated is, however, the only form of aneurism that can ever be cured by constitutional means ; in the fusiform variety, aU that can be done is to retard the progress of the disease. The principal objects to be held in view are, in the first place, to lessen the force of the heart’s impulse, so as to diminish the excentric pressure upon the arterial coats ; and, secondly, so to modify the condition of the blood as to dispose it to the deposition of its fibrine. In carrying out these indications, it should be borne in mind that there are two opposite conditions of the system in which aneurism occurs ; in one there is a plethoric, and in the other an anemic tendency. The plethoric and initable state of system chiefly occurs in young subjects, in whom the progress of the disease is acute and rapid, attended by much impulse and excitability of the heart, and throbbing of the ai'teries gene- rally. The other condition of the system principally occurs in elderly people, in whom there are a feeble pulse, a quiet heart, a cachectic state of health, and a tendency to aiuemia ; in such a habit of body the disease makes slow progress. In these opposite conditions it is perfectly clear that the same plan of treatment cannot succeed; and that the constitutional means must accordingly be modified according to the state in which the patient is. In the acute or hypercemic state, the plan of treatment originally introduced by Yalsalva, and hence called by his name, by which plethora is removed, the VOL. II.