76 SPECIAL ANEURISMS. Fig. 37.5.—Aneurism of tlie Innominate Artery compi'cssing and strettdiing tlie RomuTont La- ryngeal Nerve, and pushing the Trachea to tlie Left Side. (Back View.) 37.'? ^ find ^-eatly elongated by the pressure of the tumour over to tli’lof? T 1 trachea, which becomes flattened and emwed dvsnnmn oi f '' / Protrusion of the tumour, is a common cause of ayspnaa, and is not unti-equently associated with the laryngeal irritation. More rarely by far, the right bronchus is compressed by the extension of the tumoim dowmvards. Dysphagia is of sufficiently fre- quent occuiTence, and varies from slight uneasiness in deglutition to an impos- sibility of swallouang anything except fluids. I have never seen it occiu- with- out having been preceded by dyspnoea; and, in every instance that has fallen under my observation, it has been associated with laryngeal initation. The coincidence of these two symptoms is readily explained by the anatomy of the parts; the recun-ent nerve, lying between the sac and oesophagus, must suffer compression before the mucous canal be interfered with. Prognosis.—The prognosis of bra- chio-cephalic anem’ism is in the highest degree unfavoiu’able, though the disease fr’equently does not run a rapid course. If it extend upwards and outwards, the tumoiu- may acquire a very large size before any very important organ or part is implicated ; but if it press back- wards and inwards, it may prove fatal at any early period. I know of no case in which such an aneurism, if left to itself, has midergone spontaneous cure, and but few instances in which the ruptiu-e of the sac has taken place. The most fr-equent cause of death is asphyxia, from spasmodic closm-e of the larynx induced by irritation of the recurrent nerve ; or fr-om pressm-e on the trachea. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of iimominate aneurism is usually suffieiently easy, if attention be paid to the symptoms that have just been detailed. But at times the difficulty is unavoidably so great as to baffle the most sagacious Physicians and most experienced Surgeons ; that which has during life been considered to be •an aneurism of the innominate artery, having, after death, proved to be one of the summit of the aortic arch rising up into the root of the neck behind the right sterno-mastoid, or overlapping the braehio- cephalic trunk. The task of overeoming this difficulty in diagnosis must be left to the tact of the Surgeon. But it is impossible to over-estimate its importance, when the question of ligatiu’ing the arteries at the root of the neck for a supposed innominate anem'ism is contemplated; for, in at least three out of the nine cases in which this operation has been done, the arch of the aorta has been foimd to be the seat of disease ; in two of the cases the innominate being unaffected by aneurism. And I am acquainted with a fourth case, in Avhich the oiicration was commenced, but was abandoned, as