448 OPHTHALMIC SURGERY. the cxfcaction-knife, held like a pen in his other hand, again cautions the patient tells him to look towards his feet, and, resting the hand with the fourth finger on his check, enters the point of the triangular knife (Sichel’s) at the outer side of the cornea, near its margin ; then, not allowing the eye to be rolled in, he thrusts the knife rather quickly across the anterior chamber in front of the iris, and penetrates, from within, the cornea at the inner side, making the counter- puncture just opposite to and symmetrical with the first; so thaUhe upper half of the cornea is in fr’ont of the knife or before its cutting edge. The knife is now only thrust onwards as far as it can be, until the flap is completed : but this, very probably, cannot be done but in drawing tlie knife back again a little, or by little to-and-fr-o movements. Until the section is nearly completed, and the knife has passed in front of the whole iris, it must not be at all retracted; or the aqueous humour is allowed to escape, and the iris falls in front of the cuttino- edge. The lids are now freed, and the patient told to keep them gently shut After a short rest the lids are held open, but they need not be again so flrmly fixed as before ; the patient is then told again to look down, the convex back of the pricker, held horizontally, is inserted between the edges of the corneal Avound, carried down to the pupillary area, and turned Avith its point against the capsule of the lens. Then, by a few light scratches, this is freely lacerated and the instrument AvithdraAvn, AAuth its back turned upAvards, so that its point may not be caught in the iris or cornea. The eye is again closed for a minute, and when again opened, it is by the operator only, who raises the upper lid as before, but Avuthout much pressm’e against the edge of the orbit, and then he places the convex back of the curette horizontally on the skin of the lower lid near its margin. With this he makes intennittent light pressure on the globe just beloAV the ciliary region, and synchronous counter-pressure Avith the point of the forefinger, which is holding the upper lid at its margin against the ciliary region just above the corneal wound. This requires much tact and attention. If the globe be compressed too far back, the lens Avill escape Auolently, and not improbably Avith some of the vitreous humour. If it be comiAressed too far in front, the lens may be dislocated, but not out of the eye ; it may fall back into- the vitreous space and be lost. If aU go well, the upper edge of the lens is seen to come forwards through the pupil Avhich it dilates, and then rides over it and presents itself in the corneal Avound. The pressure should be kept up or increased, until little by little the lens has advanced so far that at least more than half is vdthout the AVOund. Then, the pressure exerted being little and equal, the lens, if it remain in the wound, may be rolled out sideAvays Avith the tip of the middle finger of the hand which steadies the upper lid. This is better than increasing the pressure up to the final evacuation of the lens, as vitreous humour may folloAv it, and better than omitting altogether the pressure exerted, or much of the softer cortical parts of the lens are likely to be detached and left in the lips of the Avound and in the anterior chamber. Any such are in the next place removed Avith the curette, if it can be done without much interference. If the iris be noAV inclined to prolapse, it may be pressed' gently back with the small spatula, made for the purpose, held horizontally. The instruments, knife, pricker, &c., are all held horizontally ; so that if the eye, ill controlled by the patient or Surgeon, should, in any stage, roll up- Avards, as it has a tendency to do, the instrument in hand may not pass down-