250 EXCISION OF JOINTS. the bone out of the Avound so as to alloAV the easy application of the saw Ijy which it is removed. Should the parts aroimd the head of the bone bo thickened, unyielding, and infiltrated by plastic matter, more space may be gained by making a short cross cut at the upper end of the longitudinal incision, and thus coiwerting it into a modification of the “j or f. By this method of operating, the posterior circumflex artery and the circumflex neiwe are not divided, and but fcAV vessels will be found to require ligature. The fibres of the deltoid are little interfered with, and if the incision be not canded too loAV, the insertion of the pectoralis major Avill be at most only partially cut through. Should the extent of the disease or injury prove to be so great as to reqxiirc the amputation of the hmb, this may readily be done, as has been suggested by Spence of Edinburgh, by carrying the knife round the inner side of the limb, and so detaching the member, with due attention to those points in connection Fig. 442.—Excision of Shoulder-joiut. Loiigitucliiial Incision. Fig. 443.—SUnnii .after Aini>utition .at Slioulder- ° joint by Spence's inetbod. A\dth the axiUary artery that have been described at p. 74, vol. I. The result, as seen by the annexed drawing (Fig. 443), is very satisfactory. . The elliptical operation of excision may be performed in the tolloAvmg The articulation may also be readily exposed by making a semilunar flap about three inches in length, commencing at the posterior pai-t _ of the acro- mion, cutting across the line of insertion of the deltoid, and earned iip to the outer side of the coracoid process. By a few touches of ^ flap composed of the deltoid muscle may thus be raised, and c . articulation fully exposed. As the capsule and the ligaments are ^ i J } the morbid action that has taken place in them, the head of the ‘ ^ be tm-ned out of the glenoid canty ; and, being freed by a knife, and isolated by passing a spatula behind naiTow saw (Fig. 444). The shaft of the humerus should be f 77^" J ^ little as possible, so that the arm may not be shortenc more . ^ After the removal of the head of the bone, the glenoid canty must be