LITIIOTOME Foil LATERAL LITIIOTOMI. 777 its interior. In these circumstances, the Surgeon must be the forceps, that the instrument do not slip to the side of the incision, tlie guide and support of the index- finger being lost. In two or three cases of this kind that have occun-ed to me, in which, owing to the anatomical leasons above stated, 1 could not reach the bladdei with tlie tip of my fore-finger, I have directed the assistant who held the staff not to withdraw it, but, using it as a o-uide, have slipped the forceps along its gToove and over its concavity, in this way making it enter the bladder with the greatest ease and certainty. This manoeim-e I would strongly recommend in the cases alluded to. It is of the first importance to extract the stone whole without breaking it, or even chipping fragments from it with the blades of the forceps. ISFo effort consistent with the safety of the patient should be spared in obtaining this desirable result; not for the sake of any v^ain display of manual skill, but from Fig. 74S.—Position of Finger and Scoop in E.'ctracting Stone. a regard to the well-being of the patient. If the stone become broken by the attempt at extraction, what happens ?' The Surgeon is obliged to introduce repeatedly the forceps and the scoop in his attempts to clear the bladder ; the mucous membrane of which, falling upon and em^eloping the fragments, is liable to be pricked, bruised, and excoriated in the endeavom’ to seize them. The bladder requires to be frequently washed out with copious injections of tepid water, and the operation thus becomes greatly and dangerously prolonged. Even after much time and labour have been spent in these efforts, fragments are apt to be left behind which may occasion great present irritation, and, if retained, will form the nuclei of future recurrent calculi. In children, and indeed in most cases in which the perinamm is not very deep, so that after the introduction of the finger the stone can be felt and hooked forwards, the scoop is a most convenient instrument for its extraction ; and in these cases I have often employed it iir preference to the forceps. After the calculus has been removed, it must be examined for facets, or the interior of the bladder explored by means of a searcher ; and if other stones be found, they must be dealt with in the same way as the first. The gum-elastic iule may then be introduced, and secured with tapes to a band round the patient’s abdomen. This tube must be kept fr-ee from coagula by the introduction into it, fi'om time to time, of the feather of a pen. The tube is of great service by preventing the womid fr-om becoming blocked up by coagula, and the free escape of the urine consequently interfered with. By means of this tube a ready outlet is given to the urine, the chance of infiltration is lessened, and if there be haamorrhage the wound may readily be plugged round it. Lithotome for Lateral Lithotomy.—Surgeons have, at various times, expended much ingenuity on the construction of instruments calculated to facilitate the operation of lithotomy, and to enable the operator to make his incision with absolute precision. Most Siu-geons prefer to rely on their own skill to accomplish this, and mechanical contrivances have very generally and