repair of diseased joints. 223 onrtilao-e. In the more advanced stages of disease of cartilage, masses of porcellauous deposit are found attached to the ends of the bones in plates and layers takin"' the place of the eroded cartilage. ^ In other cases, a soft, pulpy, and vascular fibro-plastic deposit of a gi-eyis - ashy or reddish-brown colour, with whitish streaks of a firmer material running throiio-h it in various directions, takes the place of the cartilage that has been removed or that has undergone fibro-cellular degeneration. On examination under the microscope, this will be found to be composed of plastic material with ciu-tilage-corpiiscles intermixed, and with the subjacent bone in a state of disintegration and softening. This condition of joints I believe to be analogous to the “pulpy degeneration of the synovial membrane” of Brodie. It would appear, from the microscopical examinations that I have in various cases made of this material, to which my attention was first directed by Quain, as occuning in a patient of his whose elbow-joint I excised, that it is either fibro-cellular degeneration of the cartilage, or an imperfect attempt at repair set up in the articulation, after the removal of the cartilage by previous disintegration and disease. On making a vertical section of the surface of the diseased articula- tion in the case alluded to, it was found that the pulpy and 'b ilious substance ■covered the bone to the thickness of a line and more in some parts. The bone was found to have its cells filled with oil-globules, but surrounded by tolerably healthy osseous tissue, showing the usual laminm and bone-corpuscles. Xearer the diseased siuface the laminte and corpuscles became less distinct; and, still nearer, the cells of the bony tissue appeared to be surrounded merely by a layer of fibrous texture, in which iiTegular particles of bone were observed. These particles, which were elongated, irregular in form, and rounded off at the angles, were very aptly compared by Dr. Quain to crystals in a state of solution. At the diseased siuface, the place of the cartilage and synovial membrane was occupied by a fibrous texture abounding in cells, larger than pus-cells, nucleated and spherical, containing numerous granular particles. Irregular masses of •cartilage, undergoing the same process of softening as the bony particles already mentioned, appeared in this fibrous texture. The morbid appearances found in this case were so characteristic that they may be taken as the type of this peeuliar morbid condition, which I have since repeatedly met with in other articulations besides the elbow, more particularly those of the fingers and the knee, and which always, I believe, constitutes an inciuable form of disease. T have met with this condition in instances only in which the articular affection has been of very old standing, and has fallen into a truly chronic state. Repair.—When repair takes place in a joint, the cartilages of which have been eroded or destroyed, it is by the articular ends of the bones becoming connected, and the sm’face from which the cartilage has been removed filled up by fibro-cellular tissue, forming a kind of cicatricial material that leaves the joint permanently stiffened. In other cases porcellauous deposit takes the place of the eroded cartilage ; and, in some instances, the exposed osseous sur- faces may grow or become soldered together, forming a permanently ankylosed and immovable state of the articulation. In no circumstances does cartilage, when once destroyed, become regenerated. Ihe muscles in the neighbourhood of an inflamed joint undergo a species of •acute atrophy. The wasting and the flaccidity are both more than can be