744 SECONDARY DISEASES OF THE URINARY ORGANS. tion, may include the whole organ in a large collection of pus. The microscope shows that in this form of kidney the appearances are essentially the same as in the last; the chief change being the accumulation of crowds of small round cells in the intertubular substance, the degree of cell-infiltration varying in almost every field of the microscope. At the point at which an abscess is forming, or at the margin of one already formed, the crowds of small round cells are seen to press upon the tubules, separating them widely, and squeezing Fij:. 710.—A. Group of Abscesses on Surface of Kidney. B. Vertical Section of tlie same. Fig. 709.—Acute Interstitial Nephritis : Condition of Epitlielium. their walls together. Then the wall becomes indistinct; then only a few epithelium-cells can be recognised in the crowd of leucocytes ; lastly, nothing but leucocytes can be seen, and a little nearer the centre the intercellular substance becomes fluid, and the cells float free, and jius is so formed. The red areola is not found to be due to extravasation, although haemorrhages may exist scattered thi’ough such a kidney. The yeUow streaks in the pyramids are found to be due to a similar condition of intertubular cell-infiltration. Some- times clots may be seen in the vessels of the pyramids. These are probably secondary to the inflammation of the parts smTounding the vessels. As in the former variety, small round cells may be found in the tubules as well as outside them. The epithelium is usually much swollen, and sometimes des- quamating and choking the tubules, but this is only in those areas hi which the interstitial inflammation is most advanced. In others it may appeal’ almost healthy. This form of kidney merges into the diffuse variety, the solid yel- lowish spots before mentioned representing points which, had the patient lived longer, might have softened into abscesses. It is of coinse frequently conjoined with the signs of pressme, absorption of the pyramids, and dilatation of the pelvis. It is perhaps the most frequent form met with in the post imrlem ' room. The abscesses of the kidney thus .arising fr’om acute suppurative nephritis must not be confounded with those seen as the result of the j lodgment of septic embola in pymmia. These are usually larger, are more I distinctly wedge-shaped, and sometimes surrounded by a zone of hmmorrhage. I They are always in the cortex, and the pyramids show no signs ol disease, j I