INDIAN RHINO PLASTIC OPERATION. 495 have been employed: viz., 1, the Tagliacotian Operation; 2, the Indian Operation. J. The Tagliacotian Operation consists in taking the integument and areolar tissue required for the repair of the lost organ from the inside of the arm. Here a flap of sufficient e.xtcnt is to be marked out and dissected up with its subjacent areolar tissue, leaving it merely attached to the limb by a root at its distal end. No attempt at fixing this flap to the nose should be made for at least a fortnight, during which time it should be kept upon a piece of Avet lint, and allowed to thicken, gi’anulate, and become A'ascular, so as to fit itself for adhesion to the new surface to Avhich it is to be applied. The remains of the deformed nose having then been properly pared and the flaj) shaped, they must, after all bleeding has ceased, be properly adjusted and fixed to one another by points of suture. The arm must then be closely attached to the head, so as to be as nearly as possible immovable. At the end of about ten days, AA’hen adhesions have taken place, the connecting medium may be cut across, and the part left to be supported by the Autality which it may gain from the new surface to which it is now attached. This process is comparatively seldom had recourse to, for obvious reasons. The uncertainty of maintaining the vitality in the flap, the extreme tediousness of the prolonged constrained position in which it is necessaiy to keep the patient, and the great difficulty of guai-ding against movements of the arm, especially during sleep, and which, however slight and involuntary, would be sufficient to disturb union between the opposed surfaces, and occasion the failure of the operation, have caused this plan of procedure to fall into disuse ; aud it is now, I believe, universally abandoned by Surgeons in this country, having been replaced by the more certain procedure, which will now be described, of borrowing the skin for the, new nose from the forehead. 2. The Indian Operation, a knowledge of which was brought to this country by Carpue in 1814, is extremely successful in its results, though re- quiring a good deal of nicety for its proper execution. The operative pro- cedures required by this method are somewhat complex, and may conveniently be divided into three distinct periods : 1, the Dissection of the Flap from the Forehead, and its Attachment to its new situation : 2, the Separation of the Foot of the Flap where it is tmmed down from the Forehead, and the Formation of a proper Bridge to the Nose ; 3, the Formation of tlie Columna Nasi. 1. Formation and Attachment of the Flap.—In the shaping of the flap, cai-e must be taken that it is of sufficient size ; as during the after-part of the treatment it often has a tendency to shrivel,'and more inconvenience usuaUy results from its not having originally been made large enough, than the revem. The size adapted to the particular face may best be judged of by moulding a thin piece of gutta-percha to the nose, then flattening it out by dipping it in hot water, and using this as the guide for marking the outline ot tlie flap upon the forehead. This should be traced with tincture of iodine Avffiieh wifl not be Avashed off so readily as ink by the flow of blood, Avhich is often rather free. This flap should be of the shape in Fig. 594, taking care I at it IS rather square at the angles, and not too much rounded off. The sizeAvill necessarily vary according to the character of the countenance, and the