8 DISEASES OF ARTERIES. cholestorino—that it was, in fact, the result of disintegrating changes in the arterial coats, and not an inflammatory deposit. More modern observers have confirmed Gulliver’s view of the essential character of fully formed atheroma, but incline to the opinion that its formation is preceded by change in the arterial coats of an inflammatory character, or at all events by such changes as lead to the develop- ment of proliferating connective tissue cells. Vir- chow and Billroth in Germany, and Moxon in this country, have particularly insisted on the pre- or co-existence of such changes in and with athero- matous deposits. It would be altogether beyond the scope of a practical work such as this, to enter at length into the discussion of so purely a pathological question. But, as it has important bearings on the early stages of aneurism, it may be briefly considered. Much will depend on what is meant by atheroma. English Siu’geons have applied this term to those changes that have just been described at whatevef age and under Avhatever circumstances they occiu-. If we adhere to this definition of atheroma, we shall find that it presents itself under two forms. One is sometimes found in very young subjects on the surface of the inner coat. In this the deeper layers of the internal coat are not affected, and the change appears to be simply one of fatty degeneration, usually to a very limited extent, Avithout the previous occuiTence or the coexistence of any inflammatory action or the development of any product of such action. In the other and more usual form of atheroma, we meet with much more extensive changes of structure in the arterial tissues ; and it is to this form of the disease that the descriptions of those pathologists who advocate the inflam- matory origin of atheroma more especially apply. In these cases the inner coat becomes greatly thickened and swollen in patches, presenting a bluish-grey semi-opaline appearance in some parts; in others, patches and streaks of a dull yellow or buff-coloured atheromatous deposit. On making a transverse section of an artery thus affected, the external and middle coats will be found healthy; but the inner coat, healthy in some parts, becomes greatly thickened in others. This thickening—sclerosis—is due to a free proliferation of connective tissue cells with increase of the fibroid material. These cells in the deeper layers become transformed into little masses of oil-granules, which, by their sub- sequent disintegration, give rise to a pulpy debris of large and small oil- globules floating in an albuminous fluid and containing crystals of cholestcrine (Fig. 347). The deepest layers of the inner coat adjoining the middle coat are also very granular, but not wholly broken up ; and the granular change may even extend slightly into the nearest layers of the middle coat. The accompanying diagram (Fig. 348), for which I am indebted to the kndness of H. Arnott, illustrates these conditions well. Moxon, after a careful study of atheroma, comes to the conclusion that it is essentially a subinflammation in various degi'ees of the arterial coats the lower degrees ending in fatty degeneration both of coat and of inflanunatory product. Fig. 347.—Atheroma, Avith ahun- dant Cholesterine.