561 DIFFICULTIES IN TRACHEOTOMY. The question as to the safety of the administration of chloroform in these operations often ocem-s. I believe that it may always be given safely except in cases of extreme syncopal asphyxia, where, as sensibility no longer exists, it is unnecessary. Laryngeal inflammation and obstruction are always associated with so much spasm, more pai-ticularly in children, that it will often be found that the patient respires more easily and fully whilst under the influence of chloroform than before its inhalation was commenced ; and, as the anmsthesia materially focilitates the operation by doing away with his VTithings and stragglings, I now in'^'ariably have recourse to it when I perform tracheo- tomy on children. In laiyngotomy in the adult it does not appear to me to be necessary. Difficulties.—This operation is often attended by extreme difficulty, and not unfi'equently by much danger. The difficulties occurring in tracheotomy are chiefly referable to four heads ; 1. Difficulty in Exposing the Trachea ; 2. Profuse Haemorrhage ; 3. Difficulty in Opening the Trachea; and 4. Trouble in Introducing the Trachea-tube. 1. The difficulty in Exposing the Trachea increases greatly as the inci- sions approach the sternum, and is especially great in children and in stout short-necked persons. There are three situations in which the trachea may be opened; either above, underneath, 01 below the isthmus of the thyroid body, which usually crosses the air-tube opposite its third or fourth ring. Above the isthmus, the trachea is comparatively superfleial, and is not covered by any venous plexus, nor does any other source of difficulty present itself to the’Surgeon. Where the isthmus crosses the trachea, this tube is overlaid by a venous plexus as well as by the glandular structure. Below the thyi'oid gland, the air-tube is overlapped by the stemo-hyoid and sterno-thyi'oid muscles, and by the inferior thyi'oid veins, which are of large size, together with some tracheal branches from the inferior thyroid artery; and not unfrequently an irregular arterial branch ^cends in this situation in front of the trachea to supply the thyroid body The carotid arteries also are in close relation to the trachea on each side • and opposite the epistemal notch it is crossed by the left carotid and by the mnominata, which vessel has been seen by Macilwain to cross the tube at the vep^ point where tracheotomy is usually performed. A glance at these import- ant relations wiU suffice to indicate the difficulty that must, in many cLs occur in exposing and opening the trachea. This difficulty is greatly increased Tb«r neck have become turgid in consequence of the pulmonic obstruction It will also be seen that the trachea is less covered md mav SrXoffi oT reached above, than below, the isthmus of recomili hf ■ Sm-geons, as Velpeau, for instance, have recommended the opening to be made m the lower, part of the tube no advan trv eloing, whilst the difficulties of the operation are aery seriously increased ; and in practice it is almost invariably opraed at 'its