52 2 DISEASES OF THE MOUTH AND THROAT. the teeth on the side opposite to the seat of operation ; the other two by draw- ing the cheek aside by means of an angular spatula, and by passing a strong double whipcord ligature through the tongue about an inch and a half from its Fig. G24.—Application of Screw-Gag, Cheek-Retractor, and Whipcord, in Operation on the Tongue. tip, and somewhat towards the side to be excised (Fig. 624). By this ligatm’e an assistant draws the organ out of the mouth. The light should be good for these operations, and the Surgeon should have trustworthy assistants. Excision, may readily and safely be done when the free anterior portion only of the tongue is diseased, or when it is only superficially affected at its side or back part. In using the knife in these situations, the diseased part of the tongue should be seized by a TulseUum or broad-bladed forceps, and then finely and widely excised by means of a scalpel curved on the flat. The heemoiThage is fine, often profuse. It wiU usually cease very rapidly, by keeping the tongue weU drawn forwards and ligaturing the artery that furnishes most blood—or the opposite sides of the cut may be drawn together with a w'hipcord ligatmn, and the bleeding surface compressed. Should the oozing continue rather abundantly, ice may be freely used. Strangulation of the diseased mass by means of the Ligature was formerly much more employed than at the present day, and is indeed now seldom adopted, on account of the pain that attends and the fetor that follows its use. If, how'ever, the Surgeon be single-handed or unprovided with trust- worthy assistants, or if htemorrhage be much to be avoided, this means may be employed. For the ^Durposes of this operation strong thick saddler’s w^hipcord is the best, as it does not readily cut through the soft and brittle tissue of the organ, w’hich will be the case if the small compressed cord usually sold by the instrument makers be used. There is little danger from htemorrhage in or after this opera- tion ; and the pain and subsecpient discomfort are usually much less than might be expected. The pain may be prevented by section of the gustatoiy nerve prior to the application of the ligature {see page 519). The ligature is passed by means of an ordinary ntevus-needle, or, what is often more convenient, a corkscrew needle curved on the side as well as to the point (Fig. 625). In many cases, the plan described for tying flat na^vi will be found the most convenient mode of passing the wdiipcord roimd the cancer of the tongue (Fig. 626). In whatever way the ligatures are applied, care should be taken to pass them through the healthy tissue of the organ wide o