SY.UPTOMS OF INTllAGRANIAL AFEURISM. lor pressure, importimfc lesions may be met with as the effeet of tlie interruptioii Avhich the presenee of tlie aneurism olfers to the circulation in and nutrition ot the cerebral hemispheres. Thus, in the ease of aneurism of both intenial carotids that has already been referred to as occurring at University Coilego Hospital, there was white softening of both the anterior cerebral lobes ; and this lesion was most marked on the side that corresponded to the largest aneurism, and where consequently, it may be supposed, the greatest amount of obstruetion to the eireulation existed. SniPT03is.—The symptoms of aneurism within the skull are extremely equivocal ; and, indeed, aneurism of large size may exist at the base of the brain Avithout occasioning any symptoms Avhatevcr. An interesting instance of this occiiiTed at University College Hospital in 1848. A man, thirty-seven years of age, died of pulmonaiy apoplexy and chronic pneumonia of the left lung, consequent upon the pressure of an aneurism of the commencement of the descending aorta on the pulmonary veins of that side. On examining the head after death, an aneurism of the basilar artery as large as a hazel-nut was met Avith, of which no suspicion had been entertained during life, there having been no head-symptoms whatever ; the sac of the aneurism was veiy tliin, and there was much atheromatous degeneration in the vertebral arteries. The only symptoms that are of constant occiurence, when this disease goes on to a fatal termination, are those of hemiplegia and apoplexy. These may come on suddenly without any previous warning ; or they may be preceded by a train of phenomena indicative of the existence of chronic disease within the cranial cavity. The most constant of these lAlienomena is pain ; which affects, hoAvever, great variety, both in extent and in character. It may be diffused, or may occupy a fixed point; it may be continuous or intermitting ; it may be increased by movement, or accompanied by peculiar sensations, as of pulsation or of opening and shutting the top of the cranium. 'The sight and hearing are often impaired. Dimness of sight, dilatation of one or both pupils, photophobia, diplopia, and loss of vision have been noticed in seA'eral of the cases recorded ; ptosis has also been met Avith, from pressure on the thud nerve by aneurism of the posterior communicating artery. Buzzing noises in the ears, and deafness, are also not uncommon symptoms ; deafriess, more particidarly, appears to be a phenomenon of frequent occiUTence. 1 he patient rarely loses the poAver of articulation and of deglutition; im- pairment of these functions, howcA’cr, has been met AAdth. There may be paralysis of the side of the face, shaking palsy, or complete hemiplegia ; or fits of an cjnleptic nature may occur. The mental condition may undergo changes indicative of chronic disease of the brain. There may be depression of spirits, listlessness, or, as Avas noticed in the case above related, the temper may beeome irritable, and the patient be garrulous or silly. In- sanity has been notieed in one case. As is ahvays the case in cerebral affections, the gastrie functions are often impaired. * Ikit veiy frequently ]io premonitory symptoms manifest themselves ; the patient being suddenly seized when apparently in good health, with apoplexy AA’hich terminates rapidly in death. ^ In some cases the presence of aneurism has been detected by a loud rough or