PLASTIC OPEEATIOXS. 49] pi-ictice of this very interesting brancli of surgery, there is much opportunity lor the display of manual dexterity. On this, indeed, almost the whole success, of the operation depends ; and a vast deal may be done in apparently the most unpromising cases by management, skill, and patience. In these operative- procedures the names of Serres, 1 )ieffenbach, Liston, Fergusson, Sedillot, B. Langcnbeck, and .Jobert, deservedly take the first rank. In p'erformiug the various plastic operations, four methods ha^-e been employed. In the first, the fiap of skin that is intended to repair the lost structure is transplanted from a distant part, as the arm. T.his operation, which was introduced by the Italian Surgeon, Tagliacotius, and hence com- monly called by his name, has in a gTcat measm-e fallen into disuse, on account of the difticulty of its execution, and the great uncertainty ol obtaining a successful result. The second plan consists in transplanting the repaiatLe- stineture fi'om some part in the neighbourhood of the organ to be repaired ; the skin from the forehead, for instance, being used for the formation of a new nose ; that from the chin for the restoration of a lost lip. This procedui’c, which seems firet to have been adopted by the natives of India in restoring the loss of the nose, is the method that is most commonly employed in this country in plastic operations on the face. The third method consists in loosening the skin by a process of subcutaneous section to some distance aromid the part to be repaired, and then drawing it forwards with or without incision through its substance. This gliding operation is chiefiy practised for the closure of fistulous openings. The foiu’th method is employed in cases where an abnormal fissure exists in a part. It consists in bringing together and imiting the edges of the fissure, after having pared them evenly, so as to expose their vascular siudaces. Union in plastic operations is effected by primary adhesion between the raw Burfiices Avhich are brought into contact. Should, however, this mode of union fail from any accidental circumstance, the Surgeon need not despair ; as the parts may unite by adhesive inflammation, or even through the medium of granulation, in a very satisfactory and complete manner. For proper union to be effected, it is necessary that the edges be cleanly and evenly cut, so as to adjust themselves accurately to one another. This may often be most skilfully effected by making the incision in the paid that is to receive the flap somewhat oblique or bevelled, thus securing a more accurate adaptation of the edges. After the flap has been formed aud the part in which it is to be transplanted properly pared, the operation should be delayed a few minutes until all bleed- ing has ceased. This is of much importance, as the interposition of a layer of coagidated blood will materially interfere with imion. In bringing the parts into apposition, gi’eat care must be taken that no- undue traction or constriction be exercised, lest their circulation be interfered with, and their vitality be endangered. The parts may be maintained in apposition by sutines, collodion, or the application of a strip of isinglass plaster. The sutures should be as fine as possible, introduced with a small needle, and knotted on the sound parts. Occasionally, as in hare-lip, pins may advantageously be used. In some instances, instead of sutures, a small spring-forceps (Fig. 80), termed a