9^5 TUMOUES OF THE UTERUS. ; be taken that the cauterising section do not extend too far. , after lio'htly touching the diseased part, whether this ho untoward will result. . . After the removal of the local disease in the way pointed out, any remaining congestion may be got rid of by the application of leeches to the cervix. Dm-ing the time when these local measures are being adopted, recourse must be had to jiroper constitutional treatment, with the view of improving the general health on ordinary medical principles. The details of this treatment need not be given here ; but for a full exposition of them, as well as for a vast deal of important information on the siu-gical management of uterine affections, I would refer the reader to the last edition of Bennet’s work on the Uterus. Uterine Displacement.—The various displacements to ivhich the uterus is liable, ivhether downwards, constituting Prolapsus, or in the direction of I the axis, being twisted, and either Retroverted or Anteverted, are causes of much local suffering and constitutional disturbance, and commonly req^uire surgical treatment. These various conditions will frequently be found deqien- dent on inflammatory congestion of the fundus, in consequence of which the organ becomes, as it were, top-heavy, and is tilted to one side, or descends bodily in the pelvis. The Treatment in such circumstances must have reference to the removal of the local tm’gescence by the application of leeches, the employment of astrin- gents, hip-baths, and the recumbent position ; occasionally assisted perhaqis, in twist of the organ, by attempts at replacing it by introducing the uterine sound into its caUty, or when it is prolapsed, by supporting it with appro- priate pessaries and the abdominal bandage. "NAginal Discharges of a purulent character not unfrequently occur in young female children, as the result of constitutional debility or strumous derangement. Occasionally such discharges lead to the suspicion of the child having been improperly tampered with ; and, although they may of course be occasioned by some violence inflicted on the genitals, or even from gonorrhoeal infection, it must be borne in mind that, in the great majority of instances, they certaiifly arise from constitutional conditions solely, and are in no way re- ferrible to external causes. The Treatment consists in attention to cleanliness, the use of warm lead lotions, and the improvement of the general health. Tumours of the Uterus are of various kinds. The most common are those of a Fibrous character. These are often of considerable size, and have been found weighing many poimds ; they may occupy almost any portion of the uterus, either projecting into the peritoneal cavity, occiqiying the interior of the organ, or dependent into the vagina. These tumours seldom occur I)cfore the age of thirty or forty, and are not very amenable to Treatment. In some cases, however, considerable benefit results from attention to position, tlie occasional application of leeches to the cervix, so as to lesson the conges- tion of the organ, and the introduction into the vagina every night of a ball