DYSniAGIA FROM AORTIC ANEURISM. 71 exertion, or on making the patient inspire fully and deeply. Ihe laiyngeal symptoms are sometimes so much more prominent than any of the other signs of intrathoracic aneurism, and so closely resemble chronic or even acute laryngitis, with impending asphyxia, that there are not a few cases on record in which Surgeons have performed tracheotomy, on the supposition that they had to do with cases of pure and uncomplicated laryngeal disease ; and in other instanees this operation has been performed with the xdew of prolong- ing life, even Avhen the dependenee of the laryngeal spasm on anemism of the aorta has been recognised. Dr. George Johnson has made some important observations on the use of the laryngoscope in the diagnosis of the cause of dyspnoea in aortic aneurism. He says that, in eases where the cause is pressm-e on the reemrent laryngeal neive, the larynx is seen to be healthy, and the spasm may be seen to occur. If the pressure be sufficient to abolish the function of the nerve, unilateral paralysis will occur, which can easily be ascertained by laryngoscopic examina- tion. The voice in such cases is weak and husky ; whereas, in cases in which the pressure is on the trachea, its character is unchanged. When a thoracic anem-ism presses the trachea against the spine, the tracheal stridor and the voice-sound are heard with remarkable distinctness on applying the stetho- scope over the upper dorsal vertebrm—the sound being conducted through the bones. e. Dyspnoea may be dependent on the compression of the imlmonary vein by the aneiu’ismal tumom-. In cases of this kind there would be considerable li\*idity of surface, and signs of pulmonary congestion. The dyspnoea of intrathoracic aneurism will often be sufficiently intense to occasion death. It may be mistaken for ordinary asthma ; but the diagnosis can usually be effected, by observing that in aneurism the paroxysms of dyspnoea often come on in the day as well as at night, and are greatly increased by change of position, as by placing the patient either upright or recumbent, the tumour thus shifting its point of pressure. It is, as Bellingham has pointed out, not influenced by atmospheric changes, and is generally associated with laryngeal stridor or spasm. When such symptoms as these are associated with pain and dysphagia, they point very strongly, even in the absence of all auscnltatoiy signs, to the presence of an aneurismal tumour. Aneurisms situated within the concavity or springing from the posterior parts of the aortic arch are those which, either directly by their pressure on the air-tubes or the pulmonary veins, or indirectly by the influence they exercise on the recurrent laryngeal nerve, are chiefly associated with dyspnoea. 3. Dysphagia is a symptom of sufficiently frequent occurrence in aortic aneurisms. Eaton has determined its existence in nine out of twelve cases. It seldom occurs, however, in the earlier stages of the disease, or when the aneu- rism is small, and hence is of much less diagnostic value than dyspnoea. When, however, it is associated with that symptom, the combination becomes im- portant ; as the co-existence of the two conditions clearly points to the com- pression of the oesophagus and the air-tubes by a tumour, which other diagnostic signs may prove to be aneurismal. It is of importance to bear in mind that in some aneurisms, especially of the