548 DISEASES OF THE MOUTH AND THROAT. fjudematous parts fall together in a valve-like manner over the opening of the glottis. Expiration is, on the other hand, comparatively easy. In oedema- tons laryngitis there is also a good deal of spasm associated with the local turgescence. The spasms sometimes come on early, and carry off the patient at once. They are very apt to be brought on by speaking or swallowng; but, as the disease advances, the dyspnoea may become more continuous, with great restlessness, a cprick, small pulse, and convulsive breathing, the countenance being pale, sunken, and clammy, and the eye dull. Stupor at length super- venes, and speedily tciminates in death. The oedematous infiltration in this form of laryngitis is principally confined to the submucous areolar tissue ai’ound the epiglottis, at the margins of the glottis, and to that which lies at the back of the thyroid cartilage. In these situations- the tissue is distended Avith sero-plastic fluid, of an opalescent appearance, so as almost completely to occlude the rima glottidis (Fig. 643). It is a pathological fact of much importance, that this effusion never extends below the true vocal cords, being limited at this point by the direct adhesion of the mucous membrane to the subjacent fibrous tissue, without the intervention of any areolar membrane. Diagnosis.—It is of great importance to make the diagno- sis between the two forms of laryngitis. In the acute variety of the disease, antiphlogistic treatment is of great moment ^ in the oedematous form it is comparatively useless, for here elfusion sets in early, and nothing is left for the Surgeon but to open the air-passage, so as to give the patient breath- ing-room, whilst the disease is being subdued. The laryngo- scope is of the greatest use in arriving at a correct diagnosis. It is somewhat difficult to use in these cases, especially if there be much dyspnoea, but supposing even a momentary glance be obtained of the opening of the glottis, the condition depicted in Fig. 643 may readily be recognised. In addition to this, the epidemic character of the affection, the absence of much pain in the larynx, and the dusky-red and swollen fauces, wiU point to the oedematous variety. Then, also, the effect of antiphlogistic treatment should be taken into aceount. If after its active employment, no alleviation of the symptoms occur, it is only reasonable to suppose that the obstruction to breathing is owing rather to a lAurely mechanical obstacle than to simple inflammation. Treatment —The treatment of oedematous laryngitis must be antiphlogistic thouo-h the'constitution will not usually bear any very active measures. Leechino- under the jaAVS and over the larynx, AAdth the administration of anti- monials'and salines, Avill be especially serviceable. In many cases, scarifi- cation Avith a hernia-knife or probe-pointed bistoury about the root of the epiglottis, the sides of the glottis, and the back of the thyroid cartilage, will be found the most ready means of unloading the infiltrated mucous membrane. The operation of scarification may be more accurately performed by using the laryngeal lancet, whilst the glottis isbrought into view by the use of the laryngo- scope^ In these cases, however, it is especially necessary to open the windpipe befL it is too late, and the lungs have become engorged. After the proper ein- Fig. 643.—CEdonui tiie Glottis.