HEllNIA. 638 intestine, so as to loosen it, as it were, from unclcrneath the stricture ; he will then usually succeed in passing his finger up in the middle of the coil, where the mesentery lies. So soon as the blunt end of the hernia-knife has been passed under the stricture, its sharp edge must be turned up, and the constric- tion divided in a piopcr dii’cction, to a very limited extent, from the one- •eighth to the quarter of an inch. Reduction, ihe intestine and omentum, having been examined, must be ■dealt with according to the condition in which they are found; as will be described at pp. 040—C45, Vol. II. If these structures be sufficiently healthy to admit of reduction, the intestine should first of all be replaced. This must be done by pushing it back with as much gentleness as possible, and chiefly by using the index-fingers. When it has slipped up into the abdomen, the omentum must be returned in the same way. In reducing the hernial protrusion, after the sac has been laid open, care should be taken that the mai-gins of this are firmly held doum by means of a pair of forceps ; lest it, together with its contents, be ’returned en masse, the strictime being undivided. After reduction, the Surgeon ■should pass his finger up into the canal through which the hernia has descended, and feel that all is clear. A suture or two should next be applied through the lips of the wound, with a few cross strips of plaster between them, ^ pad of lint laid over it, and a spica bandage to retain it all in proper position, and to prevent the protrusion of the hernia again during a fit of -coughing or a muscular effort. I have, however, seen the pressm*e of the pad occasion so much venous hmmoiThage, by producing congestion of the venous tissues in the neighbom-hood of the wound, as to require it to be laid aside, and the wound to be simply dressed. About the third or fourth day the sutures may be removed, and water-dressing applied. If inflammation or suppu- ration should set in, the part must be well poulticed; and care should be taken to leave the most dependent apertm-e free, as otherwise the pus formed in the external incisions may flow back through the internal apertm-e into the peritoneal cavity, and occasion fatal inflammation. Indeed, I think it desir- able that union of the lips of the wound after the operation for hernia should not take place by the first intention ; as it not unfr-equently happens when this ocem'S, that the pus and other discharges, not finding a ready outlet, may either be diffused between the muscular planes of the abdominal wall, occasioning sloughing and abscess, or, returning into the peritoneal cavity, may excite inflammation of it—a result which I have more than once seen occm-. The result of the operation for strangulated hernia is greatly influenced by the age of the patient; the result being very much more favourable in the carher than in the later periods of life. Of 15 consecutive cases operated on at Univei-sity College Hospital, of which 8 recovered and 7 died, the average age of the fatal cases was 23 years greater than that of the successful ones. Obesity, also, has a very unfavourable effect. The depth of the wound in fat people leads to an accumulation of drainage and exudative fluid from its loosely organised fatty walls, which decomposes readily, and soaking into the sub- peritoneal cellular tissue, gives rise to low and diffuse cellulitis with slougliing. After-Treatment.—The patient should be kept quiet in bed; a efry hot flannel laid over the abdomen, the leg on the affected side bent over a pillow.