147 LIGATURE OF THE AORTA. The abdominal toimiiquefc had to bo removed at the end of twenty minutes, owng to collai)se and vomiting ; the femoral one was maintained. “V^Tien the abdominal compressor was removed the pulsations had already diminished, and at the end of four hours they ceased ; the patient making a good recovery. Holmes has collected 10 cases of iliac or ilio-femoral aneurism, treated by this method ; and of these, 7 were cured, and in 3 the treatment tailed. These 3 afterwards underwent ligature of the artery leading to the sac—in one case the abdominal aorta—and all died. These statistics clearly show that no operative treatment is justifiable, except after the failure of compression. Ligature of tlie Aorta.—It is impossible not to contemplate with admi- ration the man whose mind was the first to conceive, and whose hand was the fiist to carry out, the determination to apply a ligature to the abdominal aorta ; and who, guided by pathological observation and physiological experiment, to uiTest at once the circulation through the main channel of supply to the lower half of the body, trusting to the collateral cii'culation for the maintenance of the Htality of the parts thus suddenly deprived of blood. Sir A. Cooper was the first to place a ligature on the aorta, in 1817. Since that period the operation has been six times performed for aneurism ; viz., by James, of Exeter ; by Murray, at the Cape of Good Hope ; by Monteiro, at Rio Janeiro ; by South, of London ; by j\IcGuire, of Richmond, U.S. ; by Stokes, of Lublin; and once, in circiunstances which will be presently described, by Czerny, of Vienna. TABLE OP CASES OF LIGATURE OF ABDOMINAL AORTA FOR ANEURISMS. f I NATURE • SURGEOX. |S£X. AGE. DATE. OF ANEURISM. OPERATIONS. BE.SULT.S. 1 1. SlE A. COOPEE 1 1 !m. 1 38 1817 Diffused Inguina’ Incision thi'ough Death in 40 hours. 1 j 2. James. 1 M. Peritoneum. 44 182!) External Iliae. Distal liga- Death in a fcAV 1 1 j ture first: Peritoneum hours. 1 3. :Mueray. : M. 1834 Inguinal. opened. Aorta tied Death in 24 hours. 1 i behind 4. Monteiro. 1 M. 1842 Diffused Inguinal Peritoneum. Aorta tied Death on 10th day. behind 1 : a. South. M. 28 183G Common Iliac. Peritoneum. Aorta tied Death in 43 hoims. behind 0. ifcGuiRE. JL 30 1808 Lower part of Peritoneum. Aorta tied Death in 12 hours. ( Aorta, both Common Iliacs, and Left Ex- behind Peritoneum. ■ 7. IV. Stokes. 31. 30 1809 ternal Iliac. Iliac. Aorta tied Death in 13 hours. behind ' — Peritoneum. In Sir A Cooper’s case, the inguinal aneurism had burst, and the aorta was hitle '"V"? “'T? '>5' “'‘king an incision inches in length through the abdomen, a little to the left of the urn-