n] ^ COL. REG. MED. LOND. HUNC L15RUM EX BI&LIOTMECA GunEim Henwci Allchin E9. Aur D. V. MARCARETA DOMINA ALLCHIN Mf % - joa, THE y iCHOLA MEDTCIH M ^. yjt /!/ NEW UNIVERSAL HISTORY AND SCHOOL OF MEDICINE, TRANSLATED INTO ENGLISH raoM THE ORIGINAL GREEK AND LATIN EDITION, BY WILLIAM ROWLEY, M.D. Member of the University of Oxford^ the Royal College of Physicians in London, Physician to the St. Mary-le-bone Infrmary, SfC. Src. I CONTAINING, I. The History of medicine from the creation of the woild to the present period, with the errors of medical sects, systems, and hypotheses. II. The Anatomy of the human body, illustrated by sixty-eight copper plates, with parallel descriptions in single opposite pages. III. Physiology, or the animal, vital, and natural functions of man in health, and how they are performed and preserved. IV. Pathology, or the science of diseases, causes, symptoms, effects, on death and putrefaction, dec. The whole arranged in a new mode, to facilitate the study of medicine,with the latest discoveries ; intended for the contemplation 'r of the studious in the learned professions of medicine, law, divinity, and for all who wish to comprehend the science if may. Printed for the Author and Sold at his House, No. 21,.Saville Row: Where may be had the Greek and Latin Edition, of Sciiola Medicine, and the rational Practice of Physic, illustrated with numerous practical Prescriptions, &c. &c. PRINTED BY J. BARFIELD, WARDOUR-STREET, PRINTER'TO HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS THE PRINCE OF WALES.■V- r, , ' . 'Ui •/t* 4Lk 1 ROYAL COLLEGE OF PHYStCiANS LIBRARY ACCN. SOURCE icil^ DATE jL'X.7- iwi ,;"j . ?!' ■ THE TABLE OF CONTENTS. I. Introduction with six plates of medical antiquities, medals, &c. with an account # of all the plates in the work. On the practical application of the plates in the study of anatomy, physiology, &c. with the best modes for obtaining knowledge, from page i. to pagd xxii. ‘ II. The history of medicine from the creation of the world, to the Peloponnesian war, at which time flourished Hippocrates, &c. with an abridgment of his whole work, from page i. to xxi. " r , i ' ' III. From the time of Hippocrates to the present time, in which all the medical sects are exliibited, with chronological tables, &c. from xxi. to page cix. ' ' ‘ IVr A short admonition to students, in medicine, directing their studies, morals. See. ibid. OSTEOLOGY, OR BONES, &c. - , V. On ANATOMT, its divisions and means of attainment, with some general rules, &c. <2 VI. On the names of external parts I'epresented by two elegant figures, engraved' by-the celebrated Sharp, - - - - -'3 VII. On the constituent parts of the human body with a plate, . 4 VIII. On bones and their connections,'with a plate, - - - - 5 IX. Phvtes and explanations of the skeleton, &c. with descriptions, - . , 6,7, 8, 9 ^ ^ _ MYOLOGY, OR MUSCLES, &c. ‘ ; ' X. On the fibres and other parts forming muscles, viewed by- a microscope, &c. - 10 XL Ten "plates of the muscles, fore and back views; &c. with descriptions, in opposite single pages, containing and &c. from ’ 10 to 20 • V ■ ! ' = ' * J T:> . • ANGIOLOGIA, OR VESSELS. . < ‘ * . I XII. ' The arteries of the whole body in fore and back view, from the immortal Haller; veins and lymphatics,‘whol6 figures drawn by Paillou, &c. fi oin • i ’ 1 •• i - 2] to 25 NEUROLOGIA, OR NERVES. XIII. Basis of the cranium, Avith the foramina and exits of the nerves, of the senses; See. arteries,^&:c. -- - ---25 ^ 'L' i.il XIV. BasisTABLE OF CONTENTS. XIV. Basis of the brain, arteries, &c. - - , XV. Plexus of the cerebrum " - • - . XVI. Arteries of the brain, - - - _ „ XVII. Medulla spinalis, &c. - - - - - XIX. Ganglions of nerves, - - - - _ XX. Component parts of nerves, as viewed by a microscope, &c. XXI. zeryicoX nerwe, o\' sympatheticus viagnuSy' XXII. Plates explanatory of the nervous system, essentially necessary to be known medical practitioners, from - - - - - 27 28 29 30 32 33 34 by all 34 to 87 SPLANCHNOLOGIA, OR VISCERA, &c. XXIII. The thorax and abdomen, with explanatory plates, &c. - - ^0 XXIV. Description of the eye, with five plates, &c. 91 to 97. XXV. The heart injected, vessels,. &c. - - - - - 97 ' XXVI. Circulation of the blood, and plate. See. - - - pg XXVII. The organs of voice, speech, and deglutition, larynx, pharynx, &c. - gg XXVIII. Organ of hearing with plates, XXIX. Omentum, pancreas, bile ducts, &c. with two plates • 100 to 102 XXX Genital parts of males and females, wdth plates _ 103 to 104 XXXI. A compendium of anatomy, containing, chiefly, all that is essential for the rational practice of medicine, surgery, midwifery, &c. arranged in a very concise manner in order to be well remembered, when practically applied in the cure of diseases. - - 105 XXXII. A compendium of physiology, containing the animal, vital, and natural actions of the human body during life, with the new chemical analysis, &c. - 155 A compendium of pathology, or doctrines of diseases, - - - - , 185 XXXIII. Conspectus of the Latin Schola Medicmce &c. from which the present work is an abridgment, _ . _ - . > . 203 XXXIV. Conclusion, with observations on the great utility of studying all the branches of the medical art; early in life with a short account of the plan of instruction, instituted at the St. Mary-le-bone Infirmary, &c. &c. wdth hopes, that public medical schools of a similar nature may be established in the county hospitals, and encouraged by government, as the best means of supplying the army, navy, and country, with skilful and learned medical prac- titioners; the defect of w|iich was severely experienced in the beginning of the late war. INTRODUCTIONINTRODUCTION TO SCHOLA MEDICINiE; OR, THE UNIVERSAL SCHOOL OF MEDICINE, &c. ^JL O obviate some defects in medical education, to promote the acquisition of medical science with greater facility, to render the principles and practice of medicine less conjectural, and to dif- fuse its excellent and humane benefits through all the earth, on improved principles, were the ex- citing motives, that strenuously impelled the author to write Schola Medicince Universalis Nova in Latin. ' ■ The principal impediments to useful medical studies, it appeared from close inspection and much reflection, were the multiplicity of authors, the variety of dubious systems, and the contrariety of opinions with which medicine superabounded. Professors formerly made a great display of appa- rent erudition by diffusive lectures, redundant in w^ords and speculations, parsimonious in matters of fact and absolute truths. This conduct in the teachers bewildered the understandings of the scho- lars; the former taught, and the latter imbibed prejudices from which they could never emancipate themselves through life: the destruction, instead of the preservation of the human species, have fre- quently been the consequence. Medicine, that divinest of arts! under such circumstances, became often a dangerous scourge instead of a blessing to human society, and yet, whoever dared to at- tempt improvement, or laudably endeavoured to produce a reformation, was certain of inevitable ruin for his temerity: for every innovator, however meritorious, was accounted rash; but every assentor to opinions, and supporter of common doctrines, was considered prudent, wise, and learned. The examples of punishment for the greatest exertions of human skill and industry have deterred many excellent men from delivering to society the honest fruits of their labours, and man- kind, by these means, have been deprived of several useful discoveries. It requires Herculea-H spirit to cleanse the Augeean stable of the accumulation of ages: sed nil desperandum: led by sacred truth, error, and fallacy must vanish, however supported. The introduction of an immense number of volumes is frequently supposed an indubitable speci- men of profound learning, and juvenile vanity is pleasingly gratified by a free access to large libraries ; but extensive libraries are, to many, great evils: for they oftener confound than instruct students, by overwhelming the memory, without informing and elevating the judgment a * Tlieiv INTRODUCTION, &c. The incessantly poring over books, collecting ancient and modern opinions from medical authors, and an alacrity in assenting to plausible doctrines, have been considered as studying medicine, and sufficient to entitle the scholar, with very little practical experience, to the confidence of the sick, as a regularly educated medical practitioner. The degrees of physic are too often obtained on so superficial a foundation, as common experience and the practice of some universities constantly exemplify, to the disgrace of modern science and literature. A diligent student, however, who daily observes, and writes down the symptoms of diseases, as they occur at the bedside of the sick, their modern and most judicious treatment in an hospital of full practice, if he hath obtained anatomical knowledge by actual dissections, and pharmacy by ac- tual practice, will comprehend more of the medical art in a few years, than the most industrious student, under the influence of the former mode, can ever acquire. This I assert from near fifty years observation and experience, not as a matter of opinion, but as an indubitable fact, repeatedly proved at the St. Mary-le-bone Infirmary, where I have the honour of being physician,* and at other hospitals, where pupils are initiated into the practice from the age of fourteen. After a classical education, they cannot too early commence their theoretical and practical studies, before passions, and less laudable pursuits inflame the imagination, and pervert the judgment. The hospital student dedicating his time to the difterent branches of the art, not in casual reading, but in the actual practice of pharmacy, medical chemistry, surgery, and the medical treatment of diseases, under the inspection of able, honest, and experienced preceptors, M'ho liberally communi- cate the faithful result of long, judicious observation, and who guard tlie juvenile mind against those flights of fancy, and numerous prejudices which are daily annoying the profession, will soon obtain a practical knowledge of the extent and power of the healing art, determined by repeated and real facts, ready to be applied on all subsequent occasions. The w^a<ler through stupendous volumes of endless repetitions and contradictions, supposing him sufficiently industrious for the purpose, if any excellence should occur, unless he unite pi'actical remarks on numerous diseases by occular demonstration in an hospital, and be possessed of a mental penetrating acumen void of all prepossession, pride, or prejudice, he is incapable of selecting the pure metal from the scoria >vith which it is obscured, or often surrounded; for he will often receive plausibilities as though they were sacred truths, and try inefficacious or novel unproved medicines, at the expence of the pa- tient's life, or health, in important diseases, f These considerations induced the author, early in life, to attempt the concentration of the most useful knowledge of ancients and moderns in Historia et Schola Medicince, that medical preceptors, if disposed, might convey science with less circumlocution and seducing speculation, and that students * In the medical department there, the field for observation and practice is immence, my prescriptions, taken collectively, amount to many thousands annually, which has been proved by an estimate made by Dr. Hooper, of the said Infirmary. If the student were to wade through the stupendous volumes of the great Hoffman, or the Commentaries of Van Swieien, for instance, would he discover the direct road for applying remedies to individual disease ? No ! he may acquire a wavering inconsistent practice, which an experienced preen’eafwould be able to point out and correct. It is practice makes per- fection in any practical art, not reading and contemplation: one excellent cure in a difficult disorder is worth a thousand of the most acute hypothetical reasonings, or speculations.V INTRODUCTION, Scci students inclined to be satisfied with truth, separated from all fleeting and idle iiypotheSis, by being early and promptly initiated into the past and present states of medicine, they might be enabled to industriously commence improvements, wherever defects were discoverable, and thus give a de- gree of perfection and stability to the healing art, unknown to our predecessors: which every hu- mane practitioner must ardently wish.* These attempts to improve the modes of instruction, huma- nity and the art demanded, as some small return for the confidence the author hath enjoyed nearly fifty years as a medical practitioner in this great metropolis; for if his practice and experience had not been so very extensive, he could not have been able to make these and other numerous ob- servations to be found in the Rational Practice of Physic, &c. The first road to amendment is to discover defects; the second to eradicate, if possible, error; the third to avoid future prejudices, by the exclusion of opinions however plausible; and fourthly, to be determined to generously em- brace the truth, however it may remind us of past ill-formed conceits, from whatever quarter it may originate. By these liberal means hypothesis and falshood will be banished from the healing art, and it will speak a new language, the language of truth, to the confusion of all those, who, for temporary advantages, or vanity, lead juvenile students into vain, useless speculations, instead of impressing on their young minds the necessity of admitting no proposition that is not fully proved. The vain attempt to account for every phacnomenon in nature, however incomprehensible, has led philosophers and physicians into continual error: they often confound the inquiry, which may be laud- able, for the attainment. If men w'ould first study Locke on the of human understanding, and what things the utmost industry may accomplish, they would not rush into the vice of supposing every thing obtainable that is sought; but they would rather modestly rest satisfied with what is ac- quirable, and acknowledge their incapacity in every inquiry that exceeds the limits of human com- prehension. The lesson of the great philosopher cannot be too frequently inculcated to all human beings, know thyself. This study might exclude vicious arrogance, and self-conceited importance, from the medical art; for medicine should be the science of humanity and humility. If univer- sal self-knowledge were more the object of man’s consideration, all reports and assertions would be well considered and analised before they received assent. Credulity is the vice of the ignorant through simplicity, and of the well-informed through inattention: but whatever may be its excel- lence in spiritual matters, it is highly reprehensible in philosophy. If any thing can mark the dif- ference between strong and weak intellects, itis cool prudent caution, or imprudent vicious credulity; and it may be affirmed, without hesitation, that in proportion as any man is credulous in what can- not be comprehended, he is superficial, insane, or fatuitous. This doctrine, applied to medicine, attacks, in some instances, most of the writers and philosophers, sects, and system-makers, from Hippocrates * Many writers reason apparently well, and practice ill. In dangerous cases they often depend on inefficacious medicines. No inconsiderable part of the Latin work was arranged and written whilst the author was attending his terms at the Uvkersity of Oxford, but various observations have arisen from the author’s travels into hot climates, when in his hlajesty’s service, from 1760 to 1765, and through most parts of Europe, afterward, to inspect the excellence or defects of medical education and practice in the principal Unvversities and Hospitals: and he is convinced, from constant study, experience, and reflection, that theory without extensive practice, is like a body without a soul.VI INTRODUCTION, &c; Ulppocrat.es to tlie present duy; but reserving to some future opportunity more on these subjects, it is time to give an account of the Schola Medkince, or school of Medicine, and to exhibit its ar- rangement, intentions, and utility, and in nliat it differs from all other medical writings hitherto published. PREFACE IN LATIN IS short, intimating that the Schola JMedkince comprehends what is useful from the earliest ages to the present period, extracted from all authors, ancient and modern; yet so concise, as not to bewilder the student’s mind in useless inquiries. What the author hath observed in his long study, practice, and reflection, is candidly, and without any reserve, introduced. .The third volume, written in Latin, and ready for the press, containing, in a new and brief manner, the whole practice of all the branches of medicine, the utmost extent and power of the medical art in curing diseases, w itlt every modern discovery that has been determined useful by facts, separated from those huge masses of speculation, opinions, and absurdity, which have constantly been forced into this practical art, will be hereafter published, if the present volumes be approved, and the author's life be spared to accomplish these intentions. It will appear in English. v THE HISTORY OF MEDICINE COIMPREHENDS, in an abridged view', all the writers of consequence from the earliest ages to the present time; their opinions, and the progress which physic has made, in so many ages, tow'ards the degree of perfection, that distinguishes the most refined modern medicine from all pre- .ceding times. In this part, in the English translation, is now’ added a comprehensive view’ of Hip- pocratic MEDICINE. At the end of the History is a Chronological Table from tlic beginning of the w’orld, as generally .received, to the present lera. This table is divided into columns, shew ing the times when the prin- cipal inventors and improvers of medicine lived; namely, from the creation of the world; before 'Jesus Christ, in what Olympiad of the Greeks, and how’many years from the building of Rome. By this Table may be discovered, when, and under w’hat reign or goverpment, the most eminent contributors to the art of medicine flourished; as likewise philosophers, princes, emperors, &c. THE CONSPECTUS. THEN ioWows <1 Conspectus sliewing the methodical arrangement of \he Schola Afedicinee, and a brief intimation of whatever the work contains. This Latin conspectus delivers, briefly, ^ the anatomy, physiolog}', &c. of the human body. PLATPIS IN THE HIST9RY OF PHYSIC. THERE are six plates in the History of Physic, which many may consider, unless antiquarians, more curious than useful. These are concisely explained, not in all instances, exactly correspond- ing with the Latin. There have been many medals and coins struck in honour of medical deities: the inscriptions still extant arc almost innumerable, cut in stone, and still preserved among the cu- ' . riosilies-P/ate I.INTRODUCTION, &c. *vn riosities in Italy, a large collection of which I made in different travels. The explanations of tlie historical and medallic plates are the subsequent. They are arranged in a chronological order. PLATE I. IS a representation of tlie most ancient and curious piece of ^Egyptian sculpture now remain- ing; known by the name of the Tabula Bembina, or Isiaca; perhaps removed (amongst other excellent antiques and works of art) from Italy to the famous Paris gallery, now erecting for the spoils of the late unparalleled and destructive war. The grand gallery extends, it is re- ported, from the garden of the Thidllerits to the Place de Louis Quinze. The figures on the left and upper side consist of Isis on her throne in the middle; the two figures on each side uitli swell- ing breasts are supposed tutelary deities, &c. The letters of reference to the plate have been omitted, but the following description, chiefly from Kirchei', will be a sufficient explanation. f Explanation of the first Plm THAT the reader may have a clearer view of the whole, I will give a plan, or scheme, taken from tlie Mensa Isiaca, called the Tabula Bembina; because the most eminent Car- dinal Bembus first obtained it, an inestimable monument of Egyptian antiquity; which then, by the help of ^Encas Vicus, of Parma, came into the possession of the Duke of Mantua, and was placed in his Gazo Phylacium, or cabi- ^net of curiosities: afterwards, it was carried away at the siege of the city: lastly, 1 know not by what good fprtune it was brought to the Duke of Savoy, and I hear, it is pre- served amongst his rarest cimelia, or precious gems. From the schematism, or plan, of this plate, it seemed best to select tlie medium to prove the truth of what is here men- tioned ; from which will clearly appear the manner and way of representing the supreme deities of the Egyptians, which is as follows. Here may be seen the throne, A. B. C. D. L. M. which the Hieromystm, or sacred interpreters of religious mysteries, call the great gate of the gods, constructed with all the sym- bolic architecture; whose coronisy oi- highest ornament, or frons A. B. represents flames rising iu the form of serpents. The second coronis C. D. with a winged globe, the third E. F. and basis L. M. of the throne, are marked in the same inan- ncf. The whole coronis, with two columns E. L. and F., M. is marked with white and black steps, of which E, L. sustain The small liead of Isis put on it. To this throne is inserted a.figure S. in a female dress, from the middle to the feet in the forna of feitthered drawers, from the middle rising to- wards the chest a swelling brcast. Her head is covered by a sacred vitta JEgyptica, Meleager, or ^Egyptian head dress, a turkey hen is expanded over head, which endeavours to fly, b r of the History of Medicine. on its back is a calai/ius, or sacred cup, from which the leaves of two persea spring, and two cornua, which include the cir- cle marked with the figure of a scarabmus, or beetle; in one hand she holds a sceptre with the flower of the lotus, or herb, the seed of which the Egyptians made bread ; with, the other she expresses that gesture, in which any thing is commanded to be done in an imperious manner. She sets on a polished seat, on which is delineated the figure of a dog in a sitting posture. Under the throne is’ seen an abacus, tho limbus, or border, of which, as well as all the circle of the throne, is decorated with stars. Within the abacus is placed a ligure laying down, composed of a lion and hawk, ttfoxo- T^eovaifjLcfpot, which is ornamented on the head with the phasis of the august, or sextile moon, with a star; containing by its anterior feet a canopus, but on its back vero glubu alatus serpentifer is seen with a scepter. The supreme corona A. B. of the throne, or gate, spread out like flames indicates the supreme intelligence filled with light and life, eternal, incorruptible, free from all contagion of matter; H«xe fjnv a ro^ Xa/,i7rof4«'9poi o'liyipyi^ov o> oXo> salce. 0v6ea Kos-jiti, K^l/9£ Tvpoj tyi> putri7. When you see the sacred fire glittering without any form of the M’hole world, then you advert to the word of fire.— Zoroaster in oracuUs. Besides, all the images on obelisks are nothing else than amulets, scu prophylactica, or spells, or charms, which by the mentioned analogical apparatus of things, as soon as they were consecrated, they believed that by the superior powers they derived virtue tlirough a certain inevitable ne- cessity, and that all the trains of evils were averted by the assistance of the genii who presided over them; concerning whichvlii INTRODUCTION, &c. which there are many very curious circumstances in the Mugia et Tkeologia Hieroglyphica, to which we refer the reader. They held magic schemata of this kind of great efficacy and virtue in the cure of occult diseases; for the genii, to whom the rites and ceremonies were offered, were supposed to appear during sleep to those who were expiated by a previous faith, or disposition, and teach them the cure of diseases, as the scribe Astrampsychus relates concerning the epie. He consulting Isis concerning an incurable dis- ease in the night time, saw the same standing with ox’s horns a flowery tutulus, a variegated garment, in the same manner as they represent her hieroglyphically adorned in adytis, or altars; she offered to him with her hands the herb motmutbu the only medicine for the disease with which he suffered, which herb, when after sleep he had carefully ob tained, he cured himself, and as many as were troubled with this disease, by its application, from the fear of death. Sec many circumstances concerning these things in hieroglyphic medicine, and/nogic. The Greeks imitated this. Two fingers arc placed near it, the one R. with a male^ the other X. with a female habit, tututi, or tutelary deities, with flowery sceptres and swelling breasts, who seem by their looks towards Jynges, the first mind, to attend his commands; the leaders or guardians of the sensible world according to Psellus et Jyngis, the administrator of these, and they indicate the active and passive principle of things; by the virile and female habit with the swelling breasts, they pourt'ray foccundity; by their contracted hands they shew efficacy in acting ; by their tutuli and sceptres, they exhibit a power given to them in all things from the lynx ; in the tutulus trigonus affixed to the globe, they shew that all things flow from an archetypus trigonus, or archetype triangle ;* by the serpents contorting themselves in the tutelary figure X. the vital motion is observed in all things; by the word tutuli, they demonstrate, according to the ideas conceived in the Supreme Mind, they shew that He administers the orders of things; all which are confused by so many and so great mysteries, that, 1 will not say one page,, nor one wliole book, can properly explain them; wherefore it is sufficient to give a specimen of the mystic solertia, or comforts, with which the wise ancients adorned their sepulchres: he who is de- sirous of attaining farther information may consult the hiero- glyphic works, where he will find all fully described, and differently proved, in the Theologia iEgypliaca, and in the Exposition of the Tabula Bembina by Kircher, in the works of Jablonski, &c. Second figure—Osiris. Third figure—Horus. '' IV. You observe in the Ophis stone three sparrows ent out, then three circles, and afterwards three sphynxes like lionesses; after that the Conjuratio Nuininum, or conjura- tion of the deities, in few words in the Egyptian language. To understand this, I will explain it with equal brevity. By the three sparrows the threefold intelligible world, or archetype of the stars, Osiris; by the three circles, an evi- dent mark of divinity ; by the three sphinxes signifies three times three of the world; and as Osiris ancipitrinus, or Osiris with a hawk’s head, is the author of heat; so is Mompfita of moisture; from their just attemperation, all things originate, which are perceived in a threefold degree of nature; so also from their discrasia, or intemperies, it is ne- cessary that sterility is produced, to avert which they placed a patella of this kind as an amuletum, or amulet, on the head of the statue of Momphta, in addition to that which they pretended to obtain by magic murmur, or abjuration. The words in the .Egyptian dr Coptic Language are in English, O three times powerful divine Osiris, Mophta, Mophta, Mophta ! I beseech you three times by this sign, Thotii, Thoth, Thoth, i. e. Mcrcuris, who, as the keeper of the thre^ sacred favissje, or cisterns, the keeper, the keeper, powerful with the threefold sceptre of thy dominion, &c, V. Onuphus, a sacred bull:—for Nuphi, or enuphi, or even anuphi, signifies good but ehe, or ahe, signifies a bull, Onuphim; onuphim, may very conveniently be interpreted a good ox, because it portended good to Egypt, also Henuphi signifies in the Coptic Language, it, expresses copia, ubertas, abwidantia, plenty. The Other five plates are representations of rings, medallions, &c. from real antiques,, in fine preservation. They were engraved, or struck on various occasions; on one side of most is the head of some emperor, &c. on the other side is the representation of the deities, who, it was supposed, in those ages, presided over medicine. Among these are discovered Isis, Osiris, &c. of the Egyptians; Apollo, • Thij savours something of the Tiinity, and similar vestige* remain among the Asiatics, &c»1% INTRODUCTION, &c. Apollo, jEsculapius, Hygeia, See. See. of the Greeks and Romans. Many of the inscriptions are in Greek, and some few in Latin. I could here expatiate much on these subjects, having, at a former time of life, studied the Coptic Language, assisted by the excellent grammar of that worthy man, now no more! Mr. Woide, of the Museum. These researches proved, that the deities of the Egyptians were the identical gods the Greeks and the Romans afterwards adored. The names, indeed, were different, but, in general, the meaning of the names corresponded in the Coptic, the Greek, and Roman. The same attributes, and, in some respects, similar modes of worship were adopted by Egyptians, Greeks, and Romans. I think, I have proved, by these investigations, that many of the Greek deities, w hich that extraordinary people boasted to be of Greek origin, were not so, but borrow'ed from the Egyptians, and, in some instances, from the Persians. These subjects, which are not much to the present purpose, and only agreeable to the antiquarian, I shall desist from speaking more on, for the present; but at some future period these investigations may be resumed, and some lights thrown on those curious opinions of the ancients concerning their deities, which the blind zeal for different religions and sectaries hath almost totally obscured. The Romans admitted the worship of whatever gods the people chose to adore, or according to the country they emigrated from: whether this hath been political, it is not easy to determine.* Plate * On going to view the ruins of Herculaneum and Pompeii, near Naples and Mount Vesuvius, I observed, that in Pompeii,^ the old lava and rubbish arising from the famous eruption in the time of Pliny had been cleared away, so as to enable the cu- rious traveller to walk in the streets, enter and examine the houses in all their various parts ; on the stocco walls are many ele- gant paintings, as fresh as though they were painted but a few days ago. In one street is an entire chapel, which was de- dicated to Isis and Bacchus; the one an Egyptian, the other a Grtek; and, nearly opposite, is the house of a Roman surgeon,, where all the instruments mentioned by Celsus were found, and which arc now deposited in the palace of Portici, belonging to the King of Naples. In this palace are eleven or twelve rooms full of the antiquities of the cities of Herculaneum and Pompeii; a catalogue of which I took, and have in my possession. What is remarkable, among other things, is an inscription on the floor, or rather Mosaic or tessalated pavement in the rcfectorium of the above-mentioned chapel—Cornelia celsa. The famous Cornelius Celsus, whose work is the most sensible, perhaps, of any of the ancients, as well as the most elegant classic Latin extant, lived near the period of this eruption of Mount Vesuvius, which destroyed those cities, as likewise Apuleim Ce/ws lived nearer, or at the same time. It does not appear very improbable that this Corwe/fa Cc/sa was some relation of Celsus, and that one or the other lived in that very house, where complete sets of surgeons instruments were found, as likewise places formed for anatomical purposes under some of the apartments. In my small Collection of bronzes may be perceived the progress of theart of sculpture from the rude Egyptian figure, to the highest perfection among the Greeks and Romans. The antique bust of Cicero, in my possession, is a chef d’ceuvre oi art, as tu anatomical accuracy. What is remarkable, that on the side of the cheek in the antique Cicero at O.ford, the wart is on the right cheek, just on the inferior margin of the os malce^ or cheek bone ; that sculpture shews the great orator younger than mine. In the face of my antique, just in the same spot, wherein the Ciccr, or rather excrescence, appears prominent in the Oxford statue, is an indentation in mine, as though the excresence had been extirpated, and the part after the removal had formed an hollow. They both correspond aS to the situa- tion of the wart, only that in the Oxford it remains protuberating beyond the skin; in my bust of Cieero it seems to have been sunk or removed; or if my beautiful bust could have been taken from a mask soon afler the cruel death- of; that excellent orator, and moral writer, the Cicer might have sunk after the loss of blood from the jugulating wounds given, by the ruffian; whose life, the glory of Rome had saved. There is such a stricking resemblance between the face of Cicero, and-the Honourable Mr. Thomas Erskine, one of the most respectable ornaments of our British bar, that every one, at first view, ex- claims, behold Mr. Erskine in the expressive face of the great Cicero ! The bust, 1 have, could not have been finished before - ■ tha ■ r.:- - ■ ; , . • -H INTRODUCTION, See. Plate the Second of the History of Medicine. I. Salus, tlie image of liealth, is not rare in coins.—The veneration of health, or salus, was very great among the 'Greeis, as well as the Homans: from hence these frequent iirseriptions—to perpetual health—to public health—to sacred or holy health—to yEsculapius and health, he. in Gruter and Reyncsius, &:c. II. A sacrifice to health. III. Aisculapius sacrificing to the sun and moon. IV. Isis with Mercury’s golden wand, or rod.* V. A pantheon head, not female but male, with the horn of the Arietiue Jupiter Ammon ; the calathus, or sacred cup, intimates Serapis, the trident Neptune, the serpent .lEscu- lapius, &c. , . VI. Isis joined to Serapis and Osiris. VII. A golden ring with Serapis. VIII. A ring with the healthful goddess. IX. A sacrifice to the god of physic by the Pergamenians. X. Serapis worshipped by the Rhodians. XI. Serapis adored at Rhodes. XII. The people at Cos, where Hippocrates flourished, adoring .Esculapius, Diana, &c. XIII. Minerva and/Esculapius. The Pergamenians com- ing from Arcada worshipped yEsculapius and Minerva, Lveian, in his witty manner, says, that AJsculapius exercised the art of medicine in this city, at Pergamus, and had opened a shop, meaning the temple, where credulity and superstition led the faithful, as usual,^ to ofter their prayers, in hopes of dreaming what might prove beneficial. A juggle not unlike modem magnetism.^ XIV. In coins familar to Alcilia. The head of health, and the image expresses sickness or ill-health, administering the serpent, the symbol of jEsculapius, as a remedy, with much devotipn, from that beautiful figure. Explication the great orator’s cruel death; the expression in the face is striking, and corresponds with some antique seals of which I had impressions. ’Y'oeface, \\\c pomum Adami, ihe muscles of the neck, the clavicles, superior parts of the breasts, 3cc. are all exquisitely delineated and finished with the most expressive strokes of art. There are but three antique busts of Cicero extant in Europe except that which I possess, which I procured in an extraordinary manner. This may appear a digression, but as I have hinted in my book on the necessity of encouraging Anatomy, that the defects in modern sculpture are owing to want of exquisite anatomical knowledge, some liberal and generous prince, protector of the arts, may hereafter, not suffer the students and artists to copy from Greek or Roman originals, when, if more judicious modes of studying geometry, mathematics, optics, and catoptrics, were adopted, and proper encouragement given to persons of groat merit and abilities, men would appear who would soon equal, if not surpass, the most cultivated ages of the Greeks and Romans. The most excellent artists would not servilely and humbly copy, but would elevate their minds, and give the grandest specimens of originality in their admirable productions. It is the interest, it is the duty of princes and nobles to encourage the arts, literature, and all men of genius; for who can display their virtues, reprehend their vices, or conceal their defects, like men of discernment, and writers of abilities ? When the most distinguished characters in literature and excellent morals are neglected, and suflered to pine in want, in countries abounding with opulence and every species of luxury ; when truth, honour, probity, and every laudable virtue $eem$ nearly extinguished, and many of the great through Europe, are only famous for dissipation, immorality, or frivolity, it may be depended on, that similar negligences have been the destruction of states. Had Louis Sieze been more vigilant, and had he attended more to the wisq prescience of literature, than to the flattery of corrupted and corrupting sycophants, who generally pursue their own interests, that worthy, well intentione«l monarch’s fall and death could not have happened ; nor any of the honid cruelties that succeeded the French revolution. Learning and sagacity are mischievous weapons when pro- voked by contempt and want. A few thousands annually presented from the rot/al purse would make the Keeping face of science smile, ami royalty would be immortalized ; not as the nominal, but as the real lover and protector of the fine arts. Louis Quatorze knew this secret, and has left institutions at Fat'is, that will ever be respected by all posterity; however civil disebords may, for a time, obscure their lustre. 'I’he great Colbert, his minister, must live forever in the hearts of all men of science. ’I’he Apotheosis of Homer, that c,\ccllent antique sculpture, on which I have written, displays the highest stretch of human art. * It wat figured bj; the Egyptians like two serpents knit together in the middle^ which knot was called Hercules’s knot. This wand, as also Ike ll^sp, giv^. to, hi<9 by Apollo, wbcjxiwUb b« had. power to bring souls out of bell, aud to cwCaigr one into a steep. Vi(L Sera. tazEo. viii 139. ^ Pliny ix. 3. » ^ This is not a translation; and in many other parts the original Latin is not closely adhered to, but in general the explanations arc improved.4 iP/^/^ IV.INTRODUCTION, &c. Explication of Plate III. of the History of Medicine. I. iEsculapius carried to Rome, and a thcnsa, or divine rites, decreed by Cjesar. A serpent is seen placed on an altar. History teaches, that ^Esculapius was carried in the form of a serpent from Epidaurus to Rome, &c. Before Christ 291 years, in the year of the world 3693, in the 322d Olympiad, and 46‘3 years from the,building of Rome, as may be seen in the Chronological Table in my History of Medicine in Sckola 3Icdkinc£, &c. This medical god was constantly implored in sickness; vota, or vows, were made and fulfilled, as may be seen from an immense number of inscriptions in my possession, taken chiefly from remains found in or near the temples of .^Isculapius. Butyouseea serpent on the altar—for history teaches that ^sculapius carried to Epidaurus was in the form of a serpent; and it is evident that he was represented in this coin, from the last coin of the Rubrici; for in it this altar is seen with the ser- pent and a ship projecting from it. With respect to,the thensa decreed to Caesar, is certain from Suetonius; what is therefore wonderful if Rubrius, being dismissed by Caesar after Corfinium was taken, hoc monumentum ejus gratiam quasierit? Bergerus. II. Rev. Harduin describes and illustrates this coin, and the celebrated Patinus hath asserted an opinion somewhat different; Telesphorus is seen in it, who is also called Evc- merion, to whom Pausanias relates that the Pergameni sa- crifice. The celebrated Patinus observes, that the garment which covers him from the head to the foot is by hlartial called Ligonicus Bardocu cullus. Cephalon, the praetor, again made it, when the coin was struck. III. In this isrscen, ihzt Adrian hath hoped and invoked. For it is evident, that he had such miserable health, that it repented Adrian of his adoption, and a premature death averted caducum parietem. IV. Apis, found under Adrian. V. VI. The Egyptians and Pergamcnians wish every sort of health to Antoninus Pius. The Egyptians indeed Serapis, but the Pergamcnians for health and felicity address ^Escu- lapius. VII. VIII. Serapis. IX. M. Aurelius. This coin, signed in the tenth year, exhibits Isis winding in the form of a serpent. The serpent is the genius of health. X. The Nicomedians implore health to Marcus Aurelius. Explication of Plate IV, of the History of Medicine. I. Commodus and .Esculapius. .Esculapius, the most noted deity of the Pergamcnians, without doubt vigilated for the common welfare. II. Health of the human mind. HI. Serapis conservator, or preserver, IV. Serapis and Isis. V. Julianus Serapis and Hermanubis. VI. Severus with a serpent—.Esculapius is known under Adrianople, (sub ASfi*i'oir4X».) VII. Albinus and Minerva; VIII. Albinus and salus, or health. IX. Caracalla and Gcta commend their health to the Pergamenian Aisculapius. X. Macrius and Salus. Public vows. Explication of Plate V. of the History of Medicine. I. Eliogabulus and Serapis. II. Gordianus and Serapis, &c. To the second many things are to be observed; and first, indeed, I have not read lOESIfiN AAEHANPEflN as in Patin and Harduinus, but with the cupula E<l>E2inN KAI AAESANAPEflN; so that two cities are celebrated in this coin, without doubt—for the Egyptians openly avowed Serapis, as the Ephesians did Diana. HI. Hostilianus. Serapis in a temple. IV. Gallus. Serapis in a temple. This money was struck iy the people of Antioch, as may be seen, under the reign of Hostilianus, &c. V. Gallus and Serapis. VI. Gallus to the salutiferous Apollo. Volusianus. VII. In this coin 5a/ws, it expresses the pestiferous lues, or plague. How much this goddess hath been fatigued, or to those tired with vows. There are a thousand ways to death for those, whom the plague hath spared, &c. &c. Valerianus. Apollo preserver. Galienus,’INTRODUCTION, &c. XU ^ • Galiemis, IX. Isis and.Nemesis. A coin struck by the people of Smyrna. X. Galienus with Bacchus and /Esculapius, according to many opinions; but it appears to me to be .disculapius and Hygeia. PLATE VI. I. Galienus with iEsculapius. ‘ In the coin struck by the Sidetes—and what shall we say to the plague, which is related to have been so dreadful under the Emperor Galienus at Rome, or in the cities of Achaia, in one day five millions of men died of a similar disease ? JEsculapius was then of the greatest assistance, and hence it is not wonderful that the Sidetes did stamp an im- pression of him on their coin. II. Quietus with Apollo the conservator. As Apollo pre- fers a branch of laurel to the arrows or bow, it is just to suppose that this refers to medical not warlike assistance; but more on this in Bergerus. III. Probus and Salus. IV. Dioclctianus with Isis. In this place I will premise in a few words, that the Isis of the Egyptians was the same with the Ceres of the Greeks, and hence the Egyptians, in the twelfth year of the Emperor Diocletian (for that is evident from the additional numeral letters L. IB. as Achilleus rebelled before the eighth year, and was overcome by Diocletian; the famine, or want, which came afterwards, this coin exhibits elegantly, &c. V. Isis with Horus. The Greeks, when they speak of Horus, always interpret him as Apollo. Thus Herodotus, lib. ii. c. 144. relates, Rpovloi'O(T»pi0? waiJot Tov AwoXXiwa £XXr,V:{ Hcus, the son of Osiris, whom the Greeks call Apollo, and c. 156. A»yv7fln‘ ^6 AttoXXwv fiSK ilpc?. And Apollo is also, in the Egyptian, called Horus. VI. Isis. VII. Apis embalmed according to the manner of the Egyptians, as may be seen in many real antique mummies that have reached our time. VIII. Osiris, or the author of health. In Diodorus, lib. i. p. 11. they say that these gods (the sun and moon) govern the universe, nourishing and performing all things, at three periods of the year, in an invisible man- ner performing a circuit, viz. in the spring, summer, autumn. Which, although they have a very different nature, yet make the year with the best consent efficient, or with an excellent consent every thing good is produced by the changes in the year, &c. These plates shew the mythological credulity of the Egyptians, Greeks, and Romans, with the dignity of their medical deities, whom they reverenced with as much faith, fear, and hope, as any religious sectaries since their times. Irreverence to their gods was punished with death, or uni- versal detestation, as Socrates experienced, and as may be seen in the orations of Demosthenes^ when he wished to render an enemy odious in the sight of the people, &c. After the History, and a Chronological Table, giving, in a short view by columns, the periods when the principal philosophers, physicians, and other eminent personages, flourished; commencing from the supposed beginning of the world to the Peloponesian war, from that time to Justinian, and from thence to the present time. A Conspectus of the w'hole work appears; which is, of itself, a sliort system of anatomy and physiology. IN THE ANATOMICAL PART- Plate I. contdi-ns a very elegant male and female figure, drawn by Mr. Edwards, of the Royal Academy, and ea- graved by that excellent artist Mr. Sharp, to explain the ex- ternal parts, &c. page 3. Plate *1. Two figures with the references to the former plate opposite to the page of Creek description, and referring to the Batin description, &c. in the Latin edition; but in the present English there is no double description. PlateVI. ^/?.yr,-yrI jt,-tJ. Si'JJINTRODUCTION, &c. xiii Plate II. shews the constituent parts of the human body, with the description in Greek and Latin, now page 4. Plate III. is of the bones and their junctures, connections, &c. with Greek and Latin descriptions, now page 5. Plates IV. and V. shew the front and back view of the human skeleton, with Greek and Latin descriptions, nowp. 6. Plate VI. describes various bones with Greek and Latin descriptions, now page S. Plate VII shews a side view of the human skeleton, a foetal skeleton, with the difterences between the infant and adult, and the teeth, now page p. Plate VIII. exhibits the parts composing muscles, cxa- ' mined with a microscope, as an introduction to myology, p 10. Plate IX. a front view of the muscles, the references in the opposite single page, with the names, origin, insertion, and vse, in three columns distinctly exemplified, so that the student with the greatest facility, especially if he dissect with the plates before him, must obtain a perfect knowledge of all muscular motion, now page 11. Plates X. XI. XII. XIII. XIV. XV. XVI. shew the se- cond, third, and fourth, layer of muscles, in the fore and back view, with references in single pages to each plate, p. 13, &rc. Plate XVII. A view of the muscles, of the whole body laterally, now page ip, with reference plate. Plate XVIII. shews various muscles not reducible under the former nine plates. After this the myology is com- pleted with the manner of dissecting muscles, and the dif- ferent subjects necessary to be chosen by the anatomist for preparing the bones, muscles, nerves, injections, &c. with many useful rules to be observed in anatomical studies and dissections. This is in the Latin edition. Angiologia, or the knowledge of vessels, which are arteries, sanguiferous veins, and lymphatic vessels; these are all perspicuously exhibited in three colums, in a manner entirely new. Plates XIX. XX. arc front and back views of the arteries of the whole body, as they appear when injected, p. 21. &c. Plate XXI. is a view of all the veins of the whole human body, with a reference in one page shewing the origin in extremities, their various directions and terminations, &c. in the manner the blood passes from all the veins to tlie cava^ from a very fine drawing of Mr. Paillou’s, p. 23. Plate XXII. is of the lymphatic glands and lacteal ves- sels, by which is shewn how- nutrition is performed: by lacteal absorption and passage of the chyle to the thoracic duct, subclavian vein, &c. p. 24. Plate XXIII. is a whole elegant figure drawn by Paillou, representing the lymphatic glands and the lymphatic vessels of the whole human body, explained in three columns under the heads of no7ne and seats of glands—vasa inferentia and vasa efferentia, by which a complete knowledge of the whole lymphatic system, its diseases, &c. is easily acquired, p. 25. ADENOLOGIA, or an EXPLICATION of the GLANDS, Contains all the ancient opinions and modern discoveries of the glands of every species, their situations and uses, in the Latin edition, but more concise in this. A conspectus of all the glands in three columns, imder the heads of name and seat, habit, func- tion. This mode of exhibition is entirely new, and greatly abridges the science of Adenologia. NEUROLOGIA, or DOCTRINE of the NERVES. The ancient and modern opinions of the nerves, containing extracts in Greek and Latin from Rufus Ephesius, Herophilus, Erasistratus, Galenus, Oribasius, Vesalius, Eustachius Leeuweti- hock, Willis, Vieussens, Winslow^ Monro, sen. Whytt, Haller, Meckel, Zinn, Moscati, Pater dela Torre, Prochaska, Alex. Monro, junior. Walker, and some new ideas of the present author on the nerves, &c. taken from the treatise on nervous diseases, &c. Plate XXIV. is a complete section, as large as life, of Plate XXV. shews the basis of the brain, or cerebrum, the basis of the cranium, shewing the origin and direction of with the vessels, p. 27. the nerves to the sensitive organs, &c. through the foramina Plate XXVI. The plexus of the cerebrum, corpus callo- from the Lrain^ p. 26.. sum.INTRODUCTION, &c. XIV snm, corpora striata, thalami nervorum opticorum, pineal gland, &c. &c. p. 28. Plate XXVll. The arteries of the brain, &c. of the full size, p. 29- Plate XXVUI. Of the medullary spine, pineal gland, &c. a complete treatise of the brain and all its parts, with a comparative view of the weight of the brains of most animals, with the weight of their bodies, including man, &c. to ascertain the different quantity of brain each animal possesses compared with man; in which it is proved that the human brain is not the largest, as vulgarly received, p. 30. Of the cerebellum, medulla oblongata, spinalis, &c. Plate XXIX. and XXX. exhibit the ganglions of nerves and funiculi, p. 81, &c. Plate XXXI. shews the component parts of nerves mag- nified by a microscope in thirteen figures. This investigation exposes many erroneous doctrines of the nerves, p. 33. .The vessels of the cerebrum, cerebellum, and medullary spine. Plate XXXII. as large as life, shewing the intercostal cervical nerve, or sympatheticum magnum, ganglions, &c. proceeding to the heart, diaphragm, &c. This elaborate demonstration, in concert with otheis, shews evidently, how one viscus, or part being affected by irritation, or compres- sion, may affect others, even remote from the scat of disease. Plate XXXIII. A reference plate to the foregoing, as large as life, p. 35. Plate XXXIV. Shews the nerves of the right side going to the heart, with two more figures of ganglions, &c, nerves, &c, HERE ENDS the FIRST VOLUxME in the LATIN EDITION. Plate XXXV. large as life, or further explication of Plate XXXIII. See. of arteries, veins, nerves, ganglions, muscles, &c. nervous ramifications, &c, p. 54. Plate XXXVT. A complete view of the nerves of the tliorax and abdomen, &c. large, p. 6l. Plate XXXVT. (2) A reference plate to the former, large as life. Plate XXXVII. shews the cccliac ganglion, mesenteric plexus, and right hypogastric nerves, with veins, arteries, vertebrae, &c. p. 73. Plate XXXVII. (2) is a reference plate to the former, full as large as the adult. Plate XXXVIII. Nervum sympatheticum magnum and par octavum in the left side, p. 80. Plate XXXVIII. (2) The reference plate to the former, large as an adult. Plate XXXIX. exhibits the nerves of the liver and sto- mach from the conffux of the right and left cccliac ganglions, &c. &c. exhibiting how the stomach may affect, or be aft'ccted by diseases of other parts, p. 87. Plate XXXIX. (2) Large reference plate to the last. The mode of dissecting and preparing the nerves for anato- mical demonstration fully explained. These representations of all the nervous system are most beautifully drawm and engraved, and the references in number amount to some thousands. These minute demonstrations will gratify the most inquisitive and contemplative mind by a series of real facts of the supreme government and influence of the brain and nerves, as ministers of feeling and all human sensations, sympathies, antipathies, &c. &c. SPLANCHNOLOGIA .‘.Treats of the integuments, viscera dedicated to forming chyle, secreting urine, semen for genera- tion, the organs of breathing, of the circulation of the blood, and lastly, the organs of the senses. Plate XL. Shews the internal parts composing the thorax and abdomen, with references in one page arranged in three columns under the heads of name and situation—structure, connections, and uses; by which the contents of the thorax and abdomen are briefly and clearly explained, so as to leave an impression on the mind not fo be easily effaced, p. 90, Plate XLI. Shews the abdomen, the intestines, Sec. being removed. The liver, gall bladder, pancreas, spleen, kid- neys, ureters, bladder, large vessels, &c. are represented in situ naturali. Differences between the adult and the embryo in the Latin, but in this edition in a future part. OfINTRODUCTION, &c. xv On the EYE and DOCTRINE of VISION. Plate XLII. shews the arteries, tunics, and humours of choroidi instratum, plicx processuum ciliarium, or plaits of the eye in five figures, which prepares the mind for the skil- the ciliary processes, annulus, or ring of the iris, &c. in six ful consideration of eye diseases, p. 92. figures, p. 95. Plate XLIII. shews the nerves of the bulb of the eye, Plate XLVI. Muscles of the bulb of 'the eye in five vessels, &c. ganglion, opthalmicum, with the ciliary figures, p. g6. nerves, drc. muscles, &c. p. 93. Plate XLVII. The representation of the heart injected Plate XLIV. exhibits the membrana coronis ciliaris, by with wax in two figures, with the auricles, large vessels, &c. which is joined the chrystalline lens with the vitreous humour, concerned in the circulation of the blood, p. 97. &c. their minute arteries—Mcibomius's glands, viie lachry- Plate XLVIII. explains the circulation of the blood, marum, &c. in ten figures, p. 94. the valves of the heart, &c. as the valvul® mitrales, tricus- Plate XLV. Origin of the tunics of the eye, -reticulum pidalcs, &c. &c.p. 98, An epitome of anatomy for the junior students, and for those intended only to practise surgery, Ac. in which is abridged all that is necessary to be known for the purposes of practice, particularly for surgery, and midwifery, &c. p. 105. IJygrology^ or the doctrine of the fluids of the human body, whether secreted, or not secreted. PHYSIOLOGIA. The explanation of the functions and actions of all parts of the living or animated human body. Anatomy demonstrates all the parts in the dead body; physiology considers and explains the manner in which the living body performs the functions necessary for life and health, &c. The physiology of the human body is gi'eatly abridged, and yet is ample, as to utility. It is shewn in a new point of view in three columns in the Latin edition, from which are excluded all idle hy- potheses and vain speculations; under the heads of physiology—scholi-a—pathology—by which at one view are seen the doctrines of the parts and functions, the real causes of their action, as far as human understanding extends, and their appearances after death from diseases, which form the foundation of morbid causes, and rational plans of cure. Plate XLIX. shews the pharynx and larynx, or the organs of swallowing, voice, &c. in many figures from dissections fully explained, p. 99- Plate L. Of the organ of hearing, p. 100. Plate L. (2) Reference plate to the former, p. 100. Plate LI. Of the omentum, intestines, &c. in which some errors arc corrected,p. lOK Plate LII. Second plate of the same with the bile, ducts, &c. to shew the course of the bile, p. 102. Plate LIII. The genital parts of men, arranged in a con- cise manner, p. 103. Plate LIV. The- genital patts of women,, external and internal, p. 104. An epitome of modern physiology, containing the principal objects necessary to be remembered in the theory and practice of physic, now translated with additions, p. 155. The plates in the Schola Medicinae, including reference plates, amount to sixty-eight, elegantly engraved by capital artists, among whom will be found Sharp, Royce, Cooke, &c. The bones and muscles, arterial and venal systems, are particularly designed for surgery students, and the v.'hole work, for those who wish to become learned physicians.. The various plates of the nerves ^ * theirINTRODUCTION, &c. xvi their ganglions, connexions, plexuses, &c. See. of all the principal parts of the human body, are particularly interesting to every physician who would wish to account for the various symptoms of diseases, either directly of parts, or indirectly by sympathy. In these minute investigations many hundreds of references in the reference plates lead the studious pupil gradatim to a profound know- ledge of the minutest causes of all different human sensations and signs of. diseases, arranged and exhibited in such a manner as to leave, it is hoped, a durable jmpression on the mind, ready on all occasions to be usefully applied to medical practice. In short, the Schola Medicine is intended to answer the most ample purposes of instruction; to render most other books unnecessary, as far as facts and just reasoning extend; and, to early fortify the juvenile mind against those frothy conjectu^ effusions, w-hich too often, pro tempore^ injure the Pceonian art. It must be submitted to the discernment of the learned and candid, to determine on its probable utility, by considering the labour of the arrangement and execution, and by comparing the practical use of the Schola Medicince with any other single production extant. The methodising of the work, its gradual execution, the slow progress of the drawings and engravings, with which the letter-press was frequently obliged to keep pace, have consumed a period of above twenty-five years, as far as the author’s other writings, and an extensive medical practice, -would permit. It was written in Latin, that it might become more universally useful to all nations. The stile, it is hoped, is perspicuous, concise, and intelligible; those w'ho have neglected their Latin, may, perhaps, find that performance useful in regaining, w'hat may, in some measure, have been lost, and the junior students, it is hoped, will be incited to pursue their studies in the learned languages, which -will amply reward their labours, and give additional lustre to that profession, in which they should attempt excellence as members. It is the duty of every physician to leave the art better than he found it, by dedicating to study the idle hours consumed in amusement: for dissipation and Bacchanalian excesses are ahvays inimical to serious reflection.* The necessity and utility of this work, it is presumed, will be acknowdedged, when it be con- sidered, that no one book comprehending anatomical plates, with references to each in one page of letter-press, and a complete physiology and pathology exhibited at one view, by columns that run parallel, has ever yet been published. The' labour of consulting various writings separately would require such a collection, that the expence would be enormous, and the advantages to pupils doubtful, through the great errors in their arrangement. Many writers of former works have rather wished to appear splendid than useful, and much time has been lost in endless repetitions of flying from copper-plate Xo the references; irom Xhe. references to the copper-plate: the tediousness of which mode of conveying instruction is often considered by students so prolix or difficult, that igno- rance is preferred, frequently, to science, when obtained only by such laborious means. All these diffiulties are now obviated. In the present performance, all that is contained in each plate is compressed into one concise page of letter-press opposite, by being printed in a small type, cast expressly for the purpose, and each page is divided into columns, in such a manner, as not only to give * Some of the remaining copies of the Latin edition may he had without the plates, by those who purchase the English editiefn, at a moderate cxpcncc,-IXTRODUCTIOX, &c. XVll give an exact description of the parts viewed, but likewise their connections, uses, SiC. Tiie result of the niost tedious and laborious study is contained, frequently, in a short sentence, or self-evident proposition; thus is reduced, into a small compass, all that is necessary to be well known or remembered, w^hen applied to the medical, chiriirgical, or ohslttric art. By these means hath a few pages contracted what is necessary to be comprehended in anatomy, except, that the nerves, their ganglions, &c. have required longer descriptions. Besides this concise and useful arrangement, there is an abridged anatomy and physiology, containing the whole modern knowledge. To render, however, the Latin work important, it contains a more diffusive description, for the us§.^of lecturers, teachers, or professors, planned and executed in such a manner, that all which is useful in the large volumes of anatomical wTiters, &c. will be found in this work; without that prolixity for which some authors and lecturers have been so justly censured, by all w’ho would wish to facilitate instruction, and render the deepest erudition of the art accessible to all capacities. To all junior students it may be an introduction previous to hearing lectures, and afterward, the companion of the dissecting room; to those who have passed through their studies, it may prove a very concise and useful recapitulator, by the exhibition of those anatomical preparations and facts, from which all actual and demonstrative knowledge w'as acquired requisite for successful practice. Credulity, the parent of error, will, then, no longer pervade the science. The PRACTICAL APPLICATION of SCHOLA MEDICINiE. I. For obtaining anatomical knowledge and physiology. On view'ing the print, with or without anatomical preparations, let the engraving be examined, or compared with the real subject, and the iw'ritten description, connection, and use of the part, be read in Schola Medicince: by this procedure, it is impossible not to easily comprehend, in a very short time, the anatomical structure, situation, and use of every part of the human body.* II. In physiology, let the pupil read the description and use of any part or function in the first column, and the scholia, or reasoning, if any, in the second column, by which is readily acquired the nature, action, power, and utility, of any part, or parts, during life. III. In pathology, the knowledge of the causes and effects of diseases will be easily ascertained, by directing the eye to the third column of any part, where will be found the appearances, from •' dissections, *■ Words and things are easiest taught, and best comprehended, together. The attainment of all languages, arts, and sci- ences, is quicker acquired by such means, than by the common slow methods of communicating knowledge, which oftener ilarken than enlighten. Descriptions, however well expressed, cannot convey clear ideas of diseases so immediately, as a view of the sick. At the St. Mary-le-bone Infirmary, I have classed disorders in a new manner, in separate wards, and on the door of each is written male, or fe?nale, pulmonic,fever, chronic, small-pox, chirurgical, venereal, casual, childrens, covakscent, SfC. SfC. The name at the entrance gives the genus of the disease, and the numerous sick, within each airy ward, give the individual va- rieties of every species. The prescriptions taken, in the medical department, amount annually to many thousands; which e.v- tensive practice, arranged in the foregoing manner, affords pupils a rapid opportunity of comprehending the routine of medical practice, when united with other advantages. Mr. fTAifc, obligingly attending to many hints on the common defects in tlie structure of hospitals, delivered by me, has displayed an uncommon judgment in the plan of this humane infirmary, calcu- lated to answer all ‘ the beneficent purposes of the noblemen and gentlemen, who are guardians of the poor of this mo.st opulent and liberal quarter of London.xviii INTRODUCTION, to dissections^ after death. Thus blending, in one vic\v, tiie actual living functions, the reasonings resulting, and the visible defects of all the parts of the human body, post mortem, a complete knowledge of the real causes of most diseases may be acquired, without having recourse to the imaginary conceits of dubitable hypothesis. In this work, the pathology succeeds the physiology. IV. In the rational practice of physic, surgery, &c. The previous science already described prepares the medical practitioner to reflect sensibly on the positive danger, difliculfies, or probable facility in the treatment of diseases, and performing operations. Witli this rational foresight, and a perception of the resistance to be expected in any disorder, united to the previous and present state of the patient s constitution, the indications of cure and contra-indications are discoverable, and apt remedies may be judiciously prescribed, from their known and experienced power and efficacy. To attempt healing the sick without compre- hending the complicated and real causes of diseases, determined by anatomical, physiological, and pathological facts, is like attempting to sail in a ship on the ocean without ballast, rudder, or compass. It is random quackery to depend on any particular nostrum, or remedy, in the cure of dift'erent disorders; for, if it be harmless, the afflicted may be lost for want of an active remedy; if violent, it may kill by rash or injudicious application. By penetrating, however, into the origin of diseases from dissections and experience in former instances, and by having concluded from the appearances after death, what could \\q\qproduced the effects observable in life; a physician wall not only be able to proceed in practice satisfactorily, but judge of past professional errors, and form an accurate and sagacious estimate of all future inquiries and improvements. Such a well- informed practitioner in medicine, actuated by logical reasoning, will cautiously examine novelties, but will be ahvays open to conviction. The flights of fancy may amuse, but in all important concerns reason should be satisfied. The plausible deceptions wdnch so often disgrace the medical profession, will be perceived with a glance of the eye; the mind will reflect with the rapidity of a flash of lightning on the competency or incoinpetcncy of human intellects, in wdiatever may be the object of research. The delusions that lead the indolent or superficial, make no impression on such a character. If he be strictly an honest and discerning man, truth is embraced, and merit respected wherever discoverable: professional prejudices, duplicity, and fallacy, are detected, ex- posed, and rejected. If such honourable members of society have enemies, they can only be the enemies of truth and integrity. It is the sincere wash and hope of the author, that every medical student wall industriously study the profession, act with great probity, humanity, and hortour, and seriously consider the important trust committed to his charge, after the regular studies the art requires. The preservation of health, the power often of life and death, is submitted to medical care and skill. To assume an air of wisdom, and be superficial, or incapable, is an heinous oflcnce against Heaven and all human society; to be as skilful as the art admits, is an indispensable •.Uitv. If medical pupils avoid incomprehensible pursuits, and follow' the methods shortly to be recom- mended to obtain real knowdedge, and if they keep a journal under the heads of name, age, symptoms, disease, remedies, and observations, divided into columns, according to the form in use at the aSY. dMary-lc-bone Infirmary, it is next to impossible for the studious not to well comprehend the gene- ral c/’cn/m of practical medicine in the space of t^vc or three years, from whence they may procecRXIX INTRODUCTION, &c. to the university with credit. It should, however, be recollected, that universities are generally under the dominion of the sacred theological pi'ofession, and the discipline observed, agreeably -to the statutes, is more adapted to the purposes of religious faith, or classical erudition, than medicim*. Seven years are consumed in obtaining the degree of Master of Arts, in which acquisition no medical studies whatever are enforced; though every other branch of academical learning may be obtained in the highest degree of perfection. Any Master of Arts may enter on the medical line, have a Bachelor of Physic’s degree in one year, and a licence medichiam cxercereper tolam Angliam. How capable any student may be to visit the sick, and prescribe remedies in all diseases, after such an education, is not difficult to determine. It is hoped, however, that a more rational mode of study will be established, and that Schola Medicince may assist in, promoting such a de- sirable and necessary alteration; for which the work was principally written, in the author’s apartments at St. Alban’s Hall, Oxford.As a book of information on the subjects of which it treats, it may be useful to the students of law, physic, and divinity, to philosophers, and even the nobility and gentry; for every gentleman and magistrate should have some general know ledge of the human body. To professors of learned universities it solicits protection, as it is presumed it may greatly tend to abridge their labours. The mode of procedure, recommended in ASc/io/a A/e- dicincBy is directly contrary to the former university plans of medical education; for these say, ubiphilosophia desinit, ibi medicina inciplt: but it is insisted on, that youths, intended to prac- tice medicine, should be first instructed in anatomy very young, and familiarised to practice by a studious and accurate observation of the sick in all possible situations of disease. After receiving the numerous facts with diligence, that an extensive medical practice presents, the student may in- quire, at leisure, into the causes and effects he hath actually observed, with all the various pheno- mena of nature at the university. Aristotle has justly asserted, nihil est in intellectu quod non ante fuit in sensibus.\ To advise or teach pupils to reason and account for what they have not seen, or to mediate on any visible subject by only written descriptions, is nearly as sagacious, as to attempt to teach a person born blind the names, tints, and different shades of colours; or those born deaf, the sweet modulations and musical chords, that produce the most ravishing hannonv, to a refined musical ear. Who can expect that any person should be enabled to discern and com- prehend the beauties, logical arrangement, and perfections of literary composition, who is ignorant of words, sentences, and grammar.? The practice of anatomy, and of all the prepai'atory branches of medicine, is the grammar to the art of physic, and leads the mind safely to the more minute in- quiries and sublimer studies. It is proceeding directly ad rem; w'hilst all other modes are, more or less, circuitous, doubtful, or fallacious, and often terminate in a vain supposition of actual knowledge where little profound science exists. Morbi non *cerbis curantur, sed remediisi as the greatest of the Romans Celsus says, the general and partic\ilar application of wdiich can e * ' only The chief reason of vvritingthe work at Oiford was the opportonity of examining extensive libraries, to collect and compile different parts of th^ l.atin Schola, &c. and it.is mentioned, with great gratitude, that the author’s intentions were liberally promoted by the learned anatomical professor Dr, Parsons, ai>d other eminent, profound scholars, who are an honour to that distinguished university. t This excellent true proposition has laid the foundation of the greatest part of the celebrated Mr. Locke’s essay on the extent of human under- standing, and if strictly attended to, would chace from the human mnrd, all chimerical false notions and prejudices. Locke should not only be read, l>Ht studied with close attention,INTRODUCTION, &c. to only be obtained by deep reflection, the avoiding prejudices, and by long experience. Those ■w ho know not these advantages may aftect to censure those who do; but by such censures they only proclaim their own want of erudition in that art which it is their serious duty to better comprehend. All degrees of human wisdom and merit are relative. It is by comparison, that the beauties and deformities of nature and art are discoverable to the discerning, experienced, and contemplative. To an ignorant person of no taste, the sculpture of the rudest block, or the vile daubing of a sign painting, are little inferior to the sublime works of Prai'itiles, Phidias, ov Apelles. The Latin edition of Schola Medicines differs from the present in English; for the former gives the physiology in one column, the second column contains frequently explanations, and a third column gives the appearances of all the parts of the body in a state of disease, or the morbid ef- fects arising from whatever complaint the part might have been previously subject to during life, and w hich led to fatality. By these means, the living function is first considered, how it is per- formed, by Avhat powers it is preserved in a state of perfect health; how, and by what means it is impeded, perverted, or destroyed. For a physician, who comprehends the active principles ne- cessary for the healthful support of a function, whether animal, vital, or natural, and in wdiat de- gree each assists in its due performance; on reflection, and viewing the diseased state, that destroyed the pow'er, during life, on which its free action depended, will be able, if he be experienced in the powers of remedies, to prevent many of those causes, which prove fatal in numerous diseases. He will likewise be enabled to form a judgment, on the efficacy of proposed treatment in all cases. This science of morbid anatomy, is a great modern improvement, and will lead, under prudent restrictions, more to the perfection of the art of physic, than any yet devised. It is truth, it is occular demonstration, it is conclusive. It banishes error, and fallacious preconception. In the rational practice of physic, a great collection of morbid appearances, after death, is exhi- bited, not only of preceding authors, but all 1 have observed myself, in conjunction Avith those writers, wdll be arranged hereafter in the practical part of physic; that wdll be founded and sup- ported by those irrefutable evidences. In wdiich case, neither hypothesis, nor speculations, systems, nor sects, will be admitted, any farther, than when supported by truth, just reasoning from morbid appearances, and actual success, or its reverse in practice. There are some hopes, if physicians direct their minds to those objects, more than following doubtful or ambiguous systems, such as have lately appeared, that the art will soon arrive at the utmost degree of perfection. Confine chemistry, that useful science, wdthin its due bounds; reject all chimeras of novices in the art, examine all pretensions by those lights of truth, which the art amply possesses; set no store by the supposition that medicines of unknown efficacy, can, or ought, to supplant those from which w^e have long experienced the most salutary benefits. Select the best, reject the w'orst and unsuc- cessful modes of practice, however countenanced by those whose prejudices, or slender experience cannot justify their attempt at dangerous innovation. How many unsubstantial caprices, have, wdthin these few years, been obtruded into the art, tried, and condemned; yet supported with a fury little short of insanity, whilst the rage lasted. Encourage practical and real improvements; but always consider the quarter, and probable capacity and experience, from whence they originate. Delusions may pervade the best intended minds; but, it is the office of experience and judgment,INTRODUCTION, &c. xxi No. 21, Saville-Row, ]\Iay 1, 1803. ft' - to reflect, reason, analyse, form analogies, and not be led into error, through precipitancy, or a puerile delight in plausible, though ill conceived novelties of versatile projectors. Never desert that vi'hich has been experienced successful; for what may probably prove deceptive. Proceed al- ways with caution, prudence, candour, and integrity. Fair reputation follow's honourable conduct. In this edition is delivered a pathology different from that of the Latin, to prepare the young student, and store the mind with that necessary knowiedge, by which, it is presumed, he may pro- ceed to practice. Some, and indeed, the greatest part, is taken from Gaubius, Caldanus, Plenck, and others, and it is admitted contrary to the opinion of some learned men, that the morbid state of the fluids, act first on the nervous system, then on the heart and arteries, and from thence to the remotest parts, producing increased morbid perturbations through a part, or the whole human body; this, however, will be more fully proved in the practical work w'hich will follow the preparatoiy principles. Whoever will take the trouble to examine all other productions on anatomy, physiology, and pathology, and compare them with the present, will be convinced, that this is better adapted, as a single book, for students, than most others. It is not intended to depreciate any learned works, for there are many excellent, and it is from several that the present offering to the learned, in part, has been selected, and delivered in a form different from all that have preceded, to facilitate medical studies. A greater excitement to industry cannot be conceived, nor better expressed, than by the great Hippocrates, o (3io! ri i^xKp'4, 0 xctfpof e|t/{ i t^cTpx a-^aXipi 4 Je xpterif — “ Zi/e is short, the art long, the occasions momentous, judgment difficult," &c. It will therefore be of the greatest importance to establish all useful truths as early in life as possible, and to abandon and sup- press all useless inquiries, as deviations from the main points to be considered in practice. The different studies recommended in Schola Medicince having been fulfilled, long experience after- w^ards forms the GREAT physician, and hewdllbethe GREATEST, w’ho is convinced, through life, he has SOMETHING TO LEARN. These important truths are most respectfully submitted to the profession in general, and to those in particular, who are expert anatomists, physiologists, and pathologists; but above all, to those, w'ho with these sciences, have joined true theory, to a long experience and unprejudiced observa- tion in practice. With such learned practitioners, the author has little to apprehend; they will glance at imperfections with a benevolent candour; they w'ill generously consider the difficulty of the undertaking, and will be much more gratified, to find any thing to commend than censure— errare est humanum—to be perfect is impossible. As to the cavils of envy, or the deceptive mis- representations of malevolence, or falsehood, forbearance, as usual, will be the only response. The consciousness of having faithfully endeavoured to serve society, elevates the mind above little professional jealousies, or the malicious rude attacks of miserable concealed illiberal-critics, who frequently w'rite, for the sake of mischief, what they do not even themselves believe, and whose praise would be a real disgrace. The enjoyment of unlimited professional confidence, amongst all ranks, after a practice of near fifty years, first as a surgeon, and afterwards as a physician, in this great metropolis, has excited in tlie mind the most lively sense of gratitude; a gratitude 1 that no opposition wdll shake; nor, during the short remainder of life, will ever be effaced !INTRODUCTION, See. XXll Dr. JiOjyLEY’i other Latin and English Works, ^c. T. Schola medicinjE universalis nova Historiam, anatomiam, pViysio- logiam atque pathologiam specialein continens, cum 68 tabulis aeneis auctore Gulielmo Rowley, M.D. of which the present work is an abridged translation. The Latin edition in two volumes, price 4/. 4i. Od. n. The Rational and Improved Practice of Physic, in lout handsome volumes, octavo, price 1/. Us. 6d. Interspersed with the author’s nu- merous preset iptons, morbid dissections, &c. &c. VOL. I. Contains treatises on female, nervous, hysterical, hypochondriacal, bilious, and cancerous diseases. Letters on medical vanity, and the abuse of hemlock. See. in cancers, Stc. with the cure of a cancerous womb, ulcer of the rectum, &c. VOL. II. On madness and suicide, convulsions and spasms, lethargy, apoplexy, and palsy; the difi'erent species of gout; and effects of the jnutialic acid ; new methods of treating the bite of mad dogs, <&c. VOL, III. On one hundred and eighteen diseases of the eyes; with cop- per-plates, e.xplaining the organs of vision, with all the chirurgical oncrations and remedies lor removing blindness. Sec. &c. The history aiiduseof electricity in various diseases, with the course of theneivcs, explaining the parts to be electrified, &c. with new ideas on pulmonary consumption. VOL. IV. On the cure of old ulcerated legs without rest, Sec. On the putrid malignant sore throat, with the mode of cure practised sue- cessfully at the St. Mary-le-bone Infirmaty. The causes of death amongst children in the scarlet and putrid fevers, Sec. Medical adyice to the army and navy, containing the diseases of soldiers, seamen, &c. with English piescriptions; on gun shot wounds, &c. On diet, and on all the foods used in the world, adapted to invalids, different constitutions, ages, and countries, with their various applications in nourishing the body. Sec. III. A treatise on the causes and cure of swelled legs; on dropsies; and on the modes of retarding the decay of the constitution in the de- cline of life: with a copper-plate description of a new-invented instru- ment for drawing off the water in female dropsies, Sec. To which is added, a tract on the absolute necessity of encouraging the study of anatomy. Sec. to supply the army, navy, and country, with skilful physiciaos and surgeons, &c. Addressed to the legislature of Great Britain, price 3s. IV. The most cogent reasons why astringent injections, caustic bougies, and violent salivations in venereal affections, should be banished for ever from practice, w'ith mild and experienced modes and prescrip- tions for treating every species of the disease, either by mercury, or. alteratives, with the history of the origin, progress, and present state of infection for the use of young practitioners, to prevent, many evils lately introduced, Sec. and the management of urethral obstructions, &c. Sec. price 4s, V. A treatise on the hydrocepahtus, or watery head of children, with, m.iiiy cases cured by early discovering the symptoms of that otherwise licsttiictive disease, with dia,gnostics, prognostics,, and remedies ; to which are added precepts on nursing, and short rules for preventing and treating infantile complaints, price 2i. SHORTLY W'lt.L BR rUBLteitltW VI. Fcrmula medkamenterum used at the St. Mary-lc-bone Infirmary, with an exhortation to the students. VII. A description of the famous Ai>OTHF,osts HoMERt, or deification of Jlomer, a curious antique sculpture, the .sublime performance of Ari- chf.laus of PRtiNE, above 2000 years ago, dug out of the ruins of the palace of Claudius Drusus, 160 years since, placed in the palace of Co- lor.na, at Rome, and, during the French war, removed to London, where it may be purchased for j^SOOO, SHORT EXPLANATION, EXTR.ICTED FROM THE RATIONAL PRelCTICE OF PHYSIC. As the modes of reasoning adopted by the author, in many parts of these works, may appear new, particularly to those who arc under the influence of hypothetical systems, and not accustomed to reason logi- cally, it may be necessary to give a short explanation of the manner in which the reasonings are conducted. Mathematical, geometrical, mechanical, and many chemical hypo- theses, formerly and lately in vogue for constructing the various and visi- onary theories in medicine, in a great measure, are excluded, and facts, originating from the evidence of the senses, from ocular demonstrations, are exhibited to explain the ccurer of diseases, and to search for adequate remedies to remove those causes. First. The anatomical structure and pliysiology of the parts or func- tions, are explained indifferent treatises, byconuectod facts and reason- ings, as far as were thought expedient. Secondly. From the appearances u/i’e/'deaiA, the impediments and mor- bid affections that had happened in lilc, aie attempted to be ascertained by inductive reasonings. Thirdly. Propositions from these sources of true intelligence arc formed, in many instances, both theoretical and practical. Fourthly. From considering the origin and magnitude of disc'ses, ex- plained by the foregoing means, their stages, real and probable effects itxi the living human body, aie all the prognostics discovered, and what benefits may be expected from the ait of medicine in various diseases ; by which facts and reflections, rational expectations are encouiagcd, and rash boastings and irrational promises discountenanced ; medicine, thus.con- ceived, and practised, strictly adheres to reason and truth. Fifthly. By concentrating all the foregoing facts, and' considering, from long and past experience, the force, power, andi probable conse- quences of a disease, with its stages ; whether it be acute or chronic ; the age, sex, strength, and constitution of the- individual affected, are ascertained the powers and mode necessary for the removal of the causes of disease. Sixthly. In the election of remedies, those that are important, are adopted and prescribed, where they can be exhibited with safety and’ rationality to the patient, and palliative methods of treatment are never proposed, but in cases wherein radical cures cannot be with any hope of success attempted. Among the great variety of prescriptions for the rohsst and Jlorid, pale, and debilitated, irritable or more torpid, Sec. there are few which the author’s own expeiience has not proved safe and efficacious in t'ne cases, and, under the circumstances they arc recommended.* It has always been considered the duty of a physician, to act on clear principles and with energy, or not act, and to be always more solicitous to attack a dis- ease hy efficacious remedies, than to please the patient’s taste at the hazard of life, or the injury of the constitution. The ordering trjling saline and sioeetened draughts, when disorders demand the most decided and puwerful.practicc, IS a disgrace to the art,: sed est modas in rebus. The mind of a physician should be always directed, and ardently.ani- mated, to attack the causes ot disease, and be elevated superior to the difficulty medicine has to encounter. Timidity, or rashness, are equally dangerous in the treatment of many morbid affections : the former fre- quentl.v loses the fairest opportunities of saying life; the latter, ii.the companion of ignorance and empiricism. * There is certainly a great difference in the constitutions of different patients, some abound with serum, others with a superabundance of red paiticles in the blood, which form the palid and Jlorids the fatsuper- abound with oil, the lean not. 'Will any confined system or rrcubcade-. quate to this diversity iI THE u. if HISTORY OF MEDICINE; TRANSLATED FROM THE LATIN EDITION OF SCHOLA MEDICINJE. ' - f TThe origin of all things is obscure, and involved in the dark clouds of fabulous history. Credulous antiquity honoured the first inventors of the Arts and Sciences, by placing them amongst the gods; yet the Pagans themselves ^annot deny that they were men. The invention of many things, as well as Medicine, began with the first inhabitants of the world ; but this, from its object—the preservation of life—became more useful to mankind than any other. Every consecration arose from the utility or benefits that eminent men rendered to society: for it will be difficult to find any personage, who has attained to such dignity, without having done some essential services. Experience gave rise to Medicine; opportunity, or the necessity of trial, gave origin to experience. Custom increased thtr stock of knowledge; for, in ancient times, the sick were exposed in public roads, to enquire of passengers, whether they had ever laboured under the same disease, and by what means they were cured. Another circumstance which assisted their acquisition of medical skill, was the custom of patients writing down the method by which they bad been relieved, and giving it to their priests to be deposited in the temples. That animal body, called Man, formed with the greatest ingenuity, increases, from a small beginning, by nourishment, assimilated, or prepared by various organs, and distributed to every part, by which it is preserved, and frequently conducted to a very advanced age, ultimately terminating in natural death. In a state of heakhy existence, it is capable of resisting various injuries from external causes, and even of overcoming their effects. The increase and preservation of the body are effected by its own peculiar actions: for example—by these actions the- nourishment or food is converted into chyle and blood, which, in its motion through different vessels, is so altered, as to restore those parts that were destroyed, or removed by tlie ordinary functions of life ; an increased, or diminished motion, frequently- disturbs these actions, renders the body weak, and unable to resist their effects : hence arise infirmities, and diseases; prematuie death, or a cessation of the vital functions, from the debility of protracted old age. A continuation of bodily strength depends on the equality of those actions, which are mostly regulated by moderate exercise, government of the passions, and plain diet: by these means, a strength of body is acquired, capable of making greater resistance against affecting causes; but increased motion of body or mind, various excesses, and a luxurious idle life- accelerate the approaches of diseases and death. What has been already said of the general changes of life, has been dictated by experience, and will be more particularly elucidated in its proper place; it will, however, explain why the first inhabitants of the earth, and those of the present day,, who practise rustic, or simple habits of life, are less subject to indisposition than those who depart from the best precepts of rational diet, and thus voluntarily rather destroy than preserve their health. But, various injuries of life—as change of atmosphere, or seasons; abstinence-, or excess; external violence, and b many11 HISTORY OF MEDICINE. many other causes—sometimes inevitable—occasion, in proportion to their cficcts, difl'erent degrees of derangement in the functions of life : men, therefore, were always liable to pain, were often debilitated, injured, or destroyed by accidental causes, before the vital powers were incapable of performing their functions from old age ; hence, the causes of disease and death become more evident. It was also observed, that diseases were frequently removed by the natural powers of the body only, or by a spontaneous increase of action', the cause of disease was expelled through various parts of the body: thus fevers, lij?morrha<Te, or effusion of blood, ulcers, abcess, and convulsions—real causes of disease in themselves, became the means of restoring health, and proved the extent of corporeal powerin resisting, or removing disease. In very early times, many remedies were known: some by natural reflection; others by accidental circumstances; others again became known by their effects on the brute creation. The tongue and mouth of the sick being dry, required water to quench thirst; water or fluid, collected under the skin, was removed by an incision ; blood was seen to flow from a ruptured vein: the purgative influence of hellebore was discovered, by its effects, on a goat. Hence it appears, that a knowledge of the cause and symptoms of diseases, the pow'crs of life in repelling, or removing them, and the application of various remedies had been observed in all ages, even amongst the most uncultivated race of mankind : and, consequently, the real oiigin of Medicine was derived from such experience. This natural physic, discovered and established by experience alone, was yet very imperfect; the effects of salutiferous and deleterious simples were only knowm, and chiefly possessed by the low'cr order of people, greatly resembling our present illiterate herb-doctors; yet it must be confessed, that some of them, from having devoted more attention to the subject, increased their knowledge : the sick were therefore judiciously exposed in the public roads, to receive all possible benefit from the experience of passengers. Since it has been proved that natural Medicine was coeval with the existence of man, it will next follow to shew where it was first cultivated with particuqir attention, where reduced into a science, its inventor, the earliest physicians, and the time it began to be practised by private men. It may be distinguished into three periods—Obscure, Fabulous, and Historical. In the first period, from the creation of the world to the flood, although vve know it existed, we have scarcely any tradition of its effects, except what may be collected from Sacred History. In the second period, every thing is obscured by allegory and fable, often with little regard to truth. The third begins from the time when the actions of men were handed down to posterity witli greater accuracy and perspicuity. It IS well known, that amongst the early inhabitants of the world, it was customary to represent actions, by humorous relations, hyperbolic and hieroglyphic figures, concealing naked truth under the effusions of fancy.—Cicero, dt Nafura Dear. Lib. 11. remarks, “ That it was customary to enroll those amongst their gods, who had conferred important benefits on •“ society.” An inveirtor of the Science of Physic is to be sought after amongst those who lived soon after the general deluge ; for, prior to that epoch, it does not seem that Medicine had arrived to such a degree of excellence, as to be enumerated with the Arts : for in the sacred codicil of antediluvian inventions, several Sciences are particularly noticed—as Agriculture, Music, Metallurgy, Smithcry, &c. but not a syllable of Medicine. But if wc particularly peruse fabulous history, as far as relates to Physic, we shall find Horus, king of the Assyrians, son of Isis and Osiris, celebrated as first inventor of •Medicine : some believe him to lia\c been the Apollo of the Greeks, and Ph- ebus .f the Latins, accordiiig to Diodorus Siculus, who observes, “ By Horus, is meant Apollo, who was taught th^ “ art of curing, and prophecyiiig by his mother Isis, and has deserved well of mankind by his oracles and cures.” The following verses of Ovid, in which Apollo is made to speak for himself, corroborate this opinion; “ Invmtum medkina matin est, ojiijerque per orban Dicor, et herbarum mbjecta pofentia nobis.” But many doubt whether Horus and Apollo were the same.—Le Clerc says, that Apollo never existed, but was merely a ficti us cluiracter oi the Poets. There seems to be some probability for such conjecture. Hyginus observes, that Apollo pnly discoveicd diseases of the eyes: and this is even doubtful; fof if Diodorus Siculus be correct, in saying, that Horus wasHISTORY OF MEDICINE. Ill was instructed in the Medical Art by his mother Isjs, it must be evident that he was not the inventor j nor cou Id Apollo be entitled to that honour, if he were the same person as Horus. But Bacchus, king of the Assyrians, Lybians, and Indians, was esteemed by his people, as invemtor of medicine. The Egyptians attributed the invention to Hermes, who was the Mercury of the Romans, the Grecian monuments testify, that the same honour was given to Aisculapius, We therefore find several reputed inventors of Medicine. Amidst such difference of opinion, all the ancients agree in one point, that some Deity was its inventor, which is also con- firmed by Hippocrates, Libro de Vet Med. and by Cicero, in Ti/sc. L. HI. “ Dconim immortalitm inventioiii conseaafa nt “ ars medica.” The Sacred History agrees with this sentiment, “ Every cure is from GOD.”—Again, “The Most High created the medi- “ cincs of the earth.” But we shall not dispute about that: every thing we enjoy arc the gifts of GOD ; none but the impious ever doubted it; none but fools have dared to deny it. It is our business to enquire, who was the first person that became so eminent in the art as to deserve the reputation of being the inventor. It is very evident, that nothing certain can be decided in such doubtful affairs : and I cannot forbear smiling at critics, who lose their time and trouble in such endless pursuits; for the whole is absurdity, and must strike every reflecting mind, that Medicine was invented by no individual, nor reduced into an art by tlic labour of one person only, but practised by every one occasionally, according to necessity, by various experiments, in different nations; afterwards, the number of remedies and observations being increased by a variety of cases, the general knowledge got into the hands of a few, who devoted their time to the removal of diseases, and studied Physic as a profession. Whoever these were, they must have been the first Physici- ans, although their field of science was not extensive : but, however little they knew of Medicine, possessing more information than the generality of mankind, they were highly respected; one of them, more eminent than the rest, who had, perhaps, cured a greater number of patients, or the principal Physician of a particular nation, w'as esteemed inventor of the art, although, in fact, this was not the case, and the profession very imperfect, and the title conferred more honorary than just. Hence we find, that each nation had its inventor of Medicine, who was, by skill and success, superior to his cotemporaries.—I am of opinion, that the various histories may be adjusted, and the useless disputes of critics easily conciliated. Baglivi speaks very much to the purpose, in saying, “ Necessity discovered Medicine; experience perfected it, which, in the early ages, was “ inconsistent and uncultivated ; but in time, by the daily accession of new observations corroborating each other, and par- “ ticularly by the influence and government of reason, it has become a learned and liberal art.”—Lib. I. Cap. II. Sec. I. We know, on the authority of Strabo and Herodotus, that there was an ancient custom amongst the Assyrians, Babylonians,' Chaldeans, &c. of exposing their sick in the public roads and forum, to request medical assistance from passengers. Strabo, speaking of the Assyrians, observes, “ It was an established custom for them to expose the sick in the “ public ways, to enquire of passengers whether they knew any remedy for such disease ; for no person, possessing information “ on the subject, was so illiberal as to be restrained from giving it with pleasure.” To efiect this purpose with greater cer- tainty, it was decreed by public law, that no person was permitted to pass the sick, without being interrogated, or menti- oning a remedy, if he knew one: which is also well described by Herodotus, in the following passage, “ There was a wise “ law in force amongst the Babylonians, to carry their sick into the forum, as they were totally without Physicians : those who ^ “ approached the sick, consulted together, whether they had personally laboured under the same complaint, or remembered to “ have seen others in that situation, and agreed to attempt, what then had been done to restore health ; nor was it usual to “ pass by in silence, if they had even nothing but enquiries to make about the disease.” From these documents, we must again observe, that Physic was cultivated, during the earliest ages of antiquity, in a vague indeterminate manner, by any person promiscuously', according to circumstances, before the establishment of Physicians, hledicine, therefore, was not invented by one man alone; but the foundation of this art was laid by the collateral experiments and observations of many. The Chaldeans were the ancient Philosophers of the Assyrians, on the authority of Strabo, who says, “ There was an establishment of learned natives formed at Babylon, who discoursed chiefly on Philosophy, and were called Chaldei.” 'The most eminent of these were called Magi, a name then considered very honourable, and only appropriated to learned men. It is not perfectly clear, whether they studied Medicine in particular ; or, as a part of Philosophy, some assert, but •'without c^irtain evidence, that Zoroaster, king of the Bactriani, had a knowledge of IMedicihe. 'I’lic same king is said to be theHISTORY OF MEDICINE IV the fipbl who discovered the art of magic; and to have observed, with greater accuracy, planetary motion, and formation of the world. In later times, physic and magic were practised together. The knowledge of physic was thence carried to Egypt, and cultivated more than in other countries, and by them attributed to the invention of Hemes Trismegistus, whom the Latins called Mercury, and named after him the herb mercurialis. The same Hermes is said to have instructed Osiris, king of Egypt, and his wife and sister Isis, in Medicine, as well as other arts : for in very ancient inscriptions, it appears, that Hermes was the jjreceplor, or, at least, the adviser of Isis ; and that Osiris and Isis were esteemed amongst the number of their gods, for the important benefits bestowed on mankind ; particularly, on account of the abundance of corn, and medical assistance. Diodorus Siculus confirms this, by saying, that “ Isis invented “ many remedies, according to the Egyptians, was most skilful in the Science of Medicine, and therefore invented many “ ingenious things; on which account, being carried to immortality, takes a principal delight in practising the art.” It is “ also said, that “ Many persons were, by her, restored to health, after having been dec ared incurable by Physicians, “ from the difliculty of their complaints; that others, blind and lame, on application to this goddess Isis, were reinstated “ in the possession of their former good health.” We therefore find compositions of very ancient remedies, bearing the name of Isis, which critics suspect were only so named, that they might be in greater esteem, and public confidence.—See I-c Ckre. Historc de Medicine. Clemens Alc.\andrinus says, “ That all the knowledge of Egypt was written by Hermes, in forty-two books: the last six, relating to Medicine; in which the structure of the human body, generally—the eyes in particular; various instruments for “ the operations of surgery ; many diseases; and feminine complaints, were attentively described." But critics maintain, that these books on Medicine are spurious, and the produce of a later age, honoured with the title of Hermes, to become more popular; or that they were the works of a more modern Hermes, which is more probable, as Cicero de Afaf. Deor. observes, “ That there had been five different Hermes.” Whichsoever of these was the person, it is clear, that there were Physicians in Egypt in very early times; and that the Egyptiairs first reduced physic into an art, and exercised it as a profession: for, independant of what Strabo mentions about the custom of exposing the sick, proofs can be brought from Sacred History, that Joseph the Israelite, who lived four hundred years before JMoses, ordered the body of his father Jacob to be embalmed by his Physicians. “ Prxcepitque senis “ siiis medicis, ut aromatibus condirent patrem.”—Genes. Cap. L. Ver. 2. Hence it is decidedly evident, that it was usual to preserve the body with balsams ; and that they had a knowledge of me* dicines that resisted putridity. Many ancient Egyptian mummies have reached our time. Moses therefore cannot have been esteemed Hermes of the Egyptians, as Artapanus insinuates, on the authority of Eusebeius, since Hermes Trismegistus was called inventor of the art; and there were Physicians in practice four hundred years before Moses existed. The Sacred Codicil proves, that Moses himself possessed all the science and knowledge of Egypt, which is also seen by his description of a leprous person : he was certainly acquainted with Chemistry, if it can be credited, that he burnt the golden calf on pot-ashes, which secret was not revived till the time uf Stahl, who discovered it by hepar sulphurrs. But more ancient documents can be produced of the Egyptians having cultivated physic : it appears, on the testimonies of lleliodorus and Diogenes Laertius, that their priests were not only skilled in the practice of Medicine, but also had their knowledge described on monuments, to derive the greatest possible advantage from repeated experience.—See llorapoll. iJicroglpph. Lib. I. Cap. LXXXVTH. It is also clear, that their clergy was respectable and numerous, since a third part of Egypt was given to them for the sup- port and exercise of their religion. Diodorus Siculus evinces, that this dignity went by succession to posterity. Herodotus- clearly explains, that there were not only many physicians in Egypt, but also that each had a particular department: and says, “ The profession of pl)ysic is so diffused, that there are physicians for each peculiar disease; nor will they engage “ with many at the same time. Every thing abounds in IMediGine. Some undertake diseases of the eyes ; others attend to- “ complaints of the head; others again coniine their practice to the teeth ; some cure afi’ections of the bowels, whilst others- “ devote their time to the management of obscure complaints.” Mailletti, formerly French Consul in Egypt.—Vide, Lettres Intercssantcs Pour la Medicine, says, “ The same custom was “ then prevalent.”*v HISTORY OF MEDICINE But the ancient Eaj'ptians used to practice medicine gratis, as they were remunerated by a public fund, and therefore had no occasion for private gratuity. They followed the rules prescribed by Hermes with such exactness, that it was unlawful to iluviate from them. If the patient could not be cured by those methods, the physicians were not blamed^ but if they trans- gressed the directions of Hermes, they forfeited their life ; for the legislature was of opinion, that the system, established by lon» observation and practice, confirmed by the best professors, was not likely to be improved by a /etu indhiduah* The following laws were therefore enacted, which wc find thus described by Herodotus and Diodorus Siculus:—That no person should transgress the rules to be observed in the disorder he had undertaken to remove, nor trouble himself with other complaints, but adhere to his own particular sphere. That no physician should practice physic, otherwise than as described in Hermes’s book, without risk of punishment if he did not succeed. And, finally, that the patient should not be purged before the fourth day, for fear of disturbing the humours.—This Aristotle mentions ; but does not approve of it. Diodorus observes, that all their medicine consisted in abstinence, vomits and clysters; which light practice gained the praises of Socrates, who says, “ The clergy, possessing such great advantages, invented physic to assist the body; and not such as “ consisted of dangerous medicines, but what could be taken with as much safety as our daily food, and was productive of “ such benefit that none can deny; but the Egyptians enjoyed good health, and lived to an advanced age.”—In Encom. Busirid. The manner of enibalming, or preserving their dead, is worth mentioning; for its eflccts are to be seen by the Egyptian mummies now in exisunce, with sacred characters, gilt and painted, two thousand years old. There was a particular kind of nu n attached to their religious colleges, who had the management of this business. The principal of them, and who directed the others, and made an agreement with the relations of the deccasedabouttheex- pcndiuiro, was called Sc/v7>a; he also pointed out the part of the body to be opened. After this, another, named Baraschkta i«cfsor cut open the abdomen with an .Ethiopian stone, and immediately retired. 'I'hc FuUinctorcs then came and tinished; one passing his hand throu.,h the incision already made into the abdomen, took out the viscera, except the heart and kidneys. Another washed the cavity of the body with palm wine and aromatics. It was then macerated with Egyptian nitre for thirty, some say fifty ; and, according to Herodotus, seventy days: afterwards, smeared with pitch from the cedar-tree. The Pollinctorcs now preserved the body with myrrh, cinuatnon, and other aromatics, in such a nranner, that 'he limbs retai icd their former motions, tiie eye brows, hair of the eye lids, and body in general, remain unchanged: it was then w rapped in cloths, with a particular kind of gum, which was also used as glue, or cement, and conveyed to its relatives. * Embalming was not always practised alike: there were three methods—one very expensive; another more moderate; and a third cheap. Diodorus says, the first used to costa talent of silver: the abdomen was laid open, as above described ; and the brain drawn out, by hooks, through the nostrils. The second cost twenty minaj, in which they did not even open the abdomen. Tin third cost very little, according to Herodotus, who says, “ The third method of embalming, “ by which those of small property are preserved, consists in cleansing the body by ablutions, and drying it, for seventy days, “ with salt.” There seems, likewise, to have been another method of embalming, if we may credit the assertions of Mr. Greon, who has paid particular attention to the subject: and declares, that when he saw a mummy, in which, not only the soft parts, but the very bones were discoloured, and almost black, from the balsam having penetrated so intimately; he was induced to believe, that the Egyptians boiled the bodies iii some balsam, until all the aqueous particles w'cre exhaled, and'the oily, gummy particles of the balsam supplied their place, by which it could be more permanently preserved.—See Transactions of the Royal Society (f London: and a Commentary of the learned Rouellc Memoires de I'Academic de Paris, 1750. Many conclude, from these circumstances, that Anatomy was well understood by the Egyptians, at that time. However, Schultz, in hist. Med. clearly refutes this opinion: for if they used to cut into the body, for the sake of embalming it, they could not, by that action, acquire any knowledge of its structure, since every thing was done with confusion, or rapidity; and the person^ after making the incision, was obliged to retire immediately, or be stoned. Nor > * Though this, too much, confined the art; yet it prevented daring inexperienced adventurers from promulgating visionary conceits, at tbe risk of destroying society, as is too often the case, at present. C•HISTORY OF MEDICINE VI Nor is the avithority of riiny, in this point, of any importance : who says, that the kings of E"vpt opened the bodies of the dead themselves, to discover the cause of disease; for that happened in far later times—in the reigns of the immortal Ptoletnys, who Certainly encouraged the study and industry of Physicians, by large premiums, and procured bodies for them: but, on the other hand it appears, that the Egyptians were very little acquainted with anatomical facts, from their whimsical suppositions, that the nerve of the ring-finger went to the heart; and that the heart gradually continued to increase until the liftieih year; and, afteiwards, to decrease, annually, in the same proportion—which fancies are handed down as real dogmata of the Egyptians. Besides, as Diog. Laertius proves—They taught, that the bodies of living animals consisted of four elements: and Seneca sa)fs, they used to divide each element into male and female. They also believed in the influence of Planets upon the human body; as well as good and evil devils, who were to be worshipped: having the power of restoring health, and inflicting disease, they were to be appeased by verses, (incantations) that all disease arose from them; and that peculiar good and evil spirits (Genii) presided over each particular part. As to medical matters, the Egyptians possessed, besides other milder remedies, Nepetitbcs, or Medicine against Anger and Sadness, so much celebrated by Homer: to which the Poet attributes such powers, that whoever drank some of it, mixed with wine, could not experience Sorrow through the whole day—not even if his father or mother were to die; or if he saw a brother, or any intimate esteemed friend, stabbed in his presence. The Poet says, that Helen took the Nepenthes, in Egypt, from Polydamna, wife of Thon. Diodorus Siculus says, that in his time, the women at Thebes, in Egypt, used the same medicine, which was probably an opiate. We should likewise mention the jEsculapius, or Asclepius of the Egyptians, who was the scholar, (discipulus) some say, the relation of Hermes; for he was received into the number of gods, and worshipped every where with divine honours. 'J’his person must not be mistaken for the .disculapius of the Greeks, who is of more modern date, and was present at the expedition of the Argonauts; but some doubt, whether he was entirely a fletious person, or only the .^sculapius of the ^Tgyptians, changed: and although Cicero adduces three separate iEsculapii; the first of which was son of Apollo, and invented surgical instruments and bandages; another, who was brother of Mercury, and killed by a flash of lightning; and the third, was the first that gave purgatives, and drew out the teeth : yet M. Le Clerc and Schultz believe there was only one Phoenician, or Egyptian iEsculapius.—However, 1 am more willing to believe the authority of Cicero in this respect. But, above all, the following are most proper to be considered, and worthy our notice, in establishing a knowledge of ancient Egyptian Medicine. iEsculapius, of the Egyptians, and the other fathers of Physic, are said to have lived soon after the flood. The expedition of Argonauts was not undertaken till eleven hundred years afterwards; and this was about fifty years before the siege of Troy. During this long space of time, there is nothing in the Egyptian Annals of Medicine, worth mentioning: but the History of Grecian Medicine begins with the Government of the Argivi ; and the Greeks seem to have received their knowledge of this, as well as many other sciences, from the Egyptians, after a mutual intercourse had been established between them. Mclampus, an Argive, son of Amythao and Aglaia, seems to have been the first Physician amongst the Greeks; for, although Celsus said that jEscuIapius was celebrated in Greece as the most ancient Author on Medicim, yet, if Chronology be true, Melainpus must have been more ancient than iEsculapius, if the latter were present in the expedition of the Argonauts; but .Melampus, the former, is said to have lived one hundred and fifty years prior to that period: but, if both be true, he must have been a very old man, and alive at the time of the Argonauts, to have been abic to take care of Iphiclus, his companion, in the Argonautic expedition. This Melampus was a good Poet, a Shepherd, Physician, and Prophesier: after observing that his goats were always purged, after eating hellebore, discovered its purgative effects, and using it as a remedy tor men, he cured the insane daughters of Proetus with it, and called it by his own name, which has remained from that time, and is now known by the name ^lelaml>odlum. ‘ He vvaa well lewarded for his ingenuity, by acquiring one of the daughters as a wife, with a third part of the kingdom for bimsilf; and another lor his biother Bianti, with a similar allotment of territory. He seems to hafe been the first who gave purgatives; on which account, Servius says, he was called Cathartes, or Purgei*.HISTORY OF MEDICINE. Purwor. lie was also the first who gave a raineral medicine ; and persuaded Iphiclus, who was without issuo, (iinproliS|) take rust of iron. We learn hy Pausanias, that, after death, temples were erected to his memory, sacrifices offered ; and, in fact^ that h? was worshipped by some as a deity. He left a son, who was heir to his science, but was not of equal celebrity ; his name was Th)odainas. Chiron Ceniaurus now follows, who, according to Xenophon, taught i^lsculapius Medicine ; and instituted the practice of hunting amongst other ancient heroes of Greece. He is not only celebrated for a knowledge of Medicine, but also for its application to animals. He is said, by Pliny, td have written on Botany, and the Materia Medica. There is a plant, which bears his name to this day, (Centuary) which fotmerly was also called Chironium. It appears, likewise, that he cured wounds and ulcers; hcc‘^use ulcers, difiiciilt of cure, were called—proverbially, Chifonia, as if the skill of Chiron, had been necessary to heal them. We also, find by Virgil’s CcM'g. Lib. 3. v. 549. that both Melainpus and Chiron were in great esteem ; mentioning the plague, and wishinj to §hew the insulhcieut power of medicine, he speaks of these two as excellent: cessere 7)iagistri P/ullirides Chiron, Amytliaoniusque Mdampus. vEsculapius, son of Apollo and Coronis, was his pupil, and made such progress in Medicine, that he was deservedly reckoned inventor of the art amongst the Greeks. He is reported to have travelled round the world, and exercised his talents on the sick ; but is most celebrated from having been one of the heroes of the Argonautic expedition. Plato and Suidas relate, that he was so liberal, that be re-called the poor from the infernal regions, and was planet-.'^truck, or died of gangrene of the lungs, which gave rise to the opinion that he w-as killed by lightning; the same word sideratio has both significations amongst the ancients. On account of the many and eminent services t^ mankind, he was deservedly numbered amongst the gods ; not only by the Greeks, but also by the Romans; and afterwards by other nations in a great number of temples erected to his memory. Schulz has given an index of them, taken from Pausanias. Ho left two sons by bis wife Epio; namely, Podilarius and Mathaon, who followed Agamamnon to the Trojan war, rendcrin^r very great assistance in the campaigns. Homer observes, that they did not practice in tlie plague,'nor other camp diseases but confined their attention to wounds only, by operations and applications ; from which it appears, that no. other part oP hlcdicine was then practised, and consequently their department, as Celsus justly remarks, was first cultivated. It is also evident, from Celsus’s account, that Medicine was, at that time, simple, yet sufficient and good, on account of the manners of the age, which were neither corrupted by sloth nor luxury. War always demanded surgery. Seneca likewise mentions the same thing, Epist. XCV.—“ Medicina quondam paucarum fait sekntia herharum, quibus “ bisteretur Jluens sanguis, xidncra coirent pauUafim, deinde in hanc pervenit tarn maltiplicem varictatem. Nunc est miram, “ tunc illam tninus habuisse negolii, frmis adhuc corporibus et facili cibo, nec per artem voluptatemque corrupto," These are the early advances of Grecian Medicine—inconsiderable indeed; yet promoted, in no nation more than amongst the Greeks, particularly in the family of iEsculapius, till the time of Hippocrates at Cos, by whom Medicine was first reduced into the form of a Science. Crotona was a town in Italy, to which Pythagoras went, after his return from Egypt, not being willing to reside at Samos, his own country, which was then under the power of a tyrant. Pythagoras here instituted a most renowned school, celebrated also, according to Celsus, for the study of Medicjne. Democodcs, son of a Physician, and himself a most eminent practiser of the art, came from this school, (Crotona) the fame of which became so great, that they were, reckoned, in those times, the best Physicians, who studied there. Democedes could not support the anger and moroseness of hie-fethFrPolycrates ; therefore, leaving Crotona, he went t0( iEgina, where he staid a year, and surpassed the most celebrated Physicians of that place, although he had no iastruments for the exercise of his art; on which account the inhabitants of iEgina, next year, gave him a talent; and, the third ^ear, the Athenians presented him with a Aa/irfrerZ ; but Polycrates, the tyrant of Samos, the fourth year, sent him two talents; whence it appears, that in those ages, there were ipen supported by public sa,laries, who flourished in Medicine. Dcmocedcs waiU t9 Samos, on thgse conditions, to have the cajrc of Polycrates, who was sent f<?r spop aftcf by Orseta, one Ofviii HISTORY OF MEDICINE of the king of J’ersia's principal lieutenants: Democedes, and several other Greeks, who were with Polycratos, were kept as prisoners. Soon afterwards, Orteta, being suspected, and assassinated by the Persians in his own family, and all about him, were carried into Persia, Deinocedes was taken amongst the slaves, and concealed his medical knowledge as much as possible. It happened that Darius, the king, when hunting, suddenly leaped from his horse, and luxated his foot. He continued in excessive pain for seven days: the Egyptian Physicians were called, and could do no good ; their applications were entirely fruitless. The king was then informed, that he had, amongst the slaves, one Democedes, who understood those affairs. Darius ordered him to be sent for immediately, and exercise his skill: but he was tenacious of Grec ian liberty, he dissembled his knowledge: however, being ill-treated and flogged, he, at last, confessed the truth. He prepared an emollient fomentation to relax the tension, and resolve the inflammation, and soon cured the king. From this occurrence, the former esteem of Egyptian Physicians diminished, and that of the Crotonians was increased. In fact, the king was so much enraged at the ignorance and perverse )jractise of the others, that he ('idercd all of tliem, except Democedes, to be crucified ; but Democedes interceded, and procured a reprieve. He also cured .*\tossa, a queen of Darius, of a bad, wide-spreading ulcer of the breast, supposed to be cancerous, when she was in imminent danger. Having thus gained the greatest favour and protection of the Persian court, bethought of nothing but leturning t > Ids country, and permission was, at last, granted to him. He was not of the family of the .Esclcpiades, though a Cireek, and lived an hundred years before Hippocrates. These are the principal people from the Crotonian school, in Phjsic ; the Philosophers were expelled from Crotona, and another University opened at Agrigentum, of which the most celebrated Physicians were Alcmaeon, the most ancient of Grecian Anatomists. Empedocles, who restored a woman that had been dead some days ; and Acron, the prince of Empiiics, to whom Empedocles was an enemy. In Lybia, a province of Asia, there was a city, called Gyrene, formerly esteemed for the education of several Philosophers— as Aristippus, a disciple of Socrates, and founder of the Cyrencian school ; Eratosthenes, Callimachus, and Carneades. Nothing particular is said of the Physicians of this place, except that they were next in estimation to the Crotonians. ■ Galen tells us, that there w-as a respectable school instituted at Cnido, that endeavoured to rival Cos, but in vain : and that Hippocrates was not ashamed of receiving certain things (maxims') from the Cnidians; though, on the other band, he reproaches them with neglecting Semiotica, and a deficiency of remedies; and that their medicines were too drastric : and also, that they said little worth notice with regard to diet: Euryphon, Author of Sentcntice Cnidm ; and Cicsias, a relation of Hippocrates, were educated in this school of Cnido. Ho was afterwards Physician at the court of Artaxerxes, king of Persia; and a respectable Historical Writer, part of whose wiitings still remain. The Rhodian school was the most ancient, but soon sunk into disrepute ; and even in the time of Hippocrates, according to Galen, was lust in oblivion, at a time when Cos was the principal seat of the Aselcpiades, and possessed the highest esteem; for it collected and concentrated all prior knowledge. At Epidaurus, there was not only a Medical School, but also a sacred temple o4 /Tlsculapius, very celebrated for exposure of the sick, for oracles, and the cure of diseases. Since this was esteemed the. place where the deity was born, we need not wonder at its celebrity, and the strict observance and adoration paid to it, until the image or statue was nunoved to Rome, during the raging of a plague at Epidaurus: it was retained there, and a temple erected in the island of the Tyler.— See Livjj, Epist. XI. and Val. Max. Lib. I. Cap. VHI. We see that Medicine, as well as other Arts, had a very imperfect origin: and that Egyptian and Grecian Pliyiic, in those ages, was very simple. That period may be looked upon as the infancy of the art: but pure necessity induced men to attend to each part particularly; to distinguish wholesome things from such as were unwholesome; to observe what could be useful for the body. But since they neither knew the power of remedies, and nature of diseases d priori, they were obliged to learn many things by chance, natural instinct, or unforeseen accidents. An event is called chance which happens suddenly, and cannot be accounted for by any known cause—as when the son of Croesus, born dumb, on seeing an armed soldier rushing at his fiilhcr, suddenly found his speech, and called out—O homo ! ne patrem occidas. Such fortuitous occurrences often happen in diseases with advantage to the sick. 'I'hus we read of an epilepsy, a most formidable disease, being accidentally cured by wounds and burns ot the head. An history of this kind is relatedIX HISTORY OF MEDICINE. related by iVflrce//«5 Potato, Lib. XL Cap. IV. of a noble Gaul, labouring under epilepsy, who was travelling, went to , Italy to consult the most eminent Physicians, but was robbed on the journey, and, amongst other injuries, received a dreadful wound on the forehead, with considerable loss of the bone : after remaining a long time under cure for this wound, which was at last healed, he was also relieved from the epilepsy, which usually attacked'him every month before. A girl, troubled witlrf epileptic fits, fell into the fire, and burnt her face and forehead in a most terrible manner : a considerable discharge of pus, and sanies flowed from the wound, and she was free from her complaint, whilst it continued ; but when the discharge ceased, her complaint (epilepsy) returned.—Willis’s Patholog. Cerebri. Cap. III. Such accidents proving advantageous to persons afflicted with these complaints, induced Physicians to try similar remedies; therefore we find incisions on the head, cantcrizing the scalp down to the external table of the cranium, scarifications and^ setons ordered for these maladies. A raving madman jumps from his bed, and falling on the floor, strikes his nose violently, a profuse hemorrhage from the nostrils follows, and he is cured. This is a mere accident; but must convince every one, who is not even bred to Physic, that an effusion of blood, from the nose, is salutary in this disease. Hence, ancient Physicians, when there was no effusion, naturally endeavoured to produce it artificially, by irritating the nostrils with sharp things, to relieve their patients. Cases are recorded of dropsical people being cured by an accidental bursting of the navel, or the skin broken by an external bruise, by which apertures, all the water escaped, the distended parts collapsed, and gradually recovered their former tone. These accidents taught Physicians to relieve their hydropic patients, by making an artificial opening, called tapping. After a suppuration of the lungs, with adhesion of the pleura, matter penetrated through the ribs, muscles, and skin, spontaneously, which taught Physicians to imitate this action ; and endeavour to cure empyema, by paracentesis thoracis, or perforating the integuments, and intercostal muscles, with a sharp instrument. By chance, men found that the most formidable and obstinate diseases—as palsy, gout, melancholia, and mania, were sometimes completely removed by violent affections of the mind, and were judiciously induced to try similar, means in these cases. Chance discovered the Antiseptic virtues of Scordium; for those dead bodies, on the field of battle, which were near Scordium, were found to be longer in becoming putrid. ^ , We shall not, however, easily attain our object in Physic, if we follow every casual event as a general rule. Natural instinct was another source of medical practice, which may be called a spontaneous mental desire, or corporeal action; for, on observing the effects which followed, both salutary and pernicious, in repeated instances, men were taught what to follow, and what to avoid: thus it was discovered, that cold water was prejudicial in inflammatory fevers, but frequently of service in the febris ardens, or An unexpected event, which is an effect quite contrary to what was expected—as vomiting being produced by a purgative medicine, and increase of pain, instead of its alleviation, being occasioned by an opiate, &c. This may arise from idiosyncrasia, or individual peculiarity o^constitution, from error of the Physician, in mistaking the diagnosis of the disease, or improper selection of remedies: nor are such errors unfrequent at present, whilst men obstinately adhere to pre-conccived opinions, without following the dictates of experience and science. It is much to be wished, that Physicians, in general, would copy the example of Hippocrates and Sydenham, candidly contess their errors, and relate the unexpected effects of their remedies: this would apprise practitioners of certain dangers, and teach them to profit by the mistakes of others; but, instead of that, they often split on the same *ock, and transmit errors from age to age. The natuial instinct observable in brute animals, may also be enumerated as contributing tow'ards a knowledge of Medicine. .Melampus discovered the powers of hellebore from its effect on goats : thus also we learn the resolvent virtues of giass in visceral obstructions, and biliary calculi, with which animals are afflicted, after being fed, in the winter, on hay in stables; but when permitted, in spring, to graze in meadows, their viscera are found healthy and aound. Thus, also, was a medicine, useful in phthisis, lately discovered, and kept a secret by Daniel Langhans, a Swiss Physician, which, he says, was found out from sheep. Pliny makes a veiy pertinent remark on this subject: “ Fudendunique riersus, d omniaX HISTORY OF MEDICINE. “ omnia anlmali, qua sint salutaria ipnin nosse, prater hoininem.” And if we give credit lo this Author, the use of bleeding and clysters was also learnerl fioin animals.—Lib. VIII, Cap. XX\'I. he says, “ Hippopotamus in quddam medendi “ parte etiam magister exstitit. Assidua namque satictate obesiis euit in littus recentes arundinuin ccesuras specxlatus; “ atqiie ibi acutmimam videt stirpem, hnprimens corpus, venam quandam in crure vulnerat atque it a prqftuio sangumis, * morhidum alias corpus exonerat ct plagam limo rursus obducit.” And in Cap. XXVII. speaking of the same animal teaching men the use of clysters, “ Simile quiddam et xolucris in Kgypto monstravit, quee vocatur ibis: rostri aduncitate per cam partem se perluens, qua reddi ciborum oncra maxhne salubre est." But if these observations of Pliny are not correct, the examples, related above, are sufficient; and it is very certain, that Physicians can take ’some lessons, at this time, about the effects of particular remedies—from Shepherds of the Alps, whose employment gives them a more accurate knowledge of the nature and propensities of particular animals. Since emperics, in former times, as well as the present, practised medicine, by experience only, or simple obsci vatiou of effects, without any other basis for their guide—than chance, natural instinct, or unexp<*cted events—which give rise to the name; for empiria signifies experience, void of all reasoning, or a simple observation of facts, without a knowledge of causes. This, in fact, we all admit, lays the foundation of Medicine; but is not alone sufficient to make a good Physician, since, in most cases, a knowledge of causes and reasoning are required, in dubious cases, to form a proper distinction. The recollection of experiments, fortuitous occurrences, and unexpected events, taught men what was salutary, or unwholesome, and under what conditions it was advantageous, or mischievous; so that by mere observation, they could be given with greater certainty of success. Notice has been taken already of the manner of exposing the sick in the forum and public roads, amongst the ancient Assyrians and Egyptians; but, afterwards, when men became celebrated for the study of Medicine, and were deified, after temples had been erected to their memory, and they were worshipped with divine honours, and the sick carried into [their presence, to implore relief in their complaints, by worshipping their images: this was called incubare she incubatio; whence the phrase incubare deo is derived. This practice was chiefly followed in the temples of .Esculapius, at Athens, Pergamus; but, of all other places, Epidaurus was most celebrated. There was also a temple of .^Isculapius, in the island of Cos; atTricca; and various temples, for the worship of other gods ill different parts of Greece—as that of Serapis, that of Pluto and Proserpine, and the cave of Charon; and it appears from Suetonius, that the Romans carried their incurables to the temple of iEsculapius, on the Tyber.—We find, likewise, in' the writings of Strabo, that not only the sick themselves, but the priests offered up prayers for their recovery. The suppliants, to render the gods more propitious, used to fast several days, ofl'er sacrifices, and wash in sea water. They sought for remedies in dreams : either the sick themselves, or the priests, were instrumental, by having the particulars of the case, with a petition to the god, written, and sealed up, upon which they lay down, and dreamed. Then, in sleep, they either saw what was to come to pass, or, only certain signs and symbols, that were construed to satisfy their minds; or • they imagined they saw the gods delivering oracles; and these different methods went under different denominations. But,i after health was restored by this dieaming process, it was necessary to render thanks to the deity, and offer presents, called Donaria. And we learn from Pausanias, that those chiefly, who were recovered by oracles, used to give gold and silver. There were, other means of returning thanks, by causing pictures to be drawn of their state, before and after the cure; sometimes with an account of the case and cure, which were hung upon the walls or pillars of the temple. There wero. various kinds of written descriptions; for they had either the name of the god or goddess on them, by way of thanks; or the- title given to the disease, the name of the sick person, history of the complaint, and remedies. There was also another method of testifying their gratitude, by making artificial images, of different materials, to represent the parts afflicted. Not only simple medicines, but many compositions of remedies, and also surgical instruments were found in the temples of the gods—as in the temple of Vulcan, near Memphis, there was a plaister found, marked with the name of Isis ; and another, c&Wed emplastrum sacrum. However, there was a custom, most followed amongst the Greeks, of dedicating to the gods, ia the temple, any composition that had been found useful in private bands, by which the benefit was more -niniversally diffused—as we find by /Elius, the historian, that a goldsmith, who discovered a very useful cote/mw, left it in bis will to tho templeXI HISTORY OF MEDICINE temple at Ephesus; and king Antioch, according to Pliny, dedicated his Theriaca, in verse, to ^sculapius. A leaden instrument for extracting teeth was publicly exhibited in the temple of Apollo, at Delphos, in the time of Erasistratus. Ancient temples, therefore, may be esteemed the first Records of Medicine, as they contained a considerable collection of practical cases, though destitute of order, arrangement, and principles. Amongst go many cases, and approved medicines, it was more easily to make choice of remedies; and by repealed experiments, thdir salutary power became better known, and increased the medical art. Analogy, which is reasoning, drawn from a comparison of the past with the ptesent, to form a judgment of the future state. When this began to be practised, and men were already in possession of many medical observations, as well as the power of various remedies, it was naturally presumed, that what had been formerly found useful in this or that case, and proved by repeated experience, was expected to be of service, if applied to the same disease in another patient; and we can trust tolerably well to analogy, if necessary caution be used, otherwise, nothing is more fallacious. It is necessary that the particulars of the past and present state, w hen compared together, should be perfectly equal, then the conclusion will be certain with regard to the future: without this equdity in comparison, it must be erroneous, and prejudicial: for example, if, from observation, any person should fiiid that a draught of cold water, with acid of vitriol, was salutary in the putrid fever, and therefore give the same in inflammatory fever, would make a most terrible mistake, and endanger the patient’s life; because the analogy is quite contrary, and the circumstances, in part only, and not perfectly equal: or, if any one, after having observed a vomiting, that arose from accumulated bile, cured by a vomit, should prescribe the same in a vomiting that was occasioned by inflammation of the stomach, he might easily destroy life ; for the analogy is not just, because the circumstances arc not parallel in every particular. From these things, the certainty of Medicine w'as considerably diminished: and Cclsus was of this opinion, when he did not hesitate saying, “ Est enim hcec ars conjecturalis, neque respondet ei plerumque non solum conjcctiira sed etiam “ experientia.”—Page 13. Prwfat. But Medicine ought not to be deemed merely conjectural, because occurrences happen in diseases contrary to the Physician’s expectation. The error is not in Physic, but its Professors, who are not sufliciently cautious in using analogy, and often consider different diseases to be the same: for example—in putrid and inflammatory peripneumony, or mistake the angina piiti'ida for the angina in^ammatoria; each of which requires a distinct and opposite method of treatment, as I have demonstrated.* If different species of a disease be confounded together, it is not the fault of Medicine, but of Physicians, not under- standing how to make a just analogy, nor sufficiently considering whether all circumstances be equal, or arising from the same causes. Besides, if even all circumstances be equal, and the expect'd effect does not follow, Medicine is not therefore to be called conjectural; for there are peculiarities in certain constitutions, called idiosyncracy, which neither the Physician, nor any human reason can foresee: for instance, it is well known, that rhubarb is a very safe and effectual purgative, yet if any Physician give Peter an ordinary dose, with the intention of purging him, and it should not purge, but vomit, the fault is neither to be attributed to Physician nor Physic; but the cause of this phenomenon is a particular idiosyncracy peculiar to Peter. Van Swieten once prescribed lapis cancrorum for a patient—certainly a most innocent remedy; but, after taking it, he be- came excessively swelled all over the body : and when he heard that crabs-claws had been given him—said, he could have fore- told the effect, had he known what was prescribed. There are, hkewise, persons possessing a peculiar idiosyncracy—abhor cats, wine, cheese, crabs, a calf’s-hcad: my father was acquainted with a lady, who could not bear three drops of wine mixed in a full pint of water. But these examples are very rare, and do not occur in one in a thousand, therefore do not make much exception to a general rule; nor should Medicine be called conjectural on that account. The sagacious Celsus, who deemed it so, soon afterwards, limits his sentiments within the bounds of prudence: and says, “ Si * The one a putrid infectious angina, arising from putrid miasma, or contagion; the other, from sudden cold.—See Treatise on the Malignaiit Vleerated S»re Throat, ^c. And the successful method of curing scarlet fever, by which not above one in five hundred died, as fully proved, publicly, at the St. Mary-le-bone Infirmary, and entirely dependent on treat-ment; for great numbers, at that period, in different parts of London, ' period—Syrup of extract of baik, with vitriolic acid, pure ait, and tinefure of loses, were the only remedies used, which have been long pubJislied.XU HISTORY OF MEDICINE. Si^ quid igitur vix in millcsimo corpora aliquando decipit id notam non fiabet, crim per innumerabiles homines respondeat. “ Est itaque Medicince Jidcs, qvx multo sevpius, perque nmlto plures cegros prodest.” Therefore, such peculiar phaanomena aro to be registered amongst fortuitous occurrences, which no man can foresee with certainty, unles; he had before known the natural idiosyncracy of the person; for which reason, Celsus observes, that a Physician, accustomed to his patients, is preferable to a stranger. This is the reason, and a just one, why a Physician, long knowing the constitutions of his patients, will prescribe more judiciously, if a man of abilities, than those who are not accustomed to their individual peculiarities; and it well becomes a prudent Physician, always to accurately enquire into all particulars, or he may err, though pursuing the best general modes of cure, owing to contra-indications. ^Vhen speaking of Egyptian Medicine, we mentioned their practice, of different men, of confining their attention to particular diseases, being sanctioned by severe laws ; and they could not deviate from this method, without danger of punishment. Another source of information was, the vigilant industry of the ancients in observing the phenomena and cv( nts of diseases . they not only took particular notice of the sex, age, temperament, strength, and former habits of the patient, but also of the various circumstances of the disease as its beginning, increase, or height, decrease, and termination ; how Nature as.sisted herself in many cases' and liberated the patient from the complaint by a crisis, or perceptible evacuation of supposed morbific matter. They also minutely examined the urine, fajces, respiration, situation, or manner of lying ; tongue, eyes, skin, and abdomen. Examples of this kind abound, not only in the first and third books of the Epidemics of Hippocrates; but in Ais other works, particularly Coacce Prcenotioncs, and Book of Prognostics. How I have inculcated the necessity of examining and penetrating into the various constitution of patients, may be seen in most of the practical writings. This knowledge tramples all hypothetical and speculative systems under foot. We have already noticed, that various remedies were described by the ancients in the tabulae, or pictures, dedicated to their gods in the temples, and likewise some of the most approved compositions left them by will; so that even in the time of Hippocrates, many simple medicines were in use, and several compounds—as may be seen in Le Clerc’s History of Medicine, Part HI. Cap. XXIV. & XXV. In ancient times. Medicine was practised by priests in the temples ; and it was their interest and care to keep it a secret, under the veil of religion: therefore they made use of surprising tricks and deceptions, quite irrelevant to the purpose, to delude the ignorant; and it did not I’equire much art to deceive the afflicted, who were already rendered timid by their complaints. Thus they endeavoured to make Medicine private and family emolument, transmitted from father to son, and kept every thing under the serious cloak of religion; but, in fact, they were continually meeting privately, to drink and carouse: and as they [’pronounced the oracles instead of the gods, so tliey received, for the deities, the rich presents, and choice delicacies, brought by the grateful patients, and consumed them in private conviviality, and Bacchanalian c.\cesses. It is certain, that they did not even prescribe the most simple remedy, without the parade of religious ceremonies, and fabulous histories, abounding in superstition, of which an example may be seen, at this day; in the Tiberian Temple of .Slsculapius at Rome, and founded in the time of the Emperor Antoninus, containing Four Histories of Diseases, and their Cures, thus written ; The Jirst—“ A man, named Caius, lately received an answer from the oracle, to advance up to the altar, and^ go “ from the right to the left side, then to put his five fingers upon it, take them off, and apply to his eyes, by which “ he presently recovered his sight, amidst a great concourse of people, that rejoiced, and congratulated him on such “ a miraculous cure," which cunning dictated, and vulgar credulity credited. Every one must see, that this cure was only feigned, and totally superstitious, though highly extolled. The second—“ The god delivered an oracle to the son of one Lucius, labouring under pleurisy, and not expected to “ survive, desiring him to approach the altar, take some ashes from it to mix them with wine, and apply to his side. He “ recovered, and gave public thanks to the god. The people were extremely joyous, and congratulated him.” This cure is perfectly natural; for ashes abound in alcaline salt, whieh dissolving in the wine, forms a very powerful solvent; and the ashes of every vegetable produces the same; nor is it at all necessary for them to be taken from the altar. TieHISTORY OF MEDICINE. xiii The third—“ The oracle of .Tlsculapius advised one Julian, who was vomiting blood, and given over by every person, to “ take some pine-nuts from the altar, and eat them with honey, for three days, &c. This cure is very probable; and, at present, pine-nuts, almonds, and demulcents, with honey, are recommended to hannoptoic patients. Abstinence from food in many cases was judicious, and will perform wonders. The fourth—“The oracle recommended one Valerius Aprus, a blind soldier, to anoint his eyes, for three days, with “ a collyrium, composed of the blood of a white cock and honey. When his eyes were restored he returned the God “ thanks publicly." This cure was either fabricated or superstitious, for the man could not have been blind ; but hiseyes were inflamed. We see, by these examples, what means the cunning priests used to impose upon their patients, and deceive the gaping multitude, at pleasure. There is scarcely an imposition, however irrational, which is not credited by the multitude. The history of Iphiclus the Argonaut, who had no heir, for which he consulted Mclampus, may be reckoned of this kind. Me first ordered the prophets to sacrifice two bulls, and when their entrails were cut into small pieces, Melampus procured birds to form his holy augury, which decided from the vulture, that Iphiclus should take a knife that was fi.xed in a holy oak, and drink the rust of it mixed with wine for ten days, that he would then be cured and become prolific : history adds that Iphiclus proceeded in this manner, and the event happened as the vates had foretold ; but indeed as steel taken with, wine is a very good strengthening medicine, it might remove the sterility of Iphiclus if arising from relaxation, if even the bulls had not been sacrificed, nor the birds brought into the mystery, nor was it indispensibly necessary for the steel to have been fixed in the sacred tree, but merely moistened with the acid juice of any vegetable ; but these decej)iions were practised for purposes already mentioned. Hippocrates even obliged his pupils to take an oath, not to reveal the secrets of the art, which was a great impediment to the progress of medicine. The extispiscia of the priests may be properly said to have been the origin of anatomy, since none but the most healthy animals were sacrificed, and from their constant practice of inspecting, and accurately investigating the entrails, they acquired a knowledge of the situation, shape, connection, order, and other peculiarities of an healthful animal body : although their experiments were totally confined to animals. These demonstrations were known to antiquity, particularly to the Romans, and Cicero .sacrificed victims to the gods, before he set out to the army, to satisfy the superstitious multitude about the future success of the war, wisely accommodating his refined intellectuals to vulgar prejudices. The custom of em balming bodies, which was a very ancient- practice, and already mentioned at large in Egyptian history, likewise greatly contributed to the acquisition of medical information. The management of wounds, or oiiginof surgery, which in after ages became a separate department, and Platner contends that it w as practised before physic. Cicero mentions that .Esculapius, son of Apollo, invented the probe, and w'as the first person that used bandage inw'ounds. Homer observes that his sons Podalirius and Machaon, physicians in the Trojan war, did not attend so much to medical as surgical cases, using the knife and exteinal ap])lications. Patroclus is next after them, who cured Eurypylus during the confinement of Podalirius by a wound. This same Poda- lirius is said to be tlie first who opened a vein, and ^Esculapius the third, whoever he might have been, w^as the first person who extracted teeth. Hippo crates himself was well acquainted with surgery, and instituted several operations. After him Diodes Carystius mentioned with respect by Cclsus, was celebrated in surgery, and invented an instrument to draw out darts; and Homer must have been well skilled in anatomy, to have given such an accurate description of wounds, so that some have not hesitated to assert that a tolerable compendium of the science of anatomy may be extracted from his works ; at least, it is evident, that in the age, when Homer wrote, surgery was known and practised. The surgical healing of wounds was extremely useful to medicine, and greatly contributed to its increase,* for the treat- ment of inflammation, suppuration, gangrene, and scirrhus seems to have been applied to internal diseases. The custom of butchers slaughtering animals, did not much increase the knowledge of the structure of the human body, yet the history and latent causes of diseases were sometimes illustrated by it. Thus they found that by daily and violent exercise fat animals became lean, and that the medulla of bones was totally exhausted by too great motion ; and also that by too much inactivity, biliary and urinary concretions, obstructions in the viscera were produced, I'emediable only, by ex- ercise and eating grass : these, and many other things were noticed, which were e lually applicable to men. "i’he opening living animals for philosophical uses rendered assistance to medicine. Alcrateon the Crotonian, a pupil of e PythagorasXIV HISTORY OF MEDICINE. J’ytha^orns, was the first who prartisofl anatomy amongst the Greeks, according to Clialcidius tl:c commentator on Plato, ■who says, *' Alcmaon Crutoniauis in pfufsicU e.irrcitatus, qidque primus exsectionem (anatomcn) aggn’di ausiis csf, de oculi *' natura multa et preudara in haem protulit.” Lc Clerc also observes that he was the first w ho opened animals, and quotes the same passage, but in which there is nothing particular said about them. Indeed it is much to be doubted whether Alcimeon was a disciple of Pythagoras, if so, he certainly never opened living animals, because the Pythagoreans believed in the doctrine of transmigration of souls, and considered it sacrilege to hurt animals; if therefore he was the first, who pro- fessed anatomy, ho must have exercised his art, only on the dead bodies of men and animals. r.MPEDOCLES of Agfigcntum is supposed to have been colemporary with him, who was also from the school of Pythagoras, and an emineni physician, he likewise opened bodies, according to Plutarch, “ Auditum fieri docuit quando der allabitiir “ cockkiformi fahriae illi, quam in inferiori atiris parte exactc elaborafuin instar tintinnabuli suspensam esse et pulsari dixit.” From this it appears that the cochlea, a most abstruse part of the internal organ of hearing, was even taken notice of by Empedocles. As to Democritus it is generally admitted that he occupied a great part of his time and studies, by’ which he greatly injured his health, in dissecting animals, to discover the seat of the bile, and investigate the cause of madness ; on which account the Abderites wrote to Hippocrates, and solicited him, by’ considerable offers, to come to Abdera, and undertake the cure of Democritus, whom they believed to be mad. He came, and brought with him some hellebore ; but when he found Democritus profoundly occupied in contemplating nature, he said the Abflerites had more occasion for hellebore than him (Democritus), and after discoursing with Democritus, confessed himself instructed by the conversation. This subject is treated of in the letters between Hippocrates, Democritus, and the Abderites, which were published in the works of Hippocrates, but, by some of the literati, supposed to be spurious.* The sentiments, however, would do honour to any age or country. Galen • Tlicse letters are translated in my work on Female and Nervous Diseases, Gladness, &c. in four volumes, London, 1794, in which are most of . «jy writings in English. The letters were most probably published by his son amongst other posthumous works. “ One of the most ancient and most curious anecdotes concerning madness is amongst the works of Hippocrates, who was called by the Abderites to *' come to Abdera to cure Democritus of insanity. The embassy and epistles on this famous occasion demonstrate the origin of the doctrine of madness, as arising from black bile or melancholy, which opinion prevailed for above2000 years. “ The most considerable circumstance concerning Democritus is, the dissection of animals, to discover the cause of madness. His countrymen, ob- " serving him to pursue these kind of studies, which were very extraordinary in tbo.se ages; retiring and living in .sepulchres; engaged in the deepest •' contemplation ; they concluded, he was in a state of melancholy madness. This is no uncommon compliment to ail men of extraordinary genius, or " who possess an elevation of sentiment above the generality of cotemporaries. Democritus continually laughing, on all occasions, whether serii.uaor « mirthful, confirmed their suspicions. For this reason, they sent Amelesagoras, one of their chief citizens, to Hippocrates, tli&t most eminent phy- ‘‘ siciau at Cos, wit h the subsequent epistle. " The Senate and People of Abdera to Hippocrates, Health. " Our city, Hippocrates, is in very great danger, together with that person, who, we hoped, would ever have been its greatest ornament. But now, " (O ye gilds !) it is much feared, that we shall only be capable of envying others, since he, who through extraordinary study and learning, elevated •' the citv, is fallen sick ; so tliat it is much apprehended, if Democritus ncconie mad, our city Abdera will be desolate: for, wholly forgetting hiin- »' self, watching day and night, laughing at all things, small and great, and esteeming them as nothing ; he occupies, after this manner, his whole life. " One marries a wife ; another trades; another pleads ; another executes the office of magistrate; goes on an embassy; is choscnofficer bytlic people; " is rejected; falls sick; is wounded; dies: lie lagglts at all these: on beholding some to appear discontented; others pleased. He likewise m- quires, what is done in the infernal regions, writes his contemplations, and affirms the air to be full of atoms ; that be understands the language of " birds, and often, rising in the night, sings to himself; and says, that he sometimes travels into the infinity of things; and asserts that there be innu- •' merable Democritus’s like him. Thus, together by the exercise of his mind, he destroys his body. These are the things we fear, Hippocrates ! " these arc those which deeply afflict us. Come quickly, therefore, and preserve us by your advice. Despise us not; for we arc not inconsiderable ; “ and if you restore him, you shall not fail, either of money, or fame. Though you may prefer learning before wealth, yet accept ol tlie latter, which shall be presented to you in great abundance. “ To restore Democritus tp health, if our city were all gold, wc would give it. We think our laws, Hippocrates, arc sick. Come then, thou best of “ men, and cure a most excellent person. Thou wilt not come as a physician, but as the founder of all Ionia, to encompass us with a sacred wall. " Thou wilt not cure a man, but a city, a languishing senate: and prevent its dissolution : thus becoming our law-giver, judge, magisirate, and preserver. «' To this purpose we expect thee, Hippocrates ; all ihese, if you come, you will be to us. Itisnot a single obscure city, but all Greece, which implores “ thee to preserve this body of wisdom. Imagine that learning herself comes oa this embassy to thee, begging that thou wilt fr.ee her from this danger. “ WisdomXV HISTORY OF MEDICINE Calcn tells us that Aristotle was considerably engaged in dissections, and made many discoveries in the art, for which he reckons him amongst the best anatomists, and according to Diogenes Laertius he not only wrote eighi books on anatomy, but compiled a great work of fifty volumes on de natura animalium, which history tells us he was induced to execute at an enor- mous expence defrayed by Alexander the Great. Pliny gives the following account of it: “ Aliquot millia hominum in totius Asia: Wisdom is certainly allied to every one ; but especially to us who live so near her. Know for certain, that future ages will acknowledge themselves " obliged to thee, if thou desert not Democritus, for he is capable of communicating the truth to all mankind. Thou art allied to Aisculapius by thy " family, and by thy profession. He is descended from the brother of Hercules, from whom came Abderus, whose name, as you have heard, our “ city bears; wherefore, even to him, will the cure of Democritus be acceptable. Since therefore, Hippocrates, you see a whole people, and a " most excellent person, falling into madness, hasten, we beseech you, to us. It is strange, that the exuberance of good should become a disease. " Democritus, by how much he excelled others in acuteness of wisdom, is now in so much the more danger of being mad, whilst the common, nn- “ learned people of Abdera enjoy their sense.s as formerly; and even they, who before were esteemed very foolish, are now most capable to discern “ the indisposition of the wisest person. Come, therefore, and bring along with you ^J^scalapius, and Epione, the daughter of Hercules, and her “ children, who went in the expedition against Troy: bring with you the receipts and remedies against sickness. The earth plentifully affords fruits, " roots, herbs, and flowers to cure madness, and never more happily than now, for the recovery of Democritus. Farewell. “ Hippocrates returned this answer: Hippocrates to the Senate of Abdera. Health. " Your countryman Amclesagoras arrived at Cos that day on which was celebrated the Assumptiori of the rod, which, as you know, is an annual as- " scmbly and solemn feast amongst us, held at a cypress tree, which is carried by those parlicularly consecrated to the god. But finding by the words “ and countenance of Amelesagoras, that your business required much haste, I read your letter, and much wondered to find your city' no less troubled for " one man, than if the whole city w'erc but one man. Happy indeed are the people, who know that wise men are their defence; not walls and bul- ■' warks, hut the sound judgment of wise persons. I conceive the arts are the dispensations of the gods, men the works of nature; and be not angry, •' ye men of Abdera, if I conceive, that it is not you, but nature itself, which calls me to preserve her work, which is in such imminent danger of falling. " Wherefore, obeying that which is the invitation of nature and of the gods, rather than yours, I shall make haste to cure the sickness of Democritus, " if it be a sickness ; and not, as I hope, an error in you It would be yet a greater testimony of ycur good will, if you were troubled only on suspi- " cion. Neither nature nor the gods have promised me any thing for my coming; and therefore, men of Abdera, do not you force any thing upon me ; " but suffer the works of a liberal art to be free. They who take rewards, compel sciences to s':rvitude, and make them slaves, depriving them of their free- " dora. lle.sides, it is possible, that such may dissemble in a great disease, and deny in a little; and when they have promised, «of come, and come, " when they are Jiof sent for. Miserable indeed is human life; for that the insatiate desire of ueuftli continually invades it, as a winter wind 1 I wish “ that all physicians would join together to cure it of this disease, which is worse than madness ; notwithstanding it is thought hajipy, but is indeed a " pestilential sickness All distempers of the mind are, as I conceive, high madness ; for they excite, in the reason, strange opinions and fancies; ” which reason must be purified, and cured by virtue. As for me, if I at all made it my design to be rich, I would not, ye men of Abdera, come fo you " for ten talents; but would rather have gone to the great king of Persia, where there are vast cities full of all kind of wealth : there I would have practised phy sic; but 1 refused to cure a nation which are enemies to Greece ; and to the best of my power have myself opposed the Barbarians. •' I thought it a dishonour to accept the wealth of a king, foe to our country, by which means I miglit become a destroyer of Greece To get wealth, " by all means, is not to be rich; the principles of virtue are sacred and just. Do you not think it an equal offence .to cure our enemies, as to take “ money for the cure' of our friends ? Butthis is not my custom. 1 raise no wealth out of siehiess ; nor did 1 wish when I heard Democritus was mad, that •' it might prove so in reality : if he should be well, he is a friend ; if he happen to be cured of his sickness, more a friend. I understand that De- “ moentus is a person of firm and settled parts, the ornament of your city*. f •“ It IS said that Hippocrates, in order to perform this voyage, sent to his friend Dionysius to take care of his family in his absence ; to Damagetus, *' that he would provide a ship; to Cratevas, that he would furnish him with medicaments. *' How Hippocrates was received the next day at Abdera, he gives the following description to his friend Damagetus. To Damagetus. Health. " It was, as 1 conjectured, Damagetus; Democritus is not mad; but is extraordinary wise; and hath taught us wisdom; and with us, all mcn- •• I have sent back, with many thanks, the Aisculapian ship, on the prow whereof, to the picture of the sun, may be added health; for we made a " quick voyage, and arrived the same day, that I had sent word, I could be at Abdera. I found all the people flocking togctlier at the gale, in ex- * pcctation, as it appeared, of oux coming; not only men, but women, the old and the young, and by Jove, the very children; so much were “ they " • Artaxerxes offered an hundred talents to Hippocrates to come into Asia, and cure a pestilence, which desolated the provinces and array. The *' sura, in silver talents, is supposed to be 35,00CM in gold about 400,0001. This shews the great riches of the Asiatics, and the patriotic virtue of that « noble Greek to resist the temptation ; though the island was threatened with a dangerous war, Wen have been less scrupulous in our refined times; “ whenever they have an opportunity of acquiring immense wealth, per fas vel nefas..XVI HISTORY OF MEDICINE “ Asiwt Grcci^que tractu Arktoteli parere Jatsa sinf, omnium quos venatus, aiicvpia, pJscattuque akbant: qttihusque viiaria, ** armenta, akearia, pischicc, aiiaria in cura cranf ; ne quid usqnam gentium, ignoraretur ab eo: quos pcrcontando 50 ferfite Tolumina illaprcedara de animalibas condidit.” Hist. Mumli Lib. c. xvi. Athcnaeuj “ they affected at the madness of Democritus, who at lliat time was seriously employed in philosophy. When they perceived me, they seemed, \ “ litUe, to be comforted, and to have some hope. Philopoemen offered to conduct me to mj lodging, as all o*' them likewise desired; but I told “ them. Men of Abdera, I will do nothing before I have seen Democritus; wliich they no sooner heard, than they applauded, rejoiced, and “ brought me immediately along the forum ; some following, others running before, crying out. Great king J upitor, help, heal! I advised them to “ be comforted; for tliat it being the season of the Etesian winds, I was confident, there was not any sickness that would continue long: and in " saying this, on I proceeded. The house was not far, nor indeed the city; we went to it, being near the city walls, whither they conducted “ me quietly. Behind tlic tower there was a high hill, very full of tall poplars; from whence we beheld the habitalion of Democritus. Democritus “ himself sat under a shady, but low plane tree; in a thick grove all alone, squalid, upon a seat of stone, wan and lean, with a long beard. At “ his right hand, a little brook ran down the hill; upon which was a tenvjile consecrated, as it should seem, to the muses, encompassed with vines, “ which grew there spontaneously. He sat very composed, having a book on his knees, and round about him lay other books; with “ the bodies of many animals dissected. Sometimes he wrote hastily; sometimes jiaused, seeming to consider things within him- “ self. Soon after he arose and walked, and intently examined the dissected creatures; then laid them down again, and returned to “ his seat. The Abderites, standing about me, and hardly refraining from tears, said. You see, Hippocrates, the life of Democritus, “ how mad he is; he knows neither what he would have, nor what he does. One of them, who would have given me a farther description of his “ madness, on a sudden fell a sobbing, and howled like a woman at the death of her son, and then began to lament like a traveller robbed of hii " goods; which Democritus hearing, sometimes smiled, sometimes laughed, not writing any longer, but shaking his head. Men of Abdera (said I) “ remain here, while I approach nearer; that, by hearing him speak, and obsening his coustitutmi, I may Judge clearly of the distemper: in so " saying, I went gently down; the place was very steep, so that I could hardly keep myself from falling. 'When 1 came near, it happened, “ that he was writing something, in a rapture, earnestly; whereupon I halted, waiting till he should give over. It was not long before this " occurred; and, perceiving me advance towards him, said. Hail, stranger! I answered. Hail, also, Democritus, the wisest of men! He, as I " imagine, a little concerned, that he had not saluted me by name, replied. What may I call you? for my ignorance of your name is the " reason that I styled you stranger. My name, said I, is Hippocrates, the physician You are, said he, the glory of the Hiisculapians, tlie •' fame of whose worth, and knowledge in physic, is arrived as far as me. What business has brought you hither? but first sit down. Tliis “ scat, you see, is pleasant, green, and soft; better than high thrones, which are subject to the envy of fortune. When I was seated; is " it a public or private business, saith he, which brought you here? tell me freely, and we shall, to our utmost power, assist you. I answered, “ It is on your account, that 1 came hither, to be acquainted with you, a wise person, the occasion being afforded me by an embassy from yourco\m- “ try. He replied. Then let my house entertain you. Having thus made trial of him several ways, and not perceiving any thing like insanity ; Yon know, said I, Philopoemen, one of this town ? Exceeding well, answe'red he, you mean the son of Damon : he lives near the Herma;an fountain. “ The same, replied I; he has been an old acquaintance, and kindly received me for his guest. But you, Democritus, I intreat to afford me a better " entertainment; and, first tell me, what it is, that you are writing. He, after a little pause, answered, concerning modiicss. Good Jupiter, said I, “ you write seasonably against the city ! What city, Hippocrates? answered he. 1 replied, that I only spoke at random. But what do you write of " madness? What else said he, but explaining what it i.s, how it comes to be generated in man, and how it may be cured. These animals, which " you behold, I have dissected for that purpose; not as hating the works of the gods, but to make inquiry into the nature and seat of choler. You " know, where fcile abounds too much, it most commonly causes madness in men; it is in every person; but in some less, in others more: its excess " causeth diseases, being a matter partly good, partly had. By Jove, said I, Democritus, you speak truly and wisely, and I judge you happy, who, “ can enjoy a serenity I cannot partake of. But why cannot you ? saith he. I answered. Because either travels, children, or estate, sicknesses, “ deaths, servants, marriages, or the like, interrupt my repose. Hereupon he fell into his usual passion, and laughed for some time cxeeedingly, sus- " pending discourse. Why, said I, Democritus, do you laugh ? Whether is it, that I have spoken well or ill ? Upon this, he laughed more than be- “ fore, which the-\bderites, who stood a distance off, perceiving, some shook their heads, othcis beat their foreheads, others tore their hair; fur, as " they afterwards said, they observed him to laugh at that time more than ever he had before. Democritus, thou best of wise men, replied I, I desire " to know the reason of this passion ? What have I said that seems ridiculous ? for if it proves such, I may reform it, but if otherwise, you may desist " from this unreasonable laughter. By Hercules, said he, if you can convince me, Ilippoerates, you will effect a cure greater than any you have yet " performed. Wherefore, said I, should you not be convinced? Know you not, that you act absurdly in laughing at the death of a man, sickness, “ madness, murder, or any thing worse than these; and on the other side, on marriages, assemblies, the birth of infants, solemn rites, magistracies, '* honours, and, generally, at every tiling that is nominated good ? Those things which deserve to be pitied excite laughter ; and, those, for whichwe “ should rejoice, you laugh also; therefore you appear not to place any difference between good and evil, llien, said he. You speak well, Htppoerates ; “ but you are not yet acquainted with the reason of my laughter, which, when you know, I am confident you will prefer to the cause for which vou •' travelled here, and convey it as a medicine to your own country, thereby improving both yourself and others. In requital, perhaps you will think " yourself obliged to teach me physic ; when you shall uuderstaad, what trouble all men lake for things that deserve not labour; things of no value, “ andxvii HISTORY OF MEDICINE Athcnseus says, “ Aristotelem ah Alexandra wngno octingmta talcnta ad condendam aninialivm historiaein accepisse.'^ But Schulz ill his HiDioria Medidnce lib. V'lll. cap.xvi. brings strong arguments to prove that this was mere report. Whether this be true or not, Haller was of opinion that all the books of Aristotle on the history ami description of animals, arc worth reading.. The account of incubation is by no means despicable ; and his description of the egg is really good, also his explanation of the situation of the human foetus and its gradual advancement to perfection. la “ and con.surae their lives unprofitably in actions that deserve nothing but ridicule, ^^^lat, said I, is all the '.vorld sick, and knows it hot? If *b, they " can send no vvliere to solicit help : for what is beyond the world ? He replied. There arc inhnite worlds, G Hippocrates; have not »o mean an idea of “ the riches of nature! Teach me this, said I, Democritus, some other lime; tor 1 am afraid, if you begin to talk of this infinity, that you will " fall ag:riii into a fit of laughter. But now inform me the reason, that you laugh at the accidents of life. Then looking stedl'asriy upon me. Yon " think, saith he, tlicre are two circumstances occasioning my laugjiter; good and ill; whereas indeed, I laugh but on one principle. Man, full “ of folly, dc.stitute of upright actions, playing the infant in all his designs, undergoing great toils for little benefit, travelling to tlie end of the “ earth, and souuciiiig boltor.iless depths to get silver and gold; never ceasirfg to accumulate, and with an increase of store, increasing endless “ troubles; lest, if he should want, he might be thought miserable. He digs into the bowels of the earth by the hands of slaves; whereof some “ are buried by the earth falling on them: others dwell under ground, as though it were their native soil, searching for gold and silver, sifting one “ sand from another; cutting and tearing their mother earth, which they both admire and trample. How rediculous is this, to love that part of " the carf/i which lies/(id, and condemn that which lies open to them! Sroie bu.'dogs, others horses; some delight in having large possessions, " which they may call their own, and would command multitude.s, when they are not able to command themselves. Tiiey marry wives, and in a " sliort time are divorced; they love, and then hate; they take delight in children, and when they are grown up, disinherit them; they war, and " despise peace: they conspire against kings, imndcr men, dig the earth to find .silver, with the silver they have found, tliey buy land; what the land wliich they have bouglit yields, of corn or fruits, they sell, and receive silver again. To what changes and misfortunes are they subject! •' When they possess not riches, they desire them, w'hen they are acquired, they are hid, or scattered. I laugh at tlicir ill-designed projects, I “ laugh at Ihcir misfortunes. Ilicy violate the laws of truth, through contention and enmity with one anullier; bretlircn, parents, and country- men fight and kill each other, for those possessions, of which, after death, none can be possessors. They pursue an unjust course of life; they “ despise tlie poverty of their friends and country; mean and inanimate tilings they account for riches: they will part with a whole estate to " purchase statues, because the statue seems to speak; but.those who speak, indeed, they hate. They affect thuigs difificult to be acquired; " they who dwell in tlie continent, covet the productions of the sea; they wlio inhabit islands, those of the continent; perverting all th nigs to *' their own depraved desires. In war they praise valor, while they are daily subdued by luxury, avarice, and all passions; and in the course " of his life, every man is a ThersiteS. Why did you, Hippocrates, reprove my laughter? No man laughs at his own insanity, but at the mad- " ness of another. They who think themselves to be sober, laugh at those who appear to them to be drunk : some laugh at lovers, whilst they " themselves are sick of a worse di.-teiuper; some at those who travel by sea, others at those who follow husbandry; for men do not agree with one another, neither in arts, nor actions. All this, said I, Democritus, is Iriie; neither is there any argument that may better prove the *' unhappy state of man; but 'these actions are caused through necessity, by reason of the government of families, the building of ships, and other civil offices, wherein a man must necessarily be employed; for nature did not produce him, to be idle. Again, height of am- ** bition causes several men to deviate from the paths of justice; they aim at all things, as if there were notiiing immoral; not being able to foresee the darkness that attends their futile attempts. For, Democritus, what man is there, that, when he marries, tliinks of divorce, or '* death? Who is there, who, while he educates children, thinks cf losing them ? The like on husbandry, navigation, dominion, and all other " offices of life. No man foresees, that bis expectations may prove abortive ; but every one flatters himself with hopesof good success, and does not " anticipate the worst. Why therefore is this ridiculous ? Democritus replied. You are yet far from understandiug me, Hippocrates, neither per- " ccive, through want of knowledge, tlie bounds of serenity and perturbation; for if they ordered these things prudently, they might easily dis- " ciiarge their duty, and evade ray laughter; whereas now, they are blind to the offices of life, and with minds void of reason, are carried away by •' inordinate apfietite's. It were enough to make them wise, if they would but consider the mutability of things, how they wheel about continually, " and are suddenly changed; whereas they, looking upon these as firm and settled, fall into many inconveniences and troubres, and correcting " things injurious, they tumble headlong into many miseries. But if a man would riglitly consider, and weigh in his mind all things th.it he attempts, “ understanding ftinisf/G and his own abilities, he would not let his desires run to infinite, but follow nature ; out of whose store all are nourished and “ supplied. As a corpulent body is in the greatest danger of sickness, so a high estate is in the greatest danger of falling. Great minds arc known in “ extremities. Some there are, who, taking no warning by that which happeneth to others, perish by their own ill actions ; minding things manifest, “ no more tlian though they were not manifest; whereas they have many precedents to guide their life, of things effected and not effected, by “ which we ought to foresee the future. This is the occasion of ray laugliing. Foolish men punished by their own wickedness, covetousness, lust, " enmity, treachery, conspiracy, envy ; it is a hard thing to give a name to many of these evils, they being imur erable, and practised so privately. " Their behaviour as to Virtue is still worse; they affect lies, they follow pleasure, disobeying the law's: my laughter condemns their inconsiderateness, “ who neither see nor hear; srhcrcas the sense of man only, of all others, is able to foresee future events. They hate all things, and then again f applyxviii HISTORY OF MEDICINE. In another part of the work, mention will be made of Herophilus who first discovered the lymphatics, and Erasistratus, both of whom taught at Alexandria, and opened animals as well as human bodies. Their history belongs to later times, even Aristotle was posterior to Ilip]>ocrates, a considerable time. IIov/- " apply themselves to them; they condemn navigation, and yet sail on the sea; despise husbandry., then fall a plowing; put away their wives, “ then marry others ; they bury their children, beget more, and bring them up ; they wish to live long, and when old age comes, are grieved ; never P remaining constant in any state, whatever. Kings and princes commend a private life; private persons a public. He that rules a slate, praises the “ tradesman’s life, as free from danger ; tlie tradesman applauds the courtier, as full of honour and power; for they j)ursu' not the direct, true, and " smooth way of virtue, in wliich none of them will endure to walk, but crooked and rough paths. Some tumble down, others run lliciusclvcs out ot “ breath, to overtake superiors in fortune or reputation. Some are guided by incontinence to the beds of their lu ighhours : others arc sick ot a “ consumption, through insatiate avarice. Some, by ambition, are . ried up into the air, and through tlieir own wickedness thrown down hcad- “ long. They pull down, and thenthey build ; they do good, and oblige others, then repenting, break the laws of friendship, commit wrong, fall at " enmity, and fight with tlicir nearest relations ; of all which, avarice is the cause. Wherein do they dilfer from children liiaf [)lay, whose minds “ being void of judgment are pleased with every thing they meet with ? In their desires they difl'er not much from brute beast; only the beasts are " contcuted with that which is enough. What lion is tl'.erc that iiides gold under ground What bull fights for more than he needs.’ What leopard is. " insatiably greedy ? The wolf, when he has devoured as much as serves for his necessary nourishment, gives over; but whole days and nights put “ together are not sufficient for men to feast and riot. All brtde beasts have their yearly set times for coition, and then leave ; but man is continually " transported with lust. IIow can I, Hippocrates, but Jaagh at lum that laments the loss of his goods .’ and especially, if thout regard.to dangers, “ he travels over precipices and on the sea, how can 1 forbear to laugh e.'cceediiigly .’ .Shall I not laugh at him whose ship founders, by lading it with " rich merchandize, and then blames the sea for sinking it ? If I seem injudiciously to laugh at these, there is, at least, something that deserves to he. '• lamented. These stand not in need of the physic nor medicines of your predecessor, Hssculapius, who, preserving men, was struck dead by “ thunder*. Do you not see, that I am also partly guilty of insanity, who, to inquire into the causes of madness, dissect these several living animals, whereas, indeed, I ought to search for it in man himself ? Do you not see that the whole world is full of inhumanity,.stulled, as it were, with infinite “ hatred against man liirasclf? Man is from his very birth a disea>^c ; when first born he is useless, and sues for relief from otlicrs : when he grows up, “ foolish, wanting instruction : at full growth wicked; in his decaying age miserable, toiling, throughout all his time, imprudently. Such he is from “ the womb. Some being of furious, angry dispositions, are continually engaged in quarrels; others in adulteries and rajics ; some in drunkenness; “ others in coveting the goods of their neighbours ; others in consuming their own: so that if the walls of all housc.s, were Iraiisparcnf, wc should “ behold some eating : others vomiting; others wrongfully beaten; others rai.\ing poisons; others consjiiring; others casting accounts; others re- " joicing ; others weeping ; others plotting against their friends ; others raving mad with ambition. Some artions there are, more remote within tlic “ soul. Some young ; some old; suing; denying ; poor; rich ; starved ; luxurious ; sordid ; imprisoned ; murdered ; buried ; despising what they “ possess, and aiming at what they have not; impudent; niggardly; insatiate; vain glorious. Some setting their minds on horses; others ou " men; others on dogs; others on stone and wood. Some affect embassy ; others the command of armies; others sacred rites. Some wear crowns ; " others armor. Some fight at sea; others at land ; others till the ground. Some plead in the forum; otlicrs act on the theatre ; every one is dif- “ ferently employed. Some embrace pleasure and intemperance; others rest and idleness. How then, can 1 but laugh at llicir conduct ? It is to “ be feared that your art of physic will not please thtin; for intemperance produces frowardness, the.^’ esteem wisdom, madness; and I doubt mucli, that many things in j’our art are openly reproached, eillier through envy or ingratitude: for tlie sick, when tliey arc cured, ascribe the " cause either to the gods orcliancc. Many are of such a disposition as to hate those who have obliged them, and can hardly refrain from being an- " gry if they have occasion for assistance. Numbers also, being rlicmsclves ipiorant, prefer ignorance before science. Foots gwe their suffrages “ neither will the sick coiniiiciid ; iiortlicy who are of the same art give their approbation through envi/, It cannot be, but you must have suffered in- “ jury of this kind ; fori know very well, ihat you have often been treated unworthily, and reproached by malice and eiuy. There is no knowledge, " nor altestalioii of truth. In saying this, he smiled, and seemed to put on a divine look, casting off that which lie had before. Then, 1 said, ex- “ cellent Democritus, 1 shall carry hack with me to Cos the great gifts of your hospitality, full of your wise instructions. 1 shall return to proclaim " your praises ; for that you have ni..de inquiry into human nature, and understood it. I shall go away cured in mind, it being requisite, that I take “ care for tlic cure ot the bodies of others. To-morrow, and afterwards, we shall meet here again : which said, 1 arose, and he readily accompanied “ me. A man cametoliim, iro:u whence Ikno.v not, to whom he delivered his books. When I came to the Ahderites, who all thi.s while staid for " me. Men of .\bder.i, said I, 1 return you many thanks for the message you sent; for I have seen Democritus, the wisest of men, who only is able to reduce men to souud understanding. This, Daniagetus,is all I have, with pleasure, to relate to^you concerning Democritus. Farewell! These epistles give an admirable description of that most excellent of men, Hippocrates, whose noble soul exerted its utmost efforts to relieve the afflicted, and prove serviceal.le to society : — an example well worthy of imitation—an example which, if followed, must raise medical reputation above all the detraction and calumnies of malicious enemies. Great, however, as Hippocrates was, his superior excellence excited envy among physicians of inferior abilities; these frequently compose the majority in most liberal professions. Great minds only can pursue noble objects, and “ attempt I • aEsculapius, the fabulous hislories inform us, was destroyed by thunder,XIX HISTORY OF MEDICINE. How »re.it an advantage was gained by opening living animals to illustrate physiology must be eviilont, for many things would have hitherto remained unknown, but for opening animals alive, certainly without this assistance, neither ncropbilus, foimerly, nor any one after him, could have detected the lacteal vessels, nor would the thoracic duct, bj'Pecquet; the circulation of the blood, by Harvey; the peristaltic motion of the intestines, by Wepfer; nor the irritability and sensibility of parts, by Haller, have ever been discovered. The utility of this method of proceeding in physiology, was very great, but it should be carefully restrained within due bounds; for the structure of brute animals ought to be very cautiousl}' compared with human beings, and animals, under torture, may not demonstrate truth, in their dying moments. The minute investigation of dead bodies after diseases, by the Egyptians, posterior to the time of Hippocrates, who were the first people that opened subjects to discover the latent causes of complaints, for there were anatomists appointed and supported by the kings, which plainly appears, by the words of Pliny, when speaking of the raphamis (horse radish) which was found useful in a consumption, or decay of the heart, a disease then very common in Egypt and discovered after death. Lib. XIX. cap. v. “ Tradunt et prcecordiis neccssarmm fiujiis (raphani nempe) succum : qitando phfkixim cordi hitus inhxrcntem “ non alio potiiisse depelli compertum sit m JUgypfo, llegibus corpora juortuorim ad scrutandos niorbos insccantibiis.” This seems to have been first done under the Ptolemys, the son of Lagus, and Ptolemy Philadelphus : but it is not very probable that the kings themselves performed or assisted at this work, when they had (appointed) people equal to the task, and perhaps the te.\t of Pliny, Regibus insectantihus should rather be read Regibus inspeefantibus, for even the kings might have been induced, by curiosity, to inspect the dissections, to discover the causes of disease and death. The distinct arrangement of diseases into cause, origin, &c. as in the books of Hippocrates, by which we see how attentive the ancients were to every circumstance of a complaint. The knowledge, choice, preparation of medicines, &c. these became gradually known, cither by chance, spontaneous desire, or imitation of the natural instinct, observed in brute animals. The stronger kind of medicines seem to have been first known to the ancients, as purgatives and emetics; for since they were not so sensibly aftected by the milder sort, their powers and effects were neither so soon observed, nor registered. But the writings of Hippocrates shew, that the ancients were acquainted with a considerable number of medicines, in which there is an account of many very efficacious remedies; Lc Clerc has diligently collected and arranged them, so as to be seen at one view. Besides, it is necessary to mention, that the ancients used the greatest caution in the application of remedies, and did not immediately give their medicine : for example, when Hippocrates was called to a patient labouring under diarrhoea, he did not prescribe a remedy to stop it immediately, but prudently enquired first, whether the patient was relieved or debilitated by the continuance of the diarrhoea, or whether it were an effort of nature to exonerate herself of some morbific cause by the evacuation, ox whether, if longer continued, it would destroy the life of the patient After carefully examining and reflecting on these things, he either left the diarrhoea to itself, or endeavoured to restrain it by proper remedies. Hippocrates, the Coan, descended from the family of jEsculapius, and the eighteenth from him was born in the island of Cos, in the first year of the eightieth olympiad, thirty years before the Peloponessian war, and four hundred and sixty years anterior to the birth of Christ. Heraclides of Cos was his father, he had an uncle of his own name Hippocrates, the first. He was related to Hercules on the mother’s side by a twentieth generation ; for .Esculapius mariied the daughter of Hercules; he was cotemporary with the greatest men of Greece, Socrates, Herodotus, Tiiucydides, Uejiiocritus, and others. He was educated attempt actions above the vulgar comprehension, but little minds industriously employ their whole genius in servilely adapting themselves to tho common prejudices of the multitude. The superior excellence of the first are only known to the discerning few : the others, from similarity of »ouJ» and leisure for stratagem, impose on the major part of mankind. 1 hese epistles, likewise, contain a description of the luxury of the inliabitants of .Abdera, and mankind in general in those ages. The Greeks, about the same, period, were in a most voluptuous, lethargic, and corrupt state, which soon terminated in the total subversion of their liberties: for Philip, the Macedonian prince, in proportion as they were indolent and credulous, became vigilant and enterprising, availing himself of the de- pravity and corruption ot the times. He bribed the principal inhabitants and senators of the different states, and, by slow, imperceptible degrees, planned their overthrow. Ibis was afterwards accomplished his son and successor, Alexander. The most excellent and powerful orator, De- mosthenes, could scarcely rouse a spirit of opposition in the Athenia:is; nor could they be excited to any noble or patriotic action to retard the growing power of Philip. A fatal supineness, and slothful security had seized their souls, and beuuiubcd every ealerpriiing faculty ; thus they fcli a sacrifice to the ambitious conqueror, and illustrious protector of Aristotle auU science.HISTORY OF MEDICINE. XX fiducatefl for medicine by liifi fiitlicr Keraclides, after tlic manner of the .Tlsclepiades, and must have received extensive me- dical information from tlietabulae, hung up either in tlie temple at Cos or Cnido, all of which he copied, and described, in- lei-spersing them with his own observations ; these were left to posterity. Some believe that Hippocrates was a disciple of Democritus, but there are no documents extant to prove this opinion, and if he learned any thing from him, it should rather seem to have been in the friendly conversation, or correspondence that existed between them, when Democritus was fur ad- ■vanced in years and Hippocrates in the meridian of life. After the death of his parents, he left his own country, travelled about considerably, and died in Thessaly, but it is not known, for certain, in what year his death happened. Some, however, assert that he died at Larissa in the eighty-fifth year of his age, others maintain that he lived to one hundred and eight. He possessed the most excellent moral virtues, and his manners were unexceptionable; we have a just proof of his modesty and veracity, by the candour with w hich he relates the unfortunate termination of complaints, which, indeed, he seems rather to have chosen than the successful, and his frankness in confessing errors: on which account he merits the elegant panegyric bestowed on him by Celsus, Lib. VHi. cap. iv. “ A “ siitiiris sc deception esse, Hippocrates mcmoriit tradidit, more scilicet magnorum virorum ctJidiiciam magnarum rerum habentium. “ Nam Iwi ia iiigcnia, quia nihil habent, nihil sibi delrahunt. Magno ingenio multaquc nihilominus habituro, co/nenit etiam simplex “ leri erroris confessio, jmvcipvcque in eo ministerio, quod utilitatis causa posteris traditur; nc qui decipiantur eadem ratione, qua “ quis ante deceptus cst.” He was well acquainted with philosophy, and Celsus says, followed the dogmas of Heraclitus, he made a proper distinction between that study and medicine, and was a man of great science and w’it; he totally confined himself to practical observa- tions and empirical experience ; but at the same time always endeavoured to make a proper advantage of using analogy, by carefully drawing conclusions from frequently reiterated experiments, and most of them are found to be true, in the present day. On this account, he w'as certainly the first who laid the foundation of dogmatic medicine, which, though not perfect in. all its parts, yet was such as to gain universal approbation, and serve as a model in every age. It has been disputed, whether he practised anatomy on the human subject. Le Clerc and Schulz deny it, but Haller, who must be considered the best judge in this controversy, declares it evident from passages in the book de Articulis, which is ad- mitted to be genuine. “ Corpora humana et de industria quideni ah Hippocrate incisafuisse, ut qui conjirmet suam sententium ex “ anatomico experirnento in quo claxicula occurrit, homini ita pene propria particula, ut ex alio ccnimali earn Hippocrati innotuisse “ m'lnime videatur” None can deny but that lie was familar with osteology, and also well skilled in surgery, as sufTiciently appear by his writings, from which it is clear that surgery, in those times, was a branch of medicine, and practised universally by physicians; and Haller declares, that the surgical writings of Hippocrates, on wounds of the head, fractures, and on the joints, excel his other works. He wrote his books on medicine, in Greek, following the Ionic dialect, and ought to be deservedly reckoned by all posterity, the chief of ancient medical authors ; but amongst so many books bearing the name of Hippocrates, there may be some spurious, not forged in these times, but either by his sons, his son in law. Polybus, or by his pupils, or some later Hippocrates. The difference of style, and frequent reasoning interspersed in many places, which Hippocrates himself was certainly very averse to, shew the fabrication : for which reason, Le Clerc considers all the books of Hippocrates spurious, that abound in reasonings. There are a great many various editions of the works of Hippocrates; that published by Poesius in folio, Greek and Latin, is one of the best. Renatus Charterius gave a very good edition, thirteen vols. folio, at Paris, in l679> in which are included the whole works of Galen, and an index of corrections and variae Icctiones at the end of each volume. Some prefer thelatin edition by John Marinclli, in three vols. folio, published at Venice, 1737, from its being more compendious j and useful, because in the second volume, all the parallel places in Hippocrates are shewn, and there is a most complete index by Pinius, w hich fills the third. As to the family of Hippocrates, Galen tells us, he had two sons, Thessalus and Draco ; each of whom had a son, named Hippocrates. Thessalus, says Galen, neither altered nor diminished the dogmas of Hippocrates: he was an'admirable character, though he did not remain in his own country, like Polybus, but attached himself to Archclaus, king of Macedonia. Nothing is mentioned, in particular, about Draco, except that his son cured Roxana, wife of Ale.xander the Great, and was her Physician; yet this is doubted by many, and remains unproved. Rut Polybus, a native of Cos, and son-in-law to Hippocrates, chiefly interested himself for the family, whom Galen greatly esteemed, and praised—calling him the disdpl®^-\xi HISTORY OF MEDICINE. disciple and successor of Hippocrates, who made no change in the established dogmas; and preferred serving his own country to going abroad on more advantageous conditions: from which it appears, that Hippocrates educated pupils in Medicine. Soranus confirms this; and the oath of Hippocrates proves it: therefore he did not reserve the Medical Art, exclusively, for his own family, as the Asclepiades had done, but taught it to others, who were not related to him, preferring humanity to the desire of gain. The most eminent of these pupils were Prodicus, Dexipus, and Apollonius. Those who wish to sec a more circumstantial account of Hippocrates, and these persons, may consult writers on Medical History, particularly Le Clcrc and Schulz. After the death of Hippocrates, however, his tenets did not fall into disrepute; and although we find, by his book De Veteri Medicind, that several sects of Physicians existed in his time, yet Hippocratic learning continued to prevail, and remained a long time cultivated in the family of Asclepiades, even down to the time of the Emperor Claudius, when Xenophon of Cos, Physician to that Emperor, called himself one of the Asclepiades; and procured for the Coans, exemption from tribute. This can be cfearly shewn from Tacitus, who says—Annal. Lib. XII. p. vi. 249—“ Retulit dein (Claudius in. “ Senafu) de immunitate Cois iribuenda, mulfaque super antiquUute eorinn memoraxit: Argivos vel Coelum, I.afonce parentem, “ xetustissimos insula: cultores; mox adventu Msculapii artern medendi illatam maximeque inter posterus ejus celebrem “ ftiisse, nomiiia singulorum referens, et quisque quibus atatibus viguisseiif. Quin etiam dixit Xenophontem, ciijus scientia “ ipse uteretur, cadem familia ortum; precibusque ejus dandum, ut omni tributo xacui in posterum, Coi saauim, et tantum “ Dei ministram insulam colerent.” But the learning of Hippocrates did not remain all this time uncorrupted, nor amongst the Asclepiades only, but received various modifications by different persons, to the time of Arctajus, who does not seem to have lived till after some of the Homan Emperors. The succeeding part on the medical learning of Hippocrates, extracted from a much larger history of medicine than the present, written many years ago; will lend to illustrate, how far the justly celebrated physician extended the art, which was not previously reduced to order, or method. His aphorisms are written in a manner and style equal to Aristotle’s Poetics, and other extraordinary productions of the enlightened preceptor of Alexander the Great. OJV THE ANATOMY OF HIPPOCRATES; WITH CRITICAL OBSERVATIONS. V HAVING offered some conjectures concerning the ancient state of physic before Hippocrates ; the doctrines of that, great man are next to be delivered. But it may be proper, previous to the entrance of a subject so important, to mention something of the medical schools at different places. Herodotus says, there was a medical school at Gyrene, and a temple of Tisculapius erected, but the manner of worship dif- fered from the Greek, (aj The same author notices another, founded at Crotona, the country of Damocedes, a famous phy- sician contemporary with Pythagoras, who being banished from the city by the severity of his father Caiiphon, came first to iEgina ; and afterwards to Athens. Here he lived in great repute ; from whence he went to Samos, and cured Polycrates, king of that island, of a dangerous distemper. Some time after, he was taken prisoner, by the Persians ; and endeavoured to conceal his profession, but being discovered, he was compelled to undertake the cure of Darius, whose foot was dislocated, and his queen Atossa, who had a cancer in her breast. He succeeded in these cures, and had the honour of being admitted to the table of that great prince. Some time after, despising all honors, and by disguising himself, he retired from court, and returning into his ow'ii country, married the daughter of the famous Milo, (b) This is, however, the only remains of the physic of Damocedes, or of the Crotonian school. g Galen (b) h. famous strong man of Crotona, who is said to have carried an ox without breathing, the space of a furloQg. (a) Lib. 3.xxii HISTORY OF medicine:. Galen mentions three schools, erected by the Asclepiadae : one at Rhodes ; this failed a considerable time before Hippo- crates ; not being mentioned by him, as arc those of Cnidus, and Cos. The same author assigns the pre-eminence to the Coan school as it produced the greatest, and most excellent physicians. Cnidus was the second m reputation ; and that of Italy the third. Some judgment may be formed of that at Cnidus from Hippocrates; ('cj who says, those who compiled the Cnidian sentences, or observations, have observed exactly all the symptoms of every distemper. But thcy'have forgot the greatest part of those things which a physician ought to know, without hearing the account of the sick person. He likewise says, that Elaterium, and milk, and whey, were their chief medicines. It seems they chiefly attended to the symptoms without any rea- soning. The Cnidians used to cure (dj (by analogisin) those who had an abscess in the lungs, after this manner.('e) Having observed that a cough threw up all that lay upon the lungs, they drew out the tongues of those who suffered under this dis- ease, and endeavoured to pour some water dow n the aspera artcria, to disebarge, by violent coughing, any matter upon the lungs. From what has been collecte<l; these ancient schools of medicine, seem not much calculaited for improving the art. In- deed, in the age of Hippocrates science was in its infancy, some faint glimmerings of learning appeared amongst the philo- sophers; but less amongst the physicians. As philosophy however began to be studied, by many excellent men; physic, though before traditional, and involved in superstition and darkness, shone forth, amongst the rest, of the sciences, and seem- ingly, by the#«dustrvof one man, arrived at an uncommon degree of perfection. Hippocrates, the great founder and im- prover of the art, was said to be descended from .Esculapius ; and was born in the island of Cos. The practice of medicine being hereditary in his family ; some have imagined, that he acquired great knowledge from the experience of his ancestors ; and the records of cures, preserved in the temple of .lEsculapius : it is more rational to attribute his excellence to industry, and the happy possession of extraordinary powers of mind. But leaving such conjectures to those learned men, who con- tinually indulge themselves in the contemplation of antiquity : we begin by displaying the amazing progress of the art itself; and examining his e.xtensive knowledge in all the branches of medicine. THE GENERAL OPINIONS OF HIPPOCRATES. NATURE is sufficient for all things, in all (f) animals'; or it is, to them, instead of all things. It knows, of itself, whatever is necessary, without being taught, or being under the necessity to learn of anyone. There is one principle power alone ; (g) and many others, subservient to this. It is by these powers that every thing is administered in the bodies of ani- mals; these distribute the blood, spirits, and heat, into all parts; by which means they receive life and sensation. Nature rejects ever}' thing superfluous, and hurtful; ('4Jbut it attracts, retains, and assimilates, everything good and useful. What we call heat, or hot, seems to be something immortal; which understands, secs, hears, and knows, both what is past, and what is to come. j The human body consists of three constitircnt principles; solids, fluids, and spirits, called the containing and contained parts. There arc four humors; blood, phlegm, yellow bile, and black bile, or melancholy. The blood is naturally hot, fluid, ;ind of a red colour, and sweet to the taste. The phlegm is cold, fluid, white, viscid, and somewhat saline. 1 he yellow bile is dry, glutinous, and bitter, and extracted from thepinguious parts of the blood, and aliments. Melancholy, is black, cold, and dry, very glutinous, flatulent, and inclined to ferment. The containing parts are composed of air, fire, earth, an<l water. This is the opinion of Pythagoras, Empedocles, and some of the most ancient philosophers. By the containing parts are meant bones, nerves, tendons, ligaments, cartilages, membranes, iind fibres. Health continues, as long as the four humours remain in their natural conditions, as to their qualities, quantities, and proper mixtures. But when they are not mixed in their natural proportions, or are not possessed ot their natural qua- lities, or if any humour become predominant, then is disease produced. ' ANATOMY fcj De ratione vie. in aculb, lib, (d) Galen. ("ej Tlie Cnidian practice violent and hazardous, j Lib. de .-Utiucmis. Lib, de carnibusvcl prmci{iiis.xxiii HISTORY OF MEDICINE. ^ ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY OF HIPPOCRATES. THE nature of man’s body is the principle, or foundation, (i) on which all reasoning of physic is built. Some physicians and philosophers pretend, that a man cannot understand the art of physic unless he knows what man is, (k) what is his first formation, and how his body is made. But I am of opinion, that all that has been written by these people, belongs more to the art of painting than physic; and am persuaded, that man cannot clearly understand nature, but by means of physic, as those w ho are well skilled in that art, will soon perceive. These two passages have been produced by a number of commentators in vindication of their different sentiments. Those who would, inconsiderably, force Hippocrates to understand every thing; assert, from tlie first passage, that he was e.xceedingly well skilled in anatomy. Those who dispute his anatomical knowledge, have produced the latter, as confirmation of his ignorance in this branch. Neither of the foregoing assertions, we presume, amount to a positive proof on either side. He supposed the nature of man’s body, consisted in his elementary principles, and notions, of the four humours. These most probably are, what he meant by the understanding the nature of the human body. His other assertions could only arise from observing that many philosophers, and physicians, disputed, in his time, on subjects, above human comprehension : and for this reason justly reprehended them. The skin is naturally white, but, according as humours abound, it varies its colour. When the passages are open, for the semen, (1) or menses, the hair, or down, appears. The matter, which forms the hair, is either remote or immediate. The remote cause, is, superfluous moisture, which the glands, situate in the moist places, could not absorb : therefore, this moisture is pushed out into liie skin, and where there are hairs, there arc also glands. The glands receive the moisture, which comes to them ; the hairs absorb it, for their production or nourishment, (m) being expelled by nature as superfluous. The reason of there being glands, and no hairs in some parts, is, because there is too great an abundance of moisture : for we see, that in watery and low grounds, seed will not take any root; nay the grass itself will not grow. The hair varies in colour, accoiding to the predominant humour; for whatever humour the flesh attracts, such will the colour of the hair be. Little is said concerning the muscles, except their name. The parts whose flesh is turned round, which is what we call pv?, have all a belly, or cavity Aa-V'^<pv\o» for all which is not composed of parts of a different nature, whether it be covered with membrane, or whether the flesh covers it, all that is hollow; and when well, is full of spirits; but when it is diseased, (n) it is filled with a sort of water, or corrupted blood. The arms, have flesh of this sort; the thighs, and legs the same ; as well as the most lean, and fleshless parts. The liver is the root of the veins, and the heart that of the arteries, from these the blood, (o) and spirits flow'; and through means of these, is the heat diffused.^ There are two hollow veins that come from the heart; one of which is called the artery ; (f) the other the vena cava. At the mouths, or inner gates of the arteries, there are three round membranes, disposed in their top, like a half circle, and they who pry into the secrets of nature, do much wonder, how these orifices, and ends of the great arteries, do close themselves. For if the heart be taken out, and one of these membranes be lifted up, and another pressed down, neither water, nor air, can pass into the heart; and these membranes, are more exactly disposed in the mouths of the left ventricle ; and that, for a very good reason. (q) The heart dwells in a bladder, and it is a very strong muscle. The large vessels of the heart, are called the fountain of nature; and he supposed, that the auricles served the heart as a fan ; and that the soul was situated in the left ventricle owing to its great heat. The motion of the arteries he called <ryD7p.o>. The heart is moved by its own nature, but the auricles privately swell, and fall again, (r) All the veins do communicate and flow mutually with one another, (s) The lungs are of their own nature cold, and are farther cooled by respiration. The lungs attract a nourisliment contrary to their substance, whereas all other parts, (t) attract those which arc similar to them. (u) The lungs are tire seat of thirst. I he lungs with their heat attract to themselves phlegm, out of the whole body; (xj especially the head. There is much heat in the heart; as being, of all members, the hottest, (y) Part (i) Dclocis homine. fk) De prise, medicin.' ^l) Denatur puer. (m) Deglandul. (n) Lib. de arte. (o) Lib. dcaliiuento. (p~) Lib. de Carn. (q) De corde. (r) De principiis. ("sj De loc. lion), (tj Lib. dealimento. (nj Lun^s tljeseart of thirst. <^xjDemoTb, - De prindp.XXIV HISTORY OF MEDICINE Part of what we drink goes into the lungs ; (z) because if you give a swine drink, coloured with red vermillion, or any such like thing, and presently cut his throat, you will perceive the iisperia arteria, coloured with the drink. The liquor found in the pericardium, (a) is a part of what we drink. The great artery, includes more^ heat than the vena cava ; and is the reservoir of the spirit r6 irnvyM there are, as yet, (b) other veins in the body, besides these two. As to that, which has the largest cavity, and is fixed to the heart, it runs through all the belly, and diaphragm; and sends a branch to each kidney, and at the loins, it divides, and sends branches to other parts, and to both legs. Above the heart, also, this vein divides itself to the right, and left; and, mount- ing to the head, distributes itself to each temple. To this may be joined other veins, which are, also, very large; but, in one word, all the several veins which are dispersed over the whole body, proceed from the vena cava, and the artery. The largest veins of the human body, are disposed in this manner : there are four pair in all. The first pair, arise from behind the head, descending by the exterior part of the nape of the neck, on each side the spine, reach the hip and thighs ; and passing thence through the legs, they reach the external ankle bones, and feet. For this reason, in pains of the back, or hip, bleeding in the ham, and in the external ankles, affords great relief. The second pair, coming from the head, descend from the ears along the neck ; they arc called the jugular veins, and follow the spine, in its inner parts, till arriving at the loins, they branch out on both sides to the testicles, the thighs, and the insides of the hams ; a\id pass thence, through the internal ancles, to the inner sides of the feet. For this reason, in pains of the testicles, and loins, bleeding in the internal veins of the ham, and ancle, is very useful. The third pair rise from the temples ; and passing from the neck, towards the shoulders, reach the lungs, and from thence passing on one side, from the right to the left, run along the under breasts to join the spleen, and kidneys; and on the other side, passing from the left, to the right, run also by the breast, to the liver and kidneys, and at last they terminate in the strait intestine. The fourth pair, rising from the forehead, and the eyes, pass below the lungs, and clavicles ; and thence, by the superior part of the arm, reach the elbow, the hands, and fingers; and they return again from the fingers, by the palm of the hand, by the elbow, and by the under side of the arm, in order to reach the armpits; and by the superior parts of the ribs on one side of the spleen, and on the other to the liver. These two branches, passing beyond the belly, terminate, at last, at the private parts. 1 here are two intestines, one straight, about the length of twelve cubits, being afterward full of folds, some call it colon; (c) and he observes, that this intestine m man, is like th.at of a dog, but larger. This intestine is fastened to a part, called, mesocolon. The second intestine is furnished with abundance of flesh all round, (d) and it terminates in the anus. The oesophagus, is a funnel, which reaches from the tongue to the stomach, in which part the meat is concocted. In his Lib. dc Aliment, (e) he calls the stomach, the putrifying belly, xoixta but oftener the word coction wtij/irand TTEo-o-iiv to concoct. Digestion is performed, by the heat in the stomach; which, he calls, a part, all nervous, that joins to the liver, on the concave side. The spleen is raw and spongy, and as it were another tongue, (f). The liver abounds with more blood than the rest of the viscera; and to the liver is assigned the office of separating the bile Hwi-TiTir and that it has five lobes. , Hie diaphragm is called the seat of the understanding; (pfmr but this was suspected in the time of Hippocrates, if the book on the falling sickness be his. For there it is said, the part which is called phrenes, is called so falsely, and at random. This name is founded on an opinion, and not on any thing real: for I see not how this part contributes to pru- dence or understanding. All that it performs is, that when any one is surprised, with great and sudden joy, or grief, it beats, and causes a sou of uneasiness, or pain: for it is fine, and moie strongly on the stretch, than any other part of the body; having no telly, »i cavity, to receive what is good or bad; but being alike incumbered with one and the other. This part perceives, or has sense; but it is not the seat of wisdom, no more than the heart. \Vherefore the name of this is as improper, as that ot the cars of the heart, which have no hearing. He says, in one place, it is nervous; in another, that it is tliis membrane that causes madness; when the blood stagnates there, or moves slowly. There (x) Part of wliat wtt drink goes into the lungs. (a) De corde. fb) Lib de carnibus. (c) Libdc anat. (d) Dc Morb Epidem. ^e) LibDcilnat. (/) De moth mulier.XXV HISTORY OF MEDICINE. The soul of man is seated in the left ventricle of the heart; and from thence commands the rest of the faculties of the soul: (g) and it is nourished, neither with meat, nor drink, from the stomach; but with a briglit and pure substance, secreted from the blood. The soul creeps into a man being mingled with fire and water, (h) TTie souTof man is increased until death. The caus -s of all those things, whereby the soul is altered, are to be referred to the nature of the passagt^ through which it penetrates. For as the vessels are affected, into which it retires, into which it falls, and with which ft is mixed; such is their condition: and therefore we cannot, at all, cure them by diet: for it is impossible to alter or change the invisible nature. The brain is the seat of coldness; (i) it attracts all kinds of expirations; whereof it becomes filled with vapors, because it is seated in the upper part; whereunto all vapours ascend. The excrementitious humors pass out of the brain by several ways: fArJ through the nose, ears, eyes, palate, into the throat, and aspera arteria, through the veins into the spinal mar- row, and blood. The brain is considered a gland; and he imagined, that smelling was performed by the brain drawing up the odors with the air. When a man draws in air by his mouth, (1) and his nose is shut, first of all the breath eomes to the brain. The ear is perforated, and in that part we hear; yet the empty cavities about the ear, do hear only a confused noise ; (m) but that which enters through the membranes, into the brain, is heard distinctly, where there is a perforation through the membrane that invests the brain. We hear, because the holes of our ears reach to the dry and stony bone; to which is added a canal, or fistulous cavity, against which hard bone, the sounds do beat; and the hollow bone, because of its hard- ness, yields a resounding. Now in the hole of hearing, near that hard bone, there is a film, like a cobweb; (n) the driest of all the membranes of the body; but t/hat which is driest is fittest to conceive or receive a sound, as may be proved by many arguments. When this membrane therefore yields the greatest resonance, then we hear best. The brain has in it a faculty of smelling, though it be moist, and drove through cartilaginous bodies that arc dry, together with the air, the odors of dry things. For the brain reaches even to the cavity of the nose, having no bone in its way, but only a soft gristle like a sponge, which you can call neither a bone nor flesh. If, therefore, the cavity of the nostrils be dry, then does the brain better and more exquisitely perceive the odors of dry bodies; for it cannot smell water, because it is moister than the brain ; unless it is corrupted, (o) In like manner, when the nostrils are moist, we cannot smell, because all that lime the brain draws not the air into itself. There is no passage tending to the nose, but a loose and spongy substance, and that is the reason why we hear farther than we can smell; (pj for if the scent be far from the sense, it is diffused before it reaches thereto. There are some, who, writing on the nature of things, have affirmed, that the brain makes a sound, which cannot be, for the brain is humid and moist; and no moist body can make a sound. The sight is nourished by the humidity of the brain, (q) Hippocrates called the arteries beating veins, and frequently confounds the nerves, arteries, and veins, calling them promiscuously, rovovr. The origin of the nerves, he says, is from the neck to the spine, (r). OF THE BONES. THE bones give stability, rectitude, and form to the body. Where there is more fat than gluten, there are bones formed : they are condensed by heat, and so grow hard and dry. By his book De fracturis, we may presume, that he had a toler- able knowledge of the bones, their situation, and connexion. Pausanias relates, that a brazen skeleton was consecrated by Hippocrates, to the Delphian Apollo. The generation of teeth is threefold, the first from the semen in the uterus; (s) the second fiiom the milk; the third from more solid aliments. '1 he figure of all the bones depends on the magnitude of the brain and skull, (t) h BREASTS fe) Dc cordc. (/i) De dieeta. (i) Brain, the seat of cpldnejs. (h) De loc. in homin. (1) De morbo sacro. (in) De locis in homin. (n) De carnibus. (o) De carnibns. (p) De loc. in homin. (j) De loc, ia honrin. (r) De natur. ouiuin . (s) De cainibus. (t) The figure of the bones depend on the magnitude pf the brain.XXVI HISTORY OF MEDICINE BREASTS AND GLANDS. THE breasts receive the excrementitious moisture: for if any disease, or other event, take away a woman’s breasts, ("uj ler voice becomes shriller, and she is much troubled with a paitrin her head. The uses of the glands and the breasts are alike, for they absorb the superfluities of the whole body. Cx) The nature of womens breasts, is fleshy, and spongy, and the aliment they receive, they turn into milk. The milk comes from the uterus to the breasts, which after the birth, must be for the nourishment of the infant. This the epiploon presses out, and send^ upwards, being strengthened by the growth of the foetus. After a woman has born a child, if she also has given suck before, the milk svill arise into the breasts, as soon as the ia- fant begins to move. When the infant moves, it gives warning to the mother. The foetus, in the third or fourth month, becoming gieat, strains or presses the vessels full of blood, and by this compression, there is made an expression to the upper parts. The almonds, says Hippocrates, are for the purpose of receiving the moisture of the brain, fzj This moisture it con- verts into saliva, whereby all the parts within the mouth, even the oesophagus, and the aspera arteria, and tongue, are all kept from drying, and rendered more glib and nimble. ON CONCEPTION, &c. IN women, who are weak or delicate, the menses sometimes continue flowing for the space of seven days, faj The dis- charge of the menses is, more or less, according to the variety, colour, temperament, age, habit, and time of the year. The women who arc fair, or white, have such abundance of humour, that it issues various ways; contrary to those who have brown and swarthy skins, ('ij being commonly drier. In moderate, and middling temperate women, the quantity of the discharge is equal to heraine, (i. e. eighteen ounces). To perfect generation, there is required a concurrence fej and mixture of the male and female semen. The semen is of a fiery,and airy nature. By the airy part, it distends the whole frame of nature; and by the riery, it is stimulated to action. ’I'hc ligaments of the womb do hold it like a bridle. In the right sinus, or bosom of the womb, the male children arc conceived ; fejandin the left, the female. When the semen is received into the uterus, it is there closely shut up. (fJ H will scarce admit a needle or small probe. The wombs of women are the cause of all their diseases, (gj There is a double kind of semen in both sexes, the one strong and hot, the other weaker and colder. The first is called semen masculum, or male seed; the other semen femininum, or female seed ; and out of these, as they overcome one another, he thinks, that a male, or female, is generated. The seeds injected, and drawn into the uterus, are exquisitely mixed, immediately; or otherwise, fij they arc neither nourished, or animated. And if any man deny that tlie souls are united in conception, let him be considered ignorant, The woman who is pregnant of a male child, is well coloured ; (IJ she that is pregnant with a female is swarthy, or pale coloured. Male children are situated on the right side, females on the left, (mj If a woman has conceived of a male, the right breast will swell ; if of a female, the left. The geniture in seven days hath whatsoever (n) it ought to have. For common and prostituted women, when they find they have conceived, they undo it within their own bodies, by wicked means, and so there fallcth from them as it were a flesh: which flesh, if it be cast into cold water, and diligently observed, you shall in it perceive all the members, the place of the eyes, ears, hands, fingers, thighs, feet, toes, and the secret pacts. When the infant begins to move, the milk acquaints the mother with it. (o) for presently, upon the motion of the infant, the breasts swell, and the nipples are distended. If the right breast should fall, or lessen in size, it indicates the abortion of a male child; (u) De glandulis. (x) De natura pueri. {ij) De natura pueri. (a) De diaeta. (6) Lib. de toulicr. (c) De natur. pueri. («) Male cbildretj conceived of the right side of the womb, females of the left. (g) De loc. homin. (/i) Two sorts of semen in both sexes (i) Union of souls (1) Aph. 48, sect. T. (m) Aph. 38, sect. v. (») De priucipiis. (z) De glandul. (d) Mixture of the male and female semen. (f) Closeness of the uterus, Aph. 5i, sect. t. (/c) De natur. pueri. (o) De natur, pueri>HISTORY OF MEDICINE. xxvii cliilil; If the left breast, a female. So if the right breast be enlarged, and projects out, it is a sign that a male is conceived j if the left, a female. (p) The chief cause of the struggling of the infant in the birth, is the want of- nourishmeni. (q) A feniale child has its confirmation of parts, (r) by the forty second day at farthest. A male infant at thirty days. The first beginning of motion, in male children, is at the third month ; in females at the fourth month. So that there is a cei tain proportion of the conformation and motion of the infant, and a double time coming between them. Male children, there- fore, (s) because they receive their form the thirtieth day, do move the ninetieth : (t) now the jiinetieth day makes up the third month. Females, because they have their conformation the forty-second day, arc moved the one hundred and twentieth, which compleats the fourth month, (u) In his book, De Principiis, he promises to make manifest why nature dispenses all things in seven days. The septimestris partus, is circumscribed within thirty weeks; that is two hundred and leu days. The semen issues In m all the moisture which is contained in the whole body. (xj The semen falls from all parts ; sound semen from sound parts ; and sick or diseased, from diseased parts. The semen is diffused out of the brain, into the loins, and medulla of the spine ; (yj and from thence into the kidneys j from the kidneys it is conveyed through the testes to the parts destined for coition. In his hook, Ife Natura Ossium, he says, that the Jugular veins proceed from both sides of the head, into the testes; and thither convey the semen. So that according to liippocrites, there are two ways of conveying the semen to the parts of generation ; by the spine, and by the jugular veins. When you would generate a female, tie the right testicle of the male ; fz.) when you desire a male, tie up the left. Tliere is in men and women, both male and female, semen, (aj It is the best, and strongest part of all the humours, con- tained in the whole body. Those women who have moist wombs do not conceive ; CbJ because their geniture is extinguished. If the semen which proceeds from the man, does concur together, in a right line, (cj and meet with that which flows from the woman, then does the female sooner conceive. If the geniture proceeding of both sexes, be retained in the matrix of the woman, (dj they are presently mixed uniformly into one. The first nourishment of the infant, is by the naval string, through the abdomen. ■' Before the infant is born, it draws the purest blood from the mother, (f) . The infant, as it is situated in the uterus, hath its hands on its knees, (g) and its head bent down to its feet. The parts of an infant, are formed together, increased all together, not one part more, before, or after another, (h) But those that are great by jratuie, appear before those which are less. It seems to me, that there is no particular part first formed in the body ; but all parts are the beginning; all parts the end ; all parts first; and all last. The geniture, after it is mixed and retained, what day or hour soever it be avoided, doth all appear covered with a film, or crust, (i) (meaning the foetal membranes). For the geniture, being heated and puffed up, or fermenting, is compassed with a film, even as bread, when it is baked, is surrounded with a crust. A male unites its parts sooner, and is sooner articulated ; (k) but afterward it grows more slowly, and in a longer time. The male child is sooner formed in the matrix, because he is hotter •, (IJ for conformation is the work of heat. Males are generated of hot semen ; females of colder. This is the reason why a female is formed, and articulated ,later than a male; (n) because the semen of one is moister, and weaker, than the semen of the other. I TWINS. (p) Aph. 58. sectv. (t) The foetus when formed. De genitura. De mat. pueri. (h) DediaetaandDelocisuhomio, ^m) De diieta. (g) Cause of labour. (r) Lib. De natnr. pueri. Dc septiment. (s) De natur. pueri. (u) Pythagorean doctrine of numbers.' (i) Degenitur. Demorbo sacro et de aere. aquis, ei locis. (z) De Superfoctatidne. (o) De genitura. (6) Aph 62 sect. i. (e) De motbi mulier. (e) Dealimehto. (/) De natur. pueri. (g) De natur. pueri. (i) De natur. pueri. (/c) Lib. Epidera. (t) Heat the cause of conformation. (n) De natur. pueri._ xxviii HISTORY OF MEDICINE TWINS. TWINS are caused by the semen being divided equally, and carried to both sides of the uterus, (o) If from both parents, masculine semen issues, then are two males generated; (p) if feminine semen, then two females. If both masculine, and feminine, then of the masculine is a male conceived, and a female of the feminine. Moreover, twins that are both males, or both females, do, for the most part survive, (q) But if they prove a male, and a female, the female does seldom live, or at least is very weak ; because it is not formed and perfected at the same time wherein the male is formed and perfected. The woman, who is pregnant with twins, (r) commonly fails in labour of both infants in one day ; and if they be of one sex, they are contained in one membrane. There are three reasons why twins have a great likeness to each other, fij First, the places wherein they receive their augmentation, are equal; whether they be conceived on the right or on the left side of the matrix: because, by a won- derful providence of nature, the right are equal to the left, that so the whole body' might be equally balanced. Again, be- cause they are conceived together. Lastly, because they are the same elements : for they suck the same blood, and enjoy the same vital spirit, which they draw from the mother, by the umbilical vessels. OF MOLES, OR FALSE CONCEPTIONS. CONCERNING the conception of a mole, this is the truth : fwhen a great abundance of blood clogs a little ill- disposed semen, there cannot be a true, orlegitimate conception ; yet the abdomen swells as though the female was pregnant. This is the certain and greatest sign of the mole, or false conception, if no milk appears in the breasts. A woman may bear a mole, two or three years. . ON SUPERFOETATION. IN his book Epidemics, there is related a remarkable example of superfoetation in a woman of Larissa, who the fortieth day after the delivery of a legitimate child, (or one born in the seventh month) voided another preposterously conceived. Superfoetation happens to those women, the mouth of whose wombs, after their first conception, is not close shut, (x) Terpida, a woman of Doriscus, (a city of Thrace) when she had gone, with twins, five months, by some mischance suf- fered abortion, (y) The one issued forth, presently, compassed with a membrane; the other she carried forty days after. A woman pregnant with twins, if either of her breasts fall and grow loose, she will miscarry with one of her children by abortion. (zj If it be on the right breast, of a male, if the left breast, she will miscarry of a female. ON THE NOURISHMENT OF THE FCETUS. THE foetus in the womb gathering its lips together, (aj suckethout of the mother’s womb, and draws both aliment, and spirit to its heart; when the mother respires. The first aliment is through the abdomen, by the navel, (b) In the middle of the flesh, is the navel separated ; (cj by which the infant respires, and acquires its increase. The navel is the passage for the air and aliment to sustain the infant, and is the only ingress by which it cleaves to the mother; f'dj by this means is the foetus made partaker of those things that are received into the mother's body, ("ej When the infant is born, the midwife ties the navel string, as being no more necessary for nourishment; (fj and then opens the mouth to shew it another way, by which it should receive nourishment. A woman (0) De dixta. (p) JIow twins ore caused, ^«) Reasons why twins have a resemblance. (1) De Superfoetatione. (y) Lib. Epidem. lib. 7, (6) De nutritione. (c) Pe aatur. pueri. (e) The child nourished by the navel. {f) De diteta and De nator. pueri. (t) Dediaeta. (r) Apli. 38 sect. v. (d) De octime strinatu. (f) De natuia pueri. (r) De superfoetatione. («) De morb mulier. ^ (a) De pringiiil^HISTORY OF MEDICINE XXIX A woman pregnant, is all over of a palid greenish colour; (g) because her pure blood is daily drawn from her, (h) and descends for the nourishment of the foetus. First the infant breaths but little ; (i) and draws a small quantity of blood from the womb : (k) his breathing is increased when it draweth more blood, it descending more plentifully into the matrix. CRITICAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE ANATOMY OF HIPPOCRATES. THE anatomical acquisitions of Hippocrates, have been the subject of dispute for several ages. Some of his admirers have asserted, that he understood every .branch of science, equally with the moderns; whilst his detractors, and others, who support the pretensions of the moderns, as being superior to the ancients, will scarce allow him that merit he was justly intitled to. It has been allowed, by several learned men, that it is almost impossible to form a true judgment of the anatomy of Hippocrates. For whatever is written on this branch, is dispersed in different parts of his work ; and in selecting the most impoi tant passages, no inconsiderable labour and judgment are required. Some of the books are supposed spurious, because neither Erotian nor Galen, mention them, and it was five hundred years after his death, before his writings were regularly digested, and published, by Dioscorides, and.Artimidorus, two physicians of Alc-xandria. From these circumstances, some have imagined, that, at dif- ferent periods, after his decease, several passages were fostered into his works, which belonged not to the original. If such an opinion had any foundation in truth, there would have appeared, most probably, some later discoveries, in anatomy, physiology, philosophy, or surgery ; or some of the improvements made by his successors, in the succeeding century. Now, as men in general, are. too tenacious of their discoveries, and improvements, to permit others to assume the honour of their inventions : as none of the succeeding discoveries, either in anatomy, physic, or philosophy, appear in his writings ; as several of his opi- nions perfectly coincide, with those of cotemporary philosophers, as it appears that the opinions in general correspond both in his books, which have been supposed spurious, and those acknowledged legitimate : it should seem, that the work as it now appears, is in general genuine; or at least they are his works, joined with those of his son. Polybus, whose sentiments must have been nearly the same. Some passages in the text may be excepted against ; and the various readings of difl'erent com- mentators might be insisted on; but, as commentators, in all ages, have disputed on trifles ; as they have frequently invelopcd in a cloud what was quite transparent; and as several have indulged themselves in misinterpreting the original meaning of the author, to accommodate his ancient notions, to their modern prejudices : let us pass them over in silence, and uninfluenced by any such confined principles, let him receive praise or censure, according to his merits or detects. The notions of Hippocrates concerning the powers of nature, or that invisible incomprehensible part of man, by which all the animal functions arc performed, are not unworthy of attention. They are quite superior to many speculations that have appeared since; he drew his notions from strict observation ; for, what can be more strictly true, than that nature rejects every thing superfluous and hurtful, and attracts, and assimilates every thing usefulOn this simple notion alone, may we determine on the necessary proportions of diet, exercise, rest, and all human actions ; indeed nature ought to be our monitor in every thing that is received by the human body according to diffei’cnt habits. His elementary principles, and four humours, of blood, phlegm, choler, and melancholy, were introduced in his age ; (1) and he, like the physicians of every age and country, accommodated his writings, to the prevailing philosophy of the times. Though nothing has so much retarded medical improvements, as the slavish and unthinking servility of physicians, to philosophers. On the skin, he seems to have some true notions ; (n) that its colour depended on what humour was under- neath. He had never properly distinguished between arteries, veins, nerves, and tendons, (o) which proves that he had never dissected with any degree of accuracy. He perceived the valves of the great vessels, but these he might be informed of by Democritus, or others, whose curiosity led them to inspect animals. Indeed, his being constantly engaged in the most extensive practice, must have in a great measure, prevented him from contemplating and dissecting for an accurate knowledge in anatomy. (j>) For he says, others who pry into the secrets of nature, wonder much at the structure of the membranes, or valves of the great vessels^ i What Signsof pregnancy. (h) De morb. mulier. (i) Denatur. pueri. (A) He supposed t*ie child br.’athcd in the woipb, (1) His notions of humours, agreeable to the doctrines of philosophers. (m) Its ill effects. (n} Ontheskinhe hadsome truenotkms. (o) Confused in the arteries, nerves, veins, tendons, See. 0>) He laments to Democritus, that he had no time for such studies.3#XX HISTORY OF medicine; '^Wirathe hns ailvarced concerning the liver, and its U£C, is in general confused, (q)^ he had do conception of the eVdvey. ance of the bile into the intestines^ but imagined the liver to be a viscus that made tlic blood, and in consequence cafldd it the fOunttiin of nature. His notions were very loose and uncertain, concerning the secretion of the bile, though he seems to think it performed by the liver. (r) The arteries he knew had a pulsation, but understood not how the blood was ciixtulatcu. Indeed it was impossible that the most common observer could have not perceived a thing so evident, as the beating of the arteries; because they are plainly to be seen, in very thin or consiunptive people. All the passages produced by Vander- linden, and others'; concerning the circulation of the blood, amount only to a proof, that Hippocrates kmiw that the blood circulated ; (s) but had not the most distant notion how this salutary action was performed. The following are the principal passages, collected from different parts of his works on this subject. The veins diffused through the body, supply it with spirit, fluidity, and motion, whilst many of them branch out, from one; The liver is the root of the veins, f'tj und the heart of the arteries: from these the blood and spirits flow; and through these the heat is diffused. If he recover, or get the better of his disease, so that the blood becomes warm, (u) whether by means of such things as arc administered, or by itself; it foments, is attenuated; and put into motion, carries spirits along with it, despumates itself; and is separated from the bile, and so the patient becomes sound. But whilst the blood docs not move, it cannot be but the body- must remain in a state of rest and sluggishness. If the coldness and coagulation of the blood, be perfect, the patient dies. For the blood bcingwarmed and attracted, those things which are in the body perform a quick circulation; and then the rest of the body is purged by means of the spirits; (x) then that which is compact, becoming warm, is attenuated, and eliminated from the body through the skin : and this is called awarm sweat; and after this excretion, the blood is restored to its natural state, and the fever remits. All these symptoms appearing, are the sign of health ; (if) and that the body together with all its functions arc sound. But rivers not flowing in their usual manner, may be compared to the circulation of the blood, when they overflow their tanks; they resemble the excess ; and when they cease to fill their channels, they resemble the deficiency.of the blood. For when the circulation is slow, the senses are lost, by little and little; f^Zil and those who are most acute, are a little put out of order, by reason of the slowness of the circulation. For the blood itself being naturally warm, and propelled by a certain force, cannot soon make its way through a narrow passage \ (a) since it may meet with many hinderances and obstructions, whence fevers, pains, and other disorders arise. The last passage, has a strong resemblance to the Boerhaavian theory of fevers, which he thought was chiefly ovving to ob* structions in the capillary vessels. Hippocrates's notions of the distribution of the veins arc imperfect* His dividing* the intestines into two, ('AJ has no appearance of method, or an acquaintance with the parts. 'I'hc structure, or use, of the diaphragm, (c) he undci’stood not. His fixing the seat of ihe soul, in the left ventricle of the heart, (d) is a memorable example of that inherent inclination in the mind of men, to search after incomprehensible things. And it may be' observed, the like siiccess-has attended the labours of all future enquirers from his time; (e) for, after thousands of pages have been writteny speculation heaped on speculation, disputes supported and refuted, and innumerable absurdities obtruded on the world ; these speculative and deep searchers for the scat of the soul, have left the subject involved in its original inexplicable darkness and uncertainty. The heart and lungs, he imagined, received part of our drink. This is absolutely false, and he never could have ex- amined the anatomical structure of these parts, or he mus.t have known the impossibility of liquor passing either to the heart, or through the trachea to the lungs. He (q) The use of the liver he understood not. (t^ Dcaliinento. (y) De Insojuniis. Division of the intestines, not methodical, (e) lU-success atteuding enquities concerning the (r) He knew the arteries had a pulsation, ('it) De morbis. lib. 2. (z) He diceta, lib. i. (c) Underslood notthe use of the diaphragm, seat of the soul. Q') His notion of drinlr going.t (i) But not how the blood circulated. (x) De diseta, lib. 2. - , (a) De flatibus, lib. vii. (d) His notion of thescat ofthe soub. the lungs and heart from tlie mouib'faise..history of WeSiOinS. He knew a little concerning IieaHtig, and had seen tho tympanum ; from his obSe'rviCtioirof^ its b^ing'tlie dri^st^iriem- brane in'the body. The philosophers who were cotemporary with him, likewise applied themselves to discover’ how hetfring was performe'd, aS hath already been mentioned. As for the brain and nerves, he was entirely unacquainted with their uses, ("k) Vision, likewise^ he does not sOe’m to'hav^ speculated on. In the book De Glandulis, he calls the brain a gland ; and in his book, De Morbo Sacro, he makes the brain the seat of wisdom. These are some of his contradictions, and it has been a matter of dispute, whether the book De Glandulis be genuine. Galen thought it spurious. The uses of the glands, he'seems to have understood, though imperfectly, The secretion of the saliva^ he mentions, and comprehended its use. The thoughts on generation, conception, the union of the semen of the sexes, f/rj its conveyance through the spine, or means of the jugulars to the genital parts ; and his notions on twins, have no foundation in truth. These subjects were too intricate for the discussion of those early and infant ages of philosophy ; indeed no e.xtraordinary success has attended later enquirers, as will fully appear in the prosecution of this work. The opinions concerning the production of moles'or false coneeptions, are nearly true, (I) and agrees with the present general opinions on that subject. (Tn the nourishment of the foetus, he had formed a tolerable judgment; (m) except, where he imagines, that the foetus respires in the uterus, (n) for we know this to be impossible. From the whole then, it appears, that Hippocrates was defi*ctivein anatomical knowledge, (o) And can this be"wondered af, when it was contrary to the custom of the Greeks to touch, muchless to open and inspect, dead bodies ? This alone suf- ficiently accounts for the deficiency in this branch of the art. But is it not extraordinary that he even understood what he’ did ? Docs it not argue the most indefatigable industry, the most extraordinary powers of mind, the most consummate wisdom, for one man to acquire such a comprehensive kn'oAvledge in every branch of medicine.’ It certainly does. He must be con-** fidcred byevery unprejudiced judge', as a prodigy, one whose superior talents and exalted genius, led him to soar above all others; t^f'cfiily inuni^er5a^'bfela'evo^e^rC'e and generosity of soul, but in all the learned accomplishtnents of the age‘hc lived'in; ON! fSE Medical practice of hipfocrates. IN acute’diseases, he observes thiaf c'otA'ness’ifi- the extremities is a bad sign; Cp) and that we mnst purge, if theie'be a' tendency in* nature, to expel the hh/nbr' by'eiccretion; upon the first appearance of the disease, (qj In general, his' practice is, to allow the patient only a thin' watery diet, and to wait patiently, and watch diligently, for whatever course nature takes to expel the disease, iii which* salutary purpose'he assists. 1 he remedies in general are, emulsions, hydromels, and thin fannaceous ptisans. Oxymel, he likewise recommends, as it promotes expectoration, and renders respiration easy. ,The (g) He had some little knowledge of licaring« (i) Glands he imperfectly understood. (1) His notionof themola tolerably true. (71) But falsely imagined that the foetus respired in the uterus! (0) How extraordinary his kiio'wledge, when the disidTaiitages he laboured under be considered. (p) Cpid. XXV. 7. Aph. 10. sect. iv. Prsenot. 15. ix. (h) Ignorant of the use of the brain and nerves, (k) His notions of generation, conception, &c. not true. (m) On the nourishment of the foetus, his notioltsjust, in some degt«f.xxxii HISTORY OF MEDICINE. The fbllowing arc his spiitimcnts. J I praise that physician, who knows how to distinguish himself, above all others Of his profession, by his skill in improving the common methods, in curing acute diseases ; (s) which make the greatest havock •mougst mankind. Such arc those, to which our ancestors, gave the names of pleurisy, pcripneuinony, lethargy, burning fever; CO ttod other disorders which ha\c an affinity with them; for these destroy the patient, by a fever, altogether con- tinual, which accompanies them. For when there is no pestilential disorder raging epidemically, fu) but only sporadical fevers, of various kinds j more die of these acute fevers, than all other diseases. The generality of mankind, indeed, ('.ij are not capable of distinguishing the man who excels his brethren in true medical knowledge ; and therefore they only ju-aise, or condemn, especially when they see cures performed. It is utterly unsafe to attempt an unreasonable and extravagant inanition of the vessels ; (y) or offer food in the height of a disease, attended with inflammation; (7.) or, in short, to make any sudden alteration in any respect, during the whole course of a distemper. Men, ignorant of physic, can easily impose on mankind; C<^J and pass for able practitioners, if they only understand a few technical terms, as hydromcl, or ptisan, but knowledge is acquired by diligait study only, (b) Some physicians will not allow barley water unstrained ; others will notallow boiled barley, (c) Some not the least particle of cither solid, or fluid diet, till the seventh day. Others not till the full determination of the crisis. .Ask them why ? They arc silent, not having any conclusive reasoning in support of such singular conduct. Thus, by the contraciictions, and disagreements of the artists, the art itself falls into disrepute; and is reproached by the undiscerning multitude. lie illustrates this, by comparing physicians to practitioners in augury. Those frequently disagree about the same omens, (d) If a bird appear on the left side, one prognosticates a favourable event; while another augurer foretells from the same thing, that something dire- ful will certainly happen. Regimen is a proper subject for the speculation of a physician, He inveighs, with many powerful reasons, against Ibo practice of an absolute inanition, in acute distempers. He recommends the free use of barley water, or ptisan, from the beginning of the disease, after the intestines are emptied by black helleboreiMsiSopm or purple sea spurge mixing with the hellebore wild carrot or hart wort triotXi or cummin, or anise, or some of the fragrant •herbs; but with the spurge the juice of silphium imlv Is for though here be a mixture of simples, they are of a lik^ 'quality, and produce one uniform effect. If the beginning of a fever is attended with pain after the evacuation, he recommends oxymeal, warm, if it be winter, but cold in summer, or if the thirst be considerable, hydromel much diluted with water, (g) Ptisan (or barley) water, he con- ceives to be preferable to all other liquors in acute diseases, on account of its innocence, lubricity, and light nutritive qua- Ifties. The manner of administering the cremor of the ptisan, (h) is to be regulated by the patient’s former manner of living, and urgency of the symptoms; the greater the disc,iiargc frojtn the lungs, the more freely may the ptisan be used. There is no necessity of keeping the vessels empty, except on the days that a purge, or clyster, is administered. But I know some physicians act quite contrary to what they ought, (i) For their method is, after they have exhausted their patient, in the beginning of the disease, by an abstinence of two, three, or even more days ; then allow them sorbile aliment, and li- quors, upon this principle, perhaps, that it seems reasonable to compensate, for one great change in the body, by introducing another as great, and contrary. The ptisan should be continued two days after the crisis, particularly where there is an appearance on the fifth, seventh, or ninth day, always having regard to an equal number of days. Ptisan should be drank, when (r) De ration vict. in acut. (ty A physician worthy of praise, who improves the treatment of acute distempers. (t) Their fatal effects. (u) Hippocrates observes, that more die of acute diseases than aU other distempers. (i) He remarks the ignorance of mankind in general, of the abilities of physicians. fj/) Dangerofsuddenlyaltcringthe habit, by anover emptiness, (j) Giving food inthc height of inflammation, equally dangerous. (o' Ignoraiu men may pass for able physicians by arts. (i) Knowledge in the art acquired by study only. (c) Some prejudices censured. (d) The contrariety of opinions, he comparee to augury. (e) He is much against an universal emptiness of the vessels. (/) Evacuation by purges. (g) Ptisan was understood the barley and w ater all together, the juice, or cremor was the strained liquor, what we now call barley water. (h) Maouet of giving the ptbaa. (i) Some prejudices of other physicians censured.XXXIU HISTORY OF MEDICINE. (r) Coac. prtenol. i. 15. Aph, 46. sect. IV. (sj £pid. XL. 20. Apb 29. Sect. IV. Coac. i. 23. >¥hen there is perceived heat in the feel; and it should not be drank during the operation of the cathartic, (k) But when that ceases, it may be taken in less quantity tlian usual, and to be gradually increased, lie recommends fomentations to the •side, of hot water pat into a bladder, or leather vessel; (1) or milleto made hot, sewed in a bag, and applied in the same manner. If the patient should not receive benefit from the foregoing remedies, profuse bleeding, till the hlood appears florid, or livid, to be taken from the middle vein of the arm. He illustrates and end.avours to confirm, the propriety of administering the ptisan, by observing, that there is great dan* gcr in changing our usual diet, or manner of living in any respect. He observes, that those accustomed to three meals, will be disordered if they omit them ; and the same happens to those, who eat but one meal, if they indulge themselves with a greater number, or more wine than usual. Now, as changes in diet, produce such cflccts, he concludes, that it is equally hazardous, suddenly to empty the vessels; or to pursue those prejudices alr.ady mentioned, in not allowing patients any thing to such a particular day. All these things should be governed by nature ; (m) and agreeable to its variety in dilferent patients. For, he says, sudden and extraordinary changes in things which relate to nature and habits, are the principal causes of diseases. Relative to what has been here explained, much might be said in regard to the stomach, and things of the like kind. As that we bear with ease what we are accustomed to, whether meats, oi drinks, though bad in their nature, (n) And, on the contrary, are incommode<l with the best of food, to which we have not been used. The efi'ccts also of eating much flesh, contrary to custom, or of garlick, oi foj silphuim, or its juice, or cabbage, or any other of that kind, which are endued with some remarkable virtue, might be noticed; but it is no wonder, that these should more than other things dis* turb, and incommode the stomach ; especially, if we have observed, what disturbances, or intumescences, inflations, and gripings, are excited only by maza, (p) in a stomach never accustomed to it. What a sudden repletion, is caused by hot bread, by reason of its drying quality, and slow digestion ? Also what various eft'ects arc produced by the finest bread, as well as the coarser sort, when eaten contrary to custom ; .and by maza, when drier, moistcr, or more viscous than ordinary ? What are the effects of new polanto (q) on those who are not used to it; and how it operates when stale, with such as ^re accustomed to cat new ? What are the consequences of wine and water, being drank contrary to custom, on a sudden, ex- changed one for another ; or of the sudden abandoning our customary drinking, our wine pure, or diluted with water, for the contrary? For one will be sure to produce a redundance of humidities in the stomach, and flatulencies in the lower intestines, and the other a palpitation of the heart, heaviness of the head, and thirst. The changing of wines will produce, the same effects. He observes, that physicians are not very sagacious in distinguishing the cause of weakness; whether it arise from the violence of the disease, emptiness of the vessels. And says, ignorant persons, by the use of common reason, discover the cause of debility when arising from inanition, and frequently to the disgrace of the physician, cure the sick, by only recom- mending some innocent nutritive diet. He illustrates the foregoing observations by many reasonable arguments, which seem to be tlic effect of a close obser\ation on nature. If therefore a sudden altenttiou be made from exercise, and labour, to indolence, and inactivity; the stomach must be Juffered to rest in proportion from the fatigue of digestion ; otherwise for want of this precaution, the body will not fail of iiyury, either by an universal heaviness, or some other disorder* ^ SOME GENERAL OBSERVATIONS OF HIPPOCRATES, ON FEVERS, &c. IF a fit of cold shivering attacks a feverish person, frj he being weak, and the fever not intermitting it is a mortal sign. Those fevers arc with difficulty determined, in (sj which , at the sixth day, extreme cold fits happen. A cold shaking fit k ' coming (k) The ptisan to begiren in less quantity, and gradually increased after the,operation of a purge. . (l) Fomentation to the side. (m) Follows nature and the habits of patients. (jj) A just and indubitable truth yn diet. (o) Silpliuim an herb whereof comes benaoin. Plia. XVIII. 19. ^ ' (p) A thing made of water and oil, ot .as others saj of milk and flower like to flummery. (ijt) Parley and flour dried at the fire, nivl fried after it has laid and soaked one night in water polenta a farina hotdei dktat, es quod toneUur. Plin. XXII, 25. A country food ubi flent ncquam homines, qui poleutam pransilant. Plant, asia .XI. 16. rHISTORY OF MEDICINE XXXIV coniing upon one who' has a burning fever, dissolves it; (t) and rigors of the nerves succeeding convulsions removea them. (u) Those fevers which have cold fits every day, (x) are daily dissolved ; and tremblings, or convulsions succeeding sleep, are very bad signs, (y) Tremblings in fevers are frequently removed by a delirium, (x) t, ’ - swE.vrs. ' SWEATS, if they begin upon the third, fifth, seventh, ninth, eleventh, fourteenth, seventeenth, twenty-first, twenty-seventh, thirtieth, or thirty-fourth days, are beneficial; ("a) for those sweats determine the disease, (bj But when sweats happen otherwise, it is an indication of a troublesome and lingering disease. It is an argument of much moisture ; f'ej it fever is prolonged, if sweats happen, which do not remove the feverish heat. Cold sweats, in acute fevers, signify death ; but in more mild diseases the continuance of tlie distemper, fdj After a sweat; a shivering is bad. Vehement and sudden sweats, on critical days, are dangerous; ('ej and so arc such as the forehead sends out like drops, and springing water, and likewise those that are cold, and in great plenty ; for sweats of this kind, cannot be sent forth with- out violence, and excessive labour, nor till after d. long time. He observes, if a yellowness appear all over the body on the seventh, ninth, eleventh, or fourteenth day, (f) it is good, unless the right hypochondrium be hard, for then it is bad. (g) But if a yellowness appears before the seventh day, it is bad, (h) unless the humours are carried off by the intestines. A tough and viscous moisture hangs about the teeth of those who have very fierce and vehement fevers, (i) Fevers, un- less they leave persons on odd days, are apt to return. fArJ BREATH. THE breath not keeping its due course in fevers is bad ; for it signifies a convulsion. URINE. THE urines in fevers are advantageous that are thick, and curdled, and little in quantity; especially if they be such as have a sediment at the first, or not long after they are evacuated. Those who have their urine foul, like that of cat- tle, are, or will be troubled with the head ach. If a crisis happen upon the seventh day, then the urine has a small red cloud in it upon the fourth day. (in) Urines thqt are pellucid and white, are bad ; but these generally appear in phrenetic persons, (n) ^ DIET, &c. • PEOPLE of an extreme fulness of body, are in a state of danger, for they cannot continue in the same state, nor change into a better: it remains, therefore, that they must decline into a worse. Wherefore an over full habit of body, should be speedily removed, to the end that it may take a beginning to new nourishment. Neither are we to evacuate, the vessels to an extremity, (t) Predicat. XII. 9. 16. Coac. I. 118. Aph. 58. Sect. IV. (u) Loc. inhom. XLVIII.6. Judicat. XII. 10. Coac. I. 231 III. 80,84. fi) Judicat. XI. 16. Aph. 63. Sect. IV. (y) Aph. 67. Sect. IV. -•<; {z) Judicat. XI. 10. Coac. I. 185. Aph. 26. Sect. VI. (a ) Judicat. I. 2. IV. 13. Prasnot, V. 2. 3. Aph. 36i Sect. IV. (ft) Critical days. (c) Aph. 56- Sect. IV. Judicat. VIII. 6. Coac. IV. 36. 11 Morb. XXXV. 12. 1. Praedicat. VII. 8. (d) Judicat. VI. 9. 10. Praenot. V. 45- 1 Prsedict. VII. 14. 15. (e) Judicat. VI. 9. Praeuot. V. 4,8. 1. Prjedict. V. 7. (/) Judicat. III. 5,18, 20. IV. 11. Coac. I. 173. 1 F.pid. II. 120. 1. Morb. VI. 2. (g) Judicat. III. 5. 18,20. (\) Morb. VII. 2. Viet. amt. LIV. 3,4. (i) Aph. 53. Sect. IV. (/c) Odd day.-. Aph. 61. Sect. FV. Humor. III. 91. l.Epid. III. 40. (I) Aph. 69. Sect. XFV. Coac. Prsn. V. 80. 81. (m) Aph. 71. Sect. IV. Judicat. VI. 2. IX. 8. Coac. I. 213. V. 5., (n) Aph. 72. Sect. IV. !• Pr«dicat. 1. 5,11. Coae. V. 25. 26.j (») Humor. III. 82. Aph. 19. Sect I, (k) Dogs, or th« flesh of puppies as diet. HISTORY OF MEDICINE. . . xkkv extvemity, for that Is dangerous, but only in such a manner as nature is able to bear. (oj- So extreme evacuations arc dan- gerous, as likewise an extreme repletion. In lingering diseases, a slender diet is always dangerous; ('p) and in acute diseases likewise, where it is not convenient. And again, diet reduced to extreme slenderness, is as full of danger, as extreme repletion, (q) The sick may offend in a slender diet, and thereby grow worse; for every error, in this case, is more dangerous, than in a more plentiful diet. For the same reason, a very slender and too precise a diet, (r) is somewhat dangerous to sound and healthful bodies; (s) because they endure the errors of it with more difficulty; and therefore, a thin and exquisite sparing diet, (t) is more dangerous than that which is somewhat plentiful. When the disease is very sharp or acute, and is immediately attended with dangerous symptoms, we must use a most exqui- sitely tender diet; but when it is not so,, (v) we may use a fuller diet; and as the disease declines, we may gradually and proportionably increase the diet. When the force of the disease is the greatest, (u) the most sparing diet must be observed : but the patient should be coasidered, whether he has strength to bear the prescribed diet: (x) for even in the height of the disease,, if the diet be not sufficient, the patient will grow faint, and sink under the distemper. In diseases which come instantly to their height, (y) we must instantly administer slender diet; but in tliosc that have not yet come to their height, we may allow a fuller diet at first, to preserve the patient's strength, and afterwards gradu- ally diminish it. In paroxysms, or sharp fits of intermitting diseases, wc must take away meat; for to allow it then, would be injurious, (z) The same abstinence is to be observed, in fits that are heightened in their periodical returns. Old men easily endure fasting, those who are middle aged, not so well \ (a) young men worse again than them, and chil- dren worst of all; especially those that are of a more lively spirit. Those bodies that grow, (b) have much more natural heat, therefore they require great store of food, or else the body consumes. But old men have little heat in them, therefore they require but little food. And this is the reason that old men have not very acute fevers; (c) because their bodies are cold. The belly is naturally hottest in winter, and the spring, and most addicted to rest; consequently, in those seasons, a greater proportion of food is to be allowed; (d) because the in- ward heat is stronger, which is the reason that a more plentiful food is necessary. This difference may be seen in such as are old; and in such as are lusty, and well grown bodies. Moist diet is good for all who arc inclinable to fevers, but especially for children, (e) and others who are accustomed to such diet. ^ We ought to consider, to whom it may be convenient to feed once or twice in the day, more and less, by little and little. Wc must attribute something, also, to custom, (f) season, country, and age. In the, summer, and autumn, (g) sick peo- ple can hardly digest any meat at all; but more easily in spring; and easiest of all, in ^he winter. ,(h) No food ought to ] be given, or forced upon such as have fits returning periodically. But food ought to be rather diminished, (i) before ma- nifest tokens appear, to form a proper judgment of a disease. ‘ ■ ) 1 In his book, De Dimla, he says, that the flesh of dogs is heating, drying, and of a corrdborating (k) nature, but does ! not easily pass through tlie intestines, whereas that of whelps is of a moistening, lubricating quality,’ and is easily discharged I that v/ay. In his book De Morbo Sacro, he informs us, that epileptic patients were forbid the u.se of dogs flesh. In his i ■ I • book (o) Octimest III. 26, Aph. 3. Sect. I. A slender diet in lingering diseases dangerous. Precept XI. 4. Aph. 4. Sect. I, fj) Extremes to be avoided. (r) Too precise diet dangerous. (s) Aph. 5. Sect. I. ({) S. spare diet more dangerous than a full one (u) 1 Epid. III. 29, 33. 2 Epid. I. 24. .\ph. 7. Sect. I. (u) Viet, inacut. XVII. 11. XX. 1. ad. 6. Aph. 8. Sect. I. (r) Viet, in XIX. 8. 9. Aph. 9. Sect. I. (y) Diseases which come instantly to a crisss. Viet XX. 8. 9. Aph. 10. Sect. I. • ii) Natur. hura.an. XVIII. 30. 31. Human. III. 82. Hoc. in horn. XXXIX. Affect. XLII. 3. Aph. 11. Sect I. (o) Aph. 13. Sect. 1. (6) 1 Di®t. XXXIII. 5, 6, 7, 20. Nat. hum. XXIV. 7. Aph. 14. Sect. I. (c) Reason why the aged have not very acute fevers, (d) Humor. V. 4. Aer.-Aq. Loc. II. 2. Aph. 15. Sect. I. (e) Moist diet for Cliildren. Insomn. XV. 15, 16, 17. Aph. 16. Sect. I. . (/) Aph. 17. Sect. I, Piet, fiojiiidered according to custom, j (g) Seasons of the year. (h) Humor. VIII. 24, Aph. 18. Sect. I.XXXVI HISTORY OF medicine: bwk Dc Superftttatione, he recommends boiled puppies to be eaten by women, to promote conception. In Lib. dc Intemis Affcctionibvs, he directs the same to be used as food, by dropsical patients, and in an hepatites, alter the disease is brought to a crisis. It may be worthy of observation, that puppies were considered rather as a delicacy in China, Asia, and Africa; and Pliny says, (1) the Romans used them as other aliments. DELIRIUM, CONVULSIONS, AND COMATOSE SYMPTOMS. A CONVULSION and delirium occasioned by too much watching, is bad. (m) Convulsions, and vehement pains about the bowels, in acute fevers, are bad. (n) A difficulty of breathing, and dcliriunt in continual fevers, are mortal, (o) If those that are in health be suddenly taken with the hcad-ach, and thereupon become presently dumb, and snore, (j>} they die within seven days, unless a fever come upon them. We ought likewise to observe, what of the eyes appear in sleep; (q) for if any of the white appear, the eye-lids not being close shut, unless it proceed from a flux of the belly, or ' a purging potion, it is a bad sign, and very pernicious. Deliriums attended with laughter, arc more safe^ (r) but those that come by too much study, are more dangerous. . In the continual fever, if either the eye-brow, or nose, be distorted ; (s) if the sick sec not, or hear not, it any of these ■ symptoms appear, death is approaching. He likewise draws conclusions from expectoration and the foeces, (t) and makes several observations, of slow fevers pro- , ducing pains and sweUings in the joints. (x) INTERMITTENTS. HE observes, that quartan agues are, for the most part, of short duration, in summer; (x) but the autumnal, long; and especially those commencing near the winter. j Those intermittent fevers, are hard to be removed, (y) when the paroxysm returns the next day, at the same time it left J the patient the day before. j The fourth day is the index of the seventh; the eighth the beginning of the week following, (z) But the eleventh day | is to be considered; for that is the fourth day or another seventh, (a) And again, the seventeenth is to be considered, 1 being the fourth from the fourteenth, and the seventh from the eleventh, j In the beginning of diseases, if there should be a cause for removing any thing, move it; (b) but when they are advanced, 1 it is much better to leave them alone. ^ , Those fevers which happen every day, are daily dissolved; (c) but with great difficulty cured, ' In intermitting fevers, if a lip, nose, eye, or eye-brow be distorted; or if the sick cannot hear; if these symptoms appear; then is death approaching. Hippocrates, in his method of curing intermitting fevers, or quartan agues, (d) first purged downward; and if the disorder continued, he bathed them in warm water; and on coming out of the bath, gave his patients the seeds of henbane, and mandrake, the quantity of one grain of millet seed each, lasserpitium and trefoil, each the quantity of three beans steeped in wine. If a fever arose, from the fatigue of a journey, to the robust, and afterwards proved intermittent; he ordered garlic and honey, lentil broth, in which was honey and vinegar. After the sick had taken this moss, he made them vomit; and after having birthed them in a hot bath, when cool, they drank ciccon water, and in the evening, light diet, as much as their stomachs would bear. Afterward, he ordered them to be covered with an abundance of clothes, and by that (i) Lib. 23. (ni) Aph. 18 Sect VII. (0) Aph. 60. Sect. IV. Judicat. VIII. 17. Pra;not IV. 20. XVI. 9. (g) Prsenot. III. 1. Predict. XI. 2. Coac. II. 12. (t) .\ph. 4. Sect. IV. Prsenot I. 10. ' (t) Aph. 31. Sect. IV. (1) Natur.bom. XXIX. 5, 6,7. 1 Epid. III. 17. Apli. 23. Sect. II. (i) Critical days. (a) Aph. 24. Sect. II, Humor. III. 91. Judicat. XI. 16. Apb. 63. Sect. IV. (n) Aph. 66, Sect. W. Coac. IT. 207. ' (p) Judicat. XII. 4. Coac. II. 6. III. 120. Aph. 51. Sect. VI. ' (r) Coac. I. 141. Aph. 53. Sect. VI. ’ (u) Humor. HI. 98. IV. Epid. XVIII. 16. 17. > (y) Humor. IIL 91. Aph. 30. Sect. IV. > (6) Lot. in hum. X.XXVIII. 9* 10,11, Aph. 29. Sect. II. ' (d) I>cMorh. lib. II. • ' •*HISTORY OF MEDICINE. XXXVII that means excited sweat. They then drank a potion made with the rods of white iiellcbore, of the Icnn;tli of three lin^cr^. one dram of trefoil juice, of lasserpitiun the weight of two beans, with pure wine. If the patients were inclined to vomit, he vomited them; if not, a vomit was not given till the head w’as purged. In all paroxysms, or sharp fits of intermittent diseases, we must take away meat; (ej for to give it then w'ould be hurt- ful. The same abstinence is to be observed, in fits that are heightened in tlicir periodical returns. What relates to the paro.vysms and constitutions of diseases themselves, or the alteration of the return of the fits, whether they return every day, or after some longer interval of time. The same are likewise seen by other succeeding etfects. For instance, in a pleurisy, if the corrupted matter, avoided by spitting, appear presently at the beginning, it declares the disease will be but short; but if it be longer before it appear, it declares a long continuance of it. The urine likewise, the excrements of the belly, and sweats when they appear, declare whether the disease will prove easy, or difficult; short, or long. HECTIC FEVER. IN his Treatise Do Internis Affectionibus, he describes the hectic fever in the following manner. A gentle rigor begins to sieze the patient, the whole breast is pained as far as the back; sometimes, also, the patient is afflicted with an acute cough, and a discharge of a large quantity of thin and saline saliva. These symptoms happen in the beginning of the disease; but in the progress of the disorder, the whole body, except the legs, is extenuated ; for these, and the feet become tumid, the nails are incurvated, but the arms become weak and slender. The fmecs are covered with a kind of down; the patient breathes as though he whistled through a reed; and is, through the whole of the disease, afflicted with a violent thirst, and great weakness. When the patient comes to be in this condition, he generally dies in a year's ti.ne; notwithstanding all possible care and means, however taken, to restore and recover him. In the same book, he re- commends asses milk boiled, (f) in order to purify it, to be taken: the patient is also to drink unboiled cows milk, mixed with a third part of hydromel, and some origanum, for forty five days. In the thirty-fourth book of his Treatise De Internis Affectionibus, he orders, that if the patient be strong, he should, for thirty days, be employed in cutting wood, use sufficient exercise, (g) or walk by day, setting apart the night for repose and rest. •THE CAUSES OF HEALTH AND DISEASES. AMONGST the causes of health and disease, the most extensive and general are, according to Hippo'erates, the air and aliments; (h) both which he examines with the utmost attention : he has written several books on aliment, and distinguishes, with great judgment, the good from the bad; w'hat is proper, and what improper, to persons in different ranks of life. This knowledge he particularly excelled in; as his whole practice was much governed by regulating the diet. Ho paid great attention, to the difference of the seasons, and climates; the irregularity of the winds, and seasons; the rising and setting of the stars; (i) the times influenced by certain constellations, such as the dog star Arcturus, and the Pleiades. He also considered the solstices., and equinoxes; (k) because he believed, that all these produced great changes in diseases; but he does not explain how these changes are produced. When any of the humors are separated from the rest, it neces- sarily follows, that the part from which it came, must be disordered; (1) and the part to which it flows in too large a quan- tity, must endure pain and torment, (m) If, says he, a disease must remain in the part, where it began, when a noble part suffers, the whole body must be proportionably afflicted. 'I'he differences of diseases - depend on the following things. Aliments, the air, heat, the blood, the phlegm, the bile, and all the humors: (n) as also on the flesh, the fat, the veins, the arteries, the nerves, the muscles, the membranes, the bones, the brain, the spinal marrow, the mouth, the tongue, the throat, the oesophagus, the stomach, the intestines, the diaphragm, the belly, the liver, the spleen, the kidneys, the bladder, the matrix, the skin. 1 lie (e) Natur. Human. XVIII. 30, 31. Humor. III. 82. Loc. iu horn. XXXIX. Afiection. XLII. 3. Viet, in Acut. X. 2. Aph. 2. Sect. t. Hi RecommefldA asses milk, (g) E.\ercise (AJ His attention to air and diet, (t) Consults the Stars. (k) Equinoxei, (IJ De natur, horn. (m) Bemovalof the humors a cause of disease, (h) Lib, De, AJimento.XXXVlll HISTORY OF MEDICINE. He divided diseases into endemic, and epidemic, (o) Those wliich arc familiar and common to certain places, he called endemic. Such as rat{ed sometimes ni one jduce sometimes in another, and with uliich many were eijually seized, daring a certain space of time, he called epidemic disorders : such as the plague, the most terrible, not only of this, but of all other classes of diseases. He made a distinction between those disorders which arc hereditary, and those which are produced by accident. He looked upon some diseases, as mild and benign, and others obstinate and malignant. (p ) The former class was easily and ficcjuently cured, the latter created much trouble to the physician; often bafiled his skill, and put an end to the pa- tient’s life, in opposition to all medicines. lie considered the changes of diseases, under the four following heads. C<l) The beginning, augmentation, height, and decline. These changes, according to him, are produced by nature herself, who, as it were, sits in judgment, frj and either accpiits, or condemns the patient, by a favorable or unfavorable crisis. He meant, by nature, a principle which governs and precides in the animal ccconomy. The manner in which nature acts, upon this occasion, in order to destroy her enemv, is by reducing the humors that occasion the disorder of the whole body, to their natural state; with regard to their quality and quantity, their mixture and motion, the places they possess, and every other particular in which they may be faulty. .^mong the several means employed by nature for tliis purjjosc, Hippocrates laid the greatest stress on what he called the most perfect concoction of the humors. CsJ 'I'liis is nature’s first design; it is by this concoction, she renders herself mistress, and brings things to a favourable terndnation. The humors being reduced to this state, whatever is superfluous or hurtful, is spontaneously discharged, or at least eliminated by proper medicines, (t) When wliat is superfluous is evacuated; which happens cither by a discharge of blood, a flux of the belly, vomit, sweat, a discharge of urine, tumors, abscesses, the itch, eruptions, pustules, or spots in the skin; nature easily reduces other things to the same condition, in which she found them, before the attack of the disonlcr. The first thing Hippocrates considered, in acute diseases, was the visage of the patient, (u) It was, according to him, a 20od sign, when the patient had the countenance of a Iiealtliy person; and accordingly as it deviated from this state, there was a proportionable danger. He gives us the following description of a dying person. When, says he, the patient has a sharp nose, sunk eyes, hollow temples, cold and retracted cars, (x) the skin of the forehead hard, tense and dry, and a liviil and leaden colour; we may be sure death is not at a great distance : unless the patient has been e.xliaustcd by long watching, by a flux, or long fasting. This has been called, by pliysicians, the iV/aVs Jlijipocratica. Dull eyes, says lie, also presage death, or of great loss of strength. ^Vhcn persons labouring under ardent feveis, (y) arc always feeling for something with their hands, and putting them to their eves, as it were to take something away that jrasscs before them ; when they move their hands over the bed-cloatlis, as it were to seek for something, or to pick the flocks of wool out of them ; all these are signs of a delirium and death. He drew very few, or no conclusions from the pulse but, according to Galen, he was the first, who observed tlic beating of the arteries. lie says, the preservation of health, principally depends upon eating without satiety; and using suitable exorcise; for it is impossible for a person to continue in health, if he eats without labour; (a) because eating and exercise, mutually assist each otlier.f'ij Exercises consumes the superfluities of the aliment received into the body; and aliment again replenishes the body, and supplies the deficiencies of what is worn aw.ay, and consumed by exercise. lie strongly recommends moderation with respect to meat, drink, sleep, exercise, and venereal enjoyments. With (o) Divides diseases into endemic and epidemic. (p) Some diseases mild, others malignant. Clianges of diseases. ("r) Natur. (s) Coneoclion of the humorsi {l) Nature terminates disease by various means. (u) Ills judgment from the counteiiance. (x) The ancients had freer use of the cars than the moderns. j(y) Signs. (:) Oginius of Velia, or Elis wrote a treatise on the pulse, whether he lived before or after Ilipiiocralcs is not well-known. (uj Admirable observations oa diet, exercise and tcmperapcc. (b) De nut. vie. in. luorb. acut.xxxix HISTORY OF MEDICINE With respect to chronical distempers, the method of cure practised by Hippocrates, fc) consisted principally in regulating the diet, directing proper exercises, prescribing baths, unctions, frictions, and very few medicines. In diseases of the acute kind, he was convinced, by experience, that nature alone, bore a great share, fd) and was very powerful, in conducting the disease through its difi'erent st gcs. In his sixth book, of his Epidemics, he shews the absurdity of Herodicus, who recommended exercise in acute disorders. He conceived, that contraries were the remedies to their opposites. Evacuation cures the diseases which arise from repletion; and repletion those which arise from evacuation. Thus heat de troys cold, and cold heat. .Medicine, says he, is no more than an addition of what is wanting; (f) and a subtraction, and retrenchment of what is superfluous. Some- times it is necessary to dilate, sometimes to contract, We must pay a great attention to that which affords relief, (h) and that which does injur\-, that which the patient easily bears, and that which he can not support. A rule worth^ of the great mind that conceived it ! We must do nothing ; we must sometimes remain at rest, or without attempting any thing, ftJ By this means, if we do no good to the patient, we do no harm. BLEEDING. HIPPOCR.'STES recommended bleeding with a large orifice in all acute inflammatory diseases, pains in th • 1 evd, peri- pneumony, pleurisy, inflammatory sore tlm.at, oppression of the breast, suppression of urine, the tympanum, and dropsy, (k) The pain in the head is cured by opening the vena ranina. (1) When fluxes of humours descend from the shoulders, to the elbow, they are removed by opening a vein. (m) It has been sujiposed, he here means the Rheumatism. Bleeding cures the suppression of urine ; but for this purpose the inward veinsmust be opened. (n) If bleeding or purging be requisite, the spring is the most convenient season for cither. (o) He recommends bleeding for the tympany and dropsy, (p) for a disease, he called the overgrown spleen, and opening the veins behind the ears, was the scythian practice to cure the sciatica. He imagined this caused impotency. Fordiseases above the liver, he bled in the arm ; if below,'in the ankle. Fur a jaundice, under the tongue, (q) In a consumption he likewise bled; and relates a case of a young man, who eat heartily and yet wasted; ('/J after trying various purgatives, and vomits, without success, he directed the veins of each arm to be opened, alternately, (s) till the patient had scarce any blond left in his body ; by this means he was perfectly cured. He avoids bleeding, when a disorder is near a crisis, or tends to suppuration. PURGING. THOSE who are in a good state of health, are injured by purging medicines, (t) In summer it is most convenient to purge the upper parts ; (u) and in the winter the lower; but in the dog-days, purging is improper, and troublesome, (x) Lean persons, and such as vomit with ease, must be purged upwards ; (yj but this should be directed with great caution, in the winter. Those who do not vomit easily, (z) and are in a good habit of body, ought, if necessary to purge downwards, if it be in summer. Consumptive people f'aj must not be purged with a vomit, (b) Melancholy people must be strongly purged downwards; (c) and in like manner all must observe, the contrary way of purging other habits. In acute diseases, if the matter (<?) Chronic disorders. ^ (d) Acufe diseases. {p) Necessary to dilate or contract. An admirable precept. (1) Pain in (lie head loc. inhoin. XLIX. 10. 11. Praidict. XXXVI. 5. (nj Suppression of urine. Apli. 36. Sect. VI. fp) Dc affect. In a dropsy. Places wlierc he bled, {sj Epid lib. a. sub. principio. (f) Apb. 36. 37. Sect. II. (v) Purgant, V. 8. Aer. aq. loc. XXX. 2. 5. 8. Apb. 5. Sect. IV. (z) Morb. XII. 35 Apb 7. Sect. IV. (a) Not proper to vomit coiistimpiive people. Loc in horn. XXXV. 4. ' (l>) Hippocrates called vomiting purging upwards. (e) Contrary remedies. (/) Addition and Subtraction, f'iy An excellent ob.scrvation. f'kj Acute diseases. fm^ 2. Morb. LIX 22. Pain or bumors in the elbow. (foy Purging in spring and autumn. Apb. 47. Sect. VI. Aph. 53. Sect. VII frj Bleeds repeatedly in a consumption. (u) Proper seasons. Epidein XXV. 16. C^) 2. Morb. XIII. 12. Apb. 6. Sect. IV. Intern, affect. IV. 26. XIII. 36. Aph. 8. Sect. IV. (c) Aer. aq. loc. XI. 2. Aph. ?. Sect. I\.HISTORY OF MEDICINE. xl matter be very turgid, ('f/J wc must purge on the first day the disease appears; for, in such cases, dtTays are frequently dangerous. Those things which aie concocted, and digested, wc must move, or purge; (e) but those that arc indigested neither must wc purge, in the beginning of acute diseases, unless the vessels arc turgid, (f) In acute diseases, and in their beginning, (g) a purging medicine is seldom to be used; (h) neither must it be given, w'ithout the greatest judgment, and circumspection. Those things that are or have been justly determined by nature, ought not to be moved, (i) or altered, either by purging or irritating medicines, but should be let alone, f/rj But, whatever ought to be evacuated, it should be. drawn to that part where nature inclines, (1) through such passages and parts, as are most proper for their conveyance and expulsion, (m) If those things be discharged and purged which should be, it is good, (n) and the patient may easily bear it; (o) but if the contrary be evacuated, it is painfully endured. Things evacuated and purged, are not to be estimated by their multitude and quantity; (p) but by their fitness to be discharged. They must be such as the patient can easily support. Though, if necessary, we must evacuate, till the patient faints, if he can bear it. (q) Women, in a state of pregnancy, may be purged, (r) if the humours arc turged in the fourth month to the seventh, (s) but less in the latter months. But if the foetus be more or less advanced, we must carefully avoid it. (t) Those who do not thirst while they purge, by taking a purging potion, must not cease purging till they do thirst. A tormenting pain in the bowels, W'ithout a fever, a heaviness of the knees, and pain of the loins, signify that purging downwards is necessary. The gentle purges, used by Hippocrates, were, a decoction of the herb mercury, with an equal quantity of ptisan, and a small portion of honey, given at intervals. Sometimes cabbage and its juice, leaves of eider, (u) With a view of gently procuring stools, he likewise recommends a decoction of beet w'ilb honey, and of cabbage, with salt. But, he more fre- quently mentions asses milk for this purpose; and sometimes in so large a quantity as sixteen hemine, which are more than eight pints. Nor does he omit milk of cow's, goats, mares ; also clysters, and suppositories, of various compositions. Drastic pnrges were black and white hellebore, (x) peplium, colocynthis, grana cnidia, cneorum, elateruim, scammony, and thapsia. He observes, that those who are not easily purged upwards, (y) must, before the taking of hellebore, be well prepared with a moistening and plentiful diet, and rest, (z) Hellebore being taken, the body ought rather to be moved, (a) than allowed to sleep, or rest. For sailing on the sea, gives us a clear instance, and demonstration, (b) that our bodies are stimulated by motion ; and if hellebore be given to work more forcibly, move and stir the body, but when you w’ould check it, procure sleep, and do not move, (c) Hellebore is very dangerous to those who have a healthful boily, (d) for it causes convulsions, and a convulsion caused by Hellebore proves mortal, (e) Those who have pains above the diaphragm, require purging by vomit; (f) but if the pains be below the diaphragm, it signifies that purging downwards is necessary, (g) VOMITING (<2) 5 Epid. XXV. 16. 17. Aph. 10. Sect. IV. (e) Humor. HI. 84. 5. Epidem. XXV. 13. 7. Epid. XXXIl. 1. Aph. 22. Sect- I. {J) Purging in acute diseases. {g] Humour. III. 97j (h) Purgant. IV. 1. Aph. 24. Sect. I. (i) Things determined by nature, ought not to be frustrated by purging^r irritating remedies. (It) Humor. III. 83. nat. hum. XIX. 8. 11. Epidem. 1.17. (m) 8. Epid. XXXII. 4. Loc in hom. XXXIII. 13. Aph. 21. Sect. 1. (o) Humor IV. 49. 6. Epid. IV. 30. (q) Humor III. 86. 87. Aph. 23. Sect. I. (s) Purging during pregnancy. (u) Laxatives. (x) Drastic purges. (z) 11 Di®ta XXXVI. 18. Morb. mulicr. XXV. 13. 14. (6) Verat. us 1.2. VI. Epid V. 45. Aph. 14. Sect. IVw (d) Hcllt boro dangerous to the healthful. Aph. 16. Sect IV. (j) Verat. us. 1. 10.11. (/) Wc are to be guided entirely by nature, and assist lier efforts. (n) Excellent remark. (р) Evacuation to be guided by the patient’s feelings. (r) Morb. mulier. XLII. 8. Aph. 1. Sect. IV. (t) Verat. us. I. 6. Aph, 19. Sect. IV. (y) Caution. (a) Motion in purging. (с) Verat. us 1. 4. Superfat, XX. 1. 6. Epid. V. 45. Aph. 15. Sect. IV. (e) Coac. IV. 24, Aph. 1. Sect. V. (g) Aplk 18. Sect. IV.xli HISTORY OF MEDICINE VOMITING. , . . HIPPOCRATES held that consumptive people should not be vomited, (h) nor those who are fronbied with a lientery, or slipperiness of the intestines. But, he says, that a spontaneous vomiting removes a diarrhoea, which has continued a long time, (i) A consumption succeeds a vomiting of blood, with a throwing up of corrupted matter, (k) • Evacuation upward is absolutely necessary to one who has no fever, yet has a loss of appetite, gnawing at the stomach’s entrance, (1) ^ dizziness, with a dimness of sight, and bitterness of the mouth. Those who have a pain above the diaphragm require an evacuation upwards, (mj Vomits are likewise recommended by Hippocrates, as an excellent preservative of health, and as a preventive of disease*. (n) Eor this purpose, he recommends a decoction of hyssop, with a little salt and vinegar; a decoction of lentils, a little salt and vinegar; honey, water, and vinegar, and such like remedies, to provoke a gentle vomiting. Those who were strong and healthful, were to use their vomits fasting; lean persons, and those who were delicate, and weakly after dinner or supper, THE APPLICATION OF THE PRINCIPLE REMEDIES IN THE MATERIA MEDICA, OF HIPPOCRATt^S, TO VARIOUS DISEASES. Bakley water, hydromel, and oxymel.—In acute diseases, and in epidemic fevers. Castor and myrrh.—For the diseases of women, obstructions, and hysteric affections. Acetum.—For sore throats, ardent fevers, vomitings, phrenzy, peripneumony, pleurisy, inflammations^and viscidities, Garlick.—For cold phlegm, and inflammations of the lungs. Allubi.—To cure hemorrhages, check uterine discharges, and strengthen the uterus, &c. Spices.—To promote the menses, and cure phlegmatic diseases. Fresh ox Gael.—As a luxative to kill worms, for purgingsupposotaries, and uterine pessaries, Cantkarides.—In dropsies, and to promote the urine, and menses. Diet of onions.—For the jaundice, and to promote conception. Long abstinence from food.—In dropsies, jaundice, diarrhoeas, gouty, or rheumatic pains, asthmas, and disorders of the lungs, and spleen. Clysters.—For pains and overfulness in the head, dry, hot, and windy cholics, pains of the womb, abdomen, pleurisy, fevers, pains of the loins, &c. Cupping.—For pains in the head and eyes, bruises, peripneumony, pains of the hip, and other parts. Elaterium.—^To purge bile, expel the foetus, or purge in cancers, ulcers, jaundice, sore throat, &c. Frictions.—With oil, to strengthen weak joints, and relax stiff ones. Cold bath,—For faintings and hysterical fits, to restrain the menses, prevent miscarriages, rheumatic pains. To be avoided.—In diseases of the lungs, as asthmas, coughs, consumptions, &c. diseases of the liver, and I tabes dorsalis. i Juniper berries.—As a powerful diuretic, to provoke the discharge of urine. Asses milk.—In excessive fluxes from the bowels or womb, for slow fevers, consumptions, and diseases of the lungs. Linseed.—In wounds and ulcers, and outwardly in emollient anodyne fomentations. Soi7R apples.—^To be made into drink for fevers. I Meconium or poppies.—For excessive fluxes, and pains in the uterus. I Honey.—For fevers and inflammations as a resolvent. As a pectoral in coughs, and a laxative in clysters, I Mint.—A stomachic and cordial for vomiting, jaundice, and weak stomachs. I Myrrh.—For most disorders of the stomach, and for obstructions of the menses, and to cleanse ulcerations in t1i« I mouth and gums. ID Nitrs I (h) Improper to vomit consumptive people. (i) H Diset, XXXI. 15, Loc. in hom. XLV. 8. Coac. III. T. Moth, VI. 10. VII. 5, (k) Prajdict. XIV. 1,3.1, jMorb. XL <9, XIX, 4. ad. XX. (1) Affect. XIV. 12.11. Moib. mul. XXJV. 2. Aph. 17. Sect. IV. {m) Verat. u». 1.10.11« Gentle vomiting recommended.HISTORY OF MEDICINE, xHi J^ITRE EROM EsTET MORE LIXIEIOUS THAN OURS OP A RED COLOUR. DiASCORIDES.—Fof SOTC throatS, plcu« jjsies, gouty and rheumatic pains, to purge pWegm from the bowels, water in an anasarca, for the schirrus womb, and in- durations in general. Origanum or thtme.—For cold phlegm, dropsies, jaundice, and all sluggish indolent diseases. Eggs.—^Their whites to be given in fevers, not ardent in the drinks, and their yolks for coughs in children, excessive uterine fluxes, and all weaknesses, or relaxation. Poppy juice.—For hysteric pains, and convulsive disorders, hectic fevers, diarrhoea, and dysentely. Tar and pitch.- Inwardly for ulcers, to expel water from the womb. Pepper.—Outwardly for the tooth ach, and for convulsions, or cramps. Cerus of lead.—For disorders of the eyes, skin, and sharp ulcerations. ^Penny royal.—For fevers and hysterical diseases, and the diseases of women in general. Galba NUM.—Recommended as an expectorant and promoter of uterine discharges. Rezin of turpentine.—For inward ulcers, and excessive fluxes, and uterine diseases. Rose leaves.—For a diarrhoea, diabetes, and relaxation of the uterus, fluor albus, &c. Elder berries.—-To purge in dropsies and uterine diseases. ■ ScAMMONY ROOT AND JUICE.—To purge in the sciatica, nephritic complaints,and chronic diseases. Squills.—To purge in uterine complaints, and to be taken in consumptive cases. Tapping.—For a dropsy and empyema. Whey drink.—For the cure of ulcerations, consumptions, fever, and the gout. Assa fcetida.—For hysterics, peripneumony, pleurisy, jaundice), and a very large dose to purge bile. Sulphur.—For ulcers, diseases of the lungs, and cutaneous disorders. Frankincense.—For ulcerations, puerile asthmas, stomachic, and uterine complaints. It docs not appear, that Hippocrates gave powerful narcotics, to procure sleep; (o) though in some few passages of his book of the disorders of women bespeaks of the juice of poppy, as conducive to the cure of what we now call hysterics. (-p) Me likewise takes notice of mandrake, but cautions against giving it in quantities, sufficient to cause madness; and he iuentions much the same of henbane. ' .As to baths, suffumigations, fomentations, incissions, and gargarisms, (q) he seems to have been perfectly well acquainted with their efficacy, and the proper seasons and manner of using them. (^rJHe lays a particular stress upon ointments, but DO where mentions plaisters. Instead of these he frequently recommended cataplasms, in cases, where, even we, perhaps, might find them preferable to plaisters. When bleeding, and the use of purgatives, which were his general means, for diminishing the superfluity of blood, or humours, were not sufficient, he then had recourse to diuretics. This he seems to insinuate in his work De Ratione Viet, in Acutis. All diseases terminate, or are cured by evacuations, made either by the mouth, belly, the bladder, or some other outlet; but sweat is common to all diseases, and equally terminates all. For these purposes, he sometimes ordered a bath, at other times sweet wine, garlic, onions, leeks, cucumbers, melon, citruls, cysticus, both sorts of apium, feiuiel, maidenhair, and night shade, as well as all acid substances. These several remedies, he directed in various chronical disorders, after purgation, when he believed the blood to be still loaded with ichor. In some cases he excited a diaphoresis, but does not inform us how he produced it. As every plant attracts from the earth, first of all the juice that is agreeable to its nature, (s) and afterwards juices that are different, just so far in a similar manner does a medicine act which ought to attract the bile ; but if it be too strong, (t} or its operation of too long continuance, meeting with no more bile, it then purges phlegm; (uj and after phlegm the black bile, or melancholy ; and last of all the blood. Indeed, he seems to think, as if, all things were performed in the human body by attraction. BOTANY. fe) Did not u»e narcotici. (p) Poppy jaice mandrake and henbane. (?) Understood the use of baths, fomentations, incissions, &•< (r) Ointments likewise and cataplasms, but never mentions plaisters. (s( Accounts for the action of purges, by attraction.. (t) D« naUhomiue. (u) This is not true from our purgativei.xliii HISTORY OF MEDICINE, BOTANY. HIPPOCRATES has not left us any description of either plants or loots, (x) He mentions, in his works, about two hundred and thirty four herbs; but their description he left to Cratevas, whom he stiled the prince of botanists. Some fragments still remain, in the imperial library, which are considered as the productions of Cratevas. These, however, have been thought spurious, by some learned men. Dioscorides insinuates, that he gave but a very inaccurate and indifferent description, of roots and herbs. APOPLEXIES, CONVULSIONS, &c. APOPLEXIES happen, generally, between the age of forty and sixty. Convulsions, (z) according to his opinion, were occasioned, either by repletion, or evacuation. Hiccoughing likewise, arises from the same causes; (a) and a con- vulsion, or rigor, after a violent heat, is bad. He considered, a convulsion occasioned by a wound of the head, and like- wise, (b) from a drastic purging potion, to be fatal. In convulsions, Hippocrates endeavoured to make the patient sneeze. In his book De Locis Homin. is ordered a fire to be made, on both sides of the patients bed; and mandrake root in a very small quantity; (c) and bags were applied very hot, to the tendons behind; but he does not specify what tendons. Internally was given, some pepper and honey mixed together. DROPSY. THOSE who have griping pains in the belly, (d) and violent pain about the naval, which cannot be removed by purging remedies, or any other means, are very likely to be afflicted with a dropsy, (e) After a leuco-phlegmatia, likewise comes a dropsy. A cough coming to those who have a dropsy, is bad; (f) and ulcers appearing in those who have a dropsy, are exceedingly difficult to cure, (g) He observes, that if the water of one who has a dropsy flows from the veins into the intestines, the disease is removed, (h) A diarrhoea, he likewise says, cures a dropsy. The danger of discharging the water suddenly, (i) beseems well apprized of. If corruption, (Ic) or water, mixed to- gether, flow out all at once, from those that are opened for the cure of the empyema, or dropsy, the patients will cer- tainly die. If a dropsical patient is afflicted with a difficulty of breathing, (o) and this should happen in the spring, if the person be young and robust, a proper quantity of blood must be taken from the arm. A person labouring under a dropsy, ought to fatigue himself by exercise to sweat; (m) to eat bread; to drink little; and that of white wine; to sleep moderately ; and to use purgatives; by which means the water and phlegm are evacuated. There are two sorts of dropsies, one called anasarca, which is not to be avoided when coming; the other arising from wind, which is not to be cured but by great good fortune, and requires abundance of exercise; hard labor; and fo mentations; very temperate diet; using things dry and sharp. His purges, in this disorder, were hellebore, elaterium, &c; He mentions the dropsy of the liver and spleen, and recommends hellebor for this last. As a diuretic, he used cantliarides inwardly. COUGHS, {x) He bath left us no Work on Botany, fy) Aph. 57. Sect. VI. i(z) Convulsions caused by repletion or evacuation, Apb. 39. Sect. VI. (a) Aph. 13. Sect. VII. (6) Aph. II. Sect. V. Cap. vul. XXV. 5. Aph. 2-1. Sect. VII. (c) Mandrake root given in convulsions, (d) Coac. II. 279. III. 286. Aph. 8. Sec. VI. (e) 1 Morb. 28. Affect. XX. 13. XXIII. 3. Intern. Affect. XXIV. 1. Cough bad 11 Prsedict. XI. 1, 16. 11 Epid. V. 28. Aph 8. Sect. VI.- (g) Ulcers in a Dropsy difficult tocure. Aph. 8. Sect. VI. (k) Flat. XVIII. 8, 9. Indicat. XI. 20. Coac. HI. 285, 289. 1 Morb. VI. 7, 11 Morb. LXIX. 11, 12. (i) Dangfr of suddenly evacuating the water by oper-ation. (k) Coac. lU. 91, 92. 11 Morb. XLV. 24. 11 Morb. XXVII. 1. 8, 14. Intern. Affect. IV. 30. X. 20. XXV. 30. XXVII. 5. 6 Epid. Vlli. 6«. (i) Bleeding when proper in Dropsies, De diseta in aentis. (m) Cure Lib. IV. Epid.xllv HISTORY OF MEDICINE. COUGHS, CONSUMPTIONS, AND OTHER DISEASES OF THE THORAX, TO young people, happen spitting of blood; foj consumptions; acute fevers; the falling sickness; and ofher disorder# but these of the lungs in particular, (p) Those w'ho have passed their youtli, are subject to asthmas, (q) pleurisies, inflammations of the lungs, lethargies, phrenzies, burning fevers, &c. and a consumption most commonly happens, between the age of eighteen, and thirty-five, (s} Those who cough up frothy blood, bring it from the lungs. (t) After vomiting blood follows a consumption and a throwing up of corrupted matter. (uj Those things that dispose a man naturally to a consumption are all violent, fx) But that succeeds very well, which throws a patient into a sickness, (y) at a. time when the very season itself is a remedy, to a particular sickness ; as the summer to a burning fever, and the winter to a dropsy, (z) For that which arises from nature always prevails, though low spirited persons are more terrified by it. (a) In consump- tive persons, if, what they cough up, on being thrown into the fire it smells very foetid, (b) and at the same time, if there should be a falling off of tlie hair, the disorder will prove fatal; (c) and if a diarrhoea happens to consumptive persons, who have their hair falling off, it is mortal. (dj Spitting of corrupt matter, after spitting of blood, is bad ; fej for after spitting of corruption, follows a consumption, and diarrhoea; and when the discharge upwards, or the expectoration ceases, the patient dies, (fj Those who have a pleurisy, unless the matter is evacuated upwards, within fourteen days, will have their disease terminate in an abscess. Cg) Those who have got an abscess, f/ij or imposthume, by a pleurisy, if the matter is evacuated upwards in forty days, after the bursting of the abscess, they will be cured ; otherwise they will fall into a consumption. After a pleurisy, an inflammation of the lungs is bad ; (ij and a phrenzy succeeding an inflammation of the lungs is very unfavourable. In the peripneumony, he ordered an electuary of pine apples, galbanum, and attic honey and ptisan, (h) In the consumption, Hippocrates purged with the berries of thymelaea or sparge, and afterward recommended asses milk, ■whey, or milk of cows, goals, marcs, and a little salt was added to make the milk prove gently laxative. He likewise burnt the patients in the back and breast, and several other parts, and kept the ulcers open for some time. He gave the squils likewise, but would not permit vomits to be taken in a consumption. As diet he recommended goats flesh, pork, and to pro- mote expectoration, fat meats, in order to discharge the purulent matter. Besides these he ordered moderate exercise, air, and walking. The general methods of treating the peripneumonies pleurisy, and other acute diseases, have been already treated of. OF THE DIARRHCEA, DYSENTERY, AND REMARKS OF THE APPEARANCE OF THE FCECES. In evacuations, by the intestines, (1) changes of the excrements are good; unless they change for the worse. If a diarrheea happen to those, who, (m) before have had their hair falling off, by a consumption, it is a mortal sign, (n) And an immediat# (o) Coac. III. 260. Aph. 29. Sect. III. (>)) Diseases happening to yonng people. (j) Coac. III. 395. Aph. 30. Sect. III. After youth what diseases happen. (r) Consumptions between 18 and 35. (t) Coac. III. 216, 250.11 Morb. LI. 4. Aph. 13. Sect. V. (x) 1 Morb. XX. 1. Aph. 8. Sect. VIII. Aph. 8. Sect. VIII. (b) Coac. III. 213. 252.11 Morb. XLVI. 16. ad. 20. LV. 20. ad. 23 (d) 11. Morb. XLVI. 12. Coac. III. 144, 145. Aph. 12. Sect. V. (J) Nat. hum. XXIII. 1, 11. Prsdict. XIV. 1,3. Gland. X. 2. 3. 4, Aph. 16. Sect VII. (g) Loc.'in hom XXV. 10. Coac. III. 141, 171, 209, 215. VII. Epid. XLVII. 16, 17. 1. (/() Morb X. 15,17,20. Aph. 15. Sect. V. (i) Coac. III. 172. Affect. IX. 2. Aph. 13. Sect, (fc) Electuary. (0 U Fpid. 3. Aph. 14. Sect. III. im) 11. Morb. XLV. 12. Coac. HI. 144, 145. Aph. 12. Sect. V. (n) Aph. 41. Sect. VII. (j) Coac. ni. 260. Aph. 9, Sect. V. (u) 11 Praedic. XIV. 3. 1 Morb. X. 69. XIX. 4. ad. XX. (y) Die. Judicat. 1. 11. ad. 16. VI. Epid. Vlll. 45. Affect, VII. 3, 4. (a) Observations on what is expectorated. (c) Diarrhoea in consumption, mortal. (c) When expectoration ceases the patient dies;siv HISTORY OF MEDICINE' immoderate diarrhoea, producing an hiccoughing in elc^rly persons, is very unfavourable, (o) From a diarrluca frequently follows a dysentery, and a dysentery, if it arise from black choler, is mortal ; (pj as arc likewise, small pieces of llcsli, ejected by a person labouring under a dysentery, (qj In long continued dysenteries, or loosnesses, a depraved appetite is bad ; (r) but if accompanied with a fever, it is nuicli worse; and splenetic patients who are afflicted with a dysentery, die of the dropsy, or licntcry. (s) After a dysentery, a delirium or convulsion is bad; and after a tedious and lingering disease, a flux of the belly is ex- tremely dangerous. ('O Hippocrates, lib. wtfi says, that a dysentery is attended with pain and gripes in all parts of the belly, (u) and -c.xccretions of bile, phlegm, and at last blood. In another place, he (ells us, that this disease arises, from the bile and phlegm settling in the veins of the belly. The blood is disordered, and deposits its corrupted part; the intestine also, is aftccted, and is abraded aud cxulcerated. The disease is painful and mortal; and if the patient be of a very robust constitution, there is some little room to c.xpcct a cure. But when there is a colliquation, and total exulceration of the belly, there are no hopes of life. Again, lib. wspl Jiallrr when the body is heated, he says, there is an acrimonious purgation, with an abrasion, and cxulceration of the intestines, and bloody stools, the disease is called a dysentery, and is very severe aud dangerous. He recommended bleeding, in the dysentery, (x) Meal boiled in milk, or milk porridge, was more useful than goats whey, which he gave first. He relates an instance of a person being cured by boiled asses milk ; and in another place, the rubia tcnctorium in fat broth. Solid millet, boiled in oil, he likewise recommended. When the upper parts of the gullet are sore; (y) or a breaking out of small tumours does arise in the body, we ought to inspect the e.xcrement; for if this is choleric, the "body is in a viscid state; but if they are like the excrements of sound per- sons, the body may be nourished without danger, (a) Black excrements, like black blood, proceeding of their own accord, cilher with a fever, or without a fever, are worst of all; and so much the worse, by as much the bad colours arc more in quantity and w'orse. But if they are caused by purging medicines, they are far better, and that in proportion as there are more colours. If black choler issue forth either upwards or downw'ards, (h) at the beginning of any disease, it is a mor- tal sign. A dysentery is very bad, which succeeds the evacuation of unmixed excrements downwards; (c) and those that avoid frothy excrements by stool, have a defluxion of the head, (d) He affirms that the stools became of a thicker con- sistence, when a disease was about to be determined. In his first part of his,epidemics, he tells us, many had their bellies disturbed, but without any considerable uneasiness, and in such a manner as to create them no great trouble. Afterwards, he says, some were seized on the si.xth day, with the jaundice ; (e) but these were in some measure relieved by an increased discharge of the urine and excrements, (f) This appears like what is now called yellow fever. With respect to dysenteries, he afterwards uses these words. But such patients as were far advanced in years, weie either seized w ith the jaundice, disturbances of the abdomen, or a dysentery, which was the case of Bion, who lay sick at the house of Silenus, but many others, whose diseases were determined by a crisis, were siezed with a dysentery, such as Xenophanes and Cretias. With respect to those who recovered in the pestilential constitution, he uses the following words. But in this pestilential state, such as escaped, owed their safety to these four circumstances ; either there was a plentiful discharge of blood from the nose, or a copious evacuation of urine, in which there was a large quantity of laudable sediment, or turbid and bilious excrements, were evacuated in the beginning of the disorder, or the patients were seized by a dysentery, (g) Those stools that are aqueous, or while, or green, or highly red, or frothy, are all bad. n ON (o') Dysentery follows a diarrhoea. (p) Coac. I. 100, 111, 292. 5 Epid. X. 2. Aph. 24. Sect. IV. (q) Aph. 26. Sect. IV. (r) 6 Epid. VIII. 1 Coac. VI. 100. Aph. 3. Sect. VI. (s) Coac. III. 245. 1 Morb. III. 27. Affect. XXI. 23. XXVIII. 1. Aph. 43. Sect. VI. (f) Coac.III. 57. Aph. 9. Sect. VII. Aph. 5. Sect. Vm. (u) Cause of the dysentery. (i) De ratione vicui in acutis. (y) 4 Epid. 12 Aph. 15 Sect. II. (i) Praenot X.6. (a) Coac. III. 36. VII. 22. ad. 26. Aph. 21. Sect. IV. (i) Coac. 1.100. Aph. 22. Sect. IV. (c) Aph. 23.Sect. VII. (d) Morb. Sacro. VII. 28. Coac. V. 13, 14. Aph. 30. Sect. VII. (e) The jaundice on the sixth day. 0} Resolved by aeopious evacuation of u.riu«andfscce». (jl) Prsenot. stools aqueous, w hile, green, and frothy.xlvi HISTORY OF MEDICINE • ON EPIDEiNIIC DISEASES. e IN his first book of his Ejiicleraics, is observed, they frequently discharged stools, which were bilious, (It) small in quantity, j sincere and acrid; and afterwards, he informs us, (\) that in tlie summer and autumn, lienteries, dysenteries, tenesmi, and fluxes raged ; and that the stools discharged, were bilious, thin, acrimonious, frequent, crude; and in some patients aqueous. In the same book, is remarked, that all those patients had disturbances in their abdomen, and stoolsof the worst kind. A little after, he says, that the diseases with which they were afflicted were dj’senteries, tenesmi, lienteries, and fluxes. Of this we have an instance in the daughter of Eryanax, with respect to whom Hippocrates in his third Book of his Epidemics, says, that in the twelfth day, bilious excrements were discharged, small in quantity; sincere, thin, acrid, and frequent. In i the third Book of the Epidemics, those who laboured under acute or chronical diseases, were taken oft', principally, by stools | of a bad kind. | In the Books of Epidemics, are many histories, and very accurate observations on the excrements; (h) from which he drew favourable, or unfavourable, prognostics. (1) He has given us fort^’-two cases, out ol which number, twenty-five died ; I of those which escaped, no one recovered his health without some intervening evacuation. The evacuations, mentioned by J Hippocrates are seven, and are as follows: ^ By an eruption of blood, (tn) By sweat, (it) By vomiting, (o) | By an abscess, (p) By spitting, (q) By urine, (r) By a looseness, (s) j In his treatment of fevers, he very rarely mentions remedies; he chiefly depended on nature for solving the disease. \ Though in some cases he prescribes a clyster, a suppository, washing of the head; applied fomentations, and sometimes opened a vein. It should be remembered, he knew nothing of antimony, bark, or mineral acids. In his first Epid. stat. 3, he tells us, that in the case of a burning fever, those who had a good and plentiful discharge of blood by the nose, generally recovered by that means. Nor do I know any, says he, who in this epidemical constitution, died ^ after ajust hemorrhage. But Philiscus, Epaminon and Silenus, from whose noses fell a small quantity of blood by drops, on the fourth and fifth day, all died. i Afterwards, he says, some there are, on whom the jaundice appeared on the sixth day; but they were relieved by some j evacuation cither by urine, or stool, or a copious hemorrhage from the nose. Thus it happened to Heraclides, who lay sick 'j at the house of Aristocydes, and had a plentiful discharge of blood from the nostrils, and evacuations by stool and urine. b* I JAUNDICE. j IIIPPOCR.kTES, in ,his Treatise De Rationc Victu in Acutis, classes those who labour under the jaundice, as improper sub- ' jeets for drastic purging, (u) For, says he, the physician who treats them with purgatives, will expose them to danger, without <Ioing any manner of service. In the fifth section of his Bookde Affect, when he gives the cure of a jaundice, he makes mention of purgatives in the following words. The external part of the body is to be softened by warm baths ; but the intestines and bladder are to be lubricated ; for this disorder happens, when the bile, thrown into a preternatural concoction, is lodged and deposited immediately under the skin. If the most ignorant physician is but acquainted with this circumstance, he will not readily prove unsuccessful in the cure of the disease ; for by the slightest and most inconsiderable circumstances, diseases are, long protracted, and rendered .far more violent than they would have otherwise been. All aliments, potions, sorbitions, orllj medicines, calculated for alleviation of pain, may be safely used in this disorder, provided they are given with due caution and judgment. But such medicines as purge bile, or phlegm, are dangerous, and the physician prescribing them, may be justly chargeable with ignorance and bad management. In (ti) Stools bilious. fU') .Many observalions on the feces in his Epidemics. (m) Lib. 1. obs. 7. book 3. Sect. II. c. 7, 11, la. (o) B. 1. c. 13. ( r) B. 1. c. 6. B. 3. c. 1, 5. Sect. II.- (() lie rarely prescribes inedkuics In acute distempets. (i) Autumn and summer, disorders of the intestines raged. {ly Twenty-five out of forty-luo, died iii tlie e|)idcmics. (n) As book I. c. 3, C, 7, 13, 14. book 3. c. 3. Sect. II. c. 6, 7, 8, 10. 12. fpjB. 3. c. 1 B. 3. c. 1 Sect II. c. 8» (s) B. 1. c. 10. B. 3. c. 3. Sect II. c. 9. (u) Purgatives improper.xlvii HISTORY OF MEDICINE In his Book De Internis Affi’Ctlonibiis, he orders four cantharides, without heads or feet, to be taken in a quarter of a pint of white and a little honey; and he says, if the liver become hard in those who have the yellow jaundice, it is a very bad sign. (x) ANGINA OR*SORE THROAT. A QUINSY going otf, and falling upon the lungs, (y) kills the patient within seven days, but if he escapes, there will come an imposthume of the lungs. For the cure of the sore throat, he opened the veins of the arm, and under the tongue, and breasts. He prescribed gargles, lambatives, which were to be used hot; and he likewise ordered fumigations. He advised shaving the head, and applying a cerate, and over that wool, to the neck. In great danger, he pierced the wind- pipe, fzj and put a reed or pipe into it. The drink recommended was water, and hydromel ; but by no means cold, or cremor of ptisan, (a) When the danger is judged from the crisis to bo over, (b) After the disease abated, he purged with elaterium, to prevent a relapse. MADNESS. HIPPOCPvATES, in his Book De Morbo Sacro, informs us, that it is by means of the brain, (c) that we reason, see, hear, and distinguish, betw'cen good and evil. By its means also, we become mad. (d) In his Book De Flatibus, he says, that the blood contributes so greatly to prudence, fcj that this is changed, and other notions and sentiments, possess the mind, if the motion of the blood be disturbed, and irregular. If the condition of the blood be good, prudence takes place, but when the former is changed, the latter fails w ith it. He observes, that madness is sometimes terminated by the hemorrhoids, as it is likewise occasioned by a suppression of the natural discharges. They, in whom tumors, with ulcers appear, are neither taken with convulsions, (f) nor driven into rage oi madness. But these, on a sudden, vanishing, since it must be done on the back part of the body, there arc caused distensions of the nerves, t and convulsions; but if on the forepart, then happens raging madness, or a sharp pain of the ribs, ora suppuration of humours, or a dysenter}', if the tumours were red. In his Book De Insania, after, says he, the brain is suddenly heated by the effervescence of the blood, in the veins, the patients have frightful dreams, the face and eyes become red, and the mind meditates mischief; but when the blood is again dispersed to the veins, these symptoms cease. For the cure of madness, he orders bleeding, drinking water with a portion of white hellebore, (k) and a proper regimen ; I and in his Book De Diaeta, he thinks purging with white hellebore highly beneficial in melancholic, timid, and dejected I patients. In his Book De Yeratro, he informs us, that before the use of white hellebore, (i) the body is to be moistened, 1 with copious aliments and rest. And in lib. 6. Epid. he orders the body to be prepared for its exhibition, by baths, aiid aliments. For the same purpose, he ordered asses milk to be drank, both before and after the use of drastic purgatives. EPILEPSY. j THE epilepsy is produced when various kinds of obstructions happen in the veins (h) and so intercept the motion of the i blood, that in some parts it stands still, enters others more slowly, and others more quickly, (1) and this undue unequal I conveyance of the blood, of course affects the whole body. They who are afflicted with the epilepsy, (m) before they arrive j at the age of fourteen, may be. freed from it ; but they who are affected w'ith it at the age of twenty-five, are usually trou- I bled with it till death, (n) Few patients, after their twenty first year, are seized with an epilepsy, (o) unless that misfortune should (x) Aph. 4‘2. Sect. VI. Coac. XI. 223. ad. 229. fi/) Pr:enot. XXII. 13. Coac. III. 100, 101, 105, 106. Aph. lO Sect. V. fz) Broncliotomy, Morb. lib. 3. ("a) De rationevictu in acunti^. (!/} Disease. (c) These notions seem contradicted in other parts of his works, and have been the subject of dispute, among many of Ihelearned. I (d) Brain the cause of madness. fe) An excellent observation on the blood. (f) 11 Epid. III. 129. Aph. 63. Sect. V. (g) Description. (k) Bleeding and hellebore* I (i) Thebudy to be first prepared. (k) I.ib. de flatibus. 1 (1) Unequal distribution of the blood causes the epilepsy, (in) 5. Epid.96. Aph. 7. Sect. V. I (n) If it happens before the age of fourteen, curable j after five and twenty not. (oj De Motbo Sacco..xlviii HISTORY OF MEDICINE " shonl.i happen ♦o be l-.emHtary. Cp) Change of diet and place, and especially growing older, free children from the epilepsy. In epileptic patients, urine unusually thin, and crude, if their be no repletion, signifies an approaching fit, (q) and so much the more if it be accompanied with a pain or tension of the acromium, neck, or back, or stupor of the body, or trouble- sojiie dreams. Hippocrates recommended cauteries in this disease, fmtid substances, and sometimes bleeding. ILI.^C PASSION. IN the third Book De Morbis, Hippocrates accounts for this disorder, in the following manner, (r) The intestines are dried, and by the heat of the intlamniaiion so bloated up, that neither flatulences nor fasces can be expelled. But the belly is hard, and the patients sometimes vomit, first a mucus, then a bilious matter, and lastly excrements. A convulsion or delirium, after the iliac passion, is very unfavourable ; (sj and this disorder succeeding, a strangury proves fatal, within seven days, unless plenty of urine be discharged upon a supervening fever. CO In his Book De Morbis, he says, if a physician was ever beneficial to a patient, Cu) in the cure of a disease, he must ne- cessarily have employed his skill at a proper season, and certainly in this disorder this notion is strictly true. In his third Book De Morbis, he gives a very accurate description of this disease; and for the cure, he orders a long suppository, prepared of honey, fxj and the anterior part to be covered with ox gall, and to be introduced twice or thrice into the anus, by which means the indurated faeces about theintestinum rectum may be softened, and brought away. (i/J After this he recommends a clyster to be injected. If these methods prove ineffectual, a smith’s bellows, is to be introduced up the anus, and by this means such a quantity of air injected, C^J as is sufficient to distend the abdomen, and remove the contraction of the intestines. Then removing the bellows, he directs a clyster to be administered, faj which consists not of hot ingredients, but of such as resolve, and colliquate, the faeces. Afterwards stopping up the anus with a piece of sponge, in order to prevent the discharge of the clyster, let the patient sit in warm water, (h) Ho adds, if this injection is restrained, and afterwards discharged, fej tho patient will be restored to health. He further says, the stomach should be freed from all sordes, and a proper quantity of blood taken from the head, (d) and those parts of the arm where the joints of the elbow arc, that by this means, the heat of the superior belly may cease. Then all the parts above the diaphragm, except the heart, are to be cooled, whereas tho inferior parts are to be kept hot; (e) the patient is to be placed in a bath of warm water, and the abdomen carefully anointed with oil. (f) CANCERS. RESTRAINED menses, arc conveyed to the breasts, (g) and delude rvomen with a specious appearance of pregnancy'. And he afterwards adds, and in her breasts hard tubercles arise, some of which are large, and others small. These tumors never come to suppuration, but always become harder, till at last occult cancers are produced, (h ) Occult cancers ought not to be cured, for they that are attempted to be cured die soon, whereas those who leave the disorder to nature Itre longer. Irritating practice augments the disease. Sec my Treatise on Cancers. Galek in explaining Hippocrates on this subject, says, they who cut, or cauterize cancers in the palate, or in the anus, or on the breasts of women, tan never bring the ulcers to a cicatrix ; but by the violent pain of the cure, waste the pat'ietits till they die; who without a cure would have lived longer, and endured less pain. Celsus says the same. Hippocrates, Cp) Change of place, 11 Predict. 1, 2,3. Morb. sacro XIII. 6 £pid. " Cr) Cause and account of the disease. CO Judicat. XII. 2. Coac. III. 314. V. 7.S. 87. Aph. 45. Sect. V. Cx) Suppository. (y) Clyster. Ca) Laxative clyster not heating. (ft) Warm bath. (d) Bleeding (c) A bath. (g) De Morb. mulicr. lib. 2. cap. XX. h) 11. Prtedict. XVIII. 5,9, XXI, 5,11. Morb. XXI11.25. Aph. 38. 36. Co) Coac. pramot. (i) Coac. III. 303. Aph. 10. Sect. VII. («) Necessity of a physician being called in the beginning, Cx) Inflating the intestines with air. (c) Retention of the clysters. (/) Anoint with oil. cct. VI.xlix HISTORY OF MEDICINE. Hippocrates, however, mentions an instance of a carcinoma of the face being cured by applying an actual cautery to the part, (h) He says, in lib. 5, Epid. she had a carcinoma in her breast, and by carcinoma, the ancients, in general, mean an occult cancer, (i) In his Book De Morb. Mulier, he reckoned among the symptoms of a cancer, the following. The patients have their whole bodies extenuated, their nostrils are dry and contracted, they breathe short, and their sense of smelling is entirely lost. They have, indeed, no pain in their ears, but sometimes callous tubercles are formed in them. DISEASES OF THE KIDNEYS, BLADDER, STONE, &c. AN ulcer in the kidneys, or bladder, is discovered by the patients discharging through the urethra, (k) blood or ulcerated matter. But if blood issue freely, a vein is ruptured in the kidneys. (1) h sandy sediment appearing in the urine, signifies a stone in the bladder ; and any one discharging blood, or curdled matter through the urethra, ('wjj or, if the urine should issue by drops, accompanied with a pain in the lower belly, and the perinajum, he is diseased in those parts about the bladder. A strangury and difficulty of discharging the urine, (n) is cured by bleeding, or a draught of wine, but the inward veins must be opened; (o) and those who have a tubercle in the urinary passage, are cured when it is brought \o suppuration, (p) In lib. Prmnot, when speaking concerning the fatal event of diseases of the bladder, he says, indurations and pains of the bladder, are pernicious and dreadful in the utmost degree, especially such as attend a continual fever; for the pains them- selves, being the elfects of convulsion, are enough to destroy the patient; and the belly, at this time makes no excretions, but of a hard substance, and that forced solution is attended with a discharge of purulent matter, depositing a white and thin sediment. But, if after such an evacuation, the pain be not mitigated, nor the bladder mollified, it is to be feared the pa- tient will die in the first periods of the distemper. He recommends in his Book De Intern. Affect, w hen a pain has seized the kidneys, to bathe in a large quantity of hot water, and apply tepid fomentations, especially to the part afflicted. In his Epidem. lib. the fifth, he relates that the servant of Dyseris, in Larissa, whilst young, felt extreme pain in coition, but at other i times was very easy. She was never pregnant. When she was about sixty she was seized with excessive pains like those of labour, in the afternoon having eaten the same day in the morning, a large quantity of 1 eks, she was attacked with more I pain than usual. Upon examination she felt something rough at the orifice of the womb, as large as the spondyl of a distaff, I which was a rough stone, after this she fainted, and it was taken away by another woman. She continued well ever after. , GOUT. GOUTY diseases, are mostly provoked in spring, and autumn; (q) and they cease within forty days after the inflamma- tion is assuaged, (r) Eunuchs are tieither troubled with the gout, nor baldness; (s) and a woman is not afflicted with the gout unless her menses fail her. (t) A. boy is not troubled with the gout till he has used vencry. (u) The general methods of treating the gout, were abstinence, frictions, and purging. CRITICAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE MEDICAL PRACTICE OF HIPPOCRATES. FROM a candid examination of the medical practice of Hippocrates, it appcai-s, that the most accurate observations were made on the change of symptoms in acute diseases. The doctrine of signs, whether a patient shall recover or c.xpire; (x) what evacuations were salutary, or unfavourable; when it is necessary to assist by art, and when more eligible to leave the disease to be determined by evacuation, he has left the most excellent precepts. For, what method could be more rational, than ' o to (/»') Lib. 7. Epid. Lji,. o. cap. 20. (k) Intern. Affect. XV. 4, 5. Nat. hum. XXVI. 4. Pr®not. XIX. 11. Aph. 77. Sect. IV. (f) Intern. Affect. XVI. 4. Aph. 78. Sect, IV. (rn) Aph, 80 Sect. IV. (n) Strangury removed by bleeding, &c. io) 11 Epid. VI. 39. Aph. 48. Sect. VII. (p) Aph. 57. Sect. VII. (?) Judicat. VI. 3. Aph. 49. Sect. VI. (r) Aph. 55. Sect. VI. ^ (s) Aph. 28. Sect. VL „ (t) Aph. 29. Sect. VI. 5 Epid. XXXIII. 4. 6 Epid. VIII, 98. 1 Morb. mul. XHI. 6, 11^ (m) Coac, III. 395. Apli. 30. Sect, VI, U) Farticulariy skilful in the doctrine of signs.1 HISTORY OF MEDICINE. to submit the cure of acute diseases to the constitutional efforts ; to assist when necessary, and promote the excretions pointed out for the expulsion of the morbid symptoms ? These fatal distempers were equally destructive in those ages, as at present; and a physician hiiihly merits commendation, fyj who discovers new methods for th dr cure. The moderns indulging their hy- pothetical refinements, have disputed with great vehemence, theory, has succeeded theory, (z) for several ages, experiments have been multiplied, and invention nearly exhausted to explain the secret causes and cure of acute fevers ; yet they remained difficult; nor was any mode of cure superior to the ancients established, until the use of antimony, lately was established. In acute diseases the regimen prescribed is excellent; the habit, the safest guide, is consulted, (a) the patient’s feelings, and the accustomed diet; from these a plan is formed for the administration of remedies and aliment, in the vaiious progressions of the distemper. Apprised of the dangerous consequences of suddenly emptying the vessels, (h) and departing immediately from the cus- tomary diet, he would suffer no alteration, but with great caution, and by the most gradual means, (c) And certainly no- thing more clearly proves the prejudices and ignorance of physicians, than when they presume to prescribe to all patients in a dictatorial manner, one particular aliment. (d) The opinions in general arc diametrically opposite on diet; (c) this most probably arises from a circumscribed principle; for without considering the variety in nature, and that contrary’ diet agrees or disagrees with different persons, (f) they ge- nei-ally recommend what is found, by experience, to suit t'oeir own inclinations or constitutions ; and thus their own feelings are made a standard for the patient, (g) Hippocrates uninfluenced by any such narrow prepossessions, regarded the natural propensities and antipathies only : such was the judgment, such the conduct of this ancient father oi medicine ; and these examples are well worthy of imitation, (h) He freely censured the physicians of the age, (i) because they were more solicitous to gratify a false ambition in starting novelties, and acting in opposition to each other, than by uniting their en- deavours for the welfare of society, or improving the art. Nor does he omit mentioning those pretenders in the profession, (h) who obtruded themselves on the public as skilful artists, with no other attainment than the knowing a few technical terms, and the preparation of medicines. Others he treats as conceited and ignorant, wlio imposed on tlie patients, (1) by artfully affecting importance’, and giving to the merest trifles an air of consequence; as not allowing strained barley water, for which singular conduct they could pro- duce no rational explanation. The prejudiced physicians, who prohibited the use of either solids or liquids for the first seven days in acute fevers, he inveighed against bitterly, considering them the pests of society, the destroyers of mankind. These he remarked, by dishonoring jdiysic through dangerous prejudices, and an unacquaintance with nature, brought the art itself into disrepute. The administration of hydromel or oxymel are excellent in acute disorders, (tn) repeated bleedings, when the symptoms were inflammatory, were likewise judicious ; but purging with hellebore was too violent; (n) it was however his misfortune to be unacquainted with mild luxatives. (o) The applying fomentations in' the pleurisy, and peripneumony; the watching attentively for the means pointed out by nature, in violent fevers, for expelling the morbid affection; calling forth the assistance of art, either for promoting the critical evacuations, or supporting the weak, sinking patient, are examples of the roost reasonable modes of treatment, and are superior in some respects to many advanced by the moderns. (q) Tlie fy) Improvers of the art, wortliy of commendation. (j) The moderns, notwithstanding many hypothesis, have not improved the cure of acute diseases. (0) Consulting nature alone, an adiuirable practice for his time. (b) No (udden changes allowed. (c) Physicians ignorant who prescribe to all patients one plan of diet or cure, (d) Variety of opinions on diet. (e) The cause. (/) Physicians prescribing from tlieir own feelings, instead of examining tlie variety in nature. (g) Hippocrates not influenced by such narrow prepossessions. (/i) His example worthy of imitation. (1) Physicians froely censurcil, for opposing each other, instead of improving the art. ffcj Ignorant piaclitioncrs censured (1) Of those who impose ontiieir patients, by assuming great importance, on trifling occasions. fmj Hydromel oxymel and bleeding proper in acute disorders. (n) Purging with hellebore too violent. (o) Fomentations proper in the pleurisy and peripneumony. (p) Assisting tbecriticalevacuationspointed out bynatuxe agood practices (j^ And superior in some respects, to modern methods.li HISTORY OF MEDICINE The rules for diet, the observations on the effects of exercise, or indolence, the manner of administering nhat remedies were then discovered for acute complaints, excepting rough purges, are all delivered with great lu'netration'and judgment, and Well worthy of attention. The prognostics from cold shivering, from tremblings, convulsions, and sweats, are partly true, partly not. For a cold rigor sic.jinga ptuienl in a fever, is not always moital, in many instances it only indicates the formation of an abscess, which hap- pening in the external adipose membrane, terminates favourably in the restoration of the patient’s health. A chilliness after convulsions is very common, and is perceived in general, immediately on the recovery from a lit; convulsions and trelnbiings; after sleep in violent fevers are unfavourable signs. It is an erroneous doctrine that sweats appearing on particular days are beneficial; the notions likewise of critical da3’s art absolutely untrue. For the crisis of all acute distempers, will ever depend on the strength, and particular habit of the patient. Some naturally resist diseases, whilst others fall victims to them, or at least, they are prolonged. It happened, notwithstand-i ing, Hippocrates possessed an uncommon sagacity, j’ct he was prejudiced in favour of the pythagorean numbers; this led him into some singular errors, and amongst these may be ranked the opinions of odd or particular days being unlucky or prosperous. i It might be urged in his vindication, that the moderns cannot determine with precision on this point, because the methods of treatment are quite different. In acute distempers medicines were rarely given by the ancients, but active and power- ful drugs are prescribed in abundance by the moderns. They depended chiefly on nature ; we produce extraordinary changes by art: therefore under these opposite circumstances, the crises must be widely different. But in fact, in another part of the work, it is candidly acknowledged, that the critical days do not constantly agree with the general doctrines ; besides, the difference of climate, air, seasons of the year, and many other incidents, all conspire to change the appearance and conclusion of acute and other disorders. Cold sweats frequently signify the approach of death, in acute affections, especially, if the'countenance and lips be palid, the pulse scarce perceptible, and the patient should be exceedingly sunk, either from profuse evacuations, or the commence- ment of a mortification. The yellow appearance of the body is very unfavourable, in acute epidemic fevers, particularly in the warm climates, unless the bile be discharged through the intestines, for it is commonly the forerunner of putridity. The opinion that fevers would return, unless they left patients on odd days, is highly erroneous, and may be ascribed, without in- justice, to the philosophical prejudices of Pythagoras. ; The various prognostics deduced from the breathing in fevers, seem very accurate; as are several conclusions from the ap- I pearance of the urine; and the diet recommended either for the sick, or healthy ; when the Greek customs, and manner of living are considered, appear extremely sensible. I This excellent author considers a slender diet, in lingering diseases exceedingly dangerous; and this is certainly true, for I here nature requires nourishment, to assist in supporting the calamities of anxiety and pain. The extreme low diet recom- mended by some, fonder of novelty than truth, in the gout, cancer, scrophula, and similar complaints, has so weakened and I reduced patients accustomed to free diet, that more danger has arisen from the prejudices of physicians, than those de- ! plorable diseases. I A precise diet is highly disapproved of, and with reason; for, what situation can be more truly miserable, than those who continually employ their thoughts, in a minute examination of diet, perspiration, and the other evacuations ? These people counteract all the wise intentions of nature; every inconsiderable alteration, produces misery; a gloominess hangs on their ' countenance; they are self-tormentors, living in a state between existence, and non-existence. ‘ On deliriums, convulsions, and comotose symptoms, he speaks justly; and the prognostic from the appearance of the i eyes, w hen sleeping, are in general, exact copies from nature. The intermittent fever, being of short duration, in summer, and of long continuance in tlie autumn, and in winter, lias been confirmed by the writers of every age. The methods of cure were, however, defective, and the modern treatment w'as unsuccessful, till fortune discovered the peruvian bark ; and i chemistry afforded the vitriolic acid ; for by these two remedies, there is nearly a certainty of curing this distemper ; which ■ according to ancient authors, proved destructive to numbers. Ihis may be esteemed as a principal improvement of the mo- jderns, and a valuable acquisition to the art. I The description of the hectic fever, and its fetal catastrophe, resembles exactly what may be now perceived in that lingering j • distemper;iil .HISTORY OF MEDICINE. «ri>tejin} er ; and the difficulty of curing hectic patients is nearly similar to that of the ancients. Few recover, if the disorder be far advanced ; for, the night sweats, the fever, the cough, the diarrhoea, alternately sieving the atllictcd, and the whole body gradually waiting by such accumulated misery, death at last finally closes the direful scene. ^ he opinions concerning the causes of diseases, are in some degree true, to attribute to the air the cause at particular sea- sons of the year was undoubtedly true ; experience m all ages, and in all countries has confirmed the same; but when tire predominance of any of the four humours, as the blood, phlegm, choler, or melancholy, is introduced as the immediate cause-, such a doctrine was only a mere ancient opinion, and has never been demonstrated, though a subject of disjiute for several ages. For these humours not existing in the human body, in the proportions the ancients conceived, as anatomical demon- stration clearly proves; this opinion, though universally received formerly, is consequently refuted. The alinicnt has a considerable share in producing distempers, and that the winds eft'ect considerable changes in the luiman system, is an undubitable fact. As a proof, let us appeal to the experience of mankind in general, for who has not been sen- sible of the difi'erent etfects of a southerly or north cast wind ? The effects of intense heat, extreme cold, very dry, or moist weather, were circumstances particularly attended to ; and conclusions were deduced from experience, whether a prenailing distemper would be short, or of long continuance in a city. The division of distempers into endemic, and epidemic, have continued ever since ; and the distinctions between hereditary, or accidential diseases, mild, or malignant, were certainly judicious. The arrangement of diseases, according to their natural stages, under four general heads, was rational; as the commence- ment, augmentation, height, and decline, these have been the general divisions in all succeeding ages. The considering nature as the solejudgeand decider of diseases, and either acquitting or condemning a patient, by a fortunate or unfortunate crisis, was perfectly agreeable to the ancient simplicity of practice ; for successless will be the utmost efforts of the physician, to cure a disorder, unless nature joins in the salutary work. \Vhocver, therefore, attempts by too great a presumption in the powers pf the art, to expel a disease by violence, or on mistaken principles, will seldom have success, and not unfrequenlly commit irreparable mischief : sed cst 7tiodus in rebus. The notions of air, fire, earth, and water, being the elementary constituent principles of bodies ; may be assigned to the prevailing philosophy of the time; but these pliiloso|)hical prejudices, had no influence in his practice ; nor was he induced to try hazardous experiments, like some of the moderns, on many precarious principles, for which wise conduct he justly merits the highest encomiums. 'i'he opinion that the moon and stars, had considerable influence on human bodies, may be without injustice, considered a superstition ; but, the noticing the effects of the solstices, and equinoxes, as producing particular indispositions, is not unworthy attention. He did not assume a foreknowledge of future events, from the contemplation of the stars, like some modern astrological impostors; no, he principally regarded what diseases were most predominant at particular seasons, and gave the] most sensible directions for guarding agaiut their baneful influence. 'I’he knowledge of physiognomy, from which were formed many sensible conclusions, was the result of exquisite penetration and judgment ; by experience he arrived to an uncommon degree of certainty in his presages of life and death. Though this acquirement is much neglected by the moderns, who have made a point of substituting art for nature, yet few' indications are more certain than the countenance, to discover peculiar constitutions, or the events of diseases. How excellent is the discription of a dying person ? The face is represented with such exactness, that we have exhibited to view', all the mortal symptoms, at once collected in the countenance ; this admirable portraiture has been justly .admired in all ages, and obtained the aiipcllation of the fucks hippoerutku. The actions of the hands, as seemingly catching at something, jiicking the bed cloaths, are unfvivourable symptoms; the doctrine of the pulses was not clearly understood, but the accurate attention to all the other circumstances amply compensated for this defect. In chronic disorders, the diet was principally attended to 1 and regulated, very little medicine was administered, exercise, frictions, and baths were rerommended ; and what plan more judicious has even now been discovered ? The ideas of contrary indications, addition, and subtraction, the attending to wha^. the patient moiv easily', and what excited irritation, or uneasines; and the never admitting the repetition of a medicine, but as it agreed was productive of relief, are exceeding good practical doctrines, llleeding is recommended, in most of the disorders for which it is now prescribed, except in the dropsy; what success attended this evacuation in that disorder, he hath left us no testimony ; but it was certainly improper even to robust persons. Bleeding is not necessary, either in spring, or autumn,liii HISTORY OF MEDICINE. • ' i- il autumn, nor at any other time, unless some disorder requires it. In a state of health it is unrfasonablp tP, bjeftd, pr take medicine, upon the principal #f preserving health, for such practices are most likely to produce diseases. Hippocrates, said, that purges are injurious to persons enjoying sound health, and during the dog days, both purging and vomiting are foOj violent for the purposes of preserving health ; especially on the reflection that vomits were ordered twice in the month a<tdi: the administration of hellebore, he himself acknowledges, sometimes produced convulsions and death. , ^ There arc many remedies and diseases, mentioned in the works of Hippocrates, which the moderns have not discovered, or imperfectly understood. There may be seen, however, many medicines in the materia medica, that daily receive the appro- bation of the moderns, for the very purposes they were anciently prescribed. Barley water, hydromcl, and oxymel, were the chief remedies in acute distempers. Barley water has continued its reputa- tion as art innocent diluter to this very time, and has been universally used in all ages. Oxymel is good in the peripneumony, and pleurisy; nor have the moderns discovered any drink superior to vinegar and water, for the cure of acute fevers. Castor, and myrrh, are still prescribed fortheir original intentions. Garlic and squils are proper for all affections of the lungs ; nor is there in the whole modern materia medica, any thing superior to the latter, for promoting expectoration. Allum is now used with success as an astringent and bracer, and spices are proper for the purposes Hippocrates recommended them. Fresh ox gall is a useful laxative to destroy worms, and for other uses. Cantharides are now given as a diuretic, but the manner the ancients gave them was hazardous ; nor are they calculated for internal use, though they have lately been esteemed by^ some bold practitioners. Long abstinence from food, in some respects, is proper, in others, perhaps, it was a prejudiced prac- tice. In dropsies, the diarrhaea, and asthmas, it was more judicious, than in the jaundice. The use of clysters was well un- derstood, and cupping was performed in similar cases, we now advise it. Elaterium as a purge, was exceeding rough, and by far too violent for cancers, ulcers, or sore throat. Frictions, and the cold bath were applied judiciously; the last maybe useful for relaxations, faintings, and to restrain the menses; though forthis last mentioned purpose it is rather an hazardous practice ; but perhaps, it wasless so in Greece, than in these colder climates. It is extremely dangerous to attempt cold bath-Tj ing, in diseases of the lungs, asthmas, and consumptions; this Hippocrates was apprised of, and therefore forbid it. Juniper berries is now an approved diuretic; and asses milk is given for the same intentions, it was anciently advised. The juice of sour apples is not improperin fevers ; and meconium, it now in common use. Origanum, or thyme, is much esteemed in the present practice ; nor was it likely to answer all the intentions for which it was prescribed. Eggs are now taken with ad- vantage, in coughs, and might have been generally useful for the cases in which they were directed. Tar, pitch, pepper, cerusof lead, and pennyro}'al, galbanum, rosin of turpentine, rose leaves7 and elder berries, have been advised in all ages for. similar affections. Scammony, tapping, whey drink, assafoetida, sulphur, and frankinsence, have been approved remedies in all ages. Botany was not cultivated in the time of Hippocrates, it seems be considered it of much greater importance to comprehend the administration of remedies, than to waste time in examining the nice distinctions of the different genera of. i plants; and certainly the performance of one great cure, is worth all the speculations on these subjects, that ever appeared in the world, c.xcept as a curious pai t of natural history. The using sternutatories in convulsions was not in some cases improper; but mandrake root, given internally, was a dan- gerous practice. The application of hot bags to the tendons, is not clearly understood ; and pepper^iuixed with honey scem^ a singular remedy for internal uses. In the dropsy, the practice of abstinence was not injudicious, before the symptoms were considerable, and the cough is certainly an unfavourable circumstance. The manner of discharging the water gradually, when paracentesis was performed, I perfectly corresponds with the opinions of all succeeding physicians. Bleeding in the dropsy was improper, but exercise tQ I produce perspiration, abstinence from fluids, and purgatives are highly proper at the commencement of this sluggish dis- : temper. It however frequently happens, that even when the dropsy is in a recent state, the patients being most commonly of * a corpulent habit, are possessed with such a listliness to action, such a fatal indolence, that they are rarely roused from inac- 5 tivity, to attempt the recovery by exercise. The cantharides given internally must have been extremely precarious ; and j though smart purgatives have their utility, both the hellebore and elaterium are too drastic, and more especially if the com- I plaint has been of long continuance. See my Treatise on Dropsies. I The opinions delivered on diseases of the lungs are accurate, as are the prognostics from the appearance of what is ex- i pectorated ; and the plan proposed for the cure of consumptions, is in most respects similar to modern practice, the ad- I p ministrationHISTORY OF MEDICINE liv ■linistration of spurge only oxceptcd, this being far too violent for such an irritable distemper. Air, and moderate exercise, are of the utmost importance in these complaints, nor should they ever be omitted; for in many instances, a change of air alone, will cure this lingering disorder, when all other attempts prove ineffectual, / ■ The observations on the diarrhaea, dysentery, and the conclusions from the appearance of the faeces in epidemic, and other diseases, are all worthy of attention. The remedies for the diarrhaea, and dysentery, are tolerably judicious. Hippocrates bled in the dysentery, the moderns prescribe the same; he recommended meal boiled in milk as food, the same is frequently recommendeefat this present time. In the jaundice, drastic purging was objected to ; and physicians for such violent practices, were censured as ignorant; but the modern methods of treating the jaundice are quite superior to the ancient. By very slight and inconsiderable circumstances, diseases are frequently prolonged ; a physician, therefore cannot be too cautious, lest cither by an omission, or attempting, through an implicit confidence in the art, more than medicine can effect, he may considerably augment a disease. It is a safe practice to do no injury, when the limited powers of the art prevent us from effecting good ; and such a principle cannot be too strongly inculcated, nor too frequently remembered by students, in a science we could wish was less uncertain. If the liver became schirrus in the jaundice, it was thought dangerous ; but affections of the liver are more prevalent in warm climates, than the colder countries, and in the East Indies a very successful method has been adopted for the cure of this complaint. The abscess of this part, in this country, is very dangerous, and frequently proves fatal. The Hippocratic description of madness is tolerably accurate, the notion of the blood’s state, producing different sentiments in mankind, is nearly true. What a difl’ercnce may be perceived, between the man whose heart circulates a blood apparently pale, and one of a florid complexion ? One shall be crafty and designing; the other, open, sincere, and generous ; one shall be vindictive, timorous, and effeminate ; whilst the other shall be brave and of a masculine habit. A man of discernment, may, in general, distinguish between sincerity, and insincerity, and indeed without pursuing human vices, guard again.t the vicious. It was the character given to Hippocrates by Macrobius, that he could neither deceive, nor be deceived; and assuredly no character is more absolutely necessary in a physician. The opinion that the healing, or drying up an ulcer, w'ould produce a phrenzy, pleurisy, or convulsions, is a prejudice re5 vived by the moderns, (r) and universally adopted. This doctrine has been clearly demonstrated to be false, by the success of my new discovered method of curing old ulcers of the legs without rest. Hellebore was a remedy prescribed in mad- sicss ; and, as (he letters from the Abderites are inserted in the former part of this work, the two following may be not un- wortliy of attention. The. first is from Democritus, to Hippocrates, and is as follows. You came to ns Hippocrates, to give hellebore to a madman, at the instigation of a prejudiced people, who think study madness. J was at that time employed in writing concerning the fabric of the world, the poles, and the stars of the firmament, V^hen you understood the nature of these things, how excellently they were framed, and bow far from madness I was, yoa commended my employment, and censured them as foolish and insane. All those things that pass through the air by images, are seen in the world, and succeed one another, my mind making a scrutiny into these, hath clearly discovered their nature, and brought it to light; witness the books 1 have written. You ought not, therefore, Hippocrates, to converse with such men, whose minds are wavering, and inconstant. Foi, if, as my countrymen had desired, you had given me hellebore, considering me mad, you had, from a perfect sensible state, made me mad indeed ; the guilt whereof would have been attributed to your art. For hellebore given to sound persons, clouds their understandings; but to the insane it is productive of good. I believe that if you had not found me writing, but lying down, or walking, revolving things in my mind, sometimes laughing, and not attending to such friends as visited me, but entirely absorbed in study, and contemplation, you would have inferred fiom what you beheld, tliat I was mad. A physician, therefore, must not judge of the affections, or passions, by the sight only, but by (he actions themselves, and observe, whether they are in their beginning, in the middle, or decline, and to consider the dif- ference pf time, and age, before he undertakes to cure the body, for, by all these the disease will be discovered. To (r) By L< Dran, Sbarp> andHISTORY OF MEDICINE. Ir ' To wBicirHippocrates returned this answer, / • In the art of physic, those things which happen successful, for tlie most part arc not commended by men, fsj but they commonly ascribe it to the gods, if any thing happen amiss, so that the patient dies; they then let the gods alone, and accuse the physician. And indeed, I perceive, that I receive more blame, than credit, by my art. For though now very old, I have not yet arrived at the height of medicine; neither did -Esculapius himself, who invented it, as appears in that he in many in- stances, dissents from those who have written on the subject. Your letter to us condemns the administration of hellebor'e. I was, indeed, Democritus, sent for to cure a madman ; neither at that time could I guess in what Condition you were ; but when 1 had conversed with you, I discovered you to be far removed from madness, and worthy of all respect. I acknowledged you to be Uie most excelleixt interpreter of nature, and the world, and judged those who sent for me to be mad, and to have occasion for physic. But since this accident hath created an acquaintance between us, you will not do amiss in writing of- tener, and in communicating your works tq me. 1 have sent you a treatise concerning hellebore. Farewell. From the foregoing epistles, Cornelius Celsus, (tj concluded that Hippocrates was a disciple to Democritus ; but some of the modern critics have doubted their authenticity, as likewise those mentioned in the third book. As a disputation on this subject would leave the case undetermined,’ it is submitted to every learned reader to form his own judgment on the matter. The ingenuous and modest confession, however, that he was not perfect in the art, though arrived at a great age, may be no useless lesson to suppress the assumed arrogance of some physicians, who, without any, or but little application, consider themselves qualified to practice the art, without ever reflecting on its uncertainly, or their own insufficiency. The practice in case of madness was similar, in general, to the present mode; as it consisted in bleeding, purging, and a low diet. The opinion of Hippocrates concerning the cause of the epilepsy, as arising from an unequal distribution of the blood, w'hcn we add the modern opinions concerning the nerves, is not very improbable. The ancient method of treating the epilepsy, is similar to the modern, as bleeding, foetid substances, and cauteries. The iliac passion, is described tolerably just, and the methods of cure very rational. In such desperate disorders, where often a mortification suddenly succeeds the inflammation, a physician cannot be called loo soon; and the methods recom- mended by Hippocrates, may be not only necessary, but all other which art can suggest; and above all things, plentiful bleed- ings in the beginning, if the patient can bear it, should never be omitted. In cancers the opinions were very just, and have been confirmed by the testimony of every age ; for all irritating practice whatever, is highly injurious, and cannot be too much discouraged. See my Treatise on Cancers. The methods pursued in disorders of the urinary passages, and the apprehensions from the dangerous consequences suc- ceeding an inflammed bladder are sensible. But the notions in some respects concerning the gout, seem rather superstitious ; as its never happening to eunuchs, or to women, unless from a suppression of the menses; for experience proves this not to be true. The methods of treating the gout, were similar to the present practice ; and the moderns know as little how to cure it, not- withstanding the many treatises on the subject, as the ancients. ON THE DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN, WITH THE MIDWIFERY QF HIPPOCRATES.^ HIPPOCRATES, is no less accurate in his observations on the diseases of women, than all the other branches of medicine^ In his Treatise De Virgin, is asserted, that young women at the age of puberty, are afflicted with a species of delirium, in which they think they see certain daemons, about the first appearance of the menses; though free from such disorders before, fur after the blood is accumulated in the uterus, as if it was ready to be discharged, if the mouth of the uterus be not open, and (s) £pistol Hippoc. coi. ((] It is supposed that Celtos lived about three bundi ed and fifty yean after Bippocratc».Ivi HISTORY OF.MEDCINE. and the blood is at the same lime increased by the aliments, and growth of the body; then the blood, not finding a free passage, in consequence of its large quantity, recoils to the heart and diaphragm. When these are filled, the patient becomes foolish, then torpid, and lastly, delirious. In his De Morb. Mulierum is inserted, the following description of the fluor, albus. (u) The matter discharged resembles the white urine of an ass. White swellings appear oil the patient's face; the^ parts below her eyes swell; her eyes are disordered, and appear as if she were dropsical; the colour of her skin is whitish, and the lower part of the abdomen tumid; on her legs appear tumours, so soft and lax, as to retain the impressions of the, linger. She perceives a biting pain of the stomach, (x) and seems to feel an acid water lodged in it, when she is cither fasting, or happens to vomit. When she goes up a steep place, she is seized w'ith a shortness of breathing, (y) her legs are cold, knees feeble, and her uterus preteriiaturally opened, and falling down, with a sense of weight, to its mouth. But it is. t difficult to cure those who labour under this degree of the disorder, ('zj la his book De Sterilitatc, he says, that women ^ who have their uterus too moist, or slippery, cannot conceive; ('aj because the uterus suffers the seminal matter to fall out - of it, and a convulsion and snycope happening to a woman, troubled with an immoderate discharge of the fluor albus is ] ▼ery bad. fbj .a ON THE MENSES, &c. In the first book De Morbis Mulierum, Hippocrates affirms that two heminm are discharged, of menstrual blood, at each evacuation. He attributed most of the diseases of women to the situation of the uterus. cj And he observes, that in some few' women, the menstrual blood retained in the uterus, for two months, regurgitates to the lungs, and produces all the symptoms of a consumption, ('dj Both the overflowing of the menstrual discharge, and its suppression, produce diseases, (e) The monthly evaeuations of females, if they be discoloured, and do not proceed in the usual manner and time, purging is necessary. CfJ A woman w'ho vomits blood is cured, if her menses issue forth; (gj and a nasal hemorrhage is useful to women, in whom there is any deficiency of the menstrual evacuations, {hj To check the menstrual discharge, when it flows in too great a quantity, great cupping glasses should be applied to the breasts; (ij but to produce the discharge of the menses, when they are suppressed, a fumigation of aromatics is useful; (k) and this would often prove serviceable in other disorders. In women who are waterish and pale, the menses continue longer than three days. (1) Those women who are fair, and white, have such abundance of humours, that they issue many ways; (m) contrary to those of a brown and swarthy complexion, who are commonly of a more dry constitution, (n) A story is related of one Phaetusa, who,, when her husband was banished, was so overcome with sorrow, that before the natural time of the menses quitting her, a suppression happened, her body became masculine and hairy, she had a beard, and her voice grew stronger, (oj The same he records to have happened to Namisia, the wife of Corgippus, in Thaso. The menstrual discharge frets the earth like vinegar, (p) and corrodes the body of the woman, on whatever part it drops, and excoriates the parts of generation, (q) In the months the same things are performed, by certain and right reason, that are done in days; (r) for, every month, healthful women have their menses, as if the month had a peculiar power and effect oh their bodies. i I / 4 ■ - REMEDIES'' 5 (u) Fluor albus desertion. (*) Difficult of cure. (c) De locis homine. (x) Pain in the stomach, &c. (a) Fluor albus prevents conception, (d) Retention of the menses. (y) Difficulty of breathing. (b) Morb. mul. XIV. 7f 9. Aph. 56, SejS T. (e) Nat. mul. XIV. 5. 1. Morb. mul, I. S. Morh. mul. III. 5. 6. Natur. puer. VI. 14. XIII. 1. Virg. morb. II. 5. Aph. 57. Sect. V. (f) Verat. I. II. 60. Nat. mul. X. 3. Aph. 36. Sect. V. (g) Uterine discharge, cures vomiting blood. 1. Morb. IV. Aph. 32. Sect. V. (A) Virg. morb. III. 2. l'. Epid. III. 138. Aph. 33. Sect. V. (i) Cupping glass to the breasts, in uterine hemorrhage. 2 Epid. VI. 33. 2. Morb. mul. I. 5. 11. 17. Aph. 5. Sect. VI. (k) Suppressed menses. Aph. 28. Sect. V» (1) VI. Epid. 1. (m) Complexioas of femakt eoaswlercd. (n) Lib. Epid. 17. (o) A female beeame masculine, by suppressed menses. (p) Morb. mul. bb. 1. (;) 111 quality of the menses not very just. (r) Pc septimestri partu. )HISTORY °OF MEDICINE. Ivii ■ ! REMEDIES FOR SUPPRESSED MENSES. I HE recommended purges and vomits, and afterward the use of sharp irritating pessaries; perfumes, fomentations, and ; hot baths, twice in the day. Internally, orethmus, or samphire, boiled in wine, made of the tree called tceda, the herb mercury, and chiches. If those W'ore too weak, five cantharides, without heads, wings, or feet; water caltrops, anthemus, I smallage seeds, and fifteen dried eggs, infused in wine. C^J Leaves of ranunculus, infused in wine, dittany of crctc, hogs fennel, ranex, peony root, seeds of white violets, the juice oFcolcworts, of lasserpitium to the quantity of a vetch, and cress j seeds; these last infused in wine, or bitches milk. IN AN IMMODERATE UTERINE HEMORRHAGE. ABSTAIN from all heating things, and bathing; CO from all duretics, or laxatives; make the bed highest at the feet. I Astringent pessaries were likewise used. The belly and lower parts to be covered with sponge, or cloths dipped in cold water, C^J or drink a composition of parsley seeds, or seeds of hedge mustard, dried at the fire; peplium, or poppy seeds, sifted, with flour, nettle seeds, moss of the wild olive, gauls, rue, marjorum, pennyroyal, barley-meal, wheat flour, goats milk, and cheese, made into a kind of cyceon. fxj When the hemorrhage was stopped, purges and vomits were used, and restringent fomentations to the lower parts. Afterw'ards cows milk, boiled, or as it comes from the cow; the seeds of crisium, parched, and drank with wine; perfume, consisting of vinegar, sulphur, opelt, and myrrh. In another place he reckons hemlock amongst the inward medicines. Take as much hemlock as you can with three fingers, and drink it with water. Injections he likewise directed, for the matrix, in case of ulcers, and for some other disorders, of the same ingredients as the fomentations, cataplasms, &c. As for diet, he ordered nourishing fish, boiled with onions, and coriander seeds, in sweet oily pickle; swines flesh, lamb, or mutton, rather boiled than roasted; to drink small white wine, with a little honey; but not to ! use hot bathing, and he absolutely forbade bleeding. 1 HYSTERIC AFFECTIONS. I HYSTERIC complaints are sometimes occasioned by the suppression of the lochia, after delivery, (y) If hysteric fits |j happen to virgins, matrimony is a proper remedy, (z) Women, easily seized with hysteric disorders, are subject to I convulsions, (b) During the fits, wine was directed to be poured down their mouths; and under their noses were burnt ij foetid things, as wool, pitch, castor, brimstone, leather, horns, and feathers, and the snuff of a lamp, just extinguished, with intention to recover them from the fainting fits, to make them sweat, and restore the matrix, (c) He ordered the belly to be swathed; at the same time pressing the matrix downwards. Pessaries of oil, wool, and various powders, were used; as castor, myrrh, peucedanum pitch, milanthuim, and sometimes even the bruprestris, (d) and cantharides; mixing all these with ointments and wool. When they recovered from the fit, he used a purge, and afterwards a diet of asses milk. The use of pessaries was very common amongst the ancients, to relax, lenify, to draw, to irritate, to cleanse, to dry the matrix. They used various things, united with fat of different animals, and wool; using sometimes nitre, scammony, tithmale, garlick, : cummin, cantharides. (e) Sometimes astringents, as the rind and flower of pomegranates, sumach, and sometimes aromatics. To provoke or check the menses, for relaxations, and superfluities, ulcerations, inflammations, dropsy, ftuor albus, and sterility; to promote abortions, dead children, and secundines; and for promoting the discharge ot the lochia I after the delivery tJf the foetus, (f) I q OF j fs) Cantharides internally. Lib. de homine. (u) De morb. mnlier. I (i) Cyceon, said to be a mixture about the consistence of pap, composed of wine, honey, fine flour and water, and cheese. Another sort, without . wine, honey, or cheese, consisting only of flour and water, was used by the lower class of people. (y) De morb. mulier. (2) De virgin, morb. (a) The ancients concluded that all these complaints arose from the womb. (6) Coac. 349. and 554. (c j Hippocrates, we presume, mistook the inflation of the intestines, for the matrix, (d) A sort of fly, resembling cantharides. (ej Various ingredients in pessaries. (f) Used for various purposes.Iviii HISTORY OF^MEDICINE. OF TIIK SIGNS OF CONCEPTION, BARRENNESS, &;c. IF a woman does not conceive, (g) and you wish to discover whether she be fruitful, or whether she shall conceive at all, let her be wraj ped about with cloaths, and make a fumigation under her; and if the smell be perceived to pass through her nostrils and mouth, y'ou may conclude that it is not her fault that she becomes not pregnant, (h) If a woman’s menses be suppressed, and she have neither shivering cold nor fever come upon her, and if she loath her meat, you may conclude she has conceived, (i) A woman, during pregnancy, is all over of greenish, palid colour, because her pure blood is daily drawn from her, and descends to the nourishment of the foetus, (k) Those women who have their womb cold and dense, do not ’ conceive, nor those who have it over moist, for the semen in them is extinguished; (1) neither they who have over dry, or hot wombs, for the semen corrupts for want of nourishment, (m) But they are most fertile who are of a moderate temperature. Women who arc prctcrnaturally fat and gross, do not conceive; because the orifice of their womb is compressed by the epiploon, neither will they ever be pregnant, till they become less corpulent, (n) If you would know whether a woman has conceived or not, give her honey and water, mixed together, when she goes to sleep, and if she have twistings and gripings in the belly, she has conceived, otherwise she has not. (o) \i a. woman be pregnant with a male, she is better ; coloured than if she has conceived of a female; (p) and if a woman that neither is, nor ever was with child, has milk in her j breasts, her monthly evacuations are lessened, (q) When blood is gathered together in women’s breasts, it signifies madness, (rj Women conceived, have the orifice of the uterus close contracted, (s) Males generally lie more on the right side, females on the left side of the matrix, (t) Plenty of milk, issuing from the breasts of women who are pregnant, i argues a weak child; (u) but if the breasts be solid and hard, it signifies a stronger child, (x) If the orifice of the j womb be hard, and solid, it must of consequence be closely shut, (y) | • > ABORTION. ' 3 IF the menstrual discharge continues, at the usual time, in a woman who is pregnant, it is impossible that the infant | should be well, (z) Women who have conceived, and are very thin, contrary to nature, suffer abortion till they grow | fatter, (a) But those women who are moderately corpulent, and who suffer abortion the second, or third month, without j any manifest cause, have the aceta bula, or glands of the uterus, filled with mucosities, and slime; which, therefore, cannot ij contain the foetus, by reason of its gravity, but are broken off. (b) If the breasts of a woman, pregnant, become slender, she is in danger of abortion, (c) If one breast grows slender, she will suffer abortion with one of her children, and if it be I the right that grows slender, she will miscarry of a male child; if the left, of a female. (d) If pregnant women fall into a fever, or become very lean, without any manifest cause, they have hard or dangerous labours; or are in danger of abor-4 tion. (e) In women pregnant, bleeding causes abortion; and that the sooner, the nearer the child is to its full time, (f) * A great purging, in pregnant women, is dangerous; for it may cause a miscarriage, (g) In V .y (g) Nat. raul. VIL 9. 1. (A) Morb. mul. CVTI. 1. 11 Morb. mul. XI. 20. Steril. VI. 3. Superf. IX. 3. X. 9,11. Aph. 59. Sect. V. To discover whether a woman will con- ^ ceive, very absurd. (j) Morb. mul. XCIX. 2. Steril. VI. 9, 10. Aph. 61. Sect. V. Signs of conception. ; ■ (Ic) Do. morb. mul. lib. 1. (1) Who are most fruitful. (7rt) 1 Morb. mul. XXVI..27. XXXIV. 1. XXXIII. 5. Aph. 62. Sect. V. (n) Aer. aq. loc. IX. 12. Proedict. XXXIII. 2. Natur. mul. XIX. 4, 5. Steril. X. 7. XV. 11. Superf XVIII. 1. Aph. 46. Sect. 6. Very fat, women unfruitful. (o) An absurd experiment, to discover whether a woman has conceived. Steril. VI. 6. Aph. 41. Sect.V. (p) Steril. VII. 1. Aph. 42. Sect- V. Complexion considered, but not true. (9) 11 Prsedict. XXXV. 5. Aph, 39. Sect. V, J (r) 11 Epid. VI. 62. Aph. 40. Sect. V. (s) Octimest. IV. 5. Superf. II. 1. XIX. 1. (t) 11 Epid. VI 32. Praidict. XXXIV. 10. Superf. XIII. 11,12. Aph. 48. Sect.V. (u) Conclusion from the milk issuing from the breasts during pregnancy. (i) 11 Epid. VI. 53. Aph. 52. Sect. V. (y) Natur. mul. XIX. 9. XXXI. 10. 1 Morb. mul. XXIV. 2, 1. XVIII. 5, 11. Morb. mul. XVIIL 24. XXIII. 11. Aph. 54. Sect. V. (s) Natur. pucr. V. 3. 1 Morb. mul. XL. 2, 5. XLIV. 4. Aph. 60. Sect. V. (o) Nat. mul, XIX. 1, 3. 11 Morb. mul. LXII. 20, Steril. XXII. 1,3. Aph. 44. Sect. V. (6) Nat. mul. XXVII. 1. 1 Morb. mul. LXXXIV. 1, &c. (d) Aph. SB. Sect.V. (e) Coac. III. 108. Aph. 55. Sect. V. (") Purging dangerous. 11. Prsdict. XXX, 14. Morb. mul. XXXVIl, Aph. 34. Sect. Vt (c) 11. Epid, 1. 42. Aph. 37. Seet. V. (f) Not true. Aph. 31. Sect. V.lix HISTORY OF MEDICINE. I In the book Dc Morbis Mulierum, five cantharidcs are ordered to be put into the pudenda of women, mixed with frank- i incense, myrrh, honey, oil of roses, or Egyptian oil, to try their fecundity. A little after, in the same book, he orders ti\e cantharidcs, without their heads and feet, to be taken in mild wine, for expelling the sccundines; (h) but for the expulsion of the foetus, ten grains of Ethiopic cummin and castor, and myrrh, together with a little cantharidcs, in some wine. I METHOD OF DELIVERY. IN this part, it may be necessary to give some idea of the practice of midwifery. This branch was, at that time, in the’ j hands of women; and men were very rarely applied to, unless cases were very dangerous. From this we may natuyally ' suppose, that the method of delivery was exceedingly simple; and the labour was, in general, submitted to nature. Indeed, from what can be gathered on this subject, from Hippocrates, it appears, that the expulsion of the foetus was considered as the performance of nature; but when nature could not perform this necessary duty, they then had recourse to other methods. In the lirst book of the Diseases of Women, difficult labours are treated on. If a woman, at her full time, be seized with the pains of labour, and, after patiently waiting a considerable time, if the infant should not be delivered, he lies across, or presents with his feet. For when the head presents, the case is favourable; whereas, if any other part presents, a difficult ' labour follows. An olive, in a narrow mouthed jar, cannot be so easily extracted by the middle, as when one end pre- sents. ’ (i) The birth will be difficult, when the feet present; in which case, either mother or child most generally perish; nor is the birth without difficulty, when the foetus is dead, apoplectic, or double. He directs us how to treat women after delivery, and in difficult labours. In lingering labours, and a good presentation, sternutatories are to be administered. Sneezing happening to a woman that is troubled with hysteric fits, or who is in hard labour, is good, (k) The patient was directed to keep her mouth and nose shut during their administration. The placenta is to be extracted immediately after the foetus is delivered. (1) In all presentations, except where the head presents, we must push up whatever part presents, find bring down the head. If the foetus be even dead, this ought to be the practice; and if the foetus cannot be delivered, because its body is swelled, we are to separate it, and take it away by pieces. If the head presents, it is to be opened with a knife, and the bones of the skull being broken, are to be extracted with a pair of forceps, lest they should hurt the woman, or by an instrument, called umbryculus, firmly fixed on the clavicles, by which means it may be extracted gently. After I the head is deliveicd in this manner, if the child should stop at the shoulders, the arms are to be divided at the articulation; i and they being brought away, the rest of the body soon follows with ease. But if it will not yet give way, the whole breast I must be divided, and great care taken that the intestines be not wounded, lest they and their contents falling out, the operation should be retarded. Then the ribs being broken, and the scapul® extracted, the rest of the foetus w’ill easily follow, unless the abdomen be swelled; in which case, the belly must be punctured, and at the exit of the flatus, the child will be I brought along. If part of the child be already delivered, and (he rest will not follow', nor can that which is out be returned, ' the operator is to take away as much as he can of it, and pushing up the remainder, turn the head downwards; but previous to this operation, he should pare his nails, and use a crooked knife; the point and back of which must be covered with the I forefinger, at its introduction, lest it should hurt the uterus, which accident might prove fatal to the woman, (m) ! When the child’s head appears without the os uteri, and the rest of the body does not follow, (n) the foetus being dead, wet the fingers with water, and introducing them between the os uteri and Us head, put one finger into the mouth, and laying hold of it bring it along. When the body is delivered, and the head remains behind, in those cases where the child comes by the feet, the operator is to dip both his hands into water, and introducing them between the os uteri, and the head of the child, grasp the head with his fingers, and extract it. If the head be in the vagina, it may be delivered in the same manner. When the child remains dead in the uterus, and cannot be delivered, either by the force of medicines or nature; introduce the hand anointed with some unctuous cerate, and dividing the parts with an unguis fixed on the great finger, bring the foetus along as before. In his first Book of the Diseases of Women, he gives directions for excluding the secundines, provided they be not expelled in the natural way. If the secundines come not away immediately after the birth, the woman labours under a pain (h) Cantharidcs, to expel the secundines. (i) Illustration. (k) 11 Morb. mul. XCIII. 1, &c. Praenot. XIII. 11. Coac. III. 175. Aph. 35. Sect. V. (m) lie knew weft the danger of wounding the uterus. •' (1) Placenta to be immediately delivered. (n) Lib. de superfoetatione.HISTORY OF MEDICINE. Ix a pain in her belly, .and side, attended with rigour, and a fever; which sometimes vanish when they are discharged. Though | for the most part, the placenta putrifies if left, and comes away the sixth or seventh day ; and sometimes later. In this case the patient is to liold her breath internally, she is to take mngwort, dittany of Crete, flowers of white violets, leaves of agnus castus, with garlic boiled or roasted, small onions, castor, spikenard, rue, and black wine. Sneezing medicines being ad- ministered, ('oj and both the nose and mouth, presently kept shut expel the secundine, or after birth. If the secundincs come not away with ease, the child must be left hanging to them, fpj and the woman seated on a high stool, that the foetus by its weight may pull them along, and lest that might be too suddenly effected, yj the child may be laid on wool newly plucked ; or on two bladders, filled with water, and covered with wool, which being punctured as the water is evacuated, they will subside, and the child sinking gradually, will gently draw the secundincs away; but should the funis be broke, proper weights must be tied to it, to answer the same purpose, which are the easiest, and least hurtful methods of extracting the placenta. If the woman has had a difficult labour, and could not be delivered, without the help of machines, the child is generally weak; and therefore the naval string ought not to be divided, f r) until the child should have either urined or sneezed, or ciicd aloud ; and in the mean time, it must be kept very near the mother, for though the child does not seem to breathe at first, nor give any other signs of life, the naval string, by remaining uncut, may be in a little time inflated, and the life of the infant saved. When an inflammation of the womb happens, comes the disease of the right gut, called tenesmus, (s) which is an inclina- > tion to discharge the f^ces, without performing it; and also a strangury, because the inflammation presses both parts, so that j neither the urine, nor excrement can be retained. I An inflammation in the uterus of a pregnant woman is mortal, (t) If the uterus, in that part which rests upon the hip bone, be suppurated, the cure must be wrought by lint or wool, dipped in convenient medicines, (u) stranguary succeeds an inflammation of the intestinum rectum, or an inflammation of the uterus, (xj or suppurated kidneys; but a hiccough succeeds the inflammation of the liver. Now conceri'.ing ages. To little children, and new born babes, happen those diseases ; (pJ ulcers of the mouth, vomitings, ! cough, watchings, tremblings, inflammations about the navel, and moistness behind the ears. When they breed teeth, there happen itchings, and pricking of the gums, (zj fevers, convulsions, fluxes of the belly, especially when they bring forth their j dog teeth. These things happen chiefly to those who are very gross, fat, and costive in their habits. But when they are J somewhat older, they are subject to inflammations of the glands of the cars, dislocations of the vertebra of the neck, ("a) asthmas, the stone, round worms, and others thin and small, called ascarides, long warts, continual erection of the penis, stranguries, glandular tumors, about the neck, and ether kinds of tubercula ; but especially those above mentioned. Many of the foremc-ntioned diseases, are also incident to those who have attained riper years; (bj but especially diurnal fevers, and nasal hemorrhages. Most diseases of children come to a crisis within forty days, some within seven months, some within seven years, (c) others when they come to years of maturity. But those which shall continue longer, and neither be resolved when they come to the age of fifteen, or sixteen, in male children, and in female children, when their menstrua begin to appear, do continue so while they live. CRITICAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE DISEASES OF WOMEN, CHILDREN, AND MIDWIFERY, . OF HIPPOCRATES. VARIOUS are the indispositions arising from a suppression of the menses; but, if an appearance of daemons, or rather a disturbed imagination, similar to a delirium, happened in Greece; in these northern parts such symptoms seldom occur. The (o) 1 Motb. mul. LXXVI. 6,7. 11 Morb XLIII. 67. Coac. III. 175. Prspnot. XIII. 11. 11 Epid. V. 42. (p) De superfoetalionc. {q) A carious, though complex method of delivering the placenta.. (rj Navel string not to be cut. (s) Lib. I. De morb. mul. (t) 1 Morb. mul 111,9,11. 11 Morb. mid. LVIll 22, 29. Natur. mul. XII. 17. Aph. 43. Sect. AL (it) Nat. mul. VI. 5. VIII. 5. 1 Morb. mul XCI. 32. 11 Morb. mul. XXIX. 5. Aph, 47. Sect. V. (x) Defist. HI. 1. IV. 1 Aph. 58. Sect. V, ' (y) Aph. 24. Sect. HI. (a) Aph. 26. Sect. III. (6) Aph. 27, Sect, HI, (s) Aph. 25. Sect. Ill, (c) Aph. 28. Sect. lU,ixi HISTORY OF MEDICINE. Tlio fluor albus is described in a lively, sensible, and natural manner; its treatment is rational, though the niethuds were confined, more through a deficiency of remedies, than a judgment in their administration. The consequences of a retention, or overflowing of the menses, are delivered with accuracy ; and the management of both, is reasonable and judicious; when vomits and the use of cantharides arc cxcepterl. 'J'he menstrual evacuation fretting the earth, or corroding the body of the female, does not correspond with truth ; and the combination of such a variety of un- couth, unpleasant remedies, is not agreeable to the simplicity observable in tlie treatment of other diseases. Suppositories, with cantharides, must have produced painful and distressing excoriations ; and if the cantharides came in I contact with the os uteri, they might do irreparable injury, by laying the foundation of a very fatal distemper. I In the immoderate uterine hemorrhage, covering the abdomen with sponge, after being immerged in cold water, was a sensible practice in Gieece; though highly exceptionable, and perhaps dangerous in this country. Pessaries arc useless; and vomits and purges after the profuse uterine hemorrhage ceased, were too irritating and violent, but nutritious, and gela- tinous diets, were highly proper. Hysteric aflections are frequently owing to suppressed menses, though they may likewise appear from various causes; I their treatment, during the paroxysm, is exactly agreeable to the modern doctrines; when pouring wine down the oesophagus i be excepted. The inflation of the stomach and intestines, was mistakingly called a distension of the uterus; and this unrea- I sonablc opinion, may be ascribed to an imperfect'knowledge in anatomy ; for those who knew the magnitude and situation of 1 the uterus, in an unimpregnated state, are well apprised of the impossibility of its being distended suddenly, or even enlarged gradually, except by pregnancy, or the schirrus, which last rarely happens. The pessaries in general, and particularly those containing a portion of cantharides, are highly improper ; those applied to draw, irritate, or relax the uterus, were exceedingly absurd. The os tine® being always closed in the healthful and unitu- pregnated state, could not admit of such medicaments, as every anatomist well understands. Though, to speak truth, this an • cient author cannot deserve censure for his unacquaintance with nice Anatomical distinctions ; the moderns, with all their refinements, are more blameable in this particular. It is a fact, easily demonstrable, and must be universally acknowledged I by all candid judges, that the os uteri will not admit any substance, exceeding in magnitude a hogs bristle, or a small probe, i so contracted is its aperture ; and yet, all the modern writers, and even the present race of practitioners, constantly prescribe I injections for the uterus. What a striking instance is this, of the credulity, indolence, and dangerous ignorance of phy- |i sicians, csteemcdly learned ? They are justly chargeable w’ith credulity and indolence, because, the positive impracticability 1 of injecting the uterus, seems not known: with an ignorance dangerous to society, because the least violence to the part, i proves destructive, most commonly to the woman. The methods to discover w hether a female shall conceive, are exceedingly superstitious, and seem more like the whimsical I notions of some antiquated matron, than the ancient founder of medicine. The trial, by fumigation, is ridiculously absurd; 1 though some sagacious commentators, through a bigotted zeal to the author, with a splendid show of reasoning, have en- deavoured to account for such ph®nomena. The signs that discover pregnancy, as the loathing of meat, and the suppression I of the menses; the opinion of an overmoist womb, or the fluor albus, being causes of sterilily, or abortion; and that w'omen I of a moderate temperatement are most fertile, are truths that daily experience confirms. I The experiment to discover whether a woman hath conceived, by giving a mixture of honey and water, is as ridiculous as the story of the fumigation; though this has been admitted, and learnedly accounted for by some learned commentators. The difl'erent colour of the countenances of the pregnant women, as determining whether a male or female child be conceived ; ' the notion that females are conceived, and lay on the left, but males oir the right side, (d) are all erroneous ; it is, however, I true, that the os uteri is closely shut after conc^tion. It may not be improper to. remark, that even though common obser- j vation falsifies, in general, the preceding doctrines, yet they have been raceived as true, by the females in most countries. The opinions concerning abortion are partly true; though there be frequent instances in which the menses aj)pear at their usual periods, during a state of pregnancy, either from a repletion, or an adhesion of the placenta, on, or near the internal part of the os uteri; and yet the child has been healthful, and full grown. r. The i (d) Perhaps this arose fromaa opinion that women hadtwo entrances to the uterus,like mares, or rabbits.Ixii HISTORY OF MEDICINE The doctrines of the flacciduity of the breasts, and the prognostics, whether the mother shall miscarry of a male, or fe- male, in cases of abortion, are idle and superstitious. The applying cantharides, to discover the fecundity of a woman is cruel and absurd. These prejudices of Hippocrates, which, in some measure, still prevail, maybe attributed more to the want of proper in- formation from the females, who probably in Greece, were rather delicate and reserved on these occasions, than an intention to mislead mankind. Besides, the obstetric art, has but very lately been studied by men of learning; and it is by this means only, that these prejudices could be discovered, and refuted. In the art of midwifery, no practice could be suimrior to the ancient in the natural labour; for the expulsion of the foetus is entirely left to the efforts of nature ; and certainly in most cases, nature alone performs the whole necessary work. When a preternatural presentation happened ; by what means the presenting part was removed, and the head produced in the na- turalway, is not easily comprehended. At this time, such an operation is absolutely impracticable ; and yet, the moderns have a clearer conception of the form of the pelvis, the decent of the foetus, and the manner of assisting in preternatural labours, than the ancients. There is no other manner of accounting for this singular practice, than, on a presumption that the female pelvis must have been more capacious amongst the Greeks, than our modern females; who probably injure their natural shape by tight lacing, according to any prevailing fashion. The feet presenting commonly proved fatal to the mother and child, according to Hippocrates ; whereas no presentation of the preternatural kind, is acknowledged more simple by the moderns, and none so easily delivered. However, if the feet of the infant vvere forced back, in order to reduce the labour, agreeably to the ancient doctrines, when the uterus was in a state of contraction, to a natural presentation ; the utmost efforts, most probably, would be frustrated, and the life of the mother, or child, be hazarded. The infant, from the violence offered to its body ; the mother from the injury received by the uterus. The methods for the delivery of the dead child, are exceedingly dangerous; and as it is next to impossible, to perform such an operation without considerable injury to the uterus, it generally proved fatal. Great danger was apprehended from the laceration of the uterus; and experience has confirmed, in all ages, that wounds, or ulcers in the uterus, are most com- monly mortal. The directing the placenta to be delivered immediately after the child, is an excellent and successful method; for its re- tention has frequently proved destructive. Notwithstanding all authors, both ancient and modern, have vehemently remon- strated against leaving the after burden, though they have all united, as with one voice, and confirmed its dangerous tei dency, by the experience of every age ; yet some eminent, and highly distinguished practitioners, in this metropolis, formed a pro- ject of leaving it after the delivery of the child ; and this has proved injurious to many women. Melancholy were the in- stances of females, expiring by putrid maglignant fevers, diarrhea’s, deliriums, and even raving madness: thus, were af- fectionate mothers torn from their helpless offspring: thus were infants deprived of the tender mother’s care; such were the direful consequences of altering an ancient and successful practice, on mere conjectures, and introducing one fatal to the community. This memorable example should induce physicians, to be cautious how they engage in ill concerted, and dan- gerous novelties; novelties, productive of irreparable injuries. For, what atonement can be made, when either through prejudice, inconsiderateness, or ignorance, a human victim is sacrificed at the shrine of error ? Cej On the subject of midwifery little more can be said, except that many ancient practices to be found in the works of Hippocrates, are still retained by the women in most parts of the world ; such as provokingsneezing, to expel the secundines; not cutting the funis, till the child breaths, after a difficult labour. The observation of an inflamed uterus, producing a tenesmus, and strangury, and the fatal catastrophe of patients in such dangerous distempers, have been acknowledged exact by all succeeding writers. The remarks on the diseases of children arc nearly true, and their description discovers a long diligent, and unwearied ap- plication; when the Pythagorean prejudices, of seven months, and seven yelars, being allotted for the changes of diseases are excepted. ON (e) Ihe method was recommended by the late Doctor Ilervey, in a pamphlet, dedicated to that excellent anatomist. Doctor William Hunter, phy- sician extraordinary to the queen, who patronized the autnur, and recommended the doctrine of leaving the after burden, in his public lectures to his students ; by which means the practice became universal, and some women lost their lives. The method, however, is not neglected, or universally condemned. A few of the principal advocates, whom pride will not permit to acknowledge an error, persist in the practice. While 1 practiced midwifery, I always attempted the delivery of the placenta immediately, and succeeded, except where the adhesion was very firm, in which case, I waited until it could be separated without danger: for 1 never used violence.Ixiii HISTORY OF MEDICINE. / ON THE SURGERY OF HIPPOCRATES. THE anatomy of Hippocrates has been already treated of; this was confined and imperfect. His surgery now claims our attention; and as an excellence in this art depends on anatomical accuracy, on a thorough acquaintance of the exact situation of the large vessels, nerves, tendons, and of all the parts subject to operation, it is not surprising that the ancient surgery was defective in many respects. Surgery, at this time, however, not being a distinct art, was, probably, practised by most physicians ; yet, if we believe the oath to be genuine, which Hippocrates administered to his sholars, lithotomy is an operation prohibited; for they swear to consign the performance to those who made it their sole business. In the treatment of dislocations, fractures, tumors, and several other branches of surgery, he has been very particular, and has left us many pertinent and sensible observations. We shall, therefore, arrange these in their due order, and endeavour to give an explicit recital of his modes of practice in this useful branch of medicine. ' OF ABSCESSES, WOUNDS, &c. WHEN medicines will not cure a disease, incission must take place, if incission should fail, we must have recourse to cauterizing; (fj but if that will not succeed, we may judge the case incurable. If a tumor appear on the neck of a patient afflicted with the quinsy, it is very favourable; CgJ foe it demonstrates, that the disorder is thrown off outwardly. Soft tumors are good, but indurated swellings are very bad. When an abscess suppurated, it was opened either by incission, or the actual cautery, (i) Persons, in whom abscesses are suppurated, on being burnt or cut, if pure matter of a white colour issues, this appearance is good, and they recover, (k) But if bloody, very foetid, or filthy matter is discharged, they commonly die. In an abscess of the liver, (1) those who are cauterized for this disorder, are in a safe situation, if pure white matter be discharged ; (vi) because the suppurated matter is then included in a tyuip^ but if the matter be discoloured, resembling the dregs of oil^ then is the disorder fatal. ULCERS. HIPPOCRATES observes, that ulcers in dropsical persons are very difficult of cure; (n) and if ulcers continue a year, or longer, ('oj they will of necessity affect the bone, and cause deep hollow scars. Ulcers every where, smooth, and foul, are of a malignant nature, (p) And an eruption of blood proceeding from a stiong pulsation in ulcers is baxl. (qj The application to inveterate ulcers, was something similar, to the unguentum, Aigyptiacum; and internally, purges were prescribed, (r) An ulcer suddenly vanishing, produces a raging madness; a sharp pain under the ribs, distension of the nevers, (s) and sometimes convulsions ; those, in whom ulcers, or tumours appear, are neither driven into rage, nor mad- ness. Hence arose the opinion, that it is dangerous to cure, or dry up old ulcers. (t) Cold is hurtful to ulcers, obdurates the skin, and causes blackness, feverish rigours, convulsions, and distensions of the nerves. (a) But sometimes, in a distension, or rigour of the nerves, without an ulcer, to young and fleshy bodies, in tho middle of summer, a pouring on of cold water, recalls the heat; (x) which heat dissolves the distemper. Heat, causing suppuration, does not afford us the greatest sign of security, in every ulcer, (y) It softens, and extenuates the skin: it eases pain, mitigates rigour, convulsions, and distensions of the nerves, takes away heaviness of the head, is very profitable to broken bones, especially if they be bare, but much more to those who have ulcers in their heads. It is good for such (J) Aph, 6. Sect. VIII. Art. XIII. 12. ad. 18. (g) Apli. 37. Sect. VI. Critical tumor favourable. (/i) 11 Epid. III. 128. Aph. 67. Sect. V. Hard tumors bad. (i_) Prognostic from the colour of the matter. (k) Pr®not VII. 6. XIX. 4. 11 Morb. XI. 5,34, 35. Coac. III. 217, 269. Aph. 44. Sect. VII. (l) Abscess of the liver. (m) Aph. 45. Sect. VII. (ti) A true observation. (o) De fract. XXX. 2. Ulcer. V. 4. Aph. 45. Sect. VI. (p) 11 Epid. VIII. 2. Aph. 4. Sect. VI. (?) Aph. 21. Sect. VII. (r) 111 consequences of ulcers suddenly healing. (s) 11 Epid III. 129. Aph" 63. Sect. VI. (t) Origin of the notion of the danger of healing ulcers. (u) De fract. XXXVIl. 6. De hrticul.'LXXIV. 10. Aph. 20. Sect. Y. (x) Cold water. 3 Morb. XIV. 17. Aph.21. Sect. T, (y) De ulcer. V. 1, Aph. 22. Sect. V.Ixiv HISTORY OF MEDICINE. such parts as are chilled, and ulcerated by cold, also for corroding ulcers in the fundament, privy parts, womb, and bladder. To all these, heat is acceptable, and promotes a crisis; (x) but cold is an enemy, and destructive. But cold is profitable, where there is or will be a flux of blood ; not that it should be applied to the very place, but thereabouts, to prevent its afflux. Jf there be any inflammations, or burnings tending to a red, and bloody colour, caused by a new flux of blood, then apply cold things to them, for it induces a blackness upon inveterate sores, (a) It helps any erysipelas, which is not ulcerated, and hurts it when it is ulcerated. Abundance of cold water, thrown on those who have tumors in their joints, without ulcers, also gout, and convulsions, (b) mitigates and extenuates them, and removes pain, (c) For a moderate stupefaction, or numbness, has the power of removing pain. OF WOUNDS, &c. HIPPOCRATES, in his Treatise De Ulceribus, which is allowed to be genuine, forbids a recent wound to be washed with any thing but wine, unless it happened in the joints. To wounds, attended with swelling, a cataplasm is advised, not to the wound itself, but the surrounding parts, rest and ease, (d) The diet is also to be moderate, and if the wound be not in the abdomen, (e) it is to be suffered to bleed freely, which empties the vessels. If a wound be not thoroughly cleansed, it will neither heal spontaneous!}", nor even when the lips are brought in contact. Oils, or unctuous remedies, are not proper for recent wounds. In many wounds which threaten a suppuration, purging is useful, (f) In cedematous swellings, in the adipose membrane of the feet, small 'incissions are necessary; f'gd and in a varix the vessels should be punctured in dif- ferent places, that the blood may flow' in small quantities, from the little orifices. In the Book De Officina Medica, he gives a very ample account of the chirurgical apparatus; this he performs with much accuracy, and judgment; indeed, with some little addition, it would appear more like a modern production, than that of so ancient an author. Any bone, cartilage, or nerve, cut asunder, will neither be regenerated with new parts, nor augmented, (h) nor will they unite again, (i) A bone cut to its cavity, causes a delirium. A bone cut off, the thin part of the eye-led divided, or the praeputuim, do not unite again, (k) A wound in the bladder, brain, heart, diaphragm, the small intestines, (1) stomach or liver, is mortal. He obsen'es, that if no swelling appear in large wounds, it is an ill sign, (m) OF WOUNDS OF THE HEAD. In the book De Capit. Vuincribus, it is affirmed, that he who is wounded in the head, is in the most hopeful state, wlienj he does not become feverish, has no eruption of blood, or inflammation, succeeding the injury, no pain is felt; but if any of j these symptoms appear, they are most favourable, when they do so in the beginning, and remain only for a short time:f;j> whereas, fevers seizing patients, wounded in the head, on the fourth, seventh, or twelfth day, generally prove mortal, (o) IfJ the hairs be cut by the weapon, and arc fixed in the wound, we may then assert the bone is injured; for w'hile the wounding] instrument, though sullicieutly sharp, (p) only penetrates the soft integuments of the cranium, the hairs follow the impression] made by the weapon, without being cut. But when the hairs are struck against the hard bone, they can no longer yield to the] edge of the instrument, but must of course be cut. A w'ound of the head is not to be moistened wdth any thing, not even with wine, or at least with very little; neither docs] such a wound require cataplasms nor liniments, (q) In recounting of those wounds of the head that require incision, he] mentions those that have not length and breadth, sufficient to discover whether the bone has been injured by the weapon. When! (i) Effects of heat and cold in ulcers. (c) Apli. 25. Sect. V. (c) The wound to be suffered to bleed. ^g) Incissions in oedematous swellings. fkj Coac. III. 374. ad. 382. 11 Prasdict. 1 Morb. III. 32, 33, (f) 11 Prajdict. XIX. 2 Aph. 18. Sect. VI. (n) Favourable symptoms. , (jJ Dc vul. cap. Sect. XVII. (^b) Humid, us. X. 14, 15. (i) Aph. 24. Sect. VII. (a) Aph. 23. Sect. V. (d) Rest and moderate-diet. (fj Purging when necessary. (h) Aph. 28. Sect. VII. VII. 21. Aph. 19. Sect. VI. (»i) Frognosticof wounds. 11 Epid. III. 12. XXIII. 1. Aph 66. (o) Fatal. (p) De vulner. capit. (r) Dc capit, vulaciibus Sect. XVIII. What wounds require enlarging.Ixv HISTORY OF MEDICINE ! When wounds have a kind of oblique cavity, that cavity must be cut broad, ("xj When wounds are orbicular, and very hollow, they must be cut with a double incision, longitudinally, so that the wound may be rendered longitudinal, ("t) When 1 the bone is divested of its integuments, we ought carefully to consider, whether the bone be split or contused, if it be not j apparent to the sight, or whether the contusion or fissure, or both, bear any resemblance to the shape of the instrument with which they were made ; if the bone should be in any of these states, it is to be perforated, with a small perforator, and blood j extracted from it. It is only to be remembered, that the bones, in young persons, are thinner than those in adults. The 1 w hole bones of the head, except a small portion of the lowest, and uppermost, are like a sponge, and contain a large quantity I of moist fleshy substance, which when pressed with the fingers, discharge blood, (u) There are, besides, in these bones, i small veins full of blood. In the beginning of the Book De Capit. Vulneribus, is remarked, that mens heads are not universally alike in shape, (x) nor their sutures situated in the same places, (y) Celsus, in the fourth chapter of his eighth book, highly applauds Ilippo- ( crates, for his candour in acknowledging that he mistook a fissure, for one of the sutures. j When it is doubtful, whether the cranium be fractured or not, ('zj the patient is to take stalks of asphodil, or fennel, be- i tween his jaws, {a) and chew them; and at the same time, we must observe, whether in any part of the cranium, a noise is perceived, which will be the part fractured. J But in process of time, fractures are discovered partly on the seventh, and partly on the fourteenth day, (h) and partly by the other circumstances; for a separation of the flesh from the bone happens, the bone becomes livid, the pain is increased, ichor is discharged ; and these symptoms very difficultly admit of a cure. After recounting various means, by which the cranium becomes injured; follows, when for instance, the bone is hurt, on the side opposite to that on which the blow was received; there is no cure for this disorder, (c) because we cannot discover in what part of the head the injury is situated. In his Coacae Prenotiones, he tells us, that those who are wounded in the temples, (d) are seized w'ith convulsions, on the side opposite to that on which the wound was inflicted. In the seventeenth section, of the Treatise on Wounds of the Head, the same doctrine is confirmed, by advising surgeons not to make incissions rashly in the region of the temples ; because, such incissions produce subsequent convulsions, on the side opposite to that which the wound was received, (e) If there be a wound on the left side of the head, the right side of the body will be seized with convulsions ; but if the wound be on the 1.1 left side of the head, the left will be convulsed. In the third section of the Book De Morbo Sacro, it is said, the brain of man, as well as of all other animals, is double, (f) I and divided in the middle by a slender membrane. For this reason, the head does nut ach always in one part ; but some- j times on one side, and at other times, on the other. When the cranium is laid bare, after making the incission through the integuments, (g) the wound is to be filled with lint, j in order to'enlarge it with as little trouble as possible; but, during the use of this lint, (h) the application of a cataplasm of fine flour, boiled in vinegar to a pi per consistence, is advised, in order to prevent too great an inflammation. The exami- nation of the parts ought to be postponed till next day, (i) after laying the bone bare; though after an enumeration of dangerous symptoms. In the Book De Capit. Vulneribus, it is inserted, if you are sure that the patient labours under a fever, or any other urgent symptom, (k) the operation is by no means to be delayed ; but, the bone is either to be cut with a saw, or rasped with the rugine, to the very membrane. A ferrated and hollow terebra something like the trepan, was used by Hippocrates, and this instrument was sometimes used to perforate the ribs, (1) to discharge the dropsy in the breast; though others say this was done by the simple terebra. j The head may be safely cut in any part, except in the temples, (m) and that space which liesjibove them, near the vein I s that I (s) Manner of dilating. 1 (x) Heads not alike. ‘ (a) Another method to discover the fracture, j (d) Coac. prenot. I (g) De capit. vulneribus. {i) To postpone the examination, till the next day. (wj De cap. vulner. Sect. XIX. (f) De cap. vul. Sect. XX. (y) Sutures not always the same. (t) Coac. priEuot. (e) Convulsions on the contrary side. (h) The cranium laid bare to discover the fracture, (k) Unless the symptoms be urgent. (tt) The diploe is observed, (s) Coac. prenotion. (c) Contra fissure. \j") De morh. Sacro. (X) Deinternis alTcttionibus,HISTORY OF MEDICINE. Ixvi that passes tlirough the temples, these parts ought not to be cut, because by that means the patient is seized with convulsions. He pronounces the fever attending wounds of the head, (n) to be a sign, that the cranium is corrupted, and that the cure of the patient has been neglected. He has observed, that the bones of children, are more thin and soft, (o) because they abound more in blood, &c. Hence by the same, or a slighter blow, the bone of a child will become more, and sooner purulent, than the bone of an adult. An account is given of a girl of twelve-years of age, (p) whose cranium was contused, and fractured; but the trepan being injudiciouly applied, she died on the fourteenth day. Her left hand was seized with con- vulsions, though the wound was inflicted on the right side of her head. Those bones which are violently altered from their natural state, (q) and depressed inwardly by a fracture, or entirely cut off, are less dangerous, if the membrane, dura mater, remains entire. (r) Bones affected on the inside, with more and wider fissures, are less dangerous, and are more easily e.xtracied, for none of these require section, nor must we try to remove them by any violent or dangerous means, before they make out their way by loosening spontaneously. In the same book, after advising no rash, or dangerous attempts to be used, for extracting the fractured bones, but leaving them to be thrown olT by nature, this is done by the growing of the flesh under them, which grows out of the djploe, and the sound part of the bone, if only its external part be corrupted. In De Locis in Homine, it is said, if the bone of the cranium, be both fractured, and contused, it is not so dangerous, as if it be cracked, and the fissures proceed inwardly; for this case is very dangerous. The saw is to be used in order to prevent the sanies from flowing through the fissure of the bone, upon the dura mater, or membrane, and so putrifying the same. A fracture of the a-anium, or a large piece of it cut away, (s) or the bone divided by many and large cracks, arc none of the most dangerous cases. Profound sleep, vertigo, and dimness of .sight, are dangerous symptoms. CU If the bone be fractured, split, or contused, &c. and if scraping and cutting have been neglected, upon a supposition, that it did not re- quire them as being sound, a fever will generally seize the patient before the ^fourteenth day, in the winter ; but in the sum- mer, after the seventh day ; CuJ ^ little ichor will be discharged from it, and the inflamed part will become mortified. When this happens, the ulcer becomes discoloured, glutinous, like salted fish, of a brownish colour, and sublived; and, when the bone begins to be corrupted, becomes black, smooth, and towards the margin pale, and whitish ; but, when it becomes puru- lent, pustules appear on the tongue, and tlie patient growing delirious dies. Those who have their brains wounded, arc, for the most part, seized with a fever, vomiting of bile, and an apoplexy; and their conditions, in consequence of these symptoms, are very desperate. When the brain is corrupted, some die in three, others in seven days, if they pass these days, they recover, ('yj They who have a sphacelus of the brain, die within three days; but if they outlive the time, they shall recover their health, (zj We should be very cautious in our prognostics on wounds, or blows on the head ; for from very slight appearances at first, fatal effects follow. In the second book of his Epidemics, he gives the following relation. A beautiful young damsel, of twenty-eight years of age, the daughter of Nereus, was, in spurt, struck on the sinciput, with the flat hand of a young woman, her companion. Upon which she was seized with a vertigo, accompanied with a dimness of sight, and her respiration ceased. When she was brought home, she was seized with a fever, a pain in the head, and her face became red. On the seventh day, above an ounce of foetid pus was discharged from her right car, upon which she seemed tube better, andhaddier symptoms relieved, but died on the ninth day. When the bone has been pared with a rasp, if it be necessary to cut the skull open, do not suffer three days fo pass before it is performed, (aj Those who suffer a violent concussion of the brain, must needs presently become dumb, (bj ON (n) De cap. vulner. Sect. XXXI. (o) De capit. vulner. Sect. XXIX. {q) Dc cap. vul. (r) Various prognostics. ft) De cap. vul. Dangerous symptoms. (it) De capit. vulner. fi) Aph. 50..Scct. VI. 6 Coac. III. 271,383,384. 11 Priedict. XXII. 12,16. XXIII. 5. ad. 11, (2) Aph. 2. Sect. 7. (a) De capit. vuliieribus. fl>) CoacuisioD of the brain. Coac. 111.370.1 Ulorb. UI. 34. Apb. 58. Sect. VII. (p) Lib. V. Epid. (s) De capit. vulneribus. (y) Coac. prenotion.Ixvii HISTORY OF MEDICINE, I ON FRACTURES. IN fractures, Hippocrates, used first extension, and having brought the broken parts of the hone in apposition, he replaced them. He then applied proper bandages, according to the nature of the fracture, compresses, and splints. For the union of the broken cubitus, he allowed thirty days; and in the first ten, he recommended spare diet, and at that time, he removed the bandages, and rolled the member up again ; ten days after, he repeated this, and used no plaisters; but his compresses were slightly covered with a cerate. We ought to despise those whimsical and curious bandages, which please the eye of the spectator, without answering the intention for which they are applied ; for, they aix* not only troublesome and idle, but frequently hurtful, and prejudicial. It is obvious, the sick, seek rather for relief from their pains, than a conceited, and ! superfluous elegance, in their dressings. In the book De Officina Medici, are given many excellent rules, for the application I of bandages. A fracture, with laceration of the tendons, or nerves; if the bones be not reduced to their natural situation, the surgeon is thought ignorant; (d) and if they be, the reduction of fractures, with lacerated nevers, or tendons tends more to the destruction, than to the recovery of the patient. Hence, Hippocrates, at the latter end of his treatise on fractures, I in which, he recounts the many bad consequences of fractures, and luxations, (c) lays it down as a maxim, that more is to j be dreaded from the contusion, than the fracture itself. For those disorders arc slighter, in which the bones are fractured, ! than those in which they are not fractured, if at the same time considerable veins, and nerves are contused. For these dis- orders endanger the patient’s life, more than the former, if they be accompanied with a continual fever. Flesh of a livid colour, in diseased bones, is very unfavourable, (f) The manner in which the bones are united, in fractures, he delivers in the following manner: Since the bones cannot, in consequence of their natural dryness, grow together like flesh, a callus, growing about the lips of the fracture, becomes the means of their union. But the origin of the callus, is the superfluous nourishment of the fractured bone; and when the I patient does not use a proper regimen, or is plethoric, this superfluous nourishment is too copious, and, discharging itself, renders all the bandages wet, just as when blood is discharged. Hence he seems to insinuate, that the callus is not formed of what is properly called the substance of the bone; but that it is only a species of gluten, which, interposing itself between ! the extremities of the fractured bone, makes them cohere; for, as glue is to unite pieces of wood, such is a callus to fractured bones. Hippocrates forbids the extension of the member, for the reduction of a fracture, if the injured parts wxre in a state of inflammation, or tension, (g) I The following directions for splints, are inserted in his book De Officina Medici. Let the length of the splints, breadth, ‘ thickness, and number, be thus: For length, let them be equal to the ligature; their breadth must be three or four inches; their thickness must be three or four fold, double their number, that they may circumscribe the part, and there must not be more I or less. The ancients, amongst whom Hippocrates was the chief, made these splints of the back of the woody shrub, fennel i gigant, or else of the boughs of it, divided in the middle ; whence they came to be called ferula?. In the foregoing book, he I inserts what ought to be the good qualities of the ferulses. It is necessary that they be smooth and equal, and crooked about j the ends, and on both sides of the ligature a little shorter; but thickest of all where the fracture is situated. Though the I bone of the thigh is extended by force, it cannot be held so by any hands; but when the first extension slackens, it will rim i out of its place again ; (h) for, in this part, the thick and strong flesh resists binding; (i) and bandage can scarce keep the I broken bone, when reduced in its proper place. j Whilst the part is held stretched forth, by assistants, a roller is to be passed three times round, on the part afflicted, toward j the right hand; (k) then bring it upwards until it comes to a good part of the limb, with four or five more windings about , it. (1) The second roller, which must be twice as long as the former, is to be rolled round the limb, the contrary way to I the former; for the first is rolled towards the right hand, upwards, but this must be towards the left hand downwards: ' namely, once about the fracture, then again three or four times, or oftener, below the fracture, unto some convenient part of ; the' (c) Whimsical bandages useless to the patient, who onty wishes for ease, (d) De fractnris. j («) Dc fractuiis. Aph. 5s Sect. 7,. (g) Not to be reduced when infiaiufd. (h) Bones of the thighs difficultly secured. (i) De fractuiis. j (fc) Hippocrates’s directions for applying the bandages. I I i (i) De fract. fext. 23,27,32, 41,IxviK HISTORY OF MEDICINE. (x) Luxation of the toci or fingers, with a wound. the member. The remainder of the hand, which tlie surgeon holds in his left hand, must be wound about, upwards, until it come to the end of the first hand. Then the pledgets, dipped into some convenient liquor, are to be applied, lengthways, to the limb, so as to extend both above and below the fracture, and between these longitudinal pledgets there should be, at least, . two fingers breadth distance from each other. These arc to be rolled on with a double headed roller, winding one part upwards and the other downwards; and afterwards returning them, till they meet on the part fractured. On the seventh day, after all fear of inflammation is past, ferulaes arc to be applied with pledgets, nearly the length of the limb, and fixed on with three ligatures, at equal distances. ON LUXATIONS. IIIPPOCRATES has been particularly attentive to the treatment of dislocations; and used various means for their re- duction. For the reducing the os-humeri, he had recourse to the ambe, a sling, and the ladder. For the reduction of the lower extremities, he placed the patients on a table, or form; and, securing them, made extension, by means of strong ligatures, or by the hands of strong men. In the Treatise De Fracturis, it is remarked, that in the reduction of luxations one constitution is widely different from another; (m) since, in some, the task is easy, and in others highly difficult, (n) The ligaments are also widely different; lor, in some they are lax, in others dense. But there are many of so moist, and succulent a habit of body, that they can at pleasure luxate, and reduce their articulations. Luxations do not easily happen in corpulent patients; but when they do happen, they are with difficulty reduced: whereas, the contrary holds true, in persons of lean habits. He likewise says, that the parts of the body destined for any particular purpose, are moderately used, and exercised in that for which they were designed; (o) they continue sound, and are increased in strength; but if ^they be not used, they become morbid, decrease in size, and, as it were, become old. ('p) This happens principally to the nerves, tendons, or joints, unless they are daily used. The general rule for reducing luxations, is, to perform it with the utmost expedition, and immediately after the disaster happens, (q) For, says our author, the reduction is then most easily made, and the patient subjected to the least pain, if the dislocation be reduced before the joint becomes tumid. The most dangerous luxations are to be reduced on the same, or next day; (r) but not on the third and fourth, as they are then in a state of inflammation, and swelling. AVhen, therefore, they are not reduced, within ten days, they are generally retained in their dislocated state, (s) It is improper to reduce any luxated bone, when a fever is present, and especially that of the cubit; for a fever is a sign and concomitant, of a violent inflammation, accompanying the luxation. In a tetanus, and espithotonus, (t) & luxation of the jaw-bone is mortal; (u) for such a luxation cannot be reduced, by reason of the tetanus; and, unless it be speedily reduced, the life of the patient is in the most imminent danger. In the Treatise De Articulis, he absolutely despairs of the reduction of such fracture, wherein the bones about the ankles are totally luxated, whether to the external or internal part, when attended with a wound; (x) for, if they be reduced, such violent convulsions succeed, as to destroy the patient in a few days. In this case few survive the seventh day; and the only hope of the patient’s safety, consists in not reducing the bones, when thus luxated, though, at the same time, an unseemly lameness continues during the whole remainder of the patient’s life. When the bones of the arm are luxated with a wound, the danger is equal, and lu.xations of this kind are, of all others, the most dangerous, when they happen to the large bones. Hence, if the os femur be luxated at the knee, and produces a wound, the reduction of it will sooner prove mortal than in any other case; and, though it be not reduced, yet it is far more dangerous than other luxations, (y) When the bones of the toes and fingers are lu.xated, so as to produce a wound, an attempt to reduce them is directed, though with the utmost caution, (z) In these cases, the reduced bones generally are easily luxated again; for which reason, the reduction (m) De fractnris. ' (n) DiA'erence of articulation; some lax, others dense, (o) De articulis. (p) Utility of exercise daily. (j) De articulis. (r) De articulis. (f) Improper to attempt the rediiclion, if inflammation or fever attends. (f) Espithotonus and tentanus. Coacse prenot. (u) A luxation of the jaw-bone, when mortal, (i) The ill consequences of a dislocated ankle, when attended with a wound and laceration. (y) The luxation of the femoris, at the knee, with a wound, most dangerous. ^Ixix HISTORY OF MEDICINE. redaction ought not to be attempted, except with a view to hinder the surgeon from being branded with want of skill, from the multitude. A luxated finger, when not attended with • a w’ound, is cured in fourteen days. Great danger is to be expected, rf the bones of the cubit be luxated with a wound, about the curpus, so as to stick out of the wound, and if con- vulsions should succeed the reduction of the luxation, the reduced part ought to be immediately forced out of its cavity, and bathed with some proper liquor, (a) In order to ascertain, and to satisfy ourselves when a luxation is reduced properly, we should compare the aftected member with its corresponding sound one, and not by looking at the articulation of anotlier person; since the joints of some ai'e more prominent than those of others; (b) for many persons, whether through intense pain, or any other cause, have their joints of a different figure from those of sound persons, though they be not really luxated. OF THE LUXATION OF THE HUMERU.S. I HIPPOCRATES describes a method of reducing the humerus, in the following manner: (c) A piece of wood, of a cubit long, or somewhat shorter, like the handle of a spade, must be bound on both sides with a cord, i and hanged up; (d) but the patient, placed upon somebigh stool, must so lean upon it with his hand, that the handle may ■ be so placed under the axilla, that he can hardly sit down, but may remain almost hanged up. Then a firm bolster, or many, being laid under and above it, at that height which may answer to the arm, placed at a right angle, it were better lo hang by a broad and soft strap of leather, ,or a broad band tied about it, some heavy weight that may gently stretch it; or else some other strong man may forcibly draw the arm downwards, at the binding of the elbow. But the physician, standing, and placing one foot on a higher place, must attempt the cure, and, with the palms of his hands, set the bone, whidi indeed will be easily done ; for this way of extending is commendable, if the artist use it properly. The use of the ambe is so weli known, that it would be superfluous here to describe it. They whose shoulders often slip out, may, for the most part, reduce it themselves; for, thrusting under the armpits, the knuckles of the fingers of the other hand, they thrust the joint upwards, and they draw the bunched part of the arm to : the breast. I Those who have the humerus reduced, without any inflammation of the surrounding parts, can immediately use their arm, I without any pain, and think no future caution is necessary for them. (e) But it is the duty r>f the physician to put them ; on their guard; since, in this case, the member is, again, more easily luxated llian where there is an inflammation. If the extension be properly made, the head of the bone is so raised, as to correspond to its natural cavity; and when it j is thus raised, any impulse, or direction, is sufficient to convey it into that cavity; (f) but, if the extension be defective, the reduction will be proportionably more difficult. The cure of this luxation, must be l>y a cerate, compresses, and the appli- I cation of bandages, (g) Soft wool, wrapped up, must also be put under the axilla, in order to fill up its cavity, and { support the joint. For, by this means, the head of the os humeri will be hindered from slipping from its cavity, into that of the axilla. I The luxation sometimes arises from the relaxation of the ligaments; and Hippocrates had recourse, in this case, to the actual cautery. As he saw many disabled by such luxations of the humerus, and knew of none who. had a propiec method of curing them. The whole plan of cure consists in cauterizing the skin and membrana adiposa, iaithat part to which the head of the bone slipped ; that by means of the cicatrices of the healed ulcers, the integuments may be so corrugated, and hardened, as not to be easily extended afterwards; by which means, the head of the bone will be kept Rom slipping that waj\ iThe lax skin (after elevating the arm) and membrana adiposa, is to be so raised with the fingers, that the integuments may *be separated as much as possible, from the glands, nerves, and large blood vessels: then a hot iron, not too thick, or laige, jbut oblong, is to be passed through the skin, thus raised, as quickly as possible; for which purpose, the iron is to be so hot as |to appear pellucid. Whilst the skin is yet elevated, a small spatula is to be passed through the perforation, and the skin to be let go. Then, in the middle, between the two perforations, a small red-hot iron is to be passed through the integuments, |till it reach the subjacent spatula; by this means, three different parts may be cauterized, without any danger of injuring the t parts ■ (a) De articulis. jl<i) Reduction of the humerus. Compress and bandage. I i (6) To discover when a limb is properly reduced. (c) De fractur. Sect. VI. (e) Cautiou, (fj De articulis.Ixx HISTORY OF MEDICINE., parts lying under the integuments. In the cure, the eschar will be separated, and the integuments are again united. But in consequence of the loss of substance, produced by the cautery, it is obvious the cicatrices will be corrugated and hard. For this reason, through the whole course of the cure, the arm should be lifted no higher than the cure of the ulcers rendered necessary; since, by this means, the integuments not being distended, the margins of the ulcers will grow more firmly to each other. After the ulcers are cured, the arm is, for a long time, to be tied to the side, with a view to render the cicatrices more firm, and to contract the space into which the head of the humerus used to fall down. Hippocrates advises, neither to retain the bandage too long, nor keep the arm entirely without motion; for, by tlie inspissation of its mucilage, the joint would become rigid and immoveable, (h) ON THE DISLOCATION OF THE ARM, AT THE ELBOW. WHEN the elbow is slipped, either to the outward or inward part, the distension must be so ordered, that the arm may be placed at a right angle with the shoulder. It is necessary to lift up the armpit, with a band put under it, and to lay the arm upon something, and about the joint to hang some weighty matter, or to press it downwards, with the assistance of the hands. While the joint is hanged up, it is necessary it should be thrust hard with the foreparts of the palms of the hands. When it slips forth on the hinder side, it must be suddenly extended, and, with the forepart of the palms of the hands, be forced into its place again, which also must be observed in reducing other bones. When it slips forth into the forcpsirt, laying a linen cloth upon it, wrapped up in form of a ball, it is necessary, at once, to bind and reduce it. If it slip into the other, or hinder part, when it is reduced, both of these also must be done. Another way of reducing the elbow joint is, to put a swathe or baud, wound up together, or a linen cloth, folded hard, yet not very great, laid across that part where the bending of the arm is; then to bend the arm suddenly, and as much as possibly you can, to bring the hand to the head of the shoulder; for this way is very sufficient for those who have slipped it forwards or backwards. LUXATION OF THE CLAVICLE. HIPPOCRATES says, it will be conveniently reduced, if a man be laid on his back; laying a pillow between his shoulders, near the back-bone, or else a bolster, or some such thing, that by this means the whole breast may bend. This ' i he expressed by the word ■zrEifpooir. Wherefore, the patient lying in this posture, the physician, with one wourul, shall' i thrust back the top of the shoulder, which is removed to the side, toward the outward part; for, so the parts of the neck bone drawn away, will much retire among themselves, the bended posture of the breast conducing very much thereunto; and, with the other hand, he shall reduce, and bring together the parts of the neck-bone that were dislocated. The shoulder is to be thrust up near the side; sometimes it suffices to be joined afterwards. ' r OF THE DISLOCATION OF THE FEMORIS. HIPPOCRATES, in liis Treatise De .Articulis, has laid down this conclusion. About the coxae, there is great difference whether the head of the os femoris be luxated towards the internal, or external parts; there is also a dift'erence, though ; a less considerable one, when It is luxated at the knee. When speaking of the reduction of the os femoris, lu.xated to the i interior parts, the apparatus is so ordered, that when the extension is made, an assistant is to move the bone from side to side, till it return to its natural situation. In his book De Articulis, luxation of the os femoris, towards the exterior parts, is mentioned. When the flesh, into which the head of the articulated bone is slipped, becomes callous and tough, the pain ceases for a time, and, when such patients are free from pain, they can, if they have an inclination, walk without a stuff, and support their bodies on the affected leg. If the os humeri, luxated at the cubit, to the exterior parts, is not immediately reduced, violent inflammations ensue; but if it is luxated to the posterior parts, it excites an intense pain, and violent continual fevers, accompanied with an evacuation of unmixed bile, which in a few days proves mortal. lu Ihe baiidage is net to be on loo long, nor the joint kept without motion.HISTORY OF MEDICINE Ixxi In his Treatise De Articulis, he mentions the cause of an extenuation. Nor, in like manner are the bones lengthened, but rather rendered shorter, especially the os femoris. The whole leg, also, losing its flesh and muscles, becomes extenuated, and small, partly because the bone is moved from its natural situation ; and partly because it cannot perform the of» flees it could, in a natural state. For exercise strengthens that which is weak, and resolves some part of that which hinders the increase of the membrane in length. Those patients are most injured, who have this articulation luxated, in the uterus. Those who sustain the next injury, are such as have it luxated in their infancy, and youth ; adult, and robust persons, sustain the least damage, by such misfortune. In the same work it is mentioned, that this extenuation is principally observable in the I parts most contiguous to the luxated articulation, which may be seen by the shoulders of those who have been luxated before ; birth, or, at least, before they have arrived at their full growth. In such persons the os humeri is shorter, and the cubit some- times less, than in sound pei sons. They can do most things with the affected arm, as well as the sound one. The flesh of the I thigh and leg, is diminished, when the head of the os femoris articulated with the coxa?, slips towards the internal parts ; be- J cause the patients cannot use that leg. Hence, the extenuation, succeeding an unreduced luxation, is not always to be abscribed to a compression of the large vessels, but often depends on the defect of muscular motion in the part affected. ON THE GANGLION. HIPPOCRATES De Articulis, says, it is customary to open t<* ya.fyX* those ganglions, tumors, or tubercles, which contain a loose muscous flesh, expecting to find a humour in them, but they are deceived ; though without any bad conss' quence to the patient. ON THE EMPYEMA. AFTER many judicious observations on the disorder, (i) it is said, if the patient bear the disorder easily, he will live ; if not, he will die, fourteen days after the operation. If pus be generated, from saliva left in the lungs, the patient is molested with a dry cough, (k) a fever attacks him, with a , shivering, he labours under on orthopnaea, with a short and thick respiration, (1) his voice becomes of a deeper tone, and a j high colour, with a heat overspreads his face. In process of time, the disease shews itself by more evident signs. If the pus, li cannot be evacuated, there is an eruption of it, from the lungs in the thorax ; after which the patient seems to be well, the 1, pus being translated, from a narrower into a larger capacity ; and the office of respiration being entirely discharged by the lungs. However, in process of time, the thorax is filled with pus, and the cough and the fever, and all the other painful, and ( troublesome symptoms return, with more violence; and the disease manifests itself in all its forms. In this case, it will be convenient, to let the patient alone till fifteen days after the eruption, that the pus may have time again to maturate : since, by I its translation into a larger place, and its refrigeration, by its attracting to itself the humidity of the thorax, it must, of ne- I cessity, be no more than half putrified, or digested. If, in the time before mentioned, expectoration begin spontaneously, it is well, if not, we are to assist the patient, in some of the said fifteen days with medicines, and potions, in order to his refreshment, and to recruit his strength, before his body be too much enfeebled, and cause a defluxkm. If there be no discharge by expec- toration ; and there be plain indications, that the stress or tendency of the pus is towards the sides, make no scruple to use j the knife, or cautery. (m) If there be no signs of this nature, or yet any expectoration, let the patient after bathing in' I plenty of hot water, fasting, and without the least drinking, be fiimly seated in a chair, and ordering an attendant to lay fast I hold of his shoulders, shake him well ^ourself, clapping your ear to his ribs that you may discover the part, whence the in- . dications arc to be taken. And here it is to be wished, that the place affected might lay towards the left side, because burning or cutting are most fatal on the right; for the stronger the parts arc, on the right side, the more violent are the diseases in t those parts. If there be no fluctuation, because of the thickness of the humour, and consequently no noise to be heard in the I breast, but the patient fbtehes his breath short, his feet swell, and he is molested with a cough, you may assure yourself that i the thorax is full of pus. Dip, therefore, a thin linen cloth in a warm infusion of eretrian earth, finely triturated, and lay it I all over the thorax ; (a) and in that part, where you find the cloth first dried, make the section, or apply the cautery in such manner / 1 j (i) De morbis. (fe) De raorb. lib. I\'. (/) Symptoms. • (m) Kmfc, oj cautery j [n] .knolher method to discover the matter in the thotaa, but quite uncertain.Ixxii HISTORY OF MEDICINE. manner as to approach very near the diaphragm; but without touching it. You may, if you think fit, anoint the part with the eretrian earth, and make the same observation as in the tinen cloth. Many use the unction, with the other method, lest the parts, which arc first anointed, should be dried. After the operation, by burning, or incission, introduce a tent made of tow, and evacuate the pus, by little, and little, (o) When you have determined on cutting, or burning, it will be very pro- per to make a mark on the skin; within which limits you are to confine the limits of your knife, or cautery. Avoid carrying them too high, or too low'. All food that is disposed to excite coughing, is to be avoided, lest it should cause a revulsion of the pus into the lungs, wdiich would be bad for the patient; but the pus is be to suffered to dry as soon as possible, in order to its discharge by the incission. At the end of twelve days evacuate the rest of the pus, and stopping the orifice with alinen'tent, drasv out the pus twice in the day, prescribing also a diet, proper for drying the inner region of the thorax. And this is the method of examining and curing an empyema, whether proceeding from a wound, peripneumony, or vio- lent catarrh, occasioning a pressure of the lungs against the side. With regard to the time for performing the operation for the empyema, (p) Hippocrates, orders us to avoid the winter, and summer solstices, because in those seasons, there is the greatest and most sudden changes in the air. (q) We must at a con- venient time, open those whose thorax is hydropical; we must presently cauterize with hot irons, those who are in consump- tions. (r) The knife, or cautery, is ordered to be applied in the lower part of the thorax, between the fifth, and sixth rib, reckoning from above. The incission was performed with a sharp knife. For cauterizing a long iron instrument, and not very thick, that after the cauterizing the hole may be made larger than the thickness of the instrument was. The side was also perforated with a hollow' piercer, made something like a screw or nail piercer. Where the matter was supposed thick, an incission w'as made choice of; but when the matter was thin, and watery, or where there is a dropsy of the thorax, then burning or perforation was thought preferable. It was laid down as a rule, that the matter is to be permitted to flow in a small quantity at a time, according to the strength of the patient: for the sudden evacuation of all the collected matter, would produce faintings, and destroy the patient, (s) It was observed if the probe returned of a black colour, on examining the pus, it was very dangerous. BROKCHOTOMY. WHEN an inflammation of the throat, threatened the suffocation of the patient, Hippocrates pierced the windpipe, and put a reed, or pipe, into it. (t) ON THE FISTULA IN ANO. THE diseases of the anus are largely treated of, (u) and after the enumeration of the causes from whence they proceed, the fistula is said to be discoverable, by making search with a stalk of fresh garlic, in the direction of the sinus. When it is discovered, a five folded thread, or hair, is to be passed through the orifice of the fistula, and to be gradually drawn closer, that the sinus may be opened. Several medicines arc prescribed, as necessary for the cure of this disorder; but no mention is made of the method by cutting, (x) Though the sphincter aui, it is said, may be cut away safely, (y) and without in- juring its functions, if only one eighth part of-4t be left untouched The actual cautery was for the cure of the hemorrhoids, (z) This disorder happening to melancholy, and nephritic per- sons, is good, and hemorrhoids that have long continued to flow, (a) must not be healed up quite, but one vein must be kept open, or else there is danger that a dropsy, or consumption, will succeed, (b) DISORDERS OF THE EYES. IN inflammations of the eyes, our author recommended, copious bleedings, bathing in hot water, purgings, (c) and tq drink (o') Tlie pus to be evacuated graduaUy. (p) Time of performing the operation. (9) Lib. VI. Epid. Sect. VH. (r) Lib. II. De morb. ($) The colour of the probe. (t) Lib. III. De morb. (it) De fistulis. (i) Cutting for the fistula in ano not known. (y) De hemorrhoid. (s) Hasmor. XI. 1. Indicat. X. 9. Aph. 11. Sect. VI. (a) Dangerous tostop the bleeding of the piles. (6) Humor. XI. 3. VI. Epid. XXXI. 1. VI. Epid. III. 65. Aph, 12. Sect. VI. Opinion of the bemorrtioids being stopped, (c) Aph. 31. Sect. VI. 11. Epid. VI. 26.HISTORY OF MEDICINE. Ixxiii drink strong wine, (d) In an opthalrai^, a supervening looseness is good, (e) If bleeding, and purging, do not remove the epthalmia, (f) the inferior parts are to be strongly cauterized, or the humour lessened, (g) by some very drastic purgative, taking particular care not to excite vomiting, (h) And if the eyes become inflamed suddenly, we must not anoint them with anything, (i) Hippocrates, likewise scarrified the eyes with a sort of prickly thistle, called atractylis. (k) In the re- laxation, and tumour of the eyelids, termed Phalangosis, and Ptosis, Hippocrates, advised the cutting of the relaxed part of the skin, by a scalpel; (1) and then to secure the wound by a ligature with a needle of thread. (vij SCIATICA. IN sciatic persons, when the hipbone, says our author, falls out of it$ place, and is restored again, it creates a mwcous matter, (n) And those who have their hip bone come out upon a long continued pain of the sciatica, shall have the thigh bone wasted, unless they be cauterized for it. (o) CRITICAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE SURGERY OF HIPPOCRATES. THE practice of surgery to be observed in Hippocrates, which bears no comparison in point of merit to his other works, we next proceed to examine. On abscesses, our author’s remarks are, in general, judicious; he leaves the formation and pointing of the matter chiefly to nature ; and at the proper season, opens the part, either by the actual cautery, or incission. , The latter method we approve of, but the former we consider exceedingly cruel. But as surgery has received the most consider- able improvements, since the time of our author; and as this branch has arrived at a much higher degree of perfection, than any of the other departments of medicine, we shall, in the course of this work, be very particular as to the principal improv e- ments; and endeavour to do justice to the many excellent men, who have contributed to cultivate this noble art. We now shall briefly point out the merits and defects of our author’s surgery. For in some parts, he was very conversant, as may be seen, by his observations and practice. He most excelled in the treatment of fractures, dislocations, and wounds of the head; for on these subjects he has left us many pertinent and accurate remarks. On ulcers his opinions are tolerably just, as their being irritated by cold, but the rough purging he recommends, we by no means approve of; for, notwithstanding purges are universally given by the moderns in such distempers, it is a violent and unsuccessful practice ; and there are some of the pre- judices we wish to eradicate, having already commuicated a mild practice, that generally proves successful. Our author’s practice in wounds is rational; and we declare, that in most wounds, however large, if their should be no contusion, or injury of the bone, little else is necessary, than to bring the parts as nearly in contact, as possible, applying only compress, and bandage, binding the wound up in its blood ; which, if the patient be in a good habit, is the best balsam. This is the most simple, and natural cure of incised wounds, and seldom fails of success, if judiciously managed by practitioners, who have more the welfare of their patients at heart, than their own private emolument. His notions of wounds of the noble parts, and the viscera proving mortal, are in general true, when we except the intestines ; for, by gastroraphy the cure of wounded intestines has been effected frequently; and when mortifications have happened, many instances have occurred in which there has formed, as it were, an artificial anus, and the patients recovered. Amongst many defects in the ancient surgery, we must remark, that our author was ignorant of amputation; therefore, in dislocations of the ankle, wherein the tendons and cartilages were lacerated, he understood no method of cure; for in such cases in general, to amputate the limb is the only probable means of saving the patient’s life. On wounds and fractures of the cranium, he has been very elaborate : his conclusions from the symptoms being favourable, or unfavo«rable; his methods of discovering fractures, depressions, or fissures, his treatment on these occasions; and the success attending his endeavours to recover his patients, under such circumstances, are upon the whole, very judicious. His advising surgeons to be cautious in their prognostics in these cases, has been recom- mended by all practical writers since his time. His considering profound sleep, vertigo, and dimness of sight, amongst the ’ mortal signs, was just, and his notions of a concussion of the brain, incissions of the temples being hazardous; his prog- ^ u ncstics '{(t) Strong wine in inflamed eyes. (g) Cauteries to Hie extremities. (i) External ointments to the eyes forbid. (*) Lib. de vict. acut. I^VI. (e) Indicat. XII. 9. Aph. 17. Sect. VI. XK) Vomits improper. (Ic) Scarrified tlio eyes. Lib. de vis. (v.) Aph. 59. Sect. VI. (J^ De locis homine. (1) Cut for the relaxed eyelid. (oj De gland. X. Aph. 60. Sect. V.HISTORY OF MEDICINE. bcxiv nostics on tlic discoloration of the flesliy parts surrounding the fracture, are all worthy of the attention of practitioners. In tlie doctrine of fractures, what more is necessary, than the practice of our author. To bring ttic disunited parts into appo- sition, and after reducing them as nearly as possible, to their original form, to retain them with proper bandage. As to the management of particular dislocations, and fractures, we pass them over; for the general treatment was conformable to that we have already mentioned. But his cauterizing the parts about the axilla as represented, we consider a very cruel practice, as likewise most other cases in which the actual cautery was used. We do not, however, mean to reflect on our author for this last mentioned practice, as it would be uncandid, if not highly ungenerous. We should, on this occasion, recollect, he knew not the course of the arteries, and nerves, nor the utility of the ligature, in case of an hemorrhage; he, therefore, was obliged to be more cautious of the knife, than we, who have arrived at a high perfection in anatomical knowledge. His re- flexions on those who were scrupulously nice in the application of their bandages, making a vain parade and ostentatious shew of their profession, are the cfl’usions of a good mind, shocked at the abuses of illiterate practitioners, who depended more on a display of external formalites, than in real abilities in the art. But we cannot help observing, that such arts, have prevailed in all ages, and have proved an excellent cover for the defects of the mind. Our author’s method of reducing dislocations, are, in some respects, rather violent; but on the whole, his practice in other respects, is similar to the moderns. He used the ambe, in the reduction of the humerus ; we sometimes use the same instrument. We are rather inclined, from observation, in practice to consider this a violent method; for these disloca- | tions, in general, are easily reduced by gentle extension, and attempting a rotatory motion of the arm. By this means, the bone slips into its cavity, with very little force ; unless there have been too much violence used already. His methods of rolling fractures or dislocations is little infetior to any of the moderns ; and his observations on the accidents and various symptoms that attend violent luxations, or fractures, arc judicious, and correspond, in many respects, with most succeed- ing writers. His observations on the empyema, and his methods of treatment, are agreeable, inmost instances, to the practice of the moderns. His operation, however, must have been rather more precarious, as he did not understand the course of the in- tercostal arteries, in his incision, as they are covered by the ribs, not much danger ensued ; but when he applied the actual I cautery, or perforated the ribs by the terebra, we should be inclined to think that a dangerous hemorrhage must have ensued. Besides, we make choice of the upper part of the rib, and make our incision in that part, so as nearly to touch it; by which j method, we liave nothing to apprehend, as the arteries run in a furrow in the lower part of each rib. In general we may re- » mark, that this operation is less successful in this northern country, than in the warmer climates ; we shouhl, therefore, be | very circumspect in our promises, whenever wc perform it. As to Hippocrates’s method of discovering the proper place to operate on, by applying the eretrian earth, is very absurd and erroneous ; but his admitting the matter to flow gently after the operation, and by gradual means, is exceedingly sensible, and judicious. His place of operation is within one rib of the part we now operate upon, when he did not depend on his experiment of the eretrian earth. Bronchotomy, he recommended for the purposes we now perform it. His general method of treating the fistula in ano, is similar in many respects to that of the moderns, when we except the actual cautery ; and this cruel practice was retained till the fifteenth century, and long after by many. His notions that the hemorrhoids should not be healed, but suffered to discharge the superfluous blood, is a doctrine that has received approbation in all ages. Our author knew little concerning either the anatomy, or disorders of the eye; but his general methods of treating the inflammation, when we except, drinking wine, is similar to the practice of all succeeding writers. When he recommends us, not to use external applications, he is superior to the moderns; and we have clearly proved that many have been blinded by such inconsiderate attempts to cure the diseases of this delicate and nervous organ. Our author’s disapprobation of vomits, in inflammations of the eyes, is excellent practice ; but the scarrification of the eyes, however successful, it might have been jn Greece ; or as lately practised at Paris, wc have known it in this country to produce dangerous effects: and, instead of relieving the patient, do manifest injury. But in different countries the practice of physic should be various, or it cannot be successful; and therefore, we should not hastily condemn, as insignificant, or bad, any plan of cure, because it does not prove equally useful in one country, as it does in another. For a physician should well understand the practice of every age and nation. ONHISTORY OF MEDICINE. Ixxv ! ON HIPPOCRATES, HIS MORAL SENTIMENTS, CHARACTER, &c. THUS having delivered ihe Hippocratic methods of treating diseases, it may be naturally expected that we say something conccrninii the author himself. Ancient history informs us, that he was lineally descended from the god of physic, the Greek ^Esculapius. But the fabulous part of the Greek, and other ancient histories, are so exceedingly dubitable, as we can only refer to the fragments of authors, whose original works did scarce reach the age even of our venerable father of medicine, we beg permission to decline entering into discussions concerning our author’s pedigree. For, leaving such, and many other like ! curious enquiries, for the amusement and contemplation of others, we only propose reciting such anecdotes of our author, as ap])car most agreeable to truth. Hippocrates, was said to be contemporary with Socrates; and those excellent historians, whose works will be ever read I with pleasure, Ileroditus, and Thucydides. He studied eloquence under Gorgias, the Leontine; and for the sciences, he I being naturally fond of study, and of a noble family was most probably a disciple to the greatest preceptors of his age. ! In one part, he says, after understanding the sciences of mediehie, it is expedient to travel, and visit foreign cities, and t countries, if he would be something more than a physician in name, and support the reputation of his profession by his j actions, as well as his words, (p) And what can more effectually conduce to a general knowledge in medicine, than exact ! certainty in the diet, customs, diseases, and methods of cure, in different parts of the world ? It enlarges the mind, removes the narrow prejudices of medical education; and exhibits, to a mind capable of instruction, a comprehensive view of nature, and the art. For, as this excellent author remarked, ignorance, when proceeding from a want of experience, is but a sad stock for those who are in possession of it, and an unfortunate incumbrance by day and night. He travelled into Macedonia, Thrace, and Thessaly, and indeed all through Greece; curing not only particular persons, but whole provinces. He visited Larissa, Cranon, Aenus, Oeniades, Pherae, Elis, Perinthus, Thasus, and Olynthus. In the tour of these countries, he made the principal observations contained in his Book of Epidemic Diseases. Ambassadors were sent from the Illyrians, to intreat him to remove a pestilence which ravaged through the whole country. He was readily disposed to assist this people; but first informing himself of the winds at that time predominant in Illyria, of the heat of the season, and of every circumstance pro- ceeding the contagion ; he was sensible no remedy would cure the distemper, and therefore declined the journey. But fore- seeing that the pestilence, would soon make its appearance in Thessaly and Greece, by the same winds, he immediately dis- patched his two sons, Thessalus, and Draco, with his son-in-law Polybus, and several of his pupils, to different jilaces with necessary instructions, and went himself to the assistance of the Thessalians, from whence he passed to the Dorians, and j thence to Phocis, visting Delphos, where he offered up prayers and sacrifices, and passing through all Bajotia, made his ap- I pearance at Athens, using his utmost endeavours to relieve the afflicted of all ranks, without any' reward, except the internal i satisfaction arising to a great and generous mind, from the consciousness of a voluntary service to the community. Untainted with that most unhappy of vices, an insatiate love of wealth, and not depending on the art for a support, he liberally assisted, and never refused his advice, and comfort to the poor and friendless. He observed, that a physician should not be ashamed to receive information from the meanest people, of remedies confirmed by experience: for it was by this means, he imagined, the art obtained improvement; and being collected together formed one entire body. It was his opinion, that, to arrive at any considerable knowledge in physic, the following conditions were necessarily requisite. A natural aptness, means of in-, struction, study, afid application from youth, adocile and sagacious wit, diligence, and a long observation. If ever a man was superlatively blessed with extraordinary powers of mind, means, and a thirst after medical knowledge, it was Hippocrates, who possessed, in an eminent degree, all that sagacity and penetration, which constitutes the true physician, (q) He says, that a physician should visit his patients frequently ; but ought never to warrant the success of a medicine, for the ablest physicians are deceived by the similarity of cases; (r) and obscure and doubtful diseases are judged of, more by conjecture than art. (s) Those who blame physicians for the death of their patients, have as much reason to blame the sick person; but W'hy should we not impute death to the incurableness of the disease } (t) Not that physicians are never in faiait; those who are least so, ought to be most esteemed; but it is difficult to find one so judicious as is requisite, (u) Some (p) Lex. [q) At the St. Mary-le-bone Infrmary, it has been fully proved, how excellent is early instruction, in the different branches of the art, ^r) Lib. Epid. (s^ Epid. lib. VL (t) De arti. («) l)e prisoa mcdicina.HISTORY OF MEDICINE. Ixxvi Some employ tlieiTKcU-es in decrying and spcJiking disrespectfully of others in the profession; making a vain ostentatious shew of their learning. It is much better to discover things useful to society. What has just been advanced, conveys a perfect idea of his sentiments on medicine. How striking and unprejudiced are his opinions? how exactly true have they been found in all ages? Considering the age in which he lived, he had little superstition. It is true, in his book of dreams, which have been attributed by some to Hcrodicus, he talks of sacrifices and ceremonies, which ought to be performed to some certain Deities, according to the nature of the dreams which are dreamt; but in another part, after ridiculing the boasters, magicians, and other impostors, he says, it is the Deity that purifies us, and washes us from our greatest sins and most enormous crimes. It is the divinity that protects us; and it is only in the temples, which are the habitations of the Gods, that we ought to seek, to purify ourselves of what is unclean. He rallies the women of his time, who were troubled with obstructions, for offering to Diana rich garments, (xj He does not hesitate to say, that the priests who advised these weak i women thus, abused them wretchedly. His sentiments of the manners of a physician, are worthy of attention. He says, he ouglit to dress decently, to be grave ill his manners, moderate in his actions, chaste and modest in the conversation he is obliged to have with women; no idler, ready to answer every body with candour, sober, patient, always ready to do his duty, without disturbing himself; and he thouglit it requisite, for the credit of the physician, that he should have a healthful look, and a good complexion; for men are apt to suspect him who has not his own health, to be scarce instrumental to procure another's. It has been said, that he relieved others of the plague, so well described by Thucydides, an eye witness, and after him , Lucretius. Fires in the cities were the common cure for the plague, amongst the Greeks. He was sent for to Perdicuas, kina of Macedonia, who was thought to be ill of a consumption; but Hippocrates, it is said, discovered his disease to be the love of Phyla, his father’s mistre.ss. Artaxerxes offered him vast sums, and entire cities, to induce Hippocrates to come into his country, and remove a pestilence, that made terrible devastation in his armies and provinces; and ordered him an hundred talent? as an advance. To the governor of the Hellespont, he returned this answer. Write to your master, that I am rich enough, and that I cannot with honour accept his offers, nor go and cure Barbarians, who are enemies to the Greeks, (y) What a distinguishing mark is this of the greatness of his character? When Alcibiades was sent by the Athenians into Sicily, Hippocrates sent his son Thessalus to accompany him and his arm^', as physician, and defrayed the expence of his voyage. The ill success of that expejlition did not prevent the Athenians from presenting Thessalus with a crown of gold, at his return, after three years service. No citizen gave stronger proofs of patriotism than Hippocrates; for, { it is said, that when the Athenians made preparations to carry their arms into the island of Coos, he immediately went to implore the protection of the Thessalians, and the neighbouring states; and sent his son Thessalus to Athens, to endeavour to allay the tempest that threatened his country. Both father and son met with success;^ for Macedonia, Thessaly, and Pelo- ponessus, were all up in arms, and ready to march to the assistance of Coos; and the Athenians, out of fear or gratitude, hearkened to the remonstrances of Thessalus. But what he is justly entitled to admiration for, by practitioners in medicine, is, his generous acknowledgment of his mistakes, and ill success. A remarkable instance we find recorded in the fifth book of his Epidemics. For being called to Antonomus, who had received a wound in his head, he unfortunately mistook the wound for one of the sutures, and neglected trepanning him. Some days after, the patient being seized with a great pain in his side, and convulsions in both arms, he was sensible of his error, and tried the trepan, but in vain; for it being the fifteenth day, and the summer season, the patient died the next day. This candid declaration of his ignorance, being the cause of a patient’s death, must be admired in all ages; but how few follow his steps in this particular, how eager we are for pubWshing our success, and how silently we draw a veil over our, blunders. This great author desired of the gods, in recompence of his labour, neither riches, nor pleasure; but a long life in perfect health, success in his art, and to render himself famous to posterity. This desire of his, is declared in liis oath ; and it was accomplished in its full extent; for he lived one hundred and nine years, in soundness of mind and body. He succeeded so well in his art, that he has ever been regarded as the founder of it. He is to physicians, what Jlomer and® Demosthenes are to poets and orators. He received, during his life, such great honours, as were never bestowed to any^ mortah {i) Lib. de his qusE. ad virginluro .•pectaut. (y) Epistol. Hippo. Coi.HISTORY OF MEDICINE Ixxvii mortal. The Argians erected a statue of gold to his honour, and the Athenians decreed a crown of the same metal; passed an act, that himself and descendants should be maintained in the Prytaneum; and they initiated him into the great mysteries, an honour rarely conferred on strangers, and never before on any but Hercules; and he has left behind him, in bis works, an immortal reputation; for he has been always considered the original interpreter of nature; and it is highly probable he will ever preserve his glory, which above two thousand years have not yet robbed him of. And though, even BOW, some designing professors make a point of obscuring the brightness of his fame, by unmeaning sneers, and dark insinuations; yet we are of opinion, that our ancient author will revive, and receive additional lustre, when the works of such men perish, and are lost in that oblivion they justly merit. This excellent man died in Thessaly, in the second year of the iiundred and seventieth olympiad, three hundred and forty-nine years before the birth of Christ, and was buried between Larissa and Gortooa. CRITICAL OBSERVATIONS ON DOCTRINES OF THE PHILOSOPHERS. I AND THE STATE OF PHYSIC, FROM THE DEATH OF HIPPO- CRATES TILL THE TOTAL SUBVERSION OF THE GREEK EMPIRE. IN every age there appears an insatiable thirst after knowledge; and those men arc highly laudable who endeavoui-, with j industry, to explain the hidden secrets of nature; but there is a wide difference between the attempt, and the real acquisition of learning. It has unfortunately happened, amongst the ancient philosophers, to mistake the contemplation of nature, for ' a penetration into her most secret actions. AVhere enquiries fell short, and judgment was at a stand, an unbridled imagination was substituted, and thus conjecture was built on conjecture, hypothesis on hypothesis, and the more apparently mysterious \ and false were the doctrines; so have they ever been received with the greater avidity. The opinion of Plato, concerning the different souls, with their situation in the human body, is a lively instance of ther arrogance and presumption of this philosopher; and yet he was universally esteemed, and obtained, in all ages, the appel— , lation of the Divine Plato. His great reputation principally arose from discoursing on the soul; not because he explained himself clearly on this sublime subject, for all his reasonings are exceedingly futile, absurd, and, in a great measure, abso^ lutely false. Then who can forbear smiling, when Plato is called, the Divine Plato? As well might an ignorant artificer bo I called a great architect, physician, or mathematician; because he discourses very idly and superficially on architecture, physic, or mathematics. It is a great reflection ou human nature, and mankind in general, that the most incoherent doctrines have been universally received, without examination, in every age. What a variety of opinions have been de- I livered, on the constituent principles of bodies, and yet few have has been demonstrated; nor has any one failed of meeting with I advocates, who have exerted themselves to the utmost, in support of the several doctrines advanced. This has ever been a 1 fatal curiosity in the mind of man, which can never be satisfied; plain, simple truths, are neglected, and yet, so confined isf ' human comprehension, that the least deviation from truth, is liable to lead us into a labyrinth of eternal error. Whatever are the opinions in philosophy, if the points be merely speculative, a variety of conjectures are unimportant to society int general; but when fallacious doctrines are introduced into the medical art (an art that should be only practical) it' their I becomes a serious matter, for the salvation or destructioq of human beings, in sickness, depend on the justness of it^ laws. ‘ But men rather wish to appear learned than to be really so; and the majority of a profession will ever assent to the fashionable and prevailing doctrines, however repugnant to common sense. To understand preva ling doctrines, requires little labour or industry, or strong mental powers; but to detect their fallacy, and publicly expose-their evil tendency, is a ’ work of infinite application. Men have been diverted from such honest purposes, from fearing the clamour raised on these I occasions; and indeed it requires no small share of intrepidity and resolution; to stem the torrent of falsehood, at’a time when I a setvile compliance is the sure road to wealth and honour. It is but lately that the Aristotlean doctrines have been refuted. This can only be accounted for from that prevailing spirit in men; for the learned have ever united with great spirit in ! suppressingIxxviii HISTORY OF MEDICINE. suppressing tlie truth, but have frequently been languid in their examination into the merits of the different proposals for the reformation of the most striking errors. As for Plato, he neither knew the anatomy of the human body, nor the nature of diseases. The notion of respiration, the asserting that liquids passed through the trachea to the lungs, the duty of the heart, the opinion of the triangles, and, in short, all the things advanced by Plato on these subjects, are highly ridiculous, and full of absurdity. The profound learning of Aristotle has been echoed in every age and country ; and from this it might be naturally inferred that his merit was singular, his sagacity extraordinary, and learning universal; for he has boldly written on most subjects; and with truth, it may be asserted, he excelled in poetry, logic, and rhetoric. The natural history of Aristotle was a standard work for several ages, though, it is full of defects and falshoods ; and his other works equally ex- ceptionable, have formerly been admired and taught in the schools. A convincing proof of the extreme indolence, negligence, and ignorance of philosophical professors, who were often the last in promoting improvements. History informs us, that the works of this philosopher, lay in a chest, and were buried in the earth, for near an hundred and thirty years, (a) For Aristotle left his writings to Theophrastus, one of his most illustrious disciples; (b) he transferred them to Neleus of Scepsis, (c) z. city m the neighbourhood of Pergamus, in Asia. His heirs, who were ignorant persons, kept them shut up, till the kings of Per- gamus began industriously to collect all sorts of books for their library ; and then they buried them in a vault under ground. Some of the family, after living in extreme poverty dug them up, and sold them to Apellicon, a rich Athenian. Sylla, in the course of his conquests had seized the library of Apellicon, and sent them to Rome. Apellicon had already endeavoured to supply the chasms, and other defects of the work produced by time; for the originals were worm-eaten, and obliterated in many places. Now, these defects being supplied by conjecture, it is not probable that we have the original work of Ari- stotle. A famous grammarian, then at Rome, named Tyrannian, obtained permission of Sylla’s library keeper, to copy them ; this copy was communicated to Andronicus, the Rhodian, who afterwards imparted it to the public. The world is obliged to him for the works of that philosopher. It is not extraordinary, that the works of Aristotle gained such an ascendancy over the minds of the Romans, who at that time were just immerged from a state of ferocity, and ignorance of politeness, to a taste for the polite arts ; and at such a time every thing is admired, which has but the appearance of deep erudition. And an author of such distinguished reputation as Aristotle, was received with uncommon marks of favour and veneration. At this time the Romans began likewise to have a favourable opinion of Greek literature; oratory was studied with uncommon as- siduity. Eloquence, and the art of persuasion, were arts that the Greeks excelled all other nations ; and a spirit of emula- tion excited the most ambitious men, in the Roman republic, to attain this necessary accomplishment, so useful in a popular state. The world never saw a greater master in rhetoric than Aristotle ; and it is natural to suppose, as he was found so su- perior to all other writers on this subject, that credit should be given him for an equal excellence in the other branches of science. Thus was his reputation established, not by a minute examination into his merit, as a philosopher, which part was little read, and less understood ; but from the admirable precepts on logic, poetics, &c. so universally studied, and admired, by the principal orators, and statesmen of every age. The philosophical principles of Aristotle have been amply refuted by the distinguished men of the last and present age; it would, therefore, be dishonourable to vanquish the vanquished. But his notions in anatomy ought to he censured; for they have had extraordinary influence amongst medical writers, for several centuries ; and though they are now universally con- demned, and acknowledged to be false, yet they may be with propriety introduced; as a memorable example of the inconsi- derate credulity of medical practitioners. For it was sufficient, in a medical controversy, to produce the opinion of Aristotle, or Plato, these were chiefs who term inated the most violent disputes, and reduced the refractory to obedience. It was not a question, whether Plato, or Aristotle spoke truth, no, mankind were educated in a slavish obedience to their authority ; and their extent of learning estimated in proportion as their minds were capable of understanding, and believing in the Platonic, and Aristotelian discourses of the schools. The notions of the blood not coming from any part to the heart; the brain being supposed a cold lump of water, and earth, and refrigerating the heat of the heart, and destitute of veins and blood, are all exceedingly erroneous, and must have been written at random. The same may be said, of what he hath advanced on the spleen, liver, and kidneys, lungs, respira- tion, (o) Plut. in SyU p. 468. [1) Strabon. I. 13. p. 609. (c) Laert. inTheoph.Ixxix HISTORY OF MEDICINE I tion, for of all these things he was extremely ignorant. Aristotle, however, docs not so much deserve censure for not under- standing these tilings, but for his vanity and presumption, in pretending to communicate a knowledge to others, of what he himself was totally ignorant; and meddling with sciences, in which he was quite unacquainted. But soon after the death of Aristotle, that great conquerer, Alexander, of Macedon, whose inordinate ambition, and successful wars, rendered him mas- ter of the world, expiring, ended his restless career soon after his triumphant entry into Babylon. This produced a great re- volution in the Greek empire, which before was under the denomination of that aspiring commander. The whole of his con- quests were soon divided, after his death, into four kingdoms; Egypt, Syria, Macedonia, Thrace, and Bithynia. (d) The whole manner of the Greeks had been changing from a love of liberty, and the most honourable sentiments, to a state of corruption, and dependance; for a considerable time before Philip formed his plan for the subjection of all Greece. These vices which have ever been the destruction of every state, increased proportionably as the Greeks became rich and luxurious, I their liberal sentiments, their love of liberty, which so eminently distinguished them above all other nations, gradually dc- ' generated into the most extravagant prostitution, and baseness; and, Irom the time of Alexander, till their total destruction, by the Romans, we read of nothing but shocking murders, mutual distrusts, rapine, and every species of cruelty, that can dis- grace human nature. During such scenes it was not probable that sciences flourished; and accordingly we have little re- maining of the learning of those ages. There is, seemingly, a limitation to human pursuits ; and there are periods in history, I in which the different branches of learning are iu their highest perfection : from w hich time, succeeds a gradual decline. The I highest perfection of the Greek literature, was just before, and during the life of Alexander. A profusion of wealth succeed- ing a great extent of territory, men became idle, having no incentive to action ; the rich employed their whole time in the j invention of new modes of indulgence, and surfit themselves in voluptuousness and dissipation. This has a sensible effect on i learning, for men who should be otherwise deeply learned, in whatever they profess, discover a shorter way to wealth and honour, than by laborious study ; they substitute the appearance for the reality ; and mankind reduced by intemperance and i luxury, to a state of enervation, do not so much as suspect the impostor, and, are totally incapable of distinguishing real I merit, from its shadow. These were the principal causes of the decline of learning, and the destruction of the Greek empire. ' The discoveries that were made by Herophilus, and Erasistratus, were in the beginning of the decline of the Greek em- ; pile. They were the first, and the only physicians, w'ho had liberty to dissect human bodies; and the effects of their in- dustry are very evident, from what has been already transcribed from Galen. But, as in the ensuing part of this performance, there will be occasion to mention the improvements of these anatomists, and the manner in which the art of physic, was gra- dually transferred by the Greeks to the Romans; v.e decline for the present enlarging on these subjects. In the preceding books, the happy effectsarising from the industry of the immortal Hippocrates, have been amply con- ‘ sidered, and may justly excite our admiration ; for the art of medicine, which before his time, abounded in error, and super- stition, was reduced, by his sagacity alone, into a regular form and order. Indeed, to such a degree of perfection was it raised, that little more was necessary, than an accurate skill in anatomy, and a few effectual remedies to render it complete. In such a state did this ancient, leave the science ; and it might have been naturally expected, that his immediate successors, would have finished what was so wisely begun, and supplied his defects. But it seems a certain fatality has ever attended the i medical art; for, at dift'erent periods, when every prospect must have raised the highest expectations of perfecting it, some un- foreseen event, or some aspiring and subtle genius has appeared, who has shocked its very found^ion, by diverting the atten- ition to useless studies, and thereby frustrated all hopes of effecting so desirable a purpose. It was by observation and experi- lence alone, that our ancient author, arrived to such an uncommon degree of skill in the salutary art. But after his death, experience, and patient observation, were relinquished, and subtleties, and deep misterious reasonings on inexplicable things were introduced. Physicians, instead of ardently engaging in the cure of diseases, entered into endless disputes about pre- eminence ; conjectures were multiplied, and truth forsaken, wranglings, and dischord succeeded, those mild diffusions of universal benevolence, which so strongly marked the character of the great father of medicine. The dawnings of science began to break forth during the life of our author; and soon after his decease an uncommon number of men, called philo- sophers, appeared. It would be tedious here, even to mention the names of the different sects. It appears, that it was suf- ficient, in that age, to have some singular humour or manners; to look or dress grave; and pretend to a new discovered road to (d) About three hundred years before Christ.Ixxx HISTORY OF MEDICINE to happiness, to attain the appellation of a philosopher. For the chief end of philosophy, according to their notions, was to b« happy, and every one modestly considered his own method of attaining it the best, though their ways are as various as the roads to the metropolis. As to the different opinions, we pass them over in silence, and only notice those that have affected the art of medicine. For they have obtruded their doctrines into our art, without knowing any thing of the art itself. After Hippocrates, it soon happened that two sectaries in physic opposed each other ; the one it seems enlisted under the banners of that celebrated philosopher, Aristotle, and assumed the appellation of methodists ; the others in appearance, were fol- lowers of Pyrrho, the first founder of the Sceptics, and called themselves empirics. Now, though it will clearly appear, that physic has no relation whatever with the opinions of philosophers; yet, it has been the rock physicians have split on in all ages ; for they have endeav'oured to introduce, the most absurd and useless speculations, into an art, that is only practical; and, in general, dependant on the evidence of the senses. We do not intend delivering all the opinions of the philosophers concerning the most abtruse hidden works of nature; for this would be an endless attempt; but as Aristotle has been admired and quoted, on all occasions, by physicians, to confirm the most absurd doctrines, it becomes an indispensible duty, in this work, to give some idea of his, and other principal doctrines; but first it will be necessary to say something of difference between the dogmatists and Sceptics. The difference then, between the dogmatic philosophers and sceptics, seems to be this; the first suppose they well under- stand many things in nature, which the latter consider incomprehensible. One believes his speculations and opinions worthy of reception, and supports his pretension by the most subtle arguments; the other, disbelieving every thing not manifest, suspends his entire belief, on a principle that the secrets of nature are not within the sphere of human comprehension. The sceptics defend their incredulity of the dogmatic assertions of philosophers, because no two agree together on one subject. For instance, the various notions of material principles. Phericides, the Syrian, asserted the earth to be the principles of all things; Tliales, the Milesian, water; Anaximander, his disciple, infinite; Anaximenes, and Diogines Appollionatcs, air; Ilippasus, the Metapontine, fire; Xenophanes, the Colophonian, earth and water; Euripides, the Chian, fire and air; Hippo, of Rhegium, fire and water; Onomacritus, in his Orphics, fire, water, and earth: not to speak of matter void of quality, which some have prodigiously fancied, but not understood. The followers of Aristotle, the Peripatetics, a circular moving body, consisting of fire, air, water, and earth; Democritus and Epicurus, atoms. Anaxagoras, the Claaomenian, Homoiomerics ; Diodorus Cronus, least and indivisible bodies; Heraclides, of Pontus, and jEsclcpiades, of Bythinia, uncom- j pounded bulks, or little bodies; the Pythagoreans, numbers; the Mathematicians, the terms of bodies; Strato, the naturalist, 1 qualities. Such, or yet greater, being the controversy among philosophers, about the principles of matter, we must | cither assent to all their opinions of the elementary principles, or to some. Now, if we cannot assent to all these opinions of ’ the elements, nor to some of them, we must suspend our judgment. These are the notions of the Sceptics ; and they farther say, that perceiving in all controversies concerning the elements, they are held either to be bodies, and incorporeal, wo con- ceive it sufficient to prove, that both bodies, and incorporeals, arc incomprehensible. A body (some of them say) they think doeth or suffereth ; but, according to this notion, it is incomprehensible. For not being able to say, whether there b« a cause, we cannot say whether there be an agent; for the agent suffers from the cause. Thus both the cause and the agent, being incomprehensible, a body also must be incomprehensible. Many ingenious arguments are produced by the Sceptics, to prove the impossibility of comprehending the received opinions on various subjects, as delivered by the dogmatists; strongly inculcating a modest suspension of our opinion on intricate and disputable points, (e) But a contrary conduct to this, strongly characterises the other philosophers; for these, with a boldness and authority, which have ever produced irreparable injury to society, think nothing, however intricate, above the reach of their capacities. When the evidence of the senses, or demonstration, failed, (f) then a loose is given to the imagination, and the soid for a while leaving the body, as some of them pretended, took its airy flight, and contemplated the mysteries of nature; and left, as a legacy to after ages, their visionary dreams,called by some, philosophy. Others, less adventurous, and living in ages more refined, and consequently more liable to detection, have traversed over all the wide extensive empires of learning; and, on a principle that they have excelled in some few branches of science, have, by a prostitution of logic, and by mere artifice, .•<0 imposed on the eoramunity, that their defects or falsehoods, for ages, have never been suspected, much less refuted. What ignorance (e) Many timilar hypotheses and disputes continue to this day. if) As SocratM.Ixxxi HISTORY OF MEDICINE. ignorance and credulity first gave sanction to, without strict enquiry, increased in strength, h\- time, and gained such an ascendency over the minds of men, that nothing but an implicit faith in the most erroneous opinicnis, entitled any one to the appellation of learned ; and, in proportion as he believed, so was he accordingly considered a great philosopher. But lest wc should be thought rather severe, we now produce proofs in vindication of our censures. But according to the historical order, wc should say something concerning tlic immediate successors of Hippocrates. Thessalus and Draco were his sons, and Polybus, who was his son in law, have been mentioned as excellent physicians. To each have been attributed some of the writings of Hippocrates; but as we know little concerning them, except that his eldest son lived in the court of Archclaus, king of Macedonia. There are other disciples and scholars of Hippocrates; as , Prodicus, Dixippus, and Appolonius, and Ctesias, his kinsman, who are said to have been practitioners; but as none of their I productions have reached our time, wc pass them over, and produce the philosophical prejudices so injurious to the art, and [ first of Plato. Plato wrote several things relative to the theory of medicine, (g) He having supposed two universal principles of things, (h) God and matter. The first form that he supposed matter to take, was triangular; and that from these triangles, the four sensible elements were afterwards produced ; the fire, air, water, and earth, of which all bodies appeared to him to be compounded. i As for the human body, he was of opinion, that its first formation commenced from the spinal marrow; this was afterward jeovered with bone, and these bones with flesh, (ij Upon this presumption, he held, that links, which united the soul with I the body, were in the marrow, which he called the seat of the mortal soul, (k) The rational soul he lodged in the brain, which he said was a continuation of the marrow, and considered it as a soil purposely prepared to receive the divine semen. (1) As for that part of the soul on which depended generosity, valour, and anger, he placed it near the head, between the diaphragm and the neck; (m) that is to say, in the breast, or in the heart; in which he followed Pythagoras. He held that the lungs encompassed the heart, to refresh it, and to calm the violent motions of the soul, which was lodged there, as well by the refreshment it received from the air, in respiration, as from the liquor we drink; (n) which he supposed to fall, in part, on the lungs. This made one of the ancients to observe, that Plato gave posterity occasion to laugh, by meddling with that which was not his business. (o) ( This pbilosopbcr imagined another sort of soul, which desired not only meat and drink, and all that was necessary for the body, but which was the principle of all appetites or desires in general, (p) This soul was situated between the diaphragm • |and navel.It was quartered in the lowest part, and farthest from the head, that it might not, by its agitations and com- i Smotions, disturb the reasonable soul, (q) which is the best part of us, in its meditations and thoughts for the common jgoo<l. (r) These troubles and disturbances of the inferior soul, were excited by phantasms, or images, presented to it by jthe liver. The liver having been polished and made shining, that it might reflect the images which were communicated to it, 'to produce trouble, tranquillity, or pleasure, in the inferior soul, according as the liver itself is troubled by the bitterness of jthe bile; or sedate and calm, through the predomination of sweet juices, opposed to the bile, ("s) Besides what has been already said of the heart, and of the soul lodged there, Plato held the following notions concerning , it, The heart, says he, which is at the time the source of the veins, and of the blood, which whirls rapidly in all the parts' i of the body, is set as a centinel, or serjeant, (t) that when the choler is inflamed at the command of reason, upon the ' iccouiit of some injustice committed, (u) either without or within, by the desire or passions, presently all that is sensible m the body, disposes itself, by opening all its pores to hear its menaces, and obey its commands, (x) The opinion of this philosopher, concerning the manner of respiration, is no less peculiar. He believed that there was no l/acuum in the world; but that the air that escaped out of the lungs and mouth in respiration, meeting tliat which surrounds ihe body without, pushes it so, that it forces it to enter through the pores of the skin and flesh, and to insinuate itself into the y most \(e) The following is chiefly taken from Alcinous’s Platonic philosophy. Si'oj- xt (0 Formation of the human body erroneous j(ii) The soul absurd. (/) Marrow a soil for divine semen The sentimental soul. j<n) Lungs receive liquids false. (o) A. Gell. lib. 17. cap. 11. Macrob. lib 17 cap. 15. (p) Another soul. situation and use. (r) Common good ingeniously considered. |(i) The inferior soul reflecting images on the liver, in an extraordinary manner. (t) The heart a scrjeajrt. duty. ' tjje pores have the command of the passions.Ixxxii HISTORY OF MEDICINE most remote parts of the body, till it fills the place which the other left; (y) after which, making the same way out again, by the pores, it forces that without to enter by the mouth, into the lungs, in inspiration. We sec by this, that Plato con- founded transpiration with respiration; pretending, that both one and the other, were performed together, as it were, by two semicircles, (z) As for the flesh, he thought it compounded of water, lire, and earth, and a certain sort of sharp leaven, biting and salt. These arc some of Plato's thoughts of a human body, in its natural state. As for the causes of its destruction, which are diseases, old age, and death; he supposed, in the first place, which are about ours, dissolved and melt it continually; after which, every substance which gets loose and exhales, returns to the principle from whence it was drawn. He supposes, in the second place, that the blood, which is, according to him, a fluid matter, formed of the aliments, by a peculiar artifice of nature, which cuts and reduces them into small pieces, by means of fire, that rises in our stomach after the air or breath, (a) He supnosed that this blood, whose redness was an evident token of the impression of this fire, served to nourish the flesh, and generally the whole body, and to fill up the vacant spaces of it as it were, by a sort of watering, or general inundation. This being supposed, he maintained, that while we were young, this blood, abounding in all parts, not only supplied what was dissipated, or diminished, of the flesh, which, as was said, was perpetual; but after having filled up what was wanting, it furnished matter of increase to the mass of the body. Prom hence it is, that in our youth we grow and become larger; but when we are advanced in years, more of the substance of our body is spent than the blood can supply or restore; there- fore we diminish by degrees. Those principles of which our bodies consist, which Plato calls triangles, which in our youth were stronger than those of which the aliments were compounded, reducing them easily to a substance like themselves, become disunited and relaxed, by having so long endured the shock of other triangles. This causes old age, which is followed by death, especially where the triangles, whereof the spinal marrow consists, are dissolved and disunited; so that the bands by which the soul was fastened to it, are entirely broken, and let it loose, (b) As for diseases that attack us in all ages, and precipitate the usual time of death, he supposed that our bodies, being com- posed of the four elements before named, the disorders ot these elements were the chief causes of them, (c) These disorders consisted in the excess, or deficiency, of any of these elements, when they did not preserve the proportion of their fiist iiiixture, or when they changed place, leaving their own place for another. To explain himself more particularly, he adds, that the fire exceeding, produced continual or burning fevers; that if the air overbalanced, it gave rise to quotidian, intermitting fevers; if the water, tertian fevers; and, ifearth, quartans, (d) The earth being the heaviest of all the elements, must have quadruple the time to move itself in, that the fire has, and the rest of the elements in proportion, (e'j Plato did not confine himself to these generals only; but proceeded to the particular explication of the changes that bcfal our bodies in relation to the blood, and humours, wdiich arc the immediate causes of distempers, (j) While the blood, says be, maintains its natural state, it serves to nourish the body, and to preserve health. Hut, when the flesh begins to corrupt, cr to melt, and dissolve the humour, which comes from it, entering into the veins, carries this corruption along with it, and changing the blood in several manners, turns it from red to yellow, and bitter, or sour, or salt; so that, that which was pure blood, becomes part bile, and phlegm, or serosities. What we call bile, says Plato, is particularly produced from the dissolu- tion of the old flesh. It is an humour that assumes divers forms; and is very changeable, both as to colour, and taste; but it is chiefly distinguished into two sorts; the yellow bile, which is bitter ; and the black bile that is sour, and irritating. As for the phlegm, and serosities, or water, Plato seems to confound them, or to make but one sort of humour of them. The phlegm, according to him, is produced from the new flesh,, and the serosities, or waters, which are designed by the particular names of sweat or tears, are only the phlegm, melted or dissolved. In another place he seems to confound the phlegm, and serosities, w ith the bile, when he says, that what we call sour phlegm, is the same thing with the serosity of the black bile. But in the explication of the effects of these humours, he re- strains f?;) The air going through the pores of the skin. (5) Respiration and perspiration confounded together (“) nvf OAU fS/Myontro{-^ xl wnVfvavi (b) A curious opinion of tlie triangles. (c) Causes of diseases attributed to the excess or deficiency of the elements. (d) The fire exceeding, produces burning fevers; air, qutidian intermiuents; water, tertions ; earth, quartans, ft) Explainedcuriously. (/J Particular explication. ^Ixxxiii HISTORY OF MEDICINE, strains himself to the two principal, which are the bile, and the phlegm ; and he acknowledges,, that these two juices, by their mixture with the blood, are the causes of all disorders. When the bile evaporates outwards^or discharges itself upon the skin, it causes divers sorts of humours, attended with in- flammation, which the Greeks called phlegmons ; but when it is confined within, it produces all sorts of burning diseases, (gj The bile is especially hurtful, when it is mixed with the blood ; it breaks the orders of the fibres, which are, according to him, small threads scattered through the blood, (h) that it might be neither too clear, nor too thick, to the end, that on the one side it should not evaporate, and on the other, might always move easily in the veins. This bile continuing its havock, after having broken the fibres of the blood, pierces to the spinal marrow, and destroys the links of the soul, before spoken of; unless the body, that is to say, all the flesh, melting or dissolving, breaks its force. When this happens, the bile being over- come, and obliged to depart the body, throws itself through the veins, upon the lower belly, and stomach, (i) from whence it is discharged by stool, and vomiting, like those who fly out of the town in an uproar, and cause in their passage diarrhoeas and dysenteries, and other discharges, which prove often healthful. The sweet, or insipid phlegm, occasions tumors, and some impurities of the skin ; and when it mixes with some little blad- ders of the air, it is then called white phlegm, (k) If this phlegm should mix with the black bile, and penetrate into the recepticles of the brain, it causes the epilepsy. 1 The sour, or salt phlegm, is the cause of all diseases, comprehended under the name of cartarrh’s; and brings disorders, I and pain, on what part soever it falls. ' The matrix, says he, is an animal, which longs impatiently to conceive; (1) and if it be long disappointed of bearing I fruit, it is enraged, and runs up and down the whole body, and stopping the passages of the air, it takes away respiration, and I causes great uneasiness, and an infinite number of diseases. ARISTOTLE. I THIS philosopher, who was preceptor to Alexander the Great, and lived in the sun shine of court favour, had greater op- portunities of acquiring natural knowledge, than perhaps any other, either before his time, or after. He received from hiS j prince the enormous sum of eight hundred talents, to pursue these studies, (m) with the assistance of men in different parts of the world, who were, by the royal order, directed to give him every necessary information, of cither the natural curiosities or pecuharities of the different animals that each country produced. With regard to his history of animals, it has been clearly proved, that he delivered the greatest falsehoods ; (n) and what relates to the human body, as advanced by this great philosopher, as he was called, is in general erroneous, and in many in- stances highly superstitious, and irrationaL The principles of natural bodies, says Aristotle, are not one, as Parmenides, (o) and Melissus held; nor Homoiomeria’s, ' as Anaxagoras; nor atoms,as Leucippus and Democritus ; nor sensible elements, as Thales, Anaximander, Anaximenes, Empedocles ; nor numbers, nor figures, as the Pythagorians ; nor ideas, as Plato. There are three principles of natural bodies; two contrary, privation, and form ; (p) and one common subject of both, matter. The constitutive principles, are matter and form ; of privation, bodies consist not, but accidently, as it is competent to matter. Things are made of that which is ens potentially, materia prima, not of that which is ens actually; nor of that which is non ens potentially, which is pure nothing, (q) Matter is neither generated nor corrupted, (r.) It is the first entire subject of every thing, whereof it is framed primarily in itself, and not by accident; and into which it at last resolveth. To treat of form in general, is proper to metaphysics. But, as it would be tedious, and rather foreign to our subject, to give ; iu this work more than is necessary, concerning the Aristotelian philosophy, it may be improper to jnention any thing more jof opinions, which have been so fully refuted by the moderns; and, therefore, we arc to consider his notions in general con- cerning the animal body. He (g) Tlvfiy.avTct (ft) The injury of the bile to the blood, decomposing its fibres. (i) The bile discharged by vomiting and purging.. (ft) A sort of dropsy, in Hippocrates (1) Uterus singular notion. Pliny, lib.VIII. 16. (n) By Borrichius. (o) Physic; lib; cap; III. 4. (p) Cap. 7. < (,) q^p^ 3., (r) Cap. I .».]■■■■HISTORY OF MEDICINE Ixxxiv He esteemed tlie lieart to hn the origin and source of the yeins and blood, (s) Tlie blood, says he, g9cs from the heart into the veins ; but it comes not from any part into the heart. Tlic brain was, in his opinion, a heap of water, and earth. The office of which cold lump, he said, was to refrigerate, and moderate the heat of the heart. CfJ likewise says, that the brain, and spinal marrow, have not sensum tactus, the sense of feeling. ITie reason why the brain was formed to refrigerate the heart, ^x) was, first, because it was without blood and veins ; and again, because the brain of man, is of all animals the largest, for that his heart is the hottest. The spleen, he says, is necessary, though not absolutely so, though it sometimes attracts the excrement from the stomach, and forms it into its own nourishment. He mentions the jejunum, the colon, caecum, and rectum ; so that the intestines were better distinguished by him, than in the time of Hippocrates. The liver, according to him, was an assistant in digesting the meat in the stomach, and intestines. The kidneys are only for conveniency ; their office is to imbibe part of the excrement, which goes to the bladder of animals, in whom this excre- ment is in too great abundance. CyJ , He held that conception was performed by the mixture of the semen of a man, with the menstrical blood in the matrix, allowing no share to the semen of the female ; which he thought only an excrement of the matri.x. The use of the lungs, and manner of respiration, according to Aristotle, were these. The heart being inflated by too much heat, obliged the lungs and breast to swell and move, and by consequence to receive the air, which, insinuating itself into the heart, refreshed it in its entrance, and returning, carried off the thick hot vapors exhaling from it, and served at the same time, to form the voice; the air being necessarily obliged to enter into the lungs as they rise, for fear of a void, which is a thing nature abhors. Aristotle confounded the veins, arteries, and nerves ; and neither Plato, nor himself, called any part an artery, except the asperia arteria. Tendons, and nerves, or ligaments, are likewise indistinctly mentioned. As to the various conjectures of the philosophers concerning the senses, as seeing, hearing, tasting, smelling, and feeling, we shall pass them over, only remarking, that they are all erroneous, and in general different from each other. Soon after Aristotle, appeared Herophilus, and Erasistratus, who lived in the times of Ptolomy Sotor, and Ptolomy Lag'us. These are said, to be the first who dissected human bodies, in order to contemplate the parts, and their uses, It is reported, that these two physicians dissected men alive. The principal parts of their anatomy is to be found in the works of Galen. And it is imagined, they were the first who dissected and distinguished the nerves, of which, he said, there were three sorts. Nerves that are the immediate organs of sensation, and ministers of the will, arising from the brain in branches, and were a part of the medulla spinalis. The second proceeded from some of the bones, and terminated at others of them. The third, arose from some of the muscles, and terminated at others of them. By this it appears, that Herophilus gave the name of nerves to those parts, which were afterwards called ligaments, and tendons. He gave the name of optic pores, to the nerves of the eye. He imagined the reasonable soul was lodged in the ventricles of the brain. But one of his principal discoveries, w'as, his finding certain veins in the mesentery, which according to him, were destined to nourish the intestines, which do not, like the other veins, go to the venae portae, but terminate in certain glandular bodies. Erasistratus likewise discovered something of the same nature, which are now called the lacteal vessels. And as he learnt anatomy, not by reading books, he invented new names, giving names to parts that before had none. He called the first intestine, or that which is next the stomach, AuJtxaJaxToXoy, because it is twelve inches in length. It was Herophilus who first called two tunics of the eye, the tunica retina; and the tunica arachnoides; he also called that membrane that lines the ventricles of the brain, the membrane choroides, because he sdw it resembled the chorion, which covers the foetus in the matrix. He gave the name of glandulae parastatae, to those glands which are situated at the root of the penis. He stiled these parastata; glandulous, to distinguish them from other parastatie, which he called varicose, and which he placed at the extremity of those vessels, which convey the semen from the testes ; or rather as it is thought to prepare jf. Tiui (s) De partib. animal, lib. 3. (uj Histor. animal, lib. 3. cap. 7. (y) Dc part. auim. lib. 3. oap. 7. (t) De part. anim. lib. 2. cap. 7. Dc sommo. and vigilia. cap. 5. {x) Dc partib. animal, lib. 2. cap. 7. (a) Dc gcaer, anim. lib. 1, 1 cap. 10. | (a) Celsus proof.Ixxxv • HISTORY OF MEDICINE. The authority of Herophilus was so great in anatomy, that almost all the names he assigned to the different parts are still preserved. The principal discoveries of Erasistratus, was his finding out certain white vessels in the mesentery of sucking kids, which, he believed to be arteries, (b) He added, that these vessels seemed at first to be full of air, and afterwards chyle. Erasistratus, and Herophilus, were the first who knew the true and genuine use of the brain, and nerves ; or, at least, the OSes ascribed to them by all succeeding anatomists. (c) We examined, says Erasistratus, what the nature of the human brain vvas, and we found it divided into two parts, as it is in all other animals. It had a ventricle, or cavity, of a longitudinal form. These ventricles had a communication with one another, and terminated in a common opening, according to the con- tiguity of their parts, reaching afterwards to the cerebellum, where there was also a small cavity ; but each part was separated from the other, and shut up in its proper membranes ; and the cerebellum, in particular, was wrapped up by itself, as well as the brain; which by its various windings, and turnings, resembled the intestinuin jejunum. The cerebellum was, in like manner, folded and twisted different ways, so that it was easy to know, by seeing it, that, as in the legs of swdft running ani- mals, such as the hart, hare, and some others, we observe tendons and muscles, well calculated for that purpose ; so in man, who has a larger share of understanding than other animals, this great variety and multiplicity of foldings in the human brain, was undoubtedly designed for some particular end. Besides, we observed, continues Erasistratus, all the apophyses, or productions of the nerves, which come from the brain ; so that, to say all at once, the brain is visibly the principle of every V thing that passes in the body; for the sense of smelling proceeds from the nostrils, being pierced, in order to have a com- munication with the nerves. The sense of hearing is also produced by the like communication of the nerves with the ears, j The tongue, and the eyes receive also the productions of the nerves of the brain. Here we see, by the confession of Erasistratus himself, that he had dissected men. (d) He had also very accurately de- scribed in Galen’s opinion, the membranes that are formed at the orifices of the heart; and he maintained with Aristotle, that I the veins and arteries drew their origin from it. There are, says he, certain membranes inserted in the orifLces of the vessels of the heart, of which the heart makes use, either for the reception, or expulsion of such substances as either enter into it, or come out of it. Some, adds Galen, have been so rash as to deny that there were such membranes, and have considered them , as fictions of Erasistratus, or a kind of hypothesis invented to support his ow n system. But these membranes are so well known by anatomists, that none but novices in the art, are ignorant of them. There are, continues Galen, three of these membranes at the vena cava, which resemble the points of arrows; whence some of the dis- ciples of Erasistratus, have callen them Tfty^uxmr, tricuspides. There are also at the orifice of the arteria venosa, for so I call the artery which, rising from the left ventricle, dispensed itself in the lungs, membranes of a like form, but of difierent names, for that orifice has only two membranes. The other two orifices, 1 mean that of the vena arteriosa, and that of the arteria magna, have also each of them three membranes, resembling the sigma of the Greeks, which resembled our C. Here Galen, ceasing himself to speak, again introduces Erasistratus, saying, that these two last orifices are equally disposed to convey any thing from the heart; that through the former the blood flows to the lungs, and through the latter the spirits, in order to be distributed through the whole body, ('ej Thua it happens, continues Erasistratus, that these membranes, al- ternately perform opposite offices to the heart. Those that are adherent to the vessels by which substances are carried into the heart, bend inw;ards, that they may yield to the.iippetuosity of such things as are carried towards them, and lying in the very cavities of the heart, may open its entry for the introduction of such substances as are attracted to it. For we have no reason lo imagine, that such substances enter the heart of their own accord, as if it were an inanimate receptacle ; but the heart, by its diastole or dilitation, draws them to it, as the,blacksmith’s bellows does the_air; and in this manner the heart is filled. The membranes of those vessels, on the other hand,, which serves to convey things from the heart, are quite differently disposed and situated ; so that, yielding easily to the substances coming from the heart, they open their orifices, and allow nothing to return which is once forced out, just as the membranes of the vessels, that serve to introduce things into the heart, shut the orifices of these vessels, upon the heart, contracting itself, and allow nothing to be carried out, which is once thrown in. •i He (k)'Gal«n aniuuigiu&gitnatosainaeteriis, cap..^ it.adroiniatrat. anat. lib. 7, cap. ult. (<1) DeHippperat. et Platon. Decret. lib. 1. cap.^lO. aadlfo. b. cap. .VI. (eji Hete some part of the text seems to be wauting. G.alemIxxxvi HISTORY OF MEDICINE. He aflirmed, as did Pfaxagoras before'liim, that in a natural state, the arteries contained no blood; and, that they, as well as the left ventricle of the heart, were only filled with air. It was easy to give him the testimony of his own eyes for' this error; but he had recourse to this subterfuge, Assoop, said he, as vve open the left ventricle of the heart, that air, or spirit, is evaporated before we can observe it; and the ventricle is instantly filled with blood; and he asserted the same of the arteries, (g) Galen says, that Erasistratus maintained, that the great vein was the reservoir of the blood; and the great artery that of the spirits, (k) He added, that after these reservoirs had divided themselves into many branches, they became smaller, and tJieir number greater; and that, as tliere is no place in all the body, where any of these branches terminate, that has not a smaller branch, which receives what was brought to it by the larger ; so it happens, that before these vessels arrive at the surface of the body, they divide themselves into branches, so small and minute, that the blood they contain cannot pass through them ; so that, adds our author, though the mouths of the arteries, and veins, be very near each other, yet the blood keeps itself within its proper bounds, without entering the vessels in which the spirits flow ; and in this case, the animal re- mains in its natural snate. But, when any violent cause happens, to disturb this (economy, the blood forces itself into the arteries, and proves the source of disorders. Among the causes now mentioned, too great a quantity of blood is the princi- pal ; for, in that case, the coats of veins are dilated more than ordinarily, and their extremities, which were formerly shut up, are ojrened ; whence follows a transfusion of blood, from the veins into the arteries ; and this blood, by its irruption, opposing the course and motion of the spirits, which come from the heart. If this opposition be direct, and immediate, or if the blood stops in a principal part, this causes a fever; but if the spirit should happen to drive it backwards, so that it does not pass tlie extremity of the artery, in that case, an inflammation of the part is only produced. As to the inflammation and fever, which happen in wounds, they are also occasioned by the sudden evacuation of spirits, which is the consequence of cutting the artery, and forces the blood continually into the place of the spirits, least there should be a vacuum. Erasistratus used this comparison to support his system. As the sea, says he, which remains in a calm, when she is not ruffled by winds, swells in an extraordinary manner, and overflows its shores, when the wind blows hard; so the blood moving in the body, departs from its ordinary canals, and enters into the reservoirs of the spirits, where it afterwards becomes warm, and puts all the body, as it were, on a fire. With regard to respiration, he maintained, that it was only useful to animals, by filling their arteries with air; which is the consequence of his former hypothesis ; and he imagined it was performed in this manner. When the thorax, or breast, dilates itself, the lungs are also dilated, and filled with air. (i) This air passes to the very extremities of the asperia arteria; and from them, to those of the smooth arteries of the lungs, from which the heart draws it, when it dilates itself, to carry it af- terwards through all the parts of the body, by means of the great artery. When it was objected to him, that the heart moved, in its ordinary manner, when a person retains his breath, he answered, that, upon that occasion, the heart drew air from the great artery. To this it was replied, that the membranes which adhere to the orifice of this artery, will not so much as allow, it to return from it to the heart. But he thought to extricate himself, by saying, that though this was the case in a natural state, yet it did not follow, that it must be so during the time a person retains his breath, which is a state of violence, and con- sequently cannot last very long. Erasistratus also entertained a very singular opinion, with regard to the manner in which thp aliments are prepared in the stomach. He thought, that the stomach contracts itself, that it may more closely embrace the food, and break its texture; that trituration corresponding, according to him, to the concoction of which Hippocrates speaks. And with regard to the chyle, that is the juice of the aliments, extracted in the stomach, he maintained, that passing from the stomach to the liver, it arrived at a certain place, (k) where the branches of the vena cava, and the extremities of the vessels, which are connected with the reservoirs of the bile, equally terminate ; so that the parts of the bile insinuate themselves into the orifices of these two kinds of vessels, according as these orifices are disposed to receive them; that is, every thing of a bilious quality in the ' chyle, (f) Galen, an sanguis sit natnra in arteries. (g) Ibid. & Platon. Deut. lib: 1. cap. VI. & de venesut. adv. Erasistiat. cap. HE (h) De venesect, advers. Erasistrac. (ij Galen.de usie re.spirat. cap. 1. {k) Galen, de facult. natur. lib, 11, cap. IX,i.KXxvii HISTORY OF MEDICINE. (m) See Aulus gellius, Plutarch and Macfobiusj at) Dc usa part lib. IV. cap. 13. ("h) Wars of Syria, voi. II. I chyle, passes into the canals connected with the reservoir of the bile, and the pure blood passes into the vena cava, and tak- ing another course, is separated from the bile. (1) Galen makes Erasistratus say, that the veins are divided in the liver, for the separation of the bile. Erasistratus owned, that the urine was separated in the kidneys ; but he did not acknowledge, with Hippocrates, that it was done by attraction ; for he entirely rejected this sort of attraction, though he, in no place, explains himself with regard to the manner in which the separation is made. Some of his first followers believed, as Galen informs us, that the parts above the I kidneys received only pure blood ; that what is aqueous, or charged with serosities, tends downward by its owm weight ; and that after this blood is separated from the aqueous, and useless part, it is carried to the parts above the kidneys to nourish I them. It is necessary to observe, that Erasistratus rectified Plato, on the use of the arteria trachea, through which Plato imagined ' the drink was carried, in order to water the lungs. This opinion was common to Plato, with Philistion, and Hippocrates, and the most eminent physicians of that age. (m) \ Herophilus, and Erasistratus, were the only persons, who among their cotemporaries, had the advantage* of being allowed j to dissect a competent number of the bodies of condemned criminals, by the special concessions of two kings; both of them ' courageous and learned; both of them formed to magnanimity under their master, Alexander the Great, and who, after his decease, became the founders of two flourishing kingdoms; the one, Ptolemy, of Egypt, who kept near him Herophilus ; the other Seleucus, of Syria, who wdth a most ample salary*, as Appian informs us, retained, to his immortal honour, Erasistratus I at his court. (nj OBSERVATIONS. THE protection of princes is absolutely necessary for the improvement and cultivation of science. Alexander the Great, for his liberal attention to the erudite Aristotle, and favours to the arts; and the Ptolemies for their solicitude in encouraging learning, have immortalised themselves. Whoever royalty favours, the magnates imitate, in all courts, and an attention to science becomes the order of the day. Those are the wisest princes who promote the cause of literature ; those the weakest, who suffer learning and learned men to : perish. Where the arts flourish, a government is likely to obtain permanency ; but where ingenious men and literature, are neg- lected, it may rouse a dangerous spirit, subversive of empire. The same arts, which render a reign glorious, may, under op- I pression, create dissatisfaction, tumult, and rebellion; it therefore becomes an indispensiblc duty in princes and nobles, to shower their favours on the really ingenious, who are better enabled to promote royal interest, than the servile flattering sycophants, who often receive approbation, when they deserve punishment. Alexander said, by means of my parents I came into the world, but Aristotle has made me a man. The intellectuals of the great Stagyrite, however defective in human anatomy, was a prodigy in science and critical learning ; his poetics, logics, and other works, demonstrate sublimity of genius, and industry unparalled. ON MSCLIPIADES, AND OTHER EMINENT PHYSICIANS. LET us now take a view of the practice of medicine amongst the Romans; for these people, from an inconsiderable origin, I became the greatest nation on earth. Their increase of wealth, power, and territory, was gradual, and for several ages from I the building of Rome, they were continually engaged in war. Effeminency and luxury had not prevailed; the art of medicine I was found unnecessary, and there were few or no physicians amongst them. But as they extended their territory, wealth I flowing from all quarters, luxury, extravagance, and supineness, succeeded their natural frugality, simple diet, and athletic i • exercises. I'HISTORY OF MEDICINE Ixxxviii exercises. As the sciences were cultivated, the manners of the whole people changed; diseases were common, and, of course, physicians received encouragement. It is said, that Arcagalhus, the son of Lysanias, the Pelloponessian, was the first physician who arrived at Rome, under the consulship of Marcus Aurelius, and Marcus Livius, in the year of the city 535. (o) It is said, he had the freedom of the city bestowed on him; and that the public had, at their own expence, purchased a shop for him, in the street Aceilius, that he might exercise his profession with greater advantage. At first they gave him the surname of Vulnerarius, or the healer of wounds; and his arrival was very agreeable to the people: but that soon after, his practice of burning and cutting, appearing cruel, they exchanged his former surname, for that more infamous one of executioner; from which time they conceived an implacable aversion to. physic, and all its professors. To this authority of Pliny, has been opposed that of Dionysius, of Halicarnassus, who, in his tenth book, says, the plague beginning to appear in Rome, in the year of the city 301, and happening to rage more violently than any other plague with which they had been afflicted in the memory of man, it carried off almost all the slaves, and half the citizens, the physicians not being able to attend, and take care of such a large number of patients. According to this, it has been imagined, that, contrary to w'hat Pliny had advanced, there were physicians two hundred years before the period mentioned by Pliny. To reconcile these two authors, it is supposed that Pliny here means Greek, or foreign physicians. But he says, afterward, in order to be convinced of the aversion the Romans, in those days, had to physic, we need only hear the sentiments of Marcus Cato upon that point, who lived seventy years after Arcagathus, and who was a man, as we may say, who had the honour of a triumph decreed in his favour, and the dignity of the censorship; which ofliice he bore, and are the least striking parts of his character, since so many other circumstances concurred in his person, to render him venerable and awful. The fol- lowing are his words, taken from a letter to his son. I will tell you, my son Marcus, at a proper opportunity, what notion I entertain of these Greeks, and what I think most valuable in Athens. It is not improper to study their learning and sciences cursorily, but it is by no means necessary to make ones self a complcat master of them. I shall say no more at present of that wicked, arrogant race; but persuade yourself of this, as much as if an oracle had spoken it, that as soon as this nation has communicated her learning to us, she will spoil and corrupt Rome; and this dire event will be more easily effected, if she continue to send her physicians to us. They luave sworn among themselves, to kill all the barbarians, by means of their art, and still they exact a fee for their pains, from the patients to whom they are called, that they may gain their confidence more effectually, and consequently have it in their power to destroy them, with less danger of suspicion. Thej’ have such a degree of insolence, as to call, not only other nations, but us, barbarians; nay, they carry their arrogance farther, and stile us o'w^koI, rude, and strangers to politeness. In a word, my son, remember that I have discharged you fr<>m having any thing to do with physicians. It is plain, from the language of Cato, that in his restriction, he only, meant foreign physicians. And Pliny says, must we then believe that Cato condemned a thing so useful and beneficial as physic? Assuredly not; since he himself vouchsafes to inform us, by the use of what medicines he and his wife had arrived at such an advanced age; and that he had written a book, in which he lays down the method of his practice, with regard to his son, his slaves, and even his cattle, when they were indisposed. The Romans, then, were not without some practitioners in medicine; but, in all probability, before the arrival of Arca- gathus, they only used that natural physic, which we may suppose to be practised by the infant world. Cato must have had faith in some superstitions, as will appear by the following curious.formula, of words to be .pronounced for the cure of a dislocation; but because there is no possibility of translating it, we shall deliver them in the manner of the author. Luxam si quod est, hac cautione sanum Jict. Harundinem prende tibi l irUlem, p. 4. out. 5 longam. Mediant difftnde, et duo homines teneant ad Coccendices. Incipe Cantare in alio. S. F, Motas vccta Darics Dardaries, Astataries Dissnnapitur, usque dum coeant. Ferrum insaper jaetato. Ubi coierint, altera alteram tetigerit ; id manu prende, <§• dextra sinistra prcecide. Ad luxum aut Fracturam alliga, sanum Jiet, ^ tamen quotidie cantata in alio, S. F. vel Luxato, vel hoc modo, huat, hamat, huaf, ista,^ (o) Pliny, Ub, 29. cap. 1.HISTORY OF MEDICINE. Ixxxix J>Utn,sisia,domiabo,damnaustra, 8f luxato. Vel kao modo, haul, hast, haul, ista, sis tar sis ardatmalon diamaustra. Catode re rustic. Cap. l60. Pliny also informs us, that Cato, in his practice, made a great deal of use of cabbage, in which, he observes, the whole materia mcdica of the Romans chiefly consisted, for six hundred years. Cicero informs us, that poetry was not introduced among the Romans till very late; (p) and, that even philosophy, had been in threat disrepute till his days. Suetonius also affirms, that grammar was not at all in use among the first Romans, much less was it esteemed and valued (q) because the people of those days were as yet savage and unpolitc, and so ; thoroughly addicted to the business of war, that none applied themselves very much to the liberal arts. Tlrrj next considerable physician to be mentioned is Asclepiades, who flourished at Rome, and was cotemporary with. Mithridates, king of Pontus. The ancient writers, in whom the mention of him is to be found, so far as is come to our j knowledge, are, in number, twenty-seven, eleven of whom were Greeks, and sixteen Latins. Of the eleven Greek writers, there are five physicians, Cassius, Erotianus, Galen, Oribasius,/Etius; three philosophers, Plutarch, Sextus, and^Stobaus; two geographers, Strabo and Stephanus; and one divine, Eusebius. Of the sixteen Latin, there were five physicians, Census, I Seribonius, Celius Aurelianus, Marcellus, Theodorus; three philosophers, Cicero, Seneca, Chalcidius; si.x miscellaneous, ' Pliny, Apuleius, Censorious, Macrobius, Martian, and Cassiodorus; two divines, the supposed Clement, and Tertullian. In some of the testimonials of the above-mentioned writers, there are moreover to be found quotations concerning him from 1 ten other writers, nine Greek, and one Latin, whose works, at least thpse that speak of him, are lost. Five of them were j physicians, AthenjEus Attalensis, founder of the order of the spiritualist, or the pneumatic sect, who would all diseases arise, from a spirit suffering, but what this spirit is, or meant, no one hath yet discovered. Menodotus Empiricus, Aulrodorus,^ Moscliion, and Soranus ; two were philosophers, Antiochus, preceptor to Cicero, and Athenodorus, to Augustus ; two his- I torians, Varro, and Herennius Philo; and one divine, Dionisius, bishop of Alexandria. Of the aforesaid twenty-seven writers, actually now extant, there are only four, who have written any thing at large con- cerning him. Celsus, who was a great admirer of Asclepiades; he often quotes him with- approbation; and, if sometimes he may not j agree with him in opinion, he gives the reason of his dissent with the most decent respect. I The next author who writes much of Asclepiades,is Pliny, who for his entertainment compiled a great book of natural his- tory, containing a prodigious medly of natural, moral, and historical particulars, extiacted, according to his own account, from above two thousand books, the originals of which are almost all lost; a circumstance that renders him the more valua- i ble to us. But many allegations of Pliny, or as they appear in his book, being examined by men of letters and judgment,, arc not to be found very exact, so that he isnot to be quoted or resorted to without great caution. It is particularly observable in him, that he meddled much with physic, which he had never practised, or could have any grounds in it, since he himself declares that the medical art was the one of the Greeks arts that had not yet been exercised by the Roman gravity, (r) lie then pretends to discover the mysteries of it, by producing some recipes froiii the Greek I books; and by this means aims at rendering the professors of that nation useless;. against whom he seizes every occasion, to I manifest a very illiberal envy, and a desire of lessening, as much as possible,, their authority. This is what he has particularly attempted, as to Asclepiades, who was dead many years before ; unless, indeed, it may be believed, that what be says, being ' rarely original, (sj he may have copied some writer cotemporary to that great man ; and what is not uncommon, an envious and malignant detractor from his merit. VVe are, however, obliged to Pliny for many particulars, which, without him, might probably have remained unknown. The third author who makes mention of Asclepiades, and that for the most part with disapprobation, is Caslius Aurelianus, ef the town of Sicca, in Africa, of whom we have a treatise of physic, in a rough and barbarous Latin; in which he professes hiipself little more than a translator of Soranus, who flourished in the beginning of the second century. Fie is, however, estimable for his quotation of authors, whose works are lost; as to what appears of his own stock, it is not of much value. To judge by his stiie, he would appear to be of the flfth century, but by certain sentences and quotations,, most people are in- aa dined (p) Tasculunar. quaest. lib. 1. (|) De illust. Graramaticis. (r) Lib. XXIX. cap. 1- (») What Pliny has written concerning Asclepiades, may have been copied Ccom some malignant detractor.xc HISTORY OF MEDICINE. dined to ronsiJer more ancient. The fourth is Galen, who lived towards the end of the second century, whose character is well known, as well as the liberty he unfortunately allowed himself, of often wrongfully criticising all the most illustrious phy- sicians, since the time of Hippocrates; so that his greatest merit consists in the fragments of the ancients, whom lie quotes, for the most part, in order to refute them. This honour he frequently does to Asclepiades, whom, in other respects, he allows to have been most ingenious, most learned, and eloquent, to the highest degree; but an adversary to his peripatetic system of theory. Besides these testimonials of authors, and of common fame, there is still remaining a beautiful antique busto, intire, and exhibited to the public view; (t) in that magnificent collection in the museum of the capital of Rome, bare headed, his hair short, without a beard, and with a cloak, or pallium, such as th.e Greek sages wore, and with Greek letters on the face of the square antique basis, expressing his name. This busto was discovered in the beginning of this century, under ground, within the walls of Rome, near the Porta Capena, where, not improbably, it might have anciently served for a decoration of some portico, some library, some school, or public building, in that principle quarter of the city. From the authority of these documents only, it remains for us to trace out the conduct and opinions of this celebrated phy- sician, by collecting together the scattered accounts, and by deducing from thence the most probable conjectures. We must, in the first place, ascertain, with all the exactness in our power, the time in which he flourished. The ancient writers, who, generally speaking, were much less accurate in their chronological disquisitions than we are, furnish us only such imperfect lights, as rather fix our doubts, than remove them, (u) Pliny says, he lived in the time of Pompey, which may be seen repeated by almost all the moderns who have mentioned him. But the authority of Cicero, rather induces us to believe that Asclepiades was somewhat more ancient, and that he belonged to tire times preceding those of Pompey; because in his dialogue on the orator, he makes Lucius Crassus speak of him as one already dead, (x) Now this dialogue, though it was written by Cicero, when he was fifty-two years of age, that is, in the six hundredth and twenty-eighth year of the foundation of Rome, was* feigned to have been spoken in the consulship of Phillipus, that is, in the six hundredth and thirty-third year, when Cicero was about thirteen years of age, so that he not being present at it, he makes it recited to him afterwards by Cotta, who was one of the interlocutors in it; and who died in the six hundredth and eightieth year of the foundation of Rome. In this dialogue then, Cicero does not appear to speak in his own proper person. He puts what he had to say in the mouth of Lucius Licinius Crassus, at whose country scat he lays the scene of the conversation. As to this Crassus, who was a senator celebrated for his great eloquence, as well as his political knowledge, and who was at that time forty years old, and died a few months after, Cicero makes him say many things alluding to the circumstances of the times; and among other men of merit, he makes him mention Asclepiades, as having been his physician and friend, as well as other worthy and noble personages of the dialogue, among whom was Quintus Mutius Scevola, who must, at that time, have been far advanced in years, and was a most celebrated civilian ; and Marcus Antonius, a great orator, who died four years after, and was grandfather to the famous Mark Anthony the triumvir. So that it is not credible, that if Asclepiades had been then alive, or had lived any- time after, Cicero would have committed so superfluous an anachronism, he, who was not used to take such liberties as Plato often did in his dialogues; as if in his disregard for chronological exactness, he had meant them the more to resemble dra- matic compositions. While Cicero, on the other hand, on more occasions than one, declares himself a scrupulous observer of the laws of proba- bility and propriety, to which he also kept up in the other parts of the same dialogue: so that, to those personages of the dialogue, and not to Cicero himself, should w-e attribute the personal knowledge, or acquaintance of Asclepiades. Cicero must have been too young, and yet almost all the moderns, who have mentioned Asclepiades, have failed of making this due distinction. And as Pompey was by some months younger than Cicero, the expression of Pliny placing Asclepiades in the time of Pompey, cannot be otherwise solved than by understanding it, of the first fifteen years of his life. But this not appearing to be the natural sense of that phrase, it may be more reasonably suspected, that this is one of the usual (f) Blass. Caryopliil, diss, miscell. Rom. I^IC. p. 331, and lo. Bottarimus. Capitolin. tom. 1. lav, 3. Rom. 1741 and 1750. Lib. XXVLcap. 8. fi) Do oratoxe. I. 02.xci HISTORY OF MEDICINE. usual chronological inaccuracies of Pliny; and that perhaps, he supposed Asclepiades to have lived in the time of Pompey, because he had seen some of his medical writings or consultations, sent to Mithridates, whose total overthrow and extinction, had been the most renowned exploit or atchievemeiit of that magnanimous Roman. Even those very writings of Asclepiades, addressed to Mithridates, and those invitations to him from that king, by means of his ambassadors, at Rome, which he would not accept, as Pliny himself intimates, furnish another reason to conclude, that, that physician must have been sufficiently advanced in reputation, (y) and well established in Rome, and even famous over the whole world, many years before Pom- pey’^ time; since it is not likely that there should have been that intercourse through his ambassadors, unless before the alie- nation of Mithridates, from his friendship with Rome, and before he had declared himself their open and atrocious enemy, which, according to history, must have been about the year of Rome, 660. ‘ But leaving every learned reader to his own opinion on this subject, we will speak of the author himself and his particular doctrines. With regard to his philosophical notions we may see that they were different from those of Epicurus and Democritus; (t) though all these acknowledged atoms: for the atoms of Asclepiades were divisible ; whereas those of Democritus and Epi- cuius were supposed incapable of being divided. But Galen says, that Asclepiades adhering to the sentiments of Demo- critus and Epicurus, with legard to the principles of bodies, (a) had only changed the former names of things, calling atoms molecules, and a vacuum pores. And in another part, he says, (b) whether the bodies of animals are composed of molecules and pores as Asclepiades believed, or of small indissoluble particles, as Epicurus imagined, &cc. Asclepiades is said to have written a book on aliments, another on respiration on the pulse ; (c) and it has been supposed : that he wrote on the nature of the soul, and on various diseases; but only fragments of this author have reached our time. : Asclepiades gained his great reputation from the mildness of his practice : for he enveighed strongly against vomits, and all cruel practices ; such as thrusting a steel instrument down the throat to clear the passage in the angina, (d) Purging he I was likewise averse to, and remonstrated vehemently against it. Till the days of Asclepiades antiquity stood it well out. In i vain did Hcrophilus advance his refined speculations ; neither he, nor any of the like character were followed universally, and considerable remains of ancient physic supported themselves with all the authority they had ever acquired. But the second , ^sculapius, having reduced all the learning of a physician to the knowledge, or investigation of the causes of diseases; physic, which was at first an art founded on experience, became conjectural and entirely changed its appearance, • Pliny says, his mild gentle methods were the cause of his obtaining a strong party in his favour. I'he chief methods were, abstinence from food, from wine on certain occasions, frictions, walking, and gestation. As people perceived they could easily submit themselves to these, they judged the physic of Asclepiades so much the better for being easily practised. Pliny likewise insinuates that he had some artful stratagems peculiar to himself; such as promising the people wine, and actually giving it on many occasions; and likewise allowing them to drink cold water to refresh themselves. But whatever was the fate of his writings and doctrines, it is plain that great praise has been given him by the greatest part of those who'have mentioned him. No one denies him the honour of being one of the few principal institutors of the medical part. And on that supposition, and in that light, he is spoken of even by those who shew themselves the least favourable, such as Aurelianus and Galen. But some more distinctly and expressly, as Apuleius, (e) for example, have called him the prince, or head of all other physicians, Hippocrates excepted; and by Antiochus, the philosopher, be was said to be second to no one in physic, (f) and deep skilled in philosophy. By Celsushe was held to be agreat author, (g) and proper to be followed in many things, (h) By Scribonius, he was reckoned an excellent author ; (i) hy Marcellus, a most able physician, and memorable for his doc- trines; (k) by Strabo extremely learned, by Cassiodorus ; (1) eloquent by Cicero; (m) sagacious aud wonderfully persuasive by Pliny; (n) and an exact, polite, and powerful reasoner. by Galen, (o) From (y) Pliny, lib. VII. cap. S7. (s) Celius Aurelian Acutor. lib. I. c. 14. (b) De Hippocrat. and Platon, decret. lib. V. cap. 3. (c) Galen de Element, lib. II. vol. I. p. 56. v.36,35. (O Florid, p. 162. (f) Sext. Empiric, lib. VII. p. 112. (g) Lib. IV. cap. 4. Defaucium exul. ceratione. (ft) Epist. 3. l(fe; Lib. XII. p. 566. (i) Vol. II. p. 509, I (n) Lib. XXVI. cap. 3. Sect. VII. (o) Vol. I. p. 335.11. p. 458. v. p. 345. &e. (a) De Thetiac. ad Pison. cap. 11. (d) Pliny, lib. XXVI. cap. 3. (i) Cap. IV. (m) De orat. I. 62. •> 1HISTORY OF MEDICINE, xcU (*) XII. 980. (aj IV. 315. S. Edit. aid. From the extinction of the ancient literature, which happened about the sixth and seventh century, of the Maistian rera,, when the greatest part of the Greek and Latin books were lost; it was until the sixteenth century that the fame of Asclepi- ades lay dormant, in the obscurity of silence. Asclepiades treated of the faculties which are called natural; that is to say, of nutrition, and generation. In another work, divided into several volumes, which he called preparatory, he wrote also considerations upon the doctrine of Erasistratus, which were then most currently received. From these books, of which there are to be found many small fragments in Aurelian and Galen ; it may seem that Asclepi- ades had amply explained all that contributes to compose the institutes of physic, and that he renders the first, and what is called the scientific part, complete. But he moreover, in those works, laid the foundations of the second part, or branch, more profound, more abstruse, and more inieresting ; which consists in the knowing intimately the nature and essence of dis- eases. Upon this subject he was more extensive, having w ritten a Look of definitions, a commentary upon some of the short, and obscure works of Hippocrates; a treatise on periodical fevers, and three on febrile disorders, either inflammatory, or quick, commonly called acute. He wrote some books, also mentioned by Aurelian, upon the plague, comprehending under that name, not only dangerous and mortal distempers, but slighter ones produced by some extraordinary occasion, but com- mon to the inhabitants of any particular place, (p) He treated besides of some slow, or chronical disorders, such as the gout, and the dropsy. He also wrote upon hemorrhages, and on the alopecia, that disorder in which the hair comes off, through the universally bad state of the hu- mours, Galen quotes a long and valuable fragment from him upon this distemper. It is to be observed that Plutarch, on the authority of the philosopher Athenodorus, assures us that it was in the time of Asclepiades that the hydrophobia, and the elephantiasis, made their first appearance in the world. There is also to be found in Cassius, and Galen, the quotation of a book of his upon ulcers, which perhaps was a commentary upon the one of Hippocrates under that title. Pliny, (q) Sextus, (r) Aurelian, (s) and Apuleius, (t) seem to have agreed in referring to a famous treatise on the method of giving wine in distempers ; and Aurelian quotes one upon clysters, from which, some have imagined that Celsus has taken his sentiments, which are now esteemed as the most rational practice. He likewise wrote on the means of preserving health, and of prolonging life ; upon which there is mentioned by Celsus, (u) and Aurelian, (x) a. celebrated work of his, addressed to Geminius, in which be condemned the purgative and emetic me- dicines; and the too complex, and artificial exercises of the gymnastic schools, maintaining that the best remedy for pleni- tude, or a plethora, was abstinence ; while he commended a discreet freedom, and variety in life. Hence it is, that we have reason to imagine, Celsus took his most judicious and excellent first chapter on physic ; and Plutarch, in his discourse against drugs, which abounds in salutary precepts. Upon this subject, it is probable, that those books were written, which he sent to JMithridates, and w hich Pliny mentions to have been in current reading in his time, (y) It is said by Galen that he introduced into physic, the opinion that the human body suffers a continual alteration, by the particles that perspire from it; so that it can never he pronounced absolutely the same two instants together. This philoso- phical idea of the perpetual immutation of the human body, has given rise to several curious arguments among the civilians. The disciples and followers of Asclepiades, must probably, have been many, since the most celebrated physicians, who flourished for three or four generations after, are said to have been of his school. Thus, Alexander Philalethes, who, as Strabo says, was, in his time, at the head of the Hcrophileans Asia, (z) and is quoted by Galen and Aurelian, as an author in high esteem ; (a) we find by Tkoodorus, Priscian to have been a disciple of Ascle- piades. Philonides, a physician of Durazzo, quoted by Scribonius, by Dioscorides and Galen, we find commended by Herenniub Philo, and Stephanus, as an author of forty five books, and as a scholar of Asclepiades, much esteemed in tliat cityv (p) .\uietoT. XI. cap. 39. p. 136. numb. 231. {q) Lib. XIV. cap. sect. 9. andXXlII. cap sect. 22. (t) VII. p. 308. adv. logicos. No. 91. (s) 3 Acutorum. lib. 1. cap i5. p. 58. etlib. 11. c. 29. p. 144. (♦) 4 Florida, p. 362. v. 13. (u) I. c. 3. sect, de his. quae exten. corp. p. 24. (i) Acutorum. 1. c. 15. p, 44. et Chronic. II. cap. 8. p> 386, (y) Lib. XXV. cap. 11. sect. HI. p. 375,HISTORY OF MEDICINE. Jfciii city, which was then very populous and free, bordering near upon Italy, where Cicero passed the greatest part of the time of his short exile, being kindly received there. The same Philo mentions, in tha^ame place, iwo other scholars of Asclepiades, of whom one was Titus Aufidius, who is also quoted as such by Aurelian ; and the other, more illustrious, was Nicon, the Agrcgcntine, quoted by Celsus, and praised by Cicero, in one of his letters to Trebatius, for the gentleness of his medical method, of whom he mentions, with pleasure, to have read a book of his own veracity, which he had but just before seen, (b) In that same letter of Cicero, there is also mention made of Bessus, as a friend and physician to himself, as well as Tre- batius. Now it should seem, that this was Tullius Bassus, who, Diascorides says, was of tlic school of Asclepiades, and had wrote upon plants, (c) Pliny intimates, that he wrote in Greek, {d) and Aurelian quotes a book of his on the hydrophobia, and calls him withal a friend of Niger, (e) , But that disciple of Asclepiades, who obtained the greatest celebrity, was Themison, of Laodicea, in Syria, of whom we have accounts in Celsus, Seneca, Aurelian, and Galen. They say, that after the death of his preceptor, he changed his system, and instituted a new sect, abandoned the research of the more abstruse, or hidden causes ; and confining himself to observe, in the evident circumstances of distempers, the peculiarities common to many ; so that he reduced them to certain few and summary kinds, giving to this his manner of examining, and noting the manifest, and essential resemblances, the name of method; from whence those who followed him were called methodists. And siich was the credit and facility of his doctrine, (f) that, as Seneca observes, he became the third archimandrite, or head of a physical sect, after Hippocrates, and Asclepiades, inheriting the great reputation of his master, in Rome, where he probably might live to sec the beginning of the new government of it, under the Cajsars. And certain it is, that Augustus had, very early, for his physician, another follower of Asclepiades. This was Marcus Artorius, who had tilso tlie surname of Asclepiades. Galen mentions among the Asclepiades, Gallus, hletrodorus, Moschion, and some others, and, in general, says, that in his time, the sect still remained in some degree of reputation, (g) The first persons that became eminent after Hippocrates and his sons, arc, Diodes, Carystius, then Praxagoras, and Chrysippus, mentioned by Celsus. After the time of these, there follows another epoch, and we must return to Egypt, where the study of medicine was then in the greatest pursuit, particularly at Alexandria; so that it was sufficient to establish the reputation of a physician, to have studied at Alexandria. It was in this place, that Herophilus, and Erasistrhtus, most celebrated men, professed medicine and anatomy. Celsus, tells us the following anecdote of them. “ Etiam nocaites homines a regibus^ex carcere acceptus vivos in~ *• cideriiit, cottsiderarinique, etiamniivi spiritu remanente, ea, qua natura ante claudsset, eoramquc posituram, colurem^ Jiguram, “ magnitvdinem, ordinem, duritiem, mollitiemy lavorem, contactum ; processus dcinde singulorum ct r ecessus, she quid inseritur “ alteri, she quid partem alterius se recipit.'’ Praefat VII. And Tcrtullian seems to have believed it, when he says, Lb.de anima, cap. X. “ Herophilus ille medicus an lanius, qui Sexcentos exsccuit, ut naturam Scrutaretur ; qui hominem odit, utnossety “ nescio an omnia interna ejus liquido explorarit, ipsa jnorte mutunte qua vixerant, ct morte non Simpliciy sed inter artificia “ exsectimis!* But this report seems exaggerated, and is doubted by many. This, however, is certain, that Herophilus was a great ana- tomist, for he first saw the lymphatics, divided the nerves into three kinds, described the sinuses of the cerebrum tubaj of animals, and vesiculai seminalcs ; he also gave a name to the duodenum, to venous arteries, arterial veins, the retina and arachnoid membrane of the eye, the calamus scriptorius, torculer, and many other parts. The testimony of Galen may be added, who says, “ Herophilus reliquam medicinam perfecte callehat: sed in anatomica doctrina ad summum apicem pervenerat : “ hujusque tain praclara eruditiouis partem non in bestiis, ut plerique aliiy sed in ipsorum hominum corporibus sibi acquisherat.” This same Herophilus either first brought into notice the pulse, or at least, illustrated it; and also dared to blame Hip- jlocrates, because he had neglected it, or not sufficiently cultivated a knowledge of it. Hence, Pliny says of him, lib.. IX. cap. XXXVH. “ Arteriarum pulsus in cacumiue membrorum maxime evideus, index fere morboruniy in modulos certos, legesque b b , “ metricaSf (») Epist. fare. 20. written in the year of Rome, 709. (t) Lib, 111. p. 233, (cj Diascorid. praef, £pisb 9a. (d) Lib. I. (g) YoL I. p 94.HISTORY OF MEDICINE. xciv “ inctricas per wfafes stuliUs uul diatus auf tardus, descriptus ah Heruphilo, medicince vote miranda arte nimiani propter suhtili- “ tatem dcstrtun.'’ And in another place, lib. XXV'. cap. I. “ Omnes scholas danmavit Herophilus in musicos pedes xenarum pulsu descripto, per at at urn grad us.” Herophilus was a native of Clialccdon, and had many celebrated pupils, who followed his doctrines. All his writings are lost; and the tenets and merit of this gre.at man would have remained unknown to us, if Galen had not mentioned them. Praxagoras was his preceptor. , Erasistratus was also a Greek, but authors are not agreed about the exact place of his birth. Macrobius says, he was the principal pupil of Chrysippus. He practised anatomy with great reputation, and saw the lacteals in the mesentery, as well as Heropliilus. He was particularly versed in investigations of the brain and nerves ; he had obtained a knowledge of the ventricules of the brain, origin of the nerves, .and their distribution, as appears from a fragment of the work left'by Galen : he also knew the origin of sanguiferous vessels to be from the heart, and the valves, both of the Ventricles of the heart, and of the arteries, which were named, by him or his pupils. Tricuspid and Sigmoid, valves. Galen has likewise preserved a memorial of the use of these valves, from a treatise written by Erasistratus on fevers. But he believed that spirit, or air only, was contained in the left auricle of the heart and aorta, which plainly proves the repwrt of his having dissected men alive, to be incorrect, for he must then, have necessarily seen blood in the arteries. Ha thought that the air taken by the lungs, was carried to the left side of the heart, and thence flowed into the arteries; and that when blood found a passage into those vessels, destined to convey air, it caused inflammation ; he was also acquainted with the Asynchronos of the heart, and motion of the arteries; and affirmed that concoction was performed by attrition. But as Herophilus looked for the cause of all dise.nses in a morbo Jluidorum ; so, on the contrary, Erasistratus considered all dis- eases to arise from a morbo solidorum, and attributed to plcthera, great influence in producing complaints. He was too timid in bleeding and purging; but substituted exercise, frictions, baths, and abstinence; he had a great confidence in ex- ternal cataplasms, fomentations, and ligatures on the joints. We are notin possession of the books of Erasistratus, but Galen has preserved some fragments. An account of the disciples of Erasistratus and Herophilus, may be seen in writers on medical history. It is proper to observe, tluxt in those times, according to Celsus, medicine was divided into three parts; the dietetic, which entirely consisted in the regulation of diet; surgical, which was effected by the hands and instruments; and pharmacutical, ■which comprehended the trcalment by medicine. After Heropiiilus and Erasistratus, another sect bcg.an to flourish, which was self nominated empirical, the chief of which ■were, Serap'm, of Alexandria; Bhilino, of Cos, whom Apollonius, Glaucias, Heraclides, of Tarentum, and many others fol- lowed, although some consider Acron, of Agrigentum, to be princeps einprricorum. The introduction of medicine amongst the Romans, was about this time; they were very long in adopting tlic art, even when it was in great perfection in other countries. If we may credit Pliny, there were no physicians at Rome, for almost six hundred years, from the building of the city, though medicine had been used before that time; he says, libro. XXIX. cap. 1. “ Primam e medicis xeiHS.se Jiomam Ptie- *' ponesso Archagathum Lysnnia jilium, L. JEmiliu et M. Uvio Coss ; anno vrbis 585 ei^ue jvs Quiritium datum, et tabemam in ■“ compito Acilto emptam ob id publkc. Vulnerarium tradunt fuissc xocatum, mireque grot urn adxentwn ejus initio, mat a savitia '* secandi urendique transiisse nomen in cernifieem, et in tadium artem amnesque medicos.” Pliny then mentions Cato’s hatred to Greek physicians, and relates the words in which Cato cautions his son to beware of them. The history of Archagathus cannot be denied, yet it is necessary to remember, that Pliny took every opportunity of abusing physicians ; hence from a preconceived antipathy, he might have exaggerated the report that Rome existed six hun- dred years without them, as the contrary can be easily shewn. For in the year of the city, 321, on account of a pestrleiKc; a temple was dedicated to Apollo, for the health of the public ; and in the year 460, iEscnlapios was carried from Epidaurus to Rome ; and it is probable, that before the arrival of Archagathus, there were some physicians amongst the Romans, from the observation of Dionysius, of Halicarnassus, who mentions a destructive plague that raged at Rome, in the year, 282, and says, “ Quod contra medicamenta aliaque morborum Uevamina contumaxfuerit.” And he speaks more particalary of that wluch raged in 301, and depopulated the city, and teHs its that there was not a sufficiency of medical assistance to take the care i suchHISTORY OF MEDICINE. such a multitude of sick, nor attendants and friends to render their kind ofiices, by which many houses were obliged to be deserted. It appears then, that there were physicians at Rome, above two hundred years before the time of Archagathus; and Pliny must be understood to mean foreign, or Greek physicians ; from those observations being misunderstood, arose thflf report, which some moderns have also propagated, that all | hysicians were expelled from Rome by the advice and authority of M. Porcius Cato ; but this cannot be shewn from any ancient author, not even by Archagathus; and if it had been men- fioned, it is certain, that Cato could have had no intluence in the affair, since he was only fifteen years old when Archagathus came to Rome, who doubtless did not remain long, on account of his ill success. Some go still farther, and wish to explain, from this passage, in Pliny, that the physicians at Rome were vulgar people, servants, and men of a low situation in life ; ami that no real citizen practised medicine before the time of the Cajsars. Middleton has used all his ingenuity to establish this opinion ; but, on the other hand, many learned men, both in Germany I and England, have come forward and shewn, from incontestible documents, that Middleton injudiciously confounded surgeons with physicians, who were free men and of higher rank, than the professors of the liberal arts; and although some physicians? I from other nations, taken in war were captives, it does not follow, that all the physicians at Rome were slaves; it must, how- ! ever, be confessed that medicine made a slower progress amongst the Romans, than in other nations. ' Asclcpiades, of Bithynia, came to Rome almost an hundred years after Archagathus ; he was not descended from ^scula* pius ; he practised medicine with great repute by adopting a method, quite contrary from that of his predecessor ; and we find by Celsus, that he promised to cure diseases pleasantly, with safety and dispatch; hence he completely changed the I medicine of the ancients, and forbid all violent remedies, particularly emetics and purgatives ; he used mild medicines, and I prescribed abstinence from wine, and fasting, to the sick; he also recommended friction, walking, and exercises : sometimes be i was more indulgent and permitted the use of wine, and frequently gave a draught of cold water, which considerably increased his reputation ; and it appears that Asclepiades was in great esteem, as he was called by Apuleius, princeps medicorum, and inferior to none, except Hippocrates, and Lextus Empiricus; besides he was the physician and friend of Cicero, and was celebrated for his oratory, as well as physic. At this time, there were other physicians at Rome, cotemporary with Asclepiades, and in some repute, as mentioned by Cicero. • Amongst the disciples of Asclepiades, who were numerous, the first most deserving notice is Themison, who, after being : advanced in years, and wishing to render medicine more easy of comprehension, founded a new sect called methodists. He ti divided all diseases into three classes only, viz. tense, lax, and moderate: as if from these general principles, a knowledge of II all diseases could be obtained. He had many followers from the faculty with which the medical science of this sect was ac- quired ; and Thessalus carried it still farther, by asserting that the w hole of physic might be learned in six months. All those 11 men were pursuing a method w'idely different from the learning of Hippocrates, and indulged their own fancies. But Celsus was the first of the Romans, who chiefly revived the doctrines of Hippocrates, and translated them elegantly ' 1 into his own language, so that some have called him the Latin Hippocrates ; he has not, however, exactly followed all his I expressions; possibly from the Greek sentences not being easily rendered by Latin phraseology. ‘ He is said to have lived under Augustus and Tiberius ; be wrote eight books 4e medkind, in most elegant stile. Surgery is i likewise interspersed in his works, and he always advances his own sentiments on the subject, which are sometimes opposed to I others. He described so accurately lithotomy, w'ith the situation and apparatus, that Professor Rau, the most celebrated 1 litbotomist, w hen questioned about his successful method of operating, by which scarcely five in one hundred perished, recom- juended an attentive perusal of Celsus. He was a physician, but did not attend every one, some have, therefoi'e, doubted whether he practised physic ; yet it is probable that he administered the art to his friends, and a few acquaintances; his skill ' in medicine is evident from the frequent interposition of his judgment, in the different opinions and controversies of physicians iu aflairs of the greatest moment. There are various editions of his works, the best and most recent was lately published by Krause, at Leipsic, 1760, large octavo. This was the state of medicine amongst the Romans, whilst it was cultivated at Alexandria, in Egypt, with the greatest attention by the disciples and followers of Herophilus and Erasistratus, whither Galen went to study medicine. But before we mention him, it will be proper to say a few words of Ajetaeus Cappadox. He practised medicine iu Cappadocia, although the exact time in which he lived cannot be defined. Some contend tliat he livedHISTORY OF iVIEDICINE xcvl lived bcforft the Ca?sars,bi'causc he wrote in the Ionic dialect, which afterwards began to fall into disrepute: butLeCIerc justly denies it; for Aretseus mentions the antidote against the bite of vipers, invented by Andromachus, physician to Nero, and the theriaca of Mithridates, by which it follows that he lived after Mithridates, and could not have been anterior to Andromachus. Being acquainted with the dogmas of ancient physicians, he also assisted the art by his own labours, and was the first that reduced medicine into a system, by collecting every thing that had been written separately on diseases by Hippocrates* and other celebrated physicians, and compressing them into one volume; he has given us better and more correct histories of diseases, and more perfect cures than the. physicians before his time; he was the first that used cantharides e.xternally to raise a blister ; he established the utility of bleeding, and regulated the quantity of blood necessary to be taken ; pointed out the most convenient places to open a vein, and, in certain cases, recommended arteristomy. He wrote four books on the signs of acute and chronic diseases ; and four books likewise on their cure. Boerhaave published the best edition of his works at Leyden, 1735, in folio, with the commentaries of Petit and other learned men. The order of history brings us to Galen, omitting the authors of less note, after Celsus and Aretaius. He was born at Pergamus, a city of Asia minor, in the one hundred and thirtieth, or one hundred and thirty’-first year of Christ, in the reign of the Emperor Hadrian; his father’s name was Nico, under whom and other learned men, he learned philosophy, and the polite arts; he first studied in the schools of the Stoics, then of the Academics, Peripatetics, and Epicureans. Afterwards, when he was about seventeen years of age, by the advice of his father, he began to study medicine, and had various preceptors. When a young man, being desirous of farther information, he travelled to Alexandria, in Egypt, where-the study of medicine was then in great repute; he remained there two years, and returned to Pergamus, not only skilled in physic, but also in surgery ; and, after remaining four years, he left his own country, and went to Home, in his thirty-second year. He soon found the physicians of this place his adversaries, but easily gained a superiority over them, both by his learning and success in practice. After having resided five years, a plague raged at Rome, and he returned to his own country ; but he was soon solicited to return by the emperors, M. Aurelius, and Lucius Verus. He returned to Rome, and Lucius Verus, in the mean time, having died, he attached himself to Aurelius, whose sons Commodus and Sextus, and even the Emperors, he cured at different times in fevers. Suidas says, he died in his seventieth year, and it appears, from his own writings, that he lived under the emperors Anto- ninus, M. Aurelius, Lucius Verus, Commodus, and Severus. He travelled over Syria, Cyprus, and Cicilia ; he made a voy.< age to the Island of Lemno, out of curiosity, to sec the Lemnian earth ; and into Palestine to find Opobalsam. He was certainly a man of the greatest genius, and considerable, experience; he could tell by the pulse, at the first attack of a tever, whether it would be a tertian, or quartan, Ac. and how long it would last. He predicted the time that the com- plaint of a certain patient, who was about to be blooded, would terminate in a crisis of hemorrhage from the nose ; and pos- terity arc much indebted to hjm for elucidating the writings of Hippocrates ; and no person, indeed, has followed the sense of those works better than Galen. He was a bold and successful surgeon, for he relieved a man labouring under an abscess in the. mediastinum, by perforating the sternum, which was a most dangerous operation, and he must have had a most accurate knowledge of the disease and part affected. His books de usu partium, shew that he was a most excellent anatomist; in these wc find many facts relating to anatomy, and physiology, some of which have been, by modern authors, copied and published as new discoveries. All his works have been edited with those of Hippocrates, by Renatus Chartciius, which is the best edition. He corrupted medicine with the tenets of the pcripefetic philosophy, by introducing his comments on the four elements, from which he explained every thing, and seems lo have been highly prepossessed in favour of the number fovir. He believed that those four elements formed all bodies, earth, air, fire, and water; that every thing was different from the various proportion of these constituent ck'ments : ho also made four cardinal qualities, which ho attributed to simple ele- ments, as well as compounds; for example, ho called fire, hot and dry by nature; air, hot and moist; water, cold and moist; earth, cold and dry. Then, from these principles, he concluded, that there existed in the human body four primary humours: I. Yellow bile, partaking of the quality of fire, being hot aud dry, H. Blood, which resembles air, hot and moist. 111. Phlegm^HISTORY OF MEDICINE xcvii III. Phlegm, possessing the properties of water, cold and moist. IV. Black bile, (atrabilis) like earth, cold and dry. He also argued that various temperaments, or constitutions were produced by the different admixtures of these qualities, and di><3rdcrs generated by a predominance of one or other of them, or from being too much rarided; he again sub- divided the four qualities into four degrees, thus; the first degree of heat was natural to man; the second degree produced fever; the third occasioned inflammation; the fourth gangrene,and sphacelus. He went still farther, and divided medicines, not only according to these qualities, but even their four degrees, for example; if a disorder was esteemed to be cold in the se- cond degree, it was Judged necessary to administer a remedy in the second degree, &c. which is still the Asiatic practice. But these speculations did not so much prevent the increase of medicine, as the ignorance and indolence of after ages; who, struck with the authority and eloquence of Galen, all acquiesced in his dogmas, and never thought of improving me- dicine, which they considered so perfect, that it had arrived at the ne plus vltra, therefore no important addition, was made to the stock of knowledge in physiology, anatomy, and the materia medica, for almost fourteen centuries. Galen is, therefore, not to be censured so much for his labours to perfect dogmatic medicine, for he also cultivated the materia medica, and botany ; he likewise taught the method of removing many diseases by diet only, and of curing obstinate maladies by copious bleedings, and cauteries. He encompassed the whole science of medicine in all its extensive branches, and, in his wiitings, treats diffusively on anatomy, physiology, pathology, semiolica, hygiene, therapeutics, and surgery, so completely, that Haller says, no man is to be compared with him in these things, nor any person since his time laboured with so much assiduity and ardour. Van Helmont’s attack on Galen, calling him a plagiary, is void of probability, for he readily gives you the sentiments of other men, and rescues from obscurity, fragments of their works, which are not to be found elsewhere. It is to him we are obliged for many historical facts and improvements, not to be found in any other writer. After the time of Galen, there arc but five celebrated physicians, whose works have come down to us ; these are. Caelius Aurclianus, the methodist. Oribasius, (ij iEtius, Alexander Tralliauus, who has described diseases with singular accuracy, and Paulus iEgineta, the most diffusive on surgery of ancient auth« rs. For thirteen centuries after Galen’s time, medicine not only remained destitute of improvement, but shared the fate of all other sciences, by being corrupted and neglected. For in the fifth century of the Christian tera, the Vandals, Visigoths, and afterwards the Ostrogoths, people inhabiting the north, poured down in immense numbers on the southern and best cultivated part of Europe, desolating all before them, and destroying the most valuable libraries, as well as populous and flourishing cities. In the seventh century, the Saracens began to spread destruction on all sides; Egypt was reduced by the Turks, and Alexandria, the seat of medicine, with its valuable and very extensive library, containing seven hundred thousand volumes, taken and destroyed. All the papers and books were used by those barbarians for heating their warm baths, of which there were four thousand in that city, and so great was the collection, that it answered the purpose for six months continually. Such was the fete of this library, which, in the time of Julius Ciesar, lost fourkundred thousand books by fire. In the eighth century Spain was conquered by the African Saracens. At this time, those writings of the Greeks, that had escaped the general destruction, and were scattered in various parts,, began to be t.aken notice of by the Arabians, particularly the dogmas and precepts of Galen in medicine, which were translated and explained in Arabic; and students in medicine wcie obliged to apply to them alone for knowledge. They had public medical schools at Toledo and Corduba, in Spain, whither foreigners and others were obliged to resort. Their principal jyhystcians were Rbases, Avenzoar, Aviceuna, Averrhoes, and Mesue, a Christian, Their widely spread re- putation induced strangers to visit Spain to acquire medical information. Van Helmont justly censures them in these words, “ Europei desperantes xelut tota animi vis silfi effucta esset, barbaris “ ventis stare, et peregrina excoluissc duxerunt satis, lUorum autem comment a in novas in dies centurias redegisse nedum non ingenerosum putarunt, sed honori dtuxrunt sapere ex Commentario duntaxat” c c For> (h) As may be seen in the materia medica of the modern Eastern nations. (i) OubasLus has given almost tl»e complete anatomy of Galen; and it will appear to all judges that it is not so imperfect as many hare sup- posed, especially the myology, neurology, &c.xcvm HISTORY OF MEDICINE. For in fact, tlic Arabians injured medicine, by incorrectly translating Greek authors into their own language, corrupting the realle’nse of words, and making every thing subservient to the tenets of the Peripatetic philosophy. The totally neglected anatomy, as their laws prohibited them from touching dead human bodies, and implicitly followed Calen and Aristotle whose authority was so great, that in disputations, whoever quoted their sentiments wassvn-e of being an a- conqueror The Arabians, however, merit our thanks for having increased the materia inedica, by the addition of se- veral simple remedies, particularly the mild laxatives, as manna, senna, rhubarb, cassia, tamarinds, and myrobalans ; for the Greeks were only acquainted with drastic purges. They also first used sugar instead of honey in syrups, conserves, and con- fections and brought into use some new aromatics. They were the first people that described the measles, and prepared dis- tilled waters although, in other respects, ignorant in chemistry ; they likewise first introduced the \-anity of mixing gold and silver in their compounds: Sec Friend’s History of Medicine. At last after such manifold calamities, a dawn of hope for the restoration of medicine appeared, when the Spaniards having gradually recovered their country, began to have a more free communication with the Italians on literary and scientific suh- j^ects* for although there was a school founded by the Emperor Charles, at Salernum, in the eleventh century, the Arabian authors still continued to be studied. ' But in the beginning of the thirteenth century, the first translation of Galen into Latin appeared, and in the fifteenth, when Greece was conquered by the Turks, the learned were obliged to take refuge in Italy and France, by which the ancient doctrine of Hippocrates, little known at that time in Europe, began to be revived, and amongst the early advocates were Fernclius Duretus, Ballonius. A new discovery of still greater importance soon followed, which was the invention of printing about the middle of the fifteenth century. Greek authors began to be universally published, and the Arabian yoke at last shook off. ’ The works of the Grammarians were first attended to, and by their assistance, Hippocratic medicine, particularly in France, began to flourish. The chemists next became conspicuous, who, influenced by the vain expectation of finding the philosopher’s stone, and a universal medicine, made many useful discoveries, and although they never attained their objects, yet they greatly increased the experimental part of medicine and the materia medica, Basil Valentine, about 1400, was the first who applied chemistry to medicine. About a. century after him lived Theo- h astus Paracelsus, who had the greatest aversion to the Galenists and Arabians, he revived the doctrines of Basil Valentine, and claimed the merits without doing sufficient justice to the inventor ; and maintained, that all bodies consisted of salt, sulphur, and mercury. Although the greatest empiric in the world, he was a successful practitioner, chiefly by the bold Idministration of opium, mercury, and turpeth, (mineral) whose effects were very little known to the physicians of his lime: for opium was considered by the Galenists a poison, cold in the fourth degree, and such as extinguished the vigour of natural heat. In the bemnnin-T of the seventeenth century lived Van Helmont, who differed from the practice of his time, and was con- sidered a yet he is extremely praiseworthy, for having exploded, with great ardour, the Aristotelian and Galenical uibblcs, and roused the schools from their torpidity : he clearly shewed the vanity of founding medicine on reasoning alone, without experiments. By him Hippocratic medicine began universally to sink into less repute, and the chemists rapidly in- Treased ; so that chemistry, instead of being subservient to medicine, almost gained the ascendancy. Francis dc la Boe Sylvius followed, who first introduced chemistry into the academy, at Leyden; and it is doubtful whether these innovations assisted or impedited medicine. RoTcr Bacon, who held the medium between Basil Valentine and Paracelsus, was author of a masculine chemistry; and Robert Boyle, may be reckoned amongst the chemists; he was posterior to Van Helmont. But anatomy also, which had been neglected by the Arabians, was revived ; and Mundinus, an Italian physician, at Bononia, wrote a book on anatomy, about the year 1315, which was in so much esteem, that a law was passed in Italy, to pre- vent professors from teaching any other author in their lectures. His anatomy was very confined, but certainly better than none After an interval of almost two centuries, James Berengarius Carpensis, an eminent anatomist and surgeon lived, who in 1521, published commentaries on Mundinus, at Bononia, and also a book of his own on anatomy; he was the first who cave anatomical plates engraved on wood ; and he was the first, except Paracelsus, who used mercury in the cure of the lues ® venerea.XCIX HISTORY OF MEDICINE. venfrca. But it was said that he openeci two Spaniards alive, whom he could not cure. V'ery probfibly this story arose only from the publication of his curious and learned book on anatomy, an unusual production in those days. The most eminent anatomists, among many others, who succeeded Berengarius, in the si.xtecutn century, were Vesalius. Eustachius, Gabriel Fallopius. At length the immortal Harvey, an Englishman, physician to the king of Great Britain, James I. after dispelling the clouds of ancient physic, threw a new light on anatomical and physiological matters, by proving from experiments on living animals, and demonstrating by his writings, the circulation of the blood ; that is, its continual flowing from the heart through the i arteries, to every part of the body, and its return by the veins into the heart from which it flowed. Harvey published this r grand and most useful invention, in l628, at Frankfort, in quarto, afterwards in many other places revised and enlarged. Yet there were physiwans, infatuated w'ith the prejudices of antiquity, who opposed the most clear and decisive proofs, and preferred erring with the ancients, to embracing the truth with Harvey: and when they were obliged to give their assent to the rigid mathematical accuracy of Harvey's demonstrations, they omitted nothing that could derogate from the glory of his 1 invention. Some asserted that it was known to Ctesalpinus, Realdos Columbus, others as firmly maintained that it was men- j tioned by Cervetus, who was burnt at Geneva, in 1533, for his book De Trinitatis Erroribus. It cannot, however, be denied, ( but that a few physicians before Harvey, had some idea of the smaller circulation of blood through the lungs; but they were totally unacquainted with the greater circulation, through the branches of the aorta, and over the whole body, and never gave a clear demonstration of the other, consequently Harvey merits the honour of the invention. . , Others even went still farther back, and contended that the circulation was known to Hippocrates, because he compared the human body to a circle, which has neither beginning nor end : but his words arc to be literally understood to mean only the reciprocal actions or functions of the various parts of an human body: for every individual part acts in common with the whole machine, and vice versa; hence that wonderful reciprocity which is compared to a circle by Hippocrates ; besides, it is well known, the ancients believed the arteries to contain air, wherefore it must appear evident, that all enquiry amongst the ancients to find the same sentiments as adopted by Harvey, arc totally vague and unsatisfactory. How powerful and conclusive the experiments of Harvey were, may be known from his bringing over even public adver- saries to his own doctrines, after they had instituted the same trials; it is also worthy of remark, that V'opiscus Fortunatus Plempius, professor in the academy at Louvain, candidly confesses his error in these words. Fund. med. lib. II. cap. 7. “ Nuper in Anglia novam peperit de motu cordis opinionem, quam evulgai it Gulielmus Harvaus edito ea de re peculiari libello. “ Primuim mild inventum hoc non placuit, quod et voco et scrieto publicc testatus sujn ; sed dum posptd ei refutando et explodendo “ lehementius incumbo, refutor et ipse et explodor : adeo su?it rationes ejus non persuadentes sed cogentes." It is necessary to observe, that in consequence of this discovery, a new epoch of medicine was formed ; so that all physi- cians anterior to Harvc)', ranked with the ancients, but all, posterior to him, are classed amongst the moderns. By the name of sect wo understand that knowledge, by which any thing doubtful, though probable, is admitted as truth; it follows, therefore, that whatever is certain, and clearly defined, does not belong to a. sect: thus, the former Galenical doctrines of faculties and four cardinal qualities were a sect. The hypothesis of the chemists, chimeras of Des Cartes, and other specious opinions, without proof, were a sect. ‘ Those very flighty luxuriant fancies, cannot avoid forming transitory opinions, as often as they indulge in mere speculations, unconfirmed by experiment, or successful practice. ^ j No person yet studied medicine without following some sect; however, it may be clear of every one of them, if we take : only those things that are demonstrable, passing by all doubts and obscurities; which can be effected better at present than I formerly, since so many anatomical, botanical, chemical, physical, and mechanical experiments have been instituted, and me- dicine so much improveil, by such a number of repeated practical observations, that whoever compares the ancients with us, in these particulars, will soon find the great superiority of the moderns. I Maupertuis, therefore, certainly spoke very unjustly, when he said that medicine had scarcely received one improvement j during the space of almost two thousand years; and the Leipsic commentators justly accuse him of audacity and ignorance. 1 And, if we rightly consider anatomical experiments, nothing can be more useful, nor any thing more necessary, both to I attain a knowledge of the healthy state of the human body, and to explain the cause of disease ; by this only are discovered I the size, situation, form, connection, order, and structure, of the internal parts of the body, without which it would be im- I possiblet HISTORY OF MEDICINE possible to understand the functions of those parts. These anatomical demonstrations shew the effects of disease, its situation, and often elucidate the causes of disease and death ; hence arises the extreme utility of anatomy, in physiology, and pathology. Who would have believed that the cesophagus could have been ruptured by vomiting, and the food thrown into the cavity of the thorax, had it'not been for anatomy ? Who would have expected a rupture of the heart or its auricles, unless such appearance had been found in anatomical researches ? All medicine is vain without the knowledge of dissections poif mortem, (k) Who would have considered it possible that the spleen, coutd have descended into the pelvis, the stomach burst by fermen- tation of food, that a foetus could be formed in the ovarium, and even be nourished in the abdomen, to the full time of ges*- tation, and other facts of the same kind, if the attentive investigation of anatomists had hot demonstrated these things ? How much are we indebted to Ruysek, for proving, by his injections, that many parts of the body, considered by the ancients destitute of vessels, are extremely vascular ? Who would have known any thing of the lacteals, lymphatics, their course and structure, the irritability of the heart and muscles, and the peristaltic motion of the ihtestines, if anatomy had been neg- kcfed ? Anatomical experience is so certain that no person can be easily deceived, if an experiment be made with necessary caution; and although contradictory circumstances are sometimes found in authors, we Conclude that all of them did not attend to the same particulars and correctness ; or being biassed by prejudice, receive only what is consonant to their own doctrines, or even pervert the fair result; hence arise so many dissentions and controversies, which are easily settled by con- sidering the disposition of parts, and consulting the cider of nature ; for every experiment is decisive in itself, yet the reason- ing oh it ihay be fallacious. Thus, when the ancients found the arteries of a dead human body empty, they believed that air only had been contained in them. The experiment was not deceptive, but the reasoning, and they could have easily con- vinced themselves of the truth, had they opened the arteries of living animals, and sten the blood jetting out with impetus, fend thence concluded, that those vtessels in an healthy state were not filled with air, but blood ; the utmost caution, therefore, is necessary in drawing conclusions from experiment. BOTANY. Yflrts science, little knowh to the ancients, has been so much advanced irt biiV tiYne, by Ae Unanimous labour bf many cclc- bra'ted men, that all plants calfibe distinguished by certain and infallible marks, imprinted oft them by nature. So long as the botanist confine himself to those distinguishable characteristics, and class every plant, possessing similar appearances, under the same genus, he will be right, and free from error; but if he transgress those bounds, and indulge his fancy, by expecting that herbs of similar external form, arc endued with tlie same medical qualities, he will be most egrogiously deceived, since poi- sonous and harmless plants, and those of very opposite properties, are ranged under the same class. CHEMISTRY. CHEMICAL experiments have rendered great assistance to medieme, for by these means, not only the latent powers bf different bodies, and other properties not obvious to the senses, have been brought to light; but the most efficacious medicines have been invented, which were unknown to the ancients, and pharmacy in general, very much augmented. We are chiefly indebted to chemistry for having discovered that the most subtle poisons, and inactive or salutary bodies, arc produced according to various admixtures of principles. No physician, therefore, can be ignorant of chemistry without committing the most dangerous errors in his prescriptions, for mistakes easily happen if we depart from experience, and give loose to the effusions of fancy. It should not be attributed as a fault to chemistry, but to the chemists; that many hypotheses and useless observations have been introduced into medicine. MECHANICS AND NATURAL PHILOSOPHY. THESE have very m^ich conduced to the increase of medicine, nor can a physician be destitute of such information, which are certain, and Universally admitted truths. The (k) Tor my own part. I have embraced every opportunity through life, to investigate the real chuses, aVid effofcts of diseases by these means, and hate collected hundreds of facts; great numbers of which may be seen, written in Latin, in the rational practice, with much inductive reasoning, &C. &C* which certainly is beyond all idle speculation, &c.Cl HISTORY OF MEDICINE The actions of the human body cannot be well explained, without an accurate knowledge of experimental philosophy; for if any person be ignorant of the nature and properties of air, he will never understand how respiration is performed in the lungs of living beings ; nor can he understand the action of arteries, unless he be acquainted with the laws of elastic bodies ; he will not bs able to explain the phaenomena of sight, without exactly comprehending the properties of luminous matter : nor arrive at a knowledge how hearing is experienced, if he be not well versed in the doctrines of sound. Our body is a true hydraulic machine, in which the various humours flow by an uninterrupted motion, with great celerity in a circular di- rection ; therefore the laws of hydrostatics, hydraulics, and every thing relative to mechanics, arc necessary to be known by ' every physician ; but it must be confessed, that the mathematical sect have been frequently led into errors and very often de- ’ ceived in their speculations, by applying general mechanical laws to the human body, without sufficiently considering the particular properties of bodies. The passage of coagulablc viscid blood through elastic, flexible arteries, is very difi'erent from I the flowing of limpid incompressible water, through rigid metallic tubes, the resistance of which in respect of the contained ! fluid is inconsiderable, therefore, conclusions from such principles arc fallacious. Besides the mechanical physicians have erred, by believing that all the phenomena of nature, could be resolved by the laws 1 of mechanics; hence, to explain the action of purging or vomiting, they imagined the medicine composed of certain pointed |i particles, possessing a power of reversing the stomach ; and others of a contrary figure to excite purging, j The Cartesian physicians, were most attached to these humourous fictions, which, in their works, are carried to a length I truly ridiculous. Some of the members of the French academy, as Ilomberg, Lemery, Geoffroy, in accounting for chymical and physical phaenomena, have increased this subject with many things from their own imagination, tiring the reader with their intolerable farrago of particles; great philosophers, had they known when to have held their tongues ! Mechanical laws have I certainly, much influence in nature, but it is ridiculous to endeavour to explain all the phaenomena of natural things by me- I chanics ; as though various bodies were not liable to different laws ! As if the Creator, instead of his own, followed the ideas of his minute creatures! Who will ever clearly explain tons the solution, attraction, repulsion, gravity, and elasticity, of bo- : dies, by mechanical laws ? Who, on mechanical principles, will demonstrate the circulation of the blood, the continued (' systole, and diastole of the heart, when perpetual motion is not attained from mechanics ? Who will derive the phaenomena of II sensibility and irritability from mechanics, when no machine, except the body of a living animal can shew signs of sensibility, I or irritability. Let us, therefore, make use of physical, chemical, and mechanical inventions in physic; but let us use them ( in such a manner as to confess they are limited, and that nature is not reducible to any one particular doctrine. I From all these circumstances it appears, that this most ancient art consisted, at first, only in a faithful collection of observa- '! tions, and afterwards, it was thought necessary to investigate the causes of experiment, by discussing the reason of those causes. We saw in the history of medicine, that, in early times, it was inculcated empirically, that is, from attentive observation of salubrious and destructive things, that analogy was afterwards added, that ultimately, men began to reason on causes; parti- I cularly after philosophers had rendered the study of medicine familiar. Hence, Cclsus was very right in saying, that me- ; dicine arose from observation only. “ Subinde aliorum salute, aliorum interitu, perniciosa discernentem a salutaribus, lie- ; “ pertis dcindc medicinx remediis, homines de rationibus eorum disserere expisse ?iec post rationem, medicinam esse inventam ; sed j “ post inventam medicinam rationem esse qvxsitam." Prsefat. p. 9, 10. It is certainly obvious that the first part of medicine, called emperica, was always alike, not fallacious, for experience under ' similar circumstances is always equal, and does not deceive ; and this is the reason why the practical writings of Hippocrates, ! and other ancient authors, containing observations only, must remain unshaken. For the same phaenomena that took place, many centuries ago, in pleurisy, phrenitis, &c. are observed to be the same at present, in persons labouring under these dis- ! eases. It is likewise equally certain that contemplative medicine, in later days, was liable to be fallacious, and led to errors, particularly if the physician assume foryhe^i, such things as were never demonstrated ; or if he draw such conclusions by rea- soning from experiments as were not deducible from them. As if any one, after proving by experiment, that every animal is suffocated by being deprived of air, should wish to infer that air is the cause of respiration ; for he then forms a conclusion I that is by no means proved by the experiment; but if he should infer that air is necessary to respiration, he is right, and only affirms what is in the experiment. Hence, experience itself is certain, but reaioni/ig liable to error. But it does not thence follow, tliat medicine is to be deprived of the use of reasoning, on the contrary, it is of the greatest importance. For rea- . soiling docs not mislead us, if drawn from unbiassed experience; if it be proved again by other experiments, for medicine, I d d indeed,HISTORY OF MEDICINE. Cll indeec], would not have been much promoted, if men had entirely confined themselves to experience, without reasoning, and the common adage, that a good theorist is generally a bad practitioner, is destitute of truth ; but a mere speculator may be the worst of practitioners. The speculations of during inexperience is the bane of ail practical science. But a man is often esteemed to be a good theorist, who is not so, but makes use of complex words, almost unintelligible, and frames whimsical and unfounded hypotheses, using reasons destitute of all experience, or draws his conclusions from ina- dequate, or partial experiments. I do not deny, that such a person is a bad practitioner, he is a pseudo-theorist, projector of hypothesis, and a speculator on nature. A true theorist is one who knows the true causes of the effects observable in yiaiicnts, for he, who understands the cause of the disease, can easily cure it, if a cure be practicable, and distinguish, whether it be a curable, or incurable complaint. This is best understood by those who enquire nto morbid causes by dissection post mostem. The great Van Swieten was of opinion, that a physician who fenou's a disease to be incurable, is as great, ns one who under- .stands how to remove a curable malady ; and it is very certain that many diseases are more successfully relieved by us, than by the ancients, only from our improved knowledge of their causes: for the cure is often very different and various, according to the diversity of cause of complaints, as in vomiting, cephalalgia, vertigo, and many others; and also that a great number of diseases, are at present, managed w ith difficulty, from their causes not being comprehended ; cpedemics, for example, in w hich we are obliged to act empirically, and form indications only from those things which are found to be advantageous, or pre- judicial. In epilepsia and mania, we try vaiious remedies of uncertain event, and as we are not acquainted with the true causes of these diseases, no certain method of cure, therefore, has been invented, for Celsus justly observes, “ Cujus rei non “ est certa notkia, ejus opinio certum reperire remedium non potest.” From which it may be considered a truth, that good theory founded on established experiments, is not only useful, but absolutely necessary for a physician, who is to be called into practice. THE PRINCIPLES AND DEPARTMENTS OF MEDICINE. THIS science has received many useless and fallacious things, from the means mentioned in the last chapter, and in order to banish them from physic, it should be considered, that the whole extent of the art is directed to avoid pain, debility, death, also to preserve present health, and to restore it when lost, therefore every thing that is necessary fora physician to know and perform, should serve to cfl'ect these purposes. For the objects of our art are the life, health, disease, and death of man, the causes from which they arise, the means by which they are regulated. Medicine, therefore, is a knowledge of those things, by the effect of which, when applied, healthy life is preserved, and re- stored, when diseased, to its former state of salubrity. The necessity, utility, and importance of which pursuit, must appear obvious. The art has always been honoured with the highest distinctions. Only two sure paths arc admitted, by which certain knowledge is acquired, for example ; I. An accurate observation of those appearances that arc manifest to the external senses, in a healthy, diseased, or expiring human body ; and in the dead subject, whether these arise from things that take place in man himself, or from those things which act upon him by ex- ternal causes, by chance, or the influence of remedies. II. A sedulous examination of those circumstances that occur in man, and are not cognizable to the senses, or those which are given with some determinate intention. But these can only be obtained by correct reasoning on experiments, in which every occurrence is to be carefully considered, and examined in all its properties; afterwards attentively compared together, to discover the relative aptness or diversity ; and lastly, every thing is to be admitted, without prejudice, that is clearly found to be contained in them, and these will not be found less correct than the former observations. But in order to discover necessary facts from given circumstances, certain principles are required, by the knowledge and application of which, a demonstration is effected, which is required to be distinct, clear, and certain, acquired by mechanical and philosophical experiments, for by these means, not only general, but also particular properties of bodies are detected, and the art illustrated. But since there are other things in man, that cannot be understood by those principles, and consequently not explained to demonstration, another method is to be pursued with them, if we wish to avoid error: this will be perceived, and easily ad- mitted, by any person who considers the preceding and following things. NorHISTORY OF MEDICINE. ciii Nor can ftll human actions be explained by these demonstrative principles, but those only, which arise from the mere struc- ture of the body, as the vital and natural, but not the animal functions; for these are neither dependant on the body or mind only, but proceed from an intimate connexion of both. Since, therefore, these actions are not totally corporeal, they cannot be explained, much less demonstrated by principles peculiar to corporeal bodies only. Some philosophers have existed, who, according to the system of Epicuhus, and Lucretius, derived the actions of the human body entirely from corporeal aflections; and others, on the contrary, denied the existence of bodies, and endeavoured to deduce all phenomena from a spiritual principle only. Those of the former sect were called and those of the latter both were hj'po- thotical enthusiasts. The mischiefs arising from narrow medical systems arc incalculable, and they all merit oxtinctiou.- THE FIRST CHRONOLOGICAL TABLE, FROM THE BEGINNING OF THE WORLD, DOWN TO HIP- POCRATES OF COS, IN THE YEAH OF THE CREATION, 4554. A FABULOUS AND INDEFINITE TIME. THE Egyptians, Chinese, and Indians, carry back the origin of their religion and medicine to very remote antiquity, they reckon many thousand years beyond the creation of the world, but in this Table wc have entirely followed the authority of Dionysius Petavius. Years Year Olympiad. Huild- before of the ing of Christ. ii'orld. Rome, 398-1 3983 1 50.54 930 2942 1042 - 2329 1655 1769 2215 1575 2409 1531 2453 126'3 2721 1247 2737 1004 2980 916' 3068 776 320S 754 3230 VI. 3 753 3231 VL 4 1 690 3294 XXII. 3 64 616 3368 XLI. 1 138 525 3459 LXllI. 4 229 522 3462 LX IV. 3 232 505 3479 LXVIII. 4 249 500 3484 LXX. 254 471 3513 LXXX\1I. 283 460 3524 LXXX. 295 433 3551 LXXXVI. 3 321 430 3554 LXXXVU. 3 314 The world was created. The year of the creation. Medicine and various arts arc invented. Adam, the first man, and first physician, dies. Seth, dies. I The flood. The posterity of Cham, people Egypt, and there practice medicine. Joseph the patriarch, comes into Egypt. About this time. Job is believed to have died. The Israelites, are led by Moses out of Egypt. The expedition of the Argonauts, before which lived Melampus, and Cliirov Centaurus; but Hercules, .®sculapius, Medea, Circe, were present. The worship of .Esculapius, and Hercules, begins. Solomon, king of the Jews. Asa, king of Judea. The first Olympiad. Rome is built. The first year from the building of Rome. , The blindness of Tobias is cured. Neephesus reigns in Egypt. The Persians occupy Egypt. Dcmocedes becomes eminent at Crotona, Cinnabar is discovered. Pythagorus dies. Alcmajou and Empedocles, who cultivated anatomy, are in repute# Iccus, of Tarentine. Hippocrates is born. Heraclitus and Democritus. The Romans, afflicted by the plague, make a vqw to build a temple for .4pollo« The beginning of the Peleponesian war; at which time Hippocrates, of Cos, was in great esteem. This war lasted twenty-seven years! Plato Prodicus lived at the same time. t I i t f THEHISTORY OF MEDICINE. civ THE SECOND CHRONOLOGICAL TABLE, FROM THE BEGINNING OF THE PELEPONESIAN WAR, AT WHICH TIME HIPPOCRATES WAS IN REPUTE, TO THE DEATH OF JUSTINIAN. Years • hefort Christ. Year of the World. Olympiad. ! Build- ''ig <lf Home. 430 3554 LXXXVII. 3 314 422 3562 LXXXIX. 3 332 404 3580 XCIV. 350 400 3584 xcv. 354 357 3627 cv. 4 397 356 3628 CVI. 39s 348 3636 CVIIl. 406 343 3641 CVHI. 411 342 3642 CIX. 3 412 336 3648 CXI. 4 418 331 3653 CXII. 0 423 324 5660 eXUL 430 322 3662 CXIV. 3 432 294 3690 CXXI. 3 460 291 3693 CXXII. 2 463 286 3698 CXXIll. 3 468 285 3699 4 469 271 3713 eXXVIL 2 483 234 3750 CXXXVI. 3 520 219 3765 CXL. 0 535 218 3766 . 3 536 190 3794 CXLVII. 3 564 167 3817 CLIII. 2 587 The first year of the Pcleponesian war, at the beginning of which flourished Hippocrates, amongst the greatest men of Greece, who enligiiteaed that most fortunate age by immortal ornaments. A most terrible plague raged at Athens, in the seconcjl year of this war, so ac- curately describcil by Thucydides. i Philistion Siculus, Ariston, Phaon Nicomachus, father ^f Aristotle, Menecrates, of Syracuse, Herodicus, or Prodicus, lived. Eudoxus Cnidius, and Meton, both physicians, or eminent for mathematical studies, lived. - Plato, the philosopher. Democritus dies. Socrates takes hemlock. Hippocrates dies. Alexander the Great is born. Dexippus, Petron, Diodes Carystius, and Praxagoras, of Cos, arc in repute, Plato dies. The tyranny of Dionysuis, of Syracuse, is overturned. Aristotle is assigned preceptor to Alexander. Alexander the Great begins to reign. Philotimus, Plistonicus, Eudemus, Mnesitheus, Dieuches, Numenius, Chrysip* pus Cnidius, Medius, Aristogenes. The beginning of Alexander in Egypt. Callisthenes, Olynthius, Philip Acarnan, Critodemus, of Cos, Glaucias, Alexippus, Pausanias. Alexander the Great dies. ■ Ptolemajus Lagus, takes the government of Egypt, renders Alexandria flourishing in commerce and the arts, makes it the seat of medical science. Herophilus, ofChalcedon, and Erisistratus, flourish about this time. Great men I Aristotle dies in Chalcedon. Theophrastus Eresius, takes the professorship of Aristotle. Thrasyas Mantinensis, and Alexiades, flourish. Erasistratus remains at the court of Seleucus. .(Esculapius is brought to Rome from Epidaurus. Serapis is carried to Alexandria. Ptolemaeus Philadelphus, begins to reign. The pupils of Herophilus, Mantias, Callimachus. Bacchius, Zenon, flourish. Likewise the pupils of Erasistratus, Strato, Apollonius, Apollophanes Seleu- ciensis. Also Philinus, of Cos, pupil of Herophilus, and founder of the empirical sect; but after him, came Serapion, of Alexandria, to whom some attribute the origin of empirical medicine; the latter was educated under Erasistratus. Epicuras dies. Clcophantus seems to have now lived. The celebrated surgeons Evenor, Nileus Nolpis, Nymphodorus, existed; per- haps, also, both Apollonii and Ammonius, the lithotomist. At this period Hcraclides, of Tarentum, the most celebrated of empirics, seems to have lived. Cato, the censor, is born, who was a great enemy to Grecian medicine, and every thing relative to the Greeks, Archagathus arrives at Rome, the first surgeon. Andreas, the physician, is assassinated. The Romans undertake a war against Antiochus, and interfere with the affairs of Asia. Macedonia is reduced to a Roman province, and Greece liberated from dc- peadauceHISTORY OF MEDICINE GV Ytart Year Olympiad. Build- before Christ. of the World. ing of Rome. 154 3830 CLVI. 3 600 149 3835 CLvn. 4 605 13-3 3851 CLXI. 4 621 63 3921 CLXXIX. 2 691 48 3936 CLXXXIII. 706 46 3938 3 708 44 3940 CLXXXIV. 710 31 3953 CLXXXVII. 2 723 22 3962 CLXXXIX. 731 Fost Christum • uatum. 1 3984 cxcv, 754 14 3997 cxcvni. 2 767 37 4020 CCIV. 4 790 41 4024 ccv. 79* 54 4037 ccvni. 2 807 pendance. A frequent intercourse between the Greeks and Romahs follows. The six centuries are completed, during which Rome is said to have been with- out physicians. Cato dies, aged 85. Attains, the lust king of the Pergameni dies. About this time, lived Nicander Colophonius, Asclepiades Prusiensis, from Bithynia, goes to Rome, and is founder of a new sect, called Democritco* Epicurean. Mithridates, when conquered, is condemned to death by his son. Poinpey came into possession of all the kings effects, and orders his observations on Alexipharmic medicines to be translated into Latin, by his attendant Lenajus. Pompey is conquered and killed. C. Julius Caesar bestows the freedom of the city of Rome on all professors of medicine, and of the liberal arts, to induce them to reside there, and as an instigation for others to learn. Caesar is assassinated by conspirators, Antonius and Cleopatra die, after being conquered, and having taken refuge in» Egypt. • M. Artorius, physician to Augustus, perishes by shipwreck, after the engage- ment of Acti Dioscorides Phacas. \ Augustus is cured of a dangerous disease, by his physician Antonius Musa, to whom, and to all succeeding physicians, permission is granted to wear a gold ring, therefore, they were of the equestrian class. Euphorbus, physician to Juba. Themison, begins the methodical sect. Philenides Catinensis. ' ' ■ 'I ; The year after the birth of CJirist Cassius. . • yEmilius Macer. A. Cornelius Celsus is in repute, who, certainly, was the most excellent, Augustus dies. Tiberius succeeds to the Roman empire. Eudemus. Pacchius of Antioch. Apuleius Celsus. (a) Tiberius dies. Calpetanus, Arruntius, ^Ebutius, Rubrius. Caius Caesar, is killed. Vectius Valens, Q. Sertiums and his brother. Scribonius Largus. Claudius dies : Nero succeeds. Andromachus, father and son, physicians. Democritus. ' . . Asclepiades, j unior. Chariclcs, Menecrates, Erotianus. Thessalus Trallianus, restores the methodical sect, Crinas, of Marseilles, latro-matheraaticus. e e Charmis, frt) In a temple dedicated to Isis and Bacchus, dug out of the ruins, where the town of Fompeium formerly existed, was covered by an eruption of Mount Vesuvius, and lately discovered. In my travels 1 saw the following inscription in the hall of this temple—Cornelia Celsa: and near this place there now exists the house of a surgeon, where many surgical instruments were found, and deposited in the palace of the King of Naples, at Fortiei. Ferhaps this was formerly the residence of the celebrated Cornelius Celsus, or Apuleius Celsus, who lived near the time of that memorable devastation,HISTORY OF MEDICINE. CVl Years before Christ. Year of the tVoWd. 0h/mpia4. Build- ing of Rome- 6s 4051 CCXI. 4 821 78 406T CCXIV. 2 831 80 4063 4 833 f. 89 9fi 4072 CCXVII. 842 4079 CCXVHl. 4 849 98 4081 CCXIX. 1 851 117 1 i 4001 CCXXIV. 2 871 138 4121 CCXXIX. 2 891 Charmis, of Marseilles, author of phychrolusia, Nero kills himself. Vespasian dies. Titus succeeds. Athcnaeus Attaliensis, author of the pheumatic sect. C. Plinius, the second dies. Dioscorides Anazarbensis. Arius. Apollonius. Domitian dies. Trajan begins to reign, Agathinus. Herodotus. Archigencs, Rufus Ephesius, Plutarch, Hadrian begins to reign, Soranus Ephesius, dissolves the methodical sect, Caclius Anrelianus Siccensis seems to have lived about this time; weharethrc* books of this author, DcTardis Passionibus, and three De Celeris IMorbis. Hermogencs was physician to Hadrian, who, labouring under a disease of water under the skin, and tired of life, was told by Hermogenes, that if a certain .. part of the body under the breast was smeared with poison, and a wound ' inflicted, he would die in less pain. • Hadrian dies. Antoninus Augustus Pius, succeeds. ; Sextus, a physician of the empirical sect, was eminent under T. Aurelius An- toninus Pius, three of w’hose books on the hypotheses, or the Pyrrhonics, • and ten against the mathematical sect, are extant. It has been suspected ^ that this person was the same as Sextus Chceroneusis, nephew of Plutarch, . who was preceptor to M. Antoninus, the philosopher, as mentioned by Ca- ^ pitolinus in his life. But he was a disciple of Heroditu* Philadelphus, a ! follower of the Pyrrhonian sect. Year of Christ. ISO 193 196 211 235 304- 364. That illustrious luminary Claudius Galenus, of Pergamus, flourished under the reigns of M. Aurelio Antoninas, the- philosopher, and hi» son Commodus, Didius Julianus, Clodius Albinus, and lastly Severus. Under Antoninus lived Julian, of Alexandria, who wrote forty-eight books, against the aporhisms of Hippocrates,. also a book De MetKodo, dedicated to Philo, likewise rrtf) 4.ux»x2v nai (ruj^dhuuv Sefenus Saminonicus, w'hose poem on medicine and remedies of diseases, is extant, lived in tlie times of the L.m- peror Severus, and his son Caracalla, by whom he was killed at supper. Philasrius Lycius,is said to have lived under the reign of M. Aurelius Probus, he was a physician, at Epirota, dis- ciple of Naumachius. . t . , Sextus Africanus, besides the chronology mentioned by Eusebius, left eleven books, entitled In them lie treats of medical, chemical, physical, and agricultural affairs. These books were dedicated to Alexander, son. of Manimea. . . Theodore Priscian, or as he is called in other books, Octavian Ilorafianus, is said to have lived under Ma.\jminiamt3 Herculius. In the time of the Emperors Constantins, and Julian, Zeno Cyprius existed. Philostorgius, a physician, lived in the reigns of Julian, \ alens, and V aleniinian. His sons,"Philagrius, and Posidonius, were likewise celebrated physicians. OribaMUS, of Pergamus, was a disciple of the above mentioned Zeno, who gave Galen’s anatomy, &c. Ma-^nus Antiochenus, and lonicus Sardianus, disciples of Zeno, were likewise eminent men in the reigns of Julian and \’alens. Mtxu%HISTORY OF MEDICINE. evil Yfar of Christ 367 I I 3.92 518 yEtius Amideus, lived during and after the times of Julian and Valentinian ; a little posterior to Orihabius ; he contracted the writings of the earlier physicians, particularly Galen, into eighteen books. Octavius Horation, who left two books on the cure of diseases, one on disorders of women, and one of experiments, lived under Gratian. In the reign of Theodosius, lived Marccllus Burdigalcnsis, who wrote on empirical medicine, and philosophy. In the time of Justinianus Magnus,lived the celebrated Alexander TraJlianus, son of Dioscorus, the physician; he wrote the therapeutics of every part of the body. Syncsius^ The inroads of the Goths and Vandals, IN THE SIXTH CENTURY. Stephen TralJianus the father, and Alexander the son, in the time of Justinian. Procopius, an historian and physician, (Cajnobia) the phy- sicians of Alexandria. IN THE SEVENTH CENTURY. Paulus /Egineta, an Accoucheur. Theophilus. Stephanus, an Athenian, the last of the ancient Greek writers. (Deocularus.) Ceber, an Arabian. IN THE EIGHTH CENTURY. The emigrations of different nations. The Lombards, Saracens. The burning of the library at Alexandria. The school at Antioch. The Arabians. Schola Salertina, instituted by Charlemagne ? Academies at Paris, and other places. Wintarus, a German. Clerical physicians. IN THE. NINTH CENTURY, Jewish physician^ Arabians, Mesue. Serapion. Hamech. 'I'he universities of Oxford and Cambridge. Walafridus, Strabo, and Abbott., IN THE TENTH CENTURT. Abukeker Rhazes, (on the small pox.) The academy instituted at Seville, by Arabian, or Saracen princes. The Monks, and Arabians. The Huns, in Germany. IN THE EI.EVENTH CENTURY. Eben Sina, or Avicenna—Ilaly .Abbas. Artephius, a chemist ? Constantine, an African, comes to Salernum, Albericus, an Englishman. Hugo, a French physician. The Crusades, or military expeditions to Judea, or the Holy Land., Wild effusions »>f enthusiasm !, IN THE TWELFTH CENTURT. Moses Ben Maiinou. Avenzoar Avcrrocs.. The University of Montpellier. The Monks are forbid to practice medicine in the council, of Rheims, physicians permitted to marry. IN THE THIRTEENTH CENTURY., Several Universities are instituted. The separation of surgery from physic, at the council of. Lateran, in 1215. yEgidius, a Monk, wrote a poem on the pulse. Actuarius Pope Nicholas. Albcrtus Magnus, Bishop of Ratisbon. IMichacl Scotus. Thomas Aquinas. Raymond Lully. Roger Bacon. Henry dc Frankenstin, a philosopher.CVlll HISTORY OF MEDICINE 111. Theoretic IN THE FOURTEENTH CENTURY. Several Universities are established, particularly in Ger- many. Guido de Cauliaco, of Paris. Paul of Neuremberg, professor at Vienna. IN THE FIFTEENTH CENTURY. The invention of printing, in 1440. Duretus, Simon .lanuensis, Matthias Sylvaticus. Alexander Benedictus, Cuspinianus. Barthal Montagnana, professor at Bononia. Basilius Valentinus. Joannes de Baireuth, Scliedcl Wienmaim. Several Portugese, Spaniards, Frenchmen, Englishmen, and Germans. Hitherto the medicine of Hippocrates, Aristotle, and Ga- len, was in repute. IN THE SIXTEENTH CENTURY. Chemical medicine. Theophrastus Paracelsus, 1528. Van Helmont, Cornelius Agrippa, Guinterius, Fernelius, Vesalius, Fracastorius, Cornarus. Conrad Gesner. IN THE SEVENTEENTH CENTURY. Tachenius, Sylvius. Sennertus, philosophy, chemistry, anatomy, mechanics, natural history, and botany, are better cultivated. The Cartesian system of philosophy and medicine. Fliuld, Wirdig, Dolaeus. Bartholini, Prosper Alpinus, William Harvey, l628, dis- covered the circulation of the blood. Sanctorius, Sydenham, Beecher. An academy of sciences is instituted in Paris and London, which are now the chief depots of natural curiosities, IN THE EIGHTEENTH CENTURY. The mechanical and organic systems of medicine. The philosophy of Leibnitz and Wolfius. Mathematical physicians. Irritability. New experiments. An increase of dogmatic, theoretic, and practical medicine. The following great men, as well as many others, have en- lightened this age. Floffman, Stahl, Boerhaave, - Wedelius hlorgani. Van Swieten, Haller, Linnasus, Cullen Plenck. Posterity will decide the merits of many existing physicians, and professors in various parts of the world. A SYNOPTIC TABLE OF MEDICINE. I. General preparatory information, relative to the study of physic. 1. The study of ancient and modern languages, as Greek, Latin, French, English, Italian, &:c. 2. Literary history, particularly of medicine. 3. General philosophy, particularly logic. 4. Mathematics, in a limited degree. 5. Natural philosophy, as demonstrated by experiments. H. Particular sciences, indispensably necessary in the medical art. 1. Natural history, botany, zoologia, mineralogy. 2. The anatomy of the human body in a state of health and disease, with comparative anatomy. 3. General chemistry, particularly that part which is applicable to physic. 4. The materia mcdica, or a knowledge of medicines, which includes pharmacy, or the preparation of remedies, and the method of compounding them for administration.HISTORY OF MEDICINE, clx fl: Theoretic medicine. 1. Physiology, ora consideration of an liealtliy body. (a) In universal action, which comprehend the whole body. (b) In particular actions, performed by certain organs. (c) In semiotics of a body in health, which explains the general and particular signs of health, (d) In dictics which gives rules for the preservation of health, &c. 2. Pathology, or the consideration of a body diseased. (a) Nosology, which points out the diftcrence of diseases. ^ (b) j?itiology, which investigates the cause of disease. (c) Symptomatology, which treats on the symptoms or effects of disease, (d) Semiotic pathology, w-hich explains the signs of disease. 3. Thcrapia, which consists of the method of curing by indication, it is (a) Vital, or conservative, (b) Prophylactic, or preservative, (c) Therapeutic, or curative, (d) Symptomatic, or palliative. IV. Practical medicine, 1. Clinical, which treats on the cure of internal complaints. 2. Surgical, which is relative to external diseases, and chiefly by management with the hand; 3. Judicial, or the consideration of diseases in a legal point of view, 4. Casual, or consultations, which includes the consideration of uncommon diseases, and difiicult questions that occur in- practice. A Short Admonition to Students in the different Branches of Medicine^. Young Gentlemen, TOR your liberal profession, in this free country, entitles you to that appellation, honour, and rank in life. It is your duty' 4o support your own and professional dignity with noble sentiments, probity, and humanity. Let all your actions be graced with those exalted virtues, that were earnestly recommended by the great Aristotle, who concentrated in his own capa- cious mind, all the wisdom and refined ethics, or morality of preceding Greek philosophers. They consisted in prudencf, tnansuetude, or great affability and mildness of manners, fortitude, temperance, continence, justice, liberality, and 7nagnanimity.* These were the laudable virtues, that the most accomplished, and learned of the Greeks, the noble Stagyrite, and sagacious preceptor of Alexander the Great, ardently inculcated, and what that first of Pioman orators, the penetrating Cicero, imitated in his excellent didactic work, De officiis. Those rules and examples for upright conduct in life, would not disgrace the mild precepts of Christianity; they appertain to the nobleman, gentleman, scholar, and all the liberal professions; without which accomplishments a learned education is ill hestowed. If any v/ork excel in inspiring the human mind with the most elevated moral sentiments, and all those excel- lent qualities, which every man of honour, and gentleman should possess, the important graces of civil and polite life; it is Tally’s offices. Read, reflect, and imitate ; for the great orator and philosopher, ennobles the mind, and censures all low groveling, selfish, ideas, duplicity, and deception. Cunning, however refined, however cautiously exercised, never led any man honourably through life. If virtue sometimes may be its own reward, vice, sooner or later, never fails to torment and produce its fears, punishment, and disgiacc. Never suffer any mean notions to pervade your minds. Endeavour to obtain, by science and strict moral rectitude, a fair reputation ; bid defiance to envy and calumny, or the vile railings of turpitude; for thcy,^as its shade, pursue intrinsic merit, in every condition of life. If you excel in your profession, you must be punished, by hateful detraction, and well might that pcnetiator into human characters, Dr. Swift, say, “ you may know f f “ w hen ♦ * In Ills TTQrlc entitled APIXTOTEAOTS FI'EPI APETHN, yiui K-AK-IflN, and the same, or siniijar; work of Pcxtiio, edited by Edwardus Fawconcr, Collrg, Merton, apud Oxon, published by Fietclier and Rivington, in Greek andLatin.cx HISTORY OF MEDICINE, “ when a great genius appears, b}' all the dunces being in league against him ! Ignorance and mediocrity hate science an^jHI distinguished approbation ; artifice and dissimulation, dread candour, sincerity, and good sensei 'm The justly celebrated Auistotle, contrasts the qualities or virtues already mentioned, with the striking vices, that ars’iJB; their opposites, as imprudaice, irascibility, fear of death, vifcmpcrance, incontinence, injustice, iUiberality, and pusillanimity. To*T pronounce that such human depravities of the soul, are debasing and vicious, is sufficient to render them detestable, in the \ mind of every well disposed virtuous youth. | THE NECESSARY MENTAL QUALITIES OF A MEDICAL STUDENT. ! THE svnopsis and the studies to be pursued, already mentioned, shew the universal knowledge necessary for the contem-i plalion and practice of physic. A greater character for learning and science cannot exist, than what constitutes an accoin- | ■ plished i)hysician ; therefore, the most early study, and comprehensive mind, are requisite. The youth intended for physic, should have all his senses acute, and in the utmost degree of perfection ; for from the perceptibility of the senses alone, is y the human mind stored with all those sublime ideas, that shine so conspicuously in future practical life. *; If the senses be obtuse, slow dulness is the consequence, and a dull scholar never made a brilliant phj'sician. The pupil, therefore, should have organs capable of the clearest perception, to receive accurate impressions, and possess a tenacity in their retention. The intellectual faculties, should, by study and industry, be copiously enriched with the most extensive ideas ‘ ^ of sensation and reflection, with memory, invention, and genius, to call them forth with order and logical arrangement on all important occasions. When all the demonstrative facts are acquired, appertaining to the art, reflection, acute reasoning, and profound judgment, decide how they are to be applied with safety and eflicacy, in the cure of diseases. What a vast field of j science is comprehended ! How many days and years of labour and industry are required ! What sedulous diligence is ab-| solutely necessary ! Pursue, therefore, with an ambitious zeal, all the various branches of the science; never attach your-' ' selves to one, but embrace the whole ; for they, all united, form, with experience, the greatest medical characters. TERMINOLOGIA, ANATOMY, AND PHARMACY; EAPi-LY learn terms, the constituent parts of substances, and definitions. With your own hands practise dissections in the dissecting room, chemistry in the laboratory, and pharmacy, in the apothecary’s shop. Reading, merely, on these sub- jects, gives but a very faint and inadequate idea of those useful branches, but practice makes perfect, and lays the founda- tion of clear reasoning on analysis, synthesis, the doctrines of composition, decomposition, and of analogies, &c. and forms thejudicious structure of all learned prescriptions. Books on these subjects can always be referred to ; first, as introductory, and afterwards, as occasion may require, to be correctors, and remembrancers, of early studies. A spirited emulation should animate the soul, to obtain excellence by unremitting application and industry. Neither indolence nor inattention, can ever be allowed in the medical art. The whole soul should be absorbed in the daily contemplation and humane duties of the profession ! On a future occasion 1 shall enlarge on all these important topics. HOSPITAL STUDIES, &c. IN this grand and extensive metropolis, great hospitals, with many of the most excellent preceptors in Europe, for the cul- tivation of all the branches of medical science, furnish opportunities for industrious students to become skilful practitioners. The professors teach, and it is expected the scholars should learn. All the efforts and experience of the former will prove abortive, if the latter be'not attentive, sober, and industrious. It is best to commence studies, in great practical hospitals, at the age of fourteen or fifteen, and those who do, it is their own fault, if they should not become expert. Those who are loosened upon the town at the age of twenty or more, and com- mence their London hospital studies, should be uncommonly assiduous, during the short period they remain. Every hour should be employed, and the study of every branch arranged, so that one should not interfere with another. No loitering, no dissipation, no card playing, no pursuits of pleasures are permissible. The town, with all its bewitching attractions, , must not invade the unexperienced juvenile mind. The medical student comes from the distant provinces to improve, and be |j enabled to conscientiously perform the sacred duties of the profession; if he, through negligence, should return little wiserfl than he came, he disgraces the art, and injures society, who suppose ability, where dangerous insufficiency exists. No-J; thing can be more infamous than to pretend to knowledge, and be deficient in an art, on which the preservation of health^ f the cure of diseases, and life of human beings'depend. The world at large, indeed, are but ill judges of medical‘abilities, and they sometimes applaud superficial talents, and neglect profound science; but this is no argument in favour of deficient knowledge*cxi HISTORY OF MEDICINE >nowledge. He who-well comprehends the art, if he acquire practice, will soon distinguish himself by superior talents, and successful cures, will establish a permanent reputation, which no opposition, however formidable, or malevolent, can over- throw, Acquire science, be humane, and assist the poor, reject novel narrow-formed systems, avoid disputation and strife, be attentive, kind, generous, and civil to all who apply for relief, and your labours will be incessantly crowned with honours, and all the emoluments which follow merited estimation. Let the hospital pupil keep a book, and write down all cases that occur in practice, the age, disease, constitution, remedies prescribed, and observations on the success of the practice adopted. This mode leaves on the mind strong impressions, which future age shall not obliterate, but which will be promptly called forth on similar occasions. The plan I recommend at the St. Mary-le-bone Infirmary, is the following, divided into columns. Name. -Age. Disease. Symptoms. Habit. Indications. Remedies. Observations. Such a register used in an hospital of full practice, with wonderful facility, initiates the young student into the very essence of sound practice, and conveys the science of the old experienced preceptor into the inexperienced juvenile mind. Those who have had the greatest opportu- nities of education and practice in the country, previous to attending a London hospital, will benefit sooner than those, who have every branch of science to commence on their arrival in the metropolis; but the latter should make up the deficiency by unremitting ardour. All attainments are acquired, and a laudable ambitious zeal for excellence, seldom fails of obtaining it, aut Casar, aut Nihil, should be the stimulus and active principle, in every students mind. DISSECTIONS OF MORBID BODIES. ALL reasonings on medicine were defective, very defective, until morbid dissections demonstrated by ocular evidence, the effects of diseases in the dead human body.; all other sources of intelligence were doubtful, conjectural, and liable to error; but these are real, indisputable, and overturn, at once, all imaginary systems, and pave the way, above all other means for perfecting the art; Bonetus, JMorgagni, Lieutaud, and Sauvage, De Haen, Stork, and our excellent anatomists. Dr. Hunter, Mr. J. Hunter, Dr. Baillie, and others, occasionally, have given distinguishing proofs of the utility of this modern science, and illustrated the art with new and useful observations. These authors should be all seriously studied, and applied as direct as possible to the practice of medicine, surgery, and midwifery. For above forty years, no opportunity has been neglected, to promote these essential and necessary inquiries, and, indeed, my whole medical principles, w hich wiil heieafter appear, have been formed from such indubitable demonstration, joined to reflection, long practical experience, and conclusions from these sources. It is natural, then, to inculcate its absolute ne- cessity, to advance the only solid foundation of the art, though this practical part be not in much esteem with many, from the disgusting appearance dead bodies exhibit. The pursuits are highly meritorious, however, from that very circumstance, and my eltve, and indefatigable friend, Dr. Hooper, has acquired, by an unexampled industry, from morbid dissections per- formed in the presence of myself and pupils, a most profound science in these not very common investigations. Seeing the diseased before death, and examining the effects afterwards are more advantageous than the subjects, supplied for the com- mon dissecting room purposes. This circumstance is of great importance to our pupils. Tne opportunities for extispicial inquiries are immense, from the magnitude of the practice, the diversity of cases in all diseases ; the seeing, previous to death, all the symptoms that led to fatality, at the St. Mary-le-bone Infirmary. These advantages, young gentlemen,'are the sublimest in the art to cheek imaginary conceits, promote true science, and to leave on juvenile minds impressions of diseases, consequences, and morbid appearances, never to be effaced. It is not read- ing desu tory accounts, but viewing with your own eyes the dreadful effects of diseases, in all their various modifications. Sec, reflect, investigate, reason, conclude. Endeavour to discover whether any better treatment than that adopted could have been devised ; or whether the cases were in themselves inevitably fatal. Whether the neglects of the patients, or the non-admission of timely remedies, or the inefficacy of the practice adopted, led to death. All these are very delicate, but profound professional inquiries, and they should be conducted with great candour, circumspection, a regard to the honour of the profession, and all its members ; but above all, ascertain the truth as far as possible. Avoid the rocks others have split on, and so shall you arrive safely into port, on all occasions, like skilful pilots. It is very difficult for the most scientific and experienced, to judge rightly in difficult cases ; but it will alwaj’s be an honourable conduct to investigate facts, and support the dignity of the profession against the surmises of ignorance, or error; for the art has, at times, to contend with both, for the patient’s benefit. Never give an opinion that may injure the character of any other practitioner ; neither criticise nor censureHISTORY OF MEDICINE cxu censure the practise of others, either by speech, inuendo, or writing, without (he justest and honourable mulives. It is more' | generous to conceal than expose errors. Every artist endeavours the best for the aftlicted, and whoever insinuates deficiency ) of science in another, breaks those bonds of harmony, that should ever pervade medicine. It is a very mean reputation, that is built on the ruin of others; it is better that fame should follow generosity, humanity, deep professional skill, whick most may acquire by great industry and experience, for as Cicero Says, Nil sine labore. It is supposed, that you have fulfilled all the intentions of study. You comprehend the composition of medicines, chemistry, pharmacy, anatomy, physiology, surgery, midwifery, the diseases of women and children, and medical practice. You are now g(>ing to launch into the treatment of complaints to the utmost of your own skill, and you all wish to get some share of practice and professional confidence. The requisites for a general practitioner have been only considered ; in the f elevated rank of a physician, the advantages of an university education lead the mind into all the higher branches of a com- plete erudition, in geometry, logic, rhetoric, mathematics, and in the various philosophical sciences, united to the antecedent knowledge in medicine. These, the university statutes of alma water, Oxford, and the university of Cambridge, prescribe and elucidate. Pre-eminence in the Royal College of physicians, in London, flow from these sources, where there has ap« pcared a succession of the most learned in Europe, not only in medicine, but in various branches of profound literature. In the entrance into active medical life, and attempting the acquisition of practice, little can be expected, at first, without great professional and personal talents, and the interest of some senior practitioner, family, or other connections. The com- mencement cannot be better employed, than by relieving the indigent, daily, at certain fixed hours, gratuitously ; thus, if suc- cess attend your humane endeavours, will be laid the foundation, of a spreading permanent reputation, for skill and judgment; thus will the mind be generously employed in the feeling acts of benevolence and Christian charity, and medicine thus exercised, not only improves from experience, but gives confidence to thq reflecting and sensible artists, constantly employed in render- ing the art, what it ought to be, areal blessing to society. The rewards of such conduct are certain. A physician may pre- scribe, a surgeon may bleed, dress wounds, and relieve other accidents; and all these kind offices should be conducted with great tenderness,and feeling, for the distressed sufferers. Favours conferred in a coarse manner, are scarcely received or considered as favours; but if with great solicitude, and a pious concern for human misery, they make lasting and favourable impressions on the human mind. The poorest should be treated with as much aftability and politeness, as the richest and most elevated. Indeed, the poor frequently w-ant all the necessaries and comforts of life ; add sickness to their poverty, and it is impossible to conceive more absolute wretchedness. Medicine, that' divinest of arts ! should expand its cheering rays, in k alleviating such complicated afflictions, and to speak the truth, there is no profession, that has so many opportunities of ex- I ercising the tender emotions of humanity and sensibility ; nor is there any that practises Christian charity, to a greater extent through all ranks and conditions of life. Never desert a patient in the most extreme danger ; but endeavour to administer relief as long as life may remain. In practice, it is of great consequence to study and well comprehend human character, with all its singularities and di- versities, for a knowledge of physiognomy is half the knowlcdgc’of the art; to possess a very tranquil, accommodating, chear- ful temper, and to never suffer wrath to preside over reason. There are a variety of provoking circumstances, daily arising in extensive practice, from ignorance, fears, and sometimes impertinence, which a physician should parry with smoothness, and overlook, if be should wish to be happy within himself. It is too great a sacrifice, for a nran of science, strict honour, and integrity, to disturb his tranquillity at the versatility, follies, or vices of the world ; for he, who from inexperience, expects j more steadiness, wisdom, or virtue, than the world at large possesses, will be cruelly disappointed all through practical life. | Conclusion.—The sentiments promulgated, young gentlemen, it is hoped, and not even doubted, will make a proper im- | pression on your juvenile minds. Your honour, your interest, your reputation, all depend on the prosecution of your studies I with energy and vigilance. You are engaged in a profession that cannot admit any moments for idleness, relaxation, or i other pursuits. The human intellects, Iiowcver gifted, however formed by nature, and improved by application, can scarcely I even be equal to the boundless diversities of medicine ajid human constitutions. Pursue your honourable profession with i ardour, never be satisfied with present knowledge, exert yourselves daily for fresh accessions to science ; so shall you be an i honour to human nature, orjrainents to the profession, and fortunate in life, ff'hough stratagems and finesse artfully directed to interested purposes, many sometmres succeed ; yet they are beneath your dignity. Ileal science, humanity, and urbanity, with sedulity, always lead to professional fame. Practice ail the virtues, avoid all the vices, be strictly honourable in your j j proicssions, and your rewards through life will be certain and durable. SCIIOLASCHOLA ET HISTORIA i I i' MEDICIN.E UNIVERSALIS NOVA, OR THE NEW UNIVEESAL SCHOOL.AND HISTORY OF MEDICINE> Abridged^ Tfanshtedt ^c, from the Latin Originai^ - EDICINE is the art of preserving health, and coring diseases; II. The principal parts of Medicine are three—(tua-ioAayiKvj, Physiology; Pathology; and Qtpcarevriy.^, Therapeutics. 1. Physiologt considers the human body in a state of health. 2. Pathology contemplates the human body in disease. 3. Therapeutics preserves the body in an healthful state, and cures, as far as the medical science extends, all diseases. As Anatomy is the foundation of Medicine, and leads to a knowledge of Physiology', it shall be first considered. ' OF ANATOMY. MI. Anatomy, ot Avxrofiv\, is an artificial dissection of the human body, demonstrating the situation, connexion} figure, and structure of all the parts. IV. The first object of Anatomy respects the human bodybut the second, that of other, animals, - B9. The daily dissection being finished, the bod)% or parts, should be accurately covered, and every thing ought ( 2 } V. Division. The principal parts of Anatomy are: ' ■ iL 1. Osteology which examines bones, their structure and connexions. 2. Syndesmology explains the ligaments and their uses. S. Myology contemplates and shews the muscles and their actions. ' 4. Angiology expounds the difference of vessels in the human body. * 5. Neurology demonstrates the nervous system and distribution of the nerves. v- 6. AdENOlogy teaches the structure and offices of glands. 7. Splanchnology explains the viscera and their functions. " 8. Hygrology considers the human fluids. W VI. The means by which a knowledge of Anatomy is perfected, ares y ]. By artificial dissections of the human body. 2. An accurate demonstration of parts. ' 3. A perspicuous explication. 4. The reading of modern anatomical authors. The Anatomical Instruments. 1. Before dissection, needles are to be ready. 2/ Thread, and that it may be stronger it should be waxed,' to serve for ligatures, or for tying any part. 3. Scalpels, or dissecting knives, made with the best tempered steel, and a larger one for cutting the cartilages of the ribs, or other purposes. 4. A dissecting hook, or tenaculum, to lay hold of any part. 5. A hone to sharpen the knives, when blunted. -r 6. Sponges should be ready to cleanse parts and to dry up crubr,'’ or any humidity. 7. Probes to explore the progress of vessels, &c. 8. Scissars are required to cut membranes, &c. 9. A blow pipe is necessary for whatever may require inflation. 10. A small pair of bellows should be ready to inflate larger parts. 11. A saw to open the cranium. 12. An elevator to raise the bone already sawed. 13. Besides these, wedges, a hammer, syringes for vessels, &c. tubes for injecting quicksilver, and a microscope for examining minute parts are necessary. Pails, basons, pans, water, cloths, and a marble table arc appendages of the dissecting room. VII. Some general precepts to be observed in dissections. 1. No person should be admitted to dissections, but those who devote themselves to the] medical or chirugical art, except learned philosophical investigators. 2. The time mostelegible for anatomical administrations is winter. 3. The cadaver, or dead body, should be first cleansed from all impurity. 4. The roem of administration should be cool. 5. 1 he place in which dissections are performed should be light. 6. The dead body, in public dissections, should be placed on a versatile table, that the Students, or Auditors, should see the subject, by turning the table in different directions. 7. The hand, in operating, should be held suspended. 8. Humidity should be often absorbed by a sponge. to appear as neat as possible. 10. Persons admitted to dissections should observe secrecy, and never speak of those subjects, which, though indispensably necessary to the Faculty, fill the minds of the rest of mankind with horror. M~w:A a 7.- ■ A '-CTab VI A. I( 3 ) PLATE I. On the Names of the external Parts arid Divisions of the Human Body. A. The human body is divided into the head, trunk, and ex- tremities. The face and the parts covered with hair is called the head. Tlie parts of which are: . 1, Sinciput, or anterior and superior part. 2. Occiput, or posterior part. 3. ' Tempora. The temples, or sides. 4, Vertex, or crown of the head, b The face, 5, Frons, or forehead, under the sinciput?. 6', Nares, tlie nostrils from which mucus, - . ( ... ■' " 7- Oc7tli, thb eye? under the eye-lids. [ ; P<ilpcbr<e, or the eye-lids. j[ r Cilia, or eyc-lashcs, the outer edge of the eye-lids, on which hairs grow. Centals major, the great angle of the eye towards the nose. Canthus minor, the smaller angle of the eye towards the temples, ||K‘ 8. Mala:, the checks, which when inflated are called Q. 0«, the mouth ; it divides the lips, and is that empty space which extends from the lips to the fauces inter- nally. 10. Jitres, the ears; the lobe is the extremity, j 11. Mentum, the chin, in the middle of which the dimple, c Collum, or neck, is immediately below the head. 12. Jvgulum, or throat, is the anterior part. 13. Cervix, is the posterior part. B. Thorax, between the neck and abdomen; in which the the heart, lungs,- &c. are seated. , e Sternum, or pectus. 0 Mamma:, or breasts, carneous eminences on the anterior part of the thorax. ’ Papilla, or nipple in the extreme part. ( Scrobiculm cordis. 0 Scapulce, or broad bones lying behind, called shoulder blades. ' C. Abdomen, or the inferior belly, is situated between the thorax and pubis-in it are contained the liver, spleen, stomach, intestines, pancreas, kidneys, bladder, &c. g The space above the navel is called epigastrium. I The extremities of the short ribs are terminated by cartilages» Hypochondria are immediately under tlie short ribs. h Umbilieus, or the navel, is the place where formerly the umbilical vessels passed to nourish the foetus in the gravid uterus. The middle part of the navel is called acromphalon, the surrounding skin vetula, when shrivelled, signifying old age. i Hypogastrium is below the navel. ' k The part lower down to the pudenda is called pubes, or ephebffion. ■ 1 The bones of the back-bone are called vertebra:, and the whole assemblage of them is the spine; (m) the lower part is called liimbi, or loins; (n) the last bone is the os sacrum, called hyposphondelon, which is terminated by the coccyx. 0 On the sides and below the loins posteriorly arc the nates, or posteriors. q Ilia are the cavities between the costte, or ribs, and the femur, or thigh. r Inguina, the groins, are next the upper part of the thighs. D. . . The arms, or superior extremities, extend from the shoulders, s Humerus is the uppermost part of the brachium, or arm., t Axilla, or arm-pit, is the cavity under the articulation of the humerus. .. ^ .. , • u reaches from the elbow to the wrist. . '• i V. Gibber, or olecranons, is the posterior protuberant, sharp end of the cubit, called elbow'. . w Carpus, the wrist, from the lower end of the cubit to the metacarpus. X The flat, broad part of the hand is called pah/ia in Latin, and metacarpium in Greek. J Dorsum manus, the back of the hand. - § Vula manus, the inside or palm. Digiti, the fingers; 1. Pollex, the thumb; 2, Index, the fore finger; 3, Medius, the middle finger; 4, Annularis, the ring finger; 5. Auricularis, or little finger. , ^ \ ' Pedes, ihoi feet, are the lower extremities. y Femur, the tliigh. z Genu, tlie knee, is the connection of the thigh with the leg, ' a Poples, the ham, behind and under the knee. 6 Tibia, the shin-bone, is the anterior part of the leg. c Sura, the calf of the leg, is the posterior fleshy part of thd d Calx, the heel, is the posterior round part of the foot. ' i e Below that is the hollow of the toot. f Then comes planta, or the sole of the foot. g Opposite, on the upper part, is the tarsus,] ^ h Metatarsus, 1 Digiti, the toes of the foot.( 4 ) PLATE II. Of the. constituent Farts of the Body, The human body consists of solids and Jluids. The solids are: I. A fibre is the most simple part of the body, destined for the construction of all the otlier parts. Fibres are divided in longitudinal A, transverse B, oblique C, orbicular D, arched E, angular F, spiral G. From many simple fibres longitudinally and closely ap- plied to each other arises a simple lamina. II. Tela cellulosa, or cellular texture; by the union of many simple laminae is produced the tela cellulosa, which gives origin to almost all parts of the body. a Is the te-xture seen by the microscope. 6 The texture with large cells, to receive the adeps, or fat. III. Membrane, is a white, flexile, thin, and expanded part* a Closer cellular texture, like II. produces membrane III* IV. Tunica, or coats, are membranes so turned and formed as to make various cavities ; but more properly those that constitute tubes or vessels. Vessels are long, conic, membranous ducts, through which the fluids of the body are conveyed, and are named as follows: y ^ 1 Is a conie, pulsating vessel, carrying the blood y ” I from the heart to every part of the body; is ^ J compose«i. of five coats. yj .1 Is a vessel without pulsation, returning the y . I blood and other fluids from all parts of the body J towards the heart. VII. 1 Are small pellucid tubes furnished with valves, 1/ympha- I they absorb from most parts of the body the coa-* tic Vessels J gulable lymph, and carry it to the thoracic duct. VTTT 1 small membranes in the heart and veins, y , ’ land shut like flood-gates, that the blood and ® J other fluids may not repass. V. Arterial tunics, (a) the first and outer coat they take from the cavities. h The second coat is next the former, c The third is the mufcu/ar coaf, made of spiral mus- cular fibres, whence the pulse originates. d The fourth coat is made of the cellular texture, e The fifth is the last and internal. The venal coats VI. have the same structure, cxcent the muscular coat. All those tunics are nourished by small arteries, veins, and receive their sensation from nerves. IX. The branches of ar/crifs and ncMij. A the artery. B the vein. C the ligature in both to shew by the distention the course of the blood. D the vein swelling below the ligature^ E the artery detumefying, e, e, e, e, the connections of the small ramifications. VII. Exhibits a lymphatic or conglobate gland injected] with mercury. A the lymphatic vessel. B the lymphatic gland; a heap! of vessels. X. Nerves, are white, hard, elastic, and very sensibl^ parts; they originate in the brain, cerebellum, and medullil spinalis, and arc dispersed over the whole body; by thenn all sensation is produced. X. The nerve; A the outer coat. B the nervous fila^ mfcnts. XI. The muscles, are organical parts, called flesh, andj give motion to the body, they are composed of fibres, cellular] structure, arteries, veins, nerves, lymphatics, &cc. Tendons, are the ends of the muscles, called heads ortails^ their fibres are tougher, stronger, and more compact thaal in the muscles, and of a white silver colour. XI. A double muscle ; A^.B, C, the outer tendon divided.! D, E, the interior tendon. F, G, two orders of fibres,^ making two bellies of the muscle. XII, A. gland, is a fleshy part of the body, hard, round,' or oblong, covered by its proper membrane; composed of: arteries, veins and lymphatic vessels designed for the deter- mined secretion, or mutation of some particular humours. XII, A Gland. A. blood-vessels, B. a nerve. C, cretory duct. The rest represent the glandular body. Ductus excretoriiis is is a canal receiving in certain glands and viscera the secreted liquors, and convoying them off to the proper destined places. XIII. Ossa, bones, are the hardest parts'of the body, composed of strong lamellae, of the cellular texture, blood- vessels, and nerves, and are destined to be a support to all the other parts. XIII. Os, the bone, a, corpus, the body of the bone; b, caput, the head; c, the apophysis. XIV. Cartilages are parts most similar to the bones, white, flexile, and smooth, generally adhering to the extremities of the bones. The anterior part of the ribs is cartilaginous, the same also is the trachea, or wind-pipe. XIV, Ligament is a membranous part destined to join and connect together other parts. XIV. The cross ligaments in the poples or liam seen from the anterior side, (a) Condylus extermis femoris. (b) The internal condyl. (c) The tibia, (d) Fibula, (e) Lignmenta cruciata. a,b. Smooth, white parts; the ends of the bones covered with,a smooth cartilage. Viscera, bowels, are organic parts, v. g. the liver, &c. • Organon, or pars organica is any aniinaled part of the body destined for some particular use. e\^Tabvla.II, Je.( 5 ) PLATE III. Of the Bones and their Connections, That part of anatomy which treats of ihc bones is called OSTEOLOGIA. The bones are considered in the state when all the soft parts are entirely taken away ; or when some ef them are left upon the bones. Thus, Osteoloay is divided into dry and recent, or moist. ’ 0.9, the bone, is the hardest, most compact, inflexible, and least sensible part of the body, composed of many small lamcHee, originating themselves from hard, rigid fibres, most closely attached and united one to the other, in their proper situation. . When the elements of the body, longitudinally, and in a series meet one another, then arise the osseous when these fibres laterally join together, then are produced the bony lamcUce, or tables, between them is the effused, and gradually coagulating gluten left: this is the origin of the bones. '1 hat point, where the ossification has first appeared, is called the Punctum Ossificationis. r. 1. A 6onc is flat, cylindrical, or irregular. 2. In substance compact, (d) spongious, cellular, reticular, from the closer adhesion or separation of the osseous fibres, or cohering particles. 3. I’hc chemical analysis shews phlegm, salt, oil, volatile spirit, and calcareous earth.* 4. The texture consists in laminated longitudinal scaly fibres, with transverse fibres, which may be called Clavicular, (d) Represents the inferior part of the thigh bone, with its lamellae in their true situation. The parts of the bones are: I. Diapkysis. A is the body of the bone, which first grows hard, and is the foundation of the rest. II. (aj Apophyses, or proemw, are the various prominent parts of the diaphysis: the round apophyses are called condyls, capita, or heads; others from their shapes are named cervix, neck; spina, spine; mucro, corona, stylus, &c. and they cannot be separated by boiling. (b) Epiphyses are the osseous protuberances, which by intervention of a cartilage adhere to the bone; and they se- parate from the bone by boiling, they are cartilaginous in children, harden with age, but remain always spongy. III. Cavities, there are many large or small, (cj Foramina, or perforated holes. The vessels and nerves pass through them. (d) Meatus, are the interior cavities in which the marrow is contained. (ej Sinus are the impervious cavities on the surface of the bones, and serve: 1. ) To form articulations i when they are deep they are called cotyle, or acetabulum; when shallow, glcne, sinus gle~ noideus. 2. ) To receive other parts, and arc namedas orbits of the eye; w'hen they have a long extent, they are called sulci, furrows. Of the articulations of the bones. IV. The articulations of the bones are made for the sake of motion. The articulation, with a manifest motion, is threefold, and called Diathrosis, but is subdivided into CfJ Enarthrosis, or profound articulation; when a great head of a bone is received in the fovea, or deep acetabulum of another bone, e. g. the head of the thigh bone in its ace- tabulum. (g) Arthrodia, or a superficial articulation; as the os hu- meri is connected with the scapula, or shouhler-bone, where its round head is received in the less deep fovea. (h) Ginglymus, a mutual, reciprocal articulation, when a bone receives, and is received by another. Synarthrosis, or articulation with an obscure motion ; Tike the bones of the carpus, and tarsus, with the bones of the metacarpus and metatarsus. A?nphyarthrosis, or articulation with an imperceptible mo- tion, as in the bones of the carpus and of the tarsus. \. Symphysis, a concretion, when the united bones arc immoveable. The immediate are: (i) Raphe, or suture, when two bones are mutually In- dented into one another, like the teeth of a saw. The true futures are : 1. the coronal; 2. sagittal; 3. lamb- duid, or ypsiloid: or they dira spurious, like those on the tem- ple bone.-f Harynonia, when the mark of union is like a line, as in the bones of the nose. (V) Comphosis, when the bones run one into another like a nail in a wainscot, as the teetli in the maxillae, or jaw-bones. The mediate are, when other parts concur together; as (m) Synchondrosis, when the bones are joined by cartila- ges, like the ribs with the sternum. Cn) Syneurosis, or, rather syndesmosis, by means of liga- m^ts. (o) Syyitenosis, when the bones are joined by means of tendons. fp) Synymensis, when the bones are connected by mem- branes. (q) Syssarcosis, when they are connected together by muscles. frj Shews the radiatingof a bone. A is the central part of the os frontis, more perfect than the others, and where ossification first commences. • Chemistry has lately made important discoveries in analyses, &c. C( 6 ) PLATE IV. 4 Vvhen all (lie l>ones of tic bumari body are joined together it is called a Shkton* The Skeleton is called artificial, when the bones are connected by brass wires; or it is natural, when the bones arc prepared and united together by their natural ligaments. • The bones of the body are divided into bones of the head, trunk, and evtrennities. The bones of the head and neck. The bones of the head are the skull (cranium) and jaw- bones Cmorillep.) The cranium, or calvaria, is made of two tables, or la- mellae, between whicli is the diploe. a. Os frontis, curonalc, is on the fore part, called forehead. The os frontis, and all the other bones of the cranium con- sist of two tables, and contain a spongy substance between. Surgeons, in the operation ot the trepan, should well attend to the structure of those bones. b. Ossa syncipitis, or vcrticis, the bregma. Between a and i is a part of the coronal suture, the ossa bregmatis, or parietal bones, form, or constitute the uppermost and la- teral parts of the cranium. c. Part of the os squamosum, or squamous part of the tem- poral bone. 2. The mamillary process. d. Osjugale, or mala;, zygoma, or cheek-bone. e. A part of the superior maxillary bone with eight teeth.' The superior maxilla has thirteen bones and sixteen teeth. f. Maxilla inferior, or the lower jaw-bone. g. Seven vertebra of the neck with the cartilages. 3. The transverse processes. Of the trunk. The trunk consists of the dorsal spine,, bones of the breast, and the ossa innominata. h. Sternum, or breast-hone, has, in adults, one, two, or three parts; on the upper part it has a sinus, or furrow, for the wind-pipe; and on the sides i- The heads of the claxicules are articulated. On both sides are the superior seven ribs ^ the sternum has the shape of a dagger, on its point is the cartilago xipkoides, ensforniis. k. l. Costa, the ribs, are twenty-four in number, twelve on each side. m. Five vertebrae of the loins wdth the cartilages between. Superior e.Ttrcinities. The superior extremities are divided, I. in the humerus, or shoulder-bone, composed of the shoulder and clavicle II. the cubitus, the fore-arm, and is composed of the ulna and radius: III. manus, tliehand; which is again divided into the carpus, 7rtetacurpus, and the five fingers, digiti. i. 'I'he clavicles are crooked like an Italian s. the round end articulates with the sternum, and the flat with the acro- mion of the scapula. 10. Scapula, the shoulder-blades. If. Cervix scapula, or the neck of the shoulder-blade.' <j. Os humeri, the shoulder-bone, or upper bone of the arm; 11. Condylus internus. 12. Condylus externus. r. Radius lies by the side of the ulna, but is a little shorter. 5. Ulna, is aho called cubitus. 'I he cubitus is directed to the little finger; the radius to the thumb. t. Carpus, the wrist, consists of eight different shaped little bones. u. Metacarpus, four bones belong to it.. The bones be- tween the fingers and the carpus, or wrist, are named Jiieta- carpus. 15. Is the metacarpal bone of the thumb. w. The bones of the five fingers. The five fingers have three phalanges, or thirteen bones, besides the sesamoid little bones, under the articulations, or Joints. The inferior extremities. The inferior extremities consist; I. Of the ossa f'emoris, thigh-bones: ll. crura, the legs, divided into r/Ym, the large or shin-bones, the less bone, and patella, kncc-pan: III. tin; foot, is divined into tarsus, metatarsus, ami five toes. X. The femur, the'parts of which are; M. Caput, or the superior head, is uppermost in the fur- row of which is the round ligament inserted. 15. Cullum, or cenix, the neck is under the head. 4. Processus transversales. - n. 0$ sacrum, is composed of five vertebrae. o. Ossa innominata, called by Galen avavujua, are divided into ilia, ossa ischia, and pubis. The first, 5. Os ilium, is called by some Aayavcv, asviuvuv: the second, 6. the anterior, pubis, rvjg v’Sv;? dr«v. The third, 7- os coccygis; is'^i'ov and X vu vvpov. S. Qs hchianii-^ the circular appoa- ■«hx on the superior part is by some called spina iiii, or spine of the ilium. f). The inner cavity of the os Innomitialum, and the o.s sacrum, is called arc below the coll urn, or neck. 16. Trochanter major,'! 17. Trochanter minor, j 18. Condylus internus. jp. Condylus externus. 20. Patella, mola, lays on the femur and tibia, y. z. Fibula, in Greek vagiovy,. 21., Malleolus internus. 22. Malleolus externus. 23. Os caleis, calx, the bone of the heel. Between 58 and 24 are six other bones of the tarsus. 25. Metatarsus, has five bones. 20. The bones of the toes or the phalanges. - • The andenls have very well known the bone< of the human body, their figures and conacctions, as may bs seen by the Greek descriptions io the Midiii’u', extracted frorti Hippicntts, Rufes Ephesius, Calcnus, and Orihsiui, &c. \ IJ Schema el /u stona a. 6ul I^cjTabvla .V. Sctu>la> ethislorta JfeJxcuux- a. GuLMjrvd^. ^^JltyCfye-( 7 ) PLATE V. Tlie bat'k View of the Skeleton. Of the head and nett-. a. Ossa parletalia, or parietal bones, are on the sides. b. Os occipitis is posterior. 1, The sagittal suture divides the upper part of the cra- nium into two equal parts. i 2. Tlic lambdoidal suture joins the os occipitis with the j bones of the synciput. I c. Os mala-, or cheek-bone, j d. The lower maxillary bone. e. The seven vertebrae of the neck. Of the bones in the trunk. The bones of the whole trunk are divided into the spine, I thorax, and pelvis. ' The dorsal spine is that column of bones reaching from the 1 condyle of (he occipital bone to the os sacrum, containing I the spinal marrow. The whole spine consists of twenty-four j vertebraj, which arc divided into three parts; e. the seven j uppermost are the rer^e^rcc of the neck ; 3. the twelve in the . middle are dorsal vertebraj; 4. the five inferior are the verte- I brae of the loins. Every one has a body, two epiphyses, and I seven pn cesses. 5. Os sacrum. 6. Os coccygis. ! A. The first vertebra of the neck is nominated atlas; the : af/ur has no body nor spine. j E. The second vertebra, epistropheus, besides the processes ! it has a dental process, like a tooth. The use of the spine is to keep the body erect, to leave more room for motion, to sustain the head over the trunk, to I receive and preserve the spinal marrow, and to admit the nerves to pass through the Internal openings. f. The clavicle, it is the first bone formed in the feetus, and is of a spongy fragile substance. ItsjKeis, I. to strengthen the superior extremities, and to hinder the falling too much forward on the breast: II. to give an origin to several muscles: III. to preserve and defend from injury the great subclavian vessels, which lay under- neath. g. Scapulae, homoplatce; the shoulder blade-bones. 7. Acro.nion. The clavicles are fixed to it. 8. Processus coracoidcus, or coracoid process. 9. The short process, or cervix, where a sinus is formed for the os humeii. 10. Thespjrieof the scapula, dividing the posterior part into two. The use of tie scapula. 1. To sustain and connect the arm with the trunk. It. To give rise or insertion to many mus- cles. 111. To defend the contents of the thorax. • The ribs or costoe. b. The ribs form the lateral parts of the thorax. Commonly there arc twenty-four, twelve on each side. The true ribs, or costa vera, are the seven uppermost ribs,, connected on each side by means of their cartilages with the sternum, and with the ribs of the opposite side, make so many full circles. Sec also 'I'abie IV. False ribs, not ha, or short ribs, are those which follow the former, Atid are five, not touching the sternum, but are con- nected with it by their cartilages. The substance of the ribs is on the outside -compact, but in- ternally spongy. The use of the ribs. They form the sides of the thorax; during respiration they increase or diminish the cavity of the thorax; they defend the lungs and the. heart; many muscles adhere to them ; and externally and anteriorly are placed the mamma, breasts. Pelvis. The pelvis is in the inferior part of the trunk, and acquires that name from its shape. The pelvis is composed of the following eight bones: On the posterior part of the pelvis is the os sacrum, 5. and os coccygis 6.* Laterally the ilium, L with the superior margin called crista On the foreside of the pelvis the ossa pubis, (see Tab. IV.) On the inferior part of the pelvis ossa ischii. k. In women tliose bones are smaller ami more asunder than in men, particularly the ossa pubis; thus they make the ca- vity of the pelvis, and the angle between the os pubis and ischii, larger, for the better accommodation of the fmtus, and for its easier exclusion in the birth. The connexion of those bones is by means of cartilages and ligaments. The use of them all is to form the pelvis, and to make an acetabulum, to receive the head of the thigh-bone. The use of the pelvis is the following = to defend part of the intestinum ileum, the rectum, and the urinary bladder; in men, the vesiculse seminales, and spermatic ducts; in wo- men, the uterus, vagina, with the adherent parts. The superior extremities. f. Claviculse, g. shoulder-blade, Z. shoulder-bone. 11. Ex- ternal condyle. 12. Internal condyle.,ia. lladius. n. Ulna,, the superior part of which is the olecranon ; the inferior processus styloideus. o. Carpus. /(.Metacarpus, Phalanges of the fingers. The lower extremities. ■ r. Os femoris. 13. Trochanter major. 14..Trochanter mi- nor. 15. Conclyius internus. 16. Coiulylus c.xternus. 'I’ibia. t. Fibula. 17. Malleolus externus. 18. Malleolus internus, u. Tarsus, v. Metatarsus, to. Phalanges. * Some Anatomists will add.the os sacrum and os coccygis under the name of vtUebra spuria.( 8 ) PLATE VI. Of various Hones, Figure I. Craniu7n, &c. • 1, Os frontis, 2. The upper foramen orbitalc, where passes through the first branch of the fifth pair of nerves, ♦vith a small artery; therefore the surgeons should take care, particularly in infants, not to make incisions in those places. 3. Underneath is the frontal sinus, where the trepan can- not be performed without danger. 4. Os bregmatis, or parietal bone. 5. Os temporis, or temporal bone. 6. The squammous part. 7. The petrous part, whence. 8. The meatus .luditorious. 9-The mastoid, or mammillary process, 10. The.styloid process. 11. Os occipitis. 12. Os mala;. 13. Os sphasnoidale, basilare, multiformc, &c. 14. Os maxillffi superioris, or superior maxillary bone ; it consists of thirteen bones and sixteen teeth, if the number be complete. Of these thirteen bones, six are pairs: whereof, the lacryinal, ii. the nasal, iii, the jugal, iv. the maxillary, V. the lower spongeous, vi. the palatinuin, and the last odd one is called iwner. They are joined together by a plain juncture, called har- »nonia. 15. Os lacrymale, or unguis ; there is to be observed in it a furrow', for the conformation of the nasal duct; which is of use to consider in the chirurgical operation for the fistula lacrymalis. 16. The pterigoid processes. 17. The coronal suture. 18. The squammous suture. 19* The lambdoidal suture. The use of those sutures are : i. The better to affix the dura mater, and to sustain it firmly within the cranium, ii. That some nervous fibrillm and vessels may pass through tlicm. iii. To let out the va- pours through the skull, iv. As some assert, and that the virtues of fomentations, poultices, and other remedies may penetrate, v. That in accidents, the fissures may not extend too far, but m.ay stop in the sutures, vi. In child-birth it is of very great advantage, that the cranivim be not made of one single bone, but that there are many in the tender-boned foetus, to slide one over the other, and bear the compression; it would otherwise cause more difficult labours. Figure II. The inferior maxilla. 1. The coronal processus, to which the adducent muscles are affixed. 2. The condyloid processes, by which the maxilla is arti- culated with the cranium, or head. \ a. The teeth. Dentes. In both maxillae are cavities in which thirty-two teeth are £.\ed. The teeth are divided in three classes. b. Incisores are the four anterior ones. c. Two canini are ‘nearly conical; the two upper canini Lave the name of eye-teeth. d. The grinders, or dentes molares, they are blunt, large, ; and uneven. I e. Dentes sapientice are the hindermost, and of the same j shape as the molares. Figure III. A longitudinal section of the cranium. 1, The frontal bone. 2. The os bregmatis with theim^Bi pressions of the vessels belonging to the dura mater. 3. TheJ! os occipitis. 4. The sella turcica, or equina, is a cavity inj the sphenoid bone, and in the inside of the cranium. 5. TheJ process of the sphenoidal bone, making apart of the septum^ narium. '6, The process of the ethmoidal bone. 7. The osj I vomer. 8. Crista galH, is a third part of the os ethmoides,^ j very like a cock’s-comb. 9- The sinus of the os frontis. 10^ i Various openings for the nerves. - Jn] Figure IV. H The cranium with the superior maxilla lying on the vertex. | A. The 05 occipitis. B. The hole through which the niivj dulla oblongata changes into the medullary spine. C, The" inferior part of the os temporis. D. The os basilare. E. The os palati. I'\ Os jugale, a, a. The processes of the og occipitis which articulate with the vertebra, b. Sinus, c. The mammillary processes, d. The foramen for the lateral sinus of the dura mater, e. The beginning of the mcatui auditorius. The sinus of the os temporis for the articu- lation of the inferior maxilla, g. The styloid process, h. Processus jugalis of the os temporum. i. The foramen through which the nerve of the tenth pair comes out. k, k. Processus aliformes of the os basilare. 1. The vomer proceeds up to the septum narium, or the eleventh bone of the superior maxilla. A foramen for the egress of vessels, n. The teeth. 0. A foramen for the passage of another branch of the fifth pair of nerves toward the inferior parts, p. The fo- ramen through which the carotid artery enters the brain. Figure V. The bones of the carpus and metacarpus, or wrist and hand. The carpus consists of eight small bones of various shapes. They are placed in the following series, beginning from the side next the thumb, outwards: Os naviculare, lunare, cu- , neiforme, orbiculare; then, in the row underneath, from the thumb—trapezium, trapezoidcs, magnum, unciforme. The metacarpal bones, one for each finger, except the thumb, extending from the eight small bones to the knuckles; and the phalanges, or joints of the fingers, comprehend the bonos of the hand and wrist. Figure VI. The bones of the tarsus and metatarsus, or instep and foot. The tarsus consists of seven bones.—The 'os Calais, astra- galus, cuboides, naviculare, and three cuneiformia.—The j metatarsus has five bones. The toes have fourteen bones; i they have also sesamoid bones, as in the fingers. i The nails are fixed on the extremities of the fingers and toes, in which is the lunula, which is the whiter part adjoining the cutis, or skin.I Tabvlavi. J'tM/i etA(Ttmir a C„/7teM /ey. I II S’ i H- F-: t ,jS»-'-. • 7^ ^ »:<; ^ ■' : . / ■ ^V- ■ • ' w. ■ -7.V* -1 ^ * y*-^ V: ■• '^f . 77- 1 . ■■ ^ -'<’v " ■ w' ^ > - t, '■,.r. ■L».i .' • t S5M . • ,." ’ *S .' • X- * '* •*^ - '. - '■?- ' jT <jV i ft '■. ■; '• .. • r ^ ■ . ■ Cj Is. Iv. ••- m- flF.%. ;1 n' ,A <^*V ? V '•>' > '. V 'v' W r 2 itr ' ' 4; -7^ ‘ ■ >. T. f-7 ?„. ' ■■ : • ■ •>; ‘;' ■ . ^ /' ^ •>> ^^i • . s - - K^l ■ s',; . ,,1,. ’ , ■ ■ ■ ’.' ' •*. ^v ^4"»- . 7) -ft • .' •' ■ . . ^. . L# • ' '■ r - V •. V r < 'a' ,- m- ■■‘v' - ' ■ 7’ ^ #.':■ -I TabvxaNTI (^d /i^fey. Sckcla. el hirterici Medcuico a.- the head and neck. Osparietale, in the superior part of the cranium. Sutura sagittalis, joins together the parietal bones Os ocdpitis, in the posterior inferior part of the cranium. Os temporis is the inferior and lateral part. Osfrontis is on the anterior part. . eo which .he „,„scul„, thf&rrrarkcTa pS L7.hf LcrSlaec"'' of the eyes. ^ ^ palate, nose, and orbit Os is in the lower and anterior part of the face, is the organ for mastication. ^ Seven vertebra of the neck. All the transverse apophuses of the vertebr-p of have a pecaliar fora™e„£\e asce„di„g'*l;.lral li^riet pa?ftetV“*'''‘“- lateral The vertebra of the back And have these particulars : 1. On their sides of their bodies is formed a fovea by the junction of two vertebral bodies, to make a head for the ribs. physes for the lessheaTof the transverse apo- Costa, the seven superior ribs are called vera, or true - the five inferior are named notha, false ribs. Ihe two last, or spurious, are entirely loo«=e .ar"^,r„rv‘er£:;L1LTri*^ ■- which runs from the an<fle of each ribT ^ furrow, greatc. pan of .he hi:o1rwfa,SrvtV“u , necessar, be k„„»„ .be „pe.a.io„ foAhe em;X taoea .he las. ver.eb,a „f ,lT. back, a„“E teX” jjAt • . PELVIS. 0. lir AA.fe'„rc?AAir" ^ The «, cocc,gi, has four small bones a. .he end of .he os sa- tom, a„dT„;rert.\ltrr n -V r OSSA INNOMINATA 0< A forms .he superior pan of .he pdvi, 0» Mc4.i „ mfenor, o, pubis aMerior. .hreh iofe-rior margin on the superior extremities. * W„ ,S between .he shoulder and .he fore-arm Sager. "* ™ Pf the forearm, .awards .he li..le plate VII. The side View of a Skeleton. Radius is on .he ou.side of .he arm, .owards .he .humb. tora-am and"me.acarp£' “‘““''tl ho.wcen .he Msiacaspu, is between the carpus and the Sngers. They constitute the middle part of the hand metaCos.^'titf AXeTsliml/tA" phalanges. arc called Femur fL,. extremities. bone ori the pelvis and the shin- ofSg."""'"” ftttus, in .ho interior par. l^bula is externally lying along the tibia. and fbot the Xm'l si'nur" "" ‘'““t. D ser'vlTa‘;S:;X“ h"'*. >"<> <o tibia. ^ ^ ® the extensor muscles of the Tarsus is between the leg and metatarsus. Its use IS to make the basis of the foot and ♦ wards the motion of the lower part of the ;J/c«ur„s is between .he tals and the toes. Are small pea.Iik?LA”°.'° inthrS! a?dAi”'‘'“'' of «.e thumb. A.fs.li“eA",,A?;eA?fS^hAArdAr^ persons, and soiueareyeArnilagmeouL” “ nl‘‘lTT^- 'ho middle par. is most solid. A thefT "'‘“'"o ‘o the nose •All the sutures are imperfect ®“7'''''’c“"fi>'* of tw o four distinct bones Ossa tmparaUa are cartilagineous in their circumference The »«„s uuditsuius satsraus is then wanti,,. "• Dsates, the UM, are hid in ttetlt«s'‘‘ 7°'’'“““- membranes. neir sockets, covered by thin The sternum is cartilaginous. Os sacrum has separate vertebra?. ■ Os coccy^M is cartilaginous. Patella As carpus uiso, sad,,,-sus, are cartilaginous All ep,pl,ps,s ,a infants, in the begiimiiie are ca^'l __ The naiVs ih .he ih.id „„„,h a,re:dy car be IIS::’; Tigure III. Dentes. a. Dens incisoris, or cutter h n.,„ c, f e. Diflerent dentes molares or ariudo^^'^' ^^^g-tooth. others with three ^•uots, orphlngs.'^'"'^^^''^' with two,'( 10 ) w. ^ > . PLATE yill. The FibreSf a7id other Parts, forming Muscles, viened by a Microscope, ^c. Figure I. Represents a piece of the ghitacus magnus mus- cle, or great muscle of the posteriors, of an adult, not boiled but fresh, in which are shewn the different thickness and figure of the lacerti, muscular subdivisions, or fasciculi, as they appear to the naked eye. a. a. Is the exterior part of the muscle and the vagina which covers it. b. b. b. b. Are separations caused by that vagina, and pe- netrate into the substance of the muscle, by which the mus- cle is divided into \z.Tgc muscular divisions, or lacerti. c. c. c. c. Are the sections of those lacerti, appearing of different magnitude and figure. cd. cd. cd. Shew the parallel course of those lacerti. Figure II. Is a small piece of boiled human flesh, or mus- cle, taken from the glutaeus magnus muscle, marked 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. The boundaries and divisions which dis- tinguish these lacerti are expressed by a single thick line. It appears, that the greater lacerti are composed of smaller, which can be seen plainly in 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6'. 7. And those smaller lacerti consist again of those of the smallest size; but I have delineated this only in No. S. Figure III. Shews a lamella of the lacertus i. in the fig, II. ’ cut off transversely. This lamella is delineated so, as it has appeared by a glass, augmenting the objects five times in diameter. a. a, a. a. The Bag-i/ic surrounding the greater lacertus. b. b. b. b. It&processes, going to the other lacerti, which are only in some part shewn. c. c. c. c. Separations, which arc produced by the va'dna of the lacertus major, and divide it into eight smaller. 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. The 5/wo//er/flcertf divided out of the majbr. 7. In this lacertus is particularly shewn, how each minor lacertus by membraneous separations, is divided into smallest. 8. Here is shewn how each smallest lacertus is composed of muscular fibres^ Figure Ii\(. In this figure is shewn, a small piece of boiled human muscular fibre in its length, seen by a glass, magnify- ing the.objects four hundred times. In the boiled muscles, examined with such microscopes, the transverse white wrinkles aie nothing but superficial impressions of. the vessels and cellular threads, and perhaps of. small nerves in the vagina,of the fibre. When muscles are boiled, they shrink the fibres in many places, and impress more or less those transverse wrinkles, called rugie. Figure V. Is another boiledof human flesh, or mus- cle, seen through the same microscope as in the precedim' figure. But in this, partly by maceration, partly by gentle compression, the outer vagina is nearly destroyed, and there- fore the f la cornea rugosa, which compose the muscular fiibrcs, are more conspicuous. Figure VI. Are three fila carnca, or fleshy threads, whose wrinkles, or greater windings a, a. a, arc in place of those which are seen in the fig. V. FigureVll. A single fleshy thread, or flum cameum, seen through the same microscope, whose serpentine windings arc clearly observable. Figure VIII. Another filum carneum; has transverse wrinkles, which cut the filum as it were into little globules, or joints. Figure IX. The transverse sections of three muscular fibres of the human flesh ; are included in their sheaths. They are delineated by the same microscope as fig., VII. VIII. In each of those transverse sections of three fibres, very small, and a great many areohe appear. Figure X. Is a transverse section of two muscnlar fibres, ex Gado mutatio Binnaei, whereof one is bigger, the other smaller, also seen with the glass, magnifying the diameter four hundred times, that it may be seen how the fita cornea, or fleshy small threads, do not differ from the human in thickness. FigurcXl. The smallest fasciclilus of muscular fibres, seen, through a glass, magnifying thirty times. a. a. a. a. Muscular fibres in the smallest fasciculus. b. b. b. b. Wrinkles and alternate windings of the fascicu- lus itself. Figure XII. Besides those wrinkles, whifch we have seen in the preceding figure, and wliich compose the smaller wrinkles of the muscular fasciculus, are often smaller yet in the fibre itself, which 1, have found in boiled beef, smallest fasciculus of which I have delineated by the same mici«- scope. Figure XIII. Here is given a lamella of.tho injected supina- tor longus muscle, of a child of six montlis oUI. This la- mella is drawn from a glass, magnifying the diameter one hundred times. a. Extremities torn eff from the muscular fibres, which atP much thinner than in an adult person. b. h. Two principal arterial branches., c. c. c. c. The smaller branches cut off. d. d. d. d. The smallest branches. Beyond those smallest vessels, tho-coloured injection will not penetrate ; for the smaller vessels are not permeable lo the matter of injection, and in particular to the cinnabar, which gives the colour to the injection; but there are minute coloui'cil injections, which pass much farther than cinnabar, and tinge, almost all the parts of muscles, so that they appejtt nearly vascular in every part of their substance..I ScAolaet/otrtorta- J^rdt<un<t,a (riJ. ^ic/iyceySTABM-A DC. Sc/whi >’t lufU>ria M/’dtcinn' a Lail'Rmi ly( lo. PLATE IX. Muscles of the Head and Neck, Insertion. Near the lambdoid suture. Action. Moves the skin. Its action is scarcely observable. Name end origin. t. Occipitofrontfllis, S. Attollcns aurem, from the upper part of the pericta- Above the car nium. c. Orbicularis palpelrarvmy from the orbital process of Into the nasal process of the su- To shut the eye-lid. the upper maxilla. perior maxilla. d. Depressor anguli oris, from the edge of the maxilla Into the angle of the r/.outh, and To depress the lips, inferior. course of the lips. e. Orbicularis oris, is formed by the muscles that move Surrounds the mouth like a ring. Shuts or corrugates the mouth., the lips. /. Platysmamyoides, from the deltoid and pectoral muscles. Into the chin, lips, and the nose. It depresses the'chin and lips. THE MUSCLES OF THE TRUNK. o. Peefora/is »?ja7or, from the clavicle, sternum, and the Nearly in the middle of the os Moves the arm towards the breast, ribs. humeri. b. Serratus magnus, from the true and two false ribs. On the basis of the scapula. To move the scapula forward and downwards. In all the vertebrae of the back To bend the back with other mus- c. Latisshnus dorsi, from the os sacrum and ilnim. and loins. d. Obliquus extemus descendens, from the ribs near the In the linea alba and os pubis, serratus muscle. e. Linea semilunaris, f. Linea alba, xxnderf. umbilicus, g. Annulus, or abdominal ring. cles. With other muscles it supports and, compresses the abdomen. THE UPPER EXTREMITY. Deltoides, from the chavicle and scapula. h. Biceps flexor cubiti, from the scapula by two heads. Nearly in the middle of the os To elevate the arm., humeri. In the uppermost end of the ra- To bend the fore arm conjointly dius. with the brachiaeus internus. e. Supinator radii longus, from the external ridge of the Into the inferior, condyle, or ex- To roll the radius outwardly with os humeri. the supinator brevis. tremity of the radius. d. Pronator teres, from the internal condyle of the os Into the middle of tlie outward, or To roll the cubitus and hand in- humeri. posterior part of the radius. wards, with the assistance of the- pronator quadrates. e. Palmaris lOngus, from the internal condyle of the os In the palm of the hand, near the To contract or corrugate the palm humeri. articulations of tiie fingers with the metacarpus. y. irecis, from the metacarpal bone of the little In the annular ligament of the To draw the thumb towards the- finger. ', carpus and articulation of the thumb. g. ‘Flexor carpi radiatis, from the internal condyle of the In the carpus near the thumb, os humeri. h. Part of the flexor sublimis perforatus. i. Insertio flexoris carpi ulnaris.. i. .<46(2’«c<orfo/fi'czs, from the transverse ligament of the In the two first bones of the thumb. To draw the thumb from the- carpus, and from one of the carpal bones. THE LOWER EXTREMITIES. of the hand. a draw the t little finger. To bend the hand. o draw t fingers,. a. The fascia lata is a strong tendinous membrane,, beginning from the upper edge of the os ilium, Poupuart’s ligament, and 1 obliquus externus muscle, from the os sacrum and greater trochanter, descends down the femur, indudes nearly all the muscles of the thigh and leg, at last it disappears on its extremity ; the sascia keeps tight the muscles over which it is spread, and strengthr- ens their action considerably, b. Part of the glutaus muximus. e. Pectinalis. d. Triceps longus, from the os pubis and ilium, has tlwe.e lii the linea asperaof the os femo- To draw the thigh-bone inwardly,. heads. . ris. f. Gratilis, from the os pubis. I«to the tibia under the ham. To bend the leg.. ;/. Sartorius, from the superior spine of- the os ilium. In the inner side of the tibia,. To bend the leg obliquely inward,, the upper part of the patella. >To extend the leg. g. Rectus cruris, from the anterior spine of theilium. i. Tustus externus,.from the-outside of the thigh., i. in^rniis,. from the inside of the thigh. k. Tibialis antuus^ 1. Pero/ueus longus. m. Extensor longus digitorum pedis, n.. Gastrocnemius externus. 0, Suhus'.. q. Abductor poUieisi. . to cross the leg.. -1'( *2 ) PLATE X. The Head and Neck, '1. .■ p * .. Name and origin. >e. Part of the oCcipitofrontalis, with the aponeurosis; from the inferior part of the os occipitis. J. Attollens aurem; from the aponeurotic expansion of the frontal muscles. , i n i c. Anterior auris; from the basis of the zygoma from a tendineous membrane of the. temporal muscle. d. Retrakentes auris; arises from the aponeurotic ex- pansion of the cervical muscles. — a. Trapezius, or cucuUaris; begins from the occiput, processes of the neck, and spinous processes of the the neck. b. Its tendinous junction. c. Venter carnosus latissimi. d. The tendon of this muscle, beginning with the serratus obliquus externus abdominis. SUPERIOR EXTREMITY. Insertion, Under the lambdoid’ suture. Into the upper part of the ear, on the helix by means of a- tendori. In the beginning of the helix, to the outer part of the concha. Are affixed to the convex part of the concha. TRUNK. In the scapula and clavicla. a. Deltoides; from the clavicle and scapula. b. Infra spinatus ; from the parts below the spine of the scapula., Iiower down is the portion of the teres minor and major. c. Triceps extensor cubifi; from the neck of the scapula and outward part of the humerus. d. .Extensor carpi radialis longior; from the external condyle of the humerus. €. Extensor digitorum coynmunis manus ; from the exter- nal condyle of the os humeri. f. Extensor ossis metacarpi poUicis ; from the outside of the ulna. g. Extensor primi internodii poUicis manus; from the ulna and interosseus ligament. h. Extensor secundi internodii poUicis; from the ulna and interosseus ligament. L Extensor carpi ulnaris; from the external condyle of the 03 humeri. J(. Part of the Jiexor carpi ulnaris ; from the internal condyle of the os humeri. Near the middle of the os humeri. In the neck of the os humeri. Is fixed to the olecranon. In the bones of the metacarpus. On the posterior part of the four fingers. On the outside of the thumb. In the upper part of the first bone of the thumb. In the last bone of the thumb. J. In the bones of the metacarpus, and the basis of the little finger. By a tendon into the os pisiforine and unciforme. INFERIOR EXTREMITY. h. Glutceus maximus; from the os sacrum and ilium. Below the greater trochanter. Part of the glutajus medius. c. Part of the tensor vagina; femoris. Fasus externus; from the outer side of the os seinoris. On the upper part of the patella. The longhead of the biceps fiexoris cruris, f. Purt of its short head. Semiteadiiiosus; from the protuberance of the os is-' chium. Gracilis, from the anterior part of the os pubis. ■ On the inner and back part of the tibia, or Lam. i. Pars vasti externi. k. Gastrocnemius externus ; from two condyles of the os "I femoris. V l. SoUeus, or gastrocnemius intemus. J m. Tendo Achillis, with the plantaris. n. Perona:us lougus; from the uppermost part of the fibula. o. Peronceus brevis; from the external and fore part of the fibula. p. Tendines extensoris longi digitorum pedis, Abductor On the heel they form the tendo AchiUis.’ In the second phalanx. In the external metatarsal bone. minimi digiti pedis. Action. Pulls the skin of the head back* wards. • ' To draw the ear upwards. To make this eminence more teiue. To draw back the ear. hlovcs the scapula in diflferent di- rections, according to the linet of its different fibres. posticus inferior, e. Part of tlie To rise the arm, with others. To draw the humerus backwards. To extend the fore arm, and to draw it a little back. To extend the wrist, and bring tie . hand backward. To extend the fore fingers. To extend the thumb. To extend the first bone of the thumb. To extend the last joint of the thumb. To extend the hand backward. To bend the hand, and to contract it. To extend the thigh. To extend the leg assisted by others. }To assist with others in bending the leg. ^To extend the foot. To bend with others the four small toes. ^To bend the foot outward.Tabvi*a X Je. Sch^O’Hkistrria-J^Jti'iruT a (^ulJtcM^iry». #Scholct ft historifi M^dxcitur a Cnd ’Rffwl/y,( 13 ) PLATE XI. The second Layer of the Museks on the anterior Part of the Body. ON THE HEAD AND NECK. Name and origin. Insertion. Action. Corrugator supercilii; from the angular process of Into the fleshy part of the occi- Cctotracts the eye-brow, the os frontis, pito frontalis muscle. Temporalis; from the semicircular ridge of the pa- Into the coronoid process of thc'j lower iaw u ward rietalbone. lower jaw. K L.urlonT’k.. s m Masseter; from the processus zygomaticus. Into the angle of the lower jaw. Levator angulioris; from the jugal bone, near the Into the angle of the lips, nose. Buccinator; from both jaw-bones. j mastication, &c. To draw the lips upwards. Into the angle of the mouth and To assist in mastication and laugh- gums. ing, and draw the mouth. f. Orbicularis oris. g. Depressor lahii inferioris. h. Sterno-cleido mastoidcus; from the sternum and cla- Into the mastoid process, vide, i. Stenio hyoideus; from the flrst rib, sternum, and Into the base of the os hyoides. clavicle. h. Levator scapulce ; from the first four vertebree of the Into the superior angle of the sea- Elevates the scapula, neck. pula. Bends the head forward. Pulls the os hyoides downwards. Suhclavius; from the cartilage of the first rib. true ribs. Serralus magnvs; from the nine superior ribs. Rectus abdominis; from the os pubis. Pyramidalis; from the fore part of the os pubis. TRUNK. Into the inferior part of the sea- To pull the clavicle forwards and pula. downwards. Pcctoralis minor; from the third, fourth, and fifth Into the coracoid process of the To bring the scapula forwards, or scapula. to raise the ribs. Into the base of the scapula. To move the scapula forwards and downwards. Into the sternum and the ribs. They cover and compress the ab- ... L domen, help to expel the Obliquus ascendens internus ; from the spina of the os Into the linea alba and lower ribs, f fceces, &c. and assist in re.» ilium. J spiration, &c. SUPERIOR EXTREMITY. Bicepsjlcxor cubiti. b. Its short head. c. Its long head. d. Extensor carpi radialis Iongior. Flexor siiblimis perforatus; from the inner condyle of Into the second bone of each To bend the four fingers, the os humeri. finger. The insertion of the extensor carpi ulnaris. Extensorcs pollicis ; from the outer or back part of Into the last bone of the thumb. To extend the thumb, the ulna. Tendo flexoris longi pollicis manus. Ahductoi\minimi digiti menus} from the os pisiforme Into the first bone of the little Abduces the little finger, and annular ligament. finger.' INFERIOR EXTREMITY. '' Iliacus internus ; from the vertebraae of the loins. Into the trochanter minor, and the spine of the os ilium. Pectinalis ; from the os pubis. Into the linea aspera of the os fe- To bring the thigh upwards, and moris. turn it outwards. Triceps longus ; from the os pubis and ilium. Into the linea aspera of the os fe- To bring the thigh inwards and moris. upwards. Gracilis, e. Rectis cruris, f. Its tendon, g. A portion of the gluteeus medius. Vastus internus y~\Yiovci the trochanter major and! Vastus externus, J linea aspera. > Into the patella above the knee. ^To extend the leg. Crurccus; from the fore part of the os femoris. J The insertion of the biceps flexor cruris into the fibula, m, Tendines gracilis and semitendinosi in the tibia. 0. Soheus. Peronceus longusfrom the upper part of the fibula. Into the os metarsi and cunei-. To move the foot outwards, and forme. to extend it a little. Extensor longus digitorum ; from the upper and outer Into the four first joints of the To extend the four small toes, part of the tibia, and from the head of the fibula. toes. Fkxor longus digitorum •, from the back part of the Into the first phalanx of the toes. To bend the last joint of the toes, tibia. Tendons of the dihialis posticus^ Flexor brevis digitorum pedis ; from the inside of the Into the second phalanx of the To bend the second joint of the os ciilds. smaller toes. toes. E To bend the thigh with others. }•( H ) PLATE XII. The second Layer of the Muscles on the posterior Part of the Body, IK THE HEAD AND THE NECK. Name and origin. Insertion. Action, a. Temporalis, h, Masseter. d. A portion of the complexus. e. Levator scupuloe. c. Splenins; from three vertebrae of the neck, and five Into the mastoid process. To bring the head backwards,. ' of the back. TRUNK, a. Rhomboidcs major; from the four superior vertebrae of the back. b. Rhomboides minor ; from the three inferior vertebrae of the neck. c. Serrattis posticus superior; from the three last verte- Inserted into the second, third, To elevate the ribs, and dilate tha- brae of the neck, and two u|)pcrmost of the back. fourth, and fifth ribs. thorax. d. Herratus posticus inferior j from two ribs of the back. Into the lower edges of the four To depress the ribs, and contract and three of the loins. inferior ribs. the thorax. e. Pars spinalis dorsi, f. Pars longissimi dorsi. g. Pars sacrolumbar is. b. Serratus magnus. i. Tendo latus. k. Pars obliqui interni ascendentis abdominis. 1. Sphincter ani.. • Into the basis of the scapula. To draw the scapula upwards, ani^ inwards. ( SUPERIOR EXTREMITY. a. Supra-spinatus; from tlie upper part of the spine of Into the neck of the os humeri. To raise the arm. with others, the scapula. b. Infraspinatus ; from the lower part of the spina sea- Into the neck of the os humeri. To draw the arm backwards, pulaj. c. Teres minor ; from the inferior edge of the sca- pula. d. Tnes major ; as the former. - €. Triceps extensor cubiti. J. Its long head. g. Its short head. h. P.ortio capitis tertii. i. Tendo tricipitis. k. Pars brachialii. interni. 1. Anconeus, m. Extensor carpi radialis longior. s. Indicator, from the middle and posterior part of the Into the posterior part of the in- To extend the indicator. ' ulna. dicator. t. Tres interossei manus externi; from the sides of the Into the joints of the ne.xt fingers. To extend, the fingers, &c. metacarpal bones. «. The tendo extensorum digitorum. INFERIOR EXTREMITY. } As above. 1 To bend the arm outwards, backr wards, and downwards. a. Glutceus medius; from the upper part of the os ilii. Into the greater trochanter. b. Pyriformisfrom the os sacrum within the pelvis. Into the inner side of the great trochanter. c. Gemini; from the spinous process and protuberance Into the inner cavity of the great of the ischium, * trochanter. d. Quadratus femoris-, from the external protuberance Between both trochanters, of the ischium. e. Vastus externus ; from the greater trochanter and Into the upper part of the patella, linca aspera. and by an aponeurosis, to the head of the tibia. f. Part of the triceps magnus. g. Caput longum tricipitisJlexoris, and below it, pars capitis ■A. UtmitendinosHS \ from the ischium. On the insule of.the tibia. i. Gracilis; from the os pubis. , Into the tibia, under the sartorius muscle. To bend the thigh outwards, and backwards. To move the thigh upwards, back- wards, and turn it outwards. To draw outwardly the thigh. To bring the thigh outwards,. To extend the leg.. brevis.. To bendjthe tibia. To bend the tibia, with tire sarto- rius. k. A small portion^of the vastus externus. L Popliteus ; liom the external condyle of the femur. At the internal edge of the tibia To bring the tibia outwards witi. below its head. others. m. Venter carnosusplantaris, and its tendon passing through the muscle. n. Scleus. o. The tendon of the gr/neZ/tts cut off. p. 'Tendo. Achillis whh ihe plantaris. q. Peronicas longus; from the upper part of the fibula. Into the bones of the, metatarsus. To move the foo.f outwards, and iVc. extend a little. r. Tendines c.xtensorum longorum digitorum pedis ; with tlvc peronteus tertius, and below them the c.ttensor brevis digitorum.. s. .Plexor brevis minimi digili pedis; from the protube- Into the second phalanx of the To bend.the. toe>,. raucc of the os calcis., four small toes..4 /r /f. Tabma xni, Schi>l-a ethij-tfr/a Aietiifinara ChlRpw/^.To e.x.tcnd the toes,. ( *5 ) PLATE XIII. The third Layer of the Muscles on the anterior Tart of the Body. I O' 1 ON THE HEAD AND NECK. Name and origin. Insertion. Levator labii supcrioris, alceque nasi; from the supe- Into the upper lip and root of the rior maxilla. ala of the nose. Orbicularis oris; ^when all the other muscles are taken off. c. Buccinator. Depressor labii inferioris; ftom the infeiior maxilla. Into the uadcr-lip and skin of the Stcrno-thyroidcus; from the sternum. Scalenus medius; ■ from the transverse processes of the neck. chill. Into the thyroid cartilage. Into the uppermost rib. the thunk. Actum. To draw the upper lip down and. backwards. To pull upwards the lips and chin.. To draw the larynx downwards. To move the neck on both sides, and to raise the ribs, &c. Tntercostalcs extemi; obliquely from every rib. From one rib to another. I To elevate the ribs in respiration* Intercostalcs iniemi; from the sternum and the ribs. Into the obtuse angle of the ribs, j &c. IVaiisversalis abdominis, d. The inferior part of the tendon of the Iran si crsails, passing before the rectus and the pyramidalis,. here cut off. Between those portions, on both sides, is the peritona:um and ligamenta vesicae urinarim, which formerly were the umbilical arteries and ligaments. Between this part and tlie os pubis is seen the spermatic cord. The inferior margin of the upper transverse tendon, which passes behind the rectus, and adheres to the peritonaeum. The interior lamella of the obliquus interuus ; between f. and g. is the posterior lamella. I'he linea alba, from which the tendon of the obliquus, and the anterior lamella, of the internal obliquus, were dissected*- g. Umbilicus, SUPERIOR EXTREMITY. Subscapularis ; from the inner surface of the scapula. Into the inner protuberance of the os humeri. Teres minor; from below the scapula. Coraco brachialis; from the coracoid process. Brachialis interuus; from the middle of the humerus. Into the neck of the humerus. Into the middle of the humerus. Into the coronoid process of the ulna, Into the olecranon and the conr dyles of the humerus.. Into the bone of the metacarpus. Into the last joint of the thumb. To roll the humerus inwards to. the side of the body, and to prevent th&ligament from being, pinched. To draw the,humerus backwards,. To move forwards and upwai'ds*. To bend the fore-arm. To extend the fore-arm. To extend the hand. To bend the last joint of the thumb. Brachialis evternus, or caput tertium tricipitis ; 'from the os humeri. Extensor carpi radialis longior ; from the os humeri. Flexor longus pollicis tnanus ; from the ujiper part of the radius and condyle. Flexor profundus perforans ; is divided in four tendons, passing under the annular ligaments of the,wrist, to the third bones of the fingers. Pronator radii quadratus ; from the inferior inner To the lower part of the radius. To turn the radius together with, part of the ulna. the hand inwards. Adductor metacarpi minimi digiti; from the os un- Into the metacarpal bone of this To bring the finger toward the ciforme. finger. rest. Unus lumbricalium; the other three appear also along the tendons of the flexor profundus, and under them are the interossei interni. THE INFERIOR EXTREMITY. a, Glutceus minimus ; from the spinous process of the Into the back part of the trochan- ilium. b. lliacHS interuus ; from,the transverse processes of the vertebrae in the loins. Inward, between 6. and e. is the pioas magnus. d. Adductor breviifemorii;' e. Adductor magnus; f. Gracilis i from, the osipubis, g. Caput bicipitisJlexoris cruris ; from the os ischium. h. , Peronxus longus; from the fore part of the fibula. ter major. Into- trochanter minor femoris. A O ' from the os pubis. Into the linca aspera. Into the tibia under the sartorius. Behind into the fibula. Into the outside of the metatarsal bone. Into the second phalanx.. |i> Peronxusbrciis; from the upper part of the fibula. 'Between the peronaeus and tibia is to be seen the tibialis posticus k. The tendon of the tibialis posticus, covering the tendon of Oxc flexor longus digitorum pedis \L Pjxtcmor brevis digitorum-pedis; from.the fure part of Ifito the. next toes, the os calcis.. To pull the femur outwards and. backwards. To bend the thigh, &c. To bring the thigh inwards.. To bend the leg.. As the former. To move the foot outwards.. To bend the four toes..Into the upper part of the toes, m. Extensor brevis digitorum pedis; arises from the fore To extend the toes. ( ) PLATE XIV. The third Layer of Muscles on the back Fart of the Body. HEAD AND NECK. Ka?ne and origin. a. Part of the buccinator. b. Cowplcxus; from six vertebra; of (he neck and three of the back. c. Trachelo-mastoideus : from the sternum and clavicle. d. Scafaius medius; from the cavicle and two ribs. e. Scalenus posticus. a. Sphialis dorsi; and below it the midtifidus spimt. b. Longisshnvs dorsi; from the os sacrum and ilium. c. Sacro limbaris ; as the former. Insertion. U nd er the splenius muscle. Into the mastoid process. 1 Into the sides of the vertebrae of\ J the neck. THE TRUNK. Action. To bend the head backwards. To bend the head forwards. )T» bend the neck forwards. Into all the vertebras of the back. ^ Into the vertebras of the back and I loins. d. Semi spinalis dorsi; from the os sacrum and vetebras Into the vertebrae of the loins, of the loins. c. Transtersalis abdominis ; from the sides of the verte- Into the linea alba, brae in the loins. TtlE SUPERIOR EXTREMITY. To brin<{ the back backwards. To contain and compress the ab- domen, to expel the foeces to facilitate the respiration. Into the upper part of the humerus. Into the middle of the os humeri. Into the upper part of the ulna. To bring the humerus downwards. To raise the humerus. To bend the fore-arm. Into the olecranon. Into the carpus near the thumb. To extend the fore-arm. To bend the wrist. w. Teres major, from the lower part of the scapula. b. Sarscoraco-brachialis ; from the coracoid process. c. Pars coraco~brachialis interni; from the humerus under,.the deltoid muscle. d. Capui tertium trieipitis extensoris cubiti; from the neck of the scapula. «. Extensor radialis longior ; from the internal condyle of the humerus. y. Extensor radialis brevior; from the external condyle Into the bones of the metacarpus. To extend the carpus, of the hnmerus. g. Part of the Jlexor profundus perforans; from the upper part of the ulna. b. Supinator radii bretis; from the upper part of the ulna. i. Pars adducioris pollieis ; from the metacarpal bone, that sustains the middle finger. 1c. One oi three interossei exttrni; from the sides of Into the first joint of the fingers, the metacarpal bones. thumb. 1. The tendons of the CTfensores rfig/Vo/T/n?, jointly with the/«m6rrca/t's, and interossei, forming the tendinous expansion in the posterior part of the four fingers. THE INFERIOR EXTREMITY. Into the third joint of the fingers. To bend the fingers. Into the upper part of the radius. To roll the arm outwards. Into the inner part of the root of To pull the thumb towards the the first bone fingers. To bring the fingers towards the a. Ghtxus minimus; from the ilium near the acetabulum. b. Obturator internus; from the inner side of the fora- men pubis. c. Semimembranosus; from the ischium. d. Caput brevi bicipitis fexoris cruris; from the Ischium and femur. e. Triceps magnus; from the os pubis and ilium. f. Gracilis; from the fore part of the os pubis. Under the ham is the origin of both the gastrocnemii exter g. Popliteus; from the external condyle of the thigh. k. Tibialis posticus ; from the iuterosseus ligament. i. Flexor longus digitorum pedis; from the back part of the tibia, below' its head, and divides into four tendons. Ic. Flexor pollieis longus; from the back part of the fibula. J. Peronaus longus; from the fore part of the fibula. part of the os calc is. Into the trochanter major. Near the trochanter major. Into the internal side of the tibia. On the posterior part of the fibula. Into the spine of the os femoris. Into the ham. id and plantaris. Into the tibia under the ham. Into the external bone of the me- tatarsus. Into the extremity of the last joint of the four lesser toes. Into the last jointof ihegreat toe. Into the outside of the os meta- tarsis. except the little one. To extend the femur. To roll the femur. To bend the leg. To bend the leg. To turn the femur outwards. To bend the femur. To turn the tibia outwards. To bend the foot outwards. To bend the last joint of the toes. To bend the last joint of that toe. To bend the foot.Sc/io/a ct /ustcrui a Cnd.Hovley. y TABViAjny.JrAi>/tr ft hiHorM Mfclieoux aCntl Tlf’i'/pfC 17 ) PLATE XV. -Fourth Series of Muscles in the anterior Fart of tlit Bod^, Name and origin. IN THE HEAD AND NECK. Insertion. LevatorpalpebrcE snperiuris; in the bottom of the orbit. Into the cartilage of the tarsus Obliqims superior, vel trochlcaris; nearest to the optic foramen. Action, Raises the palpebra. Passes the trochlea, and is iin- Gyrates the bulb, ami draws it planted into the bulb of the eye inwardly, near the rectus cxtci'nus. Attollens rectus oculi, vel superbus; from the superior Into the tunica sclerotica. Moves the bulb of the eye up- wards. Into the external canthus of the Bends the bulb towards the nose, eye. Draws the bulh towards the car. part of the foramen opticum. Adductor rectus, vel bibitorius; between the obliquus superior and depressor. Abductor rectus, vel indignabundus; between the fora- Into the internal canthus. men, opticum, and lacerum. Depressor rectus, yeXhumilis; from the inferior part of Into the inferior part of the tunica Draws the eye downwards, sclerotica. ‘ Into the posterior lateral parX of Moves it upwards,downwards, and the sclerotica. inwardly. Into an angle of the lower jaw. Draws the maxilla upwards, and to the side., Into the bone of the occiput near Draws back the head, the mastoid process. Into all the vertebrae of the neck. Turn the head anteriorly, back- ward, and obliquely. the optic foramen. Obliquus i)ifcrior,seu paruis; nearest to the orifice of the osseous lachrymal canal. rterygoidius iuternus j from the pterygoid process of the os palate. Obliquus superior capitis’, from the first vertebra of the neck. Longi colli; from the three superior vertebrae of the neck, and from the 3, 4, 5, 6', processes of the ver- tebrae of the neck. Scaleni rnedii; from the processes of the neck. Chiefly into the dorsal ribs. Turn the head backward, and ob- liquely. latertransversarii; from the processes of the vertebrae Tothe musculus longissiinus dorsi. Draw back the neck, of the neck, and first of the back. MUSCLES IN THE BREAST AND ABDOMEN. «. Lexatores costarum primarum. Fibres run down ob- From one rib to another, the mus- They strengthen the beginning of liquely, between the ribs from the extremity of the eleven uppermost ribs and last of the neck. the first rib, assisted by others, they elevate the rest. cles passing over the next rib are at length inserted in the subsequent. b. Intercostales externi. c. The first, d. Intercostales interni. e. The first, f. Diaphragm, g. A part laying towards the abdomen, h. Which looks towards the thorax, i. A foramen from which the oesophagus goes out. J(. Quadratus lumborum; posteriorly from the os ilium. Into the vertebrae of the loins, and Moves the lumbi, and bends them last rib.. obliquely. l. Psoas parvus; from the lumbar vertebrae. Into the juncture of the os ilium Bends the femur. and pubis. m. Psoxmagni; from the lumbar vertebrae, and last Into the little trochanter, and be- They bend the femur anteriorly of the dorsal. neath. and incurve the back. H, Iliad interni; from the os ilium in the pelvis. They are inserted jointly with the Bend the femur, ' psote into the trochanter. e. Obturatores externi; from the internal side of the Into the great trochanter. They rotate the femur, pubis. q. Erectorespenis; from the os ischium. Into the corpora cavernosa. They serve for erection, r. Sphincter externus ani; is an orbicular muscle in the It is connected to the os coccygis, Closes the anus, restrains tht intestinum rectum. intestinum rectum, bulb of the fjeces, urethra, and internal sphincter, ' ^ MUSCLES IN THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITY. «. Scapulares. b. Supinator brevis, c. Pronator quadratus. d. Flexor brevis polticis; from the bones of the carpus. Into the first bone of the pollex Bends the pollex, or thumb, and os sesamoideum. t. Adductor pollkis. f, g, h, i, k, I, m. Jnterossei interni Sf externi; from the bones of the metacarpus ; are inserted into the' first joints of the adjoining fingers ; they draw inwards the fingers. MUSCLES IN THE INFERIOR EXTRBWITY. Adiuclores magni femons. Tibiales postici. Peronei breves. Interosseiprimi digitorum secundonm, Tnferossei sccundi digitorum secundomm. Interossei sccundi digitorum tertiorum. Interossei secundi digitorum qvartorvm. Adduitor pollicis. The muscles of the globe of the eye, being too small in this figure, are demonstrated in Plate XVIII. fig. I. and in Plate XLVI. 6 J to( i8 } PLATE XVI. The Fourth Series of Muscles in the Posterior Part of the Body, Kame and origin. HEAD AND NECK. Insertion. a. Recti postici minorcs; from the first vertebra of the’ Action. neck. I Near the great foramen of the b. Recti postici majores; from the second vertebra of | occiput. 1 They move the head back- the neck. J l wards. c. Ohliijui superiores; from the transverse process of the In the os occipitis behind the mas- j first vertebra. toid process. j d. Obliqui inferiores capitis’, from the second vertebra of Into the process of the first vete- They rotate the head, the neck. bra of the neck. e. Infra spinales ccrvicis; between the processes of the The muscle arising from the su- They erect the neck, and elevate neck. perior vetebra goes to the infe- each spinous process. rior. . Sc aleni mtdii quineqe. g. Intcrtransvcrsarii colli quinque. a. Levatores breviores of the twelve ribs, from the traris- ' verse process^ of the first eleven vertebra; of the back, and of the last of the neck. b. Levatores longiores are proper to the four inferior ribs. I c. Intcrcostales exferni. d. Intercostales interni. e. Pleura consists of a double membrane, surrounds the f. Intertransversarii dorsi, in the space between the two ])rocesses. g. , Semisjiinales dorsi, from the transverse processes of- the 7, 8, ,9> 10th dorsal vertebra;. /.-J Spinaies ccrvicis, from the six superior dorsal ver- tibrm. i. Multifidus spince, from the os sacrum and illuiuj and transverse jrrocesses of the loins of the back and neck. k. Intcrspinales dorsi, f from the spinal processes of /. Intcrspinalesltnnborum,\ the back and loins. m. Intertransversarii lumborum, from the transverse processes. 8, Q,uadraius lumborum. o. Diaphragm, p. Psoce. q THE TRUNK. From one superior rib they run down to the next inferior. They run from one rib to another, where they are inserted. They strengthen the beginning of the first rib, and by means of other muscles elevate the rest. They elevate the ribs, and draw them backwards. whole cavity of the thorax, and every where firmly adheres to it. Connect the superior to the infe- They draw in the transverse pro- nor process. Into the spinal processes of the iforsal vertebrae. Into the spinal processes of the vertebrx of the neck. Into all the spinal processes of the vertebra; of the loins, back, and neck. The superior processes are inserted into the inferior. They fill the spaces between the transverse processes. Iliad. cesses. , They extend the spine obliquely and backwards. Extend the neck obliquely and backward. They move the back obliquely and backward. They draw together the pro- cesses. They draw the lumbar vertebrte. musci.es in the superior extremity. £ubscapulares. Sujnuateres. Pronatores teretes. I'lexores bnxes. Adductores poUicis. Inicrossii,. MUSC LES IN THE INFERIOR EXTREMITY. Into the minor trochanter of the os feinoris, and below. Into the base of the large tio- chanter ofi the feiuur. Into the linea aspera, and below the condyle of the os femoris. They bend the body and the fe- mur anteriorly. It bends the femur inward, and rotates it outward. Moves the demur upwards, in- wards, and rotates it outwards.. ■«. Tendons common to the p^ucc nnigna with the iliaci interni. b. Obturator externus, from the os pubis and ischium, aiul from the margin of tlie oval foramen. c. Adductor magnus, from the symphisis of the pubis and ischium. i. Tihiales postici. e. Peronri. f. hittrossei 3 inj'crivres, they draw the first phalanx of the fot\r tqes towards the pollex,. or 4 superiores, they draw the same phalanx fronr\ the jvollcx, or ihumii. Trt/rtsrmo/t's;;c<//.s, from the fifth bone of the metatarsus. Into the sesamoid bone, and ad.* and from the plantar aponeurosis. dtictor poUicis. Adductor poUicii, beneath the 4tb, 3d, and 2d os meta-. Into theIsesamoid bone, and first It draws the poile.x,, or thumh.. tarsU bone of the phalanx, of the great toe.. It draws the thumb to the fingers.TASVX.A . XVI . I 'K1 Tabvla xvu.TAm'LA x\ir. The Letters ot'die 11 Fiej. leere omittetl in Tab. Xt VtH.( *9 ) PLATE XVII. First Class of Muscles situated on the lateral Fart of the Body* ot THE HEAD AND NECK, fl. J, c. Epicranius. 5, Frontalis, c. Occipitalis, d. e. f. Muscles of the ear. Attollens. e. Retrahens. y. Anterior. g. Orbicularis palbebrarutn. h. Compressor naris. i. Nasalis labii superioris. h. Orbicularis oris. 1. Zygomaticus major, 'm. Depressor anguli oris. n. Buccinator. o. Masseter. p. Pterygoideus externus. q. Stylo-hyoideus. r. Stylo-glossus. s. Latissimus colli, t. Stemo-inastoideus. u. Biventer cervicis. Splenius capitis, w. Splenius colli. X. Scalenus medius. y. Levator scapulae, r. Cucullares. _ ' ^ OF THE TRUNK. «. Cucullares. h. Latissimus dorsi. c. Senratus anticus. Pectoralis. e. Serratus magnus. f. Obliq^uus externus abdominis, g. Cremaster. ' OF THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITY. e. Deltoides. i. Biceps, e. Brachialis internus. Triceps, c. Ulnaris intemus. y. Supinator longus. g. Pronator teres. k. Radialis internus. i. Sublimis. k. Flexor longus pollicis. 1. Tendo r^idialis extern! longioris alterius. m. Radialis externus longior. m. Radialis externus brevior. o. Ulnaris externus. p. Supinator longus. q. Radialis externus. r. Sublimis. «. Flexor longus pollicis. t. Tendo radialis extern! longioris alterius. v. Radialis externus longior., V. Radials externus brevio^'. w. Extensor communis digitorum manus. y. Indicatoris tendo. z. Extensor proprius digiti auricularis. OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITY. «. Abductor longus femoriS. b. Pectineus. c. Psoas magnus. Sartorius. e. Tensor vaginae femoris. f. Gluaetus medius. g. Glutaeus maximus. h. Semitendinosus. i.. Biceps cruris, k. Vastus externus. 1. Rectus cruris, w. Vastus internus. n. The ligament joining the patella to the tibia, o. Gemelli. p. Solseus. q. Tendo Achillis. r. Tendo plantaris. s. Perortaeus longus. t. Ligament belonging to the peronasus longus. u. Peronaeus brevis. v.. ‘Ligament belonging to the peronaeus brevis, w. Extensor longus digitorum. x. Tendon of the extensor proprius pollicis. y. Tibialis anticus. z. The ligament on which the tendons on the side of the leg and back of the foot are spread, o. Extensor brevis digitorum. Lnterossei. c. Abductor minimi digiti, d. Flexor brevis digiti minimi, PECULIARITIES OF THE RIGHT INFERIOR EXTREMITY. 1. Flexor longus pollicis. 2. Ligamentj by which the tendon of this muscle is confined. 3. Flexor longus digitorum.. 4. Tendon of the tibialis posticus. 5. Ligj^ment, which Ires over the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum pedis and- tibialis posticus. G. Ligament, which confines the tendon of the tibialis anticus, 7. Abductor poHicis. 8. Flexot brevis pollicis. 9- Flexor brevis digitorum.( 20 ) PLATE XVIII. Of various Muscles. Figure I. Of the eye. e. T!.e bulb, b, Tlic optic nerve, c. The trochlearis, or obliquus superior muscle, d. The trochlea with part of' the sa frontis. e. Obliquus inferior, f. Levator oculi. g. Depressor oculi. h. Adductgr oculi. i. Abductor oculi. Figure II. Muscles or the anterior part of the cartilage of the ear. Name and.origin. ^ Iiincrtiuii. Action, a. Helicis major,, from the acute process of the helix. Inserted on the outer part of the r These two muscles appear to be helix. J of use to extend the cartilage h. Helicis minor, from the inferior and anterior part of Into the edge of the helix. 1 of the car, that sounds may the helix. ' I be more distinctly heard. f. Tragicus, from the middle and outer part of the Into the interior part of the 'lo extend the tragus, concha, near the roo^f the tragus. tragus. d. Antitragicus, from the external part of the anti- Into the tip of the concha in To dilate the mouth of the con- tragus. the fissure itself of the carti- cha. lage of the car. . f Figure III. Muscles on the posterior part of the cartilage of the ear. a. Transversm auris, arises opposite to the outer side of the antihelix and scaphae. MUSCLES OF Laxator tympani; from the superior and internal part of the tympanum. Externus mallei', from the extremity of the spinous pro- cess of the sphoendid bone. Tensor tympani; from the cartilaginous extremity of the Eustachian tube. Stapedius; from the little cavern of the os petrosum. THE INTERNAL EAR. Into the handle of the malleus. All these muscles are employed “ in the action of hearing, to convey and moderate sounds. Its tendon is inserted into the long process of the malleus. By its tendon into the small orifice of the ofi'eous canal. By its tendon into the posterior | part of the stapes. J Figitre IV. Muscles on the posterior part of the larynx and pharynx. c. Upper part of the membrane of the pharynx, b. The trachea taken from its situation, c. The oesophagus cut off. d. The interior transverse fibres of the cesophagus. e. The exterior fibres descending obliquely backwards, f. Constrictor inferior pharyngis. g. Constrictor medius pharyngis. k. Cornu ossis hyoidis. a. Constrictor superior pharyngis. k. That part of it which unites with the buccinator. /. Stylo-pharyngeus, Figure V. Connection of the levator ani, with the intestinum, rectum, Sc urethra. «. Urethra, h. Bulb of the urethra, c. Sphincter internus. d. Levator ani. Figure VI. The corpora c.yvernosa of the penis Sc urethra, the acceleratores urin.e, TRANSVERSALES Sc ERECTORES PENIS. The corpus cavernosum of the penis cut off. b. The corpus spongiosum of the urethra separated, c. Erector penis. e. Acceltrator urinae. f. Transversalis penis alter. Figure VII. Of the sphincter /vni, and bulb of the urethra. a, The urethra and corjms spongiosum, b. The bulb, c. Part of the sphincter ascending obliquely, d. The angular part which is inserted into the perinaeum. Figure VIII. c. The anterior part of the anus. b. Its origin from the spinous process of the os ischium.'' c. The posterior part, which appears to be external, d. Its insertion into the os coccygis. e. The internal sphincter ani. f. Anus, Figure IX. a. Insertion of the Sphincter into the os coccygis. h. The anus. Figure X. Muscles of the internal part of the hand. 1. Abductor pollicis. 2. Adductor poUicis. 5. Plexor bicvis. 4. Quadratus, or palmaris brevis. 5. Ligament of the carpus. 6'. Abductor minimi digiti. 7. Probe passed under the tendons of the perforati. 8. Probe passed under the tendons of the perforans. 9- Lumbricalcs. 10. Perforates. 11. Plexor carpi radialis. 12. Flexor carpi ulnai js. Figure XI. Muscles on the back of the foot. 1, Tendo Achilla, 2. Part of the astragalus which corresponds with the tibia. 3. The tendon of the tibialis anticus. 4. Tendon of the extensor pollicis pedis longus. 5. Tendons of the extensor communis digitorum. 6. Extensor pollicis rcdibbiuvis, 7. Extensor digitorum brevis. 8.( 5. Tendons of the extensor communis digitorum. , Communication of the tendons of the extensor longus, and extensor brevis.TABVTA3CVniSc/ufltt e/" kttk>rui.M£fi4C(naf a- CrulJ^u'l^vC 21 ) PLATE XIX. The anterior Arteries of the Body. «. The heart. b. The aorta', arises from the left ventricle of the heart, gives off the coronary arteries, and makes the great arch to- wards the dorsal vertebrae, then descends through the open- ing of the diaphragm into the abdomen, in which it proceeds near tlie left side of the back to the last vertebras of the loins, and there is divided into the two iliac arteries. c. The coyonary arteries; arise from the aorta under its arch, and are distributed into the substance of the heart and auricles. d. The great arch\ gives off three branches; 1. The ar- teria ianominata. 2. The left carotid. 3. The left subclavian. c. The ' arteria innominata; arises from the arch of the aorta, is immediately divided into two branches, g. The right subclavian ; and h. the right carotid. The carotid arteries ascend in a straight line to the larynx, and arc there divided into the external and internal. The external carotid ascends by the car to the temples, and ramifies into eight branches: 1. The superior thyroid; 2. the sublingual; 3. the inferior maxillary; and, 4. the exter- nal maxillary; 5. the pharyngeal artery; 6. the occipital; 7. the external auditory’; and, 8. the temporal, from which arises the frontal. The internal carotid in the cavity of the cranium gives off the cerebral branches. i. The left subclavian. The subclavian arteries, near the clavicles, are inflected outward, like an arch into the submaxillary cavity, where -they are called the submaxillary arteries. The subclavian artery gives off four branches. 1. The internal mammary •, it descen'ds near the sternum, and sends forth, 1. the arteria mediastina; 2. the thymic a. 3. The pericardic, from which arises the superior diaphrag- matic; and, 4. the inferior trachaeal. 2. The cervical; goes to the muscles of the neck. 3. The vertebral; ascends through the seven foramina of the transverse processes of the neck, and enters the cavity of the cranium. 4. The superior intercostals', run on the inferior margin of the ribs to the sternum. h. The axillary artery gwes off four branches : 1. The ex- ternal mammary ; 2. the inferior thoracic; 3. the external and internal scapulary ; 4. the humeral—then l. The brachial artery ; runs under the arm to the bend of the elbow, and is divided into three branches. m. 1. T4e ctti/ta/arfcry, runs down near the elbow, arrives at the palm of the hand, and there forms the palmary arch. n. 2. The radial artery, descends along the radius into the palm of the hand. 3. The interosseal artery, external and Internal, are distri- ; buted to the muscles of the fore-arm. 0. The palmary arch; from this arise the four digital arteries. ( THE BRANCHES OF THE AORTA DBSCENDENS. The aorta from the arch to the diaphragm gives off four branches; 1. the bronchial artery; 2. the o?sophageal; 3. the eight pairs of intercostals ; 4. the inferior diaphragmatic arteries. a. The bronchial artery ; going to the bronchia' and pulmo- nary vesicles. The a:sophigeal artery goes to the inferior p,i.rt of the oeso- phagus. The inferior intercostals go to the sternum along the inferierr margin of the eight lower ribs. The inferior diaphragmatic arteries supply the diaphrairm. The aorta sends off eight branches in the abdomen. b. 1. Thecoeliac, which is solitary; under the stomach it is divided into three branches; 1. the arteria stomachica ; 2. thx splenic a. 3. 'The hepatic. c. 2. The superior 7nesaraic-, tends towards the'jejunum, coecum, and right colon. d. 3. The renal arteries, which go to the kidneys. e. 4. The spermatic arteries ; passing to the testicles in men; but in women, to the ovaria. f. 5. The inferior mesenteric-, it goes to the left colon, and to the rectum. g-.' 6. The lumbal arteries; which go to the muscles of the loins and abdomen. h. 7. The sacral-, pass near the os sacrum. i. 8. Theiliacs-, near the last vertebrse of the loins the aorta is divided into two. The iliac arteries arc divided into external and internal. The internal iliac artery is called the hypogastric-, in the foetus it divides itself into six, in the adult into five branches, which are divided vVithin and without the pelvis. k. The external iliac -, it comes out of the cavity of the pelvis under Poupart’s ligament, and runs backward into the internal part of the thigh to the subpoplitcal cavity. /.In this course it is called the crura or femoral artery^ and under the ham the subpoplitcal. m. The external iliac artery-, at its exit from the pelvis it gives off the epigastric, which ascends under the rectus mus- cle to the sternum. n. The crural artery, gives many muscular branches to the muscles of the thigh and lateral arteries, which anastomose with the recurrent genual arteries from the tibial. o. The popliteal artery, is divided into the a?i^er/‘(/r and poste- rior tibial, and the peroneal. p. The anterior tibial artery perforates the interosseal liga- ment, descends to the back of the foot, (perforates it near the great toe) and runs into the sole of the foot. q. The posterior tibial descends in the internal and posterior part of the tibia. » r. The peroneal, or f hilar artery, descends behind the fibula, perforates the inferior part of the interosseal liga- ment, and runs on the back of the foot. The plantary arch is formed by the anterior and posterior tibial, and the peroneal, in the sole of the foot. The digital arteries (of the foot) arise from the plaotary arch.( 22 ) 6. c. PLATE XX. Name, origin^ trunks. The occipital artery; emerges under the splenic nuiscle. The posterior auricular; a branch of the temporal. The 'posterior Arteries of the Body. Branches. . Is distributed through the occiput The dorsalis suprrma; mostly from the thyroid artery. 'J'he branches are, d. The occipital arch. Often arises from the occipital ar- tery. 1. Scapularis; 2. spinalis; 3. dorsalis scapulse. Formed by the union of the branch of the opposite side. Terminations. Sends forth branches to the rcc tus, oblique, complexus muscles, &c. In the posterior muscles of the ear, the biventer, mastodeus, &c. To the trapezius, spleuius, coraco* hyoideus, &c. INIakes an anatomosis. e. The superior intercostal. f. The intercostal aortic arteries; nine pair from the de- scending aorta. They separate near the head of the rib into two branches. g. The lumbal arteries', arise from the aorta almost at right angles. h. The trunk of the axillary artery ; arises from the sub- clavian. i. The inferior scapulary from the subclavian; often from the scapularis interna. h. The posterior circumflex from the axillary. l. The trunk of the humeral from the axillarj', often from the brachial artery. m. The profunda humeri; from the humcrary artery. n. The posterior and superior interosseous artery. 0. The superior dorsal of the scapula; mostly from the thyroid. Its principal branches- are : p. The trunk of the axillary artery. q. The posterior circumflex artery ; from the axillary ar- tery. r. The arteria profunda of the humerus: from the axil- lary A,, it sends forth many branches.. M. The radial artery; from the humeral artery in the top of the humerus, often goes ofl' from the trunk at the bend of the elbow. a.'. The posterior iliac artery. X. The ischiadic artery. y. The popliteal artery is a continuation, of the crural under the poples, or ham. z. - The anterior tibial artery. The posterior tibial artery. a. a. The anterior peroneal artery. The posterioT peroneal artery. The first arises between tire third and fourth vertebrae of the neck. The ninth under the lltb rib. 1. The dorsal branch; 2. The in- tercostal branch, which conti- nually divides and again unites. They have a simple trunk. It bifurcates into the humeral and brachial arteries.. Is. distributed all through the sca- pula. Nourishes tlje muscles of the sca- pula and humerus. Follows the linea.aspera of the hu- merus. Branches; 1. posterior; 2. infe- rior, 1. The arteria nutrita oi the sca- pula. 2. The dorsal A. 3. The supra-spinalis. 4. The infra-spinalis. 5. The muscular^ Passes in the axilla. Anastamoses with the arteria pro- funda of the humerus. 1, The superior; 2. the nutritia of the humerus; 3. the projunda of the radius, &c. Sends off many perforating bran- ches. 1, The median. 2. the radial; 3. the carpeo-radial; 4. the carpeo- ulnal. 1. The cutaneous muscular. 2. the recurrent radial. 3. the profunda; 4. the volaris anastomotica, SfC. Above the pyramidal muscle. Is variously divided about the tu- berosity of the ischium. 1. The., posterior tibial. 2, the an- terior tibial; 3. the peroneal. . Perforates the interosseous liga- ment. Branches: \. the interior; 2. the posterior. Perforates the interosseous liga- ment. Descends near the fibula. In the adjoining periosteum of the vertebra;. Sends off the bronchial; the dorsal of tlie second and third. In the back and spinal marrow. Anastomose with the abdominal and'epigastric artery. It nourishes the os humeri and its- muscles. Goes to the long extensor and in- fra-spinal muscles, &c. To the head of the luunerus, del- toid, extensor longus, Ac. Is changed into the radial and ul- nar arteries. To the short and long extensors, to the skin, &c. To the extensors of the little fingers. In the periosteum of the scapula. In the head of the humerus and. back of the scapula. Upon the spine of the scapula. Below the spine of the scapula. In the adjacent muscle.s. In the upper circumllcx artery. To the epiphyses and os humeri. Are distributed to the deltoid, me- dulla of the humerus, radius, skin, Ac. Into the spinator brevis, the ra- dius, Ac. The carpal is produced from llio aiiastamosis with other arteries. Are distributed through tJie metav carpus, carpus, fingers, back of the palm of the hand, it coinv municates with others. To the pyramidal mu.-<cle, Ac. 1. The Itoemorrhoidal. 2. the ar- teria pudenda. The articulai, interosseal, cuta- neal, muscular arteries, Ac. Goes down to the b rck of thefoot. 1. The posterior tibiul; 2, the peroneal. Is now called the posterior pero* neaL Is united with the tibial.nlTab vLA.xxi( »3 ) PLATE XXI. The Veins. I All the blood of the head, face, and neck. Is discharged. The blood driven through the arteries into the cerebrum and cerebelluni- i. The int. rnjl jugnlar veins descend into tlie neck. Veins}, c. The frontal; Q. the angular; 3. d. the temporal; liie auricular sublingual-, 5. e. the occipital. f. ’I'hc digital veins of the band ; arise from the extre- mities of the aitenes, through innumerable anasta- muscs. i i. The external radial vein ; runs down the length of the radius. Flows into the'sinusses of the dura mater. Receive the thyroid b, and internal maxillary veins. Descend in the lateral parts of the neck under the common inte- guments. Flow into 1. g. the cephalic vein of the thumb, and unite with rne inferior. 2. Into the salvatella; b. this comes to the second finger. By its union with the mediana ce~ pbalica minor. i. Veins 1. The evternat and internal cubital-, 2. the collati ral -, 3. the superior deep seated veins. m. The larger cephalic median vein-, 2. the inferiorpro~ funda; 3. the internal radial. From the flowing of these veins into the inferior part of the hu- merus. Flow into the flexure of the arm, and become the vena mediana. The cephalic and basilic veins. ». The brachial van. B, The axillary vein; it receives. p. The subclavian veins ; are a continuation of the ax- illary veins, and receive the blood from Unite in the humerus. Ascends in the internal surface of the humerus to the subniax- illary cavity. 1. The thoraic veins; the muscu- lar and fcapulaty. 1. The internal jugular veins. 2. The external 3. Tlie vertebral * Both subclavians unite on the right side, and thence convey the blood into the right atrium (i. e, venous sinus) of the heart through the vena cava. r. The vena axygof, or vena sine pan. 4.The mediastina; 5. thopericardit; 6. the diuphragmatir., or phre- nic; 7. the internal mammary; 8. the laryngeal; y. the supe- rior intercostal; 10. the vena azygos. Is composed by the conflux of the following veins. j. The digital veins of the foot; arise from mities of the toes. j The vena plantarh, surales. \ X. The anteiior and posterior tibiat. the extre- Are emptied into the cephalic vein oj the great toe t. -2. the sa- phena u. and 3; the dorsal vein of tbefootw. Inferius. Superius. Unite with the vena peronea. y. The popliteal vein; ascends by the pojdes. After it is out of the ham. *. The crural vein ; in the pelvis it is called the external Hide. *. The vena cava inferior; begins from the iliac veins to the last vertebne of the loins; near the heart it unites with the vena cava superior tn the anterior sinus of the heart. internal iliac vein; receives It receives the external pudenda. "1 Unites with the internal iliac vein. J In the cavity of the pelvis and ab- domen, the following veins dow to them : 1. The external hcemorrhoidal veins. 2. The hypogastric veins. Into the two Internal and two ex-- ternal jugular veins. Is received by the internal jugu- lar veins. Are emptied iato tluv subclavian veins. ' Convey the blood into the exter- nal jugular veins, which carry it into the subclavian veins. Is emptied into the e.xtcrnal ra- dial vein. This flows into the external and internal cubital. Bect'mes the cephalic major, which adheres to the superior part of the arm. Is formed the vena basilica 1. The median vein unitesat one of its ends with the ccphalica inagna, and at the'other with the basilic. Run into the bracld.l vein. When entered into this cavity it is called the axillary vein. When it reaches the clavicles, it is called the subclavian vein. ' From the head. From the external parts of thehead. From the veins and vertebral si~ nusses. All these come from the internal parts of the thorax and neck. 1.' The bronchial; 2. the superior oesophageal; 3. the vertebral; 4. the superior right mtercostals; 5. the left inferior mtercostals. These run into the anterior iibial vein. Empty themselves into the poster rior tibial vein. And are then called tho popliteal: vein. It is called the crural, or femoral vein. It passes into the inferior vena cava. 1. The sacral; 2. the lumbal; 3. the right spermatic 4.. the re- nal; 5. the hepatic; 6x the/«- ferior diaphragmatic. Into tliesft'llow 1. the internal pu- dendal veins; 2. the dorsal ve.r.s of the penis; 3. the obturator.( H ) PLATE XXII. The >Ahsiorhent Lymphatic System, This system includes the lacteals, mesenteric glands, receptaculum chyli, thoracic duct, lymphatic absorbents and glands; for the purposes of conveying nutritive chyle and coagulable lymph to the blood. THE GLANDS AND Figure I. c, A portion of the-jejunum, b. A branch of the superior mesenteric artery. c. c, c. The lacteals conspicuous with their little knots^ d. An island of lacteals. e. A mesenteric gland, receiving the chyle from the vessels spoken of. y. An oblong gland with a simple inferent vessel. g. A gland, consisting of six or seven lymphatic inferent ducts. A. The vasa egredientia, vel effercntia, of a gland migra- ting to another gland of the next order. The Ij/mpkatic vessels, when they successively enter many glands, the first gland is then said to be of the first order, or genus; the next one to this, of the second order or genus; but • this division of Winslow is uncertain, and of no use in phy- siology, it may with propriety be omitted, because one and the same gland may receive from many glands and new vessels of different orders which are not yet called glands. i. The thoracic duct; there are two, a primary and a se- condary one. - i. Part of the aota descendens. l. The receptaculum chyli. A dilation of the receptaculum is often wanting in men. Haller says, it is wanting six times in 21. Dead human bodies, in which I have shewn the thoraic duct, I have seen the ampulla, that is, the cistern of the chyle. m. The trunks of lacteals opening into the receptaculum. ■' H. The cceliac artery. 0. The emulgent arteries. p. The inferior mesenteric artery. q. The iliac arteries. r. The sacral artery. LACTEAL VESSELS. s. Some trunks of the abdominal viscera and lower extre* mities. t. The thoracic duct arises from the receptaculum. Figure II. A little membrane, composing a lymphatic vessel visible by a microscope. a. A membrane of a lymphatic. b. Small globules dispersed through the membranes, c. Fibres, or small strias, resembling small vessels. Figure III. The coats of the thoracic duct visible in the microscope. a. The exterior tunic of the thoracic duct, consisting of large globules joined together in clusters. h. The interior tunic conspicuous with similar globules, but smaller. Figure IV. Aninjected gland, filled with mercury from the absorbents only, exhibiting a congeries of convoluted lymphatic vessels. ' Figure V. A gland filled with mercury, injected by the absorbents, ii this the cells ar^ very evident.Tabvlaxxit, ScJuUa. et /u^iaAC-c&a?ia, a Cut H^'ley.PLATE XXIir. The Lymphatic Glands and Absorbents. Xanie and Situation of the Glands,^c. Rcte; it arises in the extremity of each foot •■and hand : where the arteries terminate, out of the tela cellulosa originate absor- bent lymphatics, which, when they enter glands, are called • inferent; but when they leave glands, efferent vessels, in pur- suing their course towards the thoracic duct. The tihialgland) in the middle of the tibia The popliteal glands; under the poples. The inferior inguinal glands; they consti- tute the scat of pestilental buboes. The superior inguinal glands ; venereal bu- boes arise in them. The iliac glands ; in the pelvis near the ar- teries and iliac veins. The mesenteric glands; are innumerable through the whole mesentery. The renal and atrabiliary glands. The receptaculum cbyli, or ductus Pecque- tianus, discovered by John Pecquet, 16'49. It is often deficient. , The primary thoracic duct; is the princi- pal trunk of the absorbent system. ft The right absorbent, or secondary duct; . I arises from four large lymphatic trunks. The glands of the stomach, or gastric glands ; are four or six. The hepatic glands; a great plexus near the vena porta;. The cardiac, or pericardiac glands; near the rise of the carotid artery, i The glands of the lungs; are rarely found in the substance of the lungs. The brachial glands; in the flexure of the arm. The axillary glands; under the clavicle, and in the axilla ; they swell from a cancer of the breast. The glands in the face; near the zygomatic process and parotid glands. The cervical glands; are very numerous j the seat of scrophula and struma. Inferent Vessels. The small vessels cannot be seen by the naked eye, cm account of the great exility of their origins. Injections from the trunk to the lesser vessels do not penetrate, the valves oppose them: mercury easily proceeds from the small trunks to the larger vessels, and points out the direction. In the ends of the toes. In the parts situated under the knee. The crural vessels swell wlicn pus is ab- sorbed from ulcers of the foot. The vessels come from the genitals and nates. Receive the lymph from the inferior parts, and from the pelvis. Receive the lymph from the lower extre- mities, chyle from the intestines, &c. From the kidneys and atrabiliary capsules. Is composed of two trunks of absorbents, and one of the lacteals within the diaphragm. ^ Receives the chyle and lymph of the ab- domen, and lower extremities, from the receptacle. The lymph comes from the right side of the liver, diaphragm, heart, lungs, head, &c. They are 1. The coronary vessels. 2, The left gastric. 3. The right gastric. The vessels on the liver are distinguished by several divisions. 1. The right coronary vessels of the heart; 2. the left. Receive the lymph from the lungs. 1. The feas/Z/c vessels in the hand, from the palm and little finger ; 2. the ce~ phalic from the thumb and index; 3, the median from the other fingers. The vessels come from the head, neck, arms, scapula, breasts, heart, lungs, and liver. Several vessels come from the internal canthus of the eye, from the nose and lips. The vessels come from the external and. internal parts of the head and neck. H Efferent Vessels. The small vessels, united with pthers, make branches, by the union ot many of which they become trunks, which at length arc terminated in th^tho- racic duct and subclavian veins, w hore they empty their chyle and l)nnph. Arc emitted to the popliteal glands. Proceed to the inguinal glands. Those vessels go to the iliac region and its glands. These vessels proceed as the above. Carry the lymph to the superior parts. Go into many trunks, and thence to the thoracic duct. Go to the receptaculum chyli. Where its dilatation ends, it is called the thoracic duct. Perforates the diaphragm, ascends (he thorax, exonerates itself in an angle of the left subclavian and jugular veins. This duct empties itself into the right subclavian and jugular veins. Go to the thoracic duct. Unite with the lymphatics of the omen- tum, spleen, and pancreas. They flow with the pyloric of the omen- tum and liver. They send the lymph to the pericardiac glands. Both flow and enter the thoracic duct. Empty themselves into the thoracic duct, or subclavian veins. They tend to the axillary glands, or the thoracic duct. On the left side they are exonerated in the primary or superior trunk; on the right side they are emptied into the secondary or inferior trunk. They descend to the neck, and unite with other cervical trunks. Two trunks, a right and left, flow into the subclavian veins.( 26 ) PLATE XXIV. Basis oj the Cranium. A. Tentorium cerebelli, or lentorium of the cerebellum ; the part which comes to the anterior clinoid processes is removed. B. The longitudinal sinus of the dura mater. The poste- rior end is bifurcated; the interior and duplicated la- mina of the dura mater, which forms the falciform process; the lateral processes, and falx of the ccre- belhim, has peculiar cavities, which are called sinuses. The conjunction of the four greater sinuses is called torcular of Hcrophilus; the longitudmal sinus to the end, for the most pait, is a continuation of the other < sinus in tlve right transverse process, to which the other sinus is Joined belonging to the left transverse process^ these, are called lateral sinuses. fn that place, in which the longitudinal sinus is changed into the right lateral, another sinus is opened for a process of the cerebullum, which is called occipital; then another, which runs into the same place from the in- terior paj'ts of the cerebrum, venous, as it were, in its nature, and is called i\\efourth sinus, &c. C. The fourth bifurcated sinus; inserted into the right transverse crus, and into the left other crus; yet this is very rare. D. The remaining part of the falx cerebri. E. E. The great veins of the tentorium. F. The veins of the cerebrum, inserted by transverse sinuses in the tentorium cercbelli. G. The opening of the posterior occipital sinus» H. H. The right and left posterior occipital sinuses. I. Falx cerebelli; placed between the two lo)>es of the cerebellum. K. K. The great transverse, or two lateral sinuses. L. L. The jugular fossa:, or depressions; into these fossae, besides the trausverse, petrose, and occipital sinuses, are usually inserted the vertebral veins sent into the great jugular sinus by a peculiar meatus of the occipi- tal bone, as also other veins from the occipital dura piatcr, and frequently the mastoid. M.M. The inferior petrous sinuses', two inserted into these fossae. N. N. The superior petrous sinuses; two ascend on either side near the root of the petrous bone, and are inserted into the receptacula and jugular fossae. O. O. The veins inserted into these .sinuses of the cerebellum. P. P. The anterior and inferior occipital sinuses.. Q. Q Emmissarium passing out a nei-veof tlie ninth pair. Ernissaria are small veins, &c. R. R. Anterior and superior occipital sinus t perpetual. S. S. Its anastomosis with cavenous receptacula and circular sinus. T. The opening of the superior petrous into the cavernou.t. V.V. Receptacula, px cavernous sinuses; on the side tf the sella equina. X. X. 'I'he transverse sinus of the sella-cqvina.. Y. Y. The cirpul/ar sinus oi' Ridley. Z. Anterior veins of the cerebrum. - a. a. The principal artery of the dura mater.; ■ b. b. The veins which accompany it. d^d. The carotid arteries in the receptaculum. . 1 'll, I,.■ I . e. e. The little arfery in the receptacle to the nerves of the' fifth pair. f. f. Ophthalmic arteries, tlie origin from the carotid. g. g. The posterior anguiated cliwHd processes. h. Crista galli. i. i. Frontal sinuses. Ic. k. Nerves of the fifth pair. 1. The third branch, m. The second branch. K. The first branch, f. Ophthalmicus. 0. Nerve of the fourth pair. p. Nervous trunk of the third pair. q. The division, of the fifth pair from the sixth. r. Nerve of the sixth pair. s. Origin of the intercostal nerve. r i of 1.1. The entrance of the seventh pair into the dura mater, V. u. The first roots of the eighth pair. X. X. Heeund root of the eighth pair. y. y. Ninth nerve. z. Foramen of the medulla spinalis. t IN THE EIGHT EYE; AFTER THE LACUNAR OF THE. ORBIT, AND A GREAT PART «F THE OS MALjE HAVE BEEN DEMOLISHED. 1.1. Ophthalmic artery. 2. 2. An exterior, or lachrymal branch of the same, ac- companying the nerve. ^ 3. 3. Interior surculus extending to the nose. 4. 4. Braiiclu^s which go to the sclerotica,, some to the uvea., 5.5. The remains of the muscles of the palpebrm and eye. 6. End of the levator palpebr®. 7- Lachrymal gland. 8. Optic nerve. 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25,2(5, 27, 28, 2<1. As in the other eye., IN THE LEFT EYE. 9. Trochlea. 10. Pathetic muscle. 11. Levator muscle of the eye. 12. Internal muscle of the eye. 13. Abductor cut off. 14. A branch of the third pair to the levatoros oculi and- palpebnu 15. Another trunk. l6'. I'hc outermost branch to the obliquus inferior.. 17. The middle branch to the rectus inferior. 18. The iunennost branch to the rectus inferior. 19. A branch to the opthabnic ganglion. 20. A branch of the first ramus, the superior branch of the fifth pair. 21. Exterior surculus of the same, 22 interior., 23. E.xtcrior branch of the first ramus of the fifth pair. 2-1. Ramuii going to the face through the foramina mal;fi.. 25. Small branches to the lachiymal gland. 26. Inferior branch of tlie first ramus of .the fifth pair.. 27. A surculus of the same tq the ganglion.. 28. A rainulits to the nostrils. 29. A branch creeping anteriorly. 30. Opthabnic ganglion. 3.1. Ciliary nerves.- 31,7 •i* 8. As in the right ey*i.11 cr /?( 27 ) PLATE XXV, Basis oj^ An anterior view of the basis of the cerebrum, with the posterior lobe a little reclined, to shew iXxGjissura Sylvii, and the cerebrum somewhat drawn back to exhibit the lowest scat of the ventricle, A A. The posterior lobes of the cerebrmn. BB. Anterior lobes of the cerebrum. CC. Fossa Sylvii: which ascends to the bivium of the ante- rior ventricle. D D, Cercheltam. ' E, Commencement of the spinal marrow. FF. Corpora pyramidalia, at the beginning of the medulla oblongata, are four eminent bodies, of which the inte- rior and tumid collides diminished backwards in a point, are called corpora pyramidalia. GG, Corpora olitaria; are two exterior, short, niedullary, obtuse collides, or eminences, mixed with cineritious stria, called corpora oblivaria from their figure, and ^ may be easily displaced from their situation. HH. Tons Varotii: not only inscribed with transverse, but also with furrows decussating in different ways, which the arteries seem to cause; it is a convex body in the superior surface of the medulla oblongata; as the cruraof the cerebellum subject themselves to the crura, they then become, as it were, an arch, placed over two streams meeting together, which is called pons, and attributed to Varolius; others call it the annular protuberance. Part of the plexvs choroides: in the anterior ventri- cles, plexuses of vessels occur, as it were, twisted into a rope, by means of a membrane, which is an elon- gation of the pia mater, and are called plexus choroi- ! dei: the figure is triangular, plane, and expanded, like a veil painted with many small arteries. But other more compound plexuses arc continued, in part, convoluted, slender, the right and left; and, lastly, they are joined together. I he pia mater, convoluted, spreads in the inferior part of both cornua of the lateral : ventricle. In that seat of the plexus of the cranium j . propullates into the basis of the cerebrum, free, placed 1 on the arising optic nerve, and covered by the pia Ina^'r alone, is continued to the anterior and posterior j end of the thalarai, and the terminations of the septum I lucidum. II. Mamillary eminences, ov eminentiee quadrigeminee. ,KK. Part of the crura cerebri; the enma cerebri are two medullary eminences which arise n%m the basis of the cerebrum, and terminate in the pons Varolii* L L. The optic ?ienes before tliey unite. M. Their conjunction. iiN. The optic nerves separated. 0. Part ol the pia mater subject to the third ventricle. ’ P. The seat of the infundibulum. I IL Anterior part of the corpus callosumupon cutting I away the falx from, the crista galli, and drawing down the hemisphere, a longitudinal white, convex portion , presents itself, called corpus callosum.. Z. Part of the anterior perpendicular lobe of the cerebrum. : Olfactory nerves y arise from the corpora striata,, and the Brain* 1 • ■ they pass through the cribrose foramina of the ethmoid bone into the cavjty of the nose, and are distributed in numerous branches on the pituitary membrane,- for the purpose of smelling- . ■ S S. Nerves of the third pair, motores oculorum : are di- vided into six branches 1. to the levator muscle of the palpebra; 2. to the superbus; 3. humilis; 4. bibito- rius; 5. to the oblique inferior; 6. to the tunics of the eye, goes out from the low'cst crura cerebri and mi- grate to the orbit of the eye. TT. Nerves of the/b«/M pair, or syfnpathedc nervesy they are tlie smallest. V V. Nerves of the fifth pair; this pair is the largest of all; divides into 1 ophthalmic; 2. superior max- illary ; 3. inferior maxillary, afterwards into the infra orbit ale, temporal, palatine, nasal, pterygoid, dental, lingual, auricular brauches, &c. XX. Nerves of the sixth pair; the par adducens; Y Y. Hard and soft nerves, or the seventh acoustic pair, is composed ol two nerves, the nature of which is different y the su/t to the organ of hearing; .the hard makes to the facial branches; the second, the auricular. ZZ. Nerves of t\\e eighth, or pur xagum. a a. Nerves of the pinth, or lingual pair. bb. Anterior roots of the^iif cemVaf nerve; tenth, or cer— xical pair, discovered by Willis, and properly called the frst nerve of the neck, has two roots, anterior and posterior, run into a ganglion, and form- an arch with the adjoining second nerve of the cervix, supplies a branch to the intercostal nerve, and beneath the occi- put, goes out of the medulla spinalis. CC. f’crfc'/nw/arteries. </. liight inferior arteries of the cerebellum. ■ e. A branch to the inferior surface of the cerebellum, ff. Anterior spinal arteries. g. Their first arch.. h. Left inferior arteries of the cerebellum. ii Branches of the btxsilary to the pons Varolii, kk. Branches of the same to the cerebellum. A branch of the accompanying auditory nerve. p.. A branch of ihejifth pair, vv. arteries of \\\e cerebellum.. Cervical, or basilary artery. ff fj. Deep arteries of the cere/nvm arising from the cervicai* A branch thence to the plexus choroidcus. uu. Branches to the mammillary eminences, and fundus-of the third ventricle.. Communicating arteries, or circle of V/illis.. Trunks of the internal carotids.. u u. Their anterior branches. A. Their anastomoris, and a branch going out to the thb l ventricle. r r. Fosterior branches of the carotids. A. A branch from Uience to the plexus choroideus.( 28 ) f PLATE XXVI. Plexus of the Cerebrum, The greatest portion of the anterior and posterior part of the cerebrum, or brain, removed to the posterior end of the lateral ventricle, to shew the uncovered and perfect velum in- jected, &c. AAA. Medulla cerebri •, of which more will be said hereafter. B. Part of the cerebellum; in general the lobes of the the cerebellum are two, alike and equal, which a falx from the dura membrane divides into two parts.— Some divide the lobes that are somewhat deeper than a furrow into three lobules. C. Vermis, D. Corpus callosum. E E. Arteries of the corpus cut. F. Middle part of the anterior cerebrum confusedly ex- pressed between the corpora striata. G G. Corpora striatal obscurely drawn, are two long cine- ritious eminences, elevated in the basis of the anterior ■ventricle: they were so called from the external ap- pearance, exhibiting many longitudinal roundish white streaks; they are composed externally of a cortical, and internally of the medullary substance of the brain ; together united they concur to the forma- tion of the crura of the cerebrum. II iH. Thalamus of the optic nerves. J,I. The double semicircular centre, or limbus of the stri- ated body of Willis: white streaks produced from the anterior comMissure, and frequently from the crura of the fornix, but especially from the medulla itself, be- fore the thalami of the brain. The anterior end is va- rious, and is continued with one large fibre of the fornix of the anterior crus ; the other part before that crus, subjected to the corpus callosum of the cere- brum, is lost; another, lastly, in the posterior surface of the larger cowmmKra. KK. The/or/crior crura of ihejornix reflected. Lower than the corpus callosum, and forwarder, more short and slender, the rest parallel, the other a medullary arch, which is called Jornix. The middle base of it is simple, as of the corpus cal- losum, it lies upon the interior convex jugum ; yet as a curtain from the pia mater it intercedes the medul- lary collides, which are called the tbalami opticorum nervorum: these are two posterior protuberances of ’ the ventricles of the cerebrum, white and termina- ting in the optic nerves. The anterior and posterior terminate in two crura. The anterior go behind the anterior commissura of the cerebrum, under the thalami of the optic serves. The posterior crura distribute themselves on the hippocampus, but not alwa^ s. LL. Plexus cboroides I within the anterior and lower pdrl of each of the ventricles begins as the vascular plexus, called cboroides, included in the pia mater ' only, it lying naked in the rest of the cavity of the skull, formed of a great number of small arteries, to- gether with little veins, originating from a larger trunk ; all which vessels, joined together by the pw mater, resemble a curtain variously folded. Fium this plexus, probably, proceeds the internal warmth of the brain, with its exhalation and absorption. The choroid plexuses become very broad, where the anterior ventricles of the brain begin to <iescend ; and thence, contracting gradually downward, they project their extremities to the ends of the anterior ventricles, covered only with the pia mater. M. Some glands in the dura mater of the tentorium first discovered by Haller. NNN. Origin of the velum, or plexus, interposed to the cboroides from the pia muter of the posterior lobe of ' the cerebrum. O. The anterior end of that velum in the choroid plex- uses. P. Glandula pinealis; obscurely appearing, subjected to this middle plexus. It is a small conoid eminence of a cineritious colour, lying on the quadrageminte eminences, joined with the basis of the medulla of thtj cerebrum. Behind the third ventricle, and superior of the ce- rebrum, are four eminences, called nates and testes ; the pineal gland is lying on these, covered upwards with a great series of vessels, which are a continua- tion of the choroid plexus. Q. The great veins of Galen, the right trunk : Galen not only hath seen the vein, but the division of it, and he calls it a w/m, the division of which fills the co- I narium, the declivity also about the conarium he ob- j served. R. The trunk of it is alwaj-s present. S S. Branches of the superior artery of the cerebellum ^ spread through that viscus. T. Surculus of its artery thrown between the plexus of the choroides. V. The other surculus, or sprig. XX. Arteries from the profound, or deep cerebral, to the same plexus. YY. Anterior branches of the same plexus, they go out in the corpora striata, lightly expressed in this figure of the cornu of the posterior ventricle, of uncertain length—short, and sometimes longer they are found ; i which seems to arise from the foot of the hippocam- t pus ; yet as a fossa separated from the foot of the hip- pocampus. This oval tubercle is used to be, as with one end bent inwardly.lABVl^ 3CCVa V . >“ V, ^ / l/^ ‘ 23 1 tl ••.W' 7r "c . * I ,i ' ^ ^ ■ ~* ' ‘V .Tabaxaxxvu. Sfhifia ft histirta Mtdu-ince a thd 'Rfn'1^- <-^oyx /c.( *9 ) PLATE XXVII. '‘I Arteries of the Bi'ain, ^. I Upon removing the middle plexus, and cutting through the ■ great part of the uudated thalamus and cerebrum, the cere- ! bellum becomes conspicuous. The weight of the parts con- ! taining the anterior ventricle, makes them fall down on each I gide, and discovers the ventricle very beautifully. A A. Cerebrum: its medulla appears yellow from the blood of the dissected arteriplaj, but when these guttalae are wiped off, it appears white. The figure of the brain is almost an oval. Superiorly, it is divided into two hemispheres by the falciform process. . Inferierly, from the basis of the cranium into six I lobes. The external or cortical substance is greyish ; ! the intenial and medullary is white. I B B. Cerebellum. The processes from the cerebellum to the ! medulla spinalis are four; , in general, similar and equally I converging medullary columns tend downw ards from the crura of the cerebellum into the beginning of the me- j dulla spinalis, and touch one another with their utmost 1 • extremities. I Externally, they are moderately conspicuous from the j medulla, unless at its end, w’hich swelling in the form of I a club, re.semble some of the corpora olivaria. I On the internal side of these processes, some, but ob- I scure tumors, sometimes appear, subiubellous, and of a cortical nature. C- Part of the corpus callosum; transverse striae in the corpus callosum, are easily discovered more evident po- steriorly, but also lines of the same kind appear in its interior medulla. The corpus callosum is an oblong medullary prominence, w hich is conspicuous by turning back the anterior and middle hemispheres of the brain. ID D. Corpora striata externally cineritious. The corpora striata are two protuberances of a greyish colour anteriorly, under each fore ventricle one is placed. E E. The double semicircular centre, or tetnia semicircularis, 1 E F. 'I'halami nervorum opticorum, are two posterior protu- berances of the ventricles of the brain, whitish, and finishing in the optic nerves. They extend to the supe- rior ventricles of the brain, and to the third ventricle. G G. Their superior surface, exteriorly, is partly white, party cineritious. Iheir convexity tends towards the third ventricle, and receive the fornix, then in a direct line, as if resected, they touch together, and fre- quently coalesce. IIII. Lmea alba; it begins in the posterior commissure, and is inserted into the double semicircular centre. I. Posterior commissure of the cerebrum. !KK. Anterior crura of the fornix cut. _ L. Anterior commissure of the brain. This medullous, ro- bust, fibrous lunis, stretched beyond the anterior termi- nation of the ventricle, which unites the right medulla of the cerebrum with the left before the thalami opti- I corum nervorum, and before the anterior crura fornicis. ' It runs into that white fibrous commissure, which proceeds through the thalami and geminum centrum, and crura of the fornix, and gives some white filaments. : M. Testes; in the Jour quadtigemina eminences, are four collides, or eminences, the inferior, less, and more flat pair, is called testes, of which the exterior face is white ; they are sphericles divided. N. Nates; the more superior pair of the collides, nearer to the conario, called nates by the ancients; a vellum is placed on these collides. The corpora quadrigemina, therefore, are four eminences, or prominences, the anterior are called nates, the posterior testes. O. Glandula pinealis. P. Linea transversa alba, fourth ventricle. Q. Part of the medulla oblongata, which is the side of the fourth ventricle. R. Calamus scriptorius. S. Lime albcc, from which the nervus mollis arises. T. Fourth plexus cboroideus. VV. Part of the crura of the cerebrum. The crura of the cerebrum are two medullary columns, which proceed from the basis of the cerebrum, or brain, and are ter- minated in the pons Varolii. X X. Process from the cerebellum to the nates. Y y. Arteria profunda of the cerebrum arising from the ver- tebral. Z Z. Branches to the posterior processes of theeerebruim re- sected. a. First e.xternal branch, thence to the plexus medius and thalami. j3. Second branch to the testes and that plexus. cc. Third branch to that plexus. d. A branch of the arteria superior of the cerebellun going to the nates and testes. e. The left fourth nerve with a simple radix. f. Right fourth nerve arising from a double root. gg. Branches from the superior artery of the cerebellum to that viscus, h. Propago, or a shoot of the .superior artery of the cere- bellum deeper than the left. i. Artery of the nates and testes from the superior part of the cerebellum. Ic k. Branch from it to the fourth ventricle. l. A large branch to the nates testes, pineal gland, and fourth ventricle. m. Another branch of it to the nates and testes. 7/. Anastamosis of the branch a h 1. X. Branch from the profound trunk of the arteria cerebelli to the nates and testes. an. Right trulik of an artery of the^ame. bh. Another branch to tlie nates and testes. 00.' Arteriola:'to the plexus choroideus, arising from the inferior artery of the cerebellum. jt. Arteries arising from the anterior carotids totheprofunda of the cerebrum before the anterior commissure. q. And ascending behind that commissure. r. Arbuscula vilx. The superabundant humidity of the brain from the exha- lants, if not absorbed, produces the dropsy of the ventricle and membranes of the brain: the hitter of which 1 have proved curable, if timely discovered- Sec the Treatise. 1( 30 ) PLATE XXVIIL Of the Medulla Spinalis, or Medullary Spine, Tignre I. Tlic cerehrUum of an infant cut perpendicularly into two parts, fourth ventricle and medvUa spinalisy beheld on its posterior side, together with its nerves, a. Pineal gland. bb. Corpora guadrigemina. ^ €c. The fourth pair of nerves of the cerebrum. dddd. The cerebellum cut through perpendicularly to shew the fourth ventricle, eeeeep. The two appearances of a perpendicular section of the cerebellum, in which the medullary substance on cither side appears dispereed into rami, which is called arbor x itee. From this arbor the medullary substance, as it were collected from branches into a trunk, ascends, as is evident, to the corpora quadrigemina, and is called vahula magna cerebri, seu pedimculus cerebri superior. But a part of the medulla cerebclti, particularly extends to the pons Varotii and inferior pedunculi, or posterior corpora pyramidalia of the medulla oblongata, which, nevertheless, cannot be shewn in this view. ff. Fourth ventricle, which is nothing else than a kind of furrow imprinted on the posterior face of the poste- rior corpora pyramidalia of the medulla oblongata. These two bodies are separate from one another in the fourth ventricle by a perpendicular sulcus, to whose sides they descend perpendiculares eminentice duar, from which others laterally pi-oeeed outwardly, and at length bending to the sides of the corpora py- ramidalia, run anteriorly to the origin of the portion nerve, called’ mollis aaisiicus. Above these last eminences, w'hite medullar}’, as it ■were, fibres usually run, from which, with propriety, some anatomists deduce the origin of the soft portion of the auditory nerves, at least pro parte. But these lines arc not always present, from which it is doubted whether they arc at all essential to tihe soft nerve. hh. Eighth pair of nerves of the cerebrum, with the ac- cessary nerves, and t«je recurrent from the inedtdla. spinalis. i. Ligamenhtm of the pia miUcr. k- Appc/idix. of the medulla spinalis intercepted with the cauda equina. The posterior appearance of the medulla spinalis •with thirty pair of spinal nerves are evident of- them- ^elves. And it is also evident, that every spinal nerve arises from one double anterior root, and another posterior, of which every one is composed of many nervous fu- niculi, and. that those roots continually increase in. length from the first pair of cervicak, until they aft the longest of the last sacral. Also, ganglia, of single spinal nerves, are pcrcejv tible, into which neither anterior nor posterior' root run, but the posterior only passes the ganglion, but the anterior is found annexed to it by cellular struc- ture only. The sizes of the spinal ganglion are evident also ; the least are in the first pair of cervicles, thence they gradually increase to the last cervical and first dorsal, again through the back they diminish in size, and in the lumbar they increase to the first sacral, until the last sacral becomes equally small as the first cervical. The roots of the sacral nerves are placed without the natural situation to shew them better. Figure II. represents one of the sacral nerves with its ganglion, placed, that it may be clearly seen. a. Posterior radix of one of the sacral nerves. b. Ganglion, through which the first radix only of the nerve passes. c. evidently separated from the ganglion that It may be seen alone, only adhering by its cel- lulosity. , Figure III. isthc fourth ventricle, with theprinci- pium of the medulla spinalis. ab,ab„. Posterior .appearance of the posterior corpora pyrami- dalia, when the fourth ventricle is taken out, se. Perpendicular sulcus, which separates tlie two forme.c bodies in the fourth ventricle. d d. Perpendicular eminences near the sulcus. ee.. transverse,, more or kss observable, they extend to the origin of the portion.of the soft acustic nerve. ff. Medullary vchite sirke, which also extend to the soft portion, but not always, and are sometimes wanting., gg. More the Ulus. Halter indicates the posterior corpora olivaria, but nothing like them is to be found. h.lu Eightlrpair of cerebciil nerves. a. Recurrent spinal and accessory neravs to the-eighth repair. kk. Anterior roots of the first pair of cervicals. 11. Posterior roots of which communicate with the left current spinal., m m. Posterior radices, or roots of tlic second pair. nn. Posterior radix of the third p.air of cervicals which do not consist of ramous, or branched, but of cylin- drical nervous cords. 0 0. Vertebral arteries perforating the dura mater, whiclu invests the medulla spinalis..TABVLA:wiir.■‘‘'•^^>'J : •-.A'4L® .*:!'■ ._■.;.i'■'«f^‘- . .■ ‘■' '%r'<'t;.v'-■' '^•S ^ - ' • ' ^ ■' • . ' .> •V. ' .. ^ •■>*» 4 ;■ ■ f V ^ -1 ; • • -J ? ■> • ■ • V * •^V . ^ --') •Kf ,♦ I, ;far. V ' ,'U‘V -.A *, ■'*^ V ■-'•ia/ji.j rin^ n ' - , v»^ ■,.^j < T. • . '• ' - - A V» - - .V--- ■ ■us.p^. .'•_ ,. -■'"' ■■ V-.' »:•; . - 'V' ; '.. ,y ; .4» / V ?i »_ . . - 4 '■i \ »^>s’ ;• J.»^f ; >>' "'v. '"' ■ • fc%' / r# ;‘4v. ,-i f». ■• f.. >- ■ * A>\*r -« “ k '*»■ V; :^‘i .5-TaBVLA XXK. Seh^la et hst<n-M a.G,dRou L^.■( 3* ) o PLATE XXIX. t ^ The Ganglions and Plexuses of Nerves, Figure I. Is a portion of the right nerve of the third pair of the cerebrum. Part of this nerve, which yet runs down in the cavity of the cranium, and has its involucrum from the pia mater only. In this part are observed interrupted striae sufficiently deep, penetrating into the medullary substance of this nerve, which are formed from the septa of the pia mater, ' sent down into that substance, and those vascular. Similar strioey originating from the same cause, are seen in the optic nerves; before entering into the orbits they acquire invoiucray or covering, from the dura mater. 1 t c. Here more strongly finding an involucrum, it goes into thicker and concatenated funicles. i rf. Is a cord from a branch of the ophthalmic nerve running to the third ramus of the third pair of the cerebrum. Figure IL That portion of the nerves of the fifth pair of the'cc* rebrum, which is principally contained in the cavity of the I cranium, taken away, and the dura mater nudatod is seen ! on the superior part. I a. Trunk of the fifth pair of jaerves of the cerebrum, con- sisting of many nervous cords of unequal thickness, and i uiurertain number, so that 70, 90, and even 100, have been discovered. ^ These cords arc multiplied to infinity, and concate- nated together, which concatenation, the most scknt^c ojiatvfnist^ have not remarked, but have only nepresented their parallel and united course. H. Semilunar ganglion of Gasser, which, derived its name from the discoverer, «. First branch of the fifth pair^ or t\\a ophthalmic deprived; of its cellular involuciaim. i. Second branch of the same, or superior maxillary. t. Third branch, or maxillaris inferior. Upon taking away, the ccllulous involucrum of these three rami, it is evident" that each is composed of indiny j'uniculi frequently couca.- knated together. Figure Ilf.. Is a nerve of the fifth pair of the cerebrum- of. the same side, beheld on its inferior part. ««. Trunk of the fifth pair,. 4 i.. Its semilunar ganglion,. c. First, or opthalmic ramus. d. Second branch, or superior maxillary.. e. Third ramus, or maxillaris inferiory which gives off three evident rami, of which f. First, sends off pterygoid, masseteric, temporal, buc- cinatory branches, &c. g. Second, inferior maxillary, ox alxcolari's, properly speaking, h Third, lingual. These two last, at their commencement, are covered with much cellulous substance, so as to appear to form one trunk. i. Is a peculiar fasciculus of nervous funiculi under the trunk of the fifth pair, which arising from almost a common origin with the fiftli pair under the semilunar ganglion in a peculiar impression, runs into that ganglion, i. Portion of the sixth pair of the cerebrum nuining through the sinus cavernosus, consisting of one cord, after its origin or insertion of the great intercostal nerve becoming somewhat thicker, and having two short striae impressed on it. h Origin of the great intercostal nerve, or rather, as it were, double posterior and anterior insertion into the nerve of the. sixth pair, consisting of many and very thin funicles, which suddenly run.together,,and are again dissolved. Figure IV.. A view of another nerve of the fifth pair of the right,, ■vdewed on the inferior side, together with the neighbour- ing portion of the nerve of the sixth pair. a. Trunk of the nerve of the fifth pair, bb. Semilunar ganglion, through which, towards the inferior; maxillary branch, many funiculi inesolvcd pass. e. Fii-bt branch.. (L Second branch. c.. Third branch. f. Peculiar fasciculus of nervous funicles under the semiltv» nar ganglion, going towards the uiferior maxilla. g-. Portionof the sixth pair of the cerebrum. h. Another origin of the great intercostal nerve, orsyinpa- theticUs inagnus of Winslow, different from the former, but which is frequently observed, This other nexus of the 6th pair of nerves, with the ophthalmic, is not found by Haller and many others; unless cellular and vascular;* but not at all by any nervous funicles, neither from the opththalmic to the great intercostal, any neiwous root is cutoff, and unless a subtile injection of the vessels with, coloured liquor penetrate, the observator is easily mis- taken..(' 3* } PLATE XXX. The Ganglions and Flexuses of Nerves, <^c. Figure I. Tills represents the brachial plexus of the right «idc of an adult, together with the ganglions , of tlie fifth, sixth, seventh, .and eighth pair of cervical, and first of the dorsal nerves, from which , the bnachial plexus is composed. Every plexus of this uerve was carefully excorti- cated of its first cellulous covering, to shew'the ^ funiculi of the nerves alone and naked, and their different thickness and manner of communication, 5. 6. 7. 8, Nerves of the four last pair of ccrvicals. ‘ ‘ 1. Nerve of the first pair of dorsals. aaaaa. Funiculi, which are made of the anterior roots of these nerves arising from the medulla spinalis, and they pass the ganglions of the posterior roots, nor do they unite to the posterior roots, unless after- wards these go out of their ganglions. . ' hbhhb. Funiculi, from the posterior roots. t ccc c. Ganglia formed from the posterior roots. ildddd. Trunks of nerves running together to form the' bra- chial plexus; of which the first, i. e. five cervicals, consists of one gross funiculus only ; but the others frequently communicate together, These trunks afterwards are implicated in a sur- prising manner, which are better understood by a figure than an operose description. c. Nervus supra scapularis. f. Axillary, or circumjlexal nerve. ' .S- External cutaneous, or musculo cutaneous nerve. h. Radial nerve. i. Median nerve with double root; viz. Ji. 1. Going out of the brachial plexus. m. Cubital nerve, n. Internal cutaneous nerve. POO. Arc other lesser nerves coming out of the brachial plexus indiscriminately, and without any names. Figure II. Is a portion of the median nerve, of which funi- culi being disjuncted, by the removal of the exter- nal cellular vagina; yet the mutual inosculations arc exhibited. They arc all delineated in their natur.al size, yet it was necessary to prolong some funiculi, and es- pecially those which connect the others transversely, in the delineation, to exhibit them clearly,at one' sight, yet some of the funiculi were obliged to be cut, eaaa. Are tubercles, to which many others may be seen, which arise from the medulla of the nervous funiculi, there propelling the vagina, which has less resistance. Figure III. - Are portions of the nerve of the ninth and tenth i pair of the cerebrum. " j Both were cut off near their exit from the cra- nium, and are of the right side. a. Nerve of the eighth pair, here consisting of many funiculi, of which one goes to form. b. The ne rvus pharyngeus, c. Here the nervus vagus swells, and consists of fewer i' • funiculi. Nervus laryngeus, arising from the vagus, and cut off, and reclined posteriorly. ee. Portion of the nerv’us vagus descending through the neck, conspicuous after its cellulous involucrum, or coat, is taken off’, so that the nervous funiculi may be seen in it, which are joined together in a multi- ' plied concatenation. g g. Nerve of the ninth pair, or lingual of the cerebrum, consisting of one only- gross funiclc, yet ramous, at the time it enters the tongue. This nerve coheres | with the vagus, as well through the cellulous, as small nervous funiculi, which are apparently cut. h. Nerve from the ninth pair, called the descendens, cut off, having many roots from the ninth pair, of which (’ some are the beginning of the lingual nerve, &c. ' V * Figure IV. Is a similar portion of the tenth nerve and ninth pair of the cerebrum from the right side, but taki'/i from another subject, which is here given for the sake of variety. a. Nervuj^vagus, consisting of three funiculi. b. Nervus pharyngeus, from which one funiculus de- scends, and below unites with the trunk of the eighth pair. c. Nervus laryngeus. d. Here the nervus vagus consists of one funiculus only, and that large and uneiiually round. €. A portion of the nervus vagus descending through I the neck. f ff. Nerve of the ninth pair of the cerebrum, or lingual, making one funicle only, ramous towards the tongue. g. The nerve called descendens, from the ninth pair of the cerebrum, of which the superior c.xtreinity cut away, was united with the nervus vagus. If we attentively consider the nature of the nexu*, we shall easily be persuaded, that this nerve ought to be called, not less ascendensy than descendens.1 ii i'l j i \\ 1 i V r I( 33 ) PLATE XXXI. The component Tarts of 'Nerves exhihited, chiefly^ as they appear^ view edby a Microscope, Figure I. represents a particle of the optic nerve run* ning in the orbit to the bulb of the eye, beheld through the lens, with the diameter of the objects increased 400 times. maaa. External vagina of the optic nerve produced from the internal lamina of the dura mater. Ibhb. Interior substance of the nerve, consisting of many funiculi. c f. Two arteriol®, which disseminate nervous funiculi above and below. Figure II. is a transverse section of the optic nerve, in which sections of the nervous funiculi appear distinct, like mole hills. Figure III. is a transverse section of the ischiadic nerve of an adult, which was first dried to cut from it the riiin lamella, which was afterwards again moist- ened in water, so as nearly to attain its lateral magni- tude. The natural size is here somewhat increased, the bet- ter to express the thinner funiculi of nerves. a a. Cellular membrane constituting the external vagina of the nerve. 4666. There arc only four transverse sections of funiculi composing the ischiadic nerve eayrtMfd, the others are evident, and in what respect they vary in size and figure. Figure IV. Is a particle of a lamella of the ischiadic nerve cut transversely, delineated through the lens, in- creasing the object 100 times in diameter. taa. Cellular vagina surrounding and running between the nervous funiculi. Figure V. Transverse section of a nervous funiculus, beheld through the lens, augmenting the diameter of the object 400 times. The whole section appears to be composed of very little globuli unequally divided. Figure VI. Is a lamella of the ischiadic nerve cut transversely, which, suspended in water, was examined by means of the lens, augmenting the diameter of the object 400 times, one nervous funiculus hath had a pen- dulous situation, which the fig<ure represents. *aaa. Part of the funiculus,''surrounded with its own vagina. 46. Medulla of the funiculus expressed by the elasticity of the vagina, viewed laterally. Figure VII. is a particle of the pulpa medulla: spina^ lis suspended in water. Consists merely of very little globules promiscuously, as it seems, leaning on each other, and connected to- gether by means of the most minute cellulous texture, scarcely to be dissolved even by macerating in water. FigureVlll. IX. X. XI. represent three medullary globules of greater magnitude, varying their figure and size according as the lens by which they are examined is either placed nearer to, or more remote from the object. Figure XII. represents a portion of the ischiadic nerve of an infant injected through the arteries. The size is moderately increased to represent the arte- riola; better. а. Trunk of the ischiadic nerve, in which the funiculi are clearly seen. б. External popliteal nerve. c. Internal popliteal nen-e. 6. d. c. d. Here the tela cellulosa, more copious, covers the nerves, and more vessels were filled. eeee. Arteriolm, from the neighbouring cellulous substance running to the nerve, and there creeping into nervous funiculi. a. Figure XIII. is a portion of a thick funiculus of the cervical nerve running to form the brachial plexus. 6. A fungus, or monticulus, projections of a medullary substance, divided into irregular areoloe by deep streaks. These striae demonstrate how the membraneous septa arise from the internal superficies of the exterior invo- lucrum of the nervous funiculi. P/gi/reXlV. represents the prceternatural fungosity of the medullary substance of the nervous funiculi, which arose from an amputation of the arm of a woman, whose hand and fore-arm were badly gangrened, or mortified. The woman lived a long time after the operation ; at last, when she died of another disease, it gave an opportunity of examining the truncated member, in which were ob- served, that all the extremities of the absected nerves hatl swelled into nodes, from which the radialis nerve being more accurately examined, after the cellular structure was removed, it demonstrated how the me- ■dullary substance grew out, as of an unformed white mole, and sufficiently hard. a. a. Nervous funiculi here forming the radial nerve con- nected together by a wonderful concatenation. b. Fungosity, or excrescence of the medullary substance of the funiculi of the radial nerve.( 34 ) PLATE XXXIL Intercostal, Cervical Nerve, or the Sympatheticm Magnus, The great importance of an accurate conception of these nerves, their connections and distributions to .various parts, must be obvious. Symptoms arising from sympathy of parts in various diseases, arc clearly demonstrated, and many affections, formerly obscure, traced to their true and original causes, not by imaginary vain hypotheses, which have so much injured and degraded the art of physic; but by demonstrative facts, that can be reiterated by every industrious anatomist and physiologist. On these /subjects, much may be seen in my Treatises on Nervous Diseases, See, Name and origin. Great sympathetic nerve; from the *5xth pair of nerves of the brain. a. First, or great cervical ganglion; be- tween the processes of the first and second vertebra:, and angle of the maxilla inferior. b. Ramos.mollis; is of reddish soft na- ture. c. Ramus cardiacus supremos, \o\ super- . Jlcialis. d. Truncus intcrcostalis cervicalis; from the superior to the inferior ganglion. f. Inferior cervical ganglion; to the fifth vertebra of the neck. J. First internal branch. g. Second ramification.. h. Superjicial branch. i. Deep-seated branch. h. Ganglion dorsale primum ; magnum, sen thoraciaim superius; to the first • vertebra of the back. i. Gnngliou parrum, vcl secundum; be- tween the tii'st and second rib. ■m. Ganglion dorsale tertium; between the second and third rib. II. Far vagum: eighth. o. NerVits recurrens; of the par vagum ; about the subclavian artery, p. Nervus accessorius Willisii; or supe- rior recurrent nerve. <{. .Interior ramus, or branch of the fist pair of cerviail nerves. r. ■ o/' the second pair. s. - '■ — trunk of the third pair. #. fourth pair. ft. ———ffthpair. V. —- sixth pair. 7V. — seventh pair.. .r. ■ •— eighth pair. p. Fin t pair of dorsal nerves. Divisions. Has three ganglions, branches, filaments, and many surculi, or sprigs. Receives rarauli from the first, second, and third nerve of the cervex, sometimes from the eighth and ninth pair of the cerebrum. Two branches. A third. Receives a branch from the intercostal cervical nerve, and many anastomoc s. Communicates with the second branch of the fourth pair. Receives branches from the fifth and sixth pair of cervicals. Anastomoses with the supreme and recur- rent cardiac. Comnumicates with recurrent of the eighth pair. 1 .Are inserteil into the first dorsal ganglion J above the subclavian artery. Communicates with the sixth pair, eighth and first dorsal. Is as’it were an appendix of the great tho- racic ganglion ; receives a branch from the first dorsal nerve. Receives u rainuliis from the second dorsal nerve. Its trunk. lias many ramifications and anastomoses. Perforates the sterno and cleido-rnastoid muscies. Unites with the second pair. Communicates with the former. Has many anastomoses witlithe fourth pair. Communicates with the tlurd pair. Distributions. Distributed through the neck, thorax, abdomen, &c. Sends out the ramus mollis, cardiacus su* preraus, and inferior tnmk. Run up to the internal carotid. Covers the external carotid, and goes to the larynx and pharynx. Runs to the larynx, musculus sterno thyroideusand gland, and aorta. A ramification goes to the thyroid gland; the trunk runs to the inferior ganglion. Sends off branches the first, second, su- perficial, and deep seated. To the cardiac plexus. Runs to the trachea, pulmonary artery, vena cava. Form the aasae, or laquei Vicussenii. Sends off an anonymous trunk, brandies to tbe cardiac plexus, aorta, puliiuj- nary, and coronary arteries. Trunk runs to tbe third ganglion. As the above. Descends in the neck. 'I’o the larynx, trachea, arterki pidrnona- ris, aorta. Descends to the masculus cueulhuis. Semis out a small branch to tlie gn«l cervical ganglion. Gives two sjuall ran ifications to the ganglion. Forms the phrenic nerve, and rund to tli* sterno cleidohyoid muscle. '• Gives phrenic, diaphragmatic, prtffuridus and median nerves. Hence the scapula and phxenjc nerve* and pectoral muscle, . To theserratus anticus, &c. i To the pectoral s8rrated muscles; form J the cutaneous, internal, and median® nerve. • i ‘ ■ I The fixth and sixth pair are joined to- J gether. Communicates with the sixth pair. together, and send off ra- 1 Are joined inulu }|'AH\7,A,XXXa III 1lllli"T~— On! a.1 ■ I k. ). ! % ,y-' ■ T' ■ ■. ■^• 0. 'p ' ' %V\ mA/ ■ as-y b'^ w \i^7 }r( 35 ) * * ‘ ^ ■ . f ' ' ' PLATE XXXIII, Dc Nerm Sympathica Magno; or. Of the great Sympathetic Nerve. ’t Represents the nerves in the right side of the body running tb the heart, and their pkxus, between the aorta, pulmonary artery, and trachea. The proper and relative situation of many nerves is changed, otherwise they would not be clearly exhibited, or in any way delineated. Thus, the sub - clavian artery is cut off; the common, external, and internal carotid, with other sanguiferous vessels; also may be seen the aorta drawn on the left side. The appearance oj^ the head, with the larynx, pharynx, trachea, and oesophagus; which being deprived of the posterior cellular structure, by which the adjacent parts adhere, by so much they secede from the bodies of the left vertebne. But the par vagum, with the re- current nerve, and other nerves coming forth from that, as likewise tlie vena cava superior of the right side are removed. A. Part of the right external ear. B. Mamillary process covered by the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle. C. D. Stcrno-chido-mastoid muscle; C. their insertion into the os occipitis and temporal bones; D. separated from the sicraum and clavicle, and reclined upwards and posteriorly, E. The splenic muscle of the head, by which it is inserted into the os occipitis. F. Musculus biveutur cervicis, and especially its extremity in- serted into the os occipitis; the whole cucullaris muscle is taken away, G. Il.I. Musculus biventer marillie inferioris; G. its first venter; Il.Tendu medius: and I. second venter irrscrled in the maxilla inferior. K. Musculus stylo-hyoideus, annexed to the basis of the hyoid bone, which in this body was found divided into two flat I portions, between which two bellies the tendon was seated. L. Maxillary gland ; which in part covers the biventer muscle of the nvixilla inferior, or rather is marked with a longitudinal sulcus, in which this muscle is situated^ M. Parotid gland. N H, Part of the/Ha.i77/a i;j/crior dcnuclatcd. ^ OOO. An incision of the common integuments. PP. M\s&c\ii\i%stylo-pharyngeus, in part conspicuous. Q. Superior constrictor muscle of the pharynxi I E, Middle constrictor. ‘ S S, Inferior constrictor. T. Mo&cvdiio&sterno-thyroideus. \ V. r sternorhyoidcufi, W. Another venter of the coracoid muscle (inserted in the ia» frtiur and anterior part of the basis of the as hyoidcs, with ■ft part of the miUtUc tendon,. X. Musculus hyo-thyroideus. Y y. The right and left mylo-hyoid muscles, inserted in the base ofthe hyoid bo ne. Z. Musculus ceratoglossus, arising from a horn of the os hyoidis. / r. Part of tlie thyroid gland. A A. (Esophagus. © ©. Aspera arferiar or trachea; dividing on the lower part into two branches, which arc usually called bronchia. A. S, II. S. <1>. T. Bodies of the vertebrae of the neck; A. of the second; H. third ; II, fourth; S, fifth ; sixth ; T. seventh from the head. Cl. a. b. Bodies of the dorsal vertehree; Cl. of the first; a. of the second; b. three from the neck. The bodies of the vertebrae of the neck and back, upon removing the sangui- ferous vessels, and reclining the pharynx and larynx on the right, here come in sight. c. The longus colli. d. rectus capitis internus major. e c. scalenus prior, divided into three caudae. ^ J f f. scalenus medius. g g. lateralis, with its superior cauda running to- the transverse process of the third vetebra; inthis body it is thicker than usual. h. Musculus frrafor ^ i. The axillary artery. k. Arteria. thoraciceexterna s. secunda. I in n. Three superior ribs ; 11. first; m.m, second ; nn. third- o o. External intercostal muscles. \ pp.. Internal, qq.. rr. s. Eight lung; q q. its convex s. external surface r r. internal plane surface, running towards the mediastinum reclined on the right hand; s. an incissure, dividing the su- perior and middle lobe. 11. Convex s. external surface ofthe left lung. 'I he whole of this lung appears compressed from the arch of the aorta. being drawn on the left. u. v. Two fleshy parts of the diaphragm, c; u. right; v. left; conspicuous on its superior t convex surface. w w w. X. Pericardium in- part left; w w w. its lateral parts X. inferior part connected with the tendinous centre of the diaphragm. y. Vena cava superior^ moved out of its situation on the riglit, whence the vena azygos appears aiittie retracted. z. Vcr.a( 36 ) c. V^ena cava inferior ; s. asccndcns, which expand to consti- tute the right sinus. a. Vena azygos. /?. Sac of the vena cava,—Lower’s saccus dexter, not w^dl expressed by the engraver. y. The right auricle. The arch of the aorta, drawn on the left side by an hook <r, and partly compressed. 6. Arteria innominata, or common trunk of the right sub- clavian artery and trunk of the carotids. The right subclavian artery. r. The right common trunk of the external and internal carotid arteries. 5. The common left trunk of the carotids. X. The left subclavian artery, ■Pc The origin and progress of the pulmonary artery. »». The right branch of the pulmonary artery. f. The left branch of the pulmonary artery, conspicuous in part, but rather obscurely. 0. An hook, confining the arch of the aorta to the left side. (p Os hyoidcs. ^ its cornu ; -vj/ its basis. 1. The first, or superior great cervical ganglion, which re- ceives ^ 2. A small branch from the anterior ramus of the first pair of cervical nerves, (No. 151.) 3. Another small branch arising from a ramus of the first pair, communicating with the second pair of cervicals, (No. 151. 152) inserted into the superior cervical ganglion. 4. A small branch from the interior ramus of the second pair (No., 152) of cervical ncrvc.s, ascending to the ganglion, (No. 1.) Sr Another branch, running in a transverse course, from the anterior branch of the second pair of the first cervical gan- glion. 6. Ramulus mollis, descending from the superior cervical ganglion, whence arise 7. 8, Two small branches, accompanying the carotid artery. 9. The third small branch, passing a little beyond the ante- rior surface of the external carotid, afterwards connected by its .ascending and descending surculi, with small branches from the nerve of the pharynx and larynx. 10. A branch, called the cardiacus supremus, or superfici- alis, descending from the superior cervical ganglion in a direct line with the cervical trunk of the intercostal nerve (No. 29) on its inner side. 11. 12. Its division into two branches, viz. exterior (No. 11) and interior, (No. 12) which seperate, leaving a space like an island, then again unite. •13. 13. A branch formed by the-coinbination of eleven and twelve branches, and descending, receive 14. A branch from the intercostal cervical trunk. 15. 15. A branch arising from No. 12, which, with No. 13, form a larger island. From this first ramus arises 16. A branch, joining" with the laryngeal branch, No. ^57, goes to the larynx, and partly to the musculus sterno- thvroideus, and partly under it to the thyroid gland, (Vide 20'S. 269.) 17. Another ramification from No. 15, going otf to the thyroid gland. IS. The branch, called cardiacus supremus, again uniting from branch 15 and 13, which, after descending lower, forms 19. A small branch, forming an anastomosis with the de- scending ramulus. No. 35, of the inferior cervical ganglion. 20. Another branch of the superior cardiac nerve, with the same ramulus of the inferior cervical ganglion, (No. 35) forming two anastomoses. 21. 21. Nervous cardiacus supremus, descending, and at length dividing into two rainuli ; of which, 22. The first forms an anastomosis with the principal car- diac nerve, (No. 60'. O’O’) arising from the lii-st thoracic gan- glion. 23. The second ramulus of No. 21, which, in its descccnt, divides into 3 Ramuli. 24, 25. 20. of which 24. The posterior again unites with that cardiac nerve, (06) passing from the thoracic ganglion. 25. Another small branch of (No. 23) which receives a branch (No. 05) passing down from the first thoracic ganglion, and afterwards dcscentls on the internal side of the arteria in- nominata to its e.xtcriial surface, and even to the aorta. 26. The middle small branch of the same nerve, (No. 23) which again divides into the 27. The internal, or anterior ramulus, which, incurvating in internal side of the arteria innominata, runs to the anterior surface of the same artery, and to the aorta. 28. 28. The external, or posterior ramulus of (No. 26) running down the posterior surface of the arteria innominata : but it must be observed, that the branches 21. 22. 24. 25. 26. 27. arc very much removed from their natural situation fur the arch of the aorta with the carotid and right subclavian arteries, and being drawn on the left side, elongates these small branches. 29. 29. The intercostal, cervical trunk descending from the superior cervical ganglion, drawn a little forward to elucidate more clearly Ganglia, No. 53 and 55. 30. A branch of the intercostal cervical trunk with the in- ferior thyroid artery running down to the thyroid gland, some- times it there anastomoses with the branch of the recurrent nerve of the eighth pair. 31. 32. Two branches, into which the intercostal trunk in this subject was divided : one of them (No. 31) a little thinner, runs down above the inferior thyroid artery ; the other, No. 32, and thicker, is continued clown behind it, forming an island, by which the artery is contined, they both again unite, 33. The inferior cervical ganglion. 34. Its first, or external branch, which descending a little, divides into No. 35 and 36. 35. 35. 35. A small branch from 34, joined to the first with a branch. No, 19, then by two circuli with a branch, No. 20, of the nervus, cardiacus, supremus; but, after de- scending a little, it is inserted into a branch, No, 37 ; so that inconjuncti-'n with this, and a branch-of the recurrent, No.( 37 ) 1 I 119, it constitutes the branch, No. 40, descending to the , cardiac plexus. ' S6. 36. Another division of branch 34, running to the re- II current nerve of the eighth pair, (No. 93.) I, 37. 37. The second ramus of the inferior cervical ganglion* which, soon after its first origin, forms 38. A small branch, descending to the recurrent nerve of the eighth pair. 39. The remaining part of nerve (No. 37) descending be- hind the recurrent nerve, (39) joined with a branch 35 arid 119, constitutes 40. A branch on the right side of the trachea above it I passing downwards. 41. The first surculus of branch 40 going to the posterior surface of the trachea, 42. The second surculus of branch 40, ascending to the ex- ternal, lateral, and anterior surface of the trachea. 43. A surculus from branch 105, uniting with No. 40, (S. a surculus) constituting the anastomosis of branch 40 and 105. 44. Here the branch, (No. 40) divides into 4 ramuli, of which 45, 4(J, two run down between the pulmonary artery and trachea, to the left sinus, and even surface of the heart. 47. The third small branch of No. 40, runs above the right pulmonary artery, and then divides into the third ramuli. 48. The internal ramulus of branch 47, forming the third surculi, going to the right auricle. 49. 49. The middle ramulus of No. 47, which, after giving a surculus to the right auricle, ascends to the lateral internal, and then external surface of the vena cava: inflecting a little forwards (Vieussens, plate 23, No. 12. 12. 12) has delineated a small ring, formed by the par vagum surrounding the vena cava where, the rami vieussenii are joined to the branch 49, this subject only. It 50. The third and external small branch of No, 47, distri- 11 buted on the surface of the right pulmonary artery. 51. 51. The fourth branch of No, 40, which, soon after its !( origin, divides into two, and runs down with 44, 45, 46', be- lt tween the pulmonary artery and trachea, to the left sinus. 52. The superficial ramus, from the inferior cervical gan- n|glion, (No. 33) which running above the subclavian artery, surrounds it, and re-ascending behind No. 57, where it is in- ,;j serterl into the first dorsal ganglion, (No. 6'C.) This in its course forms the ansa, as described by Vieussens, ji 53. 54. A deep-seated branch from the inferior cervfcal .’I gitnglion to the first dorsal, or the trunk of the cervical in- tcrcostal nerve, going towards the outside, and. backwards . from the inferior cervical ganglion, under the vertebral artery Jto the first dorsal ganglion; in this subject it consisted of two very evident ganglia. 53 and 54; this trunk, with the ibranches 52, 56', forms those ansa;, including the subclavian artery. 55. A branch formed from ramuli of the fifth pair of cer- Ifccals, No. 231; and of the sixth. No. 232, 233, which descends above the vertebral artery to the seconu lateral ganglion, No. 54, and is inserted into it. ■ 55. A branch from the second" lateral ganglion. No. 54, de- scending above the subclavian artery, and carried round it is inserted into the posterior surface of the second branch 52) thus the second ansa of Vieussens was found in this body. 57. The conjunction of the branches 52 and 56, consti- tuting a common part of both ansae. 58. Another small branch running from the second lateral ganglion, No. 54, going to the smallest scalenus muscle, in this subject concealed under the letters e e. 59. Another small branch of the second lateral ganglion, (No. 54) descending to the ganglion. No, 88, behind the sub- clavian artery. 60. The first, or great dorsal ganglion, called by some the superior thoracic ganglion. 61. 61. A thicker branch, which arises from the sixth pair of cervicals emerging from between the scaleni muscles, and goes to the first dorsal ganglion. 62. 63. Two branches from the eighth pair of cervicals, de- scending between the scalenus minimus aeidjongus colli to the superior thoracic ganglion. 64. A branch from the first pair of dorsal nerves ascending to the superior thoracic ganglion, (or, rice versa) descending from the thoracic ganglion to the first pair of dorsal nerves, 65. 65. A branch running down from the first dorsal gan- glion to the truncus anonymus, wliere it is joined with branch No. 25. 66. 66. 66. A very thick branch, twice the diameter of the former, descending from the first dorsal ganglion to the cardiac plexus, forming, in this cadaver, the principal nerve of that plexus: first, it descends as a companion of 65, but at some distance from the arteria innoininaia, inflects a little, but above the trachea it passes in a straight direction, and at last subdivides into three branches, No. 69. 73. 85 ; but it must be observed, that the superior part-of this nerve, on account of the arch of the aorta and trachea being drawn to the left, is very much distended, and removed from its natural situation. 67. 67. A small branch going from the second lateral gan- glion, (No. 54) to the ramus. No. 66, in its descent. 68. The insertion of a thick branch. No. 141, from |he re- current of. the. eighth pair into the principal cardiac’nerve,. (No. 66.) 69. 69. Internal ramus- of nerve, No. 66, which’, running down on the loft side, enters the branch, No. 131 & No. 129,' and afterwards, in part, carried backwards round these bran- ches, it ascends, principally, to the posterior surface of the arch of the aorta, dispersing into several surculi. 70. 70. 70. 70. Surculi of ramus 69, conspicuous in tho posterior surface of the arch of the aorta. 71. A ramulus of the branch 69, distributed in. the inter-- nal lateral surface of the arch of the aorta. 72. Another ramulus of branch 69, running between the aorta and right pulmonary artery, then dividing into two parts, extends to the left amide below the common triurk of tho pul- monary artery. 73. Middle, branch of the principal cardiac nerve, (No. 66) which running a little lower, divides into two small branches,- viz. No. 74 & 79* U 74. Left( 38 ) L«rft ramulus of lljo73 Tamas. 75. A ramuhis, soon at’ter the commencement of tlie 74th branch drawn on the right haiul from it, running in two sur- ■culi between (ho trachea and arteria pulmoiiaiis to the left sinus and smooth surface of the heart. 76'. Trunk of the 74th branch, which, after advancing fur- tlior on the left, divides into 2 rainuli. 77. 77. 77. Throe ramuli of ramus, of the superior nerve 70', descending between the pulmonary artery and aorta, emerging with many surculi in the interior surface of the pulmonary artery, (which in this plate is not seen.) 78. The other and inferior small branch of nerve. No. 76, under the aorta, descending with ramulus. No. 140, between it and tire pulmonary artery to the left sinus. 7.9. The right ramulus of the middle branch 73, running almost in a direct line between the arcli of the aorta and right pulmonary artery, and there distribute into the third rami SO, 81 and 84* 80. 80. Left ramulus of branch 79> descending under the arch of the aorta and right pulmonary artery to the left sinus by two surculi, 81. 81. Middle small branch, ramus 79> which proceeding a little between the arch of the aorta and right pulmonary ar- tery, bends round the ramus. No. 86, and ascends to the pos- terior surface of the arch of the aorta. 82. 83. Two ramuli, arising from ramulus 81, which sur- rounding the aorta coming from the right, the ventricle on the right side, there disperse many surculi, and at length accom- panies the right coronary artery in the anterior surface of the ' heart. 84. 84. Right branch of 79> which, after receiving No. 229 and 113, runs between the aorta and pulmonary artery, and at length extend under the right pulmonary artery in two surculi to the left sinus, in the same manner as ramulus 80. 85. 85. External ramus of the nerve 66, descending be- tween the right pulmonary artery and aorta, and uniting two ramuli num. 86. 87. Which accompany the left coronary artery. 88. A small ganglion, which forms as it were an appendix to the great thoracic ganglion, (No. 6'0) situated on its supe- rior part between the first and second rib, but on the inferior side, placed on the second rib.—(It may be called Dorsale Secundum; which, however, is seldom found in this place.) 89- A branch running from the first dorsal nerve to this ganglion. 90. Ganglion dorsale tertium, (in other bodies the second) situated between the second and third rib. 91. A ramulus, running from the second dorsal nerve to the ganglion, No. 90. 92. 92. 92. The trunk of the eighth pair, called Vagum, descending in the neck, drawn on the right side below by an hamulus, belter to elucidate the recurrent with its ramifica- tions ; whence, its former situation, on the superior side, could not be preserved. 93. 93. Recurrent nerve of the par vagum, which bending about the subclavian artery, ascends to the larynx.—It is evident that this must be drawn out of its natural situation. 94. First ramus of the recurrent nerre soon after its rise giving off. 95. A small branch, which running a little on the left* is united with 96. The second branch of the recurrent nerve. 97. Another ramulus of the first recurrent branch, which 1 also is inserted into the united ramuli 95 and 96. 98. A ramus, from tlie combination of the 95, 96, and 97th rami, which running on the left, is divided into two, 99 a>‘d 102. 99’ 99- A small branch arising from a division of the branch 98, which ascends towards the trachea, and after taking up the fourth ramus of the recurrent, (No. 142) is dis- tributed into the third rami, of which 100. 100. The second superior are inserted in the inus- cuius sterno-hyoideus. 101. But the third is distributed on the right lateral surface of the trachea. 102. Another small branch, arising from a division of the 98th, proceeding together to the trachea, and ascending on it. 103. Conjunction of the ramus 102, with Num. II6 ramus. 104. Three surculi of ramus 102, dispersed in the anterior surface of the aspera arteria. 105. Two nerves, formed by the coalescing rami $5, 96, 97, descending to the cardiac plexus : in its passage forming an anastomosis. No. 43 with branch No, 40. 106. 106, Three of its ramuli, extending behind the right pulmonary artery to the left sinus, and plain surface of the heart.—Vide Halleri’s Elem. Physiol, §. I. p, 360. 107. Fourth ramulus of 105, running on the left above the right pulmonary artery, also forming in part No. 81 and 84. 108. Surculus, distributed in the right pulmonary artery.* 109. Fifth and middle ramulus of the ramus 105, in like manner ascending on the right pulmonary artery, which gives* 110. A surculus to the above artery ; and 111. Another ramulus to the right ear; and also 112. A third ramulus, accompanying the right coronary artery : but before it gives off the surculus. 113. Anastomosing with ramulus 84. 114. Third branch of 94, which running on the left, is di- vided into 115 and II9. 115. A branch ascending a little towards the trachea, or aspera arteria; but before it arrives there is divided intp three ramuli, of which the superior 116. Runs between the aspera arteria and cesophagus ; but prior to that, by means of ramulus, No, 103, it anastomosti with ramus. No. 102 ; but the 117. Middle 118. Inferior ramus ascend the aspera arteria, and there separate into several surculi. 119- Another ramus, arising from a division of the ram# 114, which descending, is joined to the ramus 39, and withl| forms a ramus, No. 40, running to the cardiac plexus. ! ,'i I i't' Ui [fc tie jtm fie r I, 1 |ti:’ Ui i 1. jni \i 120.I ( 39 J 120. 120. Fourth ratuiilus, from ramus 94, which extends on the left towards the trachea, running on its posterior surface. 121. 121. Fifth ramulus of ramus 9^, proceeding behind the trachea to the oesophagus. 122. A branch' from the par vagum, running to form ra- : mus No. 121. ! 123. Last ramulus of ramus 9-l> which is inserted into the par vagum. 124. A ramulus, arising from the par vagum, which Soon subdivides into 3 ramuli, and is inserted into the posterior surface of the trachea. 125. Another ramus from the par vagum, inserted into the oesophagus behind the trachea. 126 & 127. Two rami from the par vagum, (a little below the origin of the recurrent) before inserted into the oesopha- gus ; but arc here represented cut off, on account of the par vagum being drawn to the right side. 128. A ramus, running from the inferior cervical ganglion of the left side, which descends behind the subclavian artery and arch of the aorta. 129. 129- Its ramus, which after running on the right, spreads between the aorta and right pulmonary artery, and at length is inserted into No. 84. In other bodies I have always observed a different distribu- tion of the branch 128, other courses of the ramuli; and, lastly, another anastomosis with those of the right side. 130. 130. Another ramulus of No. 128, which bends round the left side of the aorta between it and the pulmonary artery. Tunning towards the anterior part of the aorta. 131. Ramulus, running from the recurrent nerve of the left side, and stretching between the arch of the aorta, and the right pulmonary artery forms, 132. Which proceeds above the right pulmonary artery, in- serted into it by 3 surculi. 133. But another ramus of branch 131, descends a little, and towards the end is divided into a ramulus. 134. Which is united with a surculus of No. 80. 135. Another small branch from 133, which, with the sur- culus of No. 80, descends to the left sinus. Yet I have fre- quently been unable to find No. 133, 134, 135, after very mi- nute investigations. 136’. A ramus which I found in this body only, running near the left side of the aorta, between that and the trunk of the pulmonary artery from the left cardiac (and even from a branch of the superior cervical ganglion) to this great plexus : but first it forms 137. A smalt branch, accompanying No. 72, to the left sinus. Then, No. 136, proceeding further on the right, sends off another ramulus, 138. Which is inserted into No. 112- 139. 139. Lastly, the third ramulus, descending with No. Ill, and No. 48, to the light ear. 140. 140. A branch arising from the left cardiac, accom- panying ramus 78, with which it descends under the arch of the aorta to the left sinus. 141. Third branch arising (fora the recurrent nerve of the eighth pair. No. 93, which, under No. 66, is insertedintq the principal cardiac nerve. No. 66, arising from the first thoracic ganglion. . / 142. Fourth descending branch from the recurrent, anas- tomosing with No. 99* < 143- A branch ascending from the recurrent. . ' 144. 145. Two of pts surculi inserted in the sterno-thyrold muscle, lit. T. 146. A third small branch of 143 ascending towards the larynx. 147. Another branch from the recurrent, which ascends under the same to the larynx. 148. 148. The accessory nerve of Willis, or superior re- current nerve of the 8th pair, perforating the sterno and cleido-mastoid muscles. 149. 149. The same nerve again emerging from the stemo and cleido-mastoid muscles, and descending further to the cucullaris muscle. » 150. Ramulus, which recedes in the sterno and cleido- mastoid muscles, from the trunk of the accessory nerve, and. after branching out several ramuli into these muscles, again emerges separately, and is ultimately connected with the ac- cessory nerve. 151. Anterior branch of the first pair of cervical nerves, which, after sending off ramulus, No. 2, to the great cervical ganglion, communicates with the second pair. Its inferior part is thinner than usual- 152. 152. Anterior ramus of the second pair, which de- scends with two ramuli. No. 4 and 5, inserted into the great cervical ganglion. , 153. Its first ramulus, which gives 154. A surculus to the rectus anticus-major muscle of the head, let. d ; then descending lower is 155. Inserted wdth its small trunk into the third pair of cervical nerves. 156. Second ramulus of the nerve 152, running to the ansa of communication between the cervical nerves with the ninth pair of nerves of the cerebrum. 157. Third ramulus of nerve 152, inserted into the formed s, trunk of the third pair. 158. Fourth ramulus of nerve 152, communicating with No. 183 of the third pair, 159. Fifth ramulus of nerve 152, passing to the posterior- auricular nerve, No. 189- 160. Sixth ramulus of nerve 152, which forms 161. A surculus to the great posterior auricular nerve, No. 189; hut by 162. Its remaining part is inserted into the accessory nerve of Willis. 163. Seventh ramulus of nerve 152, also inserted into the accessory nerve. 164. Lastly, the eighth branch joined to the same accessory nerve, but a little higher. 165. Trunk of the third-pair of cervical nerves, or its first branch.—For the proportion of the former branch of the third'third and following cervical pairs to their posterior branches, is much greater than those of the first and second pair: with justice, therefore, those denominated anterior branches, may be <:allcd Trunks. l6fi. Its first branch descending to the ansa of communi- cation with the descending ramus of the ninth pair, like No. J56.. 167. Second ramus of the third pair running down to the fourth pair, and phrenic nerve. 168. A small branch inserted in the trunk of the fourth pair. 169. Another ramus implanted into the diaphragmatic ncr.vc. 170. Third ramus of the third pair, which in the posterior margin of the cleido-mastoid muscle is divided into two ra- muli, of which tlic superior : 171. Unites with the superior branch of the fifth of the third pair, No. 187, and constitutes the nervus cutaneus medius colli., t 172. Inferior ramus arising from No. 170, which runs down in a straight direction in the sterno-mastoid muscle, distributed near the posterior margin, 173. Fourth branch of the third pair first descending a Lttle. After drawing back the anterior branch of the second and trunk of the third pair with the sterno-cleido-mastoideus mus- cle, there is a larger branch, in its natural situation, descend- ing behind llicse nerves. 174'. Its ramus going to the trimk of the fourth pair, 175. I7b. 177. 178. Another, and that a double anas- tamosis of ramus 173 with the trunk of the fourth pair ; for this anastamosis arises by two roots, 175, 176, from the ra- mus of the third pair already mentioned, which run together, and are again divided and inserted by two small branches, 177, 178, into the trunk of the fourth pafr. In the midst of its course, having made a conjunction, it represents a cross, and forms two cireun scriptiuns, or triangular islands. Ano- ther small branch, No. 175, 178, seems to come from ramus l73 to the fourth pair: but the other, No. 177, 176, by turns to ascend from the fourth pair. No.. 173, of the third pair. 179, 179. A small branch from 173, (or for the con- iunction of 170 with a branch. No. 177, of the fourth.pair) which accompanying the accossoruis of Willis, No. 149, tlC" sconding with the cucuUaris muscle, is united to it by two ra- jnuli 180. First, anastomosis of ramus 179, the acces- sorius, whidh arises with its root from the mentioned ramus 179,, and is inserted by two surculi into the accessory nerve. 181. Another anastomosis of branch 179, " ilh the accessory nerVe, No. 149- 182. The remaining part of ramus 173, which .again as- cendingj constitutes the small posterior auricular nerve. 183. Fifth ramus of the third pair, which, soon after its commencement, receives the ramus 158 of the second pair, 184. And sends off a branch, running in this body almost direclly downwai ds, near the posterior margin of the clcido- niiistoid, dividing.into two ramuli.. 185. Its external ramulus, joined with a branch of No. 210 I of the fourth pair. | 186. Another, or internal branch of it, united with a branch No. 212, of the fifth pair. 187. A ramus arising in the posterior margin of the cleido- mastoid muscle from No,183, which in those parts is inflected ll about the margin, and ascends upon the cleido and sterno- ji mastoid muscle on the exterior surface, and uniting with the No. 171, constitutes the nervus cutaneus medius colli. j 188. Another ramus in the posterior margin of the cleido- mastoid muscle proceeding from ramus 183, and there in- , fleeting, running above the cleido and sterno-mastoid muscle,. ^ as before mentioned, and forming the nervous cutaneus infc- j, rior colli. 189. The greatest ramus of the third pair, or trunk of the ,| third pair, which encreased by No. 157, 159, I6T, of the ,|, second pair, inflects to the posterior margin of the cleido-jjn mastoid muscle, and advances above the sterno-mastoid for-l jj wards and upwards, and then constitutes the nervus auricula-1 rus posterior, ^ ^ 190. Fourth pair of cervical nerves. * 191. First branch of the fourth pair, which, with a branch m of No. 169, of the third pair, constitutes the superior origins le of the phrenic nerve. da 192. 192, 192. 192. Descent of the phrenic nei vc. 193. 194. 195. Three branches of the phrenic nerve which are distributed in the second, or superior fleshy part of the diaphragii of the right side. 196. 197. Two remaining rami of the diaphragmatic 1 J" nerve which descended to the first fleshy part of the samel side. ^ J f 198. Second branch of the fourth pair running on the |1 right to the intercostal cervical trunk. J k 159- 199- Third ramus of tlie fourth pair, very thin, which' ® is distributed in the musculus scalenus medius, let. f. i 200. A deep seated branch of the fourth pair, (Winslow calls it posterior, §. I89.) 201. Its exterior branch descending to the interior surface of the musculus cucuUaris. ^ 202. Second ramus of the ramus profundus, No. 200, running to the infra-scapularis muscle. 203. Third small branch of ramus profundus. No. 200, proceeding to the inferior substance of the coraco-hyoidcus, 204. Fourth small branch of the ramus profundus. No. 200, stretching out of the supraspinatus; also many others from No. 201, 202, 203, 204, run down the interior surface of tha cucuUaris, and are inserted into the cucuUaris, and other muscles of the scapula, and also into the scalenus mo dius. 11 205. Exterior ramus of the fifth pair, or. mediuS' of, Win- slow, §. 110, p. m»185. 'I’his may also be called the anterior; and No. 200, poste-J,J rior. 206. Its first ramus, which, at its commencement, is db^| vided into No. 107 and 108. SP7. k( 41 r 207. A small branch of 206, which descends externally labovc the fifth and sixth pair of cervical nerves, and is finished under the skin, after sending otf some surculi. j 208. Another ramulus of ramus 206', descending behind the fifth and sixthjrair of cervicals, inserted into some of the jugular glands. 209. Second ramus of the exterior ramus, No. 205, which may be called the subcutaneus thoracis. 210. First branch of the subcutaneus thoracis. No. 209, which, in Its descent, anastomoses with No. 185, and is in- jcrted in the branch of the fifth or sixth pair. No. 212, and n part constitutes the rombus mentioned, No. 186. 211. 211. Division of subcutaneous nerves into 3 rami, ■vhich, with many rainuli, the greater part of which run ihovc the pectoral muscle ; the other above part of the del- ;oid under the skin, and supply the skin with many surculi ; ind also the tunica ccllulosa, and above mentioned mus- :les. 212. 212. A branch for the fifth pair of cervicals, running :o the anterior scalene muscle, anastomosing with ramus 186 ind2l0, (and thus that rhombus is formed, in part, which ve have mentioned in No. 186 and 210) running to the sub- ilavian muscloj (removed in this subject.) 213. Fifth pair of cervical nerves. 214. Nervus scapularis of Monro, or supra-scapularis of laller, which in this body arose from the fifth pair only, be- ore its combination with the sixth, otherwise proceeding rom the fifth, sixth, and seventh. 215. 215. Ramulus running from the fifth pair of phrenic lervc. I have sometimes seen the ramus arising a little lower from he conjunction of the fifth and sixth pair, descending ante- iorly and backwards, giving oft' a small branch to the subcla- ian muscle, and at last inserted into the phrenic nerve in the uperior part of the cavity of the thorax. Huber also saw uch an example, (Commentatione de Medulla Spinali, Speci- •tim dc Nervis ab ed provenientibus) Getting. 1741. §. xx. i. 50. 216. Conjunction of the fifth pair with the sixth. 217. 217. Sixth pair of cervical nerves. 218. Raiuus running to the pectoral muscle drawn back 'ards. 219. 219. Seventh pair of cervical nerves. 220. Communication of the seventh pair with the sixth air. ' 221. Ramus descending from the seventh pair to the serra- !>iis anticus and serratus magnus. 222. 222. Eigiith pair of cervical nerves. 223. 223. First pair of dorsal nerves. I: 224. 224. Conjunction of the eighth pair of cervicals with Ike first dorsal. i 225. Ramus ascending from nerve 224 to the nerve of the 'tftb pair. ^226. 226. Another branch of nerve^2?4 running pectoral muscle. * 227. 227. Third ramus of nerve 224, which anastomoses^ with ramus 221, and is then inserted with it into the ser- ratus anticus & serratus magnus. 228. Nervus cutaneus intemus arising from nerve 224. 229- Ramus of nerve 224 ascending obliquely to ramus of the seventh pair, and Aidth it constituting the nervus me- dianus. 230. A tenaculum drawing the trunk of the eighth pair to the right. 231. A branch from the fifth pair, emerging through the interstice of the second and third cauda of the muscle scale- nus with another. 232. Branch from the sixth pair of cervicals going out in a similar manner, but between the first and second cauda of the scalenus, and with the third. 233. Small branch from the sixth pair which runs through the first cauda of the above-mentioned muscle, uniting and forming No. 55, descending to the second lateral ganglion of the neck. No. 54. 234. A small branch running from the common trunk of No. 231, 232, 233, to the longus colli. 235. Capitulum majus of the first rib. 236. of the second rib, 237. Second pair of dorsal nerves. 238. Nervus pharyngeus of the eighth pair of cerebral nerves, sometimes the inferior branch of the glosso-pharyn- gaus nerve. 239. 240. 241. Three of its small branches running into the middle constrictor muscle of the pharynx 242. Its fourth branch inserted in the stylo-pharyngeus muscle. 243. Ninth pair of cerebral nerves, called lingual, 244. A nerve descending from the ninth pair, which meets the nerve descending 245. From the second. No. 156, and third pair of cervicals, and joining with it, forms the ansa communication is No. 244, 245, of the ninth pair of nerves of the cerebral with the second and third pair of cervical nerves. , 246. Left ramus running from the inferior part of the ansa Communications to the superior subutance of the coraco-hyoi- deus muscle. 247. Right branch arising from the inferior part of the ansa communications, and inserted into the interior substance of the coraco-hyoideus muscle: (but this ramus, with the inferior substance, is cut off.) 248 6c 249. Two middle branches soon uniting, and thus forming a triangular space. 250. A branch from the coalesced ramuli, No. 248 & 249, which descending a little (Hi the left, is inserted with many ramulif 42 ) r^mult into the stenio-Iiyoic! and sterno-thyroid muscle: fbut that ramus in this plate is cut off to belter elucidate the other • nerves.) , jT* ■ * 25Raiqus descending obliquely from the ninth pair an* teriorly. 252. ,I^s ramulus running to the hyo-thyrcid muscle. 253. Another ramulus of the same to the coraco-hyoid muscle. . . f 258. A small branch to the muscle sterno-thyrbid r and another 25q. Running to the thyroid gland under the sterno-thyroid muscle. ,. (■!. 260. Trunk of the inferior branch 1 of the larynx, No. 256. 261. Its small branch going to the inferior constrictor of the pharynx. 262. Ramulus of nerv’e 260, proceeding to the sterno« thy roideus, muscle. 1 263. Ramulus from the nerve 260 to the thyroid gland, which is joined by anastomosis to the recurrent nerve of the eighth pair. .J J 254. Ramus pharyngeus of the eighth pair, which dividing, gives t 255. The superior branch inserted near the os-hyoides. 256. Inferior branch of the eighth laryngeal pair, which re- ceives two very thin surculi of the nervus mollis, here not expressed.ui-j 257. A small branch of it, which, joined with No. 16, running from the supericur cai'diac nen^e, gives off" .H i'- b These minute exhibitions of the principal ganglions, of the connections, and distribution of the nervous trunks, numc....™ branches, and exquisite filaments in this Plate, explain a variety of sensations that may be experienced in different ,thpracical| Itbdominal. and muscular functions, when labouring under disease. The causes of nervous sympathy are rendered manifest liow one ramification, or filament, may affect another, and convey sensations grateful'or ungrateful to the brain, and int< lectual powers. Tife cannot exist without the nerves influencing the heart, lungs, and diaphragm—to perform their involtt tary actions, in conjunction with air, the muscles of the chest, &c. The nervous powers proceeding to those vital parts br“ totally impeded—death must immediately ensue. •>'V - Tivr’ '1( 43 ) PLATE XXXrV. \ Figure I. ’ - Also delineates the nerves running to the heart fiom the right side of the human body, and the branches lying over the arteria florta. Thus, this is represented with the subcla- vian, connnm, and internal carotid arteries, in as natural a situation as could be preserved: the more considerable nerves funning behind these vessels are only marked by points. The whole neck, for the same reason, is extended as in the first plate, viz. by putting under it a wooden cylinder. But of 1 those parts which the preceding plate represents, the following are cut away: external ear, sterna, and cleido-mastoideus mus- cles, biventer rnaxillee inferioris, sti/lo-kj/oideus, with the mi/lo- hyoideus muscles, and also the maxillary gland, and processus i stylo-hyoideus. f ^ A. Musculus bii'cnter cervicis, whose tendinous extremity, * affixed to the os accipitis, with a certain part of the flesh is perceived. I B. M\x%c\x\ms splenius capitis, and its tendinous extremity, in- serted in the occipital bone, maxillary bone, and proccssui cognomini. ; C. Musculus levator scapula. D. scalenus lateralis. £ £ E. " ■ medius. - F. ■■ ■ ■ ■ prior. G. rectus capitis internus major. H. stylo-glossus. I. stylo-pharyngeus. K. constrictor-pharynges medius. £. inferior. M, hyo-thyroideus. ' N, Superior venter of the musculus coraco-hyoideus. O. Musculus sterno-hyoideus. ^ ' P. sterno-thyroideus. Q. cerato-glossus, proceeding from the cornu of the hyoid bone to the tongue. R. basio-glossiis, arising, some part of it from the horn of the os hyoidis, but the greater part from its basis. S. genia-hyoideus. T. genio-glossus. V. i ■ -.1 longus colli, visible in part, I W. Part of the superior constrictor muscle of the pharynx. %. Musculus of the left side, r. Occipital bone. * A. Mammillary process of the temporal bone, B. Meatus gudUorius externus, ,as yet covered with skin on its inferior surface. At the same time a particle of the carti- lage adheres to it. - A. Styloid process is removed with a part of the temporal bone, from whidh it was taken. E. Capifulum maxillce inferioris, s, processus condyloideus. The ligament covering it is dissected. II. Angle of the maxilla inferior. E. Sublingual gland, in a part prouunent. <1>. Basis of the hyoid bone. y. A situation where the cornu of the os-hyoides lies concealed, SI. Thyroid cartilage. a. Common trunk of the carotid arteries. b. Its cerebral ramus, called internal carotid. c. Its flexure, called flexura Cowperiana, always present be- yond the canal of the carotid; in this body it verges so much out as to cover, in a part, the internal jugular vein. d. External ramus of the carotid, called externa carotis. But it must be observed, that the common carotid artery» lit. a. internal, lit. b. and external, lit. c. in this figure aie re- moved a little forward. For in its natural situation, the caro- tis communis and interna lay near to that very long ganglion, Num. l68, 169, 170, even somewhat cover it. g. Common trunk of the lingual labial artery. h. Lingual artery, under the cerato-glossus. i. Labial artery of Haller, the rami of which are omitted ; it is called by others angularis, or facialis. k. Trunk of the external carotid artery rising towards the temples. l. Occipital artery, which ascends obliquely above the mter- nal jugular vein. m. The auricularis posterior artery is cut off" in this body more lemarkable than usual. • - n. Artery running to themasseter muscle. 0. parotid gland. p- maxillaris interna. q. . .! temporalis. I. ——r—— r-5— subclavia. s. - ' —— axillaris. t. cervicalis profunda. t». ^ thyroidca inferior. V. Transverse scapular ramus of the thyroid artery w. Arteria verfebralis. X. mammalia interna. ' z. laryngea (otherwise, it usually proceeds from the superior thyroid.) 7. Arteria< 44 ) Arteria tlijToidea superior. «. inominata, the common trunk of the sub- clavian and right carotid artery., "Y. The left carotid artery. The left subclavian. ^ t. , Aorta ascendens bending into an arch. The aorta is far covered by the pericardium, which is directed inwards at the margin, descending back on the inferior part of the aorta, and the whole of the heart, &c. ^ n. Superior vena cava drawn to the right. $. The connection of the vena cava superior, and in- ferior. 1.1. The pericardium thus far surrounds the vena cava as lit. X. Vena azygos. Its branch forming the intercostal vein, ft. Trunk of the pulmonary arterj', prominent under the pericardium. y. Anterior ventricle covered by the pericardium. Aspera arteria, or trachea. .0, 0.0.0. Bronchial glands, or. The first rib. p. The second rib. crer. The thyroid gland. 1. Accessory nerve of the eighth pair. 2. Anterior ramus of the first pair of cervicals des- cending to the second pair. 3. Its branch ascending, forming many surculi under the par vagum, running upwards to the lateral rec- tus muscle of the head, and rectus anticus major. 4. A small branch from No. 3, running down almost in a right angle to the first cervical ganglion. 5. A branch running upwards under the par vagum, intercostal and internal carotid arteries, obliquely to the muscle rectus capitus anticus minor. 6. A branch going to the ninth pair. 7. 7. Anterior branch of the second pair of cervicals, and its conjunction with the branch, No. 2. 8. A branch from the combination of No. 2 and 7, arising in an acute angle to the rectus anticus major muscleof the head. g. A small branch arising from No. 7, dividing into two diverging filaments, inserted into the same muscle. 10. A small branch descending from No. 7, which unite 11. With another decurrent branch, constitutes 12. A nerve, descending to the superior cervical gan- glion ; but before it is inserted into the ganglion, it is again divided into 13. The ascending and I4i. Descending branch. 15. Insertion of a small branch. No. 113, running i from the par vagum to nerve. No. 7- 16. A thick branch of No, 7, descending to the supe- ; rior cervical ganglion; and before its insertion, uniting with the transverse bianch, No. 24, of tbc third pair. ^ 17. Insertion into the ganglion. IS. v\. branch of the second pair going towards the ex- tremities to the descendens of the ninth pair. 19. Conjunction of the branch. No. 7, with the thkd ^ pair. . 20.21. Two ramuli, running from No. 7 to the accessorius ' of the 8th pair. ' • i 22. Trunk of the anterior ramus of the second pair, I which ascending near the posterior margin of the H sterno-mastoid muscle forms, the nervus parvus*' auricularis posterior. 23. Third pair of cer\’icals. i 24. Its branch going to the gangfion with No. l6. i 25. Its ramus running to the descendens of the ninth pair. t *16. Descending branch of the third, and the same di- vided into two parts, forming | 27. A branch to the fourth pair, and another J 28. Descending lower, and anastomosing with a branch 1 of the phrenic. No. 59. 1 29. Superior ascending branch of the third pair. | 30. Inferior ascending branch of the third pair. j 31. A branch from No. 30, running to the inferior cu- taneous nerve of the neck, to be united with No. 47. 32. Conjunction of No. 29 & 30. ! 33., Ramus, arising from this conjunction. ; 34. Its anterior ramus, which, with three small I branches, ^ 35. 36. 37- Is inserted into the fourth pair. 38. The posterior branch of No. 33, going to the cu- |; cullaris muscle. 39. Distribution of ramus. No. 29, into 3 rami. No. 1 40, 41, 42. I 40. This nerve inflected into the posterior margins of i the sterno-mastoid muscle, ascends upon it, and ! forms the posterior branch of the great posterior ] auricular nerve. 41. The second branch. 42. The third branch about to form the superior cuta- ncus colli. 43. Superior ramus of No.'41, or the No. 41 ascending further, which, in the external surface of thesterno- mastoideus, is called nervus magnus auricularis. 44. A small branch of ramus. No. 41, forming the in- ferior branch of the great posterior auricular nerve. 45. Further progress of No. 30, 46, Ita( 45 ) a6. Its superior branch in the external surface of the sterno-mastoideus, called nervus cutaneus medius of the neck. 47. Inferior branch, constituting the inferior cutaneous nerve of the neck, with ramus, No. 31. 48. Fourth pair of cemcals, 49- Its branch forming the phrenic nerve. 50. A brajich of the fourth pair running downwards to the desccndens of the ninth. 51. Another small branch of the fourth, extending it- self to the phrenic. 52. A branch of the fourth, descending to the inferior part of the neck, and exterior surface of the cleido- mastoid, constitutes another, called inferior cuta- neus collL 53. The remaining part of the fourth, in this body, declining in almost a straight line under the skin of the inferior part of the neck, gives off four branches. 54.55. First branch, which, divided into two. No. 54 and 55, advancing further posteriorly, with many sur- culisubcutc, run to the cucullaris muscle. 6.57* 58.Three other rami, which spread above the pectoralis and deltoid, with many ramuli and surcuii, and con- stitute the subcutaneous nerve of the thorax, or No. 56, particularly belongs to the posterior surface of the deltoid; No. 57, to the anterior facies of the same muscle; and No. 58, to the anterior parts of the pectoralis and deltoid. 59' A branch arising from the phrenic, and uniting with the ramus. No. 28, gives 60. A branch, again inserted into the phrenic; and another, 61. Proceeding further to the inferior parts of the great cervical ganglion. 62. Fifth pair of cervicals. 63. Branch of it joined with ramus. No. 6l, running to the ganglion. 64. Another branch of the fifth, perforating the supe- perior cauda of the muscles scalenus-prior, and thus inserted into the intercostal nerve. 65. A branch of the fifth running to the phrenic. 66. Posterior branch running from the fifth and sixth, between the scalenus medius and lateralis. j 67. A small branch of the sixth pair running to the firsi i thoracic ganglion. 68. A small branch of the seventh pair to the first tho- racic ganglion, emerging on the posterior side of the vertebral artery. 69* Another small branch of the seventh pair, running to the first thoracic ganglion in the anterior side of the vertebral artery. 70. Part of the portio dura of the auditory nerve re- clined backwards. 71. Its first deep-seated branch, which in this subject is present, and descends to the stylo-hyoideus muscle; and is therefore called Stylo-hyoideus. 1 72. Its second deep-seated branch in this subject, run- ning to nervus mollis, accompanying the external carotid artery.—(Vide No. 150.) ^ . 73. Third deep-seated branch of this subject^ called nervus biventricus, which descending, perforates tho biventer muscle of the maxilla inferior, and then changing its course, as.Q^ds behind it to the glosso-, pharyngeus nerve, and thus forms the ansa. 74. Ramus of the biventer nerve, No. 73, extends over the biventer muscle of the maxilla inferior, and anastomoses with another deep-seated branch, o- mitted in this plate. 75. Nervus glosso-pharyngeus, first branch of the eighth pair. 76. First branch of the glosso-pharyngeus, anastomosing with the biventric nerve of the portio dura. 77. Second branch of the glos.so-pharyngeus, descend- ing above the internal carotid artery, which in the region of the first flexure of the carotid, without the cranium, gives 78. A branch, tending downwards to the oervqs mollis of the intcrcostalis.—(Fig. II. No. 4 & 5.) 79. And another nerv'e running down above the internal ' carotid to its ongin, then behind the carotid ar- tery. so. Here nerve, No. 77, inflects round the posterior side of the carotid, and ascends behind it above tho parvagum, anastomosing with a small branch of the pharyngeus. 81. Third branch of the glosso-pharyngeus, called in- ferior pharyngeus, running above the internal caro- tid; then on its anterior side, divided into three branches, of which S2. The superior passes under the external carotid, and forming an arch, again ascends to be inserted into the constrictor medius of the pharynx, 83. The middle pursuing the same course, which, how- ever, gives off asurculus'to the stylo-pharyngeus. 84. Inferior small branch runs to the internal surface of the external carotid, there to be joined with the nervi molles.—(Vide Fig. II. No. 3.) 85. 86. Fourth or fifth branch of glosso-pharyngeus, both running to the muse, pharyngeus. j 87. Trunk of the glossorpharyngeys, which proceeds anteriorly under the'muscles stylo-pharyngeus, and is divided into four branches, 88. First, superior and thick branch, which, with the following three branches, 89‘90'91'Piissing under the stylo-glossus and ccrato-glossus muscles, and run together to the tongue. 92. Nervus pharyngeus of the eighth pspr. N 93.-9+.( 46 ) 93- 93. 9^- Four small branches of the nervus pharjm- jeus, dispersed in the middle constrictor muscle of the pharynx, and in the stylo-phuryngeus. 97. Fifth ramulus of the pharyngciis, inserted into the aervus mollis^ accompanying the labial artery. 98« ninth pair, or lingual nerves. 99- A small branch of the anterior branch of the first pair, joined to it by anastomosis.—(Vide No. 5.) 100. Descending branch of the ninth, forming two ansae, with the cervical nerves in this body. 101. Branch of the ninth running down to the hyo-thryoid muscle. 102. 102. Two small branches of the ninth pair, proceed- ing to the cerato-glossus. 103. 104. 105. Three small branches interwoven with the basio-glossus muscle by many filaments. 106. 107. Two small branches of the ninth, terminated in the genio-glossus. lOS. A small branch of the same ninth, which forms ana- stomosis, after giving off" the filamentum basio-glossum, with the ramulus of the third lingual branch of the fifth pair. 109. A branch running to the genio-glossus. 110. Another, forming an anastomosis with the lingual nerve. 111. The remainder of the ninth pair under the sublingual gland, partly communicating with the lingual of the fifth, partly distributed in the genio-glossus muscle. 112. A small part of the par vagum; the larger part is removed. 113. A branch of it going to the anterior ramus of the second pair of ccrvicals. 114. The laryngcal nerve of the eighth pair. 115. A branch of the same, running to the nerve. No. 124.—(Vide No. 125.) 116. 117. 11s. 11.0- 120. 121. Separation of the same into two larger, and four smaller ramifications. 116. The lowest and largest branch of the nervus laryn- gcus, or the trunk, which descends urwler the hyo-thyroid muscle a little before the superior process of the thyroid car- tilage, to the interior part of the laryiux, anteriorly. 117- Superior branch, thicker tlian tlie others, which sends off many surculi under the hyo-thyroid muscle, above the in- ternal surface of the meiiibrana-crassa of Morgagni, (ex- ■panding between the os-hyoides, and thyroid cartilage) but the other part rises under the right cornu of that bone. 118. 119- 120. 121. Four intermediate smaller branches diffused under the hyo-thyroid muscle in the exterior surface of the membrane of Morgagni. 122- A ramification from the anterior branch of the great cervical ganglion, running backwards almost in a direct line, which, with 123. The fourth anterior branch of the same ganglion, forms 124. 124. A ramification, rather reddish, running ob- liquely, and anteriorly behind the carotid arteries. 125. Combination of the same with No. 115; and again, its seperation into two. No. 141 and 147- 126. Anterior branch, which running farther in the di- rection of No. 139, passes under the coraco-hyoid, or sterno- thynoid muscles, to the crico-thyroid. 127. A surculus of the same, migrating to the thyroid gland. This surculus, like No. 128, 129, 130, 131, is^ marked by a dot. 128. A ramification of nerve. No. 126, entering the lar} nx under the inferior margin of the thyroid cartilage, to be distributed on its internal surface. 129. 130. 131. Three other surculi that supply the crico- thyroidcus. 132. Posterior branch of conjunction. No. 125, which 133. Gives a surculus to the inferior constrictor muscle, and to a part of the same, arising from the cricoid carti- lage. 134. The remaining part, No. 132, descending under the common carotid artery, from which also a surculus runs to the thyroid gland. 135. The reddish gangliform ramification, which arises from No. 124, behind the external carotid artery, and directs its course on the anterior side of this artery to the e-\ternal surface. ' 136. Here the same nerve, after taking up ramulus, No, 78, and 84, from the glosso-pharyngeus, (Vide Fig. II. Num. 4, 5, and No. 3, lit. k.) again seperutes into four ramifica- tions. 137. First, running anteriorly from nerve. No. 136, which is carried obliquely under the ninth pair to the lingual artery, and gives oft' 138. A ramification, united by anastomosis to No. 140; for this runs backwards above the common trunk of the lingual and labial arteries, and incurvating about its inferior surface, again runs upwards behind it, and is received by No. 141, and No. 140. 139. A branch, connected with the cerato-glossus muscle by two surculi. 140. Second ramification, in like manner anterior. No. 1S6, which runs a little above the former, and almost transversely to the labial artery of Haller, and accom- panies this artery, receives No. 97, of the pharyngeus muscle. 141. The reception of No. 13S, into the branch. No. 140. 142. Third posterior ramulus. No. 136, which, after as- cending obliquely, the external carotid artery is joined with 143. Another gangliform, and reddish branch of No. 124, ascending behind the external carotid, and then on its posterior side.—(Its origin is seen. Fig. II. lit. s.) 144. Ramulus, arising from the united ramuli. No. 142, 143, ascending behind the commencement of the occipital artery, and further in the posterior lateral surface of the ex- ternal carotid, until it enters the small ganglion. No. 148. 145.I 47 ) 145. Fourth ramus, No. 136, which ascends almost in a right line, in the lateral a.nterior surface of the e.\.ternal ca- rotid. 145. The first ramification of the same, running above the externalsurface of the carotid to the ganglion parvum, No. 148. 147. Posterior ramification, which ascends round the in- ternal side of the artery, lit. m. and about the internal and posterior surface of the external carotid, to the ganglion, par- vum, No. 148.—^Thus, this branch forms communication with the former. No. 146, surrounding the external carotid.— (Vide Fig. II. lit. v. |.) 148. Ganglion parvum, situated in the exterior and poste- rior surface of the external carotid. 14,9. The soft and reddish branch running further from this ganglion with the above-mentioned carotid, to which it firmly adheres. 150. Insertion of the portio-dura of the branch. No. 72, into thenervus mollis, No. 149. 150. Anterior branch, No. 149, companion of the in- ternal maxillary artery. 151. Posterior ramification, accompanying the temporal artery. 152. A small branch, which the descendens of the ninth, No. 100, give to the coraco-hyoideus. 153. Another branch of the descendens Tioni paris, passing transvei-sely, under the coraco-hyoid to the sterno-hyoideus. n 154. Conjunction of the descendens of the ninth pair with 155. The common trunk, from the combinationof No. 18, of the second of No. 25, of the third pair of cervicals.— 'rhirs, by this communication of nerwes. No. 18, 25, 153, and 100, a kind of ansa is formed. - 156. Two surculi, by which the mentioned ansa is annexed to the carotis communis. 157. 158. Two branches of the above ansa, uniting by a converse direction. 159. Nerve, which rami No. 157,158, constitute. 160. Its first ramus, which bifurcates anteriorly in its de- scent,and gives many surculi. No. 161, l62, to the muscles I sterno-thyroideus. 163. Secorwl branch, whence tibe posterior rjimus fitst emerges, inserted into the inferior portion of the coi'aco-hyoi- deus muscle.—In this dclinention, iestlhe ojtlier par-t;? bp ob- scured, this rainulus is omitted. - 164. Anterior ramification, No. l63, which running above the sterno-thyroideus, goes anteriorly to the sternq-hyoideus by three surculi, marked with point. • ■ • ' . 165. The remaining portion qf No. 160, descending in a‘ straight line above the-sterno-thyroidcais, and inserted into ils lowest part, which is cut off in this figure. 166. The third branch, No. 159» running'posteriorly to ■uiVto by anastomosis with ramus, No. 50, and form the second ' ansa from the descendens of the ninth pair, interwoven with :the cervical nerves. 167. A brapeb ansa, which passing downwards ort the external surface of the jugular veins passes into the cavity of the thorax.—The ultimate distribution of this nerve could not be here represented. 168. The superior cervical ganglion, longer than usual in this subject. 169. Third projection of the same. (The two superior are covered by the internal carotid.—Vide Fig. II.) 170. Its fourth, or inferior projection. 171. 171. A branch of the fourth pair of cervicals, in- serted into the inferior projection. 172. A branch of the fifth, in like manner connected with the inferior projection of the ganglion. ' 173. Insertion of the common trunk, arising from the ra- mificaftons. No. 61, 62, into the ganglion-magnum.' 174. The second small branch, which the anterior and infe- rior part of the ganglion-magnum sends off to the thyroid gland. ) 175. Third ramification, in its descent with the'foUow'ing; 176. Fourth, joined behind the carotid. ^ 177. A branch, arising from the combination of -Nq. 175 and 176, a little beyond, descending behind the trunlt of thft corotids, untiljt unites with the following branch, 178, (only marked with points.) 178. First ramification pf the inferior part of the long ganglion, descending in a straight Ufio oq the posterior surface of the carotid. 179. Surculus of the same going to the No. 187- 180. The conjunction of the branches. No. 177 and 178,' or 188. The ramus communis runs farther in the course, marked with dots.—(Vide, No. 230.) 181- Trunk of the intercostal nerve from the ganglion- nvagnum. 182- Inserlipn of No. 64, into this trunk., .183. Division of this trunk into the anterior ^ryeV and.posterior,jNo, 218-. ■ ^ ... ■ 184. Anterior branch of the intercostal ,\yh^l,,, bending dovyiiwards, and, running abpye the iq^rior thyroid artery, here swells, and forms . ' , 185. The small ceyYicalga.nglion, inferior an^ anterior. eiis6. Its first 220. . a. n-d 187- Second branciL of tbe§qnm,.vshichp,,-aA9^ No. 179, is joined to No. 178- ;-.li. 188. Inserrioivol No. I87 iftty Np- 178,. frW wl^ich the common trunk of these nerves arises. . , .'189. Third ratnus, jvhjeii, iq^srior 4^^ roid artery, unites with the other inferior cervical , 190. Fourth braach.of N«i^ 4^5*, , proceeding downwards almost in a direct line. 191.( 4S ) 15U Surculus, which this branch sentU off to the posterior surface of the carotid, and artcria innoiniaata. 192. A ramification of No, 19O, descendin':: fartlwjr l^ehind tlic subclavian artery; at length to be combined with nerve, No. 268, of the eighth pair.—(See No. 269.) 193. Surculus, encreasing No. 248, the preceding nerve, by its accession. ^ 194. The remaining portion of nerve, No. I90, to which the following 195. Is joined to No. 251. 196. Nerve, formed by the combination of No. 194, and 251, descending above the subclavian and innominata: to be called the cardiacus superlicialis, 197. First, and inferior branch of the same, whieW soon sends off 198., A surculus to the vena cava, 199* Conjunction of the ramification, No, 197, with a small branch. No, 267, of the recurrens.—Hence, these nerves combined, proceeding farther in their course, send off 200. A branch, which, then dividing into two parts, forms a surculus to nerve, No. 231 ; and 201. Running into another surculus above the aorta, goes to the pericardium, 202. Connexion of surculus. No. 213, and of the re- maining part of ramulus. No. 197, whence is emitted 203. A surculus, terminating pn the anterior surface of the arch of the aorta. 204. Another surculus, turning to the right side of the aorta. 205. Lastly, the remaining portion, which goes over the anterior-surface of the aorta, by running on the left; but ih its passage fbrms 206. A surculus, uniting by anastomosis with the ramifica- tion, No. 233; and 207. And another surculus, terminated on the anterior surface of the aorta, 208. 209, Two surculi, the ends of nerve, No, 197, in- flected on the right about the aorta. 210. Second, or superior surculus of nerve. No. 196, running above the arteria innominata, to be distributed on its left side. 211. Third surculus, distributed on the anterior surface of the arteria innominata. 212. Fourth branch of nerve, No. 196', which sends off 213. A ramification, anastomo-singwith No. 199, (marked 202.) 214. 215. 216. 217. Four surculi, from No. 212, dis- sh^uted on the ^tehor surface of the arteria innominata. and aorta; the superior. No. 214, goes to the left side of the innominata. , 218. PostcM'ior branch of the intercostal trunk, which, in descending behind the inferior thyroid artery, forms 21.9. Another ganglion cervicale iuferius, and posterius, covered, for the most part, by the inferior thyroid. 220. 221. Two surculi, sent out of the superior part of the ujforior and posterior ganglion, stu rounding the anterior sur- face of the inferior thyroid. 222. The conjunction of the anterior surculus with ramus, No. 1S6, whence 223. A common branch, arising from No. 186 and 220, which in its course runs downwards. 224. Another insertion of the posterior surculus of the same ganglion, intx> the inferior part: thus surculus. No. 221 r and the inferior, or posterior cervical ganglion, form an annu- lus, intercepting the inferior thyroid artery. 225. Posterior intercostal branch, which immediately di- vides in two parts, and sends off 226. Anterior branch, increased in its progress by No. 223. 227. Ganglion parvum cervicale, imum, (perhaps it may. be called the cardiac) which the united ramifications swelling No. 223 and 226, produce 228. A branch of the mentioned ganglion, which, running downwards above the subclavian artery, bends in its lowest margin on the left, and interiorly, and is concealed, in part, under the artcria innominata. 229* In this place the ramus. No. 228, again emerges. 230. Conjunction of it with the descending branch, No. 80, covered by the carotid artery and the innominata; and in this figure marked with dots. 231. A nerve, originating from the combination of the, branches, No. 180, and 230. 232. Insertion of surculus, No. 200, into the preceding, nerve. 233. Anterior ramification which nerve. No. 231, gives out. 234. Two of its scurculi, going to the pericardium. 235. Union of the ramifications, No. 206, and 233. 236. Superior surculus of the anterior branch. No. 233, running above the aorta on the left. 237. The middle surculus, stretching to the pericar- dium. 23d-. Inferior ramulus, giving off several surculi to the pe- ricardium. 239. Nerve, No, 231, farther in its progress, entering the aorta. 240. Postexiof branch of nerve. No. 225, which re- ceives 241.( 49 } j 241. The first dorsal ganglion, or its superior tuberosity. I 242. Its first and posterior ramus, which, surrounding the anterior surface of the vertebral artery, is again united to the j same ganglion.—(This ramus, running behind the inferior thyroid artciy, is marked with dots.) 243. Second and middle branch of ganglion, No. 241, which extends a surculus 244. To be inserted into No. 250. 245. Descent of the second branch, No. 243, above the subclavian artery; about the interior parts of that artery, this ramus bends backwards, and again rises behind it to the first thoracic ganglion. 246'. Third, and anterior branch of ganglion. No. 241, which soon after dividing into two, sends off 247. The left branch, forming a surculus farther in its course, 248. Which gives a surculus to the subclavian artery ; but the other part, marked vinder No. 193, coalesces by anasto- mosis with No. 192. 249. Another insertion of the left. No. 247, into the right. No. 250. 250. Right branch. No. 246, which is increased by the in- sertion of No. 244 and 249- ' 251. Ramulus of the nerve already mentioned, which passing anteriorly, is carried into No. 194. 252. Right ramulus. No. 250, running above the subclavian J artery, then inserted behind it into another ramus of the first thoracic ganglion, and makes another ansa, inclosing the sub- clavian artery. 253. Nerve, which arises from the conflux of cervical nerves, No. 67, 68, 69, and passes into fJie superior thoracic ganglion, behind the inferior thyroid, (marked here with dots.) 254. Inferior part of the eighth pair.—For w'e have thought proper not to delineate its cervical trunk to shew the other parts better. 255. Its recurrent branch carried upwards to the larynx. 256. First branch of the recurrent nerve, which is given off at its commencement. ! t 257. Superior ramification of the same, augmenting the cardiac nerve of the first thoracic ganglion. 258. Another and inferior branch, which proceeding to- wards the cardiac ple.xus, receives 259. A ramification of the second recurrent branch* 260. A branch arising from the combination of No. 258,. and 259, which, after proceeding farther, gives off 261. A surculus to the trachea; and 262. Another surculus to the bronchial gland, adhering to- the vena cava. I 263, 264. Third and fourth surculus of the cardiac branch, :No. 258, dispersed above the trachea. 26.5. The remainder of nerve, No. 258, migrating to the cardiac plexus. 266. Second branch of the recurrent, which, aftersend- ing oft a ramulus, No. 259> to the first of the recurrents, gives off another. 267. A ramification to the superficial nerve, No. 197-— (Its third ramulus inserted into the cardiac nerve of the su- perior thoracic ganglion, is covered by the arteiia innomi- nata.) 268. A branch descending from the par vagum a little be- low the origin of the recurrent nerve. 269. Conjunction of this branch with No. I92. 270. 271. First and second surculus of nerve, No. 268, turning to the trachea. 272. Insertion of the second branch of the par vagum. No. 278, into its first part. No. 268. 273. Connection of the third branch of the eighth pair with the first Num. 26'8. 274. Third surculus of No. 26s, which, dividing in two parts, H terminated above the asperu arteria, ox trachea. 275. 276. 277. Three ramifications'of No. 268, running to the cardiac plexus. 278. Second branch of the eighth pair. 279- Third branch of the eighth, which exhibits the fol;* lowing—marked, • 230. Running to the first part of the eighth pair. ' 281. Surculus of the third branch of the par vagum run- ning to the vena cava. 282. Another small branch running to the cardiac plexus. 283. Third ramification distributed on the lungs. 284. Descent of the fifth pair of cervicals, or the first of the brachial nerves. 285. The sixth pair of ce'rvicals, or second of Brachial nerves. 286. Conjunction of the first and second brachials. 287. Nerve from the divided combination of the first and second, to be joined with the third, fourth, and fifth. 288. The supra-scapular nerve. 289- A nerve, arising-from the connection of the first, as •well as second : also, from the third pf the brachials, passing forwards with No.. 290, 2Q2, 2Q3. 290* Its* ramification migrating to the super-scapulary nerve. No. 288. 291. Conjunction of No. 289 with the fourth aud fifth. 292. Origin of the median nerve. 293. The muscular cutaneous nerve, or cutaneous ex- ternus. 294. Third of the brachial, or seventh pair of cervicals. 295. Nerve, composed of the fourth and fifth of the bra- chials, or eighth pair of cervicals, and first of dorsals, 296. Conjunction of the same with a part of the third of brachials; and also 297. With apart of the first and second. O 298. t( 50 ) f.08. Posterior branch, about to send ofif the articular and radial nerve.^ 299- anterior branch, constituting the cubital and external cutaneous nerves. 300. 301, A line drawn transversely through the middle of the neck, from which the nerves of another plate take their origin; the arteries are removed. Figure II. DELINEATION OF THE GREAT CERVICAL GANG- • LION ON ITS SUPERIOR PORTION, AND OF THE I NERVES ARISING FROM ITS ARTERIOR PART, - THAT WERE COVERED BY THE ANTERIES IN FIG. I. WHICH ARE HERE REMOVED. a. The external branch of the intercostal nerve, which descends in the canalis caroticus, above the exterior surface of the carotid, and emerging from the canalis already mentioned, runs towards the posterior side of the carotid to its external surface, and downwards. b. Interior branch of the intercostal nerve, carried down- wards behind the interior surface of the carotid. c. Intercostal nerve, formed by the combination of the branches a. and b. not inclosed in the canalis-ca- rotidis. d. e. f. Superior part of the great cervical ganglion; d. Its first protuberance; e, the second; f. the third. g. First branch, arising from the anterior side of the ganglion, which proceeding obli(juely, infcriorly, and anteriorly, is united with No. 3, of the glosso-pharyn- gcal nerve. b. A common trunk, arising from that part. i. .A ramification of the same, passing ba,ck to the second branch. No. 2, of the nervus pharyngeus. k. The remaining part, descending to the anterior gang- liform branch, lit. x. a. l. Second branch of ganglion, running almost in a pa- rallel direction with branch g.—But this is inserted into the gangliform posterior branch, lit. r. i. m. Third branch of the ganglion thicker than the Re- ceding ones. n. First, or posterior ramulus of the same, going to tlic fourth, lit. 9* o. Another, or middle ramification, which is carried almost directly downwards, until it is inserted into the fourth branch.—Vide lit. v. p. Third superior ramification of the branch, marked m. running oblic|uely to the anterior gangliform trunk, lit. X. z. q. q. Fourth branch, arising from the anterior side of the ganglion. O O r. Insertion of the branch n. s. Posterior gangliform ramification, ascending behind >, the internal surface of the cerebral carotid, and then between the internal and external carotid to the exter- nal surface of the latter artery.:—(Vide Fig. I. No. 14-3.) t. Another ramification descending from the branch q. to the internal and external carotids. ^ u. Another, or third branch, q. distributed by a superior < surculus on the middle constrictor muscle of the pha- rynx, but by an inferior surculus on the inferior con- ^ strictor of the pharynx. V. insertion of the branch o. , ‘ w. Insertion of the branch, No. 9, descending from the par vagum. ffl X. .\nterior gangliform ramification, which ascends be- j hind tiic c.xternal carotid, and afterwards ascends on 8 its anterior side.—(Vide Fig. I. Num. 135.) | y. A small branch of the laryngeal nerve of the eightli < pair going to the anterior gangliform branch, marked' . 2. The place where the branches k.p. and y. are inserted into the gangliform branch, and others are sent out. et. A branch of the nervus laryngeus of the eighth pair, H which is inserted into the lourth ramification of the f ganglion q. | Posterior branch, proceeding from the communication | above-mentioned. (Vide Fig. 1. Num. 132, 133, 1 13-1.) . j ». Anterior branch.—(Vide Fig. I. Num. 126, 127^, ‘ 128, 129, 130, 131.) ^ First anterior branch, running from thcanterior gang- ‘ lifonn branch, x. 2. to the internal surface of the liii- * gual artery.—(Vide Fig. I. No. 135.) j ^ f. Second anterior branch, which, after uniting with the i small branch of the nervus pharyngeus, lit. ij/, pro- ceeds to the labial artery.—(Vide Fig. I. Num. 140.) Ramulus, by the medium of which ramus, lit. J', is joined with ramus, lit. t, and the common trunk of the lingual and angular artery is almost surrounded. —(Vide Fig. I. No. 138, 141.) 1). Third posterior ramus of anterior gangliform, ramus X. 2. ascending obliquely to the anterior surface of the I carotid artery. - f S. Combination of the same, with the posterior gangli-i form ramus, marked s.—(Vide Fig. I. No. 144.) ti. A common trunk arising from thence, stretching up- ^ wards on the posterior side of the external carotis, and inserting itself into the ganglion parvum, lit. *■.— H (Vide Fig. I. No. 144.) Fourth ramus of the gangliform ramus, ascending jn a straight direction above thcanterior side of the ca- - rotid already mentioned.—(Vide Fig. I. Num. 145./) Divarication( 51 ) Divarication of the same into j, 1 he first, or external branch, running obliquely to tl|e ganglion parvum, lit. w. (V'ide Fig. I. No. 146.) Posterior, or internal branch, which surrounding the internal surface of the external carotid, is inserted into the posterior side of that ganglion parvum, lit. tt. (Vide Fig. I. No. 147) whence this ramus, with ra- mus, lit. ». and the ganglion-parvum, lit. it. forms an ansa, enclosing the external carotid. It. Ganglion-parvum, into which rami, lit. •. y, and |, arc inserted.—(Vide Fig. I. Num. 148.) g. Ramus-mollis, stretching upwards from the small ganglion.—-(Vide Fig. I. No. 149> 150, 151.) or. Insertion of the hard portion Of the ramUs-profundus. (Fig. I. No. 72.) into the nervus-mollis, lit. p. T. T. Some part of the nervUs glosso pharyngeus of the 8th pair, of which the superior part running beyond the internal carotid, andnervusintercostalis.--(Vide Fig. I. Num. 75) is cut oft'. Its inferior ramus, called Pharyngeus, which soon divides into three parts, is inserted into the pharynx and ramuli-molles of the intercostal nerve.—(Vide Fig. I. Num. 81.) 1. First, and superior ramulus of the same, distributed to the middle constrictor of the pharynx.—(Vide Fig. I. Num. 82.) 2. The middle, or second ramulus, which, joined by anastomosis, (lit. I.) with ramulus, lit. h. runs into the same muscle; yet it affords a surculus to the stylo-pharyngeus.—(Vide Fig. I. Numb. 83.) 3. Inferior, and third ramulus of nerve, lit. whjch, joined with the ramulus-mollis of the great cervical ganglion, lit. g, constitutes ramus, lit. h. Ramulus of the nervus pharyngeus of the eighth pair, going to the nerve, lit. e. accompanying the labial artery.—(Vide Fig. I. No. 97.) . 4. Ramulus, running from the nervus glosso-pharyngeus, above the internal carotid, and running between it and the external carotid, and at length behind the external. (Vide Fig. I. Num. 77>78.) . Ramulus of the same, running to the anterior gangli • form nerve, lit. x. z. . Another ramulus, running in the posterior surface of the external, and afterwai’ds of the common carotid. l'. 7- Par vagum, running from the foramen lacerum. i 8. Its first ramus, which, in this body, exhibits the eighth [ pair, going out of the cranium, passing down to the t _ second pair of cervical nerves. I 9-Another ramus of the eighth, extending to the fourth j nervus-mollis of the great cervical ganglion, lit. w. g. X 10. Third ramus of the par vagum, called the Nervusi- Laryngeus, which runs beyond the ganglion-magnum, and other nerves, as far as it is marked with dots. 1; 12.13. 14. 15. l6. Division of the same into the sixth rami.—(Vide Fig. I, Num. Il6,117, 118, 119, 120, 121.) 17. First pair of cervical nerves, or anterior ramus of tha same, joined with the second pair.—(Vide Fig. I. Num. 2.) whence, 18. First ramulus, inserted into the rectus lateralis, and rectus anticus major of the head, by many surculi. —(Vide Fig. I. No. 3.) 19- Second ramulus, descending behind the par vagum to the great cervical ganglion.—(Vide Fig. I. Num. 4.) 20. Third, ascending to the anterior minor rectus-muscle of the head.—(Vide Fig. I. Num. 5.) 21. Fourth ramus, going to the ninth pair, here cut off.— (Vide Fig. I. Num. 6.) 22. Anterior ramus of the second pair of cervical nerves, and its communication with the anterior ramus of the first pair.—(Vide Fig. I. Num. 7.) 23. Ramus, proceeding from the above communication to the rectus anticus major muscle of the head.—(Vide Fig. I. Num. 8.) 24. Another ramulus of the same branch, inserted into the same muscle by two surculi. 25. 26. Two ramuli, of the anterior ramus of the second pair, which converging, unite; and, afterwards, by two ramuli, are inserted into the great cervical gang* Hon.—(Vide Fig. I. Num. 10, 11, 12, 13, 14.) 27. Third ramus of the anterior ramus of the second pair, descending to the ganglion just mentioned.— (Vide Fig. I. Num. l6.) 28. Ramus, of the third pair of cervicals, united with ramus. No. 27-—(Vide Fig. I. Num. 24.) 29. Fourth ramus, running to the descendens of the ninth pair.—(Vide Fig. I. Num. 18.) 30. Insertion of ramulus of the eighth pair. 31. Condyloid process of the inferior maxilla. 32. Meatus-auditorius externus. 33. Mamillary, process of the temporal bones. 34. Place where the styliform process is cut off. 35. External ramulus of ramus, lit. extending itself tq the cerato-glossus muscle. Figur€ III. A. Internal musculus rectus major of the head. B. Musculus scalenus prior. C. The first rib’. a. Transverse process of the first vertebra of the neck, b. The mastoid process. c. The'styliform process. d. Ossiculum, joined to the styliform process. e. ISleatus auditorius externus, in part cartilaginous. f. Condyloid process of the maxilla inferior. g. Angle of the maxilla inferior. ' h.4. k.I ( S2 ) h. i. k. Artoria caratis. h. Internal entering the foramen caroticum. i. External cut oft', k. The common trunk. I. Artery, rising in the middle of the neck from the common trunk of the carotid, divided into the supe- rior ramus, s. in. Stylo-mastoid artery, which enters the stylomastoid foramen. ' Sometimes it arises from the internal ca- rotid artery. n. Another inferior ramus of the artery, lit. 1, cut oftf, which ascends above the nerves, and biventer muscle of the maxilla inferior to the mastoid depression, and is inserted into the beginning of the biventer of the ' maxilla inferior, and other muscles.—This also some- times arises from the external carotid artery. o. Right subclavian artery. p. Inferior thyroid-artery. q. Internal mammary artery. r. The lateral rectus capitis muscle. s. Obliquus superior capitis. t. ; inferior capitis. u. Cervicalis descendens. The levator scapulai is cut off. V. Part of the muscle pterygoideus internus, not very : conspicuous. w. Ninth pair of the nerves of the cerebrum, which, be- cause it descends upon the eighth, and intercostal nerve, in a transverse direction, is only marked by dots. X. X. Eighth pair of nerves of the cerebrum, drawn a little outward, and backwards. y. y. Intercostal nerve going out of the carotid canal. z. Anterior ramus of the first pair of cervical nerves. а. lt(s; ramus, extending to the ninth pair. 1. ]. going to the first cervical ganglion. 52. Anterior ramus of the second pair of cervicals. 3. Its anterior ramus, descending auterioriy, and then dividing into two 4. & 5. Ramuji, which are inserted into the superior cervical ganglion. б, The remaining part of it, annexed to the third of the cervicals. 7.7. Trunk of the third pair of cervicals. 8. Fourth pair of cervicals. 9. A ramus of it, running to the inferior cervical gang- lion. ' 10. Diaphragmatic nerve, arising from the fourth pair. II. The remaining part of the fourth pair. 12. Ramus, passing from the fifth pair to the inferior cer- vical ganglion, (where No. 12 is adjected there, it goes under the muscle scalenus prior.) 13. Superior cervical ganglion. 14. Itsgangliform appendix. 15. Inferior cervical ganglion. 16. Its ramus, descending above the subclavian artery, and running round it, again ascending behind it to the first thoracic ganglion, and thus forming an ansa. —(Vide No. 78.; It is called Ramus Superficiaiis. 17. Trunk of the intercostal cervical nerve, inserted into the first thoracic ganglion, (or ramus profundus.) 18. 19- 20. 21. 22. Five nervi molles running from the ap- pendix of the ganglion, No. 14.—18. First. 19. Second. 20. Third. 21. Fourth. 22. Fifth. 23. Surculus of the first nervus mollis, accompanying ex- ternal carotid artery, No. 18. 24. Another surculus, running to the internal carotid. 25. Second nervus mollis, uniting to a surculus of the glosso-pharyngcus nerve. No. 38. 26. Surculus of the same running to the inusculus stylo- pharyngens. 27. Another surculus, carried to the constructor medius of the pharynx, 28. Surculus of the second nervus mollis, running down to the third, No. 20. 29. Third nervus mollis, joining with surculus. No. 28, running down to the carotis communis, 30. 31. Anterior ramus of the fourth nervus mollis, surround- ing the trunk of the carotids. 32. Cortjunction of the same with the fifth, No, 22. 33. Posterior ramus of the fourth nervus mollis. 34. There inserted into the inferior constrictor muscle of 1 > the pharynx. " <; 35. Ramulus, proceeding from the conjunction of the an- terior ramus of the fourth with the fifth ramus mollis, which descended beiiind the trunk of the carotids, in its natural situation. 36. Surculus of the same, proceeding tc the ramulus of tiie nervus laryngcus. 37. Another surculus of ramulus, No. 35, to be inserted into the inferior cervical ganglion. 38. Surculus of the nervus glosso-pharyngeus, to be joined to llie second ramus mollis. No. 19. 39. Surculus of the nervus laryngeus, joining to the ner- vus mollis, No. 21. 40. Ramulus, descending from the nervus laryngeus, 41. Anterior ramulus of the same, which gives off | 42. A surculus, to be inserted into the inferior constrictor of the pharynx. , 43. Rosterior rainulu^. No. 40. 44. Anterior ramification, running back to the posterior, f and with it constituting an island. ; 45. Ramulus, formed by a conjunction of No. 43 and 44. 46. Ulterior descent of the same, after receiving the ra- mulus mollis. No. 36. 47. Third surculus of the nervus laryngeus, running toi the posterior surculus, No. 33, of the fourth ramus mollis. 48. Nervus( 53 ) 48. Norvus laryngcus of the eighth pair. 49. First ramulus of the inferior cervical ganglion, where it advances behind the trunk of the carotids. 50. Part uf the same ramulus, passing beyond that trunk, , 'I to be inserted into the nervus mollis decurrens. No. 46. j5l. Second ramulus of the inferior cervical ganglion. 52. Hamulus, composed of the preceding ramulus, and de- scending nervus mollis; whence arise ji i 53. A ramification to the third ramulus of ganglion, No. 15; and ' > 54. Another, running to the fourth ramulus of the infe- rior cervical ganglion. 55. Third ramulus of ganglion. No. 15. 56. Surculus of the same, descending to the fourth. 57. Another surculus of the third-to be joined with ramus, No. 53. 58. Fourth ramulus of the inferior cervical ganglion. Surculus of the same, descending to the sixth ramus of the ganglion, No. 15. 60. The remaining part of the fourth ramulus, which, united with ramulus. No. 54, goes to the fifth. 61. Fifth ramulus of the inferior cervical ganglion. 62. Further progress of the same, after receiving ramu- lus, No. 60. 63. Surculus of ramus. No. 62, declining to the sixth. (€3. b. Ramulus, from its conjunction with ramuli. No. 53 and 57, running down to the ramulus, No. 62, of the fifth. 64. Conjunction of ramulus. No. 62, with ramulus, No. 63, b. 65. Ramulus, proceeding from the conjunction of No. 64, which forms the superficial cardiac nerve. 66. Surculus, from the conjunction, No. 64. 67. Surculus mollis,' which the third nervus mollis of the I superior cervical ganglion, No. 23, 29» sends o.T, dc- ' scending behind the trunk of the carotids to ramulus. No. 66.-—(Partly marked with dots.) - 68. Ramulus, arising from the combination of ramuli, No. 66 and 67, to again joined with the norvus cardiacus superticialis. No. 65. .69. The, sixth ramulus of the inferior cervical ganglion to- the plexus cardiacus, situated between the aorta and pulmonary artery. 70. First thoracic ganglion, which is marked with dots, where covered by the arteries. 71.72.73. Rami, of the cervical nerves, running to that gan- glion. 71. Of the sixth. 72. Of the seventh. 73. Of the eighth pair. 74. Conjunction of the ramus of tlie eighth pair, with a continuation of the seventh, and insertion into the ganglion already mentioned. 75. Ramus of the first pair of dorsals, encreasing the first thoracic ganglion. ■ 76. Ramus of the'second, belonging to the same ganglion, from ganglion to the second pair. 77. First ramulus, migrating from ganglion. No. 70, to the cardiac plexus. 78. Insertion of ramus, No. 16, into the first thoracic ganglion. .• 79- Second cardiac ramus of the mentioned ganglion. .1 SO. Third cardiac ramulus of the same ganglion. 81. Ramus, arising from the combination of the second and third ramulus x:ardiacus. 82. Superior ramulus. No'. 81, proceeding to the first cardiac ramus. 83. Ramus, which ramulus. No. 77, combined with ra- mulus, No. 82, gives to the cardiac plexus. 84. Inferior ramulus of ramus, No. 81, proceeding to the cardiac plexus. P IPLATE XXXV. . ■ / f Figufe It TLfe botly bcinji; placed in the same positidii As in the expla- nation of Plate XXXIII. the whole of the aitris externa, with the cartilaginous meatus auditoi'ius; also, the mbstoid and styliform processes, with the annexed muscles, and some other parts, are removed, to elueidate more clearly the conformation of the superior nerves. a. The osseous jneafas fl«(/iVo;7dry. h. Radix of the mastoid process cut off. i - - c. Condyloid process of the inferior maxilla. d. Angle of the inferior maxilla. c. Transverse process of the first vertebra atlas. {. Inferior lateral part of the body of the atlas^, pro- ' cessus of the ohliquus descendens, which forms a ■ little protuberance. ^ g. Muscle rectus lateralis of the head. .. h. Superior part of the ftTofor scqptffir. , i. Part of the oblique inferior. ; ■ k. k. JIuseulus jpnar. - ' ' . ' 1. First rib, to which the muscle, just mentioaed, is annexed. m.m. Rectus internus major of the head, : j i n. Longus colli. i ■ • . o. .^.xter\2t. innominata. ■ - p. »ubclavia dextra. ■ ' ! <j. —: thyroidea iiferior. T. Transverse scapular ramus of the same, s. Arteria vertebralis. t. cervicalis profunda. Ti. u. Common trunk of the carotids. 1. Superior radices of the intercostal nerve nmniiig into one nerve in the canalis caroticus, which here emerges from the ianal already mentioned. 2. Ramus, from the first pair of cervical nerves, in- serted in this nerve. J. Another ramulus, running from the anterior ramus of the first pair of cervical's to this nerve. 4'. 5. Ganglion cervicale superius, consisting of two tubera, and a thinner intermediate portion in this case. 6. Ramus gangliformis, stretching out from the third pair of cervicals to the first cervical ganglion, and forming, as it were, the cauda, or tail of the gang- lion. 7. Ramulus, which descends from the preceding ramus to tht fourth pair, or via versa, it aacfttwfs from the j fourth. 8. 9. Two ramuli, running from the conjunction of the anterior ramus of thefirst pair, with the anterior ra- mus of the second pair, to the superior ganglion. 10. Ramulus pas.sing from the anterior ramus of the second pair to the ganglion already mentioned. - 11. Ramus, from the par vagum, inserted into that ganglion. 12. First rainufe »nc»/fis, running from the ganglion. j, 13. Superior ramulus of the same, which uniting w'ith a ^ ramulus of the iiervus glosso-pharyngtus, Num. 35. 13. Goes 10 the constrictor medius of the pharynx and stylo’pharyngeus. 14. Inferior raraqlus of nerve, Num. 12, inserted in the constrictor rneaius of the pharynx. 15. Second neruus mollis, oi the ganglion. 16. SurcuUis of this running to the third nervns mollis. 17. ConjftTiCtion of ramus, Num. IS, with surciilus, Num. 33, of the nervus g/os40-j»Aarj/«getf<y, 18. Surculus of the second nervus rrtellis, Numi 15, to V be united with a surculus of tlm nervuS laryngeus. 19- Another surculus of ramus, Num. 15, which is ^ implanted in the inferior constrictor muscle of the pharynx. 20. TAirr/jUnd more remarkable nervus of the su- perior ganglion. ^21, First ramulus of the same, which gives ' 22. surculus to theartery, and 23. Another surculus running to the ramus, Num, 39, g 'of the nervus laryngeus. 24.24. Ramulus, front the third nervus mollis, Num. 20, which clcsceiub behind the trunk of the carotids, then curving round the same, appears in the exterior surface.—(Vide Num. 246.) 25. In this part the third nervus mollis is inflected around the infeiior part of the thyroid artery exte- riorly. 26. Ramulus, accompanying the thyroid artery. 7 5 7 27. Ramulus, of the third nervus mollis, Num. 20, as- cending exteriorly above the external carotis. 28. Its ramulus, approaching theartery. 29. Ramulus, which ascends further to the internal and . temporal maxillary artery. | 30. First ramus of the par vagum, called the glosso-^ pharyngcus, drawn a little upwards from tlie other, nerves. 31. InscrtiojTab.XKSV.( ss. ) 31, Insertion of tht portio dura of ramnlus, Num. 47, in this nerve. 32. Ramulus of the glosso-pharyngeus, descending to the ncrvi tnolles. 33, Posterior surculus of the same acceding near the second nervus mollis. 34. Anterior surculus, going to the ramulus of the ner- vus larj/ngeus, ^’um. SP- SS. Another ramulus of the nervus to be united with a surculus of the first nervus mollis, . Kutn. 13. », 37- The remaining, part of the nervus glosso-pharyngeus, exhibiting two lingual nerves. 38. Nervus of eighth pair, . 3p., Ramulus of the same, running to the nervi molles. 40. Anteriorsurculusof it, tvhich uniting with ramus, Num. 18, of the second nervus goes to the constrictor it^'erius of the pharynx. 41. Posterior surculus of the same, which sends off J. 43. 44.. Three surculi, passing to the constrictor inferior f the pharynx. 45. Fourth surculus, running to the thyroid gland, t' 46'. Portk) dura, of the auditory nerve, emerging through A dve styio-inastoideus. 1. 48. Ramus profundus, called Gastricus of the same, foming a chain of communications with nervus I ,giosM-pl>jwy*gcus.—r(_yide No. 31.) 9. 49. Ninth pair of the nerves of the cerebrum. 50. Itsartaet©mesis -with the par vaguin. 1 51. Descending ramus of thesaTne,conatituting an anas- tomosis with the cervical jserves, cut off. 52. Superior part of the par vagum. I 53. Accessory nerve bf the phr'vti^itn; 54. Anterior rarnus of the fiist pair of cervical nerves. 55, Its ramulus, which, dividing into two 57. P,ai«uli, is inserted by the same into itbe par pgnm. 1 58. Conjunction of the anterior ramus «tf the first pair, with a si^nilar ramus of the second. . ^ } 59. Ramulus, arising from this conjunctioiv, Tihrich j. 61.62. 6’3. Is inserted'by four snrcoli into the-ptr »agum. 1 64. Anterior ramus of the second pair of cervfcals. i 65. Ramulus of the same, going to the d’csci.'tKlens of the i ninth pair. . . J.i- |. i66. Third pair of cervicals. .' i - 'o j 67. Ramus of the same, eonstitdting the tmion of the I ^' isecond pair wiilh the amterior raanlis. .>i - 1 i 6s. Conjunction of the {mterior ramtiS ^ the second -. pair, Ne. 64, with ranvns, Noj67^iof the tliirdld 69. Superior ramus, proceeding from this ednjunction, No. f)8, which, snhMs bodyj asceuds to thfi occi- 1... . .; . •. i9i*abit •' * * :n 6 . 4 put, arid with the posterior ramus of the first pair, is there in part united. , ., 70. Middle ramus of conjunction, No. 6S, forming the posterior small auricular nerve. „ , 71. Inferior ramus of conj.unction. No. 6s, forming the large auricular nerve. 72. The remaining part of the; third pair. . ^ 73. Ramulus of the same, proceeding to the descen- dens of the ninth pair. 'n 74. Superior ramus of ramus, No.’72. ' ' 75. Ramus, running from ramus 71 to ramus 74. 76. This nerve, in the exterior surface of the back, con- stitutes thecutaneus medius of the neck. 77. Inferior ramus.. No. 72, which descending back- vvards, principally disperses itself above the cucul- laris muscle. *r 78. Fourth pair of the cervical, nerves. ‘ ■ so ■ 79- Ramulus of the same^ running backwards tp the splenius colli. ' 80.80.80. Tlie phrenic nerve, arising from the fourth pair. 81. Its ramulus, which, dividing, 1. s 82. Ascends by the superior ramulus to the trunk of the intercostal nerve, 83. 83. By the inferior one, it is carried to the same trunk; but first receives 84. Ramulus, of the fifth pair. S5i Ramus, uniting the phrenic nerve with the fifth pair." ' -- T ’ 86. Ramulus, constitittmg the cdiganction of the phrenic with the fifth pair. 87. Part of the’fifth pair of cenncals. ' 9 d* 88.88. Trunk of the intercostal nerve, descending below from the superior cervicaP'-gafrgli'ori'.**!^'^ ' 7 -h 89. Ramulus of the same, migraltihg .<b‘<he thyroid glaild. tt • ii.-; li .1 go. The inferior cervical ganglion. - 91. Its ramus, going backwards, to the first tltoraeic . gangUo,^. ■ .-...T ,t 92.92.93. Ramus of the inferior cervical gaiiglionvdfiscending beyond the subciavup:^ aijt,cry, and l^hjjKi i^ again ^scendj,ngin the part^diarked with dots, Np. 93, to ■bVnKGTtedHntu the tiistfhoracic'gangTion;'- •' •• 94’,‘9i. .96. Ramly'-df ihe cen-ifeul helves', adVihdng’td the first thoracic ganglion, 9f) of'the sixltii jiair; 95, of the seventh •, and g6, of the eighUli'. -• , 9l7-93. Fin.'t thoracic ganglion: 97, anterior part 0^ the same, as observed in tliis bodyv .but iiiiOthers it is j . wanting; 98, tho posterior paijt. , „ 99. 100. Two ramuli, which arising froiriithe antexior part of J , the ganglion, N,o. 97, mns above the .vertebra] artery, h t again ip^Cftted into the posterior part. 102.-Ramulus.Cv sft ,101. Ramulus, arising from the ,grciit dorsal ganglion, lisq ^^);un'rt»hg*BdiihcFt1iV'artet'y^ IvK pjl*''' hnr, ,tu.7 102.103. Two surculi of the same, Inserted Into t)ie Inusculus ■'o'- 'S'alcnus prior et miWmds’r' 104. Ramus gangliformis, proceeding from the anterior ■ ^rt of the great'thota'cic ganglion to the plexus cardiacus, ‘ 105. Ramulus, produced from the anterior margin of. the •' j-s same, which, after forming an island, is at length inserted into the gangliform ramus. 105. The part where it is again inserted. 107.. Ramulus, going from the gangliform ramus. No. 104, about the posterior surface of the artcri:}. in- nominata to the internal and cardiac plexus 103. The ramus gangliformis, which running to the ante- rior surface of the same artery, is there inflected, extends behind the internal surface to the cardiac plexus. 10.9. Inferior part of the par vaguin. 110. Its ramulus, passing to the thyroid artery. 111. -—:; , which, in this body, is turned towards the arteria innominata and aorta, and forms the su- perficial cardiac nerve. Figure II. i 'slEPRESENTS, principally, the, NERVI MOLLES , PROM ANOTHER BODY. a b c. Trunk of the carotid artery, b. The internaL c. The external. ^ d. The superior thyroid artery. < «. The lingual artery, . f. The ascending pharyngeal artery of Haller., v g. The labial artery of Haller. h. The occipital artery. ' i. The remaining trunk of the external carotid artery ascending further. k. Ganglion cervicale superius. ' I. in. Its two rami molles. 1. First, m. Second, n. n. Nervus cardiacus supremus, or superhcialis, arising from ganglion k. 0. o. Trunk of the intercostal nerve. p. p. Superior ramulus of the first ramus mollis, running ; to the labial artery. q. Another ramulus of the first ramus mollis, lit. I, which, by the lollowing > r. Ramulus ascending from the m rvus laryngcusof the eighth pair, is joined with the above-mentioned nerve. s. Ramusjlit. q. which running downwards almost in a lino;is combined with ranuis. No. t, t. , formed of lit. s, and No. 20. which descends - to the'*uperior thyroid artery. .;J u. Third ramulus of nerve lit. 1. ' * V. lts-supcti'6'r rSihuluS,' soon dividing' itself into sur- I culi w and x. ' *'■ w. SurCulus/ rtscending in the internal surface of the ex- ■ ternal carotid. For, in this'figure, the carotis cx- ■ ' terna is removed anteriorly, to shew its internal sur- face extenorly, X. Another surculus, lit. v. which dividing into two, i y. Accompanrcs*the lingual artery in the superior sur- culus; 2. But by the inferior it is distributed in Ihc'musculus i stylo-pharyngeus, and constrictor medius pharyngis. [ a. u. Inferior ramulus of nerve, lit. u, forming an ansa ' around the external carotid artery. /3. Trunculus of the first nervus mollis, descending fur- ther. ■' \' y. Ramulus, ex. lit. 0, extending anteriorly. ‘ Its surculus, inclining to the middle constrictor of the pharynx. f, Surculus, going to the part of the constricto^j pharyngis inferior, ascending from the thyroid cap«l| tilage. [ i Surculus, proceeding to the thyroid gland. r). Surculus, running to the constrictor inferior pharyn- ; gis. ©. Insertion of ramus, lit. «,'into ramus, lit. 0. K Ramulus, derived from ramulus, lit. 0, to the gang- j lion parvum, lit. | I*. Ganglion parvum, which is situated on the division j of the carotids; but upon drawing away the arteries, j now appears in rather a superior position. Another ramulus, descending from the first nervus mollior.' *. Surculus of the same, touching the trunk of the intcrcostalis. f. Another surculus of it, verging to the ganglion par- vum, lit. (4.. I Ramulus molHs, passing from the ganglion parvum j to the internal carotid. T. Exterior surculus of the same. ' Internal surculus. 4^, Another ramulus of the ganglion parvum, running to the carotis communis, u. Its ramulus, .surrounding the beginning of the in* I ternal carotid artery, j No. 1. Indicates the part delineated by dots, running behind the artery. 2. Ramulus, running downwards above the common trunk of the carotids. 3.4. Ih( 57 ) 3,4. Its two surculi.—External. 4. Internal. 5. 6. Two ramuli of the second ramus mollis, lit. m. 5. Posterior. 6. Anterior. 7. Surculus of the anterior passing to ramulus, lit. <». 8. , lit. |3- 9. 9- Nervus pharyngeus of the eighth pair. 10. Ramulus of the same, which 11. 12. Is inserted by two surculi into the second ramus mollis. 13. 13. Another surculus of the nervus pharyngeus, im- planted in the first nervus mollis. 14. 14. Trunk of the par vagum. 15. 15. Its nervus laryngeus. Ramulus of nervus laryngeus going to the nervi molles. 17. Its posterior surculus given to the cardiacus supre- mus. 18. Anterior surculus, which is soon divided. 19. Superior surculus of the same, proceeding to ramus, lit.^. 20. Inferior surculus, deflecting to the ramus, lit, s. 21. 22. Two rami of the nervus glosso-pharyngeus, No. 9> going to the tongue. Figure III. IS TAKEN FROM AN INFANT EIGHT DAYS OLD* A. Angle of the inferior maxilla. B. Rectus lateralis muscle of the head. C. C. Levator scapuhe. D. E. Musculi scaleni.—D. Medius. E. Prior, F. The rectus internus major of the head. G. The longus colli. H. The bodies of the vertebrae of the neck. 1.1. Thyroid gland, which in this body is almost oval. K. Superior venter of the coraco-hyoideus, inserted into the base of the hyoid bone. L. Sterno-hyoideus muscle. M. Sterno-thyroideus. ^ N. Hyo-thyroidcus. O. Mylo-hyoideus. P. Cerato-glossus. Q. R. Os-hyoides.—Q. Its base. R. Right corni^. S. Thyroid cartilage. ; T. T. Two superior parts of the thymus gland. V. V. —— inferior of the same gland. W. X, The heart yet inclosed in the pcricarditun, X. Its apex, Y. Y, Y, Right lung. Z. Diaphragm. a. The superior vena cava cut off. b. Vena azygos. c. Part of the arch of the aorta, d. Arteria innominata, or trunk of the carotid, and left subclavian. fe, Truncus communis of the carotid artery. f. Right subclavian artery. g. inferior thyroid artery. h. Vertebral artery, which, in this body, ascending, enters the foramen of the fourth vertebrae of the neck. i. Arteria cervicalis profunda.—Perill. de Haller. Icon. Anat. Fasc. II. Arter. thyroid. Icon, 1. not b. k. 1. Parts of the costae.—k. Of the first. 1. Of the second. ■ ra. External intercostal muscle, n. Transverse process of the first vertebra of the neck, projecting. o. Ninth pair of nerves of the cerebrum. p. p. Trunk of the eighth pair. q. Its thyroid ramus, which descending, is divided into two rami, r. Ganglion cervicale primum. s. Anterior ramus of the first pair o>f cervical nerves, running to the second pair. t. Anterior ramulus of the second pair of cervical nerves running backwards to the third pair. u.v.w. x.y. z. Six inferior pairs of cervical nerves.—u. Third pair. V. Fourth, w. Fifth, x. Sixth, y. Seventh, z. Eighth pair. a. First pair of dorsal nerves. (3. Coalition of the fifth and sixth pair. 7. Connection with the seventh pair, lit. y. S'. Conjunction of the eighth pair of cervical nerves with the first pair of dorsal. I. Ramus, going out from this combination, constituting anastomosis with the seventh pair. Communication of the sixth pair w'ith the fifth. ' z, Nervus superscapularis Perill. de Haller.—(Elem. Physiol. Tom. IV. page 24(J.) |. Scapularis of the 111. Monro.—To this another ramus of the fifth and jt, .sixth pair generally runs. $9. Trunk of the phrenic nerve arising from the fourth pair. ' A. Ramus, proceeding downwards from the union of Q thetlic fifth and sixth pair, about to run in the cavity 15. Ramulus of the first thoracic ganglion, which, as- of the thorax to the nervus phreiitcus. fjL. Two surculi of the anterior ramus of the first pair, running to the ganglion cervicale primum. f. Ramulus, proceeding downwards from the anterior ramus of the first pair to the descendens of the ninth pair. <r,T. Two surculi of the anterior ramus of the second pair, ascending to the ganglion cervicale primum. 9. Ramulus, proceeding downwards and anteriorly, from the third pair to the descendens of the ninth pair, which in this its course is joined with ramus, lit. I, of the first pair going to the same nerve. •1}/. Conjunction of the descending ramus of the first pair, with a similar ramus of the third pair. The descending ramus (so called) of the ninth pair. 1. Conjunction of the ramus, descending of the ninth pair with the descendens of the cervicals, lit. i}/. 2. 2. Two surculi, going from this conjunction to the sterno-hyoid muscle. 3.3. Ramus, running from the same communication into the thorax, where it is connected with the cardiac ramus. No. 7-—(Vide No. 9.) 4. 4. Trunk of the cervical intercostal nerve.' 5. Ganglion cervicale inferius. 6. Ramus, arising from the inferior cervical ganglion to the theca vertebralis. 7. Nervus cardiacus, arising from the same ganglion. 8. Its first ramus to the recurrens of the eighth pair, again behind the subclavian artery, ascending a little. 9. Conjunction of nerve, No. 7, with ramulus. No. 3. 10. Another ramus, No. 7, extending to the internal surface of the arteria innominata, after having left a surculus in the external surface of the same artery. 11. Third ramulus of nerve, No. 7, distributed by many surculi upon the arch of the aorta. 12. Trunk of the ramus cardiacus, No. 7, which bending itself about the right lateral surface of the arch of the aorta, is inserted into the cardiac plexus, situated between this arch and the right pulmonary artery. 13. Ramus medius, descendens from the inferior cervi- cal ganglion, and forms the ansa, surrounding the right subclavian artery, then it is called Ramus Su- perficialis. 14. Third, and exterior ramus of the inferior cervical ganglion, running obliquely to the first thoracic ganglion, named Ramus Profundus, cending a little, is inflected round the internal side of the vertebral arteiy, and runs above its anterior surface behind the subclavian artery into the cavity of the thorax. 16. Another ramus of the first thoracic ganglion, which, in ascending, is incurvated round the arteria cervi- calis profunda of Haller, lit. i, and in like manner enters the thorax behind the subclavian artery. 17. Conjunction of ramus. No. 15 and 16, whence the ramus communis arises, running in an oblique direc- tion downwards towards the heart, and in the region of the vena azygos, incurvating anteriorly, dividing into three ramuli. 18. Exterior ramulus of this nerve, No. 17, w-hich run- ning under the arch of the vena azygos backwards, and a little outwards, disperses five surculi, of which 19- 19' 19-19* Four are directed towards the right side of the lungs, running under its external covering; but the fifth 19*. Goes to the pericardium. 20. Ramulus medius of nerve. No. 17, which passing | behind the arch of tlie aorta, between the same and | the right pulmonary artery, is incurvated round the inferior part of the right pulmonary artery, and again extending behind the same, is carried into the ! right lungs. 21. Ramulus internus of that nerve. No. 17, which » extending between the arch of the aorta, and right pulmonary artery, is united in the cardiac plexus. , 22., Ramulus of the norvus recurrens of the eighth pair, which running along the right side of the arteria in- nominata and aorta, tends downwards, and is in-- sorted into Nb. 17. 23. Nervus recurrens bf the eighth pair. 24. Inferior part of the nervus vagus, w'hich, sending off the recurrent to the larynx, ascends to the j posterior surface of the lungs. 25.26. Ganglia thoracica.—25. The first, or greater. 26. The second, or smaller ganglion. ^ 27. 28. 29- Constrictor muscles of the pharynx. 27* Su- perior. 28. Medius. 29. Inferior. ' 30. Ramulus of the fifth pair of cervical nerves. ^ 31. A smaller branch of the sixth pair. 32. Ramus, formed from No. 30 and 31, running to the thoracic ganglion. 33. Ramus of the seventh nerve of cervicals, carried to the same. 34. ‘ Second dorsal nerve. 35 Ramulus of the same, communicating with the first thoracic ganglion.( 59 ) Figure IV. r THE BODY OF AN ADULT DISSECTED, AND PLACED NEARLY IN THE SAME POINT OF VIEW AS FIG. I. IN THIS PLATE, EXHIBITS THE FOLLOWING AP- PEARANCES:— A. Radix of the mammillary process cut off. B. Root of the processus styli-formis, also cut off, C. Osseus meatus auditorius. D. Condyloid process of the inferior maxilla. E. Angle of the same maxilla. F. The lateral rectus muscle of the head. G. Transverse process of the first vertebra of the neck, H. Part of the inferior oblique muscle of the head. I. Part of the levator scapulae. K. Musculus rectus internus major of the head. I L. L. —■ scalenus prior. M. Part of the first rib. N. Anterior ramus of the first pair of cervical nerve*. O. — second pair of cervicals. I P. Trunk of the third pair of cervicals. I Q. Of the fourth pair of cervical nerves. I R. The diaphragmatic, or phrenic nerve. I S. Fifth pair of cervicai nerves. I T. Sixth pair of cervical nerves. I V. Combination of the fifth and sixth pair. I W. Seventh pair of cervical nerves. I X. Eighth pair of cervical nerves. I / y. First pair of dorsal nerves. I a. Ramus of the intercostal nerve, which descends above I the external surface of the carotis cerebralis, through I the foramen caroticum. I b. Another ramus, running above the internal surface of I the same artery. I c. d. Ganglion cervicale superius, which, in this body, I forms two protuberances.—c. The superior, d. The I inferior. I. f. g. Three ramuli, running from the anterior ramus of I the first pair of cervicals to that ganglion. ■ h.i. Two ramuli of the anterior ramus of the second I pair, which uniting, form I k. Nerve, inserted into the inferior protuberance of the I superior cervical ganglion. II. m. Two nervi molles, running from the superior protu- ■ berance of the ganglion. I n. Third nervus mollis, arising from the same place, but H a little lower, which runs downwards to the superficial ■ cardiac nerve. 0. Another, and firmer ramulus, forming the superficial cardiac nerve, arising from the lowest ahd anterior part of the inferior protuberance. p. Conjunction of the same with ramulus mollis, lit. n. q. q. Part of the intercostal nerve, placed between the superior and middle cervical ganglion. r. s. Two ramuli of the same, running to the superficial cardiac nerve. 1.1. Further progress of the superior cardiac nerve, u. Surculus of the same, running to nerve, lit. t. V. Another surculus of the cardiacus superficialis, going to the left side of the arteria innominata. w. X. Two other surculi of the same nerve, to be dispersed in the exterior surface of the arteria innominata and ' aorta. y. Insertion of the surculus of the anterior ramus of the second pair, lit. o, into the nervus intercostalis lit. q. q. Ganglion cervicale medium, conspicuous in this subject. «. (3. Two rami of the fourth pair, passing behind the rectus anticus major muscle of the head to the gang- lion medium. y. Third ramulus of the fourth, running above the infe- rior part of the mentioned muscle to the same gang- lion. J. £. First and second surculus of ganglion, lit. z, which, in descending, unite, and form the branch marked tj. Third ramulus of the ganglion. S 5. Surculus of the same, gqing to the ramulus of the first thoracic ganglion. No. 15, l7, almost in a direct line. X. Fourth ramulus of the ganglion cervicale medium. -jA. Place where ramuli w, and X, converging, meet Nerve, arising from the assemblage of those ramuli, u, and X. w. p. Two rami of the same.—w. Anterior, p. Posterior. r. Another conjunction of the anterior and posterior ramus. T. Surculus from the anterior ramus, carried dbwn- wards. ip. Insertion of the same into ramus, lit. ih. Ramus, from combination, lit. a, running a little for- wards. • u. Insertion of ramulus, No. 9, of ganglion cervicale in- ferior, into this ramus. 1. Combination of ramulus. No. 17, with nerve, lit. 4^. 2. Further descent of ramus, lit, 4/, after having received several additions. 3. Ganglion cervicale inferius. 4. Ramus( 6o ) i. Ramus of ilic fifth pair of cervicals, which, in descend- ing, is divided into two. 5. Superior rainulus of the same, entering the middle and posterior part of ganglion. No. 3. 6. Inferior ramulus. No. 4. 7. Rainulus of the phrenic nerve. 8. Nerve, arising from the confluence of ramuli, No. Q and 7> to be inserted into the inferior region of ganglion. No. 3. g. Ramulus of the ganglion cervicale inferius, leading to nerve, lit. ij/. 10. Ramulus profundus of ganglion. No. 3, going to the first thoracic ganglion. 11. 12. 13. Ramus of the inferior cervical ganglion, forming an anse around the subclavian artery. 12. Incur- vated direction of the same towards the superior parts. 13. Insertion into the first thoracic ganglion. 14. Ganglion thoracicum primum. 15. First and superior ramulus of the same. 16. Surculus, going to the second ramus cif the first tho- jacic ganglion,. No. 18. 17. The remaining part of ramus, No. 15, which, upon! receiving ramulus, lit.$, runs to the nerve, lit. 4-, into] which it is inserted under No. 1. 18. Second, and inferior ramus of the first thoracic] ganglion. 19. Combination of the same with ramulus, No. 16. 20. Ramus of the sixth pair of cervical nerves, tending!^ the ganglion thoracicum magnum. 21. Ramus of the seventh pair, going to the same gang^ lion. 22. Ramus communis of both No. 20 and 21, to beii^ serted into the superior apex of the above ganglion.^ 23. Ramulus of the eighth pair of cervicals passing to thi? thoracic ganglion. I 24. 25. Two ramuli of the firet pair of dorsals also entering that ganglion.' m 26. Nervus intercostalis thoracicus, going downwards from the first thoracic ganglion. * 27. Ramulus of the nervus recurrens of the eighth p^j.J 28. Insertion of the same into ramulus. No. 18,19» ■ •r( > • • ■ ' '■ • • t ' / ■ ■ PLATE ^ - . j Of the Nerves of the - -> ' . Tills figure represents, not only the intercostal nerve from the sixth rib to the third vertebra of the os-sacrum, in the right side: and also, the sixth inferior costal, lumbar, and sacral nerves. The os-ilii, ischium, and pubis are removed, that their parts, situated in the cavity of the pelvis, and the nerves passing to them may be seen. 6.7. 8. 9* 10* 12. Si.x inferior ribs, of which^ each is marked by its number. VI. VII. VIII. IX. X. XI. XII. Six inferior dorsal ver- tebrae. I. II. III. IV. V. The false vertebra; of the os-sacrum. I. First false vertebra of the os-sacrum. I A. Lateral part of the first false, and second vertebra of the os-sacrum, cut with a saw almost to the foramina, from which the first and second sacral nerves go out. 1 B. Cartilage of the os-pubis of the left side s. ! C. Transverse process of the first vertebra of the loins. I D. Transverse process of the second lumbar vertebra. I E. Transverse process of the third lumbar vertebra. ; F. Transverse process of the fourth lumbar vertebra. ! G. Transverse process of the fifth lumbar vertebra, a. Inferior lobe of the right lung. b b b. The remaining portion of the plura, forming the j posterior mediastinum. c c c c. Ductus thoracicus, drawn a little from_ its natu- ral situation between the vena azygos and aorta, d d. Pericardium, inclosing the heart. f. Inferior ^ena cava, entering the cavity of the thorax, through the right foramen of the diaphragm, g g g. Diaphragm, separated from the ribs. I h. External crus of the diaphragm, j. Middle crus of the diaphragm. ; k. Internal crus of the diaphragm. i 11. Right kidney, so removed from its natural situation as to be drawn upwards, and towards the left side, m m m. The ureter, n n n. Vesica urinaria, or bladder. « o 0. Intestinum rectum. i ; A A. Inferior portion of the colon, which terminates its flexure, called Roman, or Sigmoid, p p. Levator ani muscle. ' * * Spinoso-dexter, and spinoso-coccygeus muscles, q. Ligameatum spinoso-sacrum. i ' * ; . , XXXVI. ThoroxV and Abdomen, r r. The’uterus drawn up, and to theleft. s s s. The vagina. 111. The round ligament of the uterus, v V V. The Pallopian lube, w. The ovarium. X X. Corpus cavernosum of the clitoris with the levator muscle of the clitoris adhering to it. H H H II. Skin of the nates and perinaeum. 11. Skin covering the internal surface of the thiglis, and the external pudenda. K. Skin of the mons veneris. L L. Labia pudendowim majora. M M M. Vena cava placed without its natural situation, viz. upwards, and on the left. N. The right iliac vein cut off. v O. Left iliac vein. P. Common trunk of the right renal vein, Q; and of the right spermatic vein, R. S S S S. The aorta. T T T T T T. The intercostal arteries from the aorta.— The last of these runs under the eleventh rib. V V V V V. Lumbar arteries. Six in this body arise from the aorta; but the last is omitted. X. X. Arteria renalis. ««. Internal superior spermatic artery, between two renal arteries, viz. right and left, arising from the aorta. 0 0. The internal inferior spermatic artery. Y. Right iliac artery. Z. Right crural artery cut off. "y. Hypogastric artery. J. Ileo-lumbal artery. ' 'e. Posterior iliac artery. The common trunk of the »). Ischiatic arteries, and common 0. Pudenda. ‘ The remaining hypogastric rami, viz. The umbilical, uterine, vaginal, middle, and obturatory hoemorohoid artery, on account of the situation of the hypogastric artery being altered, and especially on account of the number' of nerves, could not be well demonstrated. 1. The phrenic nerve. 2. 3. 4. 5. 13. 14. 15. lb. Rami of the phrenic nene, distri- buted in the convex surface of the diaphragm. R 17. Ramus iI ( 62 ) 3 7. Ramus anabtomo^ciis of the phrertic nerve, with one or more phrenic rajmrii coming from the csliac gfnclioiv of the intercostal nerve. This anastomosing briincn pene- trates through the small foramen of the diaphragm to the right side of the foramen of the vena cava. Plate XXXVII. 50. 50. Exhibits the entrance ifito- the ba- vity of the abdomen, and its further conjunction. 18. Sixth nervus intcrcostalis. It must be observed of this, and all the subsequent dorsal lumbar, and sacral nerves, that they are anterior branches. Seventh intercostal nerve. Eighth Ninth Tenth 1.9. 20. 21. 22 ■.r 23 Eleventh 24'. Twelfth. 25, Anterior ramus of the first pair of lumbar nerves. 20. 27. 28. 30. second pair — third pair —- fourth pair fifth pair'-— .32. ■ l.K first* sacral nerve, secon’d third fourth' : 31. fifth sacral nerve going out of its foramen. o5.' TnVnk of the intercostal nervb, intcrcejitcd between the fifth and sixth dof^al ganglion. 3fi’. iSiNth thoracic ganglion of the great sympathetic nerve, or of the intercostal nCrve, properly so called. 37. Radix simplex of this ganglion, arising from the ante rior costal ramus. f 38. Anastomosis of the fifth costal nerve with the sixth." 3.9. Seventh thoracic ganglion. ■10. 4-1. Its radius, running into one before they'bompose the seventh ganglion. 42. An anastomosing nerve between the sixth and seventh thoracic ganglion, or trunk of the great sympathetic nerve. 43. Eighth thoracic ganglion. 44. 45. 46'. Three radices, arising from the twcntietl> nerve, forming a gaivglion. 47. Trunk of the intercostal nerve, or nervus anastoinoticus, between the seventh and eighth ganglion. , ‘ 48. Ninth thoracic ganglion. 4.9. 50. Two radices of this ganglion from nerve twenty- one. 5L. Trunk of the intercostal nerve, or amistomo-sls, between the eighth and ninth thoracic ganglion. 52. Tenth thoracic ganglion. 53. Radix simplex of this ganglion, arising from the twenty- sdcolid costal nerve. 54. Trunk of the intercostal nerve, or nervus anastoinoticus, between the nintli and tenth ganglion. 55. Eleventh thoracic ganglion. *56. Radix sii'npWx, w'liiclrncrvc, 23, sends to this ganglion. 57. Trunk of the sympathetic nerve, or the nervus anasto- moticus, betvyeen the eleventh and twelfth thoracic gang- ' lion. : ' I ' 58. SurcuTus of the tenth intercostal ganglion, situated on the intercostal muscles. 59. Ramus, by^which nerve, 22, which is bifid, is joined with the anterior costal nerve, 23. 60. ^ Ramus muscularis, distributed on the intercostal muscles. 61. First lumbar ganglion of the great sympathetic nerve. 62. Trunk of the sympathetic nerve, or anastomosing nerve of ' thi.s ganglion with the eleventh thoracic ganglion. 63. First radix. 64. Second radix, which also arises from the anterior ramut of the twenty-fourth nerve, and runs into the first lumbar ganglion. 65. 65. Third radix, terminated in the trunk of the sympa- thetic nerve, or in the anastomosis nerve, between the first and second lumbar ganglion. 66. Radix, rmning from the twenty^fifth nerve to the first lumbar ganglion, in its origin simplex, then bifid ; but, of which 67. Interior surculus, partly terminates in the lumbar gang- lion, partly by the following, 68. 6S. Is distributed on the ligaments of the vertebra*. 69. 69. The anastomotic nerve, between the first and second lumbaT ganglion, or the great sy mpathic nerve, receives the exterior surculus, before it sends off A stnculus to ibe ligaments of the vertebrje. 7 0. Trunk of the great sympathic nerve, or nervus anastoino- ticus between the first lumbar, 61, and second. 71. Anastomosis, by which nerve, 23, is joined with 24; from this anastomosis arise surciili, 72. & 73. Which are terminated in the transverse muscle of the abdomen. 74. Anastomosis, which joins the trunk of tlic nervus sym- pheticus magiius, 62,, with nerve 24.. 75. Surculus muscularis of muscular nerve,. 24, texminatcJ in the transveuse muscle of the abdomen. 76. Posterior ramus of the last costal, or twelfth nerve, whicli runs to the dorsal muscles. 77. x\nastomosis, between the last costal, and the first lumJja^' nerve.. ^ , 78. Second lumbar gaqglioiu. 79* First radix, 80. Second radix, which nerve 25 sends to this ganglion. SI. 81. Radix, arising from the anastomotic nerwe, betijeg the first lumbar nerve and ganglion singulare of the second lumbar ill( 63 ) I Jumbar nervB;^ which,’in its origin', is bicruratcd, then fc v ! comes single, and is inosculated into the trunk of the great sympathetic nerve. I 83. 84. Muscular rami, which run to the abdominal muscles. So. Ramuius cutaneus, which is terminated in the supreme, j and middle skin of the anterior surface of the femur, which covers the inguinal glands. (86. 87.. E.xternal spermatic nerve, dividing into two ramuli, ! inteimal and external. I 83. Ramus internus. 89- 90. Is bifid, and its surculi with the round ligament of the j uterus, or rather the external, accompanying spermatic ar- I tcry of the ligamentuni rotundum, are carried to the ' r uterus. 91. External ramus of the external spermatic nerve, is cuta- I neous, and runs with the ligainentum rotundum of the ' uterus through the ring of the abdomen, and dividing I with many surculi, j92. 93. 9^. 95. Is distributed in the cutis of tlie mons ve- ! neris. 96. Anastomosis of the first lumbar nerve with the ganglion, j singulare of the second lumbar nerve. 197. 97. Surculus nervosus, terminating in the integuments of the vertebrm. 98, Third lumbar ganglion. \')9. Trunk of the great sympathetic nerve, or nervus anasto- I moticus, between the second and third lumbar ganglion. 100. Radix, sent by the second lumbar nerve to the ganglion i 98. 101. Anastomosing branch, between the ganglion, singulare of the second lumbar nerve, and trunk of the great sym- pathetic nerve. ^102. 1C2. Anastomosing branch, between gangUon, singu- larc of the second lumbar nerve, and second lumbar gang- lion. jl03, Surculus of this radix anastomosis, which runs to the ' muscular coat of the intercostal artery. j.04. Ganglion singulare of the second lumbar nerve, 26. 1.05. to 109. SurcuH mnsculares, arising from this ganglion, I running to the quadratus lumborum, posas major, minor, i and to the abdominal muscles. 10. Posterioi' ramus of the second Jumhai’ nerve, which I goes to the dorsal muscles. jll. Anastomosis, between the second and tliir.d lumbar nerve. ■12. Radix superior, coming from the lumbar nerve, 26* 13. Radix inferior, from the ganglion of the lumbar nerve, by which anastomosis. 111, is composed. 14. 115. Muscular ramuli, migrating to the psoas major.. 16. Fourth lumbar ganglion. 17. Trunk of the great sympathetic nerve, or nervus anas- tomoticus, between the third, No. 27, and fourth, No. 28, lumbar nerves.. 118. 119. Two radices, runninginto, . * 120. By which the trunk of the great sympathetic nerve, No. 117, is joined with the lumbar nerve, 27. 121. Anastomosing branch of nerve 27, with the trunk of nerve 11/. 122. 123. A nervous surculus, passing to the ligaments of the vertebrs. 124. 125. Two anastomosing branches of nerve, 28, united almost in the middle of its course into the ganglion inter- medium ; 126. But then again J2J. 128. Dividing into two radices, which are united with the fourth lumbar ganglion, II6'. 129- 130. Trunk of the great sympathetic nerve, or anasto- mosing branch, between the fourth and fifth lumbar gang- lion. 131. First radix anastomotica, 132. Second radix anastomolica of nerve, 28, with 129> ^nd 130. 133. The crural nerve, 134. Origin, or first radix of the crural nerve from anastomo- sis, between the second and third. No. Ill, lumbar nerve. 135. Origin, or second thick radix of the crural nerve, froits the anterior ramus of the third. No. 27, lumbar nerve. 136. Posterior ramus of the third lumbar nerve.. 137. Origin, or third radix of the crural nerve, from the fourth lumbar nerve. 138. Posterior ramus of the fourth lumbar nerve, 139. Anastomosis, between second and third radi.x of crural nerve. 140. 141. Cutaneous surculi of the crural nerve. 142. The obturator nerve. 143. Origin, or first radix of the obturator nen’e, from nerve 111. 144. to 146, Origin, or second radix of the obturator nerve,, composed of three raduli from the third lumbar nerve. .147. Third radix from the fourth pair of lumbar nerv«s.. 148. Fifth lumbar ganglion. 149> A communicating trunk of the fourth lumbar nerve, 29, with the trunk of the great sympathetic nerve, 130.. 150. Radix of the fifth lumbar nerve passing to the fourth lumbar ganglion. 151. to 154. Four anastomosing trunks,, arising from the last lumbar ganglion, which coalesce ^ 155. 156. Into the first radix, communicating with the first sacral nerve, 30, which perforin the office Orf tlie trunk of , the great sympathetic nerve, on the right side, 15L, ■ 154. 157. Second .sacral ganglion. 158. Trunk of the great sympathetic nerve, or anastomosing nerve, between the first and second sacral ganglion. 159- Second( 64 ) 15*). Second thick radix of the first sacral nerve, communi- •cating with the trunk of the great sympathetic nerve, 138. The first communicating radix, 155, and 15(J, must be considered only as the first sacral ganglion. The second figure shews the usual form and connections of the first sa- cral ganglion on the left side. 160. Anastomosis, between the first, 156, and second radix of the first sacral nerve. 161. 1(52. lfi3. Three radices, arising from the second sacral pair, and going to the second, 157, sacral ganglion. lt>4'. Trunk of the great sympathetic nerve, or nervus anas- tomoticus, between the second .sacral ganglion, No. 157, where it is simple, and the third sacral ganglion, which, in the first figure, could not be represented, but is well ex- pressed in the second figure, 33, where the trunk of the sympathetic nerve, l6A, is intercepted between 157, and 38. This anastomosing nerve is divided into two rami, inserted into the second sacral ganglion. l65. The internal, and The external. 167. Radix of the second sacral nerve, communicating with nerve, iSi, which almost represents the figure of the gang- lion. 168. ifiS. First radix of the third sacral nerve, communica- ting with nerve, 166. 170. Surculus of ganglion, 36, of the great sympathetic nerve, which 171. Runs with the very minute ramulus to the ligaments of the vertebra;. 172. 173. Ramuli of surculus, 170, dispersed in the muscu- lar, covering of the aorta. 174. to 177. Trunk of the visceral nerves. 178. 179. Origin, or radices of those nerves, from the tho- racic ganglion, 36, 180. Surculus, which the visceral nerve distributes to the muscular membrane of the aorta. 181. 182, Origin, or radices of the latter nerve, of which one, 181, arises from the trunk of the great sympathetic. The other, No. 182, fromganglion 3p.—After these radices have united into one trunk, they again divide into two, of which one 184. Is inserted into the visceral: 185. The other radi.x is inosculated into the third radix of that nerve. 186. 187. Third origin, or radix of the bicrural visceral nerve. They run into 188. One radix, which anastomosing with radix, 185, passes to the trunk of the visceral nerve. 189. 190. Two surculi. 191. to 194. Division of tlic trunk of the visceral nerve into 4 rami.—^That takes place when the latter nerve penetrates with its trunk through the hiatus, between the crura of the diaphragm, lit. h and i, into the cavity of the abdomen. After this division, a ramus becomes radix of the semilu- par ganglion, or plexys semilunaris, as we shall set in the fiollowing Plate.—In this figure, the elegatit distribution off the visceral nerve, on account of the diaphragm with the abdominal part, drawn towards the upper and left side, could not be described in its natural situation. 195. Surculus of ganglion 4^, passing to 196, 197. Ligaments of the vertebrae, and 198. To the intercostal artery. 199- 200. Surculi of the aortic ganglion, 48. 201. 202. Surculi of the aortic ganglion, 52, after having made frequent anastomoses with the aortic surculi, I99, 200, are ail 203. Collected into one nerve, which 204 to 211. Send surculi to the muscular coat of the aorta. 212. First radix of the second visceral nerve, or accessorius coming from the thoracic ganglion, 48. 213. Second radix of that nerve, arising from the thoi-acic ganglion, 52. 214. 215. Trunk of the accessorius, which passes through the hiatus, between the crura of the diaphragm, h and i, a little more externally and infcriorly than the larger visceral nerve, No. 174 to 177, migrates to the cavity of the ab- domen, and immediately divided into two rami, the supe- rior and inferior. 216. Superior, is joined with ramus, 194, of the larger vis- ceral. 217. Inferior migrates, not only to the semilunary ganglion of the great sympathetic nerve, but also is joined with sur- culus, coming from the second renal plc.xus, 253—as mayH be better seen from Plate XXX VTI. 218. 219. The superior aortic surculus, arising from ganglion, 52. 220, 221. The inferior aortic surculus, arising from the sam« ganglion, 52. 222. Ramulus, of the superior surculus to the aorta. 223, Conjunction of the superior surculus with the inferioi surculus. From this ramus arise 224 to 227. Ramuli, distributed on the aorta. 228. Ramus, joined with ramulus, 200. 229 to 231. Arc anastomosing branches with ramuli coming from 62. 232. Surculus of ramulus, 230, migrating to the aorta. 233. 233, Superior radix of the posterior superior rena nerve, taking its origin from ganglion, 52. 234. 234. Inferior radix of the superior posterior rena nerve. 235. 235. 235. Ramus, which the trunk of the great sym pathetic nerve, 62, sends to the muscular membrane of tin aorta. 236. Anastomosis, with the inferior radix of the postcrio » superior renal nerve. 237. Anastomosis, with'yamus, 229- 239. 239. 239. Trunk of the posterior superior renal ncrvcM' formed from radices, 233, 234. 240., Ana!'!’I240. Anastomosis of the posterior superior reiial nerve, with nerve, 262, and nerve, 263.—We shall see this anastomosis better expressed in Plate XXXVII. 241. Anastomosis of nerve, 239, with the inferior posterior renal nerve, 239, coming from nervus anastomosis, .62. 242. 242. Posterior inferior renal nerve, arising from the trunk of the great sympathetic nerve, 62. 243. 243. Ramus anastomoticus of the inferior posterior renal nerve, with nerve 239» 241. 244. Anastomosi.s of the inferior posterior renal nerve with the first renal ganglion, 252. -245. 245. Conjunction of the posterior superior with the posterior inferior renal nerve into one common trunk.— This common trunk is joined with 246. 247; The second renal ganglion, 253, then disperses, 248. 248. Surculi, to the renal artery, in its further progress on the posterior surface of the artery.—^The root is divided into three rami; viz. 249' 250. Two rami anastomotlci with surculi, coming from the renal ganglion; and 251. 251. A third, which is terminated on the posterior sur- face of that renal artery in the muscular membrane. 252. First right renal ganglion. 253. Second. 254. Third. 255. Fourth. 1256. Anastomosing nerve, between the first and second gang- lion. 1257. Anastomosing nerve, between the first and third gang- lion. 259. Anastomosis, between the second and fourth renal ^ ganglion. 260. Anastomosing nerve, between nerve 267, and 258. 261. .Anastomosis of the third with tire fourth renal gang- lion.. 262. Anastomosis of the third renal- ganglion with nerve 240. 263. Anastomosis, between the fourth renal, ganglion, and posterior renal ramus, 240. 264. Anastomosing ramus, between the second right renal ganglion, Plate XXXVII. 253 ; and first coeliac ganglion, Plate XXXVII. 1.—When the second renal ganglion gives the above-mentioned rami, it is changed into n 265. A long, and sufficiently thick renal anterior nerve, from which arises 266. A bifid ramus; of this, 267. One surculus is distributed on the posterior surface of the renal artery, t 268. The other is larger, and anastomosing with nerve 249. —The remaining trunk of the anterior renal nerve gives on the anterior surface of the renal artery. 269. An internal superior spermatic nerve, from which arise three rami,. Is* 270. 270. 270. The first ramus migrates to. the renal artery, and immediately 271. 271. 272. Dividing into two, or other rami, passes to- the posterior surface of the renal capsule, where ' 273. 273. 273. It terminates in the vascular substance of the kidney. ' 274. Second ramus, anastomosing with nerve, 250. 275. &c. &c. Third ramus of the superior spermatic nerve, is spermatic, strictly so called.—This ramus passes as rami^ 273 and 274, before the renal artery, then descending a little is joined with 276. A ramus of the anterior renal nerve, sends 277. to 279- Surculi, which, after having anastomosed with 279> run with the renal arteries to the anterior surface of the capsule.—It also distributes 281. 281.282. Superior ureteric nerves, which are termimated in the internal, or nervous membrane of the ureter.—Now the internal superior spcnnaticus 283. 283. Forms an elegant anastomosis, which running down in a transverse direction, before the vena cava enters- the internal superior spermatic with the first inferior sper * matic : at length the internal superior spermatic nerve, accompanied by the spermatic artery, runs down to the uterus; the further progress of which, on account of its minuteness, could not be represented. 284. 284, 284. Third ramus of the anterior renal nerve, 265, runs down before the renal artery, gives a ramus anas- tomosis with internal superior spermatic nerve, 276,exhibits 285. A surculus to the renal pelvis, and terminates with ra^ muli of the renal artery in the kidney. 286. Fourth ramus of the anterior renal nerve is divided into three. 287. to 289. Rami^ which run with the rami of the renal artery to the kidney ; of which the one that is marked, 288, 290. Anastomoses with 271. 29J. 291. Fourth ramus of the posterior renal nerve, runs down as the others, with the rami of the renal artery. 292. P'irst right spermatic ganglion., 293. Second 294. to 296. Nerve, anastomosing between the first renal ganglion, 252, and first right spermatic ganglion.—On ac- count of the elegant figure of the laqueus, or nervous ansa, which comprehends the right inferior spermatic- artery : it should be called Ansa Spermatica. 297. 297. First anastomosing branch of the great sympathe- tic nerve with the nervus anastomoticus. 29s. 298. Second anastomosing branch, between the greab sympathetic nerve, and ansa spermatica,. 299.. 299. Conjunction.of the second lumbar ganglion, 78,. of the sympathetic nerve with nerve 29S. 3.00. 301. Third radix aiiastomotica of the great sympathe- tic nerve, with the ansa spermatica. 302. Conjunction of nerve, 299; with 300. S 303. 303.303. S03. Ranhi5««ttcu& of the second lumbar ganglion of the great sympathetic nerve, 78. •30+. 304. First right internal inferior spermatic nerve, arising from the second spermatic ganglion, and joining with the right internal superior spermatic nerve, 283. 30.5. &c. Second inferior internal spermatic nerve, arising from the second spermatic ganglion, and running down to the uterus, accompanied by the internal spermatic artery. 306. Anastomosing nerve, cut off with, the spermatic renal ganglion of the left side. 507. 307. Anastomosing nerve, sent out by the first right spermatic ganglion, 292, with rami of tl)C first superior mesenteric ple.xus. 308. First anastomosis, between the first and second spenim- tic ganglion. • 309- Second anastomosis, between the first and second sper- matic ganglion. 310. 310. Conjunction of nerve, SOS, with the nerve which composes the hypogastric ple.xus, 329, 311. 312. 313. Inferior mesenteric rami, which 314. Compose the inferior mesenteric plexus. 315. Ramus of the third radix coming from nerves 301, and 310, encrcases the mesenteric plexus. 316. First accessory lumbar ganglion. 317. Second 318. Anastomosis of the first accessory lumbar ganglion, with ganglion, 78. 319- Interlumbar ramus of ganglion, 3l6, to the muscular tunic of the artery. 320. Ramus aorticus of ganglion, 316. 321. 321. Anastomosis of the first accessory lumbar gang- lion, with the third lumbar ganglion, 98. 322. &c. Ramus hypogastricus of the first lumbar accessory ganglion, which composes the hypogastric ple.xus. Ramus, which nervus, 322, anastomoticus sends off, by which the sympathetic nerve of the right side, bejiind the aorta, a little above the origin of the inferior mesenteric artery, is joined with the sympathetic nerve of the left side, as Plate XXXVIII. will more clearly elucidate. 323. Surculus of the hypogastric ramus, passing into the in- terlumbar artery. - ' 324. 324. Anastomosis of the hypogastric ramusi with nerve, 117.—From this anastomosis, arises 325. A surculus, running to the muscular tunic of the inter- lumbar artery. 326. 326. Anastomosis of the second accessory lumbar gang- lion with nerve 300. 327. 327. Anastomosis of the second accessory lumbar ganglion, with the trunk of the great sympathetic nt'rve, 99. 328. Ramus hypogastricus of the second accessory lumbar ganglion. 329. 6cc. Ramus hypogastricus of the third’ radix of the sympathetic nerve, 300, which forms the hypogastric plexus. 330. Internal ramus of the hypogastric nerve. 331. Anastomosis of it, with nerve 329* 332. Anastomosis of the internal ramds, 330, with 315.— AVe shall see the further progress of this nerve better repre- sented in Plate XXXVII. 333. External ramus of nerve, 328. 334. to 336. Anastomosis of the external ramus with nerve, 329. 337. Ramus cut off, which anastomoses with rami, consti- tuting the inferior mesenteric and hypogastric plexus, as Plate XXXVII. will demonstrate. 338. Ramus hypogastricus of the third lumbar ganglion, 98. 339- 339. Anastomosis of this nerve, with nerve, 333. 340. Surculus arteriosus of nerve, 338, passing into mem- brane of»the iliac artery, 341. Arterial, or anterior ramus of the hypogastric nerve, 338. 342. Ramus, migrating to the muscular membrane of the crural artery. 343. Ramus, going to the muscular membrane of the hypo- gastric artery. 344. Posterior, or anastomotic ramus of nerve, 338, with the trunk of the great sympathetic nerve. 345. 345. Radices, arising from the trunk of the great sym- pathetic nerve, 129, 130, which compose 346. 347. The communicating nerve, which the sympathetic nerve of the right side, between the fourth and fifth \ ertc- bra of loins behind the iliac arteries, is joined with the great sympathetic nerve of the left side, as we shall sec better in Plate XXXVII. and Plate XXXVIll. 348. to 350. Radices, arising from the fifth lumbar gang- lion, which 351. Run into one nerve, anastomosing with the trunk of the great sympathetic nerve of the left side, and which is joined by an elegant anastomosis, with the trunk of the great sympathetic nerve of the leftside.—Plate XXXVI. Fig. II. 3.—and Plate XXXVIll. 351. 352. Ramus anastomoticus of nerve, 159> 353. 353. Dividing into two rami; at length is joined into one trunk, from which 354. 355. Two anastomoses run out with nerve, 358. 356. The remaining trunk of nerve, 352, cut off: it is in- serted into the first sacral ganglion of the left side. 357. Ramus, arising from nerve, 154, which disperses sur- culi to the muscular membrane of the rami of the hypo- gastric artery. , 358. 358. Anastomosis, between nerves, 348, 349j 350, and 354, 355.—From this anastomosis, runs 359. A surculus, communicating with nerve, 154. 360. Bifurcated surculus of nerve, 358, of which 361. The first crus is inserted into nerve, 154 ; 36. the other inosculated into nerve, 155. 363. 363. Ramus, arising from nerve 358, and anastoinotic, with the first sacral ganglion of the left side, Fig. II.* 364. 364.( ^7 ) SGi. 36i. Ncrvus, communicating with the fijst sacral ganglion of the left side, sent out by ganglion, 157. 365. 365. Hamulus, distributed in the intestinum rectum; and on account of the reclination of the intestinum rectum, cut off on the left side of the body. 366. 366. Ramus, of the second sacral ganglion, 157, mi- grating to that surface of the intestinum rectum, which looks towards the os-sacrum. 367. Anostomosis, between ramus, 364, and 366. 068. 36s. Surculus, arising from nerve, l64, and inserted j into nerve, 366. 369. 369. Ramus, arising from nerve, l65, which forms an j union with the trunk of the great sympathetic nerve of the left side.—^This inosculation is w-ell expressed in Figure II. I 370. Anastomosis, between nerve, 368, and 369. 371. Conjunction of nerve, l65, and 370. 372. , 165, and 369. 373. 374. 376. Radices of the fourth and fifth lumbar nerves, which compose 377. Nervus muscularis, running to the gluteus medius; es- pecially to the gluteus minimus, and tensor of the fascia lata, 1 378. Ramus mtiscularis, running to the musculus pyrami- dalis. ^ 379. Ramus muscularis to the gluteus medius. I 380. 380. Nervus cutaneus gluteus inferior, which descends to the knee, even to the suras, or calves of the legs. I \ 381. Ramus muscularis, which sends rami to the musculus geminus superior, obturator internus, geminus inferior, and quadratus femoris. 382. 383. 384. Rami, inserted into the musculus gluteus maximus. i385. Inferior trunk of the nervus cutaneus of the nates, di- I viding into two rami. i3S6. Superior ramus of the inferior cutaneous nerve of the nates, after giving manysurculi to the cutis natium, is terminated in that region of the cutis, where the gluteus maximius is inserted into the os-femoris. ' 387. Inferior ramus of nerve, 385, is terminated in almost the same region of the cutis, as the superior, after sending out very numerous surculi. |388. 389- 390. Trunk, or plexus, so called, of the ischiatic nerve, composed of the first, second, third, fourth, and II fifth sacral nerve. Ramus major of the ischiatic nerve. 192. Ramus minor of the ischiatic nerve. 393. 393. First anastomosis, between the second and third .. I sacral nerve. 194. ?94. Second anastomosis, between the second and third i \ sacral nerve. ^ 195. 395. Third ana.stomosis, and t 196. 396. First radix, which the ischiatic nerves receive M from the second sacral nerve. 197. and to 398. Second and third radix of th« second sa- cral nerve, which 39.^. Rtm into one thick one, and are lernmuiied in tht trunk of the ischiatic nerve, 388. 400. &c. &c. Nervus cutaneus medius of the nates,, arising from the second radix of the isc.hiatic nerve, 397, and terminating in the middle cutis of the nates. 401. and 402. Radices, arising from nerve, 396» 39i>, which, 403. With the accompanying surculus, coming from nerve, 400, constitute 404. 404. 404. The nervus cutaneus superior of the nates* distributed on the cutis, covering the glutcei muscle.*!. 405. &c. &c. First ramus hypogastrius, which gives the third pair of sacral nerves to compose the hypogsistric plexus, from which arise tlie nerves of the vesica, vaglnaj uterus, and intestinum rectum. 406. See. Sec. Second ramus hypogastricus of the third sacral nerve. 407. 407. Third ramus hypogastricus. 408. 409. Fourth and fifth ramus hypogastricus, which 410. Run into one nerve. 411. Si.\th ramus hypogastricus, of the sixth ramus hypo- gastricus intestinalis, running to the intestinum rectum. 412. 412. &c. Seventh ramus hypogastricus of the third sacral nerve, which disperses 413. 414. 415. The lateral ramus, going to the vagina and vesica urinaria, and communicating with aramusof plexus, 2. 416. Eighth ramus hj-pogastricus, 417. 418. Ninth and tenth ramus hypogastricus of the third sacral nerve, joined into one nerve ; they sent three surculi. 419. A ramus to plexus 2. 420. Intestinal surculus to the rectum. 421. 421. 421. An elegant ramus, communicating with the uterine nerve; also with plexus 2. 422. 422. Trunk of the fourth pair of sacral nerves. 423. 423. Ramus hypogastricus of the .fourth sacral pair, 424. 424. Ramus intestinalis of nerve, 422, going to the intestinum rectum. 425. 426- 426. Ramus of the fourth vaginal sacral nerve. 427. 427. Ramus of the third sacral nerve, making many anastomoses with the fourth sacral nerve. 2. A remarkable, and the largest of all, or first plexus hypo- gastricus, composed from rami of the third and fourth sacral nerve. SI. Minor, or second plexus hypogastrifcus, f. Third plexus hypogastricus, formed like a net-work. Fourth ple.xus hypogastricus; also reticular. 428. to 437. Are nerves, arising from the hypogastric plexus, 2, of the vesica urinaria. 438. &c. Sec. Ramus of the plexi«, 2, of the urinary bladder. 439. Ramus of plexus 2, which sends 440. to 442. Surculi to the vagina, is divided into two rami, 443. Into( 68 ; 443. Into tI)C anastomosing branch, and 444. 445. Into the ramus vesicalis, which is distributed on the vesica urinaria. 446. A small plexus, is composed of plexus, Y, and from rami, 421, and 415, from which 447. A ramus runs to the vagina. 448. Another, forming an island. 449. Both thus united, emit 450. 450. 450. Vaginal ramuli, and 451. to 454. Vesical rami, of which the onc, 453, is joined by an elegant anastomosis with 443. 455. to 460. Nerves of the uterus, arising from plexus, Y. I’hesc very minute nerves run to the cervix and os-uterus, where they disappear.—Between the two plexus, Y and Y, is the intermedins, &:c. Now the hypogastric plexus, 88, ascends to the side of the intestinum rectum: in this course the hypogastric plexus, emits few surculi, unless 461. A surculus, distributed on the intestinum rectum, and 462. to 464. Surculi to the ureter.—When the hypogastric plexus, 8, arrives at between the last vertebraj of the loins, and first of the os-sacrum ramuli, 465. to 469. Forming a net-work, in a surprising man- ner, o. 470. 471. They meet the hypogastric rami of the great sym- pathetic nerve, as wc shall see better in Plate XXXVII. 472. &C. &c. A'c. Nervus utcrinus, runs with the artery to the uterus, and 473. 473. Disanpeare with rami in the fundus uteri.—On account of the tension of the uterus, and all the parts con- tained in the pelvis, by which they arc elongated on the left side, the nerves do not appear to ascend so high to the uterus: be.sides, the rami running to the uterus, the nervus uterinus gives 474. &‘c.. Sec. Sue. Rami to the vctica urinaria, which are superior vesical nerves. .175. .\nastomosis, with ramus, 421., 476. 476. Ramus, arising from the third sacral pair, which is joined to a 477. 477. Ramus, arising from the fourth pair of sacral nerves, and thus 478. Compose the muscular ramus, which 479- 483. Is distributed by ramifications on tlie levafor intestini recti, 484. Is an elegant trunk of the nerve of the fourth sacral pair, from which three perforating nerves arise. 4S5. Truncus communis of the second nervus perforans, 490; and, third, 493. 486. &c. &c. Is the internal ramus of the first perforatiog nerve,or nervus liocmorrhoidalisextcrnus.—From this arise 487. 488. Surculus of the intestinum rectum, which is tliere terminated. 439. 489. Is the external ramus of the first nervus per- forans.—After both rami, 480', and 4.89> have perforated- the musculus spinoso-coccygaus, and ligamentum spiiwso- sacrum, they run to the sphincter internus, sphincter cx- tci nus ani, and are terminated in the superior, middle, and 1 exterior circumference of the cutis about the anus, whence ; . these rami should be justly called Nervi Hasmmorrhoidales ; i* and very acute pain is felt, if leeches be applied, an hamion - hoidal tumour is derived from hence. 490. Second peiforans, immediately is divided into two rami. ' 491. 491. 491. Ramus cutaneus, which perforates the liga- j mentum, and musculus spinoso-saccr, and disappears in tlie skin of the os-coccygis.—Second ramus of nerve, 490, is 492. 492. Ramus musculo-ligamentosus, which disappears in the muscle and ligamentum spinoso-sacrum. 493. 493. Third nervus peiforans, which, 494. &c. &c. In like manner, perforates the muscle, and. ligamentum spino-sacrum, becomes cutaneous, and disr appears a little higher, and-more outward, in the cutis of the os-coccygis, as nerve 491. 49-5. 496. Anastomosis, between the nerves, 491, and 494. ■ 497. IVIuscular ramus of nerve, 493, going to the musculus- spinoso-saccr, and spinoso-coccygocus. 49s. 498. First radix of the fourth nervus perforans, coining from the third sacral pair. 499- 499- Second radix of the nervus perforans, arising from the fourth sacral pair. 500. Conjunction of radices. 501. &c. &c. Inferior ramus of the nervus perforans, which is terminated in the cutis which covers the lateral part of the musculus gluteus maximus, where it adheres to the os- coccygis. 502. &c. See. Superior ramus of the nervus perforans, ax- cends, and is terminated on every side in the cutis which- covers the gluteus maximus, where it adheres to the third and fifth spurious vertebrae of the os-sacruin. f 503. 503. Trunk o£ the fifth, sacral nerve. 504. 505. Surculi of the fifth sacral nerve, terminated in the muscle, and ligamentum spinoso-sacrum. 506. Muscular nerve, coming from the third sacral nerve, has two rami, viz. 507. 507. Ramus musculo-ligamentosus; it goes to the musculus spinoso-sacer, and ligamentum spinoso-coccy- goeum.—Another ramus of-nerve,-500’, is 508. 508. Proceeding in the samc’way us 507 , 509. -.4nastomosis of the second ramu«, 508, with nerve, 491. 5-10. &c. &c. Rami musculo-ligamcntosi, which disappear in the musculus spinoso-saccr, and ligamentum spinoso, I and tuberoso-sacer. 512. Nervus pudendalis clytorideus, or superior 513. to 515. Radices of nervus clytorideus, from the third sacral nerve. 516. to 518. Nervus clytorideus, divided into three rami, then there I 519. 520.( 69 -) 5l9- ^20. Run into, two, and 521. tu 525. At length nervus clytoridcus Is divided into five rami.—From these 526. to 529. They run to the anterior surface of the labia majora pudendoruni, to the nymphae, external aperture of the urethra, where the anterior myrtiform-caruiicles are placed, and to the inferior part of the mons veneris.— After sending out these rami, the nervus clytoridcus, with all its five rami, 530. Runs into one nerve, which passes to the clytoric glans, prepuce of the clytoris, upper part of the nymphse, an'd to the mons veneris. 531. Trunk of the internal haemorrhoidal nerves, arising from the third sacra! nerve,, and 532. to 534. Dividing into three rami.—The first ramus of * the hasinorrhoidal nerve, 531, is divided into five surculi k^Diinores, viz. 535. 535. 535. 536. ^ose marked 535, 536, 537, are rather superficial, and are terminated in the musculus sphincter externus, sphinc- ter internus, and cutis of the orifice of the anus.—The remaining rami, distinguished by'the figures, are deeper, and distributed on the external sphincter muscle of the amis, internal and e.xternal, or nervous coat of the intesti- n^nn rectum. Second ramus of the haemorrhoidal nerve, 531, divides into two rami: of these, 540. &c. The-first is that which is terminated in the internal sphincter ani, and cutis of the anus. 541. 541. The other ramifications of nerve, 533.—This ira- •^^mediatcly divides into two cutaneous rami. 542. 542. 542. The cutaneous nerve of the perineum, and 543. 543. 543. Into the nervus cutaneus of the anus, which terminates in the cutis, a little more remote from the ori- fice of anus.—Third ramus, 534, of the haemorrhoidal nerve, 531, is divided into three ramuli. 1544. &c. &c. The first ramus of the cutaneous, 534, nerve of the anus, and perinaeum. fit )545. &c. &c. Second nerve, 534, is terminated in the skin of the perinaeum. |546. &c. Third of nerve, 534, divaricates into two surculi. 1547. 547. Cutaneous ramulus, which disappears in the lowest part of the labia majora pudendorum. 1543. &c. Another surculus oi^nerve, 546, immediately di- vides into II549. 549. 549. Several surculi, which disappear in the up- per part of the labia majora pudendorum j )50. But the last ramus, 548, ascends into the mons veneris. Nervus ligamentosus, disappearing in the ligamentmxLtu- beroso'sacrum.. Besides tlvc ramificatiojw just mentioned, they run from thei" third pair of sacral nerves, 551. to 553. Nervi pudendales: when the pndendalis, 551, unites with nervus pudendalis, 553, then 555. Is terminated in the lowest extremity of the labia pu- dendorum.—Nervus pudendalis, 552, dividing into , 556. to 557. Many ramuli, disappear in the lateral part of the cutis perinxi, and lowest region of the labia pudendo- rum. 558. &c. &CC. Is the first cutaneous ramus, or branch of the perinmum, and labia pudendorum of nerve, 553. 559. 559. Second cutaneofis ramus of the perinaeum, and pudenda externa of nerve, 553, which 560. 560. Are lost in minute branches on the lateral part of the skin of the nates, towards the pudenda. 561. to 565. The other cutaneous surculus of ramus, 559, is that of the anus, perinaeum, and circumference of the pudenda. 566. Ramulus, anastomosing with nerve, 558, 567. Surculus, anastomosing with ramus, 587, 568. &c. &c. Third ramus of nerve, 553, whi(^ is termi- nated in the lowest and lateral part of the skin ol the nates, where it continues towards the anus. 569. 569. Anastomosis of, the trunk of the third sacral nerve with nerve, 558, 570. Inferior longus pudendalis, 571. to 573- Arising by three radices from the origin, of the ischiatic nerve. 574. &c. &c. Rami of the nervus pudendalis longus, termi- nating in the cutis of the nates, and region of the anus. 575. Second ramus of nerve, 570, which 576. to 583. Arc distributed by surculi, on the cutis of the anus, perinaeum, and lateral part of the labia pudendo- rum. 584. Third ramus of nerve, 570, which runs into two ra- muli. 585. A cutaneous nerve of the anus, and 586. Ramulus, which again is divided into three surculi: of these, the first 587. Is muscular, which is terminated in the levator of the ^corpus cavjernosum of the clitoris. 588. to 590. Second cutaneous surculus, extending towards the lowest part of the cutis of the labia pudendorum. 591. to 597. Third ramus is of nerve, 586, which is lost m the skin of the middle and superior part of the labia pu- dendorum. 598. to 60s. Fourth ramus of the nervus pudendalis inferior, distributed on the cutis of the anus, and perinaeum. 609. Fifth ramus of nerve, 5/0, which divides into tvro rami, 610. 611. 611. 612. 613. 614. Which terminate in the lowest and interior cutis of the nates,. T Figure I( 7° ) Figure II. Tins Second Figure represents the narrow vinculum of the great sympathetic neiwe of the right side with the sympa- thetic nerve of the left side, and the true, or last termina- tion of the arbores. I have retained the same numbers in the Second Figure, which were applied to the former Plate. V. Fifth vertebra of the loins. I. II. III. IV. V. Five spurious vertebrai of the os-sacrum. I. II. Spurious vertibrae of thd os-coccygis.—Yet it must be observed, that in this subject the os-coccygis is not formed by two, but consists of four spurious vertebraj. Thus the number II. comprehends the second, third, and fourth ver- tebrae, because the spino-coccygeus muscle, and ligament, adhere to the lateral margin of the os-coccygis, the third, and fourth cannot be well distinguished from the second. A. Lateral part of the first and second spurious vertebra of the o's-sacrum, almost to the foramina, from which the first and second sacral nerve go out here, cut off. B. Portion,of the ligamentum tuberoso-sacrum. C. Ligamentum spinoso-coccygjeum. D. D. D. Intestinum rectum, cut away near the muscles with the sphincter. 129. 130. Trunk of the great sympathetic nerve, or nervus anastomosus, between the fourth and fifth lumbar gang- lion. ' A 131. The first anastomosing branch. 132. The second of nerve, 28, with nerve, 129j and 130. 133. The crural nerve. \ 137. Origin, or third radix of the crural nerve from the fourth lumbar nerve. 139. Anastomosis, between the second and third origin of the crural nerve. 141. Surculi of the cutaneous crural nerve. 142. The obturator nerve. 147. Third radix coming from the fourth pair of lumbar nerves. 149. The communicating root of the fourth lumbar nerve, 29, with the trunk of the great sympathetic nerve. ^ 345. Radices, arising from the trunk of the great sympathe- tic nerve, 129, 130, which compose the 346. Nervus communicaus, by which the great sympathetic nerve of the right side is Joined between the fourth and fifth vertebra of the loins behind the iliac arteries with the great sympathetic nerve of the left side. 347. Nerve, composed of radices. 348. 3d9. 350. Which preserve a conjunction with the trunk of the great sympathetic nerve of the left side, Plate XXXVIII. 356. The remaining trunk of nerve, 352, cut off, inserted into the first sacral ganglion of the left side. 373. to 376. Radices of the fourth and fifth lumbar nerves, which compose 377. Tlie muscular nerj;^, running to the glutcMs medius, cs- 1 pecially to the gluteus minimus, and tensor fascias lat®. ! 378. Muscular ramus, going to themusculus pyramidalis, 379* A muscular branch to the gluteus medius., 380. Nervus cutaneus gleuteus inferior. 381. Ramus muscularis, which sends'ralni to the gemlnus superior obturator internus, geininus inferior, and quadra- tus femoris. 382. to 384. Rami, insertcifi into the muscular gluteus max- imus. 385. Inferior trunk of the nervus cutaneus of the nates, di- viding into tw'o rami. v 38fi. Superior ramus of the inferior cutaneus nerve of the nates. 387. Ramus inferior of nerve, 383. 388. to 390. Trunk, or plexus, so called, of the ischiatic nerve. j 391- Ramus major of the ischiatic nerve, 392. Ramus minor of the same. 393. First anastomosis, between the second and third sacral nerve. 394'. Second anastomosis, between the second and tb'ird sa- cral nerve, 395. Third anastoinosis, between the second and third sacral nerve. 396. First radix which the ischiatic neiwe receives from the second sacral nerve. w 397. 398. Second and third radix of the second sacral nerve, which 399. Run into one thick radix, and terminate in the trunk of the ischiatic nerve, 388. 400. Nervus cutaneus medius of the nates. 404. — superior of the same. I 405. The first hypogastric branch. 406. The second. 407. The third. 408. 409. The fourth and fifth. 411. The sixth. 412. The seventh. 415. Surculus, running to the bladder and vagina. 417. 418. Ninth and tenth ramfis hypogastricus. 427. Ramus of the third sacral nerve, making many anasto- moses with the fourth sacral nerve. 472. A nerve of the utcrus.j|< 476. Ramus, arising from the third sacral pair, which 474. Is joined to ramus, arising from the fourth sacral pair. 485. A common trunk of the second, 490, and third, 493> the perforating nerve. 596. A muscular branch, coming from the third sacieli nerve. 513. J0 lol J ^8 Id il S]■I ( 7‘ ) 513. to 515. The nerve of the clitoris. 531. Trunk of the internal hoemorrhcHdal nerves, arising from the third sacral nerve, and 532. 533. Dividing into,three rami. 560. Ramulus cutaneus of the nates. 570. Nervus pudcndalis inferior longus. 571. to 573. arising by three radices from the origin of the ischiatic nerve. 592. Ramus of nerve, 585, terminated in the skin of the middle, and uppermost part of the loins about the pu- denda. 29. Fifth lumbar nerve. 150. Radix of the fifth lumbar nervcjgoing to the fifth lum- bar ganglion. 148. Fifth lumbar ganglion. 30. The first sacral nerve. 1*5^. 156. First radix communicans of the first sacral nerve, l^vhich must be considered as the first sacral ganglion. ^Ganglion of the first left sacral nerve. 2. First left sacral nerve. 3. Trunk of the great sympathetic ner^e of the left side, or nerve, communicating between the first sacral, and fifth I left lumbar ganglion. I 4. 5. 5. Rami, dispersed by the sjonpathetic nerve to the k parts about the hypogastric artery. Besides the arterious rami, which nerve 5, exhibits, there" are three others, which run from the left lumbar nerve to this nerve, as the Plate ;j^XXVIII. sheyi's; where it must be well observeef, nerve five comes undbr the number 389> which, in this Figure, arc/ami cut off, and marke.d in Plate XXXVIll. by the numbers 386, to 393. 348. to 350. Radices, arising from the fifth lumbar gang- lion.' 351. Runnfng into one, which anastomose with the trunk of ♦ the great sympathetic nerve of the left side, 3, 3. 151. to 154. Four nerves of the last lumbar ganglion, which, uniting with nerve, 30, represent the trunk of the great sympathetic nerve. [357. Ramus of nerveri54, migrating to the muscular mem- brane of the rami of the hypogastric artery. iS58. 358. Anastomosis, between nerves, 348, to 350, and 354, to 355. |]359. Surculus, communicating with nerve, 154. ,360. Surculus of nerve, 358, bifurcated, of which p6l. The first crus is inserted in nerve, 154; 362. The other inosculated into nerve, 155. ii363. 363. The anastomosing branch of nen^e, ^ 1358. 358. With the first left sacral ganglion. 1159. Second radix of the first sacral nerve, communicating I ,with the trunk of the sympathetic nerve, 158. ' 160 Anastomosis, between nerve, 156, and 159* '352. Ramus of nerve, 159> which. 353. 353. Dividing Into two rami; at length Unite into ofte ramus, from which 354. 355. Two anastomoses, run with nerve, 358. 7. Anastomosis of the first left lumbar ganglion, with nerve, 352, of the right side ; hence, the first left sacral ganglion anastomoses with the second radix of the first right sacral nerve, performing the office of the first sacral ganglion, by the medium of nerves, 352, 353, 353, and 356. 31. Second right sacral nerve. 161. 162. 163. Three radices, arising from the second sacral nerve, and going to 157- The second sacral ganglion 158. Trunk of the great sympathetic nerve, or nervus anastomoticus, between the first and second right sacral ganglion. 1 365. 365. Surculus, running to the intestinum rectum ; but on account of the drawing back of the intestinum rectum' to the left side of the body, is cut otf. 8. Anastomosis of the first left sacral ganglion, 364. 364. With a ramus, coming from the second right sacral ganglion, 157. 9. Anastomosis between nerve, 8, and 7. 10. 10. Ramulus of nerve, 8, migrating to the intestinum rectum. 366. 366. 366. Ramus of the second right sacral gang- lion, going to the posterior surface of the intestinum rectum. 367. Anastomosis, between nerve, 364, and 366. 164. Trunk of the great sympathetic nei’ve, or nervus anasto- moticus, between the second, 157> and third, 38, right sacral ganglion. 160. 165. Internal ramus of nerve, l64. 166. External ramus of nerve, l64. 167. Radix of the second sacral nerve, communicating with nerve, l64. 168. 168. First radix of the third sacral nerve, communica- ting with nerve, 166. l69- Second bifurcated radix of the third sacral nerve, com- municating with nerve, 166. 368. 368. Surculus, arising from nerve, 164, and inserted into nerve, 366. 369. 369. Ramus, arising from nerve, l65, which unites with the trunk of the great sympathetic of the left side, or with the anastomosing nerve, between the second and third sacral ganglion of the left side. 370. 370. Anastomosis, between nerve, 368, and 369. 371. Conjunction of nerve, l65, with37(^ 372. Conjunction nerve, l65, with 369. 11. Second left sacral nerve. 12. Second left sacral ganglion. 13. Trunk of the great sympathetic nerve, or nerve anas- tomosing between the first' and second left sacral gang- lion, No. 12. 14. ArU-( 72 ) ti. Artcrious Surculi of the second left sacral ganglion, which migrate to the rami of the hypogastric artery. 15. Radix, running from the trunk of the second sacral nerve, 11, to the second sacral ganglion, 12. 16. Third left sacral ganglion. 17. 18. to 21. Trunk of the great sympathetic nerve, or ramus, anastomosing between the third and second sacral ganglion of the left side. 22. Radix of the third sacral ganglion, 17, by which it is joined with the trunk of the third left sacral nerve, 13. 23. fourth left sacral nerve. 24. ganglion. (3. Two radices, running from the fourth left sacral nerve to the fourth ganglion. 25. Trunk of the left sympathetic nerve, or nerve, anasto- mosing between the third and fourth left sacral ganglion of the left side. 26. Anastomosing branch of the trunk of the great sympa- thetic nerve with the third left sacral nerve. 27. Anastomosing branch of the trunk of the left great sym- pathic nerve, which is joined with the fourth sacral nerve, 23, of the left side. 28. Trunk of three perforating nerves. 35. Fifth left sacral nerve. - 36. Trunk of the left sympathetic nerve, or neiwus anasto- moticus, between the fourth left sacral ganglion, and fifth left sacral nerve. ~ 37. End and conjunction of the great sympathetic nerve pf the leftside with the great sympathetic nerve of the right side. 22. Third right sacral nerve. 38. Third right sacral ganglion. 39. 40. Radices, which the third sacral ganglion receives from the third sacral trunk, 32. 41. Anastomosis of the third sacral ganglion of the right side with the third left sacral ganglion, 17. 42. Fourth right sacral ganglion. 43. 44. Trunk of the right sympathetic nerve, or anastomo- tic nerves, between the third and fourth sacral ganglion. 45. Radix of the fourth right sacral ganglion, which it re- ceives from 33. The third right sacral nerve. 422. Trunk of the fourth sacral pair, cut off. 484. Is an elegant trunk of the fourth sacral nerve, from which, not only three perforating nerves are given off, but also anastomotic branches with the fourth sacral ganglion, and with the fifth, or last sacral nerve. 486. 486. 486. Internal ramus of the first perforating nerve. 487. 488. Ramus of the first perfofans, distributed on the extremity of the intestinutn rectum. 489. 489. 489. External ramus of the first porforans, ^ 490. Second nervus perforans. 491. Cutaneus ramus of the second perforans. i 492. Ramus musculo-ligamentosus of the second perforans, | 493. 493. The third perforating nerve. 497. 497. Ramus muscularls of the third nervus perforans. 498. First radix of the fourth nervus perforans, coming from i the third right sacral. ' 499. Second radix of the fourth nervus perforans, arising j from the fourth right sacral nerve. ; 500. Conjunction of the radices. 501. Inferior ramus of the fourth nervus perforans. 502. Superior ramus of the nervus perforans. 510. &c. &c. &c. 1,. 511. Rami musc’ulo-ligamcntosi, running to the musculus spinoso-sacrum, and ligamentuin, spinoso, arid tuberoso- sacrum. 46. Radix, which the fourth right sacral ganglion, receives i from the fourth right sacral nerve. I 47. 47. Anastomosis, between the fourth right, and fourth j left sacral ganglion. I 34. Fifth, and last right sacral nerve. 48. 49’.' Surculus, disappearing in the ligamentum spinoso- * .sacrum. 50. 50. Anastomosis of nerve, 484, with the fifth sacral nerve of the right side. 503. to 56. Ramuli of the fifth right sacral nerve, terminated , by very minute surculi in the musculus, and ligamentum- spinoso coccygeum. 57. The fifth small ganglion of the great sympathetic, to|| which the fifth sacral nerve sends in the right side. ^ 58. Surculum communicans.—In the left side, the same un>^^ equal sacral small ganglion receives 59. A ramulus communicans, arising from the sacral nerTC,T ■ 60. 60. Trunk of the right great sympathetic nerve, or nerve- anastomosing, between the fourth and fifth sacral gang- • lion. 61. Anastomosis, between nerve 60, and 47. c* 62. Sui-culus, arising from ganglion, 57, and disappearing in the spinoso-coccygacus ligament. 63. The ultimate termination of the right syiripathctic nerve. 64. Ganglion coccygaeum, in which the left and right sym- pathetic nerves are united. 65. to 68. Last surculi, emitted by ganglion, 64, and whiclb very minute,, disappear in the last termination wf the spv* noso-eoccyga;us muscle and ligament. 69. 70. Surculus, implanted into the lowest part of the in«- testinum rectuin.TAhVliA xxxvn. Sdu/lci- ethittona MaiiamK-a^ Gal'.MeifUj'.' ■ '.VKfe.' ■ - . ' '■ -I? f'-./ ’W ^ '■■»<•■- ■... ■ ' ■' : ■, '.v lis" * ' ' *• .'-i'- • - ■ ' - Mm: ■ V- ■ I*-' -‘'Ll Y' >■ ■< isi r (■ ■«/* ^ ■ ty' ' ■ .«• % ;n A' ■ c‘' cTAmi,A XXX\TX ( ^( n ) PLATE XXXVII. i ! Explains the origin, and distribution of the ganglion, called Semilunar; or, rather of the cmliac ganglions of the right side—exhibits the renal, jqrd spermatic ganglion of the right side; and anastomosis of the same, with the ganglia of the left side; the origin of^ the superior mesenteric plexus, and the inferior mesenteric plexus, and right hypo- I gastric nerves. I A. A. A. A. Inferior surface of the right lobe of the liver re- i dined. j B. Vena cava. C. C, Rami of the vena cava entering the liver, D. D. Part of the costal diaphragm.- E. E. E. Right ala of the diaphragm. F. F. Part of the lumbar diaphraginv 1 G. External crus of the diaphragm. I H. Middle crus of the diaphragm. I I. Internal crus of the diaphragm. K. K. Right phrenic artery. I L. L. Right ramus of the right phrenic artery. ! M. M. Left ramus of the same artery. N. Common trunk of the superior, left coronary artery of j the ventricle, and of the left hepatic artery. O. Right hepatic artery. P. The splenic artery. Q. Superior mesenteric artery, R. R. Right renal artery, cut off; and artery of the right re- nal capsule, arising from the right renal artery. ! S. S. Aorta. I I. First vertebra of the loins. II. The second., j III. The third.. I IV. The fourth. ' V. The fifth. L First spurious vertebra of the os sacrum. I a. Lateral part of the first and second spurious vertebra of i the os sacrum, almost to the foramina, from which the- first and secoiid sacral ramus go out, cut oft. • • ' h. The right superior spermatic artery,, i c. The right inferior spermatic artery. i w. The left spermatic artery. ‘ T. Trunk of the inferior mesenteric artery. i,V. V. V. Lumbar arteries, corresponding to their vertebra. 'X. Ramus ascendens of the inferior mesenteric artery. It.. Ramus descendens of the. same.. 1 d. d. d. d. d. d. Rami of the descending inferior meaeiUerle artery. e. e. Rami, migrating to the colon^ z. z. Right iliac artery. f. Left iliac artery. ^ g. Left hypogastric artery. h. Left crural artery. i. Right hypogastric artery. k. Right crural artery. m. m. ra. Portion of the intestinum colon, forming its sigmoid flexure, so called. 29. Anterior ramus of the fifth pair of lumbar nerves, 62. Trunk of the sympathetic nerve, or anastomosing nerve of this ganglion with the eleventh thoracic ganglion. 63. First radix. 64. Second radix, which also arises from the anterior ramus of nerve 24, Plate XXXVI. Fig. I. and runs into the first lumbar ganglion. €5, Third radix, terminated in the trunk of the nervus sym- patheticus, or into nervus anastomoticus, between the first and second lumbar ganglion. 69. ' Exterior surculus of nerve 66, Plate XXXVI. Fig. I. inserted into the great sympathetic nerve, or nervus anas- tomoticus, between the first and second lumbar ganglion. 70. Trunk of the nervus sympathetic magnus, or nervus- anastomoticus, between the first, 6T, and second ganglion, 78, Plate XXXVI. Fig. I. 78. Second lumbar ganglion.. 79- First radix, sent by the anterior ramus of the first pair of lumbar nerves, 25, Plate XXXVI, Fig. I. to the second lumbar ganglion. 80. ' Second radix, which the second lumbar ganglion receives from the anterior ramus of the first pair of lumbar nerves. 81. 81. Radix from anastomosing nerve, betweei the first lumbar nerve, and the ganglion singulare of the second lum- bar nerve, 104, Plate XXXVI. Fig. I. which, at its origin, is-, bicrural, then simple, and is inosculated into the trunk of the nervus sympatheticus magnus. 97- 97. Surculus nervosus, arising' from anastomosis, be- tween the first lumbar nerve, 26, Plate XXXVI. Fig. L. and ganglion singulare, 104, Plate XXXVI. Fig. I. of the anterior branch of the second lumbar nerve, 26, Plate. XXXVT. Fig. I. which is terminated in the ligaments of the vertebras. 98. TAird lumbar ganglion.. 99- Trunk of the great sympathetic, or anastomosing nerve between the second and, third lumbar ganglion, U 100. RadLx,( H > 100. Tladix, wliicli the second lumbar nerve sends to gang- lion, 98. 101. Radix, anastomotica, between the ganglion singulare of the second lumbar nerve of the second lumbar,ganglipm 102. 102. Radix anastomotica, between ganglion singulare of tlie right second lumbar nerve, and second right lumbar ganglion. 103". ’^urculus of radix anastomotica', lO?, which runs to the ’ muscular tunic of the interlumbar artery, 116. Fourth right lumbar ganglion. 117. Trunk of the nervus sympatheticurmiagnus, or nerves anastomosis. 120. Radix, by which the trunk of-the nervus sympathetic inagnus, 117, is joined with the trunk of the lumbar nerve, 27, Plate XXXVI. Fig. I. 121. Radix anastomotica of nerve, 27, with trunk of nerve, 117. 122. 123. Surculus nervosus,“^passing to the ligaments of the vertebra?. 127. 128. Tw'o anastomosing branches of nerye 28, with the fourth lumbar ganglion, 116, Plate XXXVI. Fig. I. 129. 130. Trunk of the great sympathetic nerve, anastomo- sing between the fourth and fifth right lumbar ganglion. 131. First anastomosing branch. 132. The second of nerve 28, anastomosing with trunk of the great sympathetic i.erve. 148. Fifth right lumbar ganglion. 149. A branch of the fourth lumbar nerve. No. 29, com- municating with trunk of thp great sympathetic. 150. Radix of the fifth lumbar nerve to the. fifth right lumbar ganglion. 177, Trunk of the splenic nerve. 191. to 194', Division of the splenic trunk into the fourth rarni 215. 215. Trunk of the accessory visceral nerve, which passes through the hiatus, between the crura of the dia-' phragm: external, h; middle,!—(Plate XXXVI. Fig. I.) a little more externally, and below the larger visceral, 174, to 177, into the cavity of the abdpmen, and is immediately divided into two rami, the superior and inferior, jjfi. Ramus superior of the accessory visceral nerve, which is joined with ramus, 194, of the larger visceral nerve. 217. Ramus inferior of the accessory visceral nerve which passes, not only to the ganglion, c.alled bemilunarof the great sympathetic nerve, but also is joined with a surculus from the second renal plexus, 253. 239. 239.239. Trunk of the posterior superior tenal nerve, formed from the radices, 233, 234. 240. Anastomosis of the posterior superior renal nerve with nerve, 26’2, and 263. 242. Right posterior inferior renal nerve, aiising frppn the, trunk of the great sympathetic, 62. 244. .'Anastomosis of the posterior right inferior renal npive, with the first right renal ganglion, 252. 245. Conjunction of the superior posterior renal nerve, and of the posterior inferior renal nerve, into one common trunk, cut off in this Plate, where it runs further in the posteqo^ surface of the renal artery.—From this common trunk aitse 246. 247. Surculi, communicating with the second right re- nal ganglion, 253; then it distributes two arterious surculi, of vyhich 248. One is expanded on the anterior, and superior surface of the renal artery; the other, which passes to the poste- rior surface of the renal artery, is omitted in this Plate, but very well exhibited in Plate XXXVI. Fig. I. 252. First right renal ganglion. 253. The second. 254. The third. 255. The fourth. 256. A nerve, anastomosing between the first and second re- nal ganglion. 257. A nerve, anastomosing between the first and third renal ganglion. 258. Between the first and fourth renal ganglion. 259. Between the second and fourth renal ganglion. 260. Between nerve, 257, and 258. 261. Between the third and fourth renal ganglion. 262. A nerve, communicating between nerve, 240, and third renal ganglion, 254. 263. An anastomosis, between the fourth renal ganglion, and posterior renal ramus, 240. 264. The anastomosing branch, between the second right re-' nal ganglion, 253, and the first cceliac ganglion. 265. Anterior renal nerve. 266. Bifid ramus of the anterior renal nerve. 267. Surculus of the latter, expanded on the posterior sur- face of the renal artery. 268. The other is larger, and anastomoses with nerve, 249. 269. Trunk of the superior internal spermatic nerve. 284. Third ramus of the anterior renal nerve, 265, and runs before the renal artery. 286. Fourth ramus of the anterior renal nerve. 292. First right spermatic ganglion. 293. The second 294. 295. 296. Nerve, anastomosing between the first right* renal ganglion, 252, and first right spermatic ganglion. t 597. First radix, anastomotica of the great sympathetic with nerve, 294. 298. Second radix anastomotica, between the great sympa-' thetic and ansa spennatica, 295. 299* Conjunction of the second lumbar ganglion, 78, with nerve, 298. 300.301. Third radix anastomotica of the great sympathetic,! with the ansa spermatica. 302. Conjunction of nerye, 299, with 300. 303. 304. The( 7S ) j I 3D3. 304. Thtj internal inferior spermatic ncr\’c on the riglit I side, arising from the second spermatic ganglion, and joined 1 with the superior internal right spermatic nerve, 2S3. 305. Second inferior internal right spennatic nerve. 50S. 306. 306. Nerve, arising from the first right spermatic ganglion, and anastomosing with the second and third left renal ganglion, and with the first and third left spermatic ganglion. 307. 307. 307. Nerves, which the first right spermatic ganglion, 292, emits, anastomosing w'ith the rami of the superior mesenteric plexus. SOS. First anastomosis, between the first and second right spermatic ganglion. 309. Second anastomosis, between the first and second right ^ennatic ganglion. I 310. 310. Conjunction of nerve, 308, with the nerve which composes the hypogastric plexus. 311. 312. 313. Inferior mesenteric rami, arising from the second right spermatic ganglion, 293. 314. The inferior mesenteric plexus. 315. Ramus, coming from nerves, 301, and 310, 310, en- creases the inferior mesenteric plexus. 316. The first accessory lumbar ganglion. 317. The second. 318. Anastomosis of the first accessory lumbar ganglion with the second, 78, Plate XXXVI. Fig. I. , 319. Ramus of ganglion, 316', to the muscular tunic of the interlumbar artery. 320. Ramus aorticus of ganglion, 3l6. 321. 321. Anastomosis of the first accessory lumbar ganglion with the third lumbar ganglion, 98, Plate XXXVI. Fig. I. 322. &c. &c. Ramus hypogastricus of the first lumbar ac- cessory ganglion, 316, which, after composing the hy- pogastric plexus, unites with the fourth lumbar ganglion of the left side, Plate XXXVIII. |. Ramus, from the anastomosing nerve, 322, by which the great sympathetic of the right side behind the aorta, a ^ little above the origin of the inferior mesenteric artery, is if joined with the great sympathetic nerve of the left side, as Plate XXXVIII. will more clearly demonstrate. 323. Surculus arteriosus of the hypogastric ramus, distri- buted on the inter-lumbar artery. 324. 324. Anastomosis of the hypogastric branch with nerve 117, Plate XXXVI. Fig. I.—From this ramulus anastomoticus, arise 325. A surculus, running to the muscular tunic of the in- ter-lumbar artery. 326. Anastomosis of the second accessory lumbar ganglion with nerve 300. 327. 327. Anastomosis of the second accessory lumbar ganglion with the trunk of the great sympathetic, 99* 328. Ramus hypogastricus of the second lumbar accessory ■ ganglion. *29- Another ramus hypogastricus of the third radix of the sympathetic nerve, 310, which forms the plexus, called Hypogastric. 330. Ramus internus of the hypogastric nerve. 331. Anastomosis of the internal ramus with nerve 329. 332. Anastomosis of ramus internus, 330, with nerve, 315. 333. Ramus of the external ncive, 328. 334. 335. 336. Anastomosis of the external ramus with nerve 329- 337. Ramus, which anastomoses with ramuli, constituting the inferior mesenteric, and hypogastric plexus. 338. &c. &c. Ramus hypogastricus of the third lumbar ganglion, 98. 339- 339- Anastomoses of this nerve with nerve 333. 340. Surculus arteriosus of nerve 338, passing into the muscular membrane of the iliac artery. 341. 341. Anterior, or arterious ramus of the hypogastric nerve, 338. 342. Ramus, running to the muscular membrane of the crural artery. 343. Ramus, running to the muscular membrane of fl.e hypogastric artery. 344. Posterior, or anastomotic nerve, 338, with the trunk of the great sympathetic nerve. 345. 345. Radices, arising from the trunk of the great sym-f ' pathetic of the right side, 129, 130, which compose 346. 347. The nervus communicans, by which the great sympathetic of the right side, between the fourth and fifth vertebra of the loins, behind the iliac arteries, is joined with the great sympathetic, of the left side, as is evident from Plate XXXVII. And yet better from Plate XXXVTII. 60. 348. 349. 350. Radices, arising—from the right lumbar ganglion, Plate XXXVT. Fig. I. which 351. Run into one anastomotic nerve, with trunk of the great sympathetic of the left side, which then is joined by an elegant anastomosis, w-ith the trunk of the sympathetic of the left side.—Plate XXXVI. Fig. I. and Plate XXXVIII. 351. 463. 464. Spreuli, going to the urethra, arising from the hypogastric plexus, 8, Plate XXXVT. Fig. I. 465. to 469. These are ramuli, which, by different decus- sations, form a reticulun, or net-work, o. 470. 471. Rami, which meet the hypogastric, and mesente • ric nerves, coming from the great sympathetic.—Thus, from the radices ol the great visceral. No. 177, and of the accessory visceral nerve, in the right side of the body, arises the assemblage of ganglions, uncertain in number and size of the ganglion, to w'hich antiquity has affixed the name of Semilunar Ganglion.—This denomination is improper. There are more ganglions in the right and left side of the body, which are disseminated in that region of the aorta, where the coeliaca arises from it, and where ganglions of the right side are connected with those of the left side.—Hence, this numerous body may be, with more propriety, called Ganglia Cceliaca. 1. 1- 1. 1. Is( 7^ } *1. 1. 1. 1. Is the first right cflcliac ganglion. 2. The second. 3. 3. The third. 4. The fourth, 5. 5. The fifth. 6. The sixth. 7. The seventh. 8., 8., The eighth. '»), 9. 9. The ninth.- 10. 10. The tenth. 11. 11. The eleventh, 12. Nervi anastomotici, between the tenth and eleventh right . lumbar ganglions, and the fifth, 254, and 255, left cceiiac, and ninth and tenth, 256, left ganglions, 256, Plate XXXVTII.—^Thus, by this anastomosis, which is the largest, the coeliac ganglia of the right intercostal nerve, is elegantly connected with those of the left side. 13. First nerve of the capsule of the right kidney. 14. 14. The second nerve. 15. The third. 16. 16. The fourth. 17. 17. First radix of the right phrenic ganglion. 18. 18. Second radix of the phrenic ganglion. 19. Phrenic ganglion, into which the radices run. 20. The phrenic nerve of the right phrenic artery, accom- panying the right ramus. 21. 22. Kami, arising from the phrenic ganglion, which, forming an island, 23. Swell into a small ganglion. 24. First radix of the phrenico-hepatic ganglion. 25. The second. 26. The third. 27. This phrenico-hepatic ganglion divides into two surculi, 13, y. Which immediately run into one. 28. The trunk. 30. 30. Ramus, arising from radius,. 24, which afterwards sends 31. A surculus to the nervous plexus of the coronary, and left hepatic arteries, comprehending the common trunk, like a. net, unites with nerve 28, and then exhibits very elegant rami to the liver, and left renal capsule.—Pkte XXXVTII. and XXXIX. 32. 32. SccHind principal nerve of ganglion, 27. 33. Conjunction of this, ramus with surculus, 22...—From ganglion, 23, two rami run; of which. 34. The first meets 35. A surculus, coming from nerve-21; and thus 36. A ramulus is formed, united with the phrenic nerve, strictly so called, by anastomosing. ^ 37. Second ramulus, arising from ganglion, 23. 38. 38. Sends a ramulus to the fleshy part of the diaphragm* * near the loins. 89. Sends a surculus, which migrates to the third, or su*> preme phrenic ganglion, 47> and from which arises 40. A surculus, running to the lumbar part of the dia- phragm.—^I’he third ramus of nerve, 37, divaricates into two surculi: of which 41. The first is smaller, shorter, and anastomoses with the phrenic nerve. 42. The second is larger, longer, and forms 43. 43. 44. Ansse, which comprehend the left ramus of the right pliremc artery. 45. 45. 46. 46. The ultimate expansion of nerve, 47. Which is distributed on the e.\tremity of the inferior sur- face of the liver. 48. Ramus of the third phrenic ganglion, disappearing in the lumbar part of the diaphragm. 49. &c. Ramus of the third phrenic ganglion, terminated ia the posterior part of the fossa of the vena caVa hepatica. 50. 50, Nervus phrenicus, the entrance of which into the cavity of the abdomen, 17, we have represented in Plate XXXVI. Fig. I. 51. &c. &c. Right ramus of the phrenic nerve, accompanied by a ramus of the right phrenic artery, is expanded in the uppermost part of the lumbar diaphragm. 52. &c. Left ramus of the phrenic nerve surculi, of which, for the most part, are distributed in the lumbar portion of the diaphragm. 53. Superior ramus, anastomosing with the third phrenic ganglion, 47, and with nerve, 41. 54. &c» Second inferior ramus, anastomosing with nerve 32, and with nerve, 36 ; but one ©. ©. Surculus is terminated in the fleshy portion of the lum- bar part of the diaphragm. I In all the dissections of dead bodies of both sexes, and all ages, I know that the thoracic phrenic nerve frequently anastomoses in the right side of the body with the coeliac ganglions of the great sympathetic nerve; yet there are not wanting, examples, although they seldom occur, w lie re no connexion subsists between the phrenic and groat sytn- pathetic nerve; In the loft side, it is otherwise. How frequently is a conjunction of the phrenic tlu)iacic nerve with the great sympathetic nerve deficient; and this should, seem to be a natural state. Nor is the union of the phrenic thoracic, in the cavity of the abdomen, with the nerve of the eighth pair.-—I will mention only three examples, out ’ of the vast number of Observations which I, have made, lest I be troublesome to the Reader., FIRST OBSERVATION- IS TAKEN EaOM A MAN ABOVE TWENTY YEARS OLD. The course of the phrenic nerve, in the right side, yet inr eluded in the cavity of the abdomen, was divided into internal andcxternal thoracic rami. The( 77 ) The internal rami run to the convex surface of the diaphragm above, and to the internal side of the quadrilateral fora- men, through which the vena cava is carried trom the ab- domen to the right auricle. I have seen some internal ramuli terminated in the convex surface of the diaphragm; but their principal ramus perfo- rated the diaphragm to the external side of the quadrilate- ral foramen, and the ramus thus becomes the phrenicus ab- dominialis, which was immediately divided into external . and internal surculi. The external rami, migrating to the lumbar part of the dia- phragm, send one long rainulus to the vena cava, which, in passing to the lobulus spigelii of the liver, was joined with a surculus of the great sympathetic nerve from the coeliac ganglions. I have seen three remarkable rami of the internal branches : the first, to the side of the phrenic artery, formed the con- spicuous ganglion, above the right renal capsule, from which three surculi arise, of which one was distributed in the right capsule; the other, rather external, was joined with ramuli, arising from the right coeliac ganglions of flic great sympathetic nerve. The third ramus, after giving many surculi to the lumbar part of the diaphragm, was joined by three remarkable anastomoses with the coeliac ganglions of the light great sympathetic nerve. COUHSE OF THE PHRENIC NERVE, ON THE LEFT SIDE, It distributes both internal and external rami, whilst in the thorax. Some of the internal ramuli disappear, partly in the convex surface of the diaphragm ; some perforate the muscular part of the diaphragm, so that they are lost in its concave surface. The external ramus perforated those fleshy parts of the diaphragm, which constitute the spincler of the oesophagus, then passed on its concave surface, ac- companied by the left phrenic artery, and gave off the fol- lowing three rami;— It' First, Surculi, going to the left lumbar part of the dia- phragm. Second, A branch, which, running down to the left renal capsule, anastomosed with ramuli, arising from the left coeliac ganglions of the great sympathetic nerve. . Third, A ramus, anastomosing with that ramus of the great W sympathetic nerve, which is joined before the cardih with the oesophageal anterior plexus of the eighth pair. 1(1 I SECOND OBSERVATION. j ON A WOMAN SIXTY YEARS OLD. (Both in the right and left side of the body, the phrenic nerve j was the same as in the example of the last sulyect. On the I right side, that ganglion, which the phrenic nerve entering, I ll the cavity of the abdomen usually forms, was present on < j the left side, as in the First Observation there was nothing ♦ i but the simple conjunction of the phrenic nerve, made . i I with surculi, arising from the left coeliac ganglion. THIRD OBSERVATION. . * ON A MALE SUBJECT, FIFTY YEARS OLD, ON THE RIGHT SIDE. The phrenic nerve, not far distant from the foramen, of the vena cava, having given many ramuli to the convex surface of the diaphragm; and after passing through its substance, several ramifications are found on its concave surface'; two going to that part near the loins, which, after running about an inch, unite, and form two ganglions; one, supe- rior; the other, inferior. FROM THE SUPERIOR GANGLION. First, The external branch, anastomosing with the right coeliac ganglions. Secondly, From the superior ganglion surculi arise, which run partly to the right supra-renal glandula, partly towards the vena cava, where they arc joi.aeJ with surculi, coming from the right coeliac ganglions of the great sympathetic to the lobus spigelii. The inferior ganglion sends off two ex- ternal surculi, anastomosing with the right coeliac gang- lions ; internal was divided into several rami, distributed on the left renal capsule. ON THE LEFT SIDE. The phrenic nerve, after dividing into 2 rami, external and in- ternal, in the left cavity of the thorax ; and having perforated the diaphragm, is distributed on its concave surface, so that it becomes the external, shorter branch, and is termi- nated in the costal part of the diaphragm. The internal long ramus, without making any anastomosis with the left cocliac ganglion, descended near the orifice, through which the a'suphagus passes, and was expanded on the lumbar part of the diaphragm by many surculi. Thus, there was no anastomosis in this subject; either with the eighth pair, or with the great sympathetic nerve. From the ganglions above-mentioned, arise 55. 56. 51. Three elegant hepatic trunks, which, as the Plate shews, run to the right region of the liver. 5S. 58. Fourth hepatic nerve, arising between the aorta and vena cava, is covered a little on the left side of the vena cava, where, after ascending, it so proceeds to the liver; that, after being joined to the hepatic ramus, com- posed from nerve, 55, and 57, it migrates on the posterior surface of the hepatic artery to the liver.—Plate XXXIX. 58. 59- Radix, by which the ramus hepaticus, 53, arises from the seventh right cceliac ganglion. 60. 6l. Radices of nerve, 58, from the first right coiliae ganglion. 66. 67. Radix, sent by the ninth cceliac ganglion to the he- patic ncr\e, 57. 6S. 71’ Radix of the eleventh coeliac ganglion, which goes to the nerve, 66, 67. 72. 73. Ramus of nerve, 66, 67, which constitutes the he- patic plexus, or that admirable arferious net-work, in which the right hepatic artery is involved. X 7i, to( 78 ) f4-. *0 77. Ratliff'S, which nerves, 5(3, and 57, receive frum the cadiac ganglion. 52. Radix of the eleventh right coeliac ganglion, running to ■the hepatic nerve. 63. to 87. Nerves, aiising from the right cccliac ganglions, which, in dift’erent ways, join with nerves from the left creliac ganglions, and compose an elegant hepatic plexus, w hich wo find very elegantly delineated in Plate XXXIX, 53, Anastomosis, between the third right renal ganglion, g*54, and the third, fourth, and fifth right coeliac gang- lions. 89. ,-\.nastoniosis, between the renal ganglion. SS-f, and the fourth right coeliac ganglion. 90. Radix of the third right renal ganglion, going to the su- perior mesenteric plexus. 91. Radix, which the superior mesenteric plc.xus receives from nerve, 88. 9'2. Radix, sent by the fifth right coeliac ganglion to the su- perior mesenteric plexus. 93. RadLx, which the fourth right cadiac ganglion disperses to the superior mesenteric plexus. 94. Radix of the superior mesenteric plexus, which the third right coeliac ganglion emits. W. I’he celebrated, and very elegant superior mesenteric plexus, formed almost of the single right cadiac ganglions, which, like net-work, involves the trunk of ihe superior mesenteric artery, and from which the intestinum jejunium, ileum, coecum, and colon, receive nerves, and which at length anastomose with rami of the inferior mesenteric ple.xus. 95. First loft renal ganglion, 96’. 96. Anastomosis of the first left renal ganglion, with the third right renal ganglion, 254, Plate XXXVI. Fig. II. 104. Second left renal ganglion. 105. Third. lOfi. 107. A nerve of communication between the second left renal ganglion, 104, and the eleventh left coeliac ganglion, 257, Plate XXXVTII. 108. Anastomosis of the latter nerve, wiVn the first left renal ganglion, .95. 109. Anastomosis, between the first left renal ganglion, 95, and the eleventh left coeliac ganglion, 257> Plate xxxvnL 110. Ill, Anastomosis, between the first left renal ganglion, .95, and the second, 104. 112. -Anastomosis, between the first right renal ganglion, 254, and nerve, 110, and 111. 113 Anastomosis, between nerve, 2.94, and nerve, 110, and 111. 114. Nerve, anastomosing between the second left renal gang- lion, 104, and the fourth left renal ganglion, 342, Plate xxxvm. 115. A nerve, anastomosing between the- second left renal ganglion, 104, and the third renal ganglion, 105. 118, Second anastomosis, betw een ganglion, 104, and 105. 119. Nerve, anastomosing between the second left renal, and fourth renal ganglion, 342, Plate XXXVIII. 124. Nerve, anastomosing between the third left renal, and fourth renal ganglion, 342, Plate XXXVIII. 125. First left spermatic ganglion. 126. Second. 133. 134. Nerve, anastomosing between the first left sper- matic, and the third left renal ganglion. 135. The first spermatic nerve, arising from the uervus anas- tomoticus, running to the uterus. 136. Second left spermatic nerve, arising from the first left spermatic ganglion. 137. Third left spermatic nerve, arising from the left sper- matic ganglion by a simple origin, and immediately 138. 139. Is divided into two rami.—Of these three sper- matic nerves, it should be carefully obscived, that with the accompanying left internal spermatic artery, they run ' to the uterus, dividing into the very minute surculi, are distributed in its substance. But as often as the second spermatic arteries go to the uterus, 1 for the most part, the superior spermatic i.erve is present, emitted by one or other of the left renal ganglions, and j which is carried with tiie other spermatic artery to the ’ uterus. ] 140. Third spermatic ganglion, 141. 142. Nerve, anastomosing between the first right sper- matic, 2.92, and third left renal ganglion, 105. 143. 144. Nerve, anastomosing between the first left sper- matic, 125, and fourth left renal ganglion, 343, Plate XXXVTII. 145. Anastomosis of nerve, 143, and 144, with the third left renal ganglion, 105. 146. Anastomosis of nerve, 143, with nerve, 141, 142. 147. Nerve, anastomosing between the first left spermatic ” ganglion, 125, and the first left lumbar ganglion, Plate ' XXXVIII. I, 151. &c. &c. Nervi anastomotici, arising by a common |i origin from the first left spermatic ganglion, 125, and inserted into the fiftli left renal ganglion, 343, Plate XXXVIII. 153. Anastomosis of the first left spermatic ganglion, with the second left spermatic ganglion, 126. ; 154. Anastomosis of the second left spermatic, with the second left lumbar ganglion, Plate XXXVIII. 155. to 157. Three radices, by which the first left spermatic j ganglion, 125. is joined with the third spermatic ganglion, Uo. 158. Anastomosis of nerve, 306, arising from the first right spermatic, with the second left renal, 104, ganglion. 139. First anastomosis of nerve, 306, with the third left renal ganglion, 105. 160, Second anastomosis of nerve, 3G6, with the third left renal ganglion. 161, Anastomosis of nerve, S06, with nerve, 134. 162. Anac» I( 79 ) l52. Anastomosis of the first left spermatic ganglion, with nerve, 306, 163. Anastomosis of the third left spermatic ganglion, with nerve, 306. 164. Nerve, which the third left spermatic ganglion distri- butes, and 165. Nerve, which nerve, 306, exhibits: they compose 166. A nerve, which joins with nerve, 307.—Thus, from the • conjunction of nerve, l66, and 307, arise 167. A neiwe, which the ascending rami of the inferior me- senteric artery sends to the superior mesenteric plexus. 168. to 172. Nerves, arising from the second right sperma- tic ganglion, 126, and third, 140, are those which contri- bute to compose the inferior mesenteric plexus of the great sympathetic nerve on the left side, 173. to 174. Rami hypogastrici, arising from the second left ^ spermatic ganglion, 126, 175. Nervus hypogastricus, for the most part composed of rami, 315, 352, 166. 176. Nervus hypogastricus, arising from rami of the inferior mesenteric plexus, J78, to 182. Rami hypogastrici of the inferior mesenteric plexus. Thus, from rami of the great sympathetic nerve of the right and left side, this is from nerves 322, 337, 329, 175, 176, 17s, 179> 181, 182, the rami hypogastrici are com- posed, which, by various anastomoses, like net-work, at length, dividing into two fasciculi, they, by the following. 183, 184, to 187, are carried to the right side of the lowest part of the colon and rectum, to meet rami coming from the hypogastric plexus, o, 8, Plate XXXVI. Fig. I. 188. A nerve of the ureter, which runs to the preter. 189. to 197. Are those rami which run to the left side of the lowest part of the colon and rectum, as in a similar man- ner with the right rami, they contribute to form the plexus hypogastricus. From all, and almost every single spermatic ganglion of the right and leftside, a reticular nervous structure is formed. S. S. The inferior mesenteric plexus, the elegance of which cannot be described: it is an immense number of neiwes, which 198. to 201. Arise from the rete nervosum, which continu- ally surrounds the continued trunk of the inferior mesente- ric artery. 202. to '205. Elegant nerves follow, and in a kind of space between two branches of the inferior mesenteric artery. 206. to 212. The nerves are placed very numerous, which, at length, from 213, to 276, are carried, in general, to the colon.—Hence, it is evident, how much nervous influence is possessed by the colon. Among the other nerves sent from the inferior mesenteric plexus, the following 277. to 28. Branches should be mentioned : the nerves which anastomosing w'ith the superior mesenteric surculi, contri- bute to form the celebrated superior mesenteric plexus. How wonderful is the structure of tlie Nervous System 1 !-^How satisfactory do the various minute ramifications, anastomising connections, account for the diversity and extent of all the symptoms of disease, that afiiict human beings! Without this Science, it would be impossible to conceive the prototype form of symptoms; without knowing that all the trunks, branches, minute ramifications, and minutest surculi, or nervous twigs, communicate with one another: and, lastly, with the sensorium commune, from which all sensations originate—we could neither feci, the pain of disease, not could we have sense to seek for remedies. . - } '>..1 11 0 S' 1 ? \{ 8o j PLATE XXXVIII. Tliis Plate represents the great sympathetic nerve, and par octavuin, or nervus vagus, on the left side of the body.—• The course of the intercostal nerve begins beneath the sixth rib, and its further progress in the first spurious vertebra of the os-sacrum is cut otF. 1. Seventh rib. 2. Eighth. 3. Ninth. , 4. Tenth. 5. Eleventh. 6. Twelfth. 7. Ninth vertebra of the back. 8. Tenth. 9. Eleventh. 10. Twelfth. 11. Second vertebra of the loins.' III. Third. IV. Fourth. V. Fifth. I. First spurious vertebra of the os-sacrum. A. A. A. A. Left lung. B. B. B. Pericardium, and heart enclosed in it. C. C. C. (Esophagus. D. Cardia. ' E. E. E. E. The stomach. F. F. F. The pancreas. G. G. G. I’he spleen. H. H. H. The left kidney. w I. Pelvis of the kidney. K. Ureter cut off. L. L. Left bronchus, M. M. M. M. Part of the lumbar diaphragm. N. Crus, or left external appendix of the diaphragm. O. Crus, or internal appendix of the diaphragm. P. P. &c. &c. The psoas major muscle, cut at the end to shew the exits of the lumbar nerves, and the origin of the lumbar ganglia. A. A. A. Musculus psoas minor. Q. Q. Q. Aorta. B. Left subclavian artery. S, Left carotid artery. T. T. Ductus arteriosus of botallus. V. Left superior bronchial artery. X. The oesophageal artery, from which runs Y. The left Inferior bronchial artery, which is cut off. : Z, Z. Left bronchial artery, cut off at its origin from artery Y, running down to the left bronchus. a. a. Anastomosis, between the left superior, and left inferior bronchial artery. b. b. b. Left pulmonary artery. c. c. Sac of the pulmonary veins. d. d. d. d. d. Pulmonary veins. f. Trunk of the coeliac artery. g. g. Left phrenic artery. h. Truncus communis of the left hepatic artery, and of the left superior coronary of the ventricle. k. Left hepatic artery. l. Right hepatic artery. m. m, m. The splenic artery. n. n. The pancreatic arteries. 0. o. o. Artcria gastro-epiplocia, or left inferior coronary ar« tery. p. p. Pancreatic arteries, which arterim, o, o, o. q. q. q. q. Rami lienales. r. r. r. r. Arteriae breves of the stomach. s. Trunk of the superior mesenteric artery. V. V. V. Left renal arter}'. w. Left spermatic artery. . ! X, Inferior mesenteric artery. y. Right iliac artery. ^ z. Left iliac artery. , 11. Fourth aortic intercostal artery. j 12. Fifth. I 13. Sixth. ' 14. Seventh. 15. Eighth. K). Ninth. 17. Third lumbar artery. 18. Fourth. 19. Fifth. 20. Sixth left intercostal nerve. 21. Seventh. 22. Eighth. 23i Ninth. 33. Tenth. 34. Eleventh. 35. Twelfth, 36. Pint■,ilKinAXXx v' lAviyfST’56. First left lumbar nerve. 37- Second. 38. Third. 39. Fourth. 40. Fifth. 41. Sixth left thoracic ganglion of the great sympathetic nerve, ontervus intcrcostalis. 42. Seventh. 43. Eighth. : .. 1 44. Ninth. ' - j 45. Tenth. . . • I 46. Eleventh. j 47.. First left lumbar ganglion. ' 48. 48. Second. I 49. Fourth. j 50. Fifth. . . . , 51. Nervus inastomoticus, between the sixth and,fifth left I thoracic ganglion, or lefttihmk of the great sympathetic, or I intercostal nerve. •' ’ ! 52. Ncjrvus anastoincrticus, between the sixth and seventh 1 thoracic ganglion, or trunk of the great sympathetic i nerve. 53, Nerve, anastomosing between the seventh and eighth 1 left thoracic ganglion, or trunk of the nervus. sympatheti- I cus magnus. I 54. Nerve, anastomosing between the seventh and eighth left thoracic ganglion, or trunk of the great sympathetic. 55. 55. Nerve, anastomosing between the left ninth and tenth thoracic ganglion, 01 trunk -of./the great sympathetic bifid. ’ 56. Nerve, anastomosing between the left tenth and eleventh thoracic ganglionj or.trunkof the great sympathetic. 57. 57. Nerve, anastomosing between the left eleventh' thoracic ganglion, and first left lumbar gangfion, or trunk I of the great sympathetic. 58. Nerve, anastomosing between the first and second lumbar i ganglion, or trunk of.the great sympathetic. !59. 59. Nerve, anastomosing between the second and fourth left lumbar ganglion, or. the trunk of the great sympa- thetic. So. Nerve, anastorposing between the fourth and fifth left*' lumbar ganglion, oy trunk of the great sympathetic nerve, which ^ 'll. 62. 6i. 64. ‘65. Is divided into five surculi,-but are united in the fifth left lumbar ganglion, 50. ifi. Nerve, anastomosing between the fifth left lumbar, and first left sacral ganglion, or trunk of the great sympathetic nerve cut off. ^ ‘ >7. 68. Two radices, by which the sixth left ihoracic gang-' lion is formed, 41, arising from the intercostal nerve, viz. its anterior ramus, which takes place.- in all the thoracic, ' dorsal, and lumbar nerves, as hath already been shewji in ; Plate XXXVI. . ; - 69. Radix simplex of the seventh intercostal nerve, running to the seventh thoracic ganglion. . . ■■ ■ • >’C •70. 71. Two radices of the eighth intercostal nerve, like a rope, comprehending the aortic intercostal^rtery, 13, , which compose the thoracic ganglion. .• . 72. 73. 74. Three radices, arising from the ijinth left tho- racic nerve, which run to the ninth ganglion, 44. 75. Posterior ramus of the intercostal nerve. 76. First radix of the intercostal iierve, running to the tenth thoracic ganglion, 45. 77. Second radix of the tenth intercostal nerve, by which the tenth ganglion is formed. 78. 79. Nerve, anastomosing between the tenth and eleventh intercostal nerve. 80. 81,. Nervous surculi, which this anastomosis sends to the transverse muscle' of the abdomen, 82. Radix of the eleventh intercostal nerve, which this nerv© gives to the eleventh.left thoracic ganglion, 4-6. Surculus, which the twelfth thoracic nerve sends to the eleventh thoracic ganglion. O D. 83. 83. 84. 84. Two radices, which the twelfth thoracic nerve, 35, sends to the first left lumbar ganglion, 47. From Plate XXXVI. and XXXVIII. it is evident that the- right and left twelfth thoracic ganglion is wanting, which is not always obsei'ved to be the case. 85. Radix of the first lumbar nerve. 86. 87. Divided into two rami, which run to the trunk of the great sympathetic nerve, 58. 88. 89. .90. Nerve, anastomosing between the first left, and second left lumbar nerve.—From this nerve arises the r 91. $1. First radix, which, after it has {^ven * 92. A surculus to the psoas major muscle, runs to the left- second lumbar ganglion. 93. 93. Second radix, which the second lumbar nerve sends to the lumbar ganglion. 94. 97. Two radices of the second lumbar nerve, which, at , first, arc united into one trunk, 'which there agaii^ is di- vided , ' 98. 99. Iiito two surculi, composing the first lumbar gang-' lion, 100. 100. 100. Ramus, arising from the first left lulribal nerve that passed to the transvcrsalis abdominis. ' - 101. Ramus of the fii-gt Iumhar nerv’e, passing to inusculus quadratus of the loins. ‘ 102. Ramus,' which the'first lunibaracrve sends to the'psoas^ minor. ' * . 4 . , 103, 106. Nerve, anastomosing between the first and second' lumbar nerve. 117. 120. 122. Ramus cutaneus of the first lumbar nerve,r which expands in that part of the skin which covers the su-, premc and exterior region of the femur, where the tensor adheres to the fascia lata of the os-ilium, antl is extended' into the broad c.xpansion of the feniuii*.'' ' Y 123. Ramus( 82 ) IC3. Battjus of the firit lUifthar nerve, miprating to the first lumbar artery, which is expressly left out. 12?'. 128. 129. 150. 131. Nervus spennaticos externus of the left aide, which, as in Plate XXXVI. Fig. I. 86, to 95, runs partly to ^he uterus with the ligamentum rotun- dum i aaotber part carried through the abdominal ring, disappears in the skin of the mens venerus. 132. 14-0. 148. 14-9' 150. Ner\-c, anastomosing between the first and second left lumbar nerve. 162. 163. Rami of the second left lumbar nerve in the qua- dratus lumborum. 16-k 165. Ramus of the second left lumbar nerve, going to the quadratus of the loins. 166. 167. A cutaneous branch of the two left lumbar oerve. It runs obliquely under the external crus of the descendens muscle of the abdomen, externally; disappears in the cutis wliich covers the inguinal glands. 1^3. 1'69. 170. Muscular rami, which the second lumbar nerve sends to the major and minor psoas muscle. 171. 172. The external cutaneous nerve of the knee, arising from the second left lumbar nerve. 175. 176. 177. Rami of the second lumbar nerve, consumed in the psoas mjyor. 178. The obturator nerve. l79-180. First radix of the obturator nerve wliicli the second lumbar nerve exhibits. 181. 182. Second radix of the obturator nervCj arising from the third lumbar nerv'e. 183. Third radix, which the obturator nerve receives from the fourth lumbar nm-e. 184. The crural nerve. 185. First radix of the crural nerve, which the second lumbar oei-ve sends. 186. Second radix of the crural nerve, arising from the third lumbar nerve. 187. 187. Third radix, arising from the fourth lumbar inorvB. 188. 18^. A bramch of the crural nerve, migrating to the external iliac muscle. 190.191- Anastomosis, between the third and fourth lumbar nerve. 192. l^erve, arising from the seventh thoracic ganglion, im- planted in the fifth intercostal artery. 193. 19‘1'- Two nervous surcuU, arising from the seventh tho- racic ganglion, immediately 195. Are united into one trunk, which now 196. 197. Is expanded on the muscular coat ef the aorta. 198. Ramus, which the thoracic ganglion sends partly 199. To the-siKth intercostal artery, partly 200. To the aorta. 5^01. 202, An aortic branch, arising from the ninth thoracic ganglion. 803. Ramus aortic us, arising from the ninth thoracic gang- lion, which immediately is divided into two rami. 204. First, migrates to the aorta, 205. Second, is joined with 206. 206. Nerve, which arises from the twelfth thoracic ganglion; therefore, from the conjunction of these rami, 207. 208. 209. Arise three surculi, of which two, 207, and 208, are terminated in the muscular tunic of the aorta; but the third, 209, forms a beautiful anastomosis with the fourth left coeliac ganglion. ’ 210. 211. Anastomosis, between the tenth thoracic ganglion, and the eleventh intercostal nerve. 212. 213. Two surculi from the trunk of tlie great sympa- thetic, which 214. Uniting into one nerve, going to the ninth intercostal artery. T215. 216. 217. 218. Principal trunk of the thoracic nerve. 219- First radix of the principal visceral nerve, spring up from the trunk, 52, of the nervus sympathetic. 220. Second radix, which the principal visceral nerve re- ceives from the eighth thoracic ganglion, 43. 221. Tliird, which the ninth thoracic ganglion sends to the principal visceral nerve, 44. The visceral nerve now descends from the thorax into the Ab- domen, whether its passage be between the external and middle appendix of the diaphragm, or between the middle and internal appendix, or as often as there are only two appendices of the diaphragm between the e.xternal and in- ternal appendix. 222. i?82. to 226. Is dirldod into many rami, <(in this body into five) whkdi soon after unite, and swell into one of the coeliac ganglia. 227. 228. Trunk of the accessory sympathetic nerve, arising from the tenth tlioracic giinglion. 229. Anastomosis, between the principal fplanehnic and ac- cessory nerve. When the trunk of the accessory visceral nen^c migrates fitnm the cavity of the thorax,^ into the cavity of the abdoraea,* in the same manner as in tli« subject. 230. to 235. It separates into six surculi, which, like prin- cipal visceral nerves, are ibrmed into one or ofther cceliac ganglion. 286. 236. Radix singularis, Which the eleventh thoracic gangliun sends to the second loft ctnliac ganglion, 246. 237. 237. Posterior renal nerve, which is divided into two ramd. 238. The first forms an anastomosis, as under: 239. With the first left caliac ganglion, 244; > 240, With the renal ganglion; 241. With the renal ganglion. 242. 243. Second ramus of the posterior penal nervD, con- tributes to form the left renal ganglion.—^Thus, from the a’isceral uei’ves, the principal, 216. 217. 218. The secondary, 227, 228. Wit!( «3 ) 828. With nerve, 235, and, at length, from the left renal nerve, are formed, in the left side of the body, those which are called left cocliac ganglion, uncertain in number and siee. 244. First left c’oeliac ganglion. 245. Second, i 245. 'f'hird. 247. 247. Fourth. ^243. 248. Fifth. |245. Sixth. '250. Seventh. 251. Eighth. 1252. 252. Ninth. •253. Tenth. jj254. First nervus anastomoticus, Plate XXXVII. 12, be- I tween the tenth right, and fifth left ganglion, 248. hs5. Second anastomosing nerve, Plate XXXVII. 12, be- tween the tenth right, and fifth left, 243. ,i]856'. Anastomosis, between the right eleventh ganglion, Plate XXXVII. 12, and the nintb left ganglion, 252, and tenth. 253. 357. Eleventh left cccliac ganglion. 158. Twelfth left coeliac ganglion. 259. Left, and posterior portion of the ninth and tenth right cceliac ganglion ; from which arise llj*. The first radix of the phrenko-hepatie ganglion, Plate I XXXVII. liS. Second radix of the latter ganglion. 26 Tliird radix. 27. Ganglion phrcnico-hepatkum, which 3. y. Divides into two surculi j these immediately run into one trunk, 28. JO. 30. Ramus, arising from radix, 24, which afterwards I sends |U. A sureuWs to the nervous plexus, s'lrroatwiiog the com- mon trunk of the coronary, and left 'hepatic artery, like a ' net, joins itself with nerve 28, into ;l6o. One ramus, which is divided into two rami, vix. into one left supra-renal, and right hepatic, .»'l. 261. 26i. 26J. The supi-a-ineaal branch, carried on the left before the cardia, so as to terminate in the left s,wpra- rcixal gland- |5econd right hepatic ramus in this Plate XXXVIJI. cpuld not be well described; on that account we have sub- joined a better view of the same, in Plate XXXIX. marked 262, 263, 264. :2. Second principal ramus of the phrcnko-hcpalic ganglion, Plate XXXVII. 62. 263. Surculi, arising from the sixth left codiac gang- ' lion, 249, running to the left supra-renal glandula. 64. 265. 266*. Three surculi, cut off, scut to the, supia- i renal glandula by the third left caliuc gangh^n* 267. Nerve, anastomosing between the fourth left, and Mve&tk coeliac ganglion. 268. Phrenic surculus, sent by nerve, 2ff7j to the lumbar part of the diaphragm. 269. 269. Neiwe, anastomosing between the fourth left coeliac ganglion, and nerve, 209. 270. Phrenic nerve of the fourth cceliac ganglion, terminated by man^r surculi in tlie concave surface of the lumbar part ' of the diaphragm, but cut off. 271. 272. Anastomosis, between the fourth and fifth left coeliac ganglion. 273. Phrenic nerve, arising from the fourth left cceliac gang- lion. 274. 274. The hepatico-gastric nerve is elegant, and generates the fifth left coeliac ganglion.—From this nerve arise 275. 276. 277. 278. Four nervi phrenici, distributed on the concave surface of the diaphragm.—^'fhe nerve, 274, is divided into 279. 230. to 283. Five gastric and hepatic rami, which may be .seen beautifully delineated in Plate XXXIX. 284. Phrenic nerve of tire fifth left coeliac ganglion. 235. Nerve, anastomosing between the ccBliac ganglion of the right and left side. The gastric plexus i.s wonderfully composed from the con - course, principally of the loft ^00,%$ g^JUglia, and of the eighth pair. 8, Plexus, bepatkus, fornicd from the pediac ganglia, on the left side. 0!. The splenic plexus is constructed with greater simplicity, from which four lienai, or splenic surculi are sent off, j). 0. 7^. fi. Which are di.stinguisbed by the same numbers ia Plate XXXIX. although the situation of the vessels.— Hen.ce, also, the situation of the plexvis is a little disturbe yet it must be observed, that these plexuses adhere y.ery firmly to the arteries, and that they cannot be prepared but with the greatest care and patience. 286. Radix of the left eighth coeliac ganglion, migrating to the splenic plexus. 287. First radix of the splenic plexus, which the fifth and sixth M’t coeliac ganglia exhibit. 283. First radix of the splenic plexus, arising from the fifth cceliac ganglion. 2S9. Secoivd radix of the splenic plexus, which the fifth left coeliac ganglion sends off. 29G. Third radix of the splenic plexus, arising from the fifth coeliac ganglion. 291. Radix, which the left and posterior part of the ninth and tenth right coeliac ganglion, 259, sends off. 292. 293. Two radices of the splenic plexus, which arjse from the tenth left coeliac ganglion. 294. to 299. Pancreatic nerves on the right side from th« splenic plexus. 300. to 313. Splenic tierves, accompanying the splenic ar- tery. 314. Nervus 1( 84 ) 314. Nen’us pancrcaticn^ 315. to 320. Rami of the Splenic ncrvps, following the course of the left inferior coronary, and gastro-epiploic arteries. 321. to 337. Nerves of the splenic plexus, which, with the, rami, strictly so called, enter the splenic hilum. 338. to34'l. Nerves, which run to the fundus ventriculi, with the arteria brevis. «Br.' Plexus mescntericus superior, interwoven from the left cceliac ganglia. 95. First left renal ganglion. 96. Anastomosis of the first left renal ganglion, with the third right renal ganglion.—Plate XXXVL Figure I.—Plate XXXVII. lO-l. Second left renal ganglion. 1^3. Third. 342. Fourth. 343. Fifth. 344. Sixth. 352. Seventh. From the structure of the sixth and left seventh renal ganglia, arise 353. 353. The first anterior left renal nerve: this, and all the other anterior renal nerves, with rami of the renal ar- tery, run to the hilum, and thus to the anterior substance of the kidney. 354. Surculus, running from the sixth left renal ganglion to the i-enal capsule. 355. 355. 355. Second .anterior renal nerve of the sixth re- nal ganglion. 356. 356. 356. 356. Third anterior renal nerve of the sixtlr renal ganglion. 357. to 360. Three surculi, arising from the fifth left renal ganglion, which constitute one nerve, which is 361. 361. 361. 361. The fourth anterior renal nerve. 362. 362. 362. The fifth anterior renal nerve, 363. Anastomosis, between the first left lumbar ganglion, and the fifth left renal ganglion, 106. 107. A ncive of communication between the second renal ganglion, J04, and the eleventh left ccdiac gang- lion. 108. Anastomosis of this nerve, communicating with the left first renal ganglion. 109. Anastomosis, betw'cen the first left renal ganglion, 95, and the eleventh left coeliac ganglion, 257. 110. 111. Anastomosis, between the first left renal ganglion, 95, and the second, 104. 112. Anastomosis, between the first right renal ganglion, 254, and nerve, 110, 111.—Plate XXXVII. 113. Anastomosis, between nerve, 294, and nerve, 110, 111. —Plate XXXVII. J14. Nerve, anastomosing between the second left renal ganglion, and fourth, 342. 115. Nerve, anastomosing between the second lefi renal, ganglion, 104, and third, 105, 118. Second anastomosis, between ganglion, 104 and lf>5. 119. Nerve, anastomosing between the second left renal, and fourth renal ganglion, 124. Nerve, anastomosing between the third left renal gang- lion, and fourth left renal ganglion. 125. First left spermatic ganglion. 126. The second left spermatic ganglion. • 133. 134. Nerve, anastomosing between the first left sper- matic ganglion, and third left renal ganglion* 1J55. Nervus spcrmaticus primus, arising from nervus anas- tomoticus. 136. Second left spermatic nerve, arising from the first left spermatic ganglion, 137. Third left spermatic nerve, arising from the left sper- matic ganglion; immediately 138. 139. It,is divided i t two rami, 141. 142. Nerve, aiiastoinosing between the first right sper- matic ganglion,. 292,' and third left renal ganglion, 105. 143. 144. Nerve, anastomosing'between the first left sper- ; matic, 125, and fiftli lcft re ul ganglion, 343. 145. Anastomosis of nerve, 143, 144, with the third left renal ganglion, 105, 145. Anastomosis', 143, with nerve, 141, 142. 147. 147. Nerve, anastomosing between the first left sper- matic, 125, and first left lumbar ganglion. I 151. 152. Anastomotic nerves, arising by a common origin from the firet left spermatic ganglion, 125, and terminated in the fifth left renal ganglion, 343. 153. Anastomosis of the first left spermatic ganglion, with the second left spermatic ganglion, 125. 154. Anastomosis of the second spermatic ganglion, with the second left lumbar ganglion. 155. 155. 157. Three radices, by which, the first left sper- matic ganglion, 128, is-joined with the third spermatic ganglion, 140, Plate XXXVH. 158. Anastomosis of nerve, 306, arising from the first right spermatic ganglion, 292, Plate XXXVTI. ‘Vvith the second' left renal ganglion, 104. ' 159- First anastomosis of nerve, 306, with the third left renal iganglion, 105. 150. Second anastomosis of nerve, 506, with the third left renal ganglion. 151. Anastomosis of nerve, 305, with nerve, 134, Pl^te XXXVII. 354. Ramus, which contributes to form the inferior meseiw teric plexus.—Plate XXXVII. 173.174. Rami hypogastrici, which the second left spermatic ganglion, 175, sends off. ' 365. 355. Anastomosis, between the first and second left.) lumbar ganglion; from this anastomosis is given j 366. A surculus A( 85 ) I 3{)6. A surculus to the aorta, 367., Second surculus of nerve, 365, distributed in the mus- ^ cular membrane of the third lumbar artery. 368. 368. Radix, by the third lumbar nerw, to form 36jl. 370. Atiastomosis, with the second lumbar ganglion, ^ and 371. 371. With the fourth lumbar ganglion. From nerve, 371, 372, 373. two surculi, running to the m, aorta. . ^ , ♦ ' V 37-i. 374. Kervus anastomosis, between the fourth left lum- bar ganglion, and nerve, 19O, lyi. 375. Nerve of the fourth le^t lumbar ganglion, which ac- companies the fifth lumbar artery. 376. Radix, which the fourth lumbar sends to the fourth lumbar ganglion. 377- Radix, arising from the fourth lumbar nerve, running to the trunk of the great sympathetic nerve, 60. 378. 379. 380. 381. Four radices collected into 38'2. One, which runs to the trunk of the great sympathetic nerve. 383. 384. Two radices, which run from the fifth left lumbar tierve, and unite together, forming the following, 385. Which constitutes the fifth left lumbar ganglion. 386. 387. 388. Three radices of the fifth left lumbar nerve, which, r 389- Running into one, Plate XXXVI. Fig. II. 5, form the fifth left lumbar ganglion. ^90. Anastamosis, between nerve 387, and 61. 391.392. 393. Arterious surculi, migrating to rami of the hypogastric artery. * Surculus, proceeding to rami of the hypogastric artery.— Plate XXXVT. Fig. II. 4. 322. &c. &c. Ramus hypogastricus of the first lumbar ac- cessory ganglion, 316, Plate XXXVII. which, after forming the plexus, called Hypogastric, joins with the fourth left lumbar ganglion, 49. $. Ramus anastomosis of nerve, 322, by which the nervus sympathetic magnus of the right side behind the aorta, a little above the origin of the inferior mesenteric artery, is joined I with the great sympathetic of the left side. :323. Arterious surculus of the hypogastric ramus, implanted in the inter-lumbar artery.—Plate XXXVI. Fig. I. |j324. Anastomosis of hypogastric branch, with nerve, 117, i Plate XXXVI. Fig. I. ; [345. 345. Radices, arising from the trunk of the great sym- / pathetic nerve of the right side. 179, 130, Plate XXXVI. il Fig. 1. which compose 346. 347. 347. The communicating nerve, by which the great sympathetic of the right side, between tire fourth and fifth vertebra of the loins, behind the iliac arteries, is joined "with the sympathetic of the left side. No. 60. 348. 349. 350. Radices, arising from the fifth right lumbar J ganglion, Plate XXXVI. Fig. I. which ‘ 351. Flow into one nerve, anastomosing with the trunk of thg groat sympathetic of the left side, which, tliea by an ele.- gant anastomik^is, is joined with the trunk of the great sympathetic of the left side.—Plate XXXVI. Fig. I. and Plate XXXVi. Fig. II. 358. Anastomosis, between nerves, 348, .349, 350, 354, 355, Plate XXXVI. Fig. I. and Plate XXXVI. Fig. II. 394. Trunk of the nerv'e of the eight pair, or par vagum. 395. 395, Left recurrent nerve of the eighth pair. 396. 397. 398. 400. Rami of the left cardiac nerve of the eight pai^. 401. to 405. Rami oesopha^ei superiores of the eighth pair* 406. First pulmonary nerve. 407. to 409. Divided into three surculi. 410. Second pulmonary nerve, 415. 416. Divided into two rami, 417* Anastomosis, between the second and third pulmonary nerve. 418. Fourth pulmonary nerve, 419- to 423. Divided into five surculi. 424. Fifth pulmonary nerve. 425. Anastomosis, between the fifth and third pulmonary nerves. 426. Sixth pulmonary nerve. 427. Seventh pulmonary nerve, 428.429. Dividing into two rami. These seven pulmonary nerves also come under the denomi- nation of the pulmonary plexus. When the eighth pair emits these pulmonary nerves, it is di- vided into many rami, in this subject. 430. to 432. Three remarkable rami are reckoned. 433. QEsophageal branch of nerve, 432. Ramus of the eighth pair, 432, is the largest, which must be reckoned as a trunk of the left par vagum. 434. First anastomoses with ramus, 431, it passes before the oesopha|us, and then unites with ramus, 431, and rami of the par vagum, of the right side, 435. to 436. Two surculi, rather anterior of the eighth paii', drawn to the right side before the oesophagus. 437. First anastomosis of ramus, 435, of the right par vagum, with ramus, 432, of the left eighth pair. 438. Second anastomosis of ramus, 435, with ramus, 432. 439. Anastojnosis of a ramus of the right par vagum, 436, with a nerve of the right par vagum, 435. 440. Anastomosis of ramus, 436, with ramus, 432. 441. Gangliolum oesophageum, which is formed by ramus, I, 435, from which run 442. to 445. Four surculi ocsophagei. 446. Ramus oesophageus of nerve, 432. 447. 448. Rami cesophagei of a nerve of the right eighth pair, 456. Z 449. Second( 86 ) 4 VQ. Second anastomosis of nerve, 432, with nerve, 4-31. 450. Third anastomosis of nerve, 432, with nerve, 431. 451. Fourth anastomosis of nerve, 432, with nerve. 431. 4.52. to 455. Surculi oesophagei of nerve, 431. When nerve, 32, as the trunk of the left par vagum has made so many anastomoses with the par vagum of the right side, and with the other rami of the left par vagum; then it passes through the sphincter oesophagei, from the thorax into the abdomen, and becomes 456’. The anJ#;rior trunk of a plexus of nerves of the stomach and liver. ^ 457. First anastomosis of nerve, 431, with 430, from which run 458. A surculus on the oesophagus. 459. Second anastomosis of nerve, 431, with nerve, 430. 460. 460.; Rami oesophagei of nerve 431. 461. 461. Ramus of the right par vagum, conveyed down from the right cavity of the thorax into the left. 462. 462. 463. Two surculi of the right par vagum, 164. 464. See. Running into one large branch, which, behind the oesophagus, as trunk of the right par vagum, is carried from the right cavity into the left, where this, andhicrve, 461, form various anastomose with rami of the left par vagum. Nerve, 461,, is divided into two rami'i^. 465. The first is almost aortic; for it distributes 466. dic. The first surculus to the membrane of the aorta. 467. Second aortic surculus.. 468. Third. 4(19. Fourtli. 470. Fifth. Resides the aortic rami, 471. .A surculus runs from nerve, 462, which 472. Forms an anastomosis, with 431. 473. Disappears in the oesophagus. ^ 474. Tlie second ramus of nerve, 46l, is bifid, of which 475. One part separates into two anastomotic sureuli>. 476. 476. With a trunk of nerve, 464,. and 477. With nerve,.430. 478. Another migrates to the ganglion ccsophageum, 479. Having before made an anastomosis with nerve, 430., 480. 48. Anastomosis, between nerve, 430, and 464., 481. Ramus of nerve, 430,' running to the ganglion oeso- phageum. Thus, from three rami, 431, 478, and 481, is composed ' 482. The ganglion oesophageum, which 483. 484. 485. Gives three rami to the oesophagus. * When nerve, 430, has sent out the rami, mentioned above, it is joined w(jth the trunk of the right eighth pair, 464; so that after it has penetrated through the sphincter of the diaphragm, it becomes 486. The posterior trunl? of the rami of the stomach an liver; or, as we usually say, the posterior trunk of the plexus of the .ventriculus and liver.—Tlic trunk, thus formed, is divided into two^rincipal rami. 487. The first ramus immediately divides into two surculi. 488. Sec. The former is inserted into the left tenth coeliac ganglion, 253, and emits 439. The gastric anastomosing branch. 490. The ofiicr ramus of nerve, 487, is gastric. 491. 492. Which divides into two surculi, of which the one, marked 492, anastomoses with nerve, 49O.—At length one of tlie rami 493. to 496. Is terminated in the posterior surface of the cardia. 4^7. Second ramus of the posterior trunk, 486, is sub- divided into five rami. 498. The first is gastric ; this, after anastomosing 499. With nerve, 490, is finished 500. 501. In the posterior surface by two surculi. 502. Second anterior ramus of nerve, 497, is gastric, which is distributed in the anterior surface of the cardia. 503. 503. Third ramus of the Second branch of the posterior trunk, 486, is divided into 504. The posterior gastric ramus, terminated in the posterior surface of the superior curvature of the ventricle, and into 505. Ramus hepatico-gastricus.—The ramus hepatico-gas> tricus is divided into 506. 506. The ascentling hepatic ramus, which,, as Plate XXXIX. demonstrates, is terminated in the hepatic ple.xus, and 507. 507. Descending gastricus, which accompanying the left superior coronary artery, runs to the superior ora of the ventricle. 508. 509. Fourth .and fifth ramus of nerve, 497, contribute 1 oform the gastric plexus. '•j'lArA^L^\XXXlX. Schc/a c/ A/s^’na J/ci/zarut' z? (7a(Rcw/^C 87 } 'PLATE XXXIX. Plate XXXIX. represents the Nerves of the Liver and Stomach, composed by the conflux of the right and left cceliac ganglia, which could not be so well ex- pressed in Plate XXXVI. XXXVII. & XXXVIII. A. A. A. Inferior surface of the right lobe of the liver. B. B. B. Inferior surface of the left lote of the liver, drawn upwards, and a little backwards. C. C. C. Lobus quadratus of the liver. D. Posterior, or spigelian lobe of the liver. E. E. The gall-bladder. F. Ductus c}’sticus. G. Ductus hepaticus. H. Ductus cholodoctius. I. I. Ligamentuni rotundum, or round ligament of the liver. K.*K. The broad ligament of the liver. I L. L. The pancreas. M. M. The stomach. N. N. Fundus ventriculi. O. Pylorus. I i P. Cardia. - j Q. Q. Intestinum duodenum. R. R. R. R. Portion of the omentum majus. S. S. Portion of the omentum minus. T. T. T. Part of the lumbar diaphragm. V. Left superior orifice of the diaphragm, or sphincter of the oesophagus. X. Vena cava. V i Y. Y. Trunk of the vena portarum. i Z. Right hepatic artery, which almost always arises from the I aorta in a trunk, common with the left hepatic artery. , a. a. a. The cystic artery, b. b. Right superior coronary artery. I c. c. c. c. Right inferior coronary artery, or arteria gastro- epiploica dextra. d.. Trunk of the left arteria gastro epiploica, cut off. f. Truncus communis of the left hepatic, and left superior coronary arteries. . g. The left hepatic artery. ^ h. The cardiac artery, arising from the left hepatic. i. Ramus stomachicus, which the left hepatic arterv sends oftl k., Arteria coronaria sinistra superior. l. 1. 1, Rami of the left coronary artery, which tend to the posterior surface of the stomach. m. m. m. m. Branches, distributed in the anterior surface of the stomach. o. o. The splenic artery. ' p. The pancreatic artery. q. The mesenteric artery. 247. Fourth, and left coeliac ganglion. 248 Fifth left coeliac ganglion. ’ 249. The sixth. 250. The seventh. 252. &c. 253. &c. 26. Third radi.x of the ganglion phrenico-hepaticum.—Plate XXXVTI. & XXXVIII. S'. Trunculus communis, 24, and 25, of the radices of the ganglion phrenico-hepaticum. Plate XXXVII. and XXXVIIL 27. Ganglion phrenico-hepaticum, which |3. 7. Divides into two surculi. Plate XXXVII. and XXXVIIL 30. 30. Ramus, arising from radices, 24, which afterwards sends ^ 31. A surculus to the nervous plexus, comprehending the truncus communis of the coronary_ and left hepatic artery like 'a net, and joins itself with nerve, 28, Plate XX.X.VHL into 260. 260. One-ramus, which is divided into two rami, viz. the left supra-renal, and right hepatic ramus. 261. 261. 261. Ramus supra-renalis, running to the left bc- fore the cardia, so that it is at length terminated in the left supra-renal glandula.—Plate XXXVIIL 262. 263. 264. Second right hepatic ramus, carried to the left side of the liver, with the left hepatic artery. 32. Second principal ramus of the ganglion phrenico-hepatr- cum.—Plate XXXVTI. Themervesof the liver are best divided into the right and left; but the nerves of the ventricle are not so, for this receives its principal nerves, in the left side, from the left coeliac nerve, and the eighth pair. First, therefore, I will explain the left hepatic, and sto- machic nerves; tlien the hepatic and right stomachic nerves will be explained.—Most of the nerves of the liver and stomach arise from the gastric and hepatic ple.xus; yet there are some solitary trunks, which very frequently anas- tomose( 88 } inose with the above-mentioned plexus, hut are in a pe- culiar situation with respect to the liver and stomach. 456’. 456. Anterior trunk of the I6ft nerve of the eighth pair, 32, Plate XXXVIII. is the principal nerve of the left nerves of the liver and stomach. Their rami may be best divided into the ascending hepatic, and descending sto- machic rami. ‘ 1. 2. 3. Cardiac nerves, arising from the trunk, 256. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. 9. 10. 11. 12. 13. 14. 15. l6. 17. 18. 19. 20. Rami of a nerve of the eighth pair, 256, which nan to the fundus ventriculi. 21. 22. 23. 24. 25. 26. to 41. Rami of the eighth pair, 456, which migrates to the body, and superior arch of the stomach. 42. First ramus ascendens, or hepaticus of the nerve of the eighth pair, 456, is divided into two surculi, of which 43. One disappears in the nervous plexus, which embraces the left hepatic artery. 44. -14. The other hepatic ramus of nerve, 42, forms an anas- tomosis with the third ramus, and ascendens hepaticus. 45. Second ramus ascendens, or hepaticus of the par vagum, 456, sends off 46. 47. 4S. 49. Four nerves; the first nerve, 46, after- wards makes two. 50. 51. Anastomoses with the ramus of the left great sym- pathetic nerve, 283, and divides into two surculi. 52. The first surculus, in running upwards to the liver, is increased 53. 54. 54. By ramus, which the nervus plexus sends off, comprehending the left hepatic artery. 59. 60.’.6l. 62. 63. Unite in the hepatic plexus by many surculi, and arc thus terminated in the liver. 64. 65. Second ramus of nerve, 46, descends, anastomosing with nerve, 66. Becomes the stomachic, and 67. 68. to 79- Is terminated in the ventricle. The second nerve, 47, of the second ramus ascendens, or hepaticus, 45. 80. Anastomoses with nerve, 64, 65; and makes 81. 81. Another anastomosis with the stomachic nerve : 82. 82. It has a third anastomosis with nerve 53, 54. The third, 48, and fourth, 49, nerve of the second ramus as- cendens, or hepaticus, 45, partly 83. Increase the left plexus nervosus hepaticus, 84. Are inserted into the stomachic nerve. 85. Third nervus ascendens, or of nerves of the eighth pair, 456, 86. 87. Is inserted into nerve, 281,282, and 88. Into nerve, 283. 274. Trunk of the nervus hepatico-gastricus, which the fifth leftcceliac ganglion forms, 248, Plate XXXVllI. 279- 279- First ramps of the nervus hfepatico-gastric, terv minated in the superior part of the fundus ventriculi. 280. Second ramus of the nervus hepatico-gastricus cardiac 281. 2S2. Tliird and fourth ramus of nervus hepatico-gastri- cus, 274, and immediately run iuto 89. One nerve, which 90. Sends to the cardiac 91. 91" I hc first ramus anastomotiens with nerve, 283, 92. Second ran-.us anastomoticus; at length nerve, 89, 93. Is inserted into the nervous plexu§, which enci'^es the left hepatic artery. 283. 283. 283. 283. Fifth ramus of nervus hepatico-gastri- cus, 274. This nerve exhibits various rami, viz. 94. 94. 94. 9-1- The gastric nerve that is lost in the fundus ventriculi. 95. 95. The nerve, anastomosing with the anterior trunk of the left eighth pair, 456 ; nerve, anastomosing with 92 88, 50, .51,—After these conjunctions, the nerve, 283, sends oft’ 96. 97- Rami, inserted'into the left hepatic plexus: at length, nervus, 283, is inserted 98. 98. 98, Into the descending hepatico-gastric ramus ; but this arises from the left hepatic plexus. ^ 99- 99- 99- See. 100. 100. &c. &c. It is terminated in tli? superior arch of the stomach, after it has sent oft’ 101. lOl. 101. The nerve, communicating with the left he- patic plexus, and makes anastomosis with the nerves, 81, 6'4, 65. From the plexus gastricus, the following gastric nerves arise't 102. The first gastric nerve, which is augmented by a re- markable surculus, coming from nerve 81, 104. 104. Sic. &c. &c. Sic. Finishes in the superior arch, and anterior surface of the stomach. 105. See. Sic. Sic. Second nervus stomaticus, formed by the gastric plexus. 106. “^ 106. 106. 106. Third nervus stomachicus, tending to the posteiior surface of the stomach, which the plexus stomachicus sends off. 107. 107. 107. Fourth nervus stomachicus, migrating to its posterior surface of the 108. Sic. Sic. 109. Sic. Sic. Fifth stomachic nerve, arising from the stomachic plexus, 505. Ramus hepatico-gastric, from the posterior trunk of the plexus ventriculi, 486, Plate X XXVIII. 506. 110. 111. Ramus ascendens hepaticus of nerve, 505> terminating in the left hepatic plexus. 507. 112. 113. 113. 113. Ramus descendens, which is joined by anastomosis, with ramus, 109, and thus running to the superior arch of the stomach, is terminated on both sides of the stomach. ' 488. 488, Ramus prior of the first branch of the trunk of the( 89 ) the eighth pair, 4S6, Plate XXXVI. inserted into the tenth left coeliac ganglion, 253. 4-89. 4-8.9. 489. Another anastomotic gastric branch of the ramus, prior of the trunk of the eighth pair, 486, Plate XXXVIII. 287. Radix of the splenic plexus, which the fifth and sixth leftcoeliac plexus^forms.—Plate XXXVIII. 28S. First radix of the splenic plexus, arising from the left cceliac ganglion.—Plate XXXVIII. 289. Second radix of the splenic plexus, which the fifth left codiac ganglion sends forth.—Plate XXXVIII. 290. Third radix of the lienal plexus, arising from the left coeliac ganglion. 291. Radix, which the left posterior part of the ninth and tenth right coeliac ganglion sends.—Plate XXX VIII. o. o. Plexus splenicus, from which V. 0. f*. Four lienal surculi pass off.—Plate XXXVIII. 114. &c. to 16. Anterior pancreatic nerves, jirising from the splenic plexus. S. 8. 8. The right hepatic plexus, formed by ganglions of the right and left side; from this the liver, gall-bladder, stomach duodenum, and pancreas, receive nerves. The duodenal nerves of the pancreas, and stomach, are des- cending rami of the hepatic jilexus ; the hepatic nerves, and those of the gall-bladder, are ascending rami. 117. 117. First duodenal ramus, which the right hepatic plexus exhibits. , 118. 118. The second duodenal ramus of the right hepatic plexus. 119. 119. 119. The third duodenal ramus of the right he- patic plexus. 120. 120. 120. 120. The fourth duodenal ramus of the right hepatic plexus. 121. 121. Two surculi, arising from the hepatic plexus, which are 123. 123. Contracte<l into one nerve, and thus create the single fifth duodenal nerve. 124. 124. Sixth duodenal nerve of the right hepatic plexus. 125. 12s. 125. 125. First right pancreatic nerve,^ arising from the right hepatic plexus. 126. 126. Second right pancreatic nerve of the riglit hepatic plexus. 127. 123. Third and ftnirth right pancreatic nerve. 129. A nerve, which, with the superior right coronary artery, runs partly 130. 130. To the commencement of the duodenum, and partly by No. 131, towards ihc pylorus. 132. to 143. The right nervi gastro-cplploid, arising frorn the right hepatic plexus.—These nerves follow the course of the coronary artery, and in various ways, form anasto- moses, 144. 145. Posterior, and inferior pyloric nerves. 146. A nerve, arising from the gastro-epiploici nerves, and distributed in the anterior surface of the antrum pylori. 147. 147, First omental nerve. 148. The second. 149. 149. Third. 150. Fourth. 151. Fifth omental nerve.—All these nerves spread over the greatest part of the omentum, accompanied by the omen- tal arteries ; yet they send off' a very minute surculus to the omentum, strictly so called; but they all disappear in the coat of the omental arteries. 152. to 154. Rami of the gastro-epiploicus nerve, which are terminated in tlie Inferior margin of the stomach. 55. 56. 57. Three elegant trunks, arising from the' right coeliac ganglia, Plate XXXVII. which augment the hepatic plexus. 58. 58. Fourth hepatic nerve, Plate XXXVII. arising be- tween the aorta and vena cava, a little from the left by the vena cava, it is covered, then ascending, it so proceeds to the liver, that, after uniting with the hepatic ramus, composed of the 55, and 57 ramus, it is terminated in the hepatic plexus. From this hepatic plexus the nerves arise,, which migrate to the ductus choledochus, to the ductus cysticus, to the gall- bladder, to the hepatic ductus, and even to the liver itself. 155. 155. 155. Nerves, implanted in the ductus choiedochus. 156. to 159- Nerves, which are distributed on the c}'stic duct. ' __ 160. 160. Nervus cysticus, whiclndisappears in the muscular coat of the arteria cystica, which it accompanies, 161. la 166. Nervi cystici, consumed in the gall-bladder. 167. 16s. Nerves,, disappearing in the hepatic duct. 169, 170. to 182. Hepatic nerves, accompanied, partly by the artcria hepatica, partly by the vena portarum to the substance of the liver; and the name of posterior hepatic nerves is-mostly given to those nervous surculi, which go to the liver with the vena portarum. lu the right and left hepatic plexus, and in its anterior and posterior rami. 183. 184. 185. to 188. Hepatic gaurglia are observable,, o£ uncertain form, size, and number.T ( 90 ) PLATE XL. Of the Thorax' and Kame and Situation. 1. Theis a cartilaginous tube, situated behind the tongue. 2. The intcrnaljugular rein, is a branch of the superior vena cava. 3. The subclavian vein, situated under the clavicles. * 4. The vena cava descendens, is divided into superior and inferior. 5. The right, or anterior auricle of the heart, a muscular sac, opening into the right ventricle. 6. The right ventricle of the heart, is the • anterior cavity of the.heart. 7. A portion of the hft ventricle, in the posterior part of the heart. 8. The aorta descendens, makes an arch from the right ventricle of the heart, towards the vertebrae of the back, descends into the abdomen, and is di- vided into the iliacs. 9. The pulmonarj/ artery, from the right ventricle of the heart, is divided into the right and left branch. 10. The right lobe of the lungs, a portion of it off, to shew the larger vessels ; ,the right is the larger, and is divided into three lesser lobes, and these again into innumerable ones. 1 r. The left lobe of the lungs, is di\ ideJ into two lobes. 12. 'T\\c diaphragm, is a transverse sep- tum below the lungs, its superior sur- face is covered by the pleura ; its in- ferior by the peritoneum. 13. The latr, is a great viscus in the right hypochondrium, and somewhat in the epigastric region. 14. The ligamentum rotundum. 15. The gall-bladder, oblong, pyriform, in the inferior part of the liver; 16. The vtnlriculus, orAYomaeA,ispressed by the liver to the left side. It is a large cavity between the liver and spleen. 17. The small intestines in the middle of the abdomen: they arc the duodc- rmm, jejunum, ileum ; all which are connected and regulated by the me- sentery : the large intestines are the coecum, colon, and rectum. Structure, Connection, &c. It consists of live cartilages, and various, muscles. The internal jugular veins begin from the foramina lacera of the cranium. They terminate in the superior vena cava. Receives the subclavian, external, and intcrnaljugular veins, and the vena azygos. The structure is membranous; there are two valves, called Mitral Valves, an- nexed to it. The heart is divided into right and left ventricle by a carneous substance, called tjie Septum. This ventricle is stronger than the right. The arch of the aorta gives off: 1. The arteria innominata. 2. The left carotid. 3. The left subclavian. Is distributed into innumerable branches and ramuli of a net-like figure into the pulmonary vesicles. The. lungs are connected with the ster num and vertebra, by meaps of the mediastinum, with the heart by the pulmonary vessels, with the arteria aspera. The substance consists merely of small vesicles, and various vessels. Its substance is muscular, tendinous; it is connected with the sternum, spuri- ous ribs, pericardium, mediastinum, liver, and lumbar vertebrm. The substance is vascular ; the interior membrane of the liver, which invests the whole substance, is fr^m the peri- toneum. Becomes tendinous in the adult. Consists of several coats, common, vas- cular, muscular, and nervous. Is connected with the a'sophagus, omen- tum, spleen, the left orifice, called Cardin, is annexed to the diaphragm ; tlie right pylorus to the duodenum. 1. The duodenum is in length equal to the breadth of twelve fingers. 2. The jejunum fifteen spans, situated in the umbilical region. 3. The ileum twenty spans long, in the hypogastric region. Abdomen. Use. Is the organ of speech, and serves for re.spiration. They receive the blood from the sinuses of the cerebrum, cerebellum, &c. Convey the blood into the vena cava as- cendeiis. Sends the blood into the right auricle of the heart. By this auricle, the blood enters the right ventricle of the heart. The right ventricle receives the blood carried through the vena cava, and sends it into the lungs. From it the blood is propelled through the aorta and arteries all over the body. 1. Gives off the subclavian and right carotid. 2. From thence the external and inter- nal carotids. 3. The subclavian gives off the submax- illary. This artery carries the blood through the whole substance of the lungs, to alter and prepare it. 1. Respiration, by which the blood is mi.\ed,and altered. 2. Serves for the voice. 3. 1 he sense of smelling. 4. Expels the noxious particles of blood. Its use is similar to that of the right lobe. It sustains the lungs, and is essential to respiration; it also excites motion and pressure on the intestines. The liver secretes the bile. The hepatic duct unites with the cystic duct, and becomes the ductus choledochus. Sustains the liver in its situation. Collects the bile into the duodenum, through tlic cystic diict. The stomach receives, retains, digests, prepares the food, dilutes it with the gastric juice, and sends it through the duodenum to the intestines. The aliments are mixed in the duodenum with the bile and pancreatic juice. 2. Tliis is mostly empty, on account of the vivid action of the lacteals. 3. Contains an infinite number of lac- ' teals, absorbs the chyle, and sends it off to the u'xser.teric glands. ' 18, Thcsp/cf/j.Scho^tX his‘torui^\fe^{tcuuv a Iabvla.xl .fc/u'/<r Medirini^n- Gitniewlr^( S‘ ) PLATE XLI. On the Abdomen. Name and Situation. 1. The inferior part of the liver : covers the duodenum, pancreas, &c. 2. The round ligament. S. Vesicula bilis, or gall-bladder. 4. Pancreas is a great smooth gland, be- hind the stomach, extending from the duodenum towards the lien, or spleen. 5. Lien, spleen, is a viscus in the left hy- pochondrium, near the bottom of the stomach, covered by the ribs. 6. Renes, kidneys; behind the sac of the peritoneum, in the loins, round the bo- ■ dies of the superior lumbar vertebrae. 7. The aorta. From the arch to the diaphragm, it gives the following branches: Structure, Connection, d^c. Its superior surface is convex; inferior concave. Connects the liver to the umbilicus. On the under side of the liver. Substance is glandulous. It is connected with the duodenum, mesentery, splenic vessels, and spleen. Substance: cellulous, vascular. Connexion with the stomach, pahereas, di- aphragm, and left kidney. Substance is firm and hard. 1. Exterior, cortical. 2. Interior, tubulous. 1. Bronchial; 2. oesophageal; 3. eight inferior intercostal; 4. four diaphrag- matic arteries. In the abdomen, and below it, gives 8. Vena cava ascendens, vel inferior; the rami, or branches, are: 9. Vena emu!gens; right and left; are I inserted into the trunk of the vena cava. 10. The spermatic arteries arise from the aorta; the right vein is emptied into ' the vena cava. 11. Ureters; two canals, which terminate in the vesica urinaria. 12. The iliac vessels; arise from the : aorta, and about the last vertebra of the loins, are divided into two rami. !i3. Infestinum rectum; begins from the colon to the lowest vertebta of the . loins ; and terminates in ano. I 14. Vesica urinaria, or urine bladder; ] situated in the pelvis; the two ureters 1 carry the urine from the kidneys ; but the bladder discharges' it at proper periods through the penis. 1. Cceliac artery; 2. superior mesenteric; 3. renal; 4. spermatic; 5. inferior mesaraica; 6. lumbar; 7. sacral; 8. iliac. The branches pass 1. Hepatic; 2. renal; 3. right sperma- tic ; 4. lumbar ; 5. sacral ; 6’. iliac veins. They are divided near the kidneys into two, three, four, or five rami. j They pass down into the testes, divide into many small branches, terminating in tubuli testis, and spermatic veins. Substance is membranous. The size of a large quill. 1. Internal, commonly called Hupogas- trica, and Hocmorrhoidalis E.denia, 2. External, whence epigastric ; 2. pu- • denda; 3. external, and internal era- ralis. The intestinum rectum is annexed to the os sacrum, coccygix, and bladder in men; but in women, to the vagina uteri. I. It is connected with the os pubis by the peritonaeum; 2. with the parts of generation by the urethra; 3. with the umbilicus by the urachus and umbilical arteries; 4. in the males, it coheres with the intestinum rectum ; in wo- men, with the vagina uteri. j Use, Receives the}b)ood of the vena portarum, and separates the bile from it. ’ ^ Strengthens the liver in the adult. Receives the bile. Separates the pancreatic juice, which serves to attenuate the chyle, being similar to saliva. It receives much blood, as is evident by its vessels: authors, as yet, arc not agreed on its use. To secrete the urine in its pelvis for de- purating the blood, and to convey it by the ureters to the bladder. 1. They run to the vesiculae pulmonales; 2. to the oesophagus; 3. to tlie eight ribs to the sternum; 4. to the dia- phragm. ' 1. To the stomach, liver, spleen ; 2. in- testinum jejunum, ccecum, colon; 3. kidneys ; 4. testicles ; 5. colon, intes- tinum rectOm ; 6. loins and abdomen; 7. near the os sacrum ; 8. to the legs. Receive all the blood returning from the abdomen, and inferior extremities. They return the blood from the kidneys to the vena cava. They carry the blood to the testes. The left vein flows into the emulgent. They' catry the secreted urine to the ve- sica urinaria, or bladder. They proceed towards the bladder, rec- tum, parts of generation, nates, &c. 1. Goes through the musculus rectus to the mammas; 2. to the pudenda; 3. to the crura, and feet. The rectum is surrounded with much fat, that in the excretion of the fascesj it may be easily dilated. Destined to collect and expel the urine; 1. by its retaining, and'2. by its mus- cular expulsive powers, through the urethra; which action is called, voiding of urine.PLATE XLir. Figure 1. THE THREE TUNICS OF TIIEJ.YE TAKEN AAV AY FROM THE ONE SIDE, TO SHEW THE HUMORS IN THEIR NATURAL SITUATION. a. The oj)tic nerve. l>. The three tunics cf the eye re- flected. c. The vitreous humour, d. The crystalline lens. e. 'f he retina lying under the viterous humour, f. The an- terior termination of the retina, g. The posterior striated part oj the ciliary body. /i. Folds of the ciliary processes, resembling white rays. i. A place where, from both sides of the lens, white rays appear distant from the lens. k. The pupil conspicuous through the pellucid lens. Figiti'c II. Arteries of the eye. A. The superior palpebra. B. The superior oblique mus- cle with the trt)chlca. C. The adducent muscle. D. The depressor iruscle. F,. The abducent muscle. F. The ante- rior {>ar{ of the attollens muscle cut off.'' G. The lachrymal gland. II. The bulb of the eye. I. The circumference of tho cornea. K. The optic nerve. L. The first branch of a nerve of the fifth pair cut off. a. The ophthalmic artery. b. Rainuli of the optic nerve to the duramaterjn the fora- men opiicum. c. Small accessory arteries with the first branch of the fifth pair of nerves, arising from the meningeal, and inserted into the lachrynal branch, d. The lachrymal branch, e. Hamuli to the abducent muscle, f. Very thin ciliary arteries, arising from the lachrymal, and ending in the sclerotic, g. The inferior muscular branch, h. A larger branch of it, from which arises the central arteiy, covered by the optic nerve, &c. i. The interior, inferior ciliary. k. A branch of the adducent, and inferior oblique muscle. l. branch of the depressor muscle, m. The exterior ciliary muscle, n, thinner branch of it, which is principally dispersed over the surface of the sclerotica, o. Ciliary surculi, perforating the sclerotica, p. A surculus to the sclerotica, q. The arteiial circle around the passage of the optic nerve, through the thick part of the sclerotica, r. A branch tt> the attollent muscle cut off. s. Hamuli of the optic nerve to the dura mater, t. The supra-orbital branch, 'accompanying tho IVonlal nerve, u. 'i’he posterior ethmoid artery. x. \ branch of the superior oblique muscle. p: A branch of the superior oblique muscle. z. The anterior ethmoid artery. 1. A trunlt below the trochlea, emerging from the orbit, and divided into palpebral, and other anterior rami., il. 2, 2. Ramuli, with the recti mus- cles of the eye, which go off near the cornea into 3. 3. 3. anlcrioc ciliary arteriolai, perforating tlie sclerotica.. Figure 111. THE LONG. AND SHORT CILIARY ARTERIES. CIRCLE OF THE IRIS. u. Sclerotica reflected., b. b. Two long ciliary arteriolre. c. c. Two large rami, into which every long artcriola is di- varicated. c/. d. d. Ramuli, springing out of each branch of the bifurcation, and going to the interior circle, e. e. The ■ i interior circle. This is duplex in some places, g-g-g. ! The anterior ciliary arteries, inserted into the interior circle." k. h. h. Short ciliary arteries, i, i. i, A mutual anastomosis j between them behind the ciliary orbiculus. k.k. Surculi,'; going into the circle of the iris. l.L The small arteries ofjii the iris. m. m. Arches, by which they are joined about theuj lesser annulus of the iris. n. Surculi, going from thosc;|! arches towards the pupil, ^ . I Figure IV. * j THE FABRIC OF THE IRIS, AND SMALL CILIAB j NERVES. I I a. '1 he optic nerve, b. The sclerotic, reflected, c. Other large ciliary nerves, anteriorly divided into branches. A Other less branches, scarcely large enough to ramify, c. c. 'Fwo large venous vessels. J\ A foramen in the sclerotica, through which passes the venous vessel, g. The least venous vessel, k. The ciliary orbiculus. i. The great annulus of j the iris. k. The parallel serpentine fibres of the iris. | /. Larger fibres, joined together by curvations, the 1 greater number of which constitute the lesser circle of the , iris. ??t. The interior smaller annulus of the iris. n. Straight J fibres from the conve.xiiy of the arches going to the pupil. • 0. The pupil. Figure V. THE SMALL VEINS OF THE CHOROIDES, AND IRIS.. a. The vagina of the optic nerve, cut from the dura maler, and reflected, b. Tlie optic nerve, c. The central venula running on the surface of the nerve, and lost near the eye in the substance of the nerve. d. d. d. d. Four reflected i angles of the sclerotica, c. e. c. Angles of the cornea. f. f. f. The black circulus which distinguishes the cornea i from the ^^sclerotica. g. g. g. Small foramina of the scle- 1 rotica near the cornea, for the passage cf the anterior ciliary vessels, arteries, and veins, k. Larger foramen, for \ the vorticose vessel, i. Two larger vorticose vessels from the other side, divided into many ramuli. k. Ramuli, running backwards, some of which meet. /. /. With the posterior ciliary vciiuhe perforating the sclerotica near the insertion of the optic nerve. 7ii. Anterior ramuli going to tho iris, u, A smaller vorticose vessel, Ics^ elegant., o. 'I’hc intermediate accessory venula, joined to both the larger vorticose vessels, divided into many small branches, p. Long ciliar veniiiav q. The ciliar nerve, the constant companion^ of the venula longa. r. Two ramuli, into which the long ciliar venula is divaricated, imdcr the callosity of the ciliar orbiculus. s. s. Three anterior ciliar) small veins cut off 1.1. Lateral ramuli> with wdiich the vcnulae passing from the choroidfs into the iris communicate, u. Parallel serpentine venuliE of the iris. .t. The anterior lamella, of the iris, reflected.. I y. The pupil.1ABVLA Xr.TT Iabvla XLH. JWic/a e/ /iirfyr/aM!i/M/ia‘a(^u//i.-ru'/e\ m ;y9 1 V( 93 ) PLATE XLIII. s Figure I. KERVES OF THE BULB, AND MUSCLES OF THE EYE. A. Bulb of the eye. B. Lachrymal gland. C. Musculus adducens. D. Musculus attollens. • E. Levator palpebrae. F. Musculus deprimens. G. Musculus adducens. H. Obliquus superior. I. Trochlea. K. Part of the obliquus inferior. L. C urse of the carotids. M. Carqt^ penetrating into the cavity of the cranium. N. Ophthalmic artery, arising from the carotid. a. Optfcn'erve, penetrating its foramen. b. Nerve of the fifth pair in the cavity of the cranium^" c. Third branch of a nerve of the fifth pair. d. Second branch of the same. e. First branch. f. Frontal branches of the first ramus e. again divided into two branches. g. Nasal ramus of the first branch e. h. h. Ciliary ramuli of the branch g. running above the nerve. *. Lachrymal branch of the branch e. k. Nerve of the fifth pair. l. Double nerve of the sixth pair in receptaculo. m. Double radix of the intercostal nerve from the sixth pair, m Insertion of the sixth pair into the abducent muscle. O. Trunk of the nerve of the fifth pair. f. Superior minor branch of the third pair. y, Ramuli of ramus p. to the attollent muscle. T. Ramulus of branch p. to the levator palpebrae. з. Inferior major ramus of the third pair. t. Branch of ramus s. to the adducent muscle. и. Branch of ramus s. to the depriment muscle. X. Branch of ramus s. to the obliq. inferior. y. Ophthalmic ganglion separated from the opt:c nerve, and pulled backward to shew the division of the third pair. z. Short radix of the ophthalmic ganglion from the nerve of the obliq. inferior. 1. Long root of the ganglion, from the nasal ramus of the fifth pair. 2. Superior fesciculus of the ciliary nerves, formed by four nei-vuli. 3. Fasciculus inferior. 4. A small branch of the inferior fasciculus, seceding out- wardly fromjthe others. 5. Ramulus, iisijrted into both sureuTi, h. k. arising" from the nasal nerve, ascending to the external side of the optic nerve, beneath the superior fas- ciculus. 6. Interior inferior ciliary nerve of the infertor fasciculus. Figure II. OPTHALMIC GANGLION, WITH CILIARY NERVE4. A. The attollens muscle, pulled back a little to shew the inferior part to which the nerve is inserted. B. Levator palpebrae. C. Carneous portion of the trochleator. D. Tendon of the trochleator with trochlea. E. Portion of the adducent muscle, with a branch of the nerve of the third pair. P. Portion of the deprimens, w'ith a nervous branch in- serted into it. G. Internal view of the abducent muscle. H. _ Insertion of the obliquus inferior. Portion of the superior palpebra. a. Optic nerve. b. Nerve of the fourth pair cut off. c. Nerve of the sixth pair, inserted in its muscle. d. Nerve of the third pair. e. Superior ramus. f. f, Surculi of branch e. to the attollens muscle. S- A branch of ramus e. to the levator palpebrae. k. Inferior branch of a nerve of the third pair. i. Branch to the deprimens. k. Branch to the adducent. I. Blanch to the inferior oblique muscle. m. Frontal branch of the fifth pair cut otf. 71. Nasal branch of the same. o. 0. Two ciliary nervuli, arising from the nasal. p. Ophthalmic ganglion, annexed to the exterior side of the optic nerve. q. A long root from the nasal ramus of the fifth pair. r. Short radix from the nerve e. of the oblique inferior muscle. s. Superior fasciculus of ciliary nervuli, composed of three nervuli. t. Large inferior fasciculus. u. Surculus, always bent outwardly, and acceding to the bulb by a long circuitous course. ^ sc. Interior and inferior ramus of this fasciculi, inserted into the branch of either arising from the nasal. B b( Si 1 PLATE XLIV. Figure 1. MEMBH AX’Ul. A. OF THE CILIAK COUOVA, BY ArillCII THE CRYSTALUVE LENS IS JOINED WITH THE VITRE,OU^, A>’D THE PeTIT’s CANAL DISTENDED, t WITH FLATUS. . I a. Vitreous humour, b. ‘ Crystalline lens, c. Serrated annulus conflated-, formed from the nigrum pigmentuin, lying on the anterior part of the vitreous humour, .and the corona ciliaris. d. d. Bullulm, into which the fine membrane of the ciliary corona is elevated upon the admission of air. e. Puncture, by which the air is admitted. Figure II. & III. I ARTERY OF THE CRYSTALLINE LENS, CONSPICUOUS ON ITS POSTERIOR VIEW. In Fig. II. Its natural proportion; and In Fig. III. Increased In magnitude by a microscope. Figure IV. V. VI. THREE FIGURES OF CRA'STALLINE LENS FROM MEN OF DIFFERENT AGES, AND PRINCIPALLY Fig. IV. From a new-born infant. Fig. V. From an infant some years old. Fig. ^’I. From a grown-up man about twenty years old, to shew that the lens is always more convex the younger the person. Figure VII. CRYSTALLINE LENS, BEGINNING TO FORM TRIAN. , GULAR SQUAMOUS APPEARANCES, AFTER MACK- jjj^ RATION IN WATER. Figure VIII. ■ SEBACEOUS GLANDS OF MeIBOMIUS, FROM THE POS- 1 TERIOR VIEW OF THE PALPEERiE. a. Tarsus of the superior palpebra. b. Tarsus of the inferior palpebra, c. Internal canthus. ^ d. d. Glandular plexus, commonly called Meibomian Glands, ^ e. e. Orifices of those plexus in thd extreme margin of the| , palpebras. m- ■' I V Figure IX. a. Internal canthus of the eye. b. Inferior palpebra. ^ c. Aponeurosis of the musculus levator palpebrte. d. Meibomian glands, conspicuous through the aponeurosis. .4 Figure X. vi^; lachrtmarum. • I a. Orifices of Meibomian glands. ' b. Semilunar membranula, before the caruncle lachrymalis. c. Caruncula lachrymalis. (/. d. Puncta lachrymalia. e. e. Two small canals, joined together near the nasal sac. f. Lachrymal sac. Tlie great utility of these, and other minute anatomical demonstrations of the organ of vision, will appear to those who study the diseases of the eye, many of which disorders would be incomprehensible without such previous knowledge. In the third volume of the Rational Practice of Physic^ after a short introduction on the doctrine of vision, and the defective modes of treating eye diseases : I have demonstrated, that there are ii8 diseases of the eyes, eye-lids, &cz. and it is hoped, many important improvements will be found in that work, worthy of the serious attention of Surgeons, ^nd Practitioners of Medicine, in general. ' *✓ Sch4>Ia-et hirtona Q^tli 95. ) PLATE XLV. Figure I. ORIGIN Of tiie tunics of the eye; internal APPEARANCE OF TIIE CHOROIDES. a. Optic nerve cut,off. 6. Exterior lamina of the vagina of the optic nerve, c. Interior lamina of the vagina of the optic nerve; d. Pia mater of the optic nerve, e. Central artery, f. Part of the cribrous lamina, through which the medullary substance of the optic nerve passes, g. The Rclefotica posteriorly thick, where it is connected with the vagina of the nerve, it. A circle, surrounding the cribrous lamina, whence the pia mater of the optic nerve is reflected ; and i. goes into the interior lamina of the sclerotica, k. Parallel arteries, apparent in the internal surface of choroides. 1. Vascular reticulum, obscurely visible; by which the arte- ries of the choroides are covered, w. White folds of the ciliary processes, n. Iris. o. Connection of the sclerotica with the cornea. Figure II. reticulum laid over the choroides only VI- ' SIBLE BY A VERY POWERFUL MICROSCOPE. a. Arteriolas of the internal surface of the choroides. b. Vascular reticulum. t. Natural magnitude of this portion of the choroides, of which this is the resemblance. Figure III. ANNULUS OF THE CILIARY PROCESSES, OBSCURELY SEEN A LITTLE ENLARGED. a. Part of the sclerotica. b. Part of the choroides.' c. Ora serrata, which distinguishes the annulus from the remaining choroides. d: Posterior part of the serrated an- nulus. e. Anterior p'art, composed of the folds of the crliar processes, Anterior, broad, eminent part of the folds. g. g. Some folds terminated, in the extreme, bifid. k. Posterior part of the fold formed by many radiculae. i. Posterior view of the iris, called Uvea, striated, k. Pupilla. Figure IV. .,, THREE FOLDS OF THE CILIARY' PROCESSES, "WTIOSE vascular fabric is oeseRv.vble by a good MICROSCOPE. «. Innumerable parallel arteriolie. conspicuous in the internal surface of the choroides. 1. Vasculum majusculum, running in the eminent margin, c. The arch, through which the vascula in the apex of the plica are joined together. d. Reticulum vasculosum. e. Posterior appearance of the iris. y. Natural magnitude of this portion, which is drawn a little increased. Figure V. A PORTION OF THE SMALLER RING OF THE IRIS, SEEN AND DELINEATED BY MEANS OF A MICRO- SCOPE. a. a. The arch, which the arteriolas of the iris form round the lesser annulus, designed in the preceding figure, tid. m.m,. b. b. Ramuli, running from those arches towards the pupil. c. c. Ramuli, running transversely in the annulus minor of> tlie iris, and led parallel with the ora pupillae, which some seem to Lave taken for orbicular fibres. . > Figure yi. VEINS OF THE EYE. A. A portion of the superior palpebra, deKnated in its passing. B. Lachrynal gland. C. Abducent muscle. D. Posterior part of the attollens, muscle cut off. • E. Anterior part. F. Posterior part of. the levator palpebra;, cut off. G. Anterior part. H. Superior oblique muscle, with the trochlea. 1. Optic nerve, erftering the optic foramen. K. Nerve of the fourth pair, L. First branch of the nerve of the fifth pair. a. Trunk of the ophthalmic vein coming'out of the receptaculum. b. Posterior ethmoid venula. c. Ramulus to the optic nerve, d. Superior ciliary vcnula. e. Three sUrculi, perforating the sclerotica, f. Ramuli, spread on the sclerotica, g. Inferior muscular ramus, h. Lachrymal branch. i. Anastomosing branch between the lachrynal and inferior. A., Trunk, running above the bulb. /. Ramulus to the attollcnt muscle, m. Interior ramus, k. Rarnus’from. the trunk inserted, o. Into the anastomosing ramus, between the trunk and lachrymal. p. Interior ciliaris. q. Anterior ethmoid, r. Trunk, going out of the orbit, communicating Xvith s. the superior palpe- brte,'and t. nasal, u. A.iterior ciliary venula, arising from the muscular branch, a .d perforating tlie sclerotica.(. 96 ). PLATE XLVI. The Muscles of the Bulb of the Eye, Figure T. MUSCLES, WITH THE LEVATOR PALPEBIIJE SUPEUIORIS. «. The bulb of the eye. b. The optic nerve in its cavity. c. The optic nerve cut oft' without the orbit. d. Portion of the dura mater, which leaves the optic nerve, and falls into the periosteum of the orbit. e. The levator palpebrae superioris, arising from an an«le of the division of the dura mater, and terminating in a broad aponeurosis. f. The attollens, the greatest part covered by the levator palpebrtE. g. The obliquus superior inflected through the trochlea. k. The insertion of the obliquus inferior. i. The depriment muscle. k. The abducent, arising by a double head. l. The lesser superior head. m. The inferior head. The interval between the heads, through which the nerves collected into a fasciculus arc terminated, a. The first branch of a nerve of the fifth pair. j>. From which first branch of the lachrymal branch is cut oflf. q. The frontal branch divided. r. The nasal branch. a, A surculus of the nasal branch, which constitutes the long root of the ophthalmic ganglion. t. A nerve of the third pair. u. A nerve of the sixth pair. Figure II. THE MUSCLES OF THE EYE, WITHOUT THE LEVATOR PALPEBRiE. а. The bulb of the eye. б. The optic nerve within the orbit, r. The optic nerve without the orbit. d. Portion of the dura mater, which goes into the periosteum. t. Ihe ievafor palpebrae cut away near its origin. j. The superi(U' oblique muscle, inflected through the trochlea. g. The attolent muscle. h. Its tendon dilated near the insertion. «. '1 he adducent muscle. k. Both the mucles, near their rise, are so connected with each other, that.it should shew the levator palpebnc in its origin, not to pertain to the vagina of the optic nerve, but placed on both. l. The depriment muscle. 7H. The abducent muscle. «. 'I’he superior head connected with the attollent. 0. The inferior head. p. The interval between each head. Figure III. THE COMMOW TEVDOV, FROM WHICH THE ADDUCENT, ABDUCENT, AND DEPRIMENT MUSCLES .ARISE. a. The optic nerve cutaway near its entrance. b. The broken osseous septum between the optic for men, and round commencement of the sphenoid fissu e. c. The dura mater cut away at its entrance into the peri- osteum of the orbit. d. The Rttollent muscle, arising from a divis oi of the dura mater cut away. e. The levator palpebne superioris cut away. f. The common tendon, from which the three muscles, viz. the adducent, abducent, and depriment arise. g. g-. g-. Tendinous expansions, arising from the ligamentum commune, going to their muscles. k. The abducent muscle. i. The epriment muscle. k. The adducent muscle. Figure W, THE SUPERIOR OBLIQUB MUSCLE. c. The optic nerve moved from its situation, and inflected downwards, the better to shew the origin of the ob- liquus superior. b. The abducent muscle cut away. c. The internal between the heads of this muscle. d. The attollent muscle cut aw ay near its commencement. e. The insersion ot this muscle into the bulb of the eye. f. The levator palpebrre cut off. g. The adducent muscle cut away. h. The origin of the superior oblique muscle, from the pe- riosteum of the parietes of the internal part of the o bit. i. The tendon inflected through the trochlea. k. The trochlea. l. The tendon, gradually dilated near its insertion, m. The insertion of the obliquus inferior. Figure V. THE INFERIOR OBLIQUE -MUSCLE. a. The bulb of the eye. b. The abducent muscle. c. The depriment muscle. d. The inferior oblique muscle, arising from the anterior ora of the orbit. €, The insertion of this muscle into the bulb of the eye.'i V\BA’LA,XJiVl.r, i- 7 1. » 1 Ij > a •t^' ■ -v M. s_ ►-^^- h t j , ■V’, • •’■■s;^- ... i*' r'^fciL .V ' to»A T; . ;. v', .v' «A .\-X •it »a^ - . \.. .JT ’T1<<‘*‘<. f.» V'. ' * .1 _^j<r!( 97 ) PLATE XLVII. FIGURE L represents the heart of a woman, with its contiguous vessels injected with wax from the RIG A. The whole'of the inferior vena cava, that is annexed to the right auricle, and diaphragm. B. The superior vena cava, inserted into the right auricle; its branches are C. The right auricle, resembling, in some degree, an horse’s ear, from which it ' received its name. D. The ventricle of the heart. E. A portion of the right auricle, to be seen in this situation of the heart, I which, in form, somewhat resembles a dog’s ear, \T. The pulmonarp artery arises from the right ventricle of the heart. G. The aorta, (or trunk of the arteries ' of the body) rising from the left ven- tricle, between both auricles, and the pulmonary arteries. II. The posterior portion of the left auricle. I, The bronchial arteries of Ruysch. K. The coronary arteries, and veins of the heart, arise from the trunk of the aorta above the semilunar valves. HT SIDE, IN its NATURAL SITUATI / It lies upon the diaphragm on its plane side, with the apex of the sixth rib to- wards the cartilage of the left side. The right and left subclavian. The external jugulars receive The internal jugulars receive The name of auricula is applied to the two caecal serrated sacs. To the re- maining cavity of the atria, the deno- mination of sinus is applied. It is called, with propriety, the Anterior ; it is much weaker than the other. The auricles are connected by the means of membranes, with the coronary veins to the heart. It is furnished with three semilunar valves arising from the heart; it divides into two branches. The aorta, when scarcely out of the heart, emits coronary arteries; then, on the left side, towards the spina doi’si, it makes a great arch. It is also called a Sacculus of Pulmonary Veins. They are distributed through the bron- chial vesicles, and the branches of the arteria aspera. Arteries are disseminated through the substance of the heart, and at length go into the veins of the heart. FIGURE II. N. It receives the blood returning from all the inferior parts, after the secretions are made. Tliey receive the blood of the thorax. The frontal, angular, temporal, auricular, ranine, and occipital veins. The lateral sinuses of the dura mater, the guttural, and maxillary veins. It empties the blood received from the vena cava into the right ventricle. It protrudes the blood into the pulmonary arteries. The auricles are separated by means of a septum in the right, or anterior, and left, or posterior antrum. The septum, in adults,' is closed in the foetus, per- forated, 1. The right pulmonary artery. 2. The left pulmonary ditto ; they are distri- buted through the substance of the lungs. From the convex part of the arch come 1. The arteria innominata, irom which the right carotid, and right subclavian, 2. The left carotid. 3. The left sub- clavian. Four pulmonary branches go into the left sinus of the heart. They serve to nourish the lungs. The veins bring back the venous blood from the substance of the heart into the right auricle. REPRESENTS THE SAME HEART FROM THE LEFT SIDE IN THE SAME SITUATION OF THE BODY, AS IF IT WERE BEHELD THROUGH THE RIBS. A. The aorta, arising from the left ven- tricle. 3. Part of the right ventricle, with the pulmonary artery. 3. The left ventricle, with the arteries, 1 and coronary veins. !!t is, with more propriety, called the Posterior. D. The auricular part of the left auricle. 2. The greatest part of the Ift auricle. \\ The canalis arteriosus, runs from the trunk of the pulmonary artery in the I fcctus into the aorta. Ir. The greatest branch of the aorta. The return of the blood prevented by tlic semilunar valves. The pulmonary artery pacing under the arch of the aorta, divides into two branches. Constitutes the heart primitively, is less, but stronger, than the right ventricle. Adheres to the left side of the pulmonary artery. Is called a surcuious of pulmonary veins. Moves the blood from the trunk of the pulmonary artery to the aorta. Descends towards th& lower parts. Sends off arteries all over the human body. They proceed to the right and left lobes of the lungs. The orifice opening towards the atrium; has only two mitral valves. Is seated on the Left ventricle. The four trunks of the pulmonary veins are inserted in this auricle. Is closed in adults, and becomes a liga- ment. C c■ ( 98 ) PLATE XLVIII. The Circulation of the ‘Blood. The organs of the circulation of the blood. The heart of a man is of a conical figure. The heart (G) adheres by the vena cava to the diaiihragm. The heart consists of four concave mus- cles, viz. tuo auricles, and two ventricles, which receive the blood, and immedi- ately jiropel it. A. The right auricle, filled with blood, and irritated by its repletion, to con- tract, by constringing the ostia of both venal ciiviu. B. The right ventricle, filled with blood, and irritated to muscular contradiction, expands its valvulae tricuspidales (1.) C. I hepulmonary artery, compresses the blood by its elastic resilition, and sti- mulated tension, as well as by the re- laxed capillary arteries. The pulmonary veins, convey the blood received from the arteries to the left auricle. D. The hfl auricle, filled, and irritated by its repletion to the instrumental motion, contracts itself. E. The left ventricle, filled with blood, and irritated by its repletion to con- tract, expands its 7nitral valves (3.) F. The aorta, and arteiies of the body filled, and expanded with blood, and irritated to contract, collect all their power at tiiat time, composed of elas- tic redlition, and stimulated tension; anrl at once protrude the blood by the semilunar valves^ G. '['he iiiferior cava', it joins the heart with the diaphragm. Arc the heart and arteries. In birds, and brutes, it resembles almost a perfect cone. The whole of its flattened surface lies upon the diaphragm. The cavities stimulated by their repletion contract; the valves prevent the return of the blood, when received; the fibres being so disposed, that by^ their con- tractile power, they send out the blood with great violence. Then the muscular fibres, stretched from the parietes of the auricle, elliptically surround each vena cava, which so closes both as to prevent the return of the blood into the veins. The valves mutually compressed together, entirely prevent the return of blood into the right auricle. And, by its first impetus, compresses the semilunar (2.) valves, at that time re- laxed. This takes place during the compression of the lungs in respiration. And so constringes the ostia of the pul- monary veins, as to prevent the return of the blood into them. (3.) The mitral valves, so expanded, and compressed w ith blood, prevent the re- turn of the blood into the left auricle. The return of the blood into the ventri- cle is prevented by the valves being de- pressed. Receives the blood from all the parts below the diaphragm. By their power the blood is propelled info every part of the body. It is the primary organ of the circulation. During the motion of the diaphragm, the heart is either elevated, or de- pressed. The oftices of the auricles are : that they should divide the blood, or its various particles, into just parts, by keeping its circulating course, kc.' The contraction of the auricle protrudes the blood into the right ventricle, with a force sufficient to overcome the na- tural (not instrumental) contraction of the ventricle. The contraction of the ventricle throws the blood into the pulmonary artery with a force equal to overcome the elastic power of that artery. Thus the blood is prevented from return- ing into the ventricle, and is thrown into the pulmonary veins. The blood is impelled into the left auricle, then relaxed with a force superior to the natural (not instrumental) con- traction of the auricle. The following contraction protrudes the blood into the left ventricle. The following contraction impels the blood into all the arteries of the body, with an impetus superior to Uie elastic I power of the arteries. This protruding power throws almost an ; equal quantity of limpid, and gross } blood, collected from every part of the ‘ body, through the vena cava into the | right auricle, then relaxed. Joined with the superior c.iva; it sends ‘ the blood into the right auricle. The circulation of the blood, briefly considered, is as follows:—The vena cava forces the blood into the right auricle of the heart, which discharges it into the right ventricle; from thence the blood is propelled to the pulmonary artery, and brought back, by the pulmonary veins to the left auricle of the heart, which | forces it into the left ventricle, and from thence it passes to the aorta, which, by branches, distributes the it blood through the whole body. The blood is brought back to the vena cava from all parts by veins. All g ! this has been indubitably proved. The exhalent arterie.s on all surfaces, the inhaling absorbents, &c. arefl very important, and should be well comprehended in medical practice, I ■TATJVJ.A.XLYiri. S</%ola et kifLrrca A^ledtritxo'.a' <" I • * • •rr" ^ ' • A'. ■ f ^ ; t.‘- ’*jsa i '.* ' ( ^ , ' / ' 2 4t<‘ '•"’* ."j**V *'■ '• -f . T ■--^' ..?•■' - *- .4.“ . '■'<, n -.i * ^ M ^ . . '•'3 :*#4f€:A; ^ . :■•■ • ..-^^ , ^W"C.r : .: -V "**' ^ i% ■ '' - .31 ..■■•■V v-f !>■'•■, - • VaSi^ IK^ . Wm. r^t^. .. «.. S. .7*' , V • r *• ’ Af* V?v_« 7" •; 1 V ' .- k'WS ^ *> ' . '•ISag- '-•^j^i.-j ;-A.^ . ,' - •' ' '■•■■.•?>' ^‘. » - -‘ig-' ' .-eV- rv ''VPp ' 4^ - • ^ ., .*j*n- .y.' - V. -' U: A" ;4i mL. .: .-'ii ■ '^,:?nwii; w ..i T^’LA.XOX . { V- /* nr. ATir Sc/io-la et Aisforia Atetlicince a Gul J^owlejr^'( 99 ) PLATE XLIX. vO/ the Larynx and Pharynx^ Figure I. Represents the remaining parts of the larynx, after cutting through the left side of the thyroid cartilage, utth the. muscles, which are placed on the thyroid side; also those which are placed in the posterior part if the larynx., a. Anterior crico-thyroid ligament, b. Membrane, which forms the Ia« teral part of the glottis, c. Posterior crko-arytcenoidcus. d. Lateral crico-arytienoideus, e. f. A fasciculus, from the interior and superior part of the thju’oidea, arising not far from its fissure, and inserted in the base of the arytenoidea. f The commencement from the thryoidea cut away. g. Thy~ reo-arytcenoidcus. h. i. k. A thin texture of carneous fibres, which, arising from the thyroid cartilage, ascends near the exterior part of the origin of thyreo-aryteenoideus. h. Through the exterior part of the thyreo-arytoenoidcus; then i. by the sides of the glottis to the epiglottis, k.—1. Depressor of the epiglottis. 7n. Left oblique aryteenoideus. n. Right oblique arytoenoideus. o. Transverse aryt'Xnoideus. Figure II. Is the same texture of the cartilages of the larynx, jvhich is naked in Fig. I. with the muscles and membranes removed, a. b. Right part of the thyroid cartilage, the left of which is removed, b. c. Cricoid cartilage, d. e. Arytmnoid carti- lages. e. The little heads of the cartilages, f. Epiglottis. Figure III. Represents the order of the muscles, situated around the pharynx, seen from the posterior part. In order to shew it better, besides the pharynx, the beginning of the oesopha- gus continued to it, and the neighbouring parts of the os hyoides, larynx, and aspera arteria, there is also added part of the head of the naked bone, to which the adjoining pharynx is added, a. Inferior part of the cranium, b. Styliforin processes. c. Pterygoid proces-ses. d. Os maxillare. e. Superior dentes molares. /'. Inferior inolares. g. Extreme cornua of the os hyoides. k. Hyo-thyroid ligaments, i. Arteria aspera cut off. k. Oesoj^iagus cut off. 1. Constrictorcs inferiores oi the pharynx, m. Interior fibres of the a-soj)ha- gus. n. Constrictoris medii o\ the pheirpys.. o. Constrictorcs auperiores of the pharynx, p. Circumjlexi of the palatum molle. q. Stylo-pharyngei. Figure IV. Exhibits the nearest view, after removing the 9onstrictor inferior of the pharynx, a. Nakedhnembrane of the pharynx, b. Styliforin processes, c. Naked membrane of the inferior part of the pharynx, d. fixtreme cornua of the os hyoides. e. Ilyo-thyroid ligaments, f. Thyroid cartilage, g. Cricoid cartilage. ' h. Aspera arteria cut oft', t. Constrictorcs meilii of the pharynx. k. Constrictorcs superiorcs of the pharynx. /. Levatorcs of the palatum molle. m. Circumftexi of the palatum molle. n. Stylo- pharyngei. 0. Palato-pharyngci. p. Posterior crico-arytae- noidcus. Figure V. Shews the nearest view, upon removing the con- strictor medius of the pharynx.—a. b. c. d. c.f g. h. k. 1. m. n. 0. p. as in the preceding figure. Figure \'I. Upon removing the superior constrictor of the pharynx, is seen a. c. d. e.f. g. h. 1. m. n. o.p.—q. Hamuli of the pterygoid processes. Figure VII. The interior of the pharynx, a. Posterior part of the pharynx and oesophagus cutoff. 6. Tub® eustachian®. c. Septum of the nares. d. Palatum molle with the uvula, c. Posterior arches of the palatum molle. f. Tonsils, g. Tongue. h. Epiglottis, i. Membranous sides of the glottis, k. Ri- mula of the glottis. 1. Capitula of the aryt®noid cartilage. m. Lateral ligament of the epiglottis, n. Ventriculi of the larynx, o. Hamuli of the pterygoid processes, p. Extreme cornua of the os hyoides. q. Hyothyroid ligaments.) r. Thy- roid cartilage, s. Cricoid cartilage, t. Aspera arteria cu- Dtf. u. Posterior part of the fistula laryngis. v. Lateral li- gament of the epiglottis, w. Lvvatores of the palatum molle. X. Circumjlexi of the palatum molle^ y. Palato-pharyngei. z. Stylo-pharyngei. Figure VIII. After removing the greatest part of the mem- brane covering the interior of the pharynx, are: a. The poste- rior part of the larynx cut oft’, b. Tiio® eustachian®, or eu- stachian tubes, c. The concave of the nares. d. Ossa spongiosa. c. Septum of the nares. f. Hamuli of the prerygoid processes. g. Uvula, h. Tonsils, i. Tongue. k. Epiglottis. /. Membranous sides of the glottis, m. Ca- pitula, added to the arytmnoid cartilages, n. Cricoid carti- lage. o. Thyroid cartilage, p. Thyroid ligament, q. Ex- treme cornua of the os hyoides. r. Levatnres of the palatum molle. 5. Circumfexi of the palatum molle. t. Azygos uvul®. w. Palato-pharyngci. w. Stylo -pharyngei. x. Oblique arytwnoidei. y. Transverse aryta-noidteus. Figure IX. Most of the parts in the preceding figure are re- 7noved, by which others are seen. a. Posterior part of the pharynx cut off. b. c. d. e. f. g. h. i. k. 1. m. n. o. p. q. as above in the preceding Figure. ■ j.- The corpus teres, like a ligament. 1. Tendinous membrane, w.hich runs through the superior parts of the palatum molle, coming from the nares. r. u. w. As in the preceding Figure. Figure X. So/ne parts iMhich were represented in Figure VIII. are taken away, and those which are to be met with marked^ a. b. c. d. c. f. g. h. k. p. q. r. as in Figin-e VII. 1. Ex- ternal parietes of the pterygoid processes, m. The circum- flexi of the palatum molle. ?i. Aponeuroses of the circum- flexi. o. Parts of the constrictorcs superiores of the pharynk. р. Parts of the palatopharyngei. q. Stylopharyngei. r. Parts of the salpwgo-pharyngei. Figure XI. This follows bthind the superior parts of the preceding, after removing some of the parts, a. b. c. d. 1. m^ as in the above Figure. Figure XII. Rcpresmits the rectus, oris, and fauces, to shew the 7inisclcs, which, upon removing the investing membrane, belong to the palatum molle from this part. a. Gums. b. Tonsils. с. Posterior margins of the palatum molle. d. Fauces. e. Tongue, f. Constrictorcs isthmi of the fauces, k. Parts of the palato-pharyngei. The Figures in this Plate clearly represent the mechanical structure, «Scc. of those curious parts which perform deglutitionr or swallowing ; a great part of the organs of speech and sounds. Singing, &c. with all the various inflexions, and delightful tones of the voice, as executed by the most e.xcellcnt singers, is acquired by uncommon industry with apt organs. Musical sounds are received, and impressed on the mind by the organ of hearing; but the imitation, and pcitorming various tones by the voice, is the power of the mind acting on, and putting into particular motion the larynx, its muscles, &c. assisted by the tongue, teeth, lips, &c. The excellence of some in the Divine art of singing, will convince reflecting men, amongst other things, that human beings arc as unequal in their muscular powers and organs, as in their intellectual and acquired faculties. Those, whose organs have not an aptitude in receiving impressions, and an active disposition to improve, can never become e-xcellent, in any art, or science.( 100 ) PLATE L. The Organ of Hearing. Figure I. Represents the organ of hearing, rather larger than in its natural state. The ear is .the argan .of hearing; in which three cavities arc to be considered, viz. externalj or outermost, middle, and inmost. , n. Aurisexterna ; contains the auricle, and meatus auditorius. b. The ala, or pinna ; is the highest arched part of the auri- cle. c. Helix, capreolus; external eminence of the margin. d. Antkelix; interior eminence, panallel to the former. e. Scapha; a furrow between the above-mentioned eminences. J'. Tragus; an eminence next to the temples, g. Antitragus; a prominence, joined with a lobe, h. Concha; a cavity going towards the meatus auditorius. i. Lobe; a part of the auri- cle hanging downwards, k. Part of the squamosc temporal bone. 1. Os petrosum; contains the internal car, or seat of bearing, m. Extremity of the mastoid process, n. Styloid process, o. Sinus mastoideus. The internal parts of the ear are contained in the petrous bone. p. Meatus auditorius ; in it are hairs, and ceruminous glands, the canal is tortuous, anteriorly cartilaginous, posteriorly osseus. q. Membrane of the tympanum; it is contained in a kind of sulcus in the osse- ous annulus; it is constructed of four lamin®, viz. cuticle, and cutis of the meatus auditorius, periosteum of the meatus, and periosteum of the internal cavity; above by a short tela cellulosa placed between these la?nincc. r. The figure of the cavity of the tympanum is irregular; the capacity of the cavity is increased by the cellulosaj of the mastoid process: the interior parts are directly opposed to the membrane of the tympanum, in which there arc two broad osseous fovere, or depressions, called Fenestra;; anteriorly, the cavity ex- tends by a declining orifice into the tuba Eustachii, which be- hind opens into the fauces, and infundibulum, s. Chorda iympani. t. Ossicula auditus; malleus, incus, os orbicularc, stapes, u. Canales semilunares; superior, middle, inferior, they open into the vestibulum. sr. Cochlea, x. Aqueduct of Fallopius, a canal extending from the labyrinth, inflecting in the petreous bone, and patulous, between the styloid process, contains a nerve, v. Tubia Eustachiana; a canal, partly .osseous, and parliy cartilaginous, extending to the’palatum, and there patulous behind the tonsils; itma3'be relaxed, or contracted by its muscles; it serves for the admission of air and Sound ; when it is closed, or obstructed, tlic hearing is diminished, or abolished, z. Apertura of the Eustachian tube. Figure II. Malleus, much larger than in its natural state, a. Malleus. 6. Its head. c. 'I'he neck. d. The long crus runs out to the manubrium, e. Tl<e short cius goes to the mastoid cells, f. Ihe manubrium runs between the laminae of the membrane of the tympanum, and between the perios- teum of the tympanum, and meatus auditorius, to the center of its membrane, which it elevates. Figure l\{. Incus: consists of a body, and two crura; the os orbicularc is annexed to the longer crus, a. Interior suidace. Figure IV. Os orbicularc; is connected on one side with the long crus of the incus, on the other with the stapes, which is situated anteriorly at almost a right angle. Figure \. Stapes: it adheres by its basis to the fenestra ovalis, and closes it by means of the membrane drawn round it; it has a muscle, called Stapedius. Figure W. Ossicula, in their own situation with the mem- brane of the tympanum, as they appear within the cavity, and above, from the top of the left bone of the temple. a. Malleus, its manubrium, inserted in the membrane of the tympantim; the head is connected upwards, with the incus by ginglinius; the short crus is connected to the membranous expansion to the cellulae of the mastoid process, b. Incus adheres to the malleus, and os orbiculare. c. Os orbicularc, between the incus and stapes, d. Stapes. Figure VH. Cochlea, twice as large as nature, a. Cochlea : is a conical canal around the osseous cone, called Mediolus, two and half times convulaled; it is divided into two cavities, from the top to the bottom, by a kind of spiral, very friable lamina; hence the cavities are called 5c(7/a>,of which the anterior, and rather narrow beginning, from the vestibulum, is called 5'c«/a Vestibuli; the other posterior, and large, com- mences from the fenestra rotunda, which is a little turned to- w'ards the tympanum, and is called Scala I'ympaiii. The end of these scalae is towards the apex of the mediohisjnst mentioned, in which place a slight sinus is excavated like an infundibn- liuin. In that place it becomes a spiral lamina, not witli bone, but with membrane; and the scalm on both sides open into it, which appear to communicate together in this place. b. Canales semicirculares superiorcs. c. Fenestra rotunda, situated interiorly, and posteriorly; above this fenestra, there is a membrane from the periosteum of the tympanum, anil cochlea, and separates the cavity of the cochlea from that of the tympanum, d. There is a superior and inferior ovalis, which leads to the vestibulum, the stajjcs at its base lies upon this ; the fenestra is closed by no peculiar mem- brane. e. Foramen, for the portion of the nervus durus. f. Scala tympani. g. Scala vestibuli. Figure VIII. The labyrinth; to this part belong the internal cavities of the petrous bone: semicircular, canals, bfc. a. Cochlea, b. Labyrinthas superior, c. Labyrinthus mc- dius. d. Labyrinthus inferior, e. Vestibulum; is the middle cavity between the cochlea and canals; the three semicircu- lar canals open into the vestibulum by five dilfcrcnt foranii- nula. J. Scala vestibuli. g. Scala tympani. h. Theentiance of the portion of the soft nerves into the vc.stibulum. The labyrinth reflects th.J sound, by which the nerves more strongly vibrate. Figure IX. Section of the cochlea, with the vessels of fho membrane of the spiral lamina, which are taken away, except the uppermost part, a. Scala vestibuli, b. Scala tympani. Figure X. Section of the cochlea, which contains the fo- ramen of the auditory nerve.Tabaxa L.(2) X•XMTT.VBAXA. L.■m y-*Tabvla LI( >01 ) PLATE LI, Omenhm. I Figure I. ^ ince the figures of the omentum majus alone, and the gastro • I colic part of it, arc represented by the ancients, as in I Garengeofs Splanchnohgia, Tom. vi. which exhibits the t 4Mientum minus, or little omentum, without exact limits, and i does not appear according to Nature; it will not be useless, I therefore, to give another figure, as likewise another de- scription. A, The concave reclined part of the liver, so that the margin, which was inferior, is anterior; and the anterior, is now superior. B. Vesicula j'ellea, or gall-bladder, is I commonly shorter, in young subjects, than the liver. C. Vena et fossa umbilicalis. D. Lobulus, improperly so called by the eminence of which is conspicuous ' through the little omentum. E. Stomach, the anterior curvature, of which appears, but covered with projections of the inflated omentum. E. Arteria et vena gastro-epi- I ploica dextra. G. The seat of the pylorus. H. The apex of the spleen projecting anteriorly into the cavity of the (i omentum, placed between the stomach, and intestinum ( colon. I. Ligament, which sustains the spleen, different (from the other, not attached to it, but moving freely, which is, for the most part, the superior situation of the j. left mesocolon, yet not unfrequently, rather of the trans- ' j verse, annexed to the’peritonanim to the seat of the tenth, I eleventh, or twelfth rib ; to this ligament, the. omentum is ! connected, yet, for the greater part, it is white and firm, . I and the transverse situation of the spleen arises, principally 1 from that connection. K. Omentum majus, commonly I cnWeA Gastro-colicum, the tcr7uinations oi it are: the supe- \ rior, and anterior, from the whole curvature of the sto- mach, inferior, and posterior, from the greater part of the transverse colon: the inferior limit is, when the anterior gastric lamina meets with the posterior colica, s.—This, in , children, is almost to the umbilicus, or navel; in adults, it descends much lower, the fatter the person is, even to the pubis. The left end, as well as the middle part of the 1 spleen, receives vessels, as well as the ligament, I. into , which the omentum degenerates, as welt as the colon. I The right termination is with difliculty expressed by the line L. For the omentum either terminates the middle of ' the stomach, near the pylorus, or from the pylorus, never i more to the right side; and from the accession of the gastro-epiploic vessels, before the mesocolon, and runs to the colon by a descending right line, or one inclining ob- i liquely to the left, and there the sac of the omentum ter- minates. L. The line of separatum of the omentum from ' the mesocolon. IM. The origin of the gastro-colic omentum ' from tlie anterior curvature of the stomach, from which the anterior lamina goes out. N. Conglobate glands, in j this line adjacent to the origin of the omentum. O. The ' line of the origin of the omentum magnum from the iiilesti- num colon : s. lamina posterior. P. Left end, or fnis coccus of the omentum. Q. Omentum minus of Winsloui, or a more slender membrane, which beginning is formed from a fossa of the ductus venosus, to the transition, or passing of the hepatic artery, there continued to the membranes surrounding hepatic vessels, which I have said, are continued beyond the duodenum to the mesocolon, de- generating in the end a little into tlie ligameatum hcjratico- cesophageum, and passing the lobe of the liver, it emits itself into the smaller curvature of the stomach, la the cavity it has the lohulum, or little lobe, and the nudated lumbar glands. R. Omentum colicum, the constant ap- pendix of the great omentum, which, from the end of the colic line, L. to the end of the transverse mesocolon, and sometimes a little beyond, fronr the intestine colon, not having touched the stomach, from a double line, it pro- ceeds, similar in magnitude, lying on both sides, looseljt on the intestines, and, on the little lobe, it elegantly termi- nates. This portion is not seen, which cedes to the great, so that it is larger than the smaller portion. In the en- trance of the omentum, which the represcntati«n hath not admitted, some things are to be added to Winslow’s de- scription, There is an hiatus, or interval, which, from a narrow beginning, and long tract, between the biliary vessels, and continued vena portarum, anteriorly situated, and between the posterior depressed lobe of the liver is re- ceived, which the hepatic vessels excavate, and which the ancients considered a right vena portarum. Besides, a farther continued lunated hiatus to this way, discovered by Winslow, through which air can be equally admitted to the cavity of the smaller omentum ; the extreme porta of the liver, which I have said, from the opposite nearest, to the inferior part, but distinct, is the ultimate radix of the mesocolon, which passing the pancreas, goes immediately to the descending duodenum ; anteriorly, it is a fasciculus of the hepatic vesseds, behind, the nudated peritonaeum, smooth, and equal. The vena cava lies a little to the right. S. Part of the mesocolon, between the right limit of the great omeutuni, and conjunction ot the colon with the duodenum. Figure II. Pancreas. a, Glaiuls, secrete^ a peculiar fluid, b. Excretory ducts, convey the fluid from every gland into a common duct, called Ductus Pancrcaticus Comnumis. c. Ductus pan- creaticus, from the small ducts running together through the middle of the pancreas, passes to the duodenum. d. The place where the pancreatic juice is mixed with the bile. e. Aperture, through which both liquors flow into the duodenum. D da ( joa ) PLATE LII. Of the Omentumi Kepreseniation the Second, AH the former^parts are exhibited; but with the preater omentum on both sides collapsed, and the colon drawn a ^ little downwards, that the way to the concealed omentum might appear. , A. A, The concave part of the liver reclined, that those parts whicli are anterior, should be superior, or uppermost. ‘ From whence it follows, the gall-bladder, naturally placed , transversely, and its fundus anteriorly, its neck posteriorly, in a contrary manner to the common situation, is described. B. 13. The gall-bladder, or vessicula fellix, C. The umbilical vein, or vena umbilicalis. Here I add in the foetus, a much larger umbilical vein than ductus veno- sus, that the ratio of the lumen will be 629 to 100; there- fore, when the umbilical vein gives many branches to the ' liver, a great part of the umbilical blood is not immedi- ately carried to the ductus vemsus, but through the liver to the vena cava. D. Lohulus spigelii, visible through the smaller omentum, as in the former Plate. E. F. The stomach, almost empty, in the smaller curvature, . of which the lobulus spigelii enters, but, its anterior sur- face towaids the left part of the liver. G. The pylorus, from which the Jirst flexion of the duodcnuin ascends backwards. K. K. The gaflrocolion omentum, collapsed, appears in this to arise singly from the stomach, but not altogether; and not, therefore, from the duodenum, as many Authors have asserted. O, O. The limits in the colon, from which the gastrocolic omentum come forth. Q. Q. The smaller omentum, or omentum minus. S. S. Parts of the mesocolon, to the left, part of the second transverse f/uodfHi/w, appears more pellucid, the right wt- socolon, from the top of the kidney, a little obliquely, ascends inwardly, covers the scat of the vena cava, and applies itself to the first duodenum, then to the pancreas, and rises anteriorly to the same duodenum again, and comes through to the porta of the omentum, where, from the fissure of the liver, with the vessels, it comes to another competing root of the mesocolon, passing the duodenum, goes to the colon, and likewise from the pylorus, trans- versely under the stomach, through the whole latitude of f^e abdomen, and continued even to the spleen, an emerging lamina is more without, on its anterior part. The inferior, and similar transverse, places itself to this, free, and emerging to the duodenum, then a continuance of the external membrane of the rising jejunum, neatly joined to the mesentery. Between these two laminae, and the entire pancreas, and all the duodenum, but more evidently the inferior part, the nresenteric artery, its veins, and the biliary ducts. By infiatiun, it receives air, and swells into bubbles, not unlike the omentum, T. T. T. Various parts of the colon. Y. The second flexure of the duodenum, on which the gall* bladder is situated. X. third flexure oi the duodenum, or the descending part into which the ductus choledochus passes. y. Ligament, or membranes, which go from the gall-bladder in a continued transverse sulcus, passing the duodenum, to which they adhere for an external membrane, &c. These arc said, by Winslow, to arise from the liver, and gall-blad' der, but to terminate in the duodenum ; and .Monro, senior, calls them a duplicaturc of the omentum : but it is, there, a simple, yellowish, and smooth membrane, continued to the capsula of Glisson, and to the omentum. Z. a. The hepatic renal ligament, or of the peritonaeum, from the kidney to the liver, ascending, a double plica, or fold; IVinslow thinks it the pancreatic ligament for the other side of its foramen. But this is the ultimate root of the meso* colon, which contains the duodenum, as seenin the former Plate, R. Z. The lift termination. a. The right ter7nination of this ligament, b. b. The right kidney covered with the peritonaeum. c. The meatus of the celebrated Winslow, between the ligu- mentum hepatico-colicum, and hepatico-renale, as well as be- tween the lobe of the liver, and duodenum, and nearest the pancreas intercepted, a little drawn out, that it should up- pear to be Imiated.and reflected about the liver. Winslow was right in this; but has not observed, that this hiatus \s longer continued, and that it goes between the liver and bile ducts. Garengcot has given a rough Plate in his Sphncknolog, 'I', vi, f, 1. which, compare with ours., d. d. The colon, with its pinguedinous appendix. f. e. e. liitestuia tenuia, or small intestines., f. f. Part of the pancreas, which insinuates itself between the flexures of the duodenum. The two Plates of the omentum, &c. are of some use in considering ency sted dropsies'of the parts, as may be seen it my Treatise on Swelled Legs, Dropsies, &c. The first Figure iu Plate LI. gives a clear representation of the gall ducts, and pan- rreatic duct, opening in the duodenum. This demonstration may serve to correct an opinion, common in the mouths of ui in* formed mankind, and even some medical practitioners, of bile generating in the stomach. No bile is ever in the stoinac , unless forced there by the inversion of the peristatic motion of the duodenum, from whence may proceed into the sloraach. ■AVTcii vomits are given by the ignorant, they frequently observe bile come up: but this bile, in general, is forced theretmm the duodenum by the vomit. On the injurious practice of giving vomits, iu what are called Bilious Complaints read luy Treatise on Nervous Lliseases, «^c.Tabvla.. liH. ct histoHa Jlcdicuta- a OulrX-H^ i e r i i fry i \ i "\-v<'^ ,-»;r ■Tahuj.a.UIT( 103 ; PLATE LIII. Male Parts of Generation, FIGURE I. REPRESENTS THE BLADDER' OPEN ON THE ANTERIOR PART; THE PROSTRATE OLAND 15 DIVIDED ABOVE THE CORPORA CAVERNOSA; AND THE URETHRA IS CUT THROUGH ALL ITS LENGTH. Name, situation, ^c. a. The bladder, a membranaceous sac. I ■ ■ i e. 'f- I h. i, ; I. I ! n. n. I I I r, s. t. b, e. \f- g- Connection, SfC. With the umbilicus, os pubis, ijitestinum rectum, and genitals. Is rarely hollow. Two membranous canals perforate the membrane of the bladder. Termination, Use, SfC. Anterior in men, is situated to the intes* tinum rectum. Gf-es to the liver. Carry the urine from the kidneys into the bladder. b: Urachus, above the bladder. C. Aperture of the ureters, with a du- plicaturc of the internal membrane of the bladder. Part of the bladder drawn to the side. Caput Gallinaginis. There are two efferentia on each side. Foramina of the prostate ducts. Urethra, opened longitudinally with the lacunae. Prostate cut off at the beginning of the urethra. The beginning of the corpus caverno- sum with the erector muscle. The corpus cavernosum of the other side. Bulb of the urethra. One of the glands of Cowper. Its cxcretorp duct. Thespongious texture of the urethra. Fossa navicularis. Tiie corpora cavernosa laid open. The blood propelled into these bodies. Constitutes erection. Gians penis, is the anterior part. v. Part of the urethra where the incision is made. x. Spongious'texture of the glans penis. FIGURE II. SHEWS THE POSTERIOR PART OP THE BLADDER, AND INFERIOR PART OF THE PENIS. With the prostatic part of the urethra, near the neck of tlie bladder. Situated near the bulbous part of the urethra. , Which lacunaj being irritated, a greater quantity of mucus flows out. The prostato is acordifonn, glandular, cavernous body. Is gradually, produced from the bulb of the penis. From the blood remaining in the cellular texture. Situated near the prostate. They are of the mucous kind. Opens into the urethra. Through its whole length. The same as the orifice of the urethra. The blood propelled into these bodies. They carry the semen from the vesicul-ae seminalcs into the urethra subcoitu. To emit the mucus of the prostate into the urethra. J'he matter of gonorrhoea comes from these lacunae. Secreting the mucus to be mixed wish the semen. Forms the largest part of the penis. The glans is distended ; in this way erec- tion of the penis is caused. From it the corpus cavernosum. Separate a lubricating humour. The mucus lubricates the urethra. The urethra is very sensible. To discharge the semen and urine. The bladder, with the external mem- brane. Ureters, and their insertion. Insertion of the vasa dctcrentia with the visiculae seminales. Gyri of vcsiculre Ductus communis to the vesicul*, and vsisa deferentia. Prostate, without any involiicra, ad- heres under the neck of the bladder. Membranous part of ihe urethra is often if^ured by injections. Aceekrafbrts urince, cut off to shew the spongious texture of the bulb. Accclcratores above the bulb. Tendon of the acceleratores. Receives the urine from the ureters. c. Ve'sicuhe seminales. The semen is preserved in these vessels, and partly in the vesiculae. The sperma is detainer! in them. If the internal membrane of the urethra be inflamed, this ostium opens. The mucus is eliminated into the urethra about the caput gallinaginis. The semen is thrown from the urethra by the action of the muscles. Insertions of the acctleratores, terminating in the corpora cavernosa. p. Posterior part of the urethra. q. Beginning of the corpora cavernosa with the erectores. And retains it. d. Vasa deferentia. Tabes takes place from excessive proflu- vi urn of the semen. In them obstructions, &c. Upon this duct being obstructed, con- gestion of semen, tumors, &c. Tumors, and schirri of the prostate, inj‘ pedc the emission of urine. Contraction of the fibres, callosities, ca- runcula*, ulcers, fungi, takejrlace. , Incontinence of urine from the paralysis, or laxity of the muscles, impotence of the proper excretion, or only drop- ping guttatim. FIGURE III. Body of the testicle. Represents the testicle, with the membrane, called albuginea- Epididyjnis lies upon the tcsti^s. The spermatic chord, composed of artery, veins, nerves. Beginning of the vas deferens. Yas deteren^ Secretes the sperma, or semen, is coin- pressed by the cremaster. Receives the sperma from the testes. The spermatic artery, and nerves, de- scend thi’ough the abdominal ring. The vas deferens receives the semen from, the epididymis. Carries the sperma into the epididymis,, which passes the semen into the vas deferens.. To supply the testicle with blood. See. for the secretion of semen. And transmits it to the vesicula? semina- les, from wJicncc it is thrown through, the mellLra in coition.( 104 } ( PLATE Liy. The Female Farts of Generation, Figure I. A. Inferior part of the abdomen, and mons veneris. B. B. Labia •pudenda seperated. C. Clitoris, &nd prcepttce. . ■ F. Fossa magna, or os externum. G. Meatus urinarius, ^ H. PerincEum. I. Anus, K. The part covering the extremity of the os coccygis. L. The parts covering the tuberosity of the os ischium. Figure II. 3ECTI01T OF THE UTERUS, AXD OF THE VAGINA OF A CHILD OF A FEW WEEKS OLD. A. Uterus opens through the posterior facies. B. Oxaria, and Fallopian tubes. C. Vagina^ opening anteriorly. r. Its interior, nervous, rugous membrane. A. Its exterior, fibrous texture. D. Small circle of the dissected hymen. E. Crenated,, and rough orifice of the uterus. F. Septum of the uterus, composed of three juga. G. Anterior column of the cervex uteri. H. Posterior, I. Small valves of the cervex uteri. K. Valvular part of the vagina, nearest to the uterus. L. The anterior, and larger column of the vagina. M. Posterior, and less column. N. Intermediate caruncula. O. The nearest part of the hymen, composed of circular valves. The mons xeneris is a fatty eminence, covered with hairy skin, lying on the pubiis. Labia majora are two fatty eminences, beginning under the mons veneris, covering the labia minora, and running by the oidesof the orifice of the vagina to theperinamm, and there unite together by means of a transverse cutaneous fold, called Frenulum Labiorum. Labia minora, also called Nympftce, are two cutaneous folds like the gills of a cock, situated at the sides of the ori- fice of the vagina. Clitoris is a glandiform body, which adheres under the ante- rior commissure of the labia majora. Jlymcn is-'a membrane, mostly semilunar, which adlicrcs to -the orifice of the vagina in virgins. Va<nna uterina is a membranous tube, which begins within the labia minora, then ascends into the cavity of the pelvis, between the ossa pubis, and intestinum rectum to the neck of the uterus. The vagina consists of three membranes. The external is cellular from the tela cellulosa. The middle muscular, which consists of fleshy fibres. The internal, called Rugous. These rugx are transverse.. Urethra is a membranous canal, larger than the urethra in men, and descending from the neck ol the bladder within the ossa pubis, opens by its orifice under the clitoris, within the organ of the nymphac. Uterus, or womb, is that spongious which is situ- ated in the cavity of the pelvis above the vagina, be- tween the urinary bladder, and intestinum rectum. Its is like a compressed jiear, hence Its division into bottom, winch is the highest and broadest part, neck, which is the lowest part, narrowed to a point, and into the orijicium uterinum, which is the transverse aperture in the neck of the uterus, that projects into the vagina. Cavity of the uterus is small in a virgin, scarcely the size of an excorticated almond, with three cpcrffoci’. Two are at the sides of the uterus, called the Internal Orifices of the fallopian tubes. The third aperture is below, viz. the orijiciimi uterinum. The broad ligaments of the uterus originate from the duplica- • ture of the peritoneum, which gives the external membrane to the uterus. They are extended from the sides of the uterus to the ossa ilia; they sustain the uterus, tubac, and ovaria. The round ligaments of the uterus, arise from the sides of the | uterus, near its fundus, go to the inguinal ring, and j there terminate in fat, Tubcefallopiance, are two membranous canals, which arise from the bottom of the uterus laterally, and run to- [ wards the ovaria, in the superior margin of the broad j ligament. The ovaria are two smooth bodies, situated in the cavity of ' the pelvis, at the siiies of the uterus. Their exterior i surface is fibrous, but their internal vesicular, at least, [| in virgins. These vesicular are called Ovula Mulidro, i and disappear in the aged. The glands of the genitals are; 1. Glandulce mucosie vaginales, which are situated under the rugous tunic of the vagina. 2. Glanduke odorifene of the labia, and clitoris. 3. Glandulce niucipane urethra:, whicli are found under its internal membrane. The use of the parts of generation is for copulation. conception, nourishment of the fetus, parturition, mcnstniaiion. In the thirty-fourth Plate, the urine bladder, utcras, and rectum, .arc soon laterally, and shew- the exact space they fill up in the pelvis. This view ought to be well recolleclcd in the 1%-acticc of Midwifery, and in the treatment of many feiniilc con.(lie .11-, to account for causes, symptoms, dec. in various diseases. Patience in hard labours cannot be too strongly incuicivicd ; for instruments are rarely, very rarely ncccSiary, and, when used, generally -lacerafe the parts, so as to render future life truly miserable! • ' ■c' ' . ■ y ^ e ‘ ■ « • '?l ■f H S'*. ‘ ■'■■.?■ !>^^'';j4i >-^:v'‘- v-^iti-'I*;.,...,. ::^ . PI ' <( * = ^ . V '-- V V>'■• ■••■ '^- V ■ I* ■ . *J-r . ‘V ^ *'- Vs *■’- r: - ■ H ^ ^ • Vt - W^ ' *.' •• V .' ., ■*> -''^^l -4 ■■ > .. - v'^* r / "'i.'y ? :-*■ f - *s',S '-*/ i- ' i .»v., -‘j^j. ■fc . of ‘At •*-7 ■' 'f ■ ■ , ' t fi ' ■ S' nc' . . :^.' -i**i ■),•/& ■ . «vr V; / > H- . ■ <V ■ ' . . -TT ^ " - f-tL V' ^A . COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY, V EXTRACTED FROM SCHOLA MEDICINE, UNIVERSALIS NOVA, AND JjR^JVSLtdTEI!) IJ¥TO EJYGEISHs ' AFTER WHICH FOLLOWS AN ABRIDGED PHYSIOLOGY, AND PATHOLOGY^ FOR THE USE OF STUDENTS; CONTAINING WHAT PRINCIPALLY OUGHT TO BE WELL REMEMBERED IN THE) PRACTICE OF MEDICINE, SURGERY,' See. V '■s — OF ANATOMY IN GENERAL. Anatomy is a Science, divided into seven doctrines: 1. Osteologia, treats of the Bonesv 2. Syndesmologia, Ligaments. 3. Myologia, Muscles. 4. Splanchnologia, Viscera. 5. Angiologia, Vessels. 6. Neurologia, ^ Nerves. 7. Adenologia, Glands. OF TIIE'SOLID.S I>l GENERAL. A human body consists of what have been called Solids and Fluids.* The solids are divided into hard and soft. Bones, and cartilages, are called Hard> Muscles; and all the other parts are called Softl Every solid part is supposed to be formed of minute fibres ; and these are what constitute tela cellulosa, which forms all other parts of the liuman body—very few excepted. • IFhflt have been called Solids.—But it must be observed, that the parts, called Solids, are pervaded in every part with Fluids, in an animated Body; many of which congeal after death, and appear firm substances. Z e OSTEOLOGIA. I{ io5 ) OSTEOLOGIA. Bones are the hardest, most dry, and least sensible of the solid parts, except in a diseased state. A junction of all the bones in their natural situation, is called a Skeleton.—It is nominated natural, when its ligaments are preserved; artificial, when articulated with small wires, screws, &c. DIVISION OF THE SKELETON, A skeleton is divided into Head, Trunk, and Extremities, Tlte head is divided into Skull, and Face. ¥he face is sub-divided into maxilla superior, or Upper Jaw, And maxilla inferior, or Lower Jaw, The trunk is divided into Spine, Thorax, / Pelvis, The extremities are divided into Superior, and Inferior, The upper extremities are divided into the top of the Shoulder, and Arm, Into the Fore Arm, and Hand. The hand is sub-divided into Carpus, or Wrist, Metacarpus, or Hand; Digiti, or Fingers. The lower extremities are divided into femur, or Thigh, Leg, and Foot. The foot is sub-divided into Foot, and Toes, THE NUMBEU, AND NAME OF BONES. The skeleton of a full grown person consists of two hundred and forty bones. Thp skull is made up of eight; namely, 1 Frontal bone. 1 Occipital. 2 Parietal. 2 Temporal, 1 Spheenoid, _ 1 Ethmoid. The maxilla superior, or upper jaw, consists of Ihirteeu bones: 2 Superior maxillary. 2 Jugal. 2 Lachrymal. 2 Nasal, 2 Palatine. 2 Inferior, spongy. ' 1 Vomer. The maxilla inferior, or lower jaw, has one bone only, except in the Ictal state. The cavity of the mouth has thirty-three bones; namely, S2 Teeth. » 1 The os hyoides, or bone of the tongue. The cavity of the car has four bones, called Stapes, Malleus, Incus, and , Os orbicularc. The spine consists of twenty-four vertebrte ; namely,] 7 Of the Neck, J2 Back. 5 Loins. The thorax has twenty-five bones; namely, 24 Ribs. 1 Bone, called Sternum. The pelvis consists of four bones, which arc 2 Ossa innominata. 1 Os sacrum, or sacred bone, I Os coccygis. The top of the shoulder has two bones ; namely, Clavicle, Scapula, or Shoulder Bone, The arm has one bone, called Humerus, ot bone of the arm. The fore arm has two bones; namely, Radius. Ulna. The( 107 ) The wrist consists of eight bones, which form two rows. The hand consists of five bones; namely, 4) Metacarpal bones of the fingers. 1 Metacarpal bone of the thumb. The fingers have fourteen small bones, called Phalanges: 2 In the thumb. 3 Compose each finger. The thigh has one bone, called Femur, or bone of the thigh. The leg consists of three bones : Tibia, Fibula, Patella, or Knee pan. The tarsus, or instep, has seven bones. The foot consists of five bones, one for each toe» THE DIFFERENT SPECIES OF MOVEABtE CONNECTION MAY BE UNDERSTOOD AS FOLLOWS: 1. Enarthrosis, is an articulation, moveable in every di- rection, as the head of the thigh-bone in the deep cavity of the os inriomlnatum, called Acetabulum. 2. Arlhrcdia, is an articulation in every direction, with the shallow cavity, as the head of the os humeri with the glenoid cavity of scapula, or the fore finger,^ with the metacarpal bone supporting it. 3. Ginglymus, is an articulation, admitting of flexion, and extension only, as the leg bends towards the thigh, or the arm upon the fore arm. 4. Trochoides, admits of rotatory motion only, as the alias, or first vertebra of the neck, with the tooth-formed process of the drntator second. 5. Amphyarthrosis, admits of a very obscure motion, scarcely perceptible, as the bones of the hand, and foot. The toes have fourteen phalanges ; namely, 2 In the great toe. 3 In each of the others. CONNECTION OF BONES. There are three kinds of connection: 1. Moveable, called Articulation. 2. Immoveable, and 3. Mediate connection. THE SPECIES OF IMMOVEABLE CONNECTION ARE THUS distinguished: 1. Suture, is a connection of bones by means of tooth- like margins, as the. bones of the skull. 2. Harmony, is a connection of bones by slight rugous margins, not dentiform, as in most bones of the face. 3. Gomphosis, is a connection of bones, in which one is fixed in the other like a nail in the wall, as the roots of the teeth in the alveoli, or sockets of the jaw. There are- five species of articulation, or moveable con- nection ; namely, 1. Deep articulation, or Enarthrosis. 2. Superficial, Arthrodia. 3. Flexible, Ginglymus, 4. Rotatory, Trochoides. 5. Obscure, Amphyarthrosis. There, are three species of immoveable connection; namely, 1. Sutura, or suture. 2. Harmonia, or harmonic. 3. Gomphosis, or tooth-like indentation. Mediate connection, or symphysis, has five species: 1. Synchondrosis, or cartilaginous junction symphysis. 2. Syssarcosis, or muscular symphysis. ' 3. Syneurobis, or ligamentous symphysis. 4. Syndesmosis, or membranous symphysis. 5. Synostosis, or bony symphysis. THAT CONNECTION OF BONES, WITH ANOTHER BODY BETWEEN THEM, MAY BE THUS DESCRIBED: 1. Synchondrosis, is a connection of bones by means of an intervening cartilage, as the bodies of the vertebraj, or bones of the pubis. 2. Syssarcosis, is a connection of bones by means of muscles, as the os hyoides, or bone of the tongue, is connected to several neighbouring parts. 3. Syndesmosis, is a connection of bones by an intermedi- ate ligament, as the radius with the ulna, or the tibia with the fibula. 4. Syneurosis, is a connection of bones by means of membrane; thus in the foetus, the parietal bones are connected with the frontal bone, or os frontis. 5. Synostosis, is a connection of bones, or rather con- cretion, by means of an intermediate bony substance; thus the lower jaw, which, in the foetus, consists of two bones, afterwards becomes firmly united in the middle. THS( io8 ) THE SUBSTANCE OF BONES IS THREE-FOLD. Compact in the body of a bone ; spongy at the extremities; reticular internally. The compact substance consists of many broad laminae, or layers, lying closely on each other. The spongy substance consists of short bony fibres in various directions, forming cells, rvhich resemble sponge. The reticular substance consists of minute bony filaments, r interwoven togetlier like net-work. COLOUR OF BONES. 1. In the compact substance is white, inclining to red. 2. In the spongy structure is brown, inclining to red. 3. On the external tables of the skull is white, inclining to blue, ‘ USES OF THE BONES. 1. They support the body. 2. form its stature. 3. defend the viscera. 4. give adhesion, and situation to muscles. OF THE SKULL IN GENERAL. It is divided into the upper part, and base ; and is composed of eight bones, which are connected by suture. The sutures of the skull are divided into 3 True, and 2 False. THE TRUE SUTURES ARE, First, Coronal, by which the frontal bone is joined to the parietal bones. Second, Sagittal, which joins the parietal bones together. Third, LamhdoiHal, or occipital, which connects the occi- pital to the parietal, and temporal bones. THE FALSE, OR SPURIOUS SUTURES, ARE 3 Squamous, ,or temporal, by which the upper part of the temporal bone is connected to the lower margin of the parietal bone, on each side. SUBSTANCE OF THE SKULL. The skull consists of an internal, and external table, which are compact; and aspongy intermediatesubstance, called Uiploe. I'he internal table, from its smooth brittle surface, is likewise distinguished by the name of Vitreous, or Glassy. Those small bones, named after Wormius, are chiefly found * in the lamdoidal suture. .THERE ARE EIGHT CAVITIES IN THE BASE, OR BOT- TOM OF THE SKULL, ON WHICH THE CEREBRUM AND CEREBELLUM ARE SITUATED. 2 Anterior, formed by the frontal, and ethmoid bones. 2 Middle, formed by the spheenoid, and temporal bones. 2 Superior occipital, formed by the occipital bone. 2 Inferior occipital formed by the occipital and temporal bones. THE FORAMINA, OR PERFORATIONS IN THE BASE | OF THE SKULL, ARE Ten, in pairs. Two, unlike each other. I THE PAIRS ARE THUS DISTINGUISHED. 1. Cribrous foramen in the occipital bone. 2. Optic foramen in the sphomoid. 3. Superior orbital fissure. | 4. Round foramen. | 5. Oval foramen. | 6. Spinous foramen. , i 7. Canal, or passage for the carotid artery in the petrous | portion of the temporal bone. 8. Internal auditory foramen, near the latter. 9. Lacerated foramen, between the temporal, and occi- pital bones. 10. Anterior, condyloid foramen, in the occipital bone. J i THOSE FORAMINA, AVHICH ARE UNLIKE. 1. Obscure foramen, between the frontal, and ctlunoid bones. 2. Great occipital foramen in the occipital bone. USES OF THE FORAMINA IN PAIRS. 1. Receive the olfactory nerves, which are distributed on I the cavity of the nose. | 2. Give passage to the optic nerves, through each of j which nerve there is a central artery. ; 3. By the superior orbital fissure, the third, fourth, < first branch of the fifth, and the whole of the sixth t pair of nerves pass; likewise, the internal orbital artery. 4. The round foramina give passage to the second branch of the fifth pair of nerves. 5. The oval foramina receive the third branch of the t fifth pair. | 6. By the spinous foramen, the spinous artery runs into | dura mater. 7. By the carotid canals the internal carotid artery enters, ' and the great intercostal nerve passes out. 8. By the auditory foramen, the hard and soft portion of the auditory nerve, and the internal auditory ajtery pass. t). Through( i09 ) J), Through the rugged, or lacerated foramen, the internal Jugular vein, the eighth pair of nerves, and their ac- cessories, pass out, 10. Through the anterior condyloid foramen, the lingual nerves, or of the tongue ; as likewise the ninth pair, are sent out. USES OF THE FORAMINA, WHICH ARE NOT DU- PLICATE. 1. Through foramen ccecum, or the blind foramen, a small vein passes. 2. Through the great occipital foramen the spinal me- dulla passes down, and the vertebral arteries enter; likewise the accessory nerves of the medullary spine. In the skull of an unborn infant, we should observe the fontanella, or that membranous part, at the top of the head, which is not yet ossified. FRONTAL BONE, OR OS FRONTIS, Is situated at the anterior part of the skull,' in shape re- sembling a cockle-shell. Division into external surface, base, and margin. PROCESSES ON THE EXTERNAL SURFACE, ARE 1. Frontal tuberosities, which constitute the lateral ex- ternal surface. 2. Superciliary arches, which are the superior margins of the orbital cavities. 3. External frontal spine, is an apophysis, upon which the bones of the nose are situated. 4. Two external orbital apophyses. 5. Two internal orbital apophyses, which constitute the corners of the eyes. 6. Internal frontal spine, which is in the base of this bone, on the internal surface before the obscure foramen. CAVITIES ON THE EXTERNAL SURFACE, ARE 1. Two orbital cavities, which form the upper part of the orbit. 2. The fovea of the lachrymal gland in the external, and upper part of the orbit. 3. Fovea for the trochlea of the superior oblique muscle, going to the bulb of the eye, in the internal angle of the orbit. 4. Superciliary foramen, which gives passage to the frontal nerve. 3. Two pituitary frontal sinuses at the bottom of this bone, between the opening of the tables, of conse- quence to be considered in fractures of the cranium. THE INTERNAL CAVITIES ARE, 1. A furrow in the middle for the longitudinal sinus of the dura mater. £. The obscure foramen under the internal frontal spine. 3. The ethmoid cavity for the reception of the ethmoid bone. CONNECTION WITH SEVEN BONES. 1. With the parietal bones, 2. nasal. 3. lachrymal. 4. maxillary. 5. jugal. 6. . ethmoid bone. 7. sphenoid bone. USES. It forms the forehead, superior part of the orbits, and con- tains the anterior lobes of the brain. PARIETAL BONES. SITUATION. They are connected to each o>ther at the top of the head. FIGURE. Arched, and nearly quadrangular. DIVISION. Into external, and internal surface, and four margins; namely, 1. Superior, or sagittal margin. 2. Inferior, or temporal. 3. Anterior, or coronal. 4. Posterior, or occipital. And four angles, upper and lower. Two anterior, superior and inferior. Two posterior, superior and inferior. EXTERNAL CAVITIES. The parietal foramen in the posterior part of the sagittal su- ture, gives passage to a small artery of the dura mater. INTERNAL CAVITIES. The middle part of the furrow, or in the margin of the sa- gittal suture, for the longitudinal sinus of the dura mater. A sulcus, or furrow for the spinous artery, at the anterior and inferior angle. CONNECTION WITH FIVE BONES. 1. With its opposite parietal bone by sagittal suture. 2. temporal bone by squamous suture. 3. sphoepoid bone by squamous suture. 4. frontal bone by coronal suture. 5. occipital bone by lamdoidal suture. USE. These bones constitute the superior, or upper part of the head. F f OCCIPITAL( 110 ) OCCIPITAL BONE. SITUATION. Al the back and inferior part of the skull. FIGURE. Oblong square. DIVISION. Into external and internal surfaces. EXTERNAL PROTUBERANCES, ARE t. Occipital tubercle in the middle of the bone. 2. Basilary process, which extends from the great occi- pital foramen to the sphenoid bone. 3. Condyloid processes, which are situated at the sides of the great occipital foramen, and are received into the articulating fovete, orxavities of the first vertebra of the neck^ INTERNAL PROTUBERANCES, ARE 1. Crucial spine in the middle of the internal surface, which is divided into four rami, or processes. Superior ramus for the scythe-like, or faciform process. Two lateral rami for the tentorium of the cerebellum. One inferior ramus, to which the septum of the cerebellum adheres. THE INTERNAL CAVITIES ARE 1. Two excavations on the inferior margins, which form the rugged foramen. 2. The great occipital foramen, through which the spinal marrow passes, and the vertebral arteries, as well as the accessory spinal nerves enter. '3. Two anterior condyloid foramina before the condyloid processes, which give passage to the ninth pair of nerves, going to the tongue. 4. Two posterior condyloid foramina behind the condy- loid processes, by which the occipital vein passes out. THE EXTERNAL CAVITIES ARE J. Two superior occipital fossce, or cavities, which re- ceive the posterior lobes of the brain. 2. Two inferior occipital fossa?, which receive the cere- bellum. 3. A fossa, or cavity, for the medulla oblongata in the basilary process. 4. Superior furrow of the 'crucial spine, in which the superior longitudinal sinus is situated. 5. Two lateral furrows for the lateral sinuses of the dura mater. CONNECTION WITH FOUR BONES. 1. With the parietal bones. 2. temporal bones. 3. sphenoid bone. 4. articulating fo\cae of the first vertebra of the neck by its condyles. USES. Forms the posterior and inferior part of the skull, contains the posterior lobes of the cerebrum, all the cerebrum, and medulla oblongata, and is used in the articulation of the head. TEMPORAL BONES. SITUATION. At the sides, and inferior part of the skull. FIGURE. Irregular. DIVISION. Into three portions ; namely, squamous, mamillary, petrous. EXTERNAL PROCESSES ARE 1. The zygomatic apophyses, which arise from the squamous portion. 2. The articulating turbercle, which are the origin of the zygomatic apophyses, and are situated before the ar- ticulating fovete. 3. The styloid apophyses, arising from the petrous portions. 4. The mastoid apophyses, which are in the mamillary portion, to which the sterno-mastoideus muscle is affixed. EXTERNAL CAVITIES ARE 1. The articulating foveae to the inferior pait. 2. The external opening of the auditory passage, which is on the external surface. 3. The stylo-maistoid foramen, through which the hard portion of the auditory nerve passes. 4. Carotid canal in the petrous portion, through which the great intercostal nerve passes out, and the internal carotid artery enters. 5. An excavation in the petrous portion, which, in con- junction with the occipital bone, forms the rugged fo- ramen, or foramen lacerum. 6. The eustachian tube, which passes through a cavity of the tympanum, between the petrous and squamoui portion of this bone. internal cavities are 1. The internal auditory passage in the back part of the petrous portion, through which the soft part of the auditory nerve passes. 2. The, intf'rnal orifice of Fallopius's aqua?duct, which i* in the cavity of the internal auditory passage, and receives thp harder portion of the auditory nerve. CON-CONNECTION WITH FIVE BONES. INTERNAL CAVITIES ARE f 11* ) J' 1. With the parietal bones. J 2. occipital. J' 3. sphenoid bones. ' i! 4. jugal bones. (i 5. inferior maxillary. SUBSTANCE, 1j The squamous portion consists of an internal and external table, with diploe between them. The mamillary portion is cellular; and the petrous portion is firm and compact. USES. i To contain the middle lobes of the brain ; part of the cere- ( belluin, and organ of hearing; likewise, to form the |l temples and base of the skull. I -— THE SPH/ENOID BONE. j SITUATION. In the middle of the base of the skull, SHAPE. i Various: it is compared to a bat, with extended wings. j DIVISION, I Into body, and apophyses. external surface, which is outside of the skull, j internal surface within the skull, THE EXTERNAL PROTUBERANCES ARE 1. Sphoenoid spine, which is connected with that bone of the nose, called Vomer. 1 2. The greater wings, which are divided into the temporal I and orbital portion, I 3. The pterygoid apophysis, which is situated at the base 1 of the superior part, and forms two smaller wings. 1 4. The little hook in the internal wing. 5. The spinous apophyses, which are near the spinous fo- ramina. 1 INTERNAL PROTUBERANCES ARE .1. The less wings, which form the upper part of the inter- nal orbital fissure. 2. Two anterior, and two posterior clinoid processes, 1 which are the corners of the etlla Turcica, or Turkish I saddle. I EXTERNAL CAVITIES ARE j 1. Sphoenoidal pituitary sinuses, which are in the body of ! this bone. 2. The foramina of the pterygoid canal, which are at the origin of the pterygoid apophyses, by which thd*recur- rent branch of the fifth pair of nerves returns into the skull. 1. The sella turcica, which is a depression between the four clinoid apophyses. 2. The optic foramina, through which the optic nerves pass; and in the middle of each nerve there is a central artery, 3. The superior orbital fissures, through which the third, fourth, first branch of the fifth, and the whole of the- sixth pair of nerves pass out; likewise, the internal or- bital artery. . 4. The round foramina, by which the superior maxillary nerves pass. 5. The oval foramina, giving passage to the inferior max- illary nerves, 6. The spinous foramina, by which the spinous artery enters into the cavity of the skull. CONNECTION WITH NINE BONES. 1, 2. 3, 4. 5, 6. 7. 8. 9. With the frontal bone, ethmoid, parietal bones, temporal, jugal. superior maxillary. palatine. vomer, occipital bone by cartilage. USES. Forms the base o^ the skull; assists in the formation of the orbit, and pituitary sinus. ETHMOID BONE. SITUATION. Anteriorly in the base of the skull, and upper part of the nose. SHAPE. Cube-like. DIVISION INTO SIX SURFACES. Superior, toward the cavity of the skull. . Inferior, projects into the cavity of the nose. Anterior, near the frontal sinuses. Posterior, connected to the sphoenoid bone. Two lateral, right and left, which form the internal part of the orbit. THE EXTERNAL AND INTERNAL PROMINENCES ARE 1. The crista galli, which divides the internal sui-face into two parts, and forms a point of adhesion for the falci- form process of the dura mater. 2. The( ua ) SIVISION 2. 'Hie crtbriform lamella, whicli forms the internal sur- face of this bone, 3. The perpendicular lamina, or ethmoid septum, divides the cavernous substances; and al its inferior part, is connected to the vomer, 4. The cavernous substance, on each side of the perpen- dicular lamina; consisting of bony cells, and forms the superior spongy bone. 5. The •paper-like, or papyraceous surface, which covers the cavernous substance sideways, and forms the lateral, and internal part of the orbit. THE EXTERNAL AND INtERNAL CAVITIES ARE 1. The cribrous foramina, most of which are near the crista galli, on the internal surface, and give passage to the small branches of olfactiry nerves. CONNECTION WITH SEVEN BONES. 1. With the frontal bone. 2. the fiasal, or bones of the nose. 3. superior maxillary. 4. lachrymal. 5. palatine. 6. sphaenoid. 7. vomer. USES. It constitutes the organ of smell, part of the nose, skull, and orbits. THE BONES OF THE FACE in particular. SUPERIOR MAXILLARY BONES. SITUATION. At the anterior, and middle part of the face. SHAPE. Irregular, DIVISION. Into the body, which is in the middle, and many apo- physes. EXTERNAL AND INTERNAL PROMINENCES ARE 1. The nasal apophysis, which R'rms the side of the nose, 2. The orbital apophysis, forming the inferior part of the orbit. 3. The jugal apophysis, which is rugged, and connected to the jugal bone. 4. The palatine apophysis, which forms the anterior par\ of the palate. 5. The alveolar arch, which consists of eight sockets in each bone. 6. The maxillary tuberosity, forming its posterior surface. 7. The nasaj spine, which is internal in the cavity of the nose, formed by a connection of the maxillary bones. 8. The orbital margin, forming the inferior edge of th* orbit. EXTERNAL AND INTERNAL CAVITIES, 1. Lachrymal fossa, which is a cavity, at the superior and internal part of the nasal process, to receive the la- chrymal sac. 2. 7'hc nasal canal, which decends a little obliquely from the lachrymal fossa into the cavity of the nose. 3. The inferior orbital canal, beginning at the lower part of the orbit, is covered by the inferior orbital apophysis, and terminates in the face: it gives passage to the infe- rior orbital nerve, which is a continuation of the supe- rior maxillary. 4. The palatine foramen in the nasal spine, through which the anterior palatine artery passes. 5. The posterior palatine foramen, behind the last of those teeth, called Molares, or Grinders, in the maxillary tuberosity, by which the alveolar nerve passes in. 6. An ajjcrturc of the maxillary sinus, which is so co- vered by the ethmoid, lachrymal, palatine, and inferior spongy, bones, that it will hardly admit a gopse-quill. 7. The pituitary maxillary sinus; in the middle of this bone is called Antrum Highmori, or of Highmor, which is a deep cavity, with an aperture into the nose. CONNECTION WITH ELEVEN BONES. Partly by sutures, and partly by harmony. 1. With its companion on the other side. 2. the frontal bone. 3. nasal bones. 4. lachrymal. 5. ethmoid bone. 6. jugal bones. 7. palatine. 8. ' sphenoid bone. 9. inferior spongy bones. 10. vomer. 11, teeth. USE. They form part of the face, palate, nostrils, and orbit; and constitute the organ of mastication, or for chewing food. JUGAL BONES. SITUATION. At the sides of the face. FIGURE. Almost square.G g a ■ SHAPE. ( »^3 ) DIVISION. Into internal and external surface, body, and four apophyses. THE PROTUBERANCES ARE 1. The frontal apophysis, which is connected to the frontal bone at the external angle of the orbit. 2. The orbital apophysis, forming a part of the orbit. 3. The cheek apophi/sis, which is near the maxillary bone. The zygomatic apophyses, which are connected to the zygoma- tlcprocess of the temporal bone, and forms the zygoma. TUE CAVITIES ARE / 1. The zygomatic cavity behind. CONNECTION WITH FOUR BONES; NAMELY, 1. With the frontal. 2. maxillary, 3. sphenoid. 4. temporal. BONES OF THE NOSE. SITUATION. In the superior part, and middle of the nose. SHAPE. Oblong square. DIVISION. Into external, and internal surtace, and four margins ; 1. Superior, near the frontal bone. 2. Inferior, connected with the cartilage of the nose. 3. Internal, by which it is united to its companion; and below, it rests upon the perpendicular apophysis of the ethmoid bone. 4. External, meets the nasal apophysis of the maxillary bone. CONNECTION WITH FOUR BONES. 1. With its associate. 2. the froiital. 3. maxillary. 4. ethmoid. USE. To form the nose, and to defend and cover the organ of smelling. LACHRYMAL BONES. SITUATION. In the internal corner of the orbit, SHAPE. Almost square, DIVISION. Into external and internal surface, and four margins; 1. The superior, connected with the frontal bone. 2. The inferior, joined to the maxillary. 3. The internal, joined to the papyraceous apophysis of the ethmoid bone. 4. The external, joined to the nasal apophysis of the max- illary bone. CAVITY. A middle furrow at the external margin, which, in con- junction with the middle groove of the nasal apophysis of the maxillary bone, forms the lachrymal fossa. CONNECTION WITH FOUR BONES. 1. With the frontal. 2. maxillaiy. 3. ethmoid. , 4. inferior, spongy. USE. Forms part of the orbit of the lachrymal duct, and defends the organ of hearing. SOSA SPONGIOSA INFERIORA, or INFERIOR SPONGY BONES. SITUATION. At the side, and inferior part of the nose. SHAPE. Spiral. DIVISION. Into external surface, which is depressed towards the max- illary sinus. The interna! surface is convex, towards the nose. Two margins; the superior adheres to the transverse eminence of the maxillary bone. The inferior hangs un- connected in the cavity of the nose, and has an anterior and posterior extremity. connection with three bones, bt harmony; NAMELY, 1. With the maxillary bone. 2. palatine. 3. lachrymal. USE. To extend the surface of the organ of smelling, and diminish the extent of Highnior’s antrum. PALATINE BONES. situation. In the posterior part of the nose, and extend literally as for as the orbit.( M4 ) SnAPK. Irregular. DIVISION INTO THREE PARTS; NAMEIY, i. Palatine, which forms the palate. ‘2. Nasal, extending as far as the orbit. 3. Orbital, which projects into the orbit. PROMINENCES. 1. Pterygoid apophysis, which, by means of a di-pression, is joined to (he extremity of the pterygoid apophysis of the sphocnoidal bone, and connected with the tuberosity of A the maxillary bone. 2. A projecting line on the surface of the nasal .part of this bone, upon which the posterior extremity of the inferior spongy bone lies. CONNECTION WITH SIX BONES. 1. With its companion. 2. the maxillary. 3. sphoenoid. 4. ethmoid. 5. inferior, spongy. 6. vomer. 'use. To form the palate, cavity of the nose, and part of the orbit. THE VOMER. SITUATION. In the middle of the cavity of the nose, which it divides into two parts. 1 SHAPE. Resembles a plough share. DIVISION. Into two furfaces and four margins. The right and left sur» faces are towards the cavity of the nose. THE MARGlflS ARE 1. Anterior, to which the cartilage of the septum narium of the ethmoid bone is affixed. ■2. The posterior is toward the fauces. 3. Inferior, is received into grooves of the palatine, and maxillary phones. The right and left surface are toward the cavities of the nose. CONNECTION WITH FOUR BONES, AND ONE CARTILAGE; NAMELY, 1. With the sphenoid bone. 2. ethmoid. 3. superior maxillary. 4. palatine. 5. cartilage of the septum narium. USE. To support and divide the cavity of the nostrils. THE LOWER JAW-BONE. SITUATION. In the anterior part of the face. SHAPE. Like a horse-shoe. DIVISION. Into an external and internal surface, superior and inferior margin, body, and extremities. PROTUBERANCES. 1. The condyloid apophysis, which is received into the ar- ticulating fovea of the temporal bone. 2. The coronoid apophysis, which is pointed, and gives ad- hesion to the tendon of the temporal muscle. 3. The symphisis of this bone is a projecting line in tho middle of its body. 4. The alveolar margin, which has sixteen teeth. 5. The inferior margin, which forms the external and in- ternal lip. 6. The angles of the jaw, which are the extremities of the inferior margin on each side. CAVITIES. , 1. The semilunar nitch, which is between the condyloid, and coronoid apophysis. 2. The posterior maxillary foramen, or the internal surface. 3. The anterior maxillary foramen in the external surface. ' 4. The menial canal in the substance of this bone under the teeth, leading from the posterior to tJie anterior fo- ramen, and gives passage to the inferior ma.\illary nerve, the maxillary artery, and vein. 5. The sixteen alveoli, or sockets for the teeth, at the su- perior margin of this bone. CONNECTION. With the articulating fovea of the temporal bone; and with the os hyoidcs, by muscles. USE. It is the organ pf mastication. OF THE CAVITIES OF THE FACE, in particulah. Besides the cavity of the skull, there are five others in the head, formed by the bones of the skuH and face; namely, CAVITIES IN THE HEAD. 1. The orbits. 2. cavity of the nose. * ' 3. mouth. 4. fauces. cars( ) THE ORBITS. SITUATION. Under the forehead, at the sides of the root of the nose. SHAPE, Conoid. DIVISION. Into entrance, and fundus. The entrance is divided into the superior margin. inferior. external angle, and internal, which are likewise called canthi. CAVITIES IN THE ORBIT ARE 1. A fovea for the lachrymal gland, at the external angle. 2. A fovea for the orbital trochlea, at the internal angle. 3. The lachrymal fossa for the lachrymal sac. 4. The nasal canal, which is a continuation of the lachry- mal fossa, going, obliquely, into the nostrils, where it opens under the inferior spongy bone, 5. The superior orbital rima, or rim. 6. inferior. 7. superciliary foramen. 5. infra-orbital canal. 9. optic foramen. THE ORBIT IS FORMED BY SEVEN BONES. 1. By the frontal, at its upper part. 2. maxillary, and jugal, at the inferior part. 3. lachrymal, ethmoid, and palatine inwardly. 4. sphoenoid outwardly, and at its fundus. USE. To contain and defend the eye, and its appendages. .CAVITY OF THE NOSE. SITUATION. Under the fore part of the skull, in the middle of the face. DIVISION. By a bony septum into a right and left cavity. SHAPE. Pyramidal. THE PROTUBERANCES ARE 1. The septum narium, which is formed by the vomei', and a perpendicular lamina of the ethmoid bone. 2. Three pair of .spongy bones; namely, superior, and middle, which are portions of the ethmoid bone j the inferior, which are separate. THE CAVITIES ARE 1. Three pair of pituitary sinuses; namely, The frontal in the frontal bone. The sphoenoid in the sphofenoid bone. The maxillary, which are likewise called HighmoFs Antrum in the maxillary bone. 2. The anterior nasal foramina, formed by the maxillary bones, and the vomer. 3. The posterior nasal foramina, formed by the palatine bones, and vomer. COMPOSITION OF THE NOSE. ’ It is formed by thirteen bones: 1. By the fr-ontal, 2. two maxillary. 3. tw'o nasal. 4. tw'o lachrymal. 5. tw'o inferior, spongy. 6. the sphoenoid. 7. the vomer. . 8. the ethmoid, g. two palatine. trsE. To form the organ of smell; and pituitary sinus of the nose. CAVITY OF THE MOUTH. SITUATION, Between the superior and inferior maxillary bones. SHAPE. Anteriorly oval; posteriorly transversely semi-oval. DIVISION. Into upper and lower maxillary, or bones. COMPOSITION. It is forrhed from five bones, and thirty-two teeth: by two superior maxillary ; by two palatine; and by the lower jaw. USE. For mastication, and other purposes. THE TEETH. They are small bones, fixed in the alveoli of the maxillary, or jaw-bones. Number, commonly thirty-two are found, sixteen in each jaw. DIVISION INTO THREE SPECIES. The four middle are called incisorcs ; one on each side of these, which are called canini; ten others, the molares, or grinders, which are situated beyond the canini. DIVISION.( ti6 ) C1V1910H. Each tooth is divided into a corona, or crown, which is the upper part, projecting ahovc the jaws ; a neck, which is a circle under the crown; and a root, which is the inferior part of the tooth hid in the socket. • imrEHENCES DP THE CORONJE, Oil CROWNS. The crowns of incisoies are broad, and have a sharp edge. The crowns of canini are thick, and have a blunt point. The crowns of molares have several eminences. DIFFERENCES OF THE ROOTS. The I’oots of the incisores, are single, and taper. The roots of the canini, are likewise single, but longer, and thicker than the incisores. The root of the first of the molares is single; but of all the othei-s, is double, treble, or iji’.adruple, which some- times grow together. CAVITY. In the root of each tooth, there is a foramen, leading into a small cavity, which is in the internal substance of the tooth, through this foramen, the nerve, artery, alveolar vein, and internal periosteum of the tooth arc carried. SUBSTANCE OF THE TEETH. At the root is compact ; the external surface of. the crown is surrounded by a very hard and white sub- stance, called enamel. CONNECTION. The roots of the teeth are fixed in the alveoli, by gomphosis, USE. For mastication. THE FORMATION OF TEETH. A foetus has two rows of teeth in each jaw, which arc covered by the gums. The time of the first dentition is about the sixth, or seventh month after birth; these arc called primary, or milk- teeth. The time of the second dentition is about the seventh year ; theprimary teeth then gradually decay,and are, in time, succeeded by now teeth, which are called secondary, or perennial teeth, because they continue through life. The last grinders do not come out before puberty, and arc, on that account, called dentes sapiential. C.WITY OF THE FAUCES. SITUATION. Under the basis of the cranium, between the superior bodies of the vertebral of the neck, and the posterior part of the nose. SHAPE. At the top it is nearly square. DIVISION INTO SIX PARTS. 1. The superior, which is from the basilary process of the occipital bone. 2. The anterior, formed by the pterygoid apophysis of the spbocnoid bone, by the palatine bones and the vomer. 3. The posterior, formed by three superior vertebr* of the neck, and has two sides, formed by the petrous por- tions of the temporal bones. COMPOSITION. It is therefore made up of ten bones. USE. To contain the fauces, pbarjmx, lar^mx, and bone of the m hyoldcs, or bone of the tongue. OS HYOIDES. SITUATION. In the fauces, between the base of the tongue and larynx. SHAPE. It is semilunar. DIVISION INTO BODY, AND FOUR HORNS; NAMELY, Two larger horns, which go from the sides of the body, and arc connected with the horns of the scutiform cartilage, by means of ligaments. Two lesser horns, which project toward the origin of the larger boms. 7 CONNECTION WITH SIX PARTS, EITHER BY MUSCLES) OR LIGAMENTS. . 1. It is connected with the tongue. 2. processes of the larynx. 3. With the styloid processes of the temporal bone. 4. lower jaw. 5. scapula. 6. sternum. USE. It serves as a point of adhesion for the tongue, and for deglutition. THE CAVITY OF HEARING. SITUATION. Inteinally in the petrous portion of the temporal bone. DIVISION. Into external and internal auditory passage ; tire cavity of the tympanum; the four small bones; and the labyrinth. OF THE TRUNK. The trunk of a skeleton is divided into spine, thorax and pelvis, TUE( “7 ) THE SPINE, It is a bony column in the posterior part of the trunk, ex- tending from the great occipital foramen to the os sacrum. COMPOSITION. Of twenty-four vertebras. DIVISION Of each vertebra into a body, and seven apophyses; the body is thick, and forms the anterior part of the vertebrae. THE SEVEN APOPHYSES ARE 1. The spinous, which projects at the posterior part. 2. Two superior oblique. 3. Two inferior oblique. 4. Two transverse, which are at the sides. THE CAVITIES ARE 1. The cavity, containing the medulla spinalis, or spinal marrow, which extends from the occipital bone to the posterior surface of the os sacrum, 2. The lateral foramina, of which there are twenty-four, and through which the spinal nerves pass out. CONNECTION Of the vertebra; is double ; 1. With the body of the next vertebra, by synchondrosis. 2. The oblique apophyses of one-vertebra are connected with the apophyses of the next, by arthrodia, USE OF THE SPINE Is to support the body and head; to contain and defend from injury the spinal marrow. THE FIRST VERTEBR.E OF THE NECK. This is likewise called Atlas. 1. It has neither body, nor spinous apophyses. 2. Instead of apophyses, it forms an anteiior and posterior arch. 3. The anterior arch surrounds the dentiform process of the second vertebra. 4. Instead of oblique apophyses, it has two articulating sinuses, which receive the condyles of the' occipital bone. 5. It is connected with the head superiorly, with the second vertebra by an oblique apophysis, and by the odon- toid process of the second vertebra, or dentator. SECOND CERVICAL VERTEBR.®. This is likewise called Axis, Epistropheus, or Dentator; its pe- culiarities are the odontoid, or tooth-like process on the superior part of its body, which articulates in a small cavity of the anterior arch of the atlas, and is retained in its place by a transverse ligament; and is considerably strengthened by another ligament to the great occipital foramen. THE CERVICAL VERTEBRA. Each of the other cervical vertebra; have a foramen in their transverse apophyses, giving passage to the ascending vertebral arteries. THE DORSAL VERTEBRAE Are distinguished by the following peculiarities: 1. At the side of the body of each, there is a fovea in the middle, which, when both bodies are joined, form a surface for the larger head of the rib. 2, At the top of the transverse apophyses, there is a super- ficial fovea for the lesser head of the rib. THE LUMBAR VERTEBRAE. The most considerable motion of the spine is between the last vertebra of the back, and the first of the loins. THE CAVITY OF THE CHEST. COMPOSITION CONSISTS OF THIRTY-SEVEN BONES: 12 Dorsal vertebrm. 24 Ribs, ] Sternum, or breast-bone. USE. To contain and protect the vital viscera, and the organs of respiration. THE RIBS. SITUATION IS OBLIQUE, Going from the dorsal vertebrae to the sternum. SHAPE, Is semicircular. NUMBER, Is twenty-four; twelve on each side. GENERAL DIVISION Into seven true, which are connected with the sternum; and five false, which are not connected with it. II b PARTICULARPARTICULAR DIVISION! CONNECTION OF THE STERNUM. Of each rib into body and extremities ; anterior and poste- rior, into external: and internal surface; superior and inferior margins. THE EMINENCES ARE 1. The greater head, which is connected to the articulating fovea of the dorsal vertebra. 2. The neck,' which is that part adhering between the two heads. 3. The smaller head, which adheres to the transverse apo- physes of the dorsal vertebra. 4f. The angle, which is the posterior, and most convex part of the rib. CAVITIES IN EACH ARE \ 1. The longitudinal furrow, at the inferior margin, which receives the intercostal artery: always to be re- membered in the operation for the empyema. SUBSTANCE. The anterior part is cartilaginous; the posterior, and every other portion is bony and compact. CONNECTION. The anterior extremity of each true rib is connected with the sternum, by synchondrosis. ^ The posterior extremities of all the ribs, true, and false, are connected by ginglymus to the dorsal vertebra, by means of the greater and smaller heads. USE OF THE RIBS Is to form the thorax, or chest; to assist respiration; defend the vital viscera; and give adhesion to the breasts, and muscles. THE STERNUM. ^ SITUATION. At the anterior part of the pelvis, between the true ribs. SHAPE. Like a stilleto, or dagger, . DIVISION, Into internal and external surface; superior and inferior extremities; lateral margins; superior and inferior portions ; appendix of the inferior part, called en- siform cartilage. CAVITIES ARE 1. Jugular sinus, which is near the upper and middle part of the trachea. 2. Two clavicular sinuses at th* sides of the upper part, to which the clavicles are joined. 3. Seven costal fovea; at the lateral margins for the ribs. 1. With each clavicle, by arthrodia. 2. cartilages of the seven true ribs, by synchon-*--' drosis. \' SUBSTANCE. Is rather spongy. - '^1'' USE. Jy To form the thorax ; and to give adhesion to the anterior ■ mediastinum. CAVITY OF THE PELVIS. SITUATION. In the lower region of the trunk. SHAPE. Greatly resembles a barber’s bason. DIVISION. Into wings, and cavity. I^THE CAVITY Is sub-divided into entrance, and termination. COMPOSITION. It consists of four bones: two ossa innominata; the os j sacrum ; and the os coccygis. CONNECTION. The bones, forming the pelvis, are connected by synchond/osis. USE. i To contain the organs of generation; the bladder; the intestine, called rectum; and to support the spine. OSSA INNOMINATA. SITUATION. At the sides of the pelvis. SHAPE. I Is irregular. DIVISION OF EACH IN THE FOETUS INTO THREE X PORTIONS; NAMELY, 1. Into the os ilei, forming the upper part. 2. os ichii, lower part. 3. os pubis, supejior and fore part. DIVISION Of the bone into external and internal surface, THE H 'I( 119 ) SHAPE. TllE EMINENCES ARE 1. The tuberosity of the ileum at the posterior part, where it is connected with the os sacrum. 2. The crista of the ileum, which forms its superior and thick margin. 3. The posterior spine of the ileum, which is the beginning of the crista, at the posterior part. 4. The anterior and superior spine of the ileum, which marks the termination of the crista, at its anterior part. 5. The anterior and inferior spine of the ileum, which is just under the last mentioned spine. 6. The crista of the bones of the pubis, forming the superior margin of these bones. 7. The arch of the pubis, at the anterior part of the ossa innominata. 8. The tuberosity of the ischium, forms the inferior margin of that bone on which wc sit. 9. The spine of the ischium is behind its tuberosity. THE CAVITIES ARE 1. The external iliac cavity, at the external surface of the ileum. 2. The internal iliac cavity, on the internal surface of this » bone. 3. A notch, or excissura, between the anterior spines of the ileum. - 4. The anterior ischiatic notch, which is before the spine of the ischium. 15. The posterior ischiatic notch behind the spine ischium. [6. The acetabulum, formed by three portions of the os in- I nominatum, which receives the head of the os femoris. 17. The fovea of the acetabulum, which is at its most internal I part, contains the synovial glands, and the ligamen- 1 turn teres of the thigh bone. 8. The foramen avale, formed by the arch of the os pubis, and ischium. ) I CONNECTION OF THESE BONES WITH EACH OTHER. The ossa pubis, by cartilaginous symphisis. The ileum with the sacrum, by synchondrosis ; and with the thigh bone, by enarthrosis. VSE. To form the pelvis; to retain the gravid uterus in its situation; to contain the acetabulum, in which the head of the 1 thigh bone is placed. ^THE SACRUM. SITUATION. At the posterior part of the pelvis. • SHAPE. ' - Triangular, inclined forwards. DIVISION. Into anterior and posterior surfaces; into base or upper part; into sides and apex. THE PROTUBERANCES ARE 1. Two superior oblique apophyses, projecting at the base of this bone. 2. Tubercles of the spinous apophyses. 3. oblique apophyses. transverse apophyses, which are all on the posterior surface. ■5. The appearances of the vertebral bodies on the anterior surface. THE CAVITIES ARE 1. Four pair of external foramina on the external surface. 2. Four pair of internal foramina on the internal surface, through which the sacral nerves pass. 3. The longitudinal canal, containing the sacral nerves, visible on the posterior surface. CONNECTION WITH FOUR BONES, 1. With the last lumbar vertebra. 2. os coccygis. 3. os innominatum. SUBSTANCE. Is entirely spongy, formed by the conjunction of the' five spurious vertebrae. USE. To form the pelvis; and to support the dorsal spine. ' OS COCCYGIS. SITUATION. At the apex of the os sacrum. SHAPE. Ti’iangular. DIVISION. Into base, sides, and apex. COMPOSITION. It is formed by three small spurious vertebrae, joined tooetlier by cartilage. , CONNECTION. It is connected with the apex of .the os sacrum, by synchon- drosis. USE. To form the pelvis ; to support the rectum; and to prevent a laceration of the perineum, during child-birth. THE CLAVICLE. SITUATION. Is oblique, at tKe superior and lateral part of (he thorax, between the sternum and scapula.( 120 ) SHAPE. It resembles the letter S. DIVISION. It is distinguished by anterior and posterior extremity ; su- perior and interior surlace. ITS CAVITIES ABE A groove for the subclavian vessels on the inferior surface. CONNECTION. The anterior extremity is connected with the sternum, by synchondrosis; and the posterior with the scapula, by arthrodia. USE. To connect tlie scajmla and humerus with the thorax ; and to defend the subclavian vessels. THE SCAPULA. SITUATION. ' At the upper part, and side of the back. DIVISION. Into two surfaces, which are the posterior, or external; the anterior, or internal; three margins, namely, superior, external, internal; and three angles, the superior external; superior internal; inferior. THE OS HUMERI. SITUATION. Between the scapula, and fore arm. DIVISION. Into body and extremities : one superior, the other inferior. THE PROMINENCES ARE (aT THE SUPERIOR EX- TREMITY.) 1. The head of this bone. 2. The neck, under the head. 3. The larger tuberculum behind. 4. The smaller ditto before, which are under the head of this bone. AT THE INFERIOR EXTREMITY THERE ARE THREE CONDYLES : 1. The external. 2. The internal, which are for the adhesion of the flexor, and extensor muscles.—All flexors arise from the ex- ternal contlyle, and all extensors from the internal. 3. The headed condyle for articulation with the radius. A trochlea of the humerus for articulation with the fore- arm. THE CAVITIES IN THE UPPER EXTREMITY ARE THE PROMINENCES ARE 1. Lips of the external margin, which arc likewise called the base of the scapula. 2. The neck of the scapula, which forms the superior exter- nal angle, and is situated under the articulating cavity. 3. The spine is a process, dividing the posterior surface. 4. The acromion is the anterior part of the spine. 5. The coracoid apophysis, projects into the anterior and su- perior part of the articulating cavity. THE CAVITIES ARE 1. The articulating cavity at the neck of the scapula, which receives the neck of the humerus. 2. The fovea of the acromion, which adheres to the clavicle. 3. The supra-spinal depression, which is above the spine. 4. The infra-spinal cavity below the spine. The spine is at the posterior part. CONNECTION WITH FOUR BONES. With the clavicle, by arthrodia. os humeri, by arthrodia. USE. To defend the back, and give articulation to the humerus. A groove, or sulcus of the tubercles for one head of the biceps muscle. AT THE INFERIOR EXTREMITY. The posterior fossa for the aconoid process of the ulna. The anterior fossa for the aconoid apophysis of the ulna. CONNECTION WITH THREE BONES. 1. With the scapula, by arthrodia. 2. ulna, by ginglymus. 3. radius, by double ginglymus. SUBSTANCE Is three-fold compact in the body; spongy at each extremity; reticular internally. USE. To form the arm. THE ULNA. SITUATION. At the internal side of the fore-arm towards the little linger. SHAPE Is long, thicker at the upper than at the lower extremity. PIVISION.( ) DIVISION, Into body and extremities, ITS PROMINENCES ARE SIX, THE WRIST. The carpus, or wrist, is formed of eight bones, w’hich are tonnected to each other, and lie in a double row. THOSE AT THE UPPER EXTREMITY ARE 1, The olecranon, or anconoid process, situated posteriorly, 2. The coronoid apophysis, which is forwards. THOSE AT THE INFERIOR EXTREMITY ARE 4. The lower head, which is a little hallowed. 5. The neck of the lower head. 6. The styloid apophysis, near the lower head. \ THE CAVITIES ARE 1, The sigmoid cavity, which is between the anconoid and coronoid processes, and receives the trochlea of the humerus. CONNECTION WITH THREE BONES. 1. With the trochlea, by ginglymus. 2. . bones of the v\ rist, by arthrodia. r 3. radius, above and below, by trochoides. THE RADIUS. SITUATION. Between the fore-arm and hand. DIVISION Of the bones into a superior and an inferior row. IN THE SUPERIOR, From the thumb towards the little finger. Os naviculare. semilunare, cuncifoime. subrotundum, or orbiculare, IN THE INFERIOR ROW, From the thumb to the little finger. ' Os trapezium. multangulare majus. trapezoides minus, magnum, capitatum. unciforme. SITUATION. On the external side of the fore arm, towards the thumb. SHAPE. Is long. DIVISION. Into hody ; into superior, and into inferior extremity, which is thicker than the superior. PROMINENCES IN THE SUPERIOP. EXTREMITY ARE 1. The upper, or excavated head, which articulates with the headed condyle of the humerus. 2. A head for the biceps muscle, which is upwards, at the neck of the head. AT THE INFERIOR EXTREMITY. 3- The stjloid apophysis. THE CAVITIES ARE 1. The glenoid cavity, at the inferior extremity, which arti- culates with the wrist. CONNECTION. 1. With the headed condyle of the humerus. ' 2. With the ulna, at its upper and lower part. 3. With the bones of the hand. USE. To assist in constituting the fore-arm, to perform flexion, pronation, and supination. THE METACARPUS,- or HAND. SITUATION. Between the wrist and fingers. COMPOSITION. It is formed by five longitudinal bones: One for the thumb. Four others for the fingers. CONNECTION IS DOUBLE, t. With the wrist. 2. fingers. USE. To form the middle part of the hand. THE FINGERS. SITUATED At the inferior extremity of the hand. COMPOSITION. The thumb has two; and each finger three small bones, called phalanges. DIVISION Of the phalanges into superior, middle, and inferior. USE. form the fingers, which arc instruments of touch, defence, and labour.( ) THE FEMUR, ou THIGH BONE. SITUATION^. Between the pelvis and tibia. SHAPE. Is long. .. DIVISIOX. Into body, and two extremities; one superior; the other inferior. PROJECTIONS AT THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITY ARE 1. Hie head, which is semi-circular. 2. The neck, which goes obliquely from the head to the trochanters. 3. The great trochanter, which is an external tuberosity. 4. The little trochanter, situated inwardly, and lower. PROJECTIONS AT THE INFERIOR EXTREMITY ARE 5. The external condyle. 6. internal, which is rather larger. CAVITIES AT THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITY. 1. A fovea at the head for the liganientum teres. CAVITIES AT THE INFERIOR EXTREMITY. 2. Sinus of the patella, between the condyles to receive the patella. 3. Posterior groove of the condyles, which contains the popliteal vessels. CONNECTION WITH THREE BONES. 1. With the acetabulum, by anarthrosis. 2. head of the tibia; and 3. patella, by ginglymus. SUBSTANCE. Compact in the body; spongy at each extremity; reticular internally. USE. To form part of the lower extremity. THE TIBIA. SITUATION. At the inner part of the leg between the thigh and jnsfep. / SHAPE. Longitudinal. DIVISION. Into body, upper and lower extremities. ITS PROMINENCES ARE X. The head of the tibia, which is formed into two articu- lating sinuses. 2. The spine of the tibia, to w-hich the ligament of the patella, and common tendon of the exteiisor muscles of the tibia adhere. 3. The crista of the tibia is a sharp anteri r margin, de- scending from the spine. 4. The malleolus internus, or internal ankle, which is an inferior process of the tibia. THE CAVITIES ARE Two articulating sinuses at the head of the tibia, in which the condyles of the femur are situated. An articiriating cavity at the inferior extremity for articu- lation with the astragalus. CONNECTION WITH FOUR BONES. 1. With the condyles of the femur, by ginglymus. 2. patella, I , 3. fibula, jbysyneurosis. 4. astragalus, by arthrodia. USE. To support the leg, and perform the flexion of the inferior extremity. THE FIBULA. SITUATION. At the exterior part of the leg, near the tibia. SHAPE. Longitudinal. DIVISION, Into body, superior and inferior extremities. ITS PROMINENCES ARE 1. The head of the tibia, which is at its superior extremity, 2. The malleolus e.xternus, or outer ankle, at the inferior extremity. CONNECTION WITH TWO BONES. The astragalus, and tibia. USE. To support the tibia, and assist in forming the leg. THE PATELLA. SITUATION. In the sinus, between the condyles of the femur, and above the tibia. SHAPE. Like a heart. DIVISION. Into external and internal surface; into base, appx, and sides. CONNECTION( 123 ) CONNECTION WITH TWO BONES. I 1. With a sinus of the condyles of the femur. 2. With the spine of the tibia, by ligaments. j USE. To give articulation to the knee, and to act as a common 1 pulley for the tendons of the extensor muscles of the I tibia. I ■ ' ? I THE TARSUS, or INSTEP. j SITUATION. Between the leg and foot. SHAPE. The superior part headed ; inferior, broad. COMPOSITION . Is of seven bones, which are placed in a double row. I IN THE FIRST ROW. I The astragalus, which is the most superior; the os calcis, which is the most inferior. IN THE SECOND ROW. The os naviculare, near which, on the internal side, the os cubiforme. : iFhere are three ossa cuneiformia, which are connected to- gether. THE PROMINENCES ARE I, The head of the astragalus, between the malleoli, (ancles) joined to the head of the tibia. |j. The tuberosity of the os calcis, into which the tendo achillis is inserted, chiefly underneath. I ' USE. To form the base of the foot, and assist in its motion. THE METATARSUS, or FOOT. SITUATION. Between the tarsus and toes. I DIVISION. Into superior and inferior surface. COMPOSITION. Is of five bones, called metatarsal. I USE. i'o form the superior and inferior part, or sole of the foot. ! THE TOES. I COMPOSITION. he great toe has two phalanges; and each of the others consist of three. SESAMOID BONES. *' These are minute bones, like peas, situated between the phalanges of the thumb and great toe. SYNDESMOLOGY, or DOCTRINE of the LIGAMENTS. ON SYNDESMOLOGY IN GENERAL. THE PARTS WHICH SYNDESMOLOGY TREATS OF ARE 1. The external periosteum. 2. internal ditto. 3. medullary substance in bones. 4-. cartilages. 5. articular glands. 6. synovia. 7. vessels of bones. 8. nerves of bones. 9. ligaments. THE EXTERNAL PERIOSTEUM. This is a membrane, covering the external’surface of all bone, except the corona;, or external part of the teeth. THE DIFFERENT NAMES ARE 1. Pericranium, on the skull. 2. Periorbita, in the orbits. 3. Perichondrium, on cartilages. 4. Peridesmium, on ligaments. SUBSTANCE. Is a fibrous membrane, filled with arteries and veins. COHESION. The inferior surface, by means of its vessels, adheres to the pores of the bones. ' The superior surface is connected with the cellular membrane and muscles. USE. To contain the calcareous, or other substance of the bone; and distribute vessels, as arteries, veins, nerves, &c. in their proper order for its growth and nourishment. THE INTERNAL PERIOSTEUM. This is a membrane, covering the internal surface of bones: very much like the external. I THETHE mDULLA OF BONE$i This is an oleous substance, contained in the medullary cavities of the large and long bones. LIGAMENTS. These arc elastic strong membranes, connecting the extremi- ties of moveable bones. t'SE. To prevent too great brittleness. CARTILAGES. These are nhitish elastic substanc«;s, growing on the bones. DIVISION. 1. Into obcUicent, at the extremities of I)Oncs, giving smooth covering to the heads, and articulating cavities. 2. Intcrarticular cartilages, adhering to bones which are not joined to each other; but situated between arricu- iations, as in the maxilla, or ja-w-bone; clavicle, and knee. 3. Into uniting cartilages, which join bones together by an immoveable connection, as the bones of the pubis, bodies of the vertebra.', 6cc. USE. Of obducent cartilages, is to render the articulations smooth; of the uniting cartilages to connect certain bones to- gether. SYNOVIA. This is a humour resembling mucus, contained in the articu- lating cavities, and secreted by the synovial glands. USE. To tubricatc the moveable extremities of bones, and to pre- vent concretion with otliers. THE ARTICULATING GLANDS. These arc small glands, situated in articulating foveac, and capsular ligaments. THE VESSELS OF BONES. The vessels going to bones are arteries and veins, which are distributed on the external and internal periosteum; also between the lamelltB of bones. USE. 'I'o afford nourishment for the bone, and to secrete the medulla. THE NERVES OF BONES. A few nerves enter through small foramina, to the medulla, and internal periosteum, which is sensible, though the calcareous substance of the bone is void of feeling.— AVhy should not n<'rves be distributed between the la- mina of bones as well as arteries and veins, and pro- duce sensibility in the iuteinal periosteum? DIVISION. Into capsular, which surround the articulations, like a mem- branous sac; into connect ng ligaments, which con- nect moveable bones togetlier as a chord. In the acetabulum of the os innominatum, there, is the liga- mcntuin teres; and in the knee, there is the crucial ligamciit: other articulations have no internal liga- ments. USE. The capsular ligaments connect the heads of moveable bones, and prevent the s)novia Irom escaping. Connecting ligaments connect together, and strengthen ibo extremities of moveable bones. A TABLE OF THE CONNECTIONS OF EVERY BONE OF THE HUMAN BODY. The Fkojjt.'VL Bone is connected with The parietal bones. The bones of the nose, d'he cheek bones, The lachrymal bones. The superior maxillary bones. The ethmoid bone, The sphoenoid bone. T f I'he coronial suture. I larmouy. Harmony. ^b>-< ^^^rmony. Harmony. Harmony. ^Harmony. The Pariet.vl Bones are connected with One another, The temporal bones, The speenoid bone, The frontal bone, The occipital bone, priie sagital suture, j The srjuainmous suture, , J The squammous suture, j ^ 'l d’he coronal suture, j I The occipital or laiub- J L doidal sutiire. The Occipital Bone is connected with f The lambdoidal suture. I I The lambdoidal suture, ^by-^Synchond rosis. I 1 Ginglymus. J Syndesmosis. The SPHtENoiD Bone is connected with 'Sphoenoidal harmony, Haniiony. Gomjihosis. The temporal bones, d'iie parietal bones, The spheenoid bone, The atlas. The epistropheus, The frontal bone, The ethmoid bone, The vomer, The occipital bone, Tlic parietal bones, The temporal bones, 'I'he cheek bones, The superior maxillary, The palate bones, Synchondrosis; ^by-^ Squammous suture. Spliocnoiual harmony. Spha'iioidal harmony. Sphccnoidal harmony, J (^Sphoenoidal harmony, 'rhetlThe K k ( ‘25 } The Temporal Bones are connected with 1. The parietal bones, 2. The cheek bones, 3. The occipital bone, 4. The spheenoid bone, 5. The inferior maxillary. fTho squaminous suture. I I Zygomatic harmony, rby^ l lie lainbdoidal suture. 1 I Sphocnoidal harmony. J (^Arthrodia. The OssicuLA Auditus are connected within the Tympanum in the following manner: The manubrium / grows to the tympanum, 1 ^ of the malleus 1 by Syneurosis. The head of the/is joined to the head malleus ) The incus 'j The os orbicu- j lare 1: The stapes L the incus, by is united to the os orbi-1 culare, by I is joined to the stapes, j { ^ Amphy arthrosis. { by is connected to the nestra ovalis, by rosis. /h neurosis. The Ethmoid Bone is connected with 1. The frontal bone, 2. The ossa nasi, 3. The superior maxillary, 4. The lachrymal bones, 5. The palatine bones, 6'. The sphamoid bone, 7. The vomer. ” Harmony. Harmony. Harmony. . ^ Harmony, j •' I Harmony. Sphoenoidal harmony. I Harmony and synchon- L drosis. The Superior Maxillart Bones are connected with 1. One another, 2. 1 he frontal bone, 3. The ossa nasi, 4. The lachrymal bones, 5. The ethmoid bone, 6’. The cheek bones, 7. The palatine bones, 8. The spheenoid bone, 9. Theinferior spongy bones, 10. The vomer, 11. The teeth. ’'Suture. Harmony'. Harmony. Harmony. Harmony. ^byX Suture. Hamony. Harmony, Harmony. Gomphosis. ^Gomphosis, Each Cheek Bone is connected with 1. The frontal bone, 2. The superior maxillary, S. The spheenoid bone, 4. The temporal bone, The Ossa Nasi arc connected with {Harmony. Suture. Spheenoidal harmony. Zygomatic harmony. Ik One another. {Harmony. Harmony. Harmony. Harmony. 2. The frontal bone, 2. The superior maxillary, 4. The ethmoid bone. Each Lachrymal Bone is connected with 1. The superior maxillary, 2. The frontal bone, 3. The etiimoid bone, 4. The inferior spongy bone. {Harmony. Harmony. Harmony. Harmony, Each Inferior Spovgt Bone is connected with The superior maxillary. The palatine bone. The lachrymal bone. The ethmoid bone. ) {Harmony. Harmony. Harmony. Harmony. The Palatine Bones are connected with One another, f Suture. Harmony. >by-i Harmony. The superior maxillary. The spheenoid bone. The ethmoid bone, f ^ Harmony. The inferior spongy bone, I 1 Harmony. The vomer, J ^Gomphosis. The Vomer is connected with The spheenoid bone, C Gomphosis. The ethmoid bone, 1, J Harmony. The superior maxillary, 1 Gomphosis. The palatine bones, J v. Gomphosis; The Lower Jaw is connected with The temporal bones, T x - i" Arthroidia. The os hyoides, J ^ L Syssarcosis. The Os Hyoides is connected with The tongue. The larynx. The temporal bones. The lower jaw. The scapula. The sternum. ^ r i-by^ Syssarcosis and syndes- mosis. J L The Atlas is'connected with The occipital bone, 1 f Arthrodia. The epistropheus. ] fAr ^ Tn rochoides and chondrosis. syn- The Epistropheus is connected with The occipital bone. The atlas, • }^y{Ti Synchondrosis, ochoides. The Cervical Vertebr.e are connected with 1. One another, by arthrodia and synchondrosis. The Dorsal Vertebra: are united with 1. One another, 2. Synchondrosis and syn- by J desmosis. Ginglymus. The ribs. The Lumbar Vertebra: are connected with 1. One another, "I t Synchondrosis and syn- l by J desmosis. 2. The last, with the sacrum, J [^Synchondrosis. The Sacrum is connected with 1. The last lumbar vertebra, 1 f Synchondrosis. 2. The os coccygis; 3. I'hc ossa innominata r vertebra, 1 f Synchondrosis. 1, I by J SyTic bond rosis. inata, J [ Synclioml rosis. 1. The Os CuctYGis is connected with Thesacium, "li f Synchondrosis. The ossa innominata, Synde»mosis.( 126 ) an'* 1. 2. 1. 2. 1. 2. 1. 2. 3. 4. 1. 2. 1. 2. 3. 4. 1. 2. 3. 1. 2. 3. 1 2. 3. The SternUAf is connected with The clavicles, The eight true ribs, Arthrodia. Synchondrosis. The Ribs are connected, The eight superior with The dorsal vertebrae, The sternum. Ginglymus, S^’iichoudrosis. The four inferior with The dorsal vertebrae. The sternum, Ginglymus. Syneurosis, The Ossa Innominata are connected with One another. The sacrum, The os coccygis. The thigh bone. Synchondrosis. Synchondrosis. Syneurosis. Enarthrosis. The Clavicles are connected with The sternum, The scapula. Synchondrosis. Arthrodia. The Scapula is connected with The clavicle. The ribs. The os hyoides. The os humeri, Arthrodia. Syssarcosis. Syssarcosis. Arthrodia. The Os Humeri is connected with The scapula, 1 C Arthrodia. The ulna, or cubit, f Ginglymus. The radius, j {Ginglymus. The Cubit, or Ulna, is connected with The os humeri, 1 f Ginglymus. The radius, f^y l Trochoides. The bones of the cai’pus, 3 t Arthrodia. The Radius is connected with The os humeri, 1 T Ginglymus. The cubit, or ulna, (^y A Trochoides. The bones of the carpus, 3 t Arthrodia. The Bones of the Carpus are connected with 1. One another, . The radius, . The cubit, or ulna, . The metacarpal bones, r Amphyarthrosis. 3 Arthrodia. \ Arthrodia. ^Amphyarthrosis. The Metacarpal Bones are connected with 1. The bones of the carpus, /"Amphyarthrosis. 2. The first phalanx of the | | fingers, Arthrodia. 3. That of the thumb with a I | bone of the carpus, j Arthrodia. The Phalanges of the Fingers and Toes are thus connected: 1, The first phalanx | 2. The second phalanx | with the second, by ginglymus, metacarpal bones, by arthrodia, with the first, by ginglymus, with the last, by ginglymus. The Thigh Bones are connected with 1. The ossa innominata, 3 C Enarthrosis. 2. The tibiae, ( ^y^ Ginglymus. 3. The patella, 3 C Ginglymus. The Patella is connected with 1. The os femoris, ) f Ginglymus. 2. '1 he tibia, j ^(Syndesmosis, The Tibia is connected with 1. The os femoris, 2. The fibula, 3. The patella, 4. The astragalus. Ginglymus. Syndesmosis. Syndesmosis. Arthrodia. The Fibula is connected with 1. The tibia, 2. The astragalus. Syndesmosis. A rthrodia. The Bones of the Tarsu*3 arc thus connect ed : 1. With the tibia, ("Arthrodia. 2. With the fibula, j | Arthrodia. 3. The three cuneiform boncs.^ by.^ with the five metatarsal, ) | Amphyarthrosis. 4. With one another, J J Amphyarthrosis. The bones of the metatarsus and toes are connected in the same manner as those of the metacarpus and fingers. MYOLOGY, OR A DOCTRINE of the MUSCLES. OF MUSCLES IN GENERAL. A muscle is a strong fibrous substance, used for motion. DIVISION Of a muscle into the head, which is its beginning, belly, middle, tail, extremity. ADHESION. The head and tail are most commonly connected with bones* SUBSTANCE OF A MUSCLE IS OF TWO KINDS; NAMELY, Fleshy at the belly. Tendinous at each extremity. Every muscle has many vessels and nerves. Aponeuresis, is the expansion of a tendon into a broad nous membrane. The action of a muscle consists in the contraction and relax- ation of its fleshy fibres. USE. Muscles constitute the organ of motion, by which all the different parts of the body are moved. MUSCLESI ( 127 } The MUSCLES OF THE CRANIUM. There are three pair of muscles covering the head. The frontal muscles, reaching from the superciliary margins of the frontal bone to the roots of the hair, cover the forehead like an aponeurosis. i The occipital muscles, from the superior arches of the occi- pital bone, under the aponeurosis of the cranium. » The temporal muscles arise from the temporal region, and each ends in a tendon affixed to the coronoid process of the inferior ma.xillary bone. ACTION. t, It raises the inferior maxillary bone towards the superior, and shuts the mouth. THE APONEUROSIS OF THE CRANIUM i Begins from the occipital tubercle ; ascends, and covers the head entirely, as far as the root of the nose, and su- ’ perciliary arches on the sides; it adheres to the zygomatic arch. I - THE MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN. iThe cavity of the abdomen is contracted in every direction by ■ five pair of muscles; namely, ill. The external oblique, which arises from the crista of the jl ilium and os pubis, and is affixed ^to the eight lower ribs. ! 2. The internal oblique, from the crista of the ileum and os i pubis, to the margins of all the false ribs, and to the ensiform cartilage of the sternum. ’ 3. The rectus abnominis, .from the os pubis, near the linea alba, to the ensiform cartilage, and to the three lower I true ribs. 4. The pyramidalis, from the crista of the os pubis into the linea alba, towards the navel. 15. The transversalis, from the transverse spinous apophyses ! of the four superior lumbar vertebra, going trans- versely to the linea alba: it is connected to the crista ! of the ileum, and to the pubis; and above, to the in- I ternal surface of the ribs. USE OF THE ABDOMINAL MUSCLES. 1. To form the parietes, or covering of the abdomen. |2. Tu contain the abdominal viscera. •3. To constitute, with the assistance of the diaphragm, the abdominal pressure. I4. By the assistance of which the following actions are faci- litated ; Digestion. Expulsion of the excrements. urine. child, in labour. THE PARTS WHICH FORM THE MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN ARE 1. The linea alba, which is a white tendinous line in the middle of the abdomen, descending from the ensiform cartilage to the symphisis of the pubis: it is formed by the junction of three pair of muscles; namely, The external oblique, internal ditto, transversalis. 2. The semilunar line is also tendinous; and is formed at the sides of the linea alba ; in form of a curve, in the ob- lique muscles. 3. The umbilical ring is a round tendinous aperture, in the the middle of the linea alba, which, in the foetus, gives passage to the umbilical chord, but after birth it closes. ~ 4. The inguinal, or abdominal rings, arc two oblong tendi- nous openings: one at each groin, in the inferior margin of the external oblique muscle. In males, the spermatic chord passes through this ring; but in females, the round ligament of the uterus. 5. Poupart’s ligaments are the margins of the tendons of the external oblique muscles, one in each groin, extending from the anterior and inferior spine of the ileum, to the crista of the os pubis ; under these ligaments, the crural vessels and nerves pass. MUSCLES OF THAT INTESTINE, called RECTUM. The orifice of the anus can be contracted, or dilated. 'It is contracted by the sphincter which surrounds the end of this intestine. It is dilated by those muscles, called levatores ani, which arise from the internal surface of the pubis, ischium, and ileum, and terminate in the intestine. SPLANCHNOLOGY, or DOCTRINE THE VISCERA. DIVISION OF THE HUMAN BODY. The human body is divided into head, trunk, and ' extremities. The head is subdivided into the part covered w-ith hair and face. The part covered with hair is distinguished by the vertex, or top of the head, sinciput, or fore part, occiput, or back part; and laternal parts.( 128 ) The face is divided into the forehead. temples. nose. eyes. mouth. cheeks. chin. ears, ' I The trunk is divided into the neck. thorax, or chest, abdomen. The neck is subdivided into the larynx, at the anterior part. posterior part, and sides. The thorax is subdivided into the anterior part, where the breasts are situated ; there is a depression at the lower part of the thorax, which is called scrobiculus cordis, into a posterior part, which is called the back, and into the lateral parts, or sides. The abdomen is divided into the anterior region. posterior ditto, called the loins, and lateral regions. The anterior region of the abdomen is subdivided into 'J’be epigastric region, the sides of which, under the libs, are called the hypocondriac regions. 2, The umbilical region, the sides of which are called the lumbar regions. 3, The hypogastric region, the sides of which arc called iliac, or inguinal regions. The pubis is a region, covered with hair at the bottom of the abdomen, the sides of which are called groins. Under the pubis, the parts of generation arc situated, In men, the scrotum and penis. In women, the labia pudenda, and orifice of the vagina. That space, between the genital parts and the anus, is called the perineum. The extremities are divided into superior and inferior: The superior is sub-divided into the top of the arm, in which the arm-pit is placed. Into the arm. fore-arm. hand, which is distinguished by the palm, and back of the hand. The hand is sub-divided into the wrist, hand, and fingers. Tlic fingers are distinguished, the fore-finger, or index. middle finger, ring. little, and thu.nb. The superior extremity is divided into the thigh, leg, which includes the knee, popliteal cavity, and calf of the leg, and into the foot, in which there are the sole and back of the foot, the internal and external ancle. The foot is sub-divided into the instep, foot, and toes. Tlic internal part of the body is divided into three principal cavities; namely. The cavity of the cranium, which contains the animal viscera* thorax for the vital viscera; and cavity of the abdomen for the na- tural viscera. THE COMMON INTEGUMENTS OF THE BODY. Under the name of common integuments are to be under- stood three membranes, which cover the external Oi surface of the whole body; namely, 1. The epidermis, 2. cutis. 3. adipose membrane. ^ THE EPIDERMIS Is a thin transparent membrane, covering the whole external surface of the body. | DIVISION. Into external surface, which is dry. T internal surface, which is mucous : this is called the mal- pighian mucus, or rete mucosum. CONNECTION. The epidermis is connected with the skin by means of this mucus. !" Thickness of the epidermis, on the face, is very inconsider- able; in the palm of the hand, and some part of the sole of the loot, it is much thicker. COLOUR. i Depends on the malpighian mucus, which, in Europeans, is white. | Ethiopians, black. | Spaniards, yellow. USE. To cover the very sensible cutaneous papillae, that the ait may not cause them to be dry, and painful. CUTIS. The skin is a thick membrane, situated between the. cpidei*- mis, and adipose membrane, covering the external surface of the whole body. , DIVISION( ‘29 ) [ DIVISION. . 1 Into external surface, which adheres to the epidermis, and I into the internal surface, which is connected with the I; cellular membrane. ! I SUBSTANCE, j It consists of a fibrous, vascular, and nervous structure. iThe cutaneous arteries are continually exhaling a very subtile I liquid, called arterial exhalation. j The cutaneous veins, and absorbent lymphatics, inhale, or . absorb, what is applied to the skin, and convey the fluids, either to veins, communicating with the cava, or to the thoracic duct. The cutaneous nerves, especially on the upper surface, form nervous papilla:, which constitute the organ of touch, or sense of feeling. On the under surface of the skin, there are subcutaneous glands and bulbs, from which the hair shoots forth, in various parts. THE ADfPOSE MEMBRANE, This is a membrane, formed by^ small membranaceou, oils, and is also called the cellular membrane. SITUATION. Under the skin, between the muscles, and every other soft part. SUBSTANCE. Consists of a thin membrane, forming small cells, which arc filled withyht (oil): these cells are full of vesicles, and communicate with each other by peculiar apertures. USE. To cover the whole surface of the body; to facilitate motion; prevent painful atrition; and connect all the soft parts together. OF THE HEAD IN GENERAL. USES OF THE SKIN ARE The organ of external sensation. exhalation. inhalation, or absorbtion. THE NAILS. These are horny laminae growing at the ends of the fingers and toes. DIVISION. Into margin, root, and sides. SUBSTANCE. Is horny, without vessels, or nerves. The parts forming the head are divided into external, and int® internal. THE EXTERNAL PARTS ARE 1. The common integuments with the hair. 2. A tendinous expansion. 3. Three pair of muscles, which cover the superior part of the head: Two frontal muscles. Two temporal muscles. Two occipital muscles. 4. The pericranium, to which some add the epicranium. 5. The cranium, or skull, which consists of two tables, in- ternal and external, with a spongy intermediate sub- stance, called diploe. THE INTERNAL PARTS ARE 1. USES. To defend the nervous papillae from external violence. To gather, or pick up minute things, to scratch, &c. THE HAIR. ✓ These are dry elastic filaments, growing out of the skin. SUBSTANCE CONSISTS OF 1. A bulb, adhering to the under surface of the skin, which is a vascular and nervous vesicle. 2. A trunk, which perforates the skin and epidermis, or cuticle, which some say is hollow, and contains a me- dullary substance. 1. Three integuments, or coverings of the brain: The dura mater. membrana arachnoides. pia mater. 2. The cerebrum, or brain. 3. cerebellum, or, smaller brain, 4. medulla oblongata. 5. Nine pair of nerves. 6. Four arteries, which are Two internal carotids. Two vertebral. , 7. Twenty-two venal sinuses. LI TWE( »30 ) THE DURA MATER. This is a thick membrane, closely adhering to the internal . surface of the cranium, especially in the direction of . the sutures. THESE ARE THE EXTERNAL PROCESSES; 1, The falciform process, which begins at the crista galli of the ethmoid bone, and goes along the middle of the frontal bone; then, in the direction of the sagittal suture, to the middle of the occipital bone, termi- nating at the crucial spine of this bone : it is in shape like a scythe, and divides the brain into two hemis- pheres. 2. The tentorium is a membranous process, like a tent, ex- tending from the middle of the occipital bone to the superior margins of the petrous portions of the tem- poral bones. 5. The septum of the cerebellum is a small process, adhering longitudinally to the inferior half of the occipital bone, and, in some measure, dividing the cerebellum. SUBSTANCE CONSISTS OF A DOUBLE LAMINA. The veins in the dura mater are called venous sinuses, twenty- two in number; three of which are particularly dis- tinguished by Surgeons: 1. The superior longitudinal sinus, beginning above the fora- men coecum of the frontal bone, and going towards the middle of ^the occipital bone, it terminates in two lateral branches, called two lateral sinuses, which take a course along the occipital bone, like an arch, towards the foramen lacerum, and terminate in the internal jugular veins. USE. To form the internal periosteum of the cranium. THE MEMBRANA ARACHNOIDEA. This is a thin membrane, resembling a spider’s web, placed between the dura and pia mater, which not only covers the brain, but also the cerebellum, medulla oblongata, and medulla spinalis, or spinal marrow. SUBSTANCE. Consists of a very thin cellubous, or filamentous texture, without either vessels, or nerves, some say ; but that is not the case: for vessels are frequently obvious in dissections. USE. Unknown; but^ according to my ooinion, it is to prevent adhesion of the dura and pia mater; and moderate attrition in the action ol the brain.* THE PIA MATER. This is a thin membrane, intimately connected with the cerebrum, cerebellum, medulla oblongata, and medulla spinalis. substance. Is almost entirely vascular. USE. To surround, or contain the substance of the braift, and to send vessels into its very substance in all parts. THE CEREBRUM, or BR.AIN, Is that large viscus contained in the cavity of the cranium, SHAPE. / Is almost oval. DIVISION. At the upper part, into two hemispheres, by the falciform process ; at the lower part, by the base, or bottom of the cranium, into six lobes. SUBSTANCE. Is divided into cortical, and medullary. The cortical substance is exterior, chiefly vascular, and of a brown colour. The medullary substance is interior, forming the principal bulk of the brain, is chiefly nervous, and of a while colour. THE PRINCIPAL CAVITIES ARE FOUR VENTRICLES OF THE brain: Two anterior, or lateral ventricles, arc semilunar cavities, going from the middle to the first lobes, and are se- parated from each other by a thin transpaivnt mem- brane, a small portion of aqueous fluid, and choroid plexus of the pia mater, are contained in them, made of two laminae, of medullary substance, according to some Anatomists. The third ventricle, is a space left between the thalami of the optic nerves. The fourth ventricle, is a space between the cerebellum and the medulla oblongata. THE principal PROMINENCES OF THE CEREBRUM ARE 1. The corpus callosum, an oblong medullary protuberance, visible, on separating the hemispheres of the brain. 2. The corpora striata, are two protuberances, of a brownish colour, situated forwards, one under each anterior ventricle. 3. The thalami nervorum opticorum, arc two posterior pro- tuberances of the ventricles of the cerebrum, of 8^ whitish colour, terminating in the optic nerves. 4. The corpora quadrigemina, which are four medullary projections; the two anterior are also called nates; and the two posterior, testes. 5. The pineal gland is a small tubercle in the brain, resting upon the nates. The * See laj Treathe on the Cure of the Ilydiocephalus Membranarum of Infants, &c.8. The ( >3' ) €. The pituitary gland is not a brain-like substance, but a real gland, situated in a diiplicature of the dura mater in the cavity of the sella turcica. 7. Two crura of the cerebrum, are medullary substances, arising from the bottom of the brain, and terminating at the pons Varolii. THE AUTERIES OF THE BnAlTI AUE 'Branches of the two internal carotids, and vertebral arteries. I NERVES. inie brain has no nerves, but sends off nine pair, and is the origin of nerves. VEINS. |Beturning from the cortical substance, empty themselves into the tvvemy-two sinuses of the dura mater. USE. Some say, the cortical substance, which is vascular, to ' secrete subtile invisible fluids, contained in the tubuii of the medullary substance, w hich excites the internal and external senses; also, the muscles to action. This is meiely conjecture, and hatn not been proved. 1 —bee Treatise on Nerxous Diseases, THE CEREBELLUM, or SMALLER BRAIN, lls situated in the inferior occipital fossa, under the tentorium. SHAPE. Somewhat round. I DIVISION. Into right and left lobe, by the septum of the cerebellum. SUBSTANCE. Externally, cortical; internally, it is medullary, like the brain. I THE PROMINENCES ARE Ifwo crura of the cerebellum, going from the medullary ; substance, and terminating in the pons Varolii. jrhe cerebellum has no cavities, nor ventricles. I USE. The same as the cerebrum. I j THE IMEDULLA OBLONGATA. ]fhis is composed entirely of the medullary substance, lying upon the basilary process of the occipital bone, formed by the crura of the cerebrum, and of the cerebellum. ' ' * inthisweobserve L The pons Varolii, a convex body on the superior surface of the medulla oblongata. lb The corpora pyramidalia are two internal medullary pro- I ndnences. 3. The corpora olivaria are similar, though external promi- nences, which four constitute the inferior surface, and termination of the medulla oblongata. THE MEDULLA SPINALIS. This is a continuation of the medulla oblongata, descending into the vertebral cavity, through tne great occipital foramen, as far as tl^e third lumbar vertebra. shape. ts cylindrical, (at the end) ; it terminates in different nerves, which form the cauda equina. COVERINGS. Are a sheath from the dura matcr^ pia mater, and membrana arachnoides. substance. Externally, medullary ; internally, cortical. USE. To send off thirty pair of spinal nerves, for the purposes of sensation, and nervous influence. THE EYE. THE parts forming THE EYE ARE Divided into those within the bulb, and without the bulb. THE PARTS OUTSIDE OF THE BULB ARE 1. The supercilia, or eye-brows, are two arches of hair, situ- ated above the orbit. 2. The cilia, or eye lashes, growing from the tarsus, or edge of the eye-lid. 3. The eye-lids, or palpebrse^one of which is superior; the other inferior.—These have cartilaginous margins, which are called tarsi. At the margin of the tarsus tjiere are some glands, called hleobomiaii. 4. The lachrymal gland, situated in a peculiar cavity of the frontal bone, above the external canthus, or corner , of the eye ; from this gland, six, or more small canals proceed, called lachrymal ducts, which open on the internal surface of the eye lid. 5. The lachrymal caruncle, which is situated at the internal corner, or angle of the eye. 6. The puncta lachrymalia, or lachrymal points, which are two cartilaginous callous openings, near the extremity of each tarsus, at the internal corner of tlie eye: one of which is on the superior; the other in the in- ferior cye-lid. 7. The lachrymal canals are two narrow tubes, leading from the lachrymal points to the lachrymal sac. /) ( 132 THE S. The lachrjnnal sac membranous inclosed cavity, situ- ated at the internal corner of the eye. 9. The nasal duct is a mcmbr<nnous canal, which passes downwards, and a little backwiirds from the inferior part of the lachrymal sac, through a bony canal into tlie cavity of the nose, and opens just under the in- ferior spongy bone. 10. The tunica, or inembrana conjunctiva, or conjunctive membrane, which is likewise called albugineas, or white of the eye, is a membrane, covering the internal surface of the eye-lids, and the anterior surface of the bulb. THE BULB OF THE EYE CONSISTS OF EIGHT MEM- BRANES : Two chambers, and three humours. THE MEMBRANES ARE FOUR AT THE POSTERIOR PART OF THE BULB; NAMELY, The sclerotic, choroid, retina, hyaloid, POUR AT THE ANTERIOR PART ARE Transparent cornea. Iris. Uvea. Capsula of the chrystalline lens, 1. The sclerotic membrane is the most external, beginning at the optic nerve, and forming a spherical cavity, ends at the edge of the cornea transparens. The anterior part of the sclerotic membrane is clear, and called the transparent cornea. 2. The choroid membrane is of a black colour, beginning at the optic nerve, on the internal surface of the sclero- tic membrane, and ending at the margin of the cornea. At this place it recedes from the cornea, going backwards, and transversely, and forms a floating membrane in the middle of the round perforated foramen. This membranous circle of the choroid membrane, at the an- terior part, is called the iris; but on the posterior part of the uvea, and that rouiul foramen left in the middle, is the pupil, which can dilate and contract itself by the assistance of almost invisible muscular fibres.—See the Plates. 3. The retina is the most internal membrane of the bulb, of a whitish colour-like mucus, beginning at the optic nerve, of which it is an expansion, (of the medullary substance) and covering the inner surface of the cho- roid membrane as far as the margin of the chrystal- linc humour, where it ends. THE CHAMBERS OF THE EYE ARE 1. The anterior chamber is an hollow space, beginning at its fore part, from the internal surface of the cornea, and at its posterior part, it is formed by the surface of the 1 iris, and pupil. | 2. The posterior chamber is that small cavity, formed at its anterior part by the uvea and pupil; and at its poste- rior part by the anterior surface of the chrystalline lens ; both these chambers are filled with an aqueous humour. I THE HUMOURS OF THE EYE ARE , 1. An aqueous humour, which fills both chambers of the eye, supposed to be deposited, and renewed, if eva- cuated by the cxhalcnt arteries of the cornea. 2. The chrystalline lens is a clear body ; in size, resembling | a lens, situated behind the pupil, in a peculiar de- I jiression of the vitreous humour ; it is surrounded by 1 a membranous covering, called the capsule of the 's chrystalline lens. 3. The vitrous humour is a pellucid body, which alone I almost fills, and distends the cavity of the bulb as far | as the uvea. The whole external surface is covered with a strong pellucid membrane, called the hyaloid membrane, at the ante- rior part of which there is a depression to receive the ^ chrystalline lens. J ( CONNECTION OF THE BULB, AT THE FORE PART, k Is by means of the conjunctive membrane with the eye-lids; I at the posterior part, it is connected with the orbits I by six muscles of the bulb, and by the optic nerve. 1 The optic nerve, at the posterior part of the bulb, perforates / the sclerotic, and choroid membrane, then forms the retina. USE. ' ^ It is the organ of vision. ___________ n, THE EAR. ' The soft parts, forming the ear, are divided into external and internal. THE SOFT EXTERNAL PARTS ARE 1. The external ear. 2. meatus auditorius externus, or the external auditory passage. 3. The membrane of the tempanum. THE INTERNAL SOFT PARTS ARE 1. The internal periosteum of the car. 2. The common membrane of the internal car. 3. The Eustachian tube. The glands which secrete the cerumen, or wax of the ear, are under the skin of the meatus auditorius externus. USE. It is the organ of hearing.THE ( >33 ) THE NOSE, That prominence of the face, called the nose, Is divided Into the root, back, apex, or tip ; and alae, or wings. THE SOFT PARTS WHICH COVER THE NOSE, ARE ' 1. The common integuments. i 2. muscles, which move the ala; of the nostrils. 3. The cartilages, forming the nose, which are the anterior part of the septum, and the alae. THE SOFT PARTS OF THE NOSTRILS, OR INTERNAL ’ NOSE, ARE 1. The pituitary membrane, covered with mucus, and spread- ing over the whole internal surface of the nostrils, sinuses, and spongy bones. ^ USE. It is the organ of smell, and partly of respiration. THE CAVITY OF THE MOUTH. The pai'ts forming the cavity o£ the mouth are divided into external and internal. THE EXTERNAL PARTS OF THE MOUTH ARE 1. The lips; in each of which there is a frenulum, connect- ing it to the gums. I THE INTERNAL PARTS OF THE MOUTH. 1, The palate, which is covered with a thick skin, and ex- tends to the uvula. 2. Two alveolar arches, surrounded by the gums, ' 3. The gums, consisting of a vascular, and elastic substance. 4. The tongue, which divides the cavity of the mouth into a part above the tongue, and a part under it, 5, The cavity of the cheeks, in which the cheeks and teeth are placed. |!6. Three pair of salivary glands: ■ j The parotid, i I sub-ma.\illary, j sub-lingual, t 7. The bones which form the cavity of the mouth. • The common membrane of the mouth, which covers all the ' soft parts, is very nervous and vascular, and is a con- tinuation of the cutis, or skin. USE. It is the organ of mastication; and assistant in speech. THE TONGUE. This is a muscular body, moveable in every direction, situated in the cavity of the mouth. DIVISION Into base, body, sides, and apex, CONNECTION. . At Its base with the os hyoides, by means of muscles ; the inferior surface adheres to the bottom of the infralin- gual cavity, by a duplicature of skin, called the fre- nulum. SUBSTANCE, It is fleshy, covered with a thick membrane. ARTERIES OF THE TONGUE, (oNE ON EACH SIDE) Are branches of the external carotid ; and on the inferiw surface of the tongue, are called ranine arteries, USE. It assists in speech. . mastication, deglutition, taste. THE NECK. The parts forming the neck, are divided into external and internal. THE EXTERNAL PARTS ARE 1. The common integuments. ' 2. . muscles. 3. Seven vertebrae of the neck. 4. The spinal marrow of the neck. 5. Eight pair of cervical nerves. 6. Two carotid arteries, 7. Two vertebral arteries, 8. Two external jugular veins. 9. Two internal. 10. The jugular glands. * 11. The thyroid gland. 12. The eighth pair of nerves of the brain, and the great in- tercostal nerve. ( THE INTERNAL PARTS ARE 1. The fauces. 2. The oesophagus. 3. The larynx. 4. The trachea. M m( 134 ) THE LARYNX 1 THE FAUCES Form a bavi^ behind the tongue and the velum palatinum. THE UPPER PART Is formed by the basilary process of the occipital bone. THE ANTERIOR PART IS FORMED BY 1. The posterior foramina of the nostrils. 2. The uvula, which is a part I'csembling a gland, hanging down from the palatine bones. 3. The ainygdalaj, or glandular parts, adhering to the sides of velum palatinum. 4. The velum pendulum, which is a membrane behind the uvula, like an arch, hanging from the palatine bones. The posterior part of the fauces'is formed by the bodies of the cervical vertebrae. The inferior part is formed by the larynx and pharynx. The sides are formed by the petrous process of the temporal bones, by which the Eustachian tubes go into the fauces, and open behind the amygdalae. USE. To. assist deglutition, or swallowing, respiration. THE PHARYNX Is a muscular sac, like a funnel, adhering to the fauces be- hind the larynx, and terminates in the oesophagus. THE OESOPHAGUS Is a muscular tube, descending from the pharynx to the stomach. SITUATION. Is behind the trachea, and before the bodies of the cervical vertebrae, a little to the left; then, in the cavity of the posterior mediastinum, it goes through the left foramen of the diaphragm, and terminates in the cardia, leading into the stomach. the SUBSTANCE IS OF FOUR MEMBRANES! 1. A common membrane. 2. muscular. 3. nervous expansion. 4. villous. USE. For deglutition. Is a cartilaginous cavity, situated behind the tongue, at the anterior part of the fauces, and consists of five cartilages; severa muscles; internally, of a sensible membrane. THE CARTILAGES ARE , 1. The annular, or cricoid cartilage, forming the inferior i part, on which the others rest. ' 2. The thyroid, or scutiform cartilage, which is broad, and situated upon the annnlar, or cricoid cartilage, form- < ing the anterior part of the larynx. 3. The epiglottis, which is a membranous elastic cartilage, adhering to the superior part of the scutiform carti- lage, and can be pressed backwards. 4. Two arytenoid cartilages, situated at the posterior and la- I teral margins of the annular, or cricoid cartilage, and I bend forwards; by these means there is an opening i between them, which is called the rima glottidis. USE. It is the organ of voice, and assists in respiration. , THE TRACHEA Is a tube made of rings, partly cartilaginous, and partly fleshy, descending before the oesophagus from the larynx into the thorax, and there dividing into two branches, called the bronchia. The bronchia, after having entered the substance of the lungs, divide into innumerable branches, which at last ter- minate in the air cells of the lungs. The cartilaginous rings of the trachea and bronchia, are not entirely cartilaginous; but at their posterior part, muscular. The internal surface of the larynx, trachea, bronchia, and vesicles of the lungs, arc covered with a membrane full of glands, which secrete a mucus. The anterior surface of the trachea is covered by the muscles, called stunio-hyoideus, and sterno thyroidcus. USE. To assist respiration, speech. TFIE THORAX Is a cavity, situated between the neck and abdomen : it is called thorax, breast, or chest. SHAPE. Resembles a bee-hive; at the lower part, it is. broad and concave, fi'cm the convexity of the diaphragm: the upper part is much narrower.—Absurd fashions in dress, however, have changed all the intentions of original figure in the human body ; tight whale-bone stays( 135 ) stays have compressed the ribs, and contracted the pelvis, by which respiration has been impeded, and ' difficult labours in child-birth, introduced; at present, the easy Greek dress is adopted ; and, hereafter, the narrow chest, and contracted ill ronned pelvis, will be less frequent.* THE INTERNAL PART OF THE THORAX IS DIVIDED INTO FIVE CAVITIES; NAMELY, BY THE MEDI- ASTINUM : It is distinguished into the right cavity of the thorax, and left. cavity of the pericardium, anterior mediastinum, posterior mediastinum. THE PARTS FORMING THE THORAX ARE Divided into external and internal. / THE EXTERNAL PARTS ARS 1. The common integuments. 2. breasts, and papilla. , 3. muscles, which are Two pectorales majores. Two pectorales minores. Twenty-two intercostales externi. Twenty-two intercostales interni. I 4. The bones, which are % I Twenty-four ribs. j Twelve dorsal vertebrae. i One sternum, composed of three bones. 5. The pleura, or internal covering. THE INTERNAL PARTS, OR CONTENTS OF THE THORAX, ARE : 1. The lungs, in both sides of the thorax. 2. The heart, in the cavity of the pericardium, with its auricles, sinuses, and beginning of the large vessels. 3. In the anterior space of the mediastinum, there arc 1. The oesophagus. I 2. thoracic duct. 3, arch cf the aorta. ‘ 4. branches of the vena cava. ( 5. vena aygos. j 6. eight pair of nerves. , . 7. great intercostal nerves. THE INFERIOR SURFACE OF THE THORAX Is formed by the diaphragm, which liivides the cavity of the chest from the cavity of the abdomen. THE BREASTS Arc two seft semiglobular bodies, adhering to each lateral region of the thorax, more conspicuous in females. In the middle of each the papilla projects, round which there is a circle of a darker colour, called discus papillae. SUBSTANCES FORMING THE BREAST, ARE 1. The common integuments. 2. adipose membrane, from which its softness, and size. 9. The lacteal glands, at its centre, which are collected into a mass. 4. The lacteal vessels, which are called galactiphora, or lactcferoiis, arising from the glands, and terminating to the papilla, or nipple, in which there are ten ex- orifices. USE. To give infants nutriment, and form a part of female beauty. THE PLEURA Is a membrane, covering the internal surface of the thorax, forming the cavities, which are separated by the me- diastinum. DIVISION. Into an internal smooth surface, which is always moistened by exhalent arteries; into an external surface, which is cellular. The plura forms a large process, called the mediastinum, which divides the thorax into two cavities, arising from the bodies of the dor»al vertebra*, and is carried forwards through the middle of the thorax, adhering to the internal surface of the sternum, a little to the left side. In this duplicatuFe of the mediastinum, at the fore-part under the sternum, and at the hack part near the bodies of the dorsal vertebrae, there is a triangular space, one of which is called the anterior; the other, posterior space of the mediastinum. The parts occupying these spaces have been noticed. CONNECTION With the intercostal muscles, the sternum, and bodies of the dorsal vertebra;, at the inferior part, with the pericar- dium, and diaphragm. u si:. * See Specimens of this easy Dress in the Plate, descriptive of the Apothesis of Hbmer, sculptured before the Time of the Expeditions of Alexander the Great, at Ptiene, in iouia, of wl.ich I have written a concise Description, in a Work on the Subject, from the circumstance of this extraordinary ancient Sculpture being in London, 1802, above 2100 Years old, and above 300 Years before Chiust.—1 hese facts are proved in the Investigation of the Sublime Antique Marble, representing the Apothesis, or Deification of The immortal, the divine Homer. Ibis Marble, has been lately conveyed from Rome, in which Place it graced the Palace of Colonna: and is considered one of tlie g.eatest Auu ,u3 Curiosities extant.( 13^ ) USE. To make the inner silrface of the thorax smooth; to divide the thorax ; to cover the lungs and pericardium with their outer membrane; to secrete a fluid for the easy motion of the lungs ; and to prevent attrition. THE DIAPHRAGM. This is a septum, dividing the cavity of the chest from the cavity of the abdomen. SITUATION. Is obliquely downwards, from the apex of the sternum to the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae. DIVISION. • Into upper, or concave surface, under, convex. ' a middle tendinous part. the remaining part, which is fleshy, or red muscular. adhesion. At the anterior part, to the ensiform cartilage of the sternum, as well as to the two last true ribs, and to the carti- laginous margin of all the spurious ribs; at the posterior part, it forms two fleshy crura, which adhere to the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae. SU BSTANCE. Is tendinous in the centre ; red, and fleshy, or carnous, at ’ its circumference ; the superior surface is covered by the pleura; and the inferior, by peritoneum. THE APERTURES ARE 1. The right foramen is tendinous, and situated at the right side, through which the vena cava passes from the abdomen into the thora.x. 2. The left foramen is on the left side, and gives passage to 'the oesophagus, in passing from the thorax into the abdomen. 3. The posterior opening of the diaphragm^ formed between the posterior crura, through which the aorta, vena azygos, and thoracic duct pass. USE. To assist in respiration. expulsion of forces, partuiition. forming a proper situation for the heart. THE LUNGS Are two viscera, situated in the cavity of the thorax, by which we breathe. DIVISION. Into right and left lung, which are sub-divided on the tight side into three lobes ; and on the left, two lobes. CONNECTION With the neck, by means of the trachea ; and with the heart, by the pulmonary vessels. SUBSTANCE ^IS TIIRETl-FOLD. 1. Vesicular, formed by the small cells. 2. Vascular, covering the cells like a net-work. 3. Bronchial, which terminates by small tubes in the minute cells. The external membrane is from the pleura, and closely sur- rojinds the outer surface of the lungs. The internal membrane, covering the inner part of the bronchia, and air vesicles of the lungs, is very ner- vous, and formed by a continuation of the internal membrane of the trachea. The vessels of the lungs are divided into common, or pulmo- nary^, and proper, or bronchial. The common are the pulmonary veins and arteries. The proper are the bronchial arteries and veins. USE ' Of the lungs is for respiration. voice, *and to effect a change in the crude blood brought by the right ventricle of the heart, &c. THE HEART Is a muscular v>scus,' situated in the cavity of the peiicar- dium, which carries on the circulation of the blood. DIVISION. Externally, into base, and apex. superior, inferior surface, anterior and posterior margin. Internally, it is distinguished into right and left ventricle. SITUATION. Is oblique, not transverse; its base is toward the bodies of the vertebrm, on the right side; and its apex towards the sixth rib of the left side; it is so obliquely situated, that the left ventricle is chiefly posterior; and the right, anterior : the inferiof surface lies upon the diaphragm. CAVITIES( 137 ) CAVITIES ADHERING TO THE BASE OF THE HEART ARE 1. The right auricle, which is a muscular sac; its cavity is continued into the right ventricle. 2. The left auricle is als'o a muscular cavity, which is conti- nued into the left ventricle. 3. The righf venous sinus, formed by the vena cava, open* into the right auricle. I 4. The left venous sinus, formed by the pulmonary veins, opens into the left auricle. The cavities of the heart itself are called ventricles, which are divided into right and left, by a muscular substance, I called the septum of the heart. . Each ventricle has two orifices at its base: one, called auri- cular, by which the blood enters; the other, arterial, by which it goes out. I These openings have valves, which, in the arterial orifices, ' are called semilunar; in the right, auricle mitral; and in the left, auricle : they are called tricuspidal. I SUBSTANCE Of the heart is muscular. I The pericardium is a peculiar meinbranous sac, containing the heart, with its auricles, and sinuses. The vessels of the heart are divided into common and proper. The common are the aorta, arising from the left ventricle. I The pulmonary artery, in a like manner, from the right ven- tricle. I The pulmonary veins, going into the left venous sinus. The vena cava, emptying its blood into the right venous sinus. i The proper vessels are the coronary arteries of the heart, i which are sent off from the aorta. The coronary veins, returning the blood from the substance of the heart into the right auricle. |Thc nerves of the heart are branches from the eighth pair, and from the great intercostal nerve. I USE. iThe heart is the principal agent in the circulation of the blood, without winch life cannot exist. ; THE ABDOMEN Is a cavity, situated between the thorax and pelvis. I DIVISION INTO THREE CAVITIES; |1. The cavity of the peritoneum, |2. pelvis. ^ jd. The lumbar cavity. The parts which form the abdomen are divided into e.xternal and internal. THE EXTERNAL ARE 1. The common integuments. 2. Five pair of abdominal muscles ; namely. Two e.xternal oblique. Two internal oblique. Two recti, or strait muscles. Two transverse. Two pyramidal muscles, but sometimes wanting. 3. The bones of the abdomen are Five lumbar vertebra?. Four bones of the pelvis, 4. The peritoneum. THE INTERNAL PARTS, OR CONTENTS OP THE AB- DOMEN, COVERED BY THE PERITONEUM, ARE 1. The omentum. 2. stomach. 3. large and small intestines. 4'fd;‘ ^ r gall-bladder. 5. mysentery. 6. spleen. 7. pancreas, 8. lacteal vessels, or absorbents, situated between a du- plicature of the mysentery. In the lumbar cavity, outside of the peritoneum, 1. The kidneys, 2. suprarenal glands, or the renal capsules, 3. ureters, 4. receptaculum chyli, 5. descending aorta, 6. vena cava. In the cavity of the pelvis, outside of the peritoneum, in men. The urinary bladder, intestine, called rectum, vesiculas seminales. In women, besides the bladder and rectum. The uterus. Four ligaments of the uterus. Two fallopian tubes. Two avaria. The vagina. THE PERITONEUM Is a membrane, covering the internal surface of the abdomen, and is compared to a large sac. DIVISION. Into internal and external surface. N n SUBSTANCE.USE. ( >38 ) StJ USTAXCE. It is a membranous, to which the cellular membrane adheres. USE. To contain the viscera of the abdomen in their situation; to form their external membrane and lii>amcnts; and to moisten its surface by the vapour, exhaling from the exhalent arteries. THE OxMENTUM Is an adipose membrane, lying on the anterior surface of the intestine. ^ DIVISION Into a large and small one. The large omentum is continued from the great arch of the stomach to the hypogastric region, covering the intes- tines. The little omentum extends from the small arch oX-jthe sto- mach to the liver. USE. To lubricate the intestines; excite heat; and prevent con- cretion. THE STOMACH Is a membranous receptacle pf the food from the oesophagus. SITUATION. In the epigastric region, and right hypocondriac. DIVISION. The stomach, when empty, hangs backwards, and is divided into an anterior, and posterior surface. A great, or inferior curvature, lesser, or superior curvature, cardia, or the entrance from the oesophagus, pylorus, or termination of the stomach into the duodenum, fundus, which is a dilated part towards the spleen. CONNECTION. With the oesophagus, duodenum, great and less omentum, and pancreas. SUBSTANCE. Consists of four thin membranes, covered by the cellular membrane; 1. The external, from the peritoneum. 2. muscular coat. 3. nervous covering, consisting of vessels and nerves. 4. villous, or internal coat, which resembles the pile of velvet. USE, To receive the food from the oesophagus; to retain it for sometime; to digest it; and to e.xpcl it through the pylorus into the duodenum. THE INTESTINES Form a membranous tube, or canal, in the cavity of the ab- domen, variously contracted, from the stomach to the anus. . I DIVISION. Into great and small. THE SMALL, LEADING FROM THE STOMACH, ARE The duodenum, jejunum, and ileum. THE GREAT INTESTINES ARE ' The coecum. colon, rectum. The duodenum, in length, is equal to the breadth of twelve fingers: it forms three flexions behind the stomach, in the epigastric region, between its first and second flexion; it is perforated by tlie ductus, communis, choledochus, and pancreatic duct, which most fre- quently arc united into one canal. The jejunum is about fifteen palms long, situated in the um- bilical region. The ileum is also about the same length, situated in the left iliac region and hypogastric, and ends at the valve of Tulpius. The coecum, in length, is equal to the breadth of four fingers: it is situated in the right iliac region ; in this intestine, there is a small separate cavity, called the vermiform process. The colon begins from the coecum, in the right iliac region, and passes up to the liver, from which it makes a transverse arch under, the stomach to the spleen, and terminates by its sigmoid flexure in the rectum, having descended into the pelvis. It appears, therefore, that the colon can be distinguished by a descending, and an ascending part. The rectum is rather more than a foot in length, descending from the last (lumbtir) vertebra to the os sacrum and coccygis, terminating at the anus, where it is closed by a circular muscle, called tha sphinter ani. SUBSTANCE Of the intestines is of four coats, like the stomach. , CONNECTION. The intestines arc chiefly kept in their proper situation by the mesentery.The ( >39 ) USE. To receive chyme from the stomach ; to mix it with the en- teric, and pancreatic juice, and the bile; for the ab- sorption of chyle into the lacteals; and to discharge the fences by the rectum. THE MESENTERY Is a duplicature of membranes, which surrounds all the intestines, except the duodenum and rectum. DIVISION. ‘Into a thin, and a thicker part, or mesentery, and mesocolon. CONNECTION With the three superior bodies of the lumbar vertebrae. 1 SUBSTANCE Is a continuation of peritoneum, forming a duplicature, within which, are placed arteries, veins, lacteals, or absorbents; nerves, the mesaraic glands, and cellular membrane. USE. To retain the intestines, their vessels, nerves, and glands in a proper situation; to effect some change upon the chyle, and carry it to the thoracic duct. THE LIVER Is the largest abdominal viscus, situated mostly in the right hypocondriac region, and partly in the epigastric. DIVISION' INTO THREE LOBES; NAMELY, The great lobe to the right, small lobe to the left. Spigelian lobe. , superior, or convex surface, inferior, or concave, anterior, and posterior margins. CONNECTION. It adheres to the diaphragm by means of ligaments. The external membrane, covering its whole surface, is from the peritoneum. SUBSTANCE. Is vascular, the acini biliosi, or glands, called acini, which secrete the bile, are scattered in its substance. The hepatic duct arises by very minute branches from each of the acini, which unite, and form one canal, passing towards the duodenum, and joining with the cystic duct, from the gall-bladder; these, when united, form the d uctus communis choledochus, which empties its contents into the duodenum. USE. To secrete bile. THE GALL-BLADDER Is an oblong membranous bag, situated under the liver, in the right hypocondriac region. DIVISION. Into fundus, body, and neck. The cystic duct, descending soon, unites itself to the hepatic duct; it is then called the ductus communis choledo- chus, into which the pancreatic duct is sometimes in- serted: these are tlien continued into the duodenum by one orifice, between its first and second flexion. SUBSTANCE. Is membranous. USE OF THE GALL-BLADDER. To retain bile; regurgitating out of the hepatic duct; and to render it thicker, more acrid, and bitter. THE SPLEEN Is a viscus, situated in the left hypocondriac region, between the fundus of the stomach and the ribs. SHAPE. , Oval. DIVISION. Into external, or convex surface ; internal, or concave; su- perior and inferior extremities. CONNECTION With the diaphragm by means of the suspensory ligaments. .SUBSTANCE. Totally vascular. The external membrane is from the peritoneum. USE. Unknown; though, perhaps, it may serve to prepare the blood, for some purpose, for the liver. THE PANCREAS Is a glandular body under the stomach, in the epigastric region. SII APE. Like a dog’s tongue. DIVISION. Into superior and inferior surfaces. ’ right extremity, which is broad; and left extremity, which is pointed, anterior, and posterior margins. i( 140 ) THE The small pancreas is that process of the pancreas, which adheres to the duodenum. SUBSTAVCF,, Is composed of innumerable glands. 'I’lie pancreatic duct arises from minute branches, forming one canal, which runs through the jniddle of the pancreas, and perforates the coats of the duodenum in conjunction with the ductus communis choledochus. COXNECTIOX With the stomach and spleen, by means of membranes; and with the duodenum, by the lesser spleen, and pan- creatic duct. USE. To secrete a fluid, like saliva, wjiich is carried into the I duodenum. THE LACTEAL VESSELS, or CIIYLEFEROUS ABSORBENTS. The course by which the chyle is carried into the blood from the intestines, comprehends 1. The lacteal vessels. 2. receptaculum chyli. 3. thoracic duct. The lacteals, or absorbents, arc small vessels, arising, chiefly, from the internal membrane of the small intestines; very few from the larger. They arc divided into the lacteals of the first and second order. Those of the first order arc from their origin at the intestines, to the mysenteric glands. Those of the second order are the continuation of the lacteals from the mysenteric glands, to the receptaculum chyli. The receptaculum chyli is a narrow sac, resting upon the diaphragm at the two superior bodies of the lumbar vertebrae; but sometimes not e.xisting. The thoracic duct is a canal, passing from the receptaculum chyli through the posterior foramen of the diaphragm, and lying near the bodies of the dorsal vertebrae in the posterior mediastinum of the thorax, ascending to the left subclavian vein, into which it empties its contents of chyle, and coagulable lymph. The thoracic duct, in its passage, receives the absorbents from almost every part of the body. USE. To carry the chyle, and coagulable lymph into the blood. THE KIDNEYS Are two viscera, which secrete the urine. SITUATION. In the lumbar region, behind the peritoneum, 'near the bodies * of the superior lumbar vertebriu. SHAPE.' Like a bean, ' 1 DIVISION. Into anterior and . posterior surfaces, superior and inferior extremities, external margin. SUBSTANCE IS THREE-FOLD: 1. Cortical, or vascular, externally. 2. Tubular, more internally. 3. Papillous, at the most interior part. THE coverings OF THE KIDNEYS ARB 1. Adipose membrane, which is thick, loosely surrounding them,, 2. A proper, or peculiar membrane. The ureters are membranous canals, one in each kidney, descending into the urinary bladder, which it perfo- rates oblicpiely; its origin, at the kidney, is larger, and called the renal pelvis. The suprarenal glands are two large glands, situated above the kidneys, and covered by the same adipose mem- brane of the kidneys. USE. The kidneys secrete urine; and the ureters carry it from them into the bladder. THE URINARY BLADDER Is a membranous sac under the peritoneum, in the cavity of the pelvis. SITUATION, In men, between the bones of the pubis and intestine, called rectum ; in women, between the pubis and uteruA SHAPE. Resembles a large pyriform bottle : and hence its DIVISION. Into su]|brior, or fundus, bofly, or middle, neck, which arises froifi its inferior part, and is sur- rounded by a muscular sphincter. SUBSTANCE. Is of four membranes, like the intestines. USE. To receive the urine, retain, and expel it.THE THE GENITAL PARTS OF MEN. These consist of the penis. testicles. vesiculjE seminales. THE PENIS Is likewise called membrum virile. DIVISION. Into root, body, and head, called glans. ' The glans has a broad base, called the crown of the glans ; and an apex, which has an orilice of the urethra. The mons veneris is a fatty protuberance, covered with hair, lying on the junction of the bones of the pubis. THE SUBSTANCE OF THE PENIS IS FORMED By common integuments. ' two corpora cavernosa, j corpus spongiosum, and I urethra itself. I The extension of skin, covering the glans, is called the I prepuce, which adheres to the glans, at the inferior I part, by a membranous fold, called the fra:num. 'The two corpora cavernosa consist of a spongy structure; they arise, on each side, from the arch of the ischium, j pass along the penis above the urethra, touching each I other, and end, by obtuse apices, under the crown of ' the glans. The cavernous, or spongy substance of the urethra, is thick j at its origin before the neck of the bladder, which is I called its bulb; it then surrounds the whole length of I the urethra, as far as the apices, or terminations of j the corpora cavernosa, then expands, to form the glans penis. The urethra is a membranous canal, arising from the neck of J the bladder, and passes under, and betweep the cor- 1 pora cavernosa of the penis, to the apex of the glans, which it perforates, by a longitudinal fissure. The verumontanum is a cutaneous prominence, situated in I the cavity of the urethra, before the neck of the j bladder. I THE GLANDS OF THE PENIS ARE il. The muciparous glands of the urethra, situated under its internal coat. 2. The odoriferous glands, which are on, and about the corona of the glans penis. |). The prostrate gland, which is single, surrounding the in* ferior neck of the bladder. USE OF THE PENIS I Is to emit semen, and discharge urine. THE TESTICLES. Are two oval bodies, contained in the cavity of the scrotum. The epidydimis, or accessory testicle, is an appendix to it, and lying on the testicle, in which a head, or anterior extremity ; and a tail, or posterior extremity, may be observed. THE INTEGUMENTS OF THE TESTICLE ARE 1. The scrotum is a membranous bag, divided in the middle by a membrane, called the septum, into two cavities; it consists of the epidermis, cutis, and a fibrous mem- brane, called daiTon. 2. The tunica vaginalis is of a cellular membrane, beginning at the abdominal ring, and enclosing the spermatic chord, as well as the testicle. 3. The tunica albuginea, or tunica vaginalis testis, is of a white colour, and firmly adheres to the substance of the testicle. The substance of the testicle, and epidydimis, consists of very fine white canals, finally terminating in the epidydimis, which leads into the vas deferens. The vas deferens, arising from the end of the epidydimis, ascends with thcspermatic chord through the inguinal, or abdominal ring, and terminates near the vesicula; seminales, in the cavity of the pelvis. The spermatic chord, therefore, consists of the vas deferens, spermatic artery, and vein; nerve, absorbents, and tunica vaginalis, which covers the cremaster muscle. USE. To secrete, and prepare semen. THE VESICUL.E SEMINALES Are two membranous receptacles, which receive the semen from the vasa deferentia, and retain it. THEIR SITUATION. Is upon the neck of the bladder, between it and the rectum. The excretory duct, of each vesicula, goes into the cavity of the urethra, and opens by a peculiar aperture. USE. To receive the semen, and e.xpel it into the urethra, in coition. THE GENITAL PARTS OF WOMEN. The parts of generation, in women, are divided into external and internal. THE EXTERNAL ARE The mons veneris, labia majora. minora, clitoris, hymen. OoUSE. ( »42 ) «. THE INTEIVyAL AttE Tbo vagina, uterus. fallopian tubes, ovaria. bruaci and round ligaments of the uterus, and urethra. The mons veneris is a round fatty protuberance, covered with hair, lying over the junction of the bones of the pubis. The labia majora are two fatty projections, beginning under the mons veneris, covering the labia minora, and passing each side of the orifice of the vagina, go to the perineum, where they are united together by a trans- verse cutaneous fold, called the frenulum labiorum. The labia minora, which are also called nympluu, are two cu- taneous folds, like the comb of a cock, situated at the orifice of the vagina. The clitoris is a glandular part, placed under the anterior di- vision of the labia majora. The hymen is a membrane, mostly semilunar in shape, which adheres to the orifice of the vagina, ^during virginity, The vagina is a ’membranous passage, beginning within the labia minora, and ascending to he neck of the uterus, between the.bones of the pubis and the rectum.—It consists of three membranes : 1. The external one is cellular, from the cellular membrane of the peritoneum. 2. The middle is muscular, consisting of fleshy fibres. 3. The internal consists of transverse rugaj, or folds. The urethra is a membranous canal, wider than in men, and descending straight from the urinary bladder, between the bones of the pubis and the vagina, terminating by an orifice under the clitoris, between the nymphae, at their origin. 'I’he uterus is a receptacle, situated in the cavity of the pelvis, above the vagina, between the bladder and rectum. SH.VPE. Like a flattened- pair. DIVISION. Into fundus, which is its superior and broadest part; body, or middle; neck, or inferior part, in which is a narrow orifice, and a transverse fissure at the neck of the uterus, projecting into the vagina. Cavity of the uterus, in a virgin, is small, hardly sufficient to contain an almond: it has three openings; two at the sides, called the internal orifices of the fallopian tubes; and another at its cervex, or inferior part, called the uterine orifice. The broad ligaments of the uterus are formed by a duplica- ture of peritoneum, which gives an external covering to the uterus, and extending on its side to the ossa ilia: these ligaments support the uterus, fallopian tubes, and ovaria. The round ligaments of the uterus arise from the sides of the uterus, going towards its fundus, pass to the inguinal, or abdominal rings, and terminate in the fat near those parts. The fallopian tubes are two membranous canals, arising from the sides of the fur.dus of the uterus, and going lo- w-ards the ovaria, at the superior margin of the broad ligaments. The ovaria are two flattened bodies in the cavity of the pelvis, at the sides of the uterus. SUBSTANCE. On the exterior part, is fibrous; internally, vesicular, par- ticularly in virgins. These vesicules are called the female ovula, which, in old women, disappear. THE GLANDS OF THE GENITAL PARTS ARE 1. The mucous glands of the vagina, situated under its in- ternal, or rugous coat. 2. The odoriferous glands of the labia and clitoris. 3. The muciparous glands of the urethra, found under its internal membrane. USE Of the genitals is for coition. conception, nutriment of the foetus. parturition, menstruation. PARTS OF THE GRAVID UTERUS. THE PARTS CONTAINED IN THE GRAVID UTERUS ARE 1. The Uterine placenta.’ 2. umbilical chord. 3. ovum of the foetus. 4. liquor amnii. 5. foetus. THE UTERINE PLACENTA Is a spongy mass, like a cake, which mostly adheres to the fundus of the gravid uterus. • DIVISION. Into the margin and middle, into which the umbilical chord is inserted, at its inferior surface; into asiiperior sur- face, which is rugged ; and inferior, which is smooth. SUBSTANCE. Is cellular, like a sponge; and very vascular.( U3 ) 1 The tJSE. To receive the blood from the uterus; prepare it for the foetus ; and propel it into the branches of the umbi- lical vein. THE UMBILICAL CHORD 1 Is.an intestinal-formed chord, going from the navel of the I foetus to the middle ot the placenta. The length is frequently about three spans. I SUBSTANCE CONSISTS OF FOUR PARTS: , 1. A cutaneous covering from the vagina. 2. A cellular one, filling up the umbilical vagina. i[ 3. The umbilical vein, arising from the substance of the pla- ! centa, and going through the umbilical chord, and i navel of the foetus, as far as the liver, evacuates its contents into the vena portae. I 4. 'Two umbilical arteries, arising in the foetus from the hy- pogastric arteries, near the sides of the urinary bladder, ascending to the navel, and going* through the umbi- 1,.^ lical chord, divide into an innumerable number of branches in the substance of the placenta. USE, II The umbilical vein carries blood to the foetus from the pla- centa ; and the two umbilical arteries return it into I the placenta. MTHE MEMBRANOUS OVUM OF THE FOETUS. iThe foetus, in the cavity of the uterus, is inclosed in a large membranous ovum, which consists of three membranes; namely, IThe external is filamentous, where it adheres to the uterus and placenta. The middle is the membrane, called chorion. iThe internal membrane is named amnion. j • ■ USE. [To contain the liquor amnii, which, by flowing through the vagina; assists in dilating at the time of parturition; ' the inferior orifice. I ' —. I THE LIQUOR OF THE AMNION : Is a limpid fluid ii> the cavity of the ovum with the foetus, j ORIGIN. II is secreted by the exhalcnt arteries of the membranes of 1 the ovum. ( 1 / • ' USE. To defend the foetus from the pressure of the uterus. THE FOETUS. In the first month, the ovum is about the size of a pigeon’s egg, filled with the liquor of the amnion, in the middle of which the foetus is swimming, and resembles a small mass. . THE INTERNAL PARTS, BY WHICH A FOETUS DIFFERS FROM AN ADULT, ARE 1. The foramen ovale, found in the septum of the auricles of the heart. 2. Botallis canal, which goes, oblicjuely, from the trunk of the pulmonary arteries to the aorta. 3. The,lungs of the foetus are blackish, collapsed, and sink in water; but as soon as the infant breathes, they will swim. 4. All glands in the foetus are proportionally larger than in an adult. 5. The urachus is a thin membranous canal, ascending from the superior lundus ot the bladfler to the navel; sometimes it is found entirely empty. 6. The gieat intestines are filled with a green viscid matter called meconium. ^ All canals and vessels, peculiar to the foetus, are dosed, in general, after birth, and form a substance like a liga- ment. ® Almost every process of bone, in the foetus, is cartilaginous and are therefore called epjphises. ANGIOLOGIA, or DOCTRINE of the ^ VESSELS. OF THE VESSELS IN GENERAL. The vessels are long membranous canals, carrying blood or any other fluid. DIVISION. Into arteries, veins, and lymphatics, or absorbents. SITUATION. In every part of the body, except, as some say, in the epi- dermis, membrana araclmoidcs, and nails; in the arachnoid membrane; however, they arc sometimes visible. OF THE ARTERIES IN GENERAL. Arteries are those membranous canals which pulsate, and carry the blood from the heart to every part of the body, gradually becoming narrower in their passage.( 144 ) The The veins are also membranous canals, but do not pulsate, gradually becoming larger toward the heart, into which they return the blood. The origin of all arteries is from the ventricles of the heart: 1. The pulmonary artery, from the right. 2. The aorta, from the left ventiicle, Divisiorr Of an artery is into a trunk, branches, smaller branches, and capillary vessels. THE EXTREMITIES OF ARTERIES ARE OF THREE KINDS ; 1. Ending in veins. 2. secreting vessels. 3. other arteries, by anastomosis. SUBSTANCE OF AN ARTERY CONSISTS OF THREE membranes: An outside, or cellular coal. A middle, or muscular, with longitudinal, and circular fibres. An intei’nal, or smooth. USE. Arteries cany blood from the heart to every part of the body for nutrition; the preservation of life; animal heat; the secretion of various humours, or fluids. SYSTEM OF THE AORTA. ' The aorta, first, gives off two coronary arteries, then forms the arch, which gives ofi' three branches : 1. The artcria innominata, from which the right caiotid, and ri»ht subclavian arteries arise. O 2. The left carotid. 3. The left subclavian. The carotid arteries are divided into external and internal. The external carotid gives off eight branches to the face. - The internal carotid goes to the brain. The subclavian artery gives off four branches : 1. Themammaria interna, or internal mammary artery. 2. cervical. 3. vertebral. 4. superior intercostal. The subclavian, on passing out of the trunk', is called the axillary artery; when in the arm, it is called the brachial. The brachial artery, at the flexure of the fore-arm, gives off three branches; The cubital, radial, interosseal. The descending aorta, whilst m the thorax, gives off four branches: The bronchial, oesophageal, ten inferior intercostal, inferior diaphragmatic. The descending aorta, in the abdomen, gives off eight branches: The cceliac. superior mesenteric, venal, spermatic, inferior mesaraic. lumbar. sacral, and terminates in the iliac. The iliac arteries are sub-divided into external and internal. The internal iliac gives off five branches to the pelvis. The external iliac gives off the epigastric artery, and, descending, becomes the inguinal; after which it is called the crural. The crural, passing under the /lam, is named the popliteal. The popliteal gives off three branches: The anterior tibial. posterior tibial. peroneal. THE AORTA Arises from the left ventricle of the heart, makes an arch to- wards the vertebrm of the back, then descending, ■ passes through the diaphragm into the abdomen, where it is found resting on the left side of the spine,. as far as the last lumbar vertebra, at which place it divides into the two iliacs. From its origin to the iliac arteries, the following branches are sent off: The coronary arteries arise at the arch of the aorta. The arch of the aorta gives oft’ three branches . 1. The arteria innominata. ^ 2. left carotid. 3. subclavian. The arteria innominata arises from the arch of the aorta, and soon divides into the right subclavian, and right carotid. The carotid arteries ascend as far as the larynx, then divide into external and internal. The e.xtcrnal carotid passes up near the ear to the temporal region, during which passage it gives off eight branches to the neck aud face,( >45 ) The internal carotid passes through the carotid canal of the temporal bone into the cavity of the cranium, and di- vides into the anterior and posterior cerebral arteries, which go into the cortical part of the brain. The subclavian arteries, near the clavicle, take a curvature, like an arch, going into the cavity of the axilla, in which they are called the subaxillary arteries. E.4CH SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY GIVES OFF FOUR branches; namely. The internal mammary, descending near the sternum. The cervical, going to the muscle of the neck. The vertebral, which ascend through the foraminaof the seven transverse cervical processes, and go into the head by the great occipital foramen. . The superior intercostal, which is divided into three branches, passing on the inferior margin of the ribs, as far as the sternum. The axillary artery is continued into the brachial, which passes down, at the internal margin of the biceps muscle, to the flexure of the fore-arm, where it di- vides into three branches: 1. The radial artery, lying close to the radius, descends into the palm of the hand. 2. The interosseal artery, dividing into internal and external;- one of which passes on each side of the interosseal li- gament, and goes to the muscles of the fore-arm. 3. The cubital, or ulnaiy artery, which follows the course of the ulna, passing under the ligament of the wrist into the palm of the hand, gives off The palmar arch, from which four digital arteries are sent off; each of which divide into two branches at the first phalanx of the fingers, and, passing up on each side, are continued to the apex. About the middle of the brachial artery, lateral vessels are sent off, which anastomose with each other, and are called the anastomosing branches. BRANCHES OF THE DESCENDING AORTA. The aorta, from its arch to the diaplu’agm, gives off the fol- lowing branches; 1. The bronchial arteries, going to the vesicula; of the lungs and the aorta. 12. The oesophageal arteries, going to the inferior part of the I oesophagus. 3. Eight pair of inferior intercostal arteries, which run to the inferior margin of eight lower ribs as far as the sternum. 4. The inferior diaphragmatic arteries, going to the dia- phragm. The descending aorta, in the abdomen, gives off eight brandies’. 1. The coeliac artery, which is single, and, passing under the stomach, is divided into three branches ; namely, The stomachic artery, going to the stomach. ■splenic, spleen, hepatic. liver. 2. The superior meseraic, which gives off branches to the intestines jejunum, coecum, and colon. .3. The renal arteries, going to the kidneys. 4. The spermatic arteries, descending in the, loins, pass through the abdominal rings, and go to the testicles ; but in women, they are distributed on the ovaria. 5. The inferior meseraic, running to the left side of the colon; it also gives off the internal liajinorroidal artery. 6. The lumbar arteries, which arc distributed in the muscles of the loins and abdomen. 7- The sacral arteries, wliich descend near the sacrum. 8. The iliac arteries, into which the aorta terminates,- or is divided near the last lumbar vertebra. THE ILIAC ARTERIES. The iliac arteries are divided into external and internal. The internal is also called the hypogastric, which, in the foetus, divides itself into six branches; but, in the adult, there are only five, which supply the parts in and about the pelvis. The external iliac leaves the cavity of the pelvis, passing under Poupart’s ligament, towards the thigh, at the groin; it is called the inguinal artery, which being continued down the thigh, is called the crural, or fe- moral ; and passing obliquely backwards, at the ca- vity of the ham, it is named the popliteal artery. The external iliac, in going out of the pelvis, gives oft the cpicastric, which ascends under the rectus abdominis muscle, as far as the sternum. ' The crural, or femoral, gives off many branches, going to the ’ muscles*of the thigh, and others, which are lateral branches, anastamosing with the recurrent arteries of the knee coming from the tibial artery. The popliteal artery, two inches under tl.' ham, is divided into the anterior and posterior tibial, and the pe- roneal : 1. The anterior tibial artery perforates the interosseal liga- ment, and descends on its anterior part as far as the top of the foot, which it perforates near the great toe, and passes into the sole of the foot. 2. The peroneal artery descends behind the fibula, and per- forates the. interosseal ligament at its interior part, going to the top of the foot, or instep. 3. The posterior tibial descends at the internal and posterior part of the tibia, passing into the sole of the toot, be- hind the inner ancle„and forms the arcus plantaris, from which the digital arteries are sent oft, P p SYSTEM( ufi ) ) SYSTEM OF THE PULMONARY ARTERIES AND VEINS. The pulmonary artery arises from the right ventricle of the heart, going straight upwards, and, immediately after, passing out of the pericardium, is divided into two branches: 1. The right branch for the right lobe of the lungs. 2. The left branch for the left lobe of the lungs. Both these branches, when in the substance of the lungs, are divided into innumerable small branches, like a net- work, distributed upon the air vesicles, and termi- nating in the pulmonary veins. The pulmonary veins arise from the extremities of the pulmo- nary arteries,’ and finally terminate in four branches, which empty themselves into the left venous sinus of the heart, or left auricle. OF VEINS IN GENERAL. Veins are long membranous canals, which gradually widen, and carry the blood towards the heart; they do not pulsate. THE ORIGIir OF VEINS IS DOUBLE: 1. From the extremities of arteries, by anastamosis. 2. From the external and internal surface of the whole body, by absorbent veins. The termination of veins is into the sinuses of the heart, or 1. The vena cava, terminates in the right. 2. The pulmonary veins terminate in the left sinus of the ^ heart. THE SHAPE OF VEINS Is like that of arteries, dividing into branches. THE SUBSTANCE Of veins consists of three membranes, which arc thinner than the coats of arteries.—Some have tosserled, that they have line muscular tunic. THE VALVES OF VEINS Ave semilunar membranes, which prevent the reflux of of blood into the arteries. USE. ” To return the blood from all parts of the body to the heart: and to convey those subtile fluids from the internal and external surface of the body, w hich are not absorbed by tlie lymphatic absorbent system.—For proofs of which, read Ab. Kaaw, Haller, and ilcckcll. BRANCHES OF THE VENA CAVA. The vena cava gives off the superior and inferior. THE BRANCHES OF THE VENA CAVA, SUPERIOR,^ ARE The subclavian veins, external jugular, internal, vena azygos. THE BRANCHES OF THE EXTERNAL JUGULAR ARE The frontal, angular, temporal, auricular, sublingual, occipital. THE BRANCHES OF THE INTERNAL JUGULAR, ARE The lateraljsinuses of the dura mater, laryngeal, and pharyngeal veins. THE BRANCHES OF THE VENA AZYGOS ARE The vertebral, intercostal, bronchial, diaphragmatic. THE BRANCHES OF THE SUBCLAVIAN ARE I The mammary, axillary. THE BRANCHES OF THE .\X1LLARY ARE The brachial, cephalic, basilic, median, salvatella. cephalica pollicis. digital. THE BRANCHES OF THE INFERIOR VENA CAVA ARE The hepatic, renal. right spermatic, lumbar, sacral, iliac. THE ILIAC VEINS ARE Divided into the internal and external iliac. THE BRANCHES OF THE INTERNAL ARE The obturator, pudendal. external haemorroidal. the{ >47 ) THE BRANCHES OF THE EXTERNAL ARB The epigastric, crural. The crural, or femoral, continued downwards, becomes the popliteal: THE BRANCHES OF WHICH ARE The anterior tibial. posterior tibial. peroneal. cephalic of the great toe. Saphena. ' dorsal of the foot, plantar. digital of the foot. • SYSTEINI OF THE VENA CAVA. The vena cava begins, or evacuates itself into the right ve* nous sinus of the heart, and immediately divides into the vena cava, superior and inferior. The vena cava, superior, receives all the blood returning from the head, neck, thorax, and»uppcr extremities. The vena cava, inferior, receives all the blood from the ab- domen, and lower extremities. • VEINS OF THE HEAD. , The blood returns from the brain, face, and neck, by four veins; which are Two external jugular. Two internal jugular. The internal jugulars begin at the foramen lacerum of the cranium, and return all the blood from the cerebrum and cerebellum into the subclavian veins. The external jugulars are situated close under the common in- teguments of the neck ; and also evacuate themselves into the subclavian veins, returning the blood from the external parts of the head and neck, therefore they receive blood from the frontal, angular, temporal, auricular, sublingual, and occipital veins. VEINS OF THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITY. The blood returns from the digital veins into the cephalic of the thumb, and salvatella veins the latter is situated near the little finger. At the bending of the fore-arm, there are three veins more particularly to be noticed ; namely, 1. The basilic, on the inferior part of the fore-arm. 2. The cephalic, running on the superior part. 3. The median, which takes a course between the basilic and cephalic. All these veins are continued into the brachial veins, which terminate in the a.xillary; and this empties itself into the subclavian vein. THE SUPERIOR VENA CAVA. The axillary veins run under the clavicles, and are called the subclavian, one on each side, which finally form one trunk, and takes the name of the superior vena cava. THE INFERIOR VENA CAVA. This ascends from the last vertebra of the loins on the right side of the spine, passing through the right foramen of the diaphragm, and unites with the superior vena cava, terminating with it m the right venous sinus of the heart: whilst in the cavity of the abdomen, it re- ceives the hepatic, renal, right spermatic, lumbar, sacral, and iliac veins. VEINS OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. The veins of the toes empty themselves into the cephalic of the great toe, saphena of the little toe, and dorsal, running on the back of the foot. These, and the veins of the sole of the foot, empty themselves into the malleolar and sural veins, which terminate in the popliteal vein. The popliteal vein ascends, and becomes the femoral, or crural vein, which passes under Poupart’s ligament into the cavity of the pelvis, and forms a junction with the internal iliac vein; which latter receives the^ external ha-morroidal and hypogastric veins: both iliac veins, finally unite near the last lumbar vertebra, and form the vena cava inferior. SYSTEM OF THE VENA PORTA. That large vein, which carries the blood into the substance of the liver from ihc abdominal viscera, is called the vena portae, THE ABDOMINAL P.VUT IS COMPOSED OF THREE branches; NAMELY, The splenic vein, mesariac, and internal haunorroidal. CIRCULATIONThe ( '.48 ) CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD IN A FOETUS. A foetus receives its blood from the mother by the umbilical vein, and is returned to the mother by two umbilical arteries. ON THE lympAatic V^ESSELS. These arc fine vessels, carrying lymph from different parts, Their orginis from the larger cavities, or from the viscera. The termination of all the lymphatics of the neck, thorax, abdomen, superior and inferior extremities, is into the thoracic duct, and left subclavian vein. NEUROLOGY, or DOCTRINE or the ' NERVES. . THE CEUEBRAE NERVE.S ARE 1. Pair, or olfactory nerves, 2. optic nerves. 3. motores oculi. 4. pathetic nerves, 5. trigemini, 6. abducent. 7. auditory. 8. '’^gi* 9. lingual. THE THIRTY PAIR OF SPINAL NERVES ARE DIVIDED 1, Into eight pair of cervical. 2. twelve dorsal. 3. five lumbar. 4, five sacral. ON NERVES IN GENERAL. Nerves are long white chords, which cause sensation. THE ORIGIN OF NERVES IS DOUBLE: 1, From the brain. ' 2. spinal marrow. Their termination is at the organs of the senses; on the viscera; on vessels and muscles, THE SHAPE OF NERVES Is like branches. THE SUBSTANCE OF NERVES IS DOUBLE: 1. The sheaths of nerves, arising from the dura and pia mater. 'S. The nervous pulp, consisting of very fine particles, which contain the nervous influence. THE USE OF NERVES IS 1. For the sensation of a sensible part. 2. For the five external senses, which arc touch, sight, hearing, smell, and taste. 3. To excite muscular motion. Anatomists have divided nerves into those of the head, and of the medulla spinalis, or spinal marrow. Those are called cerebral, which, arising from the brain, pass out by the foramina of the cranium. Those are called spinal, which arising from the spinal mar- row, pass out through the lateral foramina of the ver- tebrae, THE NUMBER OF NERVES IS Nine pair of cerebral; or, from the brain, Thirty pair of spinal. ON NERVES OF THE HEAD, OR CEREBRAL IN PARTICULAR. FIRST PAIR—Olfactory, Arise from the corpora striata, and passing through the cri- briform lamella of the ethmoid bone, go into the cavity of the nose, are distributed by several branches on the pituitary membrane of the nostrils, and convey smell. SECOND PAIR.—Optic, Arise from the thalami nervorum opticorum, pass through the optic foramina of the sphenoid bone into the orbit, there perforate the bulb of the eye, and form the retina, which is the organ of vision.—They have a central artery. THIRD pair.—Motores Oculi, Pass through the superior orbital fissure into the orbit, and are distributed on the muscles of the eye. FOURTH pair. PaTHETIC, Pass through the superior orbital fissure into the orbit, and are distributed on the superior oblitjue muscle of each eye. FIFTH PAIR.—Trigemini, Whilst in the cranium, arc divided into three branches: 1. Into the orbital branch. 2. supeiior maxillary. 3. inferior maxillary. The orbital branch passes through the superior orbital fissure into the orbit, in which it is divided into three branches: 1. The frontal, passing through the superciliary foramen out of the orbit to the forehead. 2. The lachrymal branch, going to the lachrymal gland. 3. The nasal branch, passing into the cavity of the nostrils, through the orbital toramen of the nose.C 149 ) Q q 3. The The superior muxillary branch, passes out of the cranium through the round foramen,proceeds through theinfra- ' orbital canal, and goes to the face through the anterior foramen of this canal, towards the superior maxillary bone. The inferior maxillary branch goes through the oval foramen of the cranium, then gives oflF a branch to the tongue, and passes through the mental canal, to the inferior maxillary bone. SIXTH p.iiR.—Abducent, 4 Pass through the superior orbital fissure into the orbit, and are distributed on the rectus externus muscle of the eye, or abducens. SEVENTH PAIR. AuDITORY, Are divided into soft and hard branches; both pass into the orifice of the internal meatus auditorius. The soft portion goes through the foramina of meatus audi- ‘ torius into the labyrinth of the internal ear; is there distributed, and forms the primary organ of hearing. The hard portion goes into the internal meatus auditorius of the aquecduct of Fallopius, and from thence through the stylo-mastoid foramen to the temporal foramen. EIGHTH PAIR. PaR VaGUM, Descends through the foramen lacerum of the cranium into the neck, thorax, and alxlomen, giving .off branches to the difterent' viscera in the neck, thorax, and abdomen. NINTH PAIR.—Lingual, Go to the tongue through the anterior cor.dyloid foramina. NERVES OF THE SPINAL MARROW. The nerves which arise from the spinal marrow, are called spinal, and pass out through the lateral foramina of the vertebrx, and of the os sacrum. THE CERVICAL NERVES. There are eight pair of cerv'ical nerves ; the first arc called occipital; these pass out between the occipital bone, and the first vertebra of the neck ; and are distributed on the back of the head and neck. The other seven pair are distributed on the muscles of the neck, and give origin to the following nerves : 1. The accessory nerve of Willis. 2. phrenic, or diaphragmatic. 3. brachial plexus. The accessory nerves ascend through the great occipital fora- men into the cavity of the cianium, and again pass out through the foramen lacerum to the trapezius muscle. it 1 The phrenic nerves descend into the cavity of the thorax, and go to the diaphragm, near the pericardium- The brachial plexus is formed by the five inferior pair of cervical, and first dorsal nerves, divided into six branches, going to the superior extremity; namely. 1. The articular nerve, distributed about the articulation of the humerus. 2. The median nerve, descending with the brachial artery info the palm of the hand; gives off two branches to the thumb, fore, and middle fingers; and one branch to the ring finger. • ‘7 3. The ulnary nerve descends from the brachial plexus, near the internal condyl, going into the palm of the hand, where it gives off; one branch to the ring finger; and two branches to the little finger. 4. The radial nerve passes down near the external part of , the fore-arm to the back of the hand, where it is dis- tributed to the muscles. 5. The external cutaneous nerve passes down near the median vein, as far as the thumb. 6. The internal cutaneous nerve descends on the internal side of the fore-arm, as far as the little finger. DORSAL NERVES. There are twelve pair of dorsal nerves, which run under the inferior margin of the ribs to the sternum, and arc called intercostal nerves; and distributed to the muscles and integuments of the back and thorax. LUMBAR NERVES. There are five pair of lumbar nerves, which are distributed on the muscles and integuments of the lumbar region and abdomen. SACRAL NERVES, There arc also five pair of sacral nerves, arising from the cauda equina of the spinal marrow, which pass out through the internal foramina of the os sacrum, and get into the cavity of the pelvis, where they are distri- buted on the urinary bladder, vcsiculae scminales, penis, uterus, vagina, and intestine, called rectum. The nerves of the inferior extremity arc formed by the lumbar and sacral, and arc three in number; namel}'^, 1. The obturator nerve, passing through the superior fissure of the oval foramen, is distributed on the muscles about the pelvis. 2. The crural nerve (with the crural vessels) passes out of the cavity of the abdomen, uncTcr Poupart's ligament: and is distributed on the muscles and integuments of the thigh and leg, as far as the top of the foot.( ^50 ) J. The sciatic nerve passes out of the cavity of the pelvis through the great sciatic notch, descending between the tuberosity of the ischium and great trochanter, on the posterior and external part of the thigh, into the popliteal cavity, when it is divided into the tibial and peroneal branches. The tibial nerve passes down into the sole of the foot, near the internal ancle, and divides into the external and internal plantar nerves, from which the digital nerves arise. The peroneal nerve is divided into many branches, and dis- tributed on the muscles of the leg, and sole of the foot. THE GREAT INTERCOSTAL NERVE. The great intercostal nerve arises from the sixth pair, and a branch of the fifth pair of nerves in the brain, which unite, and form one trunk, passing out through the carotid canal, and descending near the sides of the bodies of the cervical, dorsal, and lumbar vetebraj, and os sacrum. In its descent, it receives two branches from each of the thirty spinal nerves, and gives off the following branches: In the neck it gives off three cervical ganglia ; namely. The superior, middle, and inferior. From these the cardiac nerves arise, which go to the heart and lungs. In the thorax, it gives off the anterior intercostal, which per- forates the diaphragm, and forms the semilunar ganglion, near the kidneys, in the cavity of the ab- domen ; from which nerves go to all the abdominal viscera.—The nerves, their connections, dispersions, and terminations, arc accurately demonstrated in the Plates. The posterior intercostal descends near the spine of the back and loins ; the os sacrum, and os coccygis, where it terminates. ADENOLOGY, or DOCTRINE of the GLANDS. OF THE GLANDS IN GENERAL. A gland is a small machine, used for the secretion of humors, fluids, or their alterations. THE DIVISION OF GLANDS IS INTO THREE SPECIES! 1. Follicular, consisting of a follicular cavity. 2. Globate, which consists of a knot of lymphatic vessels^ and have no excretory duct, and only alter the fluid. 3. Glomerate, consisting of a cougerics of vessels, to which there is an excretory duct. The excretory duct of a gland, is a fine canal, going from the gland, and conveying a fluid, or juice, secreted from if. Glands are also distinguished by the kind of liquid they secrete, Into sebraceous, muciparous, lymphatic, lachrymal, salivary, biliary, lacteal, Ac. THE USE OF GLANDS Is to secrete, or alter any liquor ; they are larger in infants than in adults. [GLANDS IN THE CAVITY OF THE CRANIUM. The glands of the dura mater arc situated near the longitu- o O dinal sinus. The pituitary gland is on the sella turcica, the pineal gland. GLANDS OF THE EYE. ' Meiboinius’s glands arc of the sebaceous kind, and situated near the tarsi, and internal surface of the lid. The lachrymal gland is placed in a cavity, at the external angle of the orbit. GLANDS OF THE MOUTH. THERE ARE THRP.E PAIR OF SALIVARY GLANDS. The parotid, situated under the ears; the excretory duct oI which is called Stenonian, and, going from the* ear, perforates the cheek, getting into the mouth at the third grinder tooth of the upper jaw, which should be well remembered in operating on the cheek, or ania- curable fistula may happen. The maxillary glands, lying under the angle of the inferior maxillary bone. The sublingual, lying under the tongue.' The mucous glands of the mouth are found in the tonsihj- uvula, and fauces. GLANDS OF THE NOSTRILS. The mucous glands are in the pituitary membrane of the nostrils. - GLANDS( 151 J GLANDS OF THE EARS. ,Tli« ceruminous glands of the external meatus auditorius are situated under the internal membrane of this passage, and secrete a wax-like substance. GLANDS OF THE NECK. These are the jugular glands on the side of the neck, and the submaxillary glands, situated under the integuments of the lower jaw. GLANDS OF THE THORAX. THE EXTERNAL ARE' The mammary glands, situated under the adipose membrane, or fat in the breasts. THE INTERNAL ARE The bronchial glands in the bronchia of the lungs, and of great consequence in considering pulmonic diseases. The thymus gland in the anterior mediastinum. GLANDS OF THE ABDOMEN. Tlie gastric glands in the stomach, intestinal in the intestines, mysenteric mesentery. hepatic, which are also called acini bilosi, situated in the substance of the liver. The supra-renal glands, which are large, and situated at the upper part of the kidneys. GLANDS IN THE GENITAL PARTS OF MEN. The mucous glands of the urethra, situated under its internal membrane. The sebaceous of the prepuce, placed about the glans penis. The prostate gland, situated near the neck of the bladder. GLANDS IN THE GENITAL PARTS OF WOMEN. The odoriferous glands of the labia under the skin of the labia. The mucous glands of the urethra, under its internal mem- brane. GLANDS OF THE EXTREMITIES. The inguinal glands, under the skin at the groins, often the seat of venereal infection from vile astringent injections.* The subaxillary, situated also under the skin at the axilla, or arm-pit. GLANDS OF THE SKIN. The subcutaneous glands, or those situated under the skin, secreting an oleoginous substance. HYGROLOGY, or DOCTRINE of the FLUIDS OF THE HUMAN BODY. The liquid parts of our bodies are called humours: these are divided into those which are secreted ; and those which are not secreted. THE HUMOURS, NOT SECRETED, ARE 1. Chyle, a white fluid, like milk, coming from the food di- gested in the stomach,' and small intestines, is carried into the blood through the receptaculum chyli, and thoracic duct. 2. The blood, which is a red fluid, contained in the heart* arteries, and veins. Blood, drawn from the veins, is divided into crassamentuin, or cruor, which consists of red globules and serum, consisting of gelatinous fluid, a little calcarious earth, salt, and a great proportion of water. 3. The lymph, which is a gelatinous fluid, contained in the lymphatic vessels. 4. A nutritive juice, which is a very subtile jelly, contained in every part, and in all the humours of our body, except in the excrements. HUMOURS, OR FLUIDS SECRETED FROM THE BLOOD. IN THE CAVITY OF THE CRANIUM, AND IN THE SPINE. 1. The nervous liquor,which is said to be a most subtile fluid, secreted by the cortical and medullary substance of the brain, and spinal marrow, I’rom which it is conveyed into all the nerves of our body: but it has not yet been demonstrated, and therefore inadmissible. !■ The power of the nervous system, all over the moving powers and sensations of the body, I have called Nervotn Iii/liicncc,—See A'crious Diseases, 2. An aquous vapour, contained in the four ventricles "of the brain, and in the cavity of the spine, which is secreted by the exhalent arteries; a redundance of wnich causes hydro])o membranarum.—See Treatise un. the IVatry Head, Sj-e, IN THE CAVITY OF THE NOSTRILS. The mucus of the nose, which is secreted by the glands of the pituitary membrane. * See my Treatise, called Cogent Reasons—why astringent injections, caustic bougies, and violent salivations should be banished for ever from practice; with mild methods, and prescriptions for the treatment of every species of venereal infecuou, See. See.( 152 ) 3. The JN THE MOUTH. IN THE THORAX. The saliva, or spittle, which is secreted by the salivary glands, and carried into the mouth by an excretory ' duct from each, for the purposes of mastication. IN THE FAUCES. The mucus of the glands, fauces, and oesophagus, is secreted by muciparous glands of those parts, to render deglu- tition less difficult. IN THE EYES. TIIEKE AUE THREE HUMOURS OF THE BULB: 1. The aqueous humour, contained in the anterior part of the bulb. 2. The chrystalline lens, in the anterior part of the vitreous humour, and 3. The vitreous humour, situated in the posterior part of the bulb. OUTSIDE OF THE BUT.B ABE 1. The tears, which are secreted by the lachrymal gland, carried through its excretory ducts to the internal part of the upper eye-lid, and eft'used over the external surface of the bulb. The tears are afterwards absorbed by the puncta lachiymalia, carried by the lachrymal canals into tlie lachrymal sac, and thence through the nasal duct into the cavity of the nose. 2. The fluid of the Meibomian glands, secreted by the seba- ceous glands in the tarsus of the eye-lids. IN THE EARS. J. The cerumen, or wax of the ears, which is secreted by the sebaceous glands in the external meatus auditorius. 2. The auditory fluid, contained in the vestibulum and semi- circular canals of the internal ear. IN THE NECK. The secretions of the submaxillary and jugular glaitds; also of the thyroid gland, which is gelatinous. IN THE BREASTS. The milk in the breasts of child-bearing women, is secreted by the glands of the breast, and passes through their excretory ducts into the papilhe. The mucus of the larynx, trachea, bronchia;, which is se* creted by the glands of tliese parts, and frequently coughed up, when redundanr, and irritating. The juice of the thymus gland, which is white. The vapour of the pericardum and cavity of the thorax, which is secreted by the exhalent arteries. The perspirable fluid of the lungs, which exhales from their- c.xhalcnt arteries. IN THE ABDOMEN. 1. The gastric juice, secreted in the stomach by exhalents. 2. The enteric juice, secreted in the intestines by the exha- lent arteries. 3. The pancreatic juice, secreted by the glands of the pan- creas, and carried through its excretory duct into the du®denum for the purposes of digestion. 4. The bile, a yellow bitter juice, secreted in the substance of the liver, and partly goes through the hepatic duct into the duodenum, and partly regurgitates into the gall-bladder. The bile in the gall-bladder becomes thicker and more acrid, and flows into the duodenum through the ductus cho- ledochus, 5. The mucus of the stomach and intestines, secreted by their muciparous glands to lubricate them. 6. The chyme is a pultaceous mass, which is formed from food partly digested, and protruded into the duode- num; from this the chyle is formed. 7. The foeces of the intestines are a foejid mass, remaining after the digestion of food, and absorption of chyle; they are contained in the large intestines, and fmally ejected by the anus. I IN THE URINARY BLADDER. 1. The urine is an aqueous acrid humour, secreted in the kidneys, carried through the ureters into the bladder, and evacuated by the urethra: it consists of water, earth, and salt. Exhalent arteries, likewise, pour forth a vapourous fluid. IN THE GENITALS OF MEN. 1. The semen, which is a liquor secreted in the testicles, by the spermatic arteries, and carried through the vas deferens of gach into the vcsiculse seminales ; and, at the time of coitus, is ejected into the urethra through the ductus cjaculatorius. 2, The mucus of the urethra, which is secreted by the glands of the urethra.( 3. The liquor of the prostate gland, which is whitish, and mixes with the semen, at tlic time of coitus. 4. The liquor of the odoriferous glands of the corona glandis of the penis. 5. The vapor of the tunica vaginalis testis, which is aqqeous. IN THE GENITALS OF WOMEN. 1. The mucus of the vagina and urethra, secreted by the glands of these parts. 2. The liquor of the odorifei'ous glands, situated in the labia pudenda. ' 3. The menstrual blood, which is secreted by the arteries in the cavity of the uterus, monthly. 4. The lochia, which is effused from the cavity of the uterus tor some days after delivery. 5. The liquor of the amnion, which, during the time of preg- nancy, surrounds the foetus in a membranous ovum of the uterus. IN THE FOETUS. The meconium, or black fajces, which are contained in the great intestines. IN THE ARTICULATIONS. . 1. The synovia, which is secreted in the cavities of joints. 53 ) 2. The liquor of the sheaths of tendons, or burses mucosa-, which is like a thin oleous mucus. IN THE BONES. 1. The medulla, or marrow of bones, or fatty substance, contained in the middle, or cavity of cylindrical bones. 2. The medullary liquor, which is an oleous tluid in the ca- vernous substance of bones. IN THE COMMON INTEGUMENTS. 1. The Malpighian mucus, in cellulm, under the epidermis, which, in Europeans, is white; in -/Ethiopians, black, &c. 2. The liquor of the subcutaneous glands, which is oleous and enters the skin by- the ducts of these glands. 3. The juice of the hair, which is contained in the cavity of the hair, from which it receives its colour. 4. The perspirable liquor, which, in form of an invisible vapour, is continually exhaling from the exhalent ar- teries of the whole surface of the skin. 5. The oil of the adipose membrane, which is secreted every where by the lateral pores of arteries in the tela ccl- lulosa, or cellular membrane ; and in the omentum, the veins return superfluity. THE SUBSTANCES OF ANIMALS, CONTAIN, IN DIFFERENT DEGREES, ACCORDING TO CHEMICAL ANALYSES, &c. Extruded from the recent and most excellent Chemists: 1. Fibriiia. 2. Albumen. 3. Gclaline. 4. Mucilage. 5. Urea. 6. Sugar. 7. Oils. 8. Resins. 9. Sulphur. 10. Phosphorus. It. Acids. 12. Alcalis. 13 Earths. 14. Metals. These are all discoverable by dilferent experiments; but as the substances which produce these results cannot, in general, be applied to the internal surface of the human stomach, or by other means, when living, to answer important purposes in the cure of diseases : the major part become respectable, as curious speculations, which may, at some future period, be converted to very important uses. 2. Albumen. 5. Phosphats of soda. 3. Gelatine. 6. ammenia. 4. E.xtract. 7. lime, and carbon of ditto. * MEMBRANES Are composed chielly, according to Hatchett, of coagulated albumen. Membranes and tendons make that strong cohesive substance, glue. CUTICLE AND CUTIS Are chiefly composed of galatine. NAILS Are similar, or possessing the quality of coagulated albumen. , HAIR 'Resembles the preceding substances, with a little sulphur. THE CRUOR OF THE BLOOD THE SIMPLE SUBSTANCES, FOUND IN ANIMALS, C.OXSIST OF THE FOLLOWING, IN V.VRIOUS PROPORTIONS: 1. Azot. 6. Lime. 11. Magnesia. 2. Carbon. 3 Hydrogen. 4. O.cygen. b. Phosphorus. 7. Sulphur. 8. Soda. 9. Potass. lO. Bluriatic acid. 12. Silica. 13. Iron. 14. Manganese. BRAIN, Contains phosphat of lime, of soda, and ammonia—but no oil, there- fore not like soap, &c. HUMAN BONES, Is one part to three of serum, but liable to variation in different subjects and conditions. BLOOD CONTAINS, FROM ANALYSIS, 1. Water. 6. Soda. 2. Fibrina. ~ 7. Sub-phospliat of iron. 3 Gelatine. 8. Miiriat of soda. 4'. Albumen. . 9. Phosphat of soda. 5. Hydrosulpliurct of ammonia. 10. lime. The states of diseased blood do not appear evident by chemical analysis; but blood undergoes numerous changes, which medical practice and inspection fully demonstrate, in various diseases, without chemical analysis. FROM A EVRYINC-CROUND, OUT OF 100 PARTS, CONTAIN, Of gelatine, 16. Phospliat of lime, 67. Carbon of lime, 1-5. Lost, 15-5. BRY, BUT NOT FROM UNDER THE EARTH: 23 Gelatine. 63 Phosphat of lime. 2 Carbon of lime. 2 Loss, IN MUsCLES: 1. Are cliiefly composed of fibrina, to which they owe their fibrous structure and form; also. BUFFY APPEABANCB, OR THE SURFACE OF BLOOD, ACCORDING TO Deyeux and Parmentier,: The huffy coat of inflammation, consists of the fibrina. The cruor, deprived of this substance, is much softer than usual, and almost totally soluble in water. The albumen of the serum is also altered, and does not coagulate as usual, when heated, but becomes milky, wheu lui.xed with hot water. R r In( »54 ) In putiirt fever and scnrvy, liulc was discovered. In the diabetes, wlicieiu, according to the ingenious Doctors Kollo and Dobson, sugar is present in the urine, the serum of blood is like tvhey. DISSOLUTION OF BLOOD. In the very vehement yellow, and other highly putrid fevers, of hot di-nates, I have seen the putrid dissolved blood, lorced by arterial action through the ealuilent arteiics on the surface of the skin, in the form of a putrid sanies, horrid in odour. Similar appearances of broken down blood from the mouth, gnms, and other parts, I have seen, in inveterate scurvy, from long voy- ages, salt diet, confined air, and tlte absence of land air, fresh diet and vegetables, &C. 1. Water. 2. Oil. 3. Albumen. 4. Galatine. 6. Sugar of milk. MILK IS COMPOSED or 6. Muriat of soda. 7. Muriat of potass. 8. Sulpliur. 9. Phosphat of lime, in difierent proportions in different animals. SALIVA CONTAINS, BESIDES FOUK FIFTHS OF WATER t 1. Mucilage. 4- Phosphat of soda. 2. Albumen. 5. lime. 3. Muriat of sodo. 6. ammonia. It is like all other fluids, changed by disease. The tartarous crusts on teeth is phosphat of lime, according to Fourcroy. PANCREATIC JUICE, Similar to saliva. BILE 6. A sweetish salt. 7. Muriat of soda. 8. Phosphat of lime. 9. soda. 10. Iron. CONTAINS 1. Water. 2. Resin. 3. .Mbuinen. 4. Soda. / 5. Sidphurated hydrogen. The proportion of these ingredients have not, as yet, been ascertained. There are four species of gall-stones :—1. Resembles spermaceti. 2. Is inspissated bile. 3. Is a mixture of the two first. These are s«liible in alcalirs. The fourth species, according to Haller apd Dr. Saunders, are insoluble in alchoL, or spirits of turpentine. THE CERUMEN, OR WAX OF THE EAR, - IS COMPOSED OF 1. Albumen. 4. Soda. S. An inspissated oil. 5. Phosphat of lime. 3. A darkish colouring matter. TEAR.S AND MUCUS CONTAIN 1 Water. 3. ATuriat of soda. 5. Phosphat of lime. 2. Mucilage. 4. Soda. 6. soda. MUCUS OF CAVITIES Contains more mucilage, but less water ; otherwise, as far as experiments have been made, is similar to tears. SINOVIA OF CAPSULAR, LIGAMENT, &c. CONTAINS, ACCORDING TO MaRGUERON! 11 86 Fibrous matter. 4..52 Albumen. 1.75 Muriat of soda. 71 Soda. 70 Phosphat of lime. 8C..57 Water. 100.00 The ingenious Dr. Pearson and Mr. Tenant, analysed gout cha!k-stones‘ and lound them composed of urat of soda, which Fourcroy confirmed. SEMEN IS COMPOSED OF 90 Water. 3 Phosphat of lime. 6 Mucilage. 1 Soda. ' LIQUOR OF THE AMNION IS COMPOSED OF 98.8 Water. f Albumen. 1.2 < Muriat of soda. ( Piiosphat of lime. URINE CONTAINS 1. Water. 2. Phosphoric acid. 3 Phosphat of lime. 4. magnesia. .5. Carb.onic acid. 6. Carbonat of lime. 7. Uric acid. 8. Rosaceous acid. 9. Benzoic acid. 10. Gelatine and al- bumen. 11. Urea. 12. Resin. 13. Muriat of soda. 14. Phosphat of .s6da. 15. Phosphat of am- monia. 16. Muriat of am- monia. 17. Sulphur. URINARY CALCULI CONTAIN 1. Uric acid. • 4. Phosphat of magnesia 6. Silica. 2. Urat of ammonia. and ammonia. 7. An animal malterl 3. Phosphat of lime. 5. Oxalat of lime. But a more particular analysis, according to Fourcroy and Vaquelin, who e.xamined more than six hnndred calculi, and divided them iuto three genera, and twelve species, are as follows : GENUS I. Calculi, composed of one ingredient. SpF.. 1. Uric acid.—Colour of wood, yellow, red. - 2. Urat of ammonia.—Brownish white. 3. Oxalat of lime,—Colour soot brown. GENUS II. Composed of two ingredients. SpE. 1. Uric acid, and the phosphats in laj’ers.—Like chalk. 2. Ditto, mixed together.—Varies in appearance. 3 Urat of ammonia, and phosphat in layers. —— 4. Ditto, mixed together —Botli similar. • 5. The phosphats, mixed in layers.—Like chalk. 6. Oxalat of lime, and uric acid in layers. — 7. Oxalat of lime, and phosphats in layers. \ GENUS III. Containing more than three ingredients. SpE. 1. Urat of ammonia, or uric acid, the phosphats, and oxalat of lime. I 2. Uric, acid, urat of ammonia, the phosphats, silica. As far as solvents are concerned, the calculi may be reduced to three heads : 1. Uric acid, f SOLVENTS. and am- "S-A. pure weak solution of potass and soda, which can be inonia. ( held in the mouth. 2. The phos- f Quickly dissolved by nitric acid so weak, that it may phats of < be swallowed without inconvenience, and pos- Jime, ( sessed of no greater acridity than urine itself. (’Ey nitric acid, or by carbonat of potass or soda, 3. Oxalat of j weak enougli not to irritate the bladder j but lime. } the action of these substances are sloiv, and ( scarcely complete. These weak solutions, a little warm, are injected into the bladder, after being emptied of urine, and suflTered to remain in contact «itb the calculus, or stone, as long as bearable, without irritation or pain. It is difficult to ascertain, however, what species of stone may be in the bladder. The composition of the tube, through which the liquid is introduced, should be well considered.—It appears to me, that the tubes, composed of elastic gum, are most proper; because, little or no effect is produced on that substance, either by acids or alcalies, which I demonstrated above thirty years ago. Tlie body might be supersaturated with those solutions, skilfully ap- plied, in conjunction with an appropriate regimen: but, under such courses, extreme caution should be used, lest, instead of relief, mischief might ensue. These various facts shew, what a complicated machine the Art of Medicine has to act on, in the different aberrations and muta- tions of tlie constituent principles, under a state of disease. These compositions of inanimate matter, after death, and, in general, disease, might not have existed in animated nature: some are creatures of the fire ; others of acids, alcalie.s &c. therefore great caution is necessary in their application, during life, either in health, or disease. niYSlOLOGV,PHYSIOLOGY, OR THE DOCTRINES OF THE ANIMAL, VITAL, AND NATURAL ACTIONS OF TIIF. HUMAN BODY, CONSPECTUS O F PHYSIOLOGY IN GENERAL. I I jOFTHE NATURE AND POWERS OF AN ANIMATE BODY. OF THE ACTIONS OF AN ANIMATE BODY. THE VITAL actions: Circulation of the blood. Action of the heart. arteries. veins. Heat. , Respiration. THE ANIMAL ACTIONS: The soul. - Sensation, generally. ‘‘THE EXTERNAL SENSES: Touch. Taste. Smell. Hearing. Sight. DURING LIFE. THE INTERNAL SENSES: Irritability. Action of the muscles. The voice and speech. Watching, Sleep. THE NATURAL ACTIONS: Hunger. Thirst. Mastication. Deglutition, Digestion. Chylification. Passage of the chyle into the blood. Sanguification. Nutrition, or increase and decrease of the body. Secretion of humors. Excretion, or passing out of excrementitious humours. Expulsion of the foeces. Excretion of the urine. Transpiration. Inhalation. THE SEXUAL ACTIONS: The secretion, and excretion of the semen, hlenstruation. Conceptiop, Evolution of the embryo. Pregnancy. Child-birth. The ages of man. Death. OF( 156 ) OP PHYSIOLOGY IN GENERAL. PHYSIOLOGY IS A SCIENCE, DESCRIBING THE ACTIONS AND POWERS OF AN ANIMATE BODY, OR HUMAN BEING, DURING BII'E. FIBRES ARE ELASTIC, AND HEAVIER THAN WATER; For, being stretched, when the distenting powers cease, they recover their tone by contraction, descend in water, but deprived of the fixed air, or what is now called carbonic acid gas, by putrefaction : they are lighter than water, and swim on the surface. Earthy particles, says the immortal Haller, that excellent Physiologist, adhering longitudinally, and connected by an intervening cohesive glue : compose, in the hr^t place, one of the least, or most simple fibres, such as we understand, rather from reason than sense. A living man consists of body and soul. The body is a machine, composed of solid, and fluid parts. The soul is an incorporeal being, by which the living body thinks, and performs animal actions: the effects arc evident; the causes, in a great measure, incompre- hensible. It may be necessary, in imitation of the great Haller, to commence Physiology with some ideas of the minute constituent parts of the human body. FIBRES Are composed of moleculac, cohering together by the laws of attraction. CONSTITUENT PARTS, OR FIRST PRINCIPLES, RADICALS, &c. Present Doctrines, though still recjuiring future Haller. Terra. Ferrum. Gluten. Aer Jixus. research. f Nitrogen. \ Carbon. Hydrogen. Fkosphorus, and Sulphate of lime, &c. &c. THE visible FIBRES ARE COMPOSED OF OTHERS smallLr : The minutest fibres we see either by the eye, or microscope, are composed of others smaller, and easily conceived by the mind, though not demonstrable beyond a cer- tain point, • Lamina, a second species, whose breadth are frequently larger than their length: these interwoven together, form tela cellulosa. The smallest parts then we seo by the finest microscope, are either fibres, or an un- organised gelatinous concrete. TELA CELLULOSA. Of the first and second species, then of fibres and lamina, is constituted the tela cellulosa, DISCOVERERS. It was called, by the ancients, tunica musculorum communis, membrana adiposa, vaginalis, darton. By Carolus Stephanus, vincula cxigua, by which he said all the vessels cohered. After him Spigelius, T"cslingius, Marchettis, Vieussens, Mal- pighius, and Frederick F^uyscli, who first, by impelled air, demonstrated the proper tunics of the intestines, scrotum, (!xc.* Afterwards Douglass, Winslow Boer- haave, Kaaw Boerhaave, Albiniis, Bergen, Schobinger, Francis Thierry, J. Borden: and the great Haller him- self demonstrated, in 17-f7, the universality of the TpLA CELLULOSA, Forming almost every part of the human body. UTILITY. The labours of all these discoverers, and improvers, liave thrown new lights of infinite consequence, when ap- plied in medical practice, as will hereafter appear in their proper place. SEAT OF TELA CELLULOSA IN EVERY PART OF THE HUMAN BODY. It forms membranes, coats of arteries, veins, lymphatics, is dispensed in nerves, and constitutes their vagina, is in all parts called tunics ; in bones, receiving medulla: in short, every part of the body is Cellulous, and vas- cular, alniost without c.xception, HOW * See Dr. Rowley’s Latin Edition of Schola Medicirue Utimrsalis Nova, Haller, &c.( >57 ) HO^T ©EMONSTRATEO. By maceration and inflation, the cellular structure is de- monstrable; but not in the dissolution of a recent bruin, of the cornea, and lens, in water; the desiruc- ticn of the epidermis, hairs, and nails; the structure of some part of bones, and cartilages, &c. render it probable that they do not fully consist of cellular ■ texture alone. CELLS OF TELA CELLULOSA. They all mutually open themselves one into another, and communicate. If air pervade the cells, the emphysema happens; sometimes to the whole body, as in some poisons, or from punc- tures, &c. They can be artificially filled, by inflating the cells with air, in the manner butchers blow up their veal. Water passes from cells, in one part, to others vety remote ; as in anasarca, and cedema, which disappear in the legs at night, in bed; and the fluid, that swelled in the day, is disperserl, pro tempore. Punctures in the legs, below the knee, have emptied the bloated face, and with it the whole body, of gallons of water, which 1 have freeiuently demonstrated.* The gradual dispersion of extravasated blood, after ecchy- mosis, contusions, &c. where we perceived dark livid effusions in the cellular structure, not only extend, change to a more natural colour, but likewise totally disappear, illustrating the powers of cellular com- munication, absorbtion, &c. Suppurations of matter in the chest, have been discharged in the inferior extremities. Ulcers of the kidneys have communicated, and the matter has been evacuated from the thigh. From a suppurated parotid, pus has descended te the cubit, corroded the ligament, and an anchylosis has followed. And, lastly, from almost every part, the collections of pus have changed their seat, and have been conveyed from behind the pleura, from the pancreas, mesentery, hepar, or liver, axilla, neck, inguen, &c. as hath been evidet>tly proved by J. Nicolaus IVeiss, and by numerous dissections, post mortem, made by myself, and others. By these evident facts, the seat of various diseases being transferred from one part to another, is satisfactorily accounted for, by means of the facile communication of the cellular struc- ture. THE ©SE OP TELA CElLULOSA. L To act as a vinculum, and give- firmness to the whole body. ‘ V II. To receive fluids in its cells, whether adipose, or vapo- rous ; to moisten the whole body, and facilitate action. III. To form all membranes; coats of vessels; the cellular structure of all parts ; to combine the most minute muscular fibres; and preserve the muscular powers. IV. To define the figure of the human body, and determine form. V. To assist the cure of many diseases, by conv'eying the irritating causes from the more noble and important parts, to otliers ignoble or less dangerous. ' MEMBRANES Are all composed of tela cellulosa, as proved by inflation. Even the arachnoid membrane has, by the same mode, been shewn to consist of ccllulous bubbles. Certainly, says the industrious learned Haller, all membranes, without exception; vessels, which are membranous tubes; the pharencliymatous structure of the viscera, ligaments, and even tendons, cartilages, bones, &c. either arc, or have been, in a great part, tela cellulosa; which facts are now, in general, re- ceived, contrary to the opinion of several gicat men, that every part of the human body was entirely vas- cular. ADEPS. I. The adeps, or fat, is collected in the more lax cellular texture, being deposited by the extremities, of arteries in the cells. II. It exsudes longitudinally througlr them. III. The same is resorbed, by the veins opening in the cells. of the adipose cellular structure, as appears from the- sudden effects w'hich the exercise of the muscles has in consuming the oil of very fat animals; also, from the consumption of human fat in fevers; from the cure of anasarcous dropsy, where the water transfused in the cellular su”bstance, is evacuated by the intestinal canal; and, lastly, from the ’transuding of water and oil from various orifices, when injected by the syringe.! Numerous experiments to be found in the erudite experimen- tal w'ork of the celebrated Ab. Kaaw Boerhaave, proving, the absorption, and inhalation of the minute san- guifrous veins, which seem to attract those saline, or other. * See Treatise on Dropsy, &c. ■t The facts exhibited by the great Halier, Tn his large Latin work, and ^even in his first lines of Physiology, ought to be perused by •very studious Physician, with the greatest attention: there is an ine.xhaustible field for reflection, and unprejudiced experiment. I have endeavoured to abridge the whole in the Latin Edition of Schola Me.dicirue, with what success, must be submitted to the learned, and candid; •r, perhaps, to a discerning and liberal posterity, when the Author is no more ! S sI ( *58 ) other fine particles, which the lymphatics carrying strictly, coagulable lymph refuse. Each part to its peculiar office. The more tenacious particles arc re- ceived by the lymphatic absorbents; but they cannot absorb what they do not contain: the very fine saline fluids, and others of a contrary nature, to coa- gulable lymph, are carried to the sanguiferous veins ; and from the brain in particular, without the aid of lymphatic absorbents; for no lymphatic absorbents have yet been found in the human brain. CONTRACTILITY OF THE CELLULAR STRUCTURE. The cellular substance has a contractile power, different from that of irritability, which disposes the cellular fibre to shorten itself gradually, after it has been length- ened. This power, e.\cited by cold, renders the skin rigid, raises the hair, draws up the scrotum, and after gestation, restores the skin of the abdomen and uterus to their former size; and to the breasts, after suckling, their agreeable form and beauty. THE USES or THE ADEPS, OR FAT. I. To facilitate the action of muscles in all parts; to lessen their attrition ; and prevent rigidity. II. It fills up the interstices of muscles, or intermediate spaces betwixt the muscles and the cavities, about many of the viscera, in such a mode, that it readily yields to their motions, and yet supports them, when at rest. III. It principally constitutes the weight of the body; conducts and defends the vessels. IV. It gives an uniform e.xtension to the skin; and serves as a cushion to ease the weight of the body, rendering the whole of an agreeable comely shape. V. Probably, by occasionally mixing with the fluids, it abates their acrimony. VJ. It has a principal share-in forming the bile; and by transuding through the cartilaginous incrustations of bones, it mixes with the articular liquid, and by re- absorbtion, it lubricates their fibres. VII. By exhaling through the pores of the skin, it resists the inclement drying quality of the air. VIII. By exhaling, in a living person, from the mesentery, mesocolon, omentum, round the kidneys; it lubri- cates the surface of the viscera, with an olcous emollient vapour; and by interposing itself between their integuments, prevents their concretion. INCREASED BY REST, DIMINISHED BY HEMORRHAGE, &C. The adeps, or fat, is deposited in the cells of the cellular structure by rest of body and mind, and a diminished force of circulation. In too great a quantity, it proves injurious, by compressing the veins; and, by causing too great a resistance to the heart, it makes persons short breathed, and liable to apoplexy. When lymph, or serum be deposited in the cells, instead of adeps, by the blood having be.en broken down, either by hemorrhages, or other debilitating causes, anasar- cous dropsy is the conseqviepce; pallidity, and a di- minution of the red sanguineous particles, which are amply demonstrated in my Treatise, on Dropsies. ON THE NATURE AND POWERS OF AN ANIMATE BODY. Since man is not only a mechanico-hydraulic machine, but also animated : he exercises not only physical powers, common to every mechanico-hydraulic machine, but likewise animal powers, which are peculiar to living animals only. THE PHYSICAL POWERS ARE 1. The vis gravitatis, by which bodies descend to the ground in a perpendicular line. 2. Vis inertioe, by which still bodies resist motion. 3. Vis elasticitatis, by which extended bodies voluntarily return to their former shape, on removing the ex- tending cause. 4. Vis matrix, by which bodies are moved by a motion applied, until the power be no longer able to cause motion. 5. Vis attractionis, or affinitatis, by which two bodies are mutually brought nearer each other. 6. Vis repulsionis, by which two bodies mutually repel each other. THE ANIMAL POWERS ARE , 1. Vis irribilitatis, by which the fibres of our bodies contract, on the application of a stimulus. 2. Vis sensitivitatis, by which certain fibres, irritated by a stimulus, cause sensation. ^ 3. Vis animee, by which a particular part moves according to volition, or will. 4. Vis nervea, by which some change is made in a part, even contrary to volitionas erection of the penis, of blushing, &c. 5. Vis consolidans, by which wounded parts are made firm. 6. VisJ'ermetitativa, by which the animal humors arc sup- posed to be changed in their (luahties, through the intestine motion, &c. An assemblage of all these powers, which, an animated body exercises, is called the nature or functions of tlie human body. ON THE ACTIONS OF AN ANI.MATED BODY. An animated body, by means of its own powers, which it has received from the CREATOR, and throu'ffi I * I ' - II( 159 ) THE the medium of the solids and, fluids, of which the body is composed, performs various actions, which are called the functions of an animal body. I I THESE ACTIONS ARE DIVIDED INTO 1. Vital actions, which carry on life. 2. Animal actions, which perform sense and motion. 3. Natural actions, which preserve the body. ^ 4. Sexual actions, which propagate our own species. 5. Public actions, which are common to the whole body. 6. Private actions, which are pecu'iar to one part of the body only. 7. Foetal actions, which are peculiar to the foetus. 1 Physiology treats of all these actions ; but those peculiar to any single part, are explained in Anatomy, llygrology, &c. I It is necessaiy for Students, who are well acquainted with those Sciences, to understand Physiology. ON THE VITAL ACTIONS GENERALLY. 1 Those actions are called vital, which carry on life in the body. I The life of our body consists in the circulation of the blood ; [ for when this ceases, life is at an end. 1! 1 FOR THE CIRCULATION, THERE ARE REQUIRED j 1. An action of the heart. : 2. arteries. ! 3. veins. 1 4. Respiration, after-birth, and ! 5. Animal heat. THE Circulation. , 1 i 1 THE BLOOD IS IN CONTINUAL MOTION: 11. From the arteries of the heart into the arteries. 12. From the arteries into the veins. |3.- From the veins into the ventricles of the heart; for the blood returns from every part of the body, and is emptied into the heart by the venae cava*. il. Into the right renous sinus, and right auricle of the heart. lb From the right auricle into the right ventricle. Ij. Plom the right ventricle into the common trunk of the pulmonary artery. t. From the extremities of the pulmonary arteries into the pulmbnary veins. 5. From the pulmonary veins'into the left venous sinus, and left auricle. 6. From the left auricle it is propelled into the left ventricle; and 7. From the left ventricle into the aorta, by which it is car- ried to every part of the body. The whole mass of blood, which is about fifty pounds, passes through all parts in the space of an hour. THE USES OF THE CIRCULATION ARE 1. To give life and heat to every part. 2. For nourishment. 3. For the secretion of all the humours. 4. To keep the blood fluid, and to prevent putrefaction. 5. To convert the chyle into blood. ACTION OF THE HEART. The action of the heart consists in the alternate contraction and dilatation of its auricles, and sentricles. The dilatation is called diastole ; and the contraction, sistole. The heart is contracted by means of its muscular fibres. THE CAUSE. ' Disposing it to contraction, is its great irritability. THE CAUSES, EXCITING IT TO CONTRACTION, ARE 1. The stimulus of the venous blood rushing in from the venm cavee. 2. Nervous influence of the cardiac nerves in the muscular fibres of the heart. The heart pulsates four thousand five hundred times in an hour; therefore it is contracted and dilated one hun- dred and eight thousand times in twenty-four hours. THE USE OF THE HEART Is to receive the blood from the veins; to propel it into the arteries; and to keep the blood in motion. . ACTION OF THE ARTERIES. , Arteries, by the impulse of the blood, are dilated, and, at the same time, irritated; and, by the assistance of their muscular fibres, they contract, and thus propel the blood into the veins. The dilatation and contraction of an artery', is called the pulse ; hence the pulsation is found in trunks and branches; but, in capillary vessels, when free from infiamation, the pulse cannot be felt, nor even seen with a miscroscope.( 1^0 ) THE VSE or THE ARTERIES Is therefore to propel the blood into the veins, secretory organs, and to convey and deposit diurnal nutn- jnent. ACTION OF THE VEINS. The blood which flows into the veins by the contraction of the heart and arteries, returns by them into the auri- cles, then into the ventricles of the heart. THE MEANS WHICH ASSIST THE RETURN OF THE BLOOD IN THE VEINS, ARE 1. The pressure of the arterial blood and arteries, upon the \eiuil blood. 2. The contraction of the muscles. 3. The pressure of the atmosphere. - 4. Respiration. The valves of the veins prevent the blood from passing back again in the veins. THE USE OF THE VEINS Is to return the blood to the heart. RESPIRATION. The entrance of the air, into the lungs, is called inspiration ; and its exit is known by the name of expiration. RESPIRATION IS DIVIDED INTO 1. SpontaDCOus, which is going on during sleep; or, at times, when we are not sensible of it; and, 2. Voluntary, which can be increased, or diminished, at pleasure. THE POWERS, BY WHICH THE CAVITY OF THE THORAX, AND OF THE LUNGS ARE DILATED, ARE 1, Contraction of the intercostal muscles and diaphragm, which dilate the cavity of the thorax. 2. The pressure of the elastic air, which expands the lungs. THE POWERS, BY WHICH THE AIR IS EXPELLED FROM THE LUNGS, ARE 1. A cessation of action in the intercostal muscles and dia- phragm. 2. The elasticity of the cartilages of the libs, when the in- tercostal muscles cease to act. .3. Contraction of the abdominal muscles. The cause exciting to inspiration is the rushing in of the at- mospheric air into the lungs, irritating their nerves; thus, by a coincidence of action in the nerves of the diaphragm, and intercostal muscles, they are excited to contraction: but the inspirated air, deprived of its element in the lungs, becomes unable to stimulate j* hence the power of inspiration ceases, and e.xpiration follows. THE EFFECTS OF INSPIRATION ARE 1. Distention of the pulmonary vessels which \sQiQ contortei and collapsed. 2. A more easy passage of the blood from the pulmonary ar- teries into the pulmonary veins, and thence into the heart. The primary use of respiration seems to be the absorption of some element of the air, from that which is inhaled, by which the nervous power, and animal heat seem to be generated. The element which is absorbed from the atmospheric air, is caloric and vital air; for the fixed air goes out of the lungs by expiration. THE GOOD PURPOSES OF RESPIRATION ARE, FOR 1. To mix the chyle with the blood. 2. The attenuation of the blood. 3. The motion of the venous blood, chyle, and lymph. 4. Expulsion of the perspirable matter from the lungs. 5. The voice and speech. 6. Deglutition, or swallowing, and sucking. 7. Smelling. 8. Expulsion of the urine, faces, and child-birtlr. HEAT OF THE IIUMAN BODY. A living body is warm;_a dead one cold. The heat of the body, in good health, according to Farenheit’s thermometer, is from ninety-four to an hundred de- grees, and never exceeds an hundred and nine in the most burning fevers.—Dr. BaiHie says, ninety eight; capable of being increased to one hundred. In the foetus, the animal heat is less; it increases toward* manhood ; and decreases in old age. Heat is increased by animal motion, but diminished by rest. The motion of caloric seems to be the proximate cause of ' heat. The matter of heat is combined w ith an ignited air ; which latter is absoibed by the lungs. The matter of heat can not only be procured by friction, or attrition of the fluids and solids, but other means—' as fermentation, putrefaction, &c. ' , THE USE OF HEAT Is to attenuate the fluids, and prevent their coagulation. ON( J THE ON ANIMAL ACTIONS, GENERALLY. THOSE ACTIONS ARE CALLED ANIMAL, WHICH ARB PERFORMED BY THE MIND, SUCH AS 1. The external senses. 2. internal senses, 3. ' voluntary actions of muscles, 4. voice and speech. I 5. Watching, and sleep. ♦ THE SOUL IS A BEING, I Which thinks and perceives within us. I The soul is incorporeal, and incomprehensible by man, except by its action and eftects; it originates with the embryo, and leaves the body at the moment of death, ' The seat of the soul is supposed to be in the medullary part of the brain; this is called the common sensoriuni. The soul, or mind, acts upon the body ; and the body upon the mind. 'l The instruments by which these actions are reciprocally per- j formed, are the nerves and brain. j THE NERVES ARE DIVIDED INTO THREE CLASSES; ! 1. Into nerves of motion, which go to voluntary muscles, jj 2. Into nerves of sense, which form the sensitive organs. ! 3. Into vital nerves, which go to the heart and vessels, ' The mind acts upon voluntary muscles, through the nerves of I motion.^ I The body acts upon the mind, through the nerves of the senses. I The mind has no power over the vital nerves, nor those going j to the viscera, which the ganglions of the vital nerves seem to be the cause’of; but violent affections of the mind, produce action even beyond them. j OF SENSATION, GENERALLY. 1 -Sensation is the perception of any thing which affects the i nerves of sense. I No part of our body has feeling, except the pulp of nerves. 1 The parts of our body, which are least sensible, are ; those which have fewest nerves—as the epidermis, I bones, cartilagines, periosteum, tendinous aponeu- roses, the cortical part of the brain, the pleura, periosteum, adipose membrane; but these, when dis- eased, are often sensible of acute pain. I \ The parts, having a blunt sensation, are those which possess few nerves—as the marrow of bones, glands, vessels, the most vascular part of the viscera—as the liver; ; • and, in some parts, the cellular membrane. The parts, posessing great sensibility, are those which have many nerves—as the skin, stomach, intestines, , surface of the lungs, bladder, uterus, urethra, kidneys, and all the muscles. The mind can perceive only one sensation at the same time; hence, a greater one obscures a smaller; on this ac- count, also, with two eyes, we see but «ne object; and, with both ears, we distinguish one sound. The mind, though situated in the brain, is acted upon by every nerve. But how the mind perceives, by the assistance of nerves, is unknown; nor is it demonstrated, whether there be a subtile nervous fluid, generated by the atmospheric air, or in the brain, contained in the nerves, and flowing upwards, for the perception of the senses; and downwards, for muscular motion. SENSATIONS Are divided into pleasant, unpleasant, and indifferent. THE USES', ARE 1. By the means of sensations—the internal and externa! senses are carried on. 2. The passions of the mind are excited. 3. Painful sensations convey to the mind a sense of danger, and instigate it to seek relief. OF THE EXTERNAL SENSES, GENERALLY. THERE ARE FIVE EXTERNAL SENSES; NAMELY, . 1. The touch. 2. taste. 3. smell. 4. sight. hearing. THE TOUCH Is a sensation the mind perceives, if any body touch the skin, particularly the ends of the fingers. The primary organ of touch, therefore, is constituted by the nervous papillai of the skin, at the tips of the fingers. The skin possesses nerves, and the epidermis, by covering it, moderates the sensations, and defends the papillae from becoming dry by the atmospheric air, the nails inform the papillce of an approaching object. T t( 1^2 ) THE TTSE. By the touch, we perceive 1. The hardiies^, or softness. 2. heat, or cold. 3. shape. 4. magnitude. * 5. distance. 6. number. 7. smoothness, or roughness. 8. weight. <>. motion, or rest of any body. THE TASTE IS A SENSE, By which we perceive the taste of sapid bodies. A sense seems to comprehend the whole; and a sensation, only a peculiar modification of a sense, capable of infinite variety.—We find many sensations, therefore, • in each sense. The nervous papillae at the apex, and on the margin of the tongue, constitute the primary organ of sense. Every body which contains salt, or any acrid particles, solu- ble by the saliva, is an object of taste. THE SPECIES OF TASTES ARE Salt, acid, lixivious, urinous, sweet, bitter, acrid, earthy, metallic, rancid ; hence, taste is simple, or compound, pleasant, unpleasant, or indifl'erent. The diversity of taste depends on the various irritation of the saline particles. THE PARTS, AUXILIARY TO TASTE, ARE . The tongue, which contains the nervous papillae ; and by its motion applies them to sapid bodies. The epidermis of the tongue, which moderates the sensation® , of taste. The saliva and mucus of the mouth, by which the savoury principle is dissolved; for all bodies are tasteless, unless, in a certain degree,_soluble, THE USE. By the taste, wc are induced 1. To cat and drink. 2. To distinguish wholesome from unwholesome things, 3. To know the flavour of various medicines. THE SMEEL IS A SENSE, By which we perceive smells. The nervous papillai, distributed on the pituitary membrane of the nostrils, constitute the organ of smell. Every body, which possesses a volatile principle, exhaling, and attracted by the nostrils, is an object of smell. THE DIFFERENT KINDS OF SMELLS ARE Aromatic, urinous, acid, putrid, cadaverous, stercoraceous. The things which arc auxiliary to smell, may be considered as follows : 1. The pituitary membrane, on which the nervous papillae are distributed. 2. Inspiration, by which odours are attracted. 3. The pyramidal shape of the nostrils, by which the odori- ferous particles are concentrated, retained, and pre- vented from going into the fauces. 4. The mucus of the nostrils, by which the nervous papillae arc kept moist. - USE OF SMELL, To regulate the take, and to perceive noxious and medical qualities. THE SIGHT IS A SENSE, By which we perceive the qualities of surrounding bodies, as far as can ■ be known by inspection, or looking at them. The retina of the optic nerve is the organ of sight. i The rays of light coming from a lucid or illuminated body, through the bulb of the eye, and falling upon the retina, constitute the object of sight. Light is a subtil solid body, passing from the sun, or any lucid body, by a very rapid motion, in right lines, which being carried to our eyes, are called the rays of light, THE PROPERTIES OF LIGHT ARE 1. The rays of light, which do not pass through an opake body, but arc reflected from it. 2. These rays pass through clear or transparent bodies; but are broken in the passage. 3. Rays of light, passing through a pellucid convex body, converge, and meet at a point, called the focus. 4. Rays of light, after passing through a concave body, diverge, and pass at a greater distance from each other, consequently have no focus. 5. Rays of light, reflected from coloured bodies, break into seven rays of different colours. The sight, therefore, is present, under the following circum-- ’ stances; 1. The rays of light, going from a visible object, pass into^ , the transparent and convex cornea of the eye, by the . density and convexity of which they are brought to a focus. 2. Thp( 1^3 ) 2. The foqus of the rays passes through the aqueous humour and pupil of the iris, and is again'Concentrated in the ' chrystalline lens. 3. The focus thus concentrated, passes through the vitreous humour, almost unchanged to the retina, on which 4. The focus points or conveys the image of the external object, which is carried to the brain by the optic nerves. THE PARTS AUXILIARY TO SIGHT ARE 1. The eye-brows and lashes, which prevent the perspiration from falling into the eyes. 2. The eye-lids, which keep dirt or extraneous bodies from the cornea, and exclude too great a quantity of light. 3. The tears, which preserve the transparency of the cornea. / 4. The pupil, which is contracted in great light; and di- lated, where less light is present. 5. The pigmentum nigrum of the choroid coat, which ab- sorbs the focus of sight, and prevents it from going beyond the retina. THE USE. By the assistance of sight, we distinguish the following pecu- liarities of external objects; namely, ’ 1. The presence. 2. size. 3. shape. 4. colour. 5. distance. 6. number. 7. motion or rest. - 8. situation. THE HEARING IS A SENSE, By which we perceive the sound of sonorous bodies. Sound is a vibrating motion of the air, caused by striking some elastic body.—Without air we cannot hear. Elastic bodies only are sonorous, if struck by a sonorous body. Sound is carried to an amazing distance in the atmosphere, in right lines, which are called rays of sound; but these do not travel so fast as rays of light. Soft bodies diminish sound ; but elastic ones increase it. Tlie soft portion of the auditory nerve, the pulp of which is distributed on the vestibulum, simicircular canals, and cochlea, constitutes the organ of hearing. HEARING IS, THEREFORE, PERFORMED IN THE FOLLOWING' manner: 1. The rays of sound, passing from a sonorous body', arc carried to the ear, which, by its elasticity', increases them ; and by its shape, collects them into a focus, if we may use'that expression, the sound is then con- tinued through/the external auditory passage to the membranum tympani, which it causes to vibrate. 2. The tympanum vibrating, conveys its motion to the malleus, which is connected with it; this continues its motion to the incus ; this puts the os orbicular© into motion, which being joined to the stapes, effects a similar change; and the stapes, adhering to the fenestra ovalis, sets it in motion. 3. The fenestra ovalis, to the auditory fluid,, contained in the vestibulum and semicircular canals. 4. The gentle motion of the auditory fluid, causes a small motion of the nervous pulp, spread in the vestibulum and semicircular canals; these are carried to the common sensorium of the brain, by the nervous in- fluence of the auditory nerve. Besides, the vibra'tion of the tympanum causes, not only motion of the ossicula auditus, but also of the air contained in the cavity of the tympanum ; hence, 5. The vibration of the air of the tympanum causes the lamina, which surrounds the fenestra rotunda of the cochlea to be put into motion. 6. The motion of the lamina of the fenestra rotunda, causes an undulatory motion of the fluid, which fills the cavity of fhe cochlea. 7. The fluid of the cavity of the cochlea being in motion, effects the pulp of the auditory nerve in the cavity of the cochlea. The mind, finally, judges of the presence and diversity of sound. Sounds are divided into grave, sharp, increasing, weak, agreeable, disagreeable, harmonious, and disharmo- nious. The gravity or acuteness of sound, depends on the number of vibrations given at the same time. THE USE OF SOUND. 1. To learn speech, languages, and the discrimination be- tween good and evil. 2. To enjoy the exquisite pleasure of music and singing. 3. To be informed of the noise proceeding from things we do not see. 4. To perceive the ideas of other men. OF THE INTERNAL SENSES. The internal senses are ideas, which the mind forms. ButThe ( 1^4 But ideas are perceptions of things in the mind, and arise 1. Either from the external senses, or reflection, 2. From an internal cause, affecting the common sensorium, 3. Or excited in the mind voluntarily, after the apprehension of a difference of things. The proximate cause of the ideas, seems to consist in the motion of the nervous pavers in a particular part of the common sensorium. THE USE 07 IRRJTABItlTY. g 1. The motion of all muscles, voluntary and involuntary, a depends upon it. w 2. The action of the heart and vessels. - I'i 3. The peristaltic motion of the stomach and intestines, Sec, ^ i i It is the mind, and not the brain, that thinks. THERE ARE FIVE INTEHXAL SENSES: 1. Memory, which represents the ideas received at some past time. 2. Imagination, which makes an object pi'esent, though absent. 3. The conscience, which makes us attentive to, and con- scious of, ideas. Passions of the mind, which produce an hatred, love, or desire of any thing. 5. Reason, which compares ideas with each other, and dis- cerns those alike from unlike;, true from false; good from evil, &c. USE. Man differs from the brute creation by the excellence of his internal senses. ON IRRITABILITY. Irritability is a power in every muscular fibre of contracting, on the application of a stimulus. The cause of irritability is not known; it does not depend merely on elasticity, nor on the mind, nor nerves only, but, in a certain degree, is in the muscular fibres. The parts of our body which have muscular fibres, are called irritable—as the heart, arteries, all muscles, the diaphragm, stomach, and intestines; bladder, uterus, vagina, and vise lacte®, or absorbents. The parts which have no muscular fibres, arc als<5 void of irritability—as nerves, the common integuments, and alt membranes that are not muscular. The heart is the most irritable part; then the stomach and intestines; next follows the diaphragm, and other muscles in the scale of irritability. The degree of irritability is also difierent, according to the age, sex, constitution, kind of life, state of health, and idiosyncrasia, or individual peculiarities. 'tlie stimulus is also different, according to the part to which it is applied, and its own nature. ACTION OF THE MUSCLES. The action of the muscles consists in the contraction and relaxation of fleshy or muscular fibres. The cause disposing it to motion, is the irritability of the muscular fibres. The cause exciting it to contraction, is the influx of nervous power or energy, by an impulse of the mind, which the irritation of the nerves of a muscle, and a liga- ture upon a nerve, elucidate. The contraction of a muscle ceases, if its nervous energy, and the will, or volition cease; the relaxation of the contracted fibres immediately follows. THE MOTION OF MUSCLES IS DIVIDED INTO 1. Voluntary, which is acted on by volition. 2. Involuntary, which is not in the power of the will—as in^j the heart, vessels, stomach, and intestines. ^ 3. ' Mixed, which is carried on by the means of volition, or without it; that is, capable of being varied at pica-"] sure—as respiration. The power of the mind is the cause which acts on voluntaryj muscles. A peculiar stimulus is the cause acting on involuntaryl muscles. The heart and vessels are stimulated to action, by the influ>n • of blood; the stomach and intestines, by the food! and bile; the bladder, by urine; and the inspiratory f muscles, by the air we breathe. THE USES OF MUSCULAR MOTION ARE 1. The action of all the moveable parts of the body. 2. The local motion of the body, as in walking, iScc. 3. The acceleration of the motion of blood in the veins. ; 4. The attenuation of the blood and chyle. 3. To assist the secretion of humours, by arterial action. THE VOICE. The voice is an aerial sound coming from the opening of the ' laryn.x. *U u I he { ) The object of the voice is, therefore, vibrating air; for the air striking against the larynx in its passage, out- wards, causes that part to shake, which communi- cates its motion again to the air. The larynx, more especially its fissure, is the organ of voice. The grave or acute sounds, 'depend on the greater or less diameter of the fissure of the larynx, or glottis, or the size of the larynx, its elasticity, and force of ex- piration. A whisper is the passage of the air through the larynx,' without vibration. TIIE USE or THE VOICE Is for speech and singing. THE SPEECH. . Speech is the voice in the cavity of the nostrils, fauces, and mouth, variously modulated. All speech consists in the pronunciation of letters, which are divided into vowels and consonants. Vowels are letters pronounced by the voice only, without applying the tongue to any part of the mouth. Consonants are formed by applying the tongue to any part of the mouth, teeth, or lips. Letters are therefore distinguished into oral, nasal, guttural, lingual, dental, labial, palatine, or compound—as orenasal, Ac. Ac. Singing is a kind of speech, in which Jhe voice is modulated in the various degrees of grave and sharp sounds, the larynx being kept in a vibrating state. Speech is given to man alone, in all the animal creation. THE USES OF SPEECH ARE 1. To enable man to communicate his ideas and sensations to another. 12. That man may learn necessary arts, languages, and j sciences; and be-able to teach others. 3. To delight himself and others by singing. I WATCHING. I The aptitude of exercising the animal actions—as sense, and the voluntary use of muscles, is called watching, or I being awake. I The proximate cause of watching, is a great quantity of I nervous influence, passing easily through the medulla j of the brain and nerves to the sensitive organs, and I ' voluntary muscles. The remote cause of this encrcase of nervous influence, it any irritation of the external or internal senses. ' SLEEP. Sleep is a state of the body, during which there is an ina- bility of exercising the internal and external senses, and voluntary motions. The proximate cause of sleep, therefore, is a deficiency or tardy motion of the nervous influence, through the medulla of the brain and nerves, which go to the organs of sense, and voluntary muscles. The remote causes inducing sleep, are continued watching and labour, by which the nervous power is considerably diminished; also, a defect of irritation, rest of tlic, mind, particularly in a dark place. The nervous energy or irritation, being restored by sleep, is the natural cause of the returning state of being awake. THE PII.3£N0MENA OF SLEEP COMING ON, ARE The muscles keeping the body in an erect posture, become weaker. The palpebrae of the eyes are closed, and the inferior max- illary bone falls; the bead nods; gaping comes, and e.xternal objects, scarcely affect us; afterwards, the ideas are confused, and, at last, are lost, then sleep begins. A doze is a state of imperfect sleep, in which a particular part of the common sensorium is irritated, producing a kind of watching. A doze arises from some oircumstance, which does not take place in a sound sleep—as a strong idea, irritation of the stomach by food, a stimulus in the intestines or bladder; and an uncomfortable posture. The causes of the continued action of the heart and vessels, respiration and motion of the stomach and intestines, during sleep, is the great irritability of those parts ; and the number of nerves and ganglions, to which jnay be added, the continual action of stimuli on them. USE OF SLEEP. 1. Rest of the animal actions; that is, of the senses, and voluntary motions. 2. To moderate the vital actions, by which the body is not so much impaired. 3. To cause a more perfect exercise of the natural actions— as digestion, secretion, and nutrition, 4. To renew the nervous energy which is necessary to per- form every action. ON NATURAL ACTIOxNS, GENERALLY, THOSE ACTIONS, BY WHICH OUR BODY IS PRESERVED, ARE Called natural—as HUNGER Is a sensation which causes a desire of taking food.2., The- ( >6« ) The seat of this sensation is in the stomach, T-he cause seems to be frictiop of the rugae of the s(ornach> when empty ; and irritation from the gastric juice. THE EFFECTS OF LONG CONTINUED IIU-NGEU, A11E A very sharp acrimony of the'humours, which produces fainting, sharp pains of the stomach, fmtid smell in the mouth, grinding of the teeth, convulsions, acute fever, delirium, and madness. THE USE. To remind men of eating which is necessary to support life. THIRST IS A SENSATION, Which creates a desire of drinking. The seat of this sensation seems to be in the fauces, on the surface of the,tongue or stomach. The cause is a dryness of the fauces, or acrimony in the stomach. The effect of long continued thirst, is a thickness and acri- mony of the humours. ’ THE USE. It instigates us to drink, by which the humours are diluted, and generated. MASTICATION Is the action of dividing the food between the teeth, or chewing. The teeth, jaw-bones,'tongue, checks, and lips, constitute this organ. THE PARTS MOVING THIS ORGAN, ARB 1. The muscles, which open and shut the mouth. 2. The tongue, which continually puts the food between the teeth. 3. The cheeks and lips, which prevent the chewed victuals from escaping out of the mouth. THE EFFECTS OF MASTICATION ARE 1. A division of the food into very small parts. 2. An effusion, or envellopeinent of the food in saliva, which dilates, resolves, excites to action, and forms it into a mass for swallowing; also, by moistening the fauces, allays thirst. 3. An admixture of the mucus of the mouth and fauces, which lubricates the masticated food for swallowing; prevents the air mixed with it, from being disengaged, and mixes the oleaginous particles with the watery. 4, The admixture of atmospheric air with the food, during mastication, which assists fermeutatiun. USE. Mastication is necessary for deglutition and digestion; it may indeed be called the beginning of digestion. DEGLUTITION XS THE PASSAGE OF THE MASTICATED FOOD, FROM THE CAVITY OF THE MOUTH: 1. Into the cavity of the fauces, 2. From the fauces into the stomach. The powers, which carry the food from the cavity of the mouth into the fauces, are 1. The'closing of the jaws, to prevent the food from es- caping. 2. The pressure of the tongue upon the palate of the mouth, by which the food resting upon the tongue, is thrust forwards into the c ivity of the fauces. 3. The dilatation of the pharynx, which gives passage to the food. > The pharynx is dilated, not only by its own muscles; hut the root of the tongue, os hyoides, and laiynx, being brought into action by their muscles; at the same time contribute much to the case of swallowing. The powers which prevent the food from going out of the fauces into the posterior cavity of the nose; the orifices of the Eustachian tubes, or the fissure of the glottis may be reckoned : 1. The epiglottis, which closes the fissure of the glottis. 2. The muscles, which contract the posterior part of the glottis. 3. The muscles, which elevate the uvula, and velum pendu- ; lum palati, towards the postei'ior foramina of the nostrils. 4. The muscles, which close the orifice of the Eustachian . tubes. The mouthful of food in the dilated cavity of the pharynx is i carried into the oesophagus : 1. By its own weight. 2, The compression of the distended pharynx, which con- tracts by the irritation of the food on passing into its 1 cavity. The food is carried from the cesophagus into the stomach, by the contractile power of the muscular fibres of the oesophagus. When the act of swallowing is over, the cardia, or superior- orifice of the stomach is closed by its own fibres. ’ The phenomena observed in swallowing liquids, are as follow: ^ 1. A vessel, containing liquid, rests upon the upper lip, and‘ i the head is beat backward., '( 1^7 ) ► 5, The uppr« lip Is I’mmerged in the liquid, that the atmos- I phene air may be. prevented from getting into the I ' cavity of the mouth. 3. The liquid is poured on the superior surface of the tongue. 4. The liquid being poured on the tongue, which is applied to the roof of the mouth, it is pressed on into the ' cavity of the fauces. I 5. The fluid being carried into the fauces, and passing over ' the epiglottis, which projects, is divided into two I streams, passing the fissure of the glottis at each I side of the larynx, and meet again in the fauces, from which it passes into the oesophagus, by thi» action of which it is carried into the stomach. THE USE OF DEGLUTITION Is to carry food and drink into the stomach for digestion. DIGESTION IN THE STOMACH. Digestion is the act of changing the food into chyme, which ' is effected in the stomach. XIIE INSTRUMENTS WHICH CHANGE THE FOOD INTO CHYME, ARE SIX; NAMELY, 1. The moist heat of the stomach, which softens and ma- cerates the food. 2. The air, which is mixed with the food, during mastication, and swallowed, being expanded by heat, rarifies the expanded particles, and general mass. 3. The saliva, which is continually swallowed; and the gastric juice, secreted by the exhalent arteries of the stomaeh, continually delute and soften the food. 4. The mucus of the mouth, which is swallowed ; and the mucus, secreted by the glands of the stomach, serve to combine the oleaginous particles of the food with the aqueous part of the gastric juice and saliva. ' 3. The peristaltic motion of the stomach, by which the va- rious things contained are continually mixed and kept in motion. 6. The motion of the abdominal muscles and diaphragm, by which the food is constantly pressed a little, 7. The spontaneous effervescence of the food, which is ex- cited by the saliva, gastric juice, heat, air, and intes- tine motion of the mixed foods, vegetable, facinace- j ous, and animal, from whence acid eructations,' &c. It is evident, therefore, that digestion, or the change of food into ctiyme by these means : i J. Trituration. 2. Solution. 3. Fermentation, which, by many, is doubted.* The effect of digestion, therefore, is the changing of food into cliyme, or a paltaceous, fermentative mass of an un- pleasant smell and taste. The softer part of this mass is gradually thrust from the sto- mach through the pylorus into the duodenum: 1. By its own weight. 2. By the peristalic motion of the stomach, contracting itself 3. By the motion of the abdominal pressure. But the more thick and hardened pait is retained longer. The foods which cannot be acted on by these means, arc in- digestible—as tough membranes, bones, the skins of some fruits, and parts of vegetables, which are ex- pelled unchanged. THE USE OF DIGESTION Is the first change of food into chyme. CHYLIFICATION. Chyliflcation is the changing of chyme into chyle. * The small intestines constitute the organ of chyliflcation, THE CAUSES WHICH CHANGE CHYME INTO CHYLE, ARE 1. A continual action upon the chyme, by the peristaltic and aiitipcrislaltic motion of the intestines, and abdominal pressure. 2. A considerable dilating of the chyme, by the saliva, gastric, pancreatic, and enteric juices. 3. An encreased fermentation, excited by the heat of the intestines, the air, and above-mentioned fluids. 4. The bile from the liver and gall-bladder being poured upon the chyme, by which the oil, united to the mucus by digestion in the stomach, and being united with the juices secreted, forms chyle. The effects of chylification ai’e to change the colour, taste, and smell of chyme into a white, sweetish, acescent inodorous humour, like millc. Chylification is performed in less time than chymification r bo:h are completed within three hours, in health. THE USE OF CHYLIFICATION Is to produce chyle. PASSAGE OF CHYLE INTO THE BLOOD. When chylification is completed, the chyle is absorbed into the lacteals; and that part of the chyme whicli cannot be changed into chyle, is expelled into the great intestines, and called the fmees. But, part of the humours, secreted in the prim® vise, goes through the meseraic veins into the liver. ' THE • From the experiments of Stevens, Reaumur, Spallanzani, Scopuli, Brugnalelli, Carimini, Mr. J. Hunter, and others, the chyme is produced hy the power ot the gastric juice ; on which, however, J do not speak positively, from the di.Uculty, not only of procuring the pure gastric juic* in man, bat the ascertaining its precise qualities, &c. &c.( 168 ) TilE CA'USES wnicn propel the chyle into the LACTEALS, ARE 1- The absorbent power of the lacteals, 2. The adhesive power of the chyle to the mbuths of these vessels,. 3. The peristalic motion of the intestines and motion of the abdominal compression, by which the internal surface of the intestines is contracted, and become immerged in the chyle. The chief absorption of the chyle happens in the jejunum and ileum, very little in the duodenum and great in- testines- THE PASSAGE OF THE CHYLE FROM THE INTESTINES IS 1. Into the lacteals. 2. receptaculum chyli. 3. Through the thoracic duct into the left subclavian vein, drop by drop. THE POWERS WHICH MOVE THE CHYLE THROUGH THE LACTEALS ARE 1. Pressure of the lacteals by the contraction of the abdo- minal press. 2. The pulsation of the meseraic arteries which lie near the lacteals. 3. The contractile force of the lacteals and thoratic duct, which is considerable; also, the pressure of the chyle from behind. 4. The motion of the respiratory organs. The return of the chyle in a retrograde direction; namely, toward the intestines, or back again into the thoracic duct, is prevented: 1. By the frequent valves of the lacteals and thoracic duct. 2. By the diameter of the lacteals continually increasing. 3. By the pressure of the chyle from behind. At the time when the chyle is absent, the humours secreted in the primse viae pass through the lacteals. The passage of the blood from the subclavian vein into the thoracic duct, is prevented by the valve at the en- trance of this duct. There is a change made upon the chyle in its passage towards the blood, by 1. A diluting of the chyle by the lymph of the lymphatic, or absorbent vessels, which evacuate themselves into the receptaculum chyli and thoracic duct, from almost every part of the body. 2. An impregnation of the chyle with a nutritious jelly, • which the mesenteric glands and lymphatics mi.\ with it. 3. A greater animalistation of chyle by this mixture, and through which its crudity is changed. THE USE OF CHYLE, 1. By chyle, the constituent principles are carried to the blood; from which, the blood, other humours and solid parts consist—such as a great quantity of water, some oil, salts, jelly, mucus, fixed air, or carbonic a,cid gas, and a small portion of earth. 2. The putrid tendency df the blood, and other humours, is restrained by the mixture of recent and acescent chyle with it. SANGUIFICATION. Sanguification is the changing of chyle into blood. The chyle, after having been mixed with the blood for twelve hours, has not intirely lost its peculiarities, though it shall have circulated through the lungs and over the body some hundreds of times. IN ITS PASSAGE OVER THE BODY, 1. Theadeps of the chyle seems to be changed, partly into red globules of blood, and partly to be deposited in the cellular structure. 2. The gelatinous and watery part of the chyle becomes the serum of the blood. 3. The aqueous part dilutes the blood and all the humours. 4. The earthy portion is converted into nutriment of the bones and solid parts. Sanguification requires that the globules, which arc white, lighter, and larger than the globules of blood, be- come red, more dense, heavier, and smaller. Redness seems to be eflected by the globules of chyle being mixed with a portion of iron earth and fixed alkali in the small vessels of the lungs and muscles, by long at- trition. The greater density of globules of chyle arises from a conti- nued compression in the small vessels. The greater gravity depends on their increased density, and admixture of martial earth. The diminution of size seems to depend on the attrition and compression of the globules in the small vessels. THE USE OF SANGUIFICATION Is to generate blood, which serves to fill the blood-vessels; irritate the heart and arteries; generate heat; also, for the secretion of all the humours, and exercise of the vital actions, nutrition,( 1^9 ) NUTRITION, THE INCREASE AND DECREASE OF THE BODY. Nutrition is the application of a nutritious juice to those wasted parts of the solids, which daily require reparation. The solid parts of our body, by the continual actions of life, are gradually destroyed, and the fluids excreted. THE CAUSES WHICH DESTROY THE SOLIDS ARE 1. Violent motion of the humours through the large and small vessels, by which their internal surface is destroyed. 2. The continual motion of the muscles, by which the cel- lular membrane and vessels are constantly suffering waste. 3. The constant motion of all the viscera. 4. The friction of the cloatlis, and of the air surrounding the body. 5. Finally, the frequent cutting of the hair and nails. By these means, the earthy element of fibres and gluter, by which they are united, is worn away, mixed with the fluids, by which they are surrounded and carried out of the body with the excretions. the causes which carry OUT OF THE BODY THE SOLID PARTS, MIXED WITH THE FLUIDS, ARE 1. Transpiration and sweat. 2. The urine. 3. The excrements from the intestines. 4. The saliva and mucus of the nose. 5. The menses and semen may be reckoned as occasional causes. By these evacuations, the humours are deprived of their saline aqueous principles; hence, they become thick, putrid, and acrimonious. • By these means, unless the quantity and quality of those parts which are destroyed, be daily renewed, our machine would soon perish—as long abstinence from food sufficiently convinces us. The parts which were lost being solids and fluids, we have Nutrition of the solids, and t fluids. Nutrition, or reparation of the fluids, is easily renewed; 1. The butyrac'eous part of the chyle, united to the martial earth, constitutes cruor. 2. The watery part of the chyle forms an aqueous vehicle of the blood and serum. 3. The glutinous part of the chyle, which is most nutritious, is united to the gelatinous part of the serum and lymph. (4. The superabundant oleaginous parts of the chyle, which ' cannot be united to the martial earth, is deposited in ' the cellular membrane, and restores or increases the adepsof the body. •See the Treatise, on all the Diets in the World in Volume Since the chyle contains not only elementary ’earth, but also fixed air and salts of every kind, it can furnish the constituent principles of the mass of blood, and for the secretion of humours. The reparation of fibres requires a junction of the earth and elementary gluten, the caseous part of the chyle forms the earth of the bones, and the oleaginous part, joined with the fixed air and water, forms the gluten of fibres. The nutritious juice of the solids, therefore, seems to be a gluten, more or less impregnated with earth, a greater quantity of earth being requisite for the bones, but a smaller portion for the soft parts. It does not appear whether the nutritious juices, earth, and gluten be attracted into the defective parts, by the force of attraction ; or, whether nutrition may be per- formed by any other means ; but, in my opinion, it is caused by attraction and cohesion.* Since every humour of our body, except the excreme its—as the urine, perspiration, and fceccs ; are impregnated with a gelatinous, or nutritious juice, which also per- vades the fibres in every part of the body; it is evi- dent that every part is continually supjflicd with a nutritious juice. Some parts—as the nails and hair are supplied by the appli- ' cation of a nutritious juice, which is called nutrition, by protrusion. INCREASE OF THE BODY. The more'completely man is originally formed, the more speedily he increases in size ; thus the embryo from an invisible being, in the space of nine months, increases to the weight of eight pounds. After birth, the body continues increasing to the twenty-first year; though each year, gradually less. Women attain their full stature sooner than men. THE CAUSES WHICH INCREASE THE GROWTH OF THE BODY IN THE FOETUS AND INFANT, SO CONSIDERA- BLY, ARE ' 1. The laxity, or more easily extension of all the vessels. 2. The vessels of some parts not being given off. 3. The greater proportionate size of the heart, as well as its greater irritability, and that of the arteries. 4. A quicker and stronger motion of the humours. 3. A soft, copious, and nutritious food; hence, a great quan- tity of gelatinous humours. 6. The cartilaginous and extensile state of the bones. THE IV, of the Rational and Improved Practice of Physic, u'ith Prescriptions, ^c. Xx( 1?0 ) THE CAUSES WinCTI TEnWINATE THE INCREASE OF THE BODY ARE 1. An evolution of all the vessels. X. The strength of the vessels, not permitting farther exten- sion. 3. Such an extenuation of the cartilages as to resist farther increase of the bones. 4. A firmer food, by which a nutritious juice, containing more earth, is deposited in the interstices of the fibres; hence, they become more firm. 5. The heart increases in size less in proportion than the other parts, and its irritability diminishes; hence, a less and weaker motion of the humours. The menses of women seem to put a more speedy termination to their corporeal increase. The state of increase is said to cease when the body neither continues to increase, nor manifestly to diminish. After the thirtieth year’, the bodies of some men are apt to become corpulent, wliich arises from a great quan- tity of fat being deposited in the cellular membrane, and a diminution of e.xercise. DECREASE OF THE BODY. THE CAUSES OF THE BODY DECREASING IN OLD AGE ARE 1. All the fibres gradually become so indurated by a nutri- tious earthy juice, that they are more rigid and dry. 2. The more minute vessels being compressed by the dila- tation of the larger ones, that they gradually grow to- gether. 3. By the concretion of several of the lactcals, or absorbents, a smaller quantity of chyle goes into the blood. 4. The humours become acrid and earthy by a diminished excretion. 5. All the natural actions which form the nutritious juice arc depraved. From these reasons, it appears why the body increases in youth; is at a standard in the middle of life; and decreases in old age. In youth, there is more nutritious juice deposited between the fibres than is lost, whence increase of the body follows: in old age, there is less, to which we may attribute its decrease ; but in the vigour of life, what is lost is daily renewed, whence the acme, or utmost state of increase is observed. THE USE OF nutrition; 1. The conservation of our bodies; for if nutrition should cease, it would soon become dry and worn out. S. That the alkalescence and putridity of the humours, arising from the absence of tood, may be properly tempered by the effusion of a new chyle. 3. That the whole body may be excited and strengthened, which languishes by want of food. 4. That the body may increase in youth by a more consider- able nutrition. SECRETION OF HUMOURS. Secretion is the separation of any humour from the blood.. The secretory organs are the extremities of arteries and late- ral pores of vessels. All secretions are carried on from the arteries, except the bile, which is secreted from veins, performing the function of arteries in the liver. The blood is the mass of secretion, flowing through the ar- teries; for all humours are secreted from it. The blood contains the constituent principles of all the se- creted humours ; namely, water, jelly, oil, salt, and calcareous earth.* THE HUMOURS SECRETED FROM THE BLOOD, ARE DIVIDED INTO FOUR CLASSES: 1. Aqueous humours, which arc those not coagulable by mineral acids—as perspirable matter, the aqueous humour of the eye, the tears, saliva, pancreatic juice, and urine. 2. The gelatinous humours, which are fluid, and coagulated by mineral acids—as the vapours of the ventricles of the brain, of the pericardium, pleura, peritoneum, tunica vaginalis testis, liquor of the amnion, the synovia, or liquor of the joints, the gastric and enteric juices, li([uorof the uterus, of the lymphatics of the sheaths of tendons, the white of an egg. 3. Mucous humours, which are viscid, not coagulable by mi- neral acids, but become ropy—such as mucus of the trachea and bronchia, of the fauces, of the primae vim, urethra, and vagina. 4. Fatty humours are those, which, when dry, burn in a flame—as the oil of the adipose membrane, bile, wax of the ears, milk, the yolk of an egg. The proximate cause of secretion is, that every secreting vessel is smaller than the artery, from which it is formed, or the vein in which the artery terminates: hence, all the secreted humours, not even the mucus and semen excepted, are thinner than the blood, when first secreted, but thicker afterward. The diversity of secretion depends on the different properties of the humours, which are carried to the secretory organ ; and by the difl'erence in shape of the pore# and secreting arteries; the extremities of secreting vessels, therefore, are found to be stellated, pencillated, or like a brush, tortuous, &c. THE • Kow called by other names, which, in the ptcuent disposition of the Chemists, in their more accurate analysis of the human body, may again change.( <7‘ ) THE ORQANS WHICH PREPARE THE SECRETED JUICES ARE 1. Follicular glands, in which the secreted fluid, by remain- ing some time, becomes thicker—as mucus, and the fat of glands. 2. Receptacula, which retain the secreted humoui's for some time—as the gall-bladder for the bile, and vesiculm seminales for the semen. 3. The absorbent vessels of those receptacles, which carry away the thinner parts of the fluid contained. 4. Whether may not a peculiar fermentation take place in the receptacles of some of these secreted humours? The power carrying the fluid to be secreted into the secreting vessels, is the pressure from behind. The power by which the fluids, secreted, are carried out of their receptacles, is 1. A contraction of the muscular fibres of the receptacle, containing the fluid, as may be observed in the bladder and vcsiculse seminales. 2. The adjacent muscles; thus the saliva is expelled by the muscles of the jaws; the semen, by the acceleratores urina;; the bile by the stomach, when turgid; and the pancreatic juice by the abdominal press. 3. The stimulus of the secreted humours, which, by its weight, quantity, or acrimony, irritates the recepta- cle to contraction. These observations are sufficient to elucidate secretion in ge- neral, as to each particular secretion.—See Doctrine of the. Humours. EXCRETION OF HUMOURS. The excretion of humours is their exit out of the body. The excrementitious humours are the matter of perspiration, the fasces and urine. By these excretions the body frees itself from noxious and useless humours. EXPULSION OF THE F^CES Is the passage of the excrements from the anus. Fmccs comprehend that part of the food which passes into the great intestines, not changeable into chyle, ab- sorbed by the mouths of the lacteals, nor meseraic veins. This mass, in the great intestines, acquires a peculiar sterco- raceous faetor by fermentation, and is propelled into the intestine, called rectum, by the peristatic motion of the great intgstiues of the abdominal muscles and diaphragm. The intestine, called rectum by its bulk, or more rarely by a peculiar acrimony of the faices irritating it, acquires a tenesmus, or frequent desire of going to stool. By this st^ulus, the sphincter ani relaxes, and the fibres of the rectum contract; thus the fiseces are propelled, downwards through the anus, which is then open. Contraction of the- internal sphincters also assist the ex- pulsion. Thus, faeces, the consistence of an electuary to the weight of four or five ounces are ejected, and passing out by the round arched aperture of the anus, they are moulded into a cylindrical form. As soon as all the faeces arc ejected, the tenesmus and action of the abdominal press cease. The anus is again contracted by its sphincter and levator muscles. THE USE. The body is thus relieved of its faeces, which would do mis- chief, and bring on putridity, if not discharged. SECRETION OF THE URINE. The secretion of urine is its separation from the blood. The extremities of the renal arteries, which go into the sub- stance of the tubuli, form this segreting organ. The urine passes from the tubuli into the renal papillae, out of which into the pelvis of the kidney; from this it goes down the ureters, and falls into the bladder drop by drop. The urine is retained some hours in the bladder, by the natu- ral contraction of the neck of the bladder. The urine, gradually collected, either by its quantity or acri- mony, excites a desire of discharging it : by this stimulus, the neck of the bladder is relaxed ; and the muscular coat contracted, the urine is thus pro- pelled through the urethra. A slight contraction of the abdominal muscles and diaphragm assits its expulsion: in men, the last drops of urine are expelled from the urethra by the contraction of the muscles, called acceleratores urinas, which press upon the urethra. The mucus, which moistens the internal surface of the urethra, defends it from the acrimony of the urine. USE. To take away from the blood its superfluous water, salts ; what is worn off the solids—earth, impure oil, and other useless humours.—In relaxed nervous habits, do not the exhalent arteries furnish some of the su- perabundance of pale urine so common in nervous affections? , TRANSPIRATION.( ‘7« ) ^ TRANSPIRATION. Transpiration is an exhalation of an insensible vapour. IT IS DIVIDED INTO 1. Cutaneous transpiration from the whole surface of the body. 2. Pulmonary ti-anspiration from the surface of the air cells of the lungs. 3. Internal transpiration, or exhalation, which exhales into the cavities of our bodies. The organs of transpiration are the extremities of arteries upon the skin, air surface of the lungs, and which open into the internal cavities of the body. The matter of transpiration from the skin and lungs, is aque- ous, passing off in the form of vapour, with a small quantity of water and volatile salt. The quantity of perspirable matter in summer, and in our climate, is reckoned at five pounds in twenty-four hours; but this varies according to the difference of food, air,‘climate, motion, and rest. Internal transpiration is an aqueous vapourj a little gelatinous from the mouths of exlialents. USE. Cutaneous transpiration frees the blood from a superfluous water, and the more subtile excrements; it also conti- nually moistens the skin, and prevents it from being dried by the air. Internal transpiration causes the viscera in the cavities to be moist. Sweat is such an increased transpiration as to pass off in form of a visible vapour, and is secreted from the same vessels as transpiration; it carries from the blood not only water, but also saline, earthy, and oleaginous particles, an * orms drops. INHALATION. « Inhalation is the absorption of vapours which exhale into the cavities of the body, and of those which arc applied to the external surface of the body. THE ABSOKBING ORGANS ARE 1. The extremities of veins which open on the external sur- face of the skin, and on the surface of the internal cavities and viscera. 2. Lymphatic veins which arise in these cavities, and ia every part of the cellular membrane. The absorbed saline particles is carried by the absorbent veins into the mass of blood ; but the more gelatinous into the thoracic duct by the lymphatics, coagillable lymph absorbents.* USE. Internal absorption prevents the dropsy of the cavities of our bodies ; the absorbed lymph dilates the chyle in the thoracic duct; but cutaneous absorption attracts me- dicines applied to the skin ; and, perhaps, some prin- ciple from the air, as yet unknown. OF ACTIONS COMMON TO EACH SEX, THE AC'riONS WHICH SERVE FOR THE PROPAGATION OF OUR SPECIES ARE CALLED SEXU.A.L AS . IN MEN, The secretion of the semen. IN WOMEN,! Menstruation. Conception. Evolution of the erllbryo. > Pregnancy. Labour. Child-birth. USE. For propagation: for if man could not propagate his-species, human kind would have continued one age only. THE • See the Experiments and Demonstrations of Ab. Kaaxa Soerhaave, and the illustrious Anatomist Mectceit, who has shewn that some of the L'mphaiic absorbents communicate with the sanguiferous veins.—This the Hunters, their followers, and Hewson, deny Future experiments must dcicrmine the truth. The contending on the subject is loss of lime to little purpose, as it cannot be of great importance in the cure pf diseases. The glory of the discoveries, which the Hunters have assumed, arc not strictly consonant to truth, which numerous Authors prove by antecedent writings.( m ) THE SECRETION OF SEMEN. The extremities of the spermatic arteries constitute the organs for the secretion of semen, which is deposited in the serpentine vessels, forming the pulpy substance of the testis. The semen is carried from these serpentine vessels into the epididymis, then to the vas deferens, from which it passes into the vesiculie seminales. The semen is propelled forwards by the formation of new semen, ami by the contraction of the cremaster muscH, which surrounds the spermatic chord. The semen collected in the vesicu'ae seminales, excites a de- ^ sire of en ission, either by its quantity, or a peculiar stimulus, amorous ideas, 6cc. Thus veins of the cavernous substance of the penis are con- tracted by nervous influence, by which contraction the arterial blood is compelled to go into the cells of its substance, whence the penis bfegins to distend, be- comes warm, firm, and excited to coition. When the penis is quite erect, the vcsiculoe semfnales are con- tracted by a convulsive motion; thus the semen is profwlled through the ejaculatory ducts with very great impetus into the urethra, from which, by the action of the accelerator muscles, it is thrown to a great distance. About the time of emission, from the extreme degree of erection, the nervous membrane of the glans penis suffers great extension, from which the utmost sense of venereal pleasure arises. Then, at the time of ejection, the juice of the prostate gland is mixed with the semen, and thrown out with it. Thus, during coition, the semen is thrown into the.cavity of the uterus, and its volatile part seems to ascend the Fallopian tubes to the ovaria. When the semen is emitted, the nervous influence is dimi- ' nished, the penis ceases to be erect, and a languor is perceived all over the body. USE. The semen contains a principle, by which the embryo lying in- active in the female o’vulum, seems to be vivified and animated. MENSTRUATION. VIenstruation is a secretion of blood from the uterus, which happens to women every month. fbe extremities of arteries in the fundus uteri seem to con- stitute this secreting organ. The cause of this discharge either remains utiknown, or pro- ceeds from a peculiar fulness of the uterine vessels'; this seems to be occasioned by the structure of the uterus. This evacuation, in our climate, begins about the fourteenth year, and discontinues at the forty-ninth, dr fiftieth. The menstrual blood can scarcely be called corrupt, if a woman be in good health, and free from disease. But the menstrual blood differs in quantity, time of discharge, duration of continuance, beginning and end, as well as in the symptoms which precede or accompany it; according to the season, habit of body, climate, kind of living, exercise, &c. USE. The menses render women fit for conception, and the nutrition . of the foetus. CONCEPTION. Coition is an embrace between man and woman, in which the man, by his erect penis introduced into the vagina of the woman, throws the semen into the cavity of her uterus. In coition, by nervous influence, the nympha; and clitoris of women become erect; the uterus is turgid with blood, and the Fallopian tubes become rigid : they 'are distended, and embrace the ovarium by their fim- briae, which are spread out, and applied to the most projecting vesicle at the mouth of the ovarium. In women, during the greatest degree of erection, they sud- denly emit a great quantity of mucus, which is impro- perly reckoned female semen ; after which, all the erected parts collapse, except the fimbriai of the Fallopian tubes, which remain applied to the ovaria for some days. Besides, the projecting vesicle of the ovarium, which is in the greatest state of maturity, becomes turgid, and at last is broken, out of which comes an ovulum ; at first, inconsiderable: this is received by the mouth of the Fallopian tube, and carried into the cavity of the uterus by a peristaltic motion.—Cruikshank says, the peristaltic motion is upw'ards till the ovum is im- pregnated ; after which it is downwards. The vivified ovulum is thus carried into the uterus, where it receives its coverings, and is increased. USE. By a successful coitus, the ovulum receives life, and is carried into the cavity of the uterus. Y y EVOLUTION( 174 ) At EVOLUTION OF THE EMBRYO. The vivified oviilum, carried from the vesicle of the ovarium into the cavity of the uterus, seems already to consist of three membranes, the liquor of the amnion, the placenta, umbilical chord and embryo. But all these parts are so small and transparent, that in the first few days they cannot be distinguished. The semen seems to excite the heart of the embryo to motion; it then begins to move the humours in the aorta, and all the vessels: thus the humour goes into tiie heart from the vena cava and pulmonary vein, and the first circulation of humours begins. Then the ovulum, by conception, being shut up in the cavity of the uterus, in the first days, swims in a liquor which it attracts; thus the liquor of the amnion is increased, and the ovulum becomes large enough to fill the cavity of the uterus. The external surface of the ovulum then adheres to the inter- nal surface of the uterus, and surrounded by the fibrous texture of the ovulum and uterus ; the superior part of tlie ovulum, which contains the placenta, con- cretes with the vessels of the uterus, so that the vessels of each are joined by anastamosis. Thus the blood of the mother flows from the uterus into the placenta, and thence through the umbilical vein of the chord into the embryo; but that part of the blood, which is not used for nutrition, returns by the umbilical arteries of the foetus into the placenta. By this passing and re-passing of the blood, all the vessels of the foetus are longated, dilated, and nourished; thus the foetus, and all its parts continually increase till delivery. The diversity of appearance of the embryo seems to consist in the difference of stimulus in the semen; but it is not known how this is effected. Nutrition is conveyed to the foetus, both by the umbilical • vein; and, perhaps, by the liquor of the amnion. The foetus has no excretions; that is, neither urine nor feces: nor does it perspire. As long as the foetus is in the uterus, it does not breathe, nor is it afl'ceted by the air. CIRCULATION OF BLOOD IN TIIE FOETUS. The blood of the umbilical vein comes partly from the vena portarum, and partly from the canalis venosus, which goes from the vena porta into the vena cava; but the lungs, being contracted and collapsed, the greatest part of the blood passes through the foramen, ovale, and canalis arteriosus: a very small part passes through the lungs; the most considerable part of the blood is returned into the placenta by the umbilical arteries. SLEEP AND WAKING OF THE FOETUS. The continued motion of the embryo, and cause of sleep being wanting, occasion it to be continually awake. SITUATION OF TIIE EMBRYO. In the first montJis of pregnancy, the head is uj)pormost, and the face forwards; but in the latter mouths, on account of the increased 'Nvcight of the head, it is downwards, and the face backwards. The external surface of the foetus is smeared over with a - fatty substance, secreted by the cutaneous glands, by which it obviates the macerating quality of the liquor of the amnion, and is more easily delivered at the time of birth. The cranium of the foetus has membranous sutures; and the bones consist of different portions, that the head may be compressed, and diminished in size, during the time of delivery. The life of the foetus consists in the circulation of blood,, which takes place at the very moment of conception. But the animation of the foetus consists of the conjunction of body and mind ; hence, this may take place at the same instant of conception, or at the first res- piration after birth; since no animal life can exist without a soul. According to the number of female ovula, in a state of matu- rity—one, two, three or four foetus are Impregnated by a single coitus. SUPERFETATION Is the impregnation of a woman already pregnant, which usually happens from the uterus being double. MONSTERS Seem to be occasioned by a praeternatural formation of the embryo. BREGNANCY. Soon after conception, the orifice of the uterus contracts, and is closed by a viscid humour. The uterus then becomes larger and heavier ; and in tlie first month, occupies part of the pelvis: but in the latter months, being much increased in size, it occiqiies most of the cavity of the abdomen. The menses cease; the breasts swell a little : pregnant women frequently vomit, and suffer other inconveniences, which arise from compression of the viscera, increased irritability of the body, retention of the mensgs, and stimulus of the foetus.( J75 ) At the third month, the abdomen begins to swell above the pubis, increasing more and more till the eighth month: at the fifth, a motion of the foetus is perceived, the orifice of the uterus becomes softer, thinner, and rounder; and, at the last month, it opens. The os uteri is tuberculatcd, during pregnancy. The thickness of the uterus remains nearly the same; the cartilages of the pelvis becomes softer; the vagina abounds in mucus. The time of pregnancy, allowed by Nature, is nine solar months; but, now and then, it is longer or shorter. USE OF PliEGNANCY. That the foetus may be surrounded, and come to maturity; to be able to bear the inconveniences of the air, and fit to support life. LABOUR. When the time of pregnancy is at an end, labour follows; the cause of wliich is not ihorouglily known. THE PHENOMENA WHICH PRECEDE, ACCOMPANY, AND FOLLOW IT, ARE AS UNDER: 1. The pregnant woman, for some days before delivery, feels slight pains about the loins, the belly descends a a little; the orifice of the uterus, which was almost obliterated, becomes larger, is found situated lower in the pelvis : she is more frequently excited to void urine; walks with greater difficulty ; and a tenacious viscid humour is discharged from tlie-vagina. DELIVERY IS KNOWN TO BE COMING ON, AS FOLLOW: 2. When labour begins, the woman is seized with pains about the loins, which return stronger at intervals ; the uterus and abdomen contract ; the orifice of the ' uterus enlarges more and more ; a bladder, containing the foetus and liquors, protrudes through the orifice, the top of the head of the foetus presses downwards in I. the liquor, and oblige the woman to take longer in- spirations ; the pulse becomes stronger and quicker; ^ the face turns red, and perspires; the parts of gene- I ration swell. I 3. All these gradually become more violent; at last the ( woman cRils out: duting her cries, a great quamity * of viscous humour comes from the vulva, which is J tinged with blood ; she feels a very violent tenesmus, ' which, in a great measure, keeps up her spirits.— Every effort of the body is used to expel the contents ' of the uterus; then a small portion of the liquor of the amnion is discharged, on the membranes being ruptured; soon afterwards, the head of the foetus descends a little out of the vagina, which is propelled more and more by the violent pains; the child then follows, with the remaining part of the fluid. 4. Thus, all the phaenomena suddenly cease, and a tempo- rary ease follows, which is short of continuance; for soon afterwards new pains come on, and the placenta, with the membranes and umbilical chord of the ovum are expelled, which should be drawn away gently with the hand; the delivery of the placenta is followed by a discharge of pure blood for some hours, which afterwards becomes serous or milky, and ia called the lochia. The. proximate cause which excites the labour pains at the ninth month is not known : whether does it proceed from the extrication and extreme extension of the filrres of the uterus, tlie quantity of collected fluids, or the weight of the foetus ? The parts which assist in the delivery of the foetus are di- vided into active and passive. THE ACTIVE FARTS ARE 1. The uterus, which contracts its body and fundus by mus- cular power, the orifice is thu.', dilated, and tl.c con- tents of the uterus are propelled throngli its orifice and the vagina, in whicli there is no resistance. 2. The abdominal muscles and diaphragm, which contract like a press, and force downwards every thing con- tained in the uterus into the cavity of the pelvis, where it is contained like a wedse. o THE LIQUOR OF THE AMNION AND THE FOETUS ARE THE PASSIVE PARTS. Though they act upon the inferior segment of the membra- nous ovum which protrudes out of the orifice of the uterus inform of a bladder, and is distended by the liquor of the amnion, which at last breaks. The ovum, filled with the liquor of the amnion and the head of the foetus, dilates the orifice of the uterus and the vagina more and more: from this dilatation, the labia m.ajora are drawn inwards; but the os coccygis is pressed backwards by the head passing out, which takes the curve of the os sacrum going between the bones of the pubis. ' CHILD-BIRTH. When the child is delivered, the cavity of the uterus con- tracts, by which means the placenta and membranes of the ovum adhering to it are seperated and ex- pelled. The navel string is tied and cut. The lochia flow chiefly from the arteries of the uterus, to whicli the placenta adhered: but these vessels, dilated during pregnancy, contract very much ; the uterus, abiKmien, and pelvis, soon recover their former size, especially if the abdomen be properly bandaged. About( 176 ) At At)Out the fourth day after delivery, the breasts, which had begun to be distciuled towards the end of pregnancy, become hard and painful from tlie groat quantity of milk contained, the papilla becomes erect, and a fever Comes on, called the milk fever. The breasts are emptied of the milk by the sucking of the infant, which is very agreeable to the mother ; it re- moves the inconveniences from the breasts being dis- tended, and prevents unpleasant symptoms which would arise from the regurgitation of the milk. After some months, giving suck, becomes unpleasant to the mother; and the cljild, desiring firmer food, begins to reject it, which is the time for weaning. THE AGES OF MAN. A man’s life seldom continues above seventy years; which usual stage of life is divided into seven ages, of which each has its metamorphos: FIRST, THE AGE OF EMBRYO, Whilst it lives in the uterus for a space of nine months: the embryo, at first, is like a mucous, in which are observed a white line, called Malpighi’s ridge, and which seems to be the, system of the brain; also, a red point called punctum salicns, which is the heart of the embryo.—This small being, in the space 'of nine months, increases to the weight of eight pounds. « SECOND age is INFANCY, Extending from the first to the seventh year; the first phsenomena observed are the following, soOn after a child is born: 1. It breathes, and cries on account of the air irritating the lungs. 2. Whilst crying it discharges the meconium and urine. 3. On being put to the mother’s breast, it compresses the nipple between its lips, and sucks the milk. 4. It sleeps very much. 5. It opens its eyes, but does not sec, on account of the pupillary membrane not being removed. 6. Neither does it hear, from the narrowness of the meatus auditoriuk ; nor smell, because the pituitary sinuses are not yet formed. THE CHANGES WHICH HAPPEN IN THE CHILD’s BODY AFTER BIRTH ARE J. The umbilical chord tied near the navel, which, after a few days, becomes dry, and falls off at the navel, leaving a cicatrix. 2. 'Tlie lungs, which, in the foetus, were of a dark-brown co- lour, solid, and sinking in water, become light, spongy, large, whitish, swimjning in water, and lull of air, which shews that (he infant has brcatlted. 3. The canalis arteriosus and foramen ovale, gradually con- ' Crete ; the blood then passes upwards more easily into the dilated and soft pulmonaiy arteries. 4. In like manner also the umbilical vein and arteries, and urachus of the bladder, gradually concrete, and are not distended by any humour ])assing through them. 5. The liver, which, in the foetus, is swelled, gradually be- comes smaller, and situated under the ribs; the sto- mach increases in length, the great intestines are di- lated, and the intestine, called emeum, is formed by the weight of fasces. 6. The bones are mostly cartilaginous; the apophyses are hardly formed; all the epiphyses and apophyses of bones are enlarged more and more by the action of the muscles. 7. The heart more irritable, larger, and stronger than the vessels ; whence, the pulse is quicker in infants, and the vessels found in greater quantity at every part. 8. The brain and nerves are larger; whence, the sensibility and irritability of infants is more considerable than of adults. 9. The sutures and fontanella of the cranium gradually concrete. 10. All the glands are larger, and abound more in gelatinous humours. 11. The skin is fine, smooth, and thin ; also, much fat is ob- servable. 12. At the sixth month, the first teeth come, Vhich, until now, were in the alveoli of the jaws; at the third year, the first dentition is completed. 13. In the second year, the muscles becoming stronger, the infant begins to go alone; at the beginning of the third year can talk, and gradually becomes in- formed. 14. When the first dentition is complete, the infant refuses the breast, chews soft food, becomes diverting, and full of ingenuity, considering its age, THIRD AGE IS CHILDHOOD, Which continues from the seventh to the fourteenth year; at the seventh, the first teeth fall out, and the second set gradually corae forward ; there is frequent desire of food, and fondness of trifles, action, and loquacity; the humours are carried to the head in considerable quantity. FOURTH AGE IS YOUTH, Which continues from the fourteenth to the twenty-first year: after the fourteenth year, the breasts oj girls begin to swell, the vulva to enlarge, and the menses to appear.( 177 ) » At the time of puberty, the voice is also found to become graver ; a inoss-like hair springs up about the pubis ; semen is secreted in the testicles, and venereal desires are excited; juvenile audacity is experienced by the timid youth; the ingenuity and memory are in a great degree of perfection: and, at the twenty first year, both sexes cease to grow taller; the beard comes on the chin , and hairs on the axilla. FIFTH, OR ADULT AGE, Lasts from the twenty-first to the thirtieth year; all the members become more firm and perfect; also, the teeth, called dentes sapientiaj, are found to arise.— The male sex now become marriageable; but the female were fit for marriage at the latter end of the juvenile age. SIXTH AGE, OR MANHOOD, Wliich continues from the thirtieth to the fiftieth year, or until baldness. In this stage of life, the utmost strength of body and mind is observed ; the catamenia ceases about the forty-fifth year; and women be- come incapable of bearing children. SEVENTH, OR OLD AGE. From the fiftieth to the sixtieth year, man begins to grow old; the hair becomes grey; the sight and hearing are diminished; proper names are, with difficulty, retained in the memory; the venereal desires are less; and many die about the sixty-third year, EIGHTH, OR DECRIPED AGE, From the sixtieth to the seventieth year, or longer, in which 1. The body becomes lean, rigid, and bent. 2. The skin is opake, and full of wrinkles about the fore- head. 3. The hair becomes grey, and the head bald. ♦. The cheeks are pale. i. The muscles are tough, hard, and almost tendinous; the ligaments are rigid; the bones liable to break ; the sutures of the cranium obliterated; the cartilages and tendons ossify, 6. The teeth become loose, raised up, and few in number. 7. The heart is proportionally smaller, weaker, and less irri- table ; the small vessels aic fewer, and the larger I ones diluted. S. The brain and nerves are drier, less irritable, and sensible. 1). The eyes become less convex. 10. The glands of the testicles and ovaria waste away. 11. The vital actions become more tardy; the pulse, whids in infancy, beat one hundred and fifty times in a minute; in advanced age, is scarcely fifty—the heat of the body decreases. 12. The animal actions and muscular power diminished by rigidity : the joints tremble, the knees totter, the feet frequently stumble, the external senses are dull, and the internal diminished, the memory is weak, and the mind forgetful. ‘ 13. As to the natural actions, the appetite is small, digestion slow, and a smaller quantity of chyle is carried into the blood, on account of the fewness of thelacteals; hence, there is little nutrition; all the ^secretions are diminished, from which follow decrease of the body, Icanncs, paucity of humours, which are acrid, and loaded with earth. 14. The sexual actions, at last, cease; the male no longer secrets semen, nor has erection ; and the female has no menstruation ; they become barren. ^ DEATH. The natural mortality of man is estimated, that one in thirty- six dies every year, generally. Praeternatural death differs—as to age, sex, climate, diseases, and accidental causes. The proximate cause of a natural death is a gradually in- creasing rigidity of the fibres, by which the irritability of the heart and motion of the blood gradually cease. The soul then leaves the body, and goes to where GOD has assigned it, though unknown to man'. The signs of death are—loss of pulsation in the heart and arteries, cessation of respiration; the sensibility, and irritability of every part is so far gone, that they cannot be recalled, the body becomes cold and stiff; soon afterwards a peculiar cadaverous fbetor is exhaled from it. The lot of a cadaver, or dead person, is to be buried in the earth, in which it returns, by putridity to the princi- ples of which it was composed. The soft parts soon pass off, or rnix with the earth ; but the bones, which require more time to be deprived of their gluten, are longer of dissolution. I Z z I ADDITIONAL( ‘78 ) ADDITIONAL OBSERVATIONS. may be necessary to add some few observations on the human functions; = DIGESTION Of FOOD, Softened and prepared by mastication, and passed through the oesophagus into the stomach. It has been denied, that fermentation has uny existence in digesting alizuent, contrary to man, experiments, and received opinions-of many great men; and particu- larly those of the learned Dr. Mackbricic, &c. The food, if well chewed before it passes into the stomach, is already soft, and almost chyme, from the addition of fermenting drinks, or other fermenting substances, ivhere it undergoes an intestine motion ; and acid air, in eructations., is frequently fcwced up the oesophagus, f which every person, almost, experiences: and likewise rajickloils of strongfish, &c.are again perceived, after bang in the stomach many hours—as bacon, sprats, herrings, &c. from ventricular commotion of the par- ticles to be prepared for jiassing the pylorus. How far that intestine motion, the heat of the stomach, and action of respiration advance digestion in forming chyme, is not ascertained ; but the stomach, during this action, is frequently enormously distended by air, especially by leguminous food. Sweets turned sour, &c. It the matter be throwed up, it has a sourish taste.— This looks like ferment. The celebrated and ingenious Stevens, Reaumur, Spallanzani, Scopoli, Brugnatelli, Caramiai, and others, assert, that no fermentation takes place : but the whole process of digestion is performed by the solvent powers of the gastric juice. .As to the gastric juice, it is next to impossible to collect any such fluid. I cannot conceive any other liquid but that which is poured forth fronr the mouths of minute cxhalcnt arteries, opening on the internal surface of the-stomach, which, by experiments made by myself, seem to be .something similar to the vaporous exha- lations of other parts, chiefly composed of water, a little muriatic salt, &c. in short, similar to the finer scrum of the blood. The experiments made by those ingenious Philosophers, do not justify the conclusions drawn. Some are on ani- mals dirt'erent from men ; and what they have called gflA/ric juice, must have been various mixtures in the stomach. Some assert, it is acicK; others, alkaline: but Spallanzani asserts, that it is neither acid, nor alkaline.—Hence, the incongruity of their doctrines. WARMTH OF THE STOMACH, A POWERFUL AUXILIARY. The warmth of the stomach, with very little other .-issistance, acting on the fine masticated solids, and moistening fluids, taken as foods, may, in general, produce the chyme, that pappy substance, in the same manner as Papin’s digestor, by a very gentle heat, dissolves meats, bones, vegetables, &c. Amidst these jarring and opposite articles of food, composed of animal, vegetable substances, and fruits; beer and wine, an intestine motion, similar to fermentation ; .snd gentle heat may produce the effect. It is, howc^’cr, only mentioned as a rational conjecture, that may be easily imitated in a closed glass vessel, and a very moderate sand heat. Digestion has been accounted for, variously, in all ages, ac- cording to prevailing systems and opinions; but it still is considered, by many, obscure. In a practical point of view, it is much better to know how, by an- tacids, itc. flatulency, with acid air, may be neutri- lized and protruded through the pylorus; and how, by tonics, the weakened nervous stumac'.i may be restored to vigour, and enabled to'resist that distress- ing distension, which, in some instances, has produced even apoplexy, and sudden death, than to waste time in unprofitable speculations, of no pactical utility.* RESPIRATION. Investigations on respiration have been attended with some success; and noxious, or dcstructi\e particles of different air, have been explained in a manner that do the highest honour to the ingenious and laborious re- searchers into these fugitive, invisible, floating j airs, or gasses. To *ssert that the changes of the blood in the lungs from respiration were unknown, as some have lately; and that air and water were considered by the ancients, and many moderns, amongst the most simple elements, until now, arc assertions not strictly consonant to tiuth. The ancients knew both water and air to be compound bodies; and many diffei’ences in those fluids were not unknown to Hippocrates. Faefitious airs, destructive to animals, were well known to the Honourable Robert Boyle, and many other Philo- sophers; and that the atmospheric air was a com- pound heterogeneous body, dependent on exhalations, vapours, &c. composed of innumerable discordant particles. GASSES UNllESPIRABLE. The air, or gasses, which human beings cannot respire, and which close the epigkittis, if applied to it, is carbonic acid gass, or fixed air, and oXhe^-acid gasses, according to Rosier, The first of these airs prove fatal instan- taneously, and extinguish the fhiinc of a flambeaux, not leaving the least spark ; which 1 have seen in la Groftadel Cane, near Naples. The same happens in mines, and was called choke clamp. Ti.is air being much heavier than the atmospheric, cannot ascend: and I have s.at in that famous grotta, near the Lacus Avernus of Virgil, a considerable time, unhurt, ' viewing • I have made some experiments, that may hereafter h« submitted to the consideration of the learned, on the processes of Digestion, Chylification, &c. t Grn was a word first used, I believe, by ilie ingenious Van Ilelmont, who, though despised by many of liistime, b now appeariug tire creator a hirm that has an extensive latitude. t » b i. j j no< m ) viewing the deletereous effects on different animals, in suspending life, &c. ' The hj/grogen and azotic gasses, prove fatal; but are said to produce no change in the blood, Tbc carbonated hydrogen, carbonic oxide, and, perhaps, nitrous gas, may be breathed—but kill—and produce changes in tlie blood. The oxide of azot, and oxygen air, or gass, may be breathed sometime, without destruction; but death ensues at last. The atmospheric air, which is a compound, perhaps, not yet perfectly, ascertained ; and liable, from various cir- cumstances, to a change of component particles, is the only air human beings can long continue to respire. Numerous experiments have been made on those gasses, and some hasty conclusions drawn ; but still they require succeeding investigation. It has be II well known, that pabulum vituc of the ancients, or vit il air of the moderns, changed the colour of the blood in the lungs ; and we know little more now, . In resj iration, a certain portion of vital aii, or oxygen, dis- appears, and is absorbed by the inhalent minutest veins, i peiiing on the surface of the bronchial vessels and vc.sicl s, and is conveyed to the larger branches of the pulmonary veins, producing a change in the blood, before it enters the left auricle, in its progress to the aorta. CARBONIC ACID <JaS IS EMITTED, A great part of which, according to my ojiinion, is nothing but the exhaling vapour from tl>e oscula of the mi- nutest arteries opening on the surface of the bronchia, which unites with the air expired. Several ingenious investigators, particularly Lavoisier, who says, that about 16.713 oz. troy weight, of carbonic acid is emitted in twenty-four hours: but Mr, Davy says, that thirty-seven ounces is the quantity ex- cluded. The changes that are produced in the blood, according to Priestly, Cigna, llassedfratz, Beddoes, Watt, and particnlaily Mr. Davy, are 1. The blood absorbs vital air, 2. It acquires a florid red colour, and the chyle disappears. 3. It emits carbonic acid gas, and perhaps carbon. 4. It emits water, and perhaps hydrogen. Lavoisier, and others, from not being accurate Physiologists, though great Chemists, do not seem to know, that it has been proved, that exhaient arteries in the bron- chia send forih fluid. For the different hypotheses, and various experiments, see those of Dr. Black, Priestly, La Place, Green, Gir- tanner, Ilassenfratz, Lavoisier, Crawford, La Grange, ami others, who may be consulted, but do not agree on this abstruse subject; and have Icit it little better than they found it, in many paiticulars. Do not light, caloric, and electric fluid, enter the lungs in in- spiration with the aimosphenc air ? Do they not act as a stimulus, and keep the lungs in action ? Do they preserve the free circulation of the blood ? THE ACTION OF THE KIDNEYS. The Chemical Experimenters assert, that a chemical change is produced in the kidneys : for there are two sub- stances in the urine, not existing in the blood—urea and uric acid, supposed to be formed in the kidneys. Some light might be thrown on this subject: if the blood, proceeding from the einulgeiit artery, and after the secretion in the kidneys ; what passes into the eimilgcnt veins, were well comprehended. All ana- lyses ; iiowever, on dead substances, may be different to what they were in the living human body: and, hitherto, they have not much improved practical science, either in accounting for causes and cH'ccts, or in (he cure of diseases, but have done much mis- chief by false conclusions, and misapplication.* PERSPIRATION. Without perspiration, the human body would be over loaded with noxious particles. Sanctorius continued experiments on this subject above thirty years, and illustrated it. Kaaxo Boerkaave proved, that perspiration was universal, both internal and external passing in the form of vapours ; and that inhalation was eijually performed through the whole system. Thegieatest perspiration has been calculated at .62.89 ounces in twenty-four hours: but there must be a great dif- ference in different constitutions, seasons, ages, sexes, and climates. It is increased by drink ; is most, immediately after full meals, and rises highest during digestion, according to Fourcroy. Profuse perspiration diminishes urine; an-d this latter evacu- ation, the former. 'Lillet, Cruickshank, Juriue, In- genhousz. Mills, and Fordyce, have all endeavoured to explain this subject. It appears that carbonic acid gas is emitted—water, marine salt, which may be tasted in the sweatj and some have supposed, that oxygen gas is absorbed. Besides the panicles mentioned, there is an oily matter, an acid, and phosphat of lime. It has been doubted, whether the skin absorbs ; but turpen- tine liniments, garlic, and other odoriferous sub- stances, applied to the skin, places the fact beyond doubt, for they cause the breath and urine to smell, lic. The lungs, likewise, in moist a>r, carry humidity to the blood, and increase the weight of human beings.f OF ASSIMMILATION. It has been observed, that blood, by means of the pulsating arteries, supplies the waste of the whole human system. 'Fhe • What have the projects of the Jixed air, or carhonie acid gas, done in putrid fevers, or cancerous ulcers ? Wliat has the vifat air, or ort/gen ■gas, ditie in ulcerated lungs, plilhiMS, pulmoiiiaris, or pulmary cunsumpliun—the cow-haiise practice, or other conceits ot unexperienced vjsionists —or the 7iitrid acid in coiilinued veucreal lulvciiun ’ Have not all tliuse, who have been sufficiently credulous to espouse these Chimeras, reason to lament tlie loss ot time, and suinetimcs of life, while they administered these untried supposed spccihcs, Uuforluuatc are the patients who became victims to such, and other irrational nuveliies. t The Abbe Fontana has observed this.Tlic process by wliicb the different ingredients of the blood are made part of the varions organs of the human body, is called Assimmii,atiox. Every assiminilating organ produces a specific change—as the stomach, the attracting powers of the lactoals, conveying chyle through the mesenteric glands to the receptaculum chyli, thoracic, duct, &c. and the con- version of chyle into blood by the assiminilating or- gans, the blood vessels, &c. Parts which did not belong to one another, provided they be similar, assimmilate, or unite—as muscle to muscle, bone to bone, as Mr. .1. Hunter and Bovina, and surgery practice long have proved. Healing of dis- united parts, by the first intention; and adhesions, after inflammation, all shew assimmilation and co- hesion, even of parts that were before detached—as thc))leura to the lungs, the surface of the liver to the diaphragm, which I have explored by dissections of Dr. Hooper, at the St. Marylebone Infirmary, in numerous instances: 1. Blood and arterial action supply all secretions. 2. Deposition of difl'erent particles supply new daily, from the oscula, or minute mouths of arteries ; attraction, cohesion and consolidation, follow, according to the supplies wanted to renew all parts, from the hardest to the softest. 3. The wasted parts are all c.xcluded by outlets; for the particles, forming the body, never remain stationary in health. There is aconstant loss, and a constant supply of new particles. 5. So that in a certain time, what particles formed the former man, no longer exist in the same body. 6. The form and identity of person continues similar to ori- ginal formation and figure, during healthful assimtni- lalion ; but defects in assinamilation and morbid changes in the blood may not only change external appearances, but be the cause of gieat deviations in mental inclowmcnts and disposition. 7. No jmrticics of the body, contained heretofore, exist at certain periods.—Man, tlicrefore, physically consi- dered, is not the same man he was Which might furnish a curious argument in law. S. The defective assimilation and rc|)aration of the aissimi- lating organs, loads, in old age, to defects in the natu- ral, vital, and animal functions; and, lastly, is pro- ductive of death, even without any accidental causes, as acute diseases, &c. which may prove fatal at any time of life. DECOMPOSITION AND PUTREFACTION OF ' ANI.MAL BODIES AFTER DEATH. The spontaneous destruction of animal bodies, after death, is denominated putrijaction; which Beecher,Stahl,Boyle, Beal, Sir J. I’ringle, Maebrido, and others, have des- cribed with important experiments, and observations; 1. Animal substances require moisture, and a certain degree of heat, for the putrelactive process. 2. Animals may be kept long in a freezing tempciaturc, without change; and ice, packed with fish, or other animal substances, prevent change for a considciable journey. • VYe had shocking instances of Marylebone, where putrid lever was almost constant: influence; uiHiiy nurses, and others—thouj'h many were saved by spirited t See Schola Mcdicirue, Latin Edition, where the Egyptian and PUTREFACTION IN THE AIR. 1. The colour becomes gradually paler, audits conslstencci diminishes. 2. FIcsli softens, and a serious matter exsudes, or sweats out. 3. The texture of tlie part becomes relaxed, and its organi- zation destroyed. 4f. It gradually acquires a disagreeable smell; and as the sub- stance sinks down, and is diminished in bulk, its smell | becomes stronger and ammoniacal. d 5. The matter efl’ervesces with acids, and if enclosed some little time, converts syrup of violets, green. 6. If the air be admitted, the nrinouk exhalation is dissipated, and a peculiar putrid odour is spread around with impetuosity, a smell of the most insupportable kind, ^ which lasts long, and pervades every place, affecting J the bodies of living animals, after the manner j of a ferment, capable of altering the fluids.—This J smell is corrected by ammonia. € 7. When the matter is volatilized, the putrefactive process be- 1 comes ACTIVE a second time, and the substance sud- | denly swells up, becomes filled with bubbles of air, and soon after subsides again, smelling horribly. 8. The colour changes, and the fibrous texture of the flesh is scarcely distinguishable, and the whole is changed into a soft brown, or greenish matter, of the consistence of a poultice, whose odour is faint, nauseous, and 1* very active on the bodies of living animals, producing putrid complaints.* i 9. The odoiant principle gradually loses its force, the sub- stance becomes deeper coloured, and rather delique- scent ; and being rubbed between the fingers, breaks into a coarse powder, like earth. 10. This is the last state of putrefaction, but requires a considerable time before animal substances assume this form.—Fourcrop. PRODUCE OF THE DECOMPOSITION. 1. Hydrogen gas, holding sulphur, phosphorus, and carbon in solution. 2. Ammonia, water, carbonic acid, and perhaps azotic gas. 3. Nitric acid seems, in some cases, to be formed, and emitted. 4. The earthy residuum consists of fixed parts of the animal substance, mixed with charcoal, oil, and ammonia. PUTRIFACTION UNDER THE EARTH. 1. Proceeds more slowly; but difficult to ascertain. 2. The abdomen bursts, and emits a horridly foetid and nau- seous gas; at the same time, a dark coloured liquid flows out. 3. When many be buried together, the soft parts are dimi- nished in size, and converted into a saponaceous matter, by their parts acting one on the other. This was first observed in 1786', at the burial-ground of the Innocents, at Pans.—Fourcrop, An. dc Chiin. v. 154. 4. There are various modes of preventing animal putre- faction, which come under the head of embalming dead bodies, f PATHOLOGY, the destructive effects of the poor buried together, covered with long folding doors, near the Old Infirinary, and the worthy Mr Varenne, apothecary, and his wife, fell victims to its baiiefol inodes of cure ailopted.—Sec Tnatiscs on Putrid Sore Threat, ^c. modern 'Methods of Emlalming arc fully explained.PATHOLOGY. CONSPECTUS OF PATHOLOGY ON PATHOLOGY IN GENERAL. ,. 1, ■r '■< 4 NOSOLOGY ON NOSOLOGY GENERALLY. ON THE DIVISION AND DIFFERENCE OF DISEASES IN GENERAL. SIMPLE DISEASES OF THE SOLIDS, AS Diseases of cohesion, elasticity, irritability, sensibilit)’. OHGAN1C DISEASES OF THE SOLIDS. Diseases of number, diameter, magnitude, figuPc, situation, connection, contislence, substance, colour, heat, the surface, gravity. the. fluids : ' , cohesion, quantity, acrimony, degeneration, a ini.xed kind, change of place, retention, excretion, secretion, motion. ETIOLOGY. ON TUB CAUSES OF DISEASES GENERALLY. The proximate cause of diseases, e.xciting, predisposing. SYMPTOMATOLOGY. OF SYMPTOMS GENERALLY. Of external and internal symptoms. SEMIOTICA. ON THE SIGNS OF DISEASES GENERALLY. The diagnosis, anamnesis, prognosis. THERAPEUTICS. On the cure of diseases in general, in particular. Hygiene. Pharmacy, Surgery ON PATHOLOGY GENERALLY. PATHOLOGY is a science, which teaches the doctrine of external and internal diseases, their causes and effects. It is divided into general, which treats of diseases generally, and into special, which considers each disease sepal ately. A a a General pathology is divided into five parts. 1. Nosology, or an account of the name, division, and dif- ference of diseases, which require to be as intelligible, as possible, and without quaint phraseology. 2. oron the cause of diseases. 3. Symptomatology( »8* ) 3. Symptomatology, or on tlic symptoms of diseases. 4. Semiolica, or on the signs of diseases. fi. Thcrapeutica, or on the cure of diseases. Therapeutics, are subdivided into three parts. 1. Hygiene, on the food and regimen of natural things in tlie human body. 2. Pharmacy, on medicines. 3. Surgery teaches how to cure diseases, by the hands and instruments. The Therapeutics will hereafter be pub- lished, and all the experience of near fifty years be unreservedly communicated. NOSOLOGY. Nosology is a science which points out the denomination, difl'erences, and divisions of diseases. A disease is a preternatural state cf any part. Diseases acquire names, from their disposition, first symptom, or promixate cause, or from their situation, as the cholic being usually in the colon, &c. &c. The primary division of diseases is, 1. Into simple diseases of the solids. 2. organic. 3. diseases of the fluids. SIMPLE DISEASES OF THE SOLIDS. Simple diseases of the solids are preternatural states of the power, which the fibres of our body exert. The primary strength of parts is, 1. Cohesion, 2. Elasticity, 3. Irritability, 4. Sensibility. DISEASES OF COHESION, CONCEIVED BY THE NEWTO* NIAN DOCTRINES OF ATTRACTION AND REPULSION. Cohesion, or the attraction of the elements, which constitute a fibre, can be unnatural in three ways, 1. By too small a cohesion. 2. too great a cohesion. 3. defect of cohesion. Too small a cohesion of the elements of the fibrillae cohesion, in the soft parts, is called laxity of fibres ; but in the bones it is named mollities. Cohesion of the elements of the fibrillas, when too consider- able in the soft parts, is called rigidity of fibres; but the same in the bones is named fragility. A defect, or loss of cohesion in the soft parts, is called tabes, but in the hard parts, it forms a powder. DISEASES OF ELASTICITY. The elasticity of elastic parts, constitutes a disease, by ex- cess or diminution. Excess of elasliclly, is called too great a contraction of fibrss. Defect of elasticity, is an inactive state of the fibres. . . DISEASES OF IRRITABILITY. Irritability of muscular fibres, can be improper by e.xcess, or defect, loo great, or too little mobility. Excess of irritability, is tuo great a mobility of the mus- cular fibres. Defect of irritability, is a torpid state of the muscular fibres. A preternatural contraction of muscular fibres, is called a spasm ; and a preternatural immobility, or inaction of them is paralysis. All these are applicable to all moveable parts. DISEASES OF SENSIBILITY. Excess of sensibility, is called pain, or an unpleasant sensation. Defect of sensibility, is named insensibility or anodynia. ORGANIC DISEASES OF THE SOLIDS. Organic diseases of the solids are preternatural states of the visible qualities, in the solid paits of our bodies. The visible qualities of the organs of our body are, number, diameter, magnitude, form, situation, connection, consistence, substance, colour, heat, smoothness, and gravity. DISEASES OF NUMBER, The number of any part may be improper, by excess, or defect. The number exceeds if their be six fingers, three testicles, a double penis, or two heads. The number is deficient if a finger, leg, arm, penis, or nose, be wanting. DISEASES OF DIAMETER. The diameter of vessels, or other cavities, may be improper by excess, or defect of their natural size. The diameter being increased, is called a morbid excess. The diameter of containing parts being diminished or obli- terated, is called a morbid narrowness. There are seven species of morbid excess. 1. jEumma, or a preternatural dilatation of the vessels, and other cavities, as in the true aneurism, varicose ves- sels, and the ascites. 2. Phlogosis, or a preternatural dilatation of all blood ves- sels, which brings on heat and redness, as may be seen in every inflammation and long erythema. 3. Anastomosis, or a preternatural dilatation of the orifices, or mouths of vessels, such as is observed in some hasmorrages, and in the rings of inguinal herniae. 4. Diapedesis, or a preternatural dilatation of pores in the sides of vessels, or cavities, which transude the hu- mours they ought to contain, as happens in every( i83 ) high inflammation, and in cavities, which arc much distended. 5. Diaeresis, or a wound into a vessel, or cavity of the cranium, thorax, or abdomen. 6. Mixis, or rupture of vessels or cavities, as rupture of the navel, in ascites of the capsular ligament in luxation •of veins in the piles, and of an artery in anearism. 7. Diabrosis, or the erosion of any cavity by acidmony, caustic, or ulceration. There are also seven species of morbid passage in vessels or cavities. 1, Emphraxis, or an obstruction of vessels or passages, as the humour not having power to pass through the vessel or duct. 2. Stenockoria, or a stoppage of the passage, by a swelling of the side of the cavity, or canal; thus a swelling of the internal membrane produces stenchoria of the oesophagus, urethra, or vagina. 3, Thilipsis, or compression of a vessel, or cavity, from some cause situated beyond it, as a schirrus under the axilla, by compressing the brachial artery, brings on a dryness of the arm. 4. The contractility of a cavity, or a preternatural con- traction of any vessel, or canal, by a spontaneous contractile power, thus sudden contraction of the urethra, causes an ischury, or impossibility of mak- ing water. 6. Sinizesis, ora preternatural collaping of vessels or ducts ; thus the umbilical vessels are obliterated after birth. 6. or a preternatural junction, or concretion of vessels, as happens in vessels and other canals in old age. 7. Too great a Rarmr««J in an apertuse, or canal, as in a phymosis of the prepuce, or in the arch of the rectum, &c. DISEASES OF MAGNITUDE, OR SIZE. The size of parts may be too great, or too small. The increased size of any part is called a tumour, in which are included all tumours whether indolent or sup- purating. The diminished size of any part, is called meagerness, as a wasting of the arm or leg. DISEASES OF SHAPE. The shape of any part may be unnatural in dimensions, thickness, or form. Excess of dimensions in length, as the head being longer than usual. Defect of dimensions, as shortness of the head. Excess of thickness, as the neck being too thick. Defect of thickness, as smallness of the legs. Difference of shape in a part, is called deformity, as a wry Bcck, crooked spine, or bandy legs. DISEASES OF SITUATION. ’ The situation of any part can be unnatural, in motion and direction. Situation in an improper place, is called error of place, as a tooth growing from the palate, or the vulva directly under the navel, or opening into the amis. The situation of a part moved out of its place, is called ectopia, in which we comprehend all herniae, pro- lapsus, and diastases of bones. The situation of a part passing out of its natural direction, is called obliquity, as obliquity of the uterus, tooth, or head. DISEASES OF CONNECTION. The connection of a part can be either too weak or too strong. Too weak a connection, is seen in a preternatural range of motion in a joint. Too strong a connection is observed in a preternatural im- mobility of ajoint, as in anchylosis. DISEASES OF CONTINUITY. The continuity of a part may be dissolved, or that which should be dissolved, may unnecessarily remain. A preternatural solution of continuity in the soft parts, is a wound, ulcer, or the hare lip '; and in the hard parts a fracture, caries, or fissure. A preternatural continuity of what should be dissolved, is a concretion of the anus, vulva, joint, &c. DISEASES OF CONSISTENCE. . The consistence of a part may be preternatural, by pos- sessing too much softness, or hardness. The consistence is too soft in oedema, abcess, or gangrene. The consistence is too hard in indurated tumours, and ossified parts. DISEASES OF SUBSTANCE. The natural substance of any part may be changed, and be- come preternatural. To which we may refer the substance of soft parts, when, become cartilaginous, bony, earthy, cavernous, callous fungous, steatomatous, schirrous, putrid, and the hard substance of bones, changed into a fungous or fleshy structure. DISEASES OF COLOUR. Tlie natural colour of any part may become improper by de- fect, or diversity from its usual appearance. A defect of the natural colour is observed in the face, lips, particularly in the pallor of a wound, ulcer, or of any other part. A diversity from the natural colour, is the pallidity in chlo- rosis, or dropsy; the redness observed in inflamma- tioi),( i84 ) tion, the livi<l in gangrene, and ecebymosis, the black in necrosis and caries. DISEASES OF HEAT. The natural heat of any part may become improper, by being increased or diminished. E.xcess of heat in infiammations, and, in some contagious putrid and yellow fevers, is observed, and Defect of heat, in anasarca, syncope from ha;morrhage, or in debility in the minute arterial system. DISEASES OF THE SURFACE. The surface of any part may become improper, by its smoothness, or roughness. A morbid smoothness is seen in baldness. An unnatural roughness of surface arises from pustules, vesicles, papillaj, scurf, &cc. DISEASES OF GRAVITY. The natural gravity of any part, may become unnatural by excess or diminution. An excess of gravity is perceived in an inflamed and indurated part: from fluid deposited in the cellular structure, congelating, &c. A defect of gravity is evident in emphysema of the whole body, hence putrid bodies swim in water, on account of the extrication of the fixed ajr, or what is now called carbonic acid gas. DISEASES of'THE FLUIDS, humours of our body may become improper. 1. In quantity. 2. cohesion. 3. acrimony. 4. degeneration. 5. mixture. O'. situation. 7. retention. 8. excretion. 9. secretion. 10. motion. DISEASES OF QUANTITY. I'he quantity of blood may be improper, by excess or defect. An excess is called plethvra, and A defect keneangia. FlelAura, or an abundance of good blood, is divided. 1. Into universal, when the blood abounds in every part of the body; and partial when in any particular part only. , 2. Into true, when there is abundance of real blood; and spurious, when it is only an expansion, and rarefac- tion of blocd. Keneangia, or a deficiency of good blood, may also be uni- versal or partial. DISEASES OF COHESION. A cohesion of the principles, which constitute the humours, may be unnatural by excess, defect, or separation. Excess of cohesion, is called thickness ; and defect of cohesion, is named thinness. The thickness of humours is twofold. 1. Simple thickness, which arises entirely from a diminished quantity of water. 2. Compound thickness, which is either glutinous, inflam- matory, atrabiliary, coagulated, or venereal. The thinness of humours is also double. 1. Simple thinness, arising only from too great a quantity of scrum, and 2. Compound thinness, which has some specific acrimony connected with it. A separation of these particles, which should adhere to- gether, is called a secession; thus, if the aqua, salt, oil, mucus, earth, or gelly only, separate from the common mass of blood, various morbid stales of the humours arise, and tumours are formed by this separation, &c. DISEASES OF ACRITUDE. Acritudes are impregnations of the humours, with some ir- ritating principle, or morbid mutation. Acritudes of the humours arc divided into common and specific. The common acritudes are, 1. An acid acritude, or an abundance of acid salt in the humours, as in the rickets, softening bones, &c. 2. An alkaline acritude, or too great a quantity of alkaline salt in the humours ; but this is nut so admissable as the former, though often supposed. 3. An ammoniacal acritude, or a too great abundance of a salt, which is natural to our humours. Neither this nor the last can be demonstrated in life. 4. A muriatic acritude, or an unnecessary quantity of com- mon salt in our bodies, as in long sea voyages, &c. The specific acritudes are, 1. The acritude of chronic diseases, as venereal, scorbutic, gouty, arthritic, rheumatic, scrophulous, scirrhous, cancerous, ulcerous, carious, scabious, tineous, le- prous, elephantiatic, herpetic plicous. I'hey all dif- fer, but their specific properties are not known. 2. 'file acritude of acute diseases, as variolous, morbillous, miliary, scarlatine, erysipelatous, petechial, pestilental carbunculous, gangrenous, putrid, intermitting fe- brile, or continual febrile. All these ditfer not only in causes, but effects, and appear- ances, which are more particularly specified in prac- tical medicine. DISEASES OF DEOEN ER ATI0 N, The spontaneous changes of humours, from a natural into a morbid slate; among these may be considered those degene-( i85 ) I degenerations which take place in the primac viae, or I in the Immours themselves ; and in the prix vi.e arc called saburr®, but in the humours cacochyni® or I cachexi®, to which we may refer. I 1, Rancidity, or the degeneration of oil into an acrid hu- mour, such as is perceived in rancid butter. ! 2. Putrescence, or the degeneration of blood, and gelatinous j humours into a thin fatid humour, such as is observed i in the most malignant and yellow fevers, and in a dead person. 3. Purulcscencc, or the degeneration of gelatinous humour into pus, or a soft whitesh humour, such as is found in wounds, but this is divided, 1. Into good pus, which has a soft taste, or smell, is of the consistence of cream, of a straw colour, and heavier than water, it burns in a flame, and is the consequence of inflammation of a wound or ulcer. 2. Into bad pus, which is thin fetid, acrid and greenish, blackish, or brownish ; this pus is also called sanies or ichor. 3. Into spurious pus, which is a yellow mucus, arising with- out preceding inflammation, or wound ; and does not flame in burning; this pus like mucus, maybe often observed in coryza, gonorrhoea, fistula lachrymalis, and fluor albus. Pyogenia, or the generation of pus is yet obscure, the gela- tinous part of the scrum, in a wound, ulcer, or in- flammatory tumour transuding through the vessels mixed with the oil of the adipose membrane, seems to constitute pus. Spurious pus is without oil, therefore it does not burn. 4. An inflammatory crust is some of the gelatinous part of the blood, or serum degenerated into a white tenacious humour, which usually covers the surface of blood after bleeding in inflammatory diseases. 5. Concrescence, is a degeneration of schirrous matter, into a specific acrimony, such as is observed in cancer. 6. Acrescentia, is a peculiar degeneration of the bile, which greatly resembles rancidity. 7. Atra bilis, which is observed in melancholy people and maniacs. 8. The acridity of perspirable matter arises from retention. 9. The acridity of the urine arises from its long retention in the bladder. 10. Acridity of the fxces is occasioned by their long reten- tion in the intestines, with flatus, &c. 11. The acridity of ulcers, which is absorbed from their sur- face, is communicated to the humours. 52. The saburra of the prim® vi®, is formed by various de- generations, as acid, putrid, bilious, rancid, glutinous, saline, crude, aromatic, austere, earthly, flatulent, poisonous, verminous. 13. The degeneration of liquids into a substance, like honey, pulp, hard fat, cartilage, bone, or earth. DISEASES OF MIXTURE IN THE FLUIDS. These are improper combinations of the humours, as to their constituent principles, to which we may'rcfer the fol • lowing diathrosis and discrasi® of the humours. 1. Aquosity, from a superabundance of water, as in the dropsy. 2. Olcosity, from too much oil, as in fatness. 3. Chylosity, if from milk as in women. 4. Cruority, from red globules of blood, in a sanguine habit. 5. Glutinosity, from gluten in a pituitous one. 6. Gelatinosity, from jolly, as in infants. 7. Earthiness, if from too much earth, as in old people, the gout)^ and calculous, abounding with calcareous ' particles. S. Acridity, if any acrid principle supera bound in the hu- mours, sec acrimony. ' DISEASES FROM CHANGE OF PLACE. The passing of humours from their own into other vessels, is called change of place, as, those vessels, which arc named serous, becoming distended so as to carry red blood, which may be observed in inflammations, and erythema. DISEASES FROM RETENTION OF HUMOURS. A continuance in the body of a humour, which ought to be excreted, is called retention, as retention of perspira- tion, the urine, feces of the intestines, milk, mens- truation, lochia, discharge necessary for the piles, or of any other morbid matter. DISEASES FROM THE EXCRETION OF HUMOURS. The passage of a humour out of the body, is called excre- tion, as the excretion of blood from a wound, of too much pus from an ulcer, of scrum or lymph from an ulcer or tumour of a lymphatic vessel. , DISEASES FROM THE SECRETION OF HUMOURS. A morbid secretion is an effusion, or extravasation of a sanious humour from the vessels into the cells of th« cellular membrane, or into the great cavities of the body, as extravasation of blood in ecchymosis, of water in the dropsy, of air in emphysema, and of milk in lacteal tumours. Metastasis is a secretion, mutation, or translation, of a mor- bid humour into some particular part, under which arc comprehended all metastatical and critical tu- rnouts. Proofs, however, of metastasis are some- times easier to assert than demonstrate: therefore much caution and experience are necessary, before determination, as in gout, rheumatism, fevers, &c. DISEASES EROM THE FLUIDS. The motion of fluids may become unnatural by e.xcess or defect. Too quick a motion all over the body, is called excess in motion. Too quick a motion in a particular part, is called congestion of humours. A defect of motion in any part, is called retardation, or stagnation of humours. Bb b Tiicro( >86 ) There can be an obstruction of the flux, and reflux of the humours, in any part, which depositions and accu- mulations amply demonstrate. ox THE DIVISION AND DIEFERENCE Of DISEASES. 'I'he whole course of every disease is divided in five stages, 1. The beginning is the stage, in which the disease com- mences. 2. The increase, when the disease is increasing. 3. The stage, in which it neither increases nor diminishes, called acme, or height. 4. The decrease, in which it decreases. 5. The termination, when the disease is quite at an end. The difference of diseases is divided into essential and ac- cidental. The essential differenco is, the natural difference of one dis- ease from another. The accidental difference is, that variety observed in the same disease, of great importance in practice. From the essential difference, diseases arc divided into classes, genera, species, and varieties. The accidental difference of diseases comes from their origin, time, seat, course, disposition, manner of living, sex, at>e, climate, and accidental circumstances, which are as various, as there arc varieties m human beings, ages, sexes, climates, seasons, &c. DIF VE HENCE OF DISEASES AS TO THEIR ORIGIN. ■\Vith regard to the origin or causes of diseases, they are divided into, 1. Hereditary, congencrate, and adventitious. Those are hereditary, which arise in children, from a disease of the parents, they can, therefore, be paternal or maternal, thus the venereal disease, calculus or stone, scrophula, gout, madness, cataract often descend from one "encration to another. O Those are called congenial, which the foetus contracts in the uterus, but in other respects, arc not hereditary, as marks, or moles, in particular places, hydrocephalus, bifid spine, and all deformities. All diseases arc named adventitious, which are contracted at birth, or afterwards, until death, all diseases are comprehended under this head, except hereditary and conggnerate. 2. Diseases arc distinguished into primary and secondary. Primary or protopathic, which do not arise from any other disease, but from their own particular cause, as a wound, contusion, or fracture. Secondary, or deuteropathic, arising from another disease, cither present or preceding, as luxation from a tu- mour within a joint, an ulcer from inflammation, and cataract after an operation. 3. Into pcndcmic, endemic, epidemic, and sporadic. Ftndemic, which aflect people in the same place, without contagion, as soldiers inarching in a dusty season are mostly all seized with opthalmia, thus a damp air gives many p-;oplc a rheumatic tooth ach. Endemic, which are peculiar to a people or coufitry, as struiiim are common to the inhabitants of moun- tainous countries, scorbutic ulcers to those living 6n the sea coast, and the plica polonica to the polenese. Epidemic, which attack many persons at the same time and place, thus carbuncles, pestilential buboes, putrid sore throats, now and then rage epidemically. Sporadic, which are observed every where and at all times, even epidemic diseases are sometimes observed to be sporadic, thus a person only may be attacked by a putrid sore throat, or have a carbuncle. 4. Into true, fletitious, and artifleial diseases. Those are true which come naturally. Artificial, which arc produced by art, as ulcers by a seton, issue, or blister. Fictitious, as pretended lameness, elephantiasis, spots, or apparent blotches, made by painting, a pretended w'olf in the stomach, and other counterfeited diseases invented by beggars and impostors to excite com- passion, &c. 5. Into legitimate and spurious. Those arc legitimate, which have a true disposition. Those are sjiuriuus, which take on the appearance of other diseases, and have no radical disposition of disease, thus liciiiice and aneurisms arc distinguished intw true and false. 6. Into diseases from an internal, or external cause. Diseases from an internal cause, or spontaneous, which arise from a vitiated state of the fluids or solids, without any external cause, as cachexies, icterus, scurvy, schropliula, &c. ulcers from a scorbutic, schrophulous, or any other acrimony. Diseases from an exteimal cause, or violence, arise from some --^xtenraT aft'ection, as ulcers by blistering, inflam- mation by a contusion, catarrhs and fevers, by mu- tations in the air, ^c. DIFFERENCE IN THE SEAT OF DISEASED. Diseases are distinguished with regard to their seat. 1. Into extenial, which are situated on the external surface of tlic body, as some eruptions, wounds, ulcer, or tumour. 2. Into internal, which occupy some cavity in the body, as ascites, bydrothorax, byilroceplialus, wounds of the viscera, an eft'usion of blood; water in the head, ab- domen, or in the thorax, caries of a joint, spina ventosa, &c. 3. Into tffgwe, or flying, which travel from place to place, as moveable erysipelas, rheumatisms, vague atliritis, or gout. 4. Iwio fixed, which constantly remain in the place they first attacked, as pleurisy, peupneumony, &c. wliich is the case in most diseases. 5. JicfrooTflf/c, which sometimes affect an external pait, then an internal, thus the gout, or erysipelas suddenly leaves( 1^7 ) leaves an external part, and goes to the ^ain, orlungs, or diaphragm, winch occasions great danger. 6. ld'u>pathic, which arise from a cause situated in that part where the disease is seen. 7. Si/mpathctic, or consensual, the cause of which resides in a different part from that where the disease is ob- served as amaurosis from saburra of the stomach, the tooth ach from pregnancy, and vomiting from a violence done to the head, or from various other causes. All these sympathetic symptoms arise from the sympathy of the nerves. See par vagum ^c. 8. Symptomatic, or significant of another disease, almost every disease may be termed symptomatic of the original affection. It is seated in a part, or is uni- versal ; but the sensations felt are conveyed to the common sensorium, or brain, by the communication, and sympathy of the nervous system. 9. Universal, which occupy all the surface of the body, as anasarca pneumatosis universal; burning, if any one should fall into a scalding liquid. 10. Partial, which occupy one part entirely, as mdema of the legs, emphysema of the head, erysipelas of the face. 11. Topical, or local, which arc seated in one place only, on a part as a wound, encysted tumour, many dis- eases are found local with respect to situation, which are universal as to their causes, as cancer, schrophula. 12. Diseases of parts, which are proper to each part, thus an anatomical division of diseases is formed, as dis- eases of the head, neck, thorax, abdomen, joints, skin, eyes, teeth, bones, glands, &'C. DIFFERENCE OF DISEASES IN THEIR COURSE. Diseases are distinguished by the course they take into, 1'. Short, which are speedily cured as light colds, inflam- matory tumours, wounds and fractures. 2. Long, which are longer of cure, as all chronic diseases, palsy, gout, ulcers, heroia:, prolapsus. 3. Chronic, which continue for years, as a cancer, old ulcers, spina ventosa, caries. 4. Continual, which run on in the same manner from be- ginning to end. 5. Remittent, which remit at times, or exacerbate; but do not entirely cease. 6. Intermitted, or periodic, which come on at certain times and go off again, as ebris intermittens, periodic opthalmia, which is troublesome every second or third day, and cured by bark, acid of vitriol, or so- lutions of white vitriol, in bitter infusions. Periodic diseases of a particular cast, are called typic, but those which do not take on a particular type are called shifting, or wandering. •The time between the attacks is called apyrexia, but that time in which the fit continues is called paroxysm, or pyrexia. 7. Precedent, which precede another disease, thus inflam- mation is a preceding disease to suppuration, gangrene, or scirrhus; an abcess, fissure, disease of a bone precedes caries. 8. Accessory, which injuriously adds fresh evils to the exist- ing disease, as hooping cough, superadded to measles, or an inflammation of the lungs to the asthmatic, gangrene to a wound, contusion to a schirrous breast. 9. Succeeding, which succeed a disease, thus boils frequently follow the small-pox, and carious abscesses succeed Icucoinata of the cornea. THE DIFFERENCE OF DISEASES AS TO THEIR DISPOSITION. Diseases with respect to their disposition arfe distin'^ guished into, 1. Great, which in their course produce great and im- portant symptoms, as violent fevers, hernia incarce- rated, mischief done to a nerve. 2. Small, which produces slight symptoms, and such as arc free from danger, as slight catarrh, a small wound, or simple ulcer. 3. Mild, which have neither important symptoms, nor dan- ger attending, as some nervous affections that are more troublesome than dangerous, an encysted tu- mour, schirrus, or polypus, when not virulent. 4. Malignant, which has either some apparent or secret danger, as painful schirrus, bite of a mad dog, or empoisoned viper. , 5. Refractory, which baffle the effects of the most expe- rienced remedies, or are rather increased by endea- vouring to cure improperly, as cancer, deep seated caries. 6. Contagious, which go from one to another by contact,, as the yellow fever, putrid sore throat, measles, small- , pox, or the venereal disease, pestilential bubo, dec. 7- P\.egular, which have their usual symptoms. 8. Irregular, or anomalous, which have not their usual symptoms, and sometimes are puzzling to our ex- perience, in naming. 9. Simple, which happen alone in any part, as a simple frac- ture, or luxation. 10. Compound, which happen twice or more in one place, as a double, or treble fracture, in a single bone. 11. Complicated, which take place with another disease in the same part, as a luxation complicated with a wound, caries, or fracture of thejftint. DIFFERENCE OF DISEASES AS TO THRIR TER- MINATION. > With regard to the terminations diseases, usually have, they are divided into, 1. Curable, which can be cured by art or nature. 2. Incurable, which cannot hitherto be cured, by art nor natural efforts. 3. Mortal, which terminate in death, as aneurism of the aorta. .Mortal( i88 ) Mortal diseases ai-e subdivided into, 1. Those whicli arc absolutely mortal, in which luither art, nor nature can prevent death. 2. Those wliich arc mortal naturally, but which arc cured by art, not by nature, as scarlatina anginosa, &c. 3. Accidentally mortal, which are not naturally so, but cause death by improper treatment of the practitioner, or abuse of the nonnaturals. 4. Doubtful, of which the termination in life or death is uncertain. 5. Relapsing, which, after being cured, frequently return as a cataract, amaurosis, gout, chronic, rheu- matism, &c. 6. Salutary, which preserve a person from a more dangerous disease, which they sometimes remove, as ulcers, cri- tical tumours, purging, &c. 7. Unsalutary, or hurtful, which neither preserve the body from any other disease, nor cure it. DIFVERENCE OF DISE.\SES FROM THE KIKD OF LIFE. From the kind of life, diseases arc divided into those of arti- ficers, soldiers, countrymen, literary persons, the clergy, the rich, the poor, travellers, or those leading a sedentary life. DIFFERENCE OF DISEASES FROM CONSTITUTION. From a difference of constitution, diseases arc divided into tho.se of a sanguineous, bilious, pituitary, or atra- biliary habit. DIFFERENCE OF DISEASES FROM SEX. From the sex, diseases are divided into masculine and femi- nine; feminine diseases are subdivided into those of virgins, of pregnant women, during child birth, after delivery, and of old women. DIFFERENCE OF DISEASES FROM AGE. From the age diseases arc divided into those of the fadus, children, young persons, adults, and old people. DIFFERENCE OF DISEASES FROM CLIM.tTE. From the climate, diseases are divided into those of hot, cold, temperate, wet, or dry climates. DIFFERENCE OF DISEASES FRO.M TIME.* From the time diseases arc divided into those of spring, sum- mer, autumn, and winter, those happening at the new, or at the full moon, diurnal and nocturnal. From the time of continuance diseases are divided into re- cent and inveterate. Finally, each disease may be distinguished into its stages, as beginning, advancing, remaining, declining, and ^pishing. ^ETIOLOGY, OR DOCTRINE OF THE CAUSES OF DISEASES. ON THE CAUSES OF DISF.A.SES GENERALLY. The cause of a disease is any thing which produces it. In a general way, the causes of diseases arc divided into, 1. Procgumcnic, or predisposing. ‘2. Procatartic, occasional, or exciting. 3. Proximate, or constituent causes of diseases. The procgumcnic, or predisposing causes, is such a dispo- sition of the body as renders it lit to receive a disease. All diseases have not a predisposing cause; this predispo- sition is a certain state of the fluids, solids, or both, and is present in the constitution, before the disease takes place. The procatartic, or occasional cau.se is a thing, which, be- ing applied to the body excites a predisposition to disease This is also called the remote cause, and is divided into, 1. External, which does not exist in the body, but is ap- plied to it. 2. Internal, which existing in the body, occasions the disease. The proximate cause is that change of the fluids or solids, which constitutes the existing disease, or it is the disease itself. The study of the causes of diseases is extremely necessary for physicians, since a cure depends on the removal of the morbific cause. THE PROXIMATE CAUSE OF DISEASES. The proximate causes are simple diseases of the fibres, or humours, which'constilute the parts affected. DISEASES ARISING FROM SIMPLE AFFECTIONS OF THE SOLIDS. Laxity, occasions distortion, luxation, true aneurism, piles, hernix, debility of the moving powers. Mollities ossium, or softness of the bones, causes bending of the limbs, crookedness, or deformity of parts. Rigidity gives rise to anchylosis of the joints, brittleness of the bones and fractures. A consumptive wasting of parts produces a putrid, gan- grenous, or carious humour. Too great elasticity, thus too much elasticity in the carti- lages of the pelvis, causes adiflicult labour in women that are past youth. Too little elasticity, thus weakness of the cartilages of the pelvis, causes diastasis of the bones of the pelvis, and weakness, or inelasticity of the intervertebral cartilages occasions deformity, crookedness, &c. Increased irritability, stimulus upon the nerves of sense causes pain, upon the nerves of motion it produces spasm.( »89 ) spasm, or convulsion, and upon the vital nerves, it occasions inflammation, or fever. Diminished irritability, soon produces gangrene. Spasm, excites a spasmodic ischury, or impossibility of mak- ing water, or other sudden contraction. Paralysis causes a paralytic angina, and ischury, from a pa- ralysis of the bladder, or loss of motion in limbs. Pnereased sensibility causes pain. Diminished sensibility induces an insensible state, gangrene; when affecting the optic nerve, it causes amaurosis, and by affection of the auditory nerve it occasions deafness, of the lingual loss of taste. DISEASES AEISIKG FROM AFFECTION OF THE FLUIDS. From plethora hsemorrhages arise, either by usual, or unusual channels, true and spurious indamniatiuns. From keneangia tumours, become oedematous. From thickness, obstructions and tumours proceed. From thinness, inflammations, spots, haemorrhages, and ex- travasations. From acrimony, various diseases have their origin, as Acid acrimony occasions universal, or particular softness of the bones, carious and gangrenous tumours. Alkaline acrimony, causes an acrid thinness of the humours from which ulcers, inflammations, and hsemorrhages arise. Muriatic acrimony brings on rigidity and foul ulcers. Venereal acrimony occasions gonorrhea, floor albus, ulcers, ophthalmia, warts, nocturnal pains, nodes, swellings, and copper coloured eruptions. Scorbutic acrimony causes fungous ulcers, spongy gums, indurations of the legs, spots, and cracking of bones. Arthritic acrimony, produces arthritic tumours, and ulcers, which discharge a foul blackish ichor. Gouty acrimony, occasions gouty tumours ami earthy swellings in the great toe and fingers. Rheumatic acrimony, causes pains in the muscles, painful tumours, foul ulcers, caries, dryness and contraction of the limbs, sore throat and eyes, rheumatic tooth ach, rheumatic inflammations rarely become red. Arthrodynia follows. Scrophulous acrimony, produces scrophula in the glands of the neck, mesentery and groin, ophthalmia, swelling of the nose and upper lip, caries of the bones, and white swellings. Schirrous and cancerous acrimony, occasions schirrus and cancers. Carbunculous and pestilential acrimony, cause carbuncles and pestilential buboes. Putrid acrimony brings on mortification in tumours and wounds. Rancid acrimony, occasions erysipelas and caries of the r bones. Bilious acrimony, likewise produces erysipelas, and the shingles, or herpes. The acrimony of ulcers, being absorbed, occasions slow fe- ver, mctastatical tumours. The saburraof the prima; viaj-'frequently occasions ophthal- mia, the tooth ach, and inflammations of wounds and ulcers. From error of situation, true and spurious inflammations arise, or rednesses, without pain or heat. From retention of the perspirable matter, fevers, serous tumours, hydrocele, dropsy, and rheumatism arise. From retention of urine, the ischury, mortification of the bladder, rupture, cystocele, and the stone are oc- casioned. From retention of the feces, arc produced extension of the rectum, swelling beyond the anus, piles, oplitlialmia, sore throat, from too much blood being determined to the head. From retention of the milk, mastodinia, inflammation, and induration of the breasts, also lacteal tumours of the extremities have their origin. From retention of the menses or piles, haemorrhages and tu- mours, in various places, arc occasioned. From retention of the semen, spermatocele, sarcocele, and inflammation of the testis. From a too great excretion, or too profuse evacuation of blood, death, or oedematous tumours. From the excretion of semen, amblyopia, blindness, and se- minal weakness. From extravasation of blood, ccchymosis, spurious, aneurism and trombus. From extravasation of serum, oedema, serous tumours, and dropsy. From extravasation of lymph, lymphatic tumours. From extravasation of air, emphysema. From metastasis ol morbid matter, metastatic, or critical tumours arise. From congestion, or a violent motion of the blood to any part, haemorrhages, ophthalmia and amaurosis. Fiona stagnation of the fluids, putridity, or various degene- rations of the humours, as may be seen in cystic and hydropic tumours, stagnation of the urine, causes calculus. From a separation of principles, various diseases arise, as from a separation of the aqueous portion, oedema, or dropsy, from the oil lypomata, or obesity, from the chyle, lacteal tumours; from the earth, calculi, or earthy tumours; from the gluten, oedematous tu- mours; from secretion, of a nirtritions juice, saredma and polypi, probably have their origin. EXCITING CAUSES OF DISEASES. These are what excite the proximate causes, ox the causes of the proximate causes. C c c The( 190 ) The most frequent exciting causes of diseases are six, which are usually called the non-uaturals, viz. 1. The air- 2. foods and drink. 3. Motion and rest. 4. Sleep and waking. 5. Things:c;{.crcted and retained. 6. Passions of the mind. THE AIR. The atmospheric air surrounding our body, generally irri- tates, inflames, and suddenly dries every part which is not covered by the epidermis, by which means it does hurt to wounds, ulcers, and bones, when laid bare, it appears that the air has peculiar qualities, by which it causes diseases, as easterly winds, &c. 1. Warm air rarefies the fluids, relaxes the solids, renders the nervous System too irritable, disposes the bile, and other humours to putridity, hence, from great heat arise much suppuration of wounds, gangrene, gene- ration of vermin, fungous, tetanus. 2. Cold air condenses the humours, contracts the solids, congeals the coagulablc parts of our humours, by which chilblains, gangrene, and mortification of con- gealed parts follow, especially if heat be applied to them ; cold applied to a wound, impedes suppuration, and sometimes causes tetanus. 3. Dry air, by its dryness, prevents or retards wounds and ulcers from healing, causes ophthalmia and sore throat, coughs, cold, and asthma. 4. Moist air, by obstructing cutaneous perspiration, and re- laxing the solids, causes chronic, ophthalmia, tooth ach, and rheumatic tumours, intermitting fevers. 5. An air filled with heterogeneous qualities, occasions va- rious morbid effects. 6. Putrid air, as in an hospital, by foul e.xhalations from the sick, or from ulcers, especially gangrenous ones, causes wounds mostly to become gangrenous, which is the reason why many die in putrid hospitals, after suffering amputation, or the trepan. 7i Epidemic air, which contains a particular virus, occa- sions pestilential buboes, carbuncles, and sometimes putrid sore throats, fevers, 6ic. of pun id kind. 8. Air loaded with dust, brings on redness of the eyes, and sometimes a sore throat and hoarseness. A high wind, by blowing the tiles off houses, causes many severe wounds in the head, the wind also dries the epidermis, and occasions chops in the lips and hands. JO. The air being taken away, by an air pump, causes par- tial, or geiierfil sweljiug, all over the body, those who are sunk, under water, die for want of air. 11. Foetid air is hurtful to the eyes, by its exhalation, bring- ing on ophthalmia; from the exhalations of aqua-fortis acataract is produced; the fumes of mercury in the chamber of a person in a salivation, occasions the very worst kind of salivation, and other symptoms to those afflicted with the scurvy, 12. The air which is extricated from our body, either fluids or solids, is by the means of putridity ; hence prot ceeds emphysema of a gangrenous jiart, and swelling in a dead person. The air pervades every part of our body, that when it is blown into a wound, the whole body becomes env- physematous, thus also, the air escaping from the lungs by the breaking of a rib, into the cellular mem* brane, causes general emphysema. THE INGESTA. Every thing taken by the mouth, whether victuals, drink, or medicine, carried into the primffi viae, is called the iugesta. The food can produce a disease by its quan- tity, or quality. The quantity may be too much, or too little. The quantity being too great, produces an ill formed chyle, therefore from excessive eating, too much suppura- tion of wounds and ulcers, or a bad pus, fungus, and inflammations are occasioned, flatulence, &c. Excessive eating of lying in women, causes deposition of milk, in the extremities, and swelling of the breasts, also inflammations, in wounds of tlie stomach and intestines, voracity alone produces death, and in tlu)se subject to herniaj, it occasions strangulation of the intestine. A deficient quantity of food, or long fasting, makes the fluids putrid, thence bad suppuration, gaugrcnc, and death, hence too rigid a diet in fractures sometimes prevents a junction of the bones. The quality of the ingesta can have several bad properties. 1. Spirituous food causes congestion to the head, hence in wounds of the head, and perturbation of the brain, it is hurtful; a continued use of strong spirits brings on induration of the liver, glands, and such a nar- rowness of the oesophagus, as to render dcglutilion difficult, contracts the lacteals, diminishes healthful chylification ; of course sanguification, nutrition, and bodily strength, produces dropsy, &c. 2. Fatty food, by relaxing the prim« viae and peritoneum, subjects the person to ruptures; corrupt food, gene- rates a rancid saburra in the stomach, by which a vi- tiated chyle is carried into the blood, affecting the adeps, and raedull.ary part of. the bones, occasioning inflammations, erysipelas, maglignant ulcers, spina ventosa, and mortificaiion, in some instances. 3. Glutinous-food, produces a glutinous and acescent saburra, in the prim.Te via*, by which, a glutinous and ace.scent chyle goes into the blood, whence arise obstruction of the glands, tumours of the joints, spurious, anchyr losis, and oedematous swellings. 4. Sdl^food, occasions a predominant muriatic and scorbu- tic acrimony. It has been found to dissolve the callus of fractured bones, which had been formed many years before. 5. Jlkalint( 191 ) 5. Alkalint-food, dissolves tRe gelatinary part of the blood, hence arises an incurable state of wounds, ulcers, and fractures, and from the thinness of the blood various hasmarrhages and livid spots are occasioned. 6. Acid-food, causes an iichiness, cutaneous diseases, softness * of the bones, and rickets. 7. Sweet-food, by long continuance, brings on acidity of the l^umours, which occasion the teeth to be black, and the rickets in children. 8. Acrid and aromatic food, causes inflammation in wounds and ulcers, when long chewed, in the mouth it also occasions blackness and caries of the teeth. 9. Flatulent food, frequently occasions a strangulated hernia, to those who are subject to them. 10. Cold food, sometimes brings on a cold and tooth ach, and hot food occasions fissures and blackness of the teeth ; but when too hot, it burns the mouth, fauces and oesophagus, which occasions a morbid narrowness of that channel 11. Poiso«ed-/bod,. causes different diseases, according to the kind of poison; thus, bread made of impure flour, occasions the coreal convulsion, an account of which may be seen in the rational practice, in the chapter on convulsions, &c. dry gangrene in the extremities; arsenic swallowed, has been known to occasion morti- fication of the stomach, or genitals. 12. Indigestible food, causes a crude saburra, and flatulence, by which a strangulated hernia may be occasioned. 13. Heterogeneous-bodies, in- food usually remain in the fauces, cardia, pylorus, or near Tulpius valve, or at the termination of the rectum ; by mistake of deglu- tition the food sometimes escapes into the eustachian tube, fissure of the larynx, trachea, or bronchia, and, if not immediately expelled, they suftbeate, though they sometimes find an unexpected passage out of the body, by inflammation, abcess, or fistula. INCREASED MUSCULAR MOTION. Increased action of the muscles, accelerates the blood’s mo- tion, increases hear, opens the exhalent arteries, and being suddenly checked by cold, produces many evils; hence it increases inflammatory tumours, and in- flamed cold ones is hurtful in haemorrhages, disturbs the situation of a fracture, luxation, wound, or ul- cer, and prevents them from healing. Particular motions of any part tend to the same purpose, as 1. Force, as during labour, any bodily exercise, wrestling, expelling the urine, or faces, may produce broncho- cele, hernia, prolapsus, ophthalmia. 2. Deep inspirations, by inflating the lungs to the utmost, has produced rupture of the blood vessels, hernia, and ophthalmia. 3. Vomiting and cough are sometimes productive of redness of the eyes, force a great quantity of blood to the brain, hence fatal effusions, apoplexy, hydrocephalus membranaruin in children, aud in the ; ventricles of the brain, &c. ecchymosis, and herniae, vomiting has caused rupture of the msophagus, and forced the stomach into the thorax. 4. Sneezing, brings on rupture, and in people Who have been trepanned, a protrusion of the brain, through the trepanned part. 5. Immoderate laughter, has caused struma of the neck, a dislocation of the jaw bone, a determination of bloorl to the brain and eyes. G. Gaping, has occasioned dislocation of the jaw bone. 7. Loud hallowing, has been productive of hernia, and sing- ing redness of the eyes, and sore throat. 8. Dancing, a fracture of the leg, luxation, or distortion of the foot, knee, or thigh, rupture of the liver, spleen, or aorta ; perturbation of the brain, and rupture of the tendo achillis. Q. Continual walking, rigidity of the knees and anchylosis. 10. Straddling, has occasioned hernia. 11. Porterage, a distortion of the spine, and crookedness of the legs. 12. lifting heavy weights, pain of the side, hernia, pul- inonocele, prolapsus. 13. Wrestling, a distortion of muscles and tendons, rupture of the ligaments of the wrist, distortion, or luxation of tlic hand, fingers, elbow, or shoulder. DIMINISHED MUSCULAR MOTION. Diminished muscular motion causes rigidity of the muscles and ligaments, also anchylosis. Under this head may be classed every position of certain members, as 1. Too lung standing, produces oedema, piles, and ulcers of the legs. 2. An improper situation, occasions crookedness, and de- formities. 3. Too long sitting, causes rigidity of the knees. 4. Continual bending of the knee, occasions lupia—and rigidity of the spine. 5. Continual lying in bed, brings on inflammation, excoria- tion, and mortification about the os coccygis, and os sacrum, it also occasions calculi in the bladder and kidneys.' ' , EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. The kinds of violence, which usually occasion diseases, are 1. Incision, which makes an incised wound. 2. Puncture, which makes a punctured wound. 3. Contusion, which produces ecchymosis, or a contused wound, and afterwards even carious bones Ike. 4. A bite, which occasions a contused wound. 5. Rupture, which frequently forces the members from their articulations. 6. Amputation, performed by the knife, or made by a shot^ occasions loss of the member. 7. Falling, especially from a pretty high place, produces fractures and luxations of the bones, contusions of the( 192 ) , the soft parts, and perturbation of the brain, or ' spinal marrow. 8. A cannon ball flying past, though not touching the person ! may break, or luxate a bone, bring on ecchymosis, or burn the soft parts and disturb the brain. 9. A cannon ball touch.ing a part mostly carries it away, seldom bruises it only. 10. A vvjskct ball coming in the direction of our body, passes through it entirely; in part, or only touches it ; consequently various wounds and contusions are occasioned. 11. ^ piercing penetrating reound, forms a rugged foramen. 12. A superficial v:ound, or scratch, sanguineous excoriations, which especially in old persons, and those of a bad habit of body, ulcerate. 13. Hard-friction, upon a part produces excoriation of the palm of the hand from work, or of the sole of the foot by walking, of the thighs by riding; sanguineous excoriation on the breast of a woman, from violence in giving suck to an infant. 14. Extension of a part, which is either sudden or gradual; by sudden great pain, laceration of the vessels and nerves follow,occasioning ecchymosis, inflammations and tetanus, whilst gradual extension is frequently experienced without dangerous symptoms, but if the extending, or distending cause be suddenly removed, as water in the hydrocele, mdema, or ascites, gan- grene, or effusions of blood sometimes follow. 15. Contortion of a member occasions luxations, fractures, and ecchymosis from ruptured vessels. iC. Compression on a part, generally brings on mortification; on an artery, it occasions an emptiness, or dryness of the veins; on a vein, it causes oedema; on a nerve, it is productive of paralysis and withering. ir. Commotion is a violent concussion of the whole body, or of one part only, thus by a violent leap from a great height, the whole body is put out of order; by the violent motion of the head only, and from a pertur- bation of the brain, various symptoms arc occasioned, as loss of'thc senses, both internal and external. TniNGS EXTERNALLY APPLIED. Under this head arc considered, 1. The cloaths, which may do mischief, by compression or composition, as The head, by the use of haliy caps is made too hot, which oc- casions a greater determination of blood to the head and favours the production of vermin. The neck being too closely girted by a cravat, occasions red- ness of the eyes, and haemorrhage from the nostrils, apoplexy, rupture of the blood vessels, of the brain, lethargy, and death. The breast, being improperly cloathed, causes deformity, ex- coriation of the axilla, and swelling of the arm. The legs become ulcerated by coarse linen stockings. The feet have corns from wearing tight shoes. 2. Bandages improperly applied for inflamed parts, rolled up too closely, go into gangrene and sphacelus, or mor- tification, which is sometimes observed in fractures. 3. Poisons applied externally, thus arsenic, or Corrosive sub- limate, sprinkled on ulcers, have been known to bring on mortification and death, from the bite of a viper, gangrene emphysema, and sometimes death follow* from the bite cf a mad dog, hydrophobia follows. 4. Contagion, which is a morbid matter passing out of the body of a sick person into that of a healthy one, such as in infectious putrid fevers, the lues veneres,* cancer, carbuncles, and the plague. 5. Improper 7ncdicinft, thus rancid ointments applied to fresh wounds cause them to degenerate into foul ulcers. By the application of hot things to chilblains, suddenly, or to frost nipped persons, gangrene is brought on ; by greasy dressings to eryspelas, foul ulcers, sometimes, and gangrenes are produced. 6. Some insects whose bite cause spreading inflammation, or tubercles, as wasps, gnats, and lice, cause itching ; some flics settle upon wounds and ulcers, leaving their filth upon them. 7. Extraneous things carried into the body irritate, hence they cause inflammation and suppuration, by which they frequently are excluded. Swallowing a pin, which perforating the rectum, made its way into the ovarium and uterus, causing dreadful misery some years, and ending fatally. The true cause was never discovered of this irremediable case, until the body was opened, at the St. Wary-le-bone Infirmary, where the woman had long been before she died; then, the life-destroying pin was extracted in the pre- sence of myself and pupils. 8. Cold, or the matter of ice, makes chilblains (sec dis- eases proceeding from cold.) 9. Fire occasions inflammation, suppuration, and mortifica- tion, dry heat brings on a dry gangrene, moist heat, as boiling water, causes watery vesicles to rise, in- flammations ; or produces a moist gangrene. 10. Thunder, which seems to be concentrated electric fire, causes wonderful burnings, marks, fractures of the bones, perturbation of the brain and nerves, and sometimes death itself, without any apparent vio- lence, either external or internal. 11. Too strong light falling on the retina, occasions winking, confused vision, amblyopia, and amaurosis. 12. The rays of the sun, when very strong, cause freckles, and spots in the face, and sneezing ; browns the rcte mucosum, and darkens the colour of the skin. 13. Sound, 1 have known the sound from a heavy discharge of cannon, bring on difliculty of hearing, deafness, discharge of blood from tbe car, likewise the teeth are set on edge, by a disagreeable sound; and those who are musical amateurs, amongst whom I reckon myself, on hearing false tones, expeiience the most ungrateful sensations; but from true harmony, in- expressible delight. of( *93 ) 14-. A strong pungent odour, brings on redness or inflam- mation of the eyes. WOHKMAKSHIP, OR DISEASES OF ARTIFICERS. TKe reasons, by which working at trades, or in manufactories, cause diseases are, 1. The substance which a workman may handle, or by w hich the air he breaths may be rendered unwholesome. 2. The poiture, motion of the body or hands, which a work- man may be obliged to use. Countrymen and gardeners exposed to the hottest rays of the sun during the summer, by its heat, acquire a dark- ness of the face and ephelidcs. By continued manual labour, the palms of the hands of sailors become callous, if a countryman should have a whitlow on the finger, and the incision not be made deep enough, mortification or caries of the phalanx frequently follows, the epidermis when thick and callous, lies on the neighbouring soft parts and bones, hence, compression of the nerves and vessels brings on gangrene and caries of the bones from the pus being confined. The Literati by the constant sight of white objects, as pa- per, become subject to myops and inflammations of the eye-lids. Phyticians and surgeons, by intercourse with the sick, get contagious diseases, unless very circumspect. R^ners become dim sighted by the fusion of metals and working iron, quenching of which, in the water, causes amaurosis. tVhite'Uad makers, are seized with obstinate colics, paralysis, a contraction of the fingers, hands, arms, and at last of the whole body, with fixed arthritis, or arthrodia. Coppersmiths, by constant use, have greenish hair and teeth, they also become deaf by continually striking with the hammer. Blacksmiths, are also deaf by the sound of the hammer, and subject to hernia by lifting heavy weights, have wa- tery eyes, and loss of sight by strong fires. Founders, from being in the melting house, often become dim sighted. Miners digging quicksilver, are troubled with loose teeth and a falling out of them. It was formerly observed that those who rubbed mercurial ointment on a part, where seized with trembling of the hand, therefore surgeons desire venereal patients to rub in for themselves, or the hand should be co- vered with a bladder, to prevent absorbtion. Gilders working with amalgama, become deaf and dumb through the rarefaction of mercury, by the heat used, and they aie likewise paralytic. Letterfounders feel a loss of sensation, and contraction of the hands, by the fumes of antimony and lead. Lapidaries are troubled with ophthalmia and cophosis, by the particles of stones getting into their eyes, mouth, and cars; a bladder hung up in their shop and closed, D frequently acquires a considerable quantity of this dust, whence it appears, that this powder is very penetrating, and shews the bladder porous. Plasterers have ulcerated lips by slacking the lime, and dry wrinkled hands, but seldom scabby. Putters are subject to a contraction of the hands by the cal- cination of lead, for the vitrification of their ware, and become chronically rheumatic in the hands and feet, by working the cold earth. Salt-makers become scorbutic and ophthalmic. Cooks, by the fire are troubled with inflammation and, at last, blindness. Confectioners destroy teeth. Nightmen are mostly blear eyed, and have a bad sight from the exhalations of the faeces, and can hardly work four hours a day for a pain in the eyes, they are afterwards obliged to sit in a dark place, and wash their eyes with warm water ; the foetor is so corro- sive, that silver and copper vessels become black, and can hardly be cleaned from it, from this it is evident why a foul chamber pot hurts the eyes. Wasldng-v:omen are watry eyed from the noxious odor of the lixivium, a'dematous from standing, subject to whitlocs in the fingers, from alternate heat and cold, also chaps occasioned by the soap. Tallow-chandlers are subject to eye diseases from the un- pleasant factor of the melted fat. Millers become deaf by the sound of the mill, and the vola- tile part of the flour. Bakers are hoarse by the volatile part of the flour, and have generally large hands, for exercise, increases the size of parts. Hair-dressers become dim sighted by the powder. Sifters become dim sighted by the dust of the flour, and get a cough as well as scabby eruption. Labourers become crooked by carrying heavy weights on their back, which by custom occasions pain of the back and thighs, by lifting weighty things they get ruptures and the blood of the s mall vessels being pressed by loads occasions sciatica. Porters by carrying burthens and bending forwards, become crooked, also subject to ruptures. Shoe-makers by stooping forwards and sitting with their knees bent, become curved and lame, by continual bending to work, their arms become thick, and muscles of the thorax strong. Tqy/ors walk awkwardly, by their feet being compressed in sitting, and their backs are bent; even girls sitting closely to sewing, as making gowns, &c. by the scapulse bones receding, become round shouldered, frequently have ruptures, hoarseness, &c. Grooms are subject to calculi, from the violent motion of the kidneys, they are libidinous from the motion of the genitals, and frequently have the piles from friction and concussion of the anus. Singers, and children that hollow miuh are subject to hernia, musicians playing the bassoon, have red eyas from d straining,( 194 ) straining, also' hoarseness and sore tliroat from ex- treme action of the larynx. A kind (>f v:atchmai in the Indies, that call the hoUrs in a j)arlicular voice, mostly become blind. Standing workmen, also attendants of the king, and the sootlisayers'of the ancients, who stand for the whole day, had varicose feet, and at last oedema. Seckntari/-v:orhntn, also the literati become subject to the piles and costiveness, by compressing the iliac vessels when silting. In fact, all workmen, who are exposed to a fmtid atmosphere are bad-sighted and cachetic, therefore ulcers in them arc diflicnlt of cure. PASSIONS OF THE MIND. J’axsions are ideas impressed on the mind with great violence, whicli are succeeded by involuntary motions. It is not a diaphonia, but extreme pleasure, or displeasure pro- duces these ideas ; passions,arc therefore, divided into, ylgrccable, which we desire to come to pass, as pleasure and love. Disagreeable, which wc hate, as anger, hatred, envy, sorrow, fear, terror, and shame. 1. Pleasure, by increasing the bloods motion, does mischief to inflammatory parts, and where a considerable artery is Wounded, it may cause death. 2. Love, or the desire of venery in both sexes, causes an increased flow of blood towards the genitals, whence proceeds inflammation of the penis and testicles, which may either form or increase spermatocele. 3. ^Ttgcr by increasing the blood’s motion, sometimes bursts a blood vessel in the brain, or, lungs, causes inflam- mation of a wound and haemorrhage, may produce a severe fever, the bite of a man, or animal, who is mad has brought on hydrophobia and madness: anger by disturbing the bile frequently causes erysipelas. 4-. Sorrow brings on schirrus by weakening the nerves and vessels, it also occasions cedematous tumours. 5. Tear suddenly relaxes all the muscular fibres, hence by relaxing the sphincter, it causes an involuntary dis- charge of urine, great fear first brings on fainting, afterwards a greater inflammation of a wound follows. 6. Terror produces spasm of the muscles, hence, in wounded persons especially, it occasions tetanus, by terror vessels contract, by which there is little haemorrhage during surgical operations, which some hours after follows more abundantly. Terror frequently produces schirrus, or changes it into can- cer, it can also make slight wounds mortal, for men have been known to die of very inconsiderable wounds, on account of terror. 7. Shame causes blushing, hence, it occasions a determina- tion of blood to the face. THE LONGING OF A PftEGNANT "WOMAN. woman can occasion marks in the foetus. I am of, opinion that no new organic part which did not pre- exist can be formed, nor any i>art already formed be destroyed, by the force of imagination, although wo are not able to deny, but that there may be some power of the imagination over the foetus; those marks seem to be formed by a preternatural evolution of the embryo, or some unknown cause. 'I’licre are, how- ever, some strong presumptive evidences, that frights &c. have been the cause of marks. TOO MUCH EXEUCISF. OF THE SENSES. Exercise of the internal, or external senses may be improper by excess, or defect. Too much application of the brain, as in long study, brings on debility of the nerves, and causes a great deter- mination of blood to the head, therefore it is hurtful in wounds of the head, and diseases of the eyes. Extreme exercise of an organ of sense, leaves debility in the organ, and occasions a determination of blood to it, thus from looking too long on an object, debility of sight, redness of the eyes and amaurosis, from long custom of hearing loud sounds, we become deaf. SLEEP. Too much sleep relaxes the fibres, and brings on a pituitary diathesis of the humours, hence it disposes the habit to oedema. WAKING. Too long being awake hurts the eyes, consequently a redness is observed. DIVINE POWER. The ancients, in almost every country, believed, that de- structive evils proceeded from an angry god ; but it is a hard thing-that God, who endeavours to bless all men, should be made the author of diseases in ge- neral; therefore such notions are superstitions. INFERNAL POWER, OR WITCHCRAFT. It IS merely a fable, and inconsistent to suppose, that the magic witches, or wizards, by making a bargain with the devil, can afflict men with diseases at pleasure; for the diseases which malevolent men sometimes cause are brought on by their natural disposition, or habits. Credulity, even in governments, until lately, countenanced these absurdities, and many poor in- nocent old women have been drowned, or burnt for witches; superstitio ridiculusa ! PROGRESSIVE EXTERNAL DISEASES. Thus from wounds, or abcesses, fistula, frequently are causes, or from erysipelas of mortification. PROGIIESSIV'E INTERNAL DISEASES. It is yet doubted whether a Strong imagination of a pregnant Internal diseases frequently deposit their matter( «95 } external parts, by which different critical, or metas- tatic tumours arise. THE PKEDISPOSIXG CAU-SES OF DISEASES. The most frequent predisposing causes of diseases, are, Improper evolution of the foetus. Evolution of the feetug whilst in the uterus gives occasion to many diseases, according as it may be caused, too suddenly, or too slowly, or improperly, by which de- f fortuity, and particular marks have their origin. TEM PEUA.MENT OF BODY. The temperament of body is a peculiar constitution as to the humours, as, ' # 1. A sanguine temperament, in which red blood abounds, hence, true and spurious inflammations arise, and hreniorrhages. 2. A phlegmatic temperament, in which serum and mucus abound, hence, oedematous and aqueous tumours. 3. A bilious tenrperaincnt, in which bile abounds, hence, erysipelas and herpes. 4. A melancholic temperament, in which the blood is black and thick, hence, schirrus and cancerous aflections in these temperaments. 5. A fat temperament, in which fat every where abounds, hence, an easy suppuration, corpulency, &c. 6. A gelatinous temperament, in which a jelly abounds in all the fluids, as in the foetus and infants, hence, their growth and marks. 7. An irritable temperament, in which nervous influence^ abounds, hence, spasms and convulsions are easily- produced by a wound, or even slight cause. 8. A bad temperament, or cachetic, in which the humours are impregnated with some acrimony, or labour un- *dcr diseases. See acrimonies and discrasias. IDIOSYXCRASIA. Idiosyncrasia is a constitution peculiar to every one, by which a person is affected by external things dif- ferently from another, to this we may attribute faint- ing at the sight of a wound, or cat; inflammation of the Ctttis by the application of a medicine, which would not affect the skin of another, &c. dec, HABIT OF BODY. This is a peculiar constitution of the body, as to its solid parts, as, 1. An irritable habit, is that in which the nervous system is very sensile, and the muscles irritable, hence, when wounded tetanus or convulsion easily lollows, in- flammation is also easily brought on, S. A torpid habit, in which the nervous system possesses little sensility, and the muscles net easily excited, as in phlegmatic and melancholy people. 3, A robust habit, in which the fibres arc strong and clastic as in men and countrymen. 4. A weak habit, in which the fibres are weak, as in children* 6. A rigid habit, in which the fibres are stifl'as in madmen and old people. 6. -A. soft habit, in which the fibres are soft, lax, and pos- sessing little elasticity, as in women and infants. 7. A loan habit, in which the fibres are strong, without much cellular membrane. - 8. A fat habit, in which the fibres arfe soft and surrounded with much fat. 9. A diseased habit is the same as a cachectic or bad con- stitution. AGE. Each age has its peculiar diseases. 1. Infancy. The diseases, which are said to arise from in- fancy, are the thrush, inflammation, or ulceration of the navel, hydrocele, umbilical, or inguinal hernia, scald head, crusta lactea, chafing, discharge from the cars and eyes, itching or inflammation of the gums, difficult dentition, spina ventosa, scropluila. 2. Youth. On account of the great motion of blood to- wards the head, tisemorrhages of the nostrils, sore throat, redness of the eyes are observed in youth, about the time of puberty, spermatocele and tumours of the groin are observed from grovvih. 3. Manhood. This period of life brings on the inconveni- encies of piles, calculus, and gout. 4. Old age. The humours become acrid, and abounding-lri earth, which cause rigidity of the fibres and joints, , cuivation of the spine, deafness, and dimness of sight, or blindness, brittleness of the bones, and in- clination of wounds, and contusions, particularly of the tibia, to degenerate into foul ulcers. SEX. The male sex is subject to peculiar diseases about the geni- tals, as scrotal hernia, both true and spurious, phy- mosis, paraphymosis, inflammation, and induration of the testicle. Diseases of the female sex, also arise from various actions peculiar to their genitals and breasts, as in menstrua- tion and delivery, prolapsus of the vagina, rupture of the uterus or perineum, in the breasts, mastodinia, inflammation, induration, and cancer. THE STRUCTURE OF A PART. Every part of our body from its natural structure, is more subject to peculiar diseases than any other part, thus a schirrus takes place in the glands, and the most usual disease, of the adipose membrane is abcess, thus fistula in ano, very frequently arises from fat and putridity in the rectum. SYMPTO-f ) SYMPTOMATOLOGY, on DOCTRINE OF THE SYMPTO:\IS OF DISEASES. A symptom is the effect orphacnomenon of a disease. Every symptom, therefore, is an injury of the actions of our body, or of the visible (Qualities, in any part. Symptoms are divided, with respect to their origin, into, 1. Symptoms of a disease from the disease itself. 2. Symptoms of the cause of a disease, from the cause of the disease being present. 3. Symptoms of other symptoms, from sympathy. 4. Epigenomenovs symptoms, which arise from a new disease coming on. Symptoms are again divided from the time of appcarrance, into, 1. Preceding, which precede a disease. 2. Concomitant, which accompany it. 3. Subsequent, which follow when the disease has ter- minated. Symptoms are also distinguished into external, which consist of mischief done to any visible quality ; and Internal, which are constituted by an injury done to any action of an internal part. Finally every disease has, 1. Proper symptoms, which are peculiar to the disease, they are also called characteristic and pathog- nomic. 2. Common symptoms, which are common to many diseases, 3. Dangerous symptoms, which cause hazard of the life, 4. Milder symptoms, which do not endanger life. EXTERNAt SYMPTOMS. The external symptoms of diseases arise from injury done to the visible qualities under this head, we may range almost all external diseases, which may be symptoms of another internal disease. Pain. An unpleasant sensation in a particular part, is a symptom of inflammation, cancer, rheumatic tu- mour, spina ventosa, of a wound whilst it is being inflicted, of injury done to a nerve, or of an ulcer. Anodynia, or Insensibility. The absence of feeling in a part, which in a natural state would give pain, constitutes symptoms of mortification, compression, or division of a nerve, or a ligature made on it. Ucat. A sensation of heat in a particular part, is a symp- tom of inflammation and injury done to a nerve. Cold. The sensation of cold in a part is a symptom of sphacelus. Morbid colour. A preternatural colour is various, when red, or livid, it is a symptom of ecchymosis, aneurism, piles, gangrene, and sphacelus. BlacJcncss in necrosis, redness in inflammation, paleness in oedema, Fcctor. This is a symptom of a cancerous, putrid, or carious ulcer, gangrene, under this head may be considered the foetor from a carious tooth, tartar, or scurvy in the mouth, carbuncle on the tongue, foctor of the ears, from an ulcer; of the nose, from an ulcer there, of the genitals from incontinence of the urine and fjcces. Itching. A sensation exciting a person to scratch, is a symptom of a scabious acrimony of ulcers, and some - times of depositions under the cuticle of fractures, after having been tied up for a long time. Hardiness. A hard consistence is a symptom of schirrus and nodes, a part is tense over inflammatory tumours, and hard over an exostosis. Softness. A soft consistence, is a symptom of meliceris, a doughy one is observed in oedema and gangrene, but clastic in'serous tumours and enterocele, a fluctiating one is felt in an abcess. Sicclling. A swelling is a symptom of all tumours, indolent, or suppurating. Withering or wasting, is a symptom of violence done to aa artery, or principal nerve of any part, spina ventosa, or luxations, when not reduced. Jnjiammation. This is a symptom of various diseases, inter- nal and external, wounds, ulcers, fractures, luxations, and contusions. Emphysema. This is a symptom of wounds, mortification, fracture of the ribs, and the bite of a viper. Erythema is a symptom of old ulcers, acrimonious scorbutic habit, affection of the pericranium and of a caries. Ophthalmia is a symptom of most diseases of the eyes, violence done to the head, redness of the eyes coming on seven or eight times a day, when the brain is hurt denotes a determination of blood to the head, suppuration of the brain and death, redness of tlie eyes in cancer in- forms us that the cancerous virus is dispersed all over the body. Gangrene is a symptom of much injury having been done to the nerves, of fracture when the bone is much crushed, of luxation of the vertebras, of the bite of an empoisoned viper, of a principal artery or nerve being cut off, it happens also in some wounds, ulcers, tumours, and herniae. Suppuration, is a symptom of contused wounds, ulcers, and some tumours, as phlegmon, boils,&c. Gravity, when too considerable, is a symptom of indurated and inflammatory tumours. Lightness, when too considerable, is a symptom of em- physema. Dryness is a symptom of the dry ophthalmia, and loss of tone in the coats and mouths of exhalent arteries. Moisture, is a symptom of the moist ophthalmia, and laxity - of expalcnts in their openings. Pulsation is a symptom of inflammation going into sup- puration,( ^97 ) -puration, but chiefly of a true aneurism, where the great arteries are situated. Loss of pulse. Loss of pulse in any member, a symptom of sphacelus, of an artery divided, compressed, or tied, as after an operation for the aneurism. f4 cracking noise in a joint, is a symptom of the scurvy, dis- tortion of the hand, foot, or it is a symptom of emphysema. Haemorrhage from the nostrils, is a symptom of the nose be- ing bruised, the brain disturbed, or of a polypus forced away, if through the trachea, or oesophagus, or stomach, &c. denote the rupture of an artery or vein. Haemorrhage, is a symptom of a wound, ulcer, scorbutic, or putrid, and of a cancer w'hcn open. Haemorrhage from the ears, is a symptom of the brain being disturbed. Bleeding of the gums, is a symptom of the scurvy in them. /(discharge of lymph, is a symptom of a wounded lymphatic, or of a tumour of them. A discharge of serum, is a symptom of recent wounds, and some fungous ulcers, relaxed exhalents, &c. A discharge of pus, or ichor, is a symptom of ulcers and wounds ; purulent pus, is a symptom of ozenae and scrophula; a discharge from the ear, is a symptom of an ulcer in it, and of contusion of the head. An effusion of synovia, is a symptom of a wound or ulcer pe- netrating into the cavity of a joint. Proctorrhcea, is a symptom of an internal fistula, ani, and of the piles. A contraction of the muscles and ligaments, is a symptom of ' fractures, wounds, and tumours of the joints, and of irregular nervous influence, or its deficiency. Atonia, or great laxity of the muscles and ligaments, is a symptom of distortion, and sometimes of a reduced luxation, of defect in the nervous powers, acting on muscles, debility, &c. ON INTEKNAL SYMPTOMS. Jnternal symptoms are affections of the vital, animal, or natural actions. ^ SYMPTOMS OF THE VITAL ACTIONS. These are affections of the pulse, motion of the heart, and respiration. SYMPTOMS OF THE PULSE. A small, slow, and intermittent pulse, is a symptom of dis- eased organization of the heart, large vessels, hy- «lrops, pericardii, aneurism, of internal, or external hsemorrhage, of gangrene, or it precedes death. A quick and strong pulse is a symptom of fever and in- flammations, hence febrile and inflammatory symp- toms ; but a quick and more feeble pulse, putrid fe- vers from contagion, &c. nervous fever, and various diseases arising from debilitating causes. FEBRILE ST.MPTOMS. 1. An inflammatory fever is a symptom which either precedes, accompanies, or succeeds inflammatory tumours, finally, under the name of a suppurating, or wound fever, it is a symptom of inflammation, wounds, con- tusions, and complicated fractures, with inflam- mation. 2. Putrid fever, proceeds from the absorption of putrid con- tagion, cither by respiration, or from a gangrenous, or putrid wouiyd, and is a symptom of mortification, a putrid or carious ulcer; wounded persons, and those who have ulcers, are more subject to it in the un- wholesome air of an hospital, than in any other place, except from animal putrefaction. 3. Bilious fever, either in the internal canal, or diffused through the whole body, as in the yellow West India fevers, arises from putrid bile, hence, it frequently accompanies the erysipelas of wounded persons, and those who have ulcers, or hepatitis. 4. Slow fever, which gradually weakens the body, is a symp- tom of diseased viscera, an abcess lying concealed, of a large wound, or ulcer, discharging much pus, it it also a symptom of a cancerous ulcer and wounded lymphatic. An intermittent fever coming on periodically, daily, every second or third day, is not a symptom of an external disease, but since wounded persons are more easily affected than healthy ones by improper diet, bringing on an intermittent fever, it is then an epigomenoys symptom of an external disease. INFLAMMATORY SYMPTOMS. 1. Phrenitis, an inflammation of the membranes of the brain, arising from inflammatory fever and violent delirium, is a symptom of the head being bruised or wounded, sometimes of violent inflammation of the ear, and comes on from the tooth ach and a whitlow. 2. Cephalitis, or inflammation of the brain, is a symptom of the brain being contused, wounded, or compressed by the cranium. 3« Cynanche, or inflammation of the pharynx, or larynx, is sometimes brought on by extraneous bodies being contained in those cavities for some time. 4. Pleuritis, is a symptom of inflammation of the intercostal muscles, and pleurae which usually follows cold, frac- tures and contusions of the ribs and sternum. 5. Peripneumony, or an inflammation of the lungs, very fre- quently arise from wounds of this viscus, or fractures of the ribs, cynanche sometimes brings an inflammation of the lungs, likewise sudden cold, 6cc. 6. Diaphragmatisis, or inflammation of the diaphragm is occasioned by wounds and contusions of it. 7. Corditis, or inflammation of the heart is a symptom of superficial wounds, or injuries done to it. S. Gastritis, or inflammation of the stomach, is a symptom of a wound or contusion in it, of incarcerated gastrocele, or of sharp substances swallowed. 9. Enteritis, £ e «( 19^ ) 9. Enteritis, or inflammation of the intestines, is a symptom of intestinal wounds and contusions, incarcerated enteroccle and of spiculatcd substances swallowed. 10. Epiploitis, or inflammation of the omentum, is a symp- tom of a wound, or injury done to the omentum, of incarcerated epiplocele, from protrusion through a wound, compression, or ligatures on it. 11. Hepatitis, or inflammation of the liver, is a symptom of the liver being bruised, ruptured, or wounded. Splenitis, or inflammation of the spleen, is a symptom of the spleen being bruised, or wounded, it sometimes follows wounds of the brain. 13. Nephritis, or inflammation of the kidney, is a s3'mptom of its being bruised or wounded, gravel, stoue, 6cc. 14. Cj'stitis, or inflammation of the urinary bladder, is a symptom of its being hurt, or wounded, frequently of iscluiry, from the operation for the stone and incar- cerated cystocele. 15. Metritis, or inflammation of the uterus, is a symptom following a bruise, w'ound, or rupture of the uterus in deliver}', or from the cx'sarian section. jG. Myositis, or inflammation of the muscles, is a symptom of contusions, wounds, fractures, and rheumatisms. SYMPTOMS OF THE ACTION OF THE HEART. f. Lypothymia, or fainting, an apparent cessation of the vital actions, is a symptom of htemorrhage external, or internal, of fear before bleeding, or a surgical operation, of mortification, after the healing of an old ulcer, or of injury done to the heart. 2. Asphyxia, or apparent death, is a symptom in persons hanged for some time, frozen, nearly drowned, or children after a difficult birth. 3. Palpitation of the heart, is a symptom of injury done to the heart, which is then subject to aneurism, some- times the heart palpitates through fear, when about to undergo a surgical operation, or from exercise. ' SYMPTOMS OF RESPIRATION. Oilhopnma, or suffocating respirating, is a symptom of hy- drothorax, empyema, of any thing sticking in the asophagus, or escaped into the trachea,, of sw'.elling in tlie neck, a penetrating wound of the thorax, with an effusion of blood, or escape of air, of injury done to the lungs, or phrenic nerve of the diaphragm, fompression of the ensifonn cartilage, ascites, or deformity, of overloaded mucus in trachea. Empyema, or effusion of pus into the cavity of the thorax, is a symptom of an abcoss of the thorax, of a contu- sion, or injury done to the lungs. &YMPTO.MS OF THE ANIMAL ACTIONS. These are injuries of the external and internal senses, of sleep and voluntary muscular motion. SYMP’TOMS OF THE EXTERNAL SENSES* Amaurosis, is a symptom of an injury done to the superci- liary nerve, or of the brain, or eye being contused or wounded, also diseases of the frontal sinuses. Araphyopia,‘is a symptom of mostly all the eye diseases. Photophobia, or intolerance of light, is a symptom of oph- thalmia, particularly \vhea internal. Cophosis, or deafness, is a symptom of contusion of the ean and most of their diseases. Agheustia, or loss of taste, is a symptom of the tongue being paralatic. Anosmia, or loss of smell, is a symptom of ozenae and polypus. Anmstesia, or loss of feeling, called insensibility, is a symp- tom of the sensorial nerves being divided, tied, com- pressed, or- destroyed by gangrene. Stupor, or a diminished sense of feeling, is a symptom wbicfi precedes gangrene, or necrosis, arising, also, from a nerve being tied, or brain compressed. Formication, or a sensation like stinging of ants, is a symp« tom of the same diseases as stupor. UNPLEASANT AND PAINFUL SENSATIONS. Ccphalagia, or pain in the head, is a sym])tom of contusion^ excrescences, or caries of the cranium, rheumatism. Hcmicrania, or pain in one side of the head, is a symptom of ophthalmia, tooth-ach, and diseases seated in the pituitary, sinuses of the frontal bone. Pleurodine, or pain in the thorax, but not, inflammatory, is « symptom of external emphysema, ofeontusion of the thora.x, and violent straining. Cardialgia, or pain of the .stomach, is a symptom of gastro- cele, compression of the ensifonn cartilage and con- tusion of the stomach, of acid wind, &c. Colica, or pain of the intestines, is a symptom of incarcerat- ed hernia, and bruise of the abdomen, wind, &c. riepatalgia, or pain in the region of the liver,, is a symptom of swelling of the gall bladder, or abccss of the liver, inflammation, schinus. Nephralgia, or paiii in the kidneys, is a symptom of renal calculi, which sometimes make their way out by an abccss in the lumbar region, of gravel, &c. Ilystcralgia, or pain of the uterus, is a symptom of calculus,, polypus,cancer in. the uterus, or vagina* Mastodynia, or pain of the breast, is a symptom of cancer, inflammation, or abundance of milk in the breasts. Arthritis, or pain of the joints, is a .symptom of tumours, wounds, and ulcers of the joints, gout, &c. Ostocopus, or pain in the bone itself, is a symptom of spinte ventosae, cancer,, node, or sarcosUisis. Myositis, or rheumatism,a pain of the muscles, is a symptom preceding abacess, necrosis. Anxiety, is a symptom of the bite of an empoisoned viper* ' Lassitude, or an unpleasant sensation of debility, is a symp- tom of wounds received, the scurvy, or contagious diseases as the venereal disease, debility, &c.. Itcliing, is a sensation e.vciting to scratch, and a symptom of wounds,( «99 ) wounds, cutaneous diseases and fractures, ^vhen they have been tied up a long tame, of scurvy, itch, &c. Cold, is a symptom of haemoirhage, suppuration, and mortifi- cation. Heat, is a symptom of fever, which accompanies inflam- ^ matory tumours, and inflammations. I SYMPTOMS OF THE INTERNAL SENSES. These are depravations or' abolitions of the imagination, or memory. 1. Delirium, is a symptom of a greathajmorrhage, affection of the brain, and much pain. 2. Furious madness, or the desire of biting, is a symptom caused by the bite of a mad animal. ' 3. Hydrophobia, or an extreme aversion to water or fluids, is a frequent symptom of wounds, by the bite of a '! mad-dog. j' 4. Tarantismus, or an immoderate desire of dancing, is said * to be a symptom proceeding from the bite of the ] tarantula, but experiments have not proved that it is ' caused by the sting of a tarantula. 5. Vertigo, or dizziness, is a symptom of great haemorrhage ij and affection of the brain. jj 6. Stupidity, is a symptomof injury done to the head. 7. Amnesia, or a loss of recollection of mostly all the ideas, I is a symptom of the brain being disordered.. ' SYMPTOMS OF SLEEF. A profound sleep, or a comatose state, is a symptom of the 1 , brain being affected by an effusion of blood, or in>- dentation of the cranium, hydrocephalus ischury, an ; old ulcer being healed, without removing causes. i| Typhominia, or apparent sleep with delirium, is a symptom 1 of the brain being irritated by injury, it also follows the bite of a venomous insect, called scolopenda. Agryphnia is continually being awake with the recollection I of almost every disagreeable idea and pain, it is pre- ii sent chiefly in the night, from indegestion, &c. I Panophobia, or fear in sleep, is a symptom, which frequently 1 accompanies fractures, internal hydrocephalus, and the bite of a morbid animal, indigestion, &c. SYMPTOMS OF MUSCULAR MOTION. ! The action of the muscles can be improper, by spasms, I paralysis, or relaxation. Spasms are divided into tonic and clonic, or spasms and convulsions. i , Spasms are involuntary and constant contractrohs of the i muscles, and convulsions are involuntary and reci- I procai motions of the muscles, alternately. ! SPASMS. Tetanus is a rigidity of all the muscles of th.e bodj’;, by , which it is fendered like a statue, and coiitihues’cjt- teiided in a right line, bent forwards,'backwards, or ) I sideways, it is a symptom of the brain, or temporal muscle being injured, of a nerve being bruised, tied, pulled, pinched, or touched with a caustic, hence contusions of the head, wounds, amputations, liga- tures of the spermatic chord, affections of the nerves carious teeth, and luxations, with ruptured capsular ligament frequently occasion it, particularly iii hot climates and hospitals, mostly in irritable habits. The cramp or spasm of the leg, is a symptom of varicose veins in the leg, or irregular nervous power. Spasm, of the jaw, or locked jaw, is a symptom of angina of the tonsils, and frequently the forerunner of universal tetanus. Spasm of the face, or sardonic laugh, sometimes follows an injury done to the nerve of the diaphragm. CONVULSIONS. Convulsion is an involuntary motion of the muscles of the whole bod}', and is a symptom of violence done to the brain, spinal marrow and punctures of nerves, also great hseinorrhages and excruciating pains, as the tooth acli, ear acli, dentition, calculus,, and in- ternal caries of the cranium, of the vertebrae, bifid- spine, by pressure with the finger, internal hydro- cephalus; wounded, persons exposed to an air thatis too cold, ape easily seized with tetanus, or con- vulsions. Nystagmus, or convulsion of the palpebras and bulb of the eye is a symptom of ophthalmia. Trismus, or a grindmg of the teeth, is a symptom of excru- ciating pain. The locked jaw is also called trismus. Epilepsy is a periodical convulsion of the wliolc body, and a symptom of exostosis, internal caries of the craniunij or vertebra;, commotion of the brain, and the sudden and improper healing of an old ulcer. Horror, is a symptom of beginning inflammation, when going into suppuration. • *5 Tremor, is a symptom of contusion of the head, and of fear a person undergoes before, or during an operation, or nervous affection. , Sneezing, is a symptom of ophthalmia, from cold, and of the separation of a polypus. Gaping, is a symptom of periodic ophthalmia and of hig- morrhage. Hiccup, is an involuntary contraction of the diaphragm sometimes interrupted by loud, inspiration, ancl.is.a symptom of hemorrhage, ischury, gangtjene, aphthous, angma, wounds of the brain, diaphragm, stomach and intestines, or contusions only, incarcerated herniii, fracture of the vertebrae, or compression of the en- siform cartilage, and forerunner of death. Cough, is a sonorous concussion of the thorax, and a symp- tom of some extraneous body having escaped into the trachea, of pus being absorbed from an ulcer, and deposited in the lungs, of mucus, ike. PARALYSIS, OR PALSY. Apoplexy is a paralysis of all the voluntary muscles, with luud.( ^ luird r«f]>irhtron aAcl profound sleep, or comatose state and is a symptom ol' injury done to the brain, ex- travasated blood, or compression of the cranium. Paralysis, or palsy, is a lax immobility of one member, and a symptom of a nerve being divided, compressed, tied, or of perturbation and compression of the brain. Hemiplt-gia, is a palsy of one side only, aud a symptom of compression of the brain. Paraplegia, is a palsy of the whole body below the head, or of the lower joints, and is a symptom of luxated or fractured vertebrai, or injury done to the 'spinal marrow. Debility of all the members of the body, is a symptom of internal hydrocephelus, bifid spine, bite of poisonous animals, the effect of any contagion, as venereal dis- ease, scurvy, gangrene. SYMPTOMS OF THE VOICE. Aphony, or defect in speech, is a symptom of the recurrent branch of the larynx being divided, compressed, or too much distended, as after hanging, also from wounds of the thorax, trachea, tongue when deep and producing tetanus. Psellismus, or inability to articulate certain syllables, is a symptom of the tongue being deformed, or deficiency of the uvula, velum palati, teeth, hare lip, fissure of the palate, contusion of the head. Cacophonia, is an unpleasant tone of voice, a nasal voice, is a symptom of a polypus of the nose, ozena, nar- rowness of the posterior, foramina of the nose, or de- fect in the uvula. An hissing voice, is a symptom of angina of the larynx, or polypus, an hoarse voice, is a symptom of angina from cold, coryza, and relaxed uvula. SYMPTOMS OF THE N ATU RA L A CTIONS. These are affections of appetite, thirst, mastication, deglu- tition, chylification, sanguification, nutrition, secre- tions, and excretions. SYMPTOMS OF THE APPETITE NATURALLY. Anorexia, or want of appetite, is a symptom of great pain, vulnerary fever, hajmoirhage, affection of the gall, bladder, or stomach. Nausea, loathing of food, is a symptom of the brain being disturbed. Adipsia, or want of Ihirst, is a symptom of paralytic angina. Polydipsia, or an extreme desire of drinking, is a symptom in wounded persons, it is also observed in inflammation and gangrene, fevers, &c. Satyriasis, or a violent desire of coition, with a firm erection of the penis, is a symptom of gonorrhea, hydrophobia of hanged persons, and from the application of canlharidcs. Anaphrodisia, or impotence without power of erection in the penis, is a symptom of a fall on the^ loins, or os sa- crum, and of the testicles being indurated, &c. Tenesmus alvi, or a frequent desire of going to stool, is a symptom of calculus, inflammation of the bladder, piles when painful, fistula ani, particularly after the operation. Tenesmus vesicas, or frequent desire of making water, is a symptom of dysuria. See dysuria. SYMPTOMS OF DIGESTION. Mastication being affected, is a symptom of the maxillary bofie being luxated, or broken, looseness of the teeth, or want of them paralysis, or tetarius of the mus- cles of the cheeks and maxillary bone, also wound* and ulcers in them, a cleft palate, hare lip. Dysphagia, or difficult deglutition, is a symptom of tetanus, hydrophobia, paralytic, affection of the oesophagus, of tumours in it, or outside, compressing it, of bo- dies slicking there in being swallowed, or rupture of it, the same symptom is induced by luxation of the os hyoides^ branchocele, polypus of the oesophagus, or of the nostrils hanging in the fauces, also of inflam- matory, suppurating, schirruses, venereal, scorbutic spasmodic, or catarrhal sore throat. Dyspepsia, or defect of digestion, is a symptom of the sto- mach not performing its office, also from being wounded, or the presence of ventricular, or intes» • tinal hernia, wounds of the gall bladder or hepatic duct. SYMPTOMS OF SANGUIFICATION. ^ Cachexia, or bad sanguification is a symptom of hajraorrhage, ulcers, of all acrimonies of the scrophula, scurvy, lues venereiE, necrosis and dyspepsia. The jaundice, or bilious cachexy, is a symptom of the bite of a viper, or mad animal, diseased liver, &c. Anasarca, is an aqueous swelling of the body, and*a symp- tom of some preceding haemorrhage, of ulcers sud- denly healed, or discharging too much, of the urine being long retained, or diminished. SYMPTOMS OF NUTRITION. Tabes, or wasting of the body, with a slow fever, without cough, and expectoration of pus, is a symptom of every large ulcer, of scrophula, cancer, hernia of the stomach, injury done to the thoracic duct, and of a considerable preceding haemorrhage. Pulmonary consumption, is a general emaciation of the body, with a slow fever, cough and evacuation of pus, it is a symptom of contusion, or suppuration of the lungs, of an ulcer suddenly healed, the matter of which is deposited in the lungs, or of an abcess lying a long time concealed. SYMPTOMS OF SECRETION. Ujuler this ht:ad may be considered to great excretion, or ro- tenlion of what should be excreted. »AN-( *01 ) SA?JGU1NE0US EROFLUVIA. IIjEHioptysis, or spitting of blood, is a symptom of the lungs being wounded, or contusion of the thorax. Haematemesis, or vomiting of blood, is a symptom of the stomach being wounded, or vessel ruptured. ITjematuria, or passing bloody urine, is a symptom of wound or contusion in the bladder and kidneys, lifting an heavy weight, stone in the bladder, or ruptured vessel. Menorragia, or uterine haemorrhage is a symptom of the uterus being contused, particularly in pregnant wo- men, also of polypus, rupture of vessels. A bloody diarrhoea, is a symptom of the intestines being abraded, or bruise of the abdomen. Bloody discharge from the piles, is a symptom of intestinal tuberculi, polypi, burst vessel, or cancer. DISCH.VRGES WITHOUT BLOOD. Vomiting is a symptom of the brain being disturbed, of in- jury done to the diaphragm or stomach, incarcerated hernia, renal ischury, fever, &c. Vomiting of foeces of the intestines, with costiveness, is a symptom of incarcerated hernia, constriction of the rectum, and cholera morbus. Diarrhoea, or frequent going to stool, is a symptom of irritated intestines, of ulcers, abscesses, or wounds from which pus is absorbed, of ischury, and of the essence of aloes being applied to a wound constantly for a long time. Ptyalismus, or copious excretion of saliva, is a symptom of increased action of the salivary glands, injury done to the salivary duct, of an ulcer in the mouth, of irritation caused by a tooth, of ischury and mer- curials applied externally, or taken; a purulent ptyalism, is a symptom of an ulcer in the ears, nos- trils, or fauces. Anacatharsis, or expectoration of pus from the lungs, is a symptom of contusion of the thorax, injury done to the lungs, or of empyema. Diabetes, or too copious efflux of urine, is a symptom of contusion of the loins, or increased urinal secretion. Enuresis, or involuntary emission of urine, is a symptom of luxated vertebrse, uterine, or vaginal polypi, pro- lapsus uteri, cystocele, fistula of the bladder, lith- otomy, or relaxation of the sphincter of the bladder. Incontinence of the stools or fceces, is a symptom of luxated, or fractured lumbar vertebrae, injury, or pertubation of the spinal marrow, of cancer, or swellings in the rectum, division of the sphincter ani in lithotomy, operation for the fistula, morbid sphincter. Pyuria, or discharging a purulent matter, or mucus, by the urethra, is a symptom of calculus, piles, ulcer of the bladder, or kidneys, and ptis absorbed from an abcess. Levjcorrhoea, or fluor albus, from the vagina, or uterus, is a symptom of an ulcer, or cancer, polypus, or pro- lapsus, of those parts, diseased habit. Ff Gonorrhoea, or a discharge of pus like mucus, from the urethra, is sometimes a symptom of calculus in the bladder, bougie in the urethra, or ulcer there, ve- nereal infection, &c. Flatulence, a return of air by the mouth, in belching, and noise in the bowels, is a symptom in persons subject to hernia, flatulency, acid air, &c. .Edopsia, or emission of wind by the urethra, or vagina, is a symptom of fistula ani penetratyig into the bladder, or vagina, or ulcer penetrating the bladder from th« rectum. RETENTIONS OF THE EXCRETIONS. Ischuria, or retention of urine, either in the kidneys, or urethra, when in the latter, it is a symptom of a stone, or carnuncle in the urethra, of a tumour in perinaeo, or between the bladder and rectum, of a contracted urethra, paralysis of the bladder, oedema- tous penis, and concretion of the prepuce. Renal ischury, is a symptom of inflammation of the kidneys, injury done to the bladder, or spasm, as is sometimes seen after lithotomy. Dysuria, or painful and scalding discharge of urine, is a symptom of calculus, inflamed piles, virulent go- norrhoea, when fresh contracted, and sometimes of cantharides externally applied. Dysmenorragia, or suppression of the menses, is a symptom of the orifice of the uterus, or vagina being concreted. Costiveness, is a symptom of concretion of the rectum, polypus of the intestines, wound, or injqry of the gall, bladder, and incarcerated hernia, or of di- minished bile. SEMIOTICA, OR DOCTRINE of the SIGNS OF DISEASES. A sign is a phaenomenon, or appearance, by which we know the state of a present, past, or future disease. The signs of diseases are divided, into, 1. Diagnostic, which denote the present state of the disease. 2. Anamnestic, shewing the preceding state of the disease. 3. Prognostic, which denote the future state of the disease. The diagnostic signs are subdivided into projjer, common, and cpigenomena. The prognostic signs are subdivided into good, equivocal, and bad. THE DIAGNOSTIC OF DISEASES. This is a science, explaining the signs, by which a present disease may be known, and distinguished from ano- ther ; thus the signs of a present disease, are found out by the assistance of the external senses, soun4 judgment, and analogy, by anatomy, &c, 1. By the touch, with the finger, or instruments, as a ca- theter, or probe, by which we know the extent or di- rection of wounds, or ulcers, the presence of a cal- culus in the bladder, fracture, or luxation of a bone, f hardness,( 202 ) hardness, softness, fluctuation, pulsation, heat or coldness of tumours. 2. By the licaring we perceive the creaking of fractured bones, and the crackling of air in emphysema, 3. Bv the smell w'e distinguish gangrenous putridity, the foetor of the fccccs, or urine in wounds of the great intestines, cancerous ulcer of the womb, &c. 4. B}^ the taste, tints an efl'usion of a bitter fluid from a wound of the abdomen, denotes injury of the gall bladder. • 5. By the sight we discern the external appearance of wounds and ulcers, the colour and extent of tu- mours, and know at sight, what injury is done to par- ticular parts by the effusion of fluid, as, by a dis- charge of faeces, by a wound of the abdomen, we are certain of injury having been done to the great intestines. f). By the judgment, through which we know the nature of a disease by the action of the morbilic causes, and of those things whicli increase or diminish them. 7. By analogy, we compare diseases little known, with those which are better understood. 3. By particular motions and pain in many complaints, we know the seat of the disease. The signs of every disease are divided into proper, common, and epigcnomic. The proper sign of a disease, which is also called the pathog- nomonic, and charactercstic, is that, by which one dis- ease differs from another, as pulsation, in true aneu- rism, an impression of the finger after touching a part, is a sign of oedema; and a crackling of the cel- lular membrane denotes, emphysema. Sometimes we take the pathognomonic sign of adiseasefrom one onl}', sometimes from several symptoms ; but there are some cases which have no pathognomonic sign, lienee they cannot be detected by human intelligence blood effused under the cranium, sometimes offers an example of this kind, except by stupor appearing. The common sign of a disease, is that which is common to. many diseases, thus pain is a sign common to most tumours, whether indolent or suppurating. Tlie cpigcuomic sign is that which indicates another disease- having preceded, being present, or about to come, thus an intermittent fever being occasioned by, or, coming on alter a wound, is an epigcnomic sign. ANAMNESIS OF DISEASES. This is a science treating on the signs, by which we trace the cause of diseases. The proximate cause of a disease is understood, 1. By the nature of the disease-., 2. From the known, or remote action of the exciting cause. 3. From the presence of the predisposing cause. The exciting cause will be known from the account of the- patient, if the disease may have happened tlirougli violence, or any other external cause, but if it should have been brought on by any internal cause, which he cannot account for, it is necessary for the surgeon to examine all the internal causes, which may have, given origin to the disease, JIcnee an inquiry concerning the-six, non-naturals, and the diseases, which preceded the present, generally cdu- stitute the anamnesis. THE PUOGNOSIS OF DISEASES. This is a science treating of the signs, by which we judge of the future state of diseases. The prognostic signs are divided into good, which give hopes of life and health, equivocal, which neither suppose danger, nor difficult recovery. Bad, which expect difficult recovery, or, danger of the life. From these signs are judged, 1. The termination of a disease, cither into another or death., 2. The cure of a disease, whether it be easy, difficult, or im- possiblck In doubtful cases a man. of sense ivould not speak decidedly,, but give the most probable opinion. The termination and cure of each disease is spoken of in special pathology, and the modes of cure, indications,, contraindications, and remedies will appear in the practice of medicine. The NOSOLOGY has increased within these few years to a most enormous degree. Every late writer in pathology, seems to think he has a right to change the names of diseases according to will, caprice, and pleasure ; by this means the memory loaded with names without advantage, or improvement of things. 1 shall endeavour, in my practical work, to give just de- finitions of diseases, and simplify the nomina. All that I have been able to investigate from, the numerous dissections ob-- scrvablc in a long life, will best appear in the practice of physic,, by which means many difficulties and prejudices at present in vogue, w'ill be removed, and the art may appear in the language of truth, without the false props of idle ^i^jecula- tions and chimerical hypotheses. Sound practice may be best formed from the ravaging and fatal effects of diseases, by well considering and comprehending with clear reasoning, and the application of important remedies, how- fatality may be pre- vented, and judicious cures efl'ceted, in numerous diseases incident to tlic human body. Now follows the Latin Con.spcctus of the original work.. CONSPECTUS-CONSPECTUS Scholcc Medicinx Universalis Novxcontinens Historiam Medicince Anatomiam,Physiologiamr atque Pathohgiam Specialem, cum Phirimis Tabulis JEneis. Auctore Gulielmo Rowley, M.D. Universitatis Oxon.; Colleg. Regal Medicorum Londmensis Membra, nec non Medico Nosocomii S» Maribonensis, ^’C. Historia Medicinae cui. -abulis Chronologicis a mundo condito ad Hippocratem Coum; ab initio Belli Peloponnesiaci quo Hippocrates floruit ad exitum Justiniani; ab illo aevo ad hoc tempus, cum vi tabulis antiquis. IVIeDICIN.® parte?, - . . > i 1. C>Y2I0A0riKH considerat corpus humanum in statu sano» 2. IIAOOAOriKH, contemplatur corpus humanum in statu aegroto, 3. ©EPADEYTIKH, tuctur corpus in statu sano, inque aegroto sanat. De anatomia. Divisio anatomise 'r» - - - 2 Media, seu adminicula. De instrumentis anatomicis.. De gencralibus quibusdam praeceptis in dissectionibus tenendis. De externis corporis appellationibus ac division© • 3" Tabula prima.* Eadem in lingua Grasca.f _ 4. Partes fluidae, vel corporis humores - 5 Eaedem in lingua Graeca - . - - 6 Tabula II. De partibus corporis coristitutivis - 7 niNAH Atwrefo? in lingua Graeca 8 OSTEOLOGIA., Tabula III. De ossibuseorumque connectionibus 9 I1INA3 TfWoi in lingua Grmca - - - - 10 Tabula IV. De sceleto human© - - - 11 niNAH Ter«fTo? in lingua Graeca - - - 12 Tabula V. Sceletus a posteriore parte - 13- niNA3 ritfAWTos in lingua Graeca - •• 14 Tabula VI. De variis ossibus. niNAS E-ktoi; in lingua Graeca. Tabula VII. Sceletus a latere, et sceletus naturalis infantis - - - - - - 17 niNAH EShy.os inOOKPATOYS OEPI OSTEnN 18 De ossibus in specie - - - - Ossium substantia—Color ossium-—Usus ossium—De cranio in genere, suturis, &c.—Os frontale, 20—Ossa parietalia—Os occipitis—Ossa tempora, 21—Os sphae- noideuin—Os Ethmoideum. De ossibus faciei in specie - _ _ . 22 Ossa Jugalia—Ossa nasi—Ossa Lachr^unali, 23—Ossa spongiosa inferiora—Ossa palatina—A^omer—IMaxilla inferior. De cavitatibus faciei in specie - - - - 24 Orbitae—Cavitas narium—Cavum oris—Dentes—Ca- vitas faucium, 25—Os Hyoideum—Cavitas auditus—De trunco—Spina dorsi—Vertebra prinia colli—Vertebra secunda colli, 26—Vertebrte dorsi—Vertebrae lum- borum De cavitate thoracis Costae—Sternum—De cavitate pelvis—Ossa innomi- nata—Os sacrum, 27—Os coccygis—Clavicula—Sca- pula—Os humeri, 28—Cubitus—Radius—Carpus—• Metacarpus, 29—Digit!—Femur—Tibia—Fibula—Pa ■ tella— • Nonnull* tabul® sunt absque Uteris indicantibas ut earum clegantia conservetur. t E multis tfuctoribus Graecis hsec cxcerpu sunt, ut c:i Hippocrate, Ru/e Epftesio, Galcno, Oribasio et aJIis. Ostendunt in genere scientiam anto quorum m rebut unatomicis. ^( 204 ) tclla—Tarsus—Os cubi forme- Metatarsus, 30—Digit! f edis—Ossicula sesamoidea. Osteologia receiis, et syndesmologia' 30 Periosteum et color ossium—Cartilagines, 31—Me- dulla-glanduai articulares ; synovia — Vasa et nervi ossium, 32 X-igamenta in generc Ligament i in specie in tribus coliimnis, 33—sub titulis —Nomen et origo—connectio vel terminatio—Coad- juvantia Ligamenta maxillae inferioris Ligamenta nectentia os occipitis cum vertebris colli —Ligamenta vertebrarum reliquarum, S-l—Ligamenta jungentia sternum et costas—Ligamenta adnexa extremitatibus costarum posterioribus — Ligamenta extremitatibus costarum anterioribus adnata—Liga* menta quibus ossa innominata turn inter semetipsa, turn et cum osse coccygis et vertebris lumborum uniun- tur, 35—Ligamenta claviculte et scappulm, 36'—scapula cum extremitate postica—Ligamenta ossium antebra- chii—Ligamenta cubiti—Ligamenta radii, 37—Liga- menta carpi—Ligamenta metacarpi—Ligamenta-digito- rum, 38—Ligamenta quibus tendines musculorum manus in situ suo debito retinentur—Ligamenta articulationis ossis femoriscum acctabulo, 3<)—Ligamenta articulatio- nis ossis femoris cum tibia, &c.—Ligamenta digitorum— Ligamenta fibulae, 40—Ligamenta tarsi — Ligamenta metatarsi—Ligamenta digitorum—Ligamenta retinentia tendines pedis in situ suo, 40, Tabula omnium corporis human! articulationum prmcipue pro chirurgis - - - - - 42 MYOLOGIA. Vel de musculis - - - - - 45 Tabula Vlll. De partibus musculorum constituti-' vis, oculo arnjato, examinandis - - - - 46 Tabula IX. Prima series musculorum externorum ab anteriori et in tribus columnis, sub titulo; No7ninis et originis—Insertionis—Actionis - - - A7 Tabulb X. De musculis corporis externis in pos- tcrioribus partibus - - - - - 48 Tabula XL Scries musculorum secunfia in parte corporis anteriori - - - ?• - 49 Tabula XII. Series musculorum secunda in poste- riori corporis parte - - - - - 50 Tabula XIII. Series musculorum tertia in anteriori corporis parte - - ----51 Tabula XIV. Series musculorum tertia in parte posteriori corporis - - - 52 Tabula XV’'. Series musculorum quarta in anteriori corpores parte - - - - - - 53 Tabula XVL Series quarta musculorum corporis in parte posteriori - - - - 54 Tabula XVII. Prima series musculorum a latere 55 Tabula XV’III. De variis musculis - - 56 IMusculi nasi <» , 57 Musculi oris et labiorum—Musculi Maxillm inferioris —Musculi ossis hyoides—Musculi lingute, 58—Musculi pharyngis—Musculi laryngis—Musculi palati mollis, uvulae seu veli penduli—Musculi glottidis, cpiglottidis, &c.—Musculi capitis motui dicati 13 paria—Musculi qui caput retrorsum flectunt, 60—Musculi colli—Mus- culi dorsi et lumborum—Musculi ossis coccygis—Mus- culi thoracis—Musculi abdominales decern sunt quorum ox utroque latere quinque, 6l—Musculi ani—Musculi vesiern uiinarioe—Musculi testium—Musculi penis—• iMusculi vagninae uteri, 62—Musculi clitoridis—Mus- culi interossei manus—Musculi interossei manus seu bicipitis in vola manus ejusque dorso—Musculi pedis, 63 —Musculi digitorum pedis—Musculi pro motu pollicis pedis—Musculi digiti minimi. DE MYOTOMIA seu sectione musculorum, &c. Numeras musculorum in corpore humano - - 64 ANGIOLOGIA. Angiologia describit vasa corporis human!, haec qui- deinsunt, 1. arteriae, 2. venae sanguiferae, 3. vasa lym- phatica - - - - -- -65 De arteriis in genere. Systema arteriarum - - - - - 67 De arteriis. Nomen origo et trunci—rami et divisiones—subdi- visiones et terminationes novamethodo exhibit®—Aorta ct ali® arteri®—Arteri® ex margine externo carotidis extern®, &c.—Rami aort® descendentis in specie, 71— Arteri® in abdomine octo—Arteri® pulmonales et ven®, 73 TabulaXIX. Arteri® corporis anteriores - 74 Tabula XX. Arteri® corporis posteriores. Systema venarum . - - - - 76 De venis in genere—Venarum species sunt quinque— Figura, substantia, color, origo, fines, valvul® vena- rum. Utilitas valvularum—Differenti® venarum ab arteriis, 77—De venis in specie, 78—Tres ven® princi- pales sunt in corpore. 1. Vena cava, 2.Vcna pulmonalis, 3. Vena •portae hisce addi possunt, 4. Ven® coronari® soli cordi dicat®, 5, Sinus dur® matris sic habemus quinque species—Ven® coronari® et vena qava, &c. Inferior truncus ven® cav®, 79—V'^en® port®—usus &c, 80. Tabula XXL De venis totius corporis - - 32 De vasis absorbentibus seu lymphaticis - - 83 Systema vasorum absorbentium, continct doctrinam de vasis lacteis, lymphaticis proprie sic dictis, de ductu thoracio et de glandulis conglobatis—Invetores—Apud antiques medicos vestigia aliqua inveniuntur horuin vasorum—Aristoteles—Galenus ex Erasistrato, &c.— Assellius, 1622—Veslingius, 1649—.lollyflius—Olaus Rudbeck, 1650—Bartholinus, l652—Gulielmus Hunter —Johannes Hunter—Alex. Monro—Gulielmus Hew- son—Meckel—Liberkulin—Magnus Falconer noster olim discipulus—Joan. Sheldon—Gulielmus Cruik- shauk( 20S ) i! shank—Vasa lymphatica—structura, tunicas, valvulis, I origines, ex cellulis textus cellulosi—Vasa lactea ab- sorbent ex cavitate intestinorum—Vas absorbcns—vasa , inferentia et efferentia, 84—Usus glandularum nondum I est bene cognitus—Giandulae conglobatae, figura, &c. —Fabrica, cellulae, moles, color, involucrum, 85— r Succum proprium, ductus excretorii, arteriae et venae— i. nervi pauci adsunt—A veneno absorbto tument, et saepe ( suppurantur — Expositio glandularum absorben- ll tium in omnibus fere partibus—Distributio vasorutn absorbentium, 86—Nomen et sedes—decursus—fines I in variis partibus—Extremitates superiorcs capitis et colli, 88. Tabula XXI. De glandulis et vasis lacteis, &c. - 89 Usus vasorum et glandularum absorbentium - 90 ,| Sententia auctoris differt ab aliis - - - 91 i Tabula XXII. De glandulis et vasis absorbentibus H fere totius corporis - - - - - 92 , Nomen et sedes glandularum—vasa inferentia—vasa ij efferentia Modus detegendi vasa absorbentia, &c. cum plurimis Ij observationibus - - - - - - 93 |j Regulffi observandae in corporibus replendis injectione |l ceracea - - - -- --94 Administratio anatomica Compositio materiae in- I jecloriae, 96—Injectio communis—Colores, 97—In- I jectio subtilis—Injectio vasorum cum argento, inventor , Lieberkuhn—Alia injectio ad corrosiones—Macera- tiones, 98—Desiccatio praeparatomm—Vernix e copal —Alia e gummi copal—Vernix terebinthinacea—alia— ! Vernix dura—spirituosa dura—Vernix dura alba— Vernix splendens—Mistura ad coagulationem ligamen- torum in sceleto naturali—Microscopium solare Lieber- kuhnii, 99~Instrumentumad ranas—Conditura humida 1 prjEparatorum- ' De conditura cadaverum, vel balsamatio. De balsamatione Egyptiorum, &c. Balsamatio modernorum ” • ^ Balsamatio sicca cum variis modis et pro variis ^ 100 partibus f - . _ - j ADENOLOGIA, vel doctrina de glandulis. Nonnullaj sententiae Grmcorum de glaiidulis - 103 Malpighius—Nuckius—Vieussenius—King — Grew, 104—Peyer—Albinus—Ferrein—Ruyschius — Miche- kvttus-Inventores—Grascorum aUtecf glandula vocatur Latiois Nomen giandulae, Ceho fuit in usu ac PUnio, See. Seirtentiae auctorum variae - _ _ . 105 Nomina, divisio, numerus^ moles, substantia, strue- turas. Firmitas, arteriae, venae, nervi, venae lymphaticae, Auctus excretorius, &c. &c. - - « . lOfi Receptacula, varii folliculi—Ad moram I'aciunt ct magnas mutationes, 107—inducunt,—1. Angustia ostii excretorii—2. Anfractus excretorii—3. Valvulae— 4. Pondcris vis—5. Compressio—6. Coarcctur duc- tus, &c. 7. Vis contractilis, &c.—Receptacula caeca —Species glandularum—Classes—Glandula simplicissi- ma—Giandulae simplices—I. Glandulte simplices sepa- rant a sanguine, mucum, oleum, sebum, &c. 108.— II. Giandulae compositae—III. Glandulce conglobatae. Species in ratione contentarum sunt. 1. Giandulae mucipareae—2. Giandulae sebaceae— 5. Giandulae lymphaticae—4. Giandulae salivales— 5. Giandulae lachrymalcs, I09—Usus glandularum—Ex organorum dill'ercntia insigRis diversitas humorum ori- tur ; liquida secreta sunt—1. Aquosa; 2. Mucosa ;• 3. Gelatinosa; 5. Anomaliaseu composita. Doctrina secretionis pendet—1. ex arteriarum va- rietate; 2. fluidorum indole; 3. organorum fabrica; 4. secretorum differentia ; 5. in motu intestino, qui et resolutiones ct novas mixtiones producit; hie motus intestinus agit active, vel passive. Glandula: simplica separant a sanguine mucum, oleum, sebum—Glandula conglobata mutant sua contenta prae- parantque ad natritionem, aliosque fines—Giandulae conglonieratae secernunt aquam, gelatinum, lac—Viscera generant aquam, lac, oleosum humorem—Arteriae dc- ponunt aquam, mucum, gelatinam, oleum omnls generis —Secretionis naturales seu species humorum—Secre~ Hones moTho%ve : achores; anthraces, &c. &c. 110— Conspectus glandularum in specie, in ties columnas divisus, 110—Giandulae in carvo cranii—Giandulae oculorum—Giandulae narium—Giandulae auriuin. Sec. Giandulae oris—Giandulae faucium, 111—Giandulae colli externaeet internae—Giandulae thoracis—Giandulae abdominis—Giandulae extra cavum peritonaei, 112 - Giandulae partium genitalium virilium—Giandulae par- tium genitalium muliebrium—Giandulae extiemitatum. NEUROLOGIA. Neurologia est vox Graeca composita; Latine red- ditur, doctrina de nervis - - - - 113 Gracci a functione, unicum instrumentum, duobus nuncuparunt, nv^ov, a vsvfttv, et ronv a rtmtv; quod videlicet musculi, nervorum potissimum ope et nutare et tendere valeant—Sub noanine nervorum antiqui in- telligebant: 1. Liganienta ossa mutuo colligantia. 2. Tendines, et univeisas aponeuroses musculorum. 3. Nervorum genus quod nunc spcciatim nomine nervo- rum notum est : organa nempe longa, teretia calvariam et dorsi vertebras ehibentia, sensus motusque in corpore instrumenta *—Tcinporibus Uippocrutis ac Aristotelis cognitio nervorum fuit valde exigua, Sec.—Heropbilus, Erasistratus, Galenas, Rufus Ephesius, Oribasius, Beren~ garius, Nicolaus Massa, Vesalius, Eustachius, Leeiiwen- hock, IVillisius, \’ieussenius, Winslow, Monro, JElii/tt, Hall eras Mekelius, Zinn, Moscati, Pater, de la Tor re, - * NiVf'a u.\y, Jtufus Ephetiut de partibus hominis. O g g Prochasla{ soS ) Prorhasna, \ \G—AUxand. Monro, Jun.—Opiniones ho- nim homimun ccleberrimcruni, ibid. Tabula XXIV. Basis cranii, nervi, &:c. - 117 Tabula XXV. Basis cerebri * - - _ ns Tabula XXVI. Plexus cerebri - , . II9 1'abula XXVII. Arterire cerebri - - . 12O 'J'a BULA XXVlil. De medulla spinali - - 121 Decorebro.: - - - - - -122 In cerebro et nervorum tractatione consideranda vcniunt;—1. Iiitegunicnta tria: dura mater—inembrana arachnoidea—et pia meninx—2. Cerebrum proprie sic dictum seu magnum—3. Cerebellum, seu cerebrum minus et medulla oblongata—4-. Medulla spinalis— 5. Nervorum cerebralium paria novem—6. Nervorum Vertebralium triginta—7- Nervorum horum ganglia et propagines—3. Arteriae caroticles el vertebrales—9. Venae, seu sinus venosi viginti duo. 1. Structura durae matris—2. Adhaesiones—3. Pro- cessus—i. Propagines—5. Vasa—6. Glandule—Omnes venae cerebri, cerebelli et spinales medullae absque valvulis sunt, 125—Ulilitas siriuum ; sinus, amplitudine reliquas aeque grandes venas potius superant bine pi)ssis concludere, ‘ naturam tarditatem in sanguinis reditu quaesivjsse; refluxum sanguinis venosi in nixu et inspi- ratione violent^ori, aliquo moderare probabile est—Ex tarditatc sanguinis in sinibus coagula produci, in apo- plexia, cephalaea, epilepsia, phrenitide soporisque. mor- bis, frequenter observatur—Ex congestione visae sunt rupturae—Vasa lymphatica in dubio sunt, &c. Nervi— He cerebro in specie, 126—Proportio cerebri ad corpus in tabula annexa, inter varia ac varia animalia.—Sub- stantia cerebri, 127—1. Medullaris—2. Corticalis— I'igura—Moles—Pondus. De raedullari cerebri substantia - - - . 128 Cortex cerebri, 129—Regiones cerebri, 130—Cere- bellum, 134—Medulla oblongata et spinalis, 137—De jjervorum funiculis, 13S—Ganglia et plexus, 139 Consensus seu syurpathia nervorum : ex gangliorum et ple.xuura ortu et conjunctione apparet, &c. - - 140 Usus gangliorum nondum bene cognitus est, 1'abula XXIX. De nerviset nervorum partibus 141 Tabula XXX. De nervis et gangliis - - 142 Tabula XXXI. De partibus nervorum oculo ar mato examinandis - - _ _ . 143 Vasa cerebri, cerebelli, et medulltB, et spinalis - 144 Gaknits et Oribasius refulantur a Berengario, Vesalio, Jilassa, Wepfero, et Willisio, &c. . _ . - 145 Arteries visoe fuerunt, csecae, lapideae, ossem, minoris diametri. JFillLsiiis. Calculosae, induratae in manlaco, in cephaloca. Harmer. Arterias tenuis meningis omnes, osseas vidit Mur* agnius. Sanguinis per cerebrum iter, valde enpeditum est, liber transitus, ex arieriis in venas . « . 143 Sanguinis in homine erecto ob pondus suum, rainore cclcrilate ad caput venit, et majoriredi. In morbis acutis, erectus situs qujerendus, ut minor sanguinis in cerebrum impulsus sit. In situ supino sanguinis in cerebrum velocitas a pon- dere augetur, vis qua refluit minuitur, ita cruor in cerebrum cwngeritur. Venae encephali. Verne in cerebro adsunt, sed non vulvulosoe; sunt tenerse suis arteriis ampliores, per cortieem, medullam et caveas dispersae—Vaiije in sinus se exonerant, &c.— Vena occipitalis nscQndit, ex magno trunco venae jugu- laris internee, ad occiput pone aurem. Vasa lymphatica: vasa aquosa cerebri passim citantur \n plexu c/mm'dcu vidcrunt plures uX. Stenonius Nuckius, Ridley, 14.—In corporibus striatis. Siwoncellius— llichardus Carr, vidit lymphatica vasa per os cribri- forme ad narus euntes—In pia matre et in ambitu ce- rebri vidilEdmundus King, Samuel Collins, imprimis tonius Paechionus, sub meningibus Lossius I'assin—In cerebro et intra cerebrum Hertodtius circa anfractus cerebri Boltnius—Vasa lympiiatica varicosa cerebri iMiicisivs et lieuermannus—Sub fornice versus glandu- lani pinealem, grandes lymphae ductus \\d\t Morgagnius —In sulcis inter colliculus et secundum vasa rubra in animalibus Cl. Bourgclat dixit—Ilisce autem plura objiciuntur, et imprimis a Ilewsono Quod nusquam in corpore humano longc absque glandulis conglobatis lymphatica vassa decurrant, concludit hinc, vasa abessc, ubi glandulce dcsint — Sed nuper Cl. Monro juniori, probabile videtur glandulam pituitariam essede lympha- ticaram genere, vidit vasa absorbentia in cerebro piscis (skatejish) et per analogiam concludit ea in homine ctiam adesse. De nervis in genere. Definitio, ortus, decussatio, differentia. Divisio nervorum - - - - - 150 Substantia, tunicae, fibrill® structura, funiculi, cavi- tates, sedes, anastomoses, lines. Nervi cerebri et nervi medullae spinalis - - I5l Involucra, Arachnoidea, pia meninx—Dura meninx, ubi—Durities, 152—Percussionis leges - - 153 Systema nervorum dividilur in - - - 154 1. Cerebrum—2. Cerebellum—3. Mtvlullam oblonga- tam—4. Medullam spinalcm—5. In nervos, qure ex prtediqtis quatuor partibus cnascuntur, et per totum corpus distribuuntur. Olfactorium par, &c. De nervis spinalibus, &c. - - - - 156 Nervi ccrvicis—Nervi dorsales 157—Nervi lumbales et femorales—Nervi sacrales. - - _ - 157 Tabula XXXII. De nervo intercostal!, seu sympa- th ico magno - - - - - -158 Tabula XXXIV. Nervos quosque a dexfro corporis human! latere cor adeuntes delineat, ramosque arterite aortic supcrslratos, &c. - - - - - l67 Tabula XXXV. Cadavere, codem situ, ut in expli- catione Tabula XXXIII. indicatum est, reposito, tota auris externa cum meatu auditorio cartilagineo, nec non processus, mastoideus ac styliforinis, cum ad- nexis( iOJ ) ncxis musculis alsque partes quaedam, quo superiorem rervotum conformatis eo melius paterit, remotse sunt 177 Tabula XXXVI. De nervis thoracis et abdominis 183 Tabula XXXV. Figura secunda - - - 192 Tabula XXXVII. Explanat originem atque habi- tum ganglii sic dicti semilunaris, feu potius gangliorum cffiliacorum dcxtri lateris ; monstrat ganglia rcnalia et sperraatica dextri lateris eorumdemque anastamosin cum gangliis sinistri lateris, plexus mesenterici superioris originem, tandem plcxuni mesentericum inferiorem, et nervos liypogastricos dextros - - - _ ip5 Tabula XXXVIII. Sistit Tabula XXXVIII. nervuin sympathicuni magnum ei par octavum, scu nervum vagum in sinistro corporis latere. Decursus intercostalis incipet infra sextain costain ct illius ulterior progressus in prima vertebra spuria ossis sacri ab- scissas est. Tabula XXXIX. Sistit nervos hepatis atque ven- triculi ex confluxu gangliorum caeliacorum dextrorum et finistrorum compositos, et quos tain commode neque XXXVI. neque XXXVIII. tabula exprimere po- tuerunt Nervorum administratio anatomica, vel dissectio nervorum - - - - _ ^ 212 SPLANCHNOLOGIA. 216 Sub hoc titulo describuntur—I. Tegumenta—II. Vi- scera quajcunque in corporc humano contenta, qure dividuntur, in—1. Viscera chylopcca: digestions ali- mentorum destinata—2. Viscera uropcea: quae urinum producunt—3. Partes generationi inservientes—4. Or- gana respirationis—5. Organa circulationi sanguinis inservientia—6 Denique organa sensuuin 'm capite impri- mis collocata—I. Cuticula seu Epidermis—II. Corpus reticulare Malpigkii, 217—HI. Cutis—De membrana adiposa et adipe, 219—Vasa sanguifera—nervi pauci adsunt—secretio, 220—Adipis receptacula sunt appensi extremis artcriarum propaginibus—Obesitas—Qualita- tes adipis, 221—Analysis chemica—Circulatio, motus, 222— Utilitates—Adeps vasa comprimit, Hydropes ob- noxii hunt—In suppuratione adeps consuinitur ct des- truit cellulosam te.xtam—In pectore, mediastino, corde nimium cangestus comprimendo venas pulmonales resistendo cordi anhelus facit, asthmaticos, hydropicos —Medulla ossium, indoles, secretio—Medullse utilitas, 223— Axungia, panniculus carnosus in bestiis—De abddrnine. Tabula XL. De thorace et abdoinine - - 225 Tabula XLI. De abdoniine, inlestinis, &c. re- motis - - . ■ - - . . 226 Peritonaeum, mesenterium, 227 — Omentum, seu E«•^9r^ool', 228 —Ventriculus, scu stoinachus, 229— Situs et figura, orificia, superficies arcus—tunicae qua- tuor, extima, muscularis, nervea, villosa ct inter has cellulosus textus invenitur ; tria sunt intervalla ccllulosa inter tunicas,—Intestina—divisio in tenuiaet crassa, 230 —Duodenum, jejunum, ct ileum, tenuia—Cacum colon et rectum, crassa—Intestina tenuia generatim, 231—Fabrica, tunicae, villi arteriae motus duplex— stimuli—Usui inlestiaorum tenuium, 232—Intestina te- nuia speciatim — Intestina crassa, caecum colon et rectum—Glandulae Peyeri et Brunnerianae, 233—Usus crassorum intestinorum—Hepar et cystis fellea. Liga- menta—Vasa hepatis sunt: haematophora, cholephora, lymphatica—Vena umbilicalis—Vena portae—hcpatica et vasa lymphatica, 235—Ductus cholephori seu biliarii —choledochus—Fabrica hepatis. Usus— Cystis fellea— ductus cysticus. Usus, 23o—Lien.—situs—substantia —pondus—connexiones—vasa ductus cxcretorius— Usus splenis, pro certo nondum fuit assiguatus—Usus secundum Hewsonum etCI. Falconar, 237—discipuliun olim nieum. Experimental Inquiries, p. iii.—Pancreas, 238—Latiludo—longitudo—crassities—sedes—color— figura—ortus—divisio—fabrica, ductus. Inventor duc- tus fuit Mauritius Hoffman Patavii, lfi41, numerus— finis—Connexio—arteriae—venae—lymphatica—nervi— usus pancreatis—-Glandulae supra renales ab Eustachio prinium descriptce—Usus hactenus latet, qui tamcn major in foetu, quam inadulto esse videtur. Renes, 239—Locus—ren dexter—ren sinister—alti- tude—magnitudo longitudo latitude—crassitics— superficies margines—extremitates—■ connexio, vasa sanguifera—lymphatica—ductus excretorii, vocantur ureteres—nervi—fabrica—1. substantia corticalis—2. substantia tubulosa—3. substantia papillosa—vasa emulgentia—integumenta—pelvis—tunica—Ususrenum Ureteres. Vesica urinaria, 240—Situs—figura—fundus—collum —corpus magnitudo—superficies—foramina— connex- io : in viris, est cum intestino recto ope telte cellulosaj. In feeminis, cum utero ejusque vagina—Sphincter— fabrica—Urethra—prostata—corpora spongiosa—caver- nosa—musculi urethrae. Connexio—tunicae—arteriae, 241—venae—vasa lymphatica—nervi—Usus vesicae. De partibus genitalibus. Partes viriles dividuntur. 1. Testes cum scroto—2. vesiculae spermaticse—3. penis, seu membrum virile— involucra testium sunt—1. scrotum—2. ciemaster seu elevatur testiculi—3. tunica vaginalis. Triplex e.st haec tunicae—1. extima—2. sccunda—3. tertia—tunica al- buginea scu tegmum testium internum. Notanda circa testes sunt;—1. extremitates binae— 2. margines duo—epididymis, seu testiculus acces- sorius. Vasa testium—1. arteria spermatica, 242—venae— vasa lymphatica—nervi testium—Fabrica testium— funiculus spermaticus—vesiculae spermaticae seu semina- les—ductus excretorius—verumontanum—vasa sangui- fera—lymphatica—Usus testium—vasis deferentis— vesicularum spermaticarum. PENIS. Nomina varia obtenuit, vocatur membrum, 243— virile—virga—mentula—colis—priapus,&c.—longitudo crassities—mens veneris—dorsum penis— Dividitur in 1. radicem—2. corpus—3. caput quod glans vocatur—4. Urethra ipsa. Substantiarn constituimt. 1. Integumenta communia —2. Duo corpora cavernosa penis—3. Corpus caverno- sum urethriB—4. Urethra ipsa Glanduli*( 2o8 ) Glaiiilulae ppnis—prostata—GJandul®, 244—Cowpc- ruMi®—Glaiulul® ociorifci®.Vasa penis—Arteria— veil®—vasa lymphatica—Usus methi'w: lotium et in adultis spenna cum succo prostat® e coipore eliminare —Usus corporum cavernosorum ^ peneiu et urethrara, cxpandere ct ligescere taciunt—Spenna vel semeu. GENITALIA MULIERUM. 245 Partes qu® in mulieribus generationi inserviunt apte dividunt.ur, in externas, et internas, et sunt—Externa:. Mens veneris — labia niajora—minora—clitoris—hy- men — Internet, vagina — uterus —■ tub® Fallopian® —ovaria—ligaincnta lata—rotunda—urethra. DE UTERO GRAVIDO. Mutationes—partes—placenta, 247—Vasa umbili- calia—ovum impregnatum, &c. - _ 250 FCETUS. Ovum—Embryo— Diversitas Embryonis ab homine adulto, 252—Gra- viditates spuri®—mol®, &c. in abdomine—foramen ovale—valvula Eustachii—canalis arteriosus—venosus —pulmo—glandula thymus urachus—ventriculus et in- testina—rencs—vesica—hymen—In capite—cerebrum cst valde mollis — processus — Epiphyses— membrana tympani—meatus auditorius—pupilla—Dentes—In ver- ticeossa p^irietalia,fontanclla—ossa omnia corporis mol- liora—cavitates articulares, 25S. OCULUS. Definitio—colcres—situs—munimenta oculorum, 253 — Orbit® superius—inferius—Interne, externi—Arcus orbitales — Orbitarum cavitates et foramina—Partes extern®—Interiores partes, 254—Supercilia—cilia— palpebr®—nervi—tarsus—Glandul® sebace® Meibo- mian®—canthus major—minor—glandula lachrymalis —Lacrura®—Lem®—Ductus lachyrymales, 235—Ca- Tuncula lachrymalis—Puncta lachrymalia—Canales lachrymales — Succus lachrymalis — Ductus nasalis— membrana conjunctiva — Bulbus—Involucra— Selero- tica—Choroides — Retina — Tres humores — aqueus— \itreus—chrystallinus—Membran® bulbi sunt quatuor in parte postica bulbi, sclerotica, choroidea—retina— hyaloides. Corioea transparens, &c. - , - . 25g Iris—corpus seu ciliare ligamentum. Pupilla — nomen— figura—structura, 257—lamina ♦cllulosa, ab orbiculo et annullari sulco producta— pigmenti—Sphincter pupill®—membrana retina—Origo retin®—situs—fabrica—conncctio— terminus—earner® oculi Humores, 258—ocXiIorum— aqueus—lens chrys- tallina r fabrica — humor vitreus — Usus humorum— Nervus opticus—origO'—tabrica nervi optici, 26o— Nervus quarti paris—Nervus sexti paris — nervuli ciliarcs Usus oeuli; cst organuin visus—Myopes— Presbyt®, •' * Ta bula XLII.Tutnc®—arteri® ocuH—arteri®, 2Gl —ciliares long® ctbrev®, circulus iridis—Iridis fabric*, et nervuli ciliares—venul® choroidis et iridis. Tabula XLIII. Nervi bulbi ct musculorum iridis —ganglion ophthalmicum cum nervis ciliaribus. Tabula XLIV'. - - 2^3 Fig. I. Mcmbranul® coron® ciliaris, cujus ope lens chrystallina cum vitreo jungitur, ct canalis Petitianus flatu turgens. Fig. II. ct III. Arteria lentis chrystal- lin® in facie cjus posteriori conspicua. Fig. IV. V. IT. VII. Tres figur® lentis chryslallin® ex hominibus divers® ®tatis. Fig. VH. Lens chrystallina, qu® iu aqua macerata in squammas triangulares dehiscere incipit. Fig. VIII. Glandul® sebac® Meibomian® a facie posteriori palpebrarum vis®. Fig. IX. Insertio levatoris palpebr® superioris. Fig. X. Vi® lachryma- rum Tabula XLV. - - ^6^ Fig. I. Origo tunicarum oculi; Lacies interna cho- roidis. Fig. II. Reticulum choroidi instratum ; micros copio plurimum augentc visum. Fig. HI. Annulus procossuum ciliarium Icnte visus, parum augente. Fig. IV. Plic® tres processuum ciliarium, quorum fa- brica vasculosa microscopio plurimum augente sistitur. Fig. V. Portio annuli minoris iridis, ope microscopio visa it delineata. Fig. VI. Ven® oculi. Tabula XLVI. Musculi bulbi oculi - - 265 Fig. I. Musculi cum levatore palpebr® superioris. Fig. 11. hlusculi oculi sine levatorepalpebra. Fig. Hl.Tendo communis, unde musculi abducens, adducens ct depri- mens originem ducunt. Fig. IV. Musculus obliquus su- perior. Fig. V. Musculus obliquus inferior. Auris, organum est auditus _ q66 Auris dividitur : 1. In auriculam et meatum audito- rium externum — 2. In cavitatem tympani—3. In labyrinthum—Paries autem molles; sunt extern® vel intern®—Externce sunt: 1. Auricula—2. Meatus audi- torius externus — 3. Membrana tympani—Internee: 1, Periosteum auris intern®—2. Membrana communis auris intern®—3. Tuba Eustachiana—.Auricula—sVib- stantia ejus — Helix—Antihelix — Concha—Tragus— Antitragus—Lobulus auris—Pinna vel ala—Musculi— Superior musculus—Posteriores—Anterior—Transver- sus—Antitragicus—Tragicus—Meatus auditorius ex- ternus—Glandul® ceruminos®—Membrana tympani— Structura membranae—componitur ex laminis sex—• Trima est epidermidis—Seennda, productio membran® meatum vestientis—Tertia, textus cellularis in quo v.asa faciunt clegans rete—Quarto, splendens, tenuis, dia- phana, enascitur a periosteo meatus—Quinta, textus cellularis est, simili vasorum plexu donata uti tertia—• Sexto, cst a periosteo cavi tympani. Et si h®c mem- brana plurimis componatur laminis, satis tamen tennis est a nialleo, hujusque musculis intensa, ac sensilissima, uti inflaniinatiunes id cvincunt. Usus. Chorda tympani—Ossicula quatuor auditus, 267— Malleus—Incus—Ossiculum subrotundum ovale — Stapes—Tub® acoustic®, seu Eustachian® — Usus— Fenestra( 209 ) Fenestra ovaiis—Fenestra rotunda—Labyrinthus—Vis- I tibulum—Canales tres semi-circulares—Canalis superior ! —inferior — extimus—Cochlea — scala posterior an- I terior—Portio mollis—Arteriie auvis exterme—mem- ! branaetympanicavi tympani—in tuba etmeatu auditono I vestibuli—venae similes sunt arteriis—Vasa lympha- I tica detexit CUCottunius. I Usus auris: motus tremulos, aeris ope excipit; ad f ossicula auditus, hinc per partes auris intcrnas, in ce- I rebrum usque deducit; et sensuin auditus excital, j! &c. &c. NASUS. II Situs — divisio —Partes externas nasi sunt, 269— ' 1. Radix—2. Dorsujn—3. Spina—4. Apex—5. Alffi ! 6. Columna—7. Nares—8. Pili—Tegumenta quae ossa ejus tegunt, sunt: 1. Integumenta communia— 2. Musculi—3. Cartilagines—Interior pars nasi—Compo- nitur nasus multis ossibus 9—Cartilagines 5—septum— 4. Apertura post palatum—Internae partes miris modis cavernosae ac compositae sunt Suprema hledia — Ima Sinus narium—Membrana pituitaria Sckneideri, ornncs nunc ps^rtcs cnumcrstifi c3.vit3.t0s mvcstiuntuij tunica molli, spongiosa, nibicunda, periosteo undique firmiter adnata, tunica hiec gaudet nervis plurimis, va- sisquemucum secernentibus. Nomen—Substantia est ‘ cellulosa—Arteriae—Mucus narium ab arteriis tenuissi- I mis humor profunditur viscidus, insipidus, fluidus, dum recens est. Usus muci—Venae—Nervi—Usus . narium—Olfactus objecta, &c. DE ORE. Partes externae — labia—fabrica — anguli, 271 Mentum—Buccae—fabrica—Arteriae—Venae—Nervi— Partes internae—interne et superne a palato duro et molli —Inferius a lingua et musculis sub ea positis. Anierius et Lateraliter, ab alveolis et dentibus—Postrorsum in i fauces usque protenditur. In cavitate notanda sunt : tunica—fabrica—palatum—palatum durum—palatum molle seu velum pendulum palatiimm—Usus : hoc ve- lum cavet ne deglutienda in nares irruant Uvula figura—substantia—ossa—musculi —ligamenta—Usus —Amygdalae — definitio— musculi — usus arcus Gingivae. ■ Lingua—Cavum buccarum—Glandulae salivales, 272 i ——Parotides—Ductus excretorius salivam in cavum ii oris exonerat—Maxillares glandulae — ductus excre- l| torius — Glandulae sublinguales — Arteriae —Venae-— I' Nervi ori oriuntur a pari quinto et octavo—Usus oris est: Masticatio ciborum, Deglutitio, Loqiiela,’ Aeri I transitum concedit ad respirationem. Lactatio infantum, fit suctione lactis e mammis raatris vel nutricis. j LINGUA. Definitio—involucra—figura—divisio—1. Basis, vel radix—2. Corpus—3. Dorsum—4. Linea mediana—5. Latera—6. Apex—Connexio; cum osse hyoide, maxilla inferiori, processu styloide, pharyngc, larynge, per musculos et membranas. Ligamenta—1. Fraenulum—Membranceum — Sub- tantia linguae — fabrica—pars inferior—media — pos- trema—Papillae nerveae, 273—1. maxiinae—2. fmigi- fonnes—conoideae—aliaepapillae filiformes cylindiiaccae, &c. Arteriae linguae — Venae—Nervi—Glandulae— Motus linguae a musculis variis—Ususlingiue: gustus, et sennoniset cantus instrumentum praecipuum, mandu- cationi quoque suctioni, deglutioni, expuitioni, &c. inservit, &c. icc. COLLUM. Collum vel cervix—Jugulum—pom urn Adaini, 274 —Cervix—humeri—Partes externae-—1. Integumenta communia—2. Musculi multi—3. Vertebrae—4. Me- dulla spinalis colli—5. Octo paria nervorum cervica- liuin—6. Arteriae carotides—7- Venae jugulares ex- ternae et internae—8. Glandulae jugulares—9- Glan- dula thyroidea—10. Nervi—11. Ganglia plura, vide' in tabulis—12. Lymphatica vasa—Partes internae—■ 1. Fauces — 2. Pharynx — 3. Oesophagi pars—4. Larynx—5. Trachea: pars. FAUCES. Cavum amplum in pharyngem terminatum, quod re- tro linguam et velum palatinum est nominatur fauces— tunica—arteriae—venae—musculi—nervi—usus. PHARYNX. - 275 Pharynx est ampla figurae irregularis cavea infundi- bulo siinilis, retro laryngem ante vertebras colli supc- riores faucibus adhaeret, in oesophagura terminatur—- .Sedes — Connexio—figura—substantia—musculi—N o- mina musculorum pharyngis—arteria—venae—nervi— Glandulae—Usus : pharynx admittit, detrndit alimenta in oesophagura. OESOPHAGUS. Vel gula. Est tubus membranaceus, musculosus, qui a pharynge incipiens, in ventriculum usque descendit —Situs—Connexio—Substantia—1. Membrana com- munis—2. Membrana muscularis — 3. Membrana nervea—4. Membrana villosa—Villi, 276—Arteriae— Venae—Glandulae oesophageae—Usus : per oesophagum cibi promoventur—Consiringituv oesophagus ab inita- tione cibi desceudentis. LARYNX. Larynx est tracheae pars suprema—Vocis organum est—Constat cartilaginibus quinque; musculis pluri- bus ; interna membrana nervea—1. Annularis cartilago •—seti cricoidca — Thyroidea cartilago—3. et 4. Ary- taenoidea:—5 Epiglottis — Figura—Basis— membrana —Glandulae—sinus laryngis seu ventriculi-—Musculi laryngis sunt triu paria. TRACHEA. Trachea, aspera arteria, vel fistula pulmonalis, 277—“ est canalis longus cx annulie cartilagiueis, fibrLs muscu- laribus, Hbh( 210 ) laribiis, carneis, constans; semper apcrtus ; qui ante ()cso])ha"uin, a larynge per colluin super ocsophagum cxtcnsus, in thoracem desccndit; ibique in duos ramos disiditur, qui Bronchia, vocantur, &c.—1. Larynx—2. Trachea—1. tunica extiina cellulosa—2. tunica muscu- losa—3. Glandul® parva — thyroidea—4. Bronchiae, sunt rami trachea; inter vasa ) ulmonalia per puiinones ubique <listensi quibus adha;rent vesiculce— Ortus— Fines: de bronchiorum finibus lis cst inter anatomicos —Opinioncs—arterice bronchialcs—dextra arteria sinistra—vena; bronchialcs dua; sunt—dextra—sinistra —vasa ha;c cum bronchiis communicant — Nervi— Glandula; notabiles trachea- adsunt, qua; ad humectanda; inserviunt—1. Bronchialcs sunt nigrm—2. Thyroidea—■ plena cst seroso, llavescente, lenitur viscido humore— usus incertus—Usus trachea; arteria;: est ad rcspirati- onem et loquelam ; duni respiramus et loquimur, aereni introrsum etextrorsum mittit. THORAX. Thorax, vel pectus, est mcdius corporis venter, sive cavitas inter collum et abdomen situm, extenditur a collo ad diaphragma—Substantia—divisio—Externa; partes—^laminae—Nomina in foeminis mamma;, in viris mammillae—Integumenta—numerus—situs—magnitudo —Figura— pulchritudo—tempus incrcmenti —tempus decrerncnti—papillae substantia—foraminula—Areola— Usus— Substantia mammarum—1, Integumenta—2. Substantia—3. Glandula; lacteae—-i. Vasa lactea— tubuli lactiferi—5. Artcriae mammarum—6'. Vena;— 7. \'asa lymphalica—8. Nervi—Usus mammarum. Lac nutritioni infantis dicatum, in glandulosa substantia seccrnere, in tubulis et finibus lactiferis colligerc, asscr- varc, et suo tempore infanti per papillam praebere. Mammis remotis, in thorace consideranda : 1. Mus- culi pectorales—intercostales extcrni—intern!—mem- brana, pleura dicta totum thoracis cavum investicns, PLEURA. Pleura est mcmbrana crassa, robusta, diaphana, cel- lularis, internam superficiem thoracis investicns—super- ficies interna—externa cellulosa—Mediastinum est pro- cessus mcmbranaceus magniis, quod thoracis cavum in duas cavitates disccrnit. Constat binis pleura; laniinis textu celluloso inviccm nexis. Connexio pleura; est cum costis, musculis intcrcostalibus, sterno et corpori- bus vertcbrarum dorsi, intcrius cum pericardio et dia- phragmate. Vasa—arteria; cojiiosiswme—vena;—vasa jymphatica—Nervi. Usus; 1. Ut pectoris internam superficiatn amiciat—2. Thoracem inbinas partes divi- dat—3. Pulmonalibus et pericardio externam dat mem- branam—4. Totum thoracem investit, lubricat, firmat. DIAPHRAGMA. Diaphragma cst sepimentum, quod thoracem a cavo abdominal! separat—Numen—situs—substantia muscu- lo-a—Connexio: Antrorsnm processui ensiformi sterni ultimis duabus costis veris et margin! cartilagineo om- nium costarum spuriaruin, pericardio, meUiuslino, ad- hmret. Postrorsum, duo crura carnca formta, qua corporibus vertebrarum lumbarium nectuntur—Fora- prina tria —arteria;—venx>—nervi—usus. PULMONES. - 28 Pulmo cst viscus thoracis maximum, molle, spongio- sum, cor complectens, respirationis organon—Figura Color—Involucra—Connexio: cum collo, ope asperice arterire; cum sterno et vertebris, ope mijdiastini ; cum- corde, ope vasorum pulmonalium—divisio—Fabrica— substantia — vesicularis spongiosa—Tela cellulosa in magna adest copia, rcvincit omnes partes facitque cel- ' lulas communicantes cum vasis aereis, firmat, ordinat, slabilat, vasa, omnes minimosque lobulos comprehendit, donee lobuli resolvantur in cellulas membranaceas exi • v guas, acre in adulto plenas varim figurm. Cellulosa base tela aucta ultimo ipsum pulmonem constituit. In ca dividuntur arteria; et venre pulmonales, aerea vasa, ct in cellulosa; uliimae spatiolis minima; arteriolae venm- que rcpunt, intertextae in retis speciem, ibique et arterise vaporern copiosum pulmonis aercas cellulas exhalet et vena ab iisdcni vaporern aquosum recipit. 2. Vasculosa—3. Bronchialis—Vasa ai-rea : ab as- pera arteria producuntur—Interior etiam mcmbrana trachem nervea—Involucrum pulmonis pleura est con- tinuatio. Vasa pulinonum—1. Coinmunia sen pulmonalia— 2. Propria sen bronchialia—Arteria pulmonalis—Vena pulmonalis—Arteriae bronchialcs—Venae bronchialcs— Glandulee innumerabiles sedent in cellulosa tunica— Glandulae bronchialcs—Vasa lyinphatica—Nervi. Usus pulmonis—1. Respiratio — Inspiratio, expi- ratio, &c. 6cc. PERICARDIUM. Pericardium est peculiaris saccus mcmbranaceus, cor cum suis appendicibus iucludens, haerens inter duos pul- monis lobos—Figura, 284—basis—Connexio superius cum mediastino et vasis magnis cordis caeherct basis. Inferius: diaphragmati nectitur, apex liber est, et in cavitate quadam lobisinistri pulmonis fovetur—substan- tia—constat ex duplici mcmbrana—vasa arteriosa ct venosa—lymphatica vasa—nervi—liquor—pericardii— videtur inservirc pro cordis humectatiqne motusque fa- cilitate- -Alorbi in immensum nonnunquam augent hanc aquani, quae est lymphatica, ad ignem in gclatinain spissecit.—Usus pericardii: 1. Sustentarc cor, quasi pendulum maxime, quando dorso incumbitur. 2. Dcfendere cor, no aer frigidior, pulmonem ingre- diens, illud forte offendat. 3. Ne pus, aqua, &c. thoracis, cor Imdere possit. Liquorem pericardii continere pro cordis faciliori motu. COR. Cor est machina seu instnimentum ex copiosissimis carneisfibris composita—Ciiculationis sanguinis et vit® organum( 211 ) organuin primarium liabctur —- Figura—-Longitiulo — L uitudo—Circumforeiitia—pondus — Substantia cordis —situs—Cordis obliquus cst, non transversalis — sedes conformatio—Visum est cor basim liabere in sinistra thoracis ravea, apicem in dextra — In statu naturali cor ascendit et dcscendit cum-diaphragmate ; asccndit in fortiori expirationc, de&ccndit <\.\xlcn\ in valida inspi- ralione, quia pericardium diaphragmati connexum est inferius. ~ , Divisio externarum partium cordis est. 1.'Basis et apex—2. superficies superior et inferior — 3. Margines, anterior et posterior—Divisio internarum partium cordis —VentricuUis dexter — Ventriculus sinister — Orificia, 2S6'—Valvuhe semilunares—tricuspidales —Vasa cordis propria et communia vcl propria—Communia—1. Aorta —2. Arteria pulmonalis—3. A'enne pulmonales vena cava — Vasa propria sunt — Arterise coronariae dextra; et sinistrse, qum ab aorta, per cordis substantiam dis- perguntur, idque nutriunt. Auriculse duse — Vis irritabilisdiastole — systole, 287— Motus cordis, mirabilis est, dies uoctesque sine unius momenti intermissione et sine delassalione, cen- tum quandoque et ultra annos perdurens uniquoque die centies inillics pulsans. Usus cordis est: priniariuin organum motus vitalis sanguinis, cjusque circulationem per omnes partes corporis promovens, ad corporis incre mentum, nutritionem et vitam. Cor sanguinem per , venas ex omnibus partibus recipit et per arterias ad omnes rursus partes suo motu pellit, &c. Tabula XLVII. Figura I. Cor mulieris exhibet cum vasis suis contiguis cera repletum a dextro latere in situ suo naturali. Figura II. Idem cor a sinistro la^re sub eodem cor- porissitu, quasi per costas conspiciendum exhibit. Tabula XLVIII. De circulatione sanguinis, ct de valvulis, &c. EPITOME SPLANCHNOLOGLE. Explicatio partium omnium brevis, mihi videtur; hoc in opusculo, definitiones, situs, nexus partium dan- tur, praecipue in praxi medicinae utilissimi; osteologia, syndesmologia jam accurate dicta sunt in priore paite hujus operis, hie ergo omittuntur. Divisio corporis humani - _ - - 200 Integuraenta communia corporis—De capite, 291— Partes externa;—internae—medulla oblongata—spinalis, 292—Oculus, 293—Anris, 294 — Cavitas oris—Lingua -folium— Fauces—Pharynx, 295 — Oesophagus — Larynx—Trachea — Thorax —Mammae, 29b—Pleura —Diaphragma— Pulmones—Cor, 297— De abdomine — Per it onaeum — omentum — ventriculus—Intestina tenuiat crassa— Ilepar cum vesicula fellis—Mesente- rium—Lien—Pancreas—Vasa lactea—In cavitate lum- borum extra peritonaeum sunt — llenes — Glandulae suprarenales— Uretcres — Receptaculum chyli—Aorta decendens — Vena cava ascendens. In cavitate pelvis extra peritonaeum sunt: in viris vesica urinaria—In- testinum rectum — Vesicula; seminales — In feminis—. Uterus—Ligamcnta uteri—Tubae Fallopianae—Ovaria —Vagina—Partes genitales virorum—IMulierum 301 Partes uteri grividi — Placenta uterina—Funiculus umbilicalis — Ovum membranaceum foetus — Liquor amnii—Foetus quibus differt ab adulto. . HYGllOLOGIA, seu. DOCTIUNA de IIUMORIBUS CORPOUIS IIUMANI. Liquidae nostri corporis partes humores vocantur. Hi dividuntur in humores secretos et non secrctos liu- mores non secrcti. 1. Chylus. Est humor albus, lacti similis, qui ex cibis in vcntriculo et intestinis tenuibus digestis oritur. 2. Sanguis. Est humor rubicundus, qui in corde, arteriis et venis continetur. 3. Lympha est aqua gelatinosa, qua; in vasis lympha- ticis continetur. Humores a sanguine secrcti in cranii et specu vetre- brali, vapor aquosus, &c. In cavo narium. AIucus nariuin. In cavo oris. Satliva a glandulis salivalibus secernitur^ In cavo faucium. Mucus faucium et oesophagi. In oculis. Humor aqueus, lens chrystallina, humor vitreus, lachrymae, succus glandularum Meibomiarum. In auribus. Cerumen aurium, aqua auditoria. In collo, Succus glandularum submaxillarium, jugu- larium et glandulae thyroideae, qui lympha gelatinosa est. In mammis. Lac mammarum. In thoracc. MucusLaryngis, tracheae et bronchiorum. Succus glandulae thymus, vapor pericardii et cavitum thoracis, qui ab arteriis exhalantibus secernitur. Ma- teria perspirabilis pulmonum, quae ex pulmonibus ex- halat. In abdomine. Succus gastricus, succus entericus, ea arteriis minutissimis exhalantibus mre mistis, succus pan- creaticus, bilis. Mucus ventriculi et intestinorum. Chy- mus, fasces intestinorum. In vesica urinaria. Urina, mucus. In genitalibus virorum. Semen, mucus urethrae, suc- cus glandulae prostatae, succus glandularum odoriferarum glandis, vapor tunica; vaginalis, qui aquosus est. In genitalibus mulicrum. Mucus vaginae et urethrae, succus glandularum oderiferarum, sanguis menstruus, sanguis lochialis, liquor amnii. In foetu. Meconium. In articulaiionibus. Synovia, succus vaginaram ten- dinum. In ossibus. Medulla ossium, succus medallaris. In integumentibus communibus. Mucus Malpighia- nus, succus glandularum subcutanearum qui pinguis est. Succus pilorum, materia pcrspiiabilis, que sub forma vaporis invisibilis per vasa exhalantia arteriosa ex tota superficie cutis perpetuo exhalat ; oleum mem- branae adiposa;, quod ubique in cellulis tela; cellulosae et omento a poris lateralibusarteriarem secernitur. SCHOLASCHOLA MEDICINE UNIVERSALIS NOVA LIBER II. PIIVSIOLOGIA, PATHOLOGIA PARTIUM, &c. NOVO MODO EXHIBIT.^v 1?IIYSIOLOGIA in genere - - - - 305 Physiologia describit partes corporis, functiones, signa sanitatis, &c. - - > . . 307 Sanitas—Valetudo—iEgritudo— Moleculie : 1. elementales—essentiales —r Molecula- rum adhaesio—Motus spegies : 1. impulsus, 2. attractio —3. gravitas — electricitas — magnetismus — An detur vacuum ? Fibra, communis pene toti corpori humano, 309—■ materies est, ejus partes sunt: TERRA, GLUTEN, FERRUM, AER. CUM VARUS SUBDIVISIONIBUS. Qualitates fibrae— Tela cellulosa—utilitas - - - 311 Membranae - ibid. Adeps - • - - - - 312 Vasa arteriosa et venosa — origo - 313 Fines — exhalationes arteriarum. 314—A’’enae—vasa lymphatica—ortus, 318—Vasa lymphatica absorbent, per altractionem, lympham solummodo coagiilabihm et nihil aliud. Boerhaavius docuit vasa lymphatica, esse artcrias minutissimas in venas congeneres abeuntcs, serumque sanguinis pellucidum vehentes ; sed ab anatomicis re- centissimis, Au:c theuriaeversacst. DE CIRCULATIONE SANGUINIS. Motus saiiguinis per arterias et venas, 319—Circulatio sanguinis est causa vitae, actionuin, sccretionum et cxcretiouum corporis humaui, &c. I. De vasis arteriosis et venosis - - - 320 II. De directione motus sanguinis per arterias et venas III. De structure cordis . ^ . . 301 IV. Phaenomina motus cordis - - - 324 V. Demotu, quern sanguinis accipit a corde - 327 VI. De causa motus cordis—Opiniones, - 329 VII. De nature sanguinis. . . ; VIII. De phtenominis, causis, effectibus sanguinis motus intra arterias - - » ' 334 IX. De phaenominis, causis, et effectibus siSgninis motus intra venas - - _ . « 33^ Desecretionibus - - , - • - 341 I. De organis secretoriis. II. Classes humorum sccretoriorum - - _ 342 III. De causis diversitatis humorum, cum variis opinionibus - ^ - - ... 343 IV. De cxcretione - ' - - - 344 De respiratione et actionibusabipsapendentibus 345 I. De strucutra et actione partium respirationi famu- lantium II. De acre - • - - 349 III. De phsenominis et mechanism© respiratronis 350 IV. De militate respirationis - ;. - - 352 De nonnullis actionibus a ie-spiratione pendentibus 355 De voce et loquela - .... 356 Tabula XLIX, De larynge et pharynge - 3^1 De actione cerebri et ucrvoruin. .1. Quid** '• 1 s -V * * { 2*3 ) }. Quid circa cerebrum et nerves doceat anatome. II. De functionibus cerebri ct nervorum - - 367 i I I- III. De modo quo cerebrum et nervi suas functiones exercent - - - 368 Sententi® vari® auctorum - - 370 De motu musculari - - - 377 I. ,De fabrica musculari II. De propri'etatibus fibr® musculos® - - 379 III. Ph®nomcna motus muscularis - - 380 IV'. De causa motus muscularis - - - 383 Dc sensibus c.xternis. - - - - 385 I. De tactu II. De gustu - - - 3S6 III. De olfactu - - - 387 IV. De auditu - - - 388 Tabula. L. De auditus organo - - 392 V. De visu - - - - - - 392 De aetione cutis seu de transpiratione insensibili et sudorc - . - - - - - - 400 De secretione adipis, Medullae ossium, et unsuinis - 405 .. 409 - 411 - 412 - 413 - 414 - 416 - 420 De digesUone alimentoruin in primis viis, seu de chymificationc et chylificatione , 423 I. De fame et siti. II. De masticatione .. . - - _ 425 III. De deglutitione - - - - 4.27 IV. Dc aetione ventriculi in ingesta seu de chymi- ^catione - _ _ _ 423 De mutatione, quam chymus subit, in intestinis 432 De aetione intcstiriorum crassorum . - _ - 435 De excretione alvina - - i. _ 433 De transilu^c.hyli ad sanguinem - - - 440 Degcneraf^e - - - - - 442 iarticulorum - - - De secretione et excretione urinaj. De aetione capsularum renalium Dc parotidibus et aliis glanduiis salivalibus . De peritonaeo et omento [ Tabula LI. De omento ij Tabula Lll. De omento, icon secunda I De aetione pancreatis - •: I De aetione lienis P . De aetione hepatis et vesiculre'felleae •, De vasis (H.glanduiis lymphaticis De partibus genitallbus masculls De semine De secretione ct excretione seminis Tabula LIII. Partesgenitales viri - 446 - 447 •• 450 l.t 'O r*«: Tabula LIV. De partibus genitalibus focmininia De inenstruis De conceptu De materia fa'tus - - _ - . De formationc foetus - - - De vita foetus in utero •• . . . De partu •• - . - De aetione mammarum - . . . De mutationibus qu® ifiunt in recens riato ^ > f; De nutritione - - _ - . De nutritione in priino stadlo vit®, cum incremento 450* • ^454 ■ 462 ■ 464 • 466 ■ 4f2 ■ 474 • 475 . 47G 477 De nutritione in secundo stadio, seu virilis ®tas. De nutritione in tertio stadio vit® seu de decremento 480 EPITOME PHYSIOLOGI7E PRO JUN10RI3US S.TUDIOSIS 482 De natura et viribus corporis animati. De actionibus corporis animati. De actionibus vitalibus generatim. Circulatio sanguinis—actio cordis—actio arteriaruni —actio venarum—respiratio—Calor corporis humani 433 Dc actionibus animaiibus generatim. Anima—De sensatrone gefleratim—De sensibus ex- • ternis generatim — tactus — gustus — olfactus—visus— auditus - - . ■ - . 485 De sensibus internis—De irritabilitate—actio muscu- . loruin—vox—loquela—vigilia—somnus - - 487 De actionibus naturalibus generatim - -488 Fames—sitis — masticatio — deglutitio—digestio ci- borum in ventriculo—chylificatio'—transitus chyii in sanguinem — sanguificatio — nutritio incrementum et decrementum corporis - - _ _ 4^0 Secretio humorum — excretio humorum — expulsid f®cura—secretio urin®—transpiratio—inhalatio 491—492 De actionibus sexualibus generatim - • - 493 Excretio seminis — menstruatio — coneeptio — evo- lutio embryonis—graviditas— puerperium — hominis ®tates— infantia—pueritia—Juventus—adulta ®tas •— virilitas senectus—decrepita ®tas—MOKS. 497 From this exhibition of the Latin Schola Medicinm may be seen, by comparison, the difierence-'between that'more ela- berate work, and the present English edition. lii ' CONCLUSION ’ - b- •' ■ n ' J 1. : ” 1.1 uThe conclusion With a brief flccoant of the plan instituted at the St. Mary-lc-bone infirmary, for instructing pupils in the-icience of me» aicine, and its various branches, &c. A HUS is concluded the abridged translation of Scho!a Medicinte Cniversalis Nuxa ; principally adapted to the pur- poses of practice in the medical art. The Latin edition is more diffusive; but, perhaps, not more useful, except, that it contains the appearances from dissections, and relations of morbid parts of all diseases, in a column parallel to the physiology. In the history of medicine, the English edition is much enlarged, and the whole practice and sentiments of the illustrious father of medicine, IlipPOCRAXts, are ar- ranged, not without much labour, in a conspicuous point of view. 'Ihe doctrwies likewise, of the Greek philosophers are introduced, and the dogmata of Asclepiades, and other leaders of sectaries are exhibited. The ancients were no less industrious in forming visionary systems than the moderns. They were frequently credited, took root, blazed forth with lustre, lived lor a certain period, attracted admi- ration, pro tempore, while in fashion, gradually came into disrepute, decayed, and then fell never to rise again. This has been, and ever will be, the fate of all narrow systems, which would contract the wide expanse and varieties of hu- man nature, into a few miserable unproved cliimerical principles. After such repeated failures of many ingenious and real learaed men, it is surprising that any professor, or physician, will dare to advance, or attempt to enforce doctrines, wliich, if examined by the lights of reason and truth, are found, not only defective, but absolutely false. Miserable must be the art, after above 2000 years labour, of different and suc- ceeding artists, if from their joint science, a foundation for rational practice cannot be formed, without those false and erroneous props, hypotheses, unintelligible and equivocal ambiguous phraseology, the subtle schemes of artifice, through the vanity of appearing singular. There arc facts enough in the art, fully established, for all the purpo.ses of investigating the causes, and curing all cuiable diseases ; then why desert truths and experience, to embrace error, falshood, the stratagems of delusion, or the wild effusions of infatuation and immature experience? Why ?—Why, because men are desirous of a shorter cut to obtain knowledge, thah can be acquired by the laborious studies and experience already promulgated, in the former part of this work, as indispensably necessary. Irnaguiation, it let loose, takes more rapid and unsubstantial flights than cool reason, guided by science, tuith, and solid judgment. The authors of false doctrines may be justly charged with intentional dcceppon, and their superficial believers and fol- lowers, with vicious credulity and indolence, in suffering them- selves to be imposed on b) the semblance of veracity, where no veracity exists. Versatile juvenile characters, often ra- pidly fly after every superficial crude novelty ; experience, rea- son, and profound judgment, are meditating cautions, pene- trating and circumspect. Which of the two is most appro- priate to so impmtaiita science as inediciric ? Let those who are capable of reasoning and reflection determine. The greatest ambition ot my life, the grandest objects of an ardent solicitude, have been to see a rational m IuioI of medicine erected; for this purpose have ail my laltoiiiv been diie^^ed, and through the j(-int assistance ot in^ coilcagues Doctor Hooper, and Mr. Phillips, at the Si. Mary-le-bone Infirmary, those views are nearly acc«nnj>|i -he(i. 1 am proud to say, 1 laid the first brick of that .dry biiiiJing, on the eleventh of June, 17.92, and gave the outlines of the defects of our foriner infirmary, which 1 had long attended, and other hospitals, to tlie.brmevolent noGlemen and gentlemen of the committee, to reu<icr the new erection conipkte, as much as appeared jMissiblc, for the comforts of'the poor afflicted, and for the humane purposes of that most excellent parochial institution. Mr. White distinguished hnii-self as an excellent architect. It has since received inqiiovements; so that it may be considered as a model lor all the purposes of a complete llritish hospital. I had seen, and had plans of most of the liospitals in Europe, and had investigated their merits and -delccts; the foriner were adopted, and the latter e.vcludcd.* One important circumstance has been ob- served, never to mingle the surgery patients with the medical; but to keep them both in separate wards, by which the olfac- tory nerves are not offended witli the disagreeable odours of ulcers, ointments, &c. nor the surgery patients exposed to the contaminating air of putrid fevers, &c. The wards are airy, open, axhl all distinct. ~ As to the modes of exercising the pupfls, these too dif- fer from all other places, or hospitals in Europe; and they are respectfully submitted to the candid and leiwned in tlie profession, and to all those useful and celebrated members of society, professors, who undertake the rinportant task of initiating students into that art, which, amongst all others, is the most learned and diflicult of access. 1. As nothiug can be understood without a knowledge of learned * The hospitals have been examined as to the building, arrangements, and medical practice, at Rouen, Amiens, Paris, and I.yons, in Euance; those at Turin, Florence, Bologna, Rome, Naples, Ecrrara, I’adun, Venice, and others in Italy; those of Trieste, Lintz, Vienna, Ratisbon, Eranckfort, Mentz, Cologne, and other parts of Germany ; St. Omers, Brussels, ti.e Low Countiie:, and al) Holland, as Amsterdam, Rotterdaor, Leyden, the Hague, &c.( *'« ) learned languages, terras, definitions, and constituent par- ticles of substances; these are the primary objects in medi- cal education and instruction. II. These are applied, first, to pharmacy, and all the junior pupils of the second and third class, are monthly, in rotation, employed in preparing the numerous prescriptions of an unbounded and extensive practice, and knowing the purposes for which they are prescribed.* III. When capable, they have their month in rotation, to dress patients, and attend the surgery department in the surgery wards; and all the pupils, without distinction, are present at surgical operations, and extispiscial inquiries, or examination of the causes of death, in the dissecting room, where they are in the constant habit of observing the various Ravages of different diseases they have seen and attended dur ing life, and they acquire, by this' means, no small know- ledge in anatomy. Dr. Hooper kindly gives the ptipils im- portant lectures; which, advanced in life as 1 am, I rarely fail of attending, well knowing, by long experience, that this is the only true mode of cstalilishing real and improved ac- cessions to science. IV. From their first entrance as students they attend my practice round the house, and are occasionally informed of its rationale ; where the wards are arranged in the following order.t The pupils are occasionally examined concerning the diseases, causes, indications, and contra-indications, and receive clinical instructions, at the bed side of the sick. The arrangement adopted facilitates science, and many acquire the experiaice ol aged tnen, long before they are twenty years old. It may be pronounced now, from experiment, that nothing can be compared, or devised, equal to an early education in all the branches and extensive duties of the pro- fession. It is a saving of ten years in the life of man, and if the sentence of the divine Hippocrates be true, wliirh has never been denied, that life is short, the art long , it must follow, that those who are earliest initiated into the very fundamental principles, and who see them confirmed daily by practical experience, must take precedency in science of all those • There is a formula medicament orum, of my arranging, containing the prescriptions used, f 2 Cenvalescenr ,]fiyge airy wards for men and women, .separate. 2 /'yr#!riaf wards, for the admission of febrile diseases. i 2 Chronic wards, for different species of chronic diseases. 2 Pulmonic wards, for perinneuinony, pleurisy, various'coughs, asthma, empyema, &c. 2 Small-pox wards, for the reception of variolous patients. 2 Casual wards, for particular cases. 4 W’ards on the upper part of the house, for venereal patients. 4 Large wards for surgery patients, on the ground floor. 2 ^Vards for the treatment of the itch. A large cold bath and dissecting room, with appropriate conveniences. On every floor water-closets, and in every ward portable water closets, for those who are incapable of quitting their wards ; by which means all the wards are preserved fipm fecal and ofl’ensive scents, lu the uppermost part of the wards, near the ceiling, die apertures for the exclusion of all Lul air, hydrogen, gas, &c. by which means every ward is as sweet as any gentleman’s house. At a distance from these wards, is a large lying-in ward, and an airy apartment for particular midwifery cases. Large airy wards in the uppermost part of the house, for infants, children, and their mothers. Over the head of every patient, in all the wards, is the name, age, and disease, of each individual patient. In the middle of each ward, on tables, arc stands, perforated to hold bottles, with printed directions, for the accurate ad- ministration of remedies, and indicating those who are allowed wine, porter, ike. as their cases may require. All round the house there arc passages for the poor to walk, with bi-nches ; in the upper part glazed ; in the lower open; and at certain hours the men, at other hours the women, able, are permitted to walk in a large garden. in apartments appropriated to the purpose, all the sick, on admittance, have their cloaths entirely taken off, their bodies are washed, cleansed, and purified, and then are put on the clean hospital dresses. Whatever cloathing they come in with is cleaned, put into a large repository, and ticketed, and, when cured and discharged, they receive all they brought, with ne- 'ecssary additions, if requisite. In all the large and numerous wards, where the indigent, not afflicted with disease, are cloathed and nourished, the same cleanliness and regularity pervades the whole. Ti.e younger persons of both sexes are employed in different manufactures, that requ.ro industry, and not much skill, and they have some smalt allowance of money for themselves, as an incitement to assiduity. The aged arc indulged, the sick attended, and all the objects of distress are comforted and rendered as happy as their condition can possibly allow them. The insane, to the amount of above fifty men and women, are monthly attended and prescribed tor, at Bethnal Green ; and in the last year, twenty unfortunates, of this description, were removed from the mad- house, nineteen of whom remain well. Besiiiesihe immense number of the poor in the house and infirmary, many hundreds are relieved both in sickness and poverty with atieiulance, medicine, and mono}', out of the house, in the dificrent parts of that extensive and opulent quarter of London, the St. Mary-le-bone parish. In short, humanity and liberality march hand in hand, to relieve the necessitous ■and afflicted, and to the honour of the noblemen and gentlemen directors and guardians of the poor, nothing is proposed worthy of attention that is not complied with ; nor no expence spared, that can, in the least, alleviate human misery. All is 'conducted on the most striking and laudable principles of universal benevolence, and yet with strict economy. A stronger proof of the great utility ol the hospital plan and modes of treatment, than in the report for 1802, cannot be exhibited ; in Avhich it was remarked that out of between 4 and 500 patients, in .scarlet fever, with putrid sore throat, only three died ; not one in an hundred, which exceeds the success given in my treatise, on the modes adopted fot curing those and other putrid diseases,&c. &c.( 2*6 ) those who have not such important, very important ail- vantHgcs. V. Dr. Hooper has judiciously instituted wcekl}' c.xanii- rations, trom which none of the pupils are allowed to be ab- sent, under pain of a small pecuniary forfeit; and in the pro- per seasons of tlic year, anatomical demonstrations are made monthly, by every pupil of the lirst and second class; ar.d 1 am hap|)y to say, in farther confirmalion ot what is ad- vanced, that they acquit themselves highly honourable to the institution, that has been established for tlieir future fortune in life, and the public utility. If similar plans were carried into eft'ect in all the provincial, or county hospitals, the students would be well grounded in theoretical and practical science, before they came to London to finish their studies, and his Majesty would be ceitain of having c.xcellent sur- geons and learned physicians for the navy and army, which was not the case a fiMv years ago, and the whole country would reap the benefit by the salvation of thousands of lives, who fall victims to error, empiricism, ine.xperience, and deficient science.^ \'I. The upils, in rotation, write all the prescriptions in the hospital books, the names, age, and disease of patients, over the bed’s head in the wards ; and when |)roperly qualilied by studies and experience, they assist in visiting the out-door patient^ under the direction of Dr. Hooper, the assistant residoiw^ihysician, and Mr. Phillips, surgeon to the house- hold of Kis Royal Highness the Prince of Wales. VH. The pupils are obliged to give the chemical analysis of bodies, the doctrines of compo.sition, decomposition, &c. and Dr. Hooper explains the materia mcdica, and makes, occasionally, botanical excursions, exhibits pharmaceutic chemistry; so that it must appear evident, that every mode of- communicating science is adopted that can be suggested ; and notliing but a deficiency in the natural intellects, can prevent the tyro from becoming the respectable practitioner. At most other places they are left to learn what they please ; here every one is compelled to become proficient in what- ever tasks arc directed, according to the classes, which are divided into three. VHI. Every year at Christmas, a report is made by Dr. Tioopcr, of the number of patients admitted into the in- firmary, as to the out patients they arc innumerable. It may be observed, that numerous diseases are admitted, which most other great hospitals in London reject, as many in- fectious diseases, the srnall-pox, lying-in women, &c. &c, and thougli we have npt so many chirurgical operations as some, yet there are few, at one time, or other, that are not performed. ' It must appear, therefore,-evident, that the diseases com- mon to infants at tiuir birth, lying in women, of boys and girjs, frpm that age to puberty, from thence to the middle age, and, lastly, from that time to the latest hour of lile, to the arms of SO’and above 100 of both sexes, even until death; all, all come constantly under view, arranged so as one afl'ccti<jn cannot be confounded with another. The anatomical investigations after death, explain the effects ot diseases, and lead to tlieir causes, and how, and when tliey might have, probably, been prevented from leading to fata- lity. After such au education, after such an experience, after such numerous facts are imprinted on young minds, be- fore baneful jiassions predominate, it is highly rational to suppose, the pupils will not be led away from the paths of truth by lieetiug hypothesis, by those mushroom conceits, that are daily exuding from the brains of those who are in-i- competent and superficial judges ot the present excellent slate of the art, men, who only surprise to deceive. It commonly liappciis, that speculations and practice arc • ever at direct variance, and high and irrational expc'ctations arc cruelly damped, and severely punish- ed by disappointment. 'I herefore, when novelties ajipear, read, reflect, investigate, reason logically, never suffer an in- flamed imagination to preside over sage circumspection ; and judge impartially before you conclude; but never desert known truths, for unproved projects. There aie many roads to the same end, and he is ■a'ised, who discovers and pursues the safest, speediest, and best. The work and the evening of life are approaching to a final close. 'I'he exposure of fallacy has often crcaced pri- vate professional enemies and calumny; but if the offensive, though well intended censures, have served the cause of hu- manity and science, all the ends proposed are accomplished. Suffer the author, then, to finish his career in the, words of that excellent and virtuous Roman, Quintillian. Conscius sum mihi quantum rnediocrifate •calui, quoeque antea scierim, qua.que operis hujusce gratia potuerim inquirere, candide ine, atquc simplidter in notitiam eorum, §i qui forte cognoscere voluisseut, protulisse. Atque id viro bono satis est, docuisse quod scierit. * It is not to the honour of the country, that ignorance in anatomy is enforced by the luKS of the land. Medical men are expected to be skilful, abd are liable to be punished for ignorance; yet the sources of anatomical intelligence, ora which the foundation of all true medical knowledge depends, ami without which no learned medical author, nor no disease can be comprehended, are legally impeded,or rendered so hazardous, that many prefer ignorance to science, from the danger attending anatomical researches. When the dead body bill was agitated in the House of Commons, 1 came forth, singly, and delivered my sentiments, and sent a small pamphlet on the subject to every member of Lords and Commons, shewing how the evils might easily be removed, without doing any violation to the dead, or injuring the feelings of the living. The institutions at Rauis, arc rational and publicly useful; but they originated from the great Colbert, the wise minister of Loujs Quatorze. In this avaricious, commercial, monopolizing country, nothing but self is considered, and the public good is frequently sacrificed to prejudices, or a vicious pride, that never listens to the voice of reason. At the end of my treatise on dropsy aic reprinted what wa-s respectfully submitted to the legislature of Great Britain; but 1 was informed, that alavy oflicer objected to those proposals, allhough my efforts prevented the dead body bill from passing into a law, on which much more might he. %i\\A, sed nune taeendum ist. The anatomical professors in London arc an honour to the country and orna- ments to society, who, under many disadvantages, at the hazard of health, Ac. instruct pupils, and teach the true road to fame and fortune. '1 heir arduous labours merit the highest estimation from society, and all the profession. The nation reaps the benefit, and the government of this and every wise nalioti, should liberally afford recompense: equal to their high and U'^uscendent merit. »■ V ¥ iff t '-iT -^.yv'- .,.-3.^ ,..v^ ?^ • J» . j'3-.V '.'■ ■'.-C;:-' ^ • 1,^ ,Si - .'■' - ."i " ■ ■ ' ■ ■ • yscf^T . : ^ W- rf.' .:Ki i >%-»■ ■■ -it, • u 1^ ^W- .f-^-v . ! I .\M" T . '^ .. 'J-Z H- •:itr ^ Vt-:». v: . ^ • , ^*>7 ‘ '' ’ f* - • ■ ^ ■'w .*-•• ♦-* ■' -'c" - - '^^ ■■ '? - '■ ' ' ' ‘ tiJ’ • w. ^i3v- .._ 1 •> ’ ■ ' c , ' V-' . ■;' tr...