\ 4■ . r~ . ■ ‘ , Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2016 https://archive.org/details/b24925330HISTORICAL SURGERY.HISTORICAL SURGERY, OR THE PROGRESS OF THE SCIENCE OF MEDICINE: ON INFLAMMATION, MORTIFICATION, AND GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. BY JOHN HUNT. LOUGHBOROUGH: PRINTED FOR THE AUTHOR, BY S. ADAMS, AND SOLD BY MESSRS. RIVINGTON8, ST. PAUL’S CHURCH YARD, AND BY CROSBY A KB LETTJERMAN, STATIONIIS’-COURT, LUDtAII HILL, LONDON, M.DCCC.FENTERED AT STATIONERS’ HALL.PREFACE. f JL^HE mechanifm of animal life forms a diftin£f fyftem of philofophy, to which the laws that regulate the operations of inanimate matter are in many refpedls inapplicable; and yet a knowledge of experimental philofophy is fo intimately con- ne£!ed with the ftudy of anatomy, that the ftrudfure and ope- rations of the different parts of the animal body cannot be well explained without it. To diftinguifh in what inftances thefe two branches of fcience may with propriety be connec- ted with each other, requires an extent of information, and accuracy of judgement, that is not frequently to be met with; and I prefume the following pages will bear ample tellimony to the truth of this alfertion. Thofe, who wifh to fucceed in the ftudy of philofophyj fhould acquire a knowledge of the experimental part in early b youth.ii PREFACE. youth, which may not only be confidered a pleafmg amufe- ment, but will in general prove a fruitful fource of ufeful information* it prefents a view of the inftrumental parts of philofopby to the external fenfes, and prepares the mind for a more perfe£t knowledge of the refpective fubje£ls to which the experimental exhibitions may apply. The mind is capa- ble of underflanding the conftru6lion and ufe of inftruments long before the fubjefls, which the experiments are intended to inveftigate, would be intelligible; and thus, by making the firft a fubje£l of amufement, the way is prepared for more im- portant information. But what is ftill an argument of much more importance, I am well convinced, that, if a knowledge of mechanifm and the experimental part of philofophy is not acquired at an early age, it is feldom obtained afterwards. At a more ad- vanced period towards maturity, the inftrumental part is either thought to be beneath their notice, or indolence prevents that degreePREFACE. iii degree of attention which is neceffary for the acquirement of even a tolerable knowledge of this part of the fubjefl. It rarely happens that a knowledge of both arts and fciences is ac- quired by the fame perfon; but without this coincidence the medical charaCler muft be very imperfeCi; and for the purpofe of forming an accomplifhed teacher of any branch of the fci- ence of medicine the united powers of both are indifpenfible. At a time when I was inexperienced in the world, when every freih avenue of thought prefented perfe&ion in per- fpective, and when I had flattered myfelf with the expectation of feeing philofophy prefide over the different branches of the profelTion, I cannot exprefs how much I was difap- pointed, when the fir ft fubjeCl that engaged my attention was an attempt to examine the blood in themicrofcope; when, t inftead of meeting with any fatisfadory information, I was aftonifhed to find that the parties were unacquainted withiv ' PREFACE. the ufe of the inftrument. A knowledge of experimental philofophy, and the neceffary apparatus, is certainly very eafily to be obtained; but, if we converfe with thofe who \ ' i . / arc confidered men of learning, we fhall frequently find that it is a fubje£l with which they are unacquainted, and fometimes reprefented as beneath their notice; inftead of ap- pealing to the evidence of nature, they depend alone on the opinion of their predecelfors; and fcientific demonflration is fuppofed to fuperfede the neceffity of experimental invef- tigation. And with thefe pedants in philofophy we alfo find, that a very imperfe£t acquaintance with only the rudiments of fcience is too often admitted as an adequate apology for the want of every other fpecies of ufefiul information *. The philofophy of literature depends alone on precedent and book authority; but he, who would wifh to obtain a knowledge of animal nature, mull read with fceptic eyes, and never admit any fa£t as truth which he has not repeatedly * Full in the midft of Euclid dip at once, And petrify a Genius to a Dunce, Pope. examinedPREFACE. V examined with the moft critical attention; for credulity and ignorance mull ever be confidered as infeparable com- panions. In the ftudy of anatomy, which is the bafis of the fcience of medicine, there is more information necef- fary than books alone can furniffi ; and philofophical ex- periments require a degree of accuracy and attention that v/ is rarely to be met with. In addition to a perfe£l know- ledge of the inllruments that are made ufe of, a certain dex- b 1/ terity is neceffary in the execution, which is only to be obtained by habitual induftry and long experience. There is much lefs difficulty in repeating experiments that have been made before, than in conducing new ones with advantage and fuccefs; yet without the former we muft take the affertions of others upon trull; and if the fubje61 is not yet exhaulled, new experiments will be neceffary. I do not prefume to affert that there are not numbers of good p radical furgeons, whofe reputation Hands high m cPREFACE. VI in the efteem of the public, although they may be very little acquainted either with natural or experimental philo- fophy. But whatever may be the public opinion on this fubjeft, I {hall ftill contend that the art and fcience of furgery would be very imperfeCt without them. Natural philofophy appears to me to be one of the firff principles of the fcience of medicine ; and the art of furgery is fo intimately connected with a knowledge of mechanics-, which is a very important branch of experimental philofo- phy, that furgery in the abftraCt muft be looked upon as one of the mechanic arts. The inftrumental part of fur- gery is a very important fubjeCt, the facility of performing £bme of the mofl difficult operations depends in fome de- gree on the perfection of the inftruments; and, on this occa- fion, a knowledge both of anatomy and mechanics, is effen~ tially neceffary; the one to direCt our judgment refpeCt- ing; the nature of the operation, the other for determining thePREFACE. vii the beft method of performing it. In cafes of fractures and diflocations, a variety of inftruments has been thought neceflary ; and I believe no part of furgery has been more incumbered with a profufion of ufelefs inventions. In Mr. Gooch’s fecond volume we meet with a great variety of this kind of inftruments; but Mr. Pott contributed much more to the improvement of furgery, by pointing out the soft advantageous pofition of a frabtured limb, than all thefe inftrumental Genii put together. What particularly recommends this fubjebt to our attention is, the notice that is taken of thefe inftruments by Mr. Bell, who has given exabt copies of Mr. Gooch’s plates in his fyilem of furgery, in confequenee of which a number of ufelefs inventions is recommended to public attention, which without this revivification would for ever have palled unnoticed. The want of attention to the mechanifm of nature is the original, caufe of all thefe prabtical imperfections; but the fcienceviii PREFACE. the fcience of furgery includes a much more extenfive field, and the theories both of the pradlice of phyfic and furgery are infeparably connected with each other. If it is thought probable that a phyfician can underhand the mechanifm of animal nature without a previous knowledge of the firft principles or laws of mechanics, we may then conclude that philofophy and medicine have no connexion with each other. But I believe that few will contend that the com- plicated laws of organic life are lefs difficult of invefliga- 4 . tion than the mechanic powers of inanimate matter; I fhall therefore infer, that, when the pradlice of phyfic and furgery does not depend upon a philofophical bafis, it degenerates into the molt irrational and contemptible em- piricifm. But I fhall now prefume a little further, and direct our views to what fome may confider a higher order, proceeding from furgery to phyfic, from mechanics toPREFACE. ix the fcientific branches of philofophy. The former I con- fideras the experimental apparatus, the inftruments of inquiry, the powers by which the fecret operations of nature are dif- clofed ; the latter comprehends the arrangement of fa£ls al- ready known, and the invefbgation of correfponding phenomena by analogy and dedudlion. And even here we fhall meet with equal imperfedlions. They are not little objects that will now engage our atten- tion ; the myfterious funflions of animal nature, and the me- chanifm of the univerfe, will here become the fubje£ls of our contemplation. Thefe may certainly be claffed with the fublime and beautiful; and that we may meet with a writer equal to the fubje£f, I Rail refer to one about a century back, when literature fhone forth with full meridian fplen- dour. The only author I fhall notice is Dotlor Mead, who as a writer mud certainly command refpefl, and who was without doubt poffefled of confiderable literary accom- d. plifhmentsX PREFACE. piifhments; but here we come to the point in queftion, which I hope by the evidence of this example to explain. He wrote a book, in latin, on the influence of the fun and moon on the human body ;* which is certainly a learned fubjedt, and in a learned language; and if his knowledge of the animal oeconomy had been equal to his learning, the book would have been more worthy of our attention. He refts his arguments on a quotation from Sir Ifaac Newton’sf theory of the tides; but the analogy is not con- fident, the two fubjedls having no more refemblance to each other than the human body has to the terraqueous globe. In debating this fubjedf I have been frequently a iked, and the queftion may be again repeated, if the fun and moon have fuch influence on the waters of the ocean, will they not produce fimilar effecis on the fluids of the animal body ? On this occafion it will be necefTary to recolledi, * Mead de imperio Solis ac Lunac in corpora Humana p. 10 ct 11. + Newton’s Principia Lib. iii, prop. 36 et 37. thatPREFACE, xi that the fun and moon attract the earth as well as the feas; but the earth being folid does not change its form to meet the attradling powers; and the waters of the ocean and the fluids of the animal body differ fo much with ✓ refpedt to their fituation, that the fame caufe cannot produce the fame effedl in both inftances. The waters of the ocean flow at liberty on the furface, and move in obedience to the combined influence of attrac- tion and centrifugal power; but the fluids of the animal bo- dy are all furrounded with, and confined in, their proper vefiels; and confequently, if they were fuhjedl to the fame -external influence, flill it would be impoffible that they fhould ebb or flow correfpondent to the tides. The attrac- tion of the fun and moon operate both on the folids and fluids of the animal body, and diminifh the gravity of the whole in proportion to their attraflive power, and the cen- trifugal power will operate on both in a fimilar direftion; butxii PREFACE. bat the refpedfive fttuaiion both of the folids and fluids to each other will remain the fame. It is not on (mall bodies placed on the furface of the earth that their'influence is perceptible, it is only on the ocean that this phenomenon takes place; though the fcale is extenfive, and the quantity immenfe, an exa£t balance is preferved, and the whole is fufpended in equilibrio by correfponding powers. In the Mediterranean fea there are no tides; like a ponderous bulk, in a Jingle fcale without a counterpoife, it remains at reft. If the Medi- terranean communicated with the ocean by a large fubter- * raneous paffage, this fea would partake of the general equi- librium ; and the want of tides in this vaft body of water will furnifti us with an anfwer to fome of the moll important queries that have been ftarted on this fubje£h Much has % been faid about the current through the ftraits of Gibraltar, and many conje6tures formed in explanation; fome have fuppofedPREFACE. xiii v fuppofed that the water paffes out of the Mediterranean by a fubterraneous paffage, whilft others have attempted to ef- timate the exhalation, and have concluded that the quan- tity exhaled was equal to the fupply which pours in through the firaits and other large and numerous fources. I fhall not attempt to prove that the Mediterranean does not com- muni cate with other feas; but it certainly muft be evident? that the communication is not of fufficient magnitude to preferve an equilibrium, as this fea does not partake of the influence of the tides. i cannot, on this occafion, refill the temptation of noticing an obfervation* of Mr. Tooke’s refpecting the Cafpian fea, which we meet with in his view of the Ruffian empire. In order to account for the confumption being equal to the fupply, from the different rivers which empty themfelves into this fea, he fuppofes that there is a conflant drain * Tooke’s view of the Ruffian Empire, vol. i, page 2^8. E throughPREFACE. XIV through a porous and fandy bottom. He fays, “ Perhaps the true reafon of this fea remaining equally full is to be fought in the quality of its bottom; which confids, not of a thick dime, but of a fheli-fand, the particles whereof touch- ing but in a few points, it is confequently very porous; of the fame fubftance the whole fhore is likewife found. Layer upon layer it lies three fathoms deep. This indeed lets the frefh water through, but it becomes immediately fait again by the fait water preding on it; through this fand then the water is filtered and falls into the abyfs beneath, in the fame quantity as it dows into the fea/' In the fird place, it mud appear evident that we have no method of afcertaining the fa£I; and the whole mud at bed depend upon conje&ure. Whereas, the quantity of exhala- tion might be edimated with fome degree of probability by experiment; and if this is fufficient to account for the con- fumption, it would then not be neceflary to dive to the bottomPREFACE. xv bottom in fearch of imaginary outlets; and if we confult what has been faid by former writers on this fubjedt, we {hall find we have no need of a pretended communica- tion between this and the ocean for accounting why it rifes no higher: But may rather wonder why it continues fo full, confidering its vaft extent, and how much water is eva- porated by the fun, and brufhed off by the winds*. But waving all thefe collateral confiderations, the Cafpian fea has no tides, which is the only circumflance that is particu- larly applicable to our prefent purpofe. The tides of the atmofphere do not influence its gravity, or produce any perceptible effedts in the Bate of the air on the furface of the earth; fo that, whatever eEfedf the fun and moon may have on the animal body, it is not connedted with the theory of the tides. It is fuch a mifapplication of philofophical illudration to other fubjeefs which have no * V.id, Di£Honary of the World, by Brookes 8c- Collyer.- analogyXV1 PREFACE, analogy in nature, as for ages has incumbered the im- provement of the fcience of medicine ; and fimilar inftances of falfe analogy are almoft innumerable. Rut whenever they occur, they betray a want of general information, and a par- tial and imperfedt knowledge of the fubjecl. If Dodlor Mead had critically examined both hdes of the queflion, he would have forefeen the fallacy of his argument: the ani- mal body forms a fyflem within itfelf, the attradlion of gra~ vitation is the connedling principle of the univerfe. / I do not mean to fay that the fun and moon have no in- fluence on the animal body; I only wifh to fhew that Dodtor Mead has not adopted a proper method of afcertain- ing either its nature or extent; for if we cannot difcover the effedts of the fun and moon on fluids lefs confined, it is lefs probable, that we fhould afcertain their influence on the fluids of the animal body. 1 know no inftance wherePREFACE. XVII where a fluid is placed more at liberty to the influence of any attracting power than a column of mercury fufpend- ed in a barometer ; and over this the fun and moon both pafs unnoticed. If we attempt to afcertain the influence of the fun and moon on any given quantity of water, from a fingle drop to the whole contents of the Mediterranean, it cannot be difcovered by experiment; it is the ocean alone that obeys the power, the tides of which are only to be weighed by the great fcale of the univerfe; and this exhibits a fublime view of the mechariifm of nature, and gives a firiking example of the grand equilibrium of the world. With refpeCt to the liberty of difcuffing any opinion that is prefented to the public, it is a right that muft continue fo long as a work is confidered worthy of attention; the privilege cannot be limited to the life of the author, as books of merit will live for ages, when the writers are no more. Antiquity certainly ft amps a value on literary productions, f but Mxviii PREFACE. but no confideration whatever fhould induce one age to ex- amine, with blind credulity, the opinions of former periods. Every one, who gives his opinion to the public, offers him- felf as a candidate for public applaufe, which is the united voice of individual approbation ; and wherever an indivh. dual has a right to approve, he has a right to difapprove, and public juflice demands that that judgment fhould be impartially executed. The attempts, which have been already made to invefligate the firft principles of the pra£lice of phyfic and furgery, are fo numerous, that, if the fubjeft would admit of demon- ftration, we fhould not at this day be incumbered with fuch a diverfity of opinion. I am not fo prefumptuous as to fup- pofe, that the following pages will conduct the fcience of furgery to that date of perfeftion fo devoutly to be wifhed; being as truly confcious of the narrow7 limits of my own abilities, as I am well convinced of the boundlefs extent of the fubjeft. ItPREFACE. xix It is the bufmefs of human life to fearch after perfe9;ions although the obje£l is not within our reach; we can only take a partial view of the works of nature, whofe fecret ope« rations exceed the penetration of the human mind. The £ubje£t before us is not a temple made with hands; but it is the work of infinite wifdom, whofe judgments are unfearch- able, “ and his ways pafi; finding out”ERRATA. Page 69, line 5> 75> — J35> — 23> 153s — *5> 241, 281, 5> 3‘5» — 4> 328> — 2» 406, — ao, for affeSled read effected. for Buerhaue read Bocrhaave. tor comencement read commencement, for ox read of. for analogous read analogous. for Cullen, vol. 14, read Cullen's practice of phyftct vol* 4, for Mackbnde read Macbride. for genious read genius. for Jatisfaiodn read fatisfaElion. in page 401, 402, 403, 404, et 40^ read The opiralive part offurgerI. SECTION the imperfections of the treatment of MORTIFICATION EXEMPLIFIED, BY THE INDIS- CRIMINATE USE OF THE BARK AT IMPROPER PERIODS OF THE DISEASE. .. i —CS3SS9—"-* npHE fuccefsful treatment of gangrene, fphacelus, or mortification, is mentioned with fuch unlimited confidence both in books and convert fation, that it may at firft view be confidered prefumptuous to queftioa the validity of the general opinion, "We frequently hear of infiances of curing mortification, as if it was & bufinefs very eafy to accompliffi: and what is ftill more extraordinary, fome of the firfi writers on the fubje£l exprefs themfelves as if it was a fettled point in the pra&ice of furgery; and yet, with all their boafted certainty of fuccefs, I have never met with any rational fyftem of pra6lice that, in my opinion, was likely to prove efficacious. When the leading object of any critical difcuffion is to fea'rch for truth, not a doubt can arife refpe6ling the propriety of the inquiry; and as eve- ry one, who addrefies the public, undoubtedly expends fome degree of at- tention in return; it is certainly a mark of refpe£l to examine a book, B though2 THE IMPERFECTIONS OF THE though in the refult there may be little to approve. Implicit fubmidion to the diflates of any author can never lead the way to fcientidc informa- tion, and the necedity of attentive invedigation will increafe, in propor- tion to the extent, and intricacy of the fubjeft; it is the reader’s bufmefs to examine the whole evidence that lies before him, to try the quedion by the immutable principles of nature, and ultimately to form an opinion for himfelf. As for thofe who are not capable of critically examining what they read, they may as well lit Hill, and not attempt to read at all; for he, that is not capable of forming an opinion for himfelf, mull ever re- main in a date of doubt and uncertainty, and the lad book that he reads, will probably prove the limited fource of his information, the bads of his theory, and his guide in pra£lice. If I had not the authority of written evidence to refer to, I fhould not hazard an opinion, or attempt to prove the imperfebl date of the lubjeft before us; and in what degree the opinion of the prefent time may coincide, is aquedion offuch delicacy, that I diall not take upon myfelf to deter- mine. It is realonable to conclude, that the writings of the drd profefli. onal chara&ers will have condderable induence on the public opinion, and though we may meet with many exceptions, this mud be confidered the mod certain dandard to which we can appeal. I fhall for this purpofe drd folicit the reader’s attention to Mr. Brom- feild’s chirurgical obfervations. This celebrated author had his lhare of reputation, and was in his time looked up to, as one at the head of his profedion; for which reafon I condder his writings more dt for my pre- fent purpofe; as Ido not wifh to notice any but fuch as the public have been accudomed to look up to with refpeft.TREATMENT OF MORTIFICATION. 3 If we look for authority, that before us is unqueftionable, and in every other refpefl the contents are particularly adapted to the prefent occafi- on; indeed the inaccuracies are fo flagrant, that candour forbids us to ef- timate his profeflional merit by the fame fcale, that we fliould meafure the extent of his abilities as a writer. But before we proceed to examine the work in a profeflional view, I fhall beg leave to notice fome few im- perfeftions of a more familiar kind, that the reader may not be alarmed at the inconfiAency of his fpeculative doff fines, and the general deficien- cy of fyflematic argument. In the firA page the ancients are highly complimented as the authors of the “general principles of furgery, and the inventors of every improve- ment nowin ufe;” and in the very next page, he attributes all improve- ments to the moderns, obferving that “ what was formerly purfued only by a few and that with languor and difguA, is now fought after by moA with vigour and curiofityand thus, his old friends feem foon to have loA his good opinion; for if the ancients purfued the art with fuch languor and difguA, it is not likely that they fhould have made the great difcoveries for which, Mr. Bromfeild fays, we are fo much indebted to them. But if we purfue the argument a little further, we fhall find that he ex- prefles himfelf in plainer language; all regard for antiquity is fet afide, and the facred memory of our forefathers treated with lefs civility and refpefl; for the moderns are feverely cenfured, “who in this enlightened age if ill dote on antiquity, and copy devoutly the abfurdities of their predecef- fors.” To me this admonition has proved a very ufeful Ieffon, and I hope it willTHE IMPERFECTIONS OF THE 4 will prove equally inftruftive to many others, as it has effeftually proteC- ed me from that blind credulity, with which I might otherwife have peru- fed this celebrated performance. Whether we are molt indebted to the ancients or moderns is a queftion left undetermined; our learned author either feems difpofed to pleafe both parties, or perhaps was not himfelf fufficiently informed to give a decided opinion on the fubjeC. It is rather an unpleafant talk to examine a book where there is fo lit- tle to approve, but I (hall not facrifice the falutary objeft I have in view to motives of falfe delicacy; it is my wifh to examine the prefent hate of this fubjeC, and if the public opinion bears any refemblance to that before us, or if we only meet with a few inftances of coincidence, it is dill necef- farythat thefe imperfeCions fhould be explained. The preceding example of our author’s ftyle, and manner of conduc- ing an argument will be fufficient for our prefent purpofe; I fhall there- fore now proceed to examine his obfervations on mortifications. He fays “It is well known, that whenever any part has had the leajl tendency to mortification, the bark has, of late years, been indiferiminately given in very large quantities, as the only fpecific to flop its progrefs; and fo fan- guine are many in this prejudice, that they do not believe any mifehief can pofiibly enfue from the ufe of this medicine*.” The conclufion of this fentence appears to intimate fome kind of danger that is not general- ly underftood, and may be fuppofed to depend either on the impropriety of this medicine as a remedy in fuch cafes, or the want of abilities to dif- criminate in what manner, and at what period of the difeafe, it ought to be adminiftered. * See Mr. Bromfeild's chirurgical cafes page 129. In5 TREATMENT OF MORTIFICATION* In the firft inftance an early flage is particularly alluded to, by the leaft tendency being printed in italics, as if it was intended to command our par- ticular attention, yet, notwithftanding all this typographical illuflration, the general meaning dill remains obfcure; for if by tendency to mortifi- cation, we are to underdand that the difeafe, whether the confcquence of external injury or from any other caufe, is inflammation, and of that de- gree that there is reafon to apprehend a mortification; if the bark fhould be given under fitch circumdances, it would certainly be improper: and if by tendency to mortification, that date of difeafe is alluded to, when the inflammatory fymptoms begin to fubfide, and the powers of nature to fink below that dandard, which is neceffary to the fupport of animal life, on this occafion the bark will be pointedly indicated; and confequently eve- ry infinuation to the contrary, mud be confidered highly irrational. If then for want of difcriminating between thefe two very different fla- ges of difeafe, the bark is fometimes given as a preventative of mortifica- tion (that is before it does take place,) and at other times as a cure for mortification (viz. when it has taken place;) then, without doubt, the bark with drift propriety may be faid to be given indifcriminately. In the fird indance our attention is direftedto a very early flage of the difeafe; but we have then to reconcile the lead tendency to mortification with the real exidence of the difeafe; for as the bark is faid to be given “as the only fpecific to flop the progrefs of mortification,” this is fully ad- mitting the mortification to have taken place; as it mud neceffarily exid before we can Ipeak with propriety of flopping its progrefs; the two pe- riods are each didinftly mentioned in the fame fentence, and the ufe of the bark in both indances reprefented as a vulgar prejudice, C ThoughTHE IMPERFECTIONS OF THE 6 Though confidence in this medicine is called prejudice, yet we are im- mediately told that “this partiality is very excufable, as there can be no doubt but that the high opinion they entertain of it, in fuch cafes, mufi be founded on experience, as probably fome very extraordinary and unex- pefred cures have been performed, where the bark was the chief remedy employed.” Let me here afk what more rational evidence of the falutary powers of a medicine can be thought requifite, than the experience of very extra- ordinary and unexpefied cures; but does this experience coincide with his own, and does what he has obferved in practice authorize this conclu- fion ? Has he met with infiances in his own pra&ice, where the bark has performed extraordinary and unexpefled cures, and does his own expe- rience convince him of its efficacy? Unexpe&ed cures they mufi; be, to one who does not believe in the efficacy of the remedies made ufe of; but if the powers of a medicine are doubtful and not to be depended upon, why make ufe of them at all, or if this is not the only remedy, fome other method of treatment more likely to prove efficacious fhould have been pointed out. The whole of this difcuffion is certainly fo far unfavourable to the bark as a remedy in mortifications; our next objeft will be to examine what is faid on the oppofite fide of the quefiion. The defcription that I fhall for this purpofe refer to is not a cafe of mortification, but a ftate of dif- eafe, the confequence of inflammation, that is nearly approaching to it; it is that ftate of difeafe w’hen inflammation having ft bfided and fuppu- ration taken place, the energy of nature feems to have been fo nearly ex- haufted, as to mark one degree of debility fhort of mortification. OurTREATMENT OF MORTIFICATION. 7 Our author fays, “X believe, when things were brought to this points and the difcharge was extremely thin, and greatly too much in quantity, that had I not given the bark freely, I (hould have loft my patients; but under fiich circumftances they muft be blind indeed who will not acknow- ledge its fuperior efficacy to any other medicine known to us at this time.” Thus we find his opinion evidently changed, and having once acknow- ledged the falutary powers of the bark in one inftance of debility, a regu- lar feries ofconvi&ion feems immediately to take place, and the fame re- medy is recommended in all the different ftages of fphacelus, and mor- tification. For my own part X {hall not prefume to determine which fide of the queftion is beft fupported, I only wifh the reader to obferve that he at one time cenfures what he afterwards approves; in a tendency to morti- fication the ufe of the bark is reprefented as a vulgar error, but in a ten- dency to fphacelus, we are informed that the bark may not be improper. This inaccuracy of argument has been already noticed, and a proper diftin&ion between a tendency and real exiftence pointed out; it is an ambiguity of expreffion that every one, who underftands himfelf and wiffi- es to be underftood by others, would never make ufe of; it is afpeciesof language that finks beneath the dignity of philofophy^'and can only be confidered as a cloak for ignorance, or made ufe of for the purpofe of difguifing deceit. With refpeft to the fucceeding part of the fame fentence, it will be dif- ficult to determine whether the ambiguity depends on verbal inaccuracy ©rTHE IMPERFECTIONS OF THE 8 or is the refult of an imperfeft knowledge of the fubjeft. He fays “after a confirmed fphacclus, when the patient, by the neceflary evacuations made to prevent an increafe of inflammation, has been confiderably reduced, the blood greatly attenuated, the mortification feemingly flopped, thedif. eafed parts begin to feparate, and a thin difcharge, and great in quantity, follows; in thefe circumflances, thebark itfelffhouldbe given as frequently as the ftomach will bear it, in fuch form as will beft agree with the confti- tution If Mr. Bromfeild wilhed to be underftood as fpeaking of the inflamma- tion that preceded the fphacelus, he certainly would have faid by the ne- ceflary evacuations that were made ufe of to prevent an increafe of the previous inflammation; but as it now hands we muft confider both the inflammation and the neceflary evacuations as fubfequent occurrences; in this point of view, and this only, we muft underhand the whole of this difcuflion. But will experience authorize the fuppofition, or do the laws of animal nature admit the poflibility, that inflammation fhould fucceed to fphacelus in fuch kind or degree as to render evacuations neceflary ? In the fame fentence, the termination of mortification is mentioned and the commencement of digeftion deferibed as a falutary confequence of the evacuating fyftem, and then a ftate of debility is fuppofed to take place, in which the bark is recommended to be given in full and frequent dofes. But in the different ftages of the difeafe from the commencement of in- • See Mr. Eromfeild’s chirurgtcal cafes page 131, flammation9 TREATMENT OF MORTIFICATION* ffammation to the termination of mortification, which are here crowded togetherVithout proper precedency or diftin6Hon, the bark is never men- tioned, and evacuations feem to be the only remedies; but when “the mortification is feemingly flopped, the difeafed parts begin to feparate, and a thin difcharge and great in quantity follows; in thefe circumftan- ces, he obferves, the bark fhould be given as frequently as the flomach will bear it.” The firfl part of thefe obfervations prefents us with fome ob- fcure infinuations againft the propriety of giving the bark in cafes of mortification, and yet the bark is recommended in cafes of debility, to fup- port the energy of the fyflem and promote fuppuration ; but, at the fame time that he feems to doubt its efficacy, he has not fufficient confidence in his own opinion to exprefs himfelf in plain intelligible language. To thofe, who have attentively read Mr. Sharp’s opinion refpediingthe bark as a remedy in mortifications, it muff appear very fingular that Mr. Bromfeild and many other writers fhould pretend to difcufs this fubjeft and not refer to his obfervations, or reply to his fufpicions of its efficacy; it cannot be for want of having read them, as we frequently meet with quotations from the fame book, by every author whofe opinions I ffiall examine on this occafion. In my opinion, it is a very imperfeff method of treating a fubje£f of this kind, to let the fentiments of former writers pafs unnoticed. For fuppofe that an inexperienced ftudent, or any one incapable of forming an opin- ion for himfelf, fhould in his fearch after profeffional information fit down to examine fuch a work as this of Mr. Bromfeild’s with implicit credulity, not in the leafl fufpe£iing the abilities of his author; would it not be rea- I> fonableTREATMENT OF MORTIFICATION. IQ fonable Tor him to conclude5 that the writer had availed himfelfof all for- mer difcoveries, and that the book before him muft be replete with much additional information, if it was not ornamented with all the perfedlions of modern improvements. SECTIONSECTION II. THE DIVISION OF MORTIFICATION INTO TWO SPECIES; ILLUSTRATIVE OF THE EFFECTS OF BARK AND OPIUM. AVING thus far examined the opinion of one celebrated writer on furgery, I (hall now endeavour to prove that this important fub- je£i has never yet been well explained. For, whatever may have been the private opinion of individuals, I hope to make it appear, that no public opinion has yet been eflablifhed, nor is there any fyftem now before the public, that points out any rational method for the treatment of mortifi- cation, but that the fubjeft has remained in nearly the fame flate without any additional illuftration, ever fince the publication of Mr. Sharp’s criti- cal enquiry. For the fake of afcertaining what is the public opinion, I fhall take the writings of Pott, Bell, and I. Hunter. The firft has written very little on the treatment of mortification, except refpe&ing one diflinfl fpecies of this difeafe, which he has not only more fully explained, but for which it was fuppofed that he had alfo difcovered a fpecific remedy. This fpecies of difeafe is accurately defcribed by Wifeman, but the dif- tin&ionTHE DIVISION OF MORTIFICATION 32 tin&ion was not fo clearly pointed out. From Wifeman’s time the fame difeafe may evidently be traced through many fubfequent publications; but the remedy was firft difcovered, and the difeafes diftinguifhed andde- fcribed as a new Species, by Mr. Pott. It was neceffary to notice this circumflance for the purpofe of avoiding confufion, and to prevent the reader from thinking of one difeafe, when I was treating of another. With refpefr to thofe who wrote before Mr. Pott fet this fubjeft in a clear point of view, inaccuracy on their part would admir of fome apology, but, fince that period, inaccuracy or igno- rance muft be considered unpardonable. / The obfervations we meet with refpe&ing the powers of the bark as a remedy in mortification, appears to me as a prefatory difcuflion introduc- tory to his defcription of this Species of difeafe, in which he found by ex- perience that bark had no influence; it is therefore reafonable to conclude* that, one particular difeafe being the foie obje£l of attention, the ufe of the bark in every other kind of mortification pafled unnoticed; for it is evi- dent the fubje6l is only mentioned in general terms, as if the author wifh- ed cautioufly to avoid giving his opinion in full on that part of the quef- tion. Not that I am Satisfied that he ever formed an opinion refpefling the powers of the bark in mortification; for if we may judge by the writ- ten evidence with which he has favoured the public, I think it appears evi- dent that his knowledge of this remedy, and internal medicine in general* was either much inferior to his chirurgical abilities, or elfe that this part was pafled over, as a fubjeft more immediately connected with another branch of the profeflion. Under*3 INTO TWO SPECIES. Under this fiippofition we may in fome degree account for the inaccu- racy and inattention with which he has treated this part of the fubjeQ:, and whatever Mr. Pott has faid in favour of the bark in mortifications in genera], mud certainly appear premature, folong as Mr. Sharp’s opinion ftands on record without notice or refutation. No one, who is in the leaft acquainted with the profeffional chara&er of the parties, will ever fuppofe that Mr. Sharp’s critical enquiry would ef- cape Mr. Pott’s attention; on the contrary, Mr. Pott in his book on her- nia which was publifhed about fix years afterwards, examines fome of Mr. Sharp’s opinions with fuch pointed accuracy, as evidently proves that the treatife on hernia, was either intended as a refutation of fome of Mr. Sharp’s opinions, or a further illuftration of the fubje6f. On the operation of amputation the objeff of the two writers was very different, and the language of each is pointedly exprelfive of their refpec- tive intentions. Mr. Sharp, with fcientific views, addreffes himfelf to the rational and well informed part of the profeffion; whereas Mr. Pott, in a lefs limited fiyle of popular difcuflion, has addreffed the public at large. We find the fubjedf of mortification fo far examined, as was neceffary to prove that amputation could not be made ufe of with fafety in any ftage of the difeafe, but with this decifion the enquiry ceafes. On this part of the queftion he perfedlly coincides with Mr. Sharp, who, in my opinion, had faid all that was neceffary more than thirty years before, and yet his opinion is never quoted, his arguments never referred to, nor his name ever mentioned. E OnTHE DIVISION OF MORTIFICATION 14 On fubje&s where their opinions do not fo perfe&ly coincide, quotations frequently occur; but, on this occafion, we do not meet with a fingle refer- ence; what was the reafon I do not pretend to fay; the omiffion might be accidental, or it might depend on a prudent caution, wifhing to avoid a full examination of the fubjeft. The truth is, that the treatment of gan- grene and mortification, and whether the bark is, or is not a remedy, is not explained; nor is the very decided opinion which Mr. Sharp has given refpe6ling the inutility of the bark ever noticed. I fhall therefore conclude, that this fubjecf never did engage Mr. Pott’s public attention. What was his private opinion, or by what rules he re- gulated his practice, I fhall not prefume to conje&ure or determine. I have carefully examined his different publications, in the regular order in which they firft made their appearance, and alfo in their fubfequent edi- tions, but have not met with any particular treatife on this fubjeft. His obfervations on the mortification of the toes and feet, and his re- marks on amputation, with his general remarks on fratlures, are the prin- cipal publications in which he has expreffed his opinion; and will furnifh Us with fome interefling information, if luff rative of the point in queftion. He begins his obferva tions on the mortification of the toes and feet with afferting, that “the powers and virtues of the bark are well known to al- moft every praftitioner in phyfic and furgery,” whereas in my opinion thefe powers and virtues have not yet been difcovered, or clearly afcer- tained. He fays, “among the many cafes in which its merit is particu- larly and juftly celebrated, are the diflempers called gangrene and mor- tification;INTO TWO SPECIES. *5 tification; its general power of flopping the one, and refilling the other, have made no inconfiderable addition to the fuccefs of the chirurgic art; but flill there is a particular fpecies even of thefe, in which this noble me- dicine mofl frequently fails: I mean that particular kind, which begin- ning at the extremity of one or more of the fmall toes, does, in more or lefs time pafs on to the foot and ancle, and fometimes to a part of the leg, and in fpite of all the aid of pbyfic and furgery, mofl commonly deflroys the patient,” In the firfl inflance, the bark is faid to poffefs the power of flopping gangrene, and refilling mortification; which feems to imply that thefe were two diflinfl fpecies of difeafe, or at leafl that each term had fome diftinfl fignification. We frequently find in the writings of furgery that the two words are ufed fynonymoufly, but on this occafion they are cer- tainly mentioned either as charafleriflic of different difeafes, or to diflin- guifh different flages of the fame difeafe. T he fubje£l that Mr. Pott was difcuffmg, was what he has termed a mortification of the toes and feet, not a gangrene of the toes and feet, as if the term was not applicable to this difeafe. It is not for the fake of ma- king nice verbal diflin£lions that I notice this circumflance, but to prove that our author had not formed any diflin6l ideas on the fubje£l, in con- fequence of which he has not determined whether the mortification of the toes and feet is of itfelf a diflinfl difeafe, or whether it is a fpecies of the other two. He fays “among the many cafes in which the merit of the bark is par- ticularlyA 6 THE DIVISION OF MORTIFICATION ticularly and juftly celebrated, are the diftempers called gangrene and mortification*.” They are exprefsly termed the diftempers, which evi- dently implies a diftin6Hon between the two; and which is flill more flrongly marked when mention is made of flopping the one, and refilling the other. It is not here reprefented as one diflemper known by two dif- ferent appellations, but two diftempers with their refpeflive chara6teriftic diftin£lions. This is one view of the fubje£l, but in the fame fentence we find thefc two united, where it is obferved, that “ there is a particular fpecies even of thefe, in which this noble medicine mod frequently fails;” the fpecies here alluded to, is the mortification of the toes and feet; but if we may form our judgment by Mr. Pott’s own defcription, as this does not bear the leaft refemblance to any other kind of mortification, we muft confider this a diftinfl difeafe. He fays that this difeafd “is very unlike to the mortification from inflam- mation, to that from external cold, from ligature, or bandage, or to that which proceeds from any known and vifible caufe, and this as well in its attack as in its procefs:” It is therefore only in the termination of thefe difeafes that we meet with the leaft refemblance, in a practical view this laft period cannot be an objefl of our confideration, as the vital principle being once extinguifhed, and the organization deftroyed, it is impoflible that the vital powers fhould be again reftored; it is the bufinefs of phyfic and furgery to preferve the living parts, not to revive the dead; if then f Pott on the mortification of the toes and feet page 148. mor-INTO TWO SPECIES. If mortification is that ftate of difeafe when the vital powers have become extinft, it is a difeafe for which there is no remedy; for which reafon it is only in the early ftages, that the powers of medicine can be interpofed with much probability of fuccefs. The mortification of the toes and feet is a difeafe fo ftrongly marked, that all the defcriptions we meet with nearly correfpond, fo much fo, that mot the lead doubt can remain of the difeafe having been frequently no- ticed by a variety of authors; yet, at the fame time that they gave accu- rate defcriptions of what they faw, they did not fufpeft, that the cafes be- fore them differed from that mortification, which is the confequence of inflammation; but as they only referable each other in their termination, and as they differ in every other refpeft both in their nature, properties, and fubje&ion to the powers of medicine, we mult confider this a difeafe fui generis, agreeable to Mr. Pott’s opinion. I have already mentioned that this difeafe was defcribed by Wifeman, and if we compare what he has written with the obfervations of Mr. Sharp, and the ftill more accurate defcription of Mr. Pott, the fimilarity of ex- preflion mufl: convince us that the fubjeft was the fame; but that no doubt may remain on this part of the queftion, I fhall give the quotations in full; Wifeman fays, “but as people are fometimes fubjeft to gangrene by ma- king fontanels; fo others we hear of that have been gangrened from par- ing a corn or a nail on their toes* and Mr. Pott makes ufe of nearly the fame words; he fays, “if the patient has lately cut his nails or corns, it is moft frequently, though very unjuflly, fet to the account of fuch operationf”. * Wifeman’s furgery page 439. t Pott on the mortification of the toes and feet page 149* F Mr.1 THE DIVISION OF MORTIFICATION Mr. Sharp mentions this difeafe, but in lefs pointed terms *; in his trea- tife on the operations of furgery, he attributes a gangrene in the toes to edification in the arteries. About ten years afterwards he reviews the fubjeft with more accurate attention, and then he fays, “if from old age or any infirmity of body the blood fnould become fo impoverifhed, as to lofe its nutritious qualities, and the toes fhould begin to mortify before any other part, merely as the circulation in them is more languid, which will therefore confequently difpofe them to feel the firft effects of a depra- ved blood; in this inftance alfo, the impropriety will be obvious, for if the mortification arifes from the caufe I have fuggefied, it is impofiible to knowfo exa6lly the date of the blood, as to decide how much of the ex- tremity would have perifhed; and without that knowledge, it will be rafli to amputated.” The difeafe, here alluded to, is certainly the mortification of the toes and feet, and though the bafis of his argument is hypothetical, the con- clufion againfl the propriety of amputation is without doubt, at this time, eftablifhed on rational principles, and fupported by experience. The writers on modern furgery feem to have agreed to be particularly cautious on what occafions they refer to the opinions of their predeceffors ; and yet we frequently meet with fulficient evidence to prove that their works have not altogether paffed unnoticed. When Mr. Pott fpeaking of this difeafe obferved, that “it has by fome been fuppofedto arife from * Sharp’s treatife on the operations of furgery page 212. t Sharp’s critical enquiry page 260. * , . . : anINTO TWO SPECIES# ' ' an offification in the veffels, and adds but for this opinion I never could find any foundation but mere conjecturehe certainly intended this as a reply to what Mr. Sharp had faid-refpeCting this difeafe. Whether offification is, or is not, a caufe of this difeafe, I fhall not now attempt to determine, it is mentioned as a probable caufe in Mr. Sharp’s firfi; publication, but is not noticed in the latter; it is there attributed to an impoverifhed ftate of the blood, fo that it cannot beconfidered as his decided opinion; indeed it appears to me only in the light of a theoreti- cal fpeculation, introduced for the purpofe of illuftration; for let it be remembered that the caufe of gangrene and mortification was not the principal objeft of his argument, but whether amputation was, or was not, a proper remedy. I fhall now folicitthe reader’s attention to Wifeman’s defcription of a cafe, which evidently appears to me a ftriking inflance of this difeafe; with refpeCi; to his method of treatment, it is certainly very imperfeCt, and in many refpefts highly objectionable, but on comparifon will perhaps not be found fo much inferior to the praCtice of modern furgery, as the dis- tance of time and the improvements that have been made within the laft century would induce us to imagine. He fays, CCI was once fent for to a perfon of honour about fixty years of age. He was of a lull body, and feemingly healthful; but in his latter years had omitted exercife, by reafon of a ftone in his left kidney. One morning in making himfelf ready he perceived a black fpot on the upper part of his foot leading towards the toe next the little one. It was no biggerTUt DIVISION OF MORTIFICATION so bigger than a fpangle, without tumour, pain or inflammation. It appear- ing bigger the next morning, he fent for his phyfician and chirurgeon: they cut into it, and found it infenfible. From that time it was rationally drefled; but it inlarged itfelf amongfl: the tendons, and efpecially towards that toe, and affe&ed the bones. I being then confulted, and joined with that chirurgeon, we cut off that toe, and checked the mortification. After which with much difficulty we extinguifhed the gangrene in the other parts by the various applications prefcribed in the method of cure, and healed the finuous ulcer. During which the phyfician purged him fre- quently, and prefcribed an antifcorbutic decoftion offarfa, china, lign. guaiaci, with the plants proper in fuch cafes, to difpofe him to fweat; which he did fome days. One evening whilft he was fweating, I being accidentally prefent, he told me he felt a numbnefs in the balls of his toes of the other foot. I looked upon them, and feeing them all black and dry, cut into them, and found them infenfible. I fuppofed they might have been burnt by the bricks: neither the patient nor the apothecary that fweat him having difcovered any thing of it before, we concluded it from the malignity of the humour, for they were dire&ly gangrened; and by that method I cured them fome weeks after. But three or four days after that, he was feized with apoplexy about eleven o’clock on funday morning. He recovered out of that fit, but died that afternoon in another*.” The ufe of bark and opium, as remedies in mortification, was then un- known, and even at the prefent period, the powers of internal medicine appear to be rather undetermined. But refpefting the ufe of the knife we meet with an uniformity of opinion, and I would wifh it to be particu- • Wifeman's furgcry page 439. larly21 INTO TWO SPECIES. larly noticed, that Wifeman was as well convinced of the inefficacy of amputation as a remedy in this difeafe, as the mo ft enlightened of mo- dern furgeons; he fays, “fome other inftances I could give of this kind; but this may ferve to fhew you to what little purpofe amputations are in thefe cafes*.1’ I have felefled this cafe from Wifeman, as an inftance of this particular fpecies of difeafe; and if we compare the two defcriptions as given by Wifeman and Pottf, the coincidence will convince us of their fimilarity, but as this difeafe was firft diftinguifhed by Mr. Pott, until that time the treatment of every kind of mortification was nearly the fame. The ex- planation that Mr. Pott has given of the treatment of this difeafe, and the obfervations that occur refpe&ing the powers and properties of the dif- ferent remedies, will ferve to iiluftrate and explain the general plan of treating gangrene and mortification. We are firft informed, on the authority of aftertion, that the bark has long been jujtly celebrated as a remedy in thofe diftempers, called gan- grene and mortification; this is not referring in general terms to what * Wifeman’s furgery page 439. + “ It generally makes its firft appearance omthe infide, or at the extremity of one of the fmaller toes, by a fmall, black, or bluifh fpot: fiom this fpot the cuticle is always found to be detached, and the fkin under it to be of a dark red colour.” “If the patient has lately cut his nails, or corn, it is moft frequently, though very unjuftly, fet to the account of fuch operation.” Pott on the mortification of the toes and feet page 149, G TheTHE DIVISION OF MORTIFICATION 22 might be the public opinion on this fubje£l, but it is exprefsly giving the opinion as his own; for to acknowledge the juflice of an opinion is cer- tainly to declare conviflion of its truth. The mortification of the toes and feet, is in the firft inftance mentioned as a fpecies of the difiempers called gangrene and mortification; if there- fore the bark was known to be an efficacious remedy in one inftance, it might alfo be expefled to prove equally fo in the other, for fo long as the difeafes were fuppofed to be fimilar, the fame remedy might with propri- ety be confidered applicable to both: but in the next page we are inform- ed, that this difeafe is very unlike to every other kind of mortification, both in its attack and in its procefs, the difeafes therefore being different, we may ceafe to wonder if each requires a different remedy. Why then fhould our learned author fuppofe, “that many of his read- ers will be furprifed at his affirming, that the bark will not flop the progrefs of this fpecies of mortification; becaufe there is another, in which it has been regarded as a fpecific?” He has given fufficient evidence of its in- efficacy in one inftance, but neither faff nor argument in fupport of its fa- lutary influence in the other; fo long as they were both confidered as the fame difeafe the praftical evidence muft have been general, and every un- fuccefsful inftance muft have then appeared in oppofition to any favour- able opinion of the bark, as a remedy in gangrene and mortification. It is impoffible that I fhould form any probable conje&ure, what was the proportion between the inftancesof mortifiation of the toes and feet, and of thofe difiempers called gangrene and mortification, that might occur in fuchINTO TWO SPECIES* 23 fuch extenfive pra&ice; but let the proportion be more or lefs, the want of fuccefs mull be fufficient to invalidate the confidence of an attentive obferver, and ft ill his high opinion of the bark continued the fame, and. what is yet more extraordinary, it is equally evident that he thought as highly of the powers of the bark in the mortification of the toes and feet, as in thofe diflempers called gangrene and mortification; nor did repeat- ed difappointment in the leaf! diminifh his good opinion of the remedy, till the obflinacy * of his patient had compelled him to vary the method of treatment, in which inflance the bark was omitted, and the patient reco- vered. But even this did not convince him of his error, or induce him to fuf- pe6I the efficacy of the remedies, or the propriety of the pra£lice; this firff: fuccefsful cafe feems to have paffed without attention, for in the very next inflance that occurred the bark was adhered to with unfhaken confidence, until accidental circumftances pointed out an efficacious remedy, and re- peated experience proved that the bark had no influence on the difeafe. If then Mr. Pott was deceived in one inflance, was he not equally lia- ble to be deceived in another, and if the conflant ufe of the bark without fuccefs in one fpecies of mortification did not convince him of its ineffica- cy, why fhould we fuppofe that his opinion of the powers of this medi- cine in other inflances, is more to be depended upon? *“ Some time ago, I had a patient labouring under this complaint, who, from antipathy, obftinacy, or fome other caufe, could not be prevailed on to take bark in any form whatever,” Pott on the mor- tification of the toes anti feet page 153. HeTHE DIVISION OF MORTIFICATION 24, He mentions having given the bark in the largeft quantities and com- bined with a variety of other medicines, but opium is not noticed as one of them. For my own part I find it difficult to account for this omifhon, as it has been recommended by other writers, and from its well known pow- ers as a cordial, would certainly have been a proper fubjeff for his expe- rimental enquiries. Mr. Bromfeild % whofe chirurgical obfervations were publifhed a very few years before thefe of Mr. Pott’s, particularly recommends the ufe of bark with the addition of opium; but in the inftance before us, the ufe of opium was not direfted by the di&ates of attentive reading, or the infor- mation acquired by extenfive pra&ice, it was not the refult either of fpe- culative ingenuity, or rational inference, on the contrary the whole was accidental. This was the firft fuccefsful cafe he ever met with, the event was unex- pected, and the occurence new; previous to this difcovery it is reafonable to fuppofe, that after fo many years of fatal experience, he muff have con- cluded either that the difeafe was incurable, that the remedies he made ufe of were inadequate to the purpofe, or have doubted the propriety of the whole method of treatment. From this period we mufl date the diftin&ion between the two difeafes, till when every mortification was confidered fimilar in its nature, and one method of treatment was applicable to all, fBromfeild’s chirurgical obfervations vol x, page 132. IfINTO TWO SPECIES. The correcting of the badnefs of general habit is here mentioned as a buhnefs that may be eafily and expeditioufly accomplifhed, and indeed ex- pedition is highly neceffary, when a difeafe is making fuch rapid and de- finitive progrefs; but the fhort interval between the commencement of mortification and the death of the patient, does not afford a momentary opportunity for any other confideration; to flop the progrefs or deflroy the malignancy of a fpreading gangrene, is an objeCt of fufficient impor- tance to engage our whole attention. But this is not my only objection: for the method that is directed is as improper as the time. I do not pretend to affert that high inflammation, badnefs of general habit, or improper difpofition of the limb would not either feparately or jointly increafe the danger; but I wifh to confider the difeafe independent of fuch additional difficulties, and to regulate our plan of treatment, and form a prognofis of the event according to the degree and nature of the injury. With refpeCt to the pofition of the limb, it is creating a difficulty to fuppofe it improper. I am not contending againfl the errors of igno- rance, or the misfortunes of inattention, nor am I Bating a cafe, where an accomplifhed furgeon is called upon to corre61 the mifconduCt of empiri- cifm; fuch alfiflance may belong to what is called the “help of art,” but it is not the fpecies of remedy that I am now endeavouring to invefligate. I would rather fuppofe that all had been done in the early flages of the difeafe that the art of furgery could afford, that the patient, from the com- mencement of the injury, had been protected by the firfl profeffional abi- lities, and that Mr. Pott, or fome other perfon of equal eminence, had di- rected the whole proceeding. I3o THE DIVISION OF MORTIFICATION It is to the wounded ftate of the parts alone, that I (hall refer as a caufe of the difeafe, for we either muft attribute the gangrene to the wounded ftate of the parts, or admit that the gangrene depended on fome other' caufe. But whatever may be the caufe, we muft confider the difeafe to have taken place, and then examine the method of treatment. We aretoldthat “the fanguine and bilious muft be lowered and emptied; and that the weak and debilitated muft be aflifted by fuch medicines as will add force to the vis vitas.” The word bilious, in its prefent fituation, I do not underftand; but fuppofing that bleeding and other evacuations might be neceflary to abate the preceding inflammation, gangrene once having taken place, fuch remedies muft be highly improper. If the fubjeft was fanguine and bilious before gangrene took place, he would not require to be lowered and emptied afterwards; weak and debilitated he muft cer- tainly be in this advanced ftage of the difeafe, and muft require the aflis- tance of fuch medicines as will add force to the vis vitas. It is therefore much to be lamented that our learned author has negleffed to mention^ what medicines his large experience had found adequate to this impor- tant purpofe. In the next page a regular plan of antiphlogiftic treatment is dire&ed for the inflammatory ftage of the difeafe, of which I believe anodynes are not intended to make a part; pain and irritation appear to me in this place to mark a fubfequent and feparate period, as pain and irritation are on this occafton faid to ftand in need of anodynes and the peruvian bark; fo that we here find that anodynes have changed their company; before they were affociated with the lancet, now they are united with the peruvian31 INTO TWO SPECIES. peruvian bark. I am very well fatisfied that bark and anodynes may be united under certain circumftances with great advantage, but I am alfo of opinion that, generally fpeaking, pain and irritation will terminate with the inflammatory fymptoms, and confequently that in this early period bark cannot be given with fafety, or can ever prove inftrumental in aba- ting the pain or correfting that fpecies of irritation which is the immediate confequence of inflammation; and if the inflammation is in a great degree, I think it is very doubtful whether anodynes can be given with a rational profpeff offuccefs; but after the inflammation has fubfided, anodynes may then be made ufe of with fafety and advantage, either as cordials, to abate the irritation of debility, or to procure repofe. But if the inflammation that takes place in confequence of external in- jury to the extremities, does not produce a phlogiftic diathefis, which is a queflion that will be afterwards determined, then, bleeding fhould be uf- ed with caution, and opium, for the fame reafon, may be given with lefs danger of increafing the morbid affion and with greater probability of producing the defired effeft. But the lancet and opium which fhould always be confidered as two diftinft and oppofite indications, are in the prefent inftance united in full force; he fays, “that pain is to be appeafed and reft obtained by anodynes, and inflammation is to be removed by free and frequent bleedings and after defcribing in general terms a plan of antiphlogiftic treatment, he then obferves, if our attempts do not fucceed, the confequence is gangrene and mortification; but the bark is not men- tioned as a remedy on this occafion. When fuppuration has taken place, the bark is recommended both in his remarks on fraftures, and in his re- * Pott’s general remarks on fractures and diflocations, fecond edition, page gi. marksTHE DIVISION OF MORTIFICATION ' 32 marks on the neceflity of amputation, but not as a remedy in cafes of mor- tification. The diftin&ion of the mortification of the toes and feet is an obje£t of confiderable importance, both in the fcience and pra&ice of furgery; and the defcription both of the difeafe and method of treatment is plain and intelligible. But with refpeft to the ufe of the bark in other fpecies of mortification, the whole is embarrafied with doubt, and veiled in obfcurity. To fome it may appear rather extraordinary, that a fubjeft of fuch im- portance fhould not have obtained a due {hare of Mr. Pott’s attention. But when we confider that the powers of the human body and mind have both their limits; and that no one can either think, write, fpeak, or live for ever; we {hall readily conclude, that no human exertions are adequate to the tafk of enfuring fimilar fuccefs on every occafion. And when we review Mr. Pott’s fuccefsful labours in other branches of his profeflion, we {hall ceafe to wonder, if fome obje&s of equal importance fhould have palled before his eyes, in the bufy croud of profefiional engagements, without having obtained a due {hare of critical obfervation in pra&ice, or becoming a diftinflt and feparate fubje£t of theoretical inveftigation. SECTIONSECTION III. AMPUTATION CONSIDERED AS A REMEDY IN CA- SES OF MORTIFICATION, AND THE AMBIGUITY OF THE PUBLIC OPINION ON THIS SUBJECT. T\ /TR. Bell’s fyflem of furgery will with propriety become the next ob« je6t of our examination: it is a work of too much importance to be paired by without a due {hare of attention, and refpeft. On the hub- je6f of amputation he fays, “mortification is the next eaufe we have to confider by which amputation may be rendered neceffary. They, who are determined to oppofe the pra£Hce of amputation as much as poffible, af- fect to confider it as unnecefiary in mortification*:” this fingular attack on the fraternity of furgery appears tome as unintelligible as the reflexion is fevere and unjufiifiable ; it infinuates that a certain party of furgeons are determined to oppofe the praftice of amputation, even againfl: their bet- ter judgments; for he fays they off Eb to confider it unneceffary; which is afferting that, though they are convinced of the neceffity, they affe6l to write, fpeak, and a£i, againlt their own convi&ion. What furgeons may have faid or done, I do not prefume to be acquaint- * Bell’s fyflem of furgery, page 311, vol. 6, fifth edition. K edAMPUTATION. 34 ed with; but what they have written is unalterable, and is the only evi- dence that deferves our attention. I muft acknowledge that, as far as I can judge, I know of no fuch parties, who have afted in oppofition to their own conviftion ; if they exifted amongft the writers on furgery they fhould have been pointed out. Sharp and Pott are the only two who have written rationally on the fubjeft, and who have given a direft opi- nion againft the propriety of amputating in cafes of mortification; do thefe then form the party to whom our author makes his fatirical allufion ? But rather let me alk whether fuch charafters ever had any other exift- ence than in the fertility of imagination; this however is a queftion that I fhall not now examine, or prefume to determine. It is a common praflice for writers on all fubje&s to invent difficulties for the fake of anfwering them, and in books of amufement fuch manaeu- vres are excufable; but on fubje&s of fuch importance to the health of individuals, and the happinefs of fociety, every fuperfluity that is liable to miflead the young ftudent, or bewilder the incautious reader, fliould be carefully avoided. For my own part I wifh to pay Mr. Bell every poffible mark of attenti- on and refpefl; and for fear I fliould be thought deficient on theprefent occafion, it is my fincere wifh that not a fingle line that he has written on this fubje6f fliould pafs unnoticed. He fays, “thofe who are determined to oppofe this praftice as much as poffible, affefl to confident unneceffary, in mortifications;” from which we may infer that thofe who oppofe this pra&ice in a lefs degree would not affefl to confider it unneceffary, perhaps they would lay afide all affe£tation and confider it abfolutely fo; but35 AMPUTATION, but with refpeft to the former, even thefe only affeft to confider it unne- ceffary, fufpend their affeflation and then they profefs a contrary opinion. On the prefent occafion it is not the manner of introdu&ion which is the objeft of our attention; it is neither the inaccuracy of defcription nor the ambiguity of fi&ion that we are now attempting to inveftigate; it is not the manner of reprefentation, but the real merits of the argument that engages our attention; and if we allow them to preferve their affe&ation, even then thefe imaginary charaflers will not anfwer the intended pur- pofe for which Mr. Bell created them. The argument then fets forth that all inferior degrees of mortification may be cured without amputation, and confequently this operation in fuch cafes cannot be neceffary; in the firft place it is much to be lamented that thefe degrees of difeafe were not pointed out, and the method of treatment accurately explained, for in all fuch cafes where there is a pro- bability of cure the queftion ceafes; we are not contending in favour of the removal of limbs in cafes of curable gangrene, the queftion is, how far amputation may be confidered a fafe and efficacious remedy where the difeafe is confiderable in degree, rapid in its progrefs, and dangerous in its confequences. In many doubtful cafes it can only be afcertained by the event, whether the difeafe will admit of cure; and the fame degree of difeafe may be con- fidered curable by one furgeon, and incurable by another. In fome of thefe doubtful cafes, if amputation is not had recourfe to, the event is uncertain, and the patient may recover; but if after mortification has ta- ken36 AMPUTATION. ken place amputation is made ufe of with an intention of flopping the progrefs of difeafe, the event will no longer be uncertain, the operation decides the fate of the patient, and death is the inevitable confequence. The plain truth is this, it is always improper to amputate a limb when the body is in a difeafed flate; fo that when,inflammation has taken place it is improper; and though mortification is certain to fucceed, there is no period after the commencement of inflammation, when the operation can be performed with fafety, until the mortification has terminated, and all morbid a£lion ceafed. It is then obferved in favour of this argument, that “when mortification is very extenfive, the patient will commonly fall a facrifice to the dif- eafe, whether the operation be performed or not*.55 This may be true, for in all cafes of extenfive mortification the danger muft be great, and the event uncertain, but the fa6t as here ftated does not furnifh us with any inflrudlive evidence. In all cafes that are incurable, the patient muff inevitably die, whether the operation is, or is not performed; but cafes may occur where the difeafe would not prove incurable if the operation was not performed, where nature might have fupported the vital powers againft the influence of difeafe independent of the operation, but where the influence of difeafe and the operation united may deftroy the powers of nature. Amputation is therefore improper in all cafes of gangrene; in flight * Bell’s fyftem of furgery, vol. 6, page 312, fifth edition. degreesAMPUTATION’. 37 degrees it is improper, not only becaufe it is unnecefTary, but becaufe the difeafe, which was not in itfelf dangerous, would be rendered inevitably fo by the operation; and the obje&ions to the operation will increafe with the extent and degree of difeafe. For in cafes of fpreading gangrene not only the mortified limb, but the fyftem is in a hate of difeafe, a diathefis of the putrid kind muft under fuch circumftances pervade the whole. Thedifcharge from the injured part, and other local appearances will evidently mark the commencement of putridity; and the general fymp- toms point out with equal certainty the extent and degree of conftitutio- nal difeafe; to operate at this period would be laying an additional load on the finking powers of nature, without the leaft rational profpeft of ad- vantage; for if the whole fyftem is affefted, by amputation we only re- move a fmall and unimportant part of the difeafe, and if the difeafe is limited to any certain part, then the operation is no longer an objeft of our confideration. After afterting in behalf of his imaginary opponent, that, when the mortification is very extenfive, the patient will commonly fall a facrifice to the difeafe, whether the operation is performed or not: Mr. Bell, on the other fide of the queftion, obferves, “ that this opinion is diredlly con- trary to faff and experience, and contends for the propriety of amputating in cafes of extenfive gangrene but the argument is inaccurately ftated, for we certainly fhould have been informed under what circumftances re- covery was probable without amputation, and in what inftances the oper- ation was the only remedy. X£ * Bell’s fyftem of furgery, vol. 6, page 312, fifth edition, LAMPUTATION. k If the art offurgery po fie fifes any other remedy for this formidable dif- eafe, it fhould have been pointed out; what method of treatment would have been proper on the commencement of the difeafe, fhould fir ft have been explained, and if it was poffible to flop its progrefs in more advan- ced flages, and what internal medicines, or external applications would contribute to promote the falutary purpofe, fhould have been particularly mentioned. We are not even informed how far the knife may be looked upon as an efficacious remedy, or whether amputation will, under any circumflances. Hop the progrefs of the difeafe; but, haflily puffing over thefe very impor- tant flages, without ever noticing any one critical period when either me- dicine or operation may be interpofed with advantage, we are at once informed, that, when a limb is deftroyed by mortification, “amputation is indifpenfible*.” But under fuch circumflances amputation is not a rem- edy for mortification, it can only be made ufe of for the removal of a dead part, which is become an offenfive incumbrance to the living body, and -which nature would herfelf accomplifh; in this inflance the furgeon may remove a dead limb as foon as he pleafes, but if it is thought neceffary for the patient’s future comfort to make a convenient flump, and for that purpofe to operate on the living part, it will flill be neceffary to obferve the fame rule, and not to operate until all difeafed aflion has fubfided. So that in this inflance amputation is not a remedy againfl mortification, but a remedy for the deformity that the mortification has occafioned. * Bell's fyftem of furgery, vol, 6, page 312, fifth edition. The39 AMPUTATION. The nextquefiion that is prefented to our confideration is, the period when amputation may be had recourfe to with the greateft probability of fuccefs. In cafes of fpreading gangrene, the propriety of amputating is not condemned, as a praftice fo contrary to the diflates of reafon, as the evidence of experience; and fufficient is faid in favour of this method of praftice to induce the injudicious, who have only a fuperficial knowledge of their profeffion, to try the experiment. For this reafon, and in my hum- ble opinion, for this only, Mr. Bell’s arguments have a very urgent claim to our attention. Suppofe, for inftance, that a perfon, incapable of judging for himfelfi, or a young man diffident of his own abilities, ffiould confult Mr. Bell’s fyflem of furgery, and regulate his conduff by his inflru&ions; we will fuppofe the cafe under his care to be a mortification of one of the extrem- ities, in confequence of external injury; and the ficate and degree of dif- eafe to be fuch, as might be confidered favourable for the operation by thofe who were ignorant of its impropriety under fuch circumftances : Mr. Bell’s arguments would not only ferve to juftify the operation, but would influence as a powerful inducement in favour of this irrational and deflru&ive prattice. In the firfl place the propriety of amputating in cafes of fpreading gan- grene is not obje&ed to as in itfelf improper, but as doubtful in the event, the hazard depending on the difficulty of afcertaining the limits of the difeafe; in confequence of the difeafe having made greater progrefs on the internal parts, than might be expefted by a fuperficial examination of the integuments; and though our author does reludlantly give an opini- onAMPUTATION. 40 on to the contrary, he is certainly a zealous advocate on the wrong fide of the queflion, and in favour of that opinion which he is unable to fupport. The ambiguity of the conclufion ferves to elucidate the bias of our au- thor's opinion ; and to determine the validity of his arguments, he fays, ‘e if the operation is performed while mortification is advancing, the difeafe fcarcely ever fails of feizing the flump,5’ and immediately adds, “at leaf! 1 never knew an inflance to the contrary.” Why then fliould he obferve that the difeafe fcarcely ever fails of feizing the flump, when he immediately acknowledges that he never knew an in- flance to the contrary; the expreffion mull certainly imply that the difeafe does fomerimes fail of feizing the flump, and this is all that would be ne- ceffary to juflify the praflice ; for in cafes fo defperate where the hazard is fo great, if in a few inflances the patient efcapes with life, we then mult admit that the praflice is not irrational. But as Mr. Bell never met with a fuccefsful inflance, though he acknow- ledges that “he has unfortunately happened to be concerned in different cafes where this practice was adopted;” and as he has candidly favoured us with what may be confidered a fatisfaflory confeffion that he never heard of a fuccefsful inflance, and if he had ever met with one in point he ought either to have noticed it, or given an exa6l quotation; I fhall therefore conclude, that, under fuch an accumulation of conviflion, fuch repeated inflances of fatality, and difappointment, inflead of faying fcarcely ever, he fhould have afferted that with the mofl unqueflionable certainty under fuch circumflances the difeafe will appear in the flump, the whole fyflem become putrid, and the patient inevitably die, The41 AMPUTATION. M On The truth is, that the whole doftrine, on which this opinion is founded, is repugnant to the laws of nature and the principles of the animal (Econo- my ; fo that the exiftence of fuch an inftance is impoflible. For my own part I have met with fome ufeful leffons in the courfe of my own praftice and obfervation; but it is not poflible that I fhould ever have an opportunity, to determine the queftion on the authority of experimen- tal evidence; as I hope I fhall never be induced to aft againft my own con- viftion, or to fanftion in another what I fhould confider a refleftion on my own underftanding, a reproach to my humanity, and an irreparable dif- grace to my profeffional charafter. The opinion is at lafl relinquifhed, and Mr. Bell acknowledges the im- propriety of amputating in cafes of fpreading gangrene. He obferves “that it was alfo the decided opinion of the late Mr. Sharp, Mr. Pott, and of every modern practitioner of obfervationand immediately adds, “I think it right to mention this, as attempts have of late years been made by fome fpeculative praftitioners, to induce a contrary praftice.” According to his own flatement the fpeculative praftitioners muft be conlidered of a very humble order, and fo deflitute of common fenfe as to be incapable of obfervation; for he previoufly alferts that every modern praftitioner of obfervation is of a contrary opinion; why then fhould this unneceffary difcuffion be intruded on the public, or thefe imaginary charafters brought forward, in fupport of an opinion that is in itfelf repugnant to all the e- vidence of nature ? The propriety of amputating during the progrelfive {late of the difeafe being no longer an objeft of our confideration, the next queflion is, what is the time when the operation may be performed with fafety and advantage ?AMPUTATION. 42 On this occafion, for want of fome rational guide, we meet with fimilar difficulties: at leaft I think this part of Mr. Bell’s fyftem is equally im- perfeft; he difapproves of the delay recommended by Mr. Sharpt, and contends that the operation fhould be performed as foon as poffible after the termination of the difeafe. He fays. “I would confider it as fufficient to wait till the mortification is fairly flopped, but not much longer: In this manner, we feem to reap all the advantages which the caution we have advifed can give; and the earlier after this that the mortified parts are removed, the more readily will we prevent the fyftem from fuffering by the abforption of that putrefcent matter which a gangrenous mafs univer- fally yeilds*.” Thus early amputation is certainly Mr. Bell’s leading ob- je£l, but this lafl effort feems no better fupported than the former; his motive is to prevent the abforption of putrefcent matter, but to effedl this it will be neceffary that the whole of the mortified parts fhould be remo- ved ; and if the whole of the mortified parts are to be removed, fome por- tion of the found parts muff, of neceffity be removed with them, fo that to effefl the objedl completely which Mr. Bell has in view, the operation of amputation on the found parts muft be regularly performed. t£( I have laid it down as a Rule, that the Mortification fhould not only be flopp’d, but advanc'd in its reparation; the reafon of which is, that though the Blood is fo much alter’d for the better as to oc- cafion a ftoppage of the Gangrene, yet at this point of alteration ’tis ftill in a bad flate, and fhould be left to mend, with the utmofl tranquility of Body, and afiiflance of Cordial Medicines, ’till fuch time as Granulations of Flefh upon the living part of the Extremity fhew the balfarnic Difpofition of the Blood : In the mean while, to take off the Stench of the Gangrene, it may be wrapt up in fpirituous vr odoriferous Applications.” Sharp’s operations of furgery, page 214. * Bell’s fyftem of furgery, vol. 6, page 316, fifth edition, In43 AMPUTATION* In this flage of the difeafe our obje£l is not fo much to remove the dead parts as to preferve the living; it is therefore not the flate of the dead parts, but the flate of the living parts on which the operation is to be per- formed, that is to dire6l our condufl. A partial removal of the mortified parts cannot be produ£live of the leaf!: advantage; if any abforption of putrefcent matter does take place, it mufl be from that part which is in immediate contact with the living, and as it would be impoffible to fepa- rate the dead and living parts without fome painful operation, this addi- tional injury would exafperate the difeafe, and increafe the danger. In a fcientific view the removal of part of a dead limb is certainly not worthy of our confideration, but trifling as it may appear to the furgeon, either in fcience or in practice, the patient may view the bufmefs in a differ- ent light; and in fuch cafes of danger and diftrefs, every probability of alarming the patient fhould be carefully avoided : at the fame time we fhould confider that this firfl operation does not end the bufinefs, and whe- ther it is, or is not performed, the fecond will be equally neceffary. The part where the operation might take place is not mentioned; but as Mr. Bell’s objeft is to prevent the abforption of putrefcent matter, he certainly would fix on fome part beyond the limits of putrefa£lion. In the few inflances where the patient furvives the mortification cf a limb, we muflexpe£l to find the whole fyftem much exhaufled; in this flate to operate would certainly not be advifable, except by fuch hafly proceedings fome impending danger was to be avoided, or fome confiderable advan- tage to be obtained. By reafonable delay, the conflitution will acquire returning energy, and theAMPUTATION. 44 the powers of health be in fome degree reftored. In rnofl cafes there is a time when nature particularly requires affiflance, and it betrays a want of profeflional knowledge to direft their condu6l, when either furgeons or phyficians intrude their affiflance before it is neceffary. In this inflance there is a time evidently pointed out, when the operati- on fhould take place; and that is, when the patient has recovered as much as pofhble from the debilitating influence of previous difeafe, and before he begins to fink again in confequence of the difcharge from the parts, where nature is effecting a feparation. This will be the period when na- ture will have regained her full extent of returning energy, and when am- putation may be undertaken with the greateft probability of fuccefs. I cannot conje&ure what was Mr. Bell’s motive for oppofing Mr. Sharp’s opinion on this fubjeft, but, if he was determined to oppofe, he certainly fhould have fupported his oppofition with either fa6ls or arguments fu- perior to thofe that he wifhed to invalidate. The quotation he has given is a partial one, in juflice therefore to Mr. Sharp, in juftice to Mr. Bell, in fupport of my own opinion, and for the fatisfa&ion of the public; I (hall beg leave to give Mr. Sharp’s own words more at large, and thus having given the evidence in full, every reader is at liberty to form a judgment for himfelf. Mr. Sharp fays, “But what feems to be of much greater Importance in th is Confideration, than any of the Reafons I have already alledged is the illftate of Health that the patient labours underwhilfl a Gangrene is fpread- ing, be it of one kind or other; for at this time the Blood is frequently fo thinAMPUTATIONS is thin, as to lofe even its florid appearance, and it is not unufual for fatal Hemorrhages to fucceed, in confequence of this thinnefs, not from the great Vefiels, but from an Infinity of fmall ones in every part of the Stump, The mere danger of a Haemorrhage is then another Objection; but though this fhould be efcaped, yet nature will generally fink under fo violent an Operation, where the Blood is deprived of its Balfamic Qualities, and the Strength of the Patient is fo much exhaufted. On thefe accounts the pro- priety of deferring Amputation willbe evident, not only till the Mortifica- tion is flopped, but till the Separation is pretty far advanced ; for by this meafure, under a proper Treatment, the Blood will recover a healthy State and Confidence, and the Patient will be better enabled to bear up againft the Fatigues and Danger of the Operation*,” * Sharp’s critical enquiry, page 26a SECTIONSECTION IV. THE PHYSIOLOGY OF THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD CONSIDERED AS THE BASIS OF THE PATHOLOGY OF INFLAMMATION AND ITS CON- SEQUENCES. mum a«W®eea*— "TITTE come now to a work* of a different chara&er from any that we v * yet have had or (hall have occafion to examine; in which every page abounds with the evidence of originality, in which the writer has attempted to inveftigate the firfl principles of the animal oeconomy, to ex- plain the phenomena of difeafes, and eflablifh the praftice of furgery on a philofophical, and rat ional bafis. This is certainly a Subject that merits our attention, and we may admire the heroifm of the enterprife, though we are under the painful neceffity of lamenting the want of fuccefs. * If we look back a century, we fhall find it was the fafhion to gi -re plain defcriptions of difeafes, and to point out the method of cure by a catalogue of remedies, or by exa£t copies of prefcriptions; medical books were then intelligible: but fince modern refinement has changed the mode, and * A treatife on the blood Inflammation and Gun-lhot Wounds by the late John Hunter. 1794. myfleryPHYSIOLOGY* 48 myftery has acquired a decided preference, the medical writers of the pre- fent age have been obliged to comply with the exigency of the times, un- der a certain expeftation that the lefs a book was underftood, the more it would be admired, and the more generally approved. The nature of the blood and the ftru&ure and mechanifm of the fangui- ferous fyftem, are on this occafion the principal fubje&s of Mr. I. Hunter’s anatomical and physiological inveftigations; but when we confider this partial examination of the animal fyftem, as the balls of the firft prin- ciples of a new method of treating furgical difeafes; the leaft inaccura- cy will break the conne&ioni and one fingle error invalidate the whole argument. Nature itfelf is perfeft, and though it never may be in our power to inveftigate the whole, yet every partial explanation will bear fimilar evi- dence of perfection, and the vacancies may be confidered as intermediate fpaces or links in the chain, which future ingenuity may afterwards ex- plain. If a perfeft knowledge of nature is not to be obtained, every fyftem of phyfiology muft be imperfeCt, but this is no reafon why it fliould be erro- neous. I lhall not attempt to follow Mr. I. Hunter through the whole, as a refutation of his opinion in a few inftances will be fufficient. If his theory of the animal ceconomy be erroneous, the practical inferences muft fall in confequence; he fays, “I have endeavoured to form this work in- to a regular fyftem, one part exa&ly depending upon another f I Hunter on gun-fhot wounds, page a. ManyPHYSIOLOGY. 49 Many fyftem-builders have made fimilar attempts, fo that this is not the firft; inftance we meet with, when theoretical {peculations, and pra&ical inferences have been at variance. When inflammation was fuppofed to depend on obftru&ion, it was cured by deobftruents; but when fpafm be- came the caufe of this difeafe, then antifpafmodics became the remedy. If then evacuations were made ufe of in both inftances, in the former they afledas deobftruents, in the latter as antifpafmodics. The truth is, that the theory and praflice of phyfic have not that connexion, which fome fpeculative writers and equally credulous readers have been difpofed to imagine. I do not intend .to infinuate, that the theory of medicine is either ufe- lefs or unneceflary; it may ferve on many occafions to conneft our ideas, and prove highly inftrumental in the arrangement of praftical informati- on; but it is an objeflof great importance, to diftinguifh between the hy- pothefts of fpeculation, and that theory which is founded on the evidence of nature, in a ftate of health, and the phenomena of difeafe. When any fpeculative opinion, that has the appearance of ingenuity has once become an objeff of public attention; if the means of deteff ing the impofttion are not within the limits of general obfervation, it foon becomes eftablilhed as an important truth. If we examine the theory of blood globules, and the ufe of the microf- cope when applied to anatomical purpofes, the more attention we pay to the fubjett, the more we fhall be aftonifhed, that ingenious men fhould be led away by fuch vifionary do&rines. Malpighi and Leuwenhoek firft gave rife to this chimera, and the credulous public has ever fince been either dazzled by the blaze, or duped by the delufion, O I (hall «PHYSIOLOGY* 5° I fhall not have occafion to repeat the experiments for the purpofe of proving the fallacy of this hypothelis; the difcordance of opinion will fufficiently illuftrate the prefent ftate of this fubje£t, with the addition of all the fplendid decorations of modern improvements. At the fame time it will be proper to obferve, that it is not an objeft of much importance on the prefent occafion, whether the blood is compofed of red or white glo- bules; the queftion is, whether Mr. I. Hunter’s opinion bears the appear- ance of confiftency, and whether what he has written on the general prin- ciple of the blood, will in any refpefl illuftrate the fubfequent parts of the fubjeft? «# , If his obfervations are ill-founded, if his arguments are unconne&ed, his theory muft be fet afide as unworthy of attention, and we {hall then have to examine his method of treating inflammation, and mortification, on a pra&ical bafis independent of any theoretical fpeculation. We are told in the commencement of this difcuflion, that, “the blood is a material objeft in the theory of inflammationwhich induced me to expeft a regular conneHed train of arguments, explanatory of the oper- ations of the animal fyftem, both in a ftate of health and difeafe; and though the fyftem might in many inftances have proved imperfeft, yet the outlines would have difplayed fome ufeful information. But I have care- fully examined the whole, and am under the neceflity of acknowledging, that I can difcover neither connexion of argument, nor rational inference. In the analyfis of the blood we find this fluid divided into three com- ponent parts; the red globules, the ferum, and coagulating lymph. This latterPHYSIOLOGY, Sp- latter feems to occupy his principal attention* and is reprefented as the moll important part of the circulating fluids. The procefs of coagula- tion is particularly noticed, and reprefented as the bafis of feveral of the animal fun&ions; as if the animal aftions were included in fome analo- gous operation, fuch for inftance as the change of fluids into folids, and even the accretion and increafe of different parts of the animal body. But this is evidently reafoning on falfe principles, as the operations of the animal mechanifm are not analogous to the chemical operations that take place in inanimate matter; or the changes that take place in animal matter, in confequence of parting with its vital principle. And whatever may be the merit of his conjeftures, the manner in which he concludes this part of thefubjeft evidently determines the imbecility of his arguments. After examining the progrefs of coagulation under different circumftan- ces, and in various points of view, he concludes by giving to the blood confcioufnefs and the power of volition, to regulate the bufinefs of coag- ulation, for “good purpofes on neceffary occafions*;” and fums up the whole, by givinghis opinion that “it coagulates from an impreflion of its fluidity being no longer neceffary; it then coagulates to anfwer the ne- ceffary purpofe of folidity.” But we may as well fuppofe that the freezing of water depends on an impreflion of the neceflity; or if, for the fake of more ftri£l analogy, we confine our obfervations to the changes that take place in extravafated * I. Hunter on gun-fhot wounds, page 25, animal52 PHYSIOLOGY.’ animal fluids under different circumftances; we might with equal propri- ety conclude, that the change of milk into butter or cheefe depended upon confcioufnefs and volition. In the former page we meet with an explanation of this neceffity. <fBy aftion taking place from neceffity, effefts are meant which arife in confequence of fome unufual or unnatural change going on in the parts.” The change of fluids into folids for the fupport, renewal, or increafe of the different parts of the animal body is a regular procefs, that cannot be confidered either unufual, or unnatural; and whether this animal fur&ion is performed by any procefs fimilar to coagulation, or by any other oper- ation, more confident with the laws of animal life; this muft be confidered one of the mod natural operations of the animal fyfiem. If what is conftant and uniform can be confidered unufual or unnatural, the prefent ftatement would then appear lefs obje&ionable: but as co- agulation is a regular effeft, that we have daily opportunities of obferving, it muft certainly be confidered a natural operation, or a change that takes place in confequence of diforganization, or a lofs of vital principle. But even if every faff was fupported by the evidence of nature, they form in their prefent ftate a mifcellaneous affemblage of unconnedled obfervati- ons ; that do not in the leaft illuftrate the ceconomy of the fyftem in a ftate of health, or ferve to explain the nature and difeafe. It is certainly the perfe&ion of philofophical empiricifm, je&ures without evidence, or to attempt to carry an analyfis fanguiferous properties of to form con- of nature be- yond53 PHYSIOLOGY. yond the bounds of rational invefligation; it is alfo equally irrational to at- tempt to explain different fubjefls, that have no relation to each other, by limilar laws, or to fuppofe that one mode of demonilration is equally applicable to every branch of natural philofophy. The laws of gravitation were, about a century ago, made ufe of to ex- plain the phenomena of chymiflry; and the operations of chymiflry have in their turn been applied, with no lefs impropriety, to illuflrate the orga- nization of animal life. Even in Haller’s time, the method of analyfing the blood was by diftillation: but as diffillation is not an animal procefs, and as we do not meet with any fuch apparatus in the animal machine, this fpecies of invefligation would not improve our knowledge of this fubjefl. If we attentively examine Mr. I. Hunter’s obfervations on the ferumof the blood, we {hall find that he has been amufing himfelf and his readers with delufions equally unnatural; he heats the ferumof the blood to 165 degrees to make it coagulate, and the * gravies of both boiled and roafted meats are introduced as evidence on this occafion; but, as none of thefe circumflances are analogous to life, they are all inapplicable to the prefent fubjeft. The gravies of dreffed meat might furnifh converfation to a con- vivial profeffional party, but appear as an ufelefs intrufion in their pre- fent fituation. Some of his experiments are made in imitation of a chymical compo- * I. Hunter on gun-Hiot wounds, page 32. P fitionPHYSIOLOGY, 54 fition, by mixing the ferum of the blood with fpirit of wine, volatile fpirit, fait of hartfhorn, and with water; but all thefe experiments are equally obje£lionable: as fuch compositions never take place in the living ani- mal, they cannot in any refpebl explain the animal fun&ions, either in a Hate of health or difeafe. Even Mr. I. Hunter himfelf acknowledges the inutility of his own experiments; he fays, “ Heat, to a certain degree, coagulates this part; and probably this is the only teft necelfary to know whether a fluid, found any where in the body, not coagulable in itfelf, is this part of the ferum; but as many fubftances do alfo coagulate it, I fhall mention a few of them; although to me their effebbs do not feem to throw any light on the fubjebfand two pages further heobferves, “that the following experiments are not perfectly conclufive.” I do not urge that this is a fufficient reafon why thefe experiments fhould not have been made, as the fpeculative philofopher muff make a number of ufelefs experiments before he attains the objebf he has in view; but as the firft do not throw any new light on the fubjebf, and the laft are not perfeblly conclufive, and as in my opinion they do not in the leaft add to our knowledge of difeafes, or the method of treatment; they will on- ly ferve to bewilder the credulous and incautious reader: which is a fuf- ficient reafon of itfelf, why they fhould not have been intruded on the public, If we attend to his obfervations and inferences, we fhall find them as ineonclufive as his experiments; fo much fo, that was it not for the pur- £ I Hunter on gun-ftiot wounds, page 31, pofePHYSIOLOGY. 55 pofe of demonftrating the imperfe£Hons of this branch of phyfiology, I fhould not have brought them forward on this occafion. In one place he fays, “that the ferum is greateft in quantity, when the blood globules are mod abundant*.” This appears to me to be a curious obfervation; and though it may pafs unnoticed by the inattentive, I think it is well worthy of our confideration. In the firft place we muft admit, that it is difficult to afcertain the number of red globules in any given quantity of blood; and, if we cannot afcertain the number, we cannot eftimate the quantity. But independent of this difficulty, as the quantity of ferum is fa id- to increafe in proportion to the quantity of red globules, the argument im- plies a contradi6lion in itfelf; for if the increafe is equal, the proportion muft remain the fame. On another occafton, fpeaking of the difeafed ftate of the valves of the aorta,he fays: “It muft have begun much earlier in life than fuch dif- eafes commonly do, as the fymptoms appeared when he was youngh;” and then in a marginal note, adds, “T have feen it at. a very early period.” This is in the firft inftance infinuating that this difeafe does not take place at an early period, and then immediately admitting that he has feen the contrary; it is giving an opinion in the face of his own evidence; he firft ftates an opinion, and then brings fa£ts to prove the contrary. I fhall only trouble the reader with two more examples of this fpecies * I. Hunter on gun-fhot wounds, page 36, i I. Hunter on gun-fliot wounds, page, 58, I H ' OfPHYSIOLOGY. 56 of inaccuracy. He fays, “the globules of white ferum differ from the red globules in colour'35',” and concludes his experimental inveftigation of the ferum of the blood with this obfervation, “that the white part of the white ferum funk in waterf.” That white and red fhould differ in colour, is here reprefented as an important difcovery. With refpeft to the white part of the white ferum f nking in water the faff might have been as here dated; but this explanation is imperfeff, for as the white part of the white ferum is not fuppofed to be the only part, the other parts fhould have been defcribed, and fatisfaflory information given what became of them. The red part of the'blood is the next objeft of our attention; this, we are told, is of lefs importance than the coagulating lymph, and the reafon is a curious one; all animals that have a complete circulation and are conddered of the mod perfefl kind havered blood; but as the blood of fome reptiles and infers is not red, confequently the red part is of infe- rior importance. But as quadrupeds, which are confidered the drd clafs of animals, have all red blood, I fhould fuppofe that the red part of the blood is as important a part of their duids, as the lymph and ferum may be of other animals; and confequently, fo far from confidering the red part of the blood of the lead importance, I fhould rather edimate its im- portance by the perfeffion of the clafs of animals which it invariably be- longs to. Why this quedion of precedency diould be fo warmly contended for, * I. Hunter on gun-fhot wounds, page 39. f I. Hunter on gun-fhot wounds, page 28. I am57 PHYSIOLOGY. I am at a lofs to conjecture; or why any one fhould endeavour to oppofe that evidence which appears moft fatisfaftory. We are not fufficiently acquainted with the mechanifm of animal life, to enable us to form clear ideas of the ufeand properties of the different parts of the blood; and I fear that the obfervations before us will not refleCl any additional light on this fubjeCt. He acknowledges that refpiration is an important animal funCtion, and alfo mentions that the colour of the blood is changed by paffing through the lungs; and this is reprefented as an objeCt deferving our attention. But flill he contends, that * refpiration muft produce fome other effeCl flill more important; for he fays, “if we fuppofe the.change of colour in the red globules to be all that refpiration is to perform, we fhall make the red globules the moft eftential part of the blood, whereas they are leaft fo.,J But this is a fubjeCt that, in my opinion, does not admit of degrees; as all parts, that are effential to the life of an animal, muft be conftdered of equal importance. The evidence here brought forward clearly proves the importance of the red part of the blood in the more perfeCt animals; but an attempt is made to fuperfede the authority of this evidence, by the introduction of a fuppofition that refpiration produces fome other effeCts, which the fupe- rior abilities of this anatomift have not yet been able to difcover; and re« fpe&ing which his ingenuity has not even formed a plaufible conjeCture, and all this for the important purpofe of fupporting a whimfical opinion^ and * I. Hunter on gun-fhot wounds, page 51. 0.58 PHYSIOLOGY. \ and endeavouring to prove,, that one part of the blood is more important than another. That I may avoid all fufpicion of mifreprefentation I Hi all beg leave to copy the original defcription: our author obferves, “that moll probably the effedfs of the air upon the blood are greateft on the coagulable lymph, and this conjeCiure is rendered more likely when we confider that in ani- mals which have no red globules of any kind refpiration is as elfential to their exigence as any other*.” This is a curious argument, but I think the fophiftry will be ealily expo- fed ; the firft obfervation informs us that molt probably the effects are fuch, and confequently the argument commences with-doubt and is incumbered with apprehenlion: whereas a philofopher, who is convinced of the truth of what he is about to alfert, will not exprefs himfelf in doubtful terms, but every word will imply conviftion. In the prefent inltance for the purpofe of fupporting a conjecture, For it is only termed a conjeCture, though it is evident that this conjeCture is reprefented as an important truth, he then obferves that “this conjec- ture is rendered more likely, when we confider that in animals which have no red globules of any kind, refpiration is as elfential to their exiltence, as in any other.” But this affertion is incorreCt; I do not deny the neceffi- ty of refpiration to a great variety of animals that have not red blood, but if we trace the fubjeCl through the whole chain of natural hillofy, we lhall find the evidence againlt the point in quellion. * I. Hunter on gun-fhot wounds, page 51. ThePHYSIOLOGY* 59 The quadruped is the animal to whom refpiration is the moft neceffary and where it is lead; under the influence of the will. Quadrupeds have warm blood; and in this clafs of animals conftant refpiration is fo necef- fary to life, that a very ihort fufpenfion of this important funflion will immediately put a ftop to all the vital powers. In thofe animals called amphibious, the blood is red but cold; in thefe the conftrufclion of the heart and lungs is very different from thofe of the quadruped: the blood does not all pafs through the lungs, and ref- piration is more under the command of the will. The effedls of refpira- tion on the red part of the blood are evident to our fenfes in both inftan- ces; bur. whatever effedls it may have on the other parts of the blood is yet unknown, in confequence of which Mr. I. Hunter concludes, that vifible effe&s are lefs than invifible, and that evident fa£is are of lefs im- portance than vifionary conje&ures. Though I do not wifh to have the red part of the blood deprived of its importance, I cannot fo implicitly fubfcribe to one of its inofl diflinguifh- ing titles. The red part of the blood has for more than a century been diftinguifhed by the term of red globules, and this was the only part of the blood that was at firfl fuppofed to be formed of globules ; but modern phyfiologiffs have attempted to improve on this original difcovery, and affertthat the chyle*, of which the blood is formed, is in the firft inflance itfelf formed of globular particles; and not only that the red part of the blood but aifothe lymph ana ierum are all formed of globules, and even the milk which is fecreted from the blood is of fimilar conilru&ion. * I, Hunter on gun Ihot wound?, page 7s, I exp C 61<30 PHYSIOLOGY# I expeC that it will be confidered an inftance of unpardonable fcepti- cifm, to queftion the truth of a general opinion, that is fan&ioned by fuch high authority; and if the queftion depended on any prefumptuous ac- curacy of my own obfervation, or on any imaginary dexterity in conduc- ing fuch optical experiments, I fhould not attempt to fet my own opini- on in competition with that I am about to call in queftion. But in the prefent inftance, as well as in many other parts of this inqui- ry, it is not neceflary to determine the intrinfic merit of every queftion that may occur; my prefent objeC is firft to examine the validity of the opinion of others, and by a general exhibition fet the whole fubjeft in a clear and intelligible point of view. If the reprefentations of former writers do not poflefs the evidence of truth, if their facts are not perfpi- cuous, if their arguments are not connected, and their inferences are irra- tional, I hope we may then take the liberty of queftioning the validity of this high authority, and certainly it will not be neceffary to prove whether the fmall particles of animal fluids are either planes or fpheres; it is the prefent ftate of the public opinion, and not the evidence of nature, that we are now about to inveftigate. At the fame time let it be remembered, that I wilh to try every queftion by the immutable laws of truth ; in expectation that the refult may prove anilluftration of fome of the firft principles of nature. The grand difeovery of blood globules firft originated with Malpighi and Leuwenhoek, about 130 years ago; and feems to have been taken upon credit by all fucceeding writers, who from that time to the prefent day,t>i PHYSIOLOGY. &. day, all exprefs themfelves withfuch unlimited confidence, as if the phe- nomena ofblood globules were too evident to be confidered a matter of doubt, or remain a queflion of uncertainty. Mr. I. Hunter introduces this fubjeft by obferving that “the blood, whilft circulating in the veffels, appears to the eye to be a homogeneous mafs; but when it is palling in veffels fo fmall as almoft to feparate its vi- fible parts, and is viewed in a microfcope, there is no appearance but that of globules moving in the veffels*.” The white globules in all proba- bility here became invifible, as it certainly would be highly indecorous to fuppofe that they were left behind; for'if the red globules are the leaft im- portant part of the blood, the laws of fubordination would forbid that they fhould take the lead. But if fuch is the appearance of the blood in the microfcope, the method of afcertaining the faft fhould have been accurately defcribed, and the rea- ders inftru&ed how to repeat the experiments, that they might alfo have the evidence of their own fenfes. Such nice experiments require great accuracy, much more fo than the general pretenders to philofophy are poffeffed of. The whole at prefent depends upon affertion, and we are not even in- formed whether the parties ever attempted a critical examination of the fubjeft, by experimental inveftigation; whether the experiments were conducted with caution and ability, or whether the whole at laft was not a microfcopic delufion. * I. Hunter on gun-thot wounds, page ig, R WhatPHYSIOLOGY. 6 2 Whatever experiments Mr. I. Hunter may have made on this fubje6t, it is evident from his own confeflion, that he does not depend upon what be has feen in the microfcope, fo much as he Teems influenced by tire opi- nion of others. If he had ever examined the fubjeft experimentally, whe- ther the blood globules preferved their fpherical form on all oc< afions, or whether they ever became * elliptical by adapting themfeives to the fize of the veflels, as Tome have aflVrted ; he would not have exprefled himfelf in the language of doubt and uncertainty; he fhould have aflerted what he had Teen, and determined whether what had been faid before was right or wrong. He fays, “they are formed of an oval figure in Pome animals as authors have defcribedwhich evidently implies, that he was not provided with evidence either to confirm, or oppofe the aff rtion; but concludes by ob- ferving, that “this is probably an optical deceptionand this is the objeft that I have in view; for if Mr. I Hunter fufpe£hs an optical decep- tion in one inftance, we certainly have an equal right to fufpebt the whole. In the former page he fays, Malpighi miflook the globules of blood for globules of fat; from which we find that this invefligation began in error, and according to his own confeflion Leuwenhoek is not to be depended on; and if it is Mr. I Hunter’s opinion that thefe early obfervers pro- bably imagined more than they faw, it is evident that he was not faihfied With their experiments. * 1. Hunter on gun-fhot wounds, page 41. 4 1. Hunter on gun-fhot wounds, page, 4a. Mr.63 PHYSIOLOGY. Mr. Hewfon is the next author that we have to appeal to, he is faid “ to have been at great pains to examine the blood in the microfcope, and has given us figures of the different fhapes of thole globulesbut Mr. I. Hunter adds that “there is reafon to think he may have been deceived in the manner l have juft mentioned.” If Mr. I. Hunter is of opinion that Mr. Hewfon was deceived, who has given defcriptions of his experiments; I hope I (hall not be fufpefled of want of candour, if I exprefs my fufpicions of the opinion before us, where not a fingle expet iment is defcribed, or reprefentation given of the refult; and if 1 add in his own words, that “this is probably an optical deceptionf ^ at lead 1 fhall take the liberty of doubting the fa£l until I find it fupport= ed by proper evidence, Mr, Hewfon fuppoled that blood globules were formed in the fpleen, becaufe, fays he, they are found in its excretory dufts, but unfortunately the excretory dufts of the fpleen have never yet been difcovered; to re= snedy this imperfedlion the lymphatics of the fpleen were fuppofed to fup~ ply the deficiency; but the fecretions-of other glands are not found in their lymphatics, the liver is furnilhed with lymphatics, but has alfo its proper excretory dufts. For the purpofe of fupport'ing a new hypothefis the lymphatics are converted into blood veffels, and the lymph into red globules, and the fpleen reprefented as the original foutceofa nonentity, ® I. Hunter on gun fnot wounds, page 41, 4 I. Hunter on gun«fhot wounds, page 43, WhenPHYSIOLOGY. 64 When Harvey difcovered what is called the circulation of the blood, his explanations were fo clear and intelligible, as to free the fubjeft from all future doubt and uncertainty; and if the prefent fubjedl had been equally plain and felf evident, we fhould meet with equal uniformity of opinion. Mr. Hewfon obferves that the particles of the blood are not, as Father de la Torre fuppofed, annular or hollow rings, but that the blackifh fpot, which he imagined to be a perforation, is a folid body, the fides of which are filled with a fubtile fluid; but Mr. I. Hunter was of opinion that Mr. Hewfon, like the early obfervers, probably imagined more than he faw. A Mr. Falconer, who had been a pupil to Mr. Hewfon, repeated his experiments, and if I was to depend on the authority of a Angle evidence, without having examined any other book on this lubjedt, I fhould be rea- dy to acknowledge that the accuracy of his defcriptions would give ad- ditional teftimony to Mr. Hewfon’s opinions. But another and another ftill fucceeds, and Mr. Cavallo objects to thefe new opinions, and gives his teftimony in favour of the globular form of the red particles of the blood. Where then, in fuch a labyrinth, muft inquiry flop, and when muft this fyftem of confujion end? This great phiiofopher, like all his learned pre- deceflors, points out the abfurdity of fuch hypothetical conjeHures; and candidly acknowledges, “that the red particles of the blood have been at- tentively examined with the beft microfcopes, and the appearances, which have been partly obferved and partly fuppofed, have given origin to a variety% PHYSIOLOGY. variety or conjeftures and hypothecs, generally fanciful, and often ab- furd*.” On a point of fuch delicacy I fiiould wifh to be impartial, and that I may not offend any individual whofe opinion I have here prefumed to notice, I am ready to acknowledge that I think them all of equal me- rit, and that it is not in my power to determine whofe labours have moft contributed to the improvement of the fcience of medicine, or the deco- ration of the philofophic page, and even that the opinion of the laft is as much deferving of our admiration, as the moft illuftrious of any of his predeceffors. I believe few will queftion the abilities of Swammerdam. In the ufe of optical inftruments and minute diffedtion he difplayed a degree of in- genuity and dexterity perhaps unequalled; and the accuracy of his de- fcriptions muff convince the reader of the truth of his affertions; his book is not an affemblage of fpeculative opinions, but reprefentations of nature. At the time that the doftrine of blood globules firft made its appearance, Swammerdam was in the meridian of life, and purfuing the fludy of mi- crofcopic anatomy with uncommon induftry and fuccefs. He has given a plate of the blood of a Ioufe, as it appeared in a glafs tube in a powerful microfcope; in which are defcribed a great number of fmall globules, but notwithftanding this appearance, Swammerdam very judi- cioufiy obferves, that “it is a matter of doubt whether the blood in the vef- fels has any globules, for when drawn from them, it may eafily acquire that figured,” from which it is evident, that, though he .was contempo- rary with Leuwenhoek, he was not convinced of the truth of this opinion. * Cavallo’s effay, page 224. t Swammerdam’s hiftory of infefts, page 31, s There66 PHYSIOLOGY* There certainly is a great propriety in giving plates on fuch fubje&s, as it affords an opportunity of forming fome opinion of what has been fup- pofed to have been feen on thefe occafions, and without plates the deferip- tions would be unintelligible. Mr. Chefelden, whofe book was publifhed about forty years after Leu- Wenhoek’s fuppofed difcovery, has given two plates of microfcopic repre- fentations; but does not mention whether the plates were engraved ac- cording to his own directions, as deferiptions of experimental evidence, or whether they were copied from others. The manner of conducing the experiments fhould have been minutely deferibed, and the power of the microfcope, and the method of expofing the obje&s to view, fhould liave been explained. To thofe, who are not well acquainted with the ufe of optical inftru- tnents, it may be neceffary to mention, that the larger the magnifying power, the lefs will be the focal diftance; in confequence of which, fo large a body as the tail of a filh could not be examined with a glafs of great magnifying power. Microfcopes are generally furnifhed with little glafs tubes for this pur- pofe, and in deferiptions of the microfcope we frequently meet with re- prefentations of thefe glafs tubes with little fifh in them, in the manner they are prepared for thefe experiments; and fuch deferiptions make very pretty pi&ures, and may by fome be thought to look well on paper, but in pra&ice they only ferve to amufe the credulous, or to impede the pro- / grefs of inquiry. IfPHYSIOLOGY. If we feparately examine thefe two plates of microfcopic reprefentati- on, one of which is faid to refemble the circulation of the blood in the tail of a fifh, the other the animalcules in femine mafculino, and then com- pare the information feparately taken, we (hall find that thefe two conjec- tural reprefentations will give the ftrongefl evidence of the fallacy of thefe experiments. If we give credit to one, we mull admit the other, and if we doubt the truth of one, they muff both fall together. Thus, by com- paring the refult of two experiments, we may be enabled to form a better judgment of the accuracy of each, and to fatisfy ourfelves whether they are, or are not, reprefentations of nature. But I am perfe&ly fatisfied without repeating them, and though my tafle may be called in quefiion, yet I mufl; candidly acknowledge the want of relifh for this fpecies of philofophical inveftigation. But perhaps it might prove a more pleafing amufement to the younger ftudent, who may be in- duced to repeat thefe experiments, to examine the truth of thefe repre- fentations, and try the evidence through the medium of his own fenfes. THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. THE a&ion of the vafcular fyftem is fo immediately aflfe&ed by a phlo- giftic diathefis, that this has generally been confidered an important ob- jed in all inveftigations of the pathology of inflammation. The difco- very oi the circulation of the blood, and the explanation of its progrefs • through68 PHYSIOLOGY# through the thoracic vifcera, has without doubt eftablifhed a bafis for fome very important improvements in the fcience ofphyfic and furgery; but our knowledge of the animal fun&ions is ftill imperfeft. The mechanifm of the vital powers is only feen in part, nor has the nature of morbid ac- tion been yet explained. If we attentively examine the ftru&ure and mechanifm of the vafcular fyftem, we (hall find throughout the whole the moll perfect order and fimplicity; but if the arterial fyftem was, as Mr. I. Hunter fuppofes, part formed of cylindrical tubes, and part of cones, the motion of the blood would conftantly vary according to the diameter of the veffel; in a coni- cal artery the motion of the blood would be flow at its bafis, and increafe in rapidity as the veffel diminiftied in diameter. If anatomifts had ever paid the leaft attention to the principles of hy- draulics, they mufthave dete&ed the inconfiftency of fuch a fyftem, and have examined the fubjeft with more attention. I (hall not enter into a critical examination of all the obfervations re- fpefting the elafticity of different parts of the animal body, but (hall en- deavour to ftiew that the contra&ion of the arteries depends on mufcular a&ion, and not on elafticity. The manner, in which blood is difcharged from a wounded artery, ftiews that their aftion is conftant, but not regular; their powers of contra6lion always being in proportion to the degree of diftention. They never re- lax except when they are perfe£lly empty, on the extin&ion of life, or the fufpen*PHYSIOLOGY, ^9 The T fufpenflon of the vital powers, which circumflance proves, that the a£lion of the arteries is mufcular: for if their contraflion depended upon elaf- ticity, they would when empty continue in a contra£led date. Their diflention does not depend on a relaxation of their mufcles, but is affefted by the operation of a fuperior power; the heart and arteries ailing in oppofuion to each other, whilll the blood ferves as a refilling medium. Mr. I. Hunter attempts to explain the difference between muf- cular motion and elafticity, and endeavours to point out the different parts of an artery fubfervient to each; but the aflion of the arteries will be bed demonflrated by their natural operation and effe£ls, and the me- chanifm of the vafcular fyflem mod clearly illuflrated by the phenomena of life. Mr. I. Hunter has made choice of a different method, he has endea- voured a priori to explain the nature of mufcular motion, and to inves- tigate the flrufture and power of the arteries by diffeflion and experi- ment ; but the inferences are not applicable, as there is no other inflance of mufcular aflion fmilar to that of the arteries. It is not probable that any experiment, which can be made on an arte- ry after death, can in any refpefl explain the power of its aftion during life; on this occafion the arteries have been removed from their natural ftuation, and cut in pieces for the purpofe of afcertaining their powers by- trying what weight a flip of an artery would fupport, and what power would ’ear them afunder; it is only neceffary to mentionthefe experiments, they do not require an anfwer.PHYSIOLOGY. ?0! ' The The experiments made many years ago by *Dr. Hales, by fixing glafs tubes into the carotid arteries of living animals, are more fimple, and much better calculated to (hew the power of the heart and arteries; but, after all, if we could meafure the power of the heart and arteries, and the velocity of the circulating fluids with the greateft accuracy. Hill this is on- ly one fingle part of a very complicated piece of mechanifm, that will at mod be imperfeftly underftood; and except we could trace the progrefs of the blood to and through the circumference of the circulation, this par- tial operation of its central power would contribute very little to our knowledge of the animal oeconomy, either in a ftate of health or under the influence of difeafe. For my own part, I have no opinion of this mutilated evidence of dif- torted nature; but it is pofliblethat thefe arguments may appear of more importance to others than they do to me, and confequently merit our at- tention. As the fphin&er mufcles are circular, their mode of aftion is fuppofed to refemble the contractile power of an artery : but the fphinc- ter mufcles are fubjeCt to the dictates of volition, and in the defcription of this fpecies ofmufcular aCtion we meet with many inaccuracies. In one place, +contraCiion is faid to be the natural operation of the mufcular power; in another we are informed, that the aClion of the fphinc- ter mufcles is both J voluntary, and involuntary, and that relaxation is a- nother fpecies of mufcular aftion, and that this is involuntary. * Hales ftatical cffays, vol. 2, page 40. •f-1. Hunter on gun-lhot wounds, page 100. % I. Hunter on gun-fhot wounds, page, 104,PHYSIOLOGY* the 7* The voluntary and involuntary contra&ion is afterwards made to con- fift of voluntary mufcular a&ion and of elafticity; in one inftance fphinc- teric contra&ion is called contradlile elaflicity, but afterwards this is changed to a fuflaining power by mufcular contra&ion. Mr. I. Hunter then adds, ‘-'that the voluntary a&ion of thefe mufcles is greater than the involuntary*;” I fuppofe he means that a powerful exertion of the con- tra&ile powers by the di&ates of the will, is ftronger than a Iefs exertion of which perhaps we may not be confcious, Thefe different fpecies of mufcular aftion appear to me irreconcilable, and in what manner or degree they are applicable to the mechanifm of the vafcular fyflem, will become the next objeft of our inquiry. To fum up the whole of this defcription of voluntary and involuntary motions, we are then informed that the power of involuntary contrac- tion commonly remains longer than the voluntary; and now we come to the application of all this preparatory reafoning, if fo it may be called, to the afiion of the heart and arteries. He fays, “thus the mufcular ac- tion of the arteries is longer retained than that of the heard".” If we al- low any connection in this ftatement of the argument, it is at once affert- ing that the aftion of the arteries is involuntary, and the adion of the heart voluntary. I do not objeft to the fa61, that the arteries continue to a6i longer than * I. Hunter on gun-friot wounds, page 104. f I. Hunter on gun-fliot wounds, page 105,72 PHYSIOLOGY* the left ventricle of the heart from which they originate, but this will not be found to depend on any diverfity of involuntary or voluntary aftion ; the aftion of the heart and arteries are certainly both involuntary, and are both regulated by fimilar principles. In this inflance the aflion of the arteries is fuppofed to be mufcular, and no notice is taken of their elafti- city; at the fame time that every argument, which blind enthuliafm could devife, is brought forward to prove, that the contraction of the arteries depends on the co-operation* of elafticity, and mufcular a£lion. This union of powers is faidto produ re moll wonderful effefls; they not only contrafl the arteries, but alfo diflend thernt; but thefe aflions do not preferve a general uniformity; for in one place we are told that the arteries are diftended by the power of the heart, and contracted by elaf- ticity, aflifled by mufcular aCtion; but in the very next line J the contrac- ted Hate of the arteries is faid to arife from the aCtion of their mufcular power. We are alfo informed that the arteries are § elongated by their mufcular power. I have thought neceffary to notice Tome of the moll im- portant parts of thisembarralfedreprefentation, as the circumflances, which gave rife to thefe conjectures, will in fome degree contribute to illullrate this part of the fubjebl. * I. Hunter on gun-lhot wound?, page log. + “It may here be remarked, that the a&ion of veffels is commonly fuppofed to be con'rattion, ei- ther by their elaftic or mufcular coats; but I have (hewn that their e’aftic power alfo dilated then; and I have reafon to believe their mufcular power has a fimiiar effect.” I. Hunter on gun-fliot wounds, page 278. # / $ I. Hunter on gun-fhot wounds, page 117. § I, Hunter on gun-fhot wounds, page 123, TherePHYSIOLOGY. 73 There are fome circumftances that at firft view may feem to correfpond with the effects of elafticity; but, when the whole evidence is attentively examined, both in a flate of aflion, and in a hate of reft, by obferving the various operations of the vafcular fyftem during life, and the appearances after death, that elafticity will be found to be the effefts of mufcular pow- er. The manner in which aftream of blood is difcharged from a wounded artery evidently demonftrates, that the aftion of the arteries is increafed in proportion to their diftention. Thus when the arteries are in the extreme diaftole, the velocity of the blood is greateft; and the velocity continues to diminifh, during the fucceeding fyftole in proportion to the degree of contraft ion, until the fyftole is terminated by a frelh fupply of blood from the heart. But when the fupply from the heart is prevented either by a temporary fufpenfton, or final termination of the vital powers; when under fuch cir- cumftances the arteries have difcharged their whole contents, they then, become relaxed and their aftion ceafes. If then the contraftion of the arteries depended on elafticity, as their final contra&ion is fo complete as to difcharge all the blood into the veins, they would after death remain in the fame contra&ed ftate ; “for it is to be remembered, that elafticity in animals does not, like mufcular contrac- tion, depend on life; an elaftic body poffefling that quality as perfe&ly after death as before*.” * I, Hunter on gun-fhot wounds, page io6» V ItPHYSIOLOGY® 74 The It is the operation of this eladic power that is fuppofed to counteraft the mufcular contraction, and this is particularly mentioned as a caufe of their expanfion*; but if the arteries poflefled a power of expanflon in* dependent of the preflure of the blood, the velocity of a dream of blood from a wounded artery would diminifh during the operation of this ex- panfive eladicity; and if the impetus of the blood coming from the heart was inferior, or only equal, to this eladic power, the blood would ceafe to move in a found artery, or flow from a wounded one, during this part of their diaftole. And whatever was the proportion of thefe two oper- ations, the interrupted velocity of a dream of blood from a wounded ar- tery would give evidence of its effeft. So that I think it is evident that the arteries are neither expanded, nor contracted by eladicity, but that their contraftion is mufcular, which is counteracted by the power of the heart, the blood ferving as a connefting medium between the two; for as the blood never ceafes to flow from a wounded artery, fo the arteries never ceafe to aft fo long as they are fupplied with blood from the heart; but being deprived of all fupply, they by their final contraftion difcharge their contents, which are received into the veins, and their aftion ceafes. If then the arteries never ceafe to aft when the blood is prefent, and im- mediately become paflive when their contents are difcharged, it is evident that the caufe of aftion depends on the prefence of the blood; and as they are found empty and in a date of relaxation after death, their aftion du- ring life mud depend on mufcular power; for if the power of eladicity does not depend on life, the arteries would not become relaxed after death. * “The contrafted fUte of an artery srifes from the aft’on of the mufcular power, and is again re- {lored to the natural Hate by the elaftic.” 1. Hunter on gun-lhot wounds, page 117.75 PHYSIOLOGY* The vacuity of the arteries after death was particularly noticed by the firft: anatomifts, long before the courfe of the blood was difcovered, or the ufe of the arteries known. It was from this circumftance that the ar» teries firft took their name; it being at firft fuppofed, as they were found empty after death, that they only contained air during life, and were con- fequently confidered condu&ors of air.* This circumftance is mentioned both by Boerhave and Haller, for the purpofe of proving that the contraftile power of the arteries is fuperiorto that of the veins. And at the fame time that the vacuity of the arteries clearly determines that part of the argument, I {hall venture to give it as my humble opinion, which their relaxation proves with equal evidence, that the contradlion of the arteries depends on mufcular power. It has long appeared very lingular to me, that a fa6l of fuch importance fhould at the prefent day be fo little noticed: for independent of any fci- entific views, it is alfo frequently neceflary for the adminiftration of im- partial juftice, that the natural appearances after death fhould be generally * “The name Artery is derived, f o’.isb rS r olegx from its containing Air; for the firft Veffel thus denominated, was that we now call the trachea or Windpipe, the Ateries themfelves being in the early Times of Hippocrates termed beating, or internal Veins, in contradiction to the external Veins, which have no Motion. But after Hippocrates, the notion of Erafijlratus prevailing, till it was refu- ted by Galen, that the Canals we now call Arteries, received a Quantity of Air in their diaflole from the Heart, which they expelled in their Svftole; thefe Veffcls were from that Time named arterix. This Air they fuppofed the Arteries received from the left Ventricle of the Heart, which again took it from the Lungs; holding likewife, that the fame Ventricle received but a very little Blood which tranfuded into it through the mufcular Septum of the Heart. At that time they diftinguifhed two Kinds of Air-veffels or Arteries, arifing from the left fide of the Heart; the one which we call the Aorta, they by way of eminence named artcriq, aiteriofa; the other, which appeared to have the Struc« iure of a Vein, they termed arteria venofa.” Boerhaave’s ledures, vol. 2, page 3, knownPHYSIOLOGY, 7 6 The known. And I cannot omit this opportunity of obferving, that I feldom read an account of a diffe&ion without noticing fomefuch difgraceful in- ilances of ignorance or inattention. It is not neceffary to produce a long catalogue of evidence in fupport. of this alfertion, as a fingle example will be fufficient. When Dr. Rat- tray gave his evidence on Capt. Donellan’s trial, he fuppofed that the va- cuity of the arteries after death was the effeft of poifon*: but a profef- fional man fhould certainly be well acquainted with the fubjeft before he prefumes to give an opinion, or if he has no opinion to give, it becomes a virtue to confefs his ignorance; and this may always be done without the leaft impeachment either of his abilities as an anatomift, or undemand- ing as a man. For if after the mod careful and attentive anatomical examination he is not able to difcover any evidence to the contrary, it would certainly be right under fuch circumftances to give a general opinion, that the ap- pearances were perfe£lly natural and void of all anatomical evidence whatever. * The Trial of JOHN DONELLAN, Efq. Taken in fhort-hand by Jofeph Gurney, page 32. Anfwer by Dottor RATTRAY. “ I believe the effe&s of poifon is to empty the arteries in general and pufh the blood into the veins; that is my opinion at prefent, fo far as I have gone into the matter.” In the medical tranfaftions vol. 3, page 8, we meet with Doftor Heberden’s account of a diffe&ion of a man who died of an angina pe&oris in which he obferves “that the left ventricle of the Heart was remarkably ftrong and thick, and as perftftly empty of blood as if it had been wafhed.” It would be extremely illiberal to reflect on a phyftcian for not underftanding anatomy, but what tnuft appear much more fingular is, that, like Doctor Oquetos, they fhould not underhand gieek.77 PHYSIOLOGY. The Heart, which is the origin of the circulation, is a mufcular vifcus, whofe action is excited by the blood that is poured into the different ca- vities ; for we find that, the inflant the auricles are filled with blood, they both immediately contrad and difcharge their contents into the ventri- cles ; the auricles then become relaxed, and the ventricles contrad to pro- pel the blood into the arteries, the right into the pulmonary artery, and the left into the aorta. The ventricles, then, having loft their ftimulus, inftantly become relax- ed and paffive. The diaftole of the heart is not a flate of expanded di- latation, but only of paffive relaxation. This differs very much from the nature of the diafiole of the arteries during life; but after death the ffate of the left auricle and ventricle are perfedly fimilar to that of the whole arterial fyflem. i The right fide of the heart, which remains full of blood, preferves a ftate of tenfion after death, and the mufcles that compofe the left ventricle, having been in an adive ftate when life terminated, continue in a con- traded ftate afterwards. But the left ventricle, on the contrary, having by its laft contradion difcharged its contents, and thereby loft its ftimulus to adion, is always after death found relaxed and flaccid like the arteries j which clearly proves that their adion depends on fimilar principles. It is not improbable that a partial attention to this circumftance has induced Mr. I. Hunter to obferve that “we very often find the heart large and flabby*,” but I fufped the ffatement to be inaccurate, and am of o- * I. Hunter on gun-fhot wounds, page, 148, w pinion78 PHYSIOLOGY. the pinion, that if he had viewed the fubjeft in the light above defcribed, he would have found that the right fide of the heart would appear large, in confequence of being full of blood; and the left fide flabby, becaufe it was completely empty. Whoever will attentively examine Mr, I. Hunter’s obfervations on the aflion of the heart and arteries, will certainly find that he has incumbered the fubjeft with many difficulties; but has ultimately left the whole un- determined. I fhall not attempt to reply to every little obfervation that we meet with in this long difcuflion; but the defcription, that he has given of the mechanifm of the femilunar valves, will enable us to determine in what degree his anatomical opinions merit our attention. The femilunar valves are placed at the entrance of the aorta, for the purpofe of admitting the blo< d from the heart, and preventing its return. The funflion of thefe valves is certainly one of the moll plain and fimple operations in the whole animal machine; they do not poflefs any power of action in them- felves, but obey the preflure of the approaching and receding fluid, and operate only on mechanic principles; and yet this Ample piece of me* chanifm has long bewildered anatomifts of the firft-rate abilities. Dr. Mihles* fuppofed that thefe valves regulated the power of the heart * “ For, as the arterial valves at the heart, will admit of various apertures, the heart a£ts upon that hydraulic principle, whereby any force or prejfure, ever Jo weak, by urging a. fl .id throw,h an aperture, proportionably fmail,Jhall overcome any refijtance} or raifc any weight} ever Jo great. So that whenever7 9 PHYSIOLOGY, heart and arteries, on the principle of the hydroflatic paradox; but it is evident that he neither underflood the hydroflatic paradox, nor the me- chanifm of the femilunar valves; and thefe valves have no aclive powers inherent in themfelves, but move obedient to the momentum of the blood. Mr. I. Hunter has added a new hypothefis on this fubjefl, and has at- tempted to explain the aflion of the femilunar valves; and to guard a- gainfl any miflake on the part of the reader, he has given diagrams by way of illuflration; but notwithflanding all this caution, he has defcribed the valves in an open flate during the fyflole of the aorta, and clofed during their diaflole. It is rather fingular, that an anatomift of fuch abilities fhould deliber- ately commit fuch an irreconcilable miflake; it is not a mere verbal in- accuracy, but a regular fyflem of argument founded in error; and what renders the whole more inexcufable is, that the diagrams, which were in- tended as illuflrations, mufl to any unprejudiced mind have pointed out the inconfiflency. He fuppofes that the three femilunar valves at the en- trance of the aorta are, at the inflant of its extreme diaflole, brought into right lines; forming a triangle, whofe outer angles correfpond with the circular dimenfions of the artery. It is not neceffary to copy the figures, as a verbal defcription will be fufficient for our prefent purpofe; and tliofe who think neceffary may refer to the original flatement. the arterial refiftance is increafed, or the mufcular force of the heart abated, the valves of the heart are opened by a proportionably fmaller column of blood ; which, in a natural eafy fyftole, is feldommcre than half the contents of either ventricle; as in a natural eafy expiration, the lungs feldom expel more than half their contained air. Haller’s phyfiology by Do&or Mihles, vol, 1, page 97, He8o PHYSIOLOGY, He fays, “figure the firft fhews the artery in its fyftole, with the three valves, nearly clofe to its hides. The two black dots are defigned to re- prefent the mouths of the coronary arteries now covered by the valves*.” This defcription is too clear to admit of ambiguity, the aorta is in its fyftole, and the valves wide open. Let us here recoiled what is the rela- tive flate of the left ventricle of the heart, and the arterial fyftem. The very inftant that the fyftole of the left ventricle ceafes, the fyftole of the arteries takes place; and if the valves of the aorta did not clofe the inllant that the fyftole of the arteries commences, the blood would be returned from the artery into the left ventricle; fo that it is impoftible that the valves fhould continue in the ftate here defcribed, during the fyftole of the artery; and if it is remembered that a complete pulfation is performed in Iefs than a fecond of time, we fhall be convinced that the doling of the valves is a'very expeditious operation: forfhort as the interval of time may be from the termination of the fyftole of the left ventricle to the commencement of the fyftole of the arteries, in that fhort interval the valves muft either clofe, or part of the contents of the aorta be returned into the heart. And the diftrefs, which is occafioned by the imperfed adion of the valves in confequence of oflification, and which was fo particularly ex- perienced by Mr. I. Hunter in his own perfon, gives us reafon to conclude, that the operation of thefe valves is in general performed with perfed ac- curacy and effed. ? I. Hunter on gun-fhot wounds, page 161, Mr*81 PHYSIOLOGY. The X Mr. Chefelden fays, <£Xn a woman that died of a dropfy, X found the valves of the aorta quite covered with chalk-flones, which not buffering the valves to do their office, the left ventricle of the heart was conffantly overcharged with blood, and diffended to above twice its natural bignefs*.531 It is very difficult to form an accurate judgment of the perfe6iion of the mechanifm of t.hefe organs by an anatomical examination of their flruc- ture after death; but we may conclude that the different parts perform their fundiions completely, if we meet with no evidence to the contrary. Mr. I. Hunter obferves that “the valves of the pulmonary artery do not do their duty fo completely as thofe of the aorta ; for in them we do not find the corpora-fefamoideafBut infleadof fuppofing that the valves of the pulmonary artery do not do their duty, becaufe the corpo- ra-fefamoidea are wanting, I fhould rather conclude that, in this inffance, this particular ftrudiure of the valves is not neceffary; at the fame time, I fee no reafon for queffioning the perfedlion of the mechanifm, or the cer- tainty of its effedt; and the variety only proves, that they are neceffary in one inffance, but not in the other. ✓ We now proceed to “figure the fecond, which fhews the artery in its diaffole, where the three valves run nearly into ffraight lines, making an equilateral triangle of the area of the aorta. But as their edges are round- ed, and the bodies of the valves make a curve inwards, they by thefe mean& fill up in part this triangular fpace, and the corpora-fefamoidea fill up the other part. In this way the wholeof the area of the artery is filled upj.” * Chefelden’s anatomy, fifth edition, page 182. + I. Hunter on gun-fhot wounds, page 162. JI. Hunter on gun-fhot wounds, page 161.PHYSIOLOGY, 82 The diaftole of the aorta takes place in confequence of a frefh fupply of blood being fent from the left ventricle of the heart; and as this quan- tity of blood mu ft pafs the femilunar valves, thefe valves muft of necefti- ty be open during the diaftole of the arteries, and confequently it is im- poflible that the fituation of the valves (hould correfpond with this de- fcription during the diaftole of the aorta. When the artery is in its diaftole, the valves recede from each other; but if the expanfion of the aorta was fuch as to extend the valves till they were brought into right lines, then the margin of the valves could not make a curve inward as is here ftated; and if, at the utmoft expanfion of the aorta, the valves were fufficiently lax to make a curve, inftead of approaching the centre of the artery as is here fuppofed, the curve would be dire&ed towards the fides of the artery by the impetus of the blood; and if they were brought into right lines by the expanfion of the artery, they could not clofe immediate*, ly on the commencement of the contra&ion. It is therefore evident that they never are brought fo much on theftretch as to prevent their complete approach to each other, even when the artery is in its full diaftole; but that they open with the approaching current, and clofe to prevent its return; and inftead of being formed into lines and triangles, will lie at liberty, loofe and relaxed, floating in the ftream. The fubjeft is plain in a ftate of nature, and eafy to be underftood; it is the explanation that is fo particularly myfterious; and as for the ftate- ment before us, it difplays the affeffation of philofophy, and is a complete burlefque on mathematical demonftration. Mr, I, Hunter feems tohavebeen apprehenfive of an obje&iontohis own hypo-PHYSIOLOGY* 83 hypothecs, which to me appears unanfwerable; that is, that if thea&ionof thefe valves depended upon their being brought into right lines, it would be neceffary that the aorta fhould always poffefs the fame degree of plen- itude, and that its dillention (hould always be the fame. But after great lolfes of blood, when the arteries were lefs diftended, thefe valves would not be brought into right lines; and as we have no reafon to fufpeCt the perfection of their operation, either in a full or exhaufled ftate of the fyftem, it is evident that the clofing of the valves does not depend on their extenfion by the diafloleof the artery. Asa protection againft this objection, Mr. I. Hunter obferves that “the quantity of blood that is juft fufficient to keep the animal alive, is fuffici- ent to diftend the artery fo as to fhut the valves but if the valves are to be brought into right lines, it will be neceffary that the expanfion of the artery fhould always be the fame, or that the valves fhould be elaftic, and admit of different degrees of diftention. We find after fainting fits, when the aClion of the heart and arteries has been for fome time fufpended, and the blood all accumulated in the veins, that the firft perceptible pulfations, let them be ever fo weak, are not im- perfect, and in cafes were this fainting takes place from confiderable lofs of blood, the evidence is particularly applicable to the point in queftion. Inftances of this kind we frequently meet with in cafes of uterine haemorr- hage, when the lofs of blood is very confiderable; yet if the pulfe is ex- amined under fuch circumftances, let it be ever fo feeble, we do not meet with any evidence to induce us to fufpeCt that the operation of the femi- * I, Hunter on gun-fhot wounds, page 162, lunarPHYSIOLOGY. 8 4 The lunar valves is imperfe&Iy performed. And if I may prefume to give my opinion in oppofition to Mr. I. Hunter, I fhould think that the lefs the aorta was diftended, the more the valves would be difpofed to approach each other. But it may here be proper to obferve, that it is of no importance to the queftion before us in what refpe&s my opinion may differ from that of Mr. I. Hunter; the queftion is, whether or no he has explained the ani- mal funftions with fufficient accuracy to eftablifli a theory of difeafes on firft principles? Iam ready to acknowledge that a much more limited difcuflion would have been fufficient for this purpofe; but the circulation of the blood is an important part of the animal ceconomy, and certainly the obfervations of one of the firft anatomifts of the age, on a fubjeftfo particularly inter- efting and foimperfedfly underftood, muft be thought worthy of attention. We have now conduced the blood through the femilunar valves into the aorta, through whofe branches it is diftributed to all parts of the bo- dy. It is then taken up by the veins, and conduced by the afcending and defcending cava to the right fide of the heart. This progrefs of the blood has been long known, but the manner in which it moves through the arteries and the veins, and the principles that regulate its motion, feem yet to be but imperfectly underftood. The fyftole of the heart and arteries gives motion to the blood, but the diftribution and velocity depend on the magnitude and form of the dif- ferent parts of the arterial fyftem.85 PHYSIOLOGY, The firft opinion that was formed on this fubjeH was that the arterial tubes were of a conical figure, diminifhing in diameter as they proceeded from their origination; in fome few inftances Haller fufpefted that they were cylindrical; but fince that time I was of opinion that modern anat- omy had decided the queftion; and determined that all the arterial tubes preferved the fame diameter, except where they gave off additional ramifi- cations. But on this fubjeft I believe we have no written evidence to ap- peal to, and confequently we are under the receffity of admitting Mr, I. Hunter’s opinion as a modern flandard. If on this occafion we meet with fatisfaffory evidence to. prove that the arterial fyftem is compofed either of cones or cylinders or of a mifcella- neous alfemblage of both, it will be in vain to oppofe fpeculative argu- ment againft plain matter of fa£l; but if, on the contrary, the experiments and obfervations fhould appear imperfeH, I fhall then confider the fub- je6I open to additional difcuffion, and claim the privilege of defending my own opinion. Mr. I. Hunter fuppofes that “the arterial tubes are fome conical and fome cylindrical*,” but does not point out whether the large arteries are cones, and the fmall ones cylinders; or whether the fmall ones are cylin- ders and the larger cones. He inje&ed the carotid artery of a camel, and weighed two equal por- tions from each end of the artery after it was filled with inje&ion, and * I. Hunter on gun-fhot wounds, page 169, Y foundPHYSIOLOGY* 8-6 found that the feflion of the upper end was one grain and a half heavier than that of the lower, from which we muft infer that the upper end is largeft. If we examine the defcriptions and engraved reprefentations of former anatomifts, who fuppofedthat the arterial tubes were all conical, wefhall find that in this inftance the conical form of the artery is placed in a con- trary direction. J As a proof of the accuracy with which thefe experiments were conduct- ed, we are told that the artery was well warmed and placed in a horizon- tal pofition ; but we are not informed whether it was taken out of the neck of the camel, or whether they were both warmed together, neither are we informed whether the application of heat was moift or dry, and all thefe in my opinion are circumftances of confiderable importance; moift heat would relax thefe dead animal fubftances, but dry heat would contraCt them, and dry heat could not be impartially applied. If the queftion had refled alone on this fimple evidence, it would have been neceffary that all thefe particulars fhould have been accurately no- ticed; but as the experiment is repeated, the fallacy of this opinion will be more eafily deteCted. c( The carotid artery of another camel, meafur- ing three feet and a half in length, was found to fend off forty-four fmall branches, about the fize of the human intercoflal arteries; with one as large as the ulnar. Of this artery, a tranfverfe fe&ion of one inch in length, being taken from each end and weighed; that from the lower end was found to weigh two fcruples, fixteen grains and a half; while that fromPHYSIOLOGY. 8/ In from the upper end weighed only two fcruples, fourteen grains and a half*** : Thus we find that the refult of this experiment is quite the reverfe of the former; in one the feftion of the upper end was one grain and a half heavier than that of the lower, in the fecond experiment the upper end was two grains lighter than the other. A third experiment was made, and we are told, that “the difference in weight between the upper and lower feftions was five grains,” but we are not informed which of the two had the advantage. “ Similar fe&ions from carotid arteries of a fwan being weighed, the lower feftion was found to be three grains and a half heavi- er than the upper; the lower fe&ion weighing thirteen grains and a half.” In this inftance the upper end was the fmaller, but we are not informed whether the carotid artery of a fwan gives off branches, and the number and fize fhould have been brought into the account. He then concludes with the following curious imagination; he fays, “ I imagine if the caro- tid artery in the camel did not fend off any branch in its courfe, it would increafe in fize nearly in the fame proportion with the umbilical artery, or the fpermatic in the bull. It is to be obferved, that as arteries divide they increafe in fize, much fafter than if they did noth.” Such is the hate of fa&s prefented to the public on this occafion, from which it muff appear that the form of the arteries has not yet been deter- mined, or at leaft that the queftion cannot be decided on Mr. I. Hunter’s evidence, * I. Hunter on gun-fhot wounds,page 170, + I. Hunter on gun-fhot wounds, page 171,ss PHYSIOLOGY, In all defcriptions of the circulation that I have met with, the principal obje£I has been, to trace the courfe of the blood from the right fide of the heart to the left; and this has been fo frequently explained, that it would be an infult on thofe readers, who are already acquainted with the prefent hate of the fubjeft, to trouble them with a repetition. It is by the a£Hon of the arterial and venous fyftem, that the blood is conveyed from the left fide of the heart to the right, and this part of the fubje6l I prefume hill re- mains enveloped in obfcurity. If we view the arterial fyftem after death, we may confider the whole as a fet of tubes connected with each other, for the purpofe of conveying the blood from the heart to all the different parts of the body. But when we attentively examine the veflels in an a&iveftate during life, we (hall find that the arteries do not merely ferve as paflive condudtors of the blood, but that the regularity of the diftribu- tion depends on the mechanifm of the arterial fyftem. I do not here prefume to reafon againft plain matters of fa£I, or endea- vour to fupport an hypothefis againft the evidence of nature ; Mr. I. Hun- ter has already proved, that the fafts are not plain and felf-evident: I {hall therefore beg leave to give it as my opinion, that the arteries are cylindrical, and endeavour to prove the neceflity of theirbeing fo, becaufe fuch a fyftem of veflels will beft anfwer the purpofe of diftributing the blood, and poflefles the greateft uniformity and perfe&ion. For if the arterial tubes were all cones, the fmall ramifications branch- ing from the fides of larger cones, the whole would form an irregular af- , femblage, which it would be impoflible to reconcile with the fimplicity of nature. It is the bufinefs of the arteries to convey the blood to all parts of89 PHYSIOLOGY. of the body, and to regulate the diftribution according to the refpeftive purpofes; and it is alfo reafonable tofuppofe, that the mechanifm of the arterial fyftem muft be fuch, as to give the lead poffible refiftance to the firft moving power, and preferve an uniformity of motion of the circulate ing fluids. And if fuch is the fimplicity of nature, it is neceflary that the arteries fhould be cylindrical; for in all parts of a cylindrical veflel the blood would move with the fame velocity; and as fluids prefs equally in all di- re&ions, the fame impulfe, with which the blood is impelled into any branch of the arterial fyftem, will operate equally throughout the whole extent. And if we divide the arterial fyftem into parts, andclafs the ramificati- ons according to their refpeftive diameters, as the fum of the diameters of the branches exceeds that of the trunk from which they originate, the velocity of the blood will confequently diminifh in proportion as the num- ber of ramifications is increafed. This circumftance, which is univerfally admitted *by all writers on the anatomy of the blood veflels, furnilhes us with a fatisfaffory anfwer to the fuppofition, + that mortification fometimes takes place in the extremities*. * “ From what has been faid it muft appear that the arteries forma cone whofe apex is at the heart.5' I, Hunter on gun-fhot wounds, page 171., t “ Sometimes the fluids of the body are fo vitiated as to lofe their proper nutritious qualities, and the limb becomes gangrened, not from an Alteration ofits Veflels, but chiefly from its fltuation, which being at a great diftance from the Heart, will be more prone to feel the ill effe&s of a bad blood, than- any other part, as the circulation is more languid in the extremities.55 Sharp’s furgery, third edition, page 213*. in ZPHYSIOLOGY. 9° in confequence of the languid ftate of the circulation, depending on the diflance of lituation from the heart. Whereas, on the contrary, I think it is evident that the diameters of the arterial tubes are fo proportioned that the momentum of the blood is the fame in all parts of the body, at the ex- tremity of the arterial fyflem; for we find every part equally fupplied with blood, and nutrition and other vital funflions as perfe£lly performed in the extremities, as in parts that are nearer to the heart. The glandular fyflem having been fupplied, and the bufinefs of nutri- tion accomplifhed; we find a part of the animal fluids is then difcharged as excrementitious by the excretory du£ls of the fkin and other organs of excretion, and the remainder is taken up by the veins to be conveyed back to the right fide of the heart. If we attentively examine the mechanifm of the venous fyflem, we fhall find much inflruflive evidence, and important information. In the ar- terial fyflem the progrefs of the bloOd commences at the centre and paf- fes to the circumference; but in the veins the blood is collefled by innu- merable branches at the circumference, and conduced to the centre. If the motion of the blood in the arteries and veins alike depended on the fame caufe, the effefls would be the fame: in the arteries the fupply is at intervals, and the motion of the blood through the whole arterial fyf- tem correfponds with the motion of the heart; but in the veins the mo- tion of the blood preferves an uninterrupted regularity. In cafes of fyncope, when the a&ion of the heart is for a time fufpended, andPHYSIOLOGY* 91 and the arteries deprived of their fupply, the arteries become completely empty, and the blood is all accumulated in the veins. This circumflance is evidently proved by * the palenefs of the face which takes place in con- fequence of the vacuity of the cutaneous arteries; and in opthalmia, when the arteries of the tunica conjun6liva are morbidly diftended, and render- ed vifible by inflammation, if the patient is bled until fainting takes place, the florid appearance of the veflels finks away, and the tunica conjunfliva will appear as white as if the inflammation had never taken place. But this effe6t of bleeding is only of (hort duration, as the florid appearance will return as foon as the circulation is reftored. 4 I do not introduce this inftance as an illuflration of the effefts of ge- neral bleeding in cafes of opthalmia, though I am well convinced that it is the moil efficacious; and that topical bleeding in fuch cafes is an infig- nificant remedy. But it is to the evidence of nature that I wifli to appeal; and without examples, the moft ingenious arguments will be confidered only as matter of opinion. Mr. I. Hunter obferves, “that the whole powers or materials of life, are called into the vital parts or citadel, and the out-works are left to them- felves; and adds, that fuch is the cafe with fainting Sic. &c.” If the veins are fuppofed to form the citadel, and the arteries the out-works, the me- taphor may then prove admiflible; but the idea is erroneous, and the re- prefentation not confident with the mechanifmof the vafcular fyftem. The power, with which the blood moves forward through the veins, is * I. Hunter on gun-fhot wounds, page 317,PHYSIOLOGY# 9* in fome degree illuflrated by the velocity of the difcharge’in venefe&ion $ and we find by the fame evidence that the power of the contra&ion of the veins increafes in proportion to their diflention; but the power with which the veins contract is inferior to that of the arteries. The vacuity of the arteries after death has been noticed by fome of the firfl writers on this fubjeft and urged in proof of this opinion; but I think that the pale- nefs of the face, and the difappearance of inflammation in the eyes during a fainting fit, may be confidered as much more fatisfaftory, as in thefe inftances we have an opportunity of obferving thefe phenomena without the lofs of life. Refpefling the caufe of the motion of the blood in the veins, we meet with a difference of opinion ; Mr. I. Hunter fuppofes that it depends on the power of the heart. He fays, <e the firfl caufe of the blood’s motion in a vein of a quadruped, is the force of the heart; for I think we mull fuppofe that the heart can, and does carry on fimple circulation But Mr. I. Hunter feems apprehenfive of the objection before flated; that if the motion of the blood in the arteries and veins depended on the fame caufe, we fhould meet with a fimilarity of effeH; for he cautioufly guards againfl the difficulty, by admitting the conclufion. He fays, " I think it is probable, that where there is an univerfal a6lion of the vafcular fyflem, the a6lion of the arteries and veins is alternate, that when the arteries con-. tra£l, as in many fevers, the veins rather dilate, more efpecially the lar- gerf,” <* I. Hunter on gun-fhot wounds, page 185. I. Hunter on gun-lhot wounds, page 187. Why93 PHYSIOLOGY. Why a (late of difeafe (hould have been made choice of as the moft pro- per period for fuch obfervations, I am at a lofs to conje&ure, as the a&i- on of the vafcular fyftem is in all probability as univerfal in a ftate of health, as when under the influence of difeafe. But if the facfs are as here Rated, we mufl admit the inference; for reafon and argument both lofe their power, the queftion depending alone on the evidence of fafts; and if the veins do not dilate and contratt and pulfate like the arteries* we mufl then admit that the motion of the blood in the veins does not depend on the action oi the heart. Doctor Whytt examined this fubjeft with confiderable attention about fifty years ago, and he then endeavoured to prove %that the power of the heart does not reach the ext remities of the arterial fy ftem; to make up for this defe6t of power a new hypothefis was then brought forward, and the fmall arteries were fuppofed to be actuated by principles inherent in them- felves. Which of thefe two high authorities mufl we then fubfcribe to? it is certain that they cannot both be in the right; but I dare not prefume to give an opinion with equal confidence that they may not both be wrong, as it is much eafier to invent an hypothefis than to inveftigate the me- chanifm of nature. Do&or Whytt has attempted to illuftrate his opinion by a difplay of mathematical demonftration; but fihe feems fo wel1 con- vinced of the mifapplication, that it is not neceflary I fhould now intro- duce any argument to prove the inconfiflency. But notwithftanding all that Do£tor Whytt has faid to the contrary, X * Whytt’s works, page 225. f Whytt’s works, page 218, A a amPHYSIOLOGY. 94 am ftill of opinion that the power of the heart does extend to the utmofi; limits of the whole arterial fyftem. How the arteries terminate, or how the veins begin, are queftions of ve- ry difficult inveftigation; it is a point beyond the reach of inje6lions, and compofed of parts too fine for the differing knife to divide. And when we confider that every part of the body is fupplied with blood veffels whofe number, if not infinite, is fo great as to exceed the multiplication of ideas; we ffiall then ceafe to wonder that the microfcope ffiould repre- fent this fubje6l as a fyftem of confufion. It is to analogy alone that we muft appeal, and form our judgment by comparing the fmall and great together. I ffiall not here revive the warm controverfy that took place between the Hunters and Monroes refpefting the abforbent fyftem; but if the motion of the blood in the veins does not depend on the power of the heart, it certainly muft depend upon fome other caufe; and I know of no animal fun6tion but abforption which is adapted to this purpofe. That the veins are more numerous than the arteries, is a fa6i that ap- pears felf-evident; and in favour of which, we have the concurring tef- timony of the author before us. *If then the veins are more numerous than * <c There is a greater number of trunks of veins in the body, than of arteries, at leaft vifible veins: for wherever there is an artery, in common there is a vein ; and in many places two, one on each fide, which fometimes makes a kind of plexus round it; befides, there are many veins where there are no correfponding arteries, as on the furface of the body; for in the extremities many of the larger veins pafs fuperficially ; but thofe become fewer and fewer towards the trunk of the body. They are nu- merous95 PHYSIOLOGY# than the arteries, it is impoflible that all the veins fhould be accompanied with correfponding arteries; and for the fame reafon, the arteries and veins cannot all unite by immediate anaftomofes. Mr. I. Hunter copies an obfervation from Dr. Hales, in which we are told, that the Dottor had feen a number of arteries throw their blood into one vein. In my opinion this is a fubjeft that is invifible, and beyond the reach of microfcopic inveftigation; but if true, it would prove that the blood efcapes from the arteries before it is received into the veins; and confequently whether the arteries are more numerous than the veins, or the veins more numerous than the arteries, the blood mud be taken up by the veins by abforption. By the power of abfprption the blood is not only firft taken up by the veins, but it is alfo by the fame power that the motion of the blood is continued through the whole venous fyftem. In the arterial fyftem, the blood moves from the centre to the circumfe- rence; in this inftance, it moves from the circumference to the centre. But when we have accompanied the progrefs of the blood into the venous fyftem, it then ceafes to be an objeft of attention by what power the olood was brought to this fituation; whether it was by the power of the heart continued beyond the extremities of the arterial fyftem, or whether it de- pended on a power of abforption that took place at the commencement of the veins. For the blood, once having entered the venous fyftem, it merous alfo in the neck of the human fubjeft ; but in fome of the vifccra, as the inteftines, the veins and arteries correfpond in number very exaftly.” I. Hunter on gun-fhot wounds, page 183. then96 PHYSIOLOGY. then mud proceed on hydraulic principles, as there is no additional power, between the origin of the veins and their termination in the right auricle of the heart, that can in the lead contribute to a general increafe of the momentum of the blood through the venous fydem. The lateral preffure of the circumjacent parts will produce a partial ef- fect, but this is only temporary; and the lofs of the motion afterwards will be in proportion to the temporary increafe, as the blood cannot move for- ward with a velocity fuperior to the ratio with which it is received. It is impodible that more blood fhould be conveyed to the heart by the two cava than is received by the extremities of the branches. Weknow that, in confequence of mufcular exertion, the heart and lungs become incumbered with the accelerated motion of the venous blood; but this is only temporary, and the heart afterwards experiences a want of the cudomary fupply. This irregularity may take place in a degree fufficient to produce a fufpenfion of the motion of the heart, which may arife from two caufes; in the fird indance, from the accumulated blood, in thefecond, for want of neceffary fupply. For if the veins are in one indance emptied by the aftion of the circumjacent mufcles, they will be- come relaxed when that preffure is removed, and mud have time to fill before the regularity of the motion of the blood can be redored. By way of illudrating the effe&s of this lateral preffure, let us fuppofe that a deep feated vein in one of the extremities is fo compreffed as to propel the contents beyond the next pair of valves; as foon as this tern- porary preffure is removed, this vein will become relaxed, and ceafe to tranfmit97 PHYSIOLOGY. tranfmit the blood forwards, until the diftention and progreflive power of its contents are fuperior to the refinance of the anterior column, whofe preffure (huts the valves. And thus the valves do not promote the pro- grefs of the blood, they only ferve as partial interpofitions to prevent its return. It has been before obferved, that the arterial fyftem preferves an equi- librium throughout the whole; but in the venous fyftem the equilibrium of a£Hon is not fo perfeft; partial preffure from a variety of accidental caufes may impede the progrefs of the contents of the veins; but when the mufcles are at reft, whether the body is in an ereft or horizontal po- lition, the blood willmove from every partof the circumferenceto thecen- tre with equal velocity and power, the valves of the veins will float at eafe, and neither increafe nor diminifh the pafting ftrearn. It is the bufinefs of the valves to prevent irregularities taking place, and not to promote or dire6t the progrefs of the blood; they only ferve as fentinels to preferve order and not as aftive agents. The aftive part of the venous fyftem is limited to the extremities of their branches ; and the venous tubes ferve only as paflive condu&ors to convey the blood from the circumference to the heart. But it has already been fliewn, by a multiplicity of evidence, that the contraftion of the veins is much inferior to that of the arteries; fo much fo that under a variety of circumftancesthe venous fyftem becomes fo much expanded, as to receive the whole mafs of blood ; fo that the two cava ferve as refervoirs to fupply the heart. B b As98 PHYSIOLOGY. As the power with which the veins contrafl; is in proportion to their diftention, this will increafe in proportion to the plethoric ftate of thefyf. tem; at the fame time it is alfo probable that the aflion of the veins, as well as the arteries, increafes under the influence of difeafe. From which it will be evident that the immediate effefts of taking a quantity of blood from a vein in the arm, on the mechanifm of the circulation, will be to di- minflh the plethoric ftate of the venae cavae, and confequently diminifh the fupply to the right fide of the heart. I have now attempted to trace the progrefs of the blood through the arterial and venous fyftems; and have endeavoured to point out fome few operations of thofe veflels, that have previoufly pafled unnoticed. But I am notfo prefumptuous as to fuppofe, that thefubjefi is yet exhaufted; or that it is in my power to give a perfect explanation of the mechanifm of the circulation. It is a fubjeft that beggars all defcription, and will at laft be but imperfe£lly underftood; we may trace the outlines, but the minutiae are not within our reach. When the utmoft anatomical ingenuity and addrefs have been employ- ed to inveftigate the form and ftru&ureofthe parts; when the various operations of the fanguiferous fyftem have been attentively obferved in a ftate of health, and under the influence of difeafe examined with accu- rate attention; when the various authors who have written on this fubjeft have been confulted, and their opinions compared with the evidence of nature; when every part has firft been feparately examined, and afterward aflembled in one clear point of general perfpetlive, fo that the whole may be comprehended in one view: then, but not till then, the enlightened phyfiolo-PHYSIOLOGY* 99 phyfiologifl will be enabled to form a plaufible conjeflure on this fubjefl. I (hall therefore conclude, that iffuch are the difficulties with which we are furrounded, it will be in vain to attempt to eltablilh a theory of difeafe on firft principles. SECTIONSECTION V. THE MODERN TREATMENT OF MORTIFICATION IN CASES OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. HPHE merits of the preceding theory of inflammation have been fo ful- ly difcuffed, that it will not be neceffary in the prefent inflance to ex- amine the firfl effefts of external injury. I fliall therefore proceed to the fecond period of difeafe, which includes the moll dangerous and impor- tant confequences, and for which no rational method of treatment has yet been eflablifhed. The divifion of mortification into two fpecies will not only enable us to form more accurate ideas on the nature of this difeafe, but will alfo, in a general view, add fome very inflru6iive information on the fubje£f before us. This diflin6lion is mentioned by Mr. I. Hunter in his treatife on gun- . fhot wounds, but is not pointed out as an objeH of much importance, nor is the leaf: intimation given refpefting the origin of the difcovery; but this part of the fubjeft is paffed over, either as unworthy of our confider- ■ ation, or as a fa6l already admitted, and generally underflood, ✓ * j No fooner had Mr. Pott pointed out the natural divifion of mortifica- C c lion102 MORTIFICATION IN If tion into two fpecies, but the writers on modern furgery exerted their ut- moft induftry to reftore the whole to its original obfcurity. Doctor Underwood has made four fpecies of mortification*, but his divifion will neither improve our knowledge of the difeafe, nor aftift in di- rearing the method of cure. The laid caufe that he mentions is dyfcracy, but if he intended to reprefent this as a fpecific caufe of a diftinft: fpecies of difeafe, it would not have been neceffary to have added, that the different kinds might all depend upon external injury. I do not pretend to deny that a certain degree of external injury, would not be more likely to ter- minate in mortification when connefled with a bad conftitution, than with agoodone; but that difeafe which is the effe&of external injury fhould have beein confidered independent of any other circumftances; and when theftate of the conftitution becomes the caufe, as is fo particularly exem- plified in the mortification of the toes and feet, if we admit this new the- ory, we fhall find that the rational diftin&ions of Mr. Pott muft fink into obfcurity. The defcription that Mr. Pott has given is an accurate reprefentation of nature, but the hypothefis before us is compofed of a pompous affem- blage of words without any rational fignification. Thefe obfervations are faid to have been written for the improvement of the younger ftudent, but in my opinion the maturity of experience will not be able to aflimi- late this theory with the evidence of nature. * <{ Gangrenes may bediflinguifhed into four kinds; fuch as arifefrom irritation, attended w ith more Or lefs inflammation ; from an inflammatory diathefisof the fyftem; from general debility ; and from dyfcracy, to each of thefe fpecies external injuries may give rife, or become the remote caufe.” Dr. fjjaderwood’s furgical tra£ls, page 277.GUN-SHOT .WOUNDS* 103 If Doflor Underwood intended to allude to the mortification of the toes and feet, when he mentioned dyfcracy as a caufe, he fhould have expref- fed himfelf in intelligible language; or if his objefl was to point out any new fpecies of difeafe, he fhould have illuflrated his theory by examples. In cafes of mortification where the bark did not fucceed, the vitriol, cse- nd. and fpirituous cinnamon water are recommended, but with what views or at what periods of the difeafe this compofition may be given with the greatefl probability of fuccefs, are circumftances that remain undetermi- ned. He mentions an inflance* where the bark failed, and this compofi- tion was afterwards given with fuccefs; and that the falutary powers of the vitriol may appear unqueflionable, we are informed that the difeafe repeatedly re-appeared in returning to the bark, and was as often flopped by returning to the vitriol. This is a fpecies of argument frequently made ufe of by the advocates for new medicines ; but why either a phyfician or furgeon fhould return to an inefficacious medicine, when he has met with one whofe powers have fbewn more falutary influence, I fhall not prefume to determine. In one place opium is faid to have been produflive of mifchief ,vhen prefcribed without due difcrimination, but it is afterwards recommend- ed in a phlogiflic diathefis, in company with bleeding, purging, and faline * 111 once faw a remarkable inftance of this in a large fpreading fphacelus, which was immedi- ately checked by it, after the largefl dofes of the bark had failed; and repeated re-appearances of the gangrene upon returning to the bark, as often flopped by returning to the vitriol,” Dr. Underwood’s furgical trafts, page 284. draughts.MORTIFICATION IN io4 draughts. But as Do&or Underwood informs us that the indifcriminate ufe of opium has been more attended toby Mr. I. Hunter than any other writer on this fubjeft, we may there expeft to find more fatisfaftory in- formation. i If the two kinds of mortification, that are mentioned by Mr. I. Hun- ter, are the fame that were firft diftinguifhed by Mr. Pott, the inaccuracy with refpeft to the remedies appropriated to each difeafe will render the whole fubjefl unintelligible. In one inftance opium is fuppofed to be the only remedy, and the bark a ufelefs medicine; but in the account before us, * bark and opium are both indifcriminately recommended, as general remedies in every fpecies of difeafe. In one place we are told, that fi mortification is of two kinds; the one without inflammation, the other preceded by it. The firft, I fuppofe, is the mortification of the toes and feet, the latter that which is the confe- quence of external injury. In another place our author obferves, that “inflammation often produces mortification or death in the part inflamed and then adds, “this commonly takes place in old people that are become very much debilitated, and chiefly in the lower extremities J.” This paf- age to me is abfolutely unintelligible; for if by mortification of the ex- tremities our author means that of the toes and feet, this defcription muft be confidere'd inaccurate. |] The mortification of the toes and feet is not * I. Hunter on gun-fhot wounds, page 9. + I. Hunter on gun-fhot wounds, page 8. $ I. Hunter on gun-fhot wounds, page 274. |j Pott on the mortification of the toes and feet, page 149. precededGUN-SHOT WOUNDS. D d If ( IO5 preceded by inflammation, and is not peculiar to old age; and yet, if we attentively examine the whole paragraph, we fhall find that it is the mor- tification of the toes and feet which is here alluded to; but it is evident, that the writer has exprefled himfelf as if he ftudioufly endeavoured to dif- guifehis knowledge of what Mr. Pott had previoufly faid upon this fub- jea. In the firfl: feaion of mortification, we are informed that his *obferva- tions are to be limited to that kind of mortification which is preceded by inflammation ; but whether we attend to the defcription of the difeafi’, or the method of treatment, we fhall find the whole crowded together in a promifcuous aflemblage of unintelligible confufion. But admitting that it is to that fpecies of difeafe which is preceded by inflammation, that our attention is on this occafion direfted; I fhall now examine what infor- mation is to be obtained refpedling the method of treatment. In the firfl place Mr. I. Hunter fuppofes, that “ in inflammations which terminate in mortification, there is no increafe of power, but, on the con- trary, a diminution of it.;” and then adds, “it is plain, from the common praftice, that the weaknefs has been attended to; but it is plain that the increafed a&ion has been overlooked; and, therefore, the whole aim has been to increafethe a6lion in order to remove the weaknefs. The peru- vian bark, confe&io cardiaca, ferpentaria, e61. have been given in large quantities, as the cafe appeared to require, or the conftitution could bear; by which means an artificial or temporary appearance of flrength has been produced, while it was only an increafed a61ion.” * I. Hunter on gun-fhot wounds, prge 8.106 MORTIFICATION IN If I can draw any inference from thefe observations, it. is that the bark, confetlio cardiaca, and ferpentaria, are either improper or inefficacious medicines in cafes of mortification, becaufe they only give *an artificial, or temporary appearance of ftrength, which was only an increafed a6tion* But in the very next page he changes his opinion, and without offering either reafon or argument in juftification of this converfion, afferts that, “upon the principles here laid down, the bark is the principal medicine, as yet known, that we depend upon, as it increafes the powers and leffens the degree of aftion.” In one page the bark is faid to be improper, be- caufe it only produces a temporary appearance of ftrength by increafing a£iion; but in the next page it is faid to produce a contrary efteff, for there it is aflerted to increafe the powers, and leflen the degree of aftion. Here let the candid reader paufe, and review the fubjeft before he de- termines the queftion before us. Let him open Mr. I. Hunter’s book and examine f thefe two pages with critical attention ; and if he can form a more fatisfa&ory opinion from the data before us, I (hall be happy to be convinced of the error of my opinion, and with gratitude acknowledge the fuperiority of his profeffional accomplifhments. The explanation that is given of the effe&s of wine and opium is equal- ly obfcure. When opium was firft given as a remedy in mortifications, it was not dire&ed either with a view of leflening a&ion, or giving ftrength, * I. Hunter on gun-fhot wounds, page 9. f I. Hunter on gun-fliot wounds, page 8 and 9, butGUN-SHOT WOUNDS* 50/ but for the purpofe of eafing *pain. That fpecies of mortification, in which opium is fuppofed to be fo particularly efficacious, is fometimes ex- tremely painful; but whether it is only under fuch circumflances that o- pium proves a ufeful remedy, it is not neceffary on this occafion to deter- mine. It is fufficient for our prefent purpofe to recollefl, that it was in this particular fpecies of difeafe, and folely for the purpofe of eafing pain, that it was at fir ft adminiflered ; but it is now recommended in every fpe- cies of mortification, and under all circumflances without diflinflion, Mr. I. Hunter obferves that “ Upon many occafions opium will be of lingular fervice, by leffening the aflion; although it does not give real llrengthf;” but the particulars of thefe occafions are not explained. If I might prefume to give my opinion, I fhould have fuppofed that opium and wine would be produflive of fomewhat fimilar effe6l, but Mr. I. Hun- ter was of a contrary opinion; he fays, “cordials and wine upon the prin- ciple on which they have been given are rationally adminiflered; but there are flrong reafons for not recommending them, arifing from the general effefls which they poffefs of increafing aflion, without giving real flrength J.” Thus we find that cordials and wine are improper becaufe they increafe aflion; and bark was fuppofed to be produflive of fimilar effefls: the * “The pain in the foot and ancle was fo great, and fo continual, as totally to deprive the patient of ileep. On this account, and merely to procure fome remiffion, I gave two grainsof opium at night which not having the defired effeft, I repeated it in the morning. Finding, during the following day, fome advantage, I repeated the fame dofe night and morning for three days; at the end of which time the patient became quite eafy, and the appearances on the foot and ancle were vifibly more fa« vourabie,” Pott on the mortification of the toes and feet, page 154. fl. Hunter on gun-fhot wounds, page 9. J I. Hunter on gun-fhot wounds, page 8. medicinalMORTIFICATION IN ioB medicinal powers of opium, are fuppofed to be very different from thofe of bark, or wine, confequently it may be an efficacious remedy. But notwithflanding this diverfity of powers, bark and opium are both indifcriminately recommended, as proper medicines in cafes of mortifi- cation. This fpecies of mortification that we are here treating of, is that which is preceded by inflammation'; and though it is the confequence of inflam- mation, yet I expefl it will be generally admitted, that the caufe and con- sequence form two different kinds of difeafe. The inflammation is firongly marked with increafed affion, and requires fuch remedies as will deftroy this morbid ftimulus, and reduce the a&ion of the fvftemto the healthy ftandard; but the inftant the firft crifis takes place at the commencement of mortification, the increafed aftion ceafes, and the vital powers begin to fink under the debilitating influence of the difeafe. i It is at this critical period that bark and cordials become neceflary, and there can be no doubt refpedting the propriety of giving bark and cordi- als at this period of the difeafe ; the moft important queftion w ill be, whe- ther it is in the power of medicine to lefift its progrefs. In the dire&ions for the * treatment of the confiitution in cafes of gun- * I, Hunter on gun-fhot wounds, page 563, fhot \IO9. CUN-SHOT WOUNDS. fhot wounds, we meet with fome obfervations on the effects of bleeding; but in many infiances thefe obfervarions are obfcnre, and in fome they are unintelligible. In one place bleeding is ftrongly recommended, in ano- ther we are told that this remedy is to be ufed with the greateff caution. Topical bleeding is alfo recommended on the parts already in a hate of inflammation, but we do not meet with many powerful arguments in f p- port of thefe opinions; and as thefe opinions may by fome be thought rather fingular, they fhould have been both protefted and explained. The fubjeft is certainly of importance, as this is a very powerful reme- dy in cafes of inflammation; I fhall therefore endeavour more fully to explain the effefts of bleeding in a feparate fedlion. It is affected that * “a man will bear bleeding better after an amputation of the arm than the leg; better after a compound fracture of the arm than the leg, he will bear bleeding better after an injury done to the head, chef!, the lungs &c. than either the armor leg;” and all this is given without the leaf! explanation in fupport of it. And what application can be made of thefe obfervations* either in a fcientific or praftical view, I am at a lofs to conjechire. It is not aqueftion which will bear bleeding beff, but which will require it moft; and for my own part I am of opinion, that bleeding will be very rarely neceffary in cafes of amputation. Tn another part of this work we meet with a cafe in point, that very flrongly militates againfl the neceffity of bleeding in cafes of amputation. He fays, “ Mr, Foot was relieved of a head ach of long handing, by the * I, Hunter on gun-fhot wounds, page 564, E e lofsno MORTIFICATION IN lofs of a leg; but he afterwards died of a complaint in his head, very fi- milar to an apoplexy*. I have no doubt but a perfon of inferior abilities, and lefs converfant with the effe&s of amputation, would have formed a very different opinion on this fubjeft. He would not have difcovered, that the lofs of a leg was fuch an efficacious remedy for an head ach of long ftanding; but it is probable that, with much more humble inference, he would have fuppofed that the lofs of blood and fubfequent abftemious regimen might for a time correft the plethoric hate of the fyftem, and remove the pain in the head; and this feems to be evidently proved by the event, as we find that a happy reftoration to health and returning luxu- ry was the unqueflionable caufeof returning difeafe. If therefore bleed- ing was neceffary, it was after the cure of the leg was accomplished, and not immediately after amputation. It may be proper here to obferve that bleeding, bark, and opium, are the principal remedies that are recommended in cafes of external injury, fuch for inflance as gun-ffiot wounds; but under what circumftances, or * I. Hunter on gun-fhot wounds, page 332, Happy for our learned author that Mr. Foot had quitted the ftage, before this work was prefent- cd to the public: but if he had not died the cafe would have been lefs complete. It would cer- tainly have afforded a rich harveft for his pen, and might have given birth to a new devil upon two fticks, by once more converting his fatanic majefty into a bottle conjurer; on which occafion our hero might have been brought forward to great advantage. The prefent time would alfo have been particularly propitious, as the rifing of the college oflurgeons, like that of pandaemonium, might have furnilhed the young Genius with a Throne. And as the fuperfeding of an a£t of parliament by let- ters patent would provide a fubjeft for legal controverfy, a great law Lord, who is certainly well ac- quainted with the merits of the queftion, might have been added to the drama, whofe fplendid abil - tie^ would have decorated the fcepe, whilft his profound knowledge and found judgment might have «*£*lained and determined the Letter of the Law'. toGUN-SHOT WOUNDS* ill to what degree thefe refpeCtive remedies are to be made ufe of, is not ex- Bark is faid to be ordered indifcriminately in cafes of gun-fhot wounds, and the laft paragraph in Mr. Iohn Hunter’s book furnifhes us with am- ple evidence infupportof this affertion. He fays, “ Bark is greatly re- commended in gun-fhot wounds, and with good reafon; but it is ordered indifcriminately to all patients that have received fuch wounds, whatever the fymptoms or conftitution of the patient may be*.” This is certainly an improper method of giving the bark or any other medicine, as it is on- ly under particular circumftances correfponding to the powers of the re fpeCtive remedies, that medicine can be given with advantage. But if Mr. I, Hunter difapproves the indifcriminate ufe of the bark by others, his own obfervations on this fubjeCt are not lefs objectionable than thofe of his predeceffors. He ftrongly recommends the bark in cafes of in- flammation, not only when the inflammation is gone off, but alfo in the time of inflammation. In one place the bark is recommended as the prin- cipal medicine as yet known in cafes of mortification, in the laft page of the book we are told that “ there is no better medicine for wounds in ge- neral, during the whole progrefs of inflammationwe muft therefore ei- ther admit, that inflammation and mortification are fimilar fpecies of dif- eafe, or that, if they are oppofite difeafes, the fame remedies are properin both inftances, or that one of thefe ftatements muft be erroneous. If the reader will attentively examine, in the introduction, the chapter on mortification, he will find a want of diftinCtion between the caufe and the effeCt. plained. * I. Hunter on gun-fhot wounds, page 565, fa112 MORTIFICATION IN In the treatment of the conflitution in cafes of gnn-fhot wounds, we meet with a fimilar want of diilinRion with refpeft to the remedies: he fays, “the bark and gentle bleeding when the pulfe begins to rife, are the bed treatment that I know of in inflammations, that arife either from ac- cidents or operations.” If on this occafion I fhould prefume to give my own opinion, I fhould affert with equal confidence that bark and bleeding are two remedies that are incompatible with each other. When bleeding is neceffary, bark is not only improper, but inadmiffibie; and in fuch ca- fes where bark is indicated, bleeding mufl on a certainty prove prejudici- al. But if we compare Mr. I. Hunter’s introduftion with the concluding page, the want of uniformity of opinion and connexion of argument will fatisfaHorily prove in what degree thefe fpeculative do&rines merit our attention. Thus we firfl began with noticing the indifcriminate ufeof the bark as mentioned by Mr. Bromfeild, and have proceeded to Mr. I. Hunter’s ob- fervations on the fame fiubjeft; and as the indifcriminate ufe of the bark was the lafl objefl of his attention, and as the fubjeft flill remains cloud- ed with fuch unintelligible obfcurity, it is reafonable to conclude that this queflion has not met with a due (hare of public attention, or that the im- perfe&ions in this part of the pra&ice of furgery have not been yet cor- re£led. The plan of external treatment will have equal claim to our attention ; and as this part of the fubjeH is within the limits of ocular infpediion, it has been thought by fome to be lefs difficult of inveffigation, moie capa- ble of improvement, and already advanced to a higher degree of certain- tyGUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 11 j tys and perfe&ion. But here, as in every other department of medicine, a knowledge of the animal ceconomy is equally neceftary; without which it will be impoftible to underhand the nature of difeafe, or to form a ra- tional opinion of the operation and effefts of chirurgical applications. If we examine the fentiments of former writers on this fubjeft, we fhali meet with a general uniformity of opinion in favour of warm applications in cafes of mortifications; but Mr, 1. Hunter is of a contrary opinion, and concludes his obfervations on this fubjeff by afterting that, “all applica- tions fhould be cold*.” If we are to depend alone on this concluding fentence we mu ft certainly give up the long eftablifhed practice of warm applications, and adopt the ufe of cold ones; but if we attend to the pre- vious argument, which was intended to pave the way for the introduction of this hypothefis, we (hall find fome reafon to queftion the propriety of this new method of treatment. In the fame page we are told that “ warm fomentations have been ap- plied, as being congenial to life; but warmth always increafes aCtion, and, therefore, fhould be well adjufted to the cafe; for on the other hand, cold debilitates, orleftens powers when carried too far, but at fir ft leflens a£ti- on.’5 11 warm applications are congenial to life, and we do not on this oc- cafion meet with any argument to prove the contrary, we mull then acknowledge the propriety of this pra&ice: and if, as is here afterted, cold debilitates or leftens powers, and at firft lefiens aCtion, for thefe rea- sons cold applications mull certainly be improper; fo that we find the * I. Hunter on gun-fhot wounds, page 9, J f conclu-n4 MORTIFICATION IN conclufion in direft oppofition to the arguments that were intended to fupport it. I fhall not pretend to affert that long eflablifhed cuflom is of itfelf a fufficient argument to fupport any mode of praftice that is, on clear and evident principles, proved to be erroneous. But in fuch inflances where the dictates of philofophy are obfcure, we might with fome propriety ap- peal to the falutary influence of this long eflablifhed praftice in favour of warm applications. Warm and cold are indefinite expreflions, and it is neceffary that we fhould diflinguifh between the two extremes, and regulate our praftice by fome rational principles; the particulars of which I fhall not now ex- amine, as it is not fo much my intention in this place to defend any one fyflem of praftice, as to prove the imperfeftions of the prefent Rate of the fubjeft. If we attend to the evidence of experience, we fhall find that, in fuch cafes when the degree of inflammation and tenlion were confiderable. Warm applications have in general diminifhed the painful fymptoms, and at leafl procured temporary relief. In violent contulions either with or without frafture or diflocation, the agreeable effefts of warm applications are too evident to admit of doubt*. In cafes of inflammations of the bow- els the warm bath is a remedy that is always had recourfe to, and feldom fails in the worfl inflances to procure fome relief from pain, fo long as the *“ Warmth and moifture aft in many cafes as fedatives to our fenfations, although not always; and the diftinftion between thofe where they give eafe, and where they rather give pain, I have not been able to make out,’* I, Hunter on gun-£hot wounds, page 512, patient&UN-SHOT WOUNDS*- 115 patient can bear the application. Perhaps Mr. I. Hunter would in fuch cafes have preferred a cold bath to a warm one, but on this occafion the almoft unlimited confidence with which he was favoured might have found its bounds, as it would have been highly neceffary to convince the patient of the propriety of the meafure, before he fubmitted to a method of treat- ment fo repugnant to the didiates of his own fenfations. But there is a cafe of inflammation of the bowels that frequently ends in mortification, where cold applications may perhaps be made ufe of with advantage. The infiance I now allude to is ftrangulated hernia, but here the particular circumftances fhould not pafs unnoticed; if the application of cold produces falutary effedis in fuch cafes, it is not by abating the in- flammation, but by diminifhing the bulk of the inclofed flatus, and by that means abating the tenfion of the parts, and though the relaxation may be momentary, ftill during that fhort interval the hernia may be returned. I do not mention the application of cold in this inftance, as a method I fhould myfelf make ufe of in common cafes, or as a pradlice that I fhould in general recommend; I only notice this occurrence of circumftances for the fake of explaining in what cafes cold applications may be made ufe of with fafety, and fometimes with fuccefs. This is certainly an inflam- mation of the bowels, and an inftance that frequently ends in mortifica- tion; but the inflammation connedfed with hernia bears no analogy to that without it. Thefe concurring circumftances not only change the na- ture of the difeafe, but alfo require a different method of treatment and produce very different confequences, though the ultimatum may in fome refpedts prove the fame. In116 MORTIFICATION IN In inflammations of the bowels without hernia, purgative medicines may- be given with almofl unlimited freedom, but when this difeafeis the con- fequence of ftrangulated hernia, purgative medicines fhould be given with the greatefl: caution. When inflammation of the bowels without her- nia ends in mortification, death is the inevitable confequence; but in cafes of hernia it frequently happens that the difeafe is limited to the parts, that the integuments and contents of the hernia will all Hough away, and the patient afterwards recover. But if we examine the influence of cold applications in other kinds of mortification, on the bafis of Mr. I. Hunter’s own argument, we {hall not find the refult favourable to this new opinion. The progrefs and parti- cular period of the difeafe are certainly objects of great importance; the laft ftage of inflammation, immediately antecedent to mortification, we may fuppofe the mofl critical, and is the period that I fhould point out as mod proper for the examination of this queftion. At this time the vital acti- ons, which had been excited by inflammation far above the healthy ftan- dard, mud now be confidered as finking fall to that degree where all the vital powers muft ceafe. Warmth we are told increafes aflion, and if it is the bufinefs of the fur- geon by external means to fupport the finking powers till nature can be roufed by internal medicines to co-operate, we muft admit that warm ap- plications have the preference. Every obfervation that we meet with, and every argument that is brought forward in fupport of this new dodlrine, directly militates againft it. He fays, “ ftimulants likewife are improper where the adlions are already too violent*,” for which reafon in this in- * I. Hunter on gun-fhot wounds, page 9, danceGUN-SHOT WOUNDS, 117 {lance where the a&ions are too languid, as our author acknowledges that warmth increafes aclion, it mud confequently be confldered a proper ap- plication at this period of the difeafe. Let us now confider that Mr. I. Hunter was at the head of his profefli- on, that his treatife on the blood, inflammation,and gun-fhot wounds, is the lateft and moll extenflve work on this fubjeft that furgery has to boaft of; and as, in addition to a multiplicity of other arguments, it ftill remains a queftion, in what manner, and under what circumftances, bleeding, pur- ging, bark and opium (hould be made ufe of; and whether warm or cold applications have the preference; I hope I have fatisfa&orily proved, what I at firfl: averted, that there is no eftabliflied method of prattice, or public opinion on this fubjefl. o g SECTIONSECTION VI. f r THE DISTINCTION BETWEEN LOCAL INFLAMMA- TION, AND A PHLOGISTIC DIATHESIS, WITH AN EXPLANATION OF THE EFFECTS OF BLEEDING IN INFLAMMATORY DISEASES. IT NFL AMM ATION is one of the firft important confequences of exter- nal injury. In cafes of wounds or contufions of the head, cheft, or abdomen, the circumftances vary according to the fituation of the parts* and the degree and extent of the difeafe: but injuries of the extremities are in general lefs complicated, and we may there trace the progrefs of inflammation, in the integuments* mufcles* See, independant of any vif- ceral affe&ion. Let us fuppofe the cafe in queftion to be a violent contufion of one of the lower limbs, either with or without fraflure; and that fuch is the de- gree of injury, that there is reafon to be apprehenftve that mortification may be the confequence. Under fuch circumftances, if amputation has either been negleUed or difapproved, the firft objeft will be to prevent the increafe* and diminifti the degree of inflammation; and if poftible to ter- minateINFLAMMATION AND 1 20 minate this part of the difeafe by what is termed refolution. For this pur- pofe, a great variety of remedies has at different times been made life of, and certainly much may be done both by internal medicines and exter- nal applications; Ifhall firft examine the plan of internal treatment. The mo ft powerful remedies that rational experience has difcovered, for the cure of inflammatory difeafes, are bleeding, purging, faline medi- cines, nitre, and emetic tartar. The firft twp will in many cafes claim the preference, but if thefe are to be made ufe of with the greateft advantage, careful obfervation and very accurate difcrimination will be neceftary to determine the time and quantity of each. « There is one kind of inflammation in whi«h bleeding is particularly ef- ficacious, I mean that kind, which is produftive of a fizy ftate of the blood, fuch as in the integuments is termed eryfipelas, in the membranes and li- gaments acute rheumatifm, in the brain phrenitis, in the lungs peripneu- monia, in the liver hepatitis, 8cc, &c. This fpecies of difeafe is certainly the fame in all thefe inftances, with refpeff to the general ftate of the fyf- tem; and only differs with the fituation, according to the nature of the parts that are principally affe&ed. But whatever may be the fituation of the difeafe, the method of treatment is the fame, and mu ft be regulated by the degree of difeafe,, independant of the fituation. In cafes of external injuries of the extremities, the inflammation that takes place is not perfectly ftmilar to that fpecies above defcribea; it does not occafion a fizy ftate of the blood. Eryfipelas and rheumatifm are tru- ly inflammatory difeafes, and are produ&ive of fizy blood, and all the pheno-THE EFFECTS OF BLEEDING* 121 phenomena of inflammation, though feated on the external parts, as much fo as any vifceral difeafe; whereas the inflammation that takes place, in confequence of injury to the external parts of the body, does not produce fizy blood, and as it differs in its nature, it confequently requires a differ- ent method of treatment. If then, the difeafe that takes place in confe- quence of external injury to the extremities, does not produce fizy blood; I fhall infer that bleeding will not prove equally efficacious in this fpecies of inflammation ; Ido not affert, that bleeding may notin fuch cafes be made ufe of with fafety, and in a plethoric ffate of the fyftem it may be produflive ofconfiderable advantage; but I wifh to be underftood, that it will not produce thofe falutary effects, as in other inftances of inflammatory difeafe. Cafes may occur where injuries of this kind are attended with a fizy {fate of the blood, but then it is to be underftood that this may be an acci- dental concurrence, and not a natural confequence of the injury. The blood might have been in a fizy ftate before the accident took place, as fubjefls in a ftate of previous inflammation are no more exempt from ac- cidents than thofe in perfefi health. Inflammation may take place, and proceed to mortification, and if bleeding be once or twice repeated during the rapid progrefs of this dif- eafe, I have always found that, if the blood is not fizy in the firft inftance, it will not become fo in the fecond or third; which is contrary to the phenomena that we have frequent opportunities of obferving in cafes of general inflammation of the fyftem. In the latter inftance, I know no limits to the ufe of the lancet fhort of a falutary termination of the difeafe; but in the former, bleeding does not appear to me a proper remedy, and fhould be ufed with the greateft H h caution;INFLAMMATION AND 122 caution; for if bleeding is carried too far, the inflammatory fymptoms and the energy of the fyflem will both fink together, and the rapidity of the approaching mortification be increafed in fomeproportioncorrefpond- ing to the preceding evacuations. Inflammation of the extremities from external injury may produce mortification. And inflammation may take place in any of the contents of the belly, in confequence of external injury; and this is alfo equally liable to end in mortification; but flill there is a material difference in thefe two fpecies of difeafe; in the former, the blood will not be fizy, and bleed- ing will fink the vital powers, inflead of deflroying the difeafe; whereas, in the latter inflance, the blood will be fizy, and very copious bleeding will be neceffary, and is on this occafion a very important and certainly efficacious remedy. For the fake of diflin£lion, the firfi cafe may be con- lidered local inflammation, and the increafed a£lion fyflematic fever; whereas the latter is not only an inflammation of the vifcera, but alfo a general inflammation of the fyflem. Inmanyinflances of fever, where the pulfeishard andfull, afingle bleed- ing may be made ufe of with advantage, merely to corredl the plethoric Hate of the fyflem, but can feldom be repeated with fafety. It is in true inflammatory difeafes that bleeding is fo particularly efficacious ; in fim- ple fever and in many other cafes, where it is indifcriminately made ufe of, it can only be looked upon as a doubtful auxiliary; but in true in- flammation it is a fpecific antidote. It is only in thofe difeafes that pro- duce a fizy flate of the blood that bleeding is fo particularly falutary; an inflammatory difeafe may exifl without a fizy flate of the blood, but aTHE EFFECTS OF BLEEDING# 123 fizy Bate of the blood cannot exifl independant of an inflammatory dif- eafe ; this flate of the blood is the confequence * and not the caufe of the difeafe. I have carefully attended to the progrefs of the inflammatory fymp- toms in cafes of aflive haemorrhage, and, being apprehenfive of the ap- proaching paroxyfm, have taken away a large bafon of blood, which has not (hewn the leafl appearance of flze; and 1 have frequently met with in- flances of this difeafe, where the haemorrhage has taken place in lefs than an hour after I had bled the patient. I have under thefe circumflances immediately repeated the bleeding, and found the blood taken by this fe- cond operation flrongly marked with fize; in many inflances I have found the returning haemorrhage, and the fizy flate of the blood, fo regularly accompany each other, as if the fizy flate of the blood was the immediate confequence of the difeharge. In the year 1768 f Doflor Heberden prefented fome queries on this fubjeft to the college of phyficians, which were publifhed in the medical tranfaflions in the year feventy-two. In the year feventy-one, Mr. Hew- fon publifhed his experimental inquiry into the properties of the blood; but neither of thefe great men has fatisfaflorily determined the point in queflion. Dr. Heberden fays, “the more we know of the human body, the more reafon we find to believe, that the feat of difeafes is not in the * Hewfon’s experimental inquiry, page 65. i Medical tranfa&ions, vol, 2. page 505* blood 5INFLAMMATION AND 124 blood; to the fenfible qualities of which they feem to have very little relation.” Mr. Hewfon feems to have been of a contrary opinion; he in his pre* face obferves, that “an inquiry into the properties of the blood, it is pre- fumed, will be thought in a particular manner interefling, fince there is no part of the human body upon which more phyfiological reafoning is founded, nor any from which more inferences are drawn for the cure of difeafes.” I have thought fit to contrail thefe two opinions, for the purpofe of in- validating the influence of authority ; as it is the evidence of nature and voice of reafon which fhould decide. I (hall not attempt to reply in full to the queries of the one, or critically examine the experiments of the other, either of which would furnifh materials to make a volume; but I cannot agree with Do£lor Ilcbciden, that the fi^y fltuc of the blood is an objefl of no importance. He obferves that this appearance is not con- flant or regular; I have already given my opinion, that it is the confe- quence and not the caufe of inflammation : for which reafon the difeafe mud neceffarily take place previous to this appearance in the blood; but if inflammation takes the lead, itfeldom exifls long without producing this effe6l. I am ready to acknowledge, that it frequently happens that the firfl blood that is taken in inflammatory cafes has not this appearance; and certainly, if the firfl bleeding removes the dil'eafe, a fecond will not be neceffary; but if the difeafe is not abated and flill continues to in- creafe, there can then be no queflion about the propriety of a fecond bleeding, even if the firfl blood had not the fizy appearance. But if the firfl125 THE EFFECTS OF BLEEDING. Urfl or fecond has this appearance, the next quedion is how far we mud proceed, I anfwer, until we have dedroyed the difeafe; and this may hap- pen before the dzy date of the blood ceafes. But I have frequently con- tinued the ufe of bleeding after the dzy date of the blood has difappeared, where an increafe of fymptomshas the next day induced me to bleed again, and the blood has been drongly marked with dze. I well remember an indance of this kind, it was a cafe of acute rheumatifm ; I had bled my pa- tient twelve times, the lad of which had not the lead dzy appearance; the fymptoms increafed the fecond day after the twelfth bleeding, I took away about a pound more blood which was drongly marked with dze, the difeafe in confequence fubfided, and the patient rapidly recovered. Now this I condder a complete anfwer to Dr. Heberden’s queries; he fays “ if one repetition of bleeding be indicated, (by the dzy appearance) will not its continuance plead as drongly for a fecond and third, and where fhall we dop? ” The anfwer is obvious, for if bleeding is the remedy, and the difeafe continues, the fame remedy mud be repeated until the difeafe ceaf- es ; I did not hedtate to bleed becaufe the lad blood was not fizy, nor did I continue to bleed becaufe the thirteenth bleeding was drongly marked; but I ceafed to bleed, becaufe the difeafe fubfided, and it was no longer necedary. Sydenham obferves, that he feldom cured a pleurify with lefs than the lofs of forty ounces of blood ; but I think it is a quedion of more impor- tance, to what extent bleeding may be continued, and what quantity may be taken, in defperate cafes, with a rational probability of fuccefs : and this is a fubjefr of fuch delicacy, that in all probability it will never be expofedto public view, as it is, in my opinion, what words cannot deferibe. I i IfINFLAMMATION AND %zS 4 If a patient complains of violent pain in the fide and is gafping for breath with laborious refpiration, the indications are too plain to admit of doubt, and in fuch cafes it would not be difficult to preferibe a plan of treatment for the firff twelve hours; but the difeafe may continue for a week, or ten days, and as the treatment muff be regulated by the particu- lar circumftances of the cafe, it would be impoflible to lay down any rule, how frequently bleeding fhouldbe repeated, and what quantity fhould be taken; it is certainly a matter of opinion, and every one muff be left to judge and determine for himfelf; and it is the mafterly exercife of this diferetionary judgment, that diftinguifhes the man of fuperior abilities* % and marks the merit of the profeffional charadler. If the propriety of bleeding be generally admitted in one fpecies of in- flammation, it is frequently doubted in others; and as we fometimes meet with what may be juflly confidered a complication of difeafe, where an inflammatory ftate of the fyftem and local inflammation of a different fpecies both exifl at the fame time; thele circumitances will increafe the difficulty of the queftion. 1 have already mentioned the general inflam- mation of the fyftem and the inflammation from external injury; and have endeavoured to (hew how thefe may be connedfed, Ifhall now, by way of illuftrating the general principles of this theory, notice a third kind, which differs from them both, I mean the gout; and as the propriety of bleeding in gouty cafes is generally doubted, this fubjedtmay furnifh fome inftrudtive information,. The manner, in which Mr. I. Hunter exprefles himfelf on this fubjedi, $efcrves our particular attention; he afferts that bleeding with leeches al- moftTHE EFFECTS-©F BLEEDING, 12/ aioft immediately relieves the gout; but afterwards he obferves, without any additional explanation or diftin&ion with refpeft to the method, that ** it is not meant here to recommend bleeding in this difeafe This is at belt leaving the fubjeft in an unfettled ftate; and, as a genera! prejudice has long prevailed againft bleeding in gouty cafes, I fhall en- deavour to explain under what circumftances it may be madeufe of with fafety and advantage. Perhaps it may be thought by fome, who are par- tial to topical bleeding, that the ufe of leeches is here recommended, and the lancet difapproved. But as the gout does not produce afizy ftate of the blood, orincreafe thea&ion of the vafeular fyftem, like eryfipelas, or acute rheumatifm, or any other true phlogiftic difeafe; the want of ana- logy in the nature of thofe difeafes muft induce us to fufpe&, that bleed- ing will not produce the fame falutary effe&s in the gout, as it does i* phlogiftic difeafes, When the gout is ieated in the extremities, without being conne&ed with any general morbid alfedion of the fyftem, I am well convinced that the lefs medicine is prefcribed the better; for the gout is a difeafe that is naturally difpofed to exhauft its own powers, but for which we have no remedy. The materia medica does not poflefs any fpecific that will de- stroy the gout; nor are we poffeffed of any plan of treatment that will f I. Hunter on gun-fhot wounds, page 338,ifiS INFLAMMATION AND diminifh the gout in any manner fimilar to that by which bleeding ana purging will corredl other fpecies of inflammation. But if we have no antidote for the gout* we are amply furnifhed with a variety of remedies for thofe difeafes that are frequently connected with it, which not only interrupt its progrefs, but very much impede its falu- tary termination. For inftance, if the gout is connected with fever, it is always right that this fever fhould be deftroyed; but a much more im- portant connexion that we frequently meet with is, gout and a true phlo- gillie diathefis of the fyftem ; under fuch circumftances, bleeding and pur- ging are not only fa-fe and efficacious remedies, but often abfolutely ne- celfary for the prefervation of the life of the patient. For I never met with a cafe, of what is called gout in the head, that was not attended with a phlogiftic diathefis and fizy blood ; a queftion then arifes whether this difeafe in the head is purely gouty, or whether the gout, which may have quitted the extremities, is under fuch circumftances fufpended by the fuperior influence of another difeafe. That we may form an intelligible idea of this complicated ftate of difl. eafe, it will be neceflary to confider how one morbid action will influence or fufpend another. This is a fubjett that is particularly noticed by Mr. I. Hunter, and boafted of as a new difeovery ; he has given an example of the meafies having nrft got pofleflion of the conftitution, and fufpending the progrefs of the fmall pox : but the cafe is not without a precedent, and the dotfrine is not new, as we meet with a fimilar inftance in the Edinburgh Medical Commentaries of a more early date; and with refpeff to the laws of the animal ceconomy, on which this morbid conteft is fup- pofedTHE EFFECTS OF BLEEDING I29 pofed to depend, it is a fubjeff that may be traced back to the time of Hippocrates*, and is a principle in animal nature that influences the ope- rations both of the body and mind. I (hall not attempt to determine whe- ther Horace had fludied Hippocrates, but as his works are more general- ly read than thofe of the old greek phyfician, I {hall beg leave to add his authority in fupport of the antiquity of this doHrinef. The two cafes of the fmall-pox and meafles are fo particularly analo- gous, that I cannot forego the fatisfadlion of giving a copy of each, that the reader may form his own opinion on the fubjedl ||. This * Aw ttoswh ct/xx yuoyt.evw», (ayi xarx r xvrov rovso'i, o' aQo^portpos a[/.txvpo7 r stipov. Cum duo dolores fimul oborti minime eundem locum occupant, vchementior alterum obfcurat,| Hippocrates A phor. lib. 2. No. 46. f Emovit veterem mire novus ; ut folet, in cor Trajetto lateris miferi, capitifque dolore: Ut lethargicus hie cum fit pugil, et medicum urget. Horatii fat. iii. lib. 2. 1. 28* j| CASE of SMALL-POX and MEASLES, by JOHN HUNTER. “ On thurfday, the fixteenth of May, one thoufand feven hundred and feventy-five, I inocula- ted a gentleman’s child, and it was obferved that I made pretty large pun&ures. On the Sunday following, viz. the nineteenth, he appeared to have received the infe£lion, a fmall inflammation or rednefs appearing round each pui.ft ire, and a fmall tumor. On the twentieth and twenty-firfl the child was feverifh; but 1 declared that it was not the variolous fever, as the inflammation had not at all advanced fmee the nineteenth. On the twenty fecond a connderable eruption appeared, which was evidently the meafles, and the fores on the arms appeared to go back, becoming lefs infla- med. On the twenty-third he was very full of the meafles ; but the punftures on the arms were in the fame ftate as on the preceding day. On the twenty-ninth the inflammation increafed, and there was a little matter formed. On the thirtieth he was feized with fever. The fmall-pox appeared at the regular time, went through its ufual courfe, and terminated favourably.” See treatife on gun-fhot wounds, page 5, TbsI INFLAMMATION AND 43O This law of the animal ceconomy is fo clearly illuftrated by many inge- nious writers long before Mr. John Hunter’s time, and exemplified by daily experience, that it is not neceftary on the prefent occafion to give any additional explanation; the principal obje£I is, whether the inftance before us does or does not apply. If this queftion be confidered in a the- oretical light, it will certainly appear furrounded with many difficulties; but in a practical one, the folution will not be difficult. Let us fuppofe the gout to have quitted the extremities, and an increas- ed adlionofthe fyftem to have taken place, attended with violent pain in fome of the vifcera. I contend that the gout may exill in the extremities to any degree without producing increafed aftion of the fyftem, or a fizy ftatc of the blood ; but no fooner do the vifcera become affe6ted, than the a£lion of the fyftem is immediately increafed, and the blood taken unde* thefe circumftances is marked with fize. The PROGRESS of the SMALL-POX RETARDED by the MEASLES, by Dr. MANGET, PHYSICIAN at GENEVA. (l In the monthof February 1772,1 inoculated a child according to the Suttonian method. Theerup- tion appeared on the feventh day. Altho’ the weather was very cold, the boy remained in general in the open air, as he found it relieved him from the anxiety which accompanied the eruption. After two days of variolous fever, a new eruption appeared perfectly diftinft from the former. This I foon dif- covered to be the mealies. I then advifed he fhould no longer be expo fed to cold air. But from his impatience under confinement this was not complied with. The mealies, however, kept out well; and about the end of the fourth day, terminated by defquamation, without any bad confequence. It was remarkable, in this cafe, that the fuppuration of the fmall-pox, which had begun before the mealies appeared, was totally fufpended, and did not again renew its courfe till they were finilhed. By this means, the continuance of the fmall-pox was prolonged about four days beyond the ufual pe- riod of that difeafe.” See Medical Commentaries, vol, 1, page 317. Nowthe Effects of bleeding, 131 Now one idea is, that the .gout is transferred from the extremities tothe vifcera; if fo, I then contend that it produces a phlogiffic diathefisof the fyftem, and bleeding and other antiphlogiffic remedies become neceffary. A fecond idea is, that, the whole conftitution being in an irritable hate, genuine inflammation takes place which fufpends the gout, and, the in- flammation being deftroyed by a liberal ufe of antiphlogiffic remedies, the gout is left at liberty to refume its former fituation. I well remember feveral cafes of what is generally termed the gout in the head, in which I have fucceeded by taking away a large quantity of blood from the arm, whilfl; the patient was fitting with his legs in a veffel of v/arm water; I have known immediate relief take place in confequence of the bleeding, and the patient defcribe the progrefs of the difeafe from the head to his feet. In fuch cafes I have always found bleeding an efficaci- ous remedy; and whether themetaftafls of difeafe produce the inflamma- tion, or the inflammation fufpends the difeafe, it is the exiftence of vifceral inflammation which dilates the antiphlogiftic treatment. I do not pre- tend to fay which is caufe or which effeft; but I am well acquainted with fome gouty fubje&s who are taught by repeated experience to underhand the effe&s of bleedipg, and they are always apprehenfive of fubmitting to the lancet, or taking a cooling purge, for fear it fhould occafion a fit of the gout. The celebrated Doftor Brown bears teffimonv to the truth of this phe- nomenon, though he feems to have formed a very different opinion ref- pefling the manner in which the medicine produces the effect*. But if the * ‘‘The diffufible ftimuli are fo powerful in removing the inflammation of the gout, that fometimes, ftrongINFLAMMATION AND 13£ the gout is an inflammatory difeafe, and if diffufible flimuli poflefs the power of increafing the a6lion of the fyllem, it is not probable that fuch remedies fhould prove falutary medicines in gouty cafes. And as it is by many fuppofed that the gout is the offspring of intemperance, and that the fame caufe from which it nrft originated will not only ferve to pro- long its exigence, but will alfo increafe its powers, if thefe opinions are well founded it will be irrational to fu-ppofe that diffufible flimuli can be made ufe of with fuccefs for the purpofe of its deftruflion ; and it would be as difficult to account for the cure of the gout by the ufe of wine, and fpirits ; as to explain its propagation by a dofe of glauber faltsf. But if intemperence is admitted to be produ6live of this difeafe, it is equally rational to fuppofe that other fpecies of inflammation may depend on fimilar caufes. In the prefent inflance it is mofl probable that the gout was not a foli- tary difeafe ; for as Do6lor Brown had long experienced the effe6ls of dif- i fufible flimuli, and ultimately died a martyr to the caufe: inflammation of different kinds might have repeatedly taken place, and the vifcera alfo ftrong liquors as wine, and fpirits, 01 fpirits diluted with water, as warm as can be borne have in a few hours removed the mod violent fit, and reflored the ufe of the affefted foot. The fame reme- dies are of equal efficacy in removing the general fymptoms.” Brown’s elements of medicine, by Beddoes, vol, j, page 216. + “ It mull be obferved, that, as every direftly debilitating power is an exciting hurtful means of bringing on any afthenic difeafe, fo the effeft of every evacuation and particularly that by the belly, is well known to be a certain means of bringing on a fit of the gout. Among many other means of inducing that difeafe a fingle dofe of Glauber’s fait, though that be but a mild cathartic, will bring a fit of the gout on me at anytime,’’ Brown’s elements of medicine, voL I, page 217. haveTHE EFFECTS OF BLEEDING. *33 L I then have been confiderably afte&ed, and, at the critical period above-mention- ed, a phlogiftic diathefis might have taken poffeflion of the whole fyftem; by which the gout was overpowered and its adtion confequently fufpend- ed. But when the phlogiftic diathefis was reduced by a dofe of glauber falts, the gout then becoming the fuperior difeafe would difplay its pow- ers. Under thefe circumftances the liberal ufe of ftrong liquors would increafe the phlogiftic diathefis, and the gout, being an inferior difeafe, would confequently fink into obfcurity. Inftances of this kind very frequently occur, where the gout and a phlo- giftic diathefis meet in oppofition to each other; and in general the fymp- toms of inflammation are erroneoufly attributed to a gouty origin. If the lungs are flightly inflamed, the difeafe is faid to be a gouty cough, and though fuch cafes are frequently attended with a plethoric ftate of the fyftem, yet bleeding and purging are thought to be equally improper. In inferior inftances of difeafe, wherefometimes the cough and fometimes the gout will alternately prevail, the general prejudice againft bleeding and purging is fo great, that it rarely happens that any regular plan of treatment is complied with; and if the pulmonic affeddion and phlogiftic diathefis fpontaneoufly fubfide, the gout is then fet at liberty, and a re- gular fit of the gout in the extremities is the immediate confequence. But if the inflammation goes on increafing, a true peripneumony frequently takes place, and the a&ion of the gout becomes fufpended by the general influence of a fuperior difeafe. When the fymptoms are become fo truly formidable, I fuppofe thatINFLAMMATION AND *34 then it is not probable that we fhould meet with a difference of opinion refpefting the method of treatment; but as an apology for the free ufe of the lancet it will be faid, that we have got a new difeafe. It is only iji flight cafes where blind prejudice can exercife her doubts; but if we de- pend alone on the evidence of Do6lor Brown, the method of pra&ice will appear plain and rational; and as bleeding and purging are the moll pow- erful remedies in pulmonic inflammation, by thefe remedies we (hall be enabled to remove the moft powerful difeafe, and then the gout being fet at liberty may exhauft itfelf. I do not pretend to fay that bleeding is an antidote for the gout, but I never can fuppofe that bleeding can create it; if then the gout takes place an confequence of bleeding, if this evacuation does not create the gout, it muff fet the gout at liberty, that previoufly exifted in the conftitution, by removing a fuperior morbid affeftion. It is rather extraordinary that Mr. John Hunter, who delighted in the- oretical fpeculation, fhould, when he was treating on the gout, have neg- lefled fuch a favourable opportunity of gratifying a leading paffion. He has given his idea of the principle, under the title “ of difeafed a&ions as being incompatible with each other*;” and if his obfervations are con- formable to the laws of nature, the gout, under fuch circumftances, muff be fufpended, and not transferred. He fays, “ It appears to me beyond a doubt, that no two aftions can take place in the fame conftitution, nor in the fame part at one and the fame time; the operations of the body are limilar in this refpeft to aflions or motions in common matter.” I. Hunter on gun-Ciot wounds, page 3. IfTHE EFFECTS OF BLEEDING, 3 35 If this ingenious writer had reflected for a fingle moment, he mud have immediately recolle&ed many inftances to the contrary. When a body is fufpended by the attra&ion of cohefion, or of magnetifm, the power of gravity is not deftroyed; or if he had recollected the courfe of projec- tiles, he would have met with an example where matter obeys the direc- tion of two feparate laws; or if he had directed his attention to the fyflem in which we move, he would have found that the matter of the univ^rfe is fufpended in the medium of two aiftinH and feparate powers. His ob- fervations on this occaiion are therefore all . erroneous, and the analogy is inapplicable; but from motives of refpefi to the high opinion that the public had formed of his abilities in natural philofophy, I (hall now at- tempt to make his own illuffration the bafis of my reply. The meafles and fmall-pox may both exiff in the conftitution at the fame time; and the meafles, affing with fuperior influence, fufpends the fmall-pox, but does not deftroy them; not even during the interval of their fufpenfion. The example from the medical commentaries is much more fatisfac- tory than the inflance defcribed by Mr. I. Hunter; in the former the fmall-pox had been out for two days, and the fuppuration had begun, be- fore the meafles jnade their appearance; we are not told that the fmall- pox difappeared, their progrefs was fufpended, and they continued in the fame ftate. In the latter inftance, the child was taken ill on the fourth day after the inoculation for the fmall-pox; and the meafles appeared on the fixth day, which was previous to the comencement of the fmall- pox fever, and whilft we might confider the infection as perfectly local: but, in both cafes, the progrefs of the difeafe feems evidently fufpended. In like manner, inflammation does not dellroy the gout, it only fufpends itsINFLAMMATION AND its a-flion, and both exift in the conffitution at the fame time, but the fu- perior influence claims precedency. If the prejudice againft bleeding in gouty cafes was only limited to a few obfcure individuals, tbiefe obfervations would have been lefs neceffary ; but when vulgar errors are fanftioned by fuch high authority*, they then deferve attention. If bleeding is always improper in gouty cafes, the danger fhould be pointed out; but if this evacuation is frequently pro- per, and fometime. neceffary, it is then right to defend the practice by explaining its effefts. Under the prefent (late of the public opinion, it would be a bold un- dertaking to attempt to bleed a gouty patient; and if any one of this de- fcription fhould be fo unfortunate as to have taken poffeffion of rather too large a portion of the good things of this life, and to have loaded his con- ffitution above the healthy ftandard, if immediate relief was ever fo ne- ceffary, it muff not be adminiflered; for fuch is the refinement of modern practice, that I believe many would think it much more fafe for their pro- feffional reputation to permit the vital powers to fink under the accumu- lated burden, than to prefume to relieve the blood veffels with a lancet, or clear the bowels with a purge. Bleeding is frequently made ufe of in common praUice as a remedy for plethora; and the propriety of the method is feldom queftioned. In cafes of fever without inflammation, it may fometimes prove of advan- * Mr. John Hunter fays,{{it is not meant here to recommend bleeding in this difeafe.’' See gun- fhot wounds, page 338, tage.THE EFFECTS OF BLEEDING. 13 7 tage, at a very early period of the difeafe, to diminifh the plethoric ftate of the fyftem by a Tingle bleeding; but if there is no inflammation, a An- gle repetition would be improper, as it would hazard the reduftion of the energy of the fyflem without any rational profpeft of advantage. I do not confider bleeding a proper remedy either for plethora, gout, or fever, it is only in inflammatory cafes that its falutary influence is fo particularly confpicuous. But if inflammation is connefted with plethora, gout, or fever, the connexion even with gout does not forbid the ufe of bleeding, but, on the contrary, every inftance increafes the neceflity. In plethoric habits independent of difeafe, the relief by bleeding is on- ly temporary, and the difpofldon to plethora is increafed by the remedy. Purging operates in a very different way; in the flrft inftance it emp- ties the inteftinal tube, and other parts of the abdominal vifcera partake of the evacuation; it ftimulates the excretory glands into aftion, and un- loads the fyftem through the natural emunfiories; whereas bleeding emp- ties the fyftem without exciting aftion, except that the lofs being imme- diately perceived by the conftitution, the organs of nutrition may expe- rience an increafe of appetite, and the la&eals be induced to a£t with additional avidity, and the evacuating fyftem, at the fame time, from the want of ftimulus become more lethargic. The mod falutary method of regulating the equilibrium of the confti- tution will be by obferving a due proportion of temperance and exercife, M m butTHE EFFECTS OF BLEEDING, but if the accumulation fhould fo far exceed the healthy ftandard that reduftion becomes neceflary, it is evident, that if bleeding is the mod ex- peditious remedy, it is produflive of the lead permanent advantage. 9 SECTIONSECTION VII. THE PRINCIPLES OF TOPICAL BLEEDING DEMON- STRATED, AND THE INEFFICACY EXPLAINED. "O E-FORE the difcovery of the circulation of the blood, it was more dif- ficult to form an opinion what would be the effe&s of bleeding on the fanguiferous fyflem, or to eftimate how far its influence might ex- tend. It is now near two centuries fince this difcovery was revealed to the public; and even at the prefent day it is not yet determined, whether the effefts of bleeding are limited to the parts near to that from which the blood is taken; or whether its influence is equally diflributed to all parts of the fyflem. If eight ounces of blood be taken away by the lancet, this is termed general bleeding; but if the fame quantity be taken away by cupping, or leeches, its effects are then fuppofed to be limited to the part, and this is called topical bleeding. If we were to eftimate the effe61s by the quantity independent of any other confideration, it would then be a matter of indifference what method was made ufe ofa and that would deferve the preference which was moft conve-140 THE PRINCIPLES OF convenient. But if the expedition, with which the blood is evacuated, be found to increafe its falutary influence, then the lancet will prove the moft efficacious; and this opinion is fo clearly eftablifhed on the evidence of general experience, that I believe none of the advocates for topical bleeding will prefume to affert, that they would depend alone on either cupping or leeches in a truly phlogiftic difeafe, in preference to more copious and expeditious evacuations by the lancet. In cafes of violent inflammation, where a fhort fpace of time is to de- cide the fate of the patient, and where the fuccefs depends, not only on the powers of the remedies made ufe of, but alfo in a great meafure on the expedition with which they are adminiftered: it certainly would be highly irrational to depend on the precarious fucking of a leech, or the tedious operation of a cupping glafs ; where any quantity of blood, that the urgency of the difeafe might be fuppofed to require, could be taken in a few minutes by a fingle pun£ture of a vein in the arm. It is rather fingular that Sydenham, who appears to have been fo well acquainted with the effects of bleeding, ftiould have fuppofed that, in cafes of pleurify, bleeding was more efficacious when taken from the arm on the painful fide; for, as he prafticed and wrote fubfequent to the time of Harvey, it is reafonable to fuppofe that a man of his abilities would have been too well acquainted with the courfe of the circulation to have retained fuch an irrational prejudice. The choice, once given to different veins according to the feat of the difeafe, is now I believe but little attended to; as bleeding in the cepha- lic vein, in difeafes of the head; and this is a fpecies of topical bleeding thatTOPICAL BLEEDING. 141 that would have been fupported by fuccefs in praflice. It would be bleed- ing in the arm, which is the mod; convenient and efficacious method that is made ufe of; as this fpecies of bleeding will mod expeditioufly dimi- nifh the fupply to the heart, and may be extended to any quantity, and repeated as often as neceffary. It is wrong in principle, but right in prac- tice ; whereas the other kinds of topical bleeding, made ufe of for difeafes of the brain, are not only wrong in principle, but inefficacious in pra&ice. When anatomy had difcovered that the cephalic vein had not the fup- pofed connexion with the brain, the pra&ice gradually funk into obfcu- rity. Leeches and cupping are both dill ufed for vifceral inflammation; but if we attempt to trace the connexion between the external parts from which the blood is taken and the internal, which are the feat of the difeafe, we {hall not difcover any more immediate connexion than be- tween the cephalic vein of the arm and the internal parts of the head. In addition to leeches and cupping, bleeding in the temporal artery is frequently made ufe of in affeflions of the brain; and as this is the on- ly indance of arterial bleeding that modern pra&ice * prefumes to fane* tion, this part of the fubject may with propriety be firlt determined. In this method of topical bleeding, feveral of the preceding obje&ions are avoided; as the evacuation may be made to any quantity, and with confiderable expedition, but cannot be fo frequently repeated as bleeding * It may here be neceffarv to inform thofe, who have not read every ridiculous book that has beett written on this fubjeft, that, fome years ago, an Arterietomical Quixote attempted to open the caro- tid artery, N n ioTHE PRINCIPLES OP 44® in the arm; for, when both the temporal arteries have been opened, the practice is at an end. And as difeafes of the brain frequently require more than twice, or even thrice or four times bleeding, we muft then have fome other method to apply to. But independent of thefe confiderations, bleeding in the arm appears to me to be the moft efficacious; for if the objedl of bleeding be to diminiffi the power of the heart, and the impe- tus of the circulation, it is reafonable to fuppofe, that our objedf will be belt obtained by diminiffiing the fupply to the fountain head; whereas, by opening the temporal artery, we only cut off one of the diftant branches. I am ready to acknowledge that the quantity of blood, taken from the temporal artery, will diminiffi the plethoric Hate of the conftitution; but I contend that it will not either fo effediually or fo expeditioufly dimi- niffi the a&ion of the arterial fyftem. For as the blood is difcharged from a wounded artery by the contradlion of the whole arterial fyftem, thefe veffels will, during the evacuation, adapt themfelves to the quantity, and eonfequently their power of adlion will not be diminiffied in proportion to the lofs of blood. Whereas, by diminiffiing the fupply of blood to the heart by an evacuation from the veins, the main-fpring of the circulation will be deprived of part of its power, and the a&ion of the heart and arteries inftantly abated; by one method we attack the fource of adiion, by the other we only in a Angle inftance deftroy the effedi. But the vicinity to the feat of difeafe is fuppofed to point out the tem- poral artery as a part, from which the evacuation may be made with the moft advantage. It will be impoffible to form a rational opinion on this partofthefubjedl without a previous knowledge of the anatomy of the vaf- cular♦topical bleeding* 143 cular fyftem, and the mechanifm of the circulation; and at the fame time it will be neceffary to confider, how far the diftribution of the blood de- pends on hydraulic principles; for this is the only bafis on which any rational argument can be founded, and the centre whereon the queftion ultimately ipuft turn. The temporal artery is a branch of the external carotid, which fupplies the external parts of the head with blood; the internal may be con- fidered as a correfponding branch that conveys the blood to the internal parts of the head, and ramifies through the brain. Thefe two branches differ in dimenfions ; and, in a ftate of health, the quantity of blood fent to each will be in proportion to their refpe6tive diameters. Now let us confider what will be the confequence of opening a branch of the external divifion; if the refiftance to the progrefs of the blood be not diminifhed by opening the temporal artery, the diftribution to the different veffels will continue the fame, but if the refiftance to the progrefs of the blood be diminifhed, the increafed fupply of blood to the external carotid will be in fuch proportion, that the increafed velocity may correfpond in an inverfe ratio with the diminifhed refiftance. But the moft important queftion is, from whence mufl this increafe of quantity proceed, and whether the diftribution to the internal carotid will be dimi- nifhed in proportion as the fupply to the external is increafed. We muft here recolleft, that, according to a well known Jaw in hydrof- tatics, fluids prefs equally in all dire&ions; and, confequently, their diftribution cannot be partial; the quantity that paffes the internal caro* tidTHE PRINCIPLES OE 144 tid will Hill be in proportion to the diameter of the veflels ; and the ad- ditional quantity that palfes the external carotid, in confequence of the diminifhed refinance, will be furnilhed by the original trunk of the caro- tid artery. For as there is no divifion in the whole arterial fyflem by the interpo- fition of valves, as there is in the veins, every part of the arterial fyflem will contribute to the fupply. But if any doubts fhould arife refpe6ling the propriety of this flatement, I am ready for the fake of argument to admit, ie againft my better judg- ment,” that the diflribution to the internal carotid will be diminifhed du- ring the difcharge of blood, in proportion to the increafe to the external ramification; hill the pra&ice is equally obje&ionable. For if the quan- tity fent to the brain would be diminifhed for a few minutes, whilft the blood was flowing from the temporal artery, as this branch muft be obli- terated by the preffure neceffary to flop the difcharge, confequently the quantity of blood fent to the internal carotid after the operation would be increafed in a much greater proportion than it was before diminifhed; for, as the temporal artery would no longer receive either the increafed quantity or natural proportion, an additional fupply of blood would be fent to the brain during the fubfequent progrefs of the difeafe. But if we attend to the condufl of thofe who pretend to approve this method, we {hall find that they do not depend on arterial bleeding for the cure of difeafes, but preferibe it on certain occafions, perhaps for the pur- pose of giving an air of importance to their pra£lice; for if they confider- ed145 TOPICAL BLEEDING. ed topical bleeding to be more efficacious than the common method, they would begin with it and continue it through the whole progrefs of the dif- eafe. If bleeding in the temporal artery in difeafes of the brain be more efficacious than bleeding in the arm, and a fecond evacuation be thought neceffary, this operation fhould certainly be repeated; and when both the temporal arteries have been opened, leeches and cupping might hill be made ufe of; but if topical bleeding be prefcribed only for the purpofe of giving a pleafmg variety to the method of treatment, one operation of opening the temporal artery, a {ingle application of the cupping glafs, or leeches, will be fufficient to fupport the parade of praflice; and if the parties are amufed and the dignity of the profeffion proteffed, the fcience of medicine and the life of the patient may both fink into obfcurity to- gether ; the former undeferving of our confideration, the latter as unwor- thy our concern. It is not neceffary that I fhould demonftrate the efficacy of bleeding in the arm in all cafes of true inflammatory difeafe; i i a fubjefl fuffici- ently eftablifhed on the authority of indifputable faffs, and the evidence of experience; and if topical bleeding had been found by the fame evi- dence o( fuperior efficacy, it would certainly by this time have become the general praffice, and bleeding in the arm have loft its reputation. Whatever was written in favour of topical bleeding, before the time of Harvey, muft fink under the difcovery of the circulation ; and all the fub- fequent arguments that I have met with feem to have been formed with- out any attention to the mechanifm of the vafcular fyftem, as much fo, as if the animal body was confidered fimilar to a fponge, and the blood paf- fed from one part to another by inorganic pores, O o But M146 THE PRINCIPLES OF But as the blood is feat from the heart to all parts of the body by the arteries, and is brought back to the heart by the veins, the immediate con- fequence ofbleeding mull therefore be to deprive the heart of part of the returning blood. And whether thebloodis taken from a large vein by a lan- cet, or from a fmall one by a leech, inthisrefpeXtheeffeX will be the fame; but if, according to what I believe is the general opinion, the cffeXs on the conditution are increafedby the expedition with which the evacuation is made, that method (hould be preferred by which the larged quantity of blood is taken in the (horted fpace of time. In inflammatory affeXions of the brain, lungs, Or liver, as the external veins have no immediate con- nexion with the internal parts, the only effeXs of topical bleeding mud be to prevent the return of a certain quantity of blood to the heart, and confequently cannot produce any particular efleX as a topical application, Mr. John Hunter feems fufficiently apprehenfive of the difficulty of defending thedoXrineof topical bleeding by the laws of the circulation, and has endeavoured to illuftrate the propriety of this praXice on very different principles; and as his authority defervedly (lands high in the opinion of the public, I (hall now proceed to examine fome of his obfer- vations on this fubjeX. He afferts that topical bleeding produces the * greateft effeX with the lead lofs of blood, but has not given a Angle argument in fupport of his opinion. Now this appears to me contrary to the evidence of dailv ex- perience ; for if a pound of blood be taken away from the arm in a few minutes, fainting is frequently the immediate confequence; but if the fame * I, Hunter on gun-fliot wounds, page 340. quantityTOPICAL BLEEDING® *47. quantity be taken away gradually by leeches, or cupping, the velTels have time to contraft themfelves, and the lofs is not perceived. I am well a- ware, that his objett was to produce an effeft on the difeafed part without influencing the conftitution; but to fupport this opinion it would have been neceflary, that the probability of producing fuch effe&s fhouldhave been explained. Mr. I, Hunter carries the idea of topical bleeding far beyond his pre- deceflors; theohje£t was to bleed in external parts for the purpofe of re- moving internal difeafe; but now bleeding is recommended in fuch exter- nal parts as are in a flate of inflammation. This I confider a violation of what ought to be refpe&ed as one of the mod facred laws in furgery, not to add injury to a part already in a flate of difeafe. We are told that 6f commonly little irritation follows the wound of a leech*,” it will be can- did on this occafion to fuppofe, that thefe humble branches of furgery were beneath our author’s notice; but I have frequently feen very exten- live inflammation from the bite of a leech, and have repeatedly met with inftances where large ulcerations have taken place, that have continued for three weeks or a month before they were completely healed; and I fhould prefume, thefe would not prove a very falutary addition to a frac- tured limb, or an agreeable companion in a fit of the gout; in which to- pical bleeding is recommended. In the treatment of gun-fhot wounds he fays, te it is often of fervice in the time of inflammation to bleed in the part with leeches or by pun£i- * I. Hunter on gun-fhot wound*, page 340. «res148 THE PRINCIPLES OP ures with a lancet this is a new fpecies of topical bleeding and deferveg our ferious attention. I fhould confider it a very dangerous experiment to punfture a part with a lancet already in a high ftate of inflammation; and at the fame time I cannot conjecture what would be the advantage; if we confider it as a method of evacuating the veflels of the part, it would not anfwer our expectations. If a fcarificator with fixteen lancets was made ufe of, the quantity of blood difcarged would be very infignificant if cupping glafles were not afterwards applied ; and I fhould think that the danger of increafing the inflammation would far exceed every rational profpeCt of advantage. In cafes where the inflammation is inconfiderable, it would certainly be imprudent to do more than neceflary ; and when the inflammation is very great a few punCtures with a lancet might occafion a floughing, and this endanger the Iofs of the limb, and perhaps deter- mine the fate of the patient. It appears to me a fpeculative opinion that has never yet been put in praCtice ; for if he had ever tried the experi- ment, he lhould have favoured the public with a few hiftories of its fuc- cefs. Topical bleeding is recommended in the gout; but this method of punc- turing with a lancet is not mentioned, and leeches have the preference on this occafion. When we are informed that bleeding with leeches in the gout immedi- ately eafes the pain, the fuccefs is a fufficient argument in favour of the practice; but notwithftanding this good effeCt, our candid author immedi- * I, Hunter on gun-fhot wounds, page 564. atelyTOPICAL BLEEDING. 149 ately adds a caution, that it is not meant here to recommend bleeding in the gout. But if it is a ufeful remedy why not recommend it, or if he in- tended to recommend bleeding with leeches in the part, and to difapprove bleeding in the arm with the lancet in gouty cafes, why not exprefs him- felfin intelligible language, and diftinguifh between the two? Whatever may be his opinion of general bleeding, it is evident that he approves bleeding in the part affefled, and yet his own theoretical obfervations plead againft his practical advice, as he acknowledges that the pain in the gout does not depend on the diftention of the veffels, and if the ob- je6l of topical bleeding be to evacuate the veffels of the part, in fuch in« fiances we mull in confequence infer that it cannot be neceffary. In one place he obferves *that the effe&s of bleeding cannot be ex- plained on mechanical principles, yet admits the mechanical influence before he concludes the fentence. But for the purpofe of avoiding all thefe difficulties, a new hypothefis is then brought forward; the fulnefs of the veffels is no longer referred to as a part of the difeafe, nor the e- vacuation taken into the account as a falutary effefl of bleeding. And as this new theory is not regulated by the laws of the circulation, all argu-r ments, that might be founded on the anatomy of the vafcular fyftem, ceafe to demand attention. The powers of fympathy are then brought forward in full force, and * “ If confidered in a mechanical light, as fimply leffening the quantity of blood, it cannot account' for it; becaufe the removal of any natural mechanical power, can never remove a caufe which nei- ther took its rife from, nor is fupported by it: however, in this light it may be of fome fervicej becaufe, all the attions relative to the blood’s motion will be performed with more cafe to the folids when the quantity is well proportioned.” I. Hunter on gun-fhot wounds, page 345. P p topical15° the principles of topical bleeding explained on the principles of contiguous fympathy* The Ikin of the abdomen is fuppofed to fympathize with the liver, ho- mach, and bowels, and the lungs with the integuments of the chefb He fays that, “in affefiions of the lungs bleeding oppofite to them is of fer- vice; but in fuch cafes it is not clear where the inflammation is ; for if in the pleura then it does not acl upon this principle but by continued fym- pathy In the firft place, I deny the faffs, and do not admit that bleeding near the part produces any effeft as a topical application. In cafes of perip- neumony, or pleurify, if topical bleeding was alone made ufe of, and the lancet laid afide, if one in a hundred efcaped with life, it might be looked upon as a miraculous recovery. Let it here be remembered that Syden- ham feldom cured a pleurify with lefs than the lofs of forty ounces of blood, and then confider whether this will be in general taken by the ap- plication of leeches to the fide. But as the laws of fympathy have never yet been accurately explained, it would have been a fatisfaflion to the reader if Mr. I. Hunter had fir/t explained the nature of this fympathy, and illuftrated his opinion by fome evident examples. The next obje£i fhould have been to have fhewn what would be the ef- fe6t of the bite of a leech on the fkin, and then to have proved that the transfer of this external effefi, by the medium of fympathy, would aH as an antidote on the internal difeafe; as every new hypothefis fhould at Jeaft have conne&ed argument to fupport it. * I. Hunter on gun'fhot wounds, page 339, TheTOPICAL BLEEDING# *5* The fpecies of fympathy, which is made the bafis of his argument, is certainly the moil fimple; it is in reality no more than a local affection; and if it is to have this nominal diftin&ion, it is fo limited that it can on- ly be conlidered as a part fympathizing with itfelf. If we admit that bleeding on an inflamed part will produce the effefl that he aflerts it does produce, this is no proof that bleeding on the external parts fliall by the power of fympathy relieve internal difeafe. Blifters are in general made ufe of with this intention; and in cafes of external inflammation are frequently applied to the neighbouring parts beyond the limits of difeafe; for inftance, in cafes of eryfipelas of the head and face, they are applied to the ffioulders with great advantage. But if this be an ufeful practice when applied to diftant parts, we are not to con- clude that they might be applied to the part aflefled with equal fafety and advantage; fo, by a parity of reafoning, if the application of leeches was evidently proved to be an efficacious remedy when made ufe of to the part affe&ed, this is no proof that their influence would extend from an external part which was in a date of health to an internal feat of difeafe. In one inflance we are told that topical bleeding ce a£is by continued fympathy*,” and immediately afterwards we are informed, “likewife, that contiguous fympathy comes into a£Hon,” from which it appears, that all kinds of fympathy are equally convenient for his purpofe; but the whole argument depends on the philofophy of authority, and reafon is not once appealed to. * I. Hunter on gun-fhot wounds, page 338. I muff152 THE PRINCIPLES OF I mufi acknowledge that we afterwards meet with two very curious ex* amples, one of continuous fympathy, the other of contiguous fympathy; which for the fatisfaclion of the reader it will be right to notice. In one infiance the difeafe was cured by a local application, in the other the re- medy was applied to a difiant part. Our ingenious author obferves, “we have the cramp in the leg cured by a gentle irritation round the lower , part of the thigh, fuch as a garter, which may be faid to arife from deriva» tion or fympathy this muft certainly be acknowledged to be a firiking example of the fuccefsful application of the remedy to the part affedied. The next is an illuftration of the do£trine of fympathy hill more inftruc- tive: he fays, “I have known, in a nervous girl, a pain in one arm cured by rubbing the other.” The pain was in one arm, the remedy was applied to the other; any perfon, lefs converfant with the laws of fympathy, would in all probability have applied the remedy to the part in pain; and con- fequently if the fuccefs depended on the remedy being applied to a dif- tant part, both dodtor and patient muff certainly have been difappointed. But the girl was nervous, and much might depend on that circumftance; it therefore becomes a queftion of fome importance, and well worthy the attention of the curious, to determine where the rubbing ought to have been applied if the girl had not been nervous. And if the folution of this queftion is neceflary to a full inveftigation of the laws of fympathy, and topical bleeding is to be explained on the fame principles, we muft not expedl the dodlrine of topical bleeding to be eftablilhed on a permanent bafts, until this important queftion is decided. Leeches are fometimes made ufe of in ecchymofts; but although Mr. * I. Hunter on gun-fhot wounds, page 353* John*53 TOPICAL BLEEDING John Hunter has given fotne * lingular inftances of this difeafe, he does not recommend this practice. Whether leeches would or would not be ufeful on fuch occafions is a queftion of no great importance to the doc- trine of topical bleeding, as the order of the circulation is here violated, and the blood efcaped from its natural boundaries; every one, who has attended to this branch of pra&ice, mufi have feen frequent inflances where ecchymolis has been produced by leeches, and perhaps it is more frequently the caufe of this difeale than the means of cure. I believe it is a remedy that is in high reputation in the higher circles, and as it may prove an innocent amufement where a gentleman has been fo unfortunate CASE. * “Mrs. B~~t fell backwards and pitched upon a pail which was behind her, and the left labium pu» dendi flruck againfl its handle with the whole weight of her body. Within five minutes after the accident, the bruifed part fwelled to as great a degree as the fkin would allow ; from which fudden appearance of the fwelling, and the feeling of fluctuation, I con- cluded that blood had been extravafated by the rupture or forne finall artery. I bled her, and defired a poultice to be applied to the part, in order to keep the fkin as eafy as poflible under fuch diftention. Believing the tumor to arife from extravafated blood, I did not chufe to open It, that the bleed- ing might be fooner flopped by the preffure of the extravafated blood againfl the fides of the cavity. Some hours after the accident the fkin burft, and a good deal of blood came away. On examiningthc wound I found the opening of confiderable fize, leading into a cavity as large as the egg of a goofe, and filled with coagulated blood, which I did not remove for the reafon given above, that it might affifl in flopping the veffels which were flill bleeding. The poultice was continued, the blet ling gradually became lefs ; and every time I examined the part, I found the cavity diminifhed, but flill filled with coagulated blood, which continued to be pufhed out of the wound, and after fome time a flough came off from the bruifed fkin, which enlarged the fize of the wround. About a fortnight after the accident the parts were all fo much collapfed, as to have forced out the blood entirely, and there feemed only a fuperficial fore, not above an inch long and half an inch wide. This praflice fhould be generally followed in fuch cafes of ecchymofis,” I. Hunter on gun-fhot wounds, page 196 and 197, Qq toTHE PRINCIPLES OF *54' to get a black eye, which in mod infiances time alone would cure, I fliall not attempt either to prevent the patient the fatisfattion of being impo- fed upon, or deprive the burgeon of an apology for his fee. I do not pre- tend to affert that the application of leeches is never neceffary; they are frequently made ufe of with certain good effects to infants in many in- fiances where it would be impoffible to bleed with the lancet. I am ready to acknowledge that it is frequently a difficult bufinefs to bleed young children with a lancet, and that fometimes it is impoffible; but I am apprehenfive that the fear of difappointment has too ofien pre- vented the attempt having been made, where the operation might have been performed with eafe and fafety; and I am well convinced that I have met with repeated inftances in very young children where their lives depended on this operation. It is fometimes attended with difficulties in more advanced periods of life, but when the neceffity becomes fo important that the life of the pa- tient depends on the fuccefs of the operation, every inferior confiderati- on muff then appear unworthy of our attention. The mofl dexterous furgeon that ever took a lancet in his hand may be difappointed in the firfl attempt; but this is not a fufficient apolo- gy why the operation fhould not be performed, as I cannot form an idea of any profeffional difgrace equal to that of letting a patient die for want of bleeding. That I may not appear fingular in this ffatement of the dif- ficulties of performing this operation, I fhall once more beg leave to ap- peal to the authority of Mr. Bell; at the fame time I mufi acknowledge, that155 TOPICAL BLEEDING# tbat the opinion he has given on this fubjeff appears to me to be a libel on the profeffion'*. But whether the difficulties are real or imaginary, if leech- es are made ufe of as a fubftitute for the lancet, it is the general effeft of the evacuation on the fyftem that produces the falutary confequences and not their topical application. This method of bleeding is fuppofed by fome to be ufeful under a variety of circumftances ; in cafes of hemorr- hoidal varix it is frequently recommended, and I ffiall not on this occa- fion prefume to doubt that it may fometimes prove a convenient applica- tion. But all thefe inftances are unconnefled with the the theory of topical bleeding. I have frequently bled children with leeches till they have fainted, and have continued the evacuation in adults for feveral hours until the quan- tity has been very considerable, and produced evident effe61s on the con- ftitution. It would be impoffible to afcertain the lofs of blood in fuch in- fiances, but as the evacuation is flow, it is probable that the patient would bear a greater lofs by this method than that by the lancet; but if the quan- * “Blood-letting, whether we confider it as to its influence on the fyftem, or with refpett to the nicenefs and even difficulty of the mode ufually employed for effe&ing it, is perhaps one of the mod important operations in furgery. From its being fo frequently-put in praftice, and from every pre- tender to any knowledge in the healing art being able to perform it without any apparent difficulty, the public have been induced to confider it as trivial with rcfpetl to its execution; but every prac- titioner of chara&er mull acknowledge, that, in order to perform this operation properly, the greeted: nicety, fteadinefs, and exa&nefs, are neceflary. All the other operations in furgery I have frequent- ly feen well performed ; but I can with freedom fay, that I have feldom feen blood-letting with the lancet done very correftly : When properly performed it is really a neat operation ; but when not done with exaftnefs, it is the very reverfe.” Bell’s fyftem of furgery, page 77 and 78. tity156 ' TOPICAL BLEEDING. ' « tity is larger when taken very gradually, the effe6l is not inflantaneous or great in proportion to the quantity. There is no doubt but the lofs of a pound or two of blood will have con- hderable effeft on the conftitution, whether it be taken by the lancet or by any other method; what I contend for is, that its effefts mud be ge- neral, and not limited to the part from which it is taken. The effects of this operation will depend principally on the quantity that is taken away, and the expedition with which the blood is evacuated; as the falutary in- fluence of every kind of bleeding, in inflammatory difeafes, will be regu- lated by thefe circumftances, and, for this purpofe, the lancet is the only inflrument by which thefe important objefls can be accomplifhed. But fo long as topical bleeding may ferve to decorate a phyfician’s pre- fcription, toamufe the patient, or impofe upon his friends, to procure a fee to the furgeon, or add a charge to the apothecary’s bill, it is certain to be fupported, in oppofition to all the arguments that reafon or philofophy may advance againfi: it. l SECTIONSECTION VIII. THE HISTORICAL EVIDENCE OF THE EFFECTS OF THE BARK IN CASES OF MORTIFICATION. TT THEN a theory is formed firff, and cafes afterwards colIeHed in fup- ^ ^ port of it, we too often find that the fafts are adjufted to the par- ticular purpofe; and I am well convinced that this fpecies of mifrepre- fentation frequently takes place without defign. Thepra&iceof phvfic and furgery is a fubjeft: that is at beft obfcure, and in many infiances it will be very difficult for the moft candid obferver to difcriminate with ac- curacy; but, when a writer has any favourite opinion to fupport, it will be much more difficult either to judge with impartiality or to deferibe with truth. The examples, that will appear in evidence on this occafion, will fuffi- ciently juftify the propriety of this affertion, and illuftrate the difficulty of diftinguilhing between the effe&s of medicine and the uninterrupted progrefs of the operations of nature. The prefent queftion depends alone on written evidence, and the whole argument refts upon the authority of unalterable records, that cannot be made fubfervient to the accommoda- tion of fpeculative hypothefis. R r WhenHISTORICAL EVIDENCE. 158 When Mr. Sharp published his critical Enquiry in the year 17505 the bark had then been ufed as a remedy in mortifications for more than thir- ty years. He was a man of extenfive information and found judgment, and might jufily be confidered as prefiding at the head of his profeffion: he had for many years been a teacher of anatomy, and furgeon to Guy's hofpital, where he had frequent opportunities of feeing the effects of this new method of praflice; and yet, after deliberately examining the fubjefi, he gives it as his decided opinion that the bark was not an efficacious remedy in cafes of mortification. This publication of Mr. Sharp’s im- mediately became a fubjeft of general attention, and is mentioned by mofl fucceeding writers; but the above obfervations have I believe never yet been noticed, and the bark has been made ufe of for thefe lafl fifty years with the fame blind enthufiafm, as if his obje&ions had never made their appearance. About the year feventy-nine*, Mr. Pott publifhed his obfervations on the mortification of the toes and feet, and pointedly denies the efficacy of the bark in this fpecies of difeafe. Now if we examine the cafes that have been recorded on this fubjefi, where the bark was fuppofed to flop the progrefs of the difeafe; we fhall find that moff of the inffances were of this kind, in which Mr. Pott afferts that it is not efficacious. Mr. Sharp obferves that mortification frequently flops fpontaneoufly, independent of the influence of medicine; and if, agreeably to Mr. Pott’s opinion, the bark has no influence in cafes of mortification of the toes and feet, the inference is unqueflionable that, in all thefe cafes that were fup- • Pott’s chirurgical works, fecond edition, 1 fjg, pofedHISTORICAL EVIDENCE. 159 pofed t@ have been cured by the bark, the difeafes muft have flopped fpon- taneoufly. Mr. Pott, having diflinguifhed this particular fpecies of dif- eafe, is more limited in this idea than Mr. Sharp, but we may confider the two as concurring opinions in favour of the prefent arguments. The mortification of the toes and feet is certainly as much difpofed to flop fpontaneoufly, as any other kind of mortification; and it is to this fpe- cies of aifeafe, that Mr. Sharp alludes in fupport of his affertion. But as I wifh to give a tuli and clear fiatement of this argument, and at the fame time avoid all fufpicion of mifreprefentation, I fhall here give Mr. Sharp’s opinion in his own words. He fays, “The other method of deflroying Mortifications, either by the potential Cautery or the Knife, are fo defervedly exploded, that I fhall not enquire into their Merits: But there has lately flarted up in Great Britain a new Praftice of treating this Complaint, which at prefent makes fome noife in the other Parts of Europe, and is therefore worth our At- tention. Every body will immediately conclude, that I mean the Cortex Peruvianus, which within thefe few years has been fo exalted for its Vir- tues in flopping a gangrene, that the Cautery itfelf was not more efleem- ed amongfl the Ancients, than is this medicine by fome of the Moderns. I know it will be looked upon by many, as a kind of Scepticifm, to doubt the Efficacy of a Remedy, fo well attefled by fuch an infinity of Cafes, and yet I fhall frankly own, I have never clearly to my Satisfaction met with any evident Proofs of its Preference to the Cordial Medicines ufu- ally preferibed, though I have a long time made Experiment of it with a view to fearch into the Truth, “ Perhapsl6o HISTORICAL EVIDENCE* *e Perhaps it may feem flrange thus to difpute aDo&rine eftablifhed on what is called Matter of Fa£l; but I fhall here obferve, that in the Prac- tice of Phylic and Surgery, it is often exceedingly difficult to afcertain a Fa£l. Prejudice or want of Abilities fometime mifleads us in our Judg- ment where there is evidently a right and a wrong; but in certain Cafes to diftinguifh how far the Remedy and how far Nature operate, is probably above our difcernment: In Gangrenes particularly, there is frequently fuch a Complication of unknown Circumflances as cannot but tend to de- ceive an unwary obferver. Mortifications anfmg from mere Cold, Com- preffion, or Stricture, generally ceafe upon removing the Caufe, and are therefore feldom proper Cafes for proving the power of Bark; Howe- ver there are two kinds of Gangrene, where Internals have a fairer trial; thofe are a fpreading Gangrene from an internal Caufe, and a fpreading Gangrene from violent external Accidents, fuch as Gun-fhot Wounds, compound Fra6lures, &c. Yet even here we cannot judge of their Ef- fect with abfolute certainty; for fometimes a Mortification from internal Caufes is a kind uf critical Difordcr: There fcems to be a certain portion of the Body deftined to perifli and no more; of this we have an infinity of Examples brought into our Hofpitals, where the Gangrene flops at a particular Point, without the leafl affifiance from Art; the fame thing happens in the other Species of Gangrene from violent Accidents, where the Injury appears to be communicated to a certain Diflance and no far- ther, though by the way I fhall remark in this place, contrary to the re- ceived Opinion, that Gangrenes from thefe Accidents, (where there has been no previous ftraitnefs of Bandage), are as often fatal as thofe from internal caufes. As I have here ftated the Fa&; we fee how difficult it is to afcertain the161 HISTORICAL EVIDENCE. the real Efficacy of this Medicine: But had Bark in any degree thofe wonderful Effe&s in Gangrenes, which it has in periodical Com- plaints, its preeminence would no more be doubted in the one Cafe than in the other. What in my Judgment feems to have raifed its Charafler fo high, are the great numbers of fingle Obfervations publifhed on this Subject, the Authors of which not having frequent Opportunities of feeing the iffue of this diforder, under the ufe of cordials, &c. and fome of them perhaps prejudiced with the common Suppofition that every ’’Gangrene is of itfelf mortal, have therefore afcribed a marvellous influ- ence to the Bark when the event has proved fuccefsful*.” The fir ft cafe of mortification, in which the bark was tried by Mr. Rufh- worth of Northampton, was evidently the fame fpecies of difeafe that is mentioned by Mr. Pott; but in the former inftance it was attended with an intermittent fever, on which account the bark feems firft to have been direfled. As this cafe is the bafts of this celebrated pra£lice, as fuch it certainly deferves attention. Mr. Rufhworth fent a printed letter to the mafters and governors of the furgeons company in London, dated O&ober 18, 1731, in which he gives the following account of his ufing the bark in mortifications. t£In the Year 1715,1 was fent for to aManwho hada Mortification on the foot from an internal Caufe: The Fever was very high, attended with the irregular Pulfe that is ufual in the Cafe. I made deep Incifions in the mortified Part to the bone, and fcarrified all round as far as there was a- ny Inflammation,and ufed the common Applications; upon which theFe- * Sharp’s critical enquiry, page 255, S f verHISTORICAL EVIDENCE. 162 ver abated, the Pulfe became not only calm, but alfo regular, and in a few Days I had a Digeftion at the Edges: I was oblidged to leave it to the Care of an Apothecary, but in a fhort Time I was fent for again, the Fever being returned, and the Part mortified higher: I ufed the fame Method as before, with the fame Succefs: but all the former Symptoms returned the third Time ; but upon repeating the fame Method again, ceafed : I thought it to no Purpofe to take off the Leg, having too often found Re- turns after it, the Fault being in the Blood and Juices. “But Providence now firjt directed me to order the Bark in this Cafe, (whilft there was a Remifiion of the Fever), it anfwered beyond what I expe£led, the Fever no more returned; the Leg was taken off, and I faw the Perfon well and lufty many Years afterwards ; and I have fince feve- ral Times had the Experience of the good Effe6ls of it in the like Cafes, which has been no fmall Satisfa&ion to me.” This is a curious cafe, and though limited to lefs than two fmall pages, it evidently proves how much thefe cafe writers were difpofed to impoleupon themfelves, and afterwards transfer the impofition on the public. I do not accufe them of criminality of intention; it is the head, and not the heart that becomes the objefl of our difapprobation. But, wherever the caufe may have originated, the confequence muft ever prove an impe- diment to the progrefs of fcientific inveftigation ; and if fome of the firfl; writers on this fubjedfl have unfortunately been impofed upon by the de- lufive charms of imaginary difcovery, 1 {hall leave thofe readers to defend themfelves, who have become participators in this fyftem of imperfeflion. Firfl we are told that this was a mortification in the foot from an inter- nal i163 HISTORICAL EVIDENCE. The nal caufe, in which Mr. Pott afferts that the bark is not efficacious ; nor does it appear from this inflance that the bark was produ&ive of any fa- int ary confequences; for Mr. Rufhworth obferves that the difeafe was cu- red by incifions and fcarifications. But let us here attend to the manner in which thefe operations were performed; deep incifions were made in the mortified parts to the bone. If the mortification reached the bone, the incifions would do no harm, but if the incifions exceeded the limits of the mortification they would then be prejudicial. I fhall not attempt to determine what diftinftion fhouldbe made on this occafion between inci- fions and fcarifications, but we are then informed that he fcarrified all round, as far as there was any inflammation : if thefe fcarifications were made on an inflamed part, they would certainly aggravate the difeafe, if they were on the parts already dead, they were both ufelefs and unnecef- fary. But by incifions, fcarifications, and the common applications, the fever abated, the pulfe became calm and regular, and digeftion was procured. Yet the difeafe in a fhort time returned, and the fame remedies were made ufe of with fimilar fuccefs. The difeafe returned a third time, and the fame plan of treatment again fucceeded. He does not fay that the difeafe re- turned a fourth time, but he fays providence now (I fuppofe he means af- ter the third cure was accomplifhed) dire£fed me to order the bark in this cafe, whilfl there was a remiffion of the fever; and then adds, “that it anfwered beyond what he expe&ed, the fever no more returned;” from which we find, that the bark was given in this cafe after the recove- ry ; but, notwithflanding the perfeftion of this cure, the leg was taken off.164 HISTORICAL EVIDENCE. The firft obfervation that he makes, after the third cure was accom- plifhed, is to exprefs his difapprobation of amputation; yet after this third cure is fuppofed to have been confirmed, and the return of difeafe prevented by this new remedy, which was never given be- fore under fimilar circumfiances, the limb was amputated without any additional caufe being affigned, or any reafon urged in defence of the ope- ration. Such are the merits of the firft cafe that the hiftory of furgery has recorded on this important fubjedf. The glorious uncertainty of the law has long been an object of general admiration; and I flatter myfelf that the prefent illuftrious example, and the evidence that I (hall after- wards have occafion to examine, will fatisfadtorily prove that the pradtice of phyfic and furgery have equal claim to the fame honorary diftindlions. The next year, Mr. Rufhworth reprinted the forementioned letter, with a letter to Serjeant Amyand, in which he fays, “I beg leave juft to men- tion that leaving off the Bark too foon, a Patient of mine had a Return of the Mortification, in about five Days Time, but fcarifying and repeating it, I prefently had the good Effedf of it again, and fhe is now perfedily re- covered; and though fhe had a very ill Habit of Body before, is now much better than file had been for feveral Years, though fhe is Fifty Years of Age.5’ If we compare this cafe with the former we fhall find that in both in- ftances the difeafe returned : in the former the difeafe was three times cured with fcarifications without bark, in this fcarifying and bark were both made ufe of, and the patient perfectly recovered. In165 HISTORICAL EVIDENCE. In page 35 of the fame pamphlet, he fays, <f It is neceflary that I inti- mate to all furgeons what I have mentioned to our Company, that I would not be mifunderflood by my printed Letter, as if the Bark would anfwer in Mortifications from all internal Caufes ; for in fome it is not proper, as Surgeons may eafily fuggeft to themfelves.” From which it is evident that this new method of treatment was not a!» ways attended with fuccefs; but that thebark may not be deprived of any of thefe newly difcovered virtues, the want of fuccefs is attributed to the na- ture of the difeafe, and not to the inefficacy of the remedy. If by morti- fications from internal caufes he means the mortifications of the toes and feet, this evidence will then coincide with Mr. Pott’s opinion on the fame fubjedL It is evident that one motive for mentioning this fecond editi- on, was for the purpofe of introducing Serjeant Amyand, who was one of the profeffional heroes of the day; whofe letter to Mr. Kufhworth is dated July 29, 1732, in which he gives the following account of his fuc- cefs in giving the bark in mortifications, “lam now to acknowledge yours of the 17th. inftant, and to acquaint you, that from your Example I have given the Bark in all Mortifications with fuch Succefs, as has encouraged the Gentlemen you mentioned to adminifter it. I have now under my Care a Gentleman of 78, who owes his Life to that Medicine. His Cafe was at firfl a Gangrene after a Phleg- mon : the ufual means feemed to have removed the Danger, but the Fe- ver continuing without Remiffion or Intermiffion, Sphacelus foon appear- ed, which nothing did flop the progrefs of till the Bark was ufed, and in twenty-four hours, and lefs, the Separation begun with a laudable Pus, T t The166 HISTORICAL EVIDENCE, The fame Thing happened to a Jew whofe Sphacelus had got ground for three Weeks, in fpite of all means, where feveral Surgeons were con- cerned. “I have now ufed it in Seven Cafes the Circumftances in each being different, and yet in all the Bark has taken Effefl: Even within thefe few Days, to Mr. Delenor, who kept the Bagnio in St. James s Street, in whom a Mortification happened, after feveral punflures in Dropfical Legs, the Bark flopped the progrefs in lefs than twenty-four Hours, and the Sloughs began to feparate: but the patient having a Jaundice, and fpent with Evacuations, it revived and came into the other Leg; of which, though he died, yet the Power of the Bark was fo plain, that from this and the other Cafes, I think it evident, that we may be as fure of get- ting the better of, or at leafl of flopping a Mortification from an inter- nal Caufe by the Bark, as conquering an ague thereby.” The firfl of thefe cafes is faid to be a gangrene, after a phlegmon, which changed to a fphacelus, and was cured by the bark in twenty-four hours; the fecond is a fimilar cafe that continued for three weeks. If we look back to Mr, Sharp’s opinion, we {hall find that he particu- larly mentions fpreading gangrenes, as proper examples for determining the point in queflion ; but if this was a fpreading gangrene, its progrefs was very flow, as it lafled for three weeks before the bark was made ufe of. We are then informed that he had ufed the bark in feven cafes, and that of Mr. Delenor is added; but if we are to judge of the whole evidence by that before us, we fhall find it very difficult to form a fatisfa&ory opi- nion, or draw a rational conclufion. This167 HISTORICAL EVIDENCE. This laft cafe was a mortification of the integuments from diftention and debility, and it is very evident from this fhort defcription, that the patient had a difeafed liver; under which circumftances the bark was in- admiftible, and the event which was not in the power of medicine to guard againft explained the whole. But Mr. Amyand concluded with expref- fing his unlimited confidence of the powers of the bark in mortifications from an internal caufe, though Mr. Rufhworth had juft before given a con- trary opinion. I fhall not attempt to reconcile this difference of opinion, I only wifh to obferve that the want of coincidence muft invalidate their authority. Mr. Douglas in the fame year publifhed two cafes of mortification of the toes and feet, in one the bark was given and the patient recovered; in the other the bark was not given and the patient died. This pamphlet contains only forty-eight pages; but if any one will aflert that he can read this little book without great entertainment and confiderable inftru&ion, I fhall prefume to obferve in reply that fuch a reader muft be void of tafte and deftitute of penetration. There is certainly an uncommon de- gree of plainnefs pervading the whole, but it is adorned with that grace- ful fimplicity, which always decorates the truth. The plan and progrefs of the confultation, the prejudice of the phyfician, his conteft with the fur- geons, the intrufion of a friend, the impertinence of the lawyer, the anx- iety of a prefumptive heir. See. &c. prefent a wide and fertile field offpe- culation for the moralift, the hiftorian, or philofopher. But if it does not appear in the fame pleafing light to others, I fhall be happy, when op- portunity ferves, to write a volume of commentaries on Mr. Douglas’s little pamphlet. AsHISTORICAL EVIDENCE. i68 As this cafe is in many refpe&s particularly interefting, and as the treat- ment was conduced by Tome of the firfl furgeons of that period, I {hail not attempt an abridgment, but give an exa£i copy of the whole. OBSERVATION OF. A MORTIFICATION STOPPED BY THE BARK; by Mr. JOHN DOUGLAS. ec April 22, 1732,1 was fent for about 15 Miles out of Town, to vifit a Gentleman,a little turned of Fifty, where I met Dr. Newington of Green- wich, and Mr. Wade, Surgeon and Apothecary, of Bromley. Upon Ex- amination, I found the Back of his Right Foot mortified near the middle Toes, about the breadth of a Shilling, the Small of the fame Leg being pretty much tumified, and pitted a little in fome Places ; his Pulfe quick, and his Tongue dry. Upon Enquiry whether he had received any Bruife, Wrench, or Wound, he anfwered, not as he remembered; but fome per- rons about him talked of a flraight Shoe, which he had complained of fome time before, which there was no Strefs to be laid on : Therefore we were all of opinion that it proceeded from an internal Caufe, The Dreffings being prepared, I began to fcarify on the mortified part, and cut to the Bones without giving him any pain. I then continued the Tncifions through the Skin, all over the Back of the Foot, which was a little tumified; without his difcovering the leaft Senfe of feeling, which didl6g HISTORICAL EVIDENCE. did not a little furprife me, the Skin looking perfectly fair: I then went on all over the Fore Part of the Small of his Peg, whence we had a con- fiderable Difcharge of a fort of bloody Water, but there was hill no Sen- fation; therefore I proceeded as high as the Gartering below Knee, when he began to complain a little, and pure Blood followed the Knife: His Limb was then well duped with a ftrong Fomentation, and the Wounds drelfed with Pledgets armed with Digeftive, and dipped in hot 01. Tereb, over them was applied a Poultice made of Oatmeal, Stale Beer, and Ther Lond. 1 *‘He was then carried to Bed, and the Doctor wrote thus: R, Conf. Raleigh, drachmum dimidium. Pulv. e. Chil. C. C. Rad. Serp. v. aa fcrupulum dimidium. Conf. Alkerm. q. s. f. Bol. 4ta. quaq. hora fumend. fuperbibend. Cock. 4. Jalap. Sequent. R. Aq. Lad. Cerafor. Nig. Theriacal. aa uncias tres. Syr. Croc, drachmasfex. m.f. Julap. Bibat fcri lad. Aq. Ther. Alter at. Copiofe, “ As foon as we withdrew into another Room, the Company afited me what I thought of the Gentleman’s Cafe? I told them, I thought he was in very great danger, not only as it proceeded from an internal Caufe, but V v becaufei 70 HISTORICAL EVIDENCE. becaufe it had fpread fo far in fo little Time. Upon which they replyed. We hope you will not take it amifs if we fend to London, for farther Ad- vice: I anfwered, No not I, far from it, I defire you would. Upon which being, defired to Name the Perfon to be fent for, I wrote down fe- veral Surgeons Names of the beft Note in London, viz. Serjeant Dickins, William Chefelden, Efq. Mr. Fern, Mr. Petty, &c. and told them they might choofe any of them they thought fit. April 23. “This Morning Serjeant Dickins and Mr. Chefelden came down, and after they had feen and examined the Patient, they told him that every Thing had been done for him which was proper; that the Pro- grefs of the Difeafe appeared to be flopped, and that he had nothing to do but to go on in the fame Method. 24. “His Pulfe was much the fame as before, and the Mortification did not feem to fpread. Dr. Newington wrote as follows: / R. Conf Raleigh. Lap. Contrayerv. aa fcrupulum unum. Syr. Croc. q. s. f. Bol. §ta. quaq; hora fumend. Superbibend. Coch. iv. Julap. Prefcript. 25. “ His Fever was high, his Tongue dry, and the Mortification be- gan to fpread a little, I fcarified it deep, and dreffed warm. AprilHISTORICAL EVIDENCE. 171 April 26. “ I could not perceive that the Mortification had made any further Progrefs. The Docfor wrote thus: R. Decod, Commun. Glyjlerii. uncias odo. 01. Chamcem. Syr. Violar. aa uncias duas. f. Enema hoc Vefpere Injiciend. R. Pulv. e Chel. c. c.fcrupulum ununi. Croc. Anglican. Confect. Raleigh, aa fcrupulum dimidium. Syr. Caryopk. q. s. f Bol. Sexta quaq; hora fumend. Superbib. Coch, iv. Julap. Seq. R. Aq. Lad. Alex. Menth. aa uncias quatuor^ Theriacal. uncias tres. Syr. Croc, drachmas fex f. Julap. 27. “His Fever increafed, and the Mortification fpread crofs the Toes, towards the Ball of the Foot which I fcarified deep, and dreffed as before. 28. “The Mortification hill got Ground, therefore I had Recourfe to the A6lual Cautery, with which I burned where-ever it was corrupted. 29. “I found no Benefit from the A6lual Cautery, for the Mortification See. increafed, fo that I told thofe about him, I had no hopes of his Life: TheyHISTORICAL EVIDENCE. ly2 They immediately replyed, What! Would not taking off his Limb fave him P No, I laid, I did not think it would: But advifed them to fend for the two Gentlemen they had confulted before, and if they thought taking off the Leg would give him any better Chance for his Life, I would do it. So I was defired to bring them next Day. v ■* April 30. "This Morning, Dr. Newington, Serjeant Dickins, Mr. Qhefelden, Mr. Wade, and myfelf, met in his Chamber, and found his Fe- ver very high, his Tongue dry, enough to grate a nutmeg, his Vifage wild, a great Drought upon him, very reftlefs, the Mortification fpread as far as the Tend. Achill. and he complained alfo of a Hardnefs and Pain in one Side of his Belly. After withdrawing, we were all of opinion, that taking off his Limb would be of no Ufe, and that in all Probability he could not live 24 hours longer. "Upon this Serjeant Dickins faid, Gentlemen, you fee we can do no- thing in this deplorable Cafe, with warm Applications, Incifions, or Fire; Mr. Douglafs has already ufed them fufficiently, and the Do£lor has di- refted the internal Medicines ufually preferibed by Phyficians in thefe Cafes; neverthelefs, the Difeafe, inftead of abating, gets Ground: I would therefore recommend the Trial of the Bark, which has had furpri- fing Effects in Mortifications, as I am informed by Serjeant Amy and, a Gentleman, you all know, of the greateft Integrity and Honour, who has experienced it feveral Times in very defperate Cafes: It has alfo been fuccefsfully given for the fame Purpofe by Mr. Rujkworth, a Surgeon in Northampton; but I can fay nothing to it from my own Knowledge or Experience; however, I think, in our prefent Cafe, bad as it is, if it does noHISTORICAL EVIDENCE. *73 no Good, it can do no Harm; Mr. Chefdden was of Opinion that it would do no Harm, but added, that he had never heard of its being ferviceablc in fuch Complaints; nor did he believe that This, or any Other Medicine, would fucceed in the prefent Cafe: Nay, fays he, if the Bark has ever done good in Mortifications, it is not giving it fair Play, to expe6t any thing from it in fuch a one as This. tf I told Serjeant Dickins, I had never heard that the Bark was admi- niftered in Mortifications before; but, fince he had fo good Authority for it, which, in my opinion, was much the fame as his own Experience, and fince it was the Extreme Remedy, I was for having it given as foon as pof- fible. 45 Dr. Newington faid, we might give him what we pleafed; but, in his Opinion, he would not live till the next Day. “ However, Mr. Wade being alfo defirous of making Trial of the Bark, did a little Time afterwards defire the DoCtor to write down a form for that Purpofe; which the Do&or refufed, alledging it to be a Pra&ice fo much out of the way, that he would not have it feen under his Hand. Which is not at allJlrange, conjidering it zoas a medicine cooked up by a Par- cel of Surgeons who had no Authority except experience to alter the ejlab- lijhed PraQice. However, it was given that fame Evening, in the follow- ing manner. R, Cort, Peruvian, opt. Subtilifs. pulv, drachmam dimidiam. Conf. Alkerm. q. s. f. Bol. ^ta, quaq; hor.fumend. W w tc When1 174 HISTORICAL EVIDENCE# te When I went Home, I defired the Servants, if he died in the Night, to acquaint me with it early next morning. May l. <eI returned about Noon, but inflead of finding him dead, as I expedled, they told me at the Door, he had had a fine Night: I went immediately up to his Chamber, and found a furprifing Alteration for the better. His pulfe was calm, his Tongue moifter, the Wildnefs of his Countenance gone, and he faid he had relied much better than any other Night from the beginning of his Diforder. When I opened his Leg I found the Mortification had made no further Progrefs. He had then taken but four or five dofes of the Bark. The Dodlor fuppofing him to be dead did not come. 2. <e He was Hill better, and we had a fmall Difcharge from the fore. He had had five or fix fmall Stools. Therefore Mr. Wade and I agreed to add three Drops of Laud. Liq. to each Bolus of the Bark, which foon anfwered the End. 3. I found two large Abfcejfes formed, one on each Ankle. The in- nermoft being biggeft, I opened it firft, and had about four or five Ounces of good Pus : Then I opened the other, and found near the fame Quan- tity of Matter. I could now thrull my fore Finger with Eafe, through from the Internal to the External Wound, between the Tend. Achill. and the Bones of the Tarfus, notwithdanding the outermoll Tumour fubfided but very little after opening the innermoll. “Thus the Violence of the Fever being taken off by the Bark, Nature wasHISTORICAL EVIDENCE.’ ±75 Was enabled to form thefe AbfceJJes, which was an infallible Sign that the Progrefs of the Mortification was flopped* We then ordered the Bark fhould be given only every fix Hours. May 4. <e This Morning Serjeant Die kins and Mr. Chefelden called at my Houfe, and I acquainted them with the extraordinary Change in our Patient, fince he had taken the Bark: They were both agreeably furprifed, and pleafed to hear of that wonderful and fpeedy Alteration for the better: Nay, Mr. Chefelden could not but own, that the Bark had refeued him from the Jaws of Death. Soon after I parted from them, I fet out to vifit my Patient: When I got thither, I found his Pulfe high- er, his Tongue a little Dry, and the Difcharge rather Iefs than the day before: Therefore we ordered the Bark to be given again every four hours, and a Glafs of dry Madera Wine after it. 5. “I found his Pulfe regular, the Digeflion Plentiful and laudable, his Countenance ferene &c. . 6. “ I found him very uneafy, and his Pulfe quicker than the Day be- fore; therefore enquired whether he had taken the Bark, as direfted: Yes, yes, faid they, he has not miffed taking it once; that is not the Caufe of his Diforder, he has been talked to too much, and upon a very impro- per Subje6l. Upon Enquiry by whom, and about what, I found that a Limb of the Law had thrufl himfelf into his Room, whether his Atten- dants would or no, and when there, had Modefly enough to tell him, not- withflanding the weak Condition he was in. That he had brought a Gen- tleman to his Houfe, who, in his Opinion, had the belt Title to his Eflate, &c.Ij6 HISTORICAL EVIDENCE." Sic, Pretty Difcourfe indeed! People that are in perfeft Health, do not care to hear of Heirs, efpecially ftrange ones, much lefs when dange- roufly ill. I then gave drift Charge to thofe about him, that nobody fhould be admitted to talk to him about any thing but his Health. May 7. “ I found his Pulfe in good Order; the Digeftion plentiful &c. 8. “His four little Toes being entirely mortified, I cut them off. 9. “Icut off his great Toe, and defired him to eat, and drink more freely, and continue the Bark as before. 11. “Dr. Newington, who had not been to vifithim fince the 30th. of April, called, and was very well pleafed to find fuch an Alteration in our Patient, and defired us to go on in the fame Way. 14. “Mr. Chefelden came to my Koufe, and acquainted me, that he Was a going to vifit my Patient. I afked him who gave him fuch Inftruc- tions without my Knowledge or Defire? He replied. One of the Heirs to my Patient’s Eftate (who, I fuppofe, was afraid he was not taken fuf- ficient Care of) had defired him to go. I allured him that there was at pre- fent no need of a Confultation, otherwife I fhould have fent to Serjeant Dickins, and him too : Therefore I hoped, he that fent him would pay him ; and if fo, he might fend half a Score every Day, if he thought fit. So we went together. When the Patient’s Leg was undreffed, and Mr. Chefelden faw a plentiful and laudable Difcharge, from all the Wounds whichHISTORICAL EVIDENCE* *71 which had been made, a total Separation between the living and the dead Parts, and the Sloughs hanging like Tatters of Rags all about; he could not help (hewing his Surprife at a Sight he had fo little Expe&ation of when there laft, viz. on the 30th. of April. He then told the Gentleman, his Leg was in as good a Way as poffible, and there was no more to be done, but to go on. May 18. “ He had two large Stools in the Morning, and a great DiL charge from his Wounds, which I thought weakened him a little, therefore we ordered a Mixture with ConJ. Fracaftor, to be taken, in Cafe he had any more Stools, and alfo to add Laud. Liq. to his Bolus’s of the Bark. 20. “I laid open a large Sinus above the inner Ankle. ei. t( The Do&or called again to fee him, and was very glad to find he went on fo well. 24. “ Mr. Wade and I agreed to give him the Bark every fix Hours only. 28. “ They {hewed me an Oedematous Tumour on the Back of his other Foot; upon which we ordered him to take no more Bark, and drink a little more freely of Wine. He had now taken the Bark every four Hours for twenty-three Days, and every fix hours for five Days, i. e. a- bout Ten Ounces of the Bark. 29. ,f I ordered his Left Foot to be wafhed well with hot Water, Bran, X x and178 HISTORICAL EVIDENCE, and Soap, every Morning, to get off the Dirt and fcaly foulnefs, which ob- flru&ed Perfpiration &c. We alfo ordered him fome Bitter Draughts to be taken three times a day. May 30. “ I found the Oedematous Swelling of the Left Foot Ieffen- ed, and I defigned to have purged him, but that he had had two or three natural Stools. 31. <fI found him hearty and the Wound in good Order, therefore took off the Bone of the Metatarfus which fullains the little toe. “An old Gentleman made our Patient a Vifit, and was weak enough to tell him, “ That he heard his Surgeons had been making Experiments upon him, which might as well have killed him as cured him; and that they were daily cutting and flajliinghis Leg, under Pretence of faving it; but he was fatisfied, from what he had heard from others of the fame Pro- fefhon, that it was only prolonging the Time; for nothing would do, but taking the Leg off; it is as good, Sir, (faid he) to tell you of it at firft, as at laft.” What do you mean? fays our Patient, Mr. Douglas fays I am out of all Danger now. “ He may tell you fo, Sir, (replyed the old Gen- tleman) but I know better: If he cures you without taking off your Leg, I fhould be as forward as any Man to own he had done fomething extra- ordinary; but I know how Things will turn out as well as any of them” 8cc. Our Patient then began to be very uneafy, therefore he was defi- red to change the Difcourfe &c. June 3. “I found an Impofthumation about the fore and middle Part of his Leg, but durft not mention opening it, I found he was fo frighten- edHISTORICAL EVIDENCE* *79 ed at what had been faid to him the Day before, about cutting and JlaJh- ing\ therefore I took an occafion to acquaint thofe about him, that I would bring Serjeant Dickins next Day, to fatisfy him that it was abfo- lutely neceffary to lay it open. June 4. “ Serjeant Dickins made him a Vifit, and was very well pleaf- ed to fee him in fo good a Way, coniidering how he was when he faw him laft, and agreed with me, that it ought to be opened immediately: Ac- cordingly, tho’ with more Difficulty than ever before, he fubmitted to it, and I made an Incifion about two Inches long, and had a Difcharge of three or four Ounces of Matter. 5. “ I carried him fome Spaw Water to drink with his Wine, by the Advice of Serjeant Dickins’. I alfo inlarged the Incifion I had made the Day before, with my Sciffiars, before he was aware of it. 6. “All promifed well, and the Waters agreed with him, 7. c< I cut off another of the Metatarfal Bones. 9. “ I cut into the Joint of one of the Metatarfal Bones, to halier, its Separation. 15, “I cut into the Sloughs in the hollow of his Foot and let out a great deal of Glairy Matter, and then fnipped off all the loofe Rags of Sloughs, upon which I difcovered a large Fungus, which had thrull forth under the Sloughs, from the Tarfal Bones. Junel8o HISTORICAL EVIDENCE# June 16. <{I cutoff the Remainder of the Metatarfal Bones, and fprinkled the Fungus with Precip. Rub, 19. “ I perceived the Tibia bare about the Middle, a large Sinus, and a confiderable Difcharge; therefore advifed them to have a Confuliation with Serjeant Dickins and Mr. Chefelden. 2 1. “ Serjeant Dickins and Mr. Chefelden went along with me, and I laid open that large Sinus, and dreffed as before. 22. <£ I laid open a fmall Sinus on the back of his Foot: There was a large Difcharge from his Wounds, which weakened him and leffened his Appetite. 23. <f The Difcharge was very feetid, and in too large a Quantity. 24. “ The Difcharge feemed rather to increafe, and his Strength to decreafe; neverthelefs, I laid open two more Sinus’s. 25. t! The Difcharge rather increafed; however, I laid open one more Sinus, and then told them, I was weary of opening daily one Sinus after another, without gaining my Point, viz. leffening the Difcharge; and that I fufpe&ed the Tibia was Carious farther than we perceived it, which might be the Caufe of that great and conftant Difcharge, and that, in my Opinion, he could not bear fo large a Drain long, and that it was bet- ter to have his Limb off before it was too late; Therefore defired ano- ther Cohfultation with the two Gentlemen before-mentioned. »N. B.i8x HISTORICAL EVIDENCE. (C N. B. The Ulcer reached then, from the Origin of the Soleus, i. e, juft below the Knee, all along the infide of the Tibia, as far as the Heel; and in fome Places it was very broad, and in others very deep; all the Bones of the Toes and Metatarfus were gone, and all thofeof the Tarfus Carious. June 27. “ I could not vifit him the 26th, but on the 27th I took Ser- jeant JDickins and Mr. Chefelden along with me, and Dr. Newington met us there. We were very wTell pleafed to hear from Mr. Wade, as foon as we came in, that the Difcharge was very much leffened the Day before, occafioned, no Doubt, by the Sinus’s being all opened: And when his Leg was undreffed, we found the Difcharge confiderably left ned, and could difcover no more Sinus’s; therefore, inftead of taking his Leg off, we agreed to proceed as before, only to drefs twice a Day, for fome Time. The Do£lor ordered nothing, but defired us to go on with the Bitter Draughts See. he was then taking. 28. “ I found the Ulcer in good Order, and the Difcharge leffened July 1. “ We ordered him an Infufion of the Bark to be taken twice or thrice a Day. 1 8. <f He was carried out into his Garden, for the firft Time, in his Thre e-wheeled Coach, for the Benefit of the Air. 12. “I took off the Os Cuboides, and the three fmall Bones of the Tarfus, Y y July182 HISTORICAL EVIDENCE. July 16. te I feparated the Os Naviculare, and left only the AJlmgalus and Os Calcis. Augufl 5. “I cut off with a Knife, that large Fungus which fprung from the Os Calcis, and had plagued him fo long, and then applied the A6lual Cautery to flop the Blood, andconfume the Roots of the Fungus. N. B. I had before this tried Prcecip. Rub. Vitriol. Rom. Butyr. Antimon. nay, the Potential Cautery, feveral Times, one after the other, but could not deflroy it. 29. ts Part of the Os Calcis came away. September 4. ee I took away the AJiragalus whole, and the Remainder of the Os Calcis, as I thought. When thefe two Bones came out, they left a Hollow big enough to receive a Duck’s Egg; the back Part was formed by a horny fort of an Excrefcence which feemed to fpring from the Tend. Achill, the fore Part of it by the Remainder of the Flefh which made the back of the Foot, and the upper Part by the Hollow end of the Tibia. There was a pretty deal of Blood followed thefe Bones, therefore I crammed this Hollow full of Lint, and rolled it up tight. 6. “ I cut off this large horny Excrefcence (which made a half Moon round the End of the Tibia with a Knife; there was no Appearance of any Bone in it, yet my Knife flopped when about half way through, which furprifed me a little, becaufe I concluded the6L Calcis'was entirely gone, yet there was a pretty large Piece of it in the middle of the Fungus; I therefore cut a little higher towards the Tend, Achill, and it feparated with eafe1 HISTORICAL EVIDENCE* cafe all round. It bled very frefh, fo I tied one Veflel which fpurted out* and flopped the reft with the A&ual Cautery* which at the fame time confirmed the Roots of the Excrefcence. It was very remarkable, that the End of the Tibia was not Carious, notwithftanding thefe foul Bones had remained there fo long. September 13. “I found all the Sloughs feparated, the End of the Tibia covered with a fine grainy Flefh, the Lips thin, and the Difcharge moderate and laudable, November 8. “ Our Patient lay at my Houfe, and Serjeant Dickins called next Day to fee him, and found that long Ulcer, which reached from his Knee to the Heel, (mentioned page 181) perfe6Uy cicatrized; and though all the Bones of his Foot were taken away, yet the Ulcer on the End of the Tibia was not above the Breadth of a Shilling, and otherwife as well conditioned as could be wiihed; aud that he was healthy and hale in eveiy other refpeft.” This curious hiftory furnifhes us with a very accurate defeription of the prafiice of furgery of that period; the aftual cautery was then func- tioned by the firft authority, and the bark at that time not generally known as a remedy in this difeafe; as the grand obje6l of this cafe was to prove its efficacy. The commencement of this difeafe is dated 22 of April 1732, the bark was firft given on the thirtieth, and continued till the twenty- eighth of May; but abfeefles continued to form, the bones of the tarfus and metatarfus to feparate, and the ulcer was not completely healed on the eighth of November following. IfHISTORICAL EVIDENCE. 184 If we look back to the date when the bark was firft given, we (hall find that the confultation had limited the life of the patient to 24 hours; and perhaps for the purpofe of convincing pofterity, how well he was fatisfied with the propriety of this decifion, (for all authors expefl their works to prove immortal) Mr. Douglas defired the fervants, if his patient died in the night, to acquaint him early in the morning. But contrary to all ex- pectation the patient had a good night, and there was a furprifing altera- tion for the better by the next day. Here we mu ft recoiled, that the confultation met in the morning, but the bark was not given till evening; and as four dofes were taken before the next day at noon, we will fuppofe that it was taken at 8 and 12 in the evening, and at 4 and 8 in the morning. Now as he is faid to have had a fine night, the two firft dofes of the bark mu ft either have produced this effect, or the crifis muft have been fpontaneous, depending alone on the falutarv powers of nature, vis medicatrix nature. But under the idea that the medicines were inftrumental, why might not the Confe&io. Alkermes be fuppofed to contribute fome little on this occafion; whatever may be the powers of this medicine, I cannot fpeak from experience, having ne- ver yet had the gratification of feeing the compofition, or the fatisfa&ion of giving a fingle grain. But if we may depend upon the authority of others, it would be the height of fcepticifm to let this part of the prefcrip- tion pafs unnoticed. Let us here recollefl, that thepatient was fuppofed to be within 24 hours of his diffolution, and if the fymptoms were palpitation of the heart, fear, terror.HISTORICAL EVIDENCE, terror, and melancholy, * that this is the very medicine that has been re- commended on fuch occafions; and the next day, in addition to this cor- dial medicine, three drops of laudanum were added to every dofe of the bark and confeftio alkermes, which is the fpeciiic on which Mr. Pott places unlimited confidence in fimilar cafes. But on the third of May Mr. Douglas could thruft his fore finger with eafe, through from the external to the internal wound, between the tend, achill. and the bones of the tarfus. On the eighth his four little toes were cut off; on the ninth his great toe was cut off; on the twenty-eighth, the day that the bark was laid afide, he had an oedemateous tumour on the back of his foot; from which it is evident that the difeafe had then not terminated, and the fubfequent hiftory evidently demonftrates the unin- terrupted progrefs and fpontaneous termination. But there is one circumftance more which merits our attention in this cafe, that Mr. Chefelden was one of the confultation; and as f Mr. Sharp * “This is an agreeable Cordial, and proper to vaife the Spirits of pregnant Women who are lan- guid and weak, and to give them Strength and Vigour at the Time of Child-birth. It is likewife good in Faintings, Palpitation of the Heart, Fear, Terror, and Melancholy.” Brookes’s Difpenfato-* ry, page 312. Confeftio. Alkermes. f To WILLIAM CHESELDEN, Efq. Surgeon to Chelfea-Hofpital. SIR, t! As I am chiefly indebted to the Advantage of im Education under You, for whatever Knowledge I can pretend to in Surgery, I could not in the leafl hefitate to whom I fhould dedicate this Treadle, though was it my Misfortune to be a Stranger to your Perfon, that Merit which has made the World fo long efteem You the Ornament of our Profeffion, would alone have induced me to (hew You this Mark of my Refpeft, which I hope will not be unacceptable.” Dedication of Sharp’s operations of furgery, third edition, 1740, Z z wasHISTORICAL EVIDENCE. -lB6 was pupil to Mr. Chefelden, it will be reafonable to fuppofe that this pub- lication had efcaped his notice, when fpea-king of the bark he faid, “What in my judgment feems to have raifed its Charafter fo high, are the great numbers of Tingle Obfervations publifhed on this Subjeft, the Authors of which not having frequent Opportunities of feeing the iflue of this Difor- der, under the ufe of Cordials &c. and fome of them perhaps prejudiced with the common Suppofition, that every Gangrene is of itfelf mortal, have therefore afcribed a marvellous Influence to the Bark when the Event has proved fuccesful*.” It is not the propriety of this observation that I obje6f to, I only wifh to make it evident, that Mr. Sharp was either unacquainted with the hif- tory of his profeffion, for the laft twenty years previous to the publicati- on of his Critical Enquiry, or that he was forgetful of the high authority that he prefumed to call in queftion; as it would be illiberal to fuppofe that the fplendour of Mr. Chefelden’s abilities had efcaped his attention; or that he meant to queftion the accuracy of his obfervation, or the extent of his pra&ice. Not that I think Mr. Chefelden’s f own account of this fubjeft much * Sharp’s Critical Enquiry, page 257. more 4" “The ufe of the Peruvian bark, internally given in cafes of furgery, has not been long known; about thirty years fince it was highly recommended as a remedy againft mortifications, without diflmc- tion, and upon n o better foundation (as far as I can learn) than its having fucceeded in one fingle cafe-j it was then tried in mortifications from old age and worn-out conftitutions, without fuccefs, (which cannot be wondered at) and thus it fell into diferedit. I have lately feen two cafes in which it has done wonders, the one a very large foetid ulcer in the leg; the other in an arm cut off above the el- bowHISTORICAL RVIDENCftT l8f ftiore fatisfa&ory, for in the year 1749 when he gave his opinion refpeft- ing the ufe of the bark in mortifications, this confultation feems to have efcaped his recolle&ion; and, as this was only one year previous to the publication of Mr. Sharp’s Critical Enquiry, it certainly fhould have been noticed by his pupil. But on the authority of both Chefelden and Sharp, it appears evident that the bark was at that time ioofing its reputation, and the fubfequent evidence on this fubje£l has already been inveftigated. Thefe obfervations furnilh us with an additional example of the in- accuracy of general opinions; and fhew too clearly how little we fhould depend on the authority of great names, and how neceflary it is for every one to examine evidence, and form a judgment for himfelf. The next infiance that I (hall notice, is a cafe of mortification of the toes and feet by Mr. Gooch; where the bark was given and the patient recovered. What is particularly remarkable on this occafion, is, that this cafe is dated Auguft 24, 1731, which is previous to the above publications, and yet tV><* hark is mentioned as a iv.mtoy tuaujiuui^ uieti in this difeafe, I do not pretend to afiert that this cafe has any particular claim to our at- tention, except it is for the purpofe of fliewing on what humble evidence, the efficacy of the bark in fuch cafes was at firfl efiablifhed; and when we bow, where the ulcerated flump had never been healed, was extremely painful, and a finus was form- ed from the flump under the membrana adipoja up to the head of the os humeri. The ulcers in both thefe cafes were extremely foul, the matter foetid, thin, and corrofive; but upon taking the bark, the matter foon grew perfcflly good, the pain ceafed, the foresgrew clean in a few days, and both the pa- tients were foon after cured. Thefe two cafes were under the dire£tion of Mr. Ranhy. ferjeant fur- geontohis Majefly, to whom we chiefly owe the preient knowledge of its great ufes in furgery, and who intends to oblige the public with a treatife on that Jubje£t,” Be Dran’6 Surgery, with remarks Sic« By William Chefelden, Efcj. page ^68, reviewl88 HISTORICAL EVIDENCE# review the whole, we fhall ceafe to wonder that Mr. Sharp fhould give his decided negative to the general opinion. The example before us, as deferibed by Mr. Gooch, is a mortification in a man aged eighty-one, where (it is afferted) the Bark Teemed to be of great fervice. He fays, te Auguft the 24th. 1731* I was called to J. H. of M. and found a deep mortification about the breadth of a crown-piece upon the fide of his foot. Confidering his age, his having been confined to his bed many years, and that he was a drinker of fpirituous liquors to excefs, there could be but little expe&ation of curing him; yet it was neceffary to prevent his be- coming noifome to himfelf, and every body about him whilft he lived, which I confefs I thought would be but a fhort time, as I told the parifli officers who fent for me. f(l direflpd n J a warm cataplafm to the foot twice a day; that he fhould take a dofe of an ele&uary of the Bark and Snake root every three hours, wafhing it down with a glafs of annifeed water, which had long been his favorite liquor; and that his diet fhould be of good nutriment warm and fpicy. After regularly perfevering in this method about a month, there was afeparation of the dead parts from the living, at the jun&ion of the ojfa Cuneiform, and metatars, where I disjointed the foot, without any pain or lofs of blood, and the flump was perfeflly healed in three months. After this the poor creature lived more than a year, with as good health as for many years before, drinking gin or annifeed water to the day of his death, faying he could not live without it, and that my indulging him with it, he was fure, faved his life. <( Inl8g HISTORICAL EVIDENCE. ctIn Tome infiances of mortifications, I have feen fingular good effedls from giving the Bark in much larger quantities than commonly prefcri- bed *:• Mr. Shipton, after recapitulating what had been faid on this fubjeft by preceding writers, defcribes two cafes; one a mortification of the toes and feet, where the bark did not fucceed; the other a mortification in confequence of agun-fhot wound, in which the bark was fuppofed to be efficacious. I ffiall copy thefe two cafes, becaufe they have been confi- dered of importance by others, not becaufe they have appeared fo to me, except it is for the purpofe of giving a more perfedf reprefentation of this fubjedt. <c Mr. Shipton was called to Vifit a Gentlemaft of 50 Years of Age, who, from a too liberal Ufe of Wine, and a Cachexia arifing from thence, had an Inflammation in his Foot, that turned into a Mortification of the Toes and Metatarfus: Tho’ Alexipharmics, and other proper Remedies, both internal and external, had for feveral Days been ufed; yet the Mortifi- cation fpread every day deeper and wider with a Fever, rather flow than any ways violent, and a fpurious Diabetes, or a plentiful Difcharge of a more limpid Urine. For removing all which; efpecially fince the increaf- ed Quantity of Urine feems to require the aftringent Qualities of the Bark; and fince both Mr. Rujhworth’s and Mr. Amyand’s Trials promifed Suc- cefs, Mr. Shipton propofed it to the Phvficians and Surgeons, to which they eafily agreed, fince they were fatisfied from feveral fruitlefs Trials, that amputation would be of no Service: But tho’ two Scruples of the * Gooch on furgery, vol. 2, page 371, A a a Bark190 HISTORICAL EVIDENCE. Bark were given every four Hours for fome Days together, yet it feem’d ineffectual in removing either the Diabetes or Mortification ; the former exhaufling the vital Moifture, and the latter, by its fpreading hill farther, confuming the Flefh, the Patient died in about two Weeks Time. \ “ The Bark proved more fuccefsful in a Patient about 35 Years of Age, of a melancholic fcorbutic Habit: For, drawing a Charge of Powder out of a Fowling-Piece, and unwarily clapping the Palm of his right Hand on the Muzzle, the Piece happened to go off; he received a Wound through the middle of his Palm, extending wide and deep, between the thumb and Fore-Finger, whereby the Veffels and Tendons were lacerated : The Haemorrhage being immediately flopped, his Hand was dreffed: For fome Days the Patient had a grievous Pain, with a large Swelling and In- flammation in all his Fingers except the Thumb, and all over his Hand and Arm; and nothing came out of the Wound but a large Quantity of Ichor, at firfl of a bloody, and afterwards of a dufkifh Colour, and fome- what fcetid, and the Wound itfelf of a blackifh Colour, fpread farther eve- ry Day; and the Swelling, Inflammation, and Pain were fcarce diminifhed, tho’ recourfe was had to the ufual Remedies in fuch Cafes. “ But on the Eleventh Day there flowed fpontaneoufly, at four feveral Times, in the Space of 24 Hours, fome Ounces of Blood, which like wife twice flopped fpontaneoufly, and was twice Ranched by applying Sp. Terebinth, and compreffing the Hand: And now the Lips of the Wound plainly appeared mortified, and the aClual Cautery feemed to be the lafl Refort, both for flopping the Haemorrhage, and the Progrefs of the Mor- tification, fince the one baffled Fomentations and Cataplafm and the otherHISTORICAL EVIDENCE. 19i other Bandages: But if the Cautery (hould not fucceed, Recourfe mud be had to Amputation; which, how doubtful a Remedy in Bodies of fuch a Habit, is fufficiently evident, from experience. And in order to put a Stop to both, he likewife thought proper to try the Bark, of whofe Effi- cacy he had then heard a great deal: On the twelfth Day therefore, two Scruples of the Bark were given in the Morning, and repeated every four Hours: Next Morning after the Patient had taken half an Ounce of it, Mr. Shipton found the Pain very much abated, the Swelling of the Hand fallen, and a little Pus obferved about the Lips of the Wound within the Bandage, and the Edges which the Day before were black with the Mor- tification, now feemed to begin to feparate. The Fever likewife, which at firlt was no Ways violent, yet pretty fenfible, when the Haemorrhage encreafed, now entirely ceafed, the Urine depofiting a little Sediment of a dirty or whitifh yellow, rather than of a lateritious or Rofe Colour. "The Ufe of the Bark was continued in the fame manner for two Days, and afterwards for two Days more, it was taken thrice a Day, and for three Days more only twice a Day, fo that there were two Ounces given of it in one Week. In the mean Time the Swelling and Inflammation vanifhed, a pure Pus flowed from the Wound, the Flefh grew up under- neath, and the Pain, which yet continued pretty {harp in the Carpus3 when the Patient moved it, was much abated. " For three Weeks after he was very well, only that he had Rheuma- tic Pains (with which he was ufually troubled in Winter) fometimes in his Foot, and fometimes in the Acromion, and one or both Scapula’s, ac- companied with a Swelling ; he was free of a Fever, and had an Appetite forHISTORICAL EVIDENCE. 192 for proper Food. But afterwards on the 19th. of December, his Appetite became weaker, the Pain in the Metacarpus together with the Swelling increafed, which feeming to heighten the Day following, the Pulfe fome- what quicker on the third Day, and the Swelling of the Metacarpus, to- gether with an Inflammation threatened an Abfcefs, while there flowed a white Pus from the Wound, and in the fame Quantity as before. “ But on the fourth Day the Lips of the Wound fwelled with Veficles tended to a Gangrene, with a plentiful Difcharge of Sanies without any Pus, and the Hand and Carpus were inflamed, and in much Pain : Upon giving therefore, the Bark in the fame manner as before, within the Space of eight Hours, the Patient having fcarce taken three Dofes, the Pain, which before was very {harp, was laid as by a Charm, and the next Dref- fing the Swelling of the Hand feemed to abate by one half, and a laudable Pus to run from it. At firft the Urine was of a pretty intenfe Colour, and then it gradually became more dilute, with little or no Sediment. “ After this to prevent a Relapfe, he gave half an Ounce of the Bark every Week for fix Weeks, having given two Scruples twice every Day for three Days; and at length after four Months he compleated this labo- rious Cure, in which all the Tendons of the Mufculi Perforati and Perfo- rates, excepting thofe of the little Finger were impofthumated, and a bone of the Metacarpus, and another of the Carpus, was laid bare, and he cured one or two Abfceffes on the Back of the Hand. “ From thefe Hiflories, and efpecially from the Iaft, Mr. Shipton thinks it pretty evident, that here nothing is to be afcribed either to the joint Vir- tuesHISTORICAL EVIDENCE. 193 tues of other Medicines, to the peculiar Diipofition of the Humours, to fome unknown Diofyncrajia, to the fpontaneous remitting of the Symp- toms, to a fortuitous Crifis and falutary Evacuation by other secretions, or in fine to Chance, but that the whole Succefs is folely to be afcrib^d to the Virtues of the Bark. “But tho’ in the above-mentioned Hiftories, the Powder of the Bark is only faid to be ufed; yet fhould any one on Account of a weak sto- mach, or for any other Reafon decline it in that Form, Mr. Shipton thinks that half that Quantity of the Refin or Extraft of it would have the fame Effeft, fmce we daily fee that Preparations of the Bark have the fame Efficacy in intermitting Fevers, where its chief Virtue appears, as the Bark itfelf. “ But fhould any one from the firft ITiftory related by Mr. Rupiworth, (where he was afraid of adminiftering the Bark while the Fever was con- tinual, and deferred the Ufe of it till it remitted) contend that there was a latent intermitting Fever in all the Cafes mentioned, and confequently, that it was not furprifing if the Bark fhould get the better of it: To this it may be anfwered, that nothing of this Kind was obferved in moft, ray quite the contrary in fome of the Patients, as pretty good Judges of fuch Symptoms do teflify: But in the Iafl Hiffory, where Mr, Shipton him- felf was as attentive as poffibieto every Circumffance, he cannot fay that he obferved any thing of a latent or unufual Fever of the continent Kind, much 1 efs of the intermitting, nor any febrile Sediment in the Urine, nor unufual Heat, Third, or Rigour at a particular Time of the Day, nor a- ny Drinefs or Blacknefs of the Tongue; and if we impartially confider B b b theHISTORICAL EVIDENCE. 194 the Matter, we fhall find that the Fever, whatever it was, was only fymp- tomatical, which according to the Opinion of the Ancients (nor even do the Moderns deny it, and the Thing is evident of itfelf) could by no means be an intermitting Fever. ** And to (hew what principally regards this Argument, namely, that the Virtue of the Bark in checking a Mortification, is not from its remov- ing any intermitting or latent Fever; Mr. Shipton mentions a Treatife of Mr. Bradley s, a Surgeon in London, in which he fays, that the Ufe of the Bark had the fame happy effedf in a cacheftic and leuco-phlegmatic Wo- man, who by accident receiving a large and tranfverfe Wound on the up- per Part of the Leg, had on the third Day a violent Fever, with a quick and intermitting Pulfe, a Drinefs and Blacknefs of the Tongue, a Bern Countenance, and fome Degree of a Delirium, and a Gangrene poffefiing almoft all the leg; by adminiftering the Bark every four hours, the Gan- grene was checked in twenty-four Hours Time, and the other Symptoms vanifhed : But on the fifth Day intermitting the Ufe of the Bark, (he had a Relapfe, and upon her refuming it, all the fymptoms abated, and the Pa- tient recovered. “From this Hiflory, as alfo from thofe mentioned above, it appears that not only the Bark may be adminiftered with Safety, and fometimes with Succefs, while the Fever continues, but likewife that this Kind of fymp- tomatical Fever is not of the Genus of the common putrid Fevers, which is therefore by fome medical Writers, referred to its own peculiar Genus; nor of thofe that are claffed amongft intermitting Fevers, fince in all thefe Phyficians obferve, that the Ufe of the Bark is generally noxious, and fometimes fatal; but feveral Trials evince, that it was falutary in this; but*95 HISTORICAL EVIDENCE. bat thefe Things want to be ftill farther confidered by Phyficians. Be- Tides, from the above-mentioned Hiftories it is worth obferving, that tho’ in fome of them the Wounds were the immediate Caufe of a Gangrene, yet that in all of them, the chief and principal Caufe feems to be taken from the State and Condition of the Humours, and confequently, that in- ternal Remedies rather than the ufual external ones, anfwered the Fur- pofe with greater Difpatch and Safety-*.” If we view thefe two cafes merely as fimple fafts, without examining the particulars; the firft in which the bark was given without fuccefs, proves that in this inftance the powers of the remedy were inadequate to the influence of the difeafe. If then in the fecond inftance the patient re- covered, as the bark was given in both, it would be reafonable to conclude, that the fuccefs depended on other caufes: but as the firft cafe is that kind of difeafe, in which Mr. Pott afferts that the bark is not efficacious; this cafe might be confidered as evidence in favour of his opinion. The fecond cafe is more to the purpofe, and if we may depend on the accura- cy of the defcription, it muftbe admitted as evidence againft the opinion given by Mr. Sharp in his critical enquiry. But the want of confiftency in moft of thefe inftances give us reafon to fufpeft, that each refpeflive ftatement is adjufted for fome particular purpofe. In the preceding cafe by Mr. Douglas, after the progrefs of the difeafe was fuppofed to have been prevented by the bark, the remedy was omit- ted, and the difeafe returned; but if we attend to the hiftories before us, we fhall meet with a defcription of fimilar circumftances, whatever were * Philofaphical Tranfafiions, vol. 37, for the years 1731, 1782, page 434. Abridgement by Doc- tor Mihles, vol. 2, page 271. the196 HISTORICAL EVIDENCE.’ the remedies that were made ufe of. The firft: inftance of fuccefs is de- fcribed with accuracy, but the fecond, in which the progrefs of the difeafe was fuppofed to be hopped by three dofes of the bark, appears lefs fatis- fa&ory ; and if we attend to his fubfequent reafoning, we fhall weet with fome diverfity of opinion. Mr. Shipton in one place thinks it is pretty evident, that nothing is to be afcribed to a peculiar difpojition of the humours, to fome unknown dio- fyncracia, to fpontaneous remitting of the fymptoms, or a fortuitous cri- bs; and yet he afterwards obferves, that from the above-mentioned hifto- ries it is worth obferving, that though in fome of them the wounds were the immediate caufe of a gangrene, yet in all of them, the chief and prin- cipal caufe feems to be taken from the hate and condition of the humours; “and confequently, that internal remedies ratherthan the ufual external ones, anfwer the purpofe with greater difpatch and fafety.” This method of cafe writing may ferve the purpofe of empiricifm; and may impofe up- on the credulous, or amufe the gaping multitude; but will neither fatis- fy the philofopher, nor clear the caufe of truth. I have thus endeavoured to examine the bafis, on which this important fubjeft was firft eltablilhed; and if we review the evidence, we mull: cer- tainly acknowledge the fallacy of this fpecies of reafoning on medical fub- je£ls. In the firft place Rufhworth, Amyand, Douglas, Shipton, and ma- ny others have endeavoured to prove that the bark is a certain remedy in all cafes of mortification. About twenty years afterwards, Mr. Sharp aflerts, that thefe hiftorians were all deceived: and having met with fre- quent inltances where mortification ftops fpontaneoufly, he gives it as hisHISTORICAL EVIDENCE. 197 his opinion, that thefe fuccefsful cafes depended alone on the powers of nature, and not on the falutary influence of the bark. r But thefe obfervations have for fifty years remained unnoticed ; whe- ther this circumflance is to be attributed to the infignificancy of Mr. Sharp’s opinion, or the inattention of his readers, remains to be determh ned. Here the fubjeft refied for near thirty years, and the bark was given with unlimited confidence on all occafions; when Mr. Pott difcovered that the mortification of the toes and feet was a difiinH fpecies of difeafe, and at the fame time gave it as his decided opinion that in this inftance the bark was not an efficacious remedy. Now as the majority of cafes, that are recorded inproof of the powers of the bark in mortifications, are of this kind; if Mr. Pott was right, and the bark had no influence, it is certain that all the fuccefsful cafes muff have flopped fpontaneoufly, agreeably to Mr. Sharp’s opinion. In addition to Mr. Pott’s evidence of the inefficacy of the bark, Mr. Power has given a cafe of mortification of the toes and feet, in which he aflerts that all the remedies commonly made ufe of were tried in vain; but we are informed that he ultimately fucceeded by the application of fermenting cataplafms*. In one infiance the efficacy of the bark is obje&ed to, for the purpofe * Medical Tranfa&ions, vol. 3. C c c of198 HISTORICAL EVIDENCE. of proving that opium is a fpecific in this difeafe; and in the fecond in- flance every other remedy is difcredited that former pradlice had prefu- med to fanflion; that a decided preference might be given to the faluta- ry influence of fermenting cataplafms. Without attempting to examine the particular merits of all thefe dif- ferent flaternents and unqualified affertions, I fhall humbly folicit the candid reader’s attention to the only rational inference that this diverfity of opinion will admit of. If the bark is not an efficacious remedy, we mufl then acknowledge that all thofe fuccefsful cafes, where this medicine was depended upon, mufl have terminated fpontaneoufly; and if opium is the only remedy, then all thofe fuccefsful cafes, where opium was not given, muff have flopped fpontaneoufly ; and confequently, if opium was not given in the cafe related by Mr. Power, that muff alfo have termina- ted fpontaneoufly; but as in this cafe all the remedies commonly employ- ed were tried in vain, all former cafes muff have terminated fpontaneouf- ly, and this have been cured by the application of fermenting cataplafms. One circumftance particularly merits our attention; when the experi- ment had been once tried, and fermenting cataplafms had been ufed with fuppofed advantage, we are informed that the difeafe again returned. On this occafion it would certainly be reafonable to fuppofe, that as this new remedy had in the firfl inflance proved efficacious, it would have been immediately had recourfe to on a return of the difeafe. But from whatever motive they were again made ufe of, we meet with this fatisfac- tory information in the fequel that this mortification alfo, after other means had been firfl tried, was flopped by the fermenting cataplafms. If*99 HISTORICAL EVIDENCE. If this new application proved ufeful in the firft inftance, why fhould any other means be firft tried in the fecond; and why fhould not the mofl efficacious remedy have the preference ? But the reafon is too obvious to require further explanation; for the truth is, that every one of thefe wri- ters, without exception, have each endeavoured to fupport his favourite hypothefis. And if we critically examine any of thefe cafes, and compare the whole together, we fhall find that the queftion ffill remains undeter- mined; whether the boaffed cures depended on the influence of the re- fpe&ive remedies, or whether they were all fpontaneous terminations of difeafe. If this fpontaneous termination of difeafe was limited alone to cafes of mortification, it would then appear lefs fingular that any circumffance of fuch importance fhould have paffed unnoticed. I am ready to acknow- ledge, that in many inflances it is a very difficult queftion to determine, how far the falutary procefs was the confequence of medicinal agency, or whether it depended alone on the powers of the conftitution; but in fome cafes the powers of medicine are very obvious, although in others they are equally obfcure. The bark is certainly a powerful medicine, and its influence becomes immediately confpicuous on many occafions; but what appears moft fin- gular in the prefent inftance, is the uncertainty of the evidence on which the reputation of this medicine was firft eftablifhed in cafes of mortification. The arguments of Mr. Shipton are in general the offspring of conjec- ture, and he amufes himfelf and his readers with fpeculative opinions refpe&ingHISTORICAL EVIDENCE. 200 refpefftingthe comparative powers of the different preparations of thebark, and afierts that half the quantity of the refin or extract would anfwer the purpofe in cafes of mortification, becaufe it is fuppofed that thefe refpec- tive dofes are equally efficacious in intermittent fever; and immediately afterwards he endeavours to prove that thefe two difeafes have not the Jeafl refemblance to each other. But what is (till more unintelligible, this ingenious writer has before informed us that the bark is not a proper re- medy in intermittent fevers; in which he “obferves that the ufe of the bark is generally noxious and fometimes fatal.” I fhall not attempt to reconcile all thefe contradictions, or take upon myfelf to fet in a clear point of view a fubjeCl that appears to me inex- plicable. Thefe cafes have been repeatedly copied by others becaufe they were fuppofed to contain indifputable evidence of the falutary powers of the bark as a remedy in mortification. I have given my opinion in plain terms, and the public muff determine. But if thefe cafe writers were fo unfortunate firft to impofe upon themfelves, as I think it impoflible that fuch a fyftem of confufion could have been formed by defign, it would be difficult to conjefiure by what magic art the delufion was transferred to the public at large; and, for my own part, I (hould never ceafe to wonder, if I had not previoufly examined the dark hiftory of human nature, and was well convinced how much the world is gratified by impofition and deceit. SECTIONi SECTION IX. / THE CHIRURGICAL TREATMENT OF THOSE DIS. EASES WHICH ARE THE IMMEDIATE CONSE- QUENCE OF EXTERNAL INJURY. ■ 939300—■—» npHE difficulty of prefcribing a rational fyflem of chirurgical appliea* tions, has in all probability prevented thebeft informed writers from attempting to lay down any fpecific direftions, or to give a full explana« tion on this fubjedt, If we examine the works of thofe who may be con- fidered practical writers, we fhall find their books filled with a mifcellane- ous variety of prefcriptions, whofe medicinal powers it would be impoff fible to invefiigate. But the more modern authors have adopted a method Hill lefs intelligi- ble ; and inftead of giving an exa£t account of the whole method of treat- ment, they have expreffed themfelvesin general terms; and, not having condefcended to give any additional explanation, either of the external applications, or plan of medicine that would be necelfary under different circumflances, this important part of the fubjeft {till remains in a ffate of obfcurity, D d d . Is I >202 CH1RURGICAL TREATMENT. It may perhaps have been conhdered beneath the philofophic dignity of modern furgery, to attempt to inveftigate the properties of a white- bread poultice, or explain the effefts of a warm bath, or fomentation. But the few ufeful remedies, that the art of furgery is in poffeflion of, are of the fimple kind; and in many inftances it will be found that their ex- cellence depends more on their innocent fimplicity than their aftive powers. I am rather apprehenlive that many writers have cautiouflv avoided expreffing their fentiments on this fubjeft, either from a fear of expofing the narrow limits of their own abilities, or to avoid the danger of betray- ing the humble ftate of their profelhon. With refpeft to the treatment of mortification, it is an objeft of the firft importance, both in theory and pra&ice, accurately to mark the progrefs of the difeafe, and to diftinguifh the termination of inflammation from thofe confequences which require a very different method of treatment. It was for the purpofe of dete£I- ing this inaccuracy, that I have examined with fuch attention what has been already written on this fubjeft; as I fhould not have fuppofed that the public would give me credit for fuch aflertions, if I had omitted to bring written evidence of their authenticity. In many inftances of flight accidents, it is frequently very immaterial what method is made ufe of; but in cafes that are likely to be produ&ive of dangerous confequences, a little error, at the commencement, may in- evitably determine the fate of the patient. The materia medica of furgery is certainly very limited, and if we ex- ceptCHIRURGICAL TREATMENT# *03 cept the cauftic applications, they may beconfidered much more infigni- ficant than powerful; and yet an accurate difcrimination will, on many occafions, be attended with evident advantages. It will not be neceflary in the prefent inftance to examine the bound- lefs extent of written evidence, as I am of opinion that the whole may be brought into narrow limits; but, if any one fhould be of a contrary opini- on, I fhall always be ready to anfwer any obje&ions that may be fan&ion- ed by authority fufficiently refpe&able to be confidered worthy of public attention. For the purpofe of illuftrating the powers and properties of chirurgi- cal applications, I fhall hate a few inflances that may be fuppofed to re- quire a variety in the method of treatment. If we were to divide the fub- je6l into different parts, and afterwards feparately examine the merits of each particular queftion, the firft would be, whether in cafes of contufi- ons, fractures, wounds, &c. 8cc. it would be more advifable to make ufe of chirurgical applications, or whether it would be better to leave the whole to nature. This at firfl view may appear to be a very unneceffary queftion ; yet notwithftanding all the acknowledged advantages of a rational and well dire£led fyftem of praflical furgery, every attentive obferver mu ft have met with frequent inflances, where the method of treatment has proved an impediment to the cure of the difeafe. Sharp, Pott, and many other writers, mention mortification being the effefls of tight bandage, as if it was a familiar circumftance; and in all thofe inflances where the bandage proves204 CHIRURGICAL TREATMENT. proves to be the caufe, it is certain that the mortification would not have taken place if the bandage had not been applied. The unfavourable po- fition in which fractured limbs are frequently placed, the intolerable in- cumbrances of rollers, fplints, and fra6lure-boxes, furnifh us with an in- exhauftible fund of argument in fupport of this affertion. How frequently do we meet with inflances where flight wounds, that were originally trifling and infignificant, are miraculoufly converted into ill-conditioned ulcers ; which uninterrupted nature 'would have pro- tected with a fcab, and the whole have peeled off without the leafl trou- ble, pain, or inconvenience. But fuch is the partiality of the public to profeffional parade, that it is frequently neceffary to perform operations either for the purpofe of amufing the patient, the fatisfa£lion of the pub- lic, or the proteftion of our own reputation. In fupport of this opinion, let us fuppofe that an accomplifhed furgeon h as a cafe under his care, that is in a regular progreffive flate of recovery, and in which he is certain that no operation is neceffary. If, in fuch a cafe, the patient thinks the recovery tedious, becomes diffatisfied, and is determined to call in additional affiftance; if any infignificant operation fhould be then performed, the firfl furgeon will loofe his reputation, and the fecond have the credit of the cure. A Gentleman, to whom I am under the greateft obligations, and whom I would wifh to ferve in the beft manner that my humble abilities would admit of, had the misfortune by a fall from his horfe to receive a deep contufed wound on the fore part of the head, by which the os frontis was laid bare for a confiderable extent; but there was not the flighted: fymptom of any further injury. As this cafe ap- pearedCHIRURGICAL TREATMENT. 205 peared more formidable to my patient and bis friends, than it did to me, I was fufpecled of poffe fling only a fuperficial knowledge of my profeftion, becaufe I infilled on the propriety of only making ufe of fuperficial ap- plications; nor would his friends reft fatisfied, until they had procured the fandlion of another furgeon’s opinion. Strange as it may appear, we were both of one mind, and our patient efcaped without either fcalping, or trepan. But if in this inftance, inftead of doing all that was neceffary and no more, 1 had complied with their apprehenfions, and urged the neceftity of fome capital operation, my profeflional heroifm would in all proba- bility have met with general approbation and applaufe; and thus, by one dexterous ftroke of the knife, 1 might have eftablifhed my reputation for ever. In cafes that are flow in their progrefs, and where a confiderable length of time is neceffary for effedfing a cure, though all may go on well, yet the parties frequently become diflatisfied, if fomething is not done to a- mufe their minds, and divert their attention. I well remember a curious inftance of this nature, where the extenfor tendon of the middle f nger was wounded with a piece of pc t. When I firft faw my patient, the in- flammation was confiderable over the whole of the back of the hand, and the difcharge from the wound indicated a flate of imperfedf fuppuration, the tendon began to flough away, and the difeafe proceeded in two direc- tions, the one towards the finger, the other took the courfe of the mufcle up the arm. E e e WhenJ 206 CHIRURGICAL TREATMENT. When the firft fuppuration had fubfided, a fecond inflammation took place, by which the integuments and the fafcia of the mufcle were united, and another tumour formed, which terminated like the former; and thus the difeafe went on by fhort ftages and tedious progrt Is, till it arrived at the origin of the mufcle, in the outward apophyfb of the os humeri. In this fituation of affairs the confidence of the parties became exhaufled, a^d they wifhed for additional advice. If another furgeon had been con- fulted, and he had differed in opinion, I might have loft both patient and reputation; I therefore recommended a phyfician, under whofe facred aufpices I flattered myfelf that both would befecure. The Dodlor was of opinion that the difeafe was of the fiftulous kind, and that the knife was the only remedy that was likely to arreft its pro- grefs; and recommended a liberal incifion through the whole extent of the then exifting tumour. My objedf was to referve my own opinion, to oblige my patient, and do as I was bid. Such was the humility, candour, and liberality, with which I conducted myfelf on this occafion; and I was happy in the opportunity of obtaining the fandlion of another perfon’s opinion for an experiment that in my own mind I difapproved. I fhould not have thought myfelf juft ifiable, if I had adled contrary to my own judgment, even though it had been with the full confent and ap- probation of my patient; as that would have been a fpecies of experimen- tal pradlice, that few I think would prefume to farfdlion. But when a fecond perfon is confulted, who has the confidence of the patient, and takes upon himfelf the refponfibility, it is my opinion that his diredlions fhould be implicitly complied with, whether right or wrong. With207 CHIRURGICAL TREATMENT. With this cautious conlideration, then, I took up the knife, and divided the tumour through its whole extent; a copious difcharge of fluid matter immediately followed, but the (laughing of the fafcia continued for a con- (iderable time afterwards. If the difeafe had terminated here, we fhould have been induced to at- tribute the fuccefs to the ncifion; but fubfequent inflammations took place in regular fucceflion, and I think the lad exceeded all the preceding both in degree and extent, and I am well fatisfied that the difeafe did not terminate till the whole fafcia was deflroyed. Now as this procefs could not be either retarded or accelerated by the incifion, we have every rea- fon to conclude that the operation was unneceffary; and that it onlyfer- ved to amufe the patient. Thefe are not imaginary cafes invented on the fpur of the occafion ; for if neceflary l could appeal to the (irft profefllonal authority in fupport of the fafts I have now brought forwards. Not that I fhall here prefume to take upon myfelf to determine who is the firft furgeon, or who the firft phyfician in Great Britain ; the two alluded to may have their equals; but if any one fhould venture to come forward in propria perfona, and demand precedency, I flatter myfelf that it would not prove a very ar- duous talk to oppofe their claim, and defend the rights of the heroes of my page. If fuch then is the (fate of the public opinion in favour of chirurgical operations, it would be in vain to contend againft their too frequent ufe; the hopes of relief will always induce the affli£led to look forward for affif- tance,CHIRURGICAL TREATMENT. 2o8 tance, and if the mod formidable remedies give the greated confidence offuccefs, they will frequently be prefered to thofe of an inferior order that have lefs influence on the mind. It is not againfl either the utility or neceffity of operations and appli- cations that I wifh to urge objections, but it is againfl the abufe of thefe remedies that I am now contending; the chirurgical works of fupereroga- tion it is our duty to expofe. The utility of external applications is eda- blifhed on the experience of ages; it was originally the offspring of in- ftinCl*, it is prote&ed by reafon, and flill fan&ioned by general approba- tion. On fome occafions the ufe of the knife and other powerful applications become neceffary; but, in general, the more mild the method of treatment, the greater will be the probability of fuccefs, and confequently the mod paffive remedies are frequently the mod efficacious. In the larged wounds the principal objefl of the furgeon is defence, by which the parts are prote&ed againfl the influence of the air and the ef- feCls of external cold. In that ufeful animal the horfe, the operations of nature are fo powerful, that proteflion will in general prove prejudicial • * This too ferves always, Reafon never long ; One mad go tight, the other may go wrong. See then theafting and comparing pow’rs One in their nature, which are two in ours ; And Reafon raife o’er Inftintt as you can, In this ‘tis God direfts, in that ’tis Man. Pope’s Effay on Man. and209 CHIRURCICAL TREATMENT, and, if external applications are made ufe of, the luxuriance of the granu- lations will hid defiance to reftraint, andthe new flefh will rife fo fait, that neither bandage norcauftic will prevent its growth. The healing procefs had ufed to be divided into three ffages; digeftion, incarnation, and cicatrization; and lam ready to admit that thefe oper- ations of nature may be either promoted or retarded by the influence of external remedies. But it will in general be found, that their merits de- pend more on their paflive than their aclive virtues. If then prote&ion is the great objedl that we have in view, the next queflion will be, to de- termine on a proper choice of remedies for this purpole, and to feleft and arrange the different powers of furgery to the greatefl advantage. Perhaps at firft view this fubjeft may appear fo plain and felf-evident that by fome it may not be thought worthy of attention; but as it is not yet determined under what circumftances moifl. or dry applications fhould be made ufe of, the fubjefl mud certainly flill be confidered in an unfet- tied hate. Plaiflers and ointments are the common dreflings that are applied to wounds and ulcers. But flour and lint have for many years pad been made choice of, as the firft applications in cafes of amputation, even in the largeft wounds of this kind, when the operation is performed above the knee. In cafes of cutaneous inflammation, without wound or ulcer, it feems to be a matter of great indifference whether moifl or dry applications are F f f theCHIRURGICAL TREATMENT. 210 the obje&s of the Surgeon’s choice. In the gout combed wool is frequent- ly recommended, as a Soft, warm, and rather oily application. In eryfi- pelas, the parts are fometimes dufled with fine flour. I well remember an anecdote of a facetious phyfician obtaining wonderful applaufe by duff- ing a Lady’s face all over with hair-powder. And I once knew an inflance where the powder of bark was prescribed as an application in this difeafe; and when the Gentleman (who was of Scotch extraftion) afked for an ex- planation, the Doftor replied, that the Scotch always ufed oatmeal on fuch occafions, but that he preferred bark, as it Served as a protection a- gainft the danger of mortification. Good God! exclaimed the aftonifhed patient, whofe Solicitous attention did not permit a Single word to paSs unnoticed; I hope. Said he, you do not See any reaSon for Such apprehen- sions; to which the DoCtor anfwered in the negative, but obferved, that it was Sometimes prudent to be upon our guard. It is now Some years fince this circumftance happened, but as it appear- ed to be a curious method of pra&ice, I muft acknowledge that it made a lafhng impreflion on my mind. If the application of powder of bark in cafes of eryfipelas is innocent and inefficacious, it may without doubt anfwer the purpofe as well as oatmeal, wheat flour, or hair-powder; but if in fuch cafes it is made ufe of on account of its Stimulating powers, as a tonic or antifeptic, it certainly muff be improper in an inflammatory difeafe. And here it may be neceffary to obferve, that the prevention and cure of mortification are two diftinCt indications and confequently require very different remedies. I have Seen fraffured limbs laid in comb- ed wool, which is perhaps one of the mo ft innocent applications that can be made ufe of, and innocence is a virtue in Surgery that merits our atten- tion. IfCHIRURGICAL TREATMENT. 211 If then we fhould at lad difcover that thofe applications are bed which are mod inactive, we (hall have forae motive to direft our conduft; and whim and caprice may ceafe to induence the practice of furgery. I well remember the time when fraffures had ufed to be treated with all the parade of rollers, fplints, fraflure boxes, and cradles; and I am rea- dy to give evidence, that I have witneffed a number of indances of per- feft and fpeedy recovery under this oppredive method of treatment. But I am fo well fatisded and convinced of the impropriety of this method of pra&ice, that if I was under the unavoidable necedity, either of making ufe of this load of apparatus, or of truding a fraflured limb folely to the proteflion of a foft pillow, I certainly fhould prefer the latter. If in many indances I am induced to depreciate fome of the imaginary powers of furgery, I do not intend at the fame time to diminidi the im- portance of the profedion. My objeft is to give a rational edimate of the different parts, and by a general reprefentation to illudrate the im- portance of the whole; and thus by plain and unadorned defcription to fet a myderious fubjefl in a clear and perfpicuous point of view. Perhaps by fome I fhall be accufed of expreding myfelf in too plain lan- guage, and cenfured for betraying the little fecrets of our art. But here let me tell thofe prefumptuous readers, who think that they can learn the praftice of phyfic and furgery from reading a fingle book, that the grand fecret cannot bedifclofed to any, but thofe who have been regularly ini- tiated, and previoudy acquainted with the myderies of the profedion. It112 CHIRURGICAL TREATMENT. It not only requires an accurate anatomical knowledge of the injured parts, but the animal fyflem at large fhould be previoufly underflood; it will alfo be neceffary to form a judgment of the nature and extent of the difeafe, and thefeobjedta include an extent of information not eafily to be procured. It is no very difficult tafk to publifh a long catalogue of dif- eafes, with a defcription of fuch medicines as are in general ufe; but it is not equally eafy to communicate a critical knowledge of thofe difeafes, or to give an intelligible defcription of animal nature. A perfon ignorant of thefe fubjecfs may be told what remedies are ne- ceffary on certain occafions, but it is the man of fcience only that can ap- ply a bit of dry lint, or the moll fimple plaiiler, with propriety and ad- vantage. I have already examined what has been faid by others on warm and cold applications, and fhall venture to give it as my opinion that, in cafes of contufions, diflocations, and fradlures, warm applications deferve the preference. But in fra61ures we meet with difficulties that are not conne£led with contufion, or diflocation; as in fra&ures it is neceffary that the limb ffiould not be diflurbed, but conflantly continued as much as poffible in the fame pofition, which would not be confident with the fre- quent repetition of a number of remedies that might with propriety be uf- ed in other inflances. In compound fra&ures, it is fometimes neceffary to remove the banda- ges for the purpofe of dreffing the injured parts; but this may be done without difturbing the limb, and the external wound will fometimes heal « withoutCHIRURGICAL TREATMENT. 213 without a repetition of dreftings. I have frequently in compound frac- tures feen the experiment tried with fuccefs, and have known the fame applications continued till the wound was completely healed; and have met with feveral inftances, where this method was attended with the mod unqueftionable advantages. I know this is a method recommended by Sir James Earle*, and Ido not recollect any other inftance where this prac- tice has made its appearance in print. But I am proud of the prefent opportunity of paying this tribute of refpeff to the memory of my friend, under whofe care I received my firft inPtruffions; as this was a plan of treatment which he purfued with considerable enthufiafm, more than thir- ty years ago. It is now above feven and twenty years fince the firft inftance occurred that I was witnefs to; it was a fraflure of the leg, by the {haft of a load- ed cart falling upon it; the fuperior part of the tibia made its way through the Skin, about the middle of the leg. After the fraflure was reduced, the wound was covered with a plaifter of fome mild ointment fpread upon lint; and the limb was Surrounded with what is called an eighteen tailed bandage; and the dreftings were not removed for the firft fortnight. When the parts were again examined, the wound was found nearly clo- fed, dry lint was then applied, and the whole covered with a plaifter ban- dage; at the end of another fortnight the parts were again examined, and the applications renewed, when the wound was found completely healed. I fhail not prefume to comment on this cafe, as it happened at a time when my judgment was premature; but the faffs may be depended upon * Fott’s works, by Earle, 1790. G g g as214 CHIRURGICAL TREATMENT. as here Rated. I am not in the leaR apprehenfive of becoming an enthu- fiaflmyfelf in behalf of any one method of pra&ice, or a blind zealot in compliance with any favourite hypothecs ; but! am well convinced that, in a general view, this method of treating compound fraftures is worthy of attention. If the fcience of furgery would admit of a full and general explanation, we might then flatter ourfelves with the hopes of eflablidling a fyfiem of practice on firfi principles. But as the art of furgery is not yet reduced to fcientific certainty, this fubjeft will perhaps be bed illuflrated by Ra- ting the different circumRances in which the refpe&ive remedies may be made ufe of with the moR rational profpeff of fuccefs. By thefe means I hope we fhall be able to analyze the fubjeft, and inveRigate the narrow limits of this branch of the profeffion. Refpe&ing the ufe of external applications, they will vary according to circumRances; and for the purpofe ofilluRration let us firR fuppofe the cafe to be a contufion of one of the extremities, without either wound of the integuments, or fraffure of the bone. I am willing to allow, that in moR inRances the effefts of thefe fimple injuries would of themfelves fub- fide, and that time alone would complete the cure. But at the fame time I am as well convinced not only that, under fuch circumRances, chirurgi- cal applications may be made ufe of with advantage, but that fometimes they are abfolutely neceflary. Perhaps warm fomentations are the moR efficacious remedies that we are acquainted with, and as we do not meet with any contraindications in fuch2i5 CHIRURGICAL TREATMENT. fuch fimple cafes, confequently we fhall not be limited in our choice. The parts may be fomented with warm water, vegetable mineral water, or ox- ycrate, which ever the parties may prefer. If the injury is extenfive and a copious application is neceffary, warm water will be molt convenient; and if the integuments are not inflamed, the parts may with propriety be afterwards rubbed with volatile liniment, this will aft as an external fti- inulus, andlike all other rubefacients will by transferring the irritability to the furface contribute to diminifh a more deep feated difeafe. But in ca- fes of wounds or inflammation of the integuments flimulating applicati- ons would be improper. And for the fame reafon, when the integuments are injured, oxycrate would alfo be improper. So that we find that, fim- ple as thefe remedies may appear at firift view, we have fome criterion by which to direft our choice. I have frequently feen inftances where accidents, that were originally infignificant in themfelves, have by fuch little errors in the method of treatment become important, and have rometimes had a long attendance to cure a difeafe which was the confequence of improper remedies. But I have feen cafes where the fkin was not affefted and where ftitnu- lating applications were inefficacious. I remember an inflance of a vio- lent bruife on the mufcles of the thigh by the kick of a horfe, by which the cuticle and other integuments were very little injured, at the fame time that the deep feated injury of the mufcles was perceptible to the touch. The pain was diflreffing in the extreme and continued for fome weeks; in compliance with the diftates of long eftablifhed cuflom, the patient was bled, and other evacuations by means of calomel and falts were216 CHIRURGICAL TREATMENT. were afterwards made ufe of. The injured parts were well fomented night and morning with flannels wrung out of hot water, and afterwards rubbed with ftrong volatile liniment, but the pain continued and was on- ly alleviated during the night by means of powerful opiates. I hope I (hall not be fufpefled of mifreprefentation, as I am confeious that it is difficult on fuch occafions to defcribe with accuracy without in- curring the appearance of empirical exaggeration. But fo much was I apprehenfive that the cafe would prove tedious and the parties become diflatisfied, that 1 exprefled a wifli that my patient, who was a Gentleman’s fervant, might be admitted into a neighbouring infirmary. If an empiric wanted a cafe to recommend a noftrum, I am ready to acknowledge that one like this before us would be very convenient for his purpofe. The next application, that was made ufe of, was an embrocation of equal parts of Gowlard’s extraft and oil, with which the parts were plentifully rubbed three or four times a day. This in a few days produced a numb- nefs in the parts nearly approaching to palfy, and the pain confequently ceafed. There was nothing particularly interefting in the fubfequent treatment, and the patient in about a month’s time was perfeflly reco» vered. I am well convinced that this cafe is in direft oppofition to the previ- ous plan of treatment; the injury was deep feated, and neither warmth nor ftimulating applications were efficacious; it too clearly illuftrates the dif- ficulty of eftablifhing a general fyftem of pra&ice, and evidently proves what a wide uncultivated field we have before us for the exercife of pro- feffional21/ CHIRURGICAL TREATMENT. feffional ingenuity. The ftate of the public opinion refpedling the ufe of warm and cold applications in fome inftances has been already difcufted, but what degree of heat is preferable on different occafions has not been yet determined. When the injury is limited to the extremities, a greater degree of heat may be admifiible, and applications may perhaps be made ufe of in fuch inftances more warm than would be necelfary or proper under other cir- cumftances, without being produdiive of any very important inconveni- encies. But when the feat of injury is in the external parts of the abdo- men or thorax, then more caution becomes neceffary; and it fometimes happens the vifcera are fo much affedled by external injury, that the dif- eafe may terminate in mortification. I know of no inftance where the effedls of the warm bath are fo confpi- cuous as ininflammations of the abdominal vifcera; andyet, notwithftand- ing its great efficacy, I think it is one of the laft remedies that fhould be made ufe of. If a patient, under fuch circumftances, is plunged into a hot bath inftead of a warm one in the early ftate of the difeafe, and without previous evacuations having been employed, inftead ofproducing a falu- taryeffedf, I fhould be appreherffive of the moft dangerous confequences. But if by copious bleeding and a liberal ufe of purgative medicines the leaf! abatement of the fymptoms is obtained, it frequently happens, at this critical period, that a judicious application of the warm bath will produce a complete folution of the difeafe. In the firfi volume of the Edinburgh Medical Commentaries, we meet H h h withCHIRURGICAL TREATMENT. 2l8 with an abridgement of a differtation on the warm bath, that contains fome very judicious remarks on this fubjefr; and as the original is in all pro- bability now out of print, I fhould think that a tranflation would at this time be very acceptable to the public. But as thefe are not to be had, I {hail beg leave to make ufe of fuch information as is now before me. The author fays, “ When the water in the bath raifed Fahrenheit’s ther- mometer to g6 degrees, he found that the heat of the body, and the pulfe wereeither not changed, or were foina flight degree only. With the water at 98 degrees, the heat of the body was not changed; the pulfe was very lit- tle quickened; and, after an hour, returned to its natural hate. The face was fomewhat fwelled and red, and was alfo a little moifl; but there wTas no apparent fweat upon it. After coming out of the bath at this heat, the pulfe feemed lefs frequent than natural, and a very copious perfpiration enfued. “ At a hundred degrees, in a man whofe pulfe was naturally fixty, after twenty-five minutes continuance in the bath, it w7as raifed to feventy-two and became fuller than natural. The heat of his body was increafed two degrees, his face began to fweat, but not copioufly. The fuperficial veins in other parts of the body were fcarcely fwelled; the cuticle was much wrinkled; and, at length, fome degree of giddinefs came on. After com- ing out, his pulfe feemed flower than natural, and there was no fweat, but a copious perfpiration. At a hundred and two degrees the pulfe, in half an hour, was increafed thirty-twro flrokes in a minute; and the heat of the body was augmented four degrees. The face foon became fluffed; and, after ten minutes continuance in the bath, fweat flood in drops upon it. On219 CHIRURGICAL TREATMENT, On coming out, the perfon was put in a bed between blankets, and fweat- ed profufely. But, in a fhort time, the pulfeand heat of the body return- ed to the natural dandard. At a hundred and four degrees, the pulfe and heat were as much increafed in twenty minutes as in the lad expe- riment after half an hour. When the water came up to the thorax, the breathing was frequent and laborious. The fuperficial velfels were much fwelled, and the face very red, while the fweat ran down it in full dreams. The cuticle continued fmooth, and there was no remarkable anxiety; but, after twenty minutes, a flight vertigo enfued. The fweat, upon coming out of the bath, was very copious ; and it was a quarter of an hour before the heat and pulfe returned to the natural dandard. At a hundred and fix degrees, all the fymptoms mentioned in the lad experiment were much increafed. The heat of the water was almod intolerable. A ver- tigo and confufion came on in five minutes; and, in a quarter of an hour, naufea and faintifhnefs enfued. On coming out, the fweat was dill more copious than before. The heat of the body foon returned to its natural date; but, even after half an hour, the pulfe dill continued fuller and quicker than natural. ■■1 “ The effefts of the pediluvium were nearly the fame with thofeof the warm bath ; but the changes from equal degrees of heat were lefs confi- derable. The veffels in the feet were foon fwelled from it; but it requi- red fome time before any change took place in thofe of the hands*.” If the increafed affion produced by the warm bath is as here dated, I fhould think that the heat of the water in infiammations of the abdomi- * Edinburgh Medical Commentaries, vol. 1, page 297. nal220 CHIRURGICAL TREATMENT. nal vifccra fhould not exceed a hundred degrees. In fome chronic difeafes we know that the hot waters of bath, which at the fountain head are at a hundred and twelve degrees, are frequently made ufe of with fafety and advantage. I have frequently attended with great care to the manage- ment of the warm bath, but cannot fay from my own experience that I have been able to form a fet of general rules, or eftablifh a fyftem of prac- tice, worthy the attention of the public. The effedts of the warm bath will frequently appear fatisfadfory to the fuperficial obferver, whilft the penetrating eye of judicious criticifm will fee through thedelufion; in many inftances the remedy may be applied when the difeafe is in a fink- ing (late and the event is certain, but the powers of any remedy can only become confpicuous where the event is uncertain and the falutary change depends on the effedis of the applications. I fhall not attempt to form a new fyftem of obfervations on the powers of the warm bath, or to repeat the experiments above-mentioned, as I had much rather that this part of the argument (hould reft on any authority in preference to my own; for if I was to make a number of experiments for the purpofe of forming a bafts for a new hvpothefis, I might then be fufpedled of accomodating the fadls to the nature of the argument. But I wilh as much as poftible to avoid the fpeculations of theory, and have endeavoured to ftate plain fadts, and unadorned opinions; the one free from difguife, the other clear from obfcurity. If we attentively review the pradlice of furgery, we fhall find that warm fomentations are on many occafions looked up to as an important appli- cation ; they are not only ufed as a remedy for inflammation, but they have221 CHIRURGICAL' TREATMENT. have alfo long been confidered as the anchor of hope in cafes of mortifi- cation, with hot dupes, melted ointments, &c. &c. This may appear at firft view rather fingular, that warm fomentations {houldbe ufed for twTo oppofite kinds of difeafe; but when we recolle6t that the whole bufinefs in fuch cafes is to prevent mortification taking place, and not to refiore life to parts already deftroyed by the malignancy of dif- eafe, our aftonifhment will in fome degree fubfide. When a part is once dead, it will be in vain to attempt to refiore that part to life; our objeft is to prevent the progrefs of deftru£Hon by termi- nating the previous difeafe before mortification has taken place. It is a difeafe that may be prevented or arrefted in its progrefs; but having once taken place it does not admit of cure. But this fubjeff will be more fully explained when we come to examine the treatment of mortification; and for the purpofe of illuftrating in what inftanees the different kinds of ap- plications have their refpeftive preference, I fhall now proceed to date another infiance of external injury. The lafl fiatement was a cafe ofcontufion without injury of the integ- uments or frafiure of the bone; and that we may proceed in this inquiry by regular gradation, I fhall next mention what is called fimple frafture, with flight contufion, without injury to the integuments. This is a cafe in which the liberality of nature appears fingularly con- fpicuous, and being a common accident the pretenders to this branch of furgery are very numerous, in confequence of which it frequently hap- I i i pensCHIRURGICAL TREATMENT. 222 pens that the patient meets with very fevereand irrational treatment. It is a bufinefs that is fuppofed to be fo perfedlly underflood, that a Tingle additional obfervation may by Tome be cenfured as fuperfluous; and, if it was only for the purpofe of giving prefcriptions for the treatment of fimple fradlure, I fbould not have introduced the fubjecf on this occa- fion. But this is not the ultimatum of my views; my prefent objedf is to ex- amine the different degrees of external injury, and point out a rational method of treatment through a progreffive feries of difeafe. It will not be neceffary to make any obfervations on the pofition of the limb, as that part of the fubjedl has already been difcuffed with fuch ability by Mr. Pott; and it would be a refledlion on the reader to fufpedf that he is not well acquainted with all that has been already written on this fub- jea. Thefirft objedl in cafes of this kind is the operation of redudlion; andas far as I can form a judgment on the prefent (fate of the public opinion, I am rather fufpicious that the many cautions, that have been given a- gainft attempting to reduce a fradture after inflammation and tenfion have taken place, have given rife to unneceffary apprehenfion, andhave too fre- quently proved the caufe of unfriendly delay. In all cafes both of fradlures and diflocations the apparent tumification will be much increafed by the deformity; but independent of this fpecies of mifapprehenfion, in inftances where the inflammation and ter.fion have takenCHIRURGICAL TREATMENT. 223 taken place to a confiderable degree, I am of opinion that the operation of redudion will, in general, be attended with lefs inconveniencies, than what would be occafioned by the unnatural fituation of the parts. When either diflocations or fradures are reduced, the patient is in a great degree immediately relieved from pain; and T am much difpofed to differ from the general opinion, and think that it rarely happens, that the redudion may not be attempted with fafety. I do not pretend to affert that the inflammation and tenfion may not fometimes be fo great as to demand a cautious condud on behalf of the operator, and I am well convinced that it is impoffible to lay down in- variable rules on fuch occafions. But I final! here notice one circumilance, which I do not recoiled having been mentioned by my predeceffors, that does fometimes occur, which might embarrafs the young and inexperien- ced, and confequently may be thought worthy of attention. Aconhder- able degree of tumefadion fometimes takes place in cafes of fimple frac- ture, which is neither dependent on inflammation nor the deformity of the parts; the inflances of this kind that I have met with have been in frac- tures of the tibia; this fwelling appears to be of the cedematous kind, and gradually fubfides on preffure, and feems to me to be occafioned by an ex- travafation of lymph, in confequence of a laceration or rupture of fome of the lymphatic velfels. In the firft inhance that I met with, the tumefadion was fo great as, at firft view, to induce me to fufped that it would be improper to attempt redudion; and I had determined only to foment the limb, to apply a flan- nel224 CHIRURGICAL TREATMENT. nel roller foaked in warm oxycrate, and defer any further proceedings until the next day. But on removing the limb for this purpofe, and for the more accurate examination of the nature and extent of the injury, I found on the application of gentle preffure that the tumefadiion gradu- ally gave way, and that the ends of the fradlured bones were without much difficulty brought in contadl with each other; whereas it is probable that, if the operation had been delayed, inflammation and tenfion would have taken place, and the difficulty of redudlion have been confiderably in- creafed. It is not merely for the purpofe of laying down a plan for the treat- ment of fimple fradlures that I think neceffary to dwell upon this fubjedt, it is not alone for the fake of giving diredtions in fuch fimple cafes, but to fhew that our choice of remedies, fimple as they may be confidered, do not depend alone on either whim or caprice; and to prove that we are not deflitute of rational motives to diredt our condudt on fuch occa- fions. Under thefuppofition that warm fomentations would be neceffary, I cer- tainly fhould confider it a matter of indifference whether warm water, vegetable mineral water, or oxycrate were made ufe of; in cafes of fim- ple fraciure they would be equally efficacious as a warm fomentation, but when all circumftances have been confidered, not a doubt can remain but vinegar and oil muff have the preference. A flannel roller is foft, warm, and elaffic, and for thefe reafons will anfwer the purpofe better than one made of linen, and as vegetable mineral water will not readily unite with flannel, it will confequently prove inconvenient and improper; whereasCHIRURGICAL TREATMENT. 225 whereas oxycrate will better ferve to render the flannel roller a moift and eafy application. With refpe£l to fplints of all kinds, I think they will at beft only prove a ufelefs incumbrance, and if any application of this fort is thought neceflary, a Angle or double piece of pafteboard foaked in warm oxycrate, and placed between the folds of the roller, is the only inftrument that is admiflible. But it is my opinion that a foft pillow and an eafy pofition of the limb are the mo ft important obje6ls that merit our attention in fuch cafes. It will not be neceflary to examine all the different kinds and degrees of contufions, wounds, and fradlures in every poflible variety of combina- tion ; as all thefe circumftances will come under our confideration, and the whole be united in one general view, in the treatment of compound fra£lures. When contufion, wound, and fra£lure become the united confequence of the fame caufe, it may be confidered one of the moft formidable com- binations of external injury that the art of furgery has to oppofe. And though it frequently does happen that fuch injuries take place under fuch favourable circumftances, that the recovery is both expeditious and com- plete, yet there are certain degrees of injuries of this kind that require the utmoft exertion ofchirurgical afliftance; and in many cafes it unfor- tunately happens that mortification is inevitable. In this laft inftance amputation muft ultimately take place; but as my prefent obje£l is to attempt to point out what is the moft probable method of preventing mortification in the firft inftance, or of flopping the pro- K k k grefs226 CHIRURGICAL TREATMENT. grefs of the difeafe when it does occur, I {hall not make that operation an objefl of our prefent confideration. In cafes of compound fradture, if the wound in the integuments is fmall, it will not in general be neceffary to remove the dreffings fora confider- able time, perhaps for a fortnight orthree weeks; and the whole treatment by this means will be rendered f milar to that of a fimple fradlure. But let the wound be more or lefs extenfi ve, it certainly cannot be neceffary to remove the dreffings previous to the commencement of digeflion, when we (hall have paffied by the firft danger of mortification with fafety. So that we evidently avoid every objedlion to this method ofpra&ice during the firft period of the difeafe. Even if fomentations are thought necef- fary, they may be applied without removing the bandages, and we cannot have any motive for opening the wound before digeflion has taken place. Whether the wound be large or fmall, we will fuppofe it to be protec- ted with proper dreffings, and the whole of the injured parts furrounded with flannel in the form of the eighteen tailed bandage. Let us here con- fider what additional affiflance can be given during this critical momen- tous interval, before the commencement of digeflion. The judicious application of warm fomentations feems to be the only external remedy that can be made ufe of with any rational probability of advantage; it ap- pears to be the lafl refource we have to depend upon, the ne plus ultra of our hopes. The next queflion will be what kind of fomentation will claim the pre- ference, and in what manner it may be applied with the greatefl probabil- * ityCHIRURGICAL TREATMENT. 227 ity of fuccefs. It certainly would be improper to make life of fomen- tations in fuch a manner as to wet the bed and render every thing damp and cold about the patient; for under fuch circumftances the injured limb and neighbouring parts would be in a ftate of additional heat during the application of thefe fomentations, and for the fucceeding interval the whole body would be expofed to the unfriendly influence of damp fur- rounding cold. If the wound was fmall and well protedled, the bandages might be moiflened with warm oxycrate, or equal quantities of fpirit of wine and water of a proper heat: but if the wound was large, either of thefe appli- cations would be improper, as they would probably penetrate into the wounded parts and produce painful irritation. If the inflammation (hould be extenfive and the tenfion conflderable, it might then perhaps be thought proper to have the whole limb foment- ed by means of flannels dipped in hot water and afterwards wrung out dry, which would be more flmilar to a vapour bath than hot fomentations; and if, after fuch applications, the limb {hould be covered with a fucceflion of warm dry flannels for fome time afterwards, there will be but little reafon to be apprehenflve of the unfriendly effedis of damp and cold, in confequence of the fomentations. * ' B ' 1 • If then the remedies with which we are furnifhed are fo limited, the greater judgment will be neceflary in the regulation of our conduct. But as this is certainly the mod critical period of the difeafe, the advantages that may be expedted from the co-operation of internal remedies particu- larly /CHIRURGICAL TREATMENT/ 228 larly merit our attention, for which I (hall refer the reader to the follow- ing feftion, and fhall confine the prefent difcuffion to the chirurgical de- partment. EXTERNAL TREATMENT AFTER THE FIRST CRISIS. WHEN the crifis of the fever has taken place, and the bark been once adminiftered, it will then be neceffary to determine whether the wounded parts are to be examined or not. If the injury to the integuments is very extenfive, even if the mufcles have efcaped, it will then by mod bethought proper to examine the ftateof the parts and remove the applications. But if abforption has taken place, I am of opinion that it will at this period have become a conftitutional difeafe, and that a putrid diathefis muft be the immediateconfequence, and under fuch circumftances, we have too much reafon to be apprehenfive that it is of very little importance what plan of treatment is made ufe of. But if any hopes remain, it feems rational that warm applications fhould have the preference, for the purpofe of fupporting the energy of the vital powers, and meeting the reanimation of returning health. When fomentations are made ufe of, flannels wrung out of hot water will229 CHIRURGICAL TREATMENT. will anfvver every purpofe; as for the vegetables fuch as wormwood, rofe- mary, chamomile, &c. &c. that are frequently boiled in the fomentations, they may ferve to give an air of myderious importance to the practice, but will not add to the efficacy of the application. If warm fomentations contribute to diminifh the tendon of inflammation, it muft appear rather Angular that the fame remedy fhould give energy to the vital powers and oppofe the debilitating influence of approaching mortification ; and on the idea that inflammation and mortification are oppofite difeafes, and confequently require oppofite remedies, it muft certainly appear more confident at fird view to adopt Mr. I. Hunter’s plan of cold applications in cafes of mortification. But cold does not appear to be a remedy well calculated to revive the powers of life. In cafes of what is called fufpended animation, the application of exter- nal heat is recommended in a variety of forms; and in cafes of approach- ing mortification, where the vital powers are finking, is it not equally reafonabie to fuppofe that the cordial influence of reanimating warmth would prove a falutary application? If then inflammation and mortifi- cation are oppofite difeafes, in direft oppofnion to Mr. I. Hunter’s opi- nion, I fhould ufe cold applications in cafes of inflammation, and warm ones as a remedy in mortifications. But if, as has been before dated, our ohjefl on thefe occadons is to pre- vent the progrefs of mortification and not to redore dead parts to return- ing life, then we ffiall find that we are dill treating an indammatory did eafe. L 1 1 Inflam-CHIRURGICAL TREATMENT. 23O Inflammation is the morbid action that, in this infiance, becomes de- ftrudtive of life: when mortification takes place the vital actions end. But if warm fomentations are thought proper during the progrefs of inflammation, though warm applications may be equally neceflary af- ter mortification has taken place, yet moift applications would be atten- tended with more inconvenience in this inftance than at a more early pe- riod of the difeafe ; and in my opinion a very warm dry flannel would prove a much more convenient application than a moifi one. But whilfl I am prefunding to give direftions on this part of the fubjeft, I would wifh to remind the reader that it is only a matter of opinion, and not a fubjeft that admits of demonftration ; and as it has been already proved that there is no public opinion to appeal to, I think it right to give one, although it may be confidered equally imperfeft. For the queftion certainly pre- fents itfelf with irrefiftible propriety, that if every former method of prac- tice is to be rejefted as erroneous or prejudicial, what mull be fubftituted in its Head? / ✓ If we examine the opinions of ancient writers we fhall find that excef- five heat and not moderate warmth was the grand agency of furgery, hot digeftives with turpentines were applied to the ulcerated parts: Wifeman recommends unguent bafilic. cum ol. terebinth, hot*, as a mild drefling * “ In the drefling of thefe Mortifications, you ought to confider well in the application of your Medicaments, that you do not in the extinguifhing one Gangrene raife another, by the too long ufe of fharp Medicaments. Therefore, when you (hall feel the Ulcer warm, and find it ceafe gleetirg, it may be reafonable to forbear the ufe of them, and to drefs it up with warm Digeftives, as unguent, bafilic, cum ol. terebinth, hot : and after Digeftion deterge with mundif. ex apio magijl. or fuch like, according as the Sloughs require : then proceed by Sarcoticks and Epuloticks, as in fuch Ulcers hath beenfhewed.” Wifeman’s furgery, page 435. Of231 CHIRURGICAL TREATMENT. of an inferior degree to what was at firft made ufe of. But as the cafe copied from Mr. Douglas contains a full defeription of this method of pra&ice, and comes rather nearer to the prefent time, I {hall refer the rea- der back to the lad feftion. If fome mild digedive ointment fpread upon lint is made choice of as the firfl application to the ulcerated parts, it may be proper to warm the plaider to a degree rather above blood heat, by which it will be rendered foft and readily run into the interfaces of the parts, and by that means come in contact with every part of the ulcer; and, whatever may be the extent of the wound, this will make a proper application. But on this occafion it will never be necedary to make fcarifications; to cut the dead parts can be of no ufe; and, if the living parts are injured, the operation mud prove highly prejudicial. If it is necedary to intro• duce warm applications into the interdices of the parts, it is not necedary to make divifions for the fake of filling them. One great objedl on this occafion is to exclude the air, and as you cannot wipe it out, or pump it out, the only method is to put fome more folid and more friendly fub- dance in its place; but, if incifions are made only in the dead parts, they will be immediately filled with air. • V,' ' \ We have heard of heroes in the heat of action making bulwarks of the dead ; but to cut through the mortified parts in this indance is like remo- ving the impediments for the enemy’s introdudlion. The dead parts will be removed by the powers of nature, and the art of furgery does not pof- fefs the means of anticipating the progrefs. WhenCH1RURGICAL TREATMENT. 232 When the firfl applications have been accurately adjufted to the parts, our next objedt will be to protedl thefe dreflings and retain them in their proper fituation. On this occahon I have no prediledlion for any one particular kind of application, or any noftrum to recommend; and if I may take the liberty of making a few obfervations in my own behalf, 1 hope I (hall not be fufpedled of profeflional bigotry or blind enthufiafm, whenever I prefume to give my own opinion. Perhaps tripharmacum fpread upon linen rag may prove a convenient application, it contains vi- negar which has been by fome conhdered an antifeptic, and I am very ready to acknowlege that I have no arguments to urge againft it. The next objedl I have in view is rather more out of the common way; and as it was the fafhion, when the fcience of medicine (hone with much more fplendour than it has done for fome years part, for great men to boaft of their new opinions and contend for the facred right ofdifcovery, for fear that this fhould be cenfured as a barren age and free from all fuch claimants, I (hall beg leave to add the following as a new opinion. I do not prefume to fay that, if it is accepted as fuch, I {hall have much to boait of; but, now I have taken up my pen, I fee no reafon why I may not on fome occafions profit by the examples of my predeceffors. Warm applications, we are told, have been applied becaufe they are con- genial to life ; but when it is in the form of lomentation, if the renewal is not conffant, inflead of an application of warm fleam, it will prove to be damp cold. But if warm dry flannels are applied inflead of moift ones, then all thefe inconveniences are avoided; and if thefkinis not inflamed, I would^33 CHJRURGICAL TREATMENT. would advife that the found parts of the limb (houldbe well rubbed with volatile fpirit, either by itfelf or in the form of liniment mixed with an equal quantity of oil; in the latter form the dimulus will be lefs power- ful, but more condant, regular and permanent; and the oil will keep the parts in a moid and eafy hate. When the vital powers become languid, as in cafe of fainting, I believe it is a general praflice to apply volatile fpirits to the nofe; and if we ad- mit their efficacy in one indance, which extenfive experience and general confent feem to fanflion, why may they not prove equally efficacious in exciting the languid powers of linking life, in cafes of approaching mor- tification ? At lead this will prove an agreeable, convenient, and cleanly applicati- on; which is much more than can be faid in favour of any plan of treat- ment that the art of furgery has made ufe of on this occafion. In the choice of applications in cafes of compound fra&ure, one great objeft ffiould be to give the preference to thofe which will occafion the lead dilturbance to the fra&ured limb; the whole fydem ffiould be fo con- trived that the dreffings may be conveniently removed without didurbing of the limb; and though in fome indances where the wound is fmall the fame applications may continue for a fortnight or three weeks, yet when the injury to the integuments is extenfive, and the bone fo ffiatter- ed that the broken parts are daily efcaping from the wound, the neceffity of frequent dreffing becomes indifpenfible. But when a compound frac- ture has been placed in a proper pofition, and dreded with all poffible care M in m andCHIRUROICAL TREATMENT. 234 andcircumfpeflion, and proper bandages once applied, it will not be ne- ceflary either to remove or renew the dreffings, tili digeftion or mortifi- cation has taken place. I well recoiled two cafes that ended in mortification, in confequence of which the parties were all diflatisfied, and fufpedled that the mortification was the immediate confequence either of negleft, want of judgment, or inattention. But let me afk rhofe, who have not been accuftomed to con- fider the fubjedl: in this point of view, whether it is polfible that any ad- vantage can be obtained by removing the dr elfin gs previous to the period above-mentioned, and whether a repetitionof applications will either pro- mote the procefs of digeftion, or prevent the commencement of mortifi- cation? They are the inevitable effefts of the firft crifis, and the bufinefs of medicine at this period is to reftrain the morbid aftion, and we mull wait the event. The firft inftance, that I fhall mention, was a corpulent woman about forty years of age, and independent of her corpulency in perfefi health. Her foot flipped on a fmooth ftone floor, in confequence of which fhe fell, and fra&ured her thigh. The contufion of the integuments or mufcles was infignificant; but, in confequence of the pofition in which fhe fell, the end of the bone perforated the Ikin. In this cafe the indications were to put the patient to bed, to difpofe of the limb in an eafy pofition, and pro- teff the parts with mild and gentle applications; and this in my opinion is all that the art of furgery under fuch circumftances can afford. If digeftion takes place, we muft regulate our conduct according to cir- cumftances ;I CHIRURGICAL TREATMENT, 235 cumfiances; but if it ends in mortification, it ought to be known that it was not in the power of furgery to prevent it. In this infiance the wound of the integuments was fmall, but it was through a large extent of cellular membrane, into which the air would inevitably enter when the bone was reduced to its original fituation. The patient, I have already obferved, was corpulent and in full health, but there was no great laceration or contufion of the parts. If mortifi- cation had not taken place, it in all probability would not have been ne- ceflary to have removed the drefiings until the adhefive inflammation had united all the parts, an^l new granulations had been formed; and if it had then been neceffary to remove the applications, the air could only have approached the external opening of the ulcer, and the drefiings might have been renewed without the limb being in the lead difturbed. But if fpreading gangrene fliould be the confequence, it is a fatisfa61ion to know that all was done that the art of furgery could afford; and that it was impoflible to guard againft the danger. Thefe preliminaries being determined, the furgeon adts with confidence, and the parties are previoufly acquainted with the grounds of their ex- pectations. The other inftance was a compound fra&ure of the tibia with confi- derable contufion, to which the confequent inflammation and tenfion bore an adequate proportion. The increafed a&ion of the conftitution was alfoCHIRURGICAL TREATMENT. 236 alfo very great, fo much fo, that I was induced to take away ten ounces of blood on the fecond day, and repeated this evacuation on the day follow- ing. I do not remember an inftance where I have met with an equal de- gree of conftitutional difeafe, but the blood had not the leaft appearance of fize. It is now near twenty years fince this cafe happened, and as the fever was fo great and the blood not fizy, this was the firft inftance that induced me to form the opinion, which I think has been fatisfa6lorily confirmed by fubfequent experience, that this fpecies of inflammation does not produce fizy blood. Now in thefe two cafes I fhould be glad to know what the folicitous hand of furgery could have done for the purpofe of preventing the con- fequences that took place. It is my opinion, reafoning at this diftant pe- riod, when both the patients and their friends all lie filent in their graves, when the only obje£l that I can have in view is to obtain and communi- cate information, that it was impoflible to guard againft the danger; and I afk the public at large, towhofe tribunal I now appeal, whether the art of furgery could provide an adequate remedy for this formidable difeafe? Would difturbing the fra&ured limb or removing the bandages be of any ufe, would the renewal of dreflings be produftive of falutary effe&s, or would fcalding the wounded parts with hot ftupes and digeftive oint- ments mixed with turpentines have prevented the fatal confequences ? Or, on the contrary, would not the difturbing of the limb, the inquifitorial power of chirurgical oppreflion, the admiflion of external air, the additi- onalCHIRUROXCAL TREATMENT. 237 onal dimulus of frefh dredings, and the inevitable pain that all this bu- finefs mull occafion, with certainty increase the danger without the mod aidant probability ol advantage? I have taken this review of the treatment of compound frafture, for the purpofe of examining fome of the mod formidable combinations of the effects of external injury. But, in cares ofgun-fhot wounds, in addition to violent contufion, lafceration and frafture, it frequently happens that the wounded parts are filled with extraneous fubdances. Much has been faid by former writers on this fubjeft, refpefting the neceffity of thefe ex- traneous fubdances being removed; and when it can be done with eafe and fafety, it fhould certainly be confidered the fird objeft of chirurgical at- tention. But when the date of the injured parts is fuch, that the opera- tion of ext raft ion is liable to be attended with either difficulty, or danger, it will certainly be right to examine the probability of fuccefs, and confi- der whe'ther the advantages refulting from the removal of thofe extrane- ous fubdances will preponderate againd the danger of the operation. In cafes of gun-fhot wounds the extraftion of the ball feems to be the fird objeft of public attention; whereas it is a quedion of much more im- portance to determine the extent of the injury, to a [’certain what parts are wounded, and in what degree thefe parts are necedary to life. If the wounded parts are become indamed, every attempt to extraft the ball will much increafe the danger, in confequence of which the fuccefsful termi- nation will in a great meafure depend on the didance of time fubfequent to the period when the accident took place. And I confider this a fub- jeft of fuch delicacy, that every time the dredings are removed, and the N n n wounded238 CHIRURGICAL TREATMENT. wounded parts diflurbedfor thepurpofe of making any additional attempts for the extra&ion of the ball, the danger mull with certainty be confider- ably increafed. If then, in addition to the unfriendly influence of external air, the parts are firfl to be examined by the probe, and then repeated attempts made by the forceps for the purpofeof extraftion, if the powers of nature were- in the firft inffance fuperior to the deftru£live influence of difeafe, fuch ac- cumulated injury muff frequently become the caufe of inevitable morti- fication. And I am well convinced that it frequently happens, that more mifchief is done by violent attempts to extrafl the ball, than by the ori- ginal injury. But if the injury is only a few degrees inferior to the falu- tary powers of nature, an addition that would otherwife be inconfiderable may determine the fate of the patient. By way of illuffration, let us eflimate the powers of health at twenty; and, in oppofition, let us fuppofe the influence of the injury at four teen, the admiffion of external air at one, the effe61s of probing at two, the injury done by the forceps at three, the balance will then ffand equal; « but if we take into the account the agitation of the patient’s mind, with the ffimulus of frefh dreffings, and many other circumffances that are in- feparable from this operation, we fhall find that this fingle attempt, in ad- dition to the original injury, will with certainty determine the fate of the patient. For my own part I muff acknowledge, that it is a fubjeft which I fhould treat with the greateft caution ; and where the life of one perfon and perhaps the happinefs of another depended on the event, I fhould think it would prove an inexpreflible fatisfa&ion to all the parties concern- ed,CHIRURGICAL TREATMENT# 239 ed, to know that the injury was not increafed by any irrational attempts to guard againft the danger. When all the extraneous fubftances can be removed with fafety, the iniury is then reduced to a more fimple Rate, and the firft caufe no lon- ger remains an objedl of our confideration. On this occafion it muft be obvious to every rational mind, that it would be impoffible to anticipate all the difficulties that are liable to occur in fuch cafes, or to give directi- ons for the endlefs variety of circumftances that may prefent themfelves; it is a method that is inadequate to the fubjeft, and mull; ever be found inapplicable in pra&ice. It is only in the voluminous pages of empiricifm, that thofe who cannot think for themfelves are to look for precedents. It is the bufinefs of fci- ence to teach mankind to think, and not to render the mind inactive by furniffiing them with a long catalogue of thoughts, or impofing implicit fubmiffion to the dictates of their predeccffors. Free agency is one of the moil fublime attributes of the human mind; and if it was poffible to prefcribe a fyflem of directions applicable to all the vaft variety of circumftances that might occur, it would be an infult on the dignity of our nature as rational beings, that fuch a work ffiould be offered to the public. It would be degrading the human underftanding to an humble level with the operations of mechanic powers, and making * man a mere machine. It would prove an infuperable impediment to the exertions of ingenuity, it would put a final period to the progrefs of im- provement, and for ever fufpend all the adlive powers of the human mind. InCHIRURGICAL TREATMENT. 24° In the frontifpiece to the Bath Guide we meet with a reprefentation of Dame Folly leading her votaries by the nofe; it is only to that part of the community who have inclination and ability to think for themfelves, that I with to appeal, and if thofe of a contrary defcription are deter- mined to enlill under her banners, I fhall not prefume to oppofe their inclinations. SECTIONSECTION X. THE MEDICINAL TREATMENT OF THOSE DISEAS- ES WHICH ARE THE IMMEDIATE CONSEQUENCE •'w OF EXTERNAL INJURY, ILLUSTRATED BY THE PHENOMENA OF ANALAGOUS DISEASE. npHE effeCis of bleeding have already been examined; and it has been particularly mentioned that this remedy is fuppofed to be mo ft effi- cacious in fuch cafes as are productive of a phlogiftic diathefts of the fyf- tem. I have examined many opinions on this fubjeft, but cannot meet with any that appear fatisfa&ory; the refpeftive writers feem to have had no fettled motive for their conduCi, and to have formed their opinion without any rational bafts for it to reft upon. Mr. Chriftie, an armv furgeon, who feems to have paid great attention to the duties of his profeftion, obferves that in gun-fhot wounds the lancet may be ufed with the greateft freedom. Mr. Blizard, whofe book was pub* lifhed in the year one thoufand feven hundred and ninety eight, recom- mends bleeding, but expreffes himfeif withconftderable caution, and feems to prefer topical bleeding by leeches, as if he conftdered it the moft it fig- nificant, and confequently leaft objeClionable. But both mention bleed- O o o insMEDICINAL TREATMENT. 242 ing and opium, as if there was not a queftion refpe&ing the propriety of their ufe in the fame difeafe. Mr. Biizard fays, “During the fir ft ftage, the violence of fymptoms of irritation and inflammation is to be modera- ted by bleeding, purging, and fmall dofes of antimony, opium, diluting draughts of watery drinks, &c. Bleeding fhould, however, be allowed with the ftrifieft regard to the pulfe, as expreflive of the ftrength of the body. It may be copious at firft, efpecially from the divided veffels them- felves; but it fhould be repeated rather in moderate quantities than large- ly. Topical bleeding, by leeches, will prove more immediately benefi- cial than by the lancet, and lefs weakening in its remote effects This we find is giving us a matter of opinion without bringing for- wards any arguments in fupport of it; and when we compare the two opinions we fhall find that neither of them had any criterion by which to regulate their conduft. Mr. Chriffie who wrote from Holland fays, “In gun-fhot wounds it rarely fails that a confiderable degree of febrile afiion commences, and I know no inflance wherein the free ufe of the lancet affords greater relief; though the inteflines are alfo to be kept open, pur- ging, for obvious reafons, cannot well be fully employed. Opiates, in * full dofes, muff alfo occafionally be had recourfe tot.” It muff be evident to every one, capable of forming an opinion, that the directions are all given in general terms; but they are objefis of great importance in the praftice of furgery, and highly merit our attention. * Blizard’s Le&ures on the fituation of the blocdveffels and the nature of gun-fhot wounds, editi- on third, page 55. + Medical and Phyfical Journal, vol. 3, page 143. If /MEDICINAL TREATMENT. 243 IF the patient is in a plethoric hate, once bleeding may be made ufeof with fafety, but I do not confider bleeding a proper remedy except in fuch aifeafes as produce a fizy flate of the blood; and I am of opinion that no degree of inflammation, that is produced by means of external injury on the extremities, ever becomes the caufe of that effed; fo that I (hall in the prefent inftance give it as my decided opinion, that repeated bleed- ing would be improper. In the books that I have confulted on this fub- jed, inftead of meeting with any intelligible opinion, we are more fre- quently embarraffed by a catalogue of remedies that are promifcuoufiy alfembled together without any principle to dired our choice. Whether the opinion I have already given is right or wrong, is not the queltion in the prefent inftance ; what I contend for is, that I have at lead: an imagi- nary bafis on which to reft my argument. If then bleeding is only an efficacious remedy in thofe difeafes that pro- duce fizy blood, and if the difeafe now in queftion does not produce fizy blood, my inference is well lounded; to oppofe my opinion you mud dif- prove the fads. I am not fo prefurnptuous as to think myfelf infallible; but, as fuch has been the refult of my enquiries, I (hall endeavour under one general principle to point out fuch a fyflem of pradice as appears to me molt rational on this occafion. Opium is mentioned in the cata- logue of remedies, and it certainly is a medicine of confiderable impor- tance, but at prefent we are not in polfeffion of any principle on which to reft our opinion. If this was a truly phlogiftic difeafe and produdive of fizy blood, I fhould think opium an improper medicine, as much fo as it would be in phrenitis,MEDICINAL TREATMENT. 244 phrenitis, peripneumonia, enteritis, eryfipelas, or acute rheumatifm. But as I am of opinion that this difeafe is not produdlive of fizy blood, and consequently is not a phlogiftic difeafe, opium may be given with the great- eft Safety and advantage. It will abate irritation, diminifh pain, prove an antidote for this Species of fever, and procure repofe; and in addition to all thefe inftances of falutary influence, it will aft as a cordial to Sup- port the vital powers, and consequently Serve as a powerful remedy a- gainft the danger of approaching mortification. The fame principles, that forbid the ufe of the lancet, will eftablifh the falutary influence of opium, and vice verfa. It muft appear evident from the preceding observations, that the difeafe which takes place in the fyftem in confequence of external injuries to the extremities is a particular Species of fever, and not a truly inflammatory difeafe. The other remedies, which the materia medica furnifhes us with, are fa- line medicines, antimonials, and purgatives. It is certainly an objedf of great importance in moft inftances of fever to clear the firft paffages, and on many occafions .it is highly neceffary to procure a plentiful difcharge by means of purgative medicines. But in cafes of compound fradlures of the lower extremities, the operation of purgative medicines muft be attend- ed with considerable inconveniences, and consequently, if not ftrongly in- dicated, Should be ufed with caution. It may be neceffary in Such cafes to guard againft coftivenefs, and for this purpofe juft to keep the bowels in an open Rate, but we Should be careful not to carry this part of the treat- ment one degree further than what the particular circumftamces of the difeafe may abfolutely require. As245 MEDICINAL TREATMENT. As opium may be given with great freedom in fuch cafes, if it is united with antimonials it may proteft the flomach againfl their naufeating in- fluence, and jointly procure a difcharge by the (kin. The neutral faline medicines diluted with fome of the Ample waters will form a proper ve- hicle, and ferve to diminifh this fpecies of fever without reducing the flrength of the fyflem. And as the copious evacuations by the lancet would be highly prejudicial, andthe free ufe of purgative medicines would be particularly inconvenient; if the fever runs high and the heat of the body confiderably increafed, in fuch cafes it may be prudent to abflain from the ufe of opium, and large dofes of nitre may be given with con- fiderable advantage. The objedl on thefe occafions is to deflroy the morbid a&ion, without reducing the flrength of the conftitution ; and il by thefe means the fever is diminifhed and the morbid a&ion begins to fubflde, the very firft in- ftance that the approaching crifls becomes perceptible, the bark fhould not be negledled for a Angle hour. It is a period of the difeafe that de~ mands the moft accurate attention, and on the management of which the life of the patient will frequently depend. It has already been fufAcient- ly proved, that the books of furgery do not furnifh us with any fettled plan refpe&ing the ufe of the bark in mortiflcations, but that it has been indifcriminately given in every period of the preceding difeafe. I am well convinced that it is a very difficult matter to afcertain the properties of fome medicines; but the powers of the bark appear too flrongly mark- ed to remain a queflion of doubt or uncertainty. In a phlogiftic difeafe, fuch as produces Azy blood, the bark is inadmif- P p p Able246 MEDICINAL TREATMENT. fible, and a very few dofes will feldom fail to aggravate the fymptoms; but I have already obferved that the fever, which is the confequence of external injury to the extremities, is not of the phlogiffic kind, it does not produce a fizy (late of the blood ; and even here the bark, if given too early, in my opinion would be produdfive of bad effects. It is a medicine that gives energy and increafes the adlion of the fyftem, and confequent- ly mult be improper in fuch cafes where the adfion is already increafed by difeafe. I am ready to acknowledge that the operations of the animal ceconomy are in many refpedfs obfcure, that it is difficult in the firft infiance to ob- tain a critical knowledge of the fadfs that belong to the fubjedfs which we wiffi to inveffigate; that our ideas at bed mud be imperfedf, and the lan- guage in which we attempt to communicate our opinions mud of neceffi- ty fometimes prove inaccurate and imperfedf. I know it is a fubjedf that in many inflances exceeds the limits of the human underffanding, and it will be neceffiary in all inquiries into the works of nature to diffinguilh what is beyond the reach of human reafon from that which evidently ap- pears irrational : 44 It being impoffible for Reafon ever to procure any Affent to that, which to itfelf appears unreafonable Thefe obfervations are equally applicable to every fpecies of philofo- phical difeuffion, but in the fcience of phyfic and furgery they have met with the lead attention; the order in this iriflance feems to have been reverfed, the fubjedf has been fuppofed to be circumfcribed within a little compafs, and the powers of the human mind to know no bounds. But if thefe phi- lofophers had either read the defeription of the human mind above re- * Locke on the human underftanding, vol. 2, page 313. ferred ' . 1247 MEDICINAL TREATMENT. ferred to, or had ever examined the narrow limits of their own, and if, previous to their enquiries into the intricate works of nature, they had only referred to the title page, and noticed the indrudlive motto * which this fagacious writer has made choice of, both Tides of the quedion would then have appeared to them in a more clear and intelligible point of view. The fpecies of fever, in wh'ch the powers of the bark are fo particular- ly confpicuous, is the intermittent; but even, in this indance, the invaria- ble object has been to give the bark during the intermidion for the pur- pofe of preventing a return. For my own part, I am of opinion that there are very few infiances where the bark may be given during the ac- tive fiage of fever with fafety and advantage. In thofe fevers which are called putrid the bark may be fuppofed to be mod admidible; but in cafes of general petechiae I have frequently met with indances where the bark evidently increafed the difeafe. I have heard fome of my profedional friends, for whofe abilities I have the high- ed veneration and refpedf, not only recommend a mixed treatment, but I have feen it put in pradlice; yet I cannot fay I ever met with any evi- dence to convince me of the propriety of fuch condudf. The quedion in my mind is, to determine whether the bark is proper or improper; I cannot condder it a matter of indifference in any indance of difeafe. But it fometimes happens that fevers of the putrid kind come to a fpeedy cri- bs, the brd period foon terminates, and in fuch cafes the bark may be gi- ven in a few days after the commencement; whereas on the contrary I * Ecclei. xi. 5. “ As thou knoweft not what is the way of the Spirit, nor how the bones do grow in the wonrb of her that is with child: Even fo thou knoweft not the works of God, who maketh all things.’* have248 MEDICINAL TREATMENT have alfo feen fevers of the putrid kind run on for a month ; and though I have repeatedly on every little abatement of difeafe tried the bark, ftill it has produced an increafe of fever, in confequence of which the bark has been difcontinued, and the cure has been accomplifhed without it. It frequently happens that epidemic fevers afTume a particular cha- racter, in confequence of which they may be confidered provincial, in which fome local circumftances give a wonderful uniformity of difeafe, and it may fometimes happen on thefe occafions that a uniformity of treatment is admiffible. I have heard of all kinds of fevers being cured by wine, and we fome- times read of inftances of the bark being indiscriminately given to a whole neighbourhood with invariable fuccefs *; and ifinfuch inftances of gene- * “ The angina maligna, or gangrenofa, as Dr. Mead calls it, has been rife in this city, and many parts of the country, but no where fo much as at Kidderminfter, where it.fias been in a manner epi - demica]. Upon its firft appearance in that town, nine or ten poor perfons died of it fucceffively : at laft I was called to the child of one Mr. Wallis, a conftdetable tradelman in that place. He loon recovered by our method ; and, fince that time, very great numbers there have had the diftemper, and icarce any have failed who fought for help before the difeafe had taken too deep root. For in this, if in any cafe, the old rule is to be obferved, Principiis obfta, &c. “Mr. Cooper, an apothecary of that town, a very fenfible and careful man, obferving the method in which the child laft mentioned was treated, applied it afterwards to thofe perfons who confuited him ; and, as he had a principal fhare in the bufinefs ol the town, he had frequent opportunities of experiencing its efficacy. He told me fometime afterwards, that inftead of preparing the medicines in ftnall quantities, according to my prefeription, he had been obliged to make up feveral gallons at a time : fo numerous were the fick, and fo little variation was it neceflaty to make in the compoli- tion of the remedy. Upon a careful examination of his books, it appears, that fince I vifited mafter Wallis, 242 perfons have been his patients for this difeafe, who were all treated in the manner here- after related, and not more than feven died ; of which number he mentions no more than one, who took the medicines regularly, and in good time ; to the others he was not called in till the difeafe had made a confiderable progrefs.” Ulcerated fore throat by Dr. Wall. Medical Mufeum, v. 1, p. 114. ralMEDICINAL TREATMENT. 249 ral difeafe the public at large cannot have the critical attention of the fa- culty, a general plan of treatment may be made ufe of with propriety, and fometimes with advantage. But I cannot fay that I have met with many inftanccs, where I had an opportunity of paying a critical attention to the progrefs of the difeafe in a multiplicity of cafes, in which a varie- ty of occurrences have not required a variety of treatment. When fuch numbers of people arefaid to be fo eafily cured, it is rea~ fonable to conclude that the doffor muff polTefs great abilities, and the medicines irrefillible powers. But as I have not been fo fortunate as to be equally fuccefsful, and as every age ought certainly to profit by the ex- amples of its predeceftors, we mud of neceftity acknowledge either that the difeafes have loft their compliability, the medicines their powers, or that the fafts were not accurately ftated; I fufpeff the latter ; and if great numbers took the fame medicine and great numbers were fo fortunateas to recover, it is moft probable that very few were dangeroufly ill. 1 have heard of apothecaries who have been accuftomed always to keep the bark pot boiling; but this is a fubjefl that belongs to the commercial part of the profeftion, and on the prefent occafion it will be neceflary to diftin- guifh between the practice of phyfic and the fcience of medicine. I have given the bark in putrid difeafes with evidently good effe6ls, and have afterwards known the fever to increafe till the bark was inadmiflible; under fuch circumftances the plan of treatment has been varied for a few days, and the bark afterwards given with ftrongly marked advantage; but I have never yet met with an inftance where bark and wine, as fome have reprefented, would be given with fuccefs. Q q q A pa-250 MEDICINAL TREATMENT. A patient of mine was Tome years ago taken ill in town of a putrid fe- ver, and was attended by two phyficians; one of whom (lands very high in his profefTion, and has defervedly an ample fhare of public efleem; the other is in conliderable practice, and I have heard him fpoken of with the greatefl refped. I mention thefe circumflances to fhew that, under the dire6lion of fuch eminent abilities, this young lady who was then a- bout nineteen years of age took two bottles of port a day for a fortnight, and in addition to this had feven blillers, and a finapifm to each foot. I do not prefume to fay that the method of treatment was improper; the patient recovered, and all the parties were highly gratified ; I only fay that I never met with a fimilar inftance in my own pra6!ice, and I never yet have had an opportunity of giving half the quantity of wine, or ever yet had occafion to make ufe of hair the quantity of blillers. On the fubje£l of putrid fevers we meet with a variety of opinions re- fpe£ling the ufe of the bark ; fome contend that it fhould be given from the firll commencement through the whole progrefs of the difeafe, whilfl others are of opinion that it is neceffary that the fever Ihould be abated before the bark is made ufe of. Now in both inflances it may have happened that each party may have formed a proper judgment of the evidence that came before them; but at the fame time it is to be remembered, that the nature and fymptoms of the difeafe may vary in different infiances, and each refpe&ive variety re- quire a different mode of treatment, according to the particular circum- ftances.MEDICINAL TREATMENT. 251 Sat the difeafe in queftion, which is the confequence of external inju- ry, has no variety in kind, it can only vary in degree. I do not pretend to determine at what diftance of time from the period when the accident firft took place, the bark may be given in cafes of external injury of the extremities; it is the ftate of the difeafe, and not the time of its duration, that is to determine the point in queflion. If the free ufe of the lancet, which fome have recommended, can ever be thought ne- ceffiry for the purpofe of correcting the increafed aCtion of the fyftem, bark in this ftate of the difeafe muft certainly be improper. But at that very inftant when the increafed aCtion begins to diminifh and the fever to fubfide, at that critical period not a moment fhould be loft, and bark then becomes a moll important remedy. At the fame time that it will be neceftary to watch the progrefs of the difeafe with the moft cautious attention, as the fever may fubftde in fome inftances fooner than in others, and as in fome cafes it may be difficult to afcertain the time when this critical period does take place, it is certainly an objefi worthy of our confideration to determine whether the bark may be given with fafety before the crifis of the fever does take place, as it certainly would be right to meet that hazard which is attended with the leaft danger on this occafion. I do not mean to compromife the matter with thofe who advife the ufe of the bark at the commencement, or in an early period of the difeafe, for the purpofe of preventing mortification; I only wifh to recommend a cautious line of condufl and to guard againft a pra&ical error of an oppofite252 MEDICINAL TREATMENT. But oppofite nature that might prove equally prejudicial. I do not think this is a queftion that admits of compromife in principle; but as it is impof- fible to regulate our pra&ice with fcientific certainty, I only wifh to in- troduce this obfervation for the purpofe of guarding as much as poffible againfl an imperfection that is, in fome degree, unavoidable. I do not fuppofe that any one will contend that the fever immediately changes from the higheft degree of morbid aCtion to the loweft degree of putrid debility. But I think it is evident that the declenfion is by degrees, and that there is a regular decreafe of aftion from the acme of fever to the commencement of putrid diathefis. But whatever may be the rapi- dity of the declenfion, no truth can be more evident than that the change muft take place before it can become perceptible. Now as it is in my opi- nion, an objeCt of great importance that the energy of the conflitution fhould be fupported at this critical period, and as in praftice it will be irn- poffible exaCfly to mark the change; I fhould by the bed fide advife that the bark fhould rather be given a few hours too foon than one too late. It may be here recolleded that I have before obferved, that the fever, which is the confequence of external injury to the extremities, is not a phlogiflic difeafe; and this is a circumftance which in the prefent inffance particularly merits our attention; for though I think the bark fhould be given with great caution in all cafes of fever, yet I am of opinion there is no inflance which forbids the ufe of the bark fo powerfully as a true inflammatory difeafe. And if that which is the fubjeft of our prefent con- fideration had been of this kind, it would have been neceffary that a per- feff folution of the difeafe fhould have taken place before it was proper that the bark fhould be adminifteied.MEDICINAL TREATMENT. 253 But as this is not a phlogiftic difeafe, I am of opinion that lefs caution is neceflary; whereas on the oppofite fide of the queftion, in cafes of ery- fipelas, which do fometimes end in mortification, if the bark was given be- fore the inflammatory fymptoms had fubfided, it might be produftive of the mod important confequences. But in the prefent inftance we have not this difficulty to contend with; in all cafes of external injury that do not terminate in mortification, it is reafonable to fuppofe that a falutary fuppuration takes place at the crifis of the fever, which marks the folution of the difeafe. And it alfo frequent- ly happens that, although this crifis may be falutary in the firft inftance, if bark and cordials are notfoon adminiftered the whole fyftem may in a Abort time fink into a ftate of debility, from which it may not again be eafily reftored. But in thofe cafes that terminate in mortification, it appears more than probable to me that when the fever begins to fubftde, inftead of a falutary fuppuration, a famous difcharge takes place in confequence of the excefs of previous fever, and the exhaufted ftate of the fyftem; that if the pow- ers of nature are fufficient to fupport the conftitution, the difeafe is then limited to the parts; but if the powers of the conftitution are in a finking ftate, and the adminiftration of bark and cordials is delayed at this period, under thefe circumftances I am inclined to fufpeft that this morbid dif- charge.is at that critical period taken up by the abforbents and conveyed into the fyftem, in confequence of which a putrid diathefis is eftablifhed, and a fpreading gangrene takes place in the injured part, which, in con- fequence of the putrid diathefis, is with morbid rapidity communicated to the whole fyftem. R r r laMEDICINAL TREATMENT. 254 In this accumulated ftate of difeafe I am apprehenfive that the beft re- gulated plan of praftice will in general not fucceed; and it appears to me to be a degree of difeafe, againfl which all the powers of medicine will be oppofed in vain. If this is what Mr. Sharp terms a fpreading gangrene, it is not probable that the bark fhould prove an efficacious remedy; though I have no doubt of its falutary influence at a more early period and in a lefs degree of dif- eafe. But if the bark will not fucceed, I fhould not place the leaft confi- dence in other cordials; on this part of the fubjeft I cannot fubferibe to Mr. Sharp’s opinion, and have no doubt but the bark is the mo ft power- ful cordial that can be made ufe of on this occafion. But if we compare Mr. Sharp’s practical obfervations with the above theoretical analyfls of the difeafe, we fhall find that, when the difeafe flops fpontaneoufly, as he has obferved does frequently happen, the degree of difeafe is one fhort of the laft I have here deferibed; and if I agree with him that the bark does not poffefs the powers of flopping the progrefs of fpreading gangrene, I have no doubt but it will frequently prevent the fpreading gangrene taking place, if it is given in fufficient quantity at the critical commencement of the local affe6lion. With refpe£l to the quantity of bark that may be thought neceffary on fuch occafions, it will be difficult to give a general opinion. In different inftances it will vary according to circumftances, andmuftat laft be con- fidered a diferetionary bufinefs. In thofe cafes, where I have thought the bark moft fuccefsful, I think theMEDICINAL TREATMENT. 255 the falutary influence did not fo much depend upon the quantity that was taken in a given time, as it did on the critical period when it was firft made ufe of. Mr. Pott and Mr. I. Planter both fpeak of giving the bark in large quantities, and as long as the patient’s ftomach would bear it ; but I am of opinion that more depends upon the time than the quantity ; and if the abforption of putrid fanies once takes place, there will be the great- eft reafon to be apprehenlive that it will not be in the power of the bark to counteraft its influence. But, when a cafe becomes fo truely defperate, every experiment muft be confidered juflifiable; and as our knowledge of the fubjeft will be at bell imperfeft, and as there is always a poflibility of forming an inaccurate or erroneous opinion, it certainly would be highly criminal for the fur- geon to betray his truft, and leave the patient to his fate, by deferring his poll in a paroxyfm of defpair. It frequently happens that nature will make exertions that we cannot forefee, for which reafon it is neceflary that we fhould always ftand prepared to give our utmoft afliftance; and as bark and cordials are the only internal remedies which we have to fly to, it is cer- tainly right in fuch cafes that they fhould be tried to their full extent. It is our duty on fuch occafions to be upon the watch, and have all the powers of medicine ready to bring into adlion as circumftances may oc- cur, or the particular exigencies of fuch dangerous fituations may require. If we may depend upon the obfervations of Sir George Baker, we fhould be induced to believe that the bark was a certain remedy in cafes ol mortification, much more fo than in intermittent fever; as the unifor- mity of fuccefs in the former inftance is urged as an unqucftionable proof of /MEDICINAL TREATMENT. 256 I was of the genuine purity of the medicine. But it was rather unfortunate that the evidence did not come under his own infpe&ion ; and l am fome- what aftoniffied to find fuch a want of caution on the one hand, and ex- cefs of credulity on the other. The evidence of experience mud have convinced every attentive ob- ferver, that there are degrees of mortification which would either Hop fpontaneoufly, or without much difficulty would admit of cure. But it is a melancholy truth, too plain to be for a moment quefiioned, that there are alfo degrees of this formidable difeafe, which, in every part of their progrefs, fet all the powers of medicine at defiance. Sir George Baker obferves, “That the bark of the Hofpitals was not at that time deficient in fome of thofe properties for which it has been ce- lebrated. Doftor Reynolds had a certain proof in feveral inftances of gangrenes which were flopped by the quantities of it ufually given on fuch occafions*.” This is not only fpeakingof the bark as a certain re- medy in this difeafe, but it is aflerting that there is a line of practice eftab- liffied for the regulation of our conduft in fuch cafes. If Sir George Baker and Doftor Reynolds are right, I am wrong; for I know of no fettled plan of pra&ice, nor am I acquainted with any evi- dence, either written or traditional, by which I can form any rational con- je&ure what are the quantities of the bark ufually given on fuch occafi- ons, * Medical Tranfattions, vol. 3, page 153;MEDICINAL TREATMENT® 257 But S f s I was early led to believe that this was a difeafe To eafily to be cured, that I fuppofed the remedies were in every furgeon’s hands; and if I had never had the fatisfadlion of vifiting the metropolis, it is probable that I fnould have attributed the general want of fuccefs, and frequent inftances of mortality in fuch cafes, to the very humble, low, and much inferior ftate of country pradlice. But my mind is perledtly at eafe; and though I may fornetimes be fo unfortunate as to loofe a patient, yet I muft ac- knowledge that I do not experience the leafl remorfe of confcience for not having fent to London for advice. I fliall not attempt to give a tedious aefcription of the immature expe- rience of my youth; but when I went to the hofpitals, I certainly had formed fuch flattering expeditions as the fubfequent obfervations of Sir George Baker and Dodior Reynolds might at the prefent time induce the inexperienced to hope for. But I (hall not attempt to deferibe all that I faw in town, as I have no doubt but one example will give ample fatisfadlion to all parties. The cafe was a laceration of the ankle joint that nearly feparated the leg and foot afunder; the patient fell to the care of the fenior burgeon of Saint Thomas’s hofpital; the integument and capfular ligament were an- teriorly and laterally completely divided, and the flexor-tendons alfo torn in two; fo that the inflde of the joint was completely expofed. The firfl: view convinced the fenior furgeon of the unavoidable neceffity of imme- diate amputation, which he propofed to his patient with every expreflion of tender attention and humane concern that benevolence could dic- tate.MEDICINAL TREATMENT. 258 But very unfortunately for all parties, jufi at that critical period when amputation had been determined upon by the furgeon, and confented to by the patient, another furgeon accidentally made his appearance in the ward. He was the iecond in (landing, but looked upon himfelf as firfl in abiliiies. As the propriety of amputation in fuch cafes is certainly a ques- tion of critical importance, the fenior furgeon very candidly folicited his opinion ; but I am forry to recoiled that the anfwer was not returned with the fame degree of liberality with which it was folicited, or with that ci- vility which the age and virtues of the other party, both as a man and as a furgeon, had an undoubted claim to. For with a high degree of dicta- torial arrogance, which was as unneceffary as it was urjuftifiabie, he gave an hafty and unqualified opinion againfl the propriety of amputation, and direded the whole plan of fubfequent treatment with the rnofl con- fident afTurance of fuccefs. But, notwithflanding all the fuppofed fuperiority of his profeffional abi- lities, mortification took place in a few days, and the ward in which the patient lay was plentifully fumigated with the fragrant odours of fuch hot fomentations, with which furgeons in general amufe themfelves and the parties during that fhort and melancholy period between the commence- ment of mortification and the death of the patient. I muff acknowledge that this cafe made afirong impreflion on my mind; and perhaps all the time I might experience a co, fiderable fatisfadion on the prefumptive inference that the want of fuccefs, which I had before ex- perienced, did not depend on the inferiority of country pradice. But on the other hand, having formed high expedations of the information that 1 wasMEDICINAL TREATMENT. ^59 I was to receive in town, the fair profpefl immediately began to cloud, and I became apprehenfive that I fhould not meet with any certainly ef- ficacious method of preventing mortification. But perhaps the quantity of bark ufually given on fuch occafions with fuccefs was not then afcertained, as this cafe happened two or three years previous to the date of Do&or Reynolds’s obfervations. There is one circumflance worthy of attention on this occafion, that the cafe before us is very iimilar to that defcribed by Sir James Earle, in which he firfl fucceeded in his new method of treating compound frac- tures and luxations; and it may alfo be proper to obferve that, though this cafe was in fome refpefls favourable for amputation after the commence- ment of mortification, yet fo well were they all convinced of the ineffica- cy of fuch praftice that the propofal was never mentioned. The difference between external and internal mortifications is fo great, that in a praflical view there feems to be very little refemblance except in name. In all cafes of vifceral mortification, as the parts are effential to life, their deflru&ion mufl be produff ive of more fpeedy death; for which reafon it mufl be obvious that in fuch infiances the objefl is to prevent the cifeafe taking place, and not either the curing of mortification when it has taken place, or even the flopping of its progrefs. If we compare the refpeffive indications, we fhall find in the former in- fiance that bleeding is feldom neceffary and purging is to be ufed with caution, but opium is admiffible in every period of the difeafe, and bark isMEDICINAL TREATMENT# .260 is an important remedy. Whereas, in cafes of internal inflammation, bleed- ing and purging may be made ufe of with unlimited freedom, at the fame time that opium would be poifon, and bark a ufelefs medicine. But as we meet with a variety of circumftances that will require a variety in the method of treatment, I (hall endeavour to point out the particular appli- cation of the refpe&ive remedies. It would here be worthy of our attention to obferve, that, in cafes of in- flammation of the integumentsand mufcles of the abdomen inconfequence of external injury, the difeafe is not produ&ive of fizy blood. But if the peritonaeum or its contents become inflamed from the fame exter- nal caufe, then the blood becomes fizy and a phlogiftic diathefis is the confequence. , ' ■' 1 In the firft inftance once or twice bleeding will be the full extent of this remedy, in the latter I know of no bounds to the ufe of the lancet. I well recolle£l an inftance of a gentleman whofe horfe going full fpeed palled under the bow of a tree, which ftruck him over the middle of the abdomen, the pain which the ftroke occafioned was very confiderable and continued for more than two days, the inflammation of the external parts of the abdomen was extenfive, and the tenfion great both in degree and extent; he was once bled, but the blood was not in the leaft marked with fize, and plentiful purging was made ufe of. The effe&s of the contu- fion, though extenfive, were confined to the external parts, and the vifce- ra were not afFe&ed. Fomentation and the warm bath feemed to give the moft immediate relief, and the internal remedies appeared to a£t only as aux-MEDICINAL TREATMENT. 26l auxiliaries, as therewas not any great degree ofconffitutional difeafe ; and confequently the unloadingofthefy (lem by bleeding and purging was more a matter of prudence than neceffity. But as fomentations and the warm bath were evidently the mod efficacious remedies employed on this oc- casion, this will perhaps prove a convenient opportunity of explaining their operation and mode of adling. When the injury is external and limited to the integuments and muf- cles of the abdomen, thefe applications will have ftmilar effects as in ca- fes of contufions of the integuments and mufcles of other parts; but the mod important queflion will be whether the vifcera do, or do not, partake of the effecls of the injury. It has been before obferved on the autho- rity of Doflor Parr* “that the warm bath at one hundred and fix affec- ted the head and that a vertigo and confufion came on in five minutes.* Mow on this occafion I am difpofed to fufpeff, that, when the heat of the bath exceeds that of the blood, in the firfl inftance the blood is ex- panded in a greater degree than the veffels that contain it ; and as the ani- mal fluids occupy a greater fpace when heated, in a manner fomewhat hmilar to the expanfion of mercury and other fluids in the thermometer, a temporary plethora is in confeqimnce produced, and a larger quantity fern to the brain : or in other words the preffure on the vcfftls of the brain is increafed, which produces the efftfts abovemeniioned. I do not here intend to affert that the expanfion of the b’ ood in the ani- mal body is perfetflly analogous to the operation of the thermometer, or * Medical Commentaries, vol i, page 300^ T t tMEDICINAL TREATMENT. 262 do I wifii it to be underflood, that I am of opinion, that it is poffibJe to ex- plain the operations of animal life alone on mechanical principles, 1 only mention one as an illuflration of the other. But if a certain degree of heat afrefts the head and brings on delirium and fainting, let whatever may be the caufe or mode of operating, the fa6l fhould teach us to diflinguifh a hot bath from a warm one; and thefe cir- cumftances evidently prove the propriety of one copious bleeding before the warm bath is made ufe of, even if there is no phlogifiic diathefis. But in cafes of vifceral inflammation when the whole fyflem partakes of the difeafe, it is then that large and frequent bleedings form the moft important part of the method of treatment which we have to depend upon. Purging is certainly the fecond objefl, but except it is at a very early pe- riod, or the difeafe is of an inferior degree, it frequently happens that pur- gative medicines will not operate unlefs the flrifture has been relieved by previous bleeding. I have known inflances where powerful dofes of purgative medicines have been given and the bowels remain inaftive, un- til by very copious bleeding the whole fyflem has been fet at liberty. On fuch occafions I have frequently taken two pounds of blood away at a time, and I am well convinced that, when large quantities are taken, the difeafe is frequently deflroyed with the leaf! expence to the’ con- flitution, as two pounds taken at once will fometimes prove more effica- cious than double the quantity taken at four different intervals. But it would be impoffible to prefcribe any certain quantity, it muff depend on the effedls; in fuch inflances it will not be fufficient for a phyfician to pre- fcribeMEDICINAL TREATMENT. 263 fcribe the loft of ten, twelve, or fixteen ounces of blood; it is neceiTary that the perfon who gives directions fhould attend during the operation, as it is iinpoflible to determine the quantity but by the effefts; the prefcription fhould rather be quantum fufficit than any limited quantity; and though 1 may be fufpefted of urging this fubjeft with irrational enthufiafm, yet I (hall beg leave to obferve in reply, that in many inflances it will not be fufficient to take away a fmall bafon of blood twice a day, and at the fame time give purgative medicines in fmall dofes, but it will be neceffary in every particular inftance that the remedy fhould be proportioned to the degree of difeafe. But I have known cafes where I have attended at a very early period, where bleeding and purging have both been made ufe of to the full ex- tent, where an uninterrupted plan of very powerful treatment has been continued for fix or eight days, where the difeafe has for fhort intervals given way to the influence of medicine, and yet ultimately the inflamma- tion has refilled all the powers of medicine and mortification been the in- evitable confequence. Emetic tartar is frequently recommended in fuch cafes, and blifters may fometimes be made ufe of with great advantage ; but bleeding and pur- ging and the warm bath are the moft important remedies. When eme- tic tartar is given in fuch cafes it is probably with a defign of abating the inflammatory fever, and afting as an auxiliary to the purgative medicines; I have never feen it given in large dofes in inflammation of the bowels, but I have known fome inftances where it has been given in too great quantities and proved purgative in a very dangerous degree. I think its operationMEDICINAL TREATMENT. 26 4 operation in the firft inftance is uncertain, but when it does prove purga- live it is generally in the extreme. As this difeafe is in general extremely painful, it fometimes happens in the early flages that opium is inadvertently given for the purpofe of ea- fing pain, but this will frequently prove a fatal error that can never after be corredled ; it appears to me to be a cafe in which opium is inadmiffi- ble. Opium is fometimes given with intention to corredl the morbid ir- ritability of the ftomach, for the purpofe of protedling the adminiftration of purgative medicines; but it is a method of pradiice that I fhould always view with the mo ft cautious apprehenfton, as this is a truly phlogiftic dif- eafe produdlive of fizy blood, the fymptoms of which are always aggra- vated by opium. I know of no difeafe in which the danger and delufion Is fo great as in the prefent inftance; and inftead of attempting to allay the irritability of the ftomach with opium. I fhould certainly give the pre- ference to copious and repeated bleeding, and warm fomentations ; and it is probable that bliftering might be ufed on this occafton with great ad- vantage. But cafes of a mixed nature do fometimes occur in which I have found the temptation to give opium irrefiftible; yet, on furh occafions, it is ne- cefiary for the iurgeon to ftand with his lancet in his hand for the pur- pofe of guarding agaiuft the effedls of its phlogiftic influence. The mod difficult inflances which I have met with of this kind have been in cafes of difeafes of the liver, where there has been unqueftionable evidence of chronic indurations, and inflammation has taken place under fuch265 MEDICINAL TREATMENT. fuch circumfiances. If in fuch cafes an indurated part of the liver preiTes on the biliary du&, it fometimes occafions an excefs of pain that is aimed intolerable, very fnnilar to the effedls of gall hones. In fuch indances, af- ter copious bleeding and other remedies had been tried in vain, and after I had by drift attention fatisfied myfelf refpefting the nature of the dif- eafe, I have fometimes been tempted to try the effefts of a large dcfe of opium, but cannot fay that the effefts have always juftified the expert ment. I well remember a cafe of this kind, where bleeding and purging had been ufed in full force for fome days; and though the painful fymptoms were repeatedly relieved for a fhort time, yet twelve hours never puffed without a return of excruciating pain. At one of thefe recurrences I hap- pened to vifit my patient, and the nature of the pain mod refembled that which is occafioned by an obdruftion of the biliary dud; I was tempted to try a large dole of opium. I then waited for an hour, but the pain was notin the lead relieved, in confequence of which I determined to bleed with a large orifice until fainting diould take place and relieve the pain ; for this purpofe I took away about two pounds of blood with all podible expedition, and my patient, who was a female not of a drong conditution or full habit, fainted away, by which we procured relief from a date of in- tolerable torture. As foon as fhe was fo much recovered as to be able to fwailow, l gave ten grains of calomel, which after a fhort interval was fol- lowed up with a powerful purgative of fairs and manna, which with warm fomentations procured an abatement of difeafe. But bleeding and pur- ging were continued for ten days or a fortnight afterwards, by which means the phlogidic diathefis was dedroyed, and die has been perfeftly well V v v everMEDICINAL TREATMENT. 2 G5 ever lince. As the effects of opium would have been perceptible in an hour, it is evident it had no falutary influence in this difeafe; and as it would be fo completely carried off by the operation of a powerful purga- tive, it is probable that its effefts in this inftance were unimportant. I have mentioned this cafe to prove that I have tried the effects of opi- um in a phlogift ic difeafe; and though the diftrefs of the patient, the anx- iety of the friends, and difappointed hope, may fometimes induce a per- fon to make ufe of remedies that he rr.ay not altogether approve, (for it is not likelv that the laft efforts ot defpair fhould be regulated by the ditiaie of delibera*e reafon) yet I fhouid confider it an acf of the moft irrational defperation to make ufe of precarious remedies, without, being provided as much as poffible againfl the dangerous confequences if the attempt fliould not prove fuccefsful. What renders this fuhje£l more particularly interefting is the unquaii- fied opinion which has been given by a modern author* refpefting the ufe of opium; whofe works feem to be daily gaining popularity, and whofe delufions fpread their influence on the credulity of the. world. I {hall not now attempt to enter into a full difcuffion of all the merits of this celebrated fy(lem;-but I would very ferioufly advife thofe, who have not made up their minds upon this fubjeft, (if they fliould wifh to try the effe£h of opium in a truly inflammatory difeafe) by all means to watch the progrefs of their experiments with the utmofl care of apprehenfive caution. In the inftance, that I have already mentioned, opium did not * Brown’s Elements of Medicine. procure267 MEDICINAL TREATMENT. procure an alleviation from the painful fymptoms, and confequenily it was neceffary to have immediate recource to feme other method. But it is probable that we have mod reafon to be upon our guard when opium relieves the pain ; for, as in inflammatory cafes it does not produce this ef- fect by diminilhing the energy of difeafe, it loo frequently happens that the parlies become lulled into a dangerous fecurity, and in this interval the dedrudtive progrefs of difeafe arrives at a degree over which the pow- ers of medicine loofe all their influence; and it is to be remembered that, if opium is a fpecific for mortifications of the toes and feet, as i? reprefent- ed by Mr. Pott, it i.s the mod dangerous medicine that can be made ufe of in inflammation of the bowels ; and if mortification does take place* then death is certain. This is a fubjefd which particularly merits our attention, as I am well convinced that indances too frequently occur, where the life of the pati- ent falls a facrifice to the error abovementioned; and if we confult fame of the fird writers on the praflice of phyfic, we (hall not meet with any fa- tisfatdory explanation or rational plan of treatment. When the difeafe is feated in parts lefs neceffary to life, a fingle dofe of opium may not be produftive o( fuch inevitable danger; but in all cafes of truly phiogidic difeafe its unfriendly influence mud foon become percep- tible. It is highly recommended bv Doflor Brown in cafes of acute rheu- matifm *, and as. this is an indance in which an inflammatory difeafe is lead * “ Hencs.fweating is remark ibly adapted to the cure of this difeafe: To fweating, therefore, af- ter a previous bleeding to twelve ounces, and with attention to the rule of temperature and diet be- fore268 MEDICINAL TREATMENT. lead likely to end in fpeedy death, it may be confidered the mod judifia- ble fubjeft of experimental inquiry. But it will not be necedary to tor- ture the patient with improper remedies for the purpofeof determining the point in quedion; the ignorance or inadvertency of mankind will fur- nifh fufficient evidence, and prevent the unjudifiable necedity of doing what is fuppofed to be wrong, and by that means endangering the life of the patient, for the purpofe of proving what is right. But for fear I fhould be accufed of illiberal 1 ity or want of candour for reflefting on the igno- rance and inadvertency of others, I fhall here beg leave to mention an in- dance of my own. I was one evening called to vidt a patient when I was very much limi- ted for time, and had not an opportunity of making a minute inquiry, or of obtaining an accurate knowledge of the nature of the difeafe; but for the fake of expedition I accepted of the evidence without crofs examina- tion. The difeafe, which was fuppofed to be rheumatic, was fituated in the arm and fhoulder, and was reprefented as a difeafe of long danding. I examined the date of the pulfe, and not meeting with any fymptoms of increafed aftion or driking evidence of conditutional affeftion, I hadily concluded that this difeafe was of the chronic kind, and directed a fcruple of Dover’s powder to be taken at going to bed. The next evening 1 lound fore given, we muft have immediate recourfe, if the diathefis happens to be confiderably violent, which appears from the heat of the body, the pains raging moft in the night t'me, and from a ftrong and hard pulfe. In order to render the fweat univerlal and of fufficient duration, it fhould be exci- ted by Dover’s powder, or laudanum, as before hinted, and kept up for twelve hours in full flow, and then feme hours longer, or till the abatement of the fymptoms, in the form of moifture or free perfpiration, and repeated when the fymptoms return. The reft of the cure muft be entrufted to low diet and an exatt temperature,” Brown's Elements of Medicine, by Beddoes, vol. 2, page 168. my269 MEDICINAL TREATMENT. my patient highly gratified with the temporary relief that he had experi- enced; he had fweat profufely, the pain was abated, and he had had a good night’s reft. As the parties were all fo well fatisfied, without any further inquiry I direfted the fame medicine to be repeated for two or three nights more. But on the third morning 1 found that the fymptoms of inflam- mation had become confpicuous; and what, but a few days before, I hafti- ]y concluded was chronic rheumatifm, I was well convinced was a true inflammatory difeafe. The difcharge by the fkin was every night, in confequence of the Dover’s powder, extremely copious, and the pain was for a time fubdued by the influence of opium; from which it is evident that fweating will not cure an inflammatory difeafe. and in this inftance the very fame medicine was made ufe of which is recommended in the Brunonian fyftem. I have frequently feen Dover’s powder prefcribed under a variety of circumftances in cafes of inflammatory difeafe, but cannot fay that I have ever met with a Angle inftance of its falutary influence. In chronic difeafes of the abdominal vifrera it frequently happens that pains acrofs the loins are a common fymptom, and thefe by the patient are generally thought to be rheumatic. In cafes of this kind I have re- peatedly known Dover’s powder to be prefcribed, which for the firft or fe- cond night would feldom fail to give fome relief from pain; and as, in the inftance that I now allude to, the warm bath was alfo made ufe of every evening previous to the taking of the Dover’s powder, very copious fweat- ing was the invariable confequence; yet notwithftanding the additional W w w influenceMEDICINAL TREATMENT. 2JO influence of the warm bath the fymptoms daily increafed, and the difeafe, which was at flril fuppofed to be chronic rheumatifm, was foon found to be feated in the vifcera of the abdomen, and was in a few days Ipurred up into a high Rate of general inflammatory affedion. It is not with any pufilariimous intention of guarding my own proftfli- onal condud from fufpicion, or for the purpofe of proteding mifreprefen- tation under a veil of obfcurity, that I make this appeal to fads that may be fuppofed to reft on an imaginary bafts. It is of no importance to the public to whofe want of judgment thefe inflances of eironeous pradice are to be attributed ; and if any one fhould in future be influenced by fi- milar opinions, I flatter ms feif that more attentive obfervation will con- vince him of his error; for, as the evidence of nature is immutable, if thefe reprefentations are a true defcript’on of the phenomena of difeafe, the recurrence of fimilar caufes will always be produdive of fimilar ef- feds. The acute rheumatifm is a difeafe of increafed adion; and though opi- um united with ipecacuan may ad as a powerful diaphoretic, yet as the dif- charge by the fkin in this inftance is the effed of excitation, thefe flimu- lating medicines will feldom fail to increafe the difeafe; whereas the fa- lutary diaphorefis, which is produced bv the liberal ufe of bleeding and other antiphlogiflic remedies, is the natural confequence of a perfed fo- lution of the difeafe. In this inflance the increafed adion is firfl deflroyed, and the cutane- ©us glands, whofe powers were fufpendedby the fupeiior influence of in- flammation2Jt MEDICINAL TREATMENT. flammation, are Tef at liberty to relume their former fundliorcs. By the firffc method, let the difcharge be ever fo copious, the inflammatory fymptoms will not be in the leall cl [mini filed, but ultimate! y the ufe of opium is cer- tain to produce a i increafe of difeafe; and l am well convinced that in all inflances of infl immation, that are attended with, or likely to be pro- d icfive of, a phlogifttc diathefis, let the difeafe in its origin be ever fo ob- fcure, if opium is given, it will feldoin fail to bring the morbid powers to light. But it is in painffil difeafes of the bowels where it is particularly necef- fary that we fhould be upon our guard; and as it will frequently prove a difficult queffion to diftinguilh between thofe difeafes which are faidtobe fpafmodic, from thofe that are inflammatory, the greatefl caution will be neceffary in the regulation of our pradfice. Dodlor Brown afferts that cholera, the cholic, and iliac paffion are all the fame kind of affedlion, and infmuates that diarrhcea and coflivenefs are only different degrees of the fame difeafe and all to be cured by opium.* With refpedl to the nature of thefe difeafes I fhall appeal to Dodlor Cullen’s praftice of phyfic, and on this occafion it will not be neceffary to make any obfervations on thefe great profeffional charadfers, as it is a fub- jedl with which the public are already well acquainted. * The* colic lias been commonly treated by purging and bleeding, and low diet ; but in no in- stance lias that treatment of it been fuccefsful. Opiates weie particularly forbidden upon the fuppo- fition of tiled conftipating the belly ; but the truth is, that the colic, as well as diarrhoea (which has been fuppofed a difeafe of an oppofttc nature, from the feeming contrariety ol loofenefs of the belly and coflivenefs to each other), are the fame kind ofaff-fclion, only d'ffering in degree. And the co- lic is to be removed by no other means than thofe that remove the fimple loofenef- ; that is by dura- ble and diffafible ftimuiants.” Brown’s Elements of Medicine, vol. 1, page 188 and 189. ThisMEDICINAL TREATMENT 272 This nofologift mentions colic and the iliac paflion as fimilar in their nature, and only varying in degree, and daffies them both under the ar- rangement of fpafmodic difeafe : but, in addition to his general princi- ple of fpafm being the proximate caufe both of fever* and inflammationf, he alfo gives it as his opinion that colic, which is a fpafmodic difeafe, fre- quently becomes the caufe of inflammation in the bowels. But independent of this effed, he recommends bleeding as the firft an- tifpafmodic remedy thatfhould be madeufe of; and it is of no confequence, in my mind, whether bleeding is made ufe of as an antifpafmodic or an antiphlogiftic; as the phantoms of the theory of medicine will not divert its powers. If we refer to Dodor Cullen’s defcription of thefe difeafes we fhall meet with an inaccuracy of confiderable praft ica! importance; in the firff place, colic and ilius are both faid to be fpafmodic difeafes, but afterwards we * “The idea of fever, then, may be, that a fpafm of the extreme vefT. Is, however induced, proves an irritation to the heart and arteries; and that this continues till the fpafm is relaxed or overcome. There are many appearances which fupport this opinion; and there is little doubt that a foaftn does take place, which proves an irritation to the heart, and therefore may be confulered as a principal part in the proximate caufe of fever. It will (till, however, remain a queft'on, what is the caufe of fpafm ; whether it be direftly produced by the remote caufes of fever, or if it be only a part of the operation of the vis medicatrix naturec.” Cullen’s Praft.ce of Phyfic, vol. 1, page 93. + “ From the doftrine of fever, we are led to believe, that an increafed aftion of the heart and ar- teries is not fupported for any length of time by any other means than s fp .fm affcftir.g the extreme veflels; and that the fame fpafm takes place in inflammation, feems likely, beraufe that every confi- derable inflammation is introduced by a cold flage, and is accompanied wih that and other circum- ftances of pyrexia. It feems alfo probable, that fomerhing analogous to this occurs even in the cafe of thofc inflammations which appear lofs confiderable, and to be purely topical.” Cullen’s Praftice «f Phyfic, vol 1, page 278. arcMEDICINAL TREATMENT 273 are informed that inflammation is fometimes the confequence of colic*, and that this becomes the caufe of ileus, which was before onlv confidered as a fuperior degree of the fame difeafeand though in the conclufion he feems undetermined in his opinion, yet as inflammation is admitted to be the eifeft of colic and caufe of ileus, it is a fubjetf that demands the greateft pra&ical caution, as a Angle dofe of opium would frequently de- termine the fate of the patient. If in cafes of violent pain in the bowels attended with conflipation and tenfion of the abdomen, whatever might be the name of the difeafe, if in fuch cafes opium was alone depended upon, or even if a fingle dofe of laudanum was prefcribed under fuch circumflances, I fliould not hefitate to give it as mv decided opinion, that the author of fuch a prefcription muff at the time of writing be under the delufive influence of diffufible flimuli. Do£!or Heberden has long ago obferved that pain will not quicken the * “ The enteritis Ins likewife its own peculiar caufes, as fupervening upon the fpafmotlic colic, incarcerated hernia, and volvulus.” Cullen’s Praftice of Phyfic, vol 1, page 429, + “ In thefe circurnftances of inverfion the difeafe has been named ileus, or the iliac paflion, and this has been fjppofed to be a peculiar difeafe diflmft from colic; but So me it appears that the two dffcafes are owing to the fame proximate caufe, and have the fame fvmptoms, only in different degree. “ The colic is often without any pyrexia attending it. Sometimes, however, an inflammation comes upon the part of the inteftine efpecially affebled ; and this inflammation aggravates all the fvmptoms of the difeafe, being probably what brings on the moft ccnfiderable inverfion of the perif- taltic motion ; and, as the flercoraccous vomiting is what efpecially diflinguifhes the ileus, this has been c' nfideied as always depending on an inflammation of the inteflines.” Cullen’s Prtftite of Phy- fic, vol. 4, page 20 and 2s. X X X pulfe7 274 MEDICINAL TREATMENT. pulfe, and mentions as an example that the exceiTive torture, produced by the paffing of a gall ftone, does not affeft the arterial fyftem*. But if pain without inflammation may exift and the pulfe not be in the lead affefled, we alfo find that, genuine inflammation attended with vio- lent pain will frequently continue for fome days and the pulfe remain qui- et and undifturbed; from which it is evident, that, if we depend alone on the (late of the pulfe, we (hall often be deceived. I have frequently met with cafes of inflammation of the bowels, where the fymptoms fo nearly coincided with thofe whichare faid to be attendant on thefpafmodic colic, that the mod accurate attention was neceffary for the purpofe of afcertaining the real nature of the difeafe; and I have known inflances of genuine inflammation of the bowels, in which the pulfe for the firft two or three days has not been in the leaf! afJe&ed, and though in fuch cafes repeated bleeding has been made tife of during this period, yet in the early ftage of the difeafe the blood has not in the ieafl * “ It is often fuppofed, that gre2t pain will quicken the pulfe: I am more fute, that mere pain will not always do it, than I am, that it ever will. The violent pain occaftoned by a ftone palling from the kidneys to the bladder is often unattended wiih any quicknefs of the pulfe ; and the excef- ftve and almoft intolerable torture produced by a gall ftone paffing through the gall dufls, never once quickened the pulfe beyond its natural pace, as far as l have ever obferved, though h he a difordcr which occurs fo very frequently : and this natural ftate of the pulfe join d with the vehement pain about the pit of the ftomach affords the moll certain diagnoltic of this illnefs. I have feen a man of patience and courage rolling upon the floor and crying out through the violence of this pain, which I was hardly able to lull into a tolerable ftate with nine grains of opium given within twenty-four hours, to which he had never been accuftomed, and yet his pulfe was all the time as perfettlv quiet and natural, as it could have been in the fweeteft deep of perfedt health. Medical Tranfaftion.*, vol. PaSc 32*' been275 MEDICINAL TREATMENT. been marked with fize. If then in fuch infiances the uninterrupted date of the pulfe and the abfence of the fizy appearance of the blood were to be admitted as fatisfa&ory evidence that the difeafe was not inflammato- ry, and opium had recourfe to as an antifpadmodic, the painful fymptoms might be fora time fufpended, and the parties lulled into a flateoffalfe fecurity; during which interval, the difeafe might make fuch progrefs as to render mortification inevitable. If any one fhould fufpe£t that my opinion on this fubjeft is in the pre-' fent infiance led afiray by the captivating charms of theoretical enthufi- afm, or fuppofe that I have mifreprefented fa£ls for the purpofe of fup- porting a favorite hypothefis; I Should in reply take the liberty of obfer- ving, that fuch fcepticks had never paid any attention to the fubjefif, or were incapable of examining the evidence of nature. But that I may fafe- ]y guard againft all the farcafiic fneers of infidelity, I filial 1 mention an ex- ample, in Support of which I could appeal to fuch profefiionai authority as I have no doubt would prove fatisfa&ory. „ I was lately called to a young man who was under two and twenty years of age; he had a few hours before been feized with violent pain in the umbilical region, the integuments of the belly were drawn inwards and the mufcles contrafled with confiderable tenfion over the inferior part of the abdomen. He was not particularly conftipated, and his pulfe was in an even uninterrupted bate. I inftantly pronounced the difeafe inflammatory, took away twenty ounces of blood, direfiled.a purgative glyfier to be injefted as foon aS pofiible, and immediately afterwards gave a large dole of calomel, which after two hours interval was followed with a copi«276 MEDICINAL TREATMENT. a copious draught of falts and manna. He was well fomented in the even- ing, and the abdomen afterwards rubbed with flrong volatile liniment. The next morning I found his pulfe in the fame uninterrupted (late ; but as the pain and tenfion flill continued, twenty ounces more blood were taken, but neither this nor the former had the lead appearance of fize. Purgative medicines were flill continued, and in the evening he was put into a warm bath, in which he fainted; this produced a copious per- fpiration, and confiderable relief from pain. But the fymptoms return- ✓ ing by the next morning, and the arterial ablion being evidently increafed, I thought neceffary that he fhould loofe twenty-four ounces more blood, which was flrongly marked with fize. Purgative medicines were again repeated, and as the fymptoms continued nearly the fame at fix o’clock in the evening, we concluded to have the opinion of a Phvlician. Pie was fomented the fame evening from feven o’clock till nine, in confequence of which a copious perfpiration took place and the pain abated. When the Phyfician arrived about nine o’clock the next morning, he found all the fymptoms much diminished and the patient in a recovering flare; but, as the arterial ablion had not completely fubfided, he diredled a plan of gentle laxatives to be continued for a few days. My principal motive for deferibing this cafe is to introduce the concurring teflimony of ano- ther perfon refpedling the nature of the difeafe. If I had for three days been treating a fpafmodic affeftion as an inflammatory difeafe, the Phy- fician would certainly have changed the method of proceeding ; and as the evacuating fyflem had been already carried to confiderable extent, if the difeafe had been fpafmodic, opiates might then have been given with fafety and advantage. IfMEDICINAL TREATMENT. 2 77 If I had done wrong, I have no doubt but fome method would have been taken to have convinced me of the impropriety of my condufl. For fuch is the impartial refpe£l with which I have long been favoured, and fuch the public attention which I am proud to boad of, that I am well convinced not even my errors would have been permitted to have paffed unnoticed. The difeafe which takes place in cafes of drangulated hernia is of the mixed kind, and may in the firfl inflance depend on an inflammation of either the internal or external parts of the hernia; but in the latter in- flance, when it proceeds to mortification, it is in fome refpe£ls fimilarto that fpecies of difeafe in the extremities which is the effedl of bandage, which are both frequently completely cured by the removing of thecaufe. In the one cafe the taking off the bandage may prove an immediate cure, and in the other the difeafe is fometimes brought to a falutary termination by the operation for the bubonocele. But it mufl be evident, in fuch inflances of complicated difeafe, that the method of treatment mud be varied according to the refpe&ive com- bination of circumflances. And there are two important obje£ls that on this occafion particularly merit our attention; the firfl is, that purgative medicines will frequently not fucceed, and that accumulated dofes are fometimes produdlive of bad effects ; the fecond is, that mortification in cafes of hernia is not always fatal, as this is fometimes a partial difeafe and limited to the hernia and its contents; and it is in fuch cafes where the operation for the bubonocele would be mod likely to prove efficaci- ous, if undertaken at a proper period of the difeafe. Y y y I once278 MEDICINAL TREATMENT. I once had a cafe of umbilical hernia under my care; which For about two years previous to the fatal termination wasextremely large, of uneven furface-, and irreducible. In other refpefls the patient was in perfeff health, and became very corpulent in confequence of the inability to ufe her accudomed exercife. As it was probable that a large portion of the intedines wTas contained in the hernia, it frequently happened in the lad two years of her life that (Inclure took place attended with violent pain and obdru&ion in the bowels. In this cafe bleeding appeared to me not only the firft, but the mod important, remedy wTe had to dee to, and it is not probable that purgative medicines would procure a paffage through the contents of the hernia, under fuch circumdances, until the dridfure was fird removed. One copious bleeding was in general fufficient for the purpofe ; and, if fainting and general relaxation were the confequence, I then found that purgative medicines feldom failed to produce the defired effedl. But the time at lad arrived when neither bleeding nor purgative medi- cines would fucceed; and, though the difeafe ended in mortification, dill the blood did not bear the marks of indammation. Bleeding on this oc- cafion was made ufe of in large quantities without effeft; and tobacco glyders were alfo given without any evident advantage. As the blood was not fizy, nor the fydem much a defied in the early dage of the difeafe, I was apprehendve that the mortification would have been limited to the / external parts, and formed a termination dmilar to that * deferibedby Mr. Chefel- * The cafe of Margaret White, the wife of John White, a penfioner in the fifhmongers alms- houfe at Newington in Surry. In the fiftieth year of her age, {he had a rupture at her navel, which gontinued till her feventy-third year, when after a fit of the cholic, it mortified, and fhe being pre- fcntljrMEDICINAL TREATMENT. 279 Chefelden ; but this difeafe ultimately communicated to the fyftem and terminated in death. Now as this difeafe appears in the fir ft inftance to have depended on ftricture and was not productive of fizy blood, a queftion arifes whether opium might not have been given after the firft bleeding with fome pro- bability of fuccefs. It certainly is more admiffible in cafes of hernia for the purpofe of allaying the irritation of the ftomach than in any other fpe- cies of difeafe that is liable to terminate in mortification of the bowels, and may at the fame time contribute to relieve the ftriflure; but when the difeafe has communicated to the parts within the abdomen and a phlo- gifiic diathefis has taken place, then opium will prove a very dangerous medicine. I once met with a cafe of bubonocele that terminated in mortification, where the difeafe was limited to the external pans; the whole of which floughed away, and the faeces were difcharged for fome weeks through the opening, but the parts had been united by the previous inflammation, and the external wound afterwards contrafied fo that a perfeft cicatrix was formed, the feces afterwards took the natural courfe, and the perfton lived years afterwards in perfeCl health. fently after taken with a vomiting, it burft. I went to her and found her in this condition, with about fix and twenty inches and a half of the gut hanging out mortified. I took away what was mortified, and left the end of the found gut hanging out at the navel, to which it afterwards ad- hered, fhe recovered, and lived many years after voiding the excrements through the intefline at the navel, and though the ulcer was fo large, after the mortification feparated, that the breadth of two guts was feen ; yet they never at any time protruded out at the wound, though fhe was taken out of her bed, and fat up everyday/’ Chcfelden’s Anatomy, page 324.MEDICINAL TREATMENT 200 Every one that is acquainted with the ceconomy of animal nature will be well convinced of the poflibility of fuch fortunate occurrences ; but he will at the fame time be equally fatisfied that it is not within the limits of the chirurgic art to diflate to nature in fuch cafes, or to infure fucccfs. Mr. Pott has recommended the attempt*, but does not mention that he was himfelf fo fortunate as to meet with many favourable inftances in his own pradlice. It is a bufinefs that nature fometimes may accomplilh, but art mu ft operate in vain if not prote&edby the molt favourable concurrence ofher friendly powers. In all cafes of inflammation of the inteflinal tube, the adminiftration of internal remedies demands the greateft caution ; as it frequently happens that neither medicine nor food can be retained. This is by fome fuppo- fed to depend upon an inverfion of the periftaltic motion of the inteftines, and opiates are direfled with an intention to allay the irritation, and purgatives given under the influence of the opium for the purpofe of re- floring the inverted motion to its natural dire&ion. I fhall not attempt to explain the nature of what is called the periftal- tic motion of the inteflines, though it feems to be a fubjedt but imper- fedlly underflood; it is a term that has been long made ufe of without any accurate fignification, and the periftaltic motion of the inteftines and ofcillatory motion of the capillary arteries appear to me both equally un- intelligible and obfcure. But whatever may be the nature of that opera- tion which conveys the aliment through the inteftinal tube, it is in many * Pott’s Treatife on Ruptures, firft edition, page 139, inftancesMEDICINAL TREATMENT. 28 l inftaoces fo influenced by difeafe as to return the contents of the ftotnach and inteftines by the mouth. In cafes of hernia the mechanical obftruc- tion that prevents the paflage through the bowels is plain and felf evident; but in many other inftances the caufe is more obfcure. Doftor Cullen obferves *, that the fpafmodic conftriction of a part of the inteftine, in cafes of fpafmodic colic, is evident in difleftion; but if the difeafe had only been fpafmodic, I fhould have thought that all the ap- pearances of fpafm would have terminated with life, and fhould for that reafon be induced to infer that the permanent appearances after death mu ft be the effedh of inflammation, although fpafm might be the firft ori- ginal difeafe; in confequence of which we (hall have the fymptoms of fpafmodic colic in the firft inftance, and the appearance of inflammation after death. When obftrudlion takes place in confequence of fpafmodic ftri£ture9 or in cafes of hernia, if the whole difeafe was limited to this obftru&ion, then it would be probable that opiates might be given with a rational profpedt of fuccefs; but as in the firft inftance inflammation is fuppofed to take place previous to the appearance of the iliac paftion, and as in cafes of hernia the difeafe is not in general limited to the parts, it is ftill ne- ceftary that opiates fhould be given with the greateft caution, and not without the molt critical attention to the nature and period of the dif- eafe ; as it appears evident, even from the accounts before us, that the inverted adlion of the ftomach and bowels depends on an inflammatory affedlion. * Cullen, vcl. 14. page 22. Z z z Inflammation282 MEDICINAL TREATMENT. Inflammation of the vifcera may a!fo terminate in fuppuration; I remember two cafes of this kind,, in both of which it is probable that the peritonceum was the principal feat of the difeafe. One was the effedts of external injury, the other the natural confequence of internal difeafe. On this occafion it will be neceffary to recoiled! Mr. J. Hunter’s ob- fervations refpedling the formation of matter on fecreting furfaces with- out the lofs of fubflance. I happened to meet with a cafe of empyema foon after the publication of Mr. J. Hunter’s treatife on the venereal dif- eafe, and I am ready to acknowledge that the information I there met with was particularly interefting and fatisfadfory. I cannot fuppofe that a fubjedt of fuch importance can have efcaped the attention of the pro- fefTional reader; but as thefe obfervations may fall into the hands of fome who have not examined Mr. J. Hunter’s works with critical attention, I fhall beg leave to give a full quotation of his opinion *. * Till about the year 1753, it Was generally fuppofed, that the matter from the urethra, in a gonorrhoea, arofe from an ulcer or ulcers in that paffage ; but from obfervation it was then proved that this was not the cafe. It may not be improper to give here a fhorc hiftory of the difcovery that matter may be formed by inflammation without ulceration. In the winter 1749, a child was brought into the room, ufed for difle&ion, in Covent-Garden ; on opening of whofe thorax a large quantity of pus was found loofe in the cavity, with the furface of the Sungs and the pleura furred over with a more folid fubflance flmilar to coagulable lymph. On removing this from thofe furfaces, they were found entire. This appearance being new to Dr. Hunter, he lent to Mr. Samuel Sharp, defiring his attendance; and to him it alfo appeared new. Mr. Sharp, afterwards, in the year 1750, publiflied his Critical Enquiry, in which he introduced this f?.£l “That matter maybe formed without a “breach of fubftance;” not mentioning whence he had derived this notion. It was everaher taught by Dr. Hunter in his lettures. We, however, find wrters adopting it without quoting eithet Mr. Sharp or Dr. Hunter. J. Hunter on the Venereal Difeafe, fee. edit, page 29. It283 MEDICINAL treatment. It is a fubjed that appears to me particularly interefling; and lam well convinced that the fuccefsful termination of many difeafes depends on this circumflance, whether there is a lofs of fubflance, or whether the matter is formed in confequence of the inflammation of a fecreting fur- face. One of the cafes that I am about to defcribe terminated favourably, the other did not; I was fufpicious that in the lafl cafe the perito- naeum had become ulcerated, but I had not the fatisfaflion of an anatomical examination. In the firfl inffance, inflammation had taken place in the bowels, and had continued for two days before I was con- futed ; the pain had then become diffrefling, and the difeafe put on very formidable appearances ; bleeding, purging, fomentations, and warm bath were applied in full force, and the difeafe at lafl terminated in fup- puration. When the inflammation had fubfided and the pain had ceafed, though the patient continued in a very feeble flate, my attendance was not at that time thought neceflary, and the difeafe was left to proceed without the interruption of medicine, until the enlargement of the abdomen became perceptible and created frefh alarm. 1 ' On my fecond vifitation I found my patient reduced in flrength, very refllefs and uneafy ; I only ventured the firft day to direfl an opiate draught to be taken at bed time, and this was continued for fome time afterwards, and fatisfied the parties until the matter made its way at the umbilicus. This occafioned frefh alarm, and I was again called upon to renew my attendance. I hadMEDICINAL TREATMENT. 284 The I had then been in the habit of giving the digitalis in hedlie cafes for fome years ; and fuppofing it the only medicine that was likely to abate the difcharge, I diredfed two grains of the powder of digitalis to be taken every night and morning, which was continued at intervals for more than two months; but whenever the ftomach became affedled it was then omitted for a few days, and when the naufea had fubfided it was again re- fumed. The difcharge of matter gradually diminifhed, and in about two months completely ceafed. The parties, from motives of ceconomy, did not require regular at- tendance; and as I confidered it a loft cafe, I was perhaps on that account lefs folicitous ; I confidered the cafe defperate, and the remedy the laft refource ; and when I urged the propriety of perfeverance, I cannot fay that I had any very fanguine expedition of fuccefs. If I had then had more frequent opportunities of making obfer- vations, I might now be more accurate in my defcription ; but I have nothing but the dates and prefcriptions to aftift my recolledlion, and I fhall not now attempt to fill up the vacancies with conjectures. I find, by referring to my account books, that I firft vifited this patient on the fourth of May one thoufand feven hundred and ninety-two, and that on the fixteenth of June I began to give two grains of digitalis in powder every night and morning, which appears to have been continued, with fome fhort intervals of omiftion, until the laft week in Auguft, when the account terminates ; and the patient, who was at that time about ten years of age, has been perfedfly well ever fince.MEDICINAL TREATMENT. 285 The 4 A The other cafe above alluded to happened about the fame time ; it was the effedt of an accident at play, in confequence of a girl, about twelve years of age, being twilled in a rope that was ufed for a fwing. She fainted at the time, and in a few days the contents of the abdomen became inflamed. This difeafe terminated in fuppuration ; but when the abdomen became enlarged, as I bad more frequent opportunities of fee- ing this patient, and minutely watching the progrefs of the difeafe, and when the matter began to point at the umbilicus, I made an opening with a lancet, in confequence of which a large quantity of purulent matter was immediately difcharged. In this cafe every poffible attention was paid to the patient through the whole progrefs of the difeafe; the digitalis was given with much more care and circumTpedlion than in the former cafe, but not with the fame fuccefs ; the difcharge continued to increafe in quantity, and the patient funk under the difeafe in about two months from the time when the acci- dent firfl took place. I have mentioned thefe two cafes for the purpofe of illuflrating the effedls of digitalis, where matter forms in any of the internal cavities ; which was a fpecies of difeafe but imperfedlly undo hood previous to the date of Dr. Hunter’s difcovery. It certainly would have been a great fatisfadlion, on this occalion, to have had it in my povrer to defcribe the {late of the parts of the unfuccefsful inflance after death ; as I think it is probable that the fuccefs in fuch cafes depends on an abfence of ulce- ration. In fuccefsful cafes the Hate of the parts cannot be known ; but if after death the parts are in general found ulcerated, it would furnifh very ftrong preemptive evidence in favour of this opinion.s8S MEDICINAL TREATMENT, The digitalis purpurea has by Tome few ingenious men been introduced into the praftice of phyfic during the laft twenty years; but it now feems to be making its way into general praflice, and will probably foon become one of the mod popular agents in the whole materia medica. But as the public opinion feems at prefent in an unfettled hate, and the faffs that we are already in poffefTion of unconnected ; I (hall not attempt to examine what has been faid by others, but endeavour to defcribe my own experience on this fubjefl. The fir ft time that I ever gave the fox-glove with fuccefs, was on the feventeenth of July one thoufand feven hundred and eighty-feven ; this cafe appeared to me at that time particularly interefting and inftruHive, as there was an uncommon combination of circumftances to which this medicine feemed to prove a general antidote. The fubjeff was a mar- ried woman, between twenty and thirty years of age, who had long been of a leucophlegmatic conftitution, and had for fome time had ftrongly marked fymptoms of phthifis, fuch as heftic fever, cough, and very puru- lent expefloration, and in addition to thefe formidable fymptoms were adde d great debility and general anafarca, the latter of which was moft probably dependent on the (late of the conftitution previous to the com- mencement of the pulmonic difeafe. On my firft vifit I found her refpiration fo diftreflingly laborious that I was alfo fufpicious of a hydrops pefforis; but fometimes it will be difficult to diftinguifii between a hydrops peftoris and anafarca pulmonum. And as the cellular membrane in all the external parts of the body appeared loaded with ferum, it is probable that the lungs in this inftance would partake287 MEDICINAL TREATMENT. partake of the general difeafe. On this occafion the digitalis appeared to me to be the only medicine likely to give rebel under this complicated concurrence of difeafe. I gave five grains of the powder of the leaves of fox-glove that evening; I gave two dofes, of the fame quantity in each dofe, the next day; fifteen grains were given on the third day; and on the fourth day, thinking necelfary to diminilh the dofe, I only gave twelve grains. On the fecond night the dyfpncea began to abate, and fhe could lie down in bed, which (he had not been eccuftomed to do for fome time pad; by the third evening the diftreffing fymptoms had completely dif- appeared, and by the next morning the ftomach became confiderably aflfecfed, in confequence of which the quantity of digitalis was diminifhed from fifteen grains to twrelve. On the fifth day the ficknefs was become conftant and very diftreffing ; but the dyfpncea had fubfided, the expec- toration difappeared, and the cough ceafed ; the difeafe feemed to be completely conquered, and the effedts of the medicine conftituted every difficulty that remained. Such a concurrence of favourable circumftances was certainly highly gratifying to all parties, particularly to myfelf, as this was my firft fuccefsful eftay. But one additional occurrence particularly merits our attention. On the fifth day ffie obferved to me that for fome time paft fhe had an iffue in her arm, wrhich at that time ceafed to difcharge. I gave her a digeftive ointment >vith cantharides to anoint the pea with, but it did not fucceed ; and I was in a few days convinced that the fame power of the digitalis, which had fufpended the purulent expedforation, had alfo prevented the difcharge from the iffue. But this is not the only inftance whichMEDICINAL TREATMENT. 288 which I have met with, and I have had repeated opportunities fince that time of noticing fimilar evidence of the effefts of the digitalis. ✓ The manner in which the digitalis gives relief in drop heal cafes, is fuppofed to be by promoting the abforption of the ferous effufion ; and the vox populi in common ufe on this occafion feems to fan&ion this opinion. But if we examine the fubjeft with critical attention, we (hall perhaps hefitate before we prefume to determine whether the effefts of the digitalis depend upon the increafed aclion of the abforbent fyfiem, or a diminution of fecretion. I fhould be forry to infult the anatomical reader with a repetition of thofe arguments which have fo frequently been made ufe of for the purpofe of explaining the accumulation of ferous effufion in the different cavities ; but it mud be obvious to thofe, who are acquainted with the operations of the animal occonomy, that the defici- ency or excefs of the fecreted fluids will depend on the proportions that exift between the fecreting and abforbent aftions. The effeffis of the d igitalis on the animal powers are to induce debility. It fufpends the aftion of the digcflive organs, diminifhes the powers of the circulation, and reduces the velocity of the pulfe ; it relaxes the energy of the nervous fyfiem, and if given to excefs will put a final flop to all the powers of the animal machine. If then the digitalis diminifhes the animal powers in every infiance in which we have an opportunity of obferving its mode of adlion, it will certainly be reafonable to con- elude, that, when the morbid accumulation is abated by the remedy, it mult be by diminifliing the a6lion of the organs of fecretion, and not by ftimulating289 MEDICINAL TREATMENT. I once 4 B flimulating the abSorbents into aflion ; as its properties are to diminifh animal a61ions and not increafe them. In the hydrothorax, in which the powers of the digitalis are mod certainly efficacious, it is of no impor- tance, in a pratical view, whether the remedy operates by increafing ab- sorption, or diminiffiing Secretion; the obje£t is to remove the accumu- lation of that Serous fluid, which is Secreted by the glands of the pleura. The difficulties of ascertaining the powers of any medicine are fo great, that it betrays the moft irrational prefumption for any one to attempt to exprefs himfelf with confidence on thcfe fubjefls. For which reafon I am ready to acknowledge that it is with confiderable relu6lance I men- tion Some extraordinary circumflances that have occurred to me in rny experiments with the digitalis; and yet I Should think it a criminal omif* (ion to negleft a Single observation, which might in the lead degree tend to throw any additional light on a Subject of Such importance, that is at preSent but imperSeftly underffood ; and if one of the circumflances that has occurred in my praftice had not been already noticed, I Should per- haps have fufpe&ed the accuracy of my own observation *. * I fhall only add, that a remaikable circumftance occurred in a cafe of anafarca, not taken notice of by Dr. Withering or his correfpondents, which is that after I had defifted from the ufc of the Digitalis, in confequence of the fwelling of the abdomen having nearly fubfided, and the medicine apparently producing a naufea, the patient was for fome weeks affli&ed with a conftant difchargc of limpid water from his mouth, amounting on fome days to a great degree of falivation.—My friend Mr. Renny, Surgeon to the Royal Hofpital, obferved the fame oppeardnee of falivation attended with a diminution of fwelling, in an old ma n of a worn out conftitution, who had taken the Digitalis for an hydropic complaint : neither his patient nor mine had taken mercury .for a long time before recourfc was had to Fox-glove. Treatife on the Dropfy of the Brain, &c,&c, by C. W. Quin, M. D* page 97 et 98.MEDICINAL TREATMENT. It 29D I once met with an infiance in an old man, who was upwards of feventy^ to whom I had repeated occafions to give the digitalis; and whenever it was given to a certain extent, infiead of producing naufea and vomiting, the confequence was a regular falivation, which in general lafled a week or ten days, and then gradually fubfided. The other infiance of the lingular effefts of digitalis was to produce petechiae. The fubjedt was of a lull habit at the commencement of his illnefs, and had led a life of great intemperance, in confequence of which the whole glandular fyfiem was become difeafed. My fir ft ohjeft was to unload the confiitution by purgative medicines, arid afterwards I began with a courfe of digitalis. After having taken this medicine for about a week, I one morning was afiomfhed to meet with a general eruption of petechiae ; my firfi fufpicion was that this was a newdifeafe, and probably theconfequence of contagion ; but when the method of treatment was chan- ged the petechias difappeared. In about a fortnight’s time 1 v* as induced to refume the ufe ol the digitalis, which was productive of a return of the petechias. And as both thefe patients continued under my care for a confiderable length of time, I frequently repeated the experiments that I might be well fatisfied of the facts; but I have never finee that time met with an infiance of falivation or petechiae. Soon after the fuccefsful cafe above mentioned, I met with an infiance of phthifis pulmonalis in a very advanced fiage, and what was ccnfidered bv the friends of the young woman, who was about eighteen years of age, to be a hopelefs cafe.291 MEDICINAL TREATMENT. It was accident that brought this patient under my care, and I was happy in the opportunity of making a fecond experiment with the digitalis in this difeafe; and, as it was not likely that I fhould fee her a fecond time, the whole event of neceiTity depended on the firft prefcription. I direfted five grains to be given every night; and having apprized the parties of the formidable effe&s of the medicine, I urged every argument in my power to induce my patient to continue the ufe of it to the lafl ex- tremity. My directions were complied with, and the effe&s of the me- dicine were difire(Ting in the extreme to the patient, and no lefs alarming to her friends; but when fire recovered from the effeCts of the medicine, fhe had the fatisfadion to find that file had loft her difeafe. The fuccef. of tbefe two cafes created an enthufiafm in favour of the digitalis in phthifis pulmonal-is; and I not only eagerly embraced every opportunity that was prefented to my attention, but fearched with dili- gence for conlumptive cafes for the puipole cf repeating the experi- ment. Whenever a fubp-61 becomes an objed of enthufiafm, inftances are certain to occur ; but the fame uniformity of fuccefs did not attend my f ibfequent pradice. I have frequently met with inftances where the digitalis has appeared to be totally inadive, where the pulfe has not been afteded, or the leaft ficknefs or naufea taken place ; where the cough was not relieved, the expedoration abated, or the difeharge from the iftue reduced in quantity. At fir ft I fufpeded the imperfedion of the medicine; but after having repeatedly given of the fame preparation, fometimes with effed, and fometimes292 MEDICINAL TREATMENT. fometimes the contrary, I then began to fufpedl that the caufe depended on the ftate of the conflitution. The digitalis will in many inllances fink the pulfe both in velocity and power; but it is not an antiphlogiftic, it will not deftroy inflammation. This will lead us to one of the molt curious circumflances which I have had an opportunity of obferving refpedling the powers of this medicine, and will ferve to illuftrate one of the laws of the animal ceconomy that defervedly merits our attention. I am well convinced, by the evidence of fa£ls and repeated obfervation, that the digitalis will fufpend a phlo- giftic diathefis, but will not deftroy it. I have given the digitalis for a month together in a phlogiftic difeafc, and by that means reduced the pulfe from one hundred and twenty to fixty, and by regular uninterrupted perfeverance have limited the pulfe to that reduced ftate for a month together ; yet it was evident that the difeafe was not deftroyed ; for I have feen inftances where the difeafe has been fo far fufpended as not to exhibit a ftngle fymptom, and then in a few hours to overcome the powers of the medicine ; and thus having obtained the fuperiority, the morbid adlion has again appeared in full force, and the influence of the medicine funk into obfeurity. Under thefe circumflances, if the inflammatory fymptoras have been abated by copious bleeding and other antiphlogiftic remedies, fo as to reduce the difeafe to fuch a degree that the powers of the digitalis ftill retained in the conflitution fhould regain their fuperiorty, the medicine will then refume its influence ; and though the difeafe is not completely deftroyedMEDICINAL TREATMENT. 293 it 4 C deflroyed by the antipbiogiftic treatment, and fhould ultimately prove invincible, yet it will fink beneath the powers of the digitalis, and, for a time, not a fingle fymptom of difeafe remain. Of all the examples of the fufpenfion of morbid afiion, I know of none equal to this before us, where two contending powers will reciprocally take the lead in turn. Now it mull be evident that the digitalis is not an antiphlogiflic ; for if this medicine had the power of deflroying inflammation, when the difeafe had been fufpended for any length of time, it would either not return again, or elfe appear with diminifhed energy. But if the digitalis is not a diredl antidote for inflammation, it frequently becomes extremely in- flrumental in the removal of its confequences ; and under fome circum- fiances, which will be afterwards explained, it fometimes proves an effi- cacious method of practice to fufpend the difeafe by one power, whilft we deflroy it by another. In the phthifis pulmonalis, the phlogiflic diathefis mud be nearly con- quered before the digitalis can be made ufe of with advantage ; and it is for this reafon that this medicine has been found mod efficacious when given in the advanced ftages of the difeafe, at that period when the phlo- giflic diathefis has nearly exhaufted its own powers. The fir 11 indication in this formidable difeafe, according to Dofior Gregory *, is to deflroy the inflammatory diathefis ; but if the firft objedt cannot be accompliflied5 * In phthifis pulmonalis, the indications of cure which Doftor Gregory propofes are, to remove inflammatory diathefis ; to take off determination to the lungs, and to mitigate the feverity of par- ticular fymptoms. Medical Commentaiies, vol. i. page 123. fecund edition.MEDICINAL TREATMENT. 294 it is not likely that the fubfequent plan of treatment ffionld prove efficacious. I am well fatisHed that I have frequently fucceeded in the early ftages of confumption, by a regular fyffem of bleeding and other antiphlogiflic remedies ; and. on the contrary, I have frequently met with inftances where 1 have carried the antiphlogiflic plan to its full extent without fuccefs. I am not unacquainted with what Doflor Reid has faid againff the propriety of bleeding in confumptive cafes *; but his writings will have very little influence with them who have carefully examined the evi- dence of nature, and have eftablifhed their opinion on the more certain bafts of experimental authority. I have carried the bleeding fyflem to its full extent, and when I have defpaired of fuccefs, I have confulted the firft phyficians in this neighbourhood, and I have not only heard their opinions, but I have read the full extent of their knowledge of this fub- je£l in their preferiptions ; and have, from fuch inftrublive fcources of information, formed my own judgement of the prefent (late of the public opinion. It is not from any motives of humble condefcenfion that I flop to make an apology for this perfonal allufion ; and I flatter myfeif that I (ball not be fufpedled of blind partiality even to my intimate acquaintance, or that any one will fuppofe that I am adluated by the didlates of fervile fear. My objefl is to fearch for truth, and I do not intend that motives of falfe delicacy fhould divert me from my purpofe. * In no difeafe has bleeding been fo generally ordered, and fo frequently repeated in a given time, as in that under our confide;ation ; and I fear the obfervation has been but too much verified, “that u more die by ihe lancet than the lance.” Dr. Reid on tluhifis Pulmonalis, page 86. fit ft edition. WhenMEDICINAL TREATMENT. 235 It When the inflammatory diathefis is deftroyed. Debtor Gregory’s fccond objebt is to takeoff determination to the lungs ; this part of the fubjebt appears to me in Tome refpcbts unintelligible, and I mud acknowledge 1 am not acquainted with any medicine, except the digitalis, that feeins to coincide with this indication, and this medicine at that day was not in life; fo that I cannot fay that 1 perfectly underhand either this repre- sentation of the difeafe or method of cure. When the inflammatory diathefis is deftroyed, the next objebt in my opinion is to correbt the formation of purulent matter in the lungs. For, in cafes where a purulent expectoration has taken'place, if the difcharge is only produced by an inflammation of the internal furfaceof the ramifi- cations of the bronchia, without any ulceration or Iofs of fubftance, if the inflammatory diathefis can be deftroyed, it is probable that the cure of the remaining part of the difeafe will in general be readily accomplifhed. But if ulceration has taken place, it is reafonable to fuppofe that the difficulty of cure at this period of the difeafe will depend in fome meafure on the degree and extent of the ulceration. But whether the expebtoration proceeded from a fecreting furface or from ulceration, the indications are the fame ; the firfi object is to defiroy the morbid adtion of the fyftem, the fecond to prevent the difcharge ; and as the digitalis is the moft powerful remedy we are provided wiih on this occafion, not a doubt remains in my mind refpedting the propriety of giv- ing the digitalis, as foon as the inflammatory diathefis is deftroyed. The Iofs of fubftance in the lungs does not always render the difeafe incurable, as it fometimes happens that the burfling of a vomica will lay the foun- dation for a fpeedy recovery.MEDICINAL TREATMENT. 29S It has already been obfer ved, that a phlogiflic diathefis prevents the a diion of the digitalis on the fyflem, but I do not think that digitalis pre- vents the operation of antiphlogiftic remedies; and on this principle I have frequently thought neceflary to anticipate the approach of this fecond ftage of the difeafe, by loading the conftitution with the digitalis before the termination of the phlogiflic diathefis had taken place; for by this method, when the difeafe is fufficiently reduced to admit of the operation of the digitalis, the conftitution will be previoufly charged for that pur- pofe, and its influence will then become apparent. And I have frequent- ly with this view, after having carried the bleeding fyftem to its full ex- tent, finifhed the cure by fufpending the difeafe by means of the digitalis and deftroying the remaining influence of the phlogiflic diathefis by a con- tinued ufe of purgative medicines, given forfome weeks every fecond or third morning. This, in other words, may be faid to be removing the dif- eafe from the original fituation in the lungs by one remedy, and carrying it off through the inteftines by another. One of the mo ft fatisfadlory experiments of the treatment of phthifis pulmonalis, that ever I have met with, was terminated in this manner. It was not a cafe fimilar to the fecond which I have noticed on this fubjedt, where at a hopelefs period of the difeafe a Tingle medicine was given for a week or a fortnight, and the patient recovered without any other affift- ance; but it fur nifties us with an inftruclive example of a long continued conteft between the falutary powers of medicine, and the deftrudiive in- fluence of difeafe. I have already repeatedly obferved that the firft objedl in phthifis pul- monalis is to deftroy the phlogiflic diathefis; but the fymptoms of gene- ralMEDICINAL TREATMENT. 2-97 ral debility were Rich in the prefent inflance as to prevent me from try- ing the bleeding fyflem at an early period of the difeafe. For the firfl fortnight I depended upon cooling purges, faline medicines with emetic tartar, and blifters. As I never yet kept a journal of any cafe, perhaps it will not be in my power to give a defcription of this with fatisfadlory accuracy; but if I cannot give a long hiftory of infignificant minutiae, I can give my own opinion of the refult. When a cafe-writer fits down to give a daily hif- tory of the progrefs of a difeafe, if he has any particular bias to his views, it is almofi; impoffible but that, in every day’s obfervations, he (hould anticipate the darling objeff of his hopes. Perhaps fuch imper- fediions may be attributed to an imbecility of mind, to the want of dif- paffionate reafoning or found judgment; but, rather than attempt to de- fend the oppofite fide of the queftion, I would plead guilty to the whole, and candidly acknowledge that a confcioufnefs of my own frailty has hitherto prevented me from making the attempt. But if I have it not in my power to delineate all the particulars, I will endeavour to give the befit account that a reference to dates and the utmofl exertions of my recollection will afford. The difeafe lafled for more than feven months, the plan of treatment commencing the beginning of November 1798, and continuing till June following. A regular fyflem of antiphlogiflic treatment was employed through the whole of this long interval, during which occafionally cool- ing purges were given two or three times a week ; blifiers were frequently repeated, and after the difeafe had affumed an uniformity of appearance, 4d one298 MEDICINAL TREATMENT. one was applied to the lower part of the fternum, and kept open for fome months; but here it may be proper to obferve, that, whenever the digitalis was given in full power, the difcharge from the blifler was confiderably diminifhed. My patient wTas a very Heady, temperate, well-informed young man, about thirty years of age; and having favoured me with the mod liberal confidence, he was rationally attentive, careful, and perfevering. He was firft bled on the eighteenth of November, again on the twenty-fourth, and again on the twenty-fifth, by which the inflammatory fymptoms were confiderably abated; he continued in the ufe of falipe medicines, with occafional purges, through the whole of December; but in the beginning of January, his inflammatory fymptoms having increafed, the ufe of the lancet became again neceffary ; and he was bled on the fourth, feventh, ninth, thirteenth, twenty-third, twenty-feventh, and twenty-ninth of Ja- nuary, and again on the firfl and fourth of February. On the ninth of February he began with taking five grains of the digi- talis every night, and continued the ufe of this powerful medicine throughout the whole of February, March, and April ; fometimes omit- ting it for a week, and at other times diminifhing the dofe as circum- ftances might require. In April the inflammatory fymptoms again increafed upon us, and he was bled on the fecond, ninth, fourteenth, and, for the laft time, on the twenty-third ; the digitalis was continued at times till the beginning of May, and through the whole of that month he took a cooling purge once or299 MEDICINAL TREATMENT. or twice a week ; the I aft that he took was on the fixth of June; the blifter was kept open for fome weeks afterwards, and he has continued perfectly well ever fince that period. In addition to this defcription it may be proper to obferve, that, though his cough was frequently diflref- fing, and his nights reftlefs, I never gave him a fingle drop of laudanum, as I confider inflammation and opium incompatible with each other. Thofe medicines, which have been termed balfamics and peftorals, have I believe in general loft their reputation, but I rather think that modern practice (till fandtions the ufe of thofe medicines that have been called expectorants ; yet if I may prefume to give my opinion on this fubjeft, inflead of attempting to dear the lungs by expedtoration, I fhould think the operation much more delicate, and the matter more likely to be dif- chargcd without coughing, if the difeafe was carried off per anum. Having made thefe general obfervations on the treatment of the phthi- fis pulmonalis, it may here be neceffary to mention that there is ano- ther fpecies of confumption which begins in the abdominal vifcera, and it is mod probable that the ladteals and other glandular parts are the fir ft fubjedls of the difeafe. The firft fymptoms of this difeafe are particularly obicure, and the fecret operations frequently go on unperceived, until it has become truly formidable, without exciting any great degree of morbid adtion of the fyflem : the firft fymptoms are lofs of appetite and indigeftion, with coftivenefs and other irregularities of the bowels ; and one circumflance I have particularly noticed in a great number of in- ftances is, an uncommon degree of borborygmus from the fludiuation of flatus in the bowels.MEDICINAL TREATMENT. 3°° In the latter flages of this difeafe he£lic fever takes place, and ultimate- ly the lungs become affe6led; but the difeafe frequently terminates with a formation of matter in the cavity of the abdomen, which fometimes makes it way through the depending parts, either by the fide of the rec- tum inform of fiftuia, or elfe through the anterior parts, which ever is moftfubje6l to its preflure. In this difeafe the phlogiftic diathefis does not take place in the early flages, and confequemly I think that the digitalis may at fuch periods be given with greater probability of fucceft. I never met with an in- flance of this difeafe that terminated favourably after the matter had made its way externally : but in the early ftages, whilft there is a pro- bability ot fuccefs, I think the indications are plain and rationally dedu- cible from the defeription I have already given of the nature of the dif- eafe. As it is not productive of inflammatory diathefis in the early fla- ges, bleeding will feldom be neceflary at this period; and for the fame reafons the digitalis will be more admiflible. The objeft appears to me to be, in the firft infiance to correCl the con- geftion or approaching tumifaClion of the glands of the vifcera ; cooling purges are well calculated for this purpofe, and when the morbid aCtion, which is probably of the inflammatory kind, has been by fuch means firft correfted, the digitalis appears to be ftrongly indicated ; and I fhould think that a judicious ufe of the digitalis, and cooling purges in the early flages of the difeafe, is a method that would in many inftances prove efficacious. InMEDICINAL TREATMENT. 30* ifiia 4 E In the advanced ftages both of inflammatory rheumatifm and eryflpe- 'las I have known the digitalis prove a powerful remedy; but in the early fiages, before the inflammatory fymptoms have been abated, it is a ufelefs medicine. I have lately met with a curious inftance of protrac- ted eryfipelas, in which the powers of the digitalis were particularly con- fpicuous. The difeafe had exifted for more than a month when the patient came ynder my care, and a variety of remedies were made ufe of without any good effedL Previous to this illnefs he was a ftrong young man about twenty years of age and in perfedf health. When I firft faw him, the ery- fipelas was general, and he was fwelled from head to foot to a degree that I never before was witnefs to ; and fo great was the inflammation over the whole furface that the cuticle was feparated, and there was a general difcharge from all parts of the body, to fuch an excefs that his linen be- came wet through in a few minutes after its application, and in a nights time the fheets and blankets were moiflened through. He was every night and morning ftripped naked before the fire, and waffled all over with vegeto-mineral water, moderately warm; and before the applicaiion was made ufe of, the difcharge on his fkin might be feen to Hand in drops on all parts of his body. His pulfe was in general about an hundred and ten, and very full ; and as the difeafe appeared to me highly inflammatory, I began with a plan of antiphlogifilc treatment, but the fwelling was fo great in all parts of his body that it was rather doubtful whether it would be poflible to bleed him.MEDICINAL TREATMENT. 302 I firfl began, on the eighteenth of November one thoufand feven hun- dred and ninety-nine, with giving ten grains of calomel at bed time, and a purge the next morning, compofed of three ounces of infufion of fenna, an ounce of falts, and half an ounce of manna ; the next day he began with alkaline draughts, with a drachm of nitre in each, taken in a hate of effervefcenee, with a full quantity of lemon juice; but this not proving fufficiently efficacious, on the twentieth I took away about twTenty-four ounces of blood from the arm ; the bleeding was repeated on the twenty- third, but as the exudation from the (kin continued in the fame flate, I then wiihed to try the effedls of the digitalis, thinking that, if the inflam- matory a61ion was not fufficiently reduced, I fhould gain time by pre- vioufiy loading the conflitution with this medicine. On the twenty-fixth he began to take five grains of the digitalis every night, which was continued for a week with very little cffedi, in confe- quence of which he then began to take five grains every night and morn- ing. After having continued this plan for two nights and two mornings, his flomach became affe£ied, and the fwelling began to abate, and the dif- charge evidently diminifhed. I expert that this will be confidered as giv- ing the digitalis in full power, and independent of the inflammatory dia- thefis, which refilled the influence of the digitalis, I am difpofed to fuf- pe£l that the quantity could not have been given with fafety ; but the antiphlogiflic treatment was continued, and the effefls of the digitalis evi- dently became perceptible, in proportion as the inflammatory diathefis abated. That I may give fome idea of the progrefs and duration of this difeafe, I ffiall firfl mention the dates when he was bled, and always to the amount ofMEDICINAL TREATMENT. 3°3 of twenty, or four and twenty ounces. It has been already obferved that the firft time was on the twentieth of November, the fecond time on the twenty-third, which was repeated on the twenty-ninth, again on Decem- ber the third, the fifth, the feventh, the tenth, the twentieth, and twenty- firft ; the digitalis was continued, with feme intermiffions, from the twenty- fixth of November to the twenty-fixth of January; the dofe was regu- larly five grains, fometimes only given at night, at others both night and morning. When it was taken night and morning in general, my patient could not bear above five or fix dofes, at which times it was omitted for two or three days; in the above-mentioned period he took fourteen dofes of purgative medicines, and on the intermediate days took faline medicines three times a day, with a drachm of nitre in each dofe. With refpefl to the external applications, it has been before obferved that he was well wafhed every night and morning with warm vegeto-mi- neral water, and he was afterward anointed all over with the ceratum fa- turni of Goulard, and this method was continued until the difeafe was conquered. As he was reduced by the long continuance of the difeafe and the great evacuations that were made ufe of, I was in hopes the bark might have been given in this inflance with advantage; but I only tried two dofes of a common decoclion which, infiead of giving ftrength, im- mediately increafed the atlion of the fyftem; and I have no doubt that, if it had been continued for a few days, it would certainly have revived the inflammatory difeafe; inftead of which a few dofes of calomel with cool- ing purges were all the remedies that were afterwards made ufe of to complete the cure.3°4 M E QI C IN A L TREAT M E N T. I am happy in this opportunity of acknowledging that one of the gen- tlemen, who had' previoufly attended from the commencement of this ve- ry lingular inftance of difeafe, with the utmoft candour fent me a written account of the whole treatment to that period. I do not think myfelf authorized to copy the defeription he favoured me with, and I fhould think it very illiberal on my part to pafs any comments on what was done before the patient came under my care; but he concluded his ob- fervations by foliciting to know the refult, and wifhed to be informed, if the difeafe continued, “ whether any medicines or application fhould be found of more ufe than what had been tried in this very obffinate degree of exudation.” I have copied this expreflion from the letter I received with my patient, for the purpofe of (hewing his opinion of the difeafe; and I hope that the defeription I have given of the method of treatment, in addition to the ocular proof he has fince had of the patient’s perfeff recovery, will prove a fatisfadlory anfwer. I have fele&ed thefe few inftances for the purpofe of explaining the operation of digitalis under different circumffances; the effe6ls of abat- ing the difeharge by the fkin, in this cafe of eryfipelas, are particularly illuftrative of its powers; but it has been already (hewn that a phlogihic diathefis oppofes the operation of the digitalis, for which reafon it is ne- ceffary that the inflammatory a£tion fhould be confiderabfy abated before the effects of the digitalis can take place. Mr. I. Hunter has given us an example of two morbid aftions.being incompatible with each other ; and I am of opinion that the prefertt circumftances depend upon fimilar prin- ciples. Mr. I. Hunterafferts that, “notwo aflions can take place in the fame conftitution, in the fame part, at one and the fame time ;” and as his305 MEDICINAL TREATMENT, Ms obfervations on this fubjeCt firft made their appearance in the intro- duction to his treatife on the venereal difeafe, I was in expe&ation of finding a full explanation of the molt important morbid afiions that are incompatible with the venereal difeafe. It may here be necefiary to mention, that the introduction to the trea- tife on the venereal difeafe and that on gun-fliot wounds are nearly fim fi- lar, (1 do not fay that the difeafes themfelves are reprefemed as analo- gous), but it mud appear rather fingular, that in the former indance the lad fefliori, which is on mortification, is preceded by a feflion on inflam- mation ; whereas, in the introduflion to the treatife on gun-fliot wounds,, the fe&ion on inflammation is omitted; but in both introductions he men- tions “the fufpenfion or cure of a gonorrhoea by a fever which is not given as a matter of opinion, but is certainly reprefented as an uoquefti- enable truth. Mr. Pearfon is of opinion that neither fever nor inflammation pof- fefles the power of fufpending the venereal difeafe *; and with refpefi to the former I have no evidence to produce againft him, but I am well convinced from repeated experience that a phlogiflic diathefis will com- pletely fufpend the venereal difeafe; and three unquedionabie indances aow prefent themfelves to my recolledion. The fird I fhall allude to was a cafe of eryfipela*, where the inflamma- tory fymptoms ran high, where bleeding was frequently repeated, and the * Obfervation« on the effects of various articles of the Materia Medica in the cure of the Luee Venerea, by John Pearfon, page 84. 4f blood30 6 MEDICINAL TREATMENT. blood was flrongly marked with fize ; previous to the commencement of ervfrpelas, the patient had a chancre near the fraenum, and a venereal ul- cerated bubo ; in this flate he was attacked with eryfipelas, in confequencc of which the chancre and bubo both difappeared without any other re- medies being made ufe of, except thofe of the antiphlogiflic kind that were direfled for the inflammatory affeflion. It is now near two years fmce thefe circumllances took place, and the venereal fymptoms have not again made their appearance; but as I have known in fiances where the venereal difeafe has in this manner been fufpended, and not appeared for fome years afterw’ards, it flill remains a doubtful queftion whether tins will prove a temporary fufpenfion or perfeft deflruclion of the difeafe ; and the fucceeding inflance will convince us of the uncertainty. In this cafe the venereal fymptoms were flrongly marked, and the pa- tient was under a courfe of mercurial fridtions, when he was feized with an inflammation of the liver, which proved a very formidable difeafe, and continued for four months from the commencement to the time when the difeafe ultimately difappeared. During the long progrefs of this acute difeafe, when the inflammatory fymptoms were moft formidable, he was bled nine times, to about the amount of fixteen or twemy ounces each ; but bleeding wras not the only remedy that was made ufe of, and I have mentioned the number of times that he was bled more for the purpofe of giving an idea of the degree of inflammatory affedlion, than with any intent of entering into a minute detail of the method of treatment. Calo- mel and cooling purges were frequently repeated, bliflers w'ere alfo ap- plied to the parts in pain, and all the inferior order of medicines (that are fuppofed to be efficacious in cafes of inflammation) were made ufe of in fullMEDICINAL TREATMENT. 307 full dofes to fupply the intervals, and at the end of four months he was fo well as to leave off medicine. But the progrefs of the difeafe was not regular through this long period ; at one time it was nearly fubdued, and afterwards returned upon us with increafing powers, but ultimately the inflammation was completely conquered, and every fymptom of vifceral affedlion difappeared. When the inflammatory difeafe firft took place, every appearance of venereal infediion immediately fubfided ; and as mercurial fridfions had then for fome time been made ufe of, the deflruc- tion of the venereal fymptoms was attributed to the effedls of the mer- curial applications. This is now feveral years ago, and my patient was for fix years completely free from all appearance of venereal difeafe ; but what is mo ft extraordinary, though he had been perfedllv fecure from the poSTibi 1 it*y of any additional infection, after the difeafe had remained in obfcurity for fix years, the venereal powers again made their appearance, and he was under the neceflity of going through a regular procefs of cure. We frequently hear of complicated difeafes, and lam fufpicious that the term is fometimes made ufe of as an apology for the want of more accurate difcrimination ; but 1 am equally well convinced, that in- ftances do frequently take place, in which the conflitution is affedted with a complication of difeafe. I have lately met with an inflance of venereal difeafe and inflamma- tory rheumatifm, both for fome time having pofieffion of the fame con- ftitution ; and as they are two fpecies of difeafed adiions that are incom- patible with each other, they were alternately brought into adiion agree- ably to the influence of their refpedlive powers. Whengo8 MEDICINAL TREATMENT, ‘When this cafe firft fell under ray care, the inflammatory rheumatifra was feated in the mufcles of the cheft, attended with confiderable pain and difficult refpiration ; I procured an accurate defcription of the former progrefs of the difeafe ; and, as it had then ex died for two years, my patient defpaired of relief. At that time I could not perceive any other fymptoms but thofe of inflammation, and confequently I at hrft concluded that the difeafe was acute rheumatifm, and attributed its duration to want of perfeverance in an antiphlogiflic treatment. I immediately be- gan with bleeding, purging, bliflering, &c. See. which produced every good effefl that could rationally be expedled. I ffiail not trouble the rea- der with a journal of our proceedings, fuffice it to fay, that I was deter- mined to carry the antiphlogillic plan to its full extent; and judging by the event I am now well fatisfied that I fully accomplifhed my intention. But the inftant one difeafe was deflroyed, a new one, equally painful, immediately took place. In the former part of this difeafe the pain was principally feated in the mufcles of the chell, and, extending to the ffioulders, from thence pro- ceeded to the back part and fides of the head ; but it would on this occa- fion be difficult to point out the different mufcles that were affe&ed ; and if the prefent defcription (hould be deemed iinperfefl, and fuch addition be thought neceffary, I ffiail be happy to have it in my power to indulge the curious reader with a catalogue of their names, whenever a future opportunity may call for a further explanation. But in the fecond pe- riod of this difeafe, when the inflammatory fymptoms 1 ad fubfided, the pain was moll violent on the back part and fide of the head, and extended to309 MEDICINAL TREATMENT. to all the mufcles that are employed in direfling the motion of the head backward and laterally, and the pain feemed to centre in the parts where the mufcles originate in the balls of the fkull. His own defcription of the commencement of this pain was, that the laft bleeding removed his pain from one lunation to another, and his expreflion was, that when the 3aft blood was taken away the pain in an inlfant (hot up into his head. . It appeared at firft view, as if the difeafe had been removed from one Situ- ation, and had feized other parts with increahng powers; but all fymp- toras of inflammation had difappeard, and if the prefent difeafe was of the rheumatic kind, it mull either be the remaining caufe, or confequence of the former difeafe. The pulfe was funk to the healthy llandard, and not a Angle fymptom of increafed aftion then remained; but before I ventured to change the method of treatment, for the purpofe of being fatisfied that the former difeafe was completely fubdued, one more pound of blood was taken away; and as there was not the 1 eaft appearance of inflammation remain- ing, I was of opinion that fudorilic opiates might then be made ufe of with a rational probability of fuccefs, and consequently twenty grains of Do* ver’s powder was given at bed time. This, as an opiate for a few hourss procured relief from pain, but was continued for a week without having the leall influence on the balls of the difeafe. In fomeof thefe cafes it is to be obferved, that I do not mention whe- ther any phyiician was called in, or what authority I have to appeal to; it is of no importance who direfled the proceedings, the philofopber will only wilh to be informed what w7as done, and what were the effe&s ; and 4 G forMEDICINAL TREATMENT, 3lG for my own part, I do not intend to implicate others, or to makeafearch after truth a fubjedl of perfonal adulation, but confider myfell alone re- fponfible for the whole. In cafes of acute rheumatifm, when the inflammation has been con- fiderably abated, I have in the fubfequcnt ftages frequently made ufe of the digitalis with unqueflionable advantage ; and as in the prefent mftance the inflammation had terminated, and fudorific opiates had been tried in vain, I was then induced to try the digitalis, which was continued for about a fortnight, in full dofes, without the leaf! falutary advantage. Let it be here remembered that the digitalis had a fair trial ; and as it produced no good effe£l, it is reafonable to conclude that it has no influ- ence in what proved afterwards to be the real flate of the difeafe, after the inflammation was deflroyed ; if the digitalis had been an antifyphi- litic, and the treatment proved fuccefsful, I fhould never have under- ftood the true flate of the difeafe, but concluded it had been the remains of the rheumatic afte&ion. But during this time a very fmall tumour formed at the top of the head, which ultimately proved to be a venereal node; at this time I had not loft fight of the rheumatic aftebtion *, and Mr. I. Hunter obferves, * When the peiiofteum and bones become affefted, tbe pain is fometimes very confiderable, and at other times there is hardly any. Thefe pains are commonly periodical, or have their exacerba- tions, being commonly worft in tbe night. This is common-to other aches or pains, efoecially of the rheumatic kind, which the venereal pains refemble very much. When the pain is the hi ft fymptom, it affords no diftinguiftiing mark of the difeafe, it is therefoie often taken for the rheumatifm, I. Hunter’s Trcatife on the Venereal Difeafe, fecond edition, page 329. “ thatMEDICINAL TREATMENT. 311 “ that nothing but Tome particular circumflance in the hiftory of the cafe, or feme fymptom attending it. can lead the fergeon to the nature of the complaint.” 1 he tumour was about the fize of a horfe bean, was hard, without any perceptible fludtuation ; and as every other attempt to re- lieve the pain had been inefficacious, 1 was induced to cut through the tumour completelv down to the bone. A very fmall quantity of a curdy matter was difcharged, but without producing any good effedl:, the pain ftill continuing in nearly the fame hate. A few days after the tumour was opened, on examining the parts with a probe, I difeovered that the [hull was difeafed ; this excited my fufpi- cions, and, on more minute enquity, I found that about two years before that time he had had a venereal infedlion, but confidered himfelf as com- pletely cured ; from all thefe circun,fiances I was well fatisfied that the venereal affection had been fufpended by the inflammatory rheumatifm, and that the latter being now completely deflroyed, the venereal powers had again refurned their adlion, in confequence of which I immediately had recourfe to mercury. I gave calomel internally, guarded with opium, and had the painful parts well rubbed with mercurial ointment; by the fecond night the pain was confiderably abated, and by continuing the ufe of mercurials, the difeafe w as completely cured. The lues venerea being a difeafe tnat affedls the whole conflitution, it is only bydifeafes whofe powers are equally ex ten five that this can be fufpended, and it muff be equally evident that the fufpending power mull be fuperior to that which is fufpended ; but what is the nature of this iuperiority I cannot take upon myfelf to determine. The aiathefis phlogiflica312 MEDICINAL TREATMENT. phlogiflica will fufpend the venereal difeafe, and the digitalis will fufpend inflammation ; but this powerful medicine has no influence over the ve- nereal difeafe, it will neither diminifh gonorrhoea, chancre, nor bubo, nor, as has been [hewn above, in the leaf! alleviate the deep feated pain that depends on a venereal origin ; and thefe phenomena are certainly wor- thy our attention, though they may not admit of a full inveftigation. The influence of the digitalis in abating the difcharge of an iffue, which was fo particularly flriking in the fiift cafe, in which I found it an effica- cious remedy, immediately fuggefled the idea that it might prove a ufe- ful medicine for the purpofe of flopping the difcharge in gonorrhoea; and as Mr. I. Hunter had fhewn that this difeafe was not attended with lofs of fubflance in the urethra, I thought there was fome probability of the experiment being attended with fuccefs. I had at that time a flrong young man under my care, with a gonorrhoea oflong handing; and as he wifhed very much to get rid of his difeafe, I propofed the experiment, with a full explanation of the fubjedt. The propofal met with his approbation, and I kept him under the influence of the digitalis for a fortnight; but without the leaf! influence over the dif- eafe. As he adopted the plan with confiderable heroifm, the medicine was given to its full extent, fo much fo, that at the end of the firft week his ficknefs was diflrefling in the extreme, in confequence of which the dofe was then diminifhed, but the naufea was kept up, though in a lefs degree ; fo long as we preferved our hopes of fuccefs, the difagreeable efifedls- of the medicine were not confldered of much importance ; but the patient had the mortification to be difappointed of a cure, and I of the hopes of being the author of a new difcovery. I iiave313 MEDICINAL TREATMENT. I have feledled thefe few inRances for the purpofe of illuRrating the effedls of the digitalis under different circumRances; if I was to give a defcription of every cafe 1 have met with, they muff in many inRances prove a repetition of the fame thing; and it is not neceffary to produce a multiplicity of evidence in fupport of fadls that are fo Rrongly charac- terized, or of experiments that may be fo readily repeated. It is not a medicine whofe influence is obfcure, or whofe effefts are doubtful ; but wherever the digitalis is introduced in pradlice, its powers muffbe known to all who'are capable of making obfervations. I carmot conclude this defcription of the effe&s of the digitalis without expreffmg my aRonifhment that a medicine, poffeffed of fuch powers, fhould have been unknown to Doftor Zimmerman, at the time he was called upon to attend the late King of Pruffia. If he had been acquainted with the progrefs of the fcience of medicine in Great Britain, he certainly would not have limited his prefcriptions to the juice of dandelion, which his auguR patient fo juRly termed a. fiddle jaddle medicine. But, ani- mated with the heroifm of the immortal Frederic, he would have direc- ted the powers of medicine to the conqueR of difeafe with the fame probability of fuccefs that the monarch had been accuRomed to condudf his viftorious armies through the field ; and, infiead of lamenting the want of medicinal agency, or of trembling at the confcioufnefs of his inability to give relief, he would with confidence have explained his in- tended operations, and recommended his prefcription by the moR rati- onal affurances of the fpeedy good effedls, and might with propriety have promifed an alleviation of the oppreffive fymptoms ; which would certainly have been confidered, for the time, a conqueR of the difeafe. 4 FI He314 M E DIC1N A L T R £ A T M E N T. He has given to the world a narrative of his important embaffy, and I have no doubt but he has told the truth ; the whole of which only ferves to (hew the fplendour of retiring magnanimity on the one hand, and the humility of the phyfician on the other. I do not on this occafion forget that the peruvian bark is a powerful -medicine which has been in general ufe for more than a century, and that in many infiances our knowledge ol its power is Rill uncertain. The firft introdudiion of the bark into the practice of phyfic was in cafes of inter- mitients, and we find that it is in the advanced Rages of fever that its fa- « lutarv influence is mod to be depended on ; and as thefe difeafes exhauft the animal powers and induce debility, and as the refioration of returning health was found to give frefh energy to the fyfiem, it was probable that the firfi idea of relaxation of the confiitution, and the tonic powers of certain medicines, originated from thefe circumfiances. It is alfo pro- bable that by a loofe analogy, founded on arguments equally fallacious, certain difeafes were termed putrid, and the remedies antifeptic; but in both infiances the language is as delufive as thefe opinions are inconfiRent with the principles of animal nature. The mufician may talk of relaxation and want of tone. The mechanic will befi underhand the expanfion of metals, and may give his opinion refpefling the diffolving powers of heat, ard the contrary influence of cold ; and will perhaps fuppofe that the cold bath operates on the animal body in a manner fomewhat firnilar totheeffefls of the quenching trough on a piece of red hot Reel. The cook will be befi acquainted with the putrid tendency of hummer’s heat, and the antifeptic powers of vinegar and315 MEDICINAL TREATMENT and fait; but none of thefe faffs are applicable to the phenomena of animal life. I hope it will not be thought neceffary to produce examples in fupport of every illuflrative obfervation ; but if any objeftions fhould be urged againfl thefe arguments, I would refer the reader to Mackbride’s Experimental Elfays, where he will find a number of experiments on the antifeptic powers of fixed air, that bear a ftrong analogy to fome of the faffs above (fated. There is great reafon to fuppofe that this was the book which Mr. Cart- wright * alluded to in his account of the ufe of yeafl in putrid fevers, * I obferved, fays Mr. Cartwright, in a fmall corner of the room, a tub of wort working. The fight brought to my recolleftion an experiment I had fomewhere met with, ‘ of a piece of putrid meat 4 being made fweet by being fufpended over a tub of wort in the a£l of fermentation.’ The idea flafhcd into my mind, that the yeaft.mighc correft the putrid nature of this difeafe ; and I inflantly gave him two large Ipoonfuls. Gentleman’s Magazine for September 1799, Page 762. EXPERIMENT 16. I plunged into this gallon of fermenting liquor the verv identical piece of mutton that had ferved as a ftandard in the 6th experiment, on the acids; and which, from lying in an open cup for ieveral days, was grown fa loft that I was obliged to tie it round with a piece of thread, (for when the thread was paflbd through it, the flefh was fo tender it would not hold) and fo extremely putrid that the flench was intolerable. In one hour the putrid fmell was much abated, and at the end of Jive entirely gone, the meat being now firm, and perfectly fweet ; it was hung up in the open air, where it foon became dry, and ie» mained lvveet ever after. EXPERl M ENT 17. In ord t r to fee whether this change depended on the liquor, or on the vapour, I fufpended a thin bit of putrid mutton in the mouth of the veffel wherein the wajh was fermenting, but fo as not to touch the liquor, and left it there during the night ; in the morning it was found plumped up, fweet, and firm. Mackbride’s Experimental Elfays, page 132 tt 133. thoughMEDICINAL TREATMENT. 316 though he candidly acknowledges that he did not recolle£l the name of the author; and this omiffion may readily be accounted for, as it is evident that the fcience of medicine was not the leading objedl of his literary purfuits. I do not mean to infinuate that his defcriptions of dif- eafes are lefs accurate than fome that have been already noticed, which had the advantage of a profeffional pen ; or that thefe examples of cafe- writing are lefs deferving of our attention. They are all reprefeoted as indances of extreme danger, and the refpedlive recoveries as miraculous cures ; but if the defcriptions had not been fo fupeidatively chara61erized, they all would have been lefs liable to fufpicion. In the firfh cafe of putrid fever defcribed by Mr. Cartwright, bark and wine were given with other medicines, the particulars of which are not explained ; but the difeafe grew every day more untradtable and malig- nant ; two fpoonfuls of yeafl were then given, but whether it was re- peated once, twice, or three times, or how long it was continued, is not mentioned. We are only told it was given once, with diredlions to be repeated every three hours, if the firfl dofe fucceeded ; but we are not informed whether the firfl dofe was fuccefsful, or how far thefe dirt £iions were complied with. In a few days the boy is laid to have recovered, and, after that fhort interval, to look 1'urprizingly well ; and he acknow- ledged that he felt better from the infiant he took the yeafl. Let it be on this occafion remembered, that this was the period at which he was fuppofed to be in a dying fiate ; and I will venture to aflert that, under fuch circumfiar ces, it is not probable, let the powers of medicine be ever fo great, he Ihould have been fo immediately fenfible of their efftdls.MEDICINAL TREATMENT* 3*7 efFe&s. I do not wifli to depreciate the ufe of fermenting liquors in pu- trid fevers, as I am well convinced, from repeated experience, of their falutary powers, and have at the time I am writing a patient under my care, who has been taking new ale out of the working vat for fome days, with the ftrongeft marked fymptoms of its good effedls ; it is thedefnrip- tion and not the remedy that I difapprove. But thefe examples may ferve to prove that truth is frequently the offspring of error, and valuable difcoveries are fometimes produced by a happy jumble of miftakes. The next cafe was under the care of fome apothecary in the county of Leicefter, who at laft finding every effort to be of fervice to his patient baffled, he told Mr. Cartwright that he confidered it to be a loft cafe, and that in his opinion the man would not iurvive twenty-four hours. It muft appear rather fingular that there fhould be fuch a coincidence of opinion in all the defcriptions of dangerous cafes ; if we look back to the cafe of mortification defcribed by Mr. Douglas, the life of the patient was then limited to twenty-four hours, the other cafe, where the patient died, was limited to twenty-four hours, and this is limited to the fame fpace of time. At this critical period two fpoonfuls of yeaft were given, and we are informed “ that in fifteen minutes the pulfe began to get compofed and full, and in thirty-two minutes from taking it, he was able to get up from his bed and walk.” After this fatisfafiory obfervation Mr. Cartwright then adds, “at the expiration of the fecond hour, I gave him a bafon of fago, with a good deal of lemon, wine, and ginger in it. He ate it with an appetite. In another hour I repeated the yeaft ; an hour afterwards I gave the bark as before; at the next hour he had food; next had another dofeofyeafl; and then went to bed : it was nine o’clock. He told me he had a good night, and was recovered.” 4i AfterMEDICINAL TREATMENT. 318 But After this a third cafe is defcribed, in which the recovery is equally miraculous; but as it frequently happens in formidable inftances of putrid fever that the patient will continue in a hate of delirium for a week, and fometimes for a fortnight, and after this recover, it muft appear to be an haPiy and unjuftifiable deeifion in the prefent inPance to limit the fhort remains of life to twenty-four hours ; and that there cannot remain a doubt with all thofe who are capable of forming a judgement on this fub- je&, that, if the recovery was as here hated, the patients were not in fuch a ftate of certain danger as is here reprefented when the yeah was had recource to ; as a recovery from fuch a ftate of danger, in thirty-two minutes, cannot to any rational mind appear within the limits of probability. / I have frequently feen inftances of putrid fever where I could not an- fwer for the life of the patient for twelve hours together, and yet they have lived for years. But in fuch cafes, where the event is doQbtful, it muft of courfe be impoftible to prognofticate with certainty ; and if the danger had been as great as here reprefented, the recovery would not have been fo expeditious and fuccefsful. It is ridiculous to fuppofe that two fpoonfuls of yeaft fhould, under fuch circumftances, in fifteen minutes give a fulnefs to the pulfe and produce fuch wonderful effedls, except this falutarv ferment had been immediately introduced into the blood veftels by the ingenious art of transfufton ; and thus, by one happy exertion of philofophical dexterity, the whole mafs of blood might have been excited into reanimated motion. But one of thefe cafes is fandlioned by the con- curring teftimony of an apothecary in the county of Leicefter, and per- haps this may be confidered a fpecies of authority that but few will pre- fume to call in queftion.319 MEDICINAL TREATMENT. But But what is moft fingular in this defcription is, that in the firfl cafe bark and wine were both given, and the difeafe continued to increafe until its progrefs was flopped by the yeaft ; and though in the two laft cafes the difeafe is fuppofed to be flopped in fo fhort a time by the falu- tary powers of the yeafl, yet the ufe of bark and wine is continued in the firfl c.tfe, and bark alone in the fecond. I do not mean to infinuate that this praflice was improper, I only wifh to obferve that as yeaft and bark were both alternately given, it mu ft be more difficult to determine to which the fuccefs is to be attributed. It is not my intention to difcourage the ufe of yeaft and fermenting liquors in putrid fevers ; but in my opi- nion new ale taken from the working vat certainly deferves the prefer- ence ; in the firfl place it will furnifh a much larger quantity of fixed air than a fpoonful of yeaft ; it contains fuga.r which is both falutary and nutritious ; and a glafs of new ale will prove an agreeable draught to the thirfty patient; from which it is evident that new ale will ferve both for medicine, nourifhment, and beverage. It is not for the purpofe of op- poftng the practice that I make thefe obfervations, I only wifh to fet forth the imp* rfeHions of cafe-writing, and to promote a more accurate exa- mination of the fubjedt. We frequently find that, after the powers of the conftitution have been much depreffed by long continued difeafe, as foon as the caufe is re- moved and the vital powers relieved from the oppreflion, if ri e bark or any other reftorative or tonic medicine is given at this critical period, the energy of returning health is frequently miftaken for the effedls of medicine ; when in reality it is the returning powers of health fet free from the oppreflion of difeafe, and refuming their former functions.320 MEDICINAL TREATMENT. Bat it is particularly after fever that the powers of the bark are mo A cos- fpicuous; it may aCl in part as a cordial or ftimulus to the fyftem, but lam difpofed to think that the falutary effe&s depend more on its powers of deflroying the laid effort of fever, than by exciting the healthy pow- ers to flronger a&icn. It will here be necefiary to obferve, that it is in the laft ftage of fever that the bark is mod efficacious, after the paroxyfm of an intermittent or in the advanced period of putrid fever; and as the morbid (late of the fyffem, which precedes the commencement of mortification, is a difeafe of the putrid kind, it muff: a priori appear a proper remedy in this dif- eafe ; but I am well fatisfied on the authority of experience, and the evi- dence of facls, that I have feen its effeCis in mortifications more clearly exemplified than in any other fpecies of putrid difeafe. When mortification takes place in confequence of external injury to the extremities, it has already been fhewn that the previous inflam- mation is not produClive of fizy blood, which I confider a hate of the conftitution incompatible with the falutary influence of the bark; and this is alfo a fpecies of difeafe that is unconnected with any of thofe affections of the vifcera which frequently accompany putrid fever, and which would render the bark improper. The objeCt on this occafion is, to ftimulate the finking povers into a&ion, and to prevent the abforption of the putrid fanies; and I am well convinced of the in- fluence of the bark under fuch ciicumflarces, and have repeatedly had the fatisfa&ion of noticing the progreflive efifeds of its falutary powers. When321 MEDICINAL TREATMENT. When inflammation and fuppuration have taken place in the extre- mities, and the difcharge become putrid, abforption will fometimes take place in a fingle lymphatic, and will mark its progrefs by a red ftreak up the limb ; under fuch circumftances I have frequently had opportunities of trying the effe&s of the bark, and have found that the progrefs of the difeafe was immediately put a flop to, and the abforption, which was making its way up the lymphatics, immediately compelled to take a re- trogade courfe, and in twelve hours I have feen the difcharge from the ulcerated parts put on an healthy appearance. This certainly muff be confidered as ocular demonfiration of the falutary powers of the bark in cafes of mortification, and is a fpecies of evidence which everyone, who will be at the trouble to attend to the progrefs of fuch difeafes, mull have frequent opportunities of obferving. But if the bark does poffefs the power of preventing the progrefs of mortification under certain circum- itances, we are not to conclude that every kind and degree of this difeafe will admit of cure; and, on the contrary, if we are to difcredit the vir- tues of a medicine becaufe it does not in every inftance prove fuccefsful, the whole materia medica mull lofe its reputation. But in a number of inftances where the bark is fuppofed to be an effi- cacious remedy, it will frequently prove an arduous talk, to difiinguifh between the operations of medicine, and the powers of nature fet free from the influence of difeafe. When the difeafe completely terminates, and the recovery is perfeft, the falutary operations will regain their influence, and the powers of na- ture refume their former energy, independent of the flimulus of tonic 4 K medicines.322 MEDICINAL TREATMENT* medicines. But if the circumftances are fuch that the difeafe does not admit of perfedf cure, then the reftoration of the powers of nature will fail fhort of the degree which they poflefled when the redudiion firft took place. Let us fuppofe, for inftance, that there is feme chronic difeafe of the lungs, liver, or any other vifeus which is incurable, that the influence of this difeafe has extended to the fyftem, and that fome general affedfion has taken place ; if the diathefis is inflammatory, bleeding and purging will be neceflary, and by thefe means the morbid adlion of the fyflem may be conflderably diminifhed ; but as the vifceral difeafe is fuppofed to be incurable, the conftitutional affedtion cannot be completely deftroyed. If then, under fuch circumflances, the remaining powers of the confti- tution fliouid be to a certain degree exhaufted in expectation of deftroy- ing the difeafe, the returning energy of the fyftem will become confpi- cuous, as foon as the debilitating plan of treatment is fufpended. We will fuppofe, for inftance, that the redudfion is brought to that degree that the morbid adfion may be thought to difappear ; if then the debili- tating influence of medicine Ihotild be removed, the conftitution will feem to recover new powers, and the patient will be flattered with the fenfa- tions of returning health, and a daily accumulation of increafirg energy will become perceptible ; but this will never amount to the degree which the conftitution was in pofleflion of before the redudlion firft took place. It mull appear evident to thofe who will take a rational and candid viev of the fubjedl, that it is not in the power of medicine to add to the original powers of the conftitution. i have no doubt but bark, cold bathing,323 MEDICINAL TREATMENT. bathings and many other remedies may be made ufe of with great advan- tage as reftoratives to health, but we cannot by any means increafe the original (lock, or give frefh powers to animal nature. It is the bufmefs of medicine to deftroy difeafe, and regulate the aftions of the fyftem; we may deftroy the morbid aftions but cannot add to the vital powers; for if we could add to the powers of nature, we might then continue to accumulate, and the vital powers might then for ever be fupported; every kind and degree of mortification might find its antidote, and man become immortal. When a difeafe is completely deftroyed, the powers of health will then appear in full force; but in cafes where the cure is only half completed, the remains of difeafe will frequently retain fufficient influence to pre- vent returning health ; and under fuch circumftances, neither cordial food nor tonic medicines will be able to roufe the languid powers of the eonftitution finking under the oppreflion of difeafe. In a cafe of inflammatory rheumatifm, in which the fymptoms were all ftrongly marked, the firft time I vifited my patient, (who was when in health a ftrong man about thirty years of age), 1 took away about twenty ounces of blood, gave ten grains of calomel at bed-time, which was followed the next morning with two ounces of Glauber’s faks. On the fecond day in the evening I took away twenty ounces more blood, and the next morning gave fairs without a previous dofe of calomel. The third day he took a neutral medicine with nitre ; which was regu- larly condnued afterwards, except when it was omitted on account of purgative medicines. The fame day in the evening a fecond dofe of calomel was taken, and the next morning two ounces of Glauber’s (alts. ObMEDICINAL TREATMENT, 324 But On the fourth day after the fecond bleeding there was an evident in- creafe of difeafe; in confequence of which, I wifhed the bleeding to be repeated, but the vein being fmall and deep feated, and only having the light of a fmall candle 1 did not fucceed; the next morning I vifited my patient for the purpofe of renewing the attempt, when I fucceeded by opening the vein with a large orifice; and being apprehenfive that the difficulty of performing the operation would be every time increafed, I was determined to make the molt of the prefent opportunity, and in confequence I was induced to take away two large bafons full of blood; which were found on examination to contain exadly one pound each. This immediately produced a reduction of the painful fymptoms; ten grains of calomel were given in the evening and a dofe of falts the morn- ing following, which was once after repeated in diminifhed quantities; the neutral medicine with nitre was given in the intervals, and in about a week’s time the patient was completely recovered. Whereas I am well convinced, on the unqueff ionable evidence of other cafes where bleeding was not made ufe of with the fame liberality, that if, on the contrary, bleeding had only been made ufe of in fmall quantities in the prefent inffance and at longer intervals, the cure would have been but imperfedly performed, and a ffate of apparent debility have continued for a length of time afterwards. But if the difeafe in the firfl inffance is completely conquered, the powers of health will then be fet at liberty to refume their functions, in confequence of which the exhauff- ed ffate of the conflitution will be foon reffored ; returning appetite will didate the propriety of a liberal indulgence in the ufe of cordial food, and its falutary effeds will foon demonffrate the refiorative influence on the conflitution.MEDICINAL TREATMENT. 325 But, in cafes where the cure is imperfedlly performed, the conflitution is left to labour through the remaining difficulties, and continues in a (late of debility, fludfuating in an unfettled medium, not gaining the pow- ers of health nor freed from the influence ofdifeafe. Under fuch circum- flances cordial food and tonic medicines would increafe the debility; neither Brown’s diffufible ftimuli, Solomon’s balm of Gilead, nor B rod urn’s nervous cordial, would in fuch cafes give energy to the languid powers. And it is my opinion that bleeding, calomel, and purgative medicines, will on many occafions be found the mo ft certain reftoratives to health. / ' By an inefficacious and inenergetic plan of treatment the difeafe is left to prey upon the conflitution, and perhaps exhauft the powers of life; whereas, on the oppofite fide of the queftion, the lofs of a few’ pounds of blood, or the effedls of a powerful purge may be foon reflored. It is a method of treatment under which, on the part of the phyfician, there can be no juftifiable caufe of apprehenfion ; and I am well convinced that, if there is any danger of lofing the patient, it can only be by a complete and fpeedy cure. In all cafes of debility, it feems to be the objedl of modern praftice to load the feeble (lomach with bitter draughts and ftimulating food; but the Brunonians on this occafion violate one of the moft rational prin- ciples of their own hypothefis, and datken one of the brighoeft rays of this celebrated fyflem. If we examine this new explanation of the law’s of animal life, we fhall find that the perfedlion of health depends on a due equilibrium being preferved between the excitability of the fyflem, and 4 L the0,26 MEDICINAL TREATMENT. the operation of the exciting powers. But it is alfo admitted that, as the original quantity of excitability cannot be increafed, it confequently fol- lows that the more the excitability is flimulated into aflion, the greater will be the expence of this firfl principle of life ; and as the flomach is the medium through which the conflitution is to receive the frefh fupplies for the fupport of life, it is reafonable to infer/that, when all the powers of the conflitution have been much reduced by difeafe or ether caufes, the more the adlion of the flomach is excited for the purpofe of giving flrength, the more that weaknefs will be increafed which it was intended to remove. Eating and drinking are certainly neceffary for the fupport of animal life ; but 1 am well fatisfied that a fpare diet will contribute more to health and flrength than all the indulgences of luxury and eafe. The fump» tuous banquet, the fparkling glafs, warm rooms, and beds of down, may be both convenient and neceffary for thofe whofe powers are nearly ex- haufled, but their cordial influence is only of fhort duration ; and if this is to be confidered a life of pleafure which fometimes gives fhort hours of joy, they are mixed with years of pain. But the Brunonian theory and praflice did not always coincide with each other ; for though in many inflances Brown’s opinion of animal nature might be nearly right, yet his principles of practice were generally wrong. This at firft view may appear rather fingular that a philofopher, who had abilities fufficient for the invefligation of the animal powers in a flateof health, fhould be fo perfectly unacquainted with the nature and treatment of327 MEDICINAL TREATMENT of difeafe. But notwithftanding all that can be faid in defence of his profelfional abilities, I {hall prefurae to contend that an analylis of the Jirft principles of difeafe and the medicinal treatment were fubje&s with which he was unacquainted. His advocates may reprefent him as the hrft fcholar and philofopher of the age ; they may affert that his language was equal to that of Horace* who was his favourite author *, or that he could fpeak with the perfua- five eloquence of Cicero f ; that his knowledge of animal mechanifm was equal to that of his more fuccefslul countryman and that his invefti- gations of the works of nature were of more importance than thofe of Sir Ifaac Newton Jj. That when the Elementa Medicinae made its ap- * He maintained the independance of his chara&er, proving himfe’f to be, in the language of his favourite Horace,—Satis inter vilia fortis. The life of Brown, by Bcddoes, page liii. t Cicero and Bacon were his favourite authors; in his elaborate compofitions he imitated the Roman orator with affe&ation, The life of Brown, by Beddoes, page xcvi, + It is a fingular coincidence, that the two individuals, who in thefe times have been principally celebrated for their attempts to extend the knowledge of animal nature, fhould have been both na- tives of Scotland, and that each fhould have been put to a coaife mechanical employment—John Brown to the trade of a weaver, and John Hunter (according to common fame and the report of one of his biographers) to that of a carpenter or wheelwright. The life of Brown, by Beddoes, page xxxvi 11. jj The introductory lefttre, if my memory is accurate, was intended to imprefs upon his audience a fenfe of the importance of the lc&urer’s difeoveries; its effefts was rather to render him ridiculous. The dread of pain and death eafriy perfuade us that improvements in medicine are more beneficial than in any othet art; but when a man alferts the fuperior utility of his difeoveries to thofe of New- ton, he will with difficulty avoid the appearance of averting the fuperiority of his talents. The life of Brown, by Beddoes, page uxxvt. pearanceM ED 1C IN A L TR E A T M '£ NT 3'2* pearance in the world, all former fyllems funk into obfcurity, and that his great genious Atone fuperior to all that went before him. But if I was compelled to acknowledge all this as truth, hill I fhould contend that the practice of pbyfic was a fubjefl which exceeded the utmoA limits of his extenfive information. For he had no praftice *, and confequently had no opportunity of obferving the phenomena of difeafes, of noticing their progrefs, of ftudying their nature, or learning the method of cure. He fpeaks of Sydenham with contempt+; one whofe profeffional reputation was eAabiifhed on the accuracy of his praflical obfervations, his Ariel attention to the operation of medicine and the influence and progrefs of difeafe. Whereas the Brunonian fyflem originated in a fit of the gout J, and his materia medica was con- fined to the clafs of diffufible Aimuli j|. * To fome readers it may appear flrange that I fhould have finifhed the life of a phyficiart, who caufed fo great an uproar in the medical world, without more particular notice of his private prac- tice. I enquired with lome folicitude, but in vain, whethei dating the iong period of his ftudies he was peculiarly obfervant of difeafes. The life of Brown, by Beddoes, page c i i i. ■f- Calefacients, or heating things, were one of the means that the alexipharmic phvfic’ans employed to force perfpiration ; but the principle is now laid down, that Ihewsthey produce the oppoiite effedt. Hence the met it of Dr. Sydenham in recommending cold, both in the fmall pox and in peripneu- many, in which difeafe he took his patients out of bed, and placed 'hem in an eafy chair. Happy had if been for the profefli in, and happier for the lick, had he extended his improvement to the meafles and catarrh, and all the reft of the few fthenic difeafes, and flopt there; but by extending his antiphlogiftic and refrigerant doftrine to the whole form of afthenic diieafcs, the haim mid good he did were in the proportion of 97 of the former to 3 of t.re laticr. Brown’s Elements of Medicine by Beddoes, page pg. J Preface to the original work. I II Double Rum and Laudanum. The life of Brown, by Beddoes, page ixxi, IfS29 MEDICINAL TREATMENT. 4 M ponunity If we examine the different kinds of debility that affed the animal fyflem, independent of their original caufe, we (hall find them vary according to the period of life and other circumftances. I fhall not take upon myfelf to point out what plan of regimen may be fit for youth, nor what may be i eceffar y for old age ; it is only to what I conceive to be the prevailing opinion re= fpeding the ufe of thofe medicines called tonics and reflorativrs, and what is fuppofed to be a coincident plan of regimen that I fiiall prefume to gn e my opinion. The bark (lands at the head of the bitter clafs of medicines, which is fometimes united with mineral acids, and fometimes with chal\ beate.s ; and I have feen fuch quantities of tonic medicines prefci ibed, as the llrongefl flomach in a flate of health would not be able to fupport. 1 have f en in- (lances wherethe bark has been prefcribed as a tonic in the fuhfequent flages of inflammation, and could produce the moil fatisfadory evidence of the unfriendly confequences ; and i have alfo feen the bark prefcribed in hedic fever, but as medicines will not perform impoffibilities, they confequently do not on all occafions produce the defired effed. 1 recoiled a cafe of this kind, when in the (nil inftance the Doctor, having been difappointed of fuccefs, but not deprived of confidence in his own opinion, nor having become doubtful of the propriety of the plan of treatment, but fuppofing that the want of fuccefs depended alone on the want of power, expeded that quantity w^ould fupply the place of propriety, and direded a double dofe ior the purpofe of compelling the morbid powers to fubrnit to the irrefulibie influence of medicine, though ever fo irrationally applied. This fltmulating fyflem, this plan of flogging the wearied powers of nature into action, is a method of pradice which 1 have often had an op*.33° MEDICINAL TREATMENT. porlnnity of obferving with fiient admiration. I have feen a plan of cordial medicines for a long time employed in vain; and when all powers have failed, I have known hot wine direCied at the clofe of life. It is a fubjeCi that reminds me of the conduct of Bajazet on the death of Arpafia, where he fays— Fly, ye Haves! And fetch me cordials. No, fhe (hall not die ! Spite of her fullen pride, I’ll hold in life, And force her to be bleft againft her will. Perhaps fuch dictatorial authority may be confidered as confident with the charader of a general, and may have its influence in the field ; but the powers of life are neither to be retained nor recalled by the energy of language, nor will the accumulated powers of ill-dire£ted medicine infure fuccefs. Under the head of regimen, eggs are frequently directed as the moft reftorative food that the weak and debilitated convalefcent can make life of; and fo high is the reputation of this fyfiem of modern luxury, that eggs make a very important part of the fafhionable breakfaft. They are, I fuppofe, intended to fupply the animal fyftem with abilities to ferve for the bufinefs of the day, to give ft rength to debility, to fupport the energies of health, that the nerves and mufcles may all enjoy the reanimating in- fluence of their invigorating powers. The inebriate, trembling under the debilitating influence of his evening glafs, makes eggs the bafis of his morning hopes ; but the ftate of his ftomach in the morning is as much difordered as his head, and is as incapable of performing the bufinefs of digeftion, as his trembling hand would be unfit to guide his pen. WhenMEDICINAL TREATMENT. 33* When and where this pra&ice firfl originated I will not attempt to prove; but I am of opinion there is fome reafon to fufpedf, that a cer- tain line in Prior's poems * has contributed more to the popularity of this fyflem than all the medical writings put together. Eggs, jellies, and fhell-fifh, have long been in high reputation ; but with what motive they are in general made ufe of I (hall not prefume to determine,, Ar« buthnot afferts, “that the inhabitants of fea-port towns are generally prolific t”. And as this implies an extenfion of animal life, perhaps it may be reafonable to infer that the produce of the fea furnifhes a kind of food that increafes the vital powers. But let what will be the principle on which the opinion is founded, eggs have long been conhdered there- (loratives to health and lupport of life, the multum in parvo, the pri« raurn mobile, the grand concentration of animal vitality. But to complete the whole of this invigorating plan of regimen; that the flomach may be induced to co-operate, and the powers of digeflion be called in adtion, at the fame time that the ftomach is fupplied with reanimating food, when a new-laid egg is mixed with a bumper of mad era wine, the utile et dulce are both at once obtained. But this is no more than beginning the bufinefs of the day with one glafs in the morning, to prepare the way for a bottle in the afternoon. On this occafion the liberality of prefcription is not limited either to quantity or * Thus, tho’ the ftriftly did confine The Doftor from excefs of wine ; With Oytiers, Eggs, and Vermicelli, She let him almoft burft his belly. \ Arbuthnot on Aliment, page 82, third edition. Lind |MEDICINAL TREATMENT, 332 kind; the latter does not feem to be an objeft of confederation, and the former is only to be determined by its effects. The convalefcent is di- rected to take wine in moderation, and a hiccup is the criterion to deter- mine the proper dofe *. Red port is frequently directed as a bracing cordial, and will in general be preferred in the afternoon, whilft egg and madera will be confidered moil eligible for the morning dofe ; and it is a kind of preTcripticn fo a- greeable to the frailties of human nature, that it is certain to be approved. Such then we find is the theory and practice of phyfic, which the luxury of medicine and the refinement of fpeculative philofophy have prefented to our view ; fuch is the modern treatment of debility ; fuch the plan of regimen that is to fupply the exhaufted {lores of the corflitution ; and fuch the fyflem of intoxication, which is not only to prove a re- iterative to health, but which is alfo to give energy and power to all the joys of life, * A convalefcent from a difeafeof debility was prefciibed wine, but not to carry it to excefs. A hiccup was the fignal, by which he was to underftand that he had carred that ftiinulus too far. He defifted, and ended his jollity with two or three tumbler glafles of water; which prevented the eftablifhment of the indirett dcoihty into which he was about to fall. Brown’s Elements of Medicine, by Beddoes, page 22'. SECTIONSECTION XL THE OPERATIVE PART OF SURGERY CONSIDERED AS A REMEDY FOR DISEASE. —-MM46— npHE operative part of furgery has long been looked up to as a fubjeft of great importance, and may juftly be confidered as one of the exclufive privileges of the profelfion. We meet with many pretenders to the other branches of medicine, but the infiances are very rare where any of them will prefume to ufe the knife. It is a bufmefs that foon expofes the want of knowledge ; the inability to perform an operation is a fpecies of ignorance that cannot be con- cealed. There was a time when a knowledge of this fubjeft was confined to fuch narrow limits, that the performing of operations was not generally anderdood, and was confidered an unquedionable mark of a fuperior profeflional accomplifhment. But when the fludy of anatomy was fet 4 N freeTHE OPERATIVE ,134 free from legal restraint that fpecies of informations which is neceflary for concluding operations, foon became an objed of general atten- tion ; and fo great was the ardour with which the (Indents in furgery purfued this fplendid branch of their profeflion, that, in a very few years after this emancipation, we find Mr. Pott f became apprehenfive left every other part of furgery fhould be fet abide as unworthy of attention. If we confider this only in a mechanical view, it is certainly a fpecies of knowledge eafily to fie obtained; but it will be impoftible to make an * Before the late aft of parliament for making the furgeons and the barbers of London two feparate and diftinft corporations; the furgeons, who were members of the then united company, befides being iubjeft to the power of fpiritual courts, were liable to many heavy charges, amounting often to more than iobl. before they had fervcd all the offices of the company. And the privileges and advantages they enjoyed, being chiefly under charters granted them in different reigns, were lately found very precarious, and not able to fereen them in Wcftminfter Hall from feveral expenfive offices, from which they were formerly fuppofed to have been exempted. Bnt fince the obtaining the abpvementioned aft, all their faid privileges are confirmed by the fanftion of parliament, with the addition of feveral new ones. It muff be confeffed, that both anatomy and furgery flourifhed much later in England than in France, where all poffible encouragements were given to both ; while, in London, the governors of the two hofpitals, being moftly citizens, out of a falfe policy, entirely refufed the education of pu- pils in one hofpital, and allowed of but nine at a time in the other. And the rulers of the barber- furgeons company at the fame time contrived a by-law to prevent the knowledge of anatomy from fpreading •, cunning by forefeeing that the younger furgeons by that knowledge would advance too faff upon them. They made it a penalty of ten pounds to diffeft a body out of the hall without their leave, which was fcarce to be obtained : and if anyone offended ^as they called it) they were fure to be profecuted. The improvements in anatomy and furgery, fince thele reftraints have been removed, will fufficiently convince the world of the unfitnefs of them. Le Dran’s Surgery, with remarks See. By William Chefelden, Efq. page 470 et 472. f Pott’s preface to Obfervations on Fiftula Lachrymalis ; and preface to Obfervations on Wounds on the head. accompliflied335 PART OF SURGERY, / aecomplifhed operator except the art and fcience of furgery are both united. Dexterity may be acquired by habit ; but the mod accompliffied addrefs in the management of inffruments will be inadequate to the pur- pofe, except it is accompanied with fciemific information to dire£l the knife. Amputation is without doubt abufmefs which any pcrfon may get through with, but I think it will not be impofiibJe to incumber the fub- je6f with fuch difficulties, as fome humble operators would not know how to anfwer. And if we confider that people feldom a61 with fleady fortitude when the mind is agitated with doubt, and their thoughts fluc- tuating in uncertainty, we muff acknowledge the propriety of deter- mining every doubtful queffion before the operator prefumes to take the knife. Many little circumffances may occur to embarrafs a timid operator that are infignificant in themfeives, which nothing but a com- plete knowledge of the fubjeft can prevent; and it is of much more con- fequence to tbofe, in whofe limited pradlice operations occur but feldom, to have the mind at eafe, than to thofe who by daily habits are fortified againft the difficulties of accidental difappointments. The rafh audacity of ignorant prefumption may fometimes prote61 a daring defperado through difficulties, which timid caution would meet with trembling apprehenfion : but the fteady fortitude of an accompliffied operator muff depend alone on a fciemific bafts. Great as is the importance of anatomy in many of the firff depart- ments of medicine, and particularly in the operative part of furgery, this alone will not be fufficient for our prefent purpofe : as it will be impoh fihle to determine with prectfion when an operation is necefLry, or in what33® THE OPERATIVE what manner it ought to be performed, without an accurate knowledge of the nature, extent, and difpofition of the difeafe. For without an ac- curate knowledge of chirurgical difeafes, it will be impoffible to form a rational judgement when, where, or in what manner, an operation fhould be performed. A knowledge of anatomy is in the firft place neceffary to determine, in cafes of external injury, whether the extent of the injury is fuch as to be incompatible with life. But if the blood-veffels are not injured, the extent of the injury to other parts lefs eflential to life will alio merit our attention ; and as this is a queflion that cannot be determined by any certain rules, and muff depend on an infinite variety of circumftances, that never can in any two inftances be perfedlly the fame, it muft ever remain a fubjefl for the exercife of opinion. If I fhould be accufed of magnifying the importance of this queflion, I would beg leave to refer to a cafe before-mentioned*, in which two oppofite opinions were given and the lafl was wrong. Had the error been on the other fide, the patient would have loft his limb ; but inftead of his limb he loft his life. The praflice of public hofpitals is, in general, reprefented as much more worthy of attention than the examples of private praflice, and is fre- quently brought forward by the writers on furgery with a proud boaft of their fuperior importance. Whether this imaginary fuperiority de- pends on the abilities of the furgeon, the advantages of confultation, or * Seftion x. page 257. the337 PART OF SURGERY. the cautious attention that a confcious apprehenfion of the critical ob- fervation of the public eye may infpire, are interefting points which I fhall not now attempt to determine. But as hofpital burgeons have thought / fit to reprefent their public praflice as mod worthy of attention, the practice of the hofpital muft be looked upon as public property ; and I fhall confider myfelf at full liberty to difplay their virtues, and make fuch obfervations as will ferve to illuflrate the fubjefl before us. I am ready to acknowledge that the cafe here referred to was extreme- ly critical; perhaps it was an even chance whether the patient did or did not recover without amputation; but, under this fuppofition, it would have been more liberal and more prudent to have acquiefced in the fir ft opinion, as in fuch cafes it is impoffible to determine with cer- tainty. If we could firft obtain a perfefft knowledge of the powers of life, and then form an accurate eftimate of the degree of injury, and if we had any method of comparing the joint influence of thefe oppofing powers, we might then attempt to give a folution to this queftion. But as thefe data are not within our reach, it rauft remain at beft a matter of opinion. 1 •confider this cafe well worthy of our attention, both in a fcientifie and practical view; it will ferve to (hew how cautious we ftiould be in forming an opinion, and to eftimate what delicate referve is neceffary, when, on a queftion of fuch importance, one furgeon prefumes to oppofe the opinion of another. It is probable that a patient under fuch circumftances would prefer the propofal for laving his limb ; and if the oppofite opinion was urged* 4 O andTHE OPERATIVE 33s I fhall and a (Ten ted to, he might reflect on the furgeon afterwards for what feme might confider a rafh and hafly decifion; whereas if the attempt to fave the limb was not fuccefsful, death would kindly interpofe to flop the murmur of complaint. To fupport the firfl propofal would require more confidence than in general falls to the lot of a fingle individual ; the latter is protedled by the appearance of humanity, and ultimately jufliried by the uncertainty of fuccefs, even when there is leafl reafon to be apprehenfive of difap- pointment. What renders this queflion fo particularly interefting is, that it is a judgment beyond which there is no appeal ; for when the de- cifion is once made, the fate of the patient is irrevocably determined. When inflammation has feized the part, and fever taken pofTeffion of the conflitution, amputation would then increafe the danger; it would be an additional infult to the powers of nature labouring under the preffure of previous difeafe. As inflammation of the injured part and conflitutional fever are the two important circumflances which conflitute the danger, yet it may fometimes happen that mortification may take place independent of thefe circumflances, and in fuch cafes amputation may becomeadmiflible. I well remember a cafe in point; the injury was occafioned by a very extenfive cut with a fliarp inflrument on the fuperior part of the foot, by which the three largeft metatarfal bones were divided. The hemorrhage was confiderable, but was immediately flopped by bringing the parts together with a large needle and flrong ligature, and the parts were then covered with dreffings, in hopes that they would unite by the firfl intention.PART OF SURGERY. 339 I fhall not attempt to juftify what was done in this cafe, or recommend the fame pradice on fimilar occafions; I only wifh to defcribe the fads as an iilufiration of the prefent fubjed. The attempt to unite the parts by the firfi intention did not fucceed, and mortification took place in thofe parts that were deprived of the cir« culation: As foon as the mortification was difcovered, the foot was divi- ded up between the third and fourth toe, and the incifion met at right angles by a fecond on the inferior part of the foot, by which the injured parts were completely removed, and not a fingle difficulty afterwards, fucceeded to interrupt the regular procefs of' the cure. The quefiion then will be whether the operation was too infignificant to affed the con- futation, or whether the conflitution was in a ftate fufceplible of its influ- ence. If we refer to the conclufion of Mr. Pott’s obfervations on the morti- fication of the toes and feet, we.(hall find that he particularly advifes againft operations of much Iefs importance. It is not my intention to re- prefent thefe as two fimilar fpecies of difeafe; but if they are not perfed- ly fimilar, the. objedions to amputation are in many refpeds applicable to both infiances. Mr. Pott obferves, that “if the parts adhere by only a fingle living fibre it ought not to be divided,” whereas in the crfe above bated feveral inches of living fubftance were cut in two. .On the pre- fent occafion it is moft probable that the parts beyond the incifion died away for want of a neceffary connedion with the vital organs, and that mortification took place in the extremity of the foot not in confequence of adive difeafe, but becaufe the parts were cut off from the original fource of the vital powers. I fhouldTHE OPERATIVE M° I fhould think it probable that the fpontaneous termination of gan~ grene in mod inftances depends on its locality, and that the rapid and deftruflive progrefs of the true fpreading gangrene is always connected with a putrid diathefis of the fyftem. This may depend on the nature and extent of the injury, the date of the conftitution, and an infinite va- riety of other circtimfiances, which it would be impofiible to anticipate, or ellimate their refpeftive influence. But whether the difeafe is local, or eonnefled with a putrid diathefis, amputation is an improper remedy for mortification. In the firft infiance, it will certainly increafe the danger, and it can never be neceflary, as the mortification will flop fpontaneouf- ly, and the accumulated injury of an operation would be certain to bring on additional inflammation, which might be produfHve of dangerous and important confequences; and, on the fecond occafion, it muft be ve- ry obvious that it will prove a ufelefs operation to cut off a limb when the whole body is difeafed. « In our examination of this fubjefl we fhall find, as far back as Wife- man’s time, that he did not confider amputation a proper remedy in fuch cafes. In the cafe copied from Mr. Douglas, it was evidently his opinion that amputation was an improper remedy in mortification; but about the year forty Mr. Sharp, in a more full and accurate difcufiion, placed-thds^quefiion in a clear and intelligible point of view. When the fafts had once been clearly dated, the arguments properly arranged, and the whole fubjeft placed upon a rational bafis, experience confirmed the propriety of Mr. Sharp’s decifion, and general conviction gave a uni- formity to the public-.opinion. Here.341 PART OF SURGERY. Here the bufinefs reded for upwards of twenty years, when the appear* ance of * M. Bilguer’s diflerlation on the inutility of amputation once more didurbed the tranquillity of the public mind ; and if we confider the prefent unfettled (late of the fubjeCf, it will be impoffible to conjecture at what future cribs we fhall meet repofe. It certainly mult be looked upon as an indelible reflection on the En* glifh character, that a work fo truly contemptible fhould have had fuch extenfive influence ; but the captivating attractions of novelty, and the fafcinating powers of great names, will always have their right with thofe who, not pofTeffing abilities to think for themfelves, depend alone on the authority of others. But it is probable, in this inftance, that the high reputation of the monarch, whom Bilguer at that time ferved, gave a ce- lebrity both to the author and his book, which neither intrinfically had the mod; humble claim to. But the appearance of this tranflation immediately attraCled the atten- tion of the public, and firff having impofed upon the credulous, it foon became a fubjeft of general controverfy; and though Mr. Pott’s argu- ments on this occafion are too plain to admit of mifieprefentation, and his decifion fo particularly fatisfaClory, dill we find, both in theory and praClice, that the quedion remains in an unfettled date. * See a differtation on the inutility of the amputation of limbs, written in latin by M. Bilguer Surgeon general to the armies of the King of Piuffia, augmented with the notes of Mr. Tiflot, phy- fician at Laufanne, now fi ft tranflated into Englifh by a furgeon. London, printed for R. Baldwin, at the Rofe, in paternotter Row, and T. Becket and P. A. De Hondt, in the Strand, 1764. 4P I rememberTHE OPERATIVE 342 I remember, more than twenty years ago, attending tbs leQures of one of the puriifans of Bilguer, and can now recollect the particular books that were recommended on this fubjedl; but Mr. Pott’s arguments direct- ed my opinion to the oppofite fide of the queflion. Many of the little pamphlets that made their appearance at that time have long funk into obfcurity, which in their day might ferve the purpofe of amufing thofe whofe attention could be captivated by fuch writers as TiflTot, or whofe opinions could be influenced by fuch furgeons as Bilguer. But when erroneous opinions prepare the way for free and liberal enquiry, they may ultimately ferve the caufe of truth, and blind zeal may lead the way to ufeful information and important difcoveries. Wifeman, who was furgeon to Charles the fecond, wrote in thataufpi- cious reign ; and though he did not anticipate the modern theory, yet he was not lefs attentive to the phenomena of nature. The ftile in which his book is written varies much from that of modern times, there is a plain unadorned fimplicity of expreflion that is not frequently to be met with in writers of the prefent day. IT is manner is certainly that of a plain praflical writer, but the whole is flrongly marked with unqueflionable evidence of highly cultivated profeflional information. When we confider that Wifeman’s furgery is not a work of theory, but a defcription of the obfervations of extenfive praflice, we fhall ceafe to wonder he did not fee the full extent of the evidence which he had fo accurately recorded. The neceflity of immediate amputation in cafes of external injury is particularly noticed, and the impropriety of ufing amputation as a remedy to flop the progrefs of mortification is men- tionedPART OF SURGERY. 343 itoned in feme Infiances. On the firft part of the queftion his opinion Is dear and decifive, on the latter we meet with fome ambiguity; artel it is evident that the nature and treatment of mortification were then very imperfe&Iy underftood, and the whole veiled with obfeumy. He was truly fenfible of the difficulties with which he was furroundeds hut does not appear to have formed a decided opinion in what infiances amputation was improper. This important fubjeft has been repeatedly difeufied within thefe laft fixty years, but if we except the writings of Sharp and Pott we fhall not meet with many obfervations that are wor- thy our attention. If I was to recommend books to a young fiudent in furgery, the works of Wifeman, Sharp, and Pott, would certainly furnifh much ufeful information on this fubjed. But as we have fio many great names in fupport of a new fyftem of obfeurity, it is necefiary that the road to truth ffiould be clearly pointed out. We bear much of the improvements of modern furgery, but it is my opinion that we fhall find more rational information in Mr. Wife man’s i book than in all the chirurgical publications of the fucceeding hundred and thirty years. 1 do not pretend to affert that this with the two authors above mentioned would prove a fufficient guide for inexperience; nor would any other profeffional works prove adequate to this important purpofe. It is the bufinefs of literature to put the mind in action and teach man- kind to think, and not to make them dupes to the diftates of a fingle au- thor. It is the lubjefl at large, and not the opinion of an individual, that344 THE OPERATIVE that the fludenl fhould have in view. It is a knowledge of nature, and not of books alone, with which the man of fcience is to ornament his mind. The neceflity of early operations in cafes of external injury was well known to the author before us, and feems to have been much better un» derflood at that time than by the generality of modern furgeons. Wife- man, in his treatife on gun-fhot wounds, fays, “ The part is at firft dref- fing to be cleared with what diligence you can of all fuch foreign bodies as have made violent intrufion into it, while the Patient is warm with the heat of Battle, and the Wound frefh, and very little altered by either Air or Accidents : Upon which confideration lefs Pain mud neceffarily follow upon the exiradtion. “ In the Armado Naval of Dunkirk, where the Chirurgeons were oft employed in this kind of work, we after every Fight went together vifiting one another’s wounded men. It was thought amongft us a great fhame, if any thing of this work of Extra&ion were then to be done: For after the fir ft andfecond day the Wound proveth tumified, alfo the neighbour- ing parts are inflamed, and fo changed in their temper, that they conceal from your fight both the Bullet and his companions, fo that the place they are coucht in can hardly be known ; or, being difcovered, you cannot without hazard of your Patient, or great trouble of the Part, make ex- traction of them. In which cafe it may then be reafonable to defer that work, and by Lenients to haften digeftion * Wifeman’s Surgery, page 4<5Q< ThefePART OF SURGERY. 345 Thefe few lines of Wifeman contain more ufeful information than half the books that have been fmce written on the fubje6t. He directs that the parts be firft cleared with diligence, but that diligence is to be guarded with caution. If it was my intention to enter into a regular examination of Wifeman’s writings, it might then be neceffary firft to give a biographical illuftration of the genius of the author ; and the different fituations in which he was placed during that eventful period would furnifh us with many amufing fubjefts well worthy of our attention. But there is one circumftance that I cannot let pafs unnoticed, as it is of a profeffional nature, and may on a future occafion be urged againft the authority of his opinion. If our author was fincere in what he has written on the King’s evil, I am ready to acknowledge that it would be a difficult talk to juftify his credulity of the infallibility of the Royal Touch *. But there was no period of time when human nature was exempt from folly; and as the prefent age will * What great difficulty we meet with in the Cure of the King’s Evil, the daily experience both of Phylicians and Chirurgeons doth fhew. 1 thought ic therefore worth my while to fpend a whole Treatife upon the Subjedt, and very particularly to go through the defcription of it, informing thereby the young Chirurgeon whatever is requisite to the Cure, at lead as far as it cometh within the com- pafs of our Art. But when upon trial he fhall find the contumacioufnefs of the Dileafe, which fre- quently deluded his bed care and indudry, he will find reafon of acknowledging the goodnefs of God ; who hath dealt fo bountifully with this Nation, in giving the Kings of it, at lead from Edward the Confedor downwards, (if not for a longer time) an extraordinary power in the miraculous Cure thereof. 7h:s our Chronicles have all along tcdined, and the perfonal experience of many t'noufands now living can witnefs for his Majedy that now reigneth, and his Royal Father and Grandfather. His Majedy that now is having exercifcd that faculty with wonderful fnccefs, not only here, but beyond the Seas, in Flanders, Holland, and France itfelf.” Wifeman’s Surgery, page 239, 4 C2 nots 246 THE OPERATIVE not prefume to boafl of having reached the fumrnit of perfe&ion, it would be uncandid to rejecl one opinion that appeared rational, becaufe we did not meet with a uniformity throughout the whole. In every appeal to high authority the genera! chara£fcr of the author is certainly a very intered’mg part of the fubjeft; but in the prefent in- fiance it is the date of forgery at that period which I widi to bring forwards, and not to prove that burgeons were then infallible. It is not the name that will fandlion an opinion, or the elevated fituation that will give cele- brity to the doctrines which I fhall have occafion to refer to; butas the evi- dence of nature is immutable, the coincidence mull prove their intrinfie merit. For the. purpofe of giving an impartial view of this fubjeft at that time, I fhall endeavour to trace the method of treatment recommended by Wifeman through the whole procefs, from the commencement ofthe accident to the termination ofthe difeafe. The fimilarity ofWifeman’s defcription of a gun-(hot wound to that of Mr. I. Hunter’s is particularly driking; it is probable that the theoreti- cal view’s of the latter might be the mod refined, but it is very evident that they both were defcribing the fame appearances. Wifeman fays, es Where the Bullet pierceth, it extinguifheth the natu- ral heat, and the Lips of the Wound are livid or blackifh; and if they be not dred rationally, they inflame, and are accompanied with Tumour, and Blifters frequently rife about them, alfo the matter is of a fetidfmelf. In this condition the Wound is commonly the fird day, and fo to the fe- venth ; and, if not fuccoured, it gangrenes, and fo the Patient commonly dies*.” * Wifeman’s Surgery, page 397. Mr.O/t n PART OF SURGERY. oT / Mr. I. Hunter obferves that “ Gun-fhot wounds, from the circumftanct of commonly having a part killed, in general do not inflame fo readily as thofe from other accidents ; this backwardnefs to inflame will be in the proportion that the quantity of deadened parts bear to the extent of the wound, from which circumflance the inflammation is later in coming on, more efpecially when a ball paffes through a flefiiy part with great velo- city; becaufe there will be a great deal deadened, in proportion to the fize of the wound ; therefore inflammation in gun-fhot wounds is Iefs than in wounds in general, wherethe fame quantity of mifchiefhas been done'I * * * 5'.” Thus it is evident that they both agree in their account of the appear- ances, and in their opinion refpe&ing the flow progrefs of the inflamma- tory fymptoms. The plain reafon therefore why gun-fhot wounds do not inflame fo quickly after the accident, is, becaufe the parts mo ft in- jured are deprived of life and confequently incapable of inflammation. The inflammation takes place in the living parts that have received a lefs degree of injury for the purpofe of feparating’the dead parts; and the inflammation is in a lefs degree than if the parts were greatly irritated by the injury, which would be in proportion to the degiee of injury if the parts were not deprived of life. I have feen inflances of this kind in accidents from other caufes ; one I recolleft of a lacerated wound occafioned by the plank of a wooden bridge giving way as a very heavy man was pading over it, his leg flipt between the two planks, and a very large portion of the integuments and * I. Hunter on gun-fhot wounds, page 524. partTHE OPERATIVE 348. part of the mufcles of the calf of his leg were torn up, but in fuch a man- ner as to preferve a very broad bafis at the fuperior termination. It was thought at firft that the life of the part might be preferved, and that a re- union might take place ; but thefe expe&ations were not juflified by the event, and the part died away. The next queflion therefore was, whether the feparation fhould be per- formed by the knife, or whether the bufmefs fhould be left to nature. When I examined the parts for this purpofe, I found that Dame Nature had begun the operation ; and as I was apprehenfive that any interference on my part might be refented as a prefumptuous infult, I was contented to remain an humble fpe&ator of her proceedings. Notwithflanding the violence and extent of the injury, the plethoric ftate of my patient, with a general concurrence of circumftances that were all of the unfavourable kind, the general inflammation was of a very in- ferior degree, and the tenfion of the parts extremely inconfiderable. But that kind of inflammation, which precedes a diffolution of animal life, marked the line of feparation, and this operation of nature proceeded with a regular and uninterrupted progrefs, and the dead parts were fepa- rated as completely as if it had been done by the knife. I have mention- ed this circumflance merely for the purpofe of fhewing, that the fame fpecies of difeafed a£iion may take place from other caufes, and is not folely limited to cafes of gun-fhot wounds. The firfl objeft, that prefents itfelf in the treatment of gun-fhot wounds, is the extraflion of the ball and other extraneous fubflances ; but on this occafionPART OF SURGERY. 349 occafion it will be neceffary to connder, whether the operation ofextrac- tion will do more injury than letting the ball and other fubftances re- main. The importance of this bufinefs is in general greatly magnified, and confequently the danger is frequently increafed by operations that are unnecefTary : the firff quell ion that is afked on thefe occafions is, whether the ball has' been extiaded, as if the life of the patient depended alone on this Tingle circumfiance. Inflances do frequently occur where fmall quantities of extraneous matter will produce veiy diftrcffing fymp- toms ; but in cafes of gun flint wounds the dangerous confequences of the retention of the ball, &c. will depend on a variety of ctrcumftances, which it would be impofiible to enumerate. Wifeman Teems truly apprehenfive of the danger of adding one injury to another, and on this fubjed recommends the mod prudent caution ; and it is fcarcely poffible that the neceffity of early decifion fhould be more ftrongly recommended, where he fays, that “ after every fight the chirurgeons went together vifiting one another’s wounded men; and it was thought a great fhame if any of this work of extradion was then to be done.” 1 am willing to allow that -fince that day our knowledge of anatomy has been much improved, that many genera! laws of the animal ceconomy unknown at that period, have been fince invefligated : but it is e quaily evident that thefe furgeons had frequent opportunities of obferving the evidence of nature, and that they have faithfully recorded the fads which came before them.THE OPERATIVE S5° It is this which marks the diftin&ion between the partial know' of the pra&ical burgeon and the more ekteniive views of fcientifk in- quiry ; and it too frequently happens that, becaufe the former {hall have accidentally noticed the operations of nature in a {ingle inftance, his opinion fhall be preferred to that of the man of fcience, who, with more enlarged views, attempts to invefligate the whole. But whether the fci- i ence of I. Hunter, or the praflice of Wifeman has the lead, I hope it will ftill be confidered a great fharae amongft army burgeons, if the bufi- nefs of extraflion is deferred to the next morning, whenever this opera- tion is indifpenfably necelfary. On the propriety of early amputation Wifeman is equally pointed, clear, and decif \ e ; he not only appeals to the Bate of the body, but he confiders the mind at that time in a proper {late to meet the conflift. He fays, “In heat of Fight, whether it be at. Sea or Land, the Chirurgeon ought to confider, at the firft Dre ding, what poflfbility there is of pre- ferving the wounded Member; and accordingly, if there be no hopes of faving it, to make his Amputation at that inflant whiid the Patient is free of Fever, &c It is alniod impoffible that an opinion fhould be ex- preffed in language more plain, and intelligible; and in many other parts of his work he gives his opinion with equal perfpicuity. In the defcription that he has gi ven of a wound in the joint of the knee, he fays, “ This Wound was mortal the very minute it was infli&ed, and the party ought then to have been difmembered: But fuch propar- fais were not admitted of in the firft dreffing, whilft there was, as they ■* Wifcmin’t Surgery, page 441. judged.FART Of SURGERY. 351 * Wifeman’s Surgery, page 4*60 judged, hope. Afterwards the vehement pain brought fud'denly on fe- yere Accidents, as Fever, Delirium, &c. and then it was too late to make Amputation From thefe obfervations it is evident that Wifeman was well convinced of the propriety of amputation, and was equally appre- henfive of the danger of delay. It is a queflion which extenfive experience mu ft in a little time deter- mine, if thofe, who have an opportunity of obferving the progrefs and termination of this difeafe under different circumffances, have difcern- ment fufficient to form a rational conclufion. But in private prablice, if a man was to build all on his own experience, the number of inflances would be inadequate to the purpofe; and it is in this point of view that a long connefted feries of experience will form an aggregate of evidence fo well deferving our attention. It is rather lingular that Sharp and Pott fhould be the only writers fince that time who have placed this queflion in a proper light, and given a rational and unclouded view of this important fubjeft. The arabigu= ity of Mr. Bell’s opinion has already been examined, and I am Hill pro- vided with Mr. I. Hunter’s in referve. If this was merely a theoretical fpeculation, or only a queflion of litera- cy controverfy, it would then have lefs claim to our attention; but I am well convinced that inflances frequently occur, where the life of the patient falls a facrifice to this unfettled (late of the public opinion. I well remember a Gentleman, fome years ago, giving me an account of a cafeTHE OPERATIVE 85 ^ of amputation that happened near his place of refidence; and after defcri- bing what he knew of the circumflances he afked my opinion refpe&ing the probability of fuccefs, my anfwer was, that the man would furely die. The confidence, with which I exprefled my opinion, excited the aflonilh- ment of my friend, who replied, that the injury was received only two days before, that it was thought right at firft to attempt to five the limb, but, the fymptoms proving unfavourable, it was that morning determined to facrifice the limb for the fake of faving the patient’s life. For the purpofe of' fupporting my opinion I immediately produced Sharp’s Critical Enquiry, and read fuch parts of the chapter on amputa- tation as I thought mod applicable to the queflion before us, and ear- nefily requefted my friend to mark the event : obferving at the fame time that, if the patient fhould recover, I would willingly refign all pre- tentions to a critical knowledge of my profeflion. All the information that was neceffary towards determining this quef- tion was, when the accident happened, and when rhe operation was performed; and if I had not thought the authority of Sharp fufficient, I might have anfwered in the language of YVifeman, that “ then it was too late to make amputation.” It would be impclfible to dojufiice to this fubjefii without giving very large quotations of Mr. Pott’s opinion ; in- deed I confider his remarks on amputation fo particularly interefling, that every one. who wifhes to obtain a knowledge of his profeiTxon, fhould be well acquainted with the whole; but one obfervation is fo particularly -applicable to the prefect occafion that I (hall give it in his own words. He fays, “ When inflammation, irritation, and tenfion have taken place, and353 PART OF SURGERY. and when the air admitted freely into the tela cellulofahas begun to ex- ert its pernicious influence, it is too late; an operation then, inftead of being beneficial, would prove deflruflive When we enumerate the great improvements that have taken place fince that time, we muff view with admiration the maturity of Wifeman’s opinion on the lutheft of amputation, and more fo, if we conlider that it was the refult of his own obfervation, the information of his own prac- tice ; as it is a queflion of much greater difficulty to form an original opinion, than to reafon on the opinions of others. 1 have no doubt but Mr. Pott’s obfervation on this fubjeft was as much his own as that of Wifeman, and confequently the coincidence is more flriking; he was not at that time examining the opinions of his predeceffors, his objeft was to expofe the follies of Tiffin and Bilguer. The firfl queflion having been determined, and the decifion made in favour of an attempt to fave the limb, our next objefl will be to examine the remedies that were at that day made ufe of, if mortification after- wards took place. For in doubtful cafes it will be impoffible always to judge with certainty, and it muff alfo frequently happen either that the inflammation has advanced too far, or that mortification has taken p' ace before profelfional affiflance can be procured. Under thefe circumffances the fimplification of modern furgery has ■much to boaft of; and though the difeafe will frequently prove fuperior * Po't’s remarks on the neceflity and the propriety of the operation of amputation, page 52.THE OPERATIVE 354 to all the powers of medicine, if we cannot al ways command fuccefs, (as this is a quefiion that can only be determined by the event,) it will be right to a£l with as great care and attention as if fuccefs wa-s certain. , At that time the bark was not known as a remedy in this difeafe, nor was opium, which is the molt powerful cordial in the whole materia rnedica, made ufe of on thefe occalions: and as it is the ufe of external remedies that at this time engages our attention, I Avail omit to examine the anci- ent plan of internal treatment. The grand remedies of ancient furgery in cafes of mortification were fcarifications, the aftual cautery, and powerful cauflic applications. The drefiings were all of the ftimulating kind, and the degree of heat, with which they were applied, would in many infiances create a mortification, if none before exified. But the cautery is now exploded ; fcarifications, if ever at this time thought neceffary, are conduced with fufpicious cau- tion ; mild applications are generally preferred ; and, if fomentations are made ufe of, I believe the degree of heat is not in that extreme. It was the boafi of Sharp and Pott that the cautery was exploded be- fore their time ; and though I do not recolieft it having been recom- mended in print fince the date of Mr. Sharp’s publication, yet I am ap- prehenfive that it long furvived that period. And if we only look back to the time of Mr. Chefelden, wre fhall find that both cautery and fcarifi-- cations were fanftionea by the firft profeflional authority. One motive for copying the cafe from Mr. Douglas was for the pur- pofe of giving a complete example of the method of treating mortifica- tions ;PART OF ‘SURGERY. 355 the * Wifeman’s Surgery, page 439, •lions; and though the praflice may have funk in energy, it does not after- wards appear that any new opinion was offered to the public on this fub- i e&, except the mild method which Mr. Pott has recommended in one par- ticular fpecies of this difeafe. With refpedt to fcariflcations, Mr. Pott dis- approves them on all occafions ; and it is reafonable to fuppofe that the appearance of his obfervations would mark the termination of this irra- tional praflice. It was in the fir ft ftage of the difeafe, with refpedl to the neceffily of early amputation, the extraction of extraneous matter, and what other operations were neceffary in the firft inftance, that Wifeman feems to have formed a much better judgment than of the fubfequent treatment. On the ufe of amputation as a remedy for mortification when it has taken place, he appears lefs decifive, and rather feems fufpicious of its efficacy in fome inftances than convinced of its general impropriety. The expreffion above noticed is certainly very pointed where he fays, ‘“'it would be then too late to amputate,” but we do not on this occafion meet with a perfect uniformity of opinion. In the cafe of mortification of the toes and feet he fays, f£ Some other Inftances I could give of this kind; but this may ferve to [hew you to what little purpofe Amputations are in thefe cafes ♦ From which it is evident that he very much doubted the propriety of amputation ; and we find that fixty years afterwards the confultation, inTHE OPERATIVE 35® * Wifeman’s Surgery, page 433, Wifeman’s Surgery, page 440. the cafe defcribed by Mr. Douglas, were all* of opinion that taking off the limb would be of no ufe. The refult of Wifeman’s experience ftrongly points out the impropri- ety of amputation as a remedy in cafes of mortification; but when he at- tempts to give a theoretical opinion, he exprelfes himfelf in favour of this pra&ice. The firft cafe that he gives, in his chapter on gangrene and fphacelus, is a mortification in the arm in confequence of a gun-fhot wound *; but in this inftance the patient was permitted to die without amputation being ever mentioned; when from his own defcription there was certainly an opportunity of performing the operation, if it had been thought advifable.- The defcription of his pra&ice is clear and intelligible, but his theo- retical opinions are obfcure; and he feems to recommend amputation in compliance with the prejudices of the times, in oppofition to his own convi&ion. If Wifeman’s theoretical obfervations on this fubjefl be ex- amined with attention, it will appear evident that the whole is the offsprin of conjeffure; he recommends what he thinks would be advifable in fur cafes, but if he had been defcribing the evidence of his own praftice, the different events would have determined the inftability of his opinion. In one inffance, when he hates the queftion whether the amputation- ought to be done in the found part or the dead+, it is reafonable to fup- pofe he alluded to that period when the progrefs of the mortification was terminated^ bo M357 PARI' OF SURGERY. terminated : To that amputation, in this inflajice, can only be made life of for the purpofe of removing a dead part and making a convenient flump; and for this purpofe he with great propriety recommends that the operation fhouid take place above the mortification. But in cafes of fpreading gangrene he fays, “ This I confefs fruflrates all manner of Amputating, whether in found or mortified Parts *. If Wifeman had flopped here, his obfervations on this fubjeft would have anticipated the opinion that Mr. Sharp gave above fixty years after, which may with great propriety be confidered a new sera in the fcience ofTurgery. But unfortunately Wifeman’s imagination was then on the wing ; and when the mind once foars into the regions of conjeclure, rea- fon Iofes its influence, and the evidence of nature efcapes our obferva- tion. For he then adds, “ Yet, generally fpeaking, the Gangrene doth not grow fo faff but that, if you make Amputation two fingers breadth, more or lefs, within the live Flefh, you may prevent it; and that far bet- ter than it is poffible to be done by the other way of operating If this important queflion had at this day refled on the rational decifion of Sharp and Pott, I fhouid not have thought necefiary to trace back this imperfeflion in furgery for the 1 aft hundred and thhty years. But the ambiguity of the prefent date of the public opinion will, I have no doubt, be confidered a fufficierit apology.. The unfettled {late of the public opinion has been already pointed out in a number ofinflances, but Mr. I. Hunter’s obfervations on this fuljeft * Wifeman’s Surgeiy, page 440 ct 441. particularlyTHE OPERATIVE particularly merit our attention ; and if we confider his opinion to be the fiandard of modern praCice, the coraparifon will enable us to form .a judgment of the (late of furgery at thefe two diflant periods : the anci- ent practice reiling on the authority of Wifeman, who was furgeon to Charles the fecond, and the (late of modern improvements depending on the fanCion of Mr. I. Hunter, who enjoyed fimilar honours under George the third. I have before obferved that Wifeman’s theory and praflice do not co- incide, and that his praftice in many inflances was judicious and well con- duced, but his theoretical opinions have very little claim to our atten- tion. If it was his opinion that amputation would flop the progrefs of a fpreading gangrene, how mull we account for the omiffion in the cafe before mentioned, where * mortification took place in confequence of a gun-fhot wound in the arm ? * A Perfon having been {hot in the arm, and the Wound undigefiied, I being confulted advifed laying open of the Wound, and extroflion of the Bullet, Rags, &c. but was over-ruled by others, and it was deferred to farther confideration. Two days after I vifned the Patient, and afkcd the Chirurgeon whether he had laid open the Wound. He replied, there was no need, for he could turn his finger in it and pull out the Bullet and Rags if it was neceffaiy. As I was going out of the houfe I met the Phyfician, who inquiring of me the Patient’s health, I replied that the Chirurgpon had unwittingly given me the certain fign of his Death. For in magnis vu'neribus & parvis, fi Tuma- res non apparcant, ingens malum.. That was a great Wound, and not being digefted, fhould have been accompanied with Fluxion and Inflammation ; the Lips fhould have been full, the Orifice con- tracted : but on the contrary, the heat was decayed, the Lips weie lank without fenfe, and at that time Sphacelated. A day or two after he died, too certainly juftifying my prognoftick. Wifeman’s Surgery, page 433. It359 FART OF SURGERY, It is evident from his own account that there was a fufficient time to have tried the experiment; but the truth is, the knowledge he had obtained from pra&ical obfervations, in fimilar cafes, convinced him that amputation would not flop the.progrefs of the difeafe. This was a cafe in which it is reafonable to fuppofe that he would have been particularly attentive; as his opinion in the fir ft inftance was rejedied, and as the fur- geon who oppofed him was not fuccefsful, he would have had an additional inducement to exert his utmoft abilities at a more advanced period of the difeafe; and as a phyfician was alfo confulted, under fuch circumflances it is probable that every affiftance would be given which the united pow- ers of furgery and phyfic could afford. The manner, in which Wifeman addreffedthe phyfician, evidentlyIhews the want of concord between the two furgeons, and his difapprobation of the method of treatment; as it is probable that he attributed the mor- tification to the retention of the ball. At this critical period, if amputa- tion could have been made ufe of with any probability of fuccefs, though Wifeman thought proper to retire in difguft and leave the patient to his fate, it is equally fingular that the other furgeon did not, under the fane- tion of the phyfician’s opinion, have recourfe to amputation, if by the operation he could have faved his patient’s life; as at the fame time he would have had the fuperior fatisfaftion of healing his wounded reputa- tion, and claiming fuperiority of profeffional difcernment. But a fpreading mortification had taken place, and the furgeons and phyfician were all convinced that it was a loft cafe, and admitted of no360 THE OPERATIVE * Wifeman’s. Surgery, page -441. redrefs. And the ftrong terms, in which Wifeman * urges the neceffity of early amputation in cafes that are likely to terminate in mortification, evidently (hew how well he was convinced of the inefficacy of this ope- ration during the progreffive ftate of the difeafe. Such was the ftate of this fubjeCl one hundred and thirty years ago,, and the ufe which Wifeman had made of his own experience was a high compliment to his profeffional abilities and the perfpicuity of his under- {landing. In this ftate the queftion continued until it was more accurately exam- ined by Mr. Sharp; but after he had cleared up the whole and defended his opinion by a fyftem of fatisfaClory arguments, ftil! the inaitentive too frequently fell into the errors of former opinions. To obviate this unpardonable violation of rational practice, and for the purpofe of an- fwering Bilguer, Mr. Pott urged the importance of the fubjetl in more plain and pointed language: but even this was not fufficient, for, as if it was the natural propenfny of human nature to prefer falffiood to truth, darknefs to light, and error to perfection, it feems to have been the lead- ing objeCt of modern writers to bewilder themfelves and embarrafs others. I flatter myfelf I have already proved that the opinions of Wife- man, though fometimes erroneous and in many inftances imperft 61, are {till intelligible; and I fhall now endeavour to ffiew that the opinions of Mr. I. Hunter are not only equally erroneous and imperfeCl, but in ma- 31 y, inftances unintelligible.361 PART OF SURGERY. The 4 V Mr. I. Hunter is the lad and mod important writer on this fubjeH, and the deferved celebrity of his profedional reputation mud recommend his book to the attention of the public; for this reafon it is more parti- cularly necelfarv to point out fuch parts as are likely to midead the inex- perience of youth, as authority is the only dandard which the immatu- rity of reafon can appeal to. The dire&ions, which he has given refpeCling the extra£lion of balls and otherextrane >us fubdances, are direfHv contrary tothofeof Wifeman ; difapproves of earlv exira&ion, and aderts that “ opening on account of extraneous bodies at fird cannot be of fo much fervice as opening Tome time after He thinks it is better to undertake operations of this kind when the parts are in a date of inflammation, than to finidi the bu- dnefs of extraction before any difeafed aftion does take place. But if the attempt is not made early, it mud be obvious to every one9 who is practically acquainted with the fubjeCt, that the inflammation is the drd confequence of the exertions of nature to relieve herfelf from the incumbrances ; and if this bufinefsis done eafily by the adidance of fur- gery, the inflammation is in part prevented. But if the operation is de- layed, and inflammation takes place, the difhcuhy of extradion will be then increafed by the tumefaciion of the wound ; and the parts being at that time rendered acutely fenfible by difeafe, it would be extremely dan- gerous to dilate the wounded parts under fuch circumdances, and the con- fequences might prove fatal without any adequate probability of fuccefs. * I, Hunter on Gun-fhot Wounds, page 533.THE OPERATIVE The fame rule will here become applicable that fhould regulate our conduct in every department of forgery, not to add injury to a part al- ready under the influence of difeafe. It is a law that fhould be held fa- cred, and merits our attention on every occafion from the drawing of a tooth to the amputation of a limb. I cannot fay that I ever met with an inflance of fpreading gangrene having taken place in confequence of drawing a tooth ; but I have known very extenfive inflammation, abfcefs, and lofs of fubflance immediately fucceed this violent operation, when the parts were rendered acutely fenfibleby previous difeafe. If a tumour is opened by incifion before the inflammation has termi- nated in fuppuration, additional inflammation is certain to take place. It is not my intention to afleri that it is always neceflfary that all gun-fhot wounds fhould be opened immediately, or that at all events it is abfo- lutely neceflary that the ball and other fubflances fhould be extrafled ; I only wifh to be underflood that, whatever operation of this kind is thought neceflary, it muff either be done before inflammation has taken place, or after it has fubfided. Mr. I. Hunter feems to infinuate, that it has been a common pra&ice to enlarge gun-fhot wounds with the knife on all occafions, independent of any views of extrafling the ball and other fubflances. If fuch ever was the general practice, it was certainly right to point out the impropriety; but for the honour of the profeflion I fhould hope the contrary; and as Mr. I. Hunter was under the neceflity of exercifing his imagination for the purpofe of finding a cafe in point, we may reafonably conclude that it was an error in praflice which he had no right to complain of; lor, if this hadPART OF SURGERY. 363 had been a common occurrence, he mu ft certainly have met with frequent inftances, and he might have given us examples, without expofmg the parties, much more confiftent and natural than this abortive deformity of an heated imagination. He fays, “a reafon given for opening gun-fhot wounds is, that it takes off the tention arifing from the inflammation, and gives the part liberty but this obfervation appears tome fo irrational, that I cannot fuppofe any one, who had the leaft pretenfions to a knowledge of furgery, would be guilty of fuch an inconfiftency. If this or any fimilar obfervation had ever been made in print, it fhould have been brought in fupport of the accufation, as it is not neceffary to add imaginary difficulties to the prac- tice of furgery, when the imperfe&ions are fufficiently numerous already. " H The fame principle, which fhould regulate our conduCHn inferior ope- rations, will alfo in general be found equally applicable to all; but when we meet with opinions without any rational foundation, or practical di- rections unconnected with fcientifc principles, it is reafonabie to expeCl contradiction and obfcurity; if on this fubjeCt Mr. I. Hunter had pre- ferred an accurate uniformity, his opinions might have proved lefs vulner- able, and his authority might have fuperfeded the united dictates of Sharp and Pott’s opinion. He firft obferves that **the removal of injured parts fhould not be done immediately,” but direCiJy offers an argument to the contrary* * I. Hunter on gun-fhot wounds, page 534.THE OPERATIVE 364 when he with great propriety adds, that by immediate amputation you have only inOammation in confequence of the operation ; but in the next line he changes his mind, and obferves that this is a bad recourfe ; and in the next page he expreftes himfelf in the ftrongeft terms, where he fays, that it admits of difpute whether at anytime and in any place amputation fhould be performed before the fir ft inflammation is over.1’ But. if the degree of injury is fucb, that the firft inflammation is likely to terminate in mortification and that in death, I ftioifld think that there cannot remain a doubt refpe&ing the propriety of immediate amputation : but, in fupport of a contrary opinion., our learned author immediately adds, that “ if the patient is not able to fupport the inflammation arifing from the accident, it is more than probable he would not be able to fup- port the amputation and its confequences.” But here it will be prudent to recollect that it is an unqueftionable mis- fortune which too frequently takes place, that gun-fhot wounds and other injuries produce a degree of inflammation which will inevitably ter- minate in mortification and death ; and as it alfo very fortunately hap- pens that we meet with inftances of recovery after amputation, there can be no queftion which, under fuch circumftances, ought to be preferred. Kis obje6l feems to be on all occafions to delay amputation as long as poftible, though at the fame time there is not the leaft doubt of its ulti- mate neceflity; from which it appears to have been his opinion that a ftate of danger was more defirable than a ftate of fafety, that two inflam- mations were better than one, and that a protra&ed difeafe was preferable to an expeditious cure. When365 PART OF SURGERY. 1 have repeatedly obferved that it was the objedd of Mr. Pott’s publi- cation to fet this queftion in a clear point of view; and as what he has written is certainly preferable to everv defcription that has yet made its appearance on this fubjedd, if his opinions did not appear fatisfaddory to the author before us, their validity fliould have been examined, and the arguments replied to. But Mr. I. Hunter lofes light of the mod important objedd, and dif- guifes the fubjedd with a new daiement ol circumflances that, in my opi- nion, can never occur in praddice. For, after reluddantly acknowledging the neceffity of amputation in cafes where the patient would inevitably die without it, he fays, “How far the fame praddice is to be followed in cafes which we may fuppofe will not kill, but the part is fo hurt, as to all appearance not to be in the power of furgery to fave, I will not now determine. This is a very different cafe from the former, and its confe- quences depend more upon contingencies, fo that the part (hould be re- moved only when the date of the patient in other refpedds will admit of it; but this is feldorn the cafe, for few people in full health are in that date, and dill lefs fo thofe who are ufually the fubjedds of gur.-fhot wounds ; the fituation they are in at the time, from the hurry of mind, makes it here in general to be the very word practice ; it will in general, therefore, be much better to wait till the inflammation, and the effedds of both the irritation and inflammation fhall be gone off.” “If thefe things are not diffidently attended to, and the fird inflam- mation, as in the fird dated cafe, (for indance, that which is likely to prove mortal) is allowed to go ony the patient will mod probably lofe 4 W hisTHE OPERATIVE his life ; or if the fird inflammation is fuch as is likely to go off, accord- ing to the lad dated cafe, then we fhould allow it to go off before we operate, and not run the rifle of producing death by an operation; for I have already obferved, few can fupport the confequences of the lofs of a lower extremity when in full health and vigour: we know that a vio- lent inflammation will in a few hours alter the healthy difpofition, and give a turn to the conditution, efpecially if a confiderable quantity of blood has been lod, which mod probably m ill be the cafe where both accident and operation immediately fucceed one another*.” It is much to be lamented that this datement is not given in plain terms, and the circumdances more accurately explained; for my own part I cannot form any idea of a cafe where the lofs of the limb is ulti- mately certain, in which the fcience of furgery can in the brd indance determine that il e life of il e patient is in a date of fafetv. The mod important danger under fuch circumdances is m -rtification, and if mor- tification once takes p!a^e, it is impodible foi an) one to determine where or unen that wiil terminate. But Mr. T. Hunter never mentions mortification ; it is inflammation alone which in this chapter is the fubjeft of his conflderation. Inflamma- tion is certainly one of the fbfl confequences of external injury; but if inflammation does not end in mortification it will not prove mortal, and confequently this limitation of his obfervations to the inflammatory part of the difeafe appears to me to be a new refinement of Mr. I. Hunter’s, which I am not able to explain. * I. Hunter on Gun-fhot Wounds, page 560. But367 PART OF SURGERY. When treating of the time proper for the removing of incurable parts, fie obferves that ee Perhaps it 'fhouid not be done immediately upon the receiving of the injury, except where it is fufpefted that the inflammation in confequence of the accident will kill if he meant by terminating in mortification, why not exprefs himfelf accordingly, as the two are with- out doubt very different kinds of difeafe. Certainly, if inflammation is cured, mortification is prevented, but I know of no other confequence of inflammation that, generally fpeaking, is likely to terminate in death; and this, I believe, is the firlt inflance where amputation was recommended as a remedy for inflammation, and mortification was never mentioned. The queflion of fcience in fuch cafes is limited to a narrow compafs, and it muff appear evident that all operations, from the extra£ling of a ball to the amputation of a limb, fhouid either be performed before inflam- mation takes place, or deferred till all difeafed adlion ceafes. But on this fubjedl we meet with no diredlion; I final 1 therefore proceed to ex- amine how far his. profeffional policy merits our attention. On this occafion delay alfo feems to be the leading objedl; but whatever is right in a fcientific view fhouid, on all occafions, regulate our condu6! as much as is confident with the fituation. But if the circumftances are fuch that the operations, which would otherwife be neceffary, cannot be performed before inflammation has taken place, the didlates of fcience are that it muff then be deferred until all difeafed atdion has fubfided; but if the hate of the injury is of that degree to render death inevitable * I. Hunter on Gun-fhofc Wounds, page 559. without368 THE OPERATIVE without a fpeedy amputation, it is then the furgeon’s bufinefs to face all the difficulties with which he is furrounded. It is faid to be almoft impoffible for a furgeon, in many inftances, to make himfelf mafter of a cafe fo as to perform fitch a capital operation with propriety; but this will depend much on his abilities and addrefs. I have already given an inftance of a cafe in a public hofpital where there was time for deliberation, where one furgeon gave his opinion in oppofition to another, in confequence of which the patient loft his life. It is not to be fuppofed that army lurgeons will always be more free from errors than thofe who attend the hofpitals ; but whatever fituation a man is placed in, he is to aft to the beft of his abilities, and whatever thofe diffi- culties may be, this does not alter the principles by which he is to regu- late his conduft. As for the operation itfelf I am happy in an opportunity of coinciding with Mr. Bell, who fays, that it is an operation which any furgeon can get through with*, indeed it is a bufinefs fo generally underftood, that to make a difficulty of amputating a limb muft be conftdered a reflection on the prefent ftate of furgery. For my own part, it is only from defcription and conjefture that I can form an opinion of the field of battle; and though I am ready to ac- knowledge that I have never yet experienced either the glow of martial ardour, or the fear of a ball, yet I do not intend to eftablifh any apology on the want of information, or plead ignorance of the nature of gun-fhot wounds, the operations of furgery, or the method of cure. * Bell’s lyftem of Surgery, vol. 6, fifth edition, page 302c It369 PART OF SURGERY. It certainly is a queflion of confiderable importance under what cir- ca mftances it may be advifable to amputate on the field of battle; but this is not the original queflion, our firfl object is to determine when any ope- ration ffiould be performed independent of fuch additional difficulties, and then to regulate our condudl as near as poffible conformably to thefe rules. One of the mo ft urgent cafes for immediate amputation is profufe hae- morrhage; and this is a cafe that admits of no delay, for if a large artery is divided, unlefs immediate affiftance can be procured, the fubjedi of the misfortune mull fpeedily bleed to death. Under fuch circumfiances, the tourniquet is certainly the firfl remedy ; but if it is a large artery that is wounded, it will feldom happen that the application can be made with fufficient expedition. We too frequently hear of cafes of this kind occurring in private life; a melancholy inflance happened in this neighbourhood a very few years ago, when a man was cut with a feythe by bis own fon, and bled to death on the foot for want of proper affiflance. Another cafe I recollecl, when a man would have bled to death, if a gentleman had not been prefent, who being acquainted with the tourniquet made a ligature with a handkerchief above the knee, and twilled it with a bit of wood fimilar to the twifled tourniquet. In the field of battle, if the difeharge is rapid and copious, it will be fro poffible to prevent the fatal confequences. But w hether it is in private prafli'ce or in the field that fuch cafes take place where the tourniquet is..37® THE OPERATIVE applied in time, it will be here proper to obferve that, the danger of bleed- ing to death having been fortunately prevented, the next objedl will be to complete the bufinefs by Ipeedy amputation, Suppofe in private pra&ice a very tight bandage fhould be applied, and a length of time pafs before additional abidance was procured, the effefls of the bandage would prove as certainly fatal, as the haemorrhage for which it was applied; as this in a few hours would produce a degree of inflammation that would render the operation dangerous. It may here be right to mention that it fometimes may occur, that if the degtee of inflammation is fuch as to forbid the operation, it may be prudent to try the experiment, where the queflion remains doubtful, whe- ther the confequent tenfhm of the parts is not fufficient to prevent the difeharge of blood. If on flackening the tourniq jet the difeharge fhould not be renewed, and the inflammation fuch as to render the fuccefs of the operation doubtful, it will then be right to defer amputation until the difeafed adlion has fubfided. When I firfi read Drinkwater’s hiftory of the fiege of Gibralter, the account that he has given of the ufe of the tourniquet made a flrong im- preffion on my mind. Butfome years afterwards, at a time when I only retained an imperfedl recolledlion from whence the idea firfl originated, I had formed an opinion that the tourniquet was in general ufe in all military eflablifhments. For the purpofe of obtaining fatisfadlory infor- mation on a queflion fo particularly interefling, and fo intimately connec- ted with the fubjedt before us, I made diligent inquiry of all the officers andFART OF SURGERY. 37^ and other military men, whenever opportunities occurred, and was forry to find that it is not in more general ufe, as there cannot remain a Tingle doubt but that the lives of many ufeful members of fociety might be faved by the timely application of this inflrument. But I fhall proceed to examine the fubjedf as it refls at prefent in the hands of the furgeons ; Jet us fuppofe after a bloody conflict, when the fate of the day is decided and the furgeons left in pofTeffion of the field, that on their fir ft furvey their firft object will be to oppofe the vi&orious hand of death by rescuing the wounded from the flow progrefs of his linger- ing powers. For this purpofe, when an injury has happened to an extremity and the tourniquet is applied to flop any further difcharge of blood, if the number fhould be confiderable on which the tourYiiquet is applied, it would take a confiderable time to perform the operation of amputation upon all. If then all thefe are to be removed from the field before the operations are performed, it is probable that the difiance of time will be great, and the inflammation fo confiderable as to prevent the operation being per- formed with fafety. It is from this circumfiance Lam apprehenfive that early amputation fo often fails, as it is probable that in many inflan- ces it is not fufficiently early, and not undertaken until the inflammation has made confiderable progrefs. On this occafion it may be neceflary to obferve, that much will depend on thejudicious ufe of the tourniquet, whether it is fcrewed fo tight as if it was intended to twifl the limb in two, or whether the tenfion is only fufficient( 372 the operative fufficient to flop the difcharge of blood. It would not be a matter of aflo- nifhment if this bufinefs was ill condu&ed by uninflru6led hands ; but I am apprehenfive that, in fituations where there is time for deliberation, and under the direction of a profeffional hand, it is the cuflom to apply the tourniquet ten times tighter than neceffary. As a proof of this affertion, let thofe, who attend to the manner of con- ducing this formidable operation under the management of furgeons of the firfl abilities, obferve that, when the perfon who manages the tourniquet flackens the bandage for the purpofe of fhewing the fituation of the arteries, he will relax the inflrument feveral turns before any difcharge of blood will appear; whereas, if it was only fufficiently tight and no more, a fingle turn would be fufficient for the purpofe. 1 do not recolleC that I ever was witnefs to an inflance where the liga- ture was torn in two; but from the manner in which this inflrument is frequently made ufe of, I think it is poffible that accidents of that kind may fometimes take place, and to guard againfl the confequences of fuch misfortunes, we are advifed to have two ligatures*; but one will always be fufficient when this inftrument is properly applied. * When we ufe the common tourniquet and ligature, I think it may not be amifs, from an acci- dent which happened in an operation wherein i was concerned, to affix two ligatures to the cotnpi “fs, one of which to be rolled up and pinned back upon it, to be in readinefs fhould the other happen to break. 1 give this precaution, having been prefent when fuch an alarming circumftance happened in the operation, juft when the crural artery was divided, which threw the operator into fume con- fufion, but I foon made my handkeichief ferve the purpofe of another ligature. This accident which made an irnpreflion upon the minds of the fpeflators to our difadvantage, was owing to the inadver- tence of the perfon employed to manage the tourniquet, in twifting the ligature too much; there- fore, to obviate fuch an inconvenience, particular care is required in tying the ligature, fo that very little more than one turn of the flick may ilraiten it fufficiently. This incident made me more at- tentive than ordinary ever after. Gooch on Surgery, vol. 2, page 333 et 339. WhenPART OF SURGERY. 373 When a ligature is applied above the elbow for the purpofe of bleed- ing in the^arm, it frequently happens that the artery is fo compreffed as to prevent the circulation of the blood through the arm; and this is a circumflance which every one, who has been accuflomed to perform this operation, mull repeatedly have obferved. If then a ligature, which is fo moderately tight as what is ufed for the purpofe of bleeding, frequently flops the courfe of the blood through the arteries, the violent force that is generally made ufe of by the tourniquet mufl be unr.ecefTary. When a limb is to be amputated, the tigbtnefs of the ligature may not be of much confequence; but when this inflrument is ufed in the field for the purpofe of flopping the difcharge of blood from a wounded limb that is to be amputated at a diflant period, it is a circumftance of great importance that the ligature fhould not be fcrewed more tight than juft what is neceffary to flop the haemorrhage ; and this by a little care and obfervation may eafilv be accomplifhed, as the flopping of the difcharge of blood from the wounded parts will prove a proper index to the regu- lation of the preffure. On this occafion there can be no doubt whether the fcrew or twill tourniquet fhould be made ufe of; by the former the tightnefs of the bandage may be regulated with the greatefl accuracy, and I have always confidered the latter fuch a clumfy inflrument, that it has long been a fubjefd of aflonifhment to me why fuch an imperfeft inflrument fhould be retained in practice. If it is a matter of no importance whether the pref- fure is jufi fufficient or ten times more than neceffary, and if* the uncer- tainty and irregularity are marks of perft&ion, then the twill tourniquet will claim the preference. 4 Y Thefe374 THE OPERATIVE Thefe obfervations may by Tome be confidered beneath the notice of men of fcience; but it is my opinion that thofe, who are notable to form an accurate judgement of inferior parts, will not be able to underhand the fubjeft at large •, it is as improbable, as to fuppofe that a child, who does not know his letters, (hould be able to read. In conducing the different parts of the operation of amputation, it is likely that the ma- nagement of the tourniquet will be looked upon as a fubordinate depart- ment; and though this fhould fall to the lot of one who is fuppofed to be mailer of his profeflion, if he does not conduct this part of the bufinefs with propriety and addrefs, he will embarrafs the operation, and expofe the narrow limits of his own abilities. Whereas, on the contrary, if he is perfeflly acquainted with the fubjeft, he will fhew his knowledge and dexterity as much by a judicious management of a tourniquet, as the fur- geon who commands the knife and performs the mod important part of the operation. At the fame time it is of the utmoff importance in a bufinefs of this kind, and will contribute greatly to the expedition, eafe, and perfeffion of an operation, to have the inferior parts conduced by able a did ants ; and it certainly is a very criminal fpecies of profeifional pj ide to refqfe giving aflidance on fuch occafions. i A marl of good fenfe will never lofe his own dignity by taking an infe- rior part under one of inferior abilities, and will not in the lead degrade himfelf either in a profeifional view or in his individual capacity; but, on the contrary, it would rather prove a gratification to be fenfible of the great375 PART OF SURGERY. igreat advantages that both the furgeon and patient mu ft derive from his affiftance, and the propriety of his condudf muft on fuch occafton always command attention and refpeP. It is impoftible in any fituation to ail- play abilities without the poffeffion of them, and it is equally improbable that a meritorious chara&er fhould appear in aPion and his fuperiority remain concealed. The advocates for the twift tourniquet may perhaps contend that it is lefs complicated in its conftruftion, and much more eafily applied. I am willing to allow that the fcrew tourniquet is attended with fome difficulties ; and when the limb is fo much injured that it is inconvenient to flip the ligature over the extremity, the fixing of the tourniquet may be attended with confiderable difficulties, and occafion fome unavoidable delay; but, in the field, theTcrew tourniquet is the only inftru merit that will anfwer thepurpofe. Thefe little imperfe&ions might certainly be eafily correPed ; and if I was ambitious of exhibiting my mechanical abilities or of ornamenting my book with piPures, and adding one to the many inftruments already invented, I fhould not negleP this favourable opportunity; bu. as every furgeon fhould be a mechanic, I fhall leave the inftrument itfelf in ftatu quo ; and for fear I fhould be cenfured for noticing an imperfePion with- out pointing out a remedy, I fhall beg leave to mention an eafy and ex- peditious method of applying the fcrew tourniquet without altering the conftruPion. TheTHE OPERATIVE 37I * * * * 6 i he buckle is a very clumfy and inconvenient part of this inftrument, and the fixing of the double ft rap with equal tightnefs is frequently attend- ed with feme difficulty; I do not mean to infinuate that thefe little difficul- ties are worthy of attention in the chamber, but every inconvenience fhould be guarded againft that may create embarrafsment in the field. The remedy which I would propofe on this occafion is, to furnifh each fide of the tourniquet with a feparate ftrap, that, when the inftrument is applied, thefe two ftraps may be pafted round the limb and tied together with a fa ft knot. And if the knot is placed over the artery, and the pad afterwards flipped under it, any inconvenience that might be occafioned by the preffure of an uneven furface will be prevented, and if the pad is made hollow on the external furface for the purpofe of receiving the knot, it will by this means be confined in its proper fituation; and in my humble opinion the inftrument may in this manner be applied with eafe* expedition, and efifedl. I {hall not on this occafion enter into a tedious and uninterefting de- feription of the operation of amputation, it is a fubjeft that in a general view has been long exhaufted. If I was to enter into this part of the fub- je61, it would only ferve to (hew the repetition of invention, and expofe the vanity and folly of mankind. It will be of very little importance to a man of real abilities, whether his knife is crooked or {freight, whether the faw is with a bow or flat blade. The number of plafters, the height of the table, have all been calculated with fcientific accuracy; but that I may give unqueftionable evidence of my candour and liberality on this occafion,. I will not even take upon myfelf to determine whether the operatorPART OF SURGERY. 377 operator fhould hand on the infide of the limb or the out, or whether he ufe the faw with his right hand or his left; for as nature originally formed them both with equal powers, I confider every one at liberty to confult his own convenience, and ufe his own difcretion. But there are feme few circumfiances, connefted with this operation, that in my opinion have not been fully difculfed, or fatisfaclorily deter- mined ; and whatever will unneceflarily add to the procefs, or delay the execution, Ihould be carefully avoided. It may appear rather prefumptuous for a country burgeon, whofe ex- perience is limited to private pra&ice, to attempt to give his opinion on the method of performing operations ; but as it is not impofhble but thofe who do the nioft may think, the lead, and that a multiplicity of objefls may fometimes lead the thinking mind into an erroneous path, or pre- vent the corre&ion of wrong opinions when once formed, and as ufeful information is not confined to any fnuation in life, or knowledge made the monopoly of ufurpation, the mind for ever free cannot want fubje&s for contemplation ; and it is not impofhble but the !efs the number of objefts that are prefented to our view, the more accurately they rpay be examined, and the more perfectly underftood. I am ready to allow that one great perfection of the prefent Hate of fu'rgery is, the reduflion of the infirumental parr, though many have laboured to impede the progrefs of this improvement, and there cannot remain a angle doubt but that the hand is tlie bed inflrument when it is adequate to the purpofe. With this view I am happy to acknowledge 4 Z theTHE OPERATIVE 378 the propriety of Mr, Bell’s opinion refpe&ing the inutility of the fillet as a diretlion for the knife in amputation ; but the fubfequent directions on this fubjeft are lefs fatisfaclory. He advifes the operator to follow the knife with his eye *, for the purpofe of directing its progrefs; but I am apprehenfive that, if we only follow the knife with the eye, we (hall be too late in our obfervations, and we may perhaps find out our miftake when the mifchief is done, but fnall not by this method proteCt ourfelves from error. The child, who had read Gay’s Fables, would have expreffed himfelf better on this occanon, if he had recolleCted that we are there in- formed “ It is right that care fhould go before.” I have noticed this inflance, for the purpofe of (hewing how great men too often bewilder themfelves in the cloud with which they furround the objeft that they are attempting to explain. And in the prefent inflance we find that the writers on furgery havealfo dealt in myflery ; like other learned teachers, who fometimes blind their pupils with the duft of fci- ence for fear they fhould fee the works of nature in a better light than they before have placed them. The principal improvements in the operation of amputation, that have taken place within this lad century, are the tourniquet, ligature, and double incifion ; thefe great outlines are certainly objects of the firfl im- portance, but the numerous and infignificant obfervations of fubfequent commentators can only ferve to create a myflery, and render a plain fubjeft unintelligible. Mr. Bell has with great propriety ridiculed the * Bell’s Syftem of Surgery, vol. 6. page 341 et 360. fifth edition. opiniono / PART OF SURGERY. opinion of Mr. Alanfon*, who direfts that the incifion fliould be made obliquely upwards with a ftreight-edged knife. All thefe fuppcied im- provements have originated on paper, and may ferve to amufe fame, and bewilder others, but I hope are never likely to incumber praftice. When a young man firfl begins life, with timid caution, confcious of Ins own inexperience, he will naturally wifh to refrefh Kis memory, and ob- tain all the afliftance which the books of furgery will afford. On thefe occafions, fuch minute direftions and multiplicity of inflruments only load the mind ; whereas thofe, who have a perfect knowledge of the firfl principles, will always aft befl when they venture to think for themfelves. The only attempt, that has been made to improve the ufe of the needle and ligature, has been by the introduction of the tenaculum. But if the advantages of this improvement were as great as forae have imagined, I fliould have fuppofed that long ago the needle would have been laid alide, and the tenaculum brought into general ufe. At the time that I attended the hofpitals, which is now more than twenty years ago, it feemed to be the fafhion at fome hofpitals to ufe the needle, at others the tenaculum : it appeared to me to be more a queflion of prejudice and caprice, than found judgement or conviftion. Mr. Bell direfts that the femoral artery fhould firfl; be taken up with the tenaculum ; he fays that the fmail branches fliould then be fecured, * Bell’s Syftem of Surgery, vol. 6. page 369. fifth edition. butTHE OPERATIVE 380 but whether by the needle or tenaculum Teems doubtful. For my own I think the tenaculum much lefs convenient than the needle for 1 nail arteries ; and I have heard of furgeons, M'ho give a decided prefer- ence to this ind rumen t, who have'been much longer about an operation than if they had ufed the needle. I hope it -will not be thought tnat I would advife imprudent hade in performing-an operation ; deliberation and fleadinefs are certainly the ftronged chara&eridics of profefiional accomplifliments ; it is not hady execution which lam contending for, but I wifh to point out every in- cumbrance that may embarrafs the operator, or in any refpeft occafion unneceffary delay. Great as are the advantages of the needle and ligature, every objeftion was raifed againd them that a blind prejudice could fugged; and the predltre of the ligature on the extremity of a divided nerve was fuppofed to be more dangerous than the cautery itfelf. The tenaculum was cer- tainly well defigned to obviate thefe objefiions ; but, as it is not fanCtioned with a uniformity of approbation, it dill remains a quedion whether the needle and ligature were attended with thofe inconveniences that have frequently been laid to their charge. Mr. Sharp, in his critical enquiry, has given a very accurate hidoryof the introduction of the needle and ligature ; and it is principally on ac- count of one of his obfervations that I have been induced to enter into this difeudion. He appeals to authorities, with which he feems to coin- cide, for the purpofe of proving that ligatures on the nerves are very innocent38i PART OF SURGERY. innocent applications. It is a fubjeft that is well worthy the attention of the public, and 1 am aftonifhed that it has remained for fifty years un- noticed. But, as it is too extenfive for the prefent occahon, I fhall only copy Mr. Sharp’s obfervation, and leave the reader to his meditations *. When we review the prngrefs of the art of furgery for the laft hundred and fb'ty years, and co hder the general exertions that have been made by Tome of the brighteff ornaments of the profeffion for the purpofe of improving the operation of amputation, it mufl appear fingular that a fubjecl, fo fimple in its principles and fo plain and felf-evident, fhould not long ago have been brought to the fumrnit of perfection. And in this enlightened age I fufpeft it will be looked upon as the height of pre- fumption, if any one fhould vainly attempt to add a fingle improvement to the voluminous labours of their predeceffors ; except it will be con- fidered an additional imDrovement to telieve the ooerator from a num- i her of ufelefs inflrumeats which the modern (yfleins have provided on this occafion. * The moment Parey’s new Method was publifhed, the Qhjedion was darted, not from Offer- vations in Practice, but as they thought the palpable Reafon of the thing : Ai d yet fo little do we underftand the nature of th s Subjeft, that to the Confufton of Theory it has been difcover’d by the Operation f. r the Aneurifm in the Bend of the Arm, that the great Nerve contiguous to the Artery may be tied n t only without fata! Convulficns, but even any notable Inconvenience. It is an Accident Herd'y ever avoided, though indeed it is caution’d agtOd by Surgical Writers : But who- ever is defirons of knowing what Effects it produces, may read the Account of them in the Benon. Injlit. Vo'. II. Part II. Page 65. where we have the Hiftoiies of the Di(fedions of thefe Parts in Patients who had undergone the Operation fume Years before their Deaths, by VaJfu’.va : And the Author of thefe H (lories is fo little intimidated by the danger of tying the Nerve, as to advife Sur- geons not tc einbarrafs themfelves on this Article, but to finifh the Operation with all fuitable Expe- dition, and without any regard to a Precaution of fo little Importance. Sharp’s Critical Enquiry^ page 292 et 293, 5 A WhenTHE OPERATIVE 382 When the utility of an inffrument is unquellionable, it is probable that we (hould meet with a uniformity of opinion ; but it feems to be the num- ber, and not the perfection of the inlirumental part of furgery, that is to command our approbation. For the purpofe of drawing the integuments and mufcles upwards, an indrument, called a retractor, made of leather was invented by Mr. Gooch, which he fays he firfl ufed in the year one thoufand feven hundred and thirty-nine. This inflrument was introduced into general pra&ice foon after the method of amputating with a double incifion, and was probably fuppofed to be an additional improvement. But the idea was not new, a a fimi- lar inftrument made of linen was ufed long before the double incifion was invented. Wifeman fays, “the Bones freed of the Periojleum, Guido propofes a linen Cloth, and Hildanus a kind of Purfe, to be brought over the upper, divided Flefh, to pull it upward, and make more way for the Saw. But I think that needlefs. The Flefh divided, the Parts feparate enough of themfelves, befides the Affiftant’s pulling up the mufculous Flefh and Skin is fufficient *. Monro alfo mentions this part of the operation, and thinks with Wife- man that it is a ufelefs incumbrance. He fays, “ Before the Saw is to be applied, a Piece of flit Linen is always ordered to be put round the Bone, wherewith the foft Parts may be drawn up and defended from the Teeth of the Saw. I havealmoft always feen one of two Inconveniencies hap- pen from this Piece of Linen; either the Surgeon applied his Saw fo * Wifeman’s Surgery, page 442, third edition. clofeFART OF SURGERY. 333 clofe to it, that the Linen was engaged in the Teeth of the Saw, which made it impraflicable for the Surgeon to go on in fawing, till it was dif- engaged ; or elfe to fhun this, he left too much of the Bone without the Flefh, with a greater Chance of a tedious Exfoliation, and a Certainty of a pyramidal Stump. This Linen ought either not to be applied, from the want of which I never faw any Inconvenience, or it ought not to be allowed to touch the Bone, that the Surgeon may be at liberty to apply his faw upon the Bone clofe enough to the Flefh If the interpofition of a thin linen cloth was found inconvenient, a thick piece of leather mud certainly be more fo. When I attended the hofpitals the leather retra&or was ufed by fome furgeons, but not by all ; and if the advantages of this infirument were unqueflionable, it certainly would have been fan&ioned by univerfal approbation. In my opinion it is neither ufeful nor neceffary, and only ferves to embarrafs the furgeon and prolong the operation. A leather retra&or is certainly a greater in- cumbrance than a'piece of linen, and I have known the operator faw through both bone and retraftor at the fame time. Mr. Gooch, for the purpofe of recommending his own inventions, obferves that many methods had been propofed and tried for the pur- pofe of preferving a fufhcient quantity of flefh to cover the end of the bone in amputations above the knee, but without fuccefsf. But as the double incifion was introduced into general praftice before the invention * Medical Effays, vol 4. page 262. third edition. I Gooch on Surgery, vol. 2. page 330. fecond edition. OfTHE OPERATIVE 384 of this leather retractor, not a queflion can remain but that the operation was brought, to a hate of perfection far beyond the reprefentation that he has given on the fubjeCl. It is the bufinefs of thefe pretenders to a knowledge of the mechanical part of furgery to hate imperfeft ions and deferibe difficulties, for the purpofe of difplaying their abilities in the invention of inflruments that have in general proved both inconvenient and unneceffary. From the time that the double incifion was made ufe of by Cbefelden and Sharp, it has been the bufinefs of fucceeding writers to rob the fith authors of the merit of their difcovery by the addition of forne immagi- nary improvements, in confequence of which they attributed all the fuc- cefs to their own inventions. This leather retradfor of Mr. Gooch con- tinued for years without a rival, till Mr. Bell attempted an improvement by fubffituting two iron plates inflead of leather ; and thus we find, in the progrefs of improvements, the linen was firfl changed to leather, and now the leather is converted into iron. The latter will certainly not be in danger of clogging the faw teeth, or of being fawed in two, in the manner above-mentioned ; but there are many obvious inconveniences which it is not neceffary to mention. It is only in amputations above the knee where any inffrument of this kind is thought neceffary ; and when we confider that the fituation of the bone is nearly central, and that / a fufheient quantity of integument and mufcles may be preferved with- out any difficulty, we (hall be perfectly fatisfied refpeding the merits of this inllrument. ThePART OF SURGERY. 385 The crofs-flitch is now To little ufed, that it ceafes to be an objeft in the practice offargery ; but as it is mentioned by mofl writers, and as the origin of this prafiice has been erroneoufly attributed to Mr. Sharp, the fubjefi may yet be confidered not unworthy of our attention. Mr. Bell fays “it was propofed by the late Mr. Sharp, in his Treatife on this Ope- ration, to draw the teguments near together by flitches or pieces of tape puffed through them, and tied acrofs the flump: But the pain and in- convenience attending this was To great, that it never was generally prac- tised; and Mr. Sharp himfelf at laft defifled from it*.” And Mr. I. Hunter fays “ I think the difference between Mr. Sharp’s crofs-flitch, a iter amputation, as recommended in his Critical Enquiries, and Mr. Ai son’s practice, (hews ftrongly the fuperiority of the flicking plafler (or dry futatef;”) from which it is evident that fome method of this fort is fill I thought neeeffary. Wife main does not mention the dry future, but expreffes himfelf very- much in favour of the crofs-flitch and though he fee ms well acquaint- * Bril’s Syftcm of Surgery, vol. 6. page 332, fifth edition, + 1. Hunter on Gun-fhot Wounds, page 209. t The next tiling is the loofening the Ligature, and bringing the I.ips clofe over the Stump. Then whether you fhould with a crofs Stitch hold them fo, or content yourfelf by Bandage as well as you can, is by fome controverted. They that obj . £t again ft the former fay, i: canfes Pain and Inflamma- tion. So doth Bandage alfo: if it he made too ftreight. Therefore they fhould objeft againfl; that alfo. The mofl; that I have feen without the crofs Stitch have the next drefling been broad Stumps, fome of them with Lips turned outward by the Bandage ; in the lead of them the whole Stump hath been bare : Whereas in thofe in which I have made the crofs Stitch, the Lips have been found clofe to the Bone at the next drefling, covering the great Veflels, and a third part or half of the Stump hath been well digefled, and by the fecond drefling hath been near agglutinated fo far as it lay under that Skin, and without Inflammation happily cured. Whereas the broad Stump is a certain flgn of a long Cure, and commonly the death of the Patient. Wifcman’s Surgery, page 443. &A- edTHE OPERATIVE ed with the effefts of inflammation in this inftance, he confidered the ad- vantages fuperior to the danger; and defcribes his fuecefs as being fome- what fimilar to what at this day would be termed healing by the firfl intention. It was then a difputed point whether bandage or the crofs- ftitch fhould have the preference, fo that the application of both was at that time well known, and confequently the crofi-ditch could not with propriety be attributed to Mr, Sharp. But on this occafion it will be right to recollect, that the double iucifion was not known in Wifeman’s.time; and confequently fuch methods of bringing the parts together were more neceffary ; at the fame time the inconveniences of this method of practice had been accurately noticed, and if fubfequent writers had attended to what had been previoufly faid on this fubjefi, they would not have attri- buted to Mr. Sharp what after the invention of the double iueifion became unneceffary. And it mad be evident that the revival and repetition of fuch inftances of ancient pradlice have all depended on a want of atten- tion to the hiftorical progrefs of the profefhon. It is not that I intend to examine the merits of the crofs-flitch, or the preference that fhould be given to the dry future ; the queftion is whether they are not both improper, and that the only merit of either, to which we may give an approbation, is, by comparing the degrees of im- propriety and giving the preference to that which is leal! prejudicial. I am well convinced that the inflammation fubfequent to the amputation of a limb is frequently fo confiderable, that any kind of tight bandage either by ligature or plaflers mud be productive of certain danger; and as no advantages could arife from attempting to confine the parts bv li- gature or plafter, it would be creating a danger without any probability of advantage. . The /387 FART OF SURGERY. The confequence of this inflammation is fo well defcribed by Mr. Sharp that I fhall copy his own words. He fays, “It muft be confefs’d however, that notwithflanding we derive fuch Benefits from the double Incifion, the contradlile Difpcfition of tire Mufcles, and perhaps of the Skin itfelf, is fo great, that in fpite of any Bandage they will retire from the Bone, efpeciaily in the Thigh, and fometimes render the Cure tedious. To remove this difficulty I have lately on fome Occafions made ufe of the Crofs-ftitch As a remedy for thefe difficulties he recommends the crofs-ftitch as an operation already known, but I wonder that a fur- geon of fuch experience fiiould not have been well convinced of the in- efficacy and danger of the practice. He enumerates the inconveniences, and though his obfervations in general ftrongly militate agarnft this me- thod of praflice, his opinion is ultimately given in its favour, and it is evident that his arguments were in direft oppofition to his own convidtion. But on what grounds Mr. Bell could affert that Mr. Sharp at lafl gave up the crofs-ftitch, I am at a lofs to determine. I remember this method was made ufe by fome of the furgeons when I attended the hofpitals, but not by all; in confequence of which it foon became a queftion of confideration with me which method ought to be preferred. In the firft placed confidered that it gave additional pain to the patient, and prolonged the operation ; and it frequently occafioned con- fiderable trouble to the operator, and the appearances of the flump, when it was drawn together at four parts, gave me a very unfavourable opinion of the praftice. If the inflammation is moderate, the gentle preffure of a linen roller carefully applied will be fufficient to keep the parts in a Sharp’s Critical Enquiry, page 266. proper588 THE OPERATIVE proper iituation ; and if the inflammation is great, the eycfs-ftitch wii 1 not be fuScient for the purpofe, and at the fame time the remedy will increafe the difeafe. The fir ft operation that occurred in my own praddee was fucceeded by a coniidcrable degree of iunsmmation, by which the integuments and mufeies were fo much retraced that I began to be very much a mat is heel with my own abilities as an operator, and considered rnyfelf guilty of a great omLhon by negledung the croft-flitch. But the inflammation in a few days fubftded, and furnm.ed mewl'h a fatisfadlory illuftration of she procefs of nature on fueh oceaiions. If two pieces of {licking plafter are drawn acrofs the fturop, they will occahon the fame deformity of appear- ances as the crofs-ftitch ; and if the ends of the plafters are continued for fome length up the ftump and confined by a roller, their preffure will rlfo prove prejudicial; but in this inftance we fhall avoid the pain occa- ftoned by the four wounds with a broad feton needle, and the irritating preffure of the ligatures on thefe inflamed and tender furfaces, and this method will confequently prove preferable to the crofs-ftitch, but I do not admit that this is neceffary. If Mr. Bell confiders the ufe of the dry future® a new difeovery and improvement of his own, I Ihould beg leave to remind him that Mr. Gooch recommended a fimilar practice t more than thirty years ago. But fo far from any of thefe pretended difeoveries being new, Wifeman * Bell's Syftcm of Surgery, vol. 6. page 345. fifth edition. h<T * U-* i Gooch on Surgery, vol, 2, page 332, fifth edition.389 PART OF SURGERY. has expreffed himfelf fully on many parts of this fubjefl, and feems juftly apprehenfive of their dangerous confequences. If Mr. Bell thought proper to copy Mr. Gooch in one inftance, he fhould not, when he was treating of a fimilar fubjed, have let other parts pafs unnoticed. When we are convinced that any fubfequent writer has read a book, if he recommends a fimilar pra&ice, he is certainly liable to be accufed either of piagiarifm or inattention. I am well convinced of the great improvements that have ornamented modern Surgery, and am ready to acknowledge the abilities of thofe au- thors who have fo liberally contributed to the advancement of the pro- fit ffion, and whole works I have taken the liberty to examine. But every candid judge, who has paid critical attention to this fubjeft, mull be well convinced of the want of argumentative connexion and fcientific uni- formity. If ever we may expeff to fee a fyftem of furgery on a philo- sophical bafis, the different parts muff all be arranged in a regular fuc- ceffion, each refpeftive fubjedl mufl be traced back to its proper origin, and by this means we fhall be enabled tG trace the progrefs of improve- ments and form an arrangement of faffs in fcientific order. Syftematic arrangement requires regularity and connexion, and is the direfl oppo- site to mifcellaneous confufion. It has already been obferved that amputation is a Simple operation which is not difficult to be performed ; and if we had any fettled plan of ope- rating, the whole might be learned mechanically, as much fo as any other mechanical operation : and yet we find the united wifdom of the 3aft century has not been Sufficient to eftablifh a regular fyftem of prac- * B- «J> tice;9.QQ THE OPERATIVE t ‘..y •tdce•; and ,-opr knowledge of this fubjedf mu ft remain extremely imperfc£l, if it is not founded on fcientific principles. There are other operations .in furgery that are fupoofed to he attended with greater difficulties; but, in my opinion, a knowledge both of the fcientific and mechanical pans of furgery is equally applicable to all. Perhaps cutting for the hone (which has in general been looked upon as one of the fiift-operations in fur my) will be cor.fidered an exception to this general rule; and I am ready to ac nowledge that there are few operations that are more perfectly mechanical; but in this inftanceit will be neceffiiry to be acquainted with the anatomy of the parts, which is the only fcientific objccft that is connedled with this operation; for this is a fubj°6f that is not in general conncfted with difeafe. The whole bufinefs is to make an opening through parts that are in a ftate of health, and extradi a hard fubftance from an inward cavity that produces dif- trefting confequences by the effefts of mechanical preflu re. From which it muft be evident that, independent of a knowledge of chirurgical dif- eafes, a lithotomift may perform this operation with fafetv, dexterity, and addrefs ; and as the heali g of the wound is an operation of nature, and requires very little afliftance from art, l think it is ver) poflible that the reputation of an accompldhed lithotomift may be obtained, independent of a knowledge of the flrft pr i nciples of furgery. But if inflammation or any other unexpended accident fhould take place, the operation will ulti- mately fail for want of fcientific information. The moft difficult cafes that occur in the prafliceof furgery, are where the operation is connected with a ftate of difeafe. There are two inflan- ces■r. r, ; PART OF SURGERY. oJ1 fees of tills kind that particularly merit our attention, in which operations may be unneceffarily performed, the patient ultimately do well, and the -error not detedied. As the operation for the bubonocele is made ufe of as a remedy for mortification, I (hall firfl attempt to point out the diffi- culty of determining when this operation becomes neceffjry. When we confider that all thefe fubjedls have been fo repeatedly dif- cuffed by writers of the firfl abilities, it may at firfl view appear both pre- fumptuous and unneceffary to make any additional obfervations. Before the anatomy of the parts was generally known, a critical explanation of that part of the fubjebl was well worthy the attention of the public; but the anatomical writers have in general confined their views to the form, connexion, and flrudture of the parts, and their obfervations are too much limited to the mechanical part of the fubjedl; and though anatomy and phyfiology are fuppofed to go hand in hand, we feldom find that much attention has been paid to the firfl principles of the vital powers, or that the nature and progrefs of morbid a diions have had a due (hare of atten- tion. The mechanical parts of the fubjedl are lefs difficult of invefligation, and with propriety become the firfl objedlof our attention. But the dif- fediion of a dead body, let it be ever fo accurately performed, will not of itfelf be Efficient to give us clear ideas of the firfl principles of difeafe, or lead us to a rational method of cure. If I fhould be accufcd of only taking a partial and irnperfedl view of fome collateral obj.ais A -t n - rally prefent themfclves on this occafion, I Hi all beg leave to anfwer Lh~t i. was not my intention to write a fyflem of furge^y, but lather iu pc - ;t out392 THE OPERATIVE out and explain fuch parts of the fubjefl as feem to have efeaped the notice of my predeceflors. What I contend for is, that there is much lefs difficulty in performing an operation than judging with ciitical accu- racy when it fhould take place. In the prefent inftance it is a fubjefl on which it is impoffible to decide with certainty. For in all thofe cafes of hernia, where mortification does take place, it mull be evident that the operation was too long delayed ; but in all thofe cafes, where the operation is performed previous to the com- mencement of mortification, it will be impoffible to determine w7ith cer- tainty that the operation was abfolutely necelfary, except in fuch inflan- ces where adhefion had taken place and reduction was impoffible,, Let us fuppofe that bleeding, cathartic glyfters, the warm bath, and purgative medicines, had all been made ufe of to no purpofe; and, in.ad- dition to thefe remedies, let us fuppofe that every rational attempt had been made by the hand of the furgeon to promote reduftion. We will fuppofe further that the inieflion of tobacco-fmoke had been made ufe of peranum, and that a whole ounce of tobacco had been confumed on this occafion without the leafl perceptible advantage; it would even un- der fuch circumllances be wrong to conclude, that the hernia was irre- ducible and that the operation was the lafl refource we had to flee to; for Mr. Pott mentions a cafe where all this was done without fuccefs. But he informs us that the inje6lion was Hill continued, and that thecon- fumption of two ounces produced the defired effett. The cafe is Ihort and abounds with inflru6live information; and, as it comes from high au- thority, I fhall give it as evidence of thedifficulty of forming an opinion withPART OF SURGERY, 393 with any degree of certainty in fuch cafes *. It would be the height of prcfumption to fay that reduftion was impoffible, or that fome other ad- ditional treatment might not relax the ftritffure. It would be impoffible to fay how far bleeding might be carried in fuch cafes, or whether tobac- co-glyfters had been ufed to their full extent; and the number of inftances, where the operation has been determined upon and reduftion afterwards taken place, too fully proves the truth of this affertion. The mod accomplilhed furgeon that ever attempted to reduce an her- nia may try in vain, if there is not the mod fortunate concurrence of cir- cumdances in his favour. The pofition of the patient and his united efforts are circumdances that cannot always be commanded; and not only the pofition of his body, but the date of his mind, may frequently contri- * I was deflred to vifit a ruptured patient with Mr James, then furgeori to St Luke’s hofpita!. The patient was a {tout healthy man, about thirty ; the rupture was large, hard, painful, and begin- ning to be inflamed on the outfide ; no {tool had paffed for two days ; the man had great pain all over his belly, and a frequent vomiting, Mr James had many times tried to reduce it ; he had bled him freely, and had given both purges and glyfters, but all without effect. The ferotum was exceedingly tenfe, and the pain which attended the molt gentle handling was fo ersquifite, as not only to render all attempts for reduftion by the hand improper, but hazardous. It was about noon when I faw the man : every thing, except the tobacco, had been tried ; the fymptoms were advancing haftily, and the operation was propofed and fubmitted to j but while our things were getting ready, we thought we might as well try the fmoke-glyfter. One ounce of tobacco was expended without any effe& at all, either general or local ; but toward the confumption of another, the patient became flek and faint, and complained of a ftrange kind of motion in his'belly, and aifo in his rupture. Upon turning the bed-clothes back, the motion was not only to be felt within the ferotum, but was even vifible ; this motion continued about two mi- nutes, when the inteftme, without being touched, returned ; the man became immediately eafy ; and in half an hour, had a plentiful difeharge per anum. Pott’* Remarks and Obfervations on Ruptures, page 98.394 THE OPERATIVE bute in a great degree to promote fuccefs. Every judicious method may be made ufe of and the bed dire&ed efforts tried in vain, and the operation may be determined upon ; in confequence of which, apprehea- fion and defpair may fcize the patient’s mind, general relaxation may- take place, and under thefe circumflances the hernia be returned. If the operation is determined upon in an eatly Rage of the dffeafe, the whole bufinefs of the furgeon is to open the hernial fac, divide the ten- don of the obliquus mufcle, and return the obtruded parrs into their natural fituation. This is a little operation, and the fubfequcnt fuccefs will feldom fail to give fatisfadlion to the patient, and promote the reputation of the operator. But if mortification has taken place, and the contents of the her- nia become difeafed, it then forms one of the mo ft critical fubjedis that can engage a furgeon’s attention. The time for deliberation is then but fhort, and the conducting of the operation muft depend alone on the abilities and addrefs of the operator, and the mod accurate dif- cernment and prompt decifion will then become necefiaiy. The in- trufion of any additional opinion would only create embarraffment and iticreafethe difficulties, and it would be impoffible in this momentous erifis to retire, for confultation. In fucb cafes it is impoffible to antici- pate the extent of the operation, it muft depend on the degree and ex- tent of the difeafe, and ail thefe decifions muft reft on the judgment of the operator. In cafes of hernia, attended with inflammation, the obj^H of the opera- tor is to remove the ftridfure, by which the inteftine and other contents are395 PART OF SURGERY. are fet at liberty, and mortification prevented. When inflammation takes place in the extremities, whether in confequence of external injury or other caufes, if there is reafon to be apprehenfive of mortification, it has been repeatedly urged in the preceding pages that any operation during the progrefi of the inflammation would increafe the danger. But in cafes of hernia with Ariflure, it is the mortification of the inter- ned parts which confiitutes the danger ; whereas the external pans are the fuhjeCt of the operation, for which reafon the fame objections to the operation do not apply on this cccafion. From what has already been faid on the fubjeft it mu A appear evi- dent, that a mechanical knowdedge of the operations of furgery will not alone prove adequate to our purpofe. There are very lew inAances in which a knowdedge of fcien.tific principles is more necHfary than in ca- fes of external inj irv of the head.. The removing of the fcalp, the fera- ping off the pericranium, the application of the trepan, and the ufe of the elevator, are very humble parts of the bufinefs, a knowledge of which is eafily to be obtained. But to form an accura?e judgement of the extent and degree of injury, and to determine what remedies wdll be neceffary, are queftions attended with more difficulty than the public in general are aware of. If we con finer this operation in a mechanical pomt of view, it is evidently a fuhjeCtof no very great importance ; and as the furgeon is certain to proteCi Ids profe Tonal reputation by making a perforation in the patient’s fkull, it is no wonder that the operation is fb frequently performed. 1 have already given an infiance where my own conduct was called in queflion, hecaufe I would not do more than X was convinced was neceffary ; and fo great are the prejudices of theTHE OPERATIVE 39s' the public on this occasion, that the furgeon’s abilities are in general edimated by the extent of the operation. But this is not merely a quedion of profeffional policy, it will be found to be a fubje£l of great practical importance. The facility with which an unlearned operator may remove a portion of the fcalp, and make a perforation with the trepan through any part of the fkull where there is no ine- quality in the thicknefs of the bone, may fometimes prove a recom- mendation to this operation in cafes where it is unneceflary : but to form a critical opinion of the degree and extent of the injury, and to determine under all circumdances where the trepan may be applied with the lead hazard, and the greated probability of fuccefs, not only requires an accurate knowledge of the anatomy of the pans, but it will be alfo neceffary to form an opinion of the degree and extent of the dif- eafe, and for this purpofe to edimate the effe61s of inflammation on the integuments, on the bones, on the membranes, and on the brain. From this view of the fubje6l we fhall be led to the confideration of the fame principle that has already been pointed out as an important obje£l in the fcientific department of the operations of furgery. And as 1 am apprehenfive that the progrefs of inflammation, in cafes of wounds, contufions, and fra&ures of the fkull, is a fubjeft that has in general paffed unnoticed, for that reafon it becomes an obje£i more deferving our attention. It frequently happens in very extenfive inju- ries of this kind that large portions of the integuments will dough away, that the parts of the fkull will die, and be removed by a tedious procefs of exfoliation, and all this will be attended with inflammation. And though the degree of inflammation in fome indances may be inconsi- derable, yet the degree of injury and the confequences will always bear a certainPART OF SURGERY. 397 a certain proportion to each other. If on this occafion I fhould be ac- cufed of creating imaginary difficulties, or magnifying infignificant dan- gers that may by fome be corffidered unworthy of attention, 1 {hall beg leave to advife thofe, who are of a contrary opinion, to pay more critical attention to the evidence of their own pra£lice; as the advantages of ear- ly decifion, and the danger of operating after inflammation has taken place, are as evident in cafes of fradfures of the fkull, as they are in other inftances of compound fra£lure. I do not pretend to affert, that, if an ignorant furgeon had in the fir ft inftance not traced the injury to its full extent, but had left a depreffion of the fra&ured fkull (fill refting on the brain, if under fuch circum- fiances inflammation had taken place, any additional operation might not be performed with fafety and advantage. I only wiffi to obferve, that the difeafed ftate of the parts would increafe the danger; and if there had been any omiffion in the firft inftance, the neceffity of any additional operation fhould be rendered unqueftionable before it was undertaken. In many formidable cafes of injury to the head, the brain is generally fo much affefled that the patient is not capable of giving an account of his own fituation; and it frequently happens in cafes of concuffion of the brain, without the leaf! apparent injury either to the integument or fkull, that all the mental faculties will be fufpended for a length of time, and yet the patient ultimately do well. In cafes where the fkull is fra&ured it will be right to trace the injury to its full extent; But what I contend for is that, whatever operation may be thought neceftary, it fhould be per- formed before inflammation has taken place. It would be a vcr) difficult 5 D queflion398 THE OPERATIVE quefiion to explain the kind and degree of fympathy that takes place be- tween the brain and the external parts of the head under different cir- cumfiances ; but if the fubjeft does not admit of a full invefligation, cur knowledge of the pathology of the nervous fyftem is fufficient to enable us to determine that the inflammation of the brain (which is the fountain of fenfation) is likely to be produdlive of the mod dangerous confequences, I have mentioned thefe circumflances for the purpofe of illufirating the neceffity of paying more ftri£l attention to the pathological part of thefe fubjecls, as it appears to me to be a part of the fcience of furgery that has in general palled unnoticed. It is not my intention to enter into a critical examination of all the operations of furgery, I only wifh to fhew that one fcientific principle may be carried through the whole. But it is not by the invefligation of a Tingle principle that we muft expefl to eflablifh a complete fydem of chirurgical pathology. It Teems to have long been the general opinion of hofpital furgeons in Town, that patients in flrong health do not fo frequently recover afier amputation as thofe who are funk by previous difeafe. But this opinion appears to me fo truly paradoxical, that, notwithdanding the high autho- rity with which it is fanftioned, I cannot think that it is well founded ; and if the fa£I is, as here dated, in the London hofpitals, it does not equally apply to patients in other muations. But there Teems to be confiderable inaccuracy in the arguments which are made ufe of on this fubjecd, and I (ball beg leave to fufpend my affent to this opinion till I meet with more fatisfaftory evidence. Mr. I. Hunter afferts that “few people in full healthPART OF SURGERY. 339 health are in a fit Rate to bear amputation but this opinion appears to me to want rational protePion. For my own part I cannot fee any rea- fon why a perfon in full health and vigour fhould not fupport the lofs of a limb better than after being reduced by a long and lingering difeafe. The inflammation fubfequent to amputation is not likely to produce dangerous h raptoms except it terminates in mortification, and I believe that is a circumRance which will very rarely happen if the operation is performed fufificiently early ; but if inflammation has taken place in con- fequence of the injury, the Rate of the queRion is then altered, and the operation is certainly improper. But Mr. I. Hunter alfo urges the lofs of blood as an objection, which appears to me to be an argument againR his own opinion ; for if Rrong health is confidered a reafonable objection in one in Ranee, the lofs of blood t 'which would reduce the Rate of the confutation to a lower fian- dard mufl certainly be advantageous; and this argument muR be confi- dered the perfection of medical obfeurity, to urge a Rate of full health and vigour, and an exhauRed Rate of the conRitution in confequence of a lofs of blood, as fimilar objections againft the propriety of amputation. But fueh are the arguments that are brought forwards for the exquifite gratification of propagating thefe fublime productions, and the eftablifh- ment of doctrines that are only calculated to add darknefs to the unintel- ligible myReries of the profe/lion. * I. Hunter on Gun-fhot Wounds, page 560. t In the £1 ft cafe, it is cr.lv inflammation : in the fccond. it is inflammation, lofs of fuhftance, and moft probably lols of more blood, as it is to be fuppofed that a good deal has been loft from the acci- dent, not to mention the auk ward manner in which it mu ft be done, I. Idunter on Gun-fhot Wound', page cqi. I well400 THE OPERATIVE I well remember an inftance that occurred, whilft I was attending the hofpitais, of a man in perfeft health being admitted for an aneurifm in the popliteal artery. On examination of the parts, it was the united opinion of all the furgeons prefent that the operation for the aneurifm would not fucceed, and the limb was immediately amputated about the middle of the thigh. I repeatedly faw the patient dreffed for the firft fortnight, du- ring which time all went on well, and the Iaft time I faw him the difeharge was moderate and the appearances perfectly healthy. From this time I ceafed to attend the drefiing of this patient, thinking his recovery certain, and that no occurrence could afterwards -take place worthy my at- tention. But in lefs than another fortnight after, I heard that he was dead. This termination could not depend on the exeefs of the firft in- flammation, or his high health previous to the operation ; perhaps it may at this diftance of time be prefumptuous in me to afftgn a caufe ; but, if there is any additional danger attending early amputation, I final 1 contend that it is limited to the hofpitais and does not extend to general prafiice. When a patient has long been confined to an hofpital he becomes accuftomed to its regimen, the mind alfo becomes reconciled to the fituation, and the conftitution to the air and manner of living; and to the indigent, who have fuffered under long and painful difeafe, it will frequently prove a change from mifery and want to what to them will appear a fituation of eafe, luxury, and unexpended happinefs ; the fame lituation, that may be confidered a palace by one man, may be looked upon as a loathfome prifon by another. But to thofe who enter an hofpital in confequence of fome accident, or for caufes above ftated, inTHE OPERATIVE 401 in other refpe&s in full health and vigour, the change may have a con- trary effeff both on the mind and conflitution, and the powers both of body and mind may fink under the united influence of the operation and fituation, that would furvive the operation under different circum- ftances. I have been induced to make thefe obfervations for the pur* pofe of .accounting for an opinion which I ftill fufpeff is founded in er- ror ; but if it does happen that people in full health and vigour do more frequently fink under the operation of amputation in the hofpitals, I wifh to fhew that it may depend on local circumfiances, and that the want of fuccefs is not to be attributed to the flate of the confiitu- tiom There is one more argument urged againfi the propriety of early am- putation, particularly on the field of battle, which it is neceffary to re- ply to. The flate of the patient's mind is fuppofed to be unfit for fuch a confliff. As this is a quefiion of fome importance, that I may in this laft inflance avoid all fufpicion of mifreprefentation, I fhall give an exatl quotation. Mr. I. Hunter fays “ the fituation they are in at the time from the hurry of mind, makes it here in general to be the very word practice ; it will in general, therefore, be much bet- ter to wait til! the inflammation, and all the effeHs of both the irrita- tion and inflammation, fhall be gone off*.” And “If the chances are fo even, where common circumfiances in life favour the ampu- tation, how muff it be where they do not? how muff it be with a man, whole mind is in the height of agitation, arifing from fatigue* * I. Hunter on Gun-fhot wounds, page 560, 5 E fear402 PART OF SURGERY, fear, diflrefs, etc. ? Thefe cirumfiances m'uft add greatly to the con- fequent mifchief, and call the balance much in favour of forbear- ance.^” In all cafes of violent injury of the extremities to fuch a degree as in- evitably renders amputation a neceffary remedy, the pain of body and apprehenfion of mind place the whole fyflem in a hate of aflive exertion ; and whatever may be the fituation of parties, I think it is reafonable to conclude that the hate of the mind will bear fome propor- tion to the nature of the injury, the degree of danger, and excefs of pain. And as the field of battle is a fituation that calls for great exertions, it is probable that intrepid fortitude will here be raifed to the hjgheft pitch; it woud be a reflection on the foldier’s character, a (lain on martial heroifm, at fuch a time to fall a have to fear. If then it is reafonable to conclude that in the field of battle the exertions muff; bear fome proportion to the danger, by immediate amputation the body is relieved from pain and the mind from fear : The quef- tion is at once decided, and the complicated danger reduced to a Ample cafe in furgery. By early amputation there is only one in- flammation, by delay there is the inflammation in confequence of the injury, and after a tedious interval of difeafe wre have flil! to meet the dangerous confequences of the operation. 1 he body buffers under pain, the mind becomes fubiued by a continued (fate of danger, and the patient finks under delay, protra&ed pain, long confinement, and weeks of apprehenfion. 'V,/* ' § I. Hunter on Gun-fhot wounds, page 562. IfTHE OPERATIVE 403 If amputation is-Immediately performed, the dreadful expectation of a painful operation is put an end to before the mind finks from its exertion. Fear unobferved retires, and cordial hope with reanimating influence recalls the vital powers, and fupports the patient through the fubfequent difeafe. But if the operation is delayed, the mind is left in a flate of condant apprehenflon, and his bed expectations only promife a recovery from one danger as preparatory to a painful oper- ation, which is to deprive him of his limb, and to which his life may Oil! fall a facrifice. But if the operation is immediately per- formed, let us appeal to thofe who have ever experienced the fear of pain, and the dread of approaching danger, and-contraft this with con- fidence in a date of fafety, and the rational hope of recovery, and then decide the quedion ; and I have no doubt but an opinion will be given againd protra6led danger. Since the time that this fubjed find engaged my attention, an op- portunity occurred which enabled me to procure fome fatisfa&ory evi- dence on the point in quedion. I was fent for to a young man, who was previoufly in good health, whofe hand and part of his arm were blown to pieces by the burding of a gun; I proceeded to am- putation with all podible* expedition ; and though the place where the accident happened was about three miles from the town where we both refided, the operation was performed and he afterwards returned with me in the chaife and was fafe in his bed in about three hours from the time when the accident took place. « 1 , rfjk*'- As we returned in the chaife together I converfed with him on this fubjeft, and enquired with critical attention whether it was not a great /404 PART OF SURGERY. great confolation to him that the pain and anxiety were over-; I think it fcarcely neceffary to mention that he expreffed the greater! fatisfafiion that he had got through the difficulties of the operation and he confide red himfelf in a much better hate to undertake the journey than if Ire had been encumbere4 with a lacerated hand and fra&ured arm ; and acknowledged that the operation had contributed much to his relief from pain both of body and mind. Indeed it is a queflion fo- plain and felfevient, that I fiiould not have thought it worthy of attention, if Mr. I. Planter had not pla- ced it in fuch a confpicuous point of view. The example which I have brought forward may perhaps be confidered either inapplica- ble or inadequate ; but that I may ffiew whofe experience was the moft ample and fatisfaHory, I {hall now examine the opinion of Wifeman on this fubjecl. Wifeman has defcribed what he had been witnefs to and what he bad feen in aftual fervice, but'the reprefentations of Mr. I. Hunter are the vifionary conjeflures oi a bewildered imagination. The former gives plain matters of faff and defcribes feme very interefiing feenes in which he himfelf had been one of the principal aftors, and his obfervations want no comment ; his language is ex- preffive of the true fpirit of fighting ; and the fimplictiy. of his nar- rative difplays the pure enthufiahn of nature, and gives us an idea of martial heroifm far beyond the mod, fublime display of high poetic fiffion. Milton has defcribed his, immortal her waging war in hea- ven.PART OF SURGERY, 405 yen. But Wifeman, his contemporary, limits his views to what he has feen on earth, and with all the fimplicity of nature tells the limple truth, in which he reprefents the mutilated warrior, unawed by fear, infenfible of pain, rulhing from the hands of his furgeon to re- new the conteft.* This then is the time for amputation when the mind is prepared for difficulties and dangers, and the lofs of a limb muft be confidered an ob- ject of inferior importance when life has been at flake. *A Scottijh Soldier was brought to me out of the Field at the Battle of Worcester, (hot with a Mufkefc bullet into the Elbow-joint, which fractured not only the ends of the Radius and Ulna, but likewife that of the Adjutorium. Upon fight whereof I called Will. Clarke (now a Chirurgeon at Bridgenorth) and other my Servants about me, to cut off the Arm, and the while I endeavoured to encourage the Soldier to endure it. In anfwer thereto he only cry’d, Give me Drink, and I will die. They did give him drink, and he made good his promife and died foon after; yet had no other Wound than that. By which may be perceived the Danger in delaying this Work to the next day, when the aforefaid Accidents have kept them watching all night, and totally debilitated their Spirits. Which happens not, if it be done in Heat of fight, for then, while they are furprizcd and as it were amazed with the Accident, the Limb is taken off much eafier : and if it be the Arm, fome of them will (carce be kept in the Hold while the Ship is clofe engaged in Fight. In the heat of Fight I cut off a Man’s Arm, and after he was laid down, the Fight growing hotter, he ran up, and hclpt to tra- verfe a Gun. And a Walloon earneftly begged of me to cut off his fhattered Leg : which whilff I was doing, he cried, Dtpzche vous connous vendrone a terre mous bioron. Alfo others have uiged me to difmember their (hattered Limbs at fuch a time, when the next day they have profeff’d rather to die. Butamongft us aboard in that fervice it was counted a great fhame to the Chirurgeon, if that Ope- ration were left to be done the next day, when Symptoms were upon the Patient, and he fpent with Watchings, &c. Therefore you are to confider well the member, and if you have no probable hope of Sanation, cut it off quickly, while the Soldier is heated and in mettle. But if there be hopes of Cure, proceed rationally to a right and methodical Healing of fuch Wounds; it being more for your Credit to fave one Member, than to cut off many. Wifeman’s Surgery, page40 6 THE OPERATIVE He, who, juft before, had “fet his life upon a call, and dar’d to (land the hazard of the dye,” will certainly not fear to lofe a limb; and, who, but a few hours ago, had faced the enemy’s deflrudlive fword, can never dread the furgeon’s friendly knife. But if the operation is delayed, the mind becomes exhaulled, and dejeftion and defpair take place ; and eve- ry caufeof apprehenfion tends to increafe the danger. With refpe£l to the hate of the body, fuhicient has been faid already in favour of early amputation, fully to determine the point in quehion ; and it may be conhdered a happy circumflance on this occafion, that the friendly in- fluence both of body and mind do fo perfectly coincide. And as no one, who enters into an engagement and boldly braves the danger of the field, can be certain to return with fafety; it mull unqu'ef- tionably prove a proteflion againh the influence of apprehenfion, to be previoufly convinced that every affiflance will be given which the nature of their misfortunes will admit of9 or the art of furgery can behow. I _ (hall, therefore, in behalf of the honour of the profeffion, whofe real dignity I wifh on all occafions to fupport, beg leave to obferve, that a confidence of receiving every friendly affiflance from the hands of the iurgeon may be admitted as a confolation that may ferve to animate the foldier’s heart. It certainly muff contribute to the fatisfaiofln of all parties to have every doubtful queflion previoufly determined, and to have it known that, when amputation is neceffary, delay and fafety are incompatible with each other. It is a queflion of great im- portance in private praflice, but in a public fituation it is an obje6l of ineftimable extent. It is not only the happinefs of the patient and the reputation of the furgeon that may be at flake ; but the fate of na- tions and the profperity of the world may, at fome future period, be involved in the decifion« ButPART OF SURGERY. 407 Bat whether it is in a private or public fituation, the duty of the fur- geon is the fame; and let us hope that no inducement will be wanting, if he confiders that, whether he is a&ing in the calm of private life and adminiftering the balm of domeftic comfort, or is engaged in the bufy fcenes which his duty to the public may require, at the fame time that he is adding fplendour to his own profedional cha- ra6ler, he is alleviating the unavpidable misfortunes of human nature, and whilft he is promoting the dignity of his profeffion, he is contribu- ting to the happinefs of mankind. Vive, vale : liquid novidi re£Hus iltis, Gandidus imperti, li non, his utere mecum. HoRe ¥ I. N • I S. LOUGHBOROUGH: PRINTED BY S. ADAMS,mm