THE SURGEON'S POCKET-BOOK. Fourth Edition.Companion Volume. Third Edition, Pocket-Size, Leather, 8«. 6d. With very Nuimrous Illustrations. A SURGICAL HANDBOOK FOR THE USE Of Ipi-actitionevs, Stulients, mou8e=Surgeon6, anl) Dressers. Br F M CAIED, M.B., F.R.O.S. (Ed.), aud 0. W. CATHOA.RT, M.B., F.R.O.S. (Eng. & Ed.), Assistant-Surgeons, Royal Infirmary, Edinburgh. General CoNiENTS.-Case-Taking-Treatment of Patients before and after Operation -AnEesthetics : General and Local-Antiseptics and Wound-Treatment-Arrest of Hsemorrhage-Shock and Wound Fever-Emergency Cases :Tracheotomy : Mmor Sur- gical Operations-Bandaging-Fractures-Dislocations, Sprains, and Bmises--Extein- porary Appliances and Civil Ambulance Work-Massage-Surgical Applications of Electncity-Joint-Fixatlon and Fixed Apparatus-The Urine-The Sypbon and its Uses- Trusses i^d Artificial Limba-Plaster-Oasting-Post-Mortem Examination-Sickroom Cookery Receipts, &c. " Thoeoughly practical and trustworthy. Clear, accurate, succinct."—2%e Lawet. " Admirably arranged. The best practical little work we have, seen. The matter is as good as the ia».nne.T."—Edinburgh Medical Journal. " This excellent little work. Clear, concise, and very readable. Gives attention to important detaUs, often omitted, but absolutely necessary to success. —Athe7KXV,m. LONDON: CHARLES QRIFFIN & COMPANY.THE SURGEON'S POCKET-BOOK: AN ESSAY ON THE BEST TREATMENT OF WOUNDED IN WAR; SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR THE PUBLIC MEDICAL SERVICES. BY SURGEON-MAJOR J. H. PORTER, LATE 97th hegimext; ASSISTAJM-SJOFESSOK OP MILITARY SURGERY, ARMY MEDICAL SCHOOL, NETLEY ffomth Ebitfon. REVISED AND EDITED BY BRIGADE-SURGEON C. H. Y. GODWIN, MEDICAL STAFF, ASSISTANT-PROFESSOR OF MILITARY SURGERY, ARMY MEDICAL SCHOOL, NETLEY, LATE MEDICAL OFFICER OF THE ROYAL ARSENAL, WOOLWICH. CHARLES GRIFFIN & COMPANY, EXETER STREET, STRAND, LONDON. 1891. [^// J?t^Ais Reserved.]PKEFACE TO THE FOURTH EDITION. The Third Edition of the Surgeon's Pocket-Book having become ex- hausted, it has been necessary to prepare a new or Fourth Edition, which, it is hoped, will prove as acceptable as the last. Great pains have been taken to bring the work up to the knowledge of the day, and amongst new matter attention has been called to the system "Bry" for fitting up railway goods'wagons as sick carriages. The Field arrangements for the Ambulance of the Army have been corrected, and plans are given for the encampment of the units, viz., a Field Hospital and a Bearer Company. Under the heading of " Wound Treatment" a few remarks have been made upon Surgical Bacteriology, in which an attempt has been made to bring forward the chemical influence of the micro-organisms ; in the Third Edition their biological existence only was considered. Several alterations have consequently had to be made in the pages on Infective Disease. In doing this, great help has been derived from Professor Senn's excellent work on Surgical Bacteriology. Under the heading of " Gun-shot Wounds," reference has been made to the probable effects of the modern narrow bullet. The Chapter on " Abdominal Surgery " has been entirely rewritten. The Editor has to express his obligations to the excellent work " Gun-shot Wounds of the Small Intestines" by Professor C. T. Parkes, Rush Medical College, Chicago, 111., and also to the monograph by Sir Wm. MacCormac] F.R.C.S., on "Abdominal Section for the Treatment of Intra-Peri- toneal Injury."PREFACE TO THE FOURTH EDITION. iv Under the heading " Anaesthetics " the conclusions arrived at by the second Hyderabad Chloroform Commission have been given, together with some views which present a different conclusion. The rules for the examination of sight for candidates for the Govern- ment Services have been given in full. Lastly, as a help to Officers preparing on short notice for active service, the regulation '' Kit" is detailed in Appendix V. In conclusion, the writer begs sincerely to thank his friends and colleagues for their friendly criticisms of the Third Edition, which have been of much assistance to him in the preparation of the Fourth. C. H. Y. GODWIN. Oakhurst, Netley, Arn-il, 1891.PREFACE TO THE FIRST EDITION. Having had some experience in the treatment of wounded soldiers during the Crimean Campaign, the Indian Mutiny, and the Franco- German War of 1870-71, I was induced to compete for a prize offered by Her Majesty the Queen of Prussia and Empress of Germany, for the best Essay on the " Practical Treatment of the Wounded in War." The judges, Professors Billroth of Vienna, Baron von Langenbeck of Berlin, and Socin of Basle, awarded a prize to my Essay, which I now publish at the earnest request of my friends in the Medical Profession. The great difficulty of preparing a work to meet the ever-recun-ing emergencies of war will, I trust, be sufficient excuse for any short- comings which may be foimd in it. The army surgeon of the present day has, as a rule, to deal \vith the wounded under very different circumstances from his predecessors. Railways, improved transport and field appliances, as well as the privileges of the " Geneva Convention," have given to wounded soldiers better prospects of recovery in many respects; but experience has sufficiently proved that modern surgeons may still be placed, under exceptional circumstances, in no better position for the care of their wounded than were those of former days. On this account I have detailed the surgical rules of the older surgeons, as well as of those of the present day, presuming that my readers will not omit to consider the circumstances of each ]3articular case that falls under their care, and be guided in applying the rules given in this Manual in accordance with them. Take, for example, the circumstances of men with wounds in or nearvi PREFACE TO THE FIRST EDITION. to a Continental town, with every comfort and appliance at hand, and those of others with similar wounds on such a field as that of Alma, Magdala, or Coomassie, with the necessity for immediate long transport and exposure—how different must be the plans of treatment adopted in some of these injuries ! I have included several subjects which might at first sight be con- sidered extraneous to the purpose of a surgical manual; such are—a scale of hospital diets, construction of cooking-places, of camp ovens, extemporary water-filters, and latrines; but, from experience in the field, I know how important for the present comfort of patients and the ultimate results of their injuries it is that the surgeon should have memoranda on these matters at hand for easy reference. Information on these points formed a portion of the contents of the original Essay, but to the present publication I have also appended the Formulary of Prescriptions which is now in general use in Military Hospitals. I have found the use of this formulary a means of facilitating work and saving time, and have therefore thought it would prove a convenient addition to the Manual. In the preparation of this Essay I lay no claim to literary merit or originality. My object has been simply to present to the surgeon such information as I myself found the want of during my campaigns; and in doing so I have extensively made use of the labour of others, to whom I am indebted, but who, like myself, will, I am sure, be well rewarded, if their efforts tend to mitigate in the smallest degree the sufferings of the unfortunate wounded in war. J. H. POETEE. WOOLSTON, May, 1875.CONTENTS. Intkoductokt General Kemaekb. Aim and Scope of this Work—Position of a Principal Medical Officer mth an Army in the Field, and of Acquaintance with Intended Military Movements—Organisa- tion of Transports—Eesponsibilities of Medical Officers on Taking the Field- Surgical Instruments—The Art of Extemporising Appliances—Acquaintance with the Dress of the Soldier—Stretcher Sections—Instructions for Carnage of Sick and Wounded on Siretchers—Means of Extemporaneous Transport^Rail- way Hospital Trains—Ship's Hammocks—Horse Litters-Transport in Moun- tainous Districts—Cacolets—Ambulance Lift for Ship or Store for Embarking or Disembarking Sick or Wounded Men, ..... 1-20 Sebvice in the Field. Preparations for the Field—Accompanying Troops into Action—Medical Assistance in the Field-Aid to Begiments, &c.—First Line of Medical Assistance—Collect- ing Stations—Dressing Stations—War Establishment of a Bearer Company: Its Wheel and Pack Transport—Second Line of Medical Assistance—War Establish- ment of Field Hospitals: Their Wheel and Pack Transport—Plan of Camp for Bearer Company and for Field Hospital—Indian Regulations—Advanced UepSt of Medical Stores—Third Line of Medical Assistance—Stationary Hospitals— General Hospital at Base—First Relief to Wounded after an Engagement with the Enemy—Wounded to be Urst Relieved—First Field Dressings—Heemorrhage —Shock-The Pain of a Gun-shot Wound—Lights, . . . 20-32 GuN-SnoT Fractures. General Remarks on Gun-shot Fractures—Extemporary Appliances—Straw Mats— Fractures of the Leg—Fractures of the Arm—Fractures of the Lower End of Humerus—Fractures of the Fore-arm, ..... 32-38 Splints. Wire or Trough Splints—Wooden and Metal Gauze Splints—Duncan Splint- Iron Wire Gauze Splints—Wyatt's Splint-Extemporised Splints—Extemporary Pads and Cushions—Cautions about same—Plaster of Paris Bandages—Arm Slings, 39-18 Fat-Embolism, .... 48 Wounds. Wounds, how inflicted—Nature of Wounds—Bacteriology of Wounds—Suppuration —Treatment of Wounds—Listerian Dressings—Drainage—Sponges—Sutures- Treatment of Accidental Wounds—Antiseptics—Carbolic Acid—Corrosive Sub- limate—Cyanide of Mercury and Zinc—Boracic Acid—Salicylic Acid—Iodine— Iodoform—Salol—Sulpho-Carbolate of Zinc—Chloride of Zinc—Eucalyptus Oil —Burnt Alum—Bismuth—Alcohol—Condy's Fluid—Chlorinated Soda—Cotton— Tenax—Treatment of Foul Wounds—Incised Wounds—Punctured Wounds- Lacerated Wounds—Contused Wounds—Wind-Balls, . . . 49-58viii CONTENTS. Gto-shot Wounds. How Gun-shot Wounds are Influenced—Effects of Modern Bullets—Examination of Wounds—Eeyher's Rules in Exploring for Bullets—Longmore's Rules— Ndlaton's Probe—Lecomte's Probe—Tailors Explorer—De Wilde's Explorer— Liebreicii's Explorer—Endoscopic Exploration—The Microphone—Detection of Lead and Iron—Extraction of Bullets and other Missiles—Gun-shot Wounds of Muscular Parts—Dr. Cammerer's Experiences—Experiences in German Hos- pital at Belgrade—Need of Attention to Wounds—Bayonet. Lance, Sword, and Arrow Wounds—The Use of Bandages—Washing Wounds—Poultices—Consti- tutional Treatment—Sanitary Treatment—Principles involved in the Ventilation of Buildings—Extemporised Bedsteads—Extemporised Mattresses—Extempor- ised Bed Cradles,......... 58-72 Injuries op the Head. Classification of the Injuries of the Head—Contusions of the Head—The Treatment of Simple Contusion—Severe Contusions—Contused Wounds, with Fracture of the Cranium, without Depression—Furrowing of Outer Table—Contused Wounds, with Depression—Penetrating Wounds of the Cranium—Fracture of both Tables—Fracture from Contre-Coup—Fracture of the Base of the Skull- Scalp Wounds—Sabre Wounds—Concussion—Treatment of Concussion—Com- pression—Treatment of Compression—Trephining—Suppuration within the Cranium—Treatment—Protrusion of the Brain, Fungus or Hernia Cerebri— Treatment—Application of Trephine as recommended by Sir W. Fergusson— Victor Horsley's Views, ....... 72-82 Wounds of the Face and Adjacent Paets. Wounds Implicating the Bones of the Face—Wounds of the Lower Jaw—Fracture or Fissure of the Symphysis—Wounds of the Ear—Wounds of the Orbit—Incised or Lacerated Wounds of the Eyelid and Brow—Wounds of the Eye—General Ophthalmitis—Fractures of the Bones of the Orbital Region—Injuries of the Nose—Wounds of the Cheeks and Forehead—Wounds of the Parotid Duct and Gland—Injui-y of the Lachrymal Bones—Wounds of the Tongue—Wounds of the Mouth, 82-87 ;WotJNDS of the Neck. Superficial Wounds of the Neck—Deep Wounds of the Neck—Wounds of the Larynx—Wounds of the CEsophagus, ..... 87-S9 Wounds of the Chest. Classification—Non-penetrating Wounds—Penetrating Wounds may be Compli- cated—Symptoms of Wound of Lungs—Emphysema—Treatment of Penetrating Wound—Blood in Cavity of Chest—Ecchymosis—Treatment for Haemorrhage into Cavity of Chest—Gun-shot Wounds of both Limgs—Extraneous Bodies in Superficial Chest Wounds—Extraneous Bodies in the Cavity of the Pleura- Searching for Extraneous Bodies in Chest—Emphysema—Pneumothorax— Hydrothorax—Empyema—Place of Election for Tapping the Chest: Paracentesis Thoracis—Hernia of the Lung or Pneumocele—Wounds of the Pericardium or Heart—Wounds of the Heart-Wounds of the Diaphragm—The Secondary Causes of Death, 89-99CONTENTS. ix "WotniDS OP THE Abdomen. nURRifleation of Wounds of the Abdomen-General Eemarks—Non-penetrating Wounds! UncompKcated-Complicated Non-penetrating Wounds-Ruptures of the Liver-Rupture of the Gall Bladder-Rupture of the Spleen-Rup ure of the Kidney—Rupture of the Stomach-Rupture of the Intestmes-Rupture ot the Bladder-Treatment-Penetrating Wounds of the Abdomen with and without Visceral Injury-Protrusion of the Intestine-Gangrene of Protruded Intestine-Wound of Protruded Inteatine-Penetratmg Wounds of Abdomen without Protrusion-Wounds of Liver—Wounds of.Kidney—Wounds of Stomach —Treatment of Penetrating Abdominal Wounds—Results of Parkes lixpen- ments—Chief Dangers—Mode of Operating-Steps regarding Wound m Intes- tines—Method of Stitching Wounded Intestines—Applicabihty to the 1? lel'i— Peritonitis—Foreign Bodies lodged in Abdominal Cavity—Oolotomy, . 9J-111 WOUKDS AND OTHEE INJURIES OF THE SpIKE. Concussion-Symptoms and Treatment—Compression of Spinal Cord—Dislocations or Fractures without an External Wound—Pai-alysis in Injury of the Spme— Fracture and Dislocation in the Cervical, Dorsal, and Lower Lumbar Regions- Treatment—Victor Horsley's Views—The Use of the Trephine in Injuries of the Spine, 111-1^* Injifeies to and WotniDS of the Pelvis. Classification of such Injuries—Contusions—Fractures, Dislocations, and Gun-shot Injuries—Shot Fractures of the Ilium—Shot Fractures of the Pubis—Shot Fractures of the Ischium—Shot Fractures of the Sacrum—Necrosis and Caries 114-115 Wounds of Organs of Mictttrition. Wounds of the Bladder—Symptoms—Bullets or other Foreign Bodies in the Bladder —Puncture of the Bladder—The Operation of Lithotomy, . . 115-117 Wounds of the Organs of Generation. Wounds of the Penis, the Perineum, and Urethra—Erections—Retention of Urine- Foreign Bodies in the Urethra—Wounds of the Scrotum—Wounds of the Testes —Wounds of the Spermatic Cord, ...... 117-118 Wounds of the Organs of Defjecation. Wounds of the Rectum and Anus—Incised Wounds—Shot Wounds—Haemorrhage of the Rectum, 118-119 Wounds of the Extremities. Classiflcation—General Eemarks on Gun-shot Fractures—Simple Fractures- Compound Fractures—Partial Fractures—Management of Simple and Com- pound Fractures in the Field—Gun-shot Fractures of the Upper ^Extremities; of the Humerus—Stromeyer's Cushion—Shot Fractures of the Clavicle, Scapula, Radius, and Ulna; of the Hand; of the Metacarpal Bones and Fingers- Incised Wounds of the Fore-arm and Wrist—Gun-shot Fractures of the Lower Exremities; of the Femur—Treatment of Gun-shot Fractures of the Femur— Question of Amputation or not according to Situation—Various Opinions—Rules for proceeding, and not proceeding, to Amputate at once—Examination of Wound—Sequestra, their Classiflcation—Extension in Treatment of Gun-shot Fractures of the Femur-Contrivances for the Treatment of Shot Fractures of the Femur and Bones of the Leg and Foot—Shot Wounds of the Foot and Toes, 119-138X CONl'ENTS. Wounds of the Joints. Treatment-Question of Excision—Wounds of Shoulder-Joint—Partial Excision of the Head of the Humerus—General Conclusions regarding Treatment—Wounds of the Elbow-Joint—Punctured and Incised Wounds—Excision of the Elbow- Joint—Period of Selection for Excision—Amount of Bone to be removed in Eesection—Wounds of the Wrist-Joint—Resection as a Secondary Operation— The Expectant Treatment—Gun-shot Wounds of the Hip-Joint—Langenbeck on the Situation of Hip-Joint—Conservative Treatment—Cases in which it is not Applicable—Excision of the Hip-Joint for Gun-shot Wounds—Prmart/, Intermediate, and Secondary Excision—Amputation at the Hip-Joint—Symptoms of Gun-shot Fractures of the Hip-Joint—Gun-shot Wounds of the Trochanter- Nelaton's Line—Bryant's Ilio-Femoral Triangle—Giraud-Teulon's Triangle- Wounds of the Kuee-Joint, Reyher's and Bergmann's Experiences—Question of its Excision-Incised Wounds; of the Knee-Joint —Wounds of the Patella- Wounds of the Ankle-Joint—Question of its Resection, . . . 138-152 Wounds of Nerves and Tendons. Modes of Injury—Treatment—Local Applications—Neuritis—Division of Tendons- Treatment, 152-153 An.^sthesia. Chloroform — Conclusions from Hyderabad Commission Experiments — Views against — Ether — Pridgin Teale's Method of Administering — Freezing — Cocaine, .......... 153-156 AirPUTATION. Proper Period for Performing Amputation—Opinions of Competent Authorities- Cases Demanding Amputation—Different Methods Considered—Lister's Rules— Heather Bigg s Suggestions—Double Amputation—After-Treatment of Stumps —Flies—Maggots in Stumps—Esmarch's Bloodless Operation modified by Lister—Prevention of Hsemorrhage after the Bloodless Method—Approved Methods of Amputating-Amputation at the Shoulder-Joint-At the Shoulder- Joint by TiansQxion—Amputation of the Arm (Circular)-Flap Method— Through the Elbow-Joint—Flap Method—Amputation of the Fore-arm—At the Wrist—Amputation of one or more Metacarpal Bones—Of Index or Little Finger—Of the Metacarpal Bone of the Thumb—Amputation of a Whole Finger—Through Second Phalanx—Of a Distal Phalanx—At the Hip-Joint —Methods of different Surgeons—Fergusson's, Furneaux Jordan's (modified by Lister)—Davy's Lever for Compressing Aorta—Through the Tliigh— Antero-posterior Flap Operation—Through the Knee-Joint—(Garden's at the Condyles of the Femur—Through the Leg, Double Skin Flap Upper Fourth- Through the Calf—Syme's Operation at the Ankle-Joint (Disarticulation)— Parry's Modification of Syme's Method—Chopart's Operation through;the Tarsus —Hey's Amputation of Metatarsal Bones—Removal of Metatarsal Bones of Great Toe; of Little Toe; of Distal Phalanx of Great Toe; of Lesser Toe—Teale's Amputation—Pirogoff's Sub-periosteal Amputation, . . . 156-180 Excision of Joints. Modern 'Views—Excision of Head of Humerus—Lai'rey's, Hamilton's, Guthrie's, and Fergusson's Methods—Excision of Clavicle; of Scapula (Syme's Method)—Elbow- Joint Excision—Position of Limb after Excision—Contrivances for placing the Elbow—Excision of the Wrist—Lister's Method—Special Splints to be used in the After-Treatment of his Excision—Excision of the Carpal Ends of the Bones of the Fore-arm—Excision of the Hip-Joint—Different Methods—Special Splints for After-Treatment—Surgeon-Major Porter's Stretcher and Bed—Excision of Knee-Joint—Take advantage of any existing 'Wound—Excision of the Ankle- Joint—Mr. Handcock's Method—Mr. Guthrie's Method—Professor Esmarch's Splints for After-Treatment—Excision of Os Calcis—Excision of the Astragalus —Tarsal Bones and Shafts of Long Bones—Subperiosteal Operation, . 181-193 Enucleation of the Eye, ........ 193CONTENTS. XI Affections of Stomps. Primary and Secondary Affections-HsBmorrliage—Spasms of Muscles-Excessive Pain—Septic Inflammation—Osteo-myelitis—Inordinate Retraction ot bott Parts Exposing Bone—Necrosis—Neuralgia—Strumous Degeneration—Aneu- rismal Enlargement of Vessels-Exfoliation of Bone—Contraction of Tendons- Maggots in Stumps, . . . • • • ■ • .194 ILemokkhage. Kinds of Hffimorrhage-Wounds of Arteries—Arteritis—Lacerations—Punctured Wounds-Aneurismal Varix—Laceration of Arterial Coats—Punctured Wounds of Arteries—Diffused Traumaiic Aneurism-Circumscribed Traumatic Aneurism —Rules as to Treatment of Wounded Arteries—Treatment of Secondary Hajmorrhage after ligature of Femoral in continuity—Intermediary Heemorrhase —SecondaryHajmorrhage- Causes-Treatment of Secondary Ha;morrhage after Gun-shot Wounds—Hflsmorrhfige from Stumps—Treatment at an Early Period and at a Later Period-Intermittent Hsemorrliage-Expedients for Suppressmg Hajmorrhage—Heemorrhage on the Field of Battle—The Tourniquet—Extem- porary Tourniquets and Special Uses for Field Service—Expedients for Per- manent Arrest of Hasmorrhage-Torsion of Arteries—Mr. Spencer Wells' Artery and Torsion Forceps—Acu-Pressure—Flexion—Cauterisation—Application of Ice or Cold—Hot-water—Styptics—Medicated Astringents—Wounds of Vems— Restraint of Venous Heemorrhage, ...... 195-205 Ligature of Arteries. Mr. Erichsen's Instructions for cutting down on an Artery—Periods of Ha;morrhage after Ligature of Certain Arteries—Ligature of Common Carotid: (a) Above Omo-hyoid; (6) Below Omo-hyoid—Of Lingual Artery—Of Facial Artery- Ligature of the Subclavian Artery in its Third Stage—Of the Axillary Artery: (a) In its First Stage; (6) In its Third Stage—Of the Brachial Artery—Of the Brachial Artery at Bend of Elbow—Of the Ulnar Artery at its Origin and at the Wrist—Of the Radial Artery—Of External Iliac—Ot Femoral Artery—lii Scarpa's Space—In Mid ile of Thigh—Of Posterior Tibial Artery—In Middle of Leg—Anterior Tibial—In the Upper Third—In the Lower Third, . 205-212 Mortification or Gangrene. Traumatic Gangrene—Causes—Treatment—Distant and Spreading Gangrene— Rules of Practice—Question of Waiting for a Line of Demarcation—Gangrene from Frost-bite and Severe Burns—Acute Spreading Gangrene—Treatment— Idiopathic Gangrene-Bed Sores—Management of them—Surgeon - Major Porter's Sling for Treatment of Bed Sores-Local Applications,. . 213-217 Hospital Gangrene. Forms of the Disease—Definitions—Symptoms, Local and Constitutional—Causes due to presence of Microbes—Local Treatment—Hamilton's Suggestions— Constitutional Treatment, ....... 217-221 Erysipelas. Causes—So-called Varieties as Cutaneous—Cellulo-cutaneous—Cellulitis—Treat- ment, Local and Constitutional, ...... 221-224 Phlebitis. Idiopathic and Septic—Symptoms—Treatment, ..... 224-225CONTENTS. xii Septicemia. Septic Poisoning as Septic Intoxication or Saprcemia—Septicaemia—Definition of the Disease—Causes—Its Prevalence—Symptoms-Treatment, . . 225-226 Pyemia. Oauses—Symptoms—Treatment—Operations during Pyeomia, . . 227-229 Osteo-Mtelitis. Nature of the Disease—Prevalence after Gun-shot Injuries—Symptoms—Treatment —Operative Measures—Constitutional Treatment, . . . 229-231 Antheax. Definition—Forms—Treatment—Prevention, ..... 232-233 Tetanus. Idiopathic and Traumatic—Causes—M. Verneuil's Views—Treatment—Section of Nerve-Excision of Portion of Nerve—Nerve Stretching—Amputation of Limb —Medicinal Treatment, ........ 233-236 TUBEECDXOSIS. Koch's Discovery of Action of " Tuberculine" in Arresting the Disease—Account of the Eeaction Attending its Use—Mode of Proceeding, . . 236-238 SOURVT. Symptoms, Causes, and Measures for Adoption on Outbreak of Scurvy in time of War, 238-239 FOOTSORENESS. Management of this Condition as Becommended by Professor Parkes and Mr. Galton, 239 Treatment of the Apparently Drowned. Eules for Resuscitation—Marshall Hall's Method—Dr. Sylvester's Method, 240 Cooking-Places. On the March and in Camp—Field Ovens, ..... 241-242 Latrines. Methods of arranging them in Standing Camps, .... 242 Water Supply. Filtration—Testing—Professor de Chaumont's Suggestions—Quantities required daily by Men and Animals, ....... 243-246CONTENTS. xiii Eations. War Eations-Value of different Articles-Daily amount required wilder ithe difleren? Conditions of Eest, of Ordinary W ork, and of Laborious Work- Formula for Calculating Work done by Foot-tons, . . . ■ -*o Zil Space and "Ventilation. Eeeulation Space per Man in Barracks and Hospitals in different Climates-Tents- Amount of Air required per Man-Tentage area compared with Civil Populations iMode of reckoning same-Camp Measurements-Samtary Regulationsjor Camps and Tents, Eegulations as to Defects of Vision. For Candidates for Commissions in the British Army Navy and Indian Pilot Sei-vice-The Indian Civil Service, Covenanted and Uncovenanted-The Indian Marine Service, . . • • • • • . ^• Appendix I. „ , .... 253-254 Formulee, Appendix II. Antiseptic Appliances contained in the Field Companion-Surgical Haversack- Medical Field Panniers-Field Fracture Box-Surgery Wagon-Special Surgical Panniers-Eeserve Medical Field Panniers-Pharmacy Wagon- Large Fracture Box-Medicine Chest-First Field-Dressing described, 25j-.'6< Appendix III. Translation of an order issued to the German Army Medical Department wth reference to the preparation of Antiseptic Dressing on receiving tlie order for MobiUsation, -oe ^ou Appendix IV. List of Supplies sent in each Boat proceeding up the Nile, calculated for 12 Men in a boat and to las 1100 days, Appendix V. Kit of Office}-! in the Field. To be worn and carried on the person, carried m a Bed Valise or otherwise, 262-263ILLUSTRATIONS. PIG. 1. 2. 3. 4. 7. 8. 9. 10. 11, 13, 16, 18. 19, 21. 22, 25. 26. 27. 28. 29. 30. 31. 32. 33. 34. 35. 36. 37. 38. 39. 40. 41. 42. 43. 44. 45. 46. 47. 48. 49, 51. 52. 53, 67. Frontispiece—Bearer company at work on field. Extemporary stretcher constructed with a ship s hammock and pole, bo. do. a ship's cot and pole, . Qalton's extemporary stretcher, . . . . • Extemporary stretcher constructed with two poles and strong cloth or linen, . . • • • , • , • Do. do. two poles and straps, . Do. do. two poles and hay or strap ropes, Do. do. four rifles and two great coats, Do. do. two rifles and one great coat. Do. do. two rifles and one great coat, Do. do. two rifles and two soldier's knapsacki 12. Sanderson's extemporised stretcher, .... 14, 15. Smith's extemporised stretcher, .... 17. Do. do. .... Extemporary stretcher constructed with two poles and ropes, . 20. Smith's extempoi-ised springs for country carts, Zavodovsky's method of carrying sick or wounded in railway vans, 23,24. The "Bry" system for carrying sick or wounded in railway wagons, ..... porter's hill-dooly, ..... Macdonald's ambulance lift for ship or shore, Plan of encampment of a bearer company, . Do. of a field hospital, . . . Esmarch's triangular bandage. Extemporised lamp, ..... Extemporised reflector, ..... Extemporary appliance for fracture of the thigh, constructed with a rifle and great coat, ....... Do. do. constructed with two splints, Esmarch's extension apparatus for fractures of the thigh, Port's straw mats for fractures of the thigh, ... Extemporary appliance for fracture of the leg, constructed with a splint and soldier's great coat, ...... Do. do. do. a soldier's knapsacli Extemporary appliance for fracture of the leg, constructed with a board, Do. do. do. a sword scabbard. Bayonet leg splints, . . ■ . Do. Leg splint constructed with a roll of straw, ..... Extemporary appliance for fracture of long bones, constructed with cloth and rolls of straw, ....... Extemporary appliance for fracture of the humerus, constructed with bayonet and scabbard, ....... Do. do. do. with thin pieces of board, The French trough splint, . . Duncan's rattan splint, ........ Gauze splint, ......... 50. Splints constructed with twigs or brushwood, .... Do. do. . . . . Surgical scissors provided with a file for cutting wire, 54, 55, 56. Splints mac't from telegraph wire, . . . . Diagram for flannel for Moffitt's plaster of Paris bandage for the leg, . PAGE 6 6 7 8 8 9 9 10 10 10 11 12 13 13 14 15 16 18 19 26 27 30 31 31 33 33 34 35 35 36 36 36 36 37 37 37 37 38 39 40 40 40 41 41 42 43ILLUSTRATIONS. xvi via V^^^a^'^ ^^'^f} P^3,9ter of Paris bandage for the leg, , 59, 60 Bavarian (Port s) method of applying plaster of Paris bandagis, . 61. Vo cer s first step in applying plaster of Paris bandage to leg or thigh, leer's third step 64, 65. Extemporised arm slings, do. do., 66, 67. 68. 69. 70. 71. 72. 73 N^laton's probe, Lecomte's probe. Electric Explorer, Foot-bath, Arm-bath, Esmarch's irrigator. Irrigator and kidney-shape dressing-tray, Extemporised bedstead, 74. Extemporised trestles to support stretcher, 75. Extemporised cot, 76. Extemporised bed-cradle, 77. Splint for fractures of the lower iaw, 78. Do. do., 79. Do. do., applied, 80. Hammond's splint for fractures of the lower jaw, 81. The quilled suture, .... 82. 83. Interrupted sutures of Lembert, . 84, 85. Stromeyer's pad for fractures of the humerus, 86. Hodgen's apparatus for gun-shot fractures of the thigh 87. Hodgen's suspending apparatus for do. do., 88,89. Smith's suspending apparatus for do. . do. 90, 91. Esmarch's apparatus for do. do. 92. Erichsen's bracketed apparatus for do. do. 93. Stromeyer's apparatus for do. do, 94. Amputation at the shoulder-joint, . . ' 95. Amputation at the shoulder-joint by transfixion, . 96. Circular amputation of the arm, 97. Amputation of the arm above the elbow by transfixion, 98, 99 100, 101, 102, 104. 105. 106. 107, 108. 103. Do. of the fore-ami by transfixion. Do. at the wrist, .... Do. of fore and little fingers, Do. at the hip-joint, Fergusson's method. Do. through the knee, Garden's method, . Do. of the leg, ..... Do. at the ankle, Syme's method, . Do., Parry's modific ition of Syme's method Do. of le.s by Teale's method, 109. Esmarch's splint for excision of the elbow, . 110. Lister's splint for excision of the wrist, 111. 112. Esmarch's splint for resection of the wrist, 113. Splint for excision of the bip-joint, . 114, 115, 116. Porter's streti-her and bed for excision of the hip-joint, 117. Excision of the ankle by Guthrie's method, 118, 119. Esmarch's splint for excision of the ankle, 120. Do. do., 121. Motfs tourniquet, 122. Volcker's tourniquet, . 123. Esmarch's tourniquet, . 124. Spencer Wells' torsion forceps 125. The reef-knot, . 126. Porter's sling for the more convenient treatment of bed sores, 127. Camp latrine, ... 128. Extemporary water-filter, . . , , , PA.GE ** ±R. ^0 n, '±1 AfT %l 48 48 ^l^ Dl ft! Do u/ 0/ DO oy 7ft /1 71 83 83 83 84 100 108 122-123 132 133 1.34 1.35 136 136 162 164 165 166 167 168 168 170 173-174 175 176 177 179 183 185 186 187 188-189 190 191 192 201 202 203 204 205 217 242 2i31 THE SUEG-EON'S POCKET-BOOK. INTRODUCTOEY GENERAL REMARKS. The duties of the Army Surgeon, at all times responsible, are more especially so in time of war, and much of the success of armies is de- pendent upon the manner in which these duties are executed. The General Officer Commanding an army in the field, owing to the pressing necessities of supreme military command, is obliged to entrust the sanitary duties to an expert officer, who should be a medical officer of high position occupying a definite recognised place upon his staff. This medical officer ought, therefore, to exercise considerable fore- thought in making suitable rules for the preservation of health, and in arranging a proper organisation for the care and treatment of the sick and wounded. It is not always possible that General Officers Command- ing troops in the field can comply with the strict rules of hygiene; the responsible or principal medical officer should, therefore, recognise such conditions and offer such suggestions only as are necessary, practicable, and really likely to conduce to the health and comfort of tlfiose under his medical charge. It is on these occasions when difficulties have to be overcome that the resources of the Army Surgeon are severely tested, and his genius and training prominently brought out. To facilitate such duties and to enable the Surgeon General of an army to relieve the General Officer Commanding of any of his responsi- bilities, it is most necessary that he should be one of the general staff, as IS the case with the Senior Officer of Royal Engineers, in order that he may be in direct communication with the General, and so learn what are likely to be the probable movements of the troops, and thus get some idea of the strategy intended. He will then be able to sketch out suit- able plans for the field ambulance ; in some cases, possibly, preventing it from blocking up and obstructing important roads, and, in others, by arranging for an early and rapid transfer of wounded men to the base, thus freemg the army from such encumbrances, and so enabling the General to make a forward movement earlier than he could otherwise have done. 10 (juote the language of a distinguished officer *—" The General ♦Camperdown Commission Question, 1558-1890.INTRODUCTORY GENERAL REMARKS. 1 Officer should have his head full of the forward movement, and the Medical Officer should have his head full of the backward movement." It will be quite obvious to those who know anything about armies that the only way in which a Surgeon-General could render this assistance to a General Officer is by being in constant touch and communication with him as one of the staff, but if the Surgeon-(Jeneral of an Army is to be relegated to the lines of communication fir base,* he ceases to have any powers, and the authority that he should legitimately exercise will have to be usurped by a junior, as it is utterly impossible that anymilitary officer could exercise supreme command over an army in the field for any length of time without requiring constant reference to his principal medical officer upon a number of points of pressing or even vital im- portance, and as the professional advice tendered might or might not affect his [)lans, it can only be right that the medical officer so consulted should be the one to whom the country has entrusted the medical charge of the army. If, however, the piresent regulations are to con- tinue in force the Surgeon-General selected by the Secretary of State for War for the medical charge of the army wUl be miles away from the General Officer Commanding whose medical adviser must then be some junior medical officer, who will naturally give his best opinion under the circumstance but without any of the sense of responsibility that would weigh with the Surgeon-General of the Force. Organisation of Transport.—Rules and regulations exist in all civilised countries for the organisation of transport, supply of stores, comforts, medicines and surgical instruments vmder their respective departments ; but it is becoming now the recognised province of the medical staff in all European armies to take possession of the sick or wounded soldier from the time that he " falls out" at the front until he reaches the base hospitals however long the line of communication may be. It is, therefore, the nature of these executive duties that has led the medical officers in the varioiis armies to seek to have their position and status better defined. In the held the military power is paramount and everything is subordinated to it, consequently only those persons possess- ing army rank have authority. Medical officers of the army feel that if they are to accept the new responsibihties which the demands of modern warfare have of necessity thrown upon them, their position as officers in the matter of rank must be unequivocal. In the field there is too much seriousness of purpose present with every one to admit of any self- assertion, nor in the nature of things is this desirable at any time ; there- fore army surgeons seek for such recognition as wiU render them efficient in the discharge of their proper and legitimate duties without their having the least desire to trench upon the duties of their combatant brethren. It would seem only logical that the more the army medical officer is identified with and forms part of the military machine, the more efficient he will be, and consequently the greater advantage yrdl result to the army at large. The Army Surgeon ought to take considerable pains to make himself * Regulations for Medical Service.'. Part I., pora'^. 107,108. ISilO.INTRODUCTORY GENERAL REMARKS. 3 acquainted with the construction of all transport conveyances for the sick and wounded, and with the regulated plans of encampments for bearer-companies and tield hospitals, together with all the minutiae of their respective equipments. This knowledge can only be acquired by his having sufficient opportunities in peace time for constant practice with the units—viz., a field hospital and a bearer-company—the equip- ments for which are needed for this ptirpose in all large military centres. It is too late to attempt to learn the A B G of such things on service when every man is pi'essed for time and calls for help are being made on all sides. The time to learn about field hospitals and their equip- ment, where to find the different medicines, surgical appliances, as well as the cooking and feeding arrangements ; how to pitch and strike a camp ; how to readily divide a field hospital into its halves, each with its proper comjjlement of stores of all kinds, can only be leai-ned in the leisure time of peace, while upon a proper knowledge of such things on the part of the Medical Staff Corps will deijend the welfare and lives of sick and wounded officers and men. Surgical Instruments should be special objects for care. The French and German Armies have adopted the plan of having all their siargical knives made in piece with the handles, so that there are no scored wooden handles to hold and retain dirt. The cases in which they are packed are made of metal, and serve the double purpose of cases and of troughs for soaking the instruments before using them. When re- quired for operation the contents are taken out and the empty metal case is filled with an antiseptic lotion in which the knives are soaked ; when no longer required for this use they are emptied and dried and the knives are carefully packed away in them by means of absorbent cotton wool. The Art of Extemporising Appliances.—The extemporaneous con- struction of splints, pads, cushions, field kitchens, hospital huts, latrines, bedcots, litters, carts, &c., should engage the earnest attention of the army surgeon as he may be placed in positions when regular artificers are not available ; with knowledge on these matters, and the aid of a few orderlies, he may be able to secure shelter, properly cooked food, and comfort in a short time. On service he Avill find that, unless he is capable of supervising and directing such things, much will be left undone and those under his care must consequently suft'er; and even if the usual resources fail, or are not at hand, he should be able by extempor- aneous expedients to succour the woimded and relieve the sick. An acquaintance with tlie dress of the soldier may assist in discovering smne cause for inability to march or keep up with the others, such as tight collars, or badly-fitting boots, or wrinkles in trousers, &c. The Carriage of the Sick and Wounded on stretchers is highly im- portant, and the surgeon should be in a position to instruct those about hmi in the event of regularly trained men not being available. A stretcher section consists of four detachments, and each detachment of four men, two of whom carry the stretcher, while two act as a relief durmg the transport, and assist in placing upon the stretchers men who have met with serious fractures or other injuries.4 INTRODUCTORY GENERAL REMARKS. Before attempting to remove a badly-wounded man from the spot where he has fallen the stretcher should be brought close up to him. The wounded man should not be carried by hand further than can be avoided. In placing the stretcher for this purpose, it should be laid by the side of the patient according to present regulations, but in some systems it is directed to be placed at the head of the patient in a line with his body. The following instructions have been laid down by Sir Thos. Longmore for the proper carriage of stretchers :— The front and rear bearers of the conveyance must start with opposite feet. They must not move " in step," but, on the contrary, must march out of step, or, as the ordinary expression is, must " break step." If the man in the front steps off left foot forward, the man in the rear must step off at the same moment right foot forward, or vice versa, and this broken step must be maintained throughout the whole distance of the transport. The bearers must march with a steady but easy step, particularly avoiding that elevation of their bodies which is caused by springing from the fore part of the feet. The foot should be planted without any wavering on the ground at each step, and in moving forward it should only be raised sufficiently to clear the ordinary impediments on its surface. Some bearers, unless this rule is enforced, will make a slight spring in their movements, which spring is of course communicated to the more or less pliable conveyance they are carrying. They do so in the belief that the weight is sustained more easily in consequence of the elastic movement which is thus obtained, but they take no note of its ill effect on the person conveyed. Whether even or uneven as regards measure of time, great care must be taken that the steps of the front and rear bearers are invariably even and alike in distance. If the steps do not well and accurately agree in length, there will constantly be a hasty " catching up " of one or other by his fellow-bearer, and the stretcher and patient will be jolted on every occasion when au effort is thus made to re-adjust the distance. If the bearei's march wth an exactly cor- responding step as regards length, this source of disturbance will be avoided. When forming a stretcher detachment, as far as circumstances permit, men of nearly the same height and strength should be selected for acting together. When a stretcher is supported by men of equal height and proportion, if the ground be level, the stretcher will necessarilj^ assume a horizontal position also, and men possessed of like degrees of strength will carry the weight and move together more evenly. If the gi-ound be uneven, the bearers will have to mutually adapt the heiglit of their respective ends of the conveyance to the irregularities in oi'der to pre- serve its level condition. When slings or shoulder-straps are used to assist the bearers in carrying stretchers, care should be taken at starting that they are buckled so that the parts supporting the poles are at equal distances from the surface of the ground. A a most ground over which the woundedmen have to be carried is likelyS INTRODUCTORY GENERAL REMARKS. to present irregularities of surface, it becomes an important matter for bearers to practise the carriage of the stretchers so as to acquire a facility of keeping the stretcher level, notwithstanding that the ground is uneven. If the ground over which the conveyance has to pass presents a general ascent, and the bearers are of different heights, then the rear or No. 3 bearer should be the taller and stronger man, for his greater height_ and the greater strength of his arm will be useful in supporting and raising the stretcher up to the level of the end carried by the foremost man. The weight of the stretcher will naturally be thrown in the direction of the man on the lower level. If the ground presents a general descent the front or No. 1 bearer should be the taller and stronger, for the same reasons as those just given as regards the No. 3 bearer imder the opposite circumstances. A sick or wounded person on a stretcher should be carried, if the ground be tolerably level, with his face looking toward the direction in which the bearers walk. The front or No. 1 bearer then supports the end of the stretcher at which the patient's feet are placed; the bearer near the patient's head is the rear bearer or No. 3. If the bearers have to carry the stretcher up hill, the front bearer should support the end of the stretcher on which the patient's head is placed, excepting under the following circumstances :— If the bearers have to carry the stretcher down hill, the rear bearer, or No. 3, should support the end on which the patient's head is placed. The reverse of these positions should be assumed by the bearers, both as regards going up hill and going down hill, when the patient being carried is suffering from a recent fracture of the thigh or leg. The patient's comfort and welfare will be best consulted as a general principle by the arrangements suggested in the previous iiaragraphs. Although under all circumstances the level position should be sought for as much as possible, still, if the slope of the ground be such that it cannot be attained, it appears desirable that the inclination downwards should be towards the feet rather than towards the head of the patient. But with regard to the exceptions just named, a reverse position of the patient is directed in order to prevent the weight of his body pushing the upper end of the broken bone down upon the helpless and motionless portion of the limb below the seat of the fracture. No attempt must be made to Ccirry a helpless patient over a high fence or wall, if it can possibly be avoided ; it is always a dangerous proceeding. The danger is of course increased in proportion to the height of the wall or fence. If the fence or wall be high, either a irortion of the wall should be thrown down, or a breach in the fence made, so that the patient may be carried through on a stretcher; or the patient should be carried to a place where a gate or opening does already exist. In crossing a ditch, dyke, or hollow, the stretcher should be first laid on the ground near its edge, the first bearer then descends, the stretcher with the patient upon it is afterwards advanced, the first bearer in the ditch supporting the front of the stretcher, while its other end rests on the edge of the ground above. While thus supported, the6 IN TROD UCTORY GENERAL REMARKS. second bearer descends, the two bearers now lift the stretcher to the opposite side and the fore part being now made to rest onthe ed^e «f the ground while the rear part is supported by the second bearer in the ditch, the fii;sfc bearer is left free to climb up. The stretcher is now End ■ ^'^'^^^^ ^"^1 rests there whTle tl" second bearer climbs up, the two bearers then carry the stretcher on. On no account should a stretcher be permitted to be carried on the on??^thS thl'lV bearers. The ivil of such a proceeLg £ no? so thnf , J> 1 *° ^"""^ f ^^^^^ b'f'f' °^ precisely the same height so that a level position may be secured, but also that the wounded or h.lnlp^f """'rJ- I'^^l^'^'i^ happen to fall from such a height owing to the helpless condition m which such a patient usuaUy is, will not be unlikely to sustain a serious aggravation of the injuries he may already be suffering from. Moreover, one of the bearers of the stretcher ought always to have his patient m view so as to be aware of htemorrhage, fainting, or other changes reqmring attention taking place, and this cannot be done when the patient is carried on the shoulders. Surgeon-Major Will in his report upon the Nile Expedition, 1884, writes— I substituted ropes for the leather shoulder straps, grummets were made similar to those on board ship through which the ropes were passed, two bamboo poles eight feet long were run through the grummets and the stretcher was then carried by means of the pole upon the shoulders of four men. This method proved suitable and comfortable to both patients and bearers." Means of Extemporaneous Transport.—There are occasions when a suflicient number of stretchers may not be at hand; it will then be Fig. 1. Fig. 2. Hammocks and Cots used during the Ashantee Wai', 1873-74, arranged with shades for protection from the sun. (From drawings by Surgeon J. Fleming.) necessary to adapt oneself to circumstances, and take advantage of such means as may be present. If near shipping, hammocks and cots may beINTRODUCTORY GENERAL REMARKS. converted into stretchers by being suspended from smgle poles as m fi„s^ 1 and 2, or by a little management they can be J^'.l^f J^te between two poles. The former plan ^^^^P^^d durmg the late expedition of British troops in Western Africa, S^/^.^^^^f ^'^^Hm^ Ee^an R.N. mentions that each hammock was fitted with a pUlow mlcfe of another spare hammock, which, ha the event <%^^y^^^'^l'^lJ; could be easily slung from tree to tree, and thus often proved very "^ThVfoUowing stretchers may be constructed on the spot from materials generally available :— ■ r^/^loa '< Blankets, by having a loop sewn at each corner, can with two poles or two rifles make temporary conveyances. A loop should be sewn at Fig. each corner, and the blanket be then doubled over so that J^^^ at each end are brought together ; a pole or rifle can be Passed through the four loops on one side, and another passed withm the doubhng of the blanket on the other side. •„„^K„f,„„. " In urgent cases a blanket maybe used as a means of carriage by torn men, one taking hold of each corner. It miist first be spread out upon the ground, and the patient laid gently on it m a suitable direction. Mr. Hamilton of the U.S.A., in writing of blanket litters, recommends " cedar as the best for carrying-poles, being light elastic, and strong next to these, pine or ash. Two cross-bars are sufhcient. ihe blanket maybe rolled in before the cross-bars are made fast or, the cross-bars being first secured, the blanket may be 'knotted up' by strings, and itINTRODVCTORY GENERAL REMARKS lloXZ^,S''I^^ltl7t''^''''- '"'^ ■""y ■=« '^^ by tearing .trips along the sides of the poles ^ml fvW^tl^ f • intervals of a foot two lael, and th«e oaeV:ro,fbl''nf 1-.^^^^^^ '"'"''i "■,■""1"' Fig. 4. Fig. 5. his stomach and keep him from falling out, and there wiU remain two stout handles for the carriers to lay hold of. A kind of wagon-top can easily be made to it with bent boughs and one spare blanket." _ Oat or corn sacks will serve as a canvas bottom to a temporary litter or m an emergency, any old pieces of cloth—the fragment of a tent an overcoat, or even a pair of pantaloons ; some of which things can ahi\ostIJ\TRODUCTORY GENERAL REMARKS. g always be found on a battlefield. Litters thus constructed also make excellent beds in a hospital tent, when placed upon four crotchet sticks driven into the ground." . General Jackson recommended and adopted occasionally a very simple method of conveying the sick in his expedition against the Indians— viz., to suspend a bull's hide between two muskets, upon which the patient was carried by two or four men, as the case might require. Fig. 4 represents a very simple stretcher made with two long poles and two shorter ones laid cross-wise and nailed (or secured by tying), strong cloth, linen, or any other material being stretched across: Boards may be substituted for the cloth, in which case a sack filled with straw, hay, or other soft material must be laid above them. Fig. 5 represents a Fig. 7. stretcher composed of two long poles of equal length with two or three of the men's belts interlaced. Two cross poles would, of course, keep the long ones apart and make the contrivance more comfortablcj but heavy,IP INTRODUCTORY GENERAL REMARKS. post to the first line of surgical assistance. Fig. 7 represents a stretcher Fig. 6 represents a stretcher constructed with a hay or straw rope, which (though troublesome to construct, and requiring experts in the manufac- ture of the rope) might be found convenient if circumstances admitted of its bemg made. Fig. 8. Many plans have been devised from time to time for converting men's greatcoats or tunics, and rifles, into temporary means of conveyance. Fig. 9. sufficient in an emergency to carry a wounded soldier from an advancedINTRODUCTORY GENERAL REMARKS. ii constructed with four rifles and two greatcoats. Two nfles are firmly lashed to£?ether by their barrels, so as to take the place of poles. IJae sleeves of the coats are then turned into the inside of the garments, and Fig. 11. the rifles passed through them, after which each coat is buttoned down the front in the usual way. With one tunic or coat and two rifles a short stretcher may be constructed, as shown in figs. 8 and 9, which would answer for a wounded soldier unable to walk, but capable of Fig. 12. sitting up, his back being placed against front bearer and his legs hanging down in front of rear liearer. Soldiers' knapsacks may be utilised in the formation of stretchers by being fastened with their straps between poles or rifles, as represented in fig. 10. Pigs. 11 and 12 represent an arrangement of four muskets with valise equipment and straps, devised by Surgeon-Major Sanderson, 30th Regi- ment.INTRODUCTORY GENERAL REMARKS. 12 fo?nd ^Ji^S^'Sfcks^'TL" extempore litter maybe made by shirts Z er ^^^^^^^^^^^ doubt, he says as to the solidity or frailty of a litter of thTkind and before placing the patient upon it, it shoulcl be tried by a sold er to insure all being m proper order; for nothing can be more distressfnVtC to sXl'ng man" ^'"'^ ^^"'^^^ "^^^'^^^ TwounVed and Sailora may in like manner utilise their strong woollen iersies white Fig. 13. Fig. 14. Fig. 15. Should materials exist for constructing fascines and gabions, excellent litters may be made in the same manner. Surgeon-Major C. Smith of the Norwegian Army has designed from strong boughs of trees sereral most ingenious stretchers, which have the great advantage of being supported by legs—a most important item in the construction of all stretchers. Fig. 13 represents a poi-tion of a bough, having at its side a branch strong enough to serve as a leg; it requires four such pieces to malce a stretcher, each being levelled at oneINTRODUCTORY GENERAL REMARKS. 13 end with a hatchet or strong knife, and two of them joined together, as shown in fig. 14. These are then attached to side poles by cords, osiers, or other materials, when the framework of a firm stretcher is constructed (fig. 15), on which is to be placed for its bottom a piece of canvas. He has also constructed stretchers with legs, as represented in figs. 16 and Fig. 16. Fig. 17. 17, all of which mi^dit answer for improvised hospital cots, the handles being shortened or removed. Cavalry lances have been recommended for forming the side ijoles of extemporary stretchers ; but they will scarcely bear a weight of 10 stones, are too elastic, and therefore unsafe. Country Carts.—When sufficient wheeled carriage or transport suited for the wounded is not available, country carts may be adapted for the purpose by a few simple arrangements. If materials are procurable, a stretcher may be constructed with ropes (fig. 18) of straw, hay, telegraph wire, or leather belts, and slung within Fig. 18. from the sides of the cart, care being taken that the lashings are well secured but not too tight or too loose ; in the former case, the stretcher would receive the impulse from the body of the cart, and in the latter it would knock against its sides. Should means for constructing a stretcher not be at hand, the cart may be filled with small branches of trees evenly placed, and over them a thick layer of straw, hay, rushes, ferns, dried leaves, or any soft material on which the sufferer may be laid. A large quantity of fresh straw evenly laid in a cart wiU form a moderately comfortable conveyance, on which wounded men may be14 INTRODUCTORY GENERAL REMARKS. carried for a considerable distance without any ill effects. In India it is not uncommon to place a dooly on a country cart filled with straw or dried leaves when bearers are not procurable. Surgeon-Major Manly, V.C., has described an extemporised ar- rangement for adding to the comfort of the sick when transporting them which he used in New Zealand. Each drag (a two-wheeled cart!] took two wounded. Two hospital bed-cases were filled with fresh ferns Fig. 19. and placed in the drag and two wounded men placed on them. If the wound was of the upper extremity, or through the chest, more ferns were placed imder the bed-case so as to raise the front haM of it, by which means the man could sit in the recumbent position; if of the lower extremities, the other half of the bed was also raised, so as to elevate the legs and thighs above the body. By these arrangements and proper distribution of sick (that is, when a slightly-wounded man is placed alongside one badly wounded), marches of 20 "and 25 miles were made with comparative comfort. Surgeon-Major C. Smith has also designed a method for carrying two badly wounded on stretchers in a country hay-wagon. The arrange- ment is as follows : One end of a rough pole (A, figs. 19 and 20) is lashedINTRODUCTORY GENERAL REMARKS. 15 to the top side rail [aa) of the wagon outside the side bars, to the front, as in fig. 20; another (B) is similarly lashed to the rear ; this being done at both sides, cross poles (cc) are lashed to the free end of these poles ; these cross poles support the stretchers which are lashed to them. In this manner the wounded in travelling have the advantage of the spring of the longitudinal poles ; to keep this within limits, bands of osier {dd) are placed loosely round them and the top side rail of the wagon. Railway Hospital Trains.—Kail way carriages, vans, or trucks should be made use of when circumstances admit for the more rapid dispersion of the disabled. Regular railway transport not being available, it may he necessary to convert baggage and store wagons into suitable transport. Mattresses and bed-sacks tilled with straw have been laid on the floor of the wagons, but in consequence of the jarring caused by the vibration of the convey- ance they are not considered comfortable. Loose straw has also been tried but found defective in elasticity, as it becomes rapidly displaced from under the bodies of the patients, accumulating in heaps, and is easily broken up and matted, when used the supply should be lil^eral. Fig. 21. Major-General Zavodovsky, of St. Petersburg, has adopted the following plan for preventing all shocks from the motion of trains :—Two cables (AA, fig. 21), an inch in thickness, are suspended across the top of the car, and secured to iron hooks that fasten to iron rings, Ih inches below the roof of the car. If hooks and rings are not available, the ropes may be passed through four holes bored in the side of the car. To each of the two ropes is attached at three points (hhh) a pole of oak, birch, elm, ash,I6 IHTRODVCTORY OENERAL REMARKS. ff Fig. 22. Fig. 23. Longitudinal section. ^UlWlWillliiiiJiii^.ff Teansverse section. Stretchers. T, Traverses for support of stretchers. -s, Supports of traverses. b__ Bolts for fixing them to the sides of the wagon. R- R, Steel spiral springs.INTRODUCTORY GENERAL REMARKS. or other springy wood adapted to the width of the car, but at least 8 feet long and 2^ inches thick in the middle, and If inch at the ends. To the poles thus placed horizontally, there are attached on either side four cords [cccc) with knots [xxxx), so arranged that they may support on a level the stretchers (DD) on which the wounded men are supposed to he reclining. In order that, when the car is in motion, the stretchers with the ijatients may not sway backward and forward and strike against the sides of the car, the lower stretchers are fastened by Ig inch ropes to tlu-ee small iron hooks [zzz) screwed into the floor of the conveyance.* The " Bry " System.—Another mode and one largely adapted by the French is called the "Bry"system (after Colonel Bry, of the Engineers, who devised it). By this method each covered goods wagon is adapted to carry twelve wounded men on stretchers in a very comfortable and easy manner. Two pairs of stout wooden traverses, T T, are placed at either end of the wagon on each side of the door, one above the other, and each is suspended at either extremity to the side of the wagon by a stout steel spiral spring, E R. Each pair of traverses is intended to receive and support three stretchers, B B, which are held in position by some leather straps which confine the legs of the stretcher and thus prevent them from slipping. The steel spiral spring is short and very strong, and it is fastened to the side of the wagon by an iron plate which is firmly bolted to it. Each wagon can thus carry six loaded stretchers at either end in tiers of three and three. The spring takes all the jolts and jars, and so enables the wounded men to ride on their stretchers comfortably to their journey's end. (See figs. 22, 23, 24.) Ship's Hammocks, affording most easy and convenient conveyance, may be utilised for the transport of wounded in railway vans or wagons. The method recommended by the author (S. M. Porter) is to erect up- rights at either end inside each wagon (the walls of railway wagons are usually not sufficiently strong or thick enough to bear the weight of one or more men suspended in hammocks), which should be secured in a temporary manner to the roof and floor, at such a distance apart that the hammock may be fully stretched when hooked or lashed to them. To prevent the lateral motion or swing which takes place when the wagon is proceeding at speed, that portion of each hammock immediately imder the patient's knees should be supported by a stout stick placed horizontally, suspended at either end by cords attached to the roof and again to rings or hooks in the floor. It might be possible to make use of ship's hammocks for this purpose in the event of transporting sick or wounded from inland to a iiort of embarkation, where, no doubt, they could be obtained from the shipping. Horse litters were used during the American War in 1862, and are well adapted for frontier service, they may be constructed for one or two horses. For the former, one end is supported by a horse or mule, while the other end rests on the ground; with the "two-horse litter" both ends are supported, but as the horses or mules carrying such a contrivance should be well trained, the "oue-horse litter" is preferable and is easily made. * Report on a Plan for Transporting Wounded Soldiers by Railway. G. A. Otis, 187-5. 218 INTRODUCTORY GENERAL REMARKS. mJarr conl%fn??ck o^^ J^?- -e several such as dandies llT^hampam hu^ihLT.T. f^-, T.^^ ^'l^' placed in the recun/bentpSon. The author t^M P*^' as shown in illustration (fig 25)? ' ""^^ ^ jhampan frame Fig. 25. r.^,Sf. ? ^r^'l could be easily improvised from an ordinarv bed cot {charpoy) and bamboo poles. It has the foUowing advantages that the recumbent position can be maintained thronghoSt the ma?ch that on the line of march a patient need never be shifted ; that the cot answers the purpose of a bed at night; and that a less number of natrveTis required for its carriage than for any other form of conveyance aStin ' CacoS Drfnr- V 'Y' f'^^' advantages of aSJ"''' oacoiets.-Dr. Appia, who has had great experience with this mode of conveyance, remarks with reference to the cacolet with that i? is the'W Li th^t'ir- «f an arm, or Smost o the toot, but that It IS impracticable in wounds of the abdomen in frac ures of the thigh wounds of the knee, and compound fractures of the eg. In cases such as these, the cacolet bed or litter has rendered excel ent service. In order to prevent the shaking as much as possfble fnT- '^^'^^^t P^*^*^"* °^ upon very pHant cushions and for this purpose he recommends those made of india-rubber which he has frequently made use of. '■^yu^i, wnion of tSi? ' ^'^^ necessity should sanction the use Pol fhr'il'if™?^-'' ^'^^olets proved most useful and comfortable. ^^'^^^^■'^S or disembarking of sick and wounded, where stretcher conveyance is not available or cannot be used. Dr. J D Macdonald, F.R.S., R.N., has designed an "ambulance lift for ship orFig. Ambulance Lift for ?nip or Shore. References to the Figure. 1. Hook or eyc-l30lt fixed to the beam over tho hatchway. 2. A "ilouble whip," or a purchase with a double block above and a single one below, a and 6; c, the hauling part. 3. A " span " with an eye in the middle for the lower hook of the purchase. 4. A pole 4i feet long with which the span is connected. 5. An ordinary hammock attached by the head and foot clews to the extremities of the pole, and further sustained by lanyards, a, fixed to a ham-piece, 6, besides20 SERVICE IN THE FIELD. fcl" }^ .appears to be admirably adapted for the nnmosp SERVICE IN THE FIELD. pe'rX1?rtoo''Zw^'°''' '""'Seon should not be ham- perea with too many things about his own person. Porter says-What I have generally found most convenient are as follows :-Sdcet-caS of instruments well furnished with silk, needles, &c., carried in the Pouch fsiTuiLlv o^ h"? 'r^^'^if' baversack'or small black^learheTCj asmausupply of Imt, two or three bandages, adhesive Dlaster tape plaister_ recommended), tourniquet, f flask of wine or LLndy a hypodermic injection syringe, with a small phial coStaSnc. f^r 3 drachms of so ution of morphia.* A clasp knife will be found most useful for cutting off clothes and shaping splints, &c. If mounted the surgeon can, of course, carry many necessaries in his hoTster wallets rotdedmamt " " rehefTo aty tionsf-^^ assistance in the field J is thus provided by the regula- (a) Medical officers attached to regiments, batteries, and corps, (o) Bearer compames. ^ (c) Field hospitals. (c^) Stationary hospitals on lines of communication (e) Base hospitals. Regimental Aid -A medical officer is attached to each regiment, battery of Royal Artillery, and company of Royal Engineers. With a regiment he is provided with one pair of field medical and surgical panniers one field companion with water bottle complete, one surreal haversack, one circular tent; but, if with a smaller unit, he is supplied only witlia field companion with water bottle and one surgical haver- sack. I his equipment the medical officer draws from the army medical stores previous to embarkation, and on taking the field, it is carried for him in the regimental transport. He replenishes his stores from the nearest field hospital. The officers commanding corps draw the field stretchers m the proportion of one for each company, and convey them in the regimental transport. The medical officer is required to enter his which a strengthening footpiece, c, is retained in its place by the foot clews of the hammock, and greater security is given to the patient by the strap and toggle d holding the sides of the hammock together. The ham-pieoe, 5 6, is tightiy secured to the hammock to prevent displacement. x- > i & j =douic * Morphia in solution is liable to spontaneous change, and is uncertain in its strength if laid up for any time. To obviate this, M. Vidal adds to the solution a quantity of choral equivalent to twice the weight of the morphia it contains.—" New Eemedies, Jan. 1S70. t Vide Appendix V. for personal equipment. 1 Abbreviations used in the text—P.M.0-, Principal Medical Officer- OSD Ordnance Store Department, , . . •,21 SERVICE IN THE FIELD. transactions in Army Book, 39, and beyond this, to furnish no returns or reports unless specially called for. His duty is to see m the farst instance all men reporting sick, to afford temporary aid to sick and wounded in camp, on line of march, and in action, to prevent mahngering or accumulation of sick in front. When an action is expected,_he should obtain the services of the trained regimental stretcher-bearers in the pro- portion of two per company who are ordered to be placed at his disposal, Q.E., 1889, place a corporal in charge of the field panniers, and then afford such temporary aid to the wounded as may be within his power, but neither he nor his bearers should on any account lose touch of their corps. First line of medical assistance is formed by the Bearer Companies. The carriages of the regimental transport of a Bearer Company form a portion of its war establishment. The officer commanding is responsible for their efficiency in the same manner as for other details of his com- mand; he obtains them from the O.S.D. Woolwich Arsenal on requisi- tion. It is now ordered that, when a force proceeds to its destination by sea, the transport and stores are to accompany the troops. The officer commanding the Bearer Company is responsible to the P.M.O. at the base for the arms, accoutrements, clothing, and neces- saries of the men, and will account to the O.S.D. for the equipment and stores of the company in Field Equipment Ledger Army Book, 248. Two companies are provided for a Division, and eight for an Army Corps, so that one company will be attached to a Brigade. They are to be associated with and encamped near the field hospitals, so that they can afford every assistance to the sick and wounded, and furnish tlie necessary guards, but their organisation is to be kept quite distinct. When an action is expected, the medical officer, under direction of the P.M.O. of the Division, will arrange suitable " collecting rendezvous " and "dressing stations ;" the former should, if possible, be under shelter but as close as is convenient to the fighting line, and the latter out of fire. In action the company is divided thus : Two stretcher sections under one surgeon, each section consisting of one sergeant and sixteen privates, will be sent to succour and collect the wounded bringing them to the Collecting Station, where one sergeant will be posted with a field companion in his charge. Five corporals and five jDrivates are attached to the ambulance wagons, which, as they are loaded, should be sent off under charge of a N.C.O. or pi-ivate to the Dressing Station, and as soon as they are unladened they should return to the Collecting Station. At the Dressing Station, which should Ije marked by two red flags, or by two red lanterns at night, the senior medical officer -with another surgeon, the sergeant-major, compounder, one sergeant, one bugler, one corporal, and four privates (one cook), will be assembled with the surgical equipment, stores, and water carts. If any building is available, full use should be made of it; if not, the tent must be pitched ; beef tea, &c., should be got ready and everything put in readiness that can afford aid to the wounded coming in, and help during the pressure of work. Medical officers should be borrowed from the nearest field hospital. After the wounded are dressed, and a taUy ticket attached to each man's22 SERVICE IN THE FIELD. Wah Establishment of a Beareb Company, a bearer company. * Details in italici are provided by Commissariat and Transport Corps.SERVICE IN THE FIELD. 23 i Summary to show a comparison between Wheel and Pack Transport for a Bearer Company in the Field :— Pack Transpokt. Eemarka. At 1 driver to 3 mules. At 1 driver to 2 mules. At I driver to 3 mules. a Ambulance carts have only 1 driver and 2 horses each. 6 Depends on the number of additional stretchers ordered. N.B.—Details in italics are furnished by C. and T. Corps. * One supply cart, one tent cart, and one water cart are supplied with the 12 wagons to complete the equipment when wagons are used. For ijlan of encampment see fig. 27. clothes specifying the regiment, number, rank, and name, with the nature of the injury, the treatment, &c., they will be placed in the ambulance wagons of the second line and taken to the field hospitals. The amount of attention that should be paid to the wounded at the dressing station would differ very materially according to the distance of the field hospitals ; if the latter were close at hand, little or no interference would be required, but if a considerable distance has to he traversed, and many.hours have to elapse before the field hospital coidd be reached, surgical operations of all kinds might have to be performed to bring them within the range of primary operations, that is ■within the first thirty hours, after that the operations would have to be classed as inter- mediate, and this is the period no surgeon would willingly choose. The quarter-master sergeant with two cooks, batmen, and baggage should be placed a little in rear of the dressing station, and arrange so as to have a meal ready for the men of the company after the action is over. After the engagement a close search should be made for any wounded men, or men apparently dead, and lanterns for searching in the dark form part of the equipment. The arms, ammimition, and accoutrements of a wounded man are always to be picked up and carried with him to the dressing station and field hospital, but great care should be taken to see that the rifle is not loaded before it is carried away. The Second Line of Medical Assistance consists of the Field Hospitals. Wheel Tkansport. Description ov Stores, C3 tn u m u Wagol Carts. Drive: Horse Drive 9 ivieciicai anci surgio<ii biui cb, 1 2 h 11 Baggage and reserve rations. 1 2 h h 12 Supplies, 1* 1 1 2 Tents, 1* 1 1 U Ambulance, 16 lOcr 20 kO 6 b Water, 1* 1 1 3 Spare, 1 3 Total, 12 17 27 5h 12 35SERVICE IN THE FIELD. 24 War Establishment op a Field Hospital ^ISLD HOSPITAL OF 100 BEDS. EiUKS. Medical Slaff. Surgeons-Major, ... Surgeons, Quartermaster, Medical Staff Corps Warrant Officer, ... ... wfrdSeT'*''".^^^'-^'^"'''^- Steward, Compounders, ... Cook Pack Storekeeper, ... "' Supernumerary, ... Rank and File. Corporal as Steward, Cook, ... Clerk, ::: ), Supernumerary, Privates as Ward Orderlies, ... ,1 Cook, ' „ Pack Storekeeper, „ Messenger (a), tt Washermen (a). Servants, „ Supernumeraries, Total, Transport attached from Commis- sariat and Transport Corvs Warrant Officer, ... ...^ Sergeant, \" Corporal, 2nd Corporal, ... ."' ArtLQcer (Farrier), ... \" Privates, as Drivers, „ Cook, ]" „ Supernumeraries, ... i„\ Ti^^*'''"^ ^ Pi'orided by CommiBsariat and Transport Corns (a). These are supplied fi-om tlie reser.-e of the M.S.C. or from thrMili&erre.SERVICE IN THE FIELD. i Summary to show a comparison between Wheel and Pack Transport for a Field Hospital in the Field :— Deboription of Stokes. WHEliL TRANSPOHT. ■ Pack Transport. a O bo a 4 2 6 CO 1 o 8 4 1* 1* 2* 16 n > u p 8 u 1 ■1 16 cr (U n ^< O w 16 8 2 k S3 1 Drivers. Mules. Remarks. Medical and surgical stoves, Baggage and reserve rationR, Supplies, Tents (for personnel), "Water, Spare, Total, 9 7 1 6 M 38 37 30 3 18a 8 8 83 At 1 driver to 3 mules. At 1 driver to 2 mules. At 1 driver to 3 mules. a Including tents for sick. N.B.—The details shown in italics are furnished by the Commissariat and Transport Oorps. « Note.—Oue supply cart, one tent cart, anil two water carts are supplied with the six wagons complete the equipment when wagons are used. For plan of encampment sea flg. 28. When field hospitals are required the M.O. in charge will direct the quarter-master to draw the necessary stores and equipment from the Eoyal Arsenal, Woolwich, and the medical officer is responsible for the equipment of the 2'>ersonnel and accounting officer for the equipment and stores of the hospital. It is most important that the personnel and materiel should embark together, which they are now ordered to do. The transport is regulated in the same manner as for the Bearer Company, and is supplied by the A.S.C. It is directed that the transport officer or warrant officer A.S.C. will take orders from officer commanding the Bearer Company or Field Hospital, and is responsible for the horses being harnessed and hooked in at the time and jdace appointed. Four field hospitals are supplied to each Division, one is attached to each Brigade, and two in reserve for Division Corps troops if necessary. The number for an Army Corps is fourteen, including two attached to the Cavalry Brigade and Corps troops. The regulations lay down that all will be fully equipped and each supplied with transport, so as_ to be independently movable and available for any service. On the line of march they follow the bearer companies, the men of which, on request, will assist in pitching the hospital tents when a camp is formed. Each hospital is so arranged as to be capable of dividing into half hospitals for 50 iDatients. They are non-dieted, and all patients bring with them their kits, arms, and accoutrements, which have to be entered in detail in the Pack-store Book, A.F., 182. It is most important that every man's name should be at once entered in the Admission and DischargeSERVICE IN THE FIELD. 26 Fig 27. Camp for Bearer Company. M.s.c. A^-—^oy^^s. -^4- ^iC^> Gttard Tent. G.S. Wagons. s S I f f s Officers Tents. C.S.'lVagon. !<^itchen Ash Pit 31^ Scale 40 yds. to i inch. The depth of this Camp can he reduced to LOO yardsSERVICE IN THE FIELD. 27 Fig. 28. Camp for field hospital.28 SERVICE IN THE FIELD. haTi/as" S^^^^^ to wHeth- any particular man towards the Base a medical oprnS^ i i« decided to send men should in all cases L premred ^"""^ ^ nommaX roll in duplicate and its place wiU be taken hv^n.^fTl,. communication, to be attended ti in selecting a site a« that"il sr'^l't'f- of communication. AU of cTothin?f.^^ ^^^''^ panniers thp wit.+=> ^.f +1: , "^°®P"^^^.i^6P^emsh from then-reserve In India the regulations are somewhat different* Thp TJpar-^,. ^d^SchleM to^p-id:^Te£ S bedSh.^"^" divisible into four secttns ^twenty Advanced Dep6t of Medical Stores.-This depot is establi^hprl ti,. hues of communication as near to the field hosS as posS L^^^ move forward as the troops advance. The medical ofsJer in charge wiU obtam his supphes from the depot of medical stores at the Basf He should keep his supplies packed in handy boxes, and take carTto avdd any undue accumulation which would hamper his forward movements Army Book 168. ''^"^''^ ^''^ MeScIl Stores Hospitnlf nn^ni r "^^^f^^ assistance is constituted by the Stationary -Hosp tals on the lines of communication. They are supplied with a modihed equipment with a view to their being^readily moved when necessary They are under the General Officer Co^^maSg S i.M.U. of lines of communication, and are to be dieted if possible- they are not supphed with transport; the number would of course vary with the distaiice from the Base. In choosing sites for the stationary hospitals, due attention should be paid to thS character and elevation of the country, the nature of the soil, the water supply, and * Field Service Manual ofihe Indian Army for Medical Department.29 SERVICE IN THE FIELD. drainage, they should be easy of access, near roads or railways, and all advanta4 taken of buildings that may be suitable, if none are suitable Spital mar^fees w^^^ be furnished from the Base Separate accommo- dation is always to be provided for sick and wounded officers. Ail sick transport from the field hospitals in front along the hues of communica- tion is to be provided by the General Officer Commanding lines of communication, and when parties of sick and wounded are about to be sent from the field hospitals, the P.M.O. of Divisions must ^yarn the P M 0. of lines of communication, who will then make provision tor medical inspection, attendance, and supplies on the road. With each party of sick and wounded proceeding towards the Base, a non- commissioned officer of the Medical Staff Corps will take charge of the pack-store list, kit, arms, and accoutrements of the men and should a man be left iu an hospital on the line of communication, his pack-store list, kit, arms, and accoutrements are to be left with him. Imt it a man dies on his journey to the Base, his effects are to be taken on and handed over to the Officer Commanding the military dep6t at the Base On arrival of a sick convoy at the Base, the medical certifacates and nominal rolls are to be handed over to the P.M.O., the kits are to accompany the men to hospital, but the arms, amunition, and accoutre- ments are to be handed over to the Officer Commanding the military ''^A^General Hospital at the Base, with military depot attached, is to be formed at the base for 500 patients, if inexpedient to form it on shore its place may be taken by an hospital sliip. It is to be organised ami administered in a similar manner to such hospitals in peace. Separate accommodation is to be furnished for officers. . i t 1 1 A depot of military and surgical stores at the Base will be established for the supply of hospitals and ships. The medical officer in charge will obtain his fresh supplies by requisition on the Director-General at home. First Field Dressings.—During the progress of an engagement, as well as after it is over, the Kegimental and Bearer Company Surgeons will be called upon to attend tlie wounded. At this period there \\nll not be much time for careful examination, and it will tax all their physical powers to meet the pressing claims of each wounded soldier as he may be found. It is to enable the wounded man to have some means of temporarily dressing his wound at once, that attention has been given to providing some form of first dressing that may be at hand when required. Sir T. Longraore says*—" Some of the reasons for providmg soldiers with first field dressing packets are, that it is natural to seek to cover a wounded surface; hence it is wise to provide a soldier with a suitable material; he may, when wounded, be far from any medical aid, as on outpost duty, recoiinoissances, or other mounted duty; the course of a wound depends in many cases upon its first treatment, hence the necessity of an antiseptic dressing; the quicker a wound is covered up the less the danger from infectious outside matter, pressure quickly applied is often a sufficient haemostatic." * "First Field Dressing," by Sir Thos. Longmore, C.B. Transactions of the International Medical Congress, Washington., U.S., vol. 11.3^_______ SERVICE IN THE FIELD. sisted of two pads of carboLSrtC a o.rh 7 ^^^'^^^y regulation, con- anyular bandage of singular y coam' nm?^bandage, a tri- were wrapped up in a tinfS w™er unV,^^^ m^t.vi^l, all of'which form, however serviceable t J, vh'o^f ^ parchment cover. This tion, has now become qute obTol te lnd^^^^^^^^ the time of its introdic- ^eedily changed for one contaSg frnorV t^^^^^^^^^ that it may be Major Bourke * has proposed one r mif i , antiseptic. Surgeon- wool, bandage, and levied iSdofo^m-"St ^^^^^^ European armies have adopted a fornTof fif f i ^'"^ excellent one. All French and German arm/the antZl^I*/?""''^??; I^^^^^*- In the The French pattern is singularly 3 an^f^ ib sublimate of mercury, "sed are of the finest texture and firmlt niaterials hydrauhc pressure, t compressed by means of question whether this ifS advfsable chan^^^^^^^^ f ^^^^ I* i« ^ dressing packet. The triangular bandafe^Ko'^^^^^^^^^^ ^^^^ £aLl£4^s\uScSi:Vf^^ n^-- -^-^ - -Uer be a distinct^oss to any t^^^^^^ ^utTth ^ ^^f country, where the supplied for thrv^ m.ri ? i ^ ^o^finf of a civilised where no help is possiWe from fhi n '^^^^^^ ^^aye all to be carried, and useful triangSlar bamlate Tofl ^^tY''^'''^ nihabitants. This very more appreciable roota than v^ldf f material, occupies no civil pi;c? ce1n' htta e o7S;S TT'"^'^ ' - .ood reliable dressSfril^d tV^y^isT^^^^^^^^^ * Manufactured by John Milne, of LadywellSERVICE IN THE FIELD. 31 he has time and opportunity to bring more elaborate materials to the Wounded to toe first relieved.—At the Collecting and Dressmg Stations the Surgeon will have to afford assistance to the wounded as they are brought to him, but should he be in a position to make a selection those suffering from hsemorrhage should receive his first consideration, while those otherwise wounded should have warm drinks or stimulants administered, and with consolation and a few kind words they will be in a more comfortable position and better able to bear the pain of having their wounds dressed when their turn comes. Hsemorrhage.—The expedients for arresting hsemorrhage are con- sidered under the subject heading " Hsemorrhage." Shock.—The constitutional disturbance which takes place on a man being wounded is described as shock. This differs in severity in dif- ferent subjects being influenced by moral character, intelligence, state of health, and nature of wound. It has also been stated that conical bullets from a rifle cause greater shock than round. As a rule, the greater the injury the more intensified the shock. At the same time there are examples of very severe wounds and but little shock, and vice versa. Mr. Guthrie mentions a case of a soldier at Talavera, who was strack on the head by a 12-pound shot, which drove some bone into and some brain out of his head. He was walking about complaining but little immediately after the accident, although he died sub- sequently. Porter says—"My experience is that all wounded persons suffer to a greater or lesser extent from shock, which mani- fests itself in feebleness of pulse, cold perspiration, change of colour, and dis- quietude of mind ; the more aggravated form, where large joints are injured, long bones fractured or cavities opened, being fainting, mental agony, loss of reason, convulsions, hiccup, vomiting, irregular chills, sense of weight, collapse, all of which are most unfavourable symptoms, and their continuance sufficient to cause great alarm." Th e treatment will consist in consider- ing whether any surgical proceeding is necessary with a view of checking any internal haemorrhage ; but if no such step js demanded, nor appears practicable, we can only administer con- solation or encouragement, with cordials, beef tea, wine, or brandy. In severe cases the patient should be placed in the recumbent position, with warm bottles or bricks to the feet; friction should be applied to theGUN-SHOT FRACTURES. iElSsS^*' ^^^^^^^ ad^„ist,ati„„ and ^.orU^S^ ^t^^X^STrLf GUN-SHOT FRACTURES. Gun-shot Fractures especiaUy of the lower extremities are aWavs sources of great anxiety on the field of battle, as the sufferer must as a un riT. ^""^ ^^^'^^^^'^^ limb or limbs areTecuTety i ut up even m a temporary manner, the consequences wiU be most serious often rendermg slight injuries severe and compHcated. ' Extemporary Appliances.-It is not always possible to have at hand special splmts plaster of Paris, or any of the numerous contrivances for securing fractures; the surgeon will, in consequence, frequently S obliged to make use of such expedients as circumstances will admit of nn'fl''^? Ti''l!'/°'PJ°''if. 'P^^^*'' materials generally avaHable on the held of battle. For this purpose, in a case of fracture of the thigh! a rifle may be placed along the outside of the limb (fig. 32), extendhig from the axilla to the foot. It should be secured by a bandage round the trunk and by another round the foot and ankle; a soldier's gi-eat- coat or cape should then be folded so as to partially surround the Umb and the rifle, the whole being secured by means of the straps of the greatcoat, bandages, or anything suited for the purpose. The butt end of the rifle should be placed in the axilla. Another plan for putting up a fractured thigh is with two long spHnts one reaching from the hip to the heel, and the other from the perineum to the heel a third short one being placed in front, and the whole secured by straps, handkerchiefs, or bandages (fig. 33). Both feet should be tied together. Esmarch, in putting up fractures of the thigh on the field, makes use of the soldier s long boot (all the troops in the German army wear the Welhngton boot), to which he attaches his means of extension and gives support to the leg. He cuts the boot down the front as far as the instep, the sole of the boot is then perforated in two places in front of the heel through which the extension cord or bandage is passed, the soft vpper isGUN-SHOT FRACTURES. 33 then rolled backwards on a stick or short sword (fig. 34) and secured, the foot is then placed in the boot and secured with an ordinary bandage. Fig. 32. Fig. 33. This having been done, and extension made to the end of the stretcher, It will be found that the sword or stick on which the upper is rolled will 3GUN-SHOT FRACTURES. 34 rest on the side poles of the stretcher and give great support to the leg. Counter-extension is made by means of a perineal bandage (piece of cloth or waist-belt) secured to the upper cross-bar of stretcher, a strong elastic ring intervening between the knot and perineal bandage and cross-bar of stretcher. 1 he fractured thigh bone is to be surrounded with a scored spimt and secured with two or three turns of a bandage. Fig. 34. Straw Mats.—Dr. Port suggests the use of straw mats for transporting patients with fracture of the thigh. He du-ects that the mat should be spread out on the ground, and the injured man laid on it in such a manner that the upper edge of the mat wiU project a little above the crests of the hip bones; a chaff or sand bag is to be placed between the thighs, the sides of the mat wrapped round the pelvis and thighs, and the whole secured to the injured man's body with three cords (fig. 35). For fractures of the leg, the following extemporary splints may be constructed with very little trouble :—Fig. 36 is intended to represent a fracture of the leg secured with a splint placed along the outside of the limb, and the whole roUed in a greatcoat or cape fastened by straps or pieces of bandage. Figs. 37 and 38 speak for themselves. In one the legs are tied together at the ankles and placed on a soldier's knapsack, and in the other the legs are also tied together, but they are placed on a board. In securing limbs in such positions, some soft material should be placed imderneath them and in between, so as to fill up spaces and make the parts com- fortable ; if nothing better can be found, hay or straw wiU answer. A fractured leg may be easily put up with the scabbard of a sword35 GUN-SHOT FRACTURES. and a board, as represented in fig. 39, or with two bayonets, as in figs. 40 and 41. A roll of straw makes a capital temporary splint placed along the out- side of the limbs, as shown in fig. 42. Fig. 35. Fig. 36. "Wlien a piece of cloth and two rolls of straw are available, a most comfortable splint may be constructed by placing the limb in the centre of the cloth, and rolling the bundles of straw in the cloth on either side until they come in contact with the fractured member (fig 43). Fractures of the arm may be "put up" with very thin bundles of36 GUN-SHOT FRACTURES. Fig. 40.GUN-SHOT FRACTURES. 37 Fig. 43. Fig. 44.GUN-SHOT FRACTURES. 38 Fig 44 represents a f racture of the upper arm " put up " with a bayonet and Its scabbard, which, if nothing better can be found, wiU prevent the limb from being further damaged in transport. bhould thin pieces of board be available, such as the lining boards of a soldier s knapsack, they may be applied as represented in fig. 45 The torearm being flexed, one splint is placed on the inside of the arm reaching irom the axilla to the inner condyle, a second long splint is placed on the outside ot the arm reaching from the acromion to the external condyle, and a third may be placed on the front and a fourth behind, these may be secured by straps or bandages. The forearm should be supported with a slmg. Fractures of the lower end of humerus are best secured with an mside rectangular splint, the straight splint not giving sufficient sup- port. Fractures of the forearm may be put up with two light splints, one placed m front and the other behind, and as a temporary contrivance the splint may extend beyond the fingers, so as to give perfect support to the hand and wrist during transport. On arrival at a permanent Fis. -ir,. hospital, or any place where proper splints are procirrable, the tem- porary ones should be replaced by such as are in use and recommended for particulars fractures.39 SPLINTS. SPLINTS, It has always been a special point in preparing surgical appliances for war to provide splints of materials which wiU be sufHciently strong to support the largest bones when fractured or shattered, and at the same time be light, easily carried, and capable of being applied with facility. The old-fashioned wooden scored splints were at one time much used, but they were liable to be rendered imserviceable by exposure to wet or from the moisture of wounds, and have consequently fallen into dis- favour ; they were, however, in the opinion of S. M. Porter, the most valuable and useful splints which a surgeon could take into the field with him, being light and easily adapted to aU regions. Fig. 46. Wire or Trough Splints.—The French have introduced splints made of wire, which are very strong but somewhat cumbersome; they are formed to the shape of the limbs for which they are intended, those for large limbs being composed of a stronger description of wire than those for smaller, and having the general appearance of splint represented in fig. 46, which is intended for the leg. Duncan Splint.—Duncan has designed a splint kno%\Ti as the '^rattan splint:" it is composed of cane or small ratan, strung as it were together and cut to certain lengths ; each end is covered ^vith a cap of cloth to prevent splitting or the rough ends irritating. They are very light, but rather bulky, presenting the appearance, without caps, as shown in fig. 47. A modification of this splint has been made by covering the cane \\dth canvas and attaching three straps and buckles, or as many as may be considered necessary for the size of the splint; this makes the splint more bulky than Duncan's. Iron-Wire Gauze Splints (fig. 48), familiar to all surgeons form most convenient appliances, but they are heavy, and apt to rust when exposed to moisture. Thin sheets of perforated zinc or tin, guttapercha, leather, cane, whalebone, felt, and various other materials, have been proposed, so46 SPLINTS. Fig. 50. ?fTa\S^«nflTr'^f I* ^^^^ «b«"l<i '•each the nem ot battle and be ready for immediate application. Fig. 47. Fig. 48. Extemporised Splints.-Besides the extemporised splints already mentioned the following articles may be utilised—lathes, switches, rushes, Fig. 40.SPLINTS. reeds, straw, brushwood, twigs (arranged as in figs, 49, oO, and ol), heather, leather straps, such as a trace or stirrup leather, or strips ot tin. There is very little difficulty in converting the many articles found about a house, farm-yard, or in fields, into temporary sphnts, but even with the best and most perfect, which will answer for use in permanent hospitals, there are some fractures in which it is almost impossible to keep the broken ends of the bones in position during transport. Bark of trees Mr. Benjamin Howard of New York has made use of with great advantage. Telegraph wire has been suggested by the author, the great difficulty with it being a means of cutting it at the exact point required. This has been obviated by constructing a file on the outside of one of the blades of the straight scissors (fig. 52) in an ordinaiy pocket- case ; this is capable of cutting a notch in the wire, and so weakening it that it may be broken -with. ease. Fig. 53 represents a splint for a leg or forearm ; the latter being considerably shorter and narrower. Fig. 54 represents a splint for the outer side of the upper arm, one end being bent over the acromion, and the other under the olecranon, as might be done with a piece of leather strap. Fig. 55 is an inner or back splint for the upper arm. Fig. 56 represents an angular splint for Fig. 52. fractures of the lower end of the humerus, or injury of the elbow. These splints may be made more splint-like by having strips of the soldier's clothing, bandage, or other soft material roUed round them, when they will be found capable of supporting any fractures. For fractures of the thigh it is only necessary to select a larger wire and prolong the splint (fig. 55). Extemporary Pads and Cushions.— The army surgeon may at times be under difficulties as regards the construction of pads or cushions ; they may, however, be made with cotton-wool, tow, oakum, chaff, shavings of cork or horn, cut straw, hair, cutpajjer, feathers, dried sea-weed, bran, dried leaves, felt, saddle cloth, articles of clothing, saw-dust which,42 SPLINTS. if taken from any of the pine species, wiU be found to contain some antiseptic qualities. But it must be remembered that, however suitable many of these various things may be for purposes of padding, yet it would be highly dangerous to use some of them if there were a flesh wound, on account of their possible septic qualities. Fig. 53. Fig. 56. Fig. 54. Plaster of Paris has been much used of late years for securing fractures on the field, and though its preparation causes great delay, still the results have been highly satisfactory. During the operations before Plevna, August, 1877, and at Shipka (Russo-Turkish War, 1877, 1878), 950 gypsum bandages were applied in the course of a few days, and it is confidently asserted that in the campaign, thanlcs to gypsum, the treat- ment of gun-shot wounds traversing the limbs has been most successful.* Many plans have been proposed for its application, but the surgeon ♦Eussian Medical Journal, " Sooraymenaya Meditsina."43 SPLINTS. should make himself familiar with its nature and its preparation before attempting to apply it on the battlefield. t Plaster of Paris is excessively prone to deteriorate and is tlieretore difiicult to keep, it is heavy and bulky. The so-called water-glass, which is a solution of silicate of potash, makes admirable light appli- ances, but it requires some time to dry before it becomes stiff and hard. Billroth remarks on this subject: " I consider the treatment of gun- shot fractures by fenestrated plaster-bandages as the only proper method (excepting perhaps those in the upper part of the arm or thigh) ; the Fig. 57. only thing against it is that surgeons who have not already treated open fractures with plaster dressings, and are not adepts in the application, should not make their first experiments on gun-shot fractures, but should only apply dressings with which they are familiar." Pirogoff, who claims priority of the invention, gives the following account of the process for its application : " A drainage tube is drawnSPLINTS. 44 J^tnvS ^hich IS either covered with charpie or united by sutures, a roUer of flannel, cotton, or other rough texture is appUed ove? the entire hmb, and on this the plaster of Paris is smeared ; a Urge piece tl^L^^^fV^^^'''A^''^r^ ^P^^^"^« corresponding to the sSe^S ^-^^ ^ith the remainder the limb is closely enveloped. Plaster of Pans paste is again laid on, and finally the whole llt'tfr. P^'^*^ bandage, additional turns being given m the vicinity of the fenestra if extra strength is required. When the material has fully hardened, the fenestra is opened through the parted bandage by means of a strong scalpel. The plaster of Paris bandage may be put on either at the bandage-place preparatory to trans- port, or subsequently in the hospital for the purpose of treatment; in Fig. 58. the former case without fenestra, providing the distance to be accom- plished is not too great, and that the appliance can be removed on arrival. Pirogolf does not delay its application on account of inflam- matory swelling, but he slits the bandage up the whole length, and so converts it into a case out of which the limb can be taken and cleaned when required. When the swelUng subsides the ordinary plaster of Paris bandage must be substituted. He lays down the fundamental advantages of the appliance as follows :—SPLINTS. 45 " It exercises a uniform circular pressure throughout the entire length of the Ihnb, thereby paralysing the attacked muscles ; it secures immo- bihty to the broken fragments; and it keeps up continuous extension to a certain extent when put on and aUowed to harden while the limb s extended. The firm unyielding capsule formed by this bandage when it embraces the joints above and below the wound prevents the further approximation or riding of the broken ends, and keeps the hmb on the constant stretch. Finally the fenestra m the bandage must be so arranged that the fixity of the bandage must not be lessened., Surgeon-Major Moffitt, who has made several experiments in connection with the employment of plaster of Paris as a means of forming splints or supports to facihtate the transport of men suffering from gun-shot fractures, recommends the following mode of application =— "Plaster of Paris in a proper state, water, spermaceti ointment, a small basin and a spoon being in readiness, a piece of flannel is to be cut, of shape and size fitted to envelope the limb, with the exception of a longitudinal space of about half-an-inch in breadth between its edges, it for the leg, it should be of the shape shown by the dotted hne m the illustration (fig. 58). . . j. j ti, " The limb should then be greased with spermaceti omtment, and tne hairs smoothed down to the skin, or what will be found to answer as well, if not better, a calico roller may be wound spirally round the limb, and divided at a later period, after the plaster covering is applied, along the vacant interval between its edges. The calico will not only prevent the hairs from sticking to the plaster, but will also form a neat hnmg for the sphnts. Either of these steps having been taken, equal parts of plaster of Paris and water should be quickly and thoroughly blended together by stirring, and in this mixture should be immersed, with the hands, the' piece of flannel about to be used. When the flannel is well saturated, and its surface completely covered with plaster, it should be withdrawn from the basin, the folds and creases stretched out of it, and it should then be applied and pressed to the limb so as to fit it accurately, without, however, permitting its edges to join each other ; the object of this last precaution being to leave a narrow open space up the whole length of the limb, to allow for the occurrence of swelling. In this position it should be held steadily untU the plaster has set, which will generally not occupy longer than five minutes. The illustration shows the splint appUed to the leg. Should the splint, however, after the plaster is set, be considered not to have strength and firmness enough, another layer may be applied over it exactly in the same way. A roUer may now be applied lightly over the whole. " The quantity of plaster requisite for a leg is about eight ounces ; for the thigh and arm in proportion. " Should it be desired, however, to make the plaster more secure, or to continue its appUcation as a permanent spUnt, this may be done with great facility by the addition of a little dextrine. This will be best accomplished by taking a piece of flamiel of the dimensions similar to that used for the plaster of Paris, coating one side of it over with a thick * Medical Times and Gazette, August, 1S73.46 SPLIJSITS. exUbiSd ?ZT'' of MiHtary Surgeons held in Paris, 1878. mudorfer exhibited another method. He encloses dry plaster between folds of ""VT^i ''^o*^' ^« thoroughly saturates with TnS,. ? iP'"''''''^ P^^si^e: a piece of stick lapiclly and evenly over the surface of the cloth. This fiescription of bandage dries quickly. • Tc^ ^^^^ applying the plaster apparatus, as practised m the Bavarian Army during the late Franco-German war, IS as follows:-''Two pieces of flannel, 20 inches broad, are stretched together for the leg, as represented in fig. 58, and stitched down the middle; and beyond this both are cut through in the same line for the length of the foot. The flannel IS placed under the limb, so that the seam reaches from the ham to the heel. The sides of the inner piece are brought together over the leg, and fixed in front and along the sole by pins (bent at right angles (fig. 59), so that they may be easily extracted afterwards), and thus a closely- T, u J^r ™^ stoclang is formed. The sides of the outer piece are then brought forward and cut, so that each may overlap the middle line of the leg a,nd sole by three-quarters of an inch. The limb is then laid on one side and, while this outer piece of flannel is held back, a layer ot plaster of Paris of the consistence of thick cream is spread evenly to the thickness of half an inch over the inner piece, and made to pass quite to the seam behind and the line of juncture of the sides of the inner piece m tront. i he outer piece is pressed over this before it sets, and should just reach the middle Kne in front and along the sole. When this has ' rn\ m^,^^ turned over, and the process is repeated on the other side (hg. bU). ihe pins may now be removed. The seam serves as a hinge, Fig. 59. Fig. 60. and when the whole has set the splint may be taken off, the edges of the plaster trimmed, and those of the inner piece of flannel cut so as to leave sufficient to turn over and stitch down on the outer piece. The splint is47 SPLINTS. then readjusted and fixed by a bandage The setting «f ^^^^ P^^^^^J^^^ be retarded by the addition to it of a solution of ^orax. Thus a solution of one part to twelve of the water used will retard the setting fifteen ™'S'om*experiments made at Netley, the following are the quantities of Blaster of Paris required for each of the different bandages by the Bavarian method :-Leg, 24 oz.; thigh, 28 oz ; elbow and forearm, 16 oz. Volcer has devised a plan for applying a plaster of Pans bandage to a Fig. 61. fractured thigh, which is as follows -.—If time admits, give chloroform, and keep the patient under its influence till the plaster hardens. The patient should be kept perfectly steady. The extremities, from the toes to the haunch, must be enveloped in wadding, which is to be cut into strips 4 inches in width ; this wadding is then to be covered with moist gauze, which keeps it in position ; over this narrow strips of thin wood (fig. 61), so flexible that they can be rolled like a bandage, are to be placed on four sides of the entire length of the limb. Two attendants fix with their hands these long splints until an ordinary plaster bandage. Fig. 62. which has been dipped in water, has been placed round the limb, hy means of which the splints are firmly fixed (fig. 62). Then five or six plaster bandages are used from the toes to the haunches, carrying the bandage well round the hips. Care should be taken that the plaster bandage does not extend over the wadding at the hips and abdomen, and that an orifice (fig. 63) is left for discharges and application of dressings in the event of there being a wound.48 FAT-EMBOLISM. _ Arm Slings.—The most convenient form of sling for supporting an injured arm is the triangular bandage already referred to (fig, 29) • but in the event of one not being available, the skirt of an infantry soldier's Fig. 63. tunic may be slit up at the side and secured by a pin, as shown in fig. 64. The skirt of the artillery and cavalry soldier's tunic being much shorter, the sleeve of the injured side may be utilised by being slit up and secured, as represented in fig. 65. Fig. 64. , Fig. 65. FAT-EMBOLISM. Fat-embolism, as a sequence of fractures, consists in the passage into the veins of liquefied fat which is carried into the lung, brain, and spmal cord, blocking up the capillaries of ^these organs. A condition liable to49 WOUNDS. bring about fat-embolism is a crushing violence to the bones, so that the cancellous texture is much broken up, and the medullary fat thus set free. The symptoms are apt to be taken as those of shock, occurrmg as they do in the first two or three days after the injury. Its onset is marked by transient attacks of dyspnoea, with irregular action of the heart, slight htemoptysis, and at first shallow breathing, at times in- terrupted by deep sighing inspirations, subsequently the peculiar form of breathing known as " Cheyne-Stokes" manifests itself. Collapse with marked pallor of skin and mucous membrane soon ensues ; fat has been detected in the urine. Czerny thinks this condition in a very slight degree is a constant attendant upon cases of fra.ctuTe.—Ena/clopcedia_of Surgery by Ashhurst. It has been observed as a result of other injuries besides fractures. WOUNDS, Wounds, how inflicted.—Wounds inflicted in war may be produced by missiles projected by some explosive material, such as bullets, gun shot, shrapnel, shells, grape and cannister shot, and slugs, which come under the head of gun-shot wounds. There are other wounds produced by sabre, bayonet, or lance, and indirectly by fragments of substances struck by bullets, shot, or shell, such as stones, wood, metal, and even by fragments of the bones of comrades, or by explosion of the engines of war above and below water. Arrow wounds are occasionally met with. Nature of Wounds.—From the depth to which wounds extend they are denominated superficial, muscular, and 2ifnetratmg : and from the nature of the weapon with which they have been inflicted they are characterised as incised, punctured, lacerated, and contused. Tliey may also be classified according to the region of the body, as, for instance, wounds of the head, face, thorax, abdomen, and extremities. Before describing the actual treatment of wounds it is necessary to say something about bacteriology which has (juite revolutionised surgical pathology, and consequently wound-treatment. Unless, indeed, these new facts are grasped by the surgeon, all modern treatment will be to him meaningless, and it will be impossible for him to take the pains, care, and time requisite for the proper and intelligent application of the dressings, consequently they are likely to be delegated to some nurse or attendant, and then astonishment may be ex^Dressed at the bad results. In a recent address* Sir J. Lister says—" The germ theory of septic diseases is indeed now happily established incontrovertibly. All now admit that septic mischief in our wounds depends upon the development of micro-organisms in them derived from without." Again, " For the successful antiseptic treatment of wounds two essential points are, of course, necessary. In the first place, we should 'proceed so as to leave nothing septic in the wound before we apply the dressing; and in the second place, we should put on such a dressing as we can thoroughly trust to keep out septic mischief until that dressing shall be changed; *"An Address on a new Antiseptic Dressing," by Sir Jos. Lister. Lancet, 9th Nov., 1899. 4so WOUNDS. ^ and," he continues, "the number of surgeons is constantly increasing who, when they have operated on an unbroken skin with a fair field around for the application of their dressings, if they see septic inflamma- tion occurring in the wound with its attendant dangers, know that it is their fault, or the fault of the antiseptic appHances at their disposal." Professor Senn* "divides inflammation into two classes—1, simple or plastic inflammation; 2, infective or destructive inflammation. Simple or plastic inflammation is a regenerative isrocess, in which the tissues are in an aseptic condition and the ijroducts of tissue proliferation are trans- formed into normal permanent tissue, and as no toxic ptomaines are found in simple inflammation owing to the absence of micro-organisms, septic and febrile disturbances are entirely absent. It is not a disease, but a physiological process for the repair of a wound or the regeneration of a part. " Septic or infective inflammation is caused by the presence of specific microbes, and the products of the inflammatory process do not undergo transformation into tissue of a higher type. The intensity of the in- flammation depends as well upon the nature of the microbes as their quantity." At the present time the question has arisen—Are all the ills attri- butable to microbes due merely to their presence and growth, or are they due to the action of definite chemical compounds formed during the life and growth of these organisms? Lauder Brunton + observes, "We are now beginning to look upon many of the symptoms which occur in consequence of the action of microbes as being due not to their direct action upon the tissues, but to their indirect action in forming poisons;" he asks, " do the microbes break up the albuminous substances or hydro- carbons which they attack in the fermentative and putrefactive processes by means of their actual protoplasmic structure, or do they, like the higher animals, secrete organic ferments or ' enzymes,' by means of which the disintegration is actually carried on?" Again, Cheyne remarks, "Except in the case of wounds the chemical substances which aid in enabling the bacteria to gain a foothold are the products of the organisms themselves. That various bacterial products are highly poisonous is now well known, and in the case of putrefactive and pyogenic organisms, these products are able not only to cause local trouble as wound inflam- mation, suppuration, and tissue-necrosis (gangrene), but also to set up fever, to depress the vitality of the patient, or, it may be, even to cause death. With regard to these general effects of bacteria, we find in books of surgery, in addition to septicaemia and pyaemia, a third group of general septic diseases due to the action of these products described under the title of septic intoxication or saprsmia." It has long been known that the healthy tissues were unsuitable ground for the development of micro-organisms, and that, while dead matter in a wound (as blood-serum, &c.) offered a most suitable pabulum for their growth and development, yet the living tissues m the wound had a power of protecting themselves against their attack and ot ciieck- * Surgical Bacteriology, by Professor Senn, Chicago, t The Cvoonian Lectures, 1889, by T. Lauder Brunton, M.D., B.K.b.51 WOUNDS. ing their development. Metschnikoff has heen carrying on some re- searches into this circmnstance, and he describes the leucocytes of the tissues as feeding on bacteria, taking them into their protoplasmic sub- stance and digesting them, thus preventing their indefinite propagation among the tissues. The cells which exercise this devouring function he termed "phagocytes,'' and the whole process "phagocytosis." Lister, in his Berhn address, says that various objections have been urged against these views, but he thinks that Metschnikoff has met them effec- tively. He also adds that this theory explains much that has been mysterious in the relations of micro-organisms to wounds. Koch, how- ever, is disposed to think that this explanation of Metschnikoff's, that a kind of struggle occurs between the invading parasites and the phago- cytes (which are supposed to act as defenders of the body), is losing ground, and that the probability is that in this question the principal Xiart is played by chemical processes rather than that it is due to purely cellular processes alone. Suppuration is now believed to be entu'ely due to the presence of pathogenic microbes, or rather to their ptomaines or ferments, which, however, can only cause it in the tissues immediately in contact with them. Its progressive character is due to the spread of the micro- organisms within the body, and the production of ptomaines propor- tionate in amount to the number of microbes present. In one case the suppm'ation remains circumscribed as in a furuncle; in others the regional infection is more extensive, and a diffuse phlegmonous inflammation is the result; while in a third the local infection leads to a general invasion, and the patient dies of sepsis or pj^Oimia. Several observers positively deny that any mechanical, chemical, or thermal influences can produce suppuration if microbes are excluded. Cheyne asserts that for the formation of a true abscess we require the peptonising ferment produced by microbes. He describes a minute abscess as con- taining a colony of microbes, which, when fixed in the tissues, cause a litnited coagulation-necrosis of the tissues in immecUate contact with the microbes by the action of the ptomaines. A few hours later, a zone of leucocytes aggregate around the dead tissue. The products of inflam- mation also remain fluid, probably from the peptonising effect of the microbes, and thus an abscess is formed.* To sum up, micro-organisms are then the immediate cause of all foi-ms of acute suppuration and of traumatic infective disease, under wliich is included pyajmia, septicaemia, erysipelas, hospital gangrene, phagedtena, osteo-myehtis, and tetanus. The so-called burrowing of pus in unhealthy wounds IS due to their spreading in the tissues. Also the secondary hfemorrhage occurring in suppurating wounds in the second or third week IS mamly due to a softened and diseased condition of the walls of the artery, brought about by the peptonising action of the ferments found during the gro\\'th of these organisms in its neighbourhood. The causes of putrefaction and wound-infection being thus shown to l)e due to the entrance of germs into the wound, it will be evident that to prevent putrefaction of the discharges, the wound must be protected * Surgical Bacteriology, Professor Senn, Chicago.WOUNDS. 52 from all chance of invasion of the organisms, or, if this cannot be done, as in the case of accidental injuries, the wound must be so treated by antiseptics as will interfere with and prevent their power of development. Lister, in his Berlin address (1890), says that his practice for some time past has been to wash his operation wounds with a strong solution of corrosive sublimate, and at the same time he has doubts whether either washing or irrigation was really necessary; but since he discontinued the spray he has been careful to compensate for its absence, not only by antiseptic washing and irrigation, but by surrounding the seat of opera- tion with widespread towels wrung out of an antiseptic solution. He says also that the use of carbolic acid solutions, as well as the use of strong corrosive sublimate solutions (1-500), produce inconvenient irrita- tion, and, therefore, when opening an articulation, as for suturing a transverse fracture of the patella, he abstains from washing, and, as a substitute, irrigates with a weak solution of corrosive sublimate (1-4000). Lister found that carbolic acid, when used as an antisej)tic agent, induced by its irritation such a copious effusion of bloody serum as to necessitate an opening for its exit; hence came the drainage of wounds; but, he continues, "if we can discard the application of an antiseptic to the cut surfaces, using sponges wrung out of a liquid that is aseptic but unirri- tating, such as the 1-10,000 solution of corrosive sublimate, vve may fairly hope that the use of drainage tubes may be dispensed with. _ Cotton wool sterilised by heat can only exclude septic germs when it is in a dry state. When it is soaked to its external surface with a copious discharge, it must be liable to become septic en masse ; if, therefore, the discharge is considerable, it is essential that the dressing be of a kind which will not permit the development of septic organisms in it, although it be saturated throughout; and this can, I believe, only be attained by the use of chemical substances." Lister continues : — " Our woimds being no longer subject to the con- stant irrigation of the spray, and carbolic acid having given place to the less irritating, though more efficient, solution of corrosive sublimate, serous discharge is much less than formerly, and less drainage is required. In many small wounds where we used to find drainage imperative we omit it altogether, and in those of larger extent we have greatly reduced it, and it would be a great thing if we could dispense with dramage The^best drains are those made of red india-rubber—the tube must not project beyond the surface, and a loop of silk should always be fastened into it at its orifice. It is better to use two or more smaUish tubes than one large one, because on the day after the operation one of these may be removed altogether. "No tube," says Cheyne " which one wishes to put back again, should be removed until the third day on account of the difficulty in returning it. Generally on the third day half the tube is cut off and it is reduced in length at subsequent dressings till it becomes no'longer necessary." Sinus forceps are of the greatest use m msertmg drainage tubes, and every pocket-case ought to contain a pair. There is a certain amount of reaction about the use of drainage tubes in the minds of surgeons. They are now used more sparingly than53 WOUNDS. formerly, and their use is dispensed with at the earliest date possible. If not positively necessary, they no doubt keep up irritation and prevent healing. . i j. • " Sponges should be well washed after an operation, and then kept in a jar containing 1-20 carbohc solution; during an operation they are washed in a 1-40 solution. Sponges after use often become filled with fibrin, and thus rendered useless. Lister, therefore, after an operation places the sponges in a tank containing water, putrefaction of the fibrin occurs, and after some days the sponges can be easily cleaned. They are then placed in a 1-20 carbohc solution."—CAe^jie. In stitching up the wound, the edges of the wound should be brought closely and accurately together by silver wire or gut sutures rather deeply placed at regular intervals, and between these the edges of the skin should be correctly approximated by wire or catgut sutures. In the case of large or deep wounds made accidentally, or by gun- shot, where, perhaps, some hours have elapsed before the case comes under the surgeon's attention, the practice is somewhat different. Here septic germs may have gained access to the wound ; it is, therefore, most important to try and destroy them, and prevent others from gaining entrance. This would be best accomplished by thoroughly washing out the woimd or joint with a 1-20 carbolic solution, or 1-500* mercurial solution, by means of a syi-inge and catheter, taking care that the solution is brought in contact with every part, this will cause the wound to discharge freely for a while; a drainage tube should, therefore, be inserted, and the edges of the wound brought together by sutures, and the wound dressed with an antiseptic dressing so arranged as to be kept close to the surrounding sldn, and thus prevent the direct access of the air. The antiseptics chiefly in use are :— Carholic acid, which is used in a 1-40 and 1-20 solution in water, in a 1-5 solution with rectified spirit, also with oil or glycerine as 1-10 and 1-20; we also have carbolised cotton wool and tow. It is a powerful germicide, but it is extremely iri'itating, and interferes with healing by destroying granulation tissue. Healthy granulations are non-absorbent; if, however, the superficial layer of granulation tissue is destroyed, a weak spot is produced in which iDyogenic cocci can develoj), and through which they may enter the body; hence Cheyne doubts if it is well to wash out septic wounds so often as is done at j)resent, though of course it is right to remove decomposing discharge. Therefore, except in the first instance, to purify a wound, carbolic acid, if used at all, should never be aUowed to come in contact with the wound surface. It is l^oisonous and very volatile. Corrosive subiiinnte, or mercurial chloride, is a most powerful germi- cide. It is used in sohition, and in specially preisared dry absorbent dressings. The solution 1-500 may be used for all purposes that the 1-5 spirit solution of carbolic acid, or the 1-20 watery solution, would be applicable—i.e., for the thorough purification of accidental wounds or gun-shot injuries when first brought before the surgeon ; but after the * Vide formulee at the end of the book.54 WOUNDS. first punfication, 1-4,000 is the strength best suited for ward use. 1-5,000 may be used for irrigation during an operation, and 1-10,000 for washing out the abdominal and pleuritic cavities. In dressing wounds it niay be applied in lint which has been soaked in the 1-4,000 solution. It IS apt, however, to produce a troublesome eczema on some skins, and it will blister if applied in a too concentrated solution. Another dis- advantage is that albumen interferes with its antiseptic action very considerably. Woodwool owes its antiseptic properties to this drug; it is said_ to contain § per cent, of sublimate and 5 per cent, of glycerine, but it is not a very absorbent dressing. Sal alembroth is a double chloride of mercury and ammonium; the chloride of ammonium iu combination protects the chloride of mercury from the interfering influence of albumen ; at the same time this double salt is much less irritating and more efficacious, antiseptically, than the chloride of mercury alone. The dressings prepared with it chiefly in use are the absorbent cotton and the so-called gangee tissue, both of which are also coloured blue by means of an aniline dye, which is so incor- porated with the salt that, as the salt is washed out by the discharge, the blue colour disappears with it, the wool remaining white, and thus showing that all its antiseptic qualities have been removed. Quite recently Sir Jos. Lister * has brought forward a new preparation, which is a double salt of cyanide of mercury and zinc; this is an amorphous powder insoluble in water. It is ! highly irritating to the nostrils, and while trustworthy as an antiseptic, it is completely un- irritating to the sldn. A prepared gauze is sold. Sir Jos. Lister says : "In actual practice, a few layers of gauze placed next the wound are washed in a solution of carbolic acid (1-20). The carbohc acid soon flies off, and there is left in the application next the woimd merely the unirritating double cyanide; and under this we find that not only do wounds, the edges of which are brought accurately together, unite beautifully by first intention, but even granulating sores heal by the gradual process of cicatrisation from the edges in a way that we have never seen so satisfactorily under any other dressing. To make a quick dressing with it, take some of the cyanide powder, and stir it up with 1-4,000 sublimate solution, so as to produce an opaque liquid, and. put linen rags into it, and then place them in a folded towel to take out the excess of liquid ; you have your dressing ready, prepared then and there." Boracic add has weak germicide action. It is used in solution on prepared lints and cotton wool, and as an ointment. The ointment consists of two strengths. The strong (1-5) is adapted for dressing deep wounds, &c., and the weak is one of the best applications for all superficial and granulating sores. It is antiseptic and quite unirritating. Several folds of lint soaked in warm boracic lotion, and applied to a part when covered with oil-silk or guttapercha, forms the antiseptic poultice. A cold saturated solution contains 4 per cent, of boracic acid. Salicylic acid has a stronger germicide action than boracic acid. It is used in the same way. Cheyne says that Thiersch uses jute instead of cotton to impregnate with this acid. This jute is made from the bark of * Medical Society, London. Lancet, Nov. 9,18S9.WOUNDS. 55 various species of corchorus grown in Bengal, and is cheaper than cotton wool, and, at the same time, more absorbent. Iodine has a great antiseptic power, and is a good application to wounds to check any putrefactive action ; it is best used m solution ot 3ij to one pint of water. To obtain perfect hsemostasis after operations, Mr. Bryant recommends the appHcabion of a sponge wrung out of lodme water at 130°F. , • t^- Iodoform acts well, owing to its readily parting with iodine, it is used dry in the precipitated and crystalline forms, and m preparations as iodoform wool, gauze, and ointment. Dr. Oppler mixes iodoform with finely powdered coffee, and maintains that its peculiar odour is thereby lost. It produces in some cases poisonous effects, the chief symptoms of which are a "high temperature (104°F.), loss of appetite, emaciation, patient complains that everything smells and tastes of iodoform, there is a quick pulse, violent delirium in some cases, drowsi- ness in others."—jE^ric/isert. , . Salol, salicylate of phenol, is vidthout taste, and insoluble m water. It is said to be as active as iodoform, as well as cheaper, non-poisonous, and without smell. . Sulpho-carbolate of zinc is highly recommended as an antiseptic by Dr. Bottini, of Pavia. It is readily applied in solution, and is a good injection in gonorrhoea. Chloride of zinc is a reliable antiseptic for the common bacterium of putrefaction, though it does not destroy anthrax spores. It is used in solution of 40 grs. to the ounce of water, and is said to have the property of preventing putrefaction in a wound for some time after its application, and is especially useful in all wounds communicating with the mouth, rectum, or bladder. It is most useful for all wounds when there has been any foul condition of the surface, or in sinuses. Sir Wm. Burnett's solution contains 300 grs. to the ounce—sol ounce diluted with 65 ozs. of water will make a solution which would contain 40 grs. in the ounce. Eucalyptus oil is a very powerful germicide. It is used in solution in olive oil (1-10), also in gauze, and as an ointment. It is most useful in all foul wounds near the anus, perineum, scrotum, &c. Burnt Alum and Bismuth have both been recommended as good hasmostatics and as applications to wounds. A Icohol is a good antiseptic. It has been much recommended by Mr. Jonathan Hutchinson, who uses as a dressing to his operation wounds a lotion composed of 6 parts of absolute alcohol, a half part of Liquor Plumbi, and 16 parts of distilled water—compresses of lint are soaked in this and kept damp with it during the day. Condy^s Fluid has active powers as a germicide, and is a good wash when diluted for foul sores. Chlorinated Soda solution, 5s3 to the ounce of water, is said by Dr. Cabot to stand next to the 1-20 carbolic solution in rapidity of action on bacteria. It is a good application to wounds when there is much fcetor. The balsams, as Tine. Benzoin Co., &c., are most useful appli- cations to old, indolent, and septic wounds. Cotton toool is a good covering for wounds ; it acts by filtering the air,56 WOUNDS. and thus allowing no dust or germ to reach the wound. Absorbent cotton IS a better preparation, as it quickly soaks up any discharge, and thus tends to promote drainage and to keep the wound's edges dry; but if it becomes soaked to its external surface by a copious discharge, it must be liable to become septic en masse.. Tenax or marine lint is harsh, and should therefore not be placed next to the wounded surface, but it forms a most useful outer covering. Suppurating Wounds.—If, when a wound comes under notice, it is already foul and suppurating, we must endeavour to destroy the causes of putrefaction which have gained admission, and to hinder the develop- ment of fresh organisms in it. This is to be accomplished by the use of one of the antiseptics, scraping away old granulation tissue by means of a Volkmann's spoon, free drainage, and in a large wound with cavities by irrigation with some antiseptic solution. Dry dressings have much to recommend them ; the surrounding skin is kept healthier and in better tone than by constant wet applications; the less watery the discharge the less danger of its putrefying. Then, again, a dressing should not be changed oftener than is absolutely necessary. If a wound has been purified by the chloride of zinc or other solution, and is rendered quite aseptic, there can be no object in changing a dressing unless discharge should have come through; but, on the other hand, if the discharge is decomposing it cannot be removed too quickly. When the wound is granulating the weak iDoracic acid ointment is one of the best dressings ; it need not be changed oftener than every two or three days. An elevated position of the part with good equable bandaging helps the healing process very considerably by favouring the weakened circulation. Poultices and water dressing favour in the highest degree the development of bacteria and consequently suppuration—they should never be used. Water, being the especial halDitat of bacteria, should not be used at any time for washing wounds. No probe, director, or, indeed, any instrument, should ever be intro- duced into any wound or sinus without first having been dipped in a solution of carbolic acid (1-20). It is a good plan to have a wide-mouthed bottle in the dressing-tray filled with this solution for this especial purpose. It is then always at hand, the use becomes a habit, and there is no unnecessary waste. Incised wounds should be thoroughly purified by the carbolic or mercuric solution ; the parts should then be brought together and maintained so by suture. If, however, the wound is very deep or extensive a drainage tube will probably be required ; the wound should then be covered with a dry absorbent antiseptic dressing, the part elevated, and a good equable bandage applied. Punctured wounds (such as maybe produced by a bayonet) of the soft parts are peculiarly liable to be the cause of septic inflammation in the neighbouring textures, followed by the formation and confinement of matter under the fascia, or to be the cause of injury to deep-seated vessels, and of subsequent haemorrhage. Should a foreign body be suspected, it should be searched for and removed, the wound should be well washed out with an antiseptic solution, a drainage tube in-WOUNDS. 57 serted, and the wound dressed with some dry absorbent apphcation. Should no foreign body be suspected, and the lips of the wound fall together, no examination should be made, but the wound should be covered with a dry dressing and the parts gently but evenly supported by a bandage. In the event of the wound becoming inflamed the greatest attention must be paid to prevent the retention of discharge, free drain- age should be estabhshed, and the wound surface dressed with wet boric lint under an oil-silk or guttapercha covering. Lacerated wounds are such as are inflicted by blunt obtuse, bodies de- stroying to a certain extent the vitality and organisation of the textures. There is usually little haemorrhage, but the pain may be very severe. If the wound has been made by a canon shot, the parts wiU present a very ragged surface, the skin being stripped away, the tendons in aU probabihty hanging out, bellies of torn muscles protruding, and the vessels exposed, but no hsemorrhage. These wounds are very slow in healing, in consequence of the superficial parts being so disorganised. In no class of wounds is the effect of antiseptic treatment more marked than in these injuries. In the experience of the writer, sloughing and suppuration is greatly lessened, and tissues that appear quite destroyed recover themselves in a wonderful manner. The injured part should be thoroughly cleansed and purified by one of the stronger solutions,^ as the chloride of zinc 40 grs. to 1 oz. of water, or the 1-20 carbolic solution, or 1-500 mercuric chloride. The torn tissues should then be replaced in their proper positions, tendons and nerves, if divided, should be united by suture (chromic gut), and the whole covered with folds of the sal alem- broth or other antiseptic wool. These dressings should not be removed iinless discharge comes through, or some signs of putrefaction show them- selves. The writer always inclines to dry absorbent dressings instead of wet if possible. Wind Balls.—Extensive injuries to internal viscera have been inflicted without any sign of an external lesion ; bones have been broken, and yet no sign on the external skin of contact with any missile. These injuries are produced by what are known as wind balls, which many authorities on gun-shot wounds have endeavoured to explain. Sir T. Longmore considers that " the true explanation of the appearance presented in those cases which were formerly called wind contusions, appears to rest in the peculiar direction, the degree of obliquity with which the missile has happened to impinge against the elastic skin to- gether with the relative situation of the internal organ injured to the missile, and to other hard substances in the neighbourhood. The surface itself is not directly torn or cut into, because the impact of the pi'ojectile has not been sufficiently direct to effect an opening ; but the parts be- neath are crushed by the pressure to which they have been subjected between the combined influence of the weight and the momentum of the ball or shot on one side, and of some hard resisting substance on the other. Thus on a cannon ball passing across the abdomen, the elasticity and ready mobihty of the skin may enable that structure to yield to the strain to which it is exposed, while viscera are ruptured by th€ projectile forcing them against the vertebral column. So the weight of a ball passingGUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 58 obliquely over the forearm, may possibly crush the bone between itself and some hard substance against which the arm may be accidentally resting, without lesion of the interposed skin." Wounds, whether received directly or indirectly, may be complicated by the entrance of extraneous bodies, such as portions of clothing worn by the wounded, or various articles which may have been about his person. GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. How Gun-shot Wounds are Influenced.—Gun-shot wounds may be mfluenced by the shape and weight of the missile, its velocity, and the structure injured. For instance, a conical bullet will do more injury to a bone and soft parts than a round one of the same weight and fired at the same proportionate distance ; and a hollow conical bullet will cause more damage to the soft parts, periosteum, and bone than a solid one, both being fired under the same circumstances. The position a limb may be in at the time of being struck will influence the direction of the wound ; also a very slight obstacle, such as a button or a coin, and even a tendon in a state of tension has been known to turn the course of a i-ou?rd bullet. The modern bullet is elongated in form and small in diameter, '303 in., and is fired with a high charge ; it is made up of a casing or envelope containing a core of lead. Some recent experiments have shown that this kind of bullet is apt to break up when it meets with much resistence, such as a bone, for example, would offer. When this occurs, the resulting wound is most serious owing to the great destruction of soft ijarts beneath the skin, and even the bone itself may be pulverised. On the other hand, if these long narrow bullets when travelling at a high velocity strike a part of the body, they may just pierce the part and pass straight through a bone without causing any splintering, though if the force be at all spent they would then be apt to splinter it badly. M. Delorme, * Professor at the Val de Grace, carried out some experi- ments which yielded very much the same results as those above men- tioned. He wished to ascertain whether, as had been alleged by some, that small calibre bullets produced small and trifling wounds as compared with those of larger bullets, or, as stated by others, that they produced much more terrible wounds. He came to the conclusion that the size of the bullet makes but little difference, provided that the velocity with which it is driven is the same. The amount of destruction depends upon the velocity and not upon the size of the bullet. The size of the wound of entrance diminishes as the velocity falls, and increases as the velocity rises, as in short ranges. At 600 yards with the service charge the size of the wound of entrance is in diameter haK that of the bullet, the wound of exit is usually a little larger than the wound of entrance. At short ranges, such as 200 or 300 yards, he found what are termed explosive effects, the skin and muscular wounds were very large and the tissues quite disorganised. * "Communication al' Acaddmiede Mddicine," seancedu29thMai, ISSd.—Archives de Medicine, vol. xii.GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 59 If the wound of exit was as large as the tip of the little or index finger, it indicated that there was much comminution of bone with loose sphnters. Again, with reference to the bullets made of hardened lead enclosed m a metal covering, M. Delorme found that they could in some instances pierce a limb and shaft of a bone without undergoing any alteration of shape or breaking up, but if the leaden point of the bullet underwent any alteration of shape, from any cause, as striking a bone, &c., its casing at once stripped off, the leaden core breaking up into a number of minute pieces which were widely scattered in the disorganised and broken- up tissues. Examination of Wounds.—It is of the greatest importance that, on all occasions, strict cleanliness should be observed in the examination of wounds, especially on the battlefield, when the surgeon may inadvert- ently poison wounds by conveying dirt and blood and other septic matters on his hands. Wounds, therefore, should not be examined or fingered on the field of battle, but only interfered with in cases of haemorrhage or from some other urgent necessity. The surgeons of the first line of assistance should content themselves with applying some antiseptic covering to the wound to protect it until the i)atient can reach the dressing station or field hospital, where alone a thorough examination should be made. It must be obvious, upon the least reflection, that any interference with wounds on the field wOl be liable to render them septic. Dr. Carl Reyher, in the late Russo-Turkish campaign, insisted "that wounds were never to be examined at the front either with fingers or instruments, nor was any attempt to be made to extract the ball. The only exceptions were in the case of htemorrhage, and in cases where the IJrojectile had passed through one of the large cavities of the body, and, without wounding the contents, had remained in the wall of the cavity. Here he advised the removal of the ball at once for fear that it might, if left, fall back into the cavity implicated." "For surgeons at the front," he says, " there is only one line of treatment—to occlude the wound pro- visionally, to lay the wounded part in a suitable position on the litter, and to render it provisionally immovable. As a provisional dressing the salicylic balls recommended by Esmarch are the best." * On arrival of the patient at the field hospital, a thorough examination must be made. Here the surgeon will have all the needful appliances. If it is a case where a rifle ball has passed through the soft parts without injuring the bone, and there is no reason to susjiect that clothing or other foreign matter has been carried in ; if the edges of the wound fall fairly together, and if there has been no previous examination by fingers or probes, it would be right to abstain from any interference with the bullet track, and to be content with simply purifying the surrounding skin with a carbolic lotion, and then applying a dry antiseptic lint or pad to the wound of entrance and exit, and maintain the same by a good even bandage; accepting here Esmarch's opinion "that rifle bullets passing quickly through the clothes may not carry into the wound any * Antiseptic Surgery, by W. W. Cheyne, F.R.C.S.GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 6o caixses of putrefaction." Esmarch * also writes, after reading? the reports of Keyher and Bergmann m the last Russo-Turkish War, " It is evident beyond doubt, that a much larger number of the most severe injuries of bones and jomts can be aseptically healed under the dry scab than we have ever dared to hope. Even the presence of dirty pieces of clothing m the depth of the wound appears not so very rarely to allow the aseptic process, when the air has been immediately excluded." Acting upon this experience, supposing a bullet wound to have been treated on the field as above described, and, on arrival of the patient at the held hospital, the dry dressing is found to have become agglutinated to the wound by blood, &c. Should there be no fever, pain, or other pressing symptom, this dressing should be left untouched, even sup- posing it to be a joint implicated, in the hope that it will heal asceptically under this scab; but measures should be taken to ensure rest and immo- bilisation, and the attention of the surgeon can then be given to some other wound that will obviously require examination. Eeyher is so impressed with the importance of not "fingering" a wound that he says, " even if there is known to be cloth in it, it should not be examined, but that it should be washed out and attempts made to heal it; if, subsequently, the foreign body does give rise to irritation, it is a far simpler thing to cut down aud remove it in the convenience and leisure of a stationary hospital, than to run any risk of contaminating a wound in a field hospital, as all intei-ference in the latter is apt to do." If, however,_the wound is of such a nature as to imperatively demand a digital examination, with a view to deciding upon the proper course of treatment, the sooner this operation can be performed the better. Before the finger is introduced, it is, of course, to be well washed in the carbolic or other solution. Here it may be remarked that carbolic acid in solution in no way loses its powers, though it may look dirty from repeated use, even though blood be mixed with it. It is by no means necessary that fresh solution should be poured out for each hand-washing, it would be sheer waste to do so, and no field hospital supplies would stand it. If the wound is too small to readily admit the finger, it should be enlarged, as the size of the external injury will not be any gauge as to the extent of injury inflicted upon the bone or bones. Sir T. Longmore recommends the follovidng course to be adopted when exploring with the finger :— "The finger should be inserted slowly and steadily towards the deepest part of the wound. During its passage the surgeon should carefully observe whether any foreign body appears to be pushed before it, or to be lying by the side of the track of the bullet, and should note any other peculiarities of the wound. He should also ascertain whether the end of the track is reached, and if this is found to be arrived at, a careful circular sweep of the finger-end will then usually settle if an}'-, and what, foreign bodies are lodged. The surgeon should not withdraw his finger until the course the projectile has taken, the injury it has done, the complications of the wound, such as the presence of foreign bodies, and, * liangenbach's Archiv, xxiv. April, 1879.6i GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. in such a case, their kind and situation, have been decided by him; the exploration will then be completed by one operation, and a secona in- sertion of the finger for the purpose, which is always irritating to the patient, avoided. If the finger be not sufficiently long to reach the bottom of the wound, even when the soft parts have been approximated by pressure from an opposite direc- tion ; and when the lodgment of a projectile is still suspected, or some other point of doubt remains to be solved, such as the direction the projectile has taken in the latter part of its course, we are com- pelled to make a further exploration by other means. Generally, a long silver probe, that can be bent if required, and that can be guided into a definite direction at the will of the surgeon, will be found to be the best substitute for the finger. The probe should be used with great discretion, for, without care, it may readily be made to inflict injury on vessels and other structures which have escaped from direct contact with the ball, but have returned by their elasticity to the situation from which they had been pushed or drawn aside during its passage. "Sometimes, when the finger in the wound fails to find a lodged projectile, the particular spot in which it is lying may be detected simply by relaxing the muscular tissues, so as to give a loose and pen- dulous condition to the parts concerned, and then lightly tossing up the flesh at different points from below with the tips of the fingers. A bullet lodged among the soft parts will occasionally make its presence known under such an action by the impulse which its weight communicates to the top of one of the fingers when the parts, having been shaken upwards, return to their previous position. Sometimes a gentle kneading pressure in the neigh- bourhood of the injury, assisted by information derived from the sensation of the patient, will lead to the detection of such a foreign body; or it may be discovered by passing the palm of the hand down a limb. " Cases in which the exploration by the surgeon's finger is altogether impracticable, and in which the use of the probe is attended with so many sources of doubt as to prevent any satisfactory conclusion in respect to the lodgment or absence of foreign bodies from being arrived at, occasionally occur." Much venience will then be experienced unless the surgeon is in some of the contrivances for clearing up these doubts. ^ A F;g. G6. Fis. G7. trouble and incon- possession of62 GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. N^laton's Probe.—M. Ndlaton designed a probe for ascertaining the nature of the foreign body impacted in the bone of one of General Garibaldi's ankles. It consists of a slender rod of metal 5 or 6 inches in length, terminated at one end by a small knob of white, unglazed biscuit china. The other end of the probe is furnished with a small handle, grooved ridge-and-furrow fashion, in order that the finger and thumb may the more easily roll it between them, while the porcelain knob is being pressed at the bottom of the wound against the suspected foreign body (fig. 66). If it be a leaden bullet against which the porcelain is rubbed, a very distinct mark of lead is impressed on the latter, which is not easily obliterated. This probe of M. Ndaton's may possibly deceive the surgeon, if he supposes, because no dark mark has been produced on the biscuit china, that consequently there is no bullet, as in the event of there being anything, such as pieces of cloth, paper, linen, or membrane, between it and the probe, there will be no leaden mark. Lecomte's Probe.—Dr. Lecomte has designed an instrument (fig. 67) with a view to obviate the difficulties experienced with Nelaton's probe, which not only indicates the presence of lead, but by bringing away a small portion of anything capable of being cut into, declares what it is. He has given it the name of the "Probe Nippers" ("Stylet Pince"). It consists of two fine steel blades enclosed in a canula; each blade ter- minates in a little cup, and when both are brought together they form a small knob. These blades are in connection with a rod and handle worked by a screw. When the knob of the probe is brought into contact with the extraneous substance, it is caused to open, and then, by pressure against it and causing the little blades to close, a small portion is carried away. Several instruments have been designed for detecting lead and other metallic substances by means of electricity. Tailor's Explorer.—Mr. Tailor's electric explorer consists of two in- sulated needles. They are connected by wires with a small galvanic battery and mariner's compass. When the points of the needles touch the metallic substance the needle of the compass is deflected. De Wilde's Explorer.—Mr. De Wilde has adapted a telegraph bell to the electric apparatus, which denotes the presence of metal by the sound- ing of the bell. Liebreicb's Explorer.—Liebreich has designed an instrument some- what similar to Tailor's, except that a galvanometer is substituted for the mariner's compass, the needle of which is deflected on the electric circle being completed. Sir T. Longmore exhibits to his class (R. V. Hospital, Netley) an easily made electric instrument (fig. 68), so portable that it can be carried about the person of the surgeon. He describes it as follows:—The magnet of an ordinary pocket compass, which has had some turns of wire covered with thread wound round it as an induction coil, is em- ployed for the electric indicator, while a piece of zinc sheeting bent round a small plate of copper, but separated from it by flannel padding saturated with the usual diluted acids, forms the voltaic pile. The exploring nstrument is formed by two insulated wires bound together,GUN snot WOUNDS. 63 but the points left free. These parts being connected, when the circuit is completed by contact with metal, the indication is given by movement of the magnet of the compass. -r-, .-i a. i.- r Extraction of Bullets and other Missiles.—For the extraction of Fig. 6S. A, Pocket compass; B,Copper sheetins (a penny piece will answer); C, Plate of zinc; D, Flannel saturated with dilute acid; E and F, Insulated wires; G, Exploring needles. bullets, fragments of shells, or other extraneous matters, various instru- ments have been devised. Coxetor's extractor has been found most useful for this purpose. Also a long and strong forceps with spoon-like blades, into which a bullet is supposed to slip. There is also the "tire-64 GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. fond screw," and Luers' sharp-pointed forceps; and innumerable forceps designed to suit the fancies of military surgeons. Billroth speaks in favour of the American bullet forceps, its peculiarity being that it can be well opened even in the narrowest canals, and that it catches securely; he finds that long strong ear or nose-forceps and polypus forceps are the best. None of these can be applied without careful manipulation by the surgeon, who with his finger may be able to direct the end of the forceps towards the lodged missile, or with the hand on the outside of the limb press the bullet towards the instrument. If the wound is not very deep, the finger (especially the little one) introduced into it may, assisted by some manipulation, hook the missile with the first joint and so extract it, the wound being slightly enlarged. Bullets found near the skin, which have not had sufficient force to make an exit, require much care in removing, especially in the neigh- bourhood of a cavity, as by injudicious handling they may be pressed back into the cavity. It is, therefore, always best to fix the substance to be removed before using the knife, the incision made being free. Bullets lodged in bone, which frequently happens in the spongy ends of some without causing fracture, should be cut down upon and removed. If superficially lodged, the steel elevator will be found best suited for the purpose; or if a leaden bullet is deeply impacted, the tire-fond screw already alluded to will be found convenient, or Luers' sharp-pointed bullet forceps, which are so formed as to work into the lead and take a firm hold. In all cases of lodgment where extraction is attempted, care must be taken not to injure the great vessels and nerves, nor to cause irritation of the soft parts by extensive incisions or unnecessary violence. Gun-shot Wounds of Muscular Parts.—These wounds may be divided into four kinds :—(1) Where the missile causes no wound, but simply a contusion of the soft parts ; (2) where the missile does not enter the soft parts deeply, but carries away a portion of the skin ; (3) where the missile perforates the skin and does not escape (into this various other bodies may be carried, such as portions of uniform, pieces of cloth, buttons, pieces of leather, bone, &c.); (4) where the bullet enters at one point and escapes at another. Gun-shot wounds of muscular parts become painful, swell, and the usual symptoms of septic mfiammation set in in from twelve to twenty-four hours. The neighbourhood ot a wound m a limb may become discoloured, depending on the amount of contusion and severity of the injury. _ j • i. c t The discharge from an ordinary Septic gun-shot wound is at tirst a reddish fluid; after a day or so it becomes darker and thicker; but much will depend on the amount of sloughing likely to take place, as il the parts are much bruised or burnt, which latter condition sometunes occurs from close shots, the character of the discharge wiU be modified, and separation of the dead from the living parts wiU be longer delayed. Following the separation, there will be discharge of purulent matter, which gradually diminishes. As the wound fills with granulation, this discharge may continue for an indefinite period, m consequence of retention in the wound of some foreign body, such as a piece of clothmg65 GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. or a splinter. It is, therefore, necessary at each dressing to make a most careful inspection of the wound, and remove anything which the introduction of a probe may detect. The treatment must be conducted on general principles, and the remarks made on contused and lacerated wounds have an especial bearing on these injuries. "The fate of the soldier," Nussbaum says, "is in the hands of the surgeon who first attends him." The best course for a simple bullet wound in soft parts will be as directed on p. 59. But in the case of a lacerated wound, it should be washed out with a chloride of zinc or other lotion ; all foreign matter should be removed, and a light dry absorbent antiseptic dressing, as, for instance, a few folds of iodoform gauze which had been previously dipped in a sublimate solution (1-4000), and well covered over by fokls of sal alem broth, or one of the other prepared lints or wools, should be applied and kept in position by firm but even bandaging, and as much rest given as circumstances will permit. Great attention should be given to the ready escape of discharge, and free drainage is to be considered of the first importance. Should inflammation set in, warm wet boric lint should be applied under an oU-silk or guttapercha covering. Dr. Cammerer, Surgeon-General of the German Army, has published his experiences in Eoumania during the last Eusso-Turkish war.* "The cases came from Plevna, and had been subjected to three, four, and five days' previous transport, and arrived at the Eoumanian hospitals with wounds swollen and inflamed. Yet, although an interval of seven days from the receipt of injury had occurred in most of the cases, these septic wounds were converted into aseptic ones by repeated washings out with 5 per cent, carbolic solution, and by the external application of moist jute dressings. The surface of the part injured was first washed with soap and carbolic, shaved, and again washed. All foreign bodies were removed from the wound, ill-conditioned granulation tissue scraped away, the 8 per cent, solution of chloride of zinc applied, followed by careful drainage and jute dressing externally, which was renewed at first every twenty-four houi's. "All the surgeons unite in stating that after an interval of fourteen days gun-shot injuries may be made aseptic. All the wounds of the soft parts, with few exceptions, did well under the treatment described. Three wounds which involved the knee, and two which implicated the elbow-joint, recovered like simple wounds of the soft parts ; one of the former cases was a perforation by bullet of the condyles of the femur. In six weeks the patient was able to go about with a movable joint. In a second instance, the bullet remained lodged in the bone, but the patient recovered in a month with a movable knee-joint. The third made a similar recovery after a transverse wound through the synovial pouch. The treatment consisted in making free incisions into the articulation, washing it out with strong carbolic solution and applying moist jute." In the German Military Hospital at Belgrade, in 1886, Dr. Frankel was able, by the aid of antiseptics (iodoform, corrosive sublimate, and carbolic acid), to carry out conservative treatment with most brilliant * MacCormac's Antiseptic Surgery. 5GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 66 results. Out of one hundred and fourteen gun-shot fractures (many involving the larger joints) not one required amputation, and the vs^riter strongly urges in all such injuries the use of antiseptics, with x^artial resection if required, in preference to major operations.* This experience would urge the necessity of trying to render woundH aseptic after the patients reach the field hospitals, even if the first dressings have been imperfect, as they are likely to be should the number of wounded be great, and the interval prolonged between the time of injury and arrival of the wounded at the field hospitals. Bayonet, Lance, Sword, and Arrow Wounds.—Bayonet and lance wounds come under the head of punctured wounds; sword, of incised ; and arrow wounds as a combination of lacerated and punctured. The latter only will be considered here, as the former have been already alluded to. Arrow wounds are not likely to be met with in warfare between civilised countries, but arrows are still in use among savage tribes, and as the army or naval surgeon might be called upon to exercise his skill in the treatment of such wounds, the following information may be found useful. . Mr. Hamilton describes the point of entrance of an arrow as bemg "indicated by a narrow slit, the margins of which are slightly dis- coloured, resembling very much the wound made by a small ball. The wound of exit resembles the wound of entrance, except that it is not discoloured, and is somewhat larger." He continues, " Suppuration can seldom be avoided. Profuse haemorrhage, extensive abscesses, empyema, and tetanus are among the most frequent complications of these accidents, when only the external or fleshy portions of the body are imphcated.' The great difficulty to be overcome in the treatment is to remove an arrow which has lodged without leaving its head. "If the arrow has passed nearly through, so that its point can be telt upon the opposite side, the surgeon should cut down upon it by a counter incision, and extract it by that route, as suggested by Larrey; and m order to faciUtate its removal in this direction, he may, as soon as the head of the arrow is withdrawn, and the end of the shaft to which it is attached can be seized by the forceps, cut off the opposite end of the shaft close to the skin by a pair of bone nippers ; or if he finds the head and the shaft separated, he may withdraw the shaft on the one side and the head on the other, taking care, however, that the tendinous string (a string which attaches head to shaft) is brought out with the head, other- wise it may be left in the track of the wound. The same practice may sometimes be adopted-namely, making a counter incision to reach the head, even though the head is not felt, P^^^^ded he surgeon can determine the length of the shaft, and consequently the probable ^°" iTafrow ha^ng penetrated bone, an attempt should first be made to extract it by rocldng it to and fro in a direction at right angles with the plane of the groovf which is made on the outer or feathered end of the shaft." . ^„ * InternationaV Journal of Medical Sciences, voL ii., p. 553. im>.67 GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. In the treatment of arrow wounds, the first indication is to withdraw the extraneous substance, and then, bleeding having been arrested, thoroughly disinfect the track, provide sufficient drainage, and so try and prevent the occurrence of septic inflammation. Long and deep incisions will often be necessary to effect dislodgment, especially if the arrow is impacted in the head of the bone, or buried at considerable depth among the muscles and aponeuroses. The best probe for ascertaining its situation is the finger. Full anodynes should be given to prevent nervous distress and severe pain. Fig. 69.—Foot Bath. The Use of Bandages.—Hamilton, of the U.S.A., remarks :—" No part of the dressing of a gun-shot wound has more value, when judiciously emjiloyed, than a roller. At the same time, nothing is capable of doing more harm. If a roUer is carefully applied to the limb at an early period, Fig.,70.—Arm Batti.68 GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. much of the bleeding is prevented, and most of the blood which does escape flows out freely from the orifices, which are left open purposely • and thus we are apprised not only of the amount of bleeding, but thof>e extensive intermuscular extravasations are avoided."' Fig. 71. Washing Wounds.—Porter recommends as a most excellent plan for washing or irrigating wounds, the irrigator as represented in fig. 72. A gentle or strong stream of medicated water can be applied to any wound, quite doing away with the use of sponges.* . . n j With the kidney-shaped tray, as shown m fig. 72, any part of the body may be irrigated without wetting the patient's clothes or bed clothes. _ Poultices are most objectionable, and should be entirely avoided in surgical practice, as they favour in the highest degree the growth and development of all forms of micro-organisms, so that, when used, they are frequently the means of assisting in estabhshing cases for amputation * This plan of irrigation was seen by the writer in the Geiman hospitals.Versadlles, during the Franco-German war, 1870-71.69 GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. which might otherwise have turned out favourably, if not indirectly the cause of a fatal pyaemia. Constitutional Treatment.—The constitution frequently requires looking after, and every effort should be made to increase the force of vitality by suitable medical and dietetic means, so that the system may throw off and get rid of any pathogenic micro-organisms that may gain access to the wounded part. Fig. 72. Cases in which there has been much loss of blood, besides previous exposure and fatigue, require most careful feeding. It is well to remem- ber that ''beef-tea as a food ranks low, there is little in it to repair tissues, and less in it to sustain life. It falls far below milk, which furnishes force-producing material. If biscuit-powder and a little butter, with pepper and salt, be added, or fine bread-crumbs, then beef-tea is a food." A good plan is to have some sago or arrowroot jelly already prepared, and then, when the beef-tea is hot, a spoonful of the jelly can easily be added, and no further cooking is required. Alcohol is a readily-oxidisable form of hydrocarbon, and is one of the most easily assimilable forms of food as well as a stimulant, and very frequently it can be taken and utilised when no other form of food isGUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 70 available It thus differs from other stimulants, as ammonia or ether, which are not foods, and their administration must be accompanied by food and alcohol."—Fothergill. Sanitary Treatment.—The surgeon should observe strict sanitary precautions about the patient's person, bedding, and clothing, and, when it is possible, ample cubic space should be given to each person; wounded men require at least 1,200 feet each in buildings. In huts and tents the allowance may be less, but the ventilation of buildings is of the greatest importance ; it must, however, be observed that, though ventilation is necessary, a wounded soldier may have too much of it, and in the treatment of gun-shot wounds too low a temperaUtre. may be attended by most serious consequences, from depressing and hjwering the vital powers. During the Crimean campaign and the late Franco- Prussian war. the influence of temperature on suppurating wounds was most remarkable. In the Versailles hospitals many of them took an unhealthy action when the temperature of the wards became very low. It must be remembered that the virus of infective disease is an organised body, a micro-organism ; it cannot arise spontaneously, but only from a parent. These organisms have a way of attaching them- selves to solid particles of dust, &c. Dirt, overcrowding, and hunger do not generate them, but the first two may concentrate them, and the last will render the individual less able to resist them. The air should be so fresh as to dilute the infected dust it contains, and so render the chance of infection slight. Hence the reason for free ventilation and ample cubic space in dealing with wound diseases ; hence, agaLa, the importance of a rigid isolation of the first or early cases of infective disease, even if a change of site is needed. Fig. 73. Extemporised Bedsteads.—Bedsteads are most essential for the com- fort and protection of patients; they may be improvised as already shown by figs. 16 and 17, or by two rows of stakes driven into the ground, rising 14 inches above the surface, and standing 10 inches asunder (fig. 73). The width of the frame must be determined by the bedding, and the number of stakes by the necessary lengtli. Simple trestles made up of rough wood serve well to rest stretchers upon (see fig. 74), and convenient cots can be easily constructed from rough packing-case wood, &c. (vide fig. 75). i j Extemporised mattresses may be made with blankets or sheets stitched71 GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. together, so as to form a bag, and fiUed with straw hay, dri^ed leaves ferns, hLir, torn-up paper, or sha,vmgs of wood. Neudorfer strongly recommends fine wood shavings as bemg soft and elastic. Fig. 74. Fig. 75. Extemporised bedcradlesiov the protection of wounded limbs from the weight of bed clothes, or as a means for supporting gauze to prevent theINJURIES OF THE HEAD. 72 invasion of flies, or in the adaptation of tubes for irrigation (see fig. 71), are most important as part of hospital equipment. They may be con- structed from hoops of small barrels, split bamboo, telegraph wire (fig. 76), or from metal bands, generally found in commissariat stores, having been a means of binding compressed hay. 4*0 Fig. 76. INJURIES OF THE HEAD. This important and interesting subject has engaged the attention of numerous writers. Mr, Guthrie remarks: " Injuries of the head affecting the brain are difficult of diagnosis, doubtful in their character, treacherous in their course, and for the most part fatal in their results." * The slightest injury to the head may produce effusion, encephalitis and its consequences, plugging of the sinuses by coagula, leading to coma, paralysis, pysemia, and death; while extensive injuries (their aspects at first threatening most serious results), such as fracture, depres- sion, and even permanent compression, from lodgment of bullets or other extraneous substances, have been followed by no such consequences. Classification of Injuries of the Head.—Many classifications of injuries of the head have been suggested, but for practical purposes it will be sufficient to consider them first, with regard to injuries of the containing parts, and second, with regard to the organs contained. Contusions of the Head.—These injuries generally occur in war from spent bullets, fragments of shells, or other missiles, the velocity of which has been nearly expended; or they may occTir indirectly from splinters of stone, wood, &c. Whatever their origin may have been, or no matter how slight the contusion, they should be most carefully examined and watched. Mr. Listen has remarked that "wounds of the head of the most trivial character are not to be despised, or of the most severe not to be despaired of." This maxim should always be kept in view. The treatment of simple contusion consists in the application of cold water to the part, and the administration of cathartics, light diet, no stimulants, and most perfect quietness. Severe contusions, accompanied by swelling due to blood effusion, are * Commentaries, p. 286. London, 1853.73 INJURIES OF TEE HEAD. sometimes difficult to distinguish from depressed fracture, ^le centre of both giving to the hand a hollow or depresssed feeling, io the inex- perienced these bloody tumours are a source of great perplexity, but they will be in general distinguished by their having a well-dehned margin or wall, and when the hand is passed over from the sound part, it w?ll fiirst feel this hard wall or margin, and then suddenly experience a soft depression in the centre of the tumour. _ In a fracture with depression there will be no defined margin or soft centre, the depression being gradual and hard to the touch ; besides, there wiU be in all probability symptoms of compression accompanying the injury. ■ , , ^ ^x. These effusions may give trouble by suppurating, but, as a rule, they become absorbed with the use of cold applications. When, however, suppuration takes place, the tumour must be incised, and free exit made for the escape of matter. Severe contusion, accompanied by an open wound, may be followed by erysipelas, abscesses, periostitis, or necrosis, as weU as inflammation of the brain and its membranes. The treatment of these contusions does not differ from similar injuries in any other part of the body; but to prevent the common complications of erysipelas, abscesses, &c.," they require the treatment to be of a most careful antiseptic character, in consequence of-the close proximity of the brain and the possibility of a septic inflammation extending to it. Contused Wounds, with Fracture of the Cranium, without Depres- sion.—These injuries but seldom occur, and, as regards the fracture, are difficult of diagnosis; a fissure through both tables may exist, without producing any alarming symptoms or external evidence. Mr. Erichsen [Lancet, Jan. 5, 187S, p. 2) mentions that in blows on the side of the head where there are symptoms of compression and bulging at the seat of injury, the result of a fissure in the cranium through which blood has come, giving rise to the projection of the temporal muscle, it is right to trephine, and that the position selected should be over the course of the middle meningeal artery, which may be discovered by taking a point an inch and a half above the zygoma and an inch and" a half behind the external angular process of the frontal bone ; where these two points meet, the artery will be found. Furrowing of Outer Table.—There may be furrowing of the outer table without injury to the inner, this being caused by the jjassage of a ball across the skull, striking in such a j)Osition that it does not enter, in fact, a graze of the bone, which, as a rule, is followed by most un- pleasant sjTiiptoms, such as inflammation, if not laceration, of the brain and its membranes, necrosis, and abscess. In the treatment the surgeon must be guided by the amount of con- stitutional disturbance and cerebral symptoms, applying local antiseptic remedies, and keeping the patient perfectly tranquil. Contused Wounds, with Depression. —These injuries are, as a rule, so connected with the consideration of compression, that it is scarcely necessary to touch on the subject here. It may, however, be stated that patients have recovered from such injuries without the depression being elevated.74 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. Sir A. Cooper, Abernethy, and Dupuytren, recommended that if the depression did not produce symptoms of compression, it was best not to interfere. Sir William MacCormac remarks cm this subject: "One point, regarding which opinions vary somewhat, is respecting the treat- ment of depressed fracture unaccompanied by symptoms, and with an external wound. Where there is no wound, he would be a hardy operator who should cut down upon a depression in the skull, in the absence of any symptoms of compression. When there is a wound, however, the case is different; but even here I question much if the surgeon ought to do more than simply remove such loose fragments as can readily be got at." On the other hand, Mr. Victor Horsley, whose opinion must be received with the greatest respect, says : * "In depressed fracture of the skull, I wish to urge in the most emphatic manner the necessity of operating upon every such case, whether or not accompanied by an external wound of the soft parts or by immediate symptoms of gravity. It is just these cases when let alone, and particularly where the injury has been received early in life, that the future will almost certainly bring with it not only epilepsy, but also mental defect, persistent loss of memory, and, in fact, general deterioration." Penetrating "Wounds of tlie Cranium generally prove fatal; but instances have occurred of recovery when the bullet or other missile has been surrounded by lymph, and the brain has become accustomed to its presence. In punctured fractures of the cranium, the operation of trephining, undertaken with the object of removing the broken and displaced fragments of bone should as a rule of practice never be deviated from.-f" Fracture of botli Tables.—There may be comminuted fracture of both tables, without producing the slightest symptom of compression, the bone having been broken into such small pieces that they rest loosely on the dura mater, and cause no cerebral symptoms. Fracture from Contre-Coup.—This accident, causing a fissure of the parietal bone, or fracture at the base of the skull, where it is most common, is of rare occurrence in the army. Out of 12,980 injuries of the head during the American War of the Eebellion, there were only two cases recorded of this peculiar injury. The fracture is accounted for by a heavy blow being struck against a hard resisting part of the skuU, and the shock transmitted, causing the thinnest and most brittle portion, though at some distance, to give way. This fracture is never depressed, and is very difficult to recognise. In some instances it has been diagnosed by a sensation of crepitus being given to the hand when the head has been gently moved. The treatment should be entirely constitutional, according to gravity of symptoms, the head being placed on a soft pillow. Fracture of the Base of the Skull.—A fall from a height, or a blow on the vertex or side of the head, may produce this description of * Surgery of the Central Nervous System, by Victor Horsley. Berlin, 1890. t Bryant's Lectures, Lancet, Sept. 15,1888, p. 509.INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 75 fracture, which usually extends from the point struck across the base of . the skull, not unfrequently running through the petrous portion of the 1 temporal bone or into the foramen magnum. This is a most serious I accident, and very commonly attended by fatal results; still, there are I instances of persons having lived for a considerable period after such injuries. Writers on this subject have endeavoured to lay down rules or particular signs and symptoms for certain seats of fracture in the base of the skull, but, unfortunately, such definite information does not help one in the treatment; it may, however, assist the surgeon in forming his diagnosis. A fissure extending through the anterior fossa may be accompanied by extravasation of blood into the orbit or eyelid, or there may be free haemorrhage from the nose. Should the middle fossa be implicated, there will very likely be fracture through the petrous portion of the temporal bone, with injury to the tympanum; there will then be a discharge of blood or serum from the ears. When the posterior fossa has been fissured, there niay be some diffi- culty in distinguishing the exact nature of the accident, unless the fracture passes through the petrous portion, and then there will be the characteristic signs of such an injury. Mr. Erichsen considers that "there are two signs, the occurrence of which, separately or together, leads to strong presumptive evidence in favour of the existence of this kind of fracture. These are, first, the escape of blood from the interior of the cranium through the ear, nose, or into the orbit; and secondly, the discharge of a serous fluid from the ears, and occasionally from other parts in connection with the base of the skull." He further says : " Bleeding from one or both ears after an injury of the head may arise from any violence by which the tympanum is ruptured, without the skull being necessarily fractured. If, however, the haemorrhage be considerable, trickling slowly out of the meatus in a continued stream, if the blood in the external ear pulsates, and more especially if the bleeding be associated witli other symptoms indicative of serious mischief within the head, and if it have been occasioned by a degree of violence sufficient to fracture the skull, we may look upon its supervention as a strong presumption that a fracture of the base of the skull, extending into the petrous portion of the temporal bone, has taken place. " Hsemorrhage into the connective tissue of the orbit and eyelid, with possibly protrusion of the eyeball itseK, accompanies fracture of the orbital plate of the frontal bone. The ecchymosis that occurs in these cases arises from the filtration of the blood from the interior of the skull, through the fracture, into the loose connective tissue contiguous to the injured bone. It dift'ers remarkably in appearance from that result- ing from a direct blow upon the eyelid—from a 'black eye.' In the latter case there is bruising of the skin, and the ecchymosis is in a great measure cutaneous of a reddish-purple colour. In the ecchymosis from fracture, the haemorrhage is entirely subcutaneous. There is probably no bruising of the eyelid, but this is tense, greatly swollen, and of aiNJURim OF THE HEAD. 76 purple colour. The extravasation can clearly be seen not to be in the skin, but to shme through it." The discharge of serum from the nose or ear, which ia the latter welis up as quickly as it is removed, and may flow to the amount of several ounces, is generally admitted as a certain sign of fracture of the base of the skull. Scalp wounds frequently occur to artillerymen by being thrown off the gun carriage when going very fast. When such accidents occur the wound should be treated antisepticaUy. The hair should be shaved and the torn scalp should be thoroughly purified with a 1 to 20 carbolic solu- tion allowing the solution to go into all parts of the wound, whether the membranes or brain substance be exposed or not, the parts should then be brought together by wire sutures if necessary, and drainage tubes must also be inserted. The wound should now be covered wfth some dry absorbent dressing as sal alembroth wool, boric, or salicylated lint over which is put a layer of cotton wool, the whole being kept in place by a good bandage. The dressing should not be changed oftener than is absolutely required. Care should be taken to evacuate any abscesses that may form at an early period by adequate incisions. Sabre wounds on the top of the head are not by any means so dangerous as;; those on the side. Sabre cuts will generally admit of being at once replaced, and in many instances, with the aid of a few stitches and proper supporting bandage, they adhere without further trouble. With section of scalp, cranium, and even brain, from a sabre, recovery may take place. Injuries of the head affecting the brain have been divided into injuries from concussion and injuries from compression or irritation of the brain. Concussion appears to be a shock communicated to the nervous system, in consequence of some external injury or violence producing disturbance, if not positive injury, such as laceration of the substance of the brain itself. The functions of the brain may be temporarily suspended, insensibility being slight and transitory, or it may be pro- longed for several hours, or the patient may sink without recovering consciousness. The symptoms and signs of concussion are influenced by the extent of the injury to the brain. When very slight, the feelings may be only faintness, giddiness, or mental confusion ; but when the injury is severe there will he insensibility, and the surface of the body will be cold and pale ; the sufferer, when spoken to in a loud tone, may answer in an incoherent manner, falling again into a state of semi-unconsciousness ; muscular power is lost, the pulse feeble, the bladder and bowels act involuntarily, the pupils are contracted, breathing appears to have ceased, circulation has been suspended. This condition may last for a few minutes or hours, and is the first stage ; its duration depends on the severity of the shock. In the second stage stupefaction continues, though the patient may be cognisant of being moved or roughly handled. It may be possible to rouse him, which partial consciousness is in favour of there being no compression: and when the pupils are contracted (both being alike) it is also a symptom in favour of there being no compression.INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 77 * Brit. Med. Jour., Dec. 6, 1880. ' Vomiting may occur, which is generally considered a good sign as it stimulates the heart's action, and causes the blood to flow through the , vessels of the brain. As circulation is being gradually established, the I pulse becomes fuller, and the surface warmer. When the injury has j been more severe, the symptoms are more marked ; there is complete prostration, eyes glassy, pupils may be contracted or widely dilated, surface cold, and, in fact, the patient appears moribund. These symp- toms may last for hours, or merge into the severer complications of com- ( pression, and ultimately be followed by epileptic convulsions. In concussion the breathing is rarely stertorous, a symptom which, if present and continual, might be considered as one of compression. Treatment of Concussion.—lu the first stage, or that of collapse, the patient should be let alone and allowed to rally ; but if it is extreme or unusually prolonged, an endeavour should be made to revive the energies I of the nervous system and circulation by application of warmth to the j body by means of hot jars or bottles, blankets, and employment of friction j to the surface. Administer warm drinks, but no stimulants, unless reac- tion cannot be brought about without them, and then they should be ' given in very small quantities, their action being carefully observed, i The administration of an enema, containing some aromatic spirits of I ammonia, has been recommended. Reaction having talcen place, the object is to try and prevent inflammatory action. There should be perfect quietness, mentally and bodily, in a darkened room, the latter having a decided influence in preventing congestion. Cold should be applied to the head, mercurial purgatives administered, stimulants avoided, or excess in diet or excitement of any kind. Mr. Victor Horsley suggests * that in simple as well as in compound cases of laceration of the brain, if there is any depression of skuU, it should be raised ; but if not, trephine, freely open dura-mater, wash out clots, remove hopelessly- bruised brain, suture dura-mater, and return bone. By such means the remote or, even sometimes, immediate consequences of epileptic convul- sions may be prevented or entirely removed. Compression means pressure on the brain by a portion of bone, bullet, extravasation of blood, or formation of pus, or anything that may press upon, or enter into its substance, causing characteristic symptoms, some of which are as follows :—Insensibility, breathing heavy, laboured, slow, accompanied by stertor; cannot be roused ; there is a peculiar noise caused by the breath being emitted from the corner of the mouth, some- thing like a puff or whiff, caused by the velum pendulum palati hanging down in the mouth ; the pulse is usually slower than is natural, but at times irregular and occasionally quick. If the shock has been slight, the countenance is flushed ; but if it has been great, it wiU be found pale and livid. The sufferer may be convulsed and unconscious of anything about him. The pupils appear to vary according to the part of the brain injured, and are not afl'ected by the degree of injury. At first they are generally contracted, subsequently dilated, or one may be contracted and the other dilated; and as the disease advances, or becomes aggravated, they are78 INJURIES OF TEE HEAD. imniovable. The lips are usually compressed, and if an attempt is made to give fluids they run out at the corners. There may be paralysis of one side, or of one side of the face ; paraplegia or hemiplegia. At first the secretions are retained, subsequently they pass involuntarily. If the injuries have existed for a day or so, it maybe necessary to diagnose between compression from extravasation, from depressed bone or from inflammatory effusion within the skull. In cases of depressed fracture the symptoms are uninterrupted, and on careful examination the existence of an injured bone will in all probability be discovered. In cases of effusion from pus, lymph, or serum, the result of inflamma- tion causing pressure on the brain, symptoms of cerebral inflammation will precede the symptoms of compression. Treatment of Compression.—In the case of a wounded soldier suffer- ing from symptoms of compression, the first consideration wUl be, what is the cause of it ? and, if that can be ascertained, what shall be done to relieve him ? In cases arising from causes apparent to the surgeon, such as depres- sion of the inner table of the skull, or depression of both tables, with lodgment of bullet or other missile, the treatment is a matter which will require the most grave consideration. The wounded soldier should be most carefully examined, with a view of discovering the source of compression, and should the most rigid treatment not relieve the cerebral symptoms, it will be necessary to con- sider the advisability or otherwise of using the trephine, elevator, or saw ; but on this point numerous and adverse opinions have been expressed by some of the most eminent civil and military surgeons. Mr. Hennen considers that all extraneous matters should be removed ; that fractured portions of bone, if loose, should be extracted ; and that depressed portions should be elevated when it can be done without the infliction of additional violence, but to keep in view the tendency of the brain and its membranes to inflammation. Mr. Guthrie remarks Avith reference to the question—What is to be done where there is breaking down and splintering of the inner table with depression ? There can be no hesitation in answering that in all such cases the trephine should be applied, although no symptoms should exist, with a view of anticipating them. He considers that the danger resulting from the application of the trephine in such cases bears no proportion to the risk incurred by leaving the broken portion of the bone as a constant cause of irritation. Sir T. Longmore says that when irregular edges, points of pieces of bone, or foreign subistances are forced down, and eNadently jjenetrate, not merely press upon the cerebral substance, or where abscesses manifestly exist in any known site, and relief cannot be afforded by simpler mean.s at the wound itself, trejjhining is a proper operation to be resorted to for effecting the necessary relief ; but in all other cases harm wUl probably be avoided by abstaining from trephining, while benefit will be effected by simply resorting to long-continued constitutional treatment. Dr. Strom eyer, of the German Army, abandoned the practice of tre- phining in 1849, though in the early part of his professional career heINJURIES OF THE HEAD. 79 advocated it in complicated fracture of the skull and after the Franco- German war, 1870-71, he expressed himself as follows : "I have tried to exclude entirely from military practices the use of the trephine as use- less in some, and unnecessary in other cases." He considers a state ot coma from depressed skull no more as an indication for applying tne trephine, than a comatose state in typhus as an indication to rouse the patient from it by any means except those which are in accordance witH his general state—as cold, for instance, but not stimulants. As soon as the fragments of the skuU become detached by suppuration, the comatose state ceases by itself. . . Porter says—" These are the rules which guide us m private practice, but I found in my experience in the army that they did not hold good. The injuries of the head are there so much more violent that I am inclined to thinlc non-intervention to be the safer practice. I believe I have seen more injuries of the head recover without trephining than with. Ihe opinion I have formed on this most important subject, after some ex- perience in military practice, is that when symptoms of compression exist from depression of the inner table, or both tables, with splintering or extravasation, it is necessary to remove the cause, if possible,^ by some surgical means ; and, that of the instruments in use, the trephine is the most objectionable, requiring considerable force, and consequently liable to cause additional injury to the sensitive brain and its membranes. I therefore consider the use of the elevator. Key's saw, the chisel and mallet better suited for the operation than the trephine." When surgical interference is necessary, too much care in the mani- pulation of instruments cannot be observed during the operation, but if careful antiseptic precautions are taken there is no undue risk in trephin- ing ; if, however, the operation is delayed until septic inflammation has supervened then the results are not likely to be satisfactory. There is no operation that requires greater nicety or delicacy than the removal or elevation of depressed bone or extraneous bodies from the surface or substance of the brain ; but to secure success much is required in the after-treatment, such as jjerfect quietness, cold to the head, and avoidance of any excitement. During the Indian Mutiny, 1857, at the battle of Sultanpore, a soldier of the_ 10th Foot was wounded in the head causing a depressed fracture, which rendered him insensible. The surgeon of the regiment elevated the depressed bones, and sensibility immediately returned. The sufferer was progressing satisfactorily, when the necessity for shifting camp iiroduced great dis- turbance, and brought on a train of unfortunate cerebral symptoms from which he died. Some authorities have raised a question as to the best period for using the treishine—that is, on the first or seventh day. Mr (iuthrie expresses himself in the following terms :—" I do not hesitate to say the first, believing the violence to be greater when done on parts already in a state of inflammation than when they are sound." Another eminent authority remarks on this point—"Danger does not arise from early operation, but from delay." There is no doubt that if it is necessary or advisable to use the trephine or elevate the bones, the sooner the operation is8o INJURIES OF THE HEAD. performed the better, so that the cause of irritation may be at once removed. There are certain parts of the skull to which it is recommended not to apply the trephine ; for instance, over the venous sinuses, the anterior angle of the parietal bone, the course of the sagital suture, and near the base of the skull. Sir W. Fergusson says—" The trepan may be applied in any part of the side or upper portion of the cranium, and a knov/ledge of anatomy will indicate where the bones are thick, or the reverse, and also wher(i the meningeal artery or the sinuses are in danger. The latter, I should imagine, may always be avoided; the former, if it is uecessaiy to operate over its course, may possibly be cut across, as at the side of the cranium it often runs into a canal of bone instead of being merely in a groove. A small pin of wood in such a case would suppress the bleeding, and any escape that might happen ere this could be introduced would probably be rather an advantage than otherwise ; for, generally, those who require this operation have been in robust health previously. "The irregular thickness of the bones at different parts should be remembered, and the pressure of the teeth should be made light or heavy in proportion. At the frontal sinuses, Sir Charles Bell recommended that the inner table should be taken out with a smaller-headed trephine than that which has been first applied ; the larger external opening per- mitting the entire circumference of the cutting margm of the latter instrument being placed directly on the surface within. ^^Such an opera- tion must, however, be rarely required in this situation. Suppuration within the cranium has been divided mto subcramal, intrameningeal, and cerebral. By subcranial is understood a deposit of pus between the skuU and dura-mater. It occurs opposite the seat of iniury or part struck. It may be induced by a blow on the head, causmg separation of the dura-mater from the bone by disturbmg vascular con- nection and setting up inflammation of the pericramum with necrosis; or by the irritation of splinters of the inner table, as in depressed fracture. With intrameningeal suppuration there is an accumulation of pus m the subdural or subarachnoid spaces, or in the pia-mater. In the intra- cerebral form there is an abscess in the substance of the bram itseii, caused by direct injury, by spUnters of bone, buUets, or other missiles, or ^\?eatment^of Inflammation of the Brain and its Membranes.- The treatment should consist of most vigorous measures, local bleeding bv leeches to the temples or behind the ears, mercury and cold to the head, the hair should be shaved, hot bottles to the feet, frequent enenaata of turpentine if necessary, dark rooms, perfect quiet, and spoon diet. Suppuration may be suspected when the inflammatory symptoms are interrupted by a rigor, or accompanied by hemiplegic paralysis on the side opposite the seat of injury. The formation of a puffy swelling on the scalp over the seat of injury has been suggested as the proper position to apply the trephine, but there would be no certainty m finding pus ; the trial has, however, been attended by success. ^ . rri,- Protrusion of the Brain, Fungus or Hernia Cerebn.-This arises8i INJURIES OF THE BEAD. in consequence of the dura-mater having been torn, or by ulceration taking place after removal of a portion of the skuU. If the dura-mater remains whole, and the wound in the cranium is small, the hernia will not take place, or if a large portion of the cranium has been removed, there will be no protrusion. Mr. Guthrie is of opinion that it is more likely to take place with a small opening than a large one. At first the protrusion may only consist of coagulated blood, appearing within one or two days after the injury, and this is generally a fatal symptom. It may occur at a later period, when it will consist of brain substance and may attain the size of a small orange. It is a very dangerous complication, terminating usually in encephalitis, followed by delirium and coma consequent on inflammatory effusion within the skull. Treatment.— The protrusion should not be shaved of, but it shoiild be dusted with tannic acid, oxide of zinc, or powdered salicylic acid, when smaU pressure should be applied, but if it should become very large, this could not be carried out. In any case, the less interference the better. Application of Trephine as recommended by Sir W. Fergusson.— " The scalp must be sufficiently opened by a an or any other incision that may be most convenient; next a perforator should be applied to malce a hole in the external table, into which the central pm of the trephine should be placed, and then by rotary motion the teeth should be carried into the bone. The external table and the diploe may be cut with bold and free movements, but caution is required when the mner plate is encountered, as also in those parts where there is no diploe and where the thickness is irregular and uncertain: the centre pm should now be drawn above the level of the serrated edge of the saw, and again by more cautious movements, the vitreous table must be divided. When the incision is supposed to be nearly completed, the instrument must be removed ; an elevator should then be introduced, so as to raise the loosened portion, and the rest of the operation may be conducted according to circumstances. When a foreign substance, blood, or matter, is sought for under the cranium, a circidar piece of bone is thus removed; but in the case of depressed fracture, only a little more tnan a semicircular portion requires to be cut; and this, be it observed by the young student, is taken from the sound portion of the bone, not that winch is depressed ; for the sole object in applying the instrument m a case of this kind is to permit the introduction of a lever to elevate the portion in fault. 682 woUNBS OF THE FACE AND ADJACENT PART^. ; Brit. Med. Journ., Oct. 9,18S6. "In using the trejihine commonly sold, it is necessary to raise it from the groove from time to time, so as to allow the particles of bone to be brushed away ; but the blade being slit up obviates this. However, towards the latter part of the operation it is proper to remove the teeth once or twice, and examine the fissure with the point of a probe, a slip of quill, or any other convenient article, so as to make sure that the dura- mater is not in danger from the skull-cap being thicker on one side of the opening than the other." Victor Horsley says—" For brain surgery, the head should be shaved and cleansed, the scalp raised by a semilunar flap, the bone is removed by a couple of trephine holes made at the opposite extremities of the area to be removed. The section is completed by Hey's saw and the bone forceps. The dura-mater should be so incised that its edges can be subsequently united by suture." * WOUNDS OF THE FACE AND ADJACENT PARTS. Wounds of the face, like those in other parts of the body, may be incised, contused, punctured, and lacerated. The rate of mortality from these wounds is not great, but they are liable to be attended by serious disfiguration and troublesome complica- tions in lesions of the ears, nose, eyes, cheeks, forehead, tongue, jaws, teeth, and mouth, interfering with articulation, mastication, deglutition, hearing, seeing, smelling, glands, and ducts. The causes of mortality in these wounds or injuries may be classed under the heads of _ secondary haemorrhage, lodgment of bullets or other missiles in bone, poisoning the constitution from suppuration and swallowing foetid pus and decomposed tissues, inability to take food or masticate, neuralgia, and paralysis ; the sufferers in some instances, when the bone becomes permanently diseased, being most wretched and miserable from the continued foetid discharge, preventing them from joining the society of their fellow-creatures. All wounds of the face show great aptitude for heahng. It is, there- fore, best to endeavour, with the least possible delay, to cleanse and approximate the parts, bringing them together with, fine sutures, while, when a wound has been inflicted by sharp instruments and is not deep, the skin only should be included by the silk; but in the event of the cheek being divided into the mouth, the stitches should be somewhat deeper. Wounds implicating the Bones of the Face.—In the event of bones being cut into, separated, or displaced, they should be readjusted, and having been cleansed, the skin should be brought over them and stitched, as in the case of an incised wound. Professor Chisholm gives an account of the plan adopted by medical officers of the Confederate Array in the treatment of wounds of the upper jaw. There was fair result, but much deformity was left in many cases. " Unless the fragments are either completely detached or but shghtlv adherent, they should not be taken away, but shoidd be replaced withwo UNDS OF THE FA CE AND AD J A CENT PAR TS. 83 care, as in time consolidation may take place, and very little deformity will be left. Should some of these fragments die, they will be found loose, often as early as the sixth or eighth day, and should be removed." Wounds of the Imver jaw are acknowledged to be more troublesome than wounds of the upper jaw, and are certainly more numerous. It has been remarked by Dupuytren that they are more dangerous than the upper, but such has not been the case in late campaigns. The great obstacles to be overcome in the treatment of gun-shot wounds and extensive injuries of the lower jaw, are—1st. The difficulty of keeping the bone in proper position, in consequence of its liability to hang down. 2nd. The incessant discharge of saliva. 3rd. The difficulty of feeding the sufferer. Fig. 77. After a short time suppuration sets m, and the foetid smell (which must be relieved by antiseptics) is intolerable to the patient and his attendants. Many ingenious contrivances have been invented for keeping the jaw in position, some of which are complicated and expensive. On service a piece of gutta-percha, about one-eighth of an inch thick, Fig. 79. and cut as represented in fig. 77, softened in boihng water, moulded to the jaw, as shown m fig. 78, and secured by means of a four-taUed bandage84 WOUNDS OF THE FACE AND ADJACENT PARTS. or two handkerchiefs, as shown in fig. 79, makes a comfortable appliance. It may be lined with soft lint or cotton wool, and should be applied with great care. If an opportunity offers of securing two fragments of bone by fastening together contiguous teeth, it should be done by means of silver wire or silk. The adjustment frequently checks haemorrhage, and prevents further mischief froni sharp-pointed spicula of bone, which from the hard nature of the lower jaw always exist in gun-shot wounds. The surgeon may not be in possession of gutta-percha, when he may substitute pastelDoard, leather, or in fact any substance that can be moulded and give support to the jaw. Mr. G. E. Hammond, while serving with an ambulance at the siege of Paris, had much success in the treatment of gun-shot fractures of the Fig. 80.—Hammond's splint for gun-shot fracture of the lower jaw. lower jaw, by means of a framework of iron wire, as represented in fig. 80. He first approximates (temporarily) the broken bones by passing a silk thread between and around two teeth on each side of the fracture ; he then talces an impression of the teeth in wax, and from it a cast in plaster of Paris. He adjusts the frame on the plaster cast, and when ready jjlaces it over the teeth, securing it on either side by wires, as shown in fig. 80. Letter T is intended to represent a tooth. The mres should be cut short, and their ends twisted in between the teeth. This contrivance renders the jaw comparatively firm, and so solid tliat the patient can bite steadily on it without pain. The jaw should now be secured at perfect rest. The patient should rinse his mouth four or five times a day with rectified spirits of wine and water, and he should sleep on his side to allow of a free discharge from the wound and mouth. Erichsen remarks : " In fractures of the body of the lower jaw by gun- shot injury, there is great comminution and splintering of the bone, followed by copious and foetid discharge, which, being swallowed, may reduce the patient to a state of extreme debility, and thus prove_ fatal. In these cases Dupuytren recommends cutting through the lower lip, the taking away of the splinters, and, if necessary, resection of the bone."WOUNDS OF TEE FACE AND ADJACENT PARTS. 85 At the assault on the great Eedan, 1855, an officer received a bullet wound at the ala of the right nostril. The bullet entered the mouth, smashed most of his teeth in the upper and lower jaw, broke in the hard palate, lacerated the tongue extensively, and broke the lower jaw in several places. His condition was that of extreme wretchedness ; but by adjustments of the parts as far as possible, removal of splinters, and sup]3ort by means of the gutta-percha splint, he was made comparatively comfortable. The suppuration was profuse, and the wounds remained open for a considerable pex'iod, but he so far recovered as to be able to perform the duties of a field officer, having had a false palate and several teeth adapted to his mouth. This officer was supported for several days by fluid nourishments administered through a quill passed well back in the mouth. Fracture or Fissure of the Symphysis is not difficult of detection. Sir W. Fergusson adopts the following method ior keeping the fragments moderately steady :—" I shape two narrow wedges of cork about an inch and a half long, aiad a quarter thick at the base, and sloping away to a point, one of which has been placed on each side between the teeth : and then I have affixed a wetted and softened piece of pasteboard on the chin, which has next been drawn tightly up, by means of a bandage carried from this part over the crown of the head ; as the pasteboard has got dry, a kind of mould has thus been formed on the chin, which has obstructed all future movements so long as it has been kept on. The cork wedges have insured regularity as regards the teeth, and an opening has been left between the incisors, whereby the patient has been fed uijon soups and other fluid nourishment. (Generally, however, the wedges have become loose, and in the course of ten or fifteen days the patients have become accustomed to restrain the movements of the pai'ts, and without taking particular pains about tightening the bandages after- wards, excellent cures have followed." The sufferer should be supported by fluid nourishment admini.stered by a tube passed to the back of the mouth, or by a long narrow spoon; indeed, it may sometimes be necessary to support J^ature by enemata of beef tea, wine, &c. Wounds of the Ear.—The external ear maybe cut away, or cut off with a sword, or otherwise injured. Instances have been recorded by Pard and Hildanns of the ear having been comi^letely detached, and when replaced healing without any difficulty. Measures should there- fore be adopted, on an ear being cut or injured, to replace any pieces, and secure them by means of very fine sutures, taking care to include the o\iter skin only, and not the cartilage. Wounds of the orbit include the eyelids, which may be so injured as to cause much loss of tissue, and as after-consequences eversion and inversion. The bones of the orbit may be injured, and result in inflam- mation of the brain or its membranes. Mr. Hennen records a case in which a bullet was lodged in the orbit without causing injury to the eye or the bones ; it was removed on the following day by dressing forceps, was found flattened, and had caused but little irritation to the eye.' Such escapes are not often met wdth. Bayonets and sharp-pointecj86 WOUNDS OF THE FACE AND ADJACENT PARTS. weapons perforating the thin orbital platea generally inflict such injury that they are followed by fatal results. ' Incised or lacerated wounds of the eyelid and brow should be carefully cleaned, and edges brought together as far as practicable bv means of fine sutures, and as quickly after the accident as possible Wounds of the eyeball may be divided into penetrating and non- penetratmg. ^ Treatment pi injuries to the eye which are likely to be followed bv panophthalmitis should be as follows :— All applications to the eye should be warm and soothing, such as decoction of poppy heads, or a solution of oi. of extract of beUadonna in a pint of boihng water. A solution of atrophine should be droiDped into the eye twice or thrice a day. The patient should be kept in a dark room Ihe bowels should be freely acted ui^on at the commencement and sleep should be produced and pain relieved by opium. At the com- mencement, salines and diaphoretics may be prescribed, but these must soon give way to quinine, bark, &c. The strength of the patient should be maintained by good fluid food, with a moderate allowance of wine or brandy.—Lawson. "Whenever foreign bodies are lodged in the eye they should be ex- tracted at all hazards. If it is impracticable to find them, the globe should be extirpated in order to preserve the other eye." In fractures of the bones of the orbital region, it is not judicious to remove fragments, unless they are completely detached, and are acting as foreign bodies. Injuries of the Nose.—In cases of incised wounds, the parts must be adjusted, and sutures applied in the same manner as for wounds of the ear, taking care that the skin does not curl in, which would prevent adhesion. Should the nose be broken, it is best to try and place it in its normal position; inserting in the nostrils pieces of gum elastic catheters, or plug with lint or sponge, to prevent deformity of the organ, and contraction of the nasal passages and depression of the nose. These injuries are frequently complicated with violent epistaxis, which may require plugging of the posterior nares. Wounds of the Cheeks and Forehead.—These wounds are usually the result of sword or gun-shot, and, when the parts are not completely carried away, will heal most readily if properly adjusted and secured. They have, like wounds of the scalp, the same tendency to attacks of erysipelatous inflammation; it is therefore necessary, during the treat- ment, to prevent the wound being exposed, and to observe strict dieting and temperance. No matter how small a shred may be attaching a fragment of skin to the face, an attempt should be made to readjust it. Wounds of the Parotid Duct and Gland.—Wounds of the cheek may be complicated with injuries of the parotid duct, and to prevent a salivary fistula being formed, Mr. Guthrie recommends: " If the duct of the parotid gland be implicated by an incised wound, care should be taken to divide the cheek into the mouth, if it should not have been already done; and to keej) the incised wound open until the external ppe is closed. If a salivary fistula have formed externally, from i»-87 WOUNDS OF THE NECK. attention or otherwise, it must be treated according to the ordinary methods adopted in such cases. . When a wound of the gland itself becomes fistulous and weeps, which is a rare occurrence, it wiU be best treated by actual or potential cauterisation, if moderate pressure should fail" Injury of the lachrymal bones, or sac, causing the tears to run over, which misfortune may continue for life, should be treated by endeavour- iii- to remove obstructions in the duct, and so prevent the distress which must follow from want of early care and attention. _ ■ Wounds of the tongue frequently give rise to extensive hfemorrhage, which is difficult to check, if secondary, or occurring several days after receipt of injury, when the process of suppuration is going on and the ton'-ue is swollen and ])ainful. If the bleeding vessels can be dis- covered, they should be tied, a.nd to do this the tongue must be drawn well forward, or an attempt may be made to restrain the hemorrhage with styptics, or it may be necessary to tie the lingual artery. Wounds of the mouth are generally in connection with wounds ot the face ; but they may be still further complicated with injuries to the pharynx, tongue, spinal cord, jaws, and skuU. WOUNDS OF THE NECK. Superficial wounds of the neck require the same trea,tment as elsewhere, the surgeon always bearing in mind the great liability to erysipelas in these parts, with rapid diffuse inflammation and infiltra- Deep wounds of the neck, such as those produced by stabs, may be accompanied by most distressing symptoms, such as oppressed breathing, nausea, spasmodic twitching of face, paralysis of one or both arms, cough, restlessness, and hiccough. In gun-shot wounds of the neck, it is scarcely possible to have lesion of one important structure without others being implicated ; at the same time it has been generally observed that buUets and other missiles pass in and out between muscles, vessels, and nerves, and even the trachea, without causing much injiuy to any. This is accounted for by the soft and flexible condition of the structure of the neck offering no resistance. r 1 • t Wounds of the larger arteries and veins generally prove fatal immedi- ately, but in wounds of the smaller vessels, there is frequently much diffi- culty in discovering whence the haemorrhage arises, and what trunk should be tied. Mr Guthrie quotes, with great satisfaction, the opinion of M. Velpeau on this subject: "In basmorrhage from the neck, the mouth, the throat, the ear, or the skull, everything should be done to reach the branch of the carotid which has been wounded, rather than tie the carotid itself." Wounds of the Larynx.—In wounds of the larynx the parts must be adjusted and kept in contact by bandages, sutures being considered objectionable. Should a bullet or other missile get into the larynx, it88 WOUNDS OF THE NECK. must be removed by operation, and when extensive inflammation is set up caiising infiltration or ojdema, it may be necessary to open the trachea, and insert a tube to allow the sufferer to breathe. An interesting case is given by the Surgeon-General of the American Army, where the larynx became so obstructed after a wound, that it was necessary to open it and prolong the incision as far as the third ring of the trachea ; the proceeding was successful. Should clots of blood get into the larynx or trachea, and they are not coughed up, an endeavour must be made to remove them by sucking, or by means of an exhausting pump. Wounds in connection with the larynx or trachea, or in theu- vicinity, should not be closed till all haemorrhage has ceased, for fear of suffocating the patient. These wound- may be accompanied by emphysema, causing much distress, which should be treated by smaU punctures, if it extends ; but as a rule it wiU pass away when suppuration of the wound commences. Wounds of the (Esophagus.—For wounds of the oesophagus but little can be done, Nature performmg all that is required in healing; and it is sometimes most remarkable how quickly this is effected. Wounds of the oesophagus may render the patient unable to swallow without much dis- comfort, or m many cases not at all, when it wiU be necessary to give him nourishment by a gum-elastic tube introduced through the nose into the stomach, or by enemata of beef-tea, milk, gruel, and other nutritive fluids. During the Crimean War a complicated case of bullet-wound of the larynx and oesophagus came under Porter's immediate care, the particulars of which may be recorded here : At the assault on the great Eedan, the sufferer having mounted the parapet, and while in the act of reloading on his knees, was shot from below by one of the enemy, who was im°- mediately at the bottom of the parapet. He fell on his side, did not feel much pain, but could not speak. On arrival at the camp hospital, two wounds were found in the neck ; the ball had entered at the pomum Adami and made its exit at the anterior edge of the sterno-mastoid muscle of the right side. There was very little haemorrhage from either wound, and no displacement of the thyroid cartilage. The patient was suffering from a frequent cough with bloody expectoration, loss of voice, and nausea ; bubbles of air appeared at every expiration at the wound of entrance in the larynx ; and when he attempted to drink, some of the fluid came through the wound at the anterior edge of the sterno-mastoid. the wound of exit. This latter symptom continued for five days, and then ceased altogether ; for twelve days the au- continued to pass through the upper wound and then ceased. The cough during that time was very troublesome, and the expectoration copious, which caused much loss of rest ; during the first six days there was slight emphysema about the upper wound, but it gradually disappeared. The treatment consisted at first of antiphlogistic remedies, both local and constitutional; and lint wet with cold water was kept constantly to the wound. He was fed by means of a spoon passed very far back, containing arrowroot, milk, or tea ; his diet was gradually increased after five days, he was able to swallow bread softened in tea, rice,89 WOUNDS OF THE CHEST. and milk; and as inflammatory symptoms subsided, wine, porter, and nutritious diet were allowed. The wounds healed completely, but the voice was much impaired, being little more than a whisper. WOUNDS OF THE CHEST. Classification.—Wounds of the chest are divided into penetrating and non-penetrating. The non-penetrating may be subdivided into wounds of skin, fascia, and other soft coverings of the walls of the thorax, fracture of the clavicle, scapula, sternum, vertebrae, ribs, injury of bones or cartilages, and super- ficial vessels. The penetrating may be subdivided into those connected with wounds of pleura, lungs, heart, great vessels, nerves, oesophagus, and thoracic duct. Non-penetrating wounds may be accompanied by lesions of the internal viscera from violence, causing contusion or rupture of viscera or an im- portant blood-vessel, and, subsequently, by inflammation of the pleura or lungs, giving rise to plei;ritis or pneumonia, or both. Non-penetrating wounds of the soft parts alone differ but little from wounds elsewhere, except that they are much slower in healing, due in all_ probability to the ribs never being at rest, and consequently the lips of incised wounds cannot be kept in exact apposition. In dressing these wounds, it is recommended to apply strips of adhesive plaster in such a manner that the ribs may be supported and the wounds relieved from strain ; this is best accomplished by placing broad strips of plaster at right angles to the ribs, and a bandage round the chest with narrow strips of bandage over the shoulders, stitched to that on the chest, with a view to keeping it in position. Simple fractures of the several bones in connection with the chest, such as the clavicle, scapula, ribs, and sternum, must be treated in accordance with the special rules laid down for these injuries. In compound fractures of these bones from gun-shot, where the wounds do_ not penetrate, much trouble and anxiety may arise from depressed spicula causing inflammatory symptoms and requiring elevation or removal, or giving rise to abscesses, or diseased bone. Wounds of the external arteries of the chest, producing profuse haemorrhage, should he secured at both ends, as, from the nature of the surrounding tissues, blood is apt to be extravasated or aneurisms formed. All external wounds, at first apjiarently trivial, should be most care- fully watched for several days, as inflammatory symptoms of the lungs or pleura may arise, and should be checked with the least possible delay. Penetrativrj wounds may he complicated, in the first instance, with emphysema, pneumo-thorax, hernia of the lung, htemo-thorax, and presence of foreign bodies, and subsequently by hydro-thorax, empyema, fistulous openings, and contractions of the chest. ^ In wounds of the heart and larger vessels, the result is generally immediately fatal; at the same time instances have occurred where a pufferer with a wound of the heart has lived for several days.WOUNDS OF THE CHEST. 90 Symptoms of Wound of Lungs.—A penetrating wound of the chest may be accompanied by the following symptoms, which, taken as a whole or in connection with one another, may satisfy the surgeon that the lung has been wounded ; but they are not proof positive that such is the all may be present, and yet no wound of the lung :—Shock, sudden collapse, or fainting from haemorrhage, internally or externally ; the escape of blood and air through external wound of pale red colour and frothy ; continued issue of blood mixed with mucus from mouth during efforts of coughing; emphysema; deeply-fixed pain in the chest; irritation of larynx and spasmodic cough; difficulty of breathing. Shock, sudden collapse, or fainting, may occur with any severe wound. The escape of blood and air through the external wound may take place, in consequence of a wound of the intercostal or mammary artery, by air having been drawn into the cavity of the thorax during each expiration, expelled during inspiration, and so mingling with the blood. The issue of blood from the mouth, mixed with air, is looked upon as satisfactory evidence of wound of the lung; but it may arise from_other causes unconnected with the wound, and may therefore exist without a lung wound. Emphysema, which was considered by older surgeons to be proof positive of a wound of the lung, is now looked upon as a complication which may be caused by the admission of air into the chest through the external wound, and not finding ready egress during respiration, passes into the cellular tissue in the immediate neighbourhood of the external wound, and therefore cannot be considered as a diagnostic symptom of any value. The pain in the chest, cough, irritation of larynx, and difficulty of breathing with the continuance of blood in the mouth, or blood a?icZ especially mucus from the wound, may be considered the most reliable symptoms. . , ■ • When the wounds occur in civil life, the weapon causmg the mjury might be procured, and a certain amount of assistance afforded by examining it, and judging of its extent by the stains of blood on it; but in war there is no such help. v ■, . i It has been recommended to test the wound by holdmg a lighted candle opposite to it, and direct the patient to take a deep mspiration, when, if the candle is blown upon, it is a proof that the lung has been wounded. ^ „ . . -j.! Treatment of Penetrating Wound.—On first seemg a patient with a penetrating wound of the chest, an endeavour should be made to restore animation by the administration of beef-tea and cordials. Should reaction take place, distressing symptoms will cease ; haemorrhage may have been checked, and with a suitable bandage round the thorax, it is possible no bad symptoms wiU follow ; but blood may continue to be poured out in the cavity of the chest, causing pressure on the lungs, and consequent symptoms of distress, or it may come through the external wound, flooding the sufferer. j • t. v, Blood in Cavity of Chest.—If the blood is being poured mt9 the cavity of the chest, the surgeon will be warned by the cold perspiration the palHd countenance, faintings, the weak pulse, and distress m breathing.WOUNDS OF THE CHEST. 91 If he examines the chest he will find it enlarged on the injured side, and I the intercostal spaces bulging out. There will be dulness in proportion to the amount of the cavity filled up, and no respiratory murmur, the I lung being i^ressed down. Ecchymosis is laid down as a symptom or sign of effusion of blood ! within the chest at a late period. Valentine considers it to be a pathog- I nonionic sign of effusion of blood. He says—"It is very dissimilar to that which occurs after a blow or wound, and which takes place shortly after the accident, being around the wound if there be one, and extending I from it. The patient also complains of pain when the bruised part is : pressed by the fingers. These characters are not observed in the I ecchymosis attending effusion, which always takes place near the angles : of the lower or false ribs, descending towards the loins. Its colour is identical with that which appears on the abdomen of persons some time after death—a bright violet [violet tres-tdairci). It appears about ten days after the receipt of the injury—sometimes later." Should the blood come through the external wound, the diagnosis is simple enough. Treatment of Haemorrhage into Cavity of Chest.—It now becomes a matter of serious consideration what is the best line of treatment for this form of haemorrhage ; but before taking it for granted that it is coming from the lungs, an endeavour should be made to try and discover if the intercostal or internal mammary arteries have been wounded. And as a guide to this, it has been remarked that when there is internal haemor- rhage from the latter sources, the symptoms are more gradual than if the blood comes direct from the lungs or pulmonary arteries. In the event of the haemorrhage coming from mammary or intercostal arteries, an attempt should be made to tie these vessels, or otherwise close them, for which purpose various plans have been proposed, some of which may be mentioned here :— Pass a curved needle armed with a ligature completely round the rib, and compress the wounded artery by means of a pledget placed over the orifice and included in the ligature. Sir T. Longmore describes " Desault's purse," which is a mode of compression, and is as follows :—" Place a piece of linen on that part of the chest at the wound. The middle portion of the linen is pressed by the finger into the wound, so as to form a kind of pouch. This pouch is then distended with sponge or lint pushed into it, till it arrests the bleed- ing. On stretching out the corners of this linen cloth, the pressure of the plug win be increased. The whole may be secured to the chest by a roller or l^andage." This method Porter used with the most perfect and permanent success, adding to the lmt or sponge a little of the solution of perchloride of iron. _Mr._ Guthrie considers that wounds of the intercostal arteries rarely give rise to haemorrhage so as to require a special operation for suppression- but whenever it does so happen, the wound should be enlarged, so as to show the bleeding orifice, which should be secured by one ligature if distinctly open, and by two if the vessel should only be partially divided, ihe vessel is sometimes so small as to be easily twisted, or its end suffi- ciently bruised as well as twisted, to arrest the haemorrhage.92 WOUNDS OF THE CHEST. It having been pretty well ascertained that hajmorrhage is from the lung, and the symptoms being urgent, what measures should the surgeon adopt ? Many opinions have been expressed on this important and diffi- cult subject. Sir T. Longmore recommends that " haemorrhage from the lung itself must be treated on the general principles adopted in all such cases : the admmistration of cool acid drinks (iced, if ice can be obtained), perfect quiet, and the administration of opium or digitalis. _ " When blood has accumulated in any large quantity, and the patient IS so much oppressed as to threaten suffocation, all coverings must be removed, and the blood permitted to escape by wound; the wound should even be enlarged, if necessary, so as, with the assistance of proper posi- tion, to facilitate its escape. If the effused blood, from the situation of the wound, cannot be thus evacuated, and the patient be in danger of suffocation, then paracentesis must be resorted to." Dr. Macleod, who had considerable experience during the Crimean War, says that those cases did best in which early, active, and repeated bleedings were had recourse to. The Report of the Surgeon-General, American Army, on the treat- ment of chest wounds during the War of the Eebellion, is of the greatest importance; and from the vast number of cases, amounting to 20,264, the success of the treatment without venesection should be a great lesson to the army surgeon, and enable him to decide as to the proper course to be adopted in such cases. The following is an abstract of the measures used for the different descriptions of wounds :— In injuries of the thorax, whether attended or not by breach of surface, rest, a comfortable position, and a broad bandage round the chest. After stanching the bleeding, cleansing the parts, and removing foreign bodies, the further conduct of the surgeon must be governed by the ex- tent and_ nature of the lesion. All superficial wounds should be closed, with a view to early adhesion. In extensive incisions or lacerations use sutures, but in coughing or movements these are apt to be torn out. In penetrating wounds, some preferred to support the injured side with broad strips of plaster ; this was considered a secure dressing, and acceptable to the patient. The starch bandage was used, but its appli- cation was not found convenient. In profuse primary haemorrhage the bleeding was arrested, if possible, by ligature or compression, but when impossible to reach the source of the internal bleeding, it was considered best to close the wound and to promote occlusion of the bleeding vessel by general means. In the general treatment, the uncomplicated non-penetrating wounds required no exceptional measures beyond restriction of diet and the means necessary to insure rest. In penetrating wounds venesection appears to have been abandoned altogether ; hsemorrhage was treated by the application of cold, perfect rest, and the administration of opium. These measures, he says, seem to have generally proved adequate.93 WOUNDS OF THE CHEST. Dr. Chisholm's views are given in the Surgeon-General's Eeport. He deprecates venesection in chest wounds ; even when the king is inflamed he prefers the mild antiphlogistic and expectant treatment to the spoliative. The large success in the treatment of perforating chest wounds in the Confederate hospitals, puts forth in strong light the powers of Nature to heal all wounds when least interfered with by- meddlesome surgery. Absolute rest, cooling beverages, moderate nourishment, avoiding over-stimulation, with small doses of tartar emetic, veratrum or digitalis, the liberal use of opium, and attention to internal secretions will be required in all cases ; and in most will compose the entire treatment. Among the pharmaceutical preparations employed by the American surgeons was opium, which appears to be the one on which most reliance was placed ; but care should be observed in its administration, as hcemor- rhage tends to increase its action. It quiets the nervous system, and indirectly moderates hfemorrhage. Stromeyer, in his Experiences of Gun-shot Wounds, 1866, remarks, under the head of Wounds of Thorax, that, "with the exception of a single instance of venesection, which was at his own suggestion, there was no bleeding for chest wounds." He frequently discontinued wine and coffee, which acted as stimulants, and ordered the patient to take whey, and later on, cod-liver oil. "It is only through tranquil- ity and prudent nourishment that the dangers of chest wounds can be avoided." Legoiiest objects strongly to bleeding for wounds of lungs, as being more injurious than useful. He thinks it is better to close the wound, have recoiirse to exterior stimulants, and to apply ice locally. Should hsemorrhage continue in the cavity of the chest, the wound must be opened if closed, and if too small to admit of evacuation of blood it must be enlarged; should this enfeeble the sufferer, the wound should be reclosed. The patient should lie on the affected side, with a light bandage round the chest. In former days, excessive bleeding for hsemorrhage from the lungs, the result of a wound, Avas the general and established practice ; but at the present time, and since the Crimean War, quite the opposite method has been and is most in favour ; in all probability due to the exertions of the many distinguished and thoughtful siirgeons who served in that war. The course now reconunended is to close the wound, allow the cavity of pleura to fill with blood, with a view to compression of the wound in lung, and thereby to close the vessel; but should great distress and dirticulty of In-eathing supervene, place the sufferer on the wovmded side and allow the blood to come away; and if the wound is not sufficiently large for this purpose, carefully extend it. Should there be two wounds, the uppermost should be closed. Ice, refrigerating drinks, dilute sulphuric acid and opium, acetate of lead or ergot, may be administered, the patient being placed in a cool room, with little or no food, and no stimulant whatever. Gun-shot Wounds of both Lungs.—With regard to the effects of a gun-shot wound of both lungs, many cases have been reported ofWOUNDS OF THE CHEST. 94 recovery when both lungs have been penetrated, and dissection has proved that sufferers: have Hved for several days; but; the probabil- ity is, that health will never be permanently restored'after such an accident. Extraneous bodies in superficial chest wounds should be carefully re- moved, and splinters and spicula of bone elevated or removed, if detached, in the event of a ball passing through or round the chest, but not having sufficient velocity to make an exit at the opposite side, being possibly impacted between two ribs, or fracturing a rib, and presenting itself as a small tumour under the skin, it will be necessary to observe great caution in attempting to remove it, as by want of care it may be forced back and fall into the cavity of the pleura, complicating matters very considerably; but, if it is not causing distress, it is better not to interfere, as the missile may become encysted. The operation should be performed during inspiration. When round bullets were used, it was not an uncommon circumstance for a ball to strike a rib and pass half way round the chest, but with the conoidal bullet this can rarely happen. Searching for Extraneous Bodies in Chest.—Authorities differ as to the advisability or otherwise of searching for extraneous bodies in the cavity of the chest. Bell, writing in 1800, says—" As for a ball itself, if it be lost in the thorax, it is irrecoverably lost, and no method that we can contrive will enable us either to find it or extract it." M, Legouest, in speaking of the use of the probe, remarks—"The only inconvenience to which one is exposed in probing a gun-shot wound of the chest, supposing a foreign body to be in it, is not to find that for which one is searching. In fact, when the lung is free from adhesions, it recedes with the pressure of the probe and escapes injury; or if the lung adheres to the pleura costalis, and the internal wound is in relation with, the outer, in this case a chest probe or large gum-elastic probe might be introduced into the course of the wounded lung without running the risk of causing more inflammation than the presence of the ball, splinters, clothing, or other extraneous matters." He agrees with Ledran that, if one is fortunate enough to find the extraneous matter in the lung, one must dilate sufficiently the exterior wound, in order to seize it with pincers and extract without obstruction. Erichsen remarks on the subject of foreign bodies in the chest—"If any extraneous body, such as a bullet, a piece of wadding, or of clothing, have penetrated too deeply into the chest to be readUy extracted through the external opening, it would not be safe to nmke incisions or exploratory researches Avith a view to extracting it, for though its presence would increase the patient's danger, yet attempts at ex- traction would not only add to this, but would in all probability be fatal. In many cases, bodies so lodged become surrounded by an abscess, are loosened, and eventually are sjjat up, or appear at the external wound." Emjjhysema, or the infiltration of air into the cellular tissue, is not an unusual accompaniment of wounds of the chest. It may be caused by a spiculum of a broken rib penetrating the pleura and wounding the lung,95 WOUNDS OF THE CHEST. or by wounds of the lung or bronchi, where air passes from the lung into cavity of chest and is forced into the external wound ; but to secure its taking place in this latter description of injury, it is necessary that the external woTind and wound of lung should not exactly correspond, but have an oblique direction. It may also be caused by air entering the chest on inspiration through an external wound, and finding some obstruction on being forced out again at expiration, diffusing itself into the cellular tissue. _ . Mr. Hennen's experience of this complication was that it occurred m about one in fifty cases of wounds in the chest, and that it is more fre- quent ia confined punctured wounds than in those which are free and open. Mr. Guthrie is of opinion that it is not so frequent an occurrence as was at one time supposed. He says—" An opening made by a musket- ball rarely admits of emphysema. A slanting wound made by a pistol- baU may sometimes give rise to it. After a long tortuous_ wound made by swords or lances, it is seen more frequently, but then it takes place shortly after receipt of injury." Legouest considers it one of the most frequent accompaniments of piercing wounds of the chest. Emphysema appears in some slight injuries—as, for instance, in the case of a fractured rib, when a small spiculum of bone may penetrate the lung, and cause emphysema in the immediate neighbourhood of the wound; the air will in all probability be soon absorbed by the application of a bandage, or wide strips of plaster round the chest. While serving in India, Porter was called upon to visit a brother officer who had been thrown from his horse and fractured three ribs. He was scarcely able to breathe; there was great pain and considerable emphysema in the immediate vicinity of the broken ribs. A bandage was applied pretty firmly round the chest, when distress in breathing disappeared, and the emphysema subsided in a few days. Bandaging and strapping must be regulated by the sensation of the patient; and, should either cause distress, it must be at once removed. Should the swelling extend, so as to interfere with respiration, the external wound, if there be one, should be opened, and punctures or scarification made in the cellular tissue. If emphysema is produced by the air being drawn into the cavity of the chest through a wound, and then forced into the cellular tissue, the wound should be closed. Pneumothorax, or an accumulation of air in the cavitj' of the pleura, gives rise to the following symptoms :—Dyspncea, tympanitic resonance of chest, amphoric respiratit)n, metallic tinkling on auscultation, affected side dilated. The patient feels relief by Ijdng on his back or affected side, seldom on the sound side. Relief must be given by reopening the wound in the chest, if one exists, or removing the air by trochar and canula. Hydrotliorctx may occur as the result of pleurisy following gun-shot wounds. It may require surgical interference, by the operation of paracentesis thoracis. Its presence is recognised by those general signs which indicate the presence of fluid in the cavities of the pleura.96 WOUNDS OF THE CUEHl. Hamilton says it may be distinguished from hjemothorax in beinc' pre- ceded usually by the sign of pleuritis or of pleuro-pneumonia, in the absence of those symptoms of prostration which must necessarily accom- pany large l)leedings, and in the greater facility with which the contained Huid flows frop one point of the cavity to another on change of position it paracentesis is required, an aspirator should be used to remove the nuid. Empyema.—This condition is the result of septic inflammation of the pleura. It consists of a collection of pus mixed with lymph and blood It is to be recognised by dulness on percussion where the fluid has collected; by dyspnoea or difficulty of breathing, absence of respiratory murmur at the lower and posterior part of the chest corresponding to where the fluid has reached the pleural cavity. These symptoms are all influenced by the position of the patient. There may be cerjophony. If the effused fluid has filled one side, that side is enlarged ; the ribs are immovable and partly raised ; the intercostal spaces will be more or less filled up, and the surface of the chest will be found smooth. There will be absence of all breath or voice sounds. If the empyema is general the lung may become pressed against the spine, and, if the left pleura be filled, displacement of the heart may take place to the right side ; or, if the effusion is to the right side, the liver may be pushed down below its normal level. There may be oedema of the back, which was looked upon by the older writers as distinctive of effusion into the chest. There may be cough, but it has no characteristic feature in connection with empyema. In some instances the empyema is localised and may be situated between the lobes of the lungs; when this is the case, as the abscess increases the lung becomes com- pressed in all directions. The fluid will have to be removed by an operation. " The space between the fifth and sixth ribs, an inch to an inch and a half in front of the mid axiUary line, will probably be found the best in most cases. The interval between the ribs is mde enough here to admit a large tube readily, the covering of soft parts is not too thick, and the drainage obtained is efficient, and there is no risk of the opening be- coming obstructed either by the expanding lung or the diaphragm."— Erichsen. A grooved aspirator needle should be used, and if, after its introduc- tion, pus escapes, a bistoury may be passed along the groove and a free incision made, a drainage tube should then be inserted, and free drainage established. In introducing the point of the needle or trochar, with which the aspirator is adapted, care must be taken not to wound the intercostal artery ; it is therefore best to keep the point of the instrument nearer the lower than the upper rib, and to press it forward rather quickly, so as to avoid pushing the pleura before it. It is not advisable to remove any portion of a rib unless the case is of a very chronic nature, or when the ribs are found to be so close together as to render it impossible to insert a drainage tube. If it is necessary to remove a portion of rib, make an incision over the rib, divide the periosteum along the length ofWOUNDS OF THE CHEST, 97 the portion of rib to be removed, then reflect the periosteum by means of an elevator from off the portion of the rib, divide the rib with cutting forceps at either end, and the piece of rib will be easily removed from its bed. Hernia of the Lung or Pneumocele.—This complication may occur immediately after receipt of injury, while the chest wound is open or when it has healed. This latter is a rare occurrence, but may take place when the intercostals have been much injured and weakened. It has been known to occur from fractured ribs -wdthout any wound, the pleura and intercostal muscles having been ruptured. This description of hernia should be treated by supports, the tumour having been pushed back. When there is an extensive wound of the chest, it may occur by violent efforts in coughing or in expiration. The tumour jDreseuts a livid appearance, and if not soon returned will become gangrenous. "Or, from exposure the prolapse shrinks, becomes dry and carnified and covered with granulations, gradually diminishes in size, and finally cicatrises over, and has been known to return spontane- ously into the cavity of the thorax. A prolapse of omentum through the walls of the chest may be mistaken for a prolapse of the lung. Such protrusions are to be discriminated from prolapse of the lung by their soft, fatty, reddish, and irregular feel and appearance and by the absence of crepitation."—Lyell* It is resonant on percussion, and if a stethoscope is applied to it a crackling or rubbing soiind will be heard. It may be returned if seen at once, provided it has not been strangulated, or it may be removed by the knife or by ligature. Mr. Guthrie recommends—"It should be allowed to remain, or be only so far returned, if it can be so managed, as to rest within the edges of the divided pleura and fill uj) the gap made by the incision, over which the integuments should be accurately drawn and retained. The ailhesion of the lung to the pleura costalis arrests the inflammation, and may prevent its progress in other parts of the cavity. "Whenever the protruded lung has been completely returned, more inflammation has followed than where it has been allowed to remain under the precautions recommended. The protruded lung, when left uncovered and uni^rotected, soon looses its natural Ijrilliancy, dies quickly, shrinks, and becomes livid without being gangrenous. In such cases, the protruded part may be removed ; but it should never be separated at its base from its attachment to the pleura costalis by which it is sur- rounded." M. Legouest recommends that the tumour be allowed to faU off, and he advises dressing it in the ordinary manner, protecting the parts from injury and preventing inflammation. Above aU, to repair the lesions which have favoiired the formation of the rupture. Wounds of the Pericardium or Heart.—These injuries may occur from severe blows on the chest, by puncture, stab, or gun-shot. The peri- cardium may be injured and the heart escape. When the pericardium is injured, the patient appears in a state of * Art. " Injuries of the Chest," Holmes- System of Surgery, vol. i. 7WOUNDS OF THE CHEST. 98 collapse or death takes place immediately. The former is usually tollowed by inflammation, oppression, dyspnoea, great appearance of distress, small pulse, and pam at the seat of injury. The wound should be closed, if large ; the sufferer kept perfectly quiet, and strict anti- septic treatment enforced. Wounds of the Heart.-When the heart is wounded, the injuries may not penetrate into the cavities. Instances have been known where loreign bodies have lodged and become encysted in the structures of the organ. 1 penetrating wounds the results have been immediately fatal from loss oi blood and shock, but sufferers have lain for several days in con- sequence of the wound closing by contraction, or by the lodgment of a coagulum preventing effusion of blood into the pericardium or pleura. J recorded that in cases which immediately prove fatal, the wounded man appears to spring off the ground, or falls dead without convulsion or apparent knowledge of being injured. If the injury does not prove fatal immediately, there will be collapse followed by great distress and oppression of breathing, anxious countenance, pulse very weak, pallid face. Subsequently there may be all the complications of inflammation of the endocardium. " The external wound should be accurately closed and all escape of blood prevented, provided, in doing so, suffocation is not induced by blood hUing the cavity of the pericardium or pleura, in which case relief may be obtained by allowing some blood to escape." Wounds^of the Diaphragm.—John Bell, in speaking of these wounds, remarks—" Though wounds of the diaphragm are not material in them- selves, yet the diaphragm can hardly be touched but in mortal wounds I.e., wounds touching both cavities—viz., of the thorax and of the abdomen, when most frequently the stomach, lungs, pericardium, or heart are either wounded or are soon inflamed, and so drawn into disease." The surgeon may recognise these wounds, first by the position of the injury in either chest or abdomen, and if there are evidences of a missile or weapon having penetrated ; also by the following symptoms—hiccough, spasmodic or jerldng breathing, pain in the top of shoulder, or loss of power in the arm. There maybe nausea or vomiting, and if the liver lias been injured, jaundice may occur. If the stomach or intestines have been wounded, blood wiU, iu all probability, appear either by vomiting or in the stools. A wound of the diaphragm may give rise to a hernia in the chest; it will, therefore, be necessary for the sufferer to remain in the upright position during the process of recovery, to avoid bending as much as possible ; _and, in the event of recovery taking place, care should be observed in eating small quantities and standing erect after meals, avoid- ing bending or straining, as a wound of the diaphragm is supposed never to close except under rare and peculiar circumstances. A patient, there- fore, once wounded through that muscle would always be liable to hernia." Hennen says— " Of the wounds of the diaphragm, I have never met oneWOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. 99 unconnected vnth. injuries of one or both cavities which it divides, or in which symptoms of their being affected did not appear; although I have met with one instance where a musket ball passed along from the sternal to the vertebral connection of that septam, precisely following the curva- ture of the ribs. The prevention of inflammation is the leading indication of cure ; but injuries are frequently found on dissection, which were not at all indicated during life by any peculiar symptom." An operation for tiie relief of this hernia has been proposed by Guthrie, which, though formidable, he says cannot be compared as to da,nger with the incision of 12 or 14 inches long through the walls of the abdomen, which has been in some instances successfully made for the removal of diseased ovaria. The opening should be a straight incision through the wall of the abdomen, large enough to admit the hand immediately over the part where the diaphragm is supposed to be injured. It should be closed by a continuous suture throughout the skin. The secondary causes of death after lung wounds may arise from haemorrhage, pneumonia, pleuritis, bronchitis, ulceration of lung tissue, empyema, pyaemia, gangrene of the lung, tetanus. WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. Classification of Wounds of the Abdomen.—These wounds are usually divided into penetrating and non-penetrating. The dangers to be con- tended with in aU wounds of the abdomen are hjemorrhage and diffused septic peritonitis ; and, of course, the greater extent of injury, especially internal, the greater iirobability of these formidable complications. The prognosis of wounds of the abdomen is very unfavourable, the diagnosis very obscure, and the results of treatment discoui-aging. It is, therefore, most important that the question as to the penetration of the abdominal cavity should be settled as speedily as possible, and this can be most easily determined by passing a probe into the wound. Of course, due care must be taken in this, as in the case of all wounds, to introduce such instruments only as are perfectly clean and aseptic,' but if proper precautions are taken there can be no objection to this course, more especially as the information sought for is of the first im- portance. MacCormac adds*: "And if this fail to clearly establish the fact or otherwise of penetration, the wound should be enlarged and exjDlored to its termination either in the parietes or more deeply." "Abdominal section for penetrating wounds is steadily gaining adher- ents, it being admitted that the mortality has been materially decreased since its introduction, and that the intrinsic risk of an abdominal section tor exploratory purposes is, if properly performed, very slight. It must always be remembered that to wait for symptoms of perforation of intestine to appear in a case of penetrating abdominal wound is greatly to decrease the chance of recovery, and some surgeons advocate imme- diate exploration in all such cases."—Frar Book, 1890 Non-penetrating wounds, uncomplicated, without injury of the internal viscera, require no special line of treatment. If there are * Abdominal Section, by Sir W. MacCormac, F.U.C.S., 1887.WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. lOO incisions or lacerations of the abdominal walls, the parts should be adjusted and kept in position by means of sutures or stitches, suf- ficiently deep to keep the divided str^uctures in exact co-aptation and so prevent ventral protrusions. The quilled suture appears to have ansvvered the best purpose (fig. 81) in the American War. The sutures should be allowed to remain until the fourth or fifth day, and the loop of each double thread then being cut, the pieces should be withdrawn simultaneously m opposite directions. If carbolised gut sutures are used, they will soften and come out by themselves. The position of the sufferer during treatment should be such that the muscles of the abdomen are relaxed by elevating the shoulders and head, and flexing the lower limbs. ^ Fig. 81.—Application of the quilled suture to an incised wound. A bullet may strike the abdomen obliquely and pass between the muscles and the skin, or between the peritoneum and the muscles, giving rise to alarming symptoms, causing violent pain, vomiting, and general derangement, such as prolonged collapse, followed by extensive peri- tonitis or suppuration. In the event of suppuration, an early opening should be made to prevent the possibility of pus perforating the peri- toneum. Should a bullet or other missile be lodged deeply in the abdominal walls, Gruthrie suggests that it is often better left alone, unless it prove troublesome. This, according to the extensive experience of Mr. Otis, " is unsound ;" he considers there are no other exceptions to the general rule of extracting foreign bodies, than the instances in which they are so situated in vital organs that their extraction may immediately jeopar- dise life. It is, he says, especially important to extract them from the abdominal walls, as they present a constant source of danger while they remain.lOI WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. Complicated non-penetrating wounds, the result of contusion, may- be accompanied by extensive injuries to some of the viscera or bones, and are generally the result of wind-balls, explosions, blows, falls, kicks from men or horses, or the passage of the wheel of au artillery-wagon or gun-carriage over the body. Death may result in a very short time from shock, or haemori-hage, or peritonitis, or subsequently from slough- ing or abscesses in the abdominal waUs. The shock in these cases is of the severest description, amounting in some instances to prolonged collapse, and is probably connected with an internal haemorrhage that is going on. Porter saw an instance of an artilleryman being thrown from the limber while in rapid motion, a wheel passing obliquely over the abdomen and x^flvis ; he was immediately attacked by prolonged collapse, vomiting, pains, bloody urine, and great restlessness, froni which he never rallied, and expired in a few hours. The jMst-vborU'W examination gave evidence of extensive hsemorrhage into the peritoneal cavity, it being full of large clots. There was a fracture of the left ramus of the ischium and pubes. There was no external wound of any consequence, the skin being only a little congested where the wheel had passed over it. Ruptures of the liver are by no means speedily or even necessarily fatal; they may be and usually are so from great extmvasation of blood or bile, but the patient may live for a considerable pei'iod, though he may eventually succumb to septic peritonitis. Pain, collapse, htemorrhage, dulness on percussion, bilious vomiting, followed by peritonitis, white stools, jaundice, and saccharine diabetes, are the symptoms usuallj' ascribed to rupture of the liver; only the three latter are characteristic. Rupture of the Gall Bladder is always fatal. The best guide to the position of the gall bladder is the outer border of the right rectus muscle as it approaches the end of the tenth rib. An incision, 2 inches or 3 inches long, from this pt)int directly downwards is that most usually resorted to to expose the viscus.—Barker. Rupture of the Spleen.—Next to the liver, this viscus is represented as the most frequently lacerated of the abdominal oi'gans, but such cases are by no means always fatal. Extended lacerations are followed by profuse internal htemorrhage, severe shock to the system, coldness of the surface, great anxiety, X)aiu in the seat of injury, and death. In India this accident often follows blows over an enlarged spleen. Rupture of the Kidney, though well protected by its position in the loins, is not an infrequent accident. The symptoms usually present are, excessive collapse, pain referred to the lumbar region, retraction of testicle, and very likely pain in the testicle itself and low down in the abdomen; numbness in the upper part of thigh, bloody urine, frequent desire to pass water, and (should the patient survive) there will, in all probability, be iutiltration or extravasation into the subserous connective tissue, which is more likely to occur in injuries to the posterior surface, and peritonitis in injuries of anterior surface. Infiltration is soon followed by septic inflammation, which will be recognised by rigors, fever, dry brown tongue, and osdema of the parts in the neighbourhood of the102 WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. ~& Si ^^^^"^^ ---1^ -tused there .iU, in RiX?r.i""r/'' -1^^% by Peritc>X^^^ Ha.r„aten.e.s . a con- as remarS Joi?r+ Wn''' ^"^•^'^ be recognised, eLIiSS inW^^^^^^ by sudden and excessive meteorism produced by the escape ot intestinal flatus into the peritoneal cavity, but this svmntnm il ShouM the m^^^^^^^^ r ^'^^^"r'y P^--^* - intesSz aniXe^ the shook «ffn ^f ' long enough, the stools will be mixed with blood identifvt<f??. f^^^^^ ^""-^'^ ^'f^^ ' *bere will be difficulty in particular part injured. The part struck will hc.wever be an assistance m pointing out the seat of mischief. Emphvseina of the abdominal wall may result from rupture of the intestine ThisT^Tptom ?ontSfvr;^t^\'" puffy, orepita?fng sweTlK \h connective tissue. In wounds which to all appearance are non-nenetratin- or where there is no protrusion, this symptom is considered to^be valurbfe in proving the existence of wound of the intestine vaiuaoie raavTTniurlfblfn'^ n""--^^^' ^^P^^i^^Uy if at aU distended, may be injured by falls, blows, or the impact of large spent proiectiles of tlSJom^^ be paralysed by the concuLion of shot upon tinarieS 2ddlp ^ ^^"^ f campaign of 1885, an officer when in the saddle had fastened his field case to the pommel; a fragment of shell Iv^of ?f r^^fi^^^ abdom'inal parietes, temporary para- lysis of the bladder followed, accompanied with pain and severe distress. It the bladder is ruptured from direct violence within the peritoneum, and It is unrecognised, it is certain to cause death. Two cases of this accident have been reported by MacCormac* The symptoms were in both cases niuch alike, a history of a full bladder, the story of direct violence, inability to micturate, though there was the desire to do so. Latheterism failed to draw off urine beyond some blood-tinged drops In one case the catheter passed through the rent in the bladder and could be telt m the_abdomen Abdominal section was performed in each case and the rent in the bladder sewn by Lembert's method ; both recovered ireatment.—In the general treatment of these injuries, the first step should be to try and restore the sufferer from the shock and collapse by keeping him very quiet, applying warmth to the extremities, and placing him in a. comfortable position. Absolute rest should then be enforced the patient not being moved or allowed to move himself. Caution should be observed m the emploj^ment of restoratives and stimulants, in con- sequence of their hability to cause too much reaction and induce internal hajmorrhage. If, however, reaction does not set in, the surgeon M-ill have to consider the probability of there being a rupture of one or more of the viscera, and any symptoms of peritonitis would at once suggest this comphcation. "The presence of prolonged and profound shock, * Lancet, December 11,1886.103 WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. the duration of the shock is of greater importance than its intensity, a small and quiet pulse, and hurried respiration, associated with acutely severe, persistent, and localised pain increased on pressure, while the temperature remains either normal or subnormal, indicates the nature of the injiiry and points to the necessity of the operation of abdominal section."* On the ground that prolonged shock is usually due to internal haemorrhage, which if not checked will certainly lead to a fatal termination. Penetrating Wounds of the Abdomen, with protrusion of the viscera, are serious, whether incised, lacerated, punctured, or gun-shot. Protrusion of the Intestine. —If the wound in the abdomen has been made by a cutting or lacerating instrument, or by a round ball or rifle bullet, it may be followed by protrusion of some portion of the contents of the alDdomen, the omentum, mesentery, or intestine being most usual. The protruded mass is always very large in comparison with the aperture from which it escapes, and is held very tightly by the lips of the wound. If left unreduced, the mass will soon become gangrenous from pressure ; it should therefore be cleansed in warm, weak antiseptic lotion, and returned into the cavity of the abdomen, after which the wound is to be closed by sutures which should include the peritoneum as well as other tissues. Mr. Erichsen suggests that the abdominal muscles should be relaxed by bending the thigh upon the abdomen, when the protrusion may be pushed back by steady pressure u]pon it, but no force should be employed. If the parts cannot be reduced, the aperture through which they have escaped must be enlarged in the direction upwards, _ In replacing them, care should be taken that they are fairly put back into the cavity of the abdomen, and not pushed into the sheath of the rectus or in front of the peritoneum. "If omentum protrudes, when it can be returned, do so after thorough purification, and then stitch the abdominal walls, including the peri- toneum, close together. Where, from adhesions or other sufficient cause, this cannot be done, or where the omentum is very dirty, it would be the safest i^ractice, especially in the case of a person with strong mus- cular parietes, to stitch the deepest part of the omentum to the deepest part of the wound, cut off the remainder, and close the skin over alV'-Cheyne.f Gangrene of Protruded Intestine.—Should the protruded part of an intestine become gangrenous from continued contraction and exposure, it should not be reduced, but an incision should be made through it, or the gangrenous part removed, so as to clear away faeces and admit of an artificial anus, by attaching the cut edges of the bowel to the wound in the abdomen. Wound of Protruded Intestine.—Protruded intestine may be punc- tured, incised, lacerated, or completely divided. Some difference of opinion amcmg surgeons has existed as to the proper method of dealing with the wounded gut. Guthrie recommends—" When the wounded bowel protrudes, or the *Oii Abdominal Section, i;ir Win. MacCormac, p. 36. f Antiseptic Surgery.104 WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. tSTn?! "^^K ""i?^ is sufficiently large to enable the surgeon to see or feel as tX ^mod. ^of ^^J^^-i^f °f his finger, there shoufd be no difficulty llTl I proceeding. A puncture or cut, which is filled un bv the mucous coat so as to be apparently impervious to air doeTtinf demand a bgature. An opening Vhich does not Zea? to be so wel ulu^l""] ^1 *° P^""^"^* f}"" ^"'i fl-^^ds from passing thn ugh it cannot verse director, •« ' Yl^^^^ ^ longitudinal or trans- verse direction, or is completely divided as far as, or beyond the mesentery, the continuous suture is absolutely necessary." ^ ' bases^l m'ifnl^ r?^*'^ the stitching up of a wounded intestine, and oases his opinion on the result of experiments which proved that when a wounded gut was sown up and returned into the abdomen the Wh was effused on the external surface of the bowel conseqS on such an bS ''''f'' ^^I^^^^y '^'^ thViSterior of the bowel, and were passed away into the stools. Rebern^lf^ifV^'Tit^f-'*^*^,^^''^'^ ^"^"^"^ American War of the in?itS'ol«l punctured and incised wounds of the n PlSl?>, • ^"t^^'^f with protrusion, the safest practice consisted in closing the intestinal wound by suture and reducing the protruded viscus, unless Its structure was irretrievably disorgaSised, wherthe compXory ^^^^^^^ve of estabhshing a preternatural anus was MacCormac wri^s Enteroraphy (a term used for suturing a ^!fif J" divided intestine) is at the present time admittedly the best method of treatment for all punctured and incised wounds attended bv protrusion, un ess the parts are so damaged that an artificial anus seems preterable The formation of an artificial anus is in the highest decree undesirable, and certainly unnecessary in those cases where the infurv does not extend more than half-way around the calibre of the tube or where the convexity of the bowel is wounded, and probably in aU cases where the mesenteric attachment is intact." The intestinal wound having been, therefore, duly closed by suture, it should be returned in the abdominal cavity, and the abdominal wound at once closed also Penetrating Wounds of the Abdomen without Protrusion —If the wound has without doubt penetrated the abdominal cavity, the next question that arises is, what injury, if any, has been occasioned to the enclosed viscera? Professor Parkesf states,'as a result of his experi- ments on animals, "that no shook was observed apart from symptoms attributable to loss of blood, and wherever severe prostration occurred there was always extensive hsemorrhage to account for it Guu shot wounds of the intestines are attended with considerable hajmorrba^e great and prolonged shock, lowered temperature, feeble and rapid pulte' restlessness, severe pain, great anxiety, rectal tenesmus ; there is always extravasation of fasces into the peritoneal cavity, although it is very rare for any sign of it to appear externally. The absence of this sjouptom, therefore, would be no proof that the intestine was not wounded. Air * On Abdominal Section, by Sir William MacCormao, F.E.C.S., p 13 t Gun-shot Wounds of Small Intestines, by 0. T. Parkes, M.D. Chicago, 1884.WOUJSDS OF THE ABDOMEN. 105 in the abdominal cavity, emphysema around the wound, a larger escape of blood than the injury to the parietes will account for, are among the symptoms which help to indicate intestinal injury. The occurrence of bloody stools is usually a late symptom." Shock, as mentioned above, accompanies all penetrating gun-shot wounds. When it becomes more and more severe with increasing exhaustion, jactitation, feeble pulse, and respiration, we may conclude internal hemorrhage is taking place, and we usually find the cavity filled with blood out of all proportion to the size of the vessels injured. Even in the case of small vessels there is a remarkable persistence in the flow of blood following their severance due to the laxity of the tissues, the absence of pressure, and the lack of the Ijeculiar influence of the atmosphere.—Parkes. Wounds of the Liver may consist of shght groovings or divisions of the peritoneal investments only ; penetrations with a single outlet; long perforations ; extended lacei'ations ; wounds complicated by the presence of splinters from ribs, of fragments of clothing, of balls, and other foreign bodies. If patients escape the early danger of haemorrhage they are liable to die of septic peritonitis. At the same time, serious injuries of the liver are not necessarily fatal. When a portion of the lacerated liver-substance protrudes at the external wound, it may be safely re- moved by ligature.* Wounds of the Kidney are frequently associated with wounds of the liver, spleen, diaphragm, stomach, intestines, or spine. Punctured and incised wounds are uncommon, though shot wounds are not very infre- quent. These wounds are very dangerous, but not necessarily mortal, imless the peritoneum is also wounded, and urine escapes into the cavity of the belly, when fatal peritonitis is almost inevitable. When the kidney has become protruded it may be removed, as evidenced by a case reported by Surgeon-Major M. Marvand of an Algerian regi- ment, in which an Algerian woman, who had been severely wounded in the lumbar region, where the kidney was drawn out of the wound, between the lips of which it remained strangulated. A silk ligature was passed around the pedicle of the extruded organ, and at the end of some weeks the kidney was separated. After two months she was dis- charged well. JSephrectomy has now been performed in many cases with successful results. Parkes remarks : Bleeding from slight lacerations of the spleen, kidney, or hver can be controlled by actual cautery lightly applied after ab- dominal section. Slight lacerations only at some point on the surface were closed by bringing together the peritoneal surfaces of the organ over the wound by means of the continued suture, but severe perforating and lacerated bullet wounds of the kidney and spleen could not be treated successfully in any other way than by an absolute removal of the injured organ. Wounds of the Stomach may be recognised by the position of the wound, its depth and direction, the escape of food or drink, vomiting of blood, pain, faintness, thirst, singultus, tympanitis, pallor, cold ex- tremities. The extravasation of the contents of the stomach is probably * The Medical and Surgical History of the War of the Rebellion, Part II., vol. ii., p. 147.106 WOUNDS OP THE ABDOMEN. SopSn^?^trrt. ^^y^^^"? °^ '^"^ Much difference of X stomaoh Tf ^ ^'^^^^ of practice in punctured wounds should be £ somewhat small, it is recommended it Sdleand finl lr interrupted suture by means of a delicate or one of its Zr^l Ta^ extensive wounds, the continued suture, Tvr n nuinerous modifications, may be applied. of Koma?h h.?''= "Wherethere is a fair presumption that a wound onenfnl i^f H bas occurred, abdominal section sliould be performed, the fistula Wl Pi-eferred to attempting the formation of a gastric- nft comnlJnif?! -fri'^^^ is.on the anterior side or at all accessible, and " SoT ■ • otherwise fatal injury, it should be thus dealt with cavffv nnl''? '"i extravasation prevented, and the abdomina cavity can be cleansed and disinfected " * ' Treatment of Penetrating Abdominal Wounds.-Tn endeavourin- to frnfrJ ''^^'^Y'^ to the part injured, the surgeon will find much help from collateral evidence ; from the size of the instrument that inflicted it, the position and direction of the wound, and the character of any stains which may appear on the wound or clothing. Parkes states : " Nothing can possibly be more uncertain and erratic than the track of a bullet through the body ; any slight obstruction is sufficient to divert it from the direct line of flight. No reliable inference a^ to the course of a bullet can therefore be made from the position of the wounds of entrance and exits." And he further adds : "The wounds ot entrance and exit of the bullet should not be disturbed in any manner except to control bleeding or to remove foreign bodies when present " ±lis experiments also prove how useless it is to expect that the intestines win escape being wounded after the passage of a bullet through the abdomen. In a case, therefore, of a penetrating bullet wound, we may assume that the intestines must also be wounded; and Parkes' experi- ments prove that the haemorrhage will be severe and out of all x^roportion to the size of the vessels injured, and that it cannot be controlled Avithout an abdominal section. if the intestine has been wounded, it is absolutely certain that there will be extravasation of the contents of the bowel into the ab- dominal cavity, though there may be no sign of this externally. As these two results—viz., haemorrhage and extravasation—are the certain causes of septic peritonitis, "it will be more reasonable," saj's MacCormac, "to submit the patient to the less serious risk incurred by abdominal section than to leave him in the deadly peril, from the conse- quence of a wounded intestine or a bleeding vessel, on the mere as.sump- tion that they may possibly have escaped injury. But, although there may be uncertainty as to the extent of the lesion, it is surely better to solve the doubt by an exploratory abdominal section which may afford the only possible means of rescue. The operation is practically useless after twenty-four hours have elapsed, or when general peritonitis and great collapse have set in. A moderate amount of peritonitis, however, by no means contra-indicates the operation." * On Ahdominal Section, by Sir William MacCormac, P.E.O.S., page 30.WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. If it is decided to operate and explore the abdomen, every precaution of an antiseptic nature should of course be taken. The temperature of the room should be high, the bowels and bladder should be empty, the surface of the abdomen should be thoroughly cleansed, and the greatest care taken about the cleanliness of the operator's hands and instruments. Parkes says that the incision through the Uncaalba is the best method of procedure, as it at once gives command over the entire cavity ; therefore, any lesion likely to result in harm is far less liable to be overlooked ; it is the least vascular part of the walls ; incisions thereof are more easily and perfectly co-aptated than elsewhere, heal readily and soundly, and, as a consequence, the on-coming cicatrix is less likely to be followed by ventral hernia." The operation is incomplete unless the entire intestinal track be examined as well as the stomach and other viscera. The best way is to seek the caecum first and then trace the small intestine upwards for its length. All bleeding points must be secured and the clots swept away. Parkes thinks that bullet openings in the bowel not implicating the mesenteric border, may be dealt with by drawing the peritoneal surfaces together after turning in the torn edges of the wound, and thus convert- ing it into a linear wound. If several openings exist close together, it is better to resect the portion of intestine involved. When the points of injury are widely separated from each other and extensive damage done at each point, several resections of a length of the tube, just sufficient to include the injured portions, must be made. Perforations passing through the mesenteric surface of the intestine are the most diflBcult to treat, and even slight ones require a complete exci- sion. _ Parkes states that in his experiments upon dogs, immediately after division of the intestine there follows an instantaneous, regular, and considerable contraction of the calibre of the tube close up to the divided edge caused by the action of the circular muscular fibres. The diameter is often lessened more than half by this contraction ; this persists for a time, but is soon followed by an eversion of the mucous membrane which rolls out and over the constricted portion in a remarkable manner. I'his IDrotrusion of mucous membrane forms a serious obstacle to easy and close approximation of the ends of the bowel in the efforts to bring them together by sutm-e ; it is, however, never to be cut away as it gives strength and support to the sutures. In all instances in the expei'iments where a perforation was severe enough to require a resection of the wounded part it was found advan- tageous to leave, if possible, a strip of bowel near the mesenteric junction, taking out the wounded portion by means of a V-shaped incision. The part left acted as a support to the wound, avoided division of the blood- vessels at this point, opposed the action of the longitudinal fibres, and in no instance in which this plan was adopted was thei-e any ai:)pearance of separation of the wound, or any displacement of stitches. The point of attachment of the mesentery with the bowel will usually be found the most troublesome to manage in applying the sutures for restoring a comiilete division. The difficulty arises apparently from the manner in which the folds of peritoneum separate from each other before passing onWOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. lUlC^ remaining sutures to complete the junction aSp S W? .""T?''!^*^'' ?° convenient The su?Se8 should not be drawn too tight. They must be drawn only sufficSlv c ose to brmg the surfaces fairly in contact, the subsequent sTveCr'from obstructed circulation will hold the surfaces firmty tcJetLr S Jlued to each other by the rapidly forming adhesive lymph affi portion of intestine has been resected, the mesenterv after all bleeding points have been checked, may be take^uTbv a running suture and then stitched down to the bowel at the seat of onem- tion, making, as nearly as possible, a continuous surface of me ente^ Pig. 82.—Interrupted sutures of Lambert. Fig. 83.—Show.? the inversion and approximation of the serous surfaces. If a large portion of bowel requires removal, a triangular piece of mesentery will have to be excised. To prevent extravasation after the intestine has been divided several cJamps have been invented, but in any case, before completing the divi- sion, the contents should be pressed back and the bowel trusted to an assistants fingers which are said to be the best form of clamp if available. ^ The sutures should be introduced by means of a fine round sewincr oof ^u^''™^'^ ? sewing silk, after Lembert's method (see fig! HI), ihey must include at least one-third of an inch of bowel-tissue109 WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. passing through only the peritoneal and muscular coats and never including the mucous membrane. The everted mucous membrane must be carefully inverted, and needs no further treatment. Parkes thinks that it makes no difference whatever what kind of suture is used, so that the iDrinciple of positively securing the application of two broad sur- faces of peritoneum in contact with each other is certainly carried out. Jobert's, G-ely's, and Czerny's double row of sutures were all given a fair trial, but none of them resulted as well as this modified Lembert's stitch. After the intestines have been dealt with, the peritoneal cavity will require a thorough cleansing and this, in the opinion of the most ex- perienced men, is best done by flushing. Sufficient warm water must be used until it returns quite clear. Mr. Meredith * writes "that drainage and flushing have revolutionised abdominal surgery. The employment of drainage tubes of small calibre, and duly protected against septic decomposition, had done much to render drainage safe and efficacious. The plan of flushing, combined with drainage, has proved of immense value in abdominal operations, especially when undertaken for injury to, or rupture of, the hollow viscera. The addition of antiseptics to the water used is fraught with the risk of poisoning, even the precaution of using water previously boiled is not essential to success provided a fluid was used which was not itself contaminated with septic material." All sponging should be avoided. In closing the wound the deep stitches must be passed before any are tightened. After the sides of the wound have been brought together by the deep stitches, which must embrace the whole thickness of the abdominal walls, finer stitches may be put in to bring the edges of the skin in contact. M. Pozzi, of Paris, when closing a wound made in abdominal section, stitches the different layers separately, he first sews up by continiious gut-suture the peritoneal eclges, then the aponeurotic edges, and lastly the skin and subcutaneous tissue ; by this means he thinks he gets a firmer scar. If thought necessary a drainage tube must be passed into the most dependent part of tlie cavity and brought out at the lowest angle of the wound. The dressing should consist of abundant folds of sal alembroth wool, or other dry absorbent antiseptic material retained in place by sufficient pressure ])y means of a bandage. After most abdominal operations the patient should be kept without food for from twenty-four to forty-eight hours. A small quantity of iced soda-water or barley-water may be given to allay thirst. The position of the patient is important; it should be one that admits of the abdominal muscles being relaxed. How far this practice of abdominal section for injury can be carried out in the field has yet to be decided. Here the hurry, the dirt, and confusion, the want of repose and sufficient assistance, all tend to make the operation difficult. It is not an operation that could be attempted at a dressmg station, and when the unfortunate man arrives at the field hospital it will in most cases be too late. M. Delorme of the Val de Grace writes—" When a citizen of a large town has his abdomen penetrated by a bullet either in an attempt at suicide or homicide, he . * F.^Pa"" " rresent Position of Abdominal Surgery," read before Medical Society by W. A. Meredith.—Brit. Med. Journ., April 19th, 1S90.WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. no S»aSn^^^ the success of the how different is the situaHnn w^T k t^^o"^"*. necessary in his case. But in battle. SuS<. fiom ^StTn fi^k^^ '^'f^"" ^''^'^^'^^ ^'^""^ed will at first have to wnH shock in a state almost moribund, he Then, not til after he has boPn i irf'^fr attended upon. a ha?d oS' ^V^' ^y^V^^^e^^omZg {£lngh a nard, quick, and small pulse, great heat of skin, and anxious exDre«s?on t/orwhl"r''-f J* ^^^^^'^^^ ^it^ abundant coagulaK and' thp P.', '"I^*^'^ peritonitis, wiU soon become purSrm treatment have'' .nT*' ''''''' Poisoning Hence the indication for treatment Have undergone a complete change, and several sur^eon^ advocate the same methods as we' successfully' apply trother feDt"; inflammations namely, a free incision and drainage. The peritoS ca^K sSoSld b!.''?!.''T'^. ""'^ ^'^''^ allowed to escape th'! bSc add s<?h,tfnn« ^""^ syibsequently washed out ^vith warm' weak ooracic acid solutions, or with warm water alone. CarboUc acid or corrosive sublimate should not be used for this purpose. A drainage tube should be inserted. Mr. Lawson Tait * says Ther^ afe three modern ?o make ' ^"^'*'T has certainlj contributed ILTaU othe? cLnstt K'"" ^^^T'''''^ '""'-^'y successful. They are the Si ?,l^f J-"" P«"toneum by water, the use of the drainage tube, and m.er«ffnn, 'v''" P^^gatives in the early stage of peritonitis folio viSg o erations. Even when we have cleansed the peritoneum thoroughly of all dirt m which germs are likely to multiply and to produce their poisonous effects, and used a drainage tube properly placecf we may yet have m thirty-six or forty-eight hours indubitable evidence of the onset ot peritonitis in a large proportion of cases. The prompt use of the turpentine enema and seidlitz powder will arrest the peritonitis and divert the case from its fatal issue with as great certainty as any thin- I know m the practice of surgery." J o The absorbing power of the peritoneum is great; if, therefore the exudation be small in amount it may be so rapidly absorbed that no decomposition may take place and micro-organisms, if few in number will also disappear and be excreted. This leads us to see that the administration of opium is a mistake owing to its restraining influence on Ap*n if \syO^*^'^ °^ Abdominal Surgery. Medical Society. Brit. Med. Journ.,WOUNDS AND INJURIES TO THE SPINE. iii all absorptiot] and excretion. Mr. Meredith points this out, and also explains that the rationale of giving saline purgatives in the early stage of peritonitis could only be explained by their promoting absorption and excretion. Foreign Bodies Lodged in the Cavity of the Abdomen are not of uncommon occurrence, and instances have been adduced when they have become encysted and ultimately eliminated by stool. The act of exiDloring sliot wounds of the belly for lost missiles could only be undertaken after due consideration, but now that abdominal section has been so established it would not seem more dangerous to perform it for the purpose of removing a foreign body, as a bullet, from the cavity of the abdomen than to do so for an ovariotomy or an intussuscejDtion. Colotomy.—Mr. Christopher Heath recommends the following opera- tion [British Medical Journal, December 1, 1887):—Place the patient on the right side, with a pillow under the loin, in order that the left loin may be thrown into greater prominence. Then measure a point midway between the anterior and posterior superior spines of the ilium, and from that point draw a vertical line upwards to the last rib. This line will give you the position of the bowel. Then make an incision 4 inches long, somewhat obliquely, between the crest of the ilium and the last rib, half of the incision being on each side of the vertical line marked out. It should be slightly oblique, running parallel to the last rib. In making this incision, you divide the skin, subcutaneous fat, the external oblique and latissimus dorsi muscles, thus exi^osing the internal oblique; you now expose the fascia lumborum, which you carefully divide on a director. You have now exposed the loose fat about the kidney and colon in the antei-ior part of the wound, and the edge of the quadratus behind. The bowel may be found just in front of the quadratus lumborum, and should be brought into the wound with the hooked finger ; its posterior surface should be exposed. With a large curved needle you pass a stout silk thread through the skin to one side of the ink mark across the bowel, and again through the skin at a corresponding point on the other side of the mark, repeating the proceeding at the other end of the incision. Thus, the colon is held to the margin of the wound before being opened". A transverse incision is now made into the bowel between the thi-eads' and, the finger being introduced, the two loops can be dra^vn out, and, on dividmg them, you have four threads to fix the bowel to the wound only requmng to be tied. The rest of the incision on each side of the bowel is then closed by ordinary sutures, and the operation is completed. WOUNDS AND OTHER INJURIES TO THE SPINE. Injuries of the spinal cord may be divided into concussion and com- pression, the same as injuries of the brain, to which they bear much resemblance. Concussion may occur directly or indirectly, as, for instance, from a blow, or by falhng from a height on the buttock. Mr. Alexander Shaw says, in his remarks on Concussion of the Spinal112 WOUNDS AND INJURIES TO THE SPINE. Cord- But certain cases of injury of the back are met with in which paraplegia has directly c.r shortly afterwards occurred, and in which upon examination of the spine after death, no fracture, displacement, extrava sated blood or anything capable of compressing the cord, can be dis- covered. 1 he explanation therefore given is, that the spinal cord had been damaged by concussion." _ The foUowimj symptoms of concussion are usually present from direct violence :-Pain at the seat of the injury, vomiting. If the phrenic nerve IS irritated hiccough, and feeling of constriction round the body wiU be present._ When the vagus nerve is irritated, there wiU be a sense of sutiocation, with probably irregular action of the heart and distressing vomiting, ihere may be loss of power over the sphincters of both bladder and anus, with incontinence or retention of urine or faeces or the bladder only may be affected. ' In concussion from indirect violence, the symptoms are sometimes insidious and protracted, and do not show themselves untQ the more apparent injuries are recovered from. For instance, after an explosion men, who have been badly burnt or otherwise obviously injured after recovery from these injuries often develop a secondary train of nervous symptoms, which quite unfits them for the performance of their duties and renders them utterly miserable and helpless. They become nervous and timid, and different from their former selves. Treatment.—In treating these injuries, absolute rest to the parts is the principal object to be arrived at. Mr. Erichseii, who appears to have made a special study of this sub- ject, says—" The importance of rest cannot be over-estimated. Without it no other treatment is of the slightest avail." He considers it of the utmost importance to insist upon absolute and entire rest, for this reason, that not infrequently patients feel for a time benefited by movement, but nothing can be more erroneous than this idea, for the patient will invari- ably be found to fall back into a worse state than had previously existed. With this rest, which should be in the prone position, he recommends chloral to procure sleep, and the bromide of potassium to aUay the irritability. Counter irritation may be applied to either side of the spine, and, if there are inflammatory symptoms present, ice may be used with advantage. Subsequently tonics in the form of iron, strychnine, and cod liver oil. Compression of the spinal cord may be induced by injuries to the vertebrse, such as fractures, dislocation, penetration by gun-shot wounds, or by extravasation of blood or pus. The symptoms produced depend much upon the position of the injury. These injuries are of the greatest importance to the patient, as much will depend, as regards the future of the sufferer, on the amount of damage inflicted. In dislocations or fractures without an external wound, the symp- toms which generally present themselves are shock to the nervous system, Iirofound collapse, pain in the seat of injury, tumefaction of injured part, unevenness or depression of projections in the process of the vertebrse, and paralysis of the body below the level of fracture.WOUNDtS AND IN J URIELS TO THE SPINE, 113 Paralysis in Injury of Spine.—The extent of paralysis differs accord- ing to the part of the spinal column injured, as, for instance, with a fracture or dislocation in the cervico-dorsal region, all the body below seat of fracture will be paralysed, and if the injury to the cord has been above the origin of the first dorsal nerve which joins the axillary plexus, some impairment in the motion and sensation of the upper extremities will be discovered ; but the principal danger overhanging the patient is connected with his respiration. Injuries of the spinal column, above the origin of the phrenic nerve, are attended with instant death. Fracture and dislocation in the dorsal region between the fourth and tenth vertebrsB causes complete paraplegia. The bladder and rectum will be paralysed, and bed sores are sure to form. fractures or dislocation of the lower lumlar rertcbrce, there may be no paraplegia or paralysis, if the injury is below the second lumbar vertebra, in consequence of "its being below the level of the spinal cord, which terminates there. Treatment.—No attempt, it was said, should be made to reduce a fracture or dislocation of the spine. Means should simply be adopted to support nature by means of nomnshing diet, to prevent sloughing bed sores by placing the sufferer on a water bed or soft mattress, the urine should be drawn off i-egularly, and great cleanliness observed. The bowels may be moved involuntarily at first; but afterwards be consti- pated, when they should be relieved by enemata. In penetrating wounds, where the vertebriB may be driven in on the cord, splinters, articles of clothing, and muscular tissue may have to be elevated, extracted, or removed. With a view to enable the surgeon to do this, the trephine, elevator, or small saw may be had recourse to. The Trephine in Injuries of the Spine.—Sir T. Longmore, in speaking of the use of the trephine in these injuries, says—"In injuries of the vertebral column and sjjinal cord occurring in military practice, the mischief is usually so complicated and extensive, and the medulla itself so bruised, that the cases miist be very rare, indeed, in which the operation of trephining, if justifiable in any case, can offer the slightest prospect of benefit." He mentions that M. Baudens extracted by means of an elevator a ball which had lodged in the eleventh dorsal vertebra, and was causing compi-ession with complete paraplegia. The paralysis disap]3eared immediately after the extraction of the biillet; but tetanus came on four days afterwards, and proved speedily fatal. Mr. Victor Horsley writes *—"I have now trephined the spine nine- teen times with one death, that is from shock. Personally I view the operation in the majority of cases as possessing the only risk of sepsis. As regards fractures of the spine, imquestionably we ought to operate with()ut delay in all cases where displacement or crepitus indicates com- pression, and when extension directly after the accident clearly fails to reduce the deformity." The course recommended to be adopted in applying the trephine is first to make an incision in the line of the spinous process about an inch deep * Brit. Med. Jonrn.. Dec. G, 1S90. 8114 INJURIES TO AND WOUNDS OF THE PELVIS. and 6 inches in length, or according to the extent of the injury, through the skin and muscles, which should be cleared away on either side of the spnie, and the bony structure exposed to admit of the trephine being applied. Before using the instrument, loose pieces of bone should l)e elevated and removed, care being taken not to push any spicula into the S23inal cord. Key's saw and cutting pliers will be found most useful in dividin'''' processes or arches. ° Mr. Shaw considers that, "in injuries of the spine, except in those cases of fracture high iu the spine, in which respiration has been inter- rupted, the paralysis is not the direct cause of the fatal termination." In cases of fracture generally, "the chief dangers to life arise froui extensive and exhausting sloughs and bed sores, morl;)id conditions of the bladder and urinary organs generally, and in a certain degree derange- ment of the bowels. These are indirect effects of the paralysis. But if they be overcome, the mere loss of motion and sensation in the limbs, and inability to control the action of the bladder and rectum, will destroy life, or be inconsistent with the patient enjoying good health. INJURIES TO AND WOUNDS OF THE PELVIS. Classification of Injuries to and Wounds of the Pelvis —Under this heading will be considered shot fractures of the innominate bones and sacrum, and wounds of the contained parts, namely, of the bladder and rectum, and wounds of the genital organs. As compared with penetrating wounds of the abdomen, wounds of the pelvis are far less fatal. In wounds of the abdomen, hemorrhage and diffuse septic peritonitis are the chief sources of danger; in wounds of the pelvis, cellulitis with gangrene, urinary infiltration, necrosis with exfoliation and protracted suppuration, paralysis and pyemia are the more common causes of death. Contusions of the Pelvis.—Contusions of a slight form require no difference in their treatment from similar injuries in other parts of the body ; but they may be of a severe nature, as from a spent cannon-shot or fragment of shell, producing great extravasation of blood under the integuments or gluteal fascia. These swellings will, as a rule, disappear after repose and local application of stimulating lotions. Fractures, Dislocations, and Gun-shot Injuries.—In striking the pelvis, large solid shots occasion such frightful disorders that death ensues Ijefore inflammation has time to set in, the soft parts are lacerated or pulpified and the bones comminuted. Eifle bullets cause a very great vai'iety of comminutions, even slight shot fractures of the pelvis are long in healing. Much of the gravity in shot perforations of the pelvis will depend upon whether the missile fractures the bone on entering and so dlives the splinters inwards, or fractures the bone on emerging and so d 'ives the splinters outwards. Pr. Stromeyer has pointed out the liability of wounds of the pehis toWOUNDS OF ORGANS OF MICTURITION. 115 pyaemia when the missile enters posteriorly and so traverses the thick gluteal muscles before fracturing the bone, the long shot tracks favouring septic inflammation and sloughing. Shot Fractures of the Ilium.—The frequency with which balls are embedded in the ilium is considerable, and most readily, of course, in the spongy parts of the bone. Ostitis followed by caries and necrosis with protracted suppurations are the results, and these injuries are also apt to be coin plicated by irritation of the branches of the sacral and sciatic nerves with consequent neuralgia, paralysis, or muscular atrophy. The bone may be largely and variously comminuted. Shot Fractures of the Pubis are more fatal than those of the ilium, and ownig to the toughness of this bone it is seldom much splintered by bullets ; caries is a less common result. The excess of mortality is due to a greater frequency of sloughing of the pelvic fascia, of injuries of vessels and nerves, and of urinary and fascal extravasation. Shot Fractures of the Ischium are less common and less fatal than analagous lesions of (he pubic bone; the bullet is sometimes found im- pacted. Pelvic cellulitis with deep suppurations are frequently the result of shot fractures of the ischium, and in some instances these mjuries are associated with injuries of the femur, or of the genital organs. The Sacrum is less liable to fracture from ordinary external violence than tue other bones of the pelvis, because of its thickness, its spongy texture, and situation, but these conditions afford no exemption from shot fractures. Fractures of this bone may be accompanied by injury to the rectum or bladder, and paralysis and other disorders referable to lesions of nerves are common. Experience shows the importance of removing detached fragments of bone after shot fracture of the pelvic bones, and of using energetic means for the removal of the balls. Bauden.s recommends tliat when a missile ijerforates the ilium and lodges under or ni the iliacus or psoas muscle, it is safer to seek it tHrough an incision similar to that made for ligation of the common iliac artery, rather than to enlarge the shot canal in the bone WOUiYDS OF ORGANS OF MICTURITION. Wounds of the Bladder.-Shot wounds of the bladder are very dangerous. 1 he Report of the American War says that in very few fnn^ff^n,*:' Ttf ^¥ /^'^"^^eries complete, and it was rare to find tlie tunctionb of the bladder_ perfectly restored. If the part of the bladder W f, IS perforated by the sh.^t tliere is little or no T,rnv;,l ^f,,^"*^: '^I'lti'fs are below this and free egress for the urine is ' L «lwt tracks, recovery may be looked for in a considerable number of cases foWn ■ ^^"^'^'^J '."''^y^*^ complicated by the presence of ect fe itt? ^^'\'^''\^y -'i-g'^n. such, for instance, as the pro- jectile Itself, fragments of bone, portions of clothing, bit of integumentii6 WOUNDS OF ORGANS OF MICTURITION. or hair, &c. These extraneous bodies can sometimes be extracted through the wound, and sometimes they are discharged by the natural channel; most frequently, however, they remain, become encrusted with pihos- phatic deposits, and have to be removed by operation. The only pathognomic sign of wound of the bladder is the escape of urine by the artificial opening, pain, frequent micturition, and bloody urine are uncertain signs. Urinary infiltration, followed by se])tic poison- ing, is the cause of death in a large proportion of cases ; if the urine gains access to the peritoneal cavity, diffuse peritonitis is likely to be the result; if it permeates the pelvic fascia, sloughing and diffuse suppuration will follow. Every effort should be made to prevent urinary infiltration; if the wound were from a stabbing or cutting instrument, and it was believed that the wound was of an intra-peritoneal character, an abdominal section should be undertaken with a view of suturing the vesical wound and of flushing the peritoneum with warm weak boric water. In any case the attempt should be made to restore the passage of the urine by the natural channel, to prevent distension of the injured organ, and to evacuate blood and other foreign matter accumulated in its cavity. Puncture of the Bladder.—The surgeon is sometimes called upon to l^erform this operation for retention of urine consequent on injuries of the urethra. Mr. Cock's method, per rectum, is the most simple, and is as follows—"The patient is to be placed and held in the position for lithotomy, and brought well to the edge of the bed. The operator is then to introduce the index finger of the left hand intf) the rectum with the palm upwards, and to feel for the prostate, and, if possible, for the bulging base of the tense bladder beyond it, some little pressure above the pubes may help in this attempt. The pulpy point of the index finger is then to be held in the median line, just below the spot at which the puncture is to be made. The surgeon, with his right hand, is then to take from his assistant the canula, well oiled, and fitted with the blunt pilot trochar, and introduce it into the rectum upon his left index finger, passing it well up to the point selected for puncture. He is then to steady the canula and hold it firmly in position with the thumb and three outer fingers of the left hand, and withdraw the blunt trochar. The sharp trochar is then to be introduced through the canula> and ha.vmg reached its end, the handle with the canula is to be depressed and then driven home in a direction upwards and forwards, in a bne towards the umbilicus. The trochar should then be withdrawn, and the canula pressed well home and secured. A plug may be placed in the canula to retain the urine." . ,. , i The operation of Uthotomv may be requu-ed m war tune for the removal of bullets or f)ther missiles from the bladder. The operation (lateral) is thus described by Sir W. rergusson-"The point of the blade of the scalpel should be entered about If inch in front of the anus, about a hne s breadth to the left of the raphe, pushed through the skm, and carried hy a kind of sawing motion down the left side of the perineum, about ly mcU beyond the anus, the middle of the incision being at equal distances trom the latter part and tuberosity. Next, the blade should run along theWOUNDS OF THE ORGANS OF GENERATION. 117 surface of the exposed fat and cellular tissue, and then the point of the forefinger of the left hand should be thrust into the wound a httle m front of the anus, so as to penetrate between the accelerator urinse and the erector penis muscles—the knife being applied to any part which offers resistance ; when, with a little force to separate the tissues, the tip of the finger can be placed upon the membranous portion of the urethra, and the groove in the staff may be distinctly felt. The point of the blade, with the flat surfaces nearly horizontal, should now be carried along above the finger, made to perforate the urethra about three lines in front of the ijrostate, and then be slid along the groove until it has entered the bladder, having slit open the side of the urethra, aud notched the margin of the prostate in its course. The forefinger of the left hand should next be slipped slowly into the bladder along the staff, in such a manner as to cause dilatation of the surrounding textures, and its point should be moved about in search of the stone, which, being found, should be retained in position near the neck of the viscus; then the staff should be removed, and the forceps introduced along the upper surface of the finger, slowly withdrawing the latter as the former makes progress: this will be denoted by a gush of urine, at which instant the blades should be separated, when, on gently approximating them, the stone will in all probability be felt enclosed." WOUNDS OF THE ORGANS OF GENERATION. Wounds of the Penis, Perineum, and Urethra.—Missiles have been known to traverse the j)enis and perineum, and otherwise injure these parts. In wounds where the urethra has been laid bare, a catheter should be introduced and tied in; and, if the wound be clean, with edges in such condition that adhesion might be anticipated, they should be brought together by interrupted sutures ; but, if much lacerated, it will be necessary to wait patiently the process of healing by granulation, taking care that the urethra is kept free by the introduction of a catheter whenever the patient requires to pass water. When the laceration has been so extensive that closing by granulation is impossible, it is best to try and retain the direction and patency of the urethra as far as practic- able by freiiuently introducing a sound or catheter, and afterwards closing the wound by a plastic operation. Erections are a great hindrance to the healing of wounds of the penis, they tend to induce haiinorrhage and necessarily break up incipient adhesions, retarding union. The parts should be lightly dressed, the bed should be hard, regimen spare, and excitement avoided. Camphor and hyoscyamus may be given v/ith advantage. Retention oj urine is not uncommon with laceration of the urethra; an attempt should first be made to pass a catheter, which should be done with the greatest gentleness; the surgeon should pass the catheter as far as it will go; he should then place the patient in the lithotomy position and proceed to cut down, in the mesial line of the perineum, upon the end of the catheter, and from this opening he should endeavour to passii8 WOUNDS OF THE ORGANS OF DEFECATION. It, lie slioiUd tie it 11 If this is impossible from the torn condition of ^^^'^'^f. punctured. On the first appearance of luhltrat ion deep and free incisions are necessary P«-«irance Foreign Bodies in the Urethra.-The urethra may be obstructed bv ^Tif ^'T^ ^^/""'^ ^^"'^l by projectiles, or expelled from vlL^ 1 ; ^^fragments of bone, clothing, and'small projectile" When situated near the meatus, it is possible to remove them with a small forceps, a bent probe, or metallic loop; but should such simple would be more prudent than incurring any danger to the canal by per- sistent efforts at extraction. o j b uy per Wounds of the scrotum when uncomplicated, are not very serious and require but little interference; open wounds should be closed by sutures, and the parts dressed antiseptically and well supported It may be laid down as a general rule that all incised or lacerated wounds of the genitals should be closed by sutures, if the parts can be possibly brought together. Balls may lodge in the scrotum without doing any injury to the testes or other parts, ihey should be removed Wounds of the Testes cause intense pain extending to the lumbar resrions attended by famtness and, often, by vomiting and even collapse. I hey may be severely bruised, shattered, or detached from the cord Of w cases of this group reported as having occurred during the American War, the largest proportion consisted of lacerated wounds of one or both testes. Eelief must be afforded by the administration of opium, the organ should be well supported and cold or warm water applied. Should there be any portion of either testicle partially detached, or extensively lacer- ated it may be removed, as in all probabiUty it will become diseased. 0-uthrie removed the bruised and shattered remains of testes and epidy- climis to expedite the cure. Wounds of the Spermatic Cord are generally associated with wounds of the testes; they are of infrequent occurrence, and rarely lead to fatal consequences; it may, however, he necessary to ligature the spermatic artery in cases of violent haemorrhage from it. WOUNDS OF THE ORGANS OE DEE^CATION. Wounds of the Rectum and Anus.—Lacerated and incised wounds of these regions are rare in war, the parts being more or less protected, but shot wounds of the rectum are not infrequent. During the Crimean War and Indian Mutiny, Porter saw only ore example of this descri])tion of wound, which occurred to a soldier who, while attending to the calls of nature in an advanced trench in the squatting position, was struck with a fragment of a shell, which removed the scrotum as if it had been done by a knife, lacerated the buttocks, and divided the sphincter ani, causing violent hcemorrhage and involuntaryWOUNDS OF THE EXTREMiriES. 119 passing of stools. The misery and intense siaffering of this patient can scarcely be described, and as the healing process was entirely by granula- tion, he was a long time imder treatment. Intised wounds of the rectum and anus heal very readily, but from their close proximity to the bladder and peritoneum, inflammatory symptoms must be looked for and checked. The bowels should be kept i;i a state of perfect repose, and strict cleanliness of the pai-ts observed. Shot wounds of the Rectum are generally complicated with fractui-es of the pelvic bones or injury of the bladder, and most commonly prove fatal from pelvic cellulitis with diffuse suppuration, or from secondary hasmorrhage. Should a patient with such a wound survive, he will in all jirobability suffer from a stercoral or urinary fistula, kept open by discharges from carious bone or the occasional escajie of sequestra. These injuries may also give rise to paralysis with incontinence of faeces, obstinate constipation, stricture, muscular contraction, and recurrent abscesses. Dupuytren recommended a division of the sphincter in cases where the fjeces were retained and overflowed through the perforati(m in the upper l)art of the gut. This practice was adoi)ted with most satisfactory results during the American War and the Franco-Grermau War of 1870-71. Possibly forcible dilatation of the sphincter by means of both thumbs of the surgeon would suffice, as this paralyses the sphincter for a time ; the dilatation should be slowly and steadily effected by working the thumbs in opiJosite directions until the anus is perfectly flaccid. Haemorrhage of the Rectum should be promptly attended to; a bladder may be introduced and dilated \vith ice water directed from a tube attached to an inverted bottle or irrigator. In serious hasraorrhage the gut must be dilated by a speculum (fenestrated), and the bleeding vessels secured if possible. It may, however, be necessary to apply the actual cautery, galvanic current, or perchloride of iron. WOUNDS OF THE EXTREMITIES. Classification of Wounds of the Extremities.—These wounds may be divided into contusions, lacerations, incisions, or punctures of soft parts, injuries of bones or joints, all of which may be complicated with wounds of the great arteries or nerves. With regard to contusions, lacerations, incisions, or punctures, their treatment has already been remarked upon ; it is therefore unnecessary to refer to these again. Injuries of bones and joints will now be con- sidered, and. in connection with them, wounds of arteries and nerves. General Remarks on Gun-shot Fractures.—" Bones may be injured by having the ]ieriosteum contused or removed, as when a bullet is flattened against them, giving rise to periostitis, exfoliation or throwing off of scales, and frequently to disease of the medulla, or formation of deep abscesses producing great constitutional disturbance. ' Bones may be fractured—which injuries, as in civil life, are divided120 WOUNDS OF THK EXT HEM 1 TIES. into simple, compoimd, and comminuted; l)ut in consequence of the instruments or weapons which inflict then) in war, they, as a rule present pecu iarities to the army surgeon not met with in civil life, where accidents to bones generally arise from falls, kicks, or muscular action: whereas in the army, fractures are for the most part caused by direct vio ence, by spent cannon-shot, bullets, slugs, grape-shot, fragments of snell, and other missiles causing many compUcations. Simple Fractures are probably the most rare of all kinds met with on active service ; but should such occur in the field, the surgeon wdll have much to consider, as, from any want of care, or from improper adjustment ot splints, the broken ends of the bones may protrude through the soft parts and form a compound fracture. There may be great contusion of the soft parts, Avhich will interfere with the adjustment of the splints, and add to the difficulties in trans- port. Numerous plans have been invented and proposed for the transport of fractured limbs, such as plaster of Paris bandages, wire-trough splints of the Trench, and various splints made from materials which may be found at the time of the injury, as already described under the head of Extemporary Appliances" (p. 32, ct seq.) Compound Fractures are usually produced by the direct contact of a bullet or other missile with the bone, and consequently inflictmg most serious injury to the bone itself and surrounding parts, but not neces- sarily producing a comminuted fracture, as might be expected. Partial Fractures.—Sir T. Longmore describes partial fractures, which he says "can scarcely be iiroduced by any other agents besides projectiles, and which are rare accidents in civil practice. They are :— 1. liemoval of portion of a bone by the projectile making a furrow in its passage across its surface—grooving it. 2. Eemoval, splintering off, of longitudinal fragments from the external cylindrical part of a bone. 3. Removal of a part of the bone by completely punching out a portion, thus leaving a hole through the entire substance of the bone. 4. Partial fracture, by driving inwards parts of the external cylinder, and causing the fragment to lodge in the cancellated structure. This latter partial fracture is generally attended with lodgment of the projectile also. Among the complete fractures, those attended with general comminution in the neighbourhood of the part of the bone struck, with dispersion of the fragments among the surrounding soft tissues, and those which may be spoken of as ' resecting fractures,' can hardly be caused accidentallj', except by fire-arm projectiles." And lastly, " indirect fissured fractures," which he describes as a fissured or linear fracture occurring at some distance from the point of impact of the projectile, with an interval of sound bone between the seat of known fracture and the indkectly pro- duced fissure. This distinct and separate fissure in the shaft of a long bone would account for inflammation, and persistent irritation being set up in a limb at a distance from the known seat of injury. Considerations respecting the management of Simple and Com- pound Fractures in the Field. —In arranging for the management of tractures in the field, many difficulties have to be contended with—first, file transporting of patient from field to fixed hospitals, then the securing121 WOUNDS OF THE EXTREMITIES. of proper beds, ventilation, and nursing. If an attempt is made to save a limb extensively fractured, the surrounding skin should be scrupuioiisiy cleaned, the wound, if very small, should be closed by antiseptic iint or wool, and every endeavour made to form a scab, whilst splints or plaster of Paris are so applied as to ensure absolute rest to the broken bones. But if the wound in the soft parts is large, or if it has been exposed tor some time before coming under notice, the whole wound should be thoroughly washed out by a strong antiseptic lotion, such as a 1-500 sub- limate or a 1-20 carbolic solution, or by one of chloride of zmc, 40 gr.s. to the oz., or by tincture of iodine, 1 drachm to 10 oz. of water. The best way to do this is by means of a catheter and syringe, the solution used should be made to go into all the interstices of the wound, but yet must not be forced into the connective tissue around the seat of injury, a thorough drainage must be established, then the wound should be dressed with some of the absorbent and antiseptic wools or lints, as the sali- cylated, or sal alembroth wool, iodoform gauze, &c.; but if these cannot be obtained, then the best dressing would be free and frequent irrigation with some antiseptic solution, and a covering of oil-sillc immediately over the wound, protected by means of soft tenax, carbolised tow, or cotton wool. The greatest care should be taken to avoid all retention of dis- charge, counter-openings being made when necessary. Supposing the wound to keep aseptic, the blood clot in it should not be disturbed but be most carefully protected. Mechanical appliances are now so perfected that, with the exception of some fractures of the femur, there is no lesion of the bones of the ex- tremities that surgeons need have the slightest hesitation in transporting for considerable distances, prior to inflammatory symptoms setting in, care being observed as to the adaptation and application of splints. Dr. Stromeyer remarks on this important subject—"Above all things it appears to me to be necessary, that cases of gun-shot fracture of the thigh should not be transported to a distance, but should be carried on a stretcher to the nearest house, and the treatment carried out there, even at the risk that the wounded should fall into captivity." Gun-shot Fractures of the Upper Extremities are less dangerous than in the lower, circumstances being as nearly as possible alike. Gun-shot Fractures of Humerus.—Guthrie remarks—"An upper extremity should not be amputated for almost any accident which can happen to it from musket-shot; and there is scarcely an injury of the soft parts likely to occur which would authorise amputation as a primary operation." Sir T. Longmore considers that " unless the bone be extremely injured by a massive projectile, or longitudinal comminution exist to a great extent, especially if also involving a joint, or the state of the patient's health is very unfavourable, attempts should always be made to preserve the upper extremity after a gun-shot wound." The experience of the American War gives authority for conservatism in dealing with shot fractures of the humerus, except in most aggravated cases. Drs. Warren and Ohisholm in their manuals advise attempts to save the limb even when the fracture is complicated by division of the122 WOUNDS OF THE EXTREMITIES. brachial artery, and M. Legouest considers that shot comminution of the humerus even when complicated by wound of the brSTS fr^rv does not render amputation "indispensable » '^ractiial aitery, .r • iTt -^^ '■''^''^^'^ ^ "1 I"clia receiving a sword cut which divided his arm, bone and all, with the exception of t^e vessels and t\Ta?m^lS,^.i""^^^^^ ^^^^ ^^et £ recovered^ trfte^^o^ «h?f/'n?frecommends that when the splinters extend far into the espSiallv if '^^^ T"""' rP"*'^*^ t'^^ extremity! especially If the great artery and nerves be wounded ; if, however tlie head s not injured, the amputation should take place immediately below S the sw£.^ appLrance When the shaft of the humerus is much splintered, detached pieces should be removed, fragments of clothing or foreign bodies extracted points of sharp splinters should be cut off, and the arm Xe5 on a convenient splmt, pillow, or cushion, giving it perfect support and rest Fig. 84. For this purpose Dr. Stromeyer has designed a cushion, the utility of which he was so good as to demonstrate to mef at Versailles, during the late Franco-German War. An illustration can scarcely do credit to this admirable contrivance, which affords perfect security and comfort to the injured limb, and with which every army hospital should be supplied. "The cushion may be described as a right-angled isosceles triangle, 4 inches thick at the apex, which rests against the chest and supports the elbow, the forearm being bent at a right angle with the arm. The cushion gradually thins down till the base is a mere edge, and of the two * Macleod's Notes on the Surgery of the Crimean War, p. 304. f Porter.123 WOUNDS OF THE EXTREMITIES. other angles, one is passed up into the axilla, while the other rests on the chest under the wrist, as represented in fig. 84. The cushion is readily- fastened in its place by a tape round the neck, and one round the body, as seen in fig. 85. When this simple apparatus is applied, the arm rests upon it beautifully suppoi-ted, and in excellent position. Whilst lying in bed, nothing beyond the ordinary dressings are required for the wound, and if the patient needs to be transported from one place to another, or is fit to walk about, this can be arranged for with the utmost facility, as Fig. 85. cushion, arm, and all can be bound by a broad bandage to the body, and thus form an immovable whole."* Stromeyer informed Sir \V. MacCormac that so highly did he estimate the value of this cushion, as t() consider it the most valiial.ile appliance he had invented during his I'ife. Sir W. MacCormac has tried the mode of treatment and found it answer every purpose, and recommends a good-sized cushion, of which the sides uicasnre about 14 or 15 inches in length. Porter says he used this appliance, and cannot speak too highly of it, but it requires different measurements for ditt'erent i)ersons. Hamilton, of the United States Army, in the treatment of gun-shot injuries of the humerus, usually employs a single splint made of felt, leather, or gutta-i)erclia, long enough to extend over the top of the * Notes and necoUections of an Ambulance Surgeon, by W. MacCormac, p. 96.124 WOUNDS OF THE EXTREMITIES. other, and broad enough to encircle one-third of the circumference of the arm By mouldmg or otherwise fitting the upper part of the splint over the top of the shoulder, it will be prevented from becoming displaced tooTghtYy ■ ««"siders that bandages have, as a rule, been appUed Injury of the head of humerus {vide " Injury of Joints ") Shot Fractures of the Clavicle.-As in fractures of the long bones detached splmters should be immediately extracted. Excision of the clavicle for shot injury is seldom, if ever, called for Shot Fractures of the Scapula.-Bleeding should be arrested, J^orelgn bodies of detached structures should be removed, and the ijarts kept at rest by supporting the arm. Burrowing of pus in the dorsal and lumbar regions is a very common complication in these injuries, from the extension of septic inflammation. Shot Fractures of the Radius and Ulna.-The radius or ulna may receive extensive injuries from bullets or fragments of shells, the rule of treatment for such injuries being to remove fragments of bones or splmters, and place the arm on a suitable splint with a view to union taking place ; at the same time, passive motion should be adopted early to prevent the bones uniting with one another, thereby rendering pro- nation and supination imperfect. When both bones are extensively broken, the soft parts lacerated, and vessels and nerves damaged, which often occurs from a bullet passing through both bones across the arm, amputation should be performed, but every endeavour should be made to save a forearm which is well supplied with blood; mortification i.s consequently not likely to take place. In the event of amputation being necessary, the surgeon should be careful to leave as long a stump as possible, to which a mechanical contrivance can be attached. Hamilton suggests that in case both bones are broken, the patient ought to be kept in the recumbent position on the back, with the forearm resting upon a pillow supported by a board, extended and supinated. No attempt should be made to lengthen the limb by apparatus, but daily attention should be given to the position of the bones, and, as far as possible, they should be kept in line. Shot Wounds of the Hand.—In wounds of the hand, as little as possible of the injured parts should be removed, and, above all, the value of the thumb or a finger should be carefully considered in any operative measures. In extensive wounds from cannon-shot, or fragments of shell, amputation of the hand may be necessary; but wounds from buUets generally damage one or two metacarpal bones, or may pass between two, only injuring the soft parts. There may be very troublesome hemorrhage from wounds of the palm of the hand; this is best arrested by freelj^ exposing the bleeding vessel by enlarging the wound, boldly clearing away all coagula, and applying a graduated compress, this should be regularly and methodically done, and the hand well raised, but should this fail by the hand swelling and threatening to become gangrenous, the radial and ulnar arteries will have to be tied above the wrist.125 WOUNDS OF THE EXTREMITIES. Shot Wounds of the Metacarpal Bones.—When the metacarpal bones are injured, that is, splintered, the wound should be enlarged and the fragments removed, taking care that the tendons are not injured or interfered with, if untouched by the missile. Generally speaking, the extensor and flexor tendons are injured, the result being stiffness of the fingers to which they belong. Guthrie recommends that, when one or more fingers are destroyed, and the metacarpal bones injured, they are to be sawn or cut off but not removed at the carpus, although an opening into the joint of the carpus will generally do well, if skin can be saved to cover it. In all cases of amputation of one or more fingers, the meta- carpal bones, if injured, should be left as long as possible, and particularly that of the index finger when the thumb remains. Shot Wounds of the Fingers.—The phalanges may be broken, when, if in a single finger, a splint composed of wood, gutta-percha, or other suitable material, should be placed on the palmar surface of the entire length of the finger, a piece of lint, cotton wool, or other soft texture being first laid against the skin. If several fingers are broken, the splint should cover the whole palmar surface, the wrist-joint being left free. Incised Wounds of the Forearm and Wrist.—The hand, wrist, and forearm are hable to sword-cuts, which frequently injure the bones or joints. It is seldom necessary to do more than close the wounds, and support the parts by suitable splints, after all divided tendons and nerves have been accurately approximated by catgut sutures. Gun-shot Fractures of the Lower Extremities are far more dangerous and serious than those of the upjjer; and as to fracture of the femur, either simple or compound, it will, on active service in the field, cause the surgeon grave anxiety, and perplex him as to the best measures he can adopt, for opinions vary much on this subject. Shot Fractures of the Femur.—An imijortant question for the con- sideration of the army surgeon is—What is best to be done for severe gun-shot fracture of the thigh with an army on the move, as transporting a sufferer with such an injury is a very serious matter? Stromeyer is of opinion that it is best to leave the sufferer in captivity. Esmarch is, doubtless, of the same opinion, as, during the Holstein War, he entrusted such wounded to the enemy, rather than allow them to suffer from transport. There are, unfortunately, occasions where it is not possible to carry out this excellent advice of Dr. Stromeyer, which in European warfare, and under the privileges of the (Geneva Convention, should be adhered to. But supposing the contest is with savage tribes, as has lately occurred with the British forces in the Soudan, that the distance is considerable to a permanent hospital, that the roads are bad, and transport indifferent, what, then, should be the course of action ? During the Ashantee expedition, 1874, a soldier of the 42nd Highlanders experienced a simple shot fracture of the right femur at Amoaful, and by means of a long side splint was safely carried to the port of embarkation; and during the Perak expedition, 1875, two soldiers of the 10th Regiment had the lower third of the right femur fractured, but without com- minution. Both were safely transported with the aid of ordinarj' splints. But a patient suffering from a severe gun-shot fracture of the middle126 . WOUNDS OF THE EXTREMITIES. c^nlL^." upper third of the femur under the fore- going circumstances, the surgeon should try and conserve S limb m ac^unt of the great mortality attending amputation in tWs region diop.tintvi''''^^'°'l'^^''- T¥ r«s'^lt« «o far accu.nulated, while in- ^le^thi^roTft conservatism in gun-shot fractures Sf tne upper tfiud, on the other hand, inculcate amputation to be the «afPKt S^fi.^ ^ t^*" general opinion, but it may subsequentlv be h^dW r^'l''"' i^/hown by Sir T. Longmore "that the inodern rifle bullet makes small holes, is apt to split bones Avithout always teaW the treatTn'TheT.?'*'^^' ^'^f ^^-^^ ^"^^ improved methods of treating the flesh wounds, may render it possible to save limbs that would otherwise have to be lost." Jlut the question, how far it is possible to ensure rest, will always form a leading feature in deteJ mining what course to pursue with shot-fractures of the femu? in the 7ttl\Zl In these,_as in fractures of the head and neck t i?li-Ki' f °^ tbe patient that is at stake, and not whether flF. f to_ avoid a mutilation. Therefore, with a compound fracture of the femur in_ the middle or lower third, and with the certainty of contmua unavoidable moves, experience says that amputation is the man s only chance of life. Guthrie, referring to the result of treatment of forty-three selected tractures of the thigh, which were attempted to be saved under his own direction at the battle of Toulouse, reports that of this number thirteen mec ; twelve were amputated at the secondary period, of whom seven died ; and eighteen retained their limbs. But he considers the result most unsatisfactory, notwithstanding the care and attention bestowed upon them. Nearly all the wounded, after this battle, had every possible assistance and comfort from the second day after the action. The hospitals were well supplied with bedsteads, no inconsiderable point m the treatment of fractures. Every broken thigh or leg ^vas in the straight position, and the success was gi-eater than on any previous occasion JNTe^,gj.(.i^g2ggg^ ^j^j^ ^^^^^^ advantages, there can be Httle doubt that, if amputation had been performed in the first instance on the thirty-six out of forty-three who died or partially recovered, some twenty ^yould have survived, able, for the most part, to support them- selves with a moderate pension, instead of there being perhaps five, or at most ten, nearly unable to do anything for themselves." The least dangerous and most likely to be saved, he considers, are fractures of the lower third, or at most of the lower half, of the thigh bone; and whenWOUNDS OF THE EXTREMITIES. 127 they do not communicate with the knee-joint, an attempt ought always to be made to save the limb. Mr. Alcock remarks on this subject—"! do not aj^ree with Mr. Guthrie ;" and though he admits his experience is more limited, still he is of opinion that the expediency on service of ever delaying the removal of the limb with a complete fracture of the femur lower third from gun-shot wound appears to him doubtful. This only refers to soldiers ; with officers the results are less unfavourable. During the Crimean War, the treatment of this injury afforded a subject of great interest. Sir T. Longmore informs us that the practice of conservative measures, as a means of preventing amputation, was not encouraging. Of the three modes of treatment, resection was the most fatal, conservative treatment next, and amputation least fatal. The fii-st was uniformly fatal; the deaths among cases treated without operation were 82 per cent. ; the deaths among those treated by amputa- tion, almost hopeless cases included, were 65'2 per cent. In the official history of the Crimean campaign, the recoveries after amputation in the upper third were 12 9, in the middle third 40, in the lower third 4.3 "3 per cent, of the cases treated ; but the distinction is not made in regard to the recoveries without amputation. Stromeyer, who has had great experience, has favoured us with the following opinion:—"I differed from (iuthrie in one essential point- that of his preferring amputation for gun-shot fractures of the thigh to conservative treatment. Guthrie puts too much stress upon the imj^er- fections of conservative treatment, the result of which is often a very disabled limb, whose possession does not make the patient very com- fortable. But these imperfections admit of improvement, while a liU/li ampidation gives no profipect of better chances; it will always remain a very dangerous operation. Our first object is to save a man's life, and the sec(md to make him comfoi-table, but not in his grave. My results of conservative treatment in gun-shot fractured thigh during the first three campaigns of 1849, 1850, and 186G, did not go beyond 50 per cent, healed. I saw the reasons of our failures, tried to avoid them, and went on with conservative treatment. In the two campaigns in Schleswig- HoLstein (1849 and 1850), the ]iatients had to be carried to considerable distances. After the battle of Lanzensolza, in 18(i(), I was unable to prevent.many cases from being spoiled by an injudicious use of plaster bandage. It was in FLnng, near Sedan, where we succeeded in saving 77 per cent., twenty-seven amongst thirty-hve patients, who had been carried to no great distance, and were treated loithoiit putting much re-draini on their shattered limbs." " According to my opinion, the great principles to be followed in compound fractures in general are :—(1) Dressing the wounds without hftnig the hmb ; (2) avoiding constriction; and (3) not irritating the muscles in straining them by mechanical contrivances. A gun-shot fractured thigh permits a weight to be suspended to it sufficient to keep the hmb a little at rest, though perhaps not sufficient to give the limb its proper length, except in very few cases." " The most common case is, that for some time after the accident the128 WOUNDS OF THE EXTREMriTES. muscles retain a tendency to retract which is increased by opposition, but which ceases by-and-by in a favourable position of the broken limb." It appears remarkable that such eminent authorities as Stromeyer and Guthrie should differ on this point; but the fact is, that Guthrie formed his opinion from experiences in the Peninsular and Crimean campaigns, where fractures of the femur were treated under circuiristances totally different from the experiences of Stromeyer, who in all probability was enabled to secure proper accommodation, food, and attendance for his wounded; whereas, during the Peninsular and Crimean Wars every discomfort and inconvenience that man could be subjected to were present with the British army, which unfortunate circumstances gave conservative treatment the disadvantage. Pirogoff, in 1849, after great mortality from thigh amputation for gun-shot fractures was induced to try conservative treatment in ten cases of bad compound fracture of the thigh, which did well not only without operation but without treatment of any kind. He was also of opinion that the application of a permanent paste bandage would render the transport of such wounded possible. Duriug the Crimean War he experienced 90 to 95 per cent, death-rate in primary thigh amputations as did the French; but in the German hospitals, during the war of 1870-1871, more than thirty cases of recovery from gun-shot fractures of the upper and middle thigh were met with ; whereas, of thigh amputation only twenty-one survivors were found, and in none of these had the operation been performed in the upper third. During the early part of the siege of Sevastopol when the wounded were subjected to every discomfort that can possibly be imagined,— when the best bed was a bundle of brushwood without blankets in a bell tent on a mud floor, the prospects of treating a compound fracture of the femur conservatively were most unfavourable, and that of amputation little better; but of the two, amputation in the middle or lower third gave the sufferer the best chance. Again, take exposure in a tropical climate, with intense heat, indifferent accommodation, and want of competent nursing, amputation would no doubt be attended with more favourable results. It is, therefore, only under certain conditions,_ such as good accommodation, food, ventilation, and attendance with suitable appliances, that conservative treatment should be attempted. Dr. G. H. B. Macleod (who closely observed these injuries in the Crimea) remarks—" It can hardly be doubted that the great straining after conservatism which influenced all the surgeons of the army was one main cause of the mortality which attended these injuries." Again he says that, "under circumstances of war similar to those which occurred in the East, we ought to try and save compound comminuted fractures of the thigh when situated in the upper third, but that immediate amputation should be had recourse to in cases of like accident occurring in the middle or lower third." Erichsen considers (though doubtless there are exceptions to this, as to all general rules in surgery) that all compound fractures of the lower third of the femur occasioned by gun-shot require amputation. Mr, Hamilton of the U.S. Army, in his remarks on gun-shot fractiuresWOUNDS OF THE EXTREMITIES. 129 of the thigh, says- " We have not in our possession full statistics of the present war, but sufficient facts have come to our knowledge to indicate that there has been, on the part of our surgeons, a large amount oi conservatism, especially in reference to the treatment of gun-shot injuries to the thigh. Our own impression is that in those injuries conservatism has ruled too much, and that amputations have been too little practised." To guide the surgeon as to when he ought not to attempt to save the limb, but proceed to amputation at the thigh after a gun-shot fracture, he lays down certain rules, which are as follows :— " When a patient has to be carried far over rough roads, and without adequate support to the limbs. " When the bones are greatly comminuted. "When the patient suffers great pain, or violent spasms continue in spite of opiates and rest. '' When the soft parts have suffered great contusion, as in the case of a fracture from solid shot or shell. '' When there is very extensive laceration of the soft parts. " When the principal arteries or nerves are involved in the injuries. " When the fracture implicates the knee-joint, or even when it is near the knee-joint." " Under the following circumstances we would not, as a rule, resort to amputation:— " When the ball has entered the head, neck, or trochanteric portion of the femur; if any surgical operation is demanded in these cases, it is usually ex-section. " When the fracture is just below the trochanters; experience having shown that very few recover after these amputations. " When the fracture of the femur is caused by a pistol-ball, by a round musket-ball, or by any missile whose force is nearly spent. " It wiU be understood that the last observation has reference solely to the less degree of comminution which these missiles usually occasion. " The following conditions miist be added as essential to the success of conservative measures:— " All pieces of bone which are only slightly attached to the soft parts must be removed. " All foreign bodies, such as fragments of balls or other missiles, pieces of cloth, wadding, &c., must be carefully taken away. Whatever binds or obstructs the external opening, and prevents the free escape of blood or of pus, must be divided or removed. "The limb must be placed in a position of absolute rest, and must remain at rest. It must not be confined by tight bandages, or forcibly extended by apparatus. " If the knee-joint be implicated, it must be laid freely open and placed at perfect rest, without adhesive straps, bandages, or other means of compression. " During the whole treatment, the limb must be handled with great care and not lifted rouglily or carelessly. When sinuses form, the matter must be let out by direct or counter-openings, and not by violent pushing and thumbing. 9i^o WOUNDS OF THE EXTREMITIES. When spicula of bone present themselves they must be removed, ' 1 he patient must be supplied with good nourishing diet " Examination of Wound.—The condition of a fractured femur from a rifle bullet is always a matter of great obscurity, and it is therefore impossible to_ decide what steps should be adopted without making a most careful examination with a view to ascertaining the extent of injury. Long and deep incisions may have to be made, and the extent and number of them will depend upon the size and number of the splinters. It has been recommended that the wound of exit is the proper place to look for sequestra, as the baU, in passing through or traversing a limlj, naturally carries them with it. The depth of splinters in muscles is not to prevent incisions being made, nor should their proximity to large vessels or nerves interfere with a diligent search after them. It is of the most vital importance that completely detached splinters, as well as articles of clothing, the bullet itself, or other foreign bodies, should be removed, and with the least possible delay. The limb will soon swell, and become very painful, and the longer the operation is postponed the more painful is the case to the unfortunate patient, the more difficult to the surgeon, and the prospect of saving the limb more unfavourable. Much care will be required in removing small fragments in the after- treatment, and giving free vent to pus both in the neighbourhood of the wound and along the axis of the bone when abscesses form in connection with unobserved splinters. Sequestra and tlie Classification of them.—Dupuytren has divided sequestra into three classes—viz., Primary, Secondary, and Tertiary. The primary are those wholly separated; the secondary those partially adherent probably by a slight piece of tissue ; and the tertiary those which become necrosed. There are generally longitudinal sections into which the bone is split which are sometimes capable of consolidation. The wholly separated portions should be at once removed, as, if not, they soon set up irritation, abscesses, pyeemia, and the usual terrible results. Some doubts have existed as to the advisability of removing those under the class secondary or those partially adherent, from the supposed possibility of consolidation taking place; but it is now generally admitted that, in doubtful cases, or in those where the adherence of the sequestra is but slight, it is best to remove them ; the chances are so much in favour of their becoming wholly detached, and acting as foreign bodies, that the disadvantages of such a contingency are in no way counter- balanced by the fortunate circumstance of consolidation, which is remote. Guthrie, E.oux, Baudens, Legouest, and Begin were in favour of their removal, but possibly modern antiseptic treatment may not always demand this. Extension in Treatment of Gun-shot Fractures of the Femur.—In treating gun-shot fractures of the thigh-bone by conservative surgery, most competent authorities a.gree that it is best to keep up extension to a moderate degree; but, in the event of a portion of the bone being re-WOUISTDS OF THE EXTREMITIES. Inoved, there will be a space between the broken ends; if, therefore, strong extension is made, the ends of the bone will be di'awn asunder, and continued irritation of the muscles and surrounding tissues vnR be kept up. To prevent shortening is almost an impossibility; it will, therefore, be best to allow the ends of the bone to approximate, which the muscles will do of themselves, and all that can be done is to keep the limb straight if possible. The less interference the better. Stromeyer observes—"Do not be too anxious to remove all the frag- ments of fractured and displaced bones. Do not be too eager to maintain extension of the fractured limb, and abstain from frequently lifting the fractured limb for the purpose of cleanliness." Contrivances for the Treatment of Shot Fractures of the Femur and Bones of the Leg and Foot—(1) The Femut.—While simple frac- tures of the shaft may be put up in the semi-flexed position of Pott, the straight one of Desault and Liston, or on the double-inclined plane, or by any of the numerous modifications of either, it is otherwise with the coinpound fractures resulting from gun-shot. Hence numerous contri- vances and apparatus have been invented for the more convenient treat- ment of shot fractures of the thigh-bone ; in fact, any one who has ever had to treat such an injury on service can bear testimony to the difficul- ties and dangers to be encountered. Mr. Hamilton does not recommend '' the long straight splint, with the usual means of extension and counter-extension, in any of its various forms unless in rare cases. A perineal band can rarely be borne in gun- shot fractures of the thigh, and a long broad side-splint is always very much in the way of dressings." The method he recommends is, ''laying the limb upon the mattress, or some sufficiently firm and even support, on the same or nearly the same plane with the body, making the ex- tension by a weight attached to a cord drawn over a pulley, while the counter-extension is made with the weight of the body by elevating the foot of the bed. This is the plan, more or less modified, which has been adopted in a large proiiortion of the cases which we have seen imder treatment; and, we think, with the best results. " With the straight position, the limb may rest directly upon the bed, but for the purpose of dressing the wounds, the limb may be moderately lifted or suspended by a frame and cotton bands. " When extension is applied it should be moderate and only sufficient to steady the limb, or to prevent the ends of the broken bones from pressing into the flesh. For this purpose we apply a broad band of adhesive plaster along each side of the leg from the knee downwards, and secure these in place with a roller, covering certain portions of the limb with cotton wool before applying the roller to prevent excoriation. The end of the adhesive plaster should be laid over a small block below the sole of the foot, which block must be of sufficient width to protect the malleoli from the pressure of the bands. A .small rope knotted at one end is then to be run through a hole in the centre of the block and carried over a pulley at the foot of the bed. The pulley must be so high that the extension shall lift the heel a very little from the bed."i32 Wounds oP the extremities. Mr. J. T. Hodgen has invented an apparatus by means of which the limb is maintained in a straight position, while at the same time it is lifted from the bed and rendered more accessible (fig. 86). "The aiaparatus is composed of four nearly parallel bars and a foot-board; two of the bars constituting the base, and the remaining two, covered by transverse slips of cloth, being intended to receive and support the limb. " The longitudinal bars are 42 inches long, and the upper bars are elevated 4^ inches above the lower ; the space between them diminishing from the upper to the lower ends, being 12 inches at the groin, 8 at the knee, and 4 at the foot. The foot-board is 14 inches high, 4^ inches wide, and is supported by a cross-piece or foot underneath, 15 inches long. " The transverse strips of cloth, each 2J inches wide, are placed in contact, and adapted to the inequalities of the limb. "Adhesive straps are secured to the sides of the leg by a roUer,_and brought around the foot-piece ; a cord, to which is suspended a weight, is made fast to the centre of the foot-piece and passed over a pulley, and this constitutes the extension. The counter-extension is made by lifting the foot of the bed 4 or 6 inches." Mr. Hodgen has also invented a splint whereby the limb can be sus- pended, which it appears he has substituted for his own "cradle." "It is made of iron wire (size No. 2), and resembles in many points Dr, Smith's anterior splint, but its mode of application is not the same. Strips of cloth are laid across the splint from side to side, and upon these the limb is laid. The centre and upper extremity of the splint are kept asunder by strong bows of iron wire, so arranged that they can be put on or taken off without disturbing the dressings. When apphed the inside wire must be bent upwards at its upper extremity so as to make room for the pubes. Extension is made by adhesive plaster, and the whole apparatus is finally suspended to the ceiling, or to some point above, by a rope and pulley" (fig. 87). Dr. Nathan K. Smith of Baltimore has introduced a splint for fracture of the thigh, which no doubt will answer for simple or compound injuries. Fig. 86WOUNDS OF THE EXTREMITIES. 133 » It is a double-inclined plane, made of wire and intended for suspension. The splint is placed above the limb instead of underneath. It is composed of a frame made of stout wire (size No. 10), (fig. 88). Its length should be sufficient to extend from the anterior-superior spinous process of the ilium to a point beyond the toes, the lateral bars being separated 3 inches at the upper end, and 2'i inches at the lower end. Fig. 87. Before being used it is covered with cotton cloth to protect the limb from immediate contact with the wire. The limb is then secured to the splint by successive turns of a roller from foot to groin (fig. 89). When this splint is applied to a broken femur one of the hooks, to which the suspending cords are attached, should be made fast to the splint about opposite the seat of fracture, and the other should be secured a little above the middle of the leg; while the point of attachment in134 WOUNDS OF THE EXTREMITIES. the ceiling, or to the frame from which the suspension is made, should be a little in advance of the knee and not perpendicularly above it. This will secure a certain amount of extension and counter-extension upon the thigh. Fig. 88. The principal objection to this splint is the difficulty of applying it and the roller from time to time, without disturbing the limb at the seat of fracture. The limb is also liable to be bent at the point of union. Fig. 89. Professor Esmarch, in his work on bandaging (1860), describes a splint for gun-shot fractures of the thigh, which is very easily made, portable,135 WOUNDS OF THE EXTREMITIES. and can be used for placing tlie limb in a straight or double-inclined position. It consists of two planks, on which the upper and lower leg Fig. 90. are to be laid, and which are united by two hinges. There is a third plank, to which the plank to support the thigh is attached by means of a hinge, and which admits of movement to any angle of the thigh and leg planks. To keep the foot firm, there are two 10-inch pegs, which, with a bandage, are connected with one another to form a foot support, .so that the foot can be pressed against it. Similar but smaller pegs are Fig. 91. placed on the sides of the plank, fixed on both sides, so as to keep the pads in position. If it is necessary to raise the foot, a brick should be placed under the apparatus at that end (figs. 90 and 91). It is of the greatest importance to make a good slit for the heel in the splint for the leg to avoid pressure. In compound fractures, where the aperture exists in the posterior and outer part of the limb, Erichsen has found a long splint, made of oak, and bracketed opposite the seat of the injury, the most convenient apparatus,136 WOUNDS OF THE EXTREMITIES. enabHng the limb to be kept of a proper length, and the wound to be dressed at the same txme (fig. 92). Fig. 92. Professor Stromeyer has designed a fracture-box, which may be used for fractures of the thigh or leg, but appears better suited for the latter Fig. 93. (fig. 93). It consists of a double-inclined plane, supported on a frame, with hinged brackets, which can be moved so as to place the box at a convenient angle. The thigh-piece, sides, and foot-board are attached to the bottom of the box by hinges, and so constructed that all fold into one convenient package. The sides and foot-board are perforated to admit of bandages being passed through. An intelligent carpenter should be able to make an apparatus of this kind in a short time. (2) Gun-shot Fractures of the Leg-bones—Tibia and Fibula—un- complicated with injury to the great vessels and nerves, or when the knee or ankle are not implicated, admit of an attempt being made toWOUNDS OF THE EXTREMITIES. 137 save the limb. Splinters should be removed, and irregularities sawn off, if necessary, Guthrie recommends that the leg should be placed in the straight position on the heel as a general rule, admitting a few exceptions. Sir T. Longmore writes—"Gun-shot fractures of the leg, when the comminution is not very extensive, when neither the knee nor the ankle- joint is opened by fissure, and the soft parts are not widely damaged, admit of conservative treatment. But when the fragments at the site of impact are dispersed and driven deeply into the surrounding tissue, when the remaining portions of the shaft are much splintered, when one of the neighbouring joints is penetrated, and especially when both bones of the leg are involved in the injuries, amputation under ordinary cir- cumstances in field practice is the only course to pursue." But here, too, the question of movement must be considered. If there is a daily march to be encountered, a gun-shot injury of the leg, that would probably do well with rest and good antiseptic treatment, may, if continually moved, entail a fatal result: whereas an amx^utation would have enabled the sufferer to have reached his home alive though mutilated. Numerous splints of different designs and composition have been invented for fractures of the leg, but all tending to the one object, that of fixture. In the field, when the sufferer may have to be moved, the plaster of Paris bandage will be found most convenient. In the sub- sequent treatment, when placed in a fixed hospital, he will derive great comfort from a common box splint with sides so arranged with hinges that they can be let down to examine the wound without disturbing the limb. If the flesh wound is not extensive, the limb may be put up with the ordinary side splints with pads and the whole placed in a " Salter's sling " apparatus. The limb may also be placed on the double-inclined plane of M'Intyre, which appliance answers on service for fractures of the thigh as well, and with a firm bed gives great ease and comfort to the sufferer. Mr. Hamilton* writes—"When both bones are broken completely asunder by a rifle-ball or other large shot, the surgeon will not often find it prudent to attempt to save the limb. In general, the com- minution is even greater than in fractures of the femur. If an attempt is made to save the limb, loose floating fragments must be removed and the limb placed in an easy position, being sustained by moderate lateral pressure. Neither extension nor counter-extension can generally be made to any purpose." ''It is impossible to lay down any absolute rules as to the position which the limb should occupy; sometimes the fragments will be found most at rest when the leg is made straight upon the thigh; but in the large majority of cases the position of moderate flexion will be required, the Hmb either resting upon its side, as recommended by Pott, or upon its posterior surface, as is most generally practised. Whatever form of apparatus may be used, the foot Avill require always the support of a * Treatise on Military Surgery, p. 414,WOUNDS OF JOINTS. 138 foot-board, and the heel must never be permitted alone to sustain the weight or tlie foot. (3) Wounds of the Foot and its Bones.-The bones of the foot when mjured by rifle-ball or other missile present as a rule serious compli- cations owing to their being numerous, of soft texture, and liable to run into a state of caries from the slightest injury. There may be injury of some of the many tendons, of the vessels, nerves, and strong fascia. *u ^^^9^1* *o extract splinters or foreign bodies, and, if the injury to the bone is extensive, an attempt to save the foot is'not recommended, as the disease produced will ultimately render amputation necessary, which, if done at first, would prevent much suffering. When it is decided to interfere by operation, the foot, or part of it, should be removed as soon as possible. The importance, however, of preserving the heel either by Syme's or Pirogoff's operation cannot be exaggerated. A missile will sometimes lodge in one of the bones of the foot, doing but slight injury to the surrounding textures. An attempt should then be made to remove it, or the bone. Shot Wounds of the Os Calais. - The heel may be struck by cannon- shot or bullet, only destroying a portion of the os calcis. By due atten- tion in removing spicula of bone and making free openings for the exit of matter the limb may be preserved. Wounds of Bones of the Toes.-In wounds of the bones of the toes, only such as are extensively fractured should be amputated. Much can always be done by removal of splinters of the bone, or foreign bodies, and by strict antiseptic treatment. Wounds of the toes, however, are generally in connection with other injuries to the foot. It is of the utmost importance to preserve the big toe even when circumstances necessitate its being the only one that can be saved. WOUNDS OF JOINTS. In the treatment of gun-shot wounds of joints, much of the success will depend upon the size and description of joint, the extent of injury done, the age and constitution of the sufferer, and the time after receipt of injury that treatment has been commenced, and the available means for carrying out that treatment. Patients who have undergone excision or resection .require constant care and attention, abundant cubic space, and pure air; every facility for securing cleanliness, proper dieting, nursing, surgical skill, and most perfect rest. The suppuration as a rule is always copious, and there is therefore great susceptibility to pyaemic poisoning. It is, therefore, necessary to calculate as to the possibility of securing favourable con- ditions before resection or excision is selected in preference to amputation, this latter operation not requiring the same amount of attention in the after-treatment, or the same prolonged rest and confinement indoors. Professor Hanover, of Copenhagen, is not favourable to the oiperation139 WOUNDS OF JOINTS. of resection of joints. In his writings, he says that he has formed his opinion on the cases he has seen among the Danes who were wounded during the war between Germany and Denmark in 1864, and being one of the members of the Pension Committee he has had an opportunity of annually inspecting these cases. " In the majority of instances the patients reported to be cured were left with useless dangling limbs, and the Danish surgeons, as well as the patients, both agree that amputation would have been preferable ; for it would have saved the latter from being burdened with limbs which are not only cumbersome and power- less, but also sources of frequent pain, atrophy of the extremity in which the resection has been performed, coldness, numbness, and contrac- tions."* Professor Hannover's remarks have been reviewed, and the reviewer naturally points out that most surgeons must be familiar with some cases in Avhich not only full use of the hand and fingers has been retained after resection of one of the large joints of the upper extremity, but consider- &hle power in certain movements of the whole limb. Even one such successful instance is sufficient to annul a general condemnation of the operation itself. The late Dr. Loeffler, of the Prussian Military Medical Service, who operated in some of the cases referred to by Professor Hannover, has stated that in various instances the Professor relied upon certificates furnished by surgeons in different parts of Denmark, not for scientifio purposes, but with the object of showing the necessity for a continuance of the pension to the invalided soldiers who had been the subjects of the wounds which led to the operation of resection.f It is quite possible, as Dr. Loeffler suggests, that the same attention may not have been given to the after-treatment as in Germany, and that the climate of Denmark is not very favourable for patients after resection. Mr. Erichsen, in his valuable work on surgery, gives the following as indications for excision :— 1. Excision may be required in bad compound dislocations and frac- tures into joints, especially in gun-shot injuries, more particularly in those of the head of the humerus and of the elbow. 2. As a substitute for amputation in cases in which the joint is so extensively diseased that the patient will be worn out by the discharge, or pain, unless it be removed. Here a useful limb may be secm'ed by the sacrifice of the diseased part. 3- In some cases of articular disease, in which amputation would not be justifiable, excision may be performed in order to hasten the cure, and thus to save years of sufi'ering to the patient. 4. Excision may be performed in cases in which amputation is not practicable, as in disease of the hip-joint, or of the temporo-maxillary articulation. 5. As a substitute for other and less efficient treatment, in order to * Briiish Medical Journal, January 15, 1870. t British Medical Journal, May 28, 1870.HO WOUNDS OF JOINTS. restore the utility of a limb or joint, as in osseous anchylosis of the elbow or m faulty osseous anchylosis of the knee. ' If the injury to the joint is not of such a nature as to require amputa- tion or excision at once, it probably may be saved if free incision is made into It, all small loose fragments of bone or cartilage removed, and the cavity well washed out with a corrosive sublimate lotion (1-500), drainage tubes inserted, and the part covered with a dry absorbent dressing and rendered as immovable as is possible. In about three weeks or earlier Cheyne recommends passive motion to be begun. ' Wounds of the Shoulder-Joint. All wounds of the soft parts in the proximity of the shoulder-joint are deserving of the greatest consideration. Neudorfer specially remarks on this, and says—" It occurs that wounds which do not open the joint primarily injure the same to such an extent, that in a short time com- plete suppuration of the joint ensues." An obscure case of this group occurred in a soldier of the 23rd Regiment, who was wounded during the Ashantee expedition of 1874. A leaden slug entered the head of the left humerus without fracturing the bone, or opening the capsule of the joint, or causing much primary irritation ; five months subsequently inflamma- tion and suppuration of the joint set in, for which Porter performed excision of the head of the bone. (See Army Medical Reports fm-1873.) _ Should the joint be laid open by a sabre cut, or slightly wounded by a rifle-bullet, the soft parts not much lacerated, no large vessel or nerve wounded, and the constitution of the sufferer good, the wound ought to be well washed out, a drainage tube inserted, so that, by careful atten- tion and dressing, and keeping the limb at perfect rest, recovery may take place. Should the head of the humerus be splintered, the articulat- ing surface injured, the soft parts only slightly damaged, and no wound of great vessel or nerve, the operation of excision is advocated, which, in the hands of British surgeons, has been found most successful, and has given the sufferer a comparatively useful limb. Sir T. Longmore records, during the Crimean War, that of thirteen resections of the shoulder-joint in the English army, there was only one death ; eight of these were primary and five secondary operations ; and that, during the New Zealand campaign, several resections were per- formed with remarkably successful results. Partial Excision of the Head of the Humerus may be performed, but the results heretofore have not been altogether satisfactory. In the reports of the American War, fourteen cases of partial excision are recorded, in seven of which the arm was useless. In the same reports cases are given in which 3, 4, 5, and even 6 inches of the shaft of the humerus as well as the head were excised, some of the patients recovering with fair power of the hand and forearm, and others without any im- pairment. Mr. Otis, in analysing the treatment of 2,328 cases of wounds of the shoulder-joint, arrives at the following conclusion :— 1. That in slight shot injuries of the shoulder-joint an expectant con- servative treatment is justifiable,WOUNDS OP JOINTS. 2. If a ball is impacted in the head of the bone, or if the epiphysis is much comminuted, unless there is injury to the blood-vessels and nerves, or very grave injury of the other soft parts, primaiy excision should be practised, 3. Concomitant fractures of the acromial end of the clavicle, or of the neck or processes of the scapula, or of the upper third of the shaft of the humerus, do not necessarily contra-indicate excision of the shoulder. 4. Intermediary excisions should seldom or never be practised. If, in an attempt at expectant conservative treatment, intense suppurative inflammation arises, it should be combated by free incisions, drainage, antiseptic applications, &c., and every endeavour should be made to avoid inflicting another wound upon the inflamed medullary tissue, and to await the second stage before undertaking operative interference. 5. The after-treatment of securing comparative immobility and sup- port of the limb, efficient drainage of the wound, and the ulterior after- treatment of judicious passive and active movements of the arm, are of essential importance in restoring the functions of the member. Wounds of the Elbow-Joint. Punctured and incised wounds of the elbow may usually be treated on a conservative plan, with every hope of recover}', reserving secondary excision until rendered necessary by inflammatory disorganisation. The bones forming the elbow-joint may be slightly injured by sabre cut, buUet, or fragment of shell. In the event of the external wound being slight, and the bone only partially damaged, that is, splintered about the condyles, olecranon, or radius, or if a bullet or other foreign body is lodged in the lower end of humerus or condyles, it will be neces- sary to remove all loose splinters, to extract the foreign body, to wash out the wound, and to follow a strictly antiseptic treatment. The joint will in all probability be stiff, but the patient will have the advantage of a forearm and hand; and here it is that experience may do so much in saving a wounded soldier from excision or amputation. By careful exaEpination with the finger immediately, or as soon as possible after receipt of injury, the exact condition of the joint may be ascertained, and the necessary operative measures at once carried out. Guthrie observes—" When the articulating ends of the humerus, radius, and ulna are wholly or in part injured by a musket-baU, it was formerly the custom to amputate the arm in such instances of great mischief; an operation which should be superseded by that of excision of the joint." Excision of the elbow-joint, in the hands of British military surgeons, has been attended with most happy results. Porter says he has seen some useful limbs after the operation capable of lifting weights, and unaccompanied by pain or numbness. The Period of Election for Excision of the Ulboio.—We have it on the authority of Heyfelder and other experienced surgeons that, as in amputation after shot wounds, a favourable result of the operation is so much more to be expected the earlier the resection is performed.Wounds of joints. oJ^lT^Ki! ^1 rewioz^ed in liesection.-By the experience re- Z^rL l' ""'P^'l the American War, complete resections were thought to give more favourable results, both in preserving life and utility than partial ones. The removal of the head of the radius or of one of the condyles or the upper extremity of the ulna, seemed more liable to be fo lowed by inflammation, extensive and prolonged suppura- 1 ^ anchylosis, than the removal of the entire joint. Considerable doubt, however, exists as to the correctness of this opinion; when, for instance, the elbow-jomt is exposed, the ligaments torn, and the injury to bone conhned to the lower end of the humerus, would it be safer to remove the articular ends of the radius and ulna? or, again, if the articular ends ot the bones of the forearm were injured, ought the condyles of the humerus to be also removed ? The fact of depriving an uninjured bone of Its articular end would be a sufficient argument against such a course, in disease Mr. Syme recommended the removal of the articular extremities. In operations for injury, Mr. Otis appears to consider a prion that there is not the same need of inflicting additional injury by a section of healthy bone, and the deduction seems to be sustained by facts, excellent results having been obtained when the joint ends of either the upper or forearm have been removed after complete exposure of the joint, and the uninjured portions of the articulation have been unmolested. interesting and instructive case is recorded by Sir W. MacCormac (British Medical Journal, January 22, 1876), in which a soldier during the Franco-German War received an injury of the shoulder and elbow on the same side, in which he excised both jomts with most satisfactory results. Wounds of the Wrist-Joint. The wrist being a complicated joint, gun-shot injuries to it are liable to be followed by most serious results, and, as the structures are so superficial, resection as a primary operation is not likely to be successful. Its close connection with flexor and extensor tendons renders them liable to consolidation with their sheaths, and thus to cause stiffness of the joint. Sword cuts opening into the joint if seen early should be cleaned, the soft parts and all tendons brought together by means of sutures, and the hand and forearm supported on a splint, until firm union has taken place, when flexion and extension should be exercised to try and avoid a stiff joint. M. Legouest makes the following important observations regarding recent wounds of the wrist:—Shot fractures of the wrist, where the region is traversed in its long diameter, and is the seat of much shattering [delahrements), require amputation in the forearm. Where the joint is perforated from before backwards without great damage, by extracting splinters the limb may be preserved. Of six complete excisions of the wrist during the American War, one proved fatal after recourse had been had to amputation. The five others recovered with the functions of the hand much impaired, but, all thingsWOUNDS OF JOINTS. considered, in a better condition than if they had been subjected to amputation. Sir J. Lister has endeavoured, with most happy results, to render the operation of excision of the wrist successful, and his operation should, if practicable, be selected, being least liable to injure the important struc- tures near the joint. His recommendations for after-treatment should be attended to. 2Vie Expectant Treatment.—In selecting cases for this method of treat- ment, the surgeon must be guided by the amount of destruction of soft parts and bone, bearing in mind M. Legouest's practical hints. From the experience of the American War, injury of one of the large arteries complicating these fractures was not always regarded as an absolute counter-indication of expectant conservative treatment. In 707 cases treated on the expectant method, confined abscesses occupying sheaths, burs£E, and synovial sacs, and leading to extensive adhesions and con- tractions, were amongst the most frequent complications. The wound should be treated by the strictest antiseptic methods, and the parts should be supported without constricting bandages upon a padded splint. Free incisions shoixld be made when suppuration has taken place, and movements of the finger and hand should be commenced as early as practicable. When the wrist is so severely injured as to preclude aU hojies of saving it, amputation through the joint may be had recourse to. In applying bandages to the wrist the fingers should be left free, and occasionally moved to prevent anchylosis. Gun-shot Wounds of the Hip-Joint. These wounds are without doubt the most dangerous of all joint wounds. They are difficult to recognise, they are frequently not dis- covered through want of proper care, and the immobilisation of the joint, which is the chief requisite for successful treatment of joint wounds is more difficult to carry out than with any other joint. ' Military surgeons in former days looked upon gun-shot wounds of the hip-joint as simply hopeless, and considered that the wounded died except in very rare cases, just as much after one mode of treatment as after the other. Mr. Hennen makes these observations —" Injuries occasioned by balls lodging near or about the joint of the hip are amono-st the most serious in military surgery; the fever, the profuse dischar°e the tedious exfoh.ation, all tend to sink the patient, and are but too often fatal. In some of these the course of the ball is so obscure, and its place of lodgment so uncertain, that it can only be detected after death " Ihese remarks entirely bear out the experience of most surgeons of the ^If^"^^ mortality statistics of the Franco-German War of 1870-71, give evidence that hip-joint injuries are not absolutely hopeless and an endeavour should in consequence be made to try and brines about more happy results, either by judiciously conducted conservative treat- ment m properly selected cases, by excision of the joint, or removal of sphnters, or by amputation.144 WOUNDS OF JOINTS. Professor Langenbeck* has pointed out a mode of determinint' the situation of the hip-joint "It is known that the position of the hip-ioint may be demonstrated, if we construct a triangle whose base intersects the trochanter major, while the femur and the anterior-superior spine of the Ilium form the points of an acute angle. If the entrance or exit of the shot IS within the compass of the triangle, or if the direction of the sbot canal falls withm this space, then the hip-joint will probably be implicated, ihe joint will be most directly involved when the bullet penetrates close below the anterior-inferior spinous process, or nearly If inch below the anterior-superior spinous process, and in the direction of the median line. The spongy part of the head of the femur will be injured in such a case, and, as a rule, smashed to atoms. If the entrance of the bullet be close below and external to the spine of the pubis, and if its exit be m the region behind the trochanter major of the same side, as a rule, the hip-jomt will be implicated with probable separation of the edge of the acetabulum. When the entrance and exit wounds are in front or behind the trochanter major, injury to the neck of the femur with openings of the hip-joint capsule may be assumed for certain." Conservative Treatment.—Langenbeck has also pointed out that some gun-shot wounds of the hip-joint, and even most severe cases, may be cured by conservative treatment; that the surgeon should decide after the first examination if conservative treatment be admissible, or if opera- tive interference must be resorted to ; hip-joint wounds should, therefore, be quickly recognised, or weighty difficulties offer themselves; and whatever plan of treatment is adopted, it should be carried out in a rational manner from the moment of injury. He gives 88 cases of gun- shot wounds of the hip-joint, treated conservatively during the Franco- German War of 1870-71, in which 25 were cured and 63 died, equal to 71*59 percentage of deaths, against 31 treated by resection and extraction of the head of the femur, in which 4 were cured, 26 died, and 1 was doubtful, equal to 73 "87 percentage of deaths. For conservative treatment he first selects all the lighter hip-joint injuries, in which it is impossible to determine the exact diagnosis directly after wounding. He lays great stress on the importance of con- servative treatment, even when the bladder and rectum are implicated, or complicated injuries of both organs exist. According to Langeflbeck'a way of thinking, conservative treatment should not be adopted, either for intra- or extra-capsular fractures of the neck of the femur, if the continuity of the bone is quite destroyed. As recovery from these wounds hardly ever occurs without suppuration in the joint, consolidation of the fracture must be looked upon as impos- sible, and necrosis of the head of the femur, at all events in intra-capsular gun-shot fracture, as unavoidable. We must, therefore, he says, consider that complete separation of the neck of the femur and splintering of the head and neck of that bone should be excluded from conservative treat- ment, and that resection or extraction of the head should be performed either primarily before the expiration of the first twenty-four hours, or • Surgical Observations on Gun-shot Wounds of the Hip-joint, by B. von Langenbeck. Translated by T. F. West, F.E.O.S.WOUNDS OF JOINTS. US directly after the expiration of the infiltration period, and before sup- puration commences. To carry out conservative treatment vi^ith the possibility of success, Langenbeck considers that the first and most important task is the immobilisation of the joint, and the suitable position of the patient. The wounded should therefore be left in the nearest field hospital, the first immovable bandage should be applied on the battlefield, and be so arranged that the probable unavoidable further transport to tbe first station of the army hospital, perhaps on a railway ambulance wagon, may be under- taken vvithimt great injury to the wound. A plaster of Paris bandage well put on, surrounding the pelvis and the entire extremity, would best answer these requirements, but as they are troublesome of application, and require much time and too many ex- perienced hands, Langenbeck does not recommend them during a great battle, but suggests flat hollow splints, fitting round the back of the pelvis and of the entire wounded extremity, leaving the fore part of the hip-joint free. He also speaks in favour of the " zinc tablets " suggested by Dr. Schon of the Austrian army. Permanent extension by means of a weight is of the greatest import- ance. Active probing of the shot canal is objectionable, especially when it has been decided to ti-eat tbe wound conservatively, as it must impair the chance of a favourable healing. With regard to extraction of the bullet, he is of opinion that if it is perceived in the neighbourhood of the joint, its extraction is necessary. Bone sphnters, if they lie quite loose in the wound, may be extracted, especially if they are likely to interfere with the shot canal, or prevent the discharge of secretions from the wound. Eepeated vigorous attempts to take bone splinters out of fresh wounds are altogether inadmissible. Free incisions are of the greatest im- portance for letting out blood which may be retained in the joint, or for collections of matter. Ice is recommended in Germany in the treatment of all recent joint wounds. Excision of the Hip-joint for gun-shot woimds was performed in the Crimea, in the Schleswig-Holstein campaigns, during the American War of the KebelUon, and during the Franco-German War of 1870-71, but the result with few exceptions was far from satisfactory, due in many instances to the want of proper means for carrying out the after-treat- ment. Yet, till Professor Langenbeck published his experiences, excision was advocated for certain wounds in preference to conservative treat- ment, and with suitable means for the after-treatment, one cannot but tlnnk it Mould be preferable, seeing the splendid results which the opera- tion sometimes affords in civil life. Excision was first recommended by Mi-. Guthrie as a substitute for amputation at the hip-joint; he limited the operation to injuries of the head and neck of the bone, or with little extension bej'ond these parts. Mr. Hamilton, U.S.A., considers that when a ball has entered the head, neck, or trochanteric portion of the femur, if any surgical operation is demanded in these cases, it is excision. 10146 WOUNDS OF JOINTS. th^'p^Snf * *^ree periods for performing the operation of excision of _ These periods he defines thus -.—Prhnary, those performed in the interval between the reception of the injury and the commencement of tne inflammatory symptoms, a period rarely exceeding in duration twenty-four hours, but it may be prolonged to thirty-six or forty-ei^ht hours. Intermediate, those performed during the persistence of the inflammatory stage, a period extending over two or three months Secondary, those performed after inflammation has subsided, when the local lesions have become analagous to those resulting from chronic CLlS6clS6» He writes—A study of the history of over 20,000 major amputations and ot more than 4,000 excisions of the larger joints definitely teaches that, in operations for traumatic causes, there is a wide difference in the results of those performed immediately after the reception of the injury those performed during the existence of inflammatory action, and those done after the symptomatic fever and inflammatory symptoms have abated." Mr. Otis says-"122 cases comprise the greater number of gun-shot fractures of the upper extremity of the femur, involving the hip-joint and treated on the expectant plan, which were uncomplicated by lesions of the pelvis, or of the great vessels or nerves. Of these, 114 proved fatal, and the average duration of life after the reception of the injury was thirty-one days." "I continue," he vmtes, "to share the conviction of Guthrie and the elder authors as to the uniform fatality of such injuries when abandoned to the resources of nature. I am fortified in this opinion by the fact that none of the officers of the regular staff have ever observed an unequivocal instance of recovery under such circumstances, by the testimony also of a majority of the surgeons of the volunteer staff, and the concurrent testimony of a large number of those regimental surgeons who acted as chiefs of divisions, who aver that they have never seen a recovery from an undoubted gun-shot injury of the hip-joint treated on the expectant plan. Expectant treatment is to be condemned in all cases in which the diagnosis of direct injury to the joint can be clearly established. Experience teaches that considerable portions of the shaft may be with propriety removed with the head, neck, and trochanters in cases in which splintering extends below the trochanter minor. The necessity of accurate diagnosis cannot be insisted upon too strongl}"-, since there can be little dpubt that gun-shot fractures of the upper third of the femur not involving the articulation are best treated by conservative measures. In fractures or excisions of the upper extremity of the femur, no apparatus or dressing yet devised ensures entire rest under such cir- cumstances. " All experience thus points out the necessity of excising the head and neck of the femur when completely fractured by a l)ullet. To attempt to carry out an expectant treatment unless the patient can be promised absolute rest for some time afterwards is to insure a fatal residt. The ♦Circular 2—A Eeport upon Excision of the Head of the Femur. War Depart- ment, "Washington, U.S., 1S60.Wounds of joints. only course is to excise the parts within the first twenty-four hours if possible, and, therefore, the first examination should be most carefully conducted with the finger, so that accurate knowledge may be acquired of the exact nature of the injury. Antiseptic treatment, however im- portant and valuable, will not suffice without an operation in a case of this kind if the one factor rest is wanting. Amputation at the Hip joint for gun-shot wounds, notwithstanding its great mortality, cannot be altogether discarded. Mr. Guthrie laid it down as a principle that in all cases of accident, whether from shot, shell, or railway carriage, no man should suffer amputation at the hip-joint, when the thigh bone is entire. Cases requiring it are those in which a wound of the artery is accompanied by a fracture of the femur, or in the event of the principal artery being wounded during the course of treatment, or its not being possible to saw the bone through immediately below the trochanter major, and when sufficient flaps cannot be preserved to close the wound thus made. The following rules as regards amputation at the hip-joint, which are laid down by Mr. Otis, appear highly practical—(1) When the thigh is torn off, or the upper extremity of the femur comminuted with great laceration of the soft parts, in such proximity to the trunk that amputa- tion in continuity is impracticable; (2) when a fracture of the head, neck, or trochanters of the femur is complicated with a wound of the femoral vessels ; (3) when a gun-shot fracture involving the hip is complicated by a severe compound fracture of the limb lower down, or by a wound of the knee-joint. There are two other possible contingencies under which primary or early intermediate coxofemoral amputations for injury may be admissible—(1) When, without fracture, a ball divides the femoral artery and vein near the crural arch ; (2) when a gtm-shot fracture in the trochanteric region is so complicated by extensive longitudinal fissuring as to preclude excision. Langenbeck, in referring to the dangers of ampiitation at the hip-joint, gives as a prime cause the lateness at which the operation is usually per- formed after receipt of the injury. He considers it should not be done during the period of infiltration, or after pyemic or septicjemic symptoms have appeared, but that the proper period is in the course of the first twelve to twenty-four hours. If, however, the right moment for ampu- tation is neglected, resection is admissible as the only means of saving life, with a view to amputation being performed later on, when the patient is under more favourable circumstances. Symptoms of Gun-shot Fractures of the Hip-joint.—With complete separation of the head or of the neck of the femur, the symptoms are the same as fractures of the neck of the thigh in civil practice. Discharge of synovia is represented as being absent more frequently than present; this is peculiarly remarkable in wounds that go direct into the joint from the groin, but not with those where the wound aperture lies further back ; the absence of synovia, however, does not prove that the hip joint is uninjured. Langenbeck lays do%vn as one distinct sign the swelling of the articular capsule by blood and synovia, ichor and pus, which is most plainly witnessed in the neighbourhood of the groin, whereWOUNDS OF JOINTS. t48 the articular capsule is superficial. The large vessels are forcibly lifted by the continually swelling capsule, so that the femoral artery seems to beat close under the skin. Oun-shot wounds of the. trochanter, and injuries of the soft parts near the hip-joint require the greatest care, even when there is no evidence of the joint being injured, because the subsequent inflammation and suppuration may ultimately extend to it. The trochanter major, re- marks Professor Langenbeck, as the projecting point in the outline of the thigh shows the centre of the hip-joint, so the bullet may lodge in the joint if it is projected in that direction. The dilatable bone sub- stance allows the buUet to press forward into the joint without leaving behind a shot canal that will fairly admit the probe, and one is too easily led to believe that the ball has passed through, or fallen out of the apparent shot canal. It is now considered good practice in gun-shot wounds of the upper part of the femur, when the fracture does not extend beyond the trochanter or is in the trochanter itself, to simply remove the splinters and secure absolute rest for the patient. The exact position of the trochanter is often of the greatest importance, hence these measurements have great diagnostic value. " N61aton's Line consists of a line draw n from the anterior-superior spine of the ilium to the tuber ischii. If the trochanter be at its proper level, this line ought to touch its upper border when the limb is straight. The importance of this line is, that when the head of the femur is in its normal situation, it touches the summit of the trochanter in every degree of flexion or extension of the limb. If the trochanter be displaced in any direction a corresponding change in its revolution to this line will ensue. There is, however, the fallacy that abduction raises the trochanter above the line and adduction brings it below the line." " Bryant's Ilio-Femoral Triangle is formed by placing the patient in the recumbent position ; then drawing a line from the anterior-superior spine of the ilium directly backwards, another line also from the anterior- superior spine to the summit of the trochanter, and a third, or base line, directly upward from this to the first line, a triangle will thus be formed. The oblique line corresponds to the first part of Nelaton's line and may be taken, just as Nelaton's, as the diagnostic line for dislocations of the head backwards ; whilst Bryant's base line is the test line for all cases in which the neck of the femur is shortened, or the head of the bone thrown upwards. In this method of measuring there is the same fallacy as in Nelaton's." " Giraud-Teulon's method, although somewhat compHcated, appears to be free from all sources of error. It is founded upon the fact that the middle of Nelaton's line corresponds to the centre of the acetabulum. Any shortening of the femur by fracture, or any dislocation, ^vill neces- sarily alter the distance between the lower end of the femur and this point. The measurement is thus carried out. Find the distance from the anterior-superior spine of ilium to the tuberosity of the ischium, and from the same point to the inner condyle, and from the tuberosity to the inner condyle. Then draw a triangle on a sheet of paper, the three sidesWOUNDS OF JOINTS. 149 * Science and Art 0/Surgery, Eru lnen, 8th Edition. of which are equal to these three measurements ; tind the middle point of the line corresponding to the measurement between the tuberosity and the spine, and from that draw a line to the apex of the triangle. This line corresponds to the distance of the inner condyle from the centre of the acetabulum, and must be contrasted with a similar line obtained by measurements of the sound side. "* Wounds of the Knee-Joint. Wounds of the knee-joint are most serious. The admission of air containing germs into a large sac lined by synovial membrane, producing septic iniiammatory acticm with in all probabihty diarrhoea and hectic from septic blood-poisoning, render these injuries beyond hope of recovery without surgical interference, unless they are treated antiseptically from the first. The treatment generally hitherto admitted as being the best is that of amputation, but there are surgeons who advocate resection, or even attempts at conservation. Mr. Hennen, after his great experience, says—" In my own practice I have met with only two cases where the limb was saved after serious injury to the knee joint, and in one of them only was the perfect use of it restored." Mr. Guthrie considers that " wounds of the knee-joint from musket- balls, with fracture of the bones composing it, require immediate am- putation." Dr. Macleod, who appears to have taken a special interest in this class of wounds, visited every one he could hear of in camp while in the Crimea, and avers that he never met with one instance of recovery in which the joint was distinctly opened and the bones much injured by the ball, unless the limb was removed. Dr. Stromeyer recommends primary amputation for gun-shot injuries of the knee-joint. He is not in favour of resection, and is thus opposed to Professor Langenbeck, whose system is non-interference. Langenbeck very strongly advocates conservative treatment. Im- mediate amputation or i-esection he reserves for cases where fragments of bone are actually severed, or where shattering of the bone ends is com- plicated with considerable tearing and loss of soft parts. He uses plaster of Paris bandages, ice, and antiseptics. In 18(30, out of 18 cases, 11 were cured by conservative treatment. Dr. Carl Keyher in the last ivusso-Turkish War had a remarkable success, he divides his cases into "primary antiseptic," that is, cases which were treated aseptically from the first, and which had not been fingered or probed in any way ; "secondary antiseptic," or, cases where the wound had been examined or treated in some way opposed to aseptic principles; and "non-antiseptic" cases. He had 4(3 cases of gun-shot injury to the knee-joint, 18 were primary antiseptic cases, of which 3 died, and 15 recovered with movable knee-joints—percentage of mortality 1(3'6. Forty were secondary antiseptic, 34 died, 1 recovered -percentageWOUNDS OF JOINTS. t Science and Art of Surgery, Erichsen, 8tli Kditiou. of S*hi 95-6^' W'^'^e non-antiseptic, 22 died-percentage In his primary antiseptic cases, Reyher either washed out the wound if small, with an antiseptic solution, removed any foreign body present' drained and treated it by a dry gauze dressing; if, however, the apertures were large, and splinters of bone had to be removed, he carried out Lister's treatment with all details of gauze, spray, &c. ; or, he did not wash out the wound at all, but simply contented himself with purifyin" the exterior, and applying an antiseptic dressing. The former practice was adopted when the wound was gaping, and when there was a suspicion that portion of the clothing, &c., had been carried in with the bullet: the latter practice, where the edges of the skin were lying together, and where it was thought that the buUet had not carried any extraneous matters in with it. Bergmann also got some remarkable results. He had 15 cases of fresh gun-shot wounds of the knee-joint after the storming of Telisch and Gorni-Dubnik. These were all treated by careful cleansing of the skin by a carbolic solution, and then applying masses of salicylated wool, and over all a plaster of Paris bandage. Of these 14 recovered, 2 after amputation, and 1 died. —Cheyiie* Sir T. Longmore sums up from all the experience gained regarding gun-shot wounds oi the knee-joint, that when the damage is slight, and early immobilisation and antiseptic treatment can be carried out, con- servative treatment should be adopted. When, however, these cannot be obtained, and when the patients are liable to be moved frequently, or to long distances, hurriedly and without adequate protection, and when the injury is excessive, amputation above the joint is the only remedy. " In all cases in which antiseptic treatment is impossible, conservative treatment contrasts most unfavourably with primary amputation in the lower third of the thigh. When amputation is determined on, the operation requires to be performed early, and this necessity for early amputation in penetrating bullet wounds of the knee-joint when anti- septic treatment is impossible, is recognised by all modern military sur- geons."—Erichsen. t Excision of the knee-joint is an operation which should not be at- tempted unless under the most advantageous circumstances; when every possible care and attention can be given to the after-treatment; when the patient can have good air and diet, and every appliance that the surgeon may require, together with absolute rest. These circumstances are not likely to exist in the field, though they may be available in the stationary hospitals in European warfare. If an attempt be made to save the limb without operation, the joint should be thoroughly washed out by a 1-20 carbolic, or other antiseptic lotion; thorough drainage either by tubes or fresh incisions, and the envelopment of the whole joint in salicylated or mercurialised cotton wool is required, and the limb should be immobilised on a splint. But if, from the nature of the injury, an operation is deemed necessary, the safest course to adopt is to amputate at the lower third of the thigh, * Aiiliseptic Su7'gery.WOUNDS OF JOINTS. and the sooner it is done the better, as inflammatory symptoms soon set in after such injm-ies, followed by suppuration of the joint; abscesses appear among the muscles of the thigh burrowing along the bone after depriving it of its covering; the patient rapidly becomes exhausted by hectic, when interference by amputation will be too late. I7i incised loounds of the knee-joint, if not complicated, it is best to try and save the limb by enlarging the wound if necessary, thoroughly washing out the joint with an antiseptic lotion, providing for complete drainage, enveloping it in an antiseptic dressing, and rendering the limb immovable by splints; should, however, inflammation set in and pus form, free exit must be given to the matter, and the most careful anti- septic treatment by frequent washing out with mercuric chloride, or other antiseptic lotion, must be carefully attended to. Wounds of the Patella. The patella is occasionally fractured by a bullet or other missile, and if complicated with injuries to the other bones it will be impossible to save the limb. Should, however, the patella be struck in front and only split, an attempt should be made to save the limb. If antiseptic treatment is available, the fragments may be_ wired together with the same successful results as attend the operation for ordinary fracture, but any liability of the patient to sudden or frequent moves would render the treatment difficult. In all injuries to the patella, the limb should be placed in the straight position with a well-padded splint underneath, and the heel slightly raised. Wounds of the Ankle-Joint. In these injuries much depends on the amount of damage done to guide the surgeon in the treatment. If the bones are not extensively injured, and the posterior tibial artery and nerves are intact, an attempt should be made to save the foot; but, like all injuries to joints in which the surgeon might wish to save the limb, and indeed where it might be con- sidered advisable, the circumstances as regards rest, care, attention, &c., as already described, should influence him. Stromeyer, in wounds of the tibio-tarsal articulation, recommends the expectant treatment. He is opposed to resection of this joint, which was not successful in the Franco-German war of 1870-71. His plan of treating gun-shot wounds of the ankle is simply to keep the parts per- fectly immovable, and extract the pieces of splintered bone, as they become detached. Langenbeck is in favour of resection, which operation he performed with success in the German-Danish War of 1864, and the Bohemian War of 1866. He has had nine recoveries out of eleven operations. He re- commends subperiosteal resection, and complete immobilisation of the parts after the operation. Erichsen considers that if the bones be not too extensively comminuted,152 WOUNDS OF NERVES AND TENDONS. an attempt, and probably a successful one, may be made to save th^ '"'^ extraction of fragments and excSfon of the splin! tered ends are necessary; and modified operations, partS excision bv rhrtV/fS'<^:sfon^^^ ^^^'^ f-d^sir:~ ^^^^ ^11 vessels and nerves have been cut across, and the bones purlue ^""'"'^ ^ill the p^e? course to of «lTnTl1o?nf^'J ^^°J °f ^hen resection ness ofTeJin^Tn? fl • • ft^''™!'^' ^^""^ considers that the serious- Srceil X nf Lwf«^ tb*^ operation, and the ?oSnT™.t J^^tifybim in rejecting resection of this ]omt m a general way, as he has already rejected that of the wrist. WOUNDS OF NERVES AND TENDONS. lac?rltim,'^.?n?rf;i7''''iY ^P^*^^^^?' compression, or distention, by bnS no' 7 P^^tiaj whole division, by puncture or incision. Foreign anv of w1? \' ™l^edded m them, or they may be included in a ligature, any of which may give rise to most serious symptoms, both local and musHefw°^f' '"'^ intolerable pain, inflarnLtion contraction of ""^r less paralysis of the parts supplied by them. Pndfnf fi! ^-^P^-^^l' P^^*' ™^^t be thoroughly cleansed, the ends of the nerve, if divided, accurately brought together by catgut sutures, and every endeavour made to get union by first intention. ^ """^"^^^S from the pressure of tumours, aneurisms, dislocations fractures, and the contraction of cicatrical tissue, is apt to set up neuritis _ The effects of pressure may lead to loss of sensation and paralysis, wasting, and degeneration of muscles; in the course of time however, the nerve may recover its function. Neuritis, if once set up IS very troublesome ; its symptoms are described by Erichsen as intense pam and tenderness in the line of the affected nerve; sensation is variously modified m the parts supplied by the nerve; there may be numbness or tingling or antesthesia, in other cases there may be intense pam ; occasionally there are spasms, but more commonly there is weak- ness or paralysis of some of the muscles supplied. The tender nerve should be freely blistered and the affected Hmb put at rest. Constitutional conditions, as gout, rheumatism, malaria, and syphihs, must be duly treated ; it is in these cases that nerve stretchino- has been attended with success. By the stretching the conductin<^ power oi the nerve is abohshed, but the continuity of the nerve is not destroyed and restoration of function gradually returns. ' The local application of belladonna, chloroform, aconite, blisters, sub- cutaneous injection of morphia and of sulphate of atropia in the propor- tion of I gr. and gr., the administration of mercury, or division of the nerve may be tried. The local use of cocaine in a 4 per cent, solution might be of use. Tendons may be divided by sword-cut.or other sharp weapon, or153 ANESTHESIA. ruptured by over-exertion, when it will be necessary to place the limb m such a position that the muscles may be relaxed, and so approximate the divided ends. In a wound, the ends should be carefully brought together with catgut sutures, and great pains taken to obtain union by first intention. When the tendo-Achillis has been cut or ruptured, an apparatus may be constructed by placing a strap, like a dog-collar, above the knee, from which a cord is attached to a loop in the back of a shoe or shpper ; by tightening this cord the muscles are relaxed. When the extensor tendons of the fingers are divided, the hand must be placed in the straight position on a splint. ANESTHESIA. Chloroform. —When administering chloroform it is advisable to have near at hand and ready for use a battery of electricity, some ammonia, and a pair of spring forceps for drawing the tongue forward. Recently- wounded men require no preparation for its administration, but a little stimulant such as wine or brandy may be given about half an hour before the chloroform is administered. The patient should be placed in the recumbent position with the head thrown well back. There have been considerable discussions of late as to the way in which chloroform affects the vital organs; on one side, it is urged that it is the respiratory centres that are j)rimarily affected, and the heart secondarily; on the other, that chloroform has a direct effect uijon the heart itself. Surgeon-Major Laurie, I.M.S., thinks that the experimental data of the Hyderabad Commission* prove—1, that the administration of chloroform is free from risk if the breathing is perfectly regular through- out and the inhalation is stopped as soon as the patient is fully under its influence; 2, that chloroform never causes death by sudden stoppage of the heart; 3, that death from chloroform is always the result of an overdose ; 4, that the danger of overdosing is enormously increased by holding the breath, strugghng, asphyxia, or anything which causes the patient to take gasping inspirations ; and 5, that the inhibitory action of the vagus nerve, which is called into play in threatening and actual poisoning with chloroform, is a safeguard. S. M. Laurie says—" That the true art of giving chloroform, to prevent overdosing, consists not only in concentrating your attention on the breathing, but in keei^ing it absolutely regular throughout the administra- tion, and in stopping the inhalation whenever the breathing is irregular, and directly the patient is fully under the influence of the anaesthetic." No instruments should be used for the administration of chloroform, but an open cone or cup with a little cotton wool is best, and care should be taken to give it at first largely diluted with air. The administration should be guided as to the effects entirely by the respiration, if possible, the patient's chest and abdomen should be exposed during chloroform * " Report of the Second Hyderabad Chloroform Commission."—iancei, Dec, 18, 1890.^54 ANAESTHESIA. i^i^^^^'^V^i*^^* respiratory movements can be seen by the admini- strator. If there is any interference with the respiration iJ any w^v if mfti?'t\1 ^fv' ""'-'^'''l^ ^^^^^^^ion should be'^stop^ed until the breathing IS natural again. If the breathing becomes em- barrassed the kwer jaw should be pulled or pushed forward from behind Its angles, so that_ the lower teeth protrude in front of the upper S ffof ^^"-y^^- At the same time t?e respira off Thff ^l^^^^^^^y "^.til tbe embarrassment has passed otf^ The tongue should at the same time be drawn forward by means of a pair of catch forceps. On the other hand, Dr. J. A. M'WiUiam reports.* as the results of his research, that during chloroform anaesthesia the blood-pressure is lowered and the heart s action is weakened. Dilatation of the heart occurs to an appreciable extent, even when chloroform is administered gentlv and mixed with abundance of air. There is no distinct change in the rate of the heart s action when dilatation occurs. A sudden and complete cessation of the cardiac rhythm is never caused by the inhalation of chloroiorm Cardiac failure occurs by a more or less sudden enfeeblement and dilatation of the organ; not by a complete cessation of rhythm Oardiac failure sometimes occurs in this way a considerable time before the respiration stops, though generally the respiration stops before the heart has become mcapacitated. Changes in the respiration assert a raost important influence upon the effects of chloroform administration An amount of chloroform which can be given with safety durino- easy breathing may speedily become dangerous during deep rapid respiration. ree dilution of air gives no security against an overdose. A percentage that gives safe anesthesia during ordinary breathing may lead to fatal collapse if given during exaggerated respiration. The experiments also prove that the difference between the action of chloroform and ether is not simply a difference of intensity. There is commonly seen a very striking and important difference between the relative influence of the two anaesthetics upon certain functions. Ether can abolish the conjunctival reflex, and induce profound anesthesia with no appreciable direct effect on the heart; while chloroform, in causing a less deep anaesthesia, in which the conjunctival reflex is not abolished, may directly cause marked dilatation of the heart. Several fatal cases of chloroform-poisoning have occurred of late, and in each of them it has seemed that the heart suddenly gave way, and ceased without giving any previous warning ; and in several of these cases the heart was proved to be fattj'. It is difficult to see how this sort of accident can be altogether avoided, as there is no way of detecting that a heart is thus affected. But it seems to point to the rule of administering ether, unless the nature of the operation about to be undertaken forbids the use of an inhaler, or if there is considerable bronchial irritation present, when ether would be contra-indicated on account of the distress it would occasion. Whoever in the present day undertakes to administer chloroform, should give his imdivided attention to the patient, and must * " Eeport on an Experimental Investigation of the Action of Chloroform and Ether," by Dr. J. A. M'William, M.D. Brit. Med. Jour., October 11, 1890.ANAESTHESIA. 155 never be tempted to allow his interest in the surgical proceedings that may be going on to blunt his observation, or cause him to relax his vigilauce. , , • Ether is now much used, and has obtained the credit of being much safer than chloroform. It has, however, two great disadvantages, which are, that it requires a large quantity to produce anassthesia, also a bulky instrument for its administration, both of some consequence on active service. Mr. T. Pridgin Teale writes so appositely on the subject as to render it expedient to give his remarks in full. He says,* " Ormsby, of Dublin, invented the inhaler in which the exhaled warm air, charged as it is with ether, was received into an india-rubber bag and breathed over and over again, thus economising the heat of about 90 per cent, of the exhalations and reducing the waste of ether. This idea was taken up by Clover and developed into the present form of inhaler, which, as far as I know, is unapproached by any method of giving ether that has come into use. " To administer ether badly is to bring it down nearly to a level with chloroform as to safety, and to render it inferior to chloroform as to comfort to the patient. A bad etherist will cause fear, coughing, dis- tressing sense of suffocation, excitement, struggling, blueness of lips, mucous rattling in the trachea and bronchi. He will take many minutes, five to ten, in getting his patient under the anfesthetic, will use twice or thrice as much ether as is needful, will keep his patient when unconscious overcharged with ether, in a state of profound stertor, and will now and then set up a dangerous bronchitis. A good etherist will win the con- fidence of his patient, even of the most timid, by judicious encouragement, and by first applying the mouthpiece alone. As confidence becomes established he adds the reservoir and then the india-rubber bag, slowly turning on the ether as tolerance of the vapour becomes established, and unconsciousness begins to steal on. Then he more rapidly increases the proportion of ether, and the patient quicklyfalls into complete antesthesia. Such an administrator will, in nine cases out of ten, have his patient ready for operation in two or three minutes, and not infrequently in about a minute and a half, without a struggle, without coughing, often without even a transient sense of suffocation, and with the expenditure of about half an ounce of ether, and will but need about one ounce of ether for each quarter of an hour that the anesthesia is kept up. In such a case we need fear no danger at the time, nor subsequent bronchitis. " The advantages to the operator of using ether instead of chloroform are very great. In the first place, his anxiety is less, his fear of a fatal issue is less, and when obliged to trust to an inexperienced administrator, as he must do at times in sudden emergencies, he can more efficiently keep an eye on the patient's condition, and superintend the administrator, than when chloroform is used. "In the second place, there is a saving of time, a patient being brought under the influence of ether in two or three minutes, whereas chloroform, in my experience, needs eight or ten. * " Address in Surgery," by T. Pridgin Teale, F.E.C.S., F.E.S., Leeds, 1S89. BHl Med. Journ., Aug. 17, 1889.AMPUTATION. 156 'In the third place, under other return of consciousness to i)ain generally lags behind the return of mental perception, and thus anaes- thesia can easily be re-established without interrupting the operation. So marked is this fact towards the end of a prolonged operation, that sometimes the surgeon may continue to operate for ten minutes or a quarter^ of an hour without re-application of the inhaler, and even con- verse with his patient whilst stitching up a wound. This is hardly, or rarely, the case with chloroform." Local anaesthesia may be induced by freezing a part, either by the use of a freezing mixture, or by the rapid evaporation of ether from its surface. The former is managed by mixing some powdered ice and salt, and then applying it in a muslin bag until the skin is white and insensible, the latter by the use of Richardson's spray producer, which is a far more convenient form than the freezing mixture. Lately, the use of cocaine has been much recommended for producing local insensibility to jDain. Cocaine is an alkaloid obtained from the leaves of the Erythroxyton coca—its salt the hydrochlorate is soluble in water, and is used in a 4 per cent, and 2 per cent, solution. Mr. Hartridge says it is of considerable value as a local anaesthetic in disease of the cornea where photophobia is a prominent symptom, for the removal of foreign bodies from the cornea; in all operations affecting the cornea and conjunctiva only; in cases of cataract extraction where it is unde- sirable to give ether or chloroform. It is of little value in operations involving the skin unless injected into the skin itself and not under it. It has been used to produce anaesthesia of the larynx, pharynx, and other parts. In cases of supra-orbital neuralgia, a 10 or 20 per cent, solution in oil of cloves rubbed into the part, affords almost immediate relief. Its effects pass off in from 6 to 10 minutes. " It is a mydriatic and paralyzes the accommodation. Its aqueous solution is apt to grow fungi, and bad effects upon the eye have been attributed to these fungoid growths." Martindale. In some cases fainting and sickness with other toxic effects, as fixity of gaze, temporary visual defect with slight delirium, are reported as following its use for purposes of local anaesthesia; but the inhalation of nitrate of amyl quickly puts an end to them. AMPUTATION. Under this heading will first be considered the question as to the proper period for performing amputation for wounds requiring it in warfare ; secondly, cases demanding it; and, thirdly, the most approved methods of operating. Mr. Hennen remarks, in his work, 1818—"The propriety of amputation in the field being admitted, the question naturally suggests itself. What is the!proper period—instantly on receipt of the wound, or consecutively? The practical reply is, with as little delay as possible." Sir T. Longmore considers that, in respect to the particular time at which primary amputation is to be performed, the general practice of the157 AMPUTATION. present day is, when the operation is inevitable, to perform it as soon as it can be done, provided the more intense effects of the "shock, where it has supervened on the injury, have passed away. ^ • t Mr Guthrie is of opinion that when the wound of an extremity is ot so serious a nature as to preclude all hope of saving the hmbby successtul treatment, it should be amputated as soon as possible ; and, further, the advantao-eous results of primary amputations, or those done withm the first twenty-four hours, or at most forty hours, over secondary amputa- tions, or those done at the end of several days, or of three or four weeks, have been so fully and firmly established as no longer to admit of any ^^in"the present day primary amputations are discouraged at the dressing stations on the field of battle, because of the extrenie difficulty m carrying out an antiseptic line of treatment in such a situation. ■,• -j j • . Amputations in warfare have for a very long time been divided into primary and secondary. Mr. Alcock has introduced a third penod, "the intermediary," and these three have been accepted by many sur- geons to denote periods in which amputation may or may not be per- formed. He defines the three periods as follows:—Primary, or the period between the receipt of the injury and the appearance of inflammatory symptoms; intermediary, or the period when the inflammatory action has commenced, and is more or less capable of disturbing the animal economy; secondary, when the violence of the inflammatory symptoms and sympathetic fever have abated, that is, when the suppurative stage is fully established. It is now generally admitted that when amputation is necessary, it should be performed at once, the condition of the sufferer being duly considered, that is, if the shock exists to an alarming extent, it is best to delay the operation, and administer cordials, apply warmth to the extremities, and wait till reaction is established ; but if it be not very intense, the operation can be performed under the influence of chloro- form with the most satisfactory results. Macleod remarks, witli_ regard to the use of chloroform, that by its use the fear of intensifying the shock is obviated. Amputations after septic inflammatory action has set in are generally attended by most unsatisfactory results. Operations or examination of wounds should never be performed during the intermediary state or period of inflammation, when the constitution is in a most unfavourable condition for such undertakings, and all operations are likely to be attended by the most serious results. Secondary amputations are not so successful in military as in civil f)ractice, when the operation is generally performed for disease and not or injury. In warfare the cases requiring it are profuse haemorrhage, which does not admit of the ordinary measures of suppression ; gun-shot fractures, when the bones do not unite, and the patient is worn out with suppuration, irritation, necrosis, caries, and all the painful accompani- ments of a shattered and useless limb ; and cases when traumatic gan- grene has attacked a severely contused limb.AMPUTATION. Cases demanding Amputation. In wounds of the extremities these cases will be found described accord ^""^ here they will be consideredle"erallv Cases demanding Amputation, then, are as follows ^r-Zl^"^ ^ 1 IS fractured and there is laceration of the main arterial «"PP^yi^& tJi/ l™b, provided the vessel cannot be tied When there is a fracture complicated with destruction of the princinal arterial and nervous trunks occurring in the course of a large Umb ^ When a whole hmb is carried off a rugged stump merelyteS^ left • When there is a comminuted fracture, accompanied with extensive f • P^''''i°: ^T^^"^-^ «f *he principal artery anfnerve ^-'^ completely crushed and disorganised ; ' When there is a compound fracture of a large limb, mth rupture of the principal artery and nerve ; rupture or +v,^^l^i!^lP''T'P'^^.^^^^®^^ soft pari;s have been carried awav though the bone be uninjured ; i-Aineu away, Extensive injuries of the shoulder, elbow, wrist, and ankle joints mav loTbnnJ^T*^*r rl^^^*^?^^? i« splintering into the shaft of the long bones, loss of soft parts, or injuries of the principal artery and nerve resection or excision should be performed. o ly auu nerve, DiFrERENT Methods Considered. ''^.^^^i^t^^^^^ f'^^ Disarticulation may be performed by the circular method, the oval method, or by flaps of different shapes, and by skin flaps with a circular cut through the muscles. ^ > j f Much discussion has taken place as to which is the best plan durinc- wariare. I he circular method was generally practised by the GermaS surgeons during the Franco-German War, and was attended by satis- lactory results. Esmarch prefers the circular incision, as the arteries are cut trans- versely, while by the flap operation an oval opening is made in the vessels and It might easily occur that the whole lumen of the vessel was not included in the ligature. The operations recommended for injuries when an army is moving are skin flaps and circular cut through the muscles. The advantages of these operations are—that the flaps are not so liable to be displaced in transport; there is less care required in the after-treatment, and it has been suggested by many authorities that the skin forms a better covering to the end of the bone than muscle, and is more in accordance with nature, none of those parts of the body where there is most pressure having other covering than the skin. The late Mr. Teale practisedAMPUTATION. 159 amputation by the rectangular flaps, the anterior being long and the posterior short. The disadvantages of this plan of operation consist in the necessity of sawing the bone at a higher point when one long flap is made, than when two shorter ones of equal, or nearly equal, length are fashioned. In gun-shot wounds it appears especially unsuited, as in many injuries requiring amputation good double flaps may be formed from the soft parts, and a joint may thus be saved. Take, for instance, injuries below the knee or elbow, in which, if one long anterior flap is formed, it must be at the sacrifice of the joint and the consequent increased risk to the life of the sufferer by the high amputation. In cutting skin flaps, Sir Jos. Lister particularly cautions young oper- ators against directing the edge of the knife towards the skin in raising flaps of integuments. He says,* "such a practice necessary in anatomy will, if carried into an amputation, most seriously endanger the vitality of the flap, which derives its supply of nourishment from vessels rami- fying in the fat. I am satisfied that integument designed to form a covering for the stump is often made to slough for want of scrupulous attention to this simple point." Also he says, "that the skin should always be cut perpendicular to its surface, for if it is levelled off to a thin edge it is not only unsuited in shape for adaptation with a view to primary union, but the margin may slough for lack of nutriment. Again, in transfixing a limb it is desirable that this should be done in a con- tinuous manner, for if the instrument be thrust in for a certain distance and then partially withdrawn and made to follow a new track, the punctm-ed wound first made may cause very troublesome hfemorrhage, if a considerable arterial branch happen to be divided by it. The operator should always stand so as to be able to control with his left hand the part which he removes. In tying vessels, the catgut ligature with short cut ends has none of the inconveniences of the long threads of silk or flax formerly employed; there is no objection to tying mere oozing points however numerous. The principal veins may also be tied, as the dread of exciting phlebitis by such treatment is entirely groundless." Mr. Heather Bigg, the experienced mechanician, in a recent work,t offers some valuable suggestions to surgeons. He says the amount of covering to be left over the end of a stump should not be excessive, for it is a rule never to take any bearing on an operative end of a stump if it can possibly be avoided. After a Pirogoff, a bearing can be entirely taken on the end of the stump, but in this case it is a natural surface and not an operative one. With amputation through the ankle (Syme's) or through the knee-joint, some bearing can generally be taken on the stump ends, although the entire weight of the body cannot usually be borne on them. Hence, whenever actual section of bones exist in the stump end, bearing cannot be taken, and a full and padded covering of muscle is useless. The greatest care should be taken in rounding the ends of the cut Ijone, especially in the case of tibia and bones of the forearm. * Vide Holmes' System of Surgery, vol. iii. t Artificial Limbs and Amputations.AMPUTATION. i6o Mr. Bigg, regarding stumps in the view of providing for them artificial limbs also 8ays, "If possible, preserve the tread^of the foot this S^nftte great toe, with its metatarsal bone If thL cannot be done preserve the heel (Pirogoff or Syme). If this is impos- sible preserve the knee with sufficient of the lower leg to utilise it Jnd Sri °f those who bflow tT. 1 n "'-^ ^if^'i}'^* for the labouring man a hand's breadth below the knee IS the best suited for the bucket leg. Amputation ^S'SY. t^.l"""^^!-^ ^^"'''^ interferes very materially with the strength of the artificial knee, so that section through the femur iust above the condyles IS to be preferred." u juou Double Amputation. It sometimes occurs that a soldier has two limbs so severely injured that amputation of both is necessary. Porter had an opportunity during the Lrimean War, of seeing one instance of this description of injury, in which he performed amputation of one leg above the knee, while his colleague removed the other shortly afterwards. Double amputation has been performed at the same time by different surgeons, with a view to lessen the continuance of shock to the system which would result from doing two operations in succession; but, to undertake anything so serious, the surgeon must be guided by the con- dition of the patient, as, if he is greatly depressed with continuance of the shock, the performing of a double amputation might be followed by most serious consequences. Under such circumstances, it would be better to remove one limb first, and after the shock produced by the operation had passed o£f to remove the other. There is no doubt, however, that if the sufferer could bear the double operation at the same time, the prospects would be more favourable. After-treatment of Stumps, It may be necessary to transport an unfortunate sufferer with a stump or stumps only recently made. The surgeon will then have an anxious time in so arranging that the patients are not unnecessarily knocked about. The stump should be supported by a piece of thick gutta-percha or strong board being placed underneath it and secured, and the whole enveloped in folds of cotton-wool or tow. It is surprising how soldiers recently operated upon bear transport, and what very slight injury is caused by it, due attention, of course, being paid to the nature of the conveyance and efficiency of the attendants. Sir Jos. Lister says, " In the thigh, and also in the leg, great advantage is derived from bandaging upon the posterior surface of the stump outside the dressing, a trough of Gooch's splint (scored deal), on which the stump rests smoothly, being rendered independent of move- ment or irregularity of pillow."AMPUTATION. i6i Flies. In camp and tropical hospitals, the greatest care is required to counter- act the persistent efforts of these insects to deposit their ova in wounds, and to prevent the generation of larva in them ; bvit the modern forms of dressing if carefully applied ought to quite prevent this accident. Maggots in Stumps. In warm climates maggots are very apt to infest wounds and stumps ; the carbolic spray will in all probability act as a preventive to this disgusting circumstance. Porter experienced an instance of their rapid generation in India after the battle of Sultanpore. He amputated the leg of a native in consequence of a gun-shot wound. The stump was dressed with lint moistened with cold water, and secured for transport. On the second day after the operation, a considerable journey having been performed, on proceeding to dress it, the inside presented a living mass of maggots, which were removed and the case progressed most favourably. By keeping lint saturated with turpentine on the outer dressings, no more maggots appeared. Creasote in solution, common salt, and carbolic acid solution will expel them from a wound. Bloodless Operation. Professor Esmarch introduced what is known as the " bloodless opera- tion," whereby a surgeon can remove a limb or excise a joint below the main trunk of an artery, without losing a drop of blood, and with but little assistance from others, two great advantages in w^arfare. Sir Jos. Lister has somewhat modified the method of applying the elastic bandage. He has shown that an equally good result can be obtained by raising the limb straight uji for two or three minutes, and gently rubbing the veins towards the trunk. " By this means the limb is rendered bloodless, both by emptying the veins and by contraction of the arteries, and then an elastic bandage can be bound tightly round the extremity at a suitable distance from the part about to be operated upon." The writer has invariably adopted this i)lan of late years, and in opera- tions upon bones the convenience of a bloodless operation is very great. The objections to Esmarch's method of first enveloping the limb with an elastic bandage is that, in the case of suppuration, pus and putrid septic matter may be forced into the interstices of the sound tissues. Lister also remarks that he would hesitate in applying the continuous elastic bandage to a part affected with soft cancer. Again, the thick caoutchouc tube has in the case of the arm, where the soft parts are comparatively scanty, prodiiced serious paralytic effects. Without due precautions hismorrhage is apt to occur after a bloodless operation. This, as a rule, may be checked by irrigation of the wound with iced water, by securing everything that showed a lumen, including 11AMPUTATION. l62 veins as well as arteries, by exposure a strong solution of chloride of zinc, c Approved Methods of Amputating. Amputation at tHe Shoulder-joint.-Hamilton of the U.S. Army re- commends the following proceeding :-The arm lying nearly against the side _ot the body, with a large bistoury or a small dissecting-knife an incision IS commenced at the middle point of the extremity of the acro- mion process, or two or three lines above this point (fig. 94), and carried perpendicularly downwards one inch and a half, the knife being made to cut deeply until it touches the head of the humerus. At this point the knife is carried obliquely, and rather abruptly, outwards and downwards to the centre of the lower margin of the axilla on the under side of the arm; in this second step of the incision, the tissues are divided down to the bone until the axillary margin is reached. From this point to the termination of the incision, only integuments are divided, so that we may avoid wounding the axillary artery. The knife is again introduced over the head of the humerus, at the point where the perijendicular incision became oblique, and it is carried down upon the inside of the arm in the same manner as we have described upon the outside. One assistant pulling asunder the lips of the wound upon the top of the shoulder, while a second carries the elbow slightly across the body, and rotates the head of the humerus outwards, so as to expose the capsule and the long head of the biceps, the surgeon divides them with his knife, and at the same moment the head of the humerus springs from its socket. Fig. 94.AMPUTATION. The knife is then passed under the head of the bone from above, and as soon as the face of the instrument has fairly reached the surgical neck of the humerus, an assistant standing at the head of the patient pushes the thumbs of both hands into the wound above the knife, while the fingers remain in the axilla. He thus grasps and controls the axillary artery. The operation is completed by carrying the knife downwards close to the bone until the apex of the tegumentary wound in the axilla is reached, and then cutting almost directly outwards. Care must be taken not to sever the parts containing the artery until the knife has arrived at the lower mai'gin of the axilla. Spen^c's modHication, which Erichsen says is especially adapted for gun-shot wounds of the upper end of the humerus, consists in carrying the vertical incision farther forward, and commencing it just external to and below the tip of the coracoid process, as in excision of the shoulder- joint. The incision ought to expose the tendon of the long head of the biceps Ijang parallel to it. This may be turned on one side and the joint opened and examined; and if, from the state of the parts, it be still considered necessary to amputate, the operation is completed by making an oval incision through the skin from the end of the original cut, taking care not to go so deeply on the inner side as to Avound the vessels. The outer flap is then dissected up so as to enable the surgeon to get his knife internal to the head of the bone between it and the axillary artery. The assistant follows the knife with his hands and grasps the vessels, and the operation is finished by dividing the tissues left uncut at the inner side. Amputation of the Shoulder-Joint by Transfixion.—Lisfranc approved of this method, which Erichsen thus describes:—"A long narrow-bladed knife should be used. One assistant must have charge of the limb; another should raise the flap; and a third must follow the knife as it cuts behind the humerus and grasp the posterior flap %vith the axillary artery, so as to prevent ha3morrhage from this vessel. An assistant holding the arm away from the body, so as to relax the deltoid some- what, the knife, instead of being entered by a puncture, should make a small cross-cut, about an inch in extent, at the point at which transfixion is to be practised, so as to prevent that jagging of the integuments by the heel of the instrument which would otherwise occur. If the operation be on the right side, the surgeon staiids before the patient, and the point of the knife should be entered about an inch in front of the acromion (fig. 95), and being carried directly across the joint and capsule, should pass out at the posterior border of the axilla. If on the left side, the surgeon stands behind, and the point of the knife must be entered well behind the spine of the scapula, at the posterior border of the axilla, carried across the anterior aspect of the joint, and brought out to the inner side of the coracoid process. In either case, the large flap con- taining the deltoid muscle must then be cut with a sweep of the knife downwards, and, as soon as made, raised by another assistant. The heel of the knife is now to be laid on the head of the bone, the capsule of joint cut across, and the attachments of the muscles to the tuberosities divided. After the head of the bone has been turned out of the glenoidAMPUTATION. 164 cavity, the knife must be passed behind it and carried down for a distance of about 3 inches close to the bone at its inner side. The surgeon then cuts across the soft parts, so as to form the posterior flap. In doiuL' this the assistant to whom this part is entrusted must follow the knife with his hands, grasping firmly the whole thickness of the posterior flap so as to compress the axillary artery, and thus prevent the occurrence of Sir W. Fergusson recommends that a bistoury be used Jfor these operations, instead of the more imposing-looking amputating knife ; but with such an instrument the first flap on the left shoulder would be made by cutting from the skin towards the joint. Amputation of the Arm (Circular).—" The arm being held out, and an assistant drawing up the skin, one circular incision is made through the integuments, which are forcibly retracted and detached from the deeper structures by a few touches of the point of the knife, and doubled back to the extent of an inch and three-quarters, or more, according to the thickness of the arm, another is made down to the bone (fig. 96). These incisions should be made with slight divergences so as to cut the skin and muscles rather longer in front and behind than at the sides." The flap operation in the upper arm is most conveniently done by double transfixion, though the flaps may be cut from without inwards without difficulty. The limb being held away from the trunk by an assistant, the operator grasps the biceps with the brachial vessels and nerves, and draws them well up, and entering the point of the knife upwards close below the thumb, passes it in front of the humerus.AMPUTATION. 165 depressing the point as it appears on the opposite side close to the operator's fingers. With a steady sawing movement, a flap from 2 to 3 inches long is cut, with the skin left longer than the muscles. Drawing up the flap with his fingers, the operator presses the knife behind the bone and cuts a slightly larger flap behind, bringing out the knife Fi^. 96 abruptly at last. Both flaps being gently retracted, the knife is swept round the bone, which is then sawn through, the thumb and fingers of the left hand protecting the soft tissues. The brachial artery will be found in the anterior flap with the median nerve and the ulnar nerve will be a little posterior. The artery, if cut too long, may be conveniently shortened, and the nerves should always be dra-«Ti out and cut short by an inch or so. The inferior profunda artery will be found in company with the ulnar nerve, and the superior profunda with the musculo-spiral nerve in the posterior flap. —Heath. In very muscular arms the modified circular skin flaps, and circular cut of mnscles would give the best results. Amputation through the Elbow-joint can be performed by the circular method or by flaps. If by the circular, Hamilton recommends "that the incision should commence at least 3 inches below the joint. The integuments being retracted, the head of the radius should be sought, and the external lateral ligament severed; after which, having divided all the muscles, including the tendon of the biceps and the brachialis anticus, the coronoid process of the ulna ■will be easily made out; the anterior ligament and capsule may now be severed more completely, then the external lateral ligament. By moderate pressure upon the forearm the joint will now open sufficiently to admit the saw, if it is thought desirable to sever the olecranon process. It is a matter ofAMPUTATION. indifference, perhaps, whether we dissect out the olecranon bv cutting dh^cter-' ^"""^ applied rw^havf muSYn1?o°ni7/fW through the external condyle, then divides the internal lateral ligament and Klv mTv hp ^ o ecranon, the apex of which, attlShed to the tSps' may be left m the stump, or may be afterwards dissected out " Amputation of the Forearm.-In performing this operation, as long a stump should be left as possible, so as to give the patient more power over any artificial limb that may be fitted to it. " The flaps should be about a couple^ of inches in length, and well rounded, the hand being placed m a mid-state between pronation and supination. The dorsal flap IS best made by cutting from without inwards ; the line of incision commencing just at the palmar aspect of the under part of the ulna, being carried forward for a little distance parallel to this bone, and then across the back of the arm in a slightly curved manner, until it reaches the palmar aspect of the radius; it must then pass along this until it reaches a point opposite to that at which it commenced, and the flap thus made must be dissected back. The palmar flap is next made by transfixion. As soon as it is cut, the bones are cleared by a couple of sweeps of the knife, and the interosseous membrane is divided ; they areAMPUTATION. 167 then sawn together. The vessels are cut long at the end andfon each side of the palmar flap." . v Sir W. Fergusson recommends m performmg this operation,, to nave the elbow slightly bent, and the hand placed in a state of pronation (fig. 98). A blade about 6 inches long should be passed from one side to the other, behind (or above) the bones; it should then be carried downwards, so as to come through the tendons and skin about an inch and a half lower down; the flap thus formed being raised, the knife should next be passed across close in front of the bones, and carried obliquely down- wards, when a second flap, similar in size and shajje to that already made, will be formed; both of these should now be drawn slightly upwards, and after all the textures close upon the bones have been divided, the saw should be applied close to the roots of the flaps, and the part separated." Amputation of the Wrist (Flaps).—" A semi-lunar incision is made across the back of the wrist, its extremities being at the styloid processes, and its centre reaching down as far as the second row of carpal bones. This flap being dissected up, the joint opened behind, and the lateral ligaments cut through, the knife, being ijlaced between the carpus and bones of forearm, is made to cut out a iiap from the anterior surface of the palm (fig. 99). The pisiform bone often causes, by its projectionAMPUTATION. Fig. 100. finger; the point of the knife should then be the soft part3 of the fkn nn 1 'afV taken at the joint with tendons £ust be shortenS ?Se stvloirnrt ^^'^''^^^ brought together by sXreB '' '^^^^"^'^ P'^"^^^^^^ '^^"^o^'^d, and the skin Fig. 99. Amputation of one or more Metacarpal Eones.-No rules can well be fhItVr/''?r^ T ^^F''^ must just be obtained where and how they can best be got A single dorsal incision over the bone wiU allow S to be dissected out of the hand ov^ftK^f°5 ^-aI Finger.-" The knife should be applied over the back and middle of the metacarpal bone, and carried downwards along the side and uuder-surface of the joint, and up again to where it was first entered, as repre- sented by dark lines in fig. 100. After this the soft parts near the bone must be divided, and then the forceps may be used in such a manner as to cut the bone obliquely, so that there shall be no angular projection towards the skin." Amputation of the Metacarpal Bone of the Thumb may be performed in many different ways. The method recommended by Erichsen is as follows:—" The mode of proceeding must vary according to the side operated upon. When the left thumb requires amputation, the point of a long narrow bistoury should be introduced well on the palmar aspect of the carpo-metacarpal articu- lation, carried over this, which^it opens, and the . dorsum of the hand as far as the web of the index169 AMPUTATION. pushed downwards through the ball of the thumb, transfixmg this and issuing where the incision commenced. It is next made to cut o^^twards keeping close to the metacarpal bone, which is readily twisted out, the remaining attachment being separated by a few touches of the knite In amputating the right thumb, it will be necessary for the surgeon, it He adopt the method just described, either to use his left hand or to cross his hands in an awkward manner. In order to avoid doing this he may reverse the steps of the operation with advantage ; hrst transfaxmg tne ball, and making the anterior flap, then^cutting over the dorsum, open- ing the joint, and turning out the bone." ^ ^^ X, The metacarpal bone of the thumb may be removed through an incision on its radial margin, where the surgeon may avoid cutting either the extensor or flexor tendons. The distal: extremity should hrst be detached from its connections, when the bone can be used as a lever whilst separating it from the other parts. The radial artery wi^ be endangered whilst cutting some of the fibres which bind the bone to the OS trapezium." , , , t Amputation of a whole Finger.—" If the third or fourth digits require amputation, it should be performed as follows :-An assistant holds the hand separating the fingers at each side of the one to be removed, ihe surgeon, holding the finger to be removed, enters the point of a long straight'bistoury exactly above the metacarpo-phalangeal joint and cuts from the prominence of the knuckle right into the angle of the web, then turnint^ inwards there, cuts obliquely into the palm to a point nearly opposite the one at which he set out. He then repeats this incision on the other side, makes tense the ligaments, first at cme side, and then at the other by drawing the finger to the opposite side, and cuts them. The tendons being cut, the finger is detached." Amputation through the Second Phalanx.—"If the distal phalanx be so much crushed that a flap cannot be obtained, two short semi-lunar lateral flaps may be dissected from the sides of the second phalanx, which may then be divided by the bone-pliers at the spot required." Amputation of a Distal Phalanx.—" There is no choice as to a flap, the nail preventing an anterior one; so a flap long enough to fold over must be cut from the pulp of the finger in either of two ways. 1. Hold- ing the fragment to be removed in the left hand, and bending the joint, the surgeon makes a transverse cut across the back of the finger, right into and through the joint, cutting a long palmar flap from within out- wards as he withdraws the knife. 2. Making the long flap by trans- fixion, it may be held back by an assistant, and the joint cut into." Amputation at the Hip-joint.—Numerous methods have been de- scribed for performing this operation. Sir William Fergusson recommends the foUow'mg proceedingThe table should be stoiit, of a convenient height, not so broad as to prevent the surgeon and assistants being in close contact with the patient, and a folded blanket, with a couple of pillows, should be on its upper surface. The patient's breech should be brought close to the margin of the table, and the sound limb should be fastened to one of its legs. An assistant should stand immediately behind the surgeon, whose chief duty will beAMPUTATION. care.'an, h, wiXX'ol.t W X" or''t ^^"^^5 Fig. 101. clearly understand tlie intended movements of the surgeon • and that thp immediate and satisfactory accomplishment of th^fperatLn depe^d^ much on the simultaneous movements of the whole three ^epenos _ Ihe surgeon, standing on the outside of the limb, should insert thp pomt of a long kn fe about midway between the rterio^Serio? spinous process of the ilium and trochanter major, keeping it rathe? ofX'.*? wTl' ^t"" ^^^Y^^^} «bould thenU it aLfs he ?ronE inn f V ^r^^ on tl^e opposite side f ^'''^'''''^^T ^"^^^^ ne^t lie should cut down, fwf forwards, so as to make a long flap from the anterior of the S T, / 7 ^^ Wlien tlie blade is entered, the hmb should be held up and even slightly bent at the joint; the instru- inent will then pass along more readily than if aU the textures were thrown on the stretch ; moreover, there is greater certainty of passing it behind the mam vessels, and even dividing some of the fibres, it not the Whole of the iliacus mternus and psoas muscles. As the knife is carried downwards, the assistant, who stands nearer the patient's trunk than does the operator, should slip his fingers into the wound and carry them across to grasp the femoral artery between them and the thumb ; this he may do from the mside or outside at wiU, and with the right or left hand,AMPUTATION. as may be most convenient, the same grasp enabling him to raise the flap as soon as it is completed. The flap being raised, the Po^^*.^^ ^^f.^^^^^^^ should then be struck against the head of the bone, so as to divide the anterior part of the capsular ligament and any textures m this sitiiation which may not have been included in the flap. To facilitate this part of the operation, the knee should be forcibly depressed by the assistant who holds it; the head of the bone will thus be caused to start out of its socket and if the round ligament is not ruptured by the force, a slight touch with the edge of the knife will cause it to give way At this period, depression being no longer required, the assistant should bring the head of the femur a little forward to allow the knife to be slipped oyer and behind it; and when it is in this position, it should then be carried down- wards and backwards, so as to form a flap shorter than that in front, tiie last cut in the skin completing the separation of the limb. Mr Furneaux Jordan first divides the soft parts circularly lo\y down in the thigh, and then dissects out the bone from among the muscles and from the acetabulum through a long incision on the outer aspect of the limb, when the soft parts are comparatively thm and the blood-vessels inconsiderable, a long boneless stump being the result. Sir Jos. Lister ^ites—* "It does not seem to me necessary to push it to the extreme degree advocated by Mr. Jordan, I would advise the following as the method to be generally adopted:— , . i i. " ' Supposing the right limb operated upon, the knife is entered at the posterior part of the great trochanter and carried down longitudinally for about 8 inches (if the patient be an adult male), and then drawn across the limb in honi and behind through the skin and fat, in the form of two crescentic incisions, which meet at the inner side of the limb at a point an inch or two lower down than the extremity of the outer longitu- dinal cut. The semi-lunar flaps mapped out by the crescentic incisions are then dissected up as in a modified circular operation, the integument being raised about 2 inches higher than their angle of union at the inner side of the thigh, after which the muscles are divided when they are exposed and the head of the b(me dissected out; or the femur may be sawn off below the trochanters, and then the head seized with strong forceps and dissected out.'" " Such a mode of operating, besides the diminished danger from shock, has the great advantage of making truly aseptic treatment easy, instead of almost impossible, as it is when the copious sero-sanguineous dis- charge, which takes place from so large a wound, is poured out within a very few inches of the anus, which is the case after the ordinary operation. After the operation which I have advised, the inner end of the wound having been closely stitched, and drainage tubes introduced at its outer part, there is sufficient space for an effective antiseptic dressing, and which will often be a matter of life and death where so large an extent of irritable and absorbent surface is concerned." Mr. Marsh writes—" The advantages of the Eurneaux-Jordan opera- tion are, that haemorrhage is much more easily prevented from the offsets of the internal iliac which bleed so freely when divided in the transfixion ♦Holmes' t^yslem of Surgery, vol. iii.AMPUTATION. SttlToSuUs eto*!::^ t7 ^^--^y «P™t themselves as muscular No Large vessels are cut in the^^ \¥ "^^^ t^e groin, and the stump thus iovm^^ uT Tv'' '^'^^^f ^«P««t the thigh, can be easily worn dimensions that an artificial liLb s Jgeil?:fa"siS3rmItw"'J* ^^^^^^ ^""^^'^'i t« army indies as m:yntert!;l."sil^^^^^^^^^^^ ^n-shol cofion'^SaX^TSt'ror^^^^^ T^^ c^To—g the wooden cylinder 2ieet \XT\: f^A I the rectum one end of a smooth sufficientlyTar to PermS ft? h^nl^^^^^^ '"""^^ diameter, passed in hy^rS^7aL J.?-'^" P^rfo'-med by the circular method, Of the thigh, the antero-posterior flaps leave the best results and mVe^hp b^ltTrfl^ --Putation abovfthe Sels beTdone by lateral flaps, which, however, are difficult to retain in posiS 3 might think the antero-posterior preferable f'ur^eon ^?iiero-j>os<e7w FlaplOperatlon.-^'ln ordinarjr cases the anterior flap Sn Tf h Ti!^ subsequently fashioned by trans iT^'crJl' the patient is very much emaciated, it is difficult to get a good cushion from the anterior part of the thigh in this way • and Lt'TTr*^r^''t^^-^ *2 the plan recommended by Mr fff S'^'f the posterior flap first by transfixion, and the anterior which thrttf' f'l.^1°"^ '^^th""t i°^^^ds. In 'some instances in ^]fJ li^Ttl th%r'*"';"'- P-'^'t °^ t*^^ th^°h ^"cli diseased or injured, whilst those on the anterior aspect of the limb are sound, a very t.Tlfl "^7.1^ fashioned by cutting a long square anterior flap by transfixion, and then cutting at one stroke of the knife through the soft from^dow^^ptTrT" ^ oblique^direction, ;'If the patient be excessively muscular, and the amputation be a primary one, it is better to make skin-flaps with a circular incision through the subjacent soft parts, "f Amputation through the Knee-joint may be performed mth a Ion- posterior and short anterior, or with a long anterior and short posterior * Diseases of Joints, p 421. ^Science and Art of Surgery, by Erichsen, vol. i., p. 55.AMPUTATION. 173 * Holmes' System of Surgery^ vol. iii. flap. The former method, however, should only be chosen when the long anterior flap is impossible. The operation by means of a long anterior and a short posterior flap is thus performed :—" A long square flap rounded at the corners, is made by dissecting up the integuments and the patella from the front of the joint. The articulation is thus opened ; the ligaments are then divided, and a short posterior flap formed by cutting from within outwards. "The management of the patella is an important question. Erichsen thinks it is decidedly better to leave than to remove this bone; and to prevent it being drawn up on the anterior part of the thigh, the flap should be turned up, and the tendinous insertion of the quadriceps divided. The cartilaginous surface of the femur in these amputations may be sawn off if it is unhealthy." Garden's Amputation at the Condyles of the Femur.—"The operator standing on the right side of the limb, seizes it between;his left forefinger and thumb at the spot selected for the base of the flap, and enters the point of the knife close to his finger, bringing it round through the skin and fat below the patella to the spot pressed by his thumb ; then turning the edge downwards at a right angle with the line of the limb, he passes it through the spot where it first entered, cutting outwards through everything behind the bone. The flap is then reflected, and the re- mainder of the soft parts divided straight down to the bone ; the muscles are then slightly cleared upwards, and the saw is applied." Fio'. 102 represents the outline of the incision, and fig. 103 the stump. Mr. Garden lays great stress on the f<ill()wing points :—" Whilst tying the popliteal artery in this situation; there is a tendency to secondary haemorrhage from the vein, in consequence of its close proximity to the artery. This occurred in two cases, and on re-openiug-of the stumps the closure of the vein was found to be prevented by the stroke of the artery. The vessels should be gently separated for an inch upwards. The dressing maybe of the lightest and sim|.ilest kind, and it is of the greatest importance that they should be loosened and the stump examined early." In performing this amputation, it should be remembered that nowhere does the skin retract so much as at the back of the knee-joint, and therefore full allowance must be made for it. * "Amputation of the Leg maybe performed either just below the174 AMPUTATION. knee, m the middle or lower third. If the operation is too close to the knee the stump is apt to become flexed, and so become an inconrnience and if It IS in the lower third the stump is too Ion- for conveS?e In the amputation below the knee-joint 4 inches of tibi^sSd be left Antero-posterior skin flaps of equal length may be made, and the bones divided somewhat higher up ; or, again! the modified cir'cXr opeSn IS apphcable in this situation But the former method by long anterio? flaps IS grea% to be preferred to any other on account of the excellent on W;f^' f Po^*^"o^, P' being short, may be made of integument on^ without any risk of sloughing; on the other hand, the anterior flap "TS^i^^T*^^' ""^^^ ^« ^"^t'-^in a QooA deal of muscle. A difficulty in retracing the soft parts from the bones arises Fig. 103. from the intimate attachment of the muscles to the fibula, but if these are divided through an extension upward of the outer longitudinal incision, no difficulty is experienced, unless the tissues are condensed by inflammatory thickening, in effecting retraction of the remaining soft parts from the tibia. " Again, the anterior tibial artery, on which the flap depends for its nutrition, lies close to the interosseous membrane, and would be verj' liable to be punctured during the dissection if we did not follow Mr. Teale's advice in conducting it. He pointed out that, in consequence of the looseness of the cellular connections of the interosseous membrane, there is no difficulty in separating the parts in front from its surface with the finger tip, while dividing with the knife the attachments of the muscles to the bones. In this way the artery is secured from any chance of injury, "Immediately above the ankle the operation is performed as follows: — The diameter of the limb having been ascertained by spanning it, a straight longitudinal incision of that length is made at the inner side of the leg, and on the outer aspect another similar incision directly over the fibula and extending an inch higher up. The lower ends of these incisions are connected by cutting across the front of the limb in a direction trans- verse in the main but rounded off where it joins the lateral lines. The knife is next carried round the back of the limb to the bones from the175 AMPUTATION. upper euds of the internal incision to a point exactly opposite to the outer side, which will be about an inch below the upper end of the outer incision, the instrument being carried in a line slightly convex down- wards, so as to form a very short posterior flap. The anterior flap is then raised in the manner above mentioned, including everything in front of the bones and interosseous membrane, after which the tibia and fibula are cleared as high as the level of the upper end of the outer in- cision, the finger tip being still used in detecting the parts anterior to the interosseous membrane. In order to avoid splintering the fibula it is best to saw both bones at the same time, and to finish the fibula before the tibia. The sharp angle of the spine of the tibia should be removed. " In amputating through the calf on the same principle, the operation is similar, except that owing to the redundancy of muscle in the posterior flap in a largely developed calf, when the posterior flap is apt to drag down the skin of the front of the leg on the sharp edge of the tibia and induce ulceration, the anterior flap need not be longer than_ two-thirds of the diameter of the limb ; but to compensate for its diminution the posterior flap must be made at least half as long as the anterior by carrying the knife round the back of the limb at an angle of forty-five degrees through the integuments, and dissecting them up to the level of the upper end of the inner part of the incision before cutting towards the bones, so as to get rid of the heavy and contractile mass of the sural muscle. " When there is not enough sound tegument to admit of the long anterior flap, the modified circular of Mr. Syme proves highly valuable. Fig. 104. It is done thus. The skin and fat are di\'ided by two crescentic incisions with the convexity downwards so as to form short antero-posterior flaps of the integument, which is then dissected up considerably higher than176 °V'"'°'';,''^^*'^" "^r^.^^^ operation is completed as in the ordinary circular method."—i/s<e?-. Disarticulation of the Foot at the Ankle-joint (Svme's Am-nuf^ J-o«).-The foot being held at a right angle to Jhe leg the p^n^t^f^he knife IS introduced immediately below the malleolar projection of the fabula rather nearer its posterior than anterior edge, and then carried across the bone to the inner side of the ankle, where it terminates at the point mtly opposite its commencement. That wiU be hdow and hehind tne internal malleolus. Fig. 105. The extremities of the incision thus formed are then joined by another passing in front of the joint (fig. 105). The operator next proceeds to detach the flap from the bone, and for this purpose, having placed the fingers of his left hand over the prominence of the os calcis, and inserted the point of his thumb between the edges of the plantar incision, guides the knife between the bone and the nail of the thumb, taking great care to cut parallel with the bone, and to avoid scoring or laceration of the integuments. He then opens the joint in front, carries the knife out- wards and downwards on each side of the astragalus, so as to divide the lateral ligaments, and thus completes the disarticulation. Lastly, the knife is carried round the extremities of the tibia and fibula, so as to afford room for applying the saw by means of which the articular pro- jections are removed, together with a thin connecting slice of bone covered by cartilage. The vessels are then tied, and the edges of the wound stitched together. Staff-Surgeon Parry's modification of Syme's amputation of the foot as described by Sir Thomas Longmore, C. B.: — Eight foot.—Leg is to be held by an assistant so that the foot is on a level with the operator's chest, the foot should be inverted at first; insert the point of the knife in front of the outer border of the tendo- Achillis about one quarter of an inch above its insertion into the calcaneum, carry the incision around the outer malleolus about haK an inch below its extremity, continue it across the instep tiU it reaches the upper and inner border of the tubercle of the scaphoid which will be readily felt by the finger. Continue the incision obliquely across the plantar aspect of the foot, cutting well down to the bones, immediately1^7 AMPUTATION. in front of the pad of the heel to its outer border, and connect this with the point of entrance of the knife in the first mcision. See that all the tissues are divided down to the bone. Take hold of the heel flap by its external border, dissect it back by cutting always on the bone to detaph it from the calcaneum, divide the tendo-AchiUis so as not to derange its connections with the integument, and uncover the whole calcaneum^ m this way. Now proceed to dissect the internal portion of the flap, keeping the edf'e of the knife close to the bone, so that the posterior tibial artery, &c niay remain intact in the soft tissues of the flap. Do this by short Fig. 106. cuts, keeping the edge of the knife always on the bone, whilst an assistant takes charge of the flap and draws it back. The upper edge of the internal malleolus being reached the joint is opened and the foot separated. Left foot.—'Reverse the order of incision. Commence at the tubercle of the scaphoid and proceed to the outer edge of the tendo-Achillis for the first incision, then from the scaphoid foUow round the plantar surface of the foot to the same point as the first incision ended in. Then proceed as above. Amputation through the Tarsus (Ghoimrt's Operation).—" In the first place, the articulation of the cuboid with the os calcis (which lies about midway between the external malleolus and the tuberosity of the fifth metatarsal bone), and that of the navicular with the astragalus (which will be found just behind the prominence of the navicular bone in front of the inner ankle), must be sought for, and a semi-lunar incision be made across the dorsum from one to the other. The flap of the skin being turned, the internal and dorsal ligaments that connect the navi- cular to the astragalus are to be divided with the point of the bistoury, recoUecbing the convex shape of the head of the latter bone. The liga- ments connecting the os calcis and cuboid are next divided; and, lastly, a flap is to be procured from the sole of the foot." Amputation of all the Metatarsal Bones (Uey's Operation, as de- scribed by himself).—^" I made a mark across the upper part of the foot, to point out as exactly as I could the place where the metatarsal bones were joined to those of the tarsus. About half an inch from this mark, nearer the toes, I made a transverse incision through the integuments 12178 AMPUTATION. and muscles covermg the metatarsal bone.s. From each extremity of this y/ound i made an mcision (alon- the inner and outer side of the foot) to the toes. I removed all the toes at their junction with the metatarsal bones, and then separated the integuments and muscles forming the sole ot the toot froni the inferior part of the metatarsal bones, keeping the edge of my scalpel as near the bones as I could, that I might both expedite the operation and preserve as much muscular flesh in the flap as possible. I then separated with the scalpel the four smaller meta- tarsal bones at their junction with the tarsus, which was easily affected as the joints lie m a straight line across the foot. The projecting part .)t the first cuneiform bone which supports the great toe I was obliged to divide with a saw." To avoid the difficulties of disarticulation, Skey recommends cutting off the head of the second metatarsal with a pair of pliers. Baudens. (xuerin, and others, approve of sawing all the bones across in the line desired.* Removal of Metatarsal Bone of Great Toe.—" The point of a strong and broad bistoury should be entered on the dorsum of the foot over the interspace between the first and second metatarsal bones, as far back as possible; it should then be carried forwards upon the ball of the great toe, to a point opposite to the web between the toes, and thence made to sink into the sole of the foot in a line parallel with the outer margin of the bone ; the flap thus formed should be dissected back, its plantar aspect being kept as thick and fleshy as possible. The surgeon next passes the knife between the first and second metatarsal bones, and cuts directly forwards through the centre of the angle between the great and the second toes. In doing this, care must be taken that the edge of the Icnife is not directed too much towards the metatarsal bone of the gi-eat toe, lest it hitch against one of the sesamoid bones. The surgeon next seizes the extremity of the toe, and pressing it well inwards, passes the point of the bistoury deeply into the angle of the wound, where, by the division of some tendinous and ligamentous fibres that constitute the key of the joint, he opens the articulation, and detaches the bone hy lightly touching its ligamentous attachments. "When the bone is to be partially removed, the operation must be performed in the same way ; the incisions, however, not being carried so far backwards." + Removal of Metatarsal Bone of Little Toe.—"This is best done by entering the point of the knife just behind the tubercle of the bone, carrying it forwards and inwards in the line of its articulation, with the cuboid, to the centre of the fourth digital interspace, and thence for- wards to the web of the toe ; the knife is next carried round the plantar surface of this, the incision being continued obliquely into that which has been made on the dorsum of the foot. The small flap thus formed is well dissected down, the knife passed round the under surface of the bone, and the joint opened by the toe being forcibly drawn outwards, and its ligamentous connection lightly divided." + * Bell's Manual of Operative Surgei-i/, ^!. 70. t Erichsen's Science and Art of Siircjery, vol. i., p. Ill, 9th Edition. % Ibid, p. 112.AMPUTATION. 179 Amputation of Distal Phalanx of Great Toe.—When possible, a long flap should be made from the plantar surface, by laying the edge of the knife over the dorsal aspect of the joint, cutting through it, and turnmg the edge of the knife round close to the bone, so as to cut out a long flap from the ball of the toe. Amputation of a Single Lesser Toe: Second, Third, or Fourth.— "This operation is exactly on the same principle as that described for amputation of a whole finger, but it should be remembered that the metatarso-phalangeal joint is more deeply situated in the soft parts than is the metacarpo-phalangeal; and thus the commencement of the elliptical incision which is to surround the base of the toe must be proportionally higher up. On the other hand, as it is very important to avoid as much as possible any cicatrix in the sole of the foot, the plantar end of the incision need not be carried to a point exactly opposite the one from which it set out, but it will be sufficient if it reaches the groove between the toe and sole." Teale's Operation (Amputation).—This plan of operation Mr. Teale introduced "to procure a more useful stump, and in the hope of some- what diminishing the mortality of the operation. It is proposed to amputate by a long and a short rectangular flap, the long flap folding over the end of the bone being formed of parts generally devoid of large blood-vessels and nerves, whilst those important structures are contained in the short flap. The size of the long flap is determined by the circum- ference of the limb at the place of amputation, its length and its breadth being each equal to half the circumference. The long flap is therefore a perfect square (flg. 107), and is long enough to fall easily over the end of the bone. In selecting the structures for its formation, such parts must be taken as do not contain the larger blood-vessels and nerves. A flap s<» Pig. 107. Fig. 108.i8o AMPUTATION. formed will be for the most part anterior in position as far as regards the general aspect of the body, but superior when the patient is in the recumbent position, as during the after-treatment. The short flap, con! taamngthechief vessels and nerves, is in length one-third of the other Ihe flaps being formed, the bone sawn, and arteries tied, the long flap is folded oyer the end of the bone ; each of its free angles is then fixedVy sutures to the corresponding free angle f>f the short flap. One or two more sutures complete the transverse line of union of the flaps. At each side the short flap is united to the corresponding portion of the lonL' one by a point of suture, and one suture more unites the reflected portion of the long flap to its unreflected portion. Thus, the transverse line of i^'^^JJ^lOS™ ^^""^ ^"'^ ^ ^^^'''"^^ ^^^^ *°eles to Lister thinks this operation should be restricted to the lower part of the leg and just above the knee, when by turning to account the integu- ment over the patella, which is not used in ordinary operations, the anterior flap may be made of the requisite length without specially high division of the bone. •> s> Pirogoflf's Amputation.—" The operation is performed in the foUowing way:—An incision is earned across the sole of the foot from the tip of the external malleolus to the corresponding point on the other side, that will be^half an inch below and behind the internal malleolus. "This incision must not be made directly transverse to the foot but should incline forwards obliquely, so that the centre of the incision in the sole may be at least an inch in front of a line drawn across from the tip of one malleolus to the other. The flap thus traced is dissected for about two lines. Disarticulation of the astragalus is then eflFected in the usual way by an incision across the front of the foot. " The foot is now forcibly extended to the greatest possible extent, and a narrow amputating or a butcher's saw is applied to the upper and back part of the os calcis behind the astragalus, and the bone is cut obliquely downwards and well forwards ; the malleoli are then removed and a thin slice of the tibia, with the articular cartilage, taken off. The opposed osseous surfaces must then be accurately adjusted, the movable flap well supported by a broad strip of plaster, and the limb laid on the outer side with the knee placed so as to take off the tension of the tendo- Achillis." The advantages of the long oblique section of the os calcis over the shorter almost vertical cut originally made by Pirogoff, are, as Busk has pointed out, that a larger surface of bone is brought into contact ^vith the sawn ends of the bones of the leg, there is less tilting of the os calcis, and that the thick skin of the heel serves as the basis of support instead of the thin skin of the back of the heel. Sub-periosteal Amputation.—To prevent attenuation of the end of the bone or necrosis, Langenbeck has proposed that its divided surface should be covered with a long flap of periosteum formed in the course of the amputation. Dr. E,. Schneider holds that Langenbeck's proceeding does not always lead to such good results, and that the single flap of periosteum may slough. He recommends two short flaps of periosteum,i8i EXCISION. each flap being carefully retained in connection with the superjacent muscular and other soft parts. EXCISION, Cheyne remarks—*" Excision of joints is now rarely performed, for with aseptic treatment an incision into a joint and the insertion of a drainage tube is generally sufficient in cases where formerly excision, or even amputation, would have been required." Esmarch writes— " Since regeneration of a joint is generally most complete when only one articular end is removed, it is advisable, if the injury to one articular end is very extensive, only to resect this and to leave the other intact. This is particularly true of the upper extremity." The above remarks apply to excision of joints in disease for the most part of youth, but the operation has much greater risks and difficulties in the case of gun-shot injuries in the field. Excision of the Head of the Humerus.—This operation may be per- formed in several different ways ; they consist of a single vertical incision, and its modifications of p and ~|" shaped ones ; also the flap operation of shape. Larrey recommended the single long incision, extending in a line from the acromion, through the fibres of the deltoid, for about 4 or 5 inches. This operation is thus described :—"The patient lies on the side opposite to the affected or injured limb. The surgeon then enters the knife a little to the outside of the coracoid process, and carries it downwards and outwards for about 5 inches, cutting down to the bone. He then cuts across the capsule any adhesions that may exist, and the attachments of the muscles inserted into the tubercles of the humerus. The assistant, who has charge of the limb, facilitates this part of the operation by drawing it well across the chest, and pushing the head of the bone backwards and tilting it outwards, so as to cause it to project. The surgeon, carefully clearing it all round, has the soft parts well re- tracted, and then, taking the limb in liis own hands, pushes the head of the bone out of the wound, so as to admit of the easy application of the saw by which it is removed." Mr. Hamilton remarks on this subject:—*• In gun-shot or other com- minuted fractures of the head of the humerus, demanding ex section, the surgeon will find it necessary, in general, to make for himself a larger opening than the single longitudinal incision will furnish. It will be necessary, then, to make an oval or ^^-shaped incision, so as to form a flap, having its base upwards." Sir William Fergusson is of opinion that the surgeon should not limit himself to one mode of procedure, but should rather, trusting to his ana- tomical and manipulative skill, adapt his measures to the peculiarities of the case. He recommends the adoption of a plan similar to that originally * Antiseptic Surgery.EXCISION. followed by Morel. The patient being seated or laid on his back an in cision should be mac e w th a strong bistoury, commencing otmmS^ Z coracoid process and end ng about an inch behind and blithe root of the acromion. It should be semi-lunar in shape, llie extreme convexitv ,1".?^^If • r* -Vr^-"' r acromion, Ind thus tlfe Ser V deltoid will be included in this flap. The skin anndtoid b^ divided, the flap should be drawn upwards, a few touclSs of the S being sufficient to separate the loose connections of the muscles A bold sSTof tTl^ \^^'}^ t^^dons attacl^d tTthe ttbero sities of the humerus, dividing them and the capsule at the same time to such an extent as to permit the head of the bone being turned out bv a s ight twist. This part should then be laid hold of with the ifon forcepj by the surgeon or an assistant, and held steady while the saw is used to separate as much as may be necessary. If the operation is done for a shattered bone, its head cannot be thrult out Hke the end of a lever as thus directed ; and therefore the surgeon must make use of his ^Sers bp^ nf i '"'"''"'f rendering a Hmb useful after excision of the head of the humerus depends upon early passive movements, followed un by regular exercises with weight and pulley ^ Excision of the Clavicle.-It may be necessary to remove this bone whoUy or partially, and to perform the operation it is necessary to maki a free incision along its who e length ; it should then be disarticulated or sawn through at its acromial articulation, and dissected out from without inwards, the sternal end be forcibly twisted outwards, and all attach- ments carefully cut, great care being paid to the numerous small veins m this position. Excision of the Scapula (Symes Opemiion).-Make an incision from the acromion process transversely to the posterior edge of the scapula, and another from the centre of this one directly downwards to the lower angle ot the bone. The flaps formed being reflected back, separate the scapular attachment of the deltoid, and divide the connections of the acromial extremity of the clavicle. The division of the subscapular artery ^viU cause a great gush of blood, but it should be caught and secured ^vithout delay. Ihe joint and around the glenoid cavity should next be cut into and the fanger hooked under the coracoid process, so as to facihtate the division ot its muscular and ligamentous attachments ; and then, by pulimg back the bone with great force by the left hand, the remaining attachments should be divided with rapid sweeps of the knife Excision of the Elbow-joint maybe performed in three different ways —by a simple longitudinal incision, or by the |_| or The longi- tudinal incision is by far the best. It will require a cut 4 inches in lenoth having its centre opposite the tip of the olecranon. The triceps mus^cle will thus be divided into two portions, the inner one of which is the more firmly attached to the ulna, while the outer portion is continuous with the anconeous muscle, and sends some tendinous fibres to blend with the fascia of the forearm. The power of extension depends greatly upon these tendinous fibres, and every efi'ort should be made to preserve183 EXCISION. them. Any transverse cut is therefore to be greatly deprecated In carrvin- the incision in this direction, Enchsen recommends that the edo7of the knife should always be kept against the bones, and their sfeTosities closely foUowed, so that the ulnar.nerve, ^^mg diSB^^^^^^^^ from behind the inner condyle, may escape injury If the incision be properly planned, and the knife kept in contact with the bone, the nerve ou-ht not to be exposed during the operation, more particularly as it is iSually imbedded in a quantity of plastic tissue. When the posterior Dart of the joint has been laid bare in this way, the kmfe should be carried round the tip of the olecranon, and the process removed with cutting pliers. By forcibly bending the joint pushing the forearm upwai°ds, and lightly touching the ligaments with the point of the kmte, the interior of the articulation will be fully exposed.^ By means of a small narrow saw, the articular end of the humerus is separated from the rest of the bone ; the upper end of the ulna and the head ot the radius may either be removed in the same way or by cutting pliers. Fig. 109. After the operation, the limb should be laid upon pillows nearly in the extended positicm ; or Esmarch's spbut may be applied (fig. 109). This splint, which Dr. Stromeyer designed for the more convenient treatment of excision or resection of the elbow-joint was improved upon hy Professor Esmarch ; by means of it the arm can be raised up, without the joint being disturbed. It is made from two of Stromeyer's arm splints, of which the under is uncushioned, but the upper one stuffed with wadding and covered with oilcloth, and at the region of the elbow a wedge-shaped piece is sawn out (fig. 109). The upper arm-piece of this splint is retained in position with the forearm piece by means of two hoops of strong wire. The arm rests on this splint, which can be raised by means of the wire, while the bandages and dressings are quickly removed from the lower splint, and which, after it has been cleaned and tlie wound dressed, can be replaced.^^4 EXCISION. the^cut portion of th^ bSs ^L^bf to a rifhfSr^^--'h b« fl-ed, until at last it is brought «„-"S.°*^^-*^®..'^°"*''^^*^°^ °f the cicatrix has fully taken iilace anrl fliP neighbouring tissues are quite firm, the joint shouW beTuppSd by Inl lateral leather splint on the inner side of the arm. The snlFnt should tWn ?n o.'r?^' ™ ^ ^1^^- passive mot?on Cd ;S?8e to m order to prevent osseous anchylosis " i«i.ourse co, M^sfs'^BuLw^ud^^'^'J'? ^''^^^^"^ ^y H«dgen and Volkman, SSqSlrr^^^^^^^^ - tL inflammation Excision of the Wrist.-This operation is not in much favour with T^rVr^'nIlT- P^rf^-nied in severaT d^ffeTent rdvl;f«l« f ^' P^'^s/'i^e of sinuses on the surface may be taken advantage of and followed up, giving sufficient opening between the extensor tendons and the bones. =. "ci-weeu me haf^iv;n^?ttf''? ''^^^^ef « mej/iOfZ /or excision of the wrist which follnl. satisfactory results, and which Mr. T. Hohnes describes as IOllo^^« .— An incision is made commencing in front over the second ^ol fcifP''^.^"'''' -"^'^r^ to the tendon of the°extensor secundiTnternodii polhcis, and runmng along the back of the carpus internal to the same tendon, as high as to the base of the styloid process of the radius. The sott parts, including the extensor secundi internodii, and the radial f'S cautiously detached from the bones external to this incision, and the tendons of the radial extensors of the wrist being also severed from their attachments the external bones of the carpus will be exposed. When_ this has been done sufficiently, the next step is to sever the trapezium from the other bones with cutting pliers, in order to facilitate the removal the latter, which should be done as freely as is found convenient. The operator now turns to the ulnar side of the incision, and cleans the carpal and metacarpal bones as much as can be done easily, i he ulnar incision is now made. It should be very free extend- lu^ I?^ ^ ^^^^'^ styloid process down to the middle of ttie htth metacarpal bone, and lying near the anterior edge of the ulna, i he dorsal line of this incision is then raised, along with the tendon of the extensor carpi ulnaris, which should not be isolated from the skin and should be cut as near its insertion as possible. Then the common extensor tendons should be raised, and the whole of the posterior aspect ot the carpus denuded, until the two wounds communicate quite freely together ; but the radius is not as yet cleaned. The next step is to clean the interior aspect of the ulna and carpus, in doing which the pisiformEXCISION. bone and the hooked process of the unciform are severed from the rest of the carpus, the former with the knife, the latter with the cutting pliers. In cleaning the anterior aspect of the carpus, care must be taken not to go so far forwards as to endanger the deep jaalmar arch._ Now, the ligaments of the internal carpal bones being sufficiently divided, they ai-e to be removed with blunt bone forceps. Next, the end of the ulna is made to protrude from the incision, and is sawn off, as low down as is consistent with its condition, but in any case above its radial articulation. The end of the radius is then cleaned sufficiently to allow of, its being protruded and removed. If this can be done without disturbing the tendons from their grooves it is far better. The operator next attends to the metacarpal bones, which are pushed out from one or other incision Fig. 110. and cut off with the pliers so as to remove the whole of their cartilage- covered portions. The trapezium bone, which was left in the early stage of the operations, is now carefully dissected out, so as to avoid any injury to the tendon of the flexor carjii radialis or to the radial artery, and the articular surface of the first metacarpal bone is then exposed and removed. Lastly, the cartilaginous portion of the pisiform bone is taken away ; but the non-articular part is left behind unless it is diseased, in which case it should be removed entire. The same remark applies to the hooked process of the unciform. "In order to ensure motion, particularly in the fingers, passive move- ments should be performed from a very early period after the operation. For this purpose. Lister places the limib on a splint with the palm of the hand raised by a large wedge of cork fixed below it, so that the joints of the fingers can be moved without taking the limb off the apparatus," (fig. 110). MacCormac reports most favourably on an apparatus of Professor Esmarch for treating cases of resection of wrist-joint. " The hand and arm are placed in a prone or semi-prone position on the splint (fig. Ill), whose form is such as to leave the wrist exposed and easy to be got at for the application of dressings. The whole apparatus en fonction, con- sisting of a suspending rod, a plaster of paris or other form of bandage, and the sphnt, is represented in fig. 112, and the facility yvith. which the patient can move about in bed, or readjust the position of his arm, is at once perceived." Excision of the Carpal Ends of the Bones of the Forearm.—Mr. SkeyEXCISION. i86 lecommends the following operation :-" The joint is exposed on the dorsal surface by two lateral incisions of 2 inches in length, united bv a transverse line made below the projecting bone. The flaps, being raised Fig. 111. Fig. 11-2. the tendons are exposed, and should be separated from the radius by a knife passed underneath them in forcible extension of the hand back- wards. Along this line the fine blade of a metacarpal saw may be readily passed, which, being jointed at the point, can be fixed to its back after passing across the tendon. The blade of a knife passed half an inch under the radial artery will protect it from injury." Excision of the Hip-Joint.—This operation may be performed by incisions of such shapes as may suit the surgeon's convenience for removal of the damaged bone ; and in the event of the injury being from a gun- shot, there will be an open wound which may be extended. There are, however, certain methods laid down by different authorities. Professor C-ross prefers a semi-lunar flap of the gluteal muscles with the convexity downwards. This plan of incision, he considers, has the advantage, not only of allowing free access to the joint, but also of affording a ready outlet for the discharges. The superior extremity of the femur being thus exposed, is thrust out of the opening by carrjdng the limb across the sound one, rotating it inwards, and then pushing it up, when it is to be divided by means of a narrow saw. The great trochanter, however sound, should always be included in the operation, otherwise it will be sure to interfere more or less seriously with the healing process by pro- jecting into the wound.EXCISION. Mr. Marsh advises in disease of children a straight incision 2 or 3 inches in length to be made from the apex of the great trochanter obliquely in the direction of the fibres of the glutei, and extending down to the back of the joint. The capsule, if still present, is then opened, the situation of the neck of the femur or its remains is ascertained, the bone is divided with a saw or cutting forceps and the fragment is removed. The floor of the acetabulum is then carefully explored and any sequestra that are detected are extracted. The section of the femur should next be examined ; it may, in rare cases, be necessary to .cut away the great trochanter. Such a step, however, so largely interferes with the future usefulness of the limb that it should be if possible avoided. An interrupted long splint, or weight extension (3 lbs. or so) is employed to steady it with the aid of sand-bags.* The anterior incision of Liicke and Schede is made on the outer side of the crural nerve beginning a little below and half an inch internal to the anterior-superior spine of the ilium and passing vertically downward 4 or 5 inches. The internal border of the sartorius is first exposed, then the rectus and the outer border of the ileo-psoas muscle. The limb is now flexed, abducted, and rotated outwards, the sartorius and rectus muscles are drawn to the outer side, the psoas and iliacus muscles to the inner, and the capsule thus exposed is incised ; the subsequent steps being similar to those in other operations.—AlacCorniac. In gun-shot injuries, however, it will be necessary to vary the steps of the operation according to the peculiar features of the case; if there were a large wound behind, no surgeon would dream of operating by the anterior one of Liicke, and vice versa. It is an operation that should never be imdertaken lightly in the field hospitals on account of the extreme difficulty of the after-treatment, and it may be perhaps an open question if such an operation had not better be postponed and undertaken as a secondary one in the stationary or base hospitals. Fig. 113. Many splmts have been designed for the after-treatment of excision of the head of the femur. For permanent hospitals, Mr. Sayer's splint (wire breeches t) is perhaps the best; but for field hospitals, where * Disease of Joints, p. 322. \ Biiiinh MedicalJournal, July, 1871.EXCISION. appliances may have to be extemporised, a long splint as shown in fig. 112 which IS similar to Enchsen's appliance, seems well adapted, and can be easily made. To secure rest, a certain amount of extending force, and the straightening of the limb, should be the surgeon's aim In treating a case of excision of the head of the femur at Netlev •'^'J^i^^T'^P*^'^*'^® stretcher and bed as represented in figs 114 115 The stretcher (fig. 114) consists of a substantial beech or ash fkme with handles and of such a size that, when placed on the mattress, the wood-work faUs over its sides, and does not come in the way of the patient's arms or the hands of the attendants. The canvas bottom is divided into five portions; the three centre are b or S inches wide ; these are attached to the framework on one side by means of straps and studs, and on the other by straps and buckles, by which they may be puUed tight. They are removable at will, and enable the surgeon or attendant to dress the wound when the stretcher has been Fig. 114. . raised. The canvas at the top and bottom of the stretcher may be secured by cords, or straps and buckles, so as to admit of being removed for cleaning. Two movable tressels have to be made for the stretcher to be placed upon when necessary. The advantages which this stretcher possesses are that, from the moment the patient is placed on it, he need not be disturbed, as by simply raising it, placing it on the tressels, and removing one of the strips of canvas, the wounds may be dressed and excreta removed. The patient may be carried from one room to another, or into the open air, without the least disturbance; and in the event of there being a bedsore, the stretcher may be placed on tressels for a short time, and the parts relieved from pressure. The Bed speaks for itself, as represented in fig. 115, the chief features in it being the firm foundation for the mattresses by having the bedstead boarded. The top mattress is divided into three portions, the centre one of which has a round hole 10 inches in diameter in its centre, into which the patient's nates fit. This centre piece may be removed to facilitate dressing, as represented in the illustration. Fig. 116 represents a crossbar arranged with straps and buckles at eachEXCISION. end, intended to be inserted between the sides of the stretcher, so as to prevent their bowing inwards when the straps attached to the canvas are pulled tight. It may be brought into use by gently moving the head portion of the top mattress, so as to allow of its being inserted under- neath the stretcher. Sir W. Tergusson recommends that the extension should be made from the opposite thigh (fig. 113), round the upper part of which a socket is fixed, to which the band is attached. The splint being bracketed, dressings can be applied with ease, and extension made by means of a weight. EJV.S. Fig. 115. r ^ Fig. 116. Excision of the Knee.—In excising the knee-joint for gun-shot injuries the army surgeon may be able to take advantage of a wound already existing in forniing his incisions, instead of adhering to any plan of incision as laid down in civil practice. He has, however, many plans to select from—such as the straight transverse incision; two parallel incisions, one on each side of the pateUa ; an |—| -shaped incision ; a horse-shoe incision; or, as Mr. P. Watson recommends, " a semi-lunar incision, raising along flap from the anterior surface of the articulation." But the operation is never likely to find favour in the field. Injuries to the joint that would lead to such an operation would be much betterEXCISION. 190 met by amputation above the knee, which would probably enable tlie patient to be Ccamed with due regard to his safety, whereas, after excision rest IS absolutely necessary, and if this could not be ensured the operation m all probability would only have a fatal result. Excision of the Ankle.-For removal of the entire joint Mr. Handcock devised the following method :-''The foot is first laid on its side, and an incision is made over the lower 3 inches of the posterior edge of the fibula. When it has reached tlie lower end of the malleobis, it forms a-i angle, and runs downwards and forwards to within about half an inch of the base of the outer metatarsal bone. The angular flap is reflected for- wards ; the fibula, about 2 inches above the malleolus, is sufficiently cleared of soft parts to allow cutting forceps to be placed over it • and the bone is then nipped in two and carefully dissected out, leaving the peroneus longus and brevis tendon uncut. The foot is now to be turned over. A similar incision is made on the inner side, the portion on the foot terminating over the projection of the inner cuneiform bone. The flap is to be turned back, and the sheaths of the flexor digitorum and posterior tibial tendons exposed, the knife being kept close to the bone avoiding the artery and nerve. The internal lateral ligament is then to be severed carefully close to the bone; and now the foot is twisted outwards, and the_ astragalus and tibia will present at the inner wound. A narrow-biaded saw, put in between the tendons into the inner wound, projects through the outer. The lower end of the tibia, then the top of astragalus, may be sawn oflt in a proper direction. The only vessel that may require tying is one of the lower branches 'of tlie peroneal artery. The wound may be closed vTith sutures, ex- cept that part opposite the breach of osseous matter, and the leg and foot placed on a splint with a footboard. Guthrie recommends the followimj method for excision of the ankle : — ■' Begin the incision behind the external malleolus, an^inch and a half aljove its lower extremity, and cany it down- wards and then forwards across the front of the ankle-joint (fig. 117), then under the internal malleolus and upwards, close behind the process, the extent of an inch and a half; this incision should merely divide the skin, and should not, on any account, wound the subjacent parts. Raise the flap thus made, and, placing the leg on its inside, detach and turn aside the peronei tendons from the groove behind the external inalleolus. Cut through the external lateral ligaments of the ankle- 117.EXCISION. 191 joint, keeping the knife close to the end of the fibula; then with the large bone scissors, or nippers, cut through the fibula from one- half to three-quarters of an inch above its junction with the tibia, and, after dividing the ligamentous fibres connecting the two bones, remove the malleolus externus. Turn the leg on to its outer side, and cut through the internal lateral ligament close to the tibia, to avoid wounding the posterior tibial artery ; this will allow the foot to be dis- located outwards, and the lower end of the tibia to be brought weU out through the wound. An assistant keeping the foot and tendons out of the way, the lower end of the tibia is to be removed with a fine saw to the same extent as the fibula, or as high as the injury or disease Fig. ny. requires. The articulating surface, or injured part of the astragalus, is then to be removed, after which the foot is to be returned to its proper position, and the cut surfaces of the tibia and astragalus brought into close approximation, and so kept by suture, strapping, and bandage. The limb is to be placed on an outside leg splint, having a foot-piece to it." Professor Esraarch has designed a splint for the after-treatment of excision or resection of the ankle-joint; he found the great utility of such192 EXCISION. an apparatus for resection of the elbow-joint, and in consequence appUed It consists of a strong piece of iron wire placed in front of the limb extending from the toes to the groin, and bent at convenient angles U> suit the front of the ankle and the knee, taking care that an arch is formed with it immediately above the seat of operation. Hooks should be formed with the wire at either end, and two or three loose ones attached for the purpose of suspension (fig. 118). Underneath the limb should be placed a wooden splmt, hollowed out and cut to an angle to correspond with the bend of the knee. Firmly secured to this is a foot-board, placed at nght angles, which gives support to the foot, and forms a base for the plaster of Paris bandage (fig. 119). In using the apparatus, the wooden splint should be most carefully cushioned and applied, especially about the heel and foot, where any undue pressure may be attended by most serious consequences. The plaster of Paris bandage should then be applied in the usual manner, an opening being left at the seat of the wound for the purpose of applying dressings. Pig. 120 represents the splint applied and suspended. Professor Esmarch says he has applied this apparatus in cases of re- section of the ankle-joint for six or seven weeks, and that the patients have never once had to complain of aches or pains, and that the advan- tages of these suspension splints are so great that he recommends them most earnestly for war service, as well as in time of peace. Excision of the Os Calcis.—"The patient lying on his face, a horse-shoe incision is carried from a little in front of the calcaneo-cuboid articula- tion round the heel, along the side of the foot, to a corresponding point on the opposite side. The elliptic flap thus formed is dissected .up, the knife being carried close to the bone, and the whole under-surface of the OS calcis exposed. A perpendicular incision, about 2 inches in length, is then made behind the heel, through the tendo-Achillis, in the mid-lineENUCLEATION OF THE EYE. 193 and into the horizontal one. The tendon is then detached from its inser- tion, and the two lateral flaps are dissected up, the knife being kept close to the bones, from which the soft parts are well cleared. The blade is then carried over the upper and posterior part of the os calcis, the articu- lation is opened, the interosseous ligaments are divided, and then, by a few touches with the point, the bone is detached from its connection with the cuboid. This bone, together with the astragalus, must then be examined; and if any disease be met with, the gouge should be applied." Excision of the Astragalus.—"A curved incision should be made from one malleolus to the other, something like that made at the beginning of Syme's amputation. The ankle-joint is then to be laid freely open, and the whole upper part of the diseased bone exposed. Then the ligaments connecting it to the scaphoid are to be severed, and the bone is to be levered up, when the interosseous ligament connecting it with the os calcisjwill, if entire, be felt, and can be readily divided. AU that is then necessary to complete the operation is to clean the back part of the bone, which should be done with care, in order to avoid injury to the tendons and vessels which lie near it. "The bone might also, no doubt, be removed by two lateral incisions similar to those used in excision of the ankle. This would avoid the injury to the tendons and vessels incidental to the above method; but would be more laborious." Excision of other Tarsal Bones.—" No formal directions are required for excising the other tarsal hones. The soft parts are to be thrown aside by crucial incisions, radiating from the sinuses which lead to the diseased bone, and the latter removed, care being taken, in all cases where it is possible, to excise the whole bone with the articulating surface." Excision of the Shafts of Long Bones.—This operation may be partial, or it may be necessary to remove the whole bone. As far as practicable, the subperiosteal operation should be performed. An incision sufficiently long to admit of the working of the chain-saw should be made along the superficial aspect of the bone, when the perios- teum must be detached with the handle of the scalpel, raspatory, or chisel recommended by M. OUier, or other instruments suited for that purpose. A chain-saw may then be passed under the bone, the shaft divided, and the separated portion, being seized with a strong forceps, carefully detached. The Subperiosteal Operation for Excisions and Resections has been recommended by many in consequence of the bone being reproduced to some extent, and tendons and muscles detached entire from the bone. It, however, has its disadvantage in being tedious ; the periosteum, too, is liable to slough. It is doubtful if the reproduction of bone is a benefit, at least in resection of the joints, and it is frequently difficult to remove the diseased bone without detaching the periosteum from the healthy. ENUCLEATION OF THE EYE. Enucleation of the Eye.—The patient is to be fully anaesthetised. The operator to stand behind the patient's head. The instruments required 13AFFECTIONS OF STUMPS. 194 Th A,!^K "i"na'.^|xation forceps, curved scissors, and strabismus hook. • ° l^^yi'lely separated by the speculum, and the globe held cZlI ^yr^t'^'^'S the conjunctiva with the forceps near the margin of the oT^t^' 1 ■ ^^"J^octLya IS then divided all round and close to the cornea, leaving only sufhcient for the forceps to hold on by. The capsule spi^^nv^^ '"iM !wv °P™^'^ carrying the deeper blade of the scissors well beneath the conjunctiva close to the sclerotic. The strabis- mus hook IS now passed into Tenon's capsule, and gUded beneath the °}^^^^'] f^'^^'^h ^^^"^^ divided with the scissors between the hook and the globe. The globe is now pressed forwards by the fingers of the operator, and made to protrude through the palpebral aperture, ihe scissors are now introduced either at the inner or outer canthus having their concavity towards the globe. As they reach the back of the eye the blades are opened, and they are pushed in till they are felt to grip the optic nerve, which is then divided. One or two more snips are now required to sever the oblique muscles and any remaining tissues, and the globe is removed. Haemorrhage is easily stopped by firm pres- sure with small sponges and cold water. A light compress should now be applied.—J^M^en APFEOTIONS OF STUMPS. Affections of Stumps may be divided into primary and secondary. Tne Primary consist in haemorrhage, spasm of the muscles, excessive pain, septic inflammation, osteo-myelitis, and inordinate retraction of the soft parts exposing bone. The Secondary consist in necrosis, neuralgia, strumous degeneration, fatty degeneration, aneurismal enlargement of vessels, exfoliation of bone, contraction of the tendons in the neighbourhood of the stump, and the formation of neuromata. With regard to the treatment of these affections— a. Haemorrhage will be considered under that head, p. 199. b. Spasms of the Muscles may be relieved by shifting of position, by bandaging, or by the administration of anodynes. c. Excessive Pain must be relieved by anodynes. d. Septic Inflammation may be relieved by the application of such antiseptic applications and dressings as will combat and interfere with the septic causes of the inflammation. e. Osteo-myelitis has been considered under that head. /. Inordinate Retraction of the soft parts, exposing bone. Nothing can be done for this until the inflammation consequent upon the operation has subsided, when it will be necessary to open up the stump, and re- move the exposed bone. g. Necrosis.—The stump must be opened, and bone removed higher up. h. Neuralgia.—Soothing anodyne applications, such as opium, bella- donna, stramonium, .'or cocaine; if due to neuromata they should be excised. i. Strumous Degeneration.—Secondary amputation may be advan- ' tageously performed.195 HEMORRHAGE. j. Aneurismal Enlargement of the vessels are very rare. Mr. Cadge has reported one case of it. k. Exfoliation of the Bone.—As little interference as possible, since in time the dead portion will be thrown of. I. Contraction of the Tendons in the neighbourhood of the stump. If causing inconvenience, and giving annoyance, the tendons may be divided. m. Maggots in Stumps have been already considered on p. 161. H^MOREHAGE. The occurrence of h?emorrhage from wounds in war may be divided into primary or immediate, intermediate, and secondary. Some writers on military surgery are of opinion that primary haemor- rhage to a dangerous extent is comparatively rare, and it is generally admitted that few cases come under the notice of surgeons on the field of battle; this, however, may be in consequence of severe injuries to large arteries proving fatal almost immediately, and the sufferers do not then come under the notice or observation of the surgeon. Mr. Hamilton, of the U.S.A., remarks—" It is one peculiar feature of gun-shot injuries that, in proportion to the number and severity of accidents, profuse arterial haemorrhage is rare. The wounds inflicted by the missiles em- ployed are generally contused and lacerated, seldom incised ; and the same general laws as to bleeding, which govern contused and lacerated wounds elsewhere and from other causes, govern here." Wounds of Arteries.—Arteries when wounded by an extremity being torn off by round shot or shell seldom bleed. Nature endeavours to establish a cure by the coats of the vessel retracting and contracting, and subsequently by adhesive inflammation. When a large vessel is only partially injured, the haemorrhage from it may prove fatal in consequence of this contraction not taking place. An artery is liable to be seriously injured by a blow or contusion; a bullet has in this manner passed between an artery and a vein without opening either, but has caused gangrene of the limb. When the principal artery of a limb is obstructed from any cause, no cold or constricting bandages or plasters should be applied to it, but a flannel bandage may be rolled round it, so as to increase its temperature and establish collateral circulation. Bullets have been known to pass between an artery and a vein, in- juring both and establishing a communication, causing what is known as an aneurismal varix. Surgical interference is not recommended in such accidents, unless a very large tumour is formed, which is likely to give way and endanger the life of the patient, when the artery sliould be cut down upon, and a ligature applied on each side of the wound. Lacerations of the innei' coats of an artei'y may be caused by consider- able violence, which may also give rise to gangrene, or at a later period to dissecting aneurism. The external or middle coats of an artery may be cut or torn throuo-h while a thin, undivided, inner portion preserves the integrity of the canal,'HEMORRHAGE. 196 If such an accident be recognised, the arterial trunk should be tied above and below the injury without delay, though there be no haemorrhage Punctured Wounds of Arteries.-Guthrie recommends "that in all cases of punctured wounds, when pressure can be effectually made, and especially against a bone, it should l)e tried in a graduated manner over the part injured, in the course of the artery above and below the wound." But pressure of various kinds, as by the finger, graduated compress, &c., can only be considered as temporary expedients. The rule to be followed in all cases where the nature of the injury is clearly recognised, and the artery at all accessible, is to enlarge the wound sufficiently and tie the artery above and below the puncture, dividing its continuity between the bwo ligatures so as to allow both eads to retract. Diffused traumatic aneurism may be the result of a wounded or rup- tured artery ; the blood is poured out into the surrounding tissue, but is limited in its extent by coagulation and pressure of the neighbouring parts. There is no sac. The treatment in these cases is to lay open the tumour, remove coagula, and ligature the vessel above and below the wound in it. Circumscribed traumatic aneurism may be induced in two ways from wounds of arteries:— First: A vessel having received a puncture, the external wound heals, the blood is extravasated into the neighbouring tissue ; this becomes dense and firm, is surrounded by layers of fibrine, and from continued pulsation a sac is formed. This form of aneurism is liable to occur in punctured wound of the palmar, radial, ulnar, and temporal arteries. The treatment should be, if a small artery, to lay the tumour open, remove coagula, and ligature the artery above and below the seat of injury. It may, however, be necessary to tie the main trunk in the event of the vessel being very large, which should be done close to the sac. The second form of circumscribed aneurism may be induced from a similar wound, as above, but both external wound and woimd of artery heal, the cicatrix of the latter becomes weak and gradually dilates from the pulsations ; or it may be produced by a bullet bruising the artery and weakening its coats. A tumour is formed which may attain a consider- able size. This form of aneurism is more likely to occur in large arteries, such as the axillary, femoral, and carotid. The treatment recommended is to try and consolidate the tumour by pressure on the main trunk. If this does not succeed, the vessel may be ligatured at the tumour, or it may be necessary to ligature the main artery at a distance from the sac. Should .the sac be very large and likely to give way, or should it give way, the practice recommended is to lay it open, turn out coagula, and ligature the artery above and below the wound. Treatment of Secondary Hsemorrhage after Ligature of Femoral Artery in Continuity.*—Ligature of external iliac as a remedy is con- demned, and pressure is strongly recommended, the best method for which is as follows :—The limb should be carefully bandaged with a moderate amount of tightness from the toes to above the knee. Along the course * St. Bartholomew's Hospital Reports, 1874.HAEMORRHAGE. 197 of the femoral below the wound should be placed a pencil thickly covered with lint, and a roller carried up over this. On the wound itself a carefully made graduated compress, over which a bandage should be carried, ending in a spica at the groin. Another compress might be placed over Poupart's ligament, to exercise a certain amount of pressure upon the epigastric and common femoral arteries. Over the compress on the wound, Skey's tourniquet should be applied and kept tight for at least some hours. Should bleeding recur, the whole arrangement should be readjusted. A Liston's long splint might be of advantage in prevent- ing the involuntary movement of the muscles. The following rules with regard to the treatment of wounded arteries are now generally adopted, for some of which;i* am indebted to Mr. C. H. Moore (see Holmes^ System of Surgery, vol i., p. 749) :— Wounded arteries which do not readily cease bleeding, and which can be conveniently secured, should be tied. Moderate haemorrhage from an artery which cannot be reached with- out enlarging the wound, should be stopped by a graduated compress, compression upon the arterial trunk above the wound may be added if it is thought advisable. Violent arterial haemorrhage requires the wound to be enlarged and the vessel tied. JVo operation should he performed with the object of securing a wounded artery unless it be actually bleeding. This rule has been specially laid down by Mr. Guthrie; nevertheless, it may be departed from when the torn extremity of a large artery is seen or felt to pulsate, and its per- manent closure by natural means appears doubtful. An artery which has recently ceased to bleed may also be cut down upon and tied in cer- tain emergencies. Such practice may be judged to be right, when delirium tremens supervenes upon the injury, or when, as in some mili- tary movements, the wounded are ordered to be transported to another position. Mr. Holmes considers this rule may be departed from in cases in which the surgeon judges, by the severity of the previous bleeding, that a large vessel has been wounded that the hsemorrhage will probably recur, and when the patient must be left at a distance from competent aid. A luounded arto'y lohen requiring a ligature should be tied in the place lohere it bleeds; nevertheless, since it is sometimes impractical)le to tie the vessel in the wound, the trunk should then be secured at the next convenient place above the bleeding orifice. Mr. Guthrie incul- cated this principle, and says:—"No operation is to be done for a wounded artery in the first instance, but on the spot injured, unless such operation not only appears to be, but is impracticable " The greater number of competent authorities of the present day agree with Mr. Guthrie in his recommendation to cut down directly upon the wounded part of the injured artery, for the following reasons :—That the ligature of the main trunk at a distance above it would only stop the direct supply of blood to the limb ; but it would not interfere with the anastomosing circulation, and blood would find its way to the distal aperture of the artery ; that it may not be possible for the surgeon to ascertain the exact artery the bleeding is coming from unless he looks * Porter.198 RMMOmUAGE. for it, and instancea have been known where main trunks of arteries IZl^::^, V'^i^-/^ *i! hemorrhage has been from some smaU vesse unconnected with it Stromeyer is of opinion that the plan of tying a ;?f^^^ f}''f "'""^^^ ^^^^y- '^^^'^ la'-fe-e vein accompanying the aitery has often been torn or bruised by the same bullet. After tyin- the artery at the spot, the vein often becomes totally impervious, and the haemorrhage recurs, or the limb becomes gangrenous. It may be proper, m some cases, to gain time by putting a ligature above the wounded spot; before new hsmorrhage occurs, the vein may have under- gone a tavourable change. In other cases it is better to amputate. iiie external wound should be taken as the guide for the incision, and it IS recommended that "in cutting down on a ivounded artery, a Urae probe should be passed to the bottom of the wound, and taking this as a centre, a free mcision should be made in such a direction as may best lay open the cavity with the least injury to the muscles and soft parts. Atter turning out any coagula contained in the wound, and clearing it out as well as possible, the injured vessel must be sought for." Great care should be observed in ligaturing the vessel in consequence of the altered condition of the structures, from inflammation or infiltration. 1 he operation may be greatly facilitated by the application of Esmarch's bandage, bhould the wound in the vessel not be apparent, it is only necessary to loosen the bandage, when the jet of blood will declare its position. The artery, when found, should be tied or twisted both above and below the wound in it. The necessity for tying the lower end is the greater, because it is the more frequent source of secondary hsemor- rliage. When the lower end of the vessel cannot be found, a piece of com- pressed sponge left in the wound sometimes prevents subsequent hemorrhage. It is not advisable to apply a single ligature immediately below the origin of a large branch. Intermediary or Reactionary Hsemorrhage may occur some hours after the receipt of a wound, or as soon as the patient becomes warm, and reaction is completely established. If position, cold, and the compression of a bandage does not check it, the wound must be opened out and the bleeding vessel sought for and tied. Secondary Haemorrhage is common in gun-shot wounds, due to sloughing of the parts injured, or the re-opening of a wound in which a vessel is temporarily closed. It may occur from the fifth to the twenty- fifth day after the infliction of an injury. It may be produced by local or constitutional causes, the former being any movement which may disturb the wound or increase the rapidity of the circulation; as, for instance, (a) by transporting wounded men too soon, which may be unavoidable ; {(j) by the imperfect application of a ligature; (c) by sloughing or .ulceration of a large vessel; {d) by pro- jecting spicula of bone injuring a vessel; (e) by a peculiar hcemorrhagic diathesis natural to some persons, but which on service in the field generally presents itself when the men are scorbutic and worn out by fatigue and privation. The most common cause probably is unhealthyHEMORRHAGE. 199 eptic inflammation and suppuration in the neighbourhood of the artery Under these influences its coats soften and yield in places to the blood pressure, when some spot may ultimately give way, and haemorrhage be the result. If the ends of the arteries are embedded in healthy granula- tion tissue, there will be no secondary hfemorrhage. Treatment of Secondary Haemorrhage after Gun-shot Wounds.— When severe the surgeon will have to cut down on the wounded artery and tie or twist both ends, or tie it in its continuity leading to the seat of the bleeding. Some authorities advocate dealing with the main trunk. Stromeyer and MacCormac are opposed to this practice, such operations having been uniformly unfavourable in their experience ; they are more in favour of amputation in cases of secondary haemorrhage. When not severe, it will probably be restrained by pressure and the elevation of the part. Pres.sure, when selected, should be applied directly on the bleeding point, by graduated compresses and bandages, and it will be of advantage, too, if it be put on the main artery or arteries leading to the aperture._ Nothing can be more disheartening than searching for a bleeding point in a suppurating unhealthy wound. If it is found, in all pro- bability it will not hold a ligature; but it is more than likely that it wiU not be found. Should, then, the main artery be tied higher up, or should amputation be performed ? In the experience of the writer at Suez f in 1884, several severe cases of secondary hsemorrhage, resulting from deep spear wounds, were controlled by ligature of the main artery of the limb. In one case deligation of the superficial femoral failed to check the bleeding, but tying the external iliac controlled it, and the man made a good recovexy. It would seem, therefore, advisable in cases of this kind to tie the artery, if practicable, higher up first before proceeding to the graver operation of amputation. The true treatment is such antiseptic management of the wound from the first as will prevent septic inflamma- tion and suppuration. Hsemorrhage occurring from stumps may be primary, intermediate or reactionary, and secondary. Primary hemorrhage would be dealt with at the time of operation. Intermediate or reactionary may occur from reaction, or from disease of the arterial coats, which may give a certain amount of warning by general oozing; or, in flap operations, where an oval opening having been made in an artery, the whole lumen of the vessel has not been included in the ligature. Secondary, at a later period, when it may be from causes interfering with the formation of the coagula, or producing ulceration of the coats of the artery, or from septic causes as described above (vide p. 51). The treatment of hasmorrhage from a stump at an early period must be promiDt; the maxim that holds good in primary hemorrhage, not to interfere with a vessel unless it bleeds, will not answer here. Bleeding having occurred more than once, active measures must be adopted. After having tried elevation of the stump, the application of tourniquet, pressure by means of bandaging the stump so as to press the flaps together, and the application of cold to the wound and the adjoining parts, without * Proceedings of Pathological Society, 4th Dec, 1883. t A.M.D. Reports for 1883. Vide Appendix III.2°o HEMORRHAGE. &eIl\tXfe'4tiL^f ^ wound and the surrounding tissue. If the vessels are softened Ld wHl not hr^l ^^ through the stump, so as to press the artery against one of the bones foy^ld hcBmorrfmge occur at a later period, when the stump is iSble nltlrt-'"'"^ to slough the surgeon may select one of the fi?e fSS alternatives:-Apply a tourniquet; open up the stump and tie the vesITs^ ligature the mam artery immediately above the stifmp; iL the vessel' ^gh up m the limb at a distance from the stump ; or, lastly ampSe Mr. Guthrie remarks on this description of hemorrhage--I^SSk and sloughmg state of stump, haemorrhages frequentlf takeplac"from the small branches, or from the main trunks of the arteries irconsequenS of ulceration; and it is not always easy to discover the bleeding S S when discovered to secure it on the face of the stump ; for as the Scera- tive process has not ceased, and the end of the artery which is to be secured IS not sound no healthy action can take place; th^Hgature ver? soon cuts Its way through, and the hemorrhage returns asSntlvS before, or some other branch gives way. Some surgeons^' he sL? nfte-''^*"''^ ""T^' PJ^efeired cutting down upon the prindpal artery t preference to performing another amputation, even when't IS practicable; and they have sometimes succeeded in restraining the hemorrhage for a sufficient ength of time to allow the stump to relume a more healthy action. This operation, although successful in some cases, will generaUy fail, and particularly if absolute rest cannot be obtamed, when amputation wall be necessary. The same objection of want of success may be made to amputation; on a due comparison of the whole attending circumstances, the operation of tying the artery in most cases IS to be preferred m the first instance, and if that prove unsuccessful then recourse IS to be had to amputation; but this practice is by no means to be followed indiscriminately." " To obviate aU doubt, the parts from which the bleeding comes should be well studied, and the shortest distance from the stump at which com- pression on the artery commands the bleeding carefully noted • at this spot the ligature should be applied, provided it be not within the sphere of the inflammation of the stump. In case the hasmorrhage should only be restrained by pressure above the origin of the profunda, and repeated attempts to secure the vessel on the surface of the stump have failed amputation is preferable to tying the artery in the groin, when the strength of the patient will bear it."201 HAEMORRHAGE. Intermittent Hsemorrhage. — A remarkable case of intermittent hemorrhage, apparently due to malarial influence, occurred to a weakly soldier under Porter's care at Netley. He had suffered in India from severe fever and ague, which culminated in disease of the left knee-joint, for which Porter amputated the leg through the condyles (Garden's method). The case progressed satisfactorily till the eighth day, when hemorrhage from the stump set in, at intervals preceded by the cold and hot stages of ague. The usual local and constitutional remedies were tried without success, until sulphate of quinine was administered, when the hEemorrhage ceased, as well as the paroxysm of ague, and the man rapidly recovered. Expedients for Suppressing Hsemorrhage may be divided into tem- porary and permanent, such operating either indirectly on the trunks conveying the fluid to the point, or directly on the orifice of the bleeding vessel. In case of severe Hsemorrhage on the Field of Battle, the first impulse on the part of the surgeon or his attendant is to check the bleeding by placing his fingers in the wound, or applying a tourniquet to the main trunk. The latter may not be available ; it would, therefore, be necessary for an attendant to apply pressure with his fingers even during transport, in the event of the bleeding being from a large vessel. Bleeding can frequently be checked by plugging a wound; but this may be followed by grave symptoms, in consequence of the blood becoming diffused, giving rise to an aneurism or to gangrene. The tourniquet is the chief temporary means, which in its primitive state was simply a band to go round the limb, with a pad placed imme- diately over the vessel, and the whole tightened by means of a bayonet or piece of stick. To Petit we are indebted for the screw tourniquet j and since his time there have been many modifications, nearly all with a view to stop202 HAEMORRHAGE. Sl^'f ^^V* ?! '^^"'^ through the main artery of the limb, and at the same time to admit of a certain amount of circulation being carried on. It was found that with wounded men having the old-fashioned twisted tlll^'' °f I f screw tourniquet, applied to a limb, and transported for any distance without surgical assistance, the tourniquet fiequently shifted or the man lont the limb from gangrene. To obviate tnis, and admit of a wounded man retaining the instrument for a con- siderable time either during transport or until the services of a surgeon might be available. Dr. A. B. Mott, U.S.A., invented one with bands or Hoops of iron or brass, which Mr. Hamilton describes as "a very ingenious field tourniquet (fig. 121), which is easily applied, and may be considered safe even in the hands of those who know nothing of the danger of ligating hmbs too tightly, since the compression is applied at only two points in the circumference of the limb." Professor Esmarch, in his work on bandaging, describes a tourniquet tor the held invented by Volckers, which he considers, on the lower part of the upper arm, can be applied with much less danger than the usual circular tourniquet. Volckers found it was easy to make the pulse above the elbow disappear, by crossing the arm with a stick at the proper angle of the axis of the bone. This apparatus (fig. 122) can be made with two little round sticks of about 8 inches in length, one for the inside, and the other for the outside of the arm, which he keeps in position by means of straps _ On the centre of the inner stick he attaches a pad, which is placed immediately over the artery, and, by tightening the straps, is brought to bear on the vessel. For pressure on the femoral artery in the upper part of the thigh, Professor Esmarch gives an illustration of an apparatus which can be easily constructed. A bandage is to be rolled on the middle of a stick at least a foot in length; then this bandage is to be placed against the artery, Fig. 122. and tightened by means of a strap and strong buckle passed behind the limb and over each end of the stick ; by this means continued pressure can be maintained (fig. 123). Several ingenious modifications have been made of the ordinary screw tourniquet, whereby the strap is carried clear of the sides of the limb to allow of venous return. These have been effected by the addition of metal wings, over which the strap is carried.HEMORRHAGE. Dr. John Hunter, of the E.N., has designed three new forms of tourni- quets, which have the great advantage of allowing venous return. * Tourniquets in the hands of surgeons'have their undoubted advantages, but, at the same time, they are most dangerous in the hands of unin- structed men, who are exceedingly likely by the indiscriminate and prolonged use of them to cause gangrene of the limb. The Expedients that may be employed for the permanent arrest of Haemorrhage are—pressure, ligature, toi'sion, acupressure, flexion, cauterisation, application of cold, styptics, exposure to air, position, forci-pressure and application of hot water. Fig. 123. Torsion of Arteries, though used in former times, fell into^disuse, and was revived by Amussat and Velpeau. During the Franco-German War of 1870-71, Sir W. MacCormac appears to have used it with marked success. He says—"I twisted the vessels in a very large number of cases of amputation for gun-shot wounds. I only remember a snigle instance of secondary hajmorrhage from a twsted vessel. It was a case of amputation through the knee-joint, in which acute pyjemia supervened. Torsion," he says, "is more difficult and tedious in its application than a ligature. It is inapplicable when the arteries are diseased." It is doubtful if it is a safe expedient in the field, especially if it be necessary to transport the sufferer immediately after its application. Sir W. MacCormac used unlimited torsion for the smaller arteries. For the large vessels lying loosely in unaltered sheaths, he con.siders it better to limit the length of artery tmsted by grasping the vessel with a second forceps, otherwise the artery may be needlessly and dangerously disturbed in its relations to its sheath. He.twists until he feels the in- ternal coat giving way. Sir Spencer Wells has introduced a new kind of artery and torsion forceps, which very conveniently replace the old spring artery forceps of Listen, and the bull-dogs used for the temporary stoppage of bleeding vessels during an operation, while they are the most readily applied of any of the varieties of torsion forceps met with. The grasping and holding extremity is roughened by rather deeply-cut transverse teeth (fig. 124), so that the bleeding vessel is forcibly com- pressed and its coats almost crushed together. This is alone sufficient to stop the bleeding without any torsion, especially if the instrument be left on the vessel for a minute or more. * Lancet, July 15, 1876.hjemorrhage. 204 le/t^'SootT/oUcrn'V^- ^^T^^^^' the forearm, hand, lower ^sed^w'SlVad^antar" ''''' ^'"^'^'^'^^ ^^^^^^ ofSn'h^mnrVL^^^^ ''Hr ^'5^' ti'"^ it may be found or nV^n sirwiu f'^iv,*^! indolent stumps, or m gun shot wounds of the tongue. It is recommended that the iron Fig. 124. which is used for the pu^JOse of cauterisation should be at a black heat being considered more effectual in that condition than at a red or white The Application of Ice or Cold is nearly always attended by satis- factory results m wounds of very smaU vessels, favouringthe coaguSSn rni? S""-; .Ho*.Water will accomplish this end more promptly thaJ pL'.ffi i IS especially appropriate when the patient is feeble and fodised ^ ^^''''^^ carboiised or hlnn J^f °' were much used in former days. They act by causing the blood to coagulate rapidly and firmly, but should only be used when there is oozing from parts where other applications cannot be conveniently made, btyptics are, as a general rule, most objectionable, as they act injuriously on the tissues to which they are applied, by causing much pam and tendency to extensive sloughing or suppuration, and thus ren- dering heahng by first intention impossible. The styptics occasionally used are the perchloride of iron, matico, turpentine, galhc acid, alum, nitrate of silver, chloride of zinc, Euspini's styptic, and mineral acids. Langenbeck has prescribed a solution of ergot in glycerine, to be used as a hypodermic injection in cases of hsemorrhage and in the treatment of aneurism : proportion—1 grain of ergotine to 6 minims of glycerine • 2 minims for an injection. Porter tried this in two cases of aneurism without any satisfactory result, but saw it successful in cases of epistaxis and haemorrhage from an intercostal artery.20$ LIGATURE OF ARTERIES. Wounds of Veins,—Unless from some large and deep-seated trunk, haemorrhage from wounded veins is seldom dangerous. If a wound of the chief vein of an extremity is complicated with a wound of its artery, the case must be looked upon as most serious, being generally followed by gangrene of the limb. If the vein wounded be of such a size that it would be dangerous to tie, the rent or tear in it may be closed by the uninterrupted or Glover's suture. Veins, if they bleed, may be tied as freely as arteries, though in ordinary cases pressure and elevation would be sufficient. LIGATURE OF ARTERIES, The instruments required for application of a ligature to an artery in its continuity are a scalpel, not too pointed, with a flat handle for pres- sing aside the tissues ; a good-sized forceps; an aneurism needle; re- tractors ; a ligature ; needles and thread. In cutting down on an artery it may be only necessary to follow up a wound, which point should always be observed, the original wound being taken advantage of. Mr. Erichsen gives such excellent instructions for cutting down on an artery, that they may be repeated here with advantage :— "In making the first incision, the skin should be put on the stretch by the fingers of the left hand, or by those of an assistant. If the artery be superficial, or if there be parts of importance in its vicinity, the incision should not penetrate deeper than the skin. But if the vessel be deeply seated and no parts of importance intervene it may be carried at once through the subcutaneous areolar tissue, until the fascia covering the artery is exposed. This must then be pinched up with the forceps, and opened by the edge of the scalpel laid horizontally. Through this open- ing a grooved director may then be passed, and the fascia incised on it, without risk to subjacent parts. The sheath of the vessel is now exposed by a little careful dissection ; and the next step of the operation is one of great delicacy. It consists in exposing the artery and separating it from its accompany- ing vein. This is done by pinching up the sheath with the forceps and applying the knife horizontally. The artery having been exposed, the surgeon seizes one edge of the sheath with the forceps, and putting it on the stretch, gently separates the artery from its accompanying vein by tearing through the areolar connections with the end of the aneurism-needle, or with a ^^S- 1-25. director, being careful not to expose it to a greater extent than is abso- lutely necessary for the passage of the ligature. The ligature should be passed between the vein and the artery, care being taken only to include the latter, and especially not to transfix and include a portion of the vein. The artery should be tied tightly with a reef-knot, which does not slip " (fig. 125).2o6 LIGATURE OF ARTERIES. Catgut ligatures are now chiefly used, and to enable the cateiit to acquire the necessary strength, it is prepared in a mature of &i^ tiss^i^ji^.^^^^^-^ ^^-^'i be keptr ^: A specially prepared carbolised silk ligature is also used by some sur- geons. Others again, use ligatures of ox aorta and kangaroo tSons When any of these specially prepared materials are used for tW arteries, after the knot has been securely tied both ends are cut off aS^ the knot remains in the wound until absorbed. ihe following table may assist in showing when the separation of theold ''^^-"^ ^^^^^^'^ ^'^^ ^^^^'^ ^^teries miy be anticipated, at which period haemorrhage may occur :— > Common iliac, 18th to 25th day ; external iliac, 15th to 22nd day • femoral 14th to 2hth day; subclavian, 17th day; carotid, 2Uth da^ i brachial, 21st day ; axillary, 22nd day. ' The rules for tying the principal arteries have been taken from Mr xleatn s valuable work on Operative Surgery. Ligature of the Common Carotid.-This operation may be performed above or below the omo-hyoid muscle. Above the Omo-hyoid.-The patient must be placed on his back, with the shoulders supported by a pillow. An incision 2^ to 3 inches in len<^th is to be made exactly on the anterior obUque border of the sterno-mastoid muscle immediately opposite the larynx, so that the middle of the incision may correspond to the level of the cricoid cartilage. The incision should be carried at once through the platysma, superficial cervical nerves, and fascia to expose the muscular fibres of the sterno-mastoid. Should the external jugular cross the line of incision, it should be tied with two hgatures before being cut. The anterior edge of the sterno-mastoid is to be turned back until the angle formed between it and the omo-hyoid is clearly defined. The sterno-mastoid is then to be held back by an assistant while the operator dissects forward the outer edge of the omo- hyoid, which is then to be held with a hook, so as to increase the space between the two muscles. In doing this, a large anterior jugular vein may be seen, and must be carefully preserved. The exact position of the artery being ascertained, the sheath is to be opened with knife and forceps directly over it. The outer side of the sheath being grasped with the forceps, the needle is to be passed close to the artery from without inwards. Belowthe Omo-hyoid.—An incision 3 inches in length along the anterior border of the lower third of the sterno-mastoid will allow that muscle to be reflected outwards [with, or without division of its sternal attachments) until the muscles passing upwards to the hyoid bone are exposed. The outermost muscle is the omo-hyoid, and this is to be separated from the sterno-hyoid, when the broad sterno-thyroid will be seen beneath them, pushed up by the thyroid gland. The finger carried between the omo- hyoid and sterno-thyroid will distinguish the carotid in its sheath lying against the vertebrae. The sheath is to be opened with knife and forceps, and the artery fully exposed, vsdthout injuring the descendens noni nerve, when the needle may be passed from without inwards.LIGATURE OF ARTERIES. 207 In these two operations the first incision should be exactly upon the margin of the stemo-mastoid, and the sheath of the artery should be opened well on the inner side to keep clear of the internal jugular vein. The Lingual Artery may be most certainly tied at the apex of the digastric triangle beneath the hyoglossus. A curved incision beginning to the right (or left) of the symphysis menti is to be carried to the level of the hyoid bone, and then nearly up to the angle of the jaw. _ This should divide the platysma and expose the submaxillary gland without injuring it. The lower border of the gland is then to be turned up and held with a hook, when a little dissection will expose the two bellies and intervening tendon of the digastric, forming two sides of a triangle, of which the 9th or hypoglossal nerve is the base. The nerve will be seen to pass beneath the posterior border of the mylo hyoid, which should be defined, and is usually accompanied by a branch of lingual vein. Both of these are to be dissected up a little, so as to bring the hyoglossus muscle, on which they lie, fully into view, and the hyoglossus is then to be divided transversely about g of an inch above the great cornu of the hyoid bone, when the lingual artery with its venre comites wiU be seen. The needle should be passed from above downwards. If the incision is carried up to or beyond the angle of the jaw, the large facial vein may be divided, and will require two ligatures. In dividing the hyoglossus, if the incision is made too deeply it vdll open the pharynx. The Facial Artery may be tied immediately in front of the masseter on the margin of the lower jaw, by an incision, 1 inch in length, parallel to the fibres of the masseter. The artery lies upon the bone immediately beneath the platysma, and the vein is to its outer side. The artery is often tortuous. The Subclavian Artery, in its third part, may be tied. In order to reach the vessel, the arm should be drawn down, and the head turned towards the opposite side. Standing at the shoulder of the patient, the operator draws the skin down upon the clavicle with the left hand, and makes a curved incision upon the bone, reaching from the sterno-mastoid to the trapezius. This incision should divide the skin, platysma, and fascia down to the bone, and with them the descending branches of the superficial cervical plexus, and possibly a vein, which should be tied at once if it bleeds. The skin being now allowed to resume its natural position, the incision will be about half an inch above the clavicle, and must be deepened by cutting carefully through the deep fascia thus exposed. The position of the external jugular vein having been ascer- tained, if it can be held on one side it should be preserved, but if it is in the middle of the incision it should be tied in two places, and divided between them. The finger introduced into the wound will be able to recognise the edge of the anterior scalenus and the first rib, with its tubercle, and possibly the artery and the cords of the brachial plexus. With the steel director aud forceps, a cautious dissection is to be made in the direction of the artery, guided by the finger, until, by tearing through a process of fascia continuous with the scalenus, the vessel is exposed. The needle may be most conveniently passed from above downwards between the last cord of the plexus and the artery. The208 LIGATURE OF ARTERIES. great risk is venous haemorrhage, which is to be guarded against most carefully i he brachial plexus lies external to and behind the subclavian artery; the subclavian vein in front and below. The Axillary Artery in its First Stage.-If it is necessary to tie the axillary as m the case of a ]3unctured wound, the operation recom- mended by Guthrie is probably the best. It consists in making an incision from the centre of the clavicle directly downwards, in the course of the vessels, to the middle of the anterior fold of the axilla. In this way the skin, superficial fascia, and greater pectoral muscle must be successively divided. The lesser pectoral wiU then be exposed, and the artery may be hgatured above or below this, without further division of muscular substance, or if it be thought desirable to deligate it under this the muscle must be cautiously cut through. When this is done, a very distinct and firm fascia will come into view ; this must be picked up and carefully opened, when the artery and vein will be seen lying parallel to one another, the artery being to the outer side. The vem having been drawn inwards, the aneurism needle must be carried between it and the artery. The advantage of this operation is that the wound is open and free, and that constantly the artery can be more easily reached in any part of its course. The disadvantage is the great division of muscular substance it entails. In its Third Stage.—The axillary artery may be readily reached when the arm is at right angles to the body. The operator should sit between the arm and the trunk, and an incision 3 to 3J inches long is to be placed parallel to the anterior border of the axilla, at the junction of the anterior with the middle third of the space--i.e., one third of the whole width of the axilla behind its anterior border. Carried through the deep fascia, this wiU expose the axillary vein, which is to be drawn down by an assistant. The great cords of the brachial nerves will then be seen, and a little separation of these •wdll expose the axillary artery between them. The needle should be passed from the inner side, or away from the vein, and the ligature must not be applied close to a branch. If the incision is made in the middle of the axilla, the vein will be to its outer side, and in great danger, and it will be diflicult to expose the artery. The relation of the artery to the nerves being uncertain, it is easy to miss the vessel, or to mistake one of the cords for it. If the ligature were applied too close to the large subscapsular branch, secondary haemorrhage would be likely to occur. Brachial Artery. —This operation may be performed in any part of its course. The middle of the arm is the best point to choose. A line drawn from the middle of the axilla to the inner side of the biceps tendon at the bend of the elbow indicates its course. The arm should be held by an assistant at right angles to the body without resting upon any support, which, if employed, is apt to push up the triceps muscle and displace the vessel. The fibres of the biceps should be exposed without dividing them. The arm being abducted and rotated outwards, an incision should be made about 2g inches long on the internal margin of the biceps. " The skin, which is always thin, and the fascia should be carefully divided,LIGATURE OF ARTERIES. 209 and the deep fascia exposed. This is next to be laid open, but with care, for the basilic vein lies immediately below it, on the inner side of the brachial artery. The ulnar nerve will be found on the inner side of the vein, and the median in front of the artery, but there is no regularity in these relations ; much care is consequently required in finding the vessel." When in doubt as to the recognition of ulnar or median nei've—the former in the middle of the arm will be found passing downwards and backwards. The Bracliial Artery at the Bend of the Elbow.—The position of the median-basilic vein having been ascertained if possible^ a 2-incli incision, beginning at the level of the internal condyle, is to be placed parallel to, and usually above, the vein on the inner side of the tendon of the biceps, which is always to be readily felt, if not seen. The incision may be con- veniently made from above downwards on both sides of the body, the operator being between the arm and the trunk on the left side. The bicipital fascia, varying much in thickness, will be exposed by the first incision, and on dividing it with the knife and forceps, or, if preferred, upon a director slipped l^eneath it, the artery with its two veins will be found between the median nerve and the tendon of the biceps. The needle to be passed from the nerve. The Ulnar Artery, in the middle of the forearm, corresponds with a line drawn from the tip of the inner condyle to the radial side of the pisiform bone. This line marks the outer edge of the flexor carpi ulnaris. An incision 2| to 3 inches long in the middle third of this line should be made to expose the deep fascia, through which the white tendinous margin of the flexor carpi ulnaris can be perceived. An incision carried along this will allow the handle of the scalpel to separate the flexor ulnaris from the palmaris longus, or the flexor sublimis digitorum, until the ulnar nerve is exposed at the bottom of the wound. To the radial border of the iilnar nerve, the ulnar artery will be found with its two veins. The needle shoxild be passed from the nerve. If the incision is too much in front, the interval between the palmaris longus and flexor sublimis may be selected in error. The Ulnar Artery at the Wrist.—An incision 1^ to 2 inches in length is to be made along the radial border of the flexor carpi ulnaris imme- diately above the annular ligament. The first incision is to go through the fascia of the forearm, and expose the white border of the tendon. This being drawn inwards, another process of fascia ynM be seen binding down the ulnar artery, veins, and nerve to the flexors of the fingers. This fascia is to be picked up and opened directly over the artery, and, the veins having been separated, the needle is passed from the nerve, which is to the ulnar side of the vessels. The position of the pisiform must be correctly ascertained. The Radial Artery in the middle of the Forearm corresponds with a line drawn from the middle of the hollow in front of the elbow to the base of the metacarpal bone of the thumb. An incision, 2 to 2^ inches m length, should be made in the middle of the forearm, and should be carried at once through the deep fascia. In thin persons the incision will expose the border of the supinator longus, but in a fleshy arm that muscle 142IO LIGATURE OF ARTERIES. will overlap the artery considerably, and the border must be sought ?urTJl i?ff''^r^' ^'r^^ ^^'^ ^d^^ «f supinator is to be turned outwards and the artery with its two veins will be found in the cellular interval between it and the pronator teres. The radial nerve is te.rit^' ^^'^ \%^^'' ''^'^ '^^t^^y- the needle should Sroth fi! T^^^ -f^ ri"^*'" . incision is not made through the fascia, it is difficult to find the edge of the supinator. In to its outeJ side™^^° ^^^^ *° ^''^^^^ ^'^^ ^"'P"'^" ^^""^^ ^.Jw Iliac Artery maybe tied by a curved incision 4 to 5 mches long. It will be best to begin 1 inch to the outer side of the middle of Foupart s hgament and an inch above its level, and to prolong it to a point an inch above the anterior-superior ihac spine. The first incision should expose the tendon of the external oblique ; if the super- ficial epigastric artery is cut, it should be tied at once. The tendon is then to be divided to the same extent, the blade of the knife bein<^ held with_ its edge perpendicular to the surface in the whole len^^th of the incision, and the muscular fibres of the internal oblique will be exposed Ihese are to be divided m the same way, the original curve of the incision being carefully preserved, until the transversahs is exposed. The mus- cular fibres of the transversahs are then to be divided in the original curve and by the same method, or a portion of muscle may be taken up with forceps, and divided, until the fascia transversalis is brought into view when a director may be slipped beneath the remainder of the muscle, and the knife run along it. The fascia transversalis, which will now be exposed in the whole length of the incision, will be found to vary much in the quantity of fat it contains, being sometimes thin and transparent, and at others thick and weU developed. It is to be picked up with forceps and carefully opened with the blade held horizontally, and the director being inserted, it is to be divided. The outside of the peritoneum will now be exposed. It is of a bluish appearance, and the bowels can be indistinctly seen through it. The operator with his forefinger carefully strips up the peritoneum from the iliac fossa towards the median line as far as the inner border of the psoas. The external iliac artery and vein will be found lying parallel to the inner border of the psoas in a distinct sheath of fascia, which must be opened with knife and forceps in order to expose the artery. The vein lies to the inner side of the artery, and the genito-crural nerve to its outer side; the needle should be passed from within outwards. If the incision is too near the middle line, there will be a risk of opening up the external abdominal ring or the sheath of the rectus, and of dividing the epigastric artery. If the incision is too low, it wiD interfere with the inguinal canal and spermatic cord in front; and behind, the trunk of the circumflexa ilii running between the internal oblique and transversalis will be divided. The curve and length of the incision must be carefully preserved, or it will be difficult to reach the artery, and each muscle should be finished before the deeper one is inter- fered with. In using the director, great care must be taken not to force it through deeper structures unawares, but, by moving it horizontally, to make it clear its way at the intended level.LIGATURE OF ARTERIES. 211 The Femoral Artery may be tied at the apex of Scarpa's triangle and in Hunter's canal, the former being the preferable and more usual operation. To tie the Femoral in Scarpa's triangle, the thigh is to be slightly flexed and abducted, the knee being bent, and in this position of the limb, a line drawn from about the middle of Poupart's ligament to the inner condyle of the femur, will mark the position of the upper part of the artery. An incision begun 2 inches below the groin and in the centre of the thigh, should be prolonged for 3 or 4 inches, and be carried through the fascia lata, so as to expose the sartorius crossing the lower part of the incision. A blunt hook being inserted at the inner edge of the fascia lata, the operator seeks the inner border of the sartorius, and turn the whole muscle outwards with his finger, when it is held aside by an assistant. Any small bleeding branch is now to be secured, when, if the incision has been properly made, and is not pulled out of position, the sheath of the artery will be readily seen at its lower part. The femoral sheath is to be carefully opened with knife and forceps, and especial pains taken to dissect well down to the true arterial coat on both the inner and outer sides of the vessel. The needle should be passed from within outwards. If the limb is not flexed and abducted, the incision will be made too much to the outer side. If the incision is too small, it is very difficult to displace the sartorius sufiiciently. No attempt should be made to pass the needle until the artery is thoroughly cleared, or the vein may be perforated. Should such an accident occur, the haemorrhage being controlled by pressure with the finger below the wound, the needle should be withdrawn, and separation of the vessels efl'ected higher up, when the artery being carefully tied, the haemorrhage from the vein will not recur. To tie the Femoral Artery in Hunter's Canal, the thigh is to be flexed and abducted as in the previous operation. An incision 3 to 4 inches in length is to be made in the middle third of the thigh parallel to the inner border of the limb, and about an inch from the margin of the gracilis. This incision may expose the saphenous vein which is to be avoided, and the fascia lata is to be divided so as to expose the sartorius, which will be recognised by the direction of its fibres running obliquely downwards and inwards. The outer edge of the divided fascia being held with a hook, the operator seeks the outer border of the sartorius, and turns the whole muscle inwards with his finger. The tendinous expansion thrown across the vessels from the adductors to the vastus internus must now be opened over the artery, which can generally be seen through it, and the artery carefully isolated, when the needle should be passed from without inwards, avoiding the saphenous vein. If the in- cision is below the middle third of the thigh, the canal will not be exposed, but the popliteal space will be opened. If the incision is put too far from the inner border of the thigh, the vastus internus will be exposed, and may be mistaken for the sartorius, but its fibres are coarser and run in the opposite direction. Posterior Tibial Artery in the leg may most certainly be reached when it lies between the superficial and deep muscles. The knee beingLIGATURE OF ARTERIES. 212 flexed and the leg laid on its outer side, an incision 3 or 4 inches long is to be made in the middle third of the leg, parallel to the inner border of the tibia, and half an inch behind it. The edge of the knife should be turned towards the bone in making this incision, and the same direction maintained in the division of the muscle. The gastrocnemius will probably not be seen, but, if so, it should be drawn aside and the tendinous surface of the soleus exposed. Tliis is to be divided for the whole length of the incision, with the muscular fibres beneath it, and a deep tendon which should be recognised and carefully divided on a director if preferred. By drawing the divided soleus outwards with a spatula, the posterior tibial vessels and nerve will be seen bound down to the deep muscles by the deep fascia, which varies much in thickness. The fascia being opened with a knife, the venae comites should be separated froni the artery with a steel director, and the needle passed from without inwards. If the incision is put too far from the tibia, the gastrocnemius will be found, and may be mistaken for the soleus. In dividing the soleus, if the knife is turned away from instead of towards the tibia, a much more extensive division of muscular fibres will result. If the incision be made too close to the border of the tibia, it is difficult to distinguish the soleus, and there is great risk of getting beneath the deep muscles and down to the interosseous membrane. The Anterior Tibial Artery in the upper third. The limb being supported under the knee, so that the sole of the foot may be fiat on the table, an incision begun at a point midway between the external tubero- sity of the head of the tibia and the head of the fibula, and an inch below them, is to pass obliquely downwards and inwards from 3 to 3^ inches. The deep fascia of the leg is to be divided to the same extent, without injuring the muscles beneath, and then, with the forefinger and handle of the knife, the cellular interval between the tibialis anticus and extensor longus digitorum is to be sought, and the two muscles carefully separated. This interval can be more easily recognised with the finger than by the eye, but when opened up a muscular branch of the artery will usually be seen between the two muscles. Two broad spatulas must be employed to separate the muscles down to the interosseous membrane. The anterior tibial artery and veins will be seen lying on the interosseous membrane with the nerve to the outer side. The needle should be passed from the nerve. In itsing the finger to find the intermuscular space, it should be directed towards the tibia rather than the fibula. In the Lower Third.—The tendon of the tibialis anticus can be readily felt through the skin, lying next to the anterior border of the tibia, im- mediately above the joint. An incision 2 to 2^ inches long on the outer border of the tendon of the tibialis anticus, and immediately above the anterior annular ligament, is to be carried through the deep fascia, so as to expose the tendon. To its outer side will be seen the tendon of the extensor proprius poUicis, which is drawn outwards with a hook, when in the interval between the two, the anterior vessels and nerve will be seen lying upon the tibia.MORTIFICATION, OR GANGRENE. 213 * Antiseptic Treatment of Wounds, p. 22. MOETIFICATION, OR GANGRENE, Traumatic Gangrene. — Oheyne thus sums i;p the pathology of gangrene after operations and injuries''—"First, it may result from direct destruction of the tissue at the time of injury, from injury to large blood-vessels, &c. Second, it may occur as the result of inflammation in a weak part. In this case the inflambaation is set up by the growth of micro-organisms in the discharge or tissues of the wound, or by tension in the wound. Third, it occurs as the result of growth of bacteria in the tissues seen in phagedaena and traumatic gangrene." In traumatic gangrene, or that induced by local causes, the parts may be so injured that they are killed outright, or their vitality may be so weakened that they cannot recover themselves, as in the case of severe bruises, laceration, wound of the main artery or vein of a limb inter- fering with the circulation, which frequently happens in gun - shot fractures when splinters of bone or the missile wound the artery, or in punctured or incised wounds of a large vessel allowing of extravasation. It has also happened from a bandage being applied too tightly. The parts killed outright by the force of the injury, or so weakened thereby as to have their vitality seriously impaired, are, if exposed to septic influences, readily preyed upon by micro-organisms of a sapro- phytic or pathogenic character; if the parasitic bodies are of the former class, possibly only those parts originally killed outright mortify or undergo putrefactive fermentation ; whereas, if the laarasites include the latter class, the gangrenous process will show a disposition to sjoread among the damaged tissues. Treatment.—in cases of injury the extent of the gangrene can be most materially modified by cax'eful antiseptic treatment from the first. For it should be remembered that the cause of the gangrenous process is a living agency; therefore the treatment should consist of such chemical applications as are known to prevent or limit its growth [e.g., corrosive sublimate lotion, iodoform, &c.), whereas poultices and water-dressing encourage and foster the morbific agencj^ and so, of course, tend to increase and spread the gangrene. In doubtful cases, or in cases of gangrene resulting from a wound of the main vessels, from compound fracture, or fi-om any local cause, such as obstruction of the artery or vein {distant gangrene), the rule laid down by the older surgeons was to wait for the line of separation before the parts 'were removed by ampu- tation, but whilst acting on this rule we should be doing all in our power to bmit the gangrene as much as possible. The result of amputation for traumatic gangrene is, on the whole, unfavourable, the disease fre- quently recurring in the stump ; in those cases where the tissues are already infiltrated or disorganised the prospects from amputation are still more unfavourable. The strength of the patient should be main- tained by nutritious diet, wine, tonics of mineral acids, quinine, &c. aided by opium. '214 MORTIFICATION, OR GANGRENE. v«5if- 'P?! -^^^ treatment of local traumatic gangrene resultmg solely from severe mjury, the parts should be removed so soon llSfJt unmistakable signs of its death, the point of operation being selected as near the mjured part as sound tissue can be obtained. But where the cause is due to defective power in the general circulation, con- sequent on a weak or diseased heart, with venous thrombosis, there can De no doubt that an immediate operation can be of no benefit to the patient, m as much as it can neither increase the power of the heart nor clear the obstructed vein, while the shock of the amputation and loss of . further depress the patient's vital powers." J he question of amputation from spreading traumatic gangrene the result ot inflammation is more complicated. The operation will cut off the supply of the infecting material, and the general experience of sur- geons is almost universally in favour of amputation, and if this be perlormed well above the gangrenous part as soon as the disease is recognised, and the stump protected by every antiseptic precaution against new infection, the patient will have a fair chance of recovery " * Mr. Gruthrie gives two or three examples of the practice in extreme cases :t A soldier is wounded by a musket-ball at the upper part of the middle third of the thigh, and on the third day the great toe has become of a tallowy colour, and has lost its life : what is to be done' Wait, with the hope that the mortification will not extend." "Suppose that the approaching mortification has not been observed until It has invaded the instep ; what is to be done? Wait, provided there are no constitutional symptoms ; but if they should be present, or the discoloration of the skin should appear to spread, amputation should be performed forthwith, for such cases rarely escape with life if it be not done. Where in such a case should the amputation be performed ? I formerly recommended that it should be done at the part injured in the thigh. I do not now advise it to be done there at an early period, when the foot only is implicated; but immediately below the knee, at that part where, if mortification ever stops, and the patient survives, it is usually arrested; for the knee is by this means saved, and the great danger attendant on an amputation at the upper third of the thigh is avoided. When from some cause or other amputation has not been' performed, and the mortification has stopped below the knee, it is re- commended to amputate above the knee after a line of separation has formed between the dead and the living. This should not be done. The amputation should be performed in the dead parts, just below the line of separation, in the most cautious and gentle manner possible ; the morti- fied parts which remain being allowed to separate by the efforts of nature." Gangrene from Frost-bite and Severe Burns.- Erichsen lays down the principle that there are two exceptions to the rule of amputating in traumatic gangrene before the occurrence of the line of demarcation, viz., gangrene from frost-bite, and that from severe bums. During the severe winter of 1854, when the allied armies were before Sevastopol, * Holmes' System of Surgery, voL i., Art. "Gangrene." t Guthrie's Commentaries, p. 25.MORTIFICATION, OR GANGRENE. 215 Porter witnessed several cases of gangrene of the feet from exposure, both in camp and in the trenches. Those who were attacked by the disease in the trenches had their feet first wet by the mud and constant rain, when frost suddenly set in, and in consequence of the impossibility of moving about, the circulation became arrested. Those who_ were attacked in camp found their feet numb and helpless on rising in the morning, having lain down on damp ground without removing their wet socks or boots, the result frequently being loss of both feet. The treatment adopted was to control the fever of reaction, support the constitution, and allow the dead portions to separate from the living, assisting them by the means already described in gangrene from lacera- tion or braises, and subsequently detaching with great care such parts as were disorganised. This gangrene may, to a certain extent, have been brought about by a scorbutic taint, as the ulcers which remained were most difficult to heal. Acute Spreading Gangrene.*—Cheyne saysf—"All the facts point to the spread of micro-organisms in the tissues as the cause of acute spreading gangrene and phagedtena. This is a most acute and fatal form of infective inflammation, following punctured, contused, or lacerated wounds, particularly when complicated with bone or joint injuries, and where there are facihties for the retention of putrid blood and discharge in the recesses of the wound." The causes are believed to be the presence of micro-organisms which have gained access to the subcutaneous connective tissue through the wound. They spread with great rapidity, producing as they grow ptomaines or tox-albumins, which destroy the tissues by theii" direct destructive chemical action on the protoplasm of the tissue cells. The symptoms as described by Mr. Marcus Beck, are, at first, those of ordinary septic inflammation, the result of pent-up decomposing dis- charges. There is febrile disturbance of the septic type, there are pain and swelling in the wound, with a blush of redness extending for some distance on each side of it. The swelling, redness, and tension spread upwards and are speedily followed by a dusky purplish tint, by a soft doughy feeling of the part. This is accompanied by emphysematous crackling due to the presence of gases in the decomposing connective tissue. That portion of the limb which is below the gangrenous part becomes pale, cold, and oedematous. The portion which is above becomes rapidly infiltrated by serous exudation. The process has no tendency to limit itself; the oedema and peculiar discoloration extend higher along the inner side of the limb, where they always first reach the trunk. As the gangrene advances, the parts affected fall into a soft pidpy black mass. It wiU be observed that the disease extends through the con- nective tissue, the skin falling secondarily into slough. The constitutional symptoms early assume the character of acute septic poisoning, the patient sinking into a prostrate condition and the temperature falling below normal. Treatment.—It is of no use to wait for a line of demarcation. Erichsen * For report of a case see A. M. D. Report for 1886, Appendix X., page 352. t" AntUeptic Treatment of Wounds.216 MORTIFICATION, OR GANGRENE. says—Amputation should be roerformpd at n-n^o Tv.^ ^^i u In any operation that is undertaken in this class of cases the nnprafn,. "'T^i.*^\\^'"?.* ""^'^ t« ^o^^'i tis own finger In its 3orman?e disea7 of iL^r^r'^^ coLtitSSrcau~ as notice The rind ^'""^^^T- °" ^^^^^^'^ ^i^^^^^' ^^^^i^es notice. 1 Jie dead pa,rt should be wrapped m some dry absorbent dressing as iodoform gauze, boric, carbolised or mercuriahsed wool &c CriniS writes "that the best treatment in these cases is thlt so soon as tfe the oSil^t '^^^ clearly dead, and the line of demarcatloS foiiied! t-He ottensue member should be removed, not by cuttin- throu-h the living tissues but by carefully separating the dead as high as practica^^^^^^ without interfering with the Uving parts " practicable. It should be borne in mind that dead portions of tissue, if preserved boX f.';ffi;^^''''T' T ""f* ^'^'^es^arily separated en masse from the living body but are gradually absorbed.—i/wier. Bed sores (a form of gangrene from pressure which but too frequently obl ged to he for lengthened periods m the same position, after ha-.-in- undergone operations ; or m the treatment of fractures of the lower ex- tremities, probably without proper bedding, cleanliness, nursing, or fresh air; or m patients already debiUtated from exposure and want of proper nourishment; and from injury to the spinal cord and other parts of the nervous system. These sores generally appear on the sacrum, the trochanters, elbows, shoulders, heels, and back of the head. The surgeon should ever be on the watch for them, as, in very weak subjects, they give but little warning of their approach or presence. When there is a probability of long confinement, and the case is likely to be attended with constant decubitus, every precaution should be adopted, such as keeping the parts dry, the bedclothes smooth, and pillows arranged from time to time so as to prevent pressure on any particular spot. Water and air beds may be used with great advantage, but in warm climates they are heating. The skin may be hardened by the application of brandy, rectified spirits, solution of alum, tannin, tincture of iodine, collodion, or of bi- chloride of mercury composed of 2 grains to 1 ounce of spirits of wine. When bed sores do occur, removal of pressure must be carried out by some means, which, on service in the field, requires ingenuity, as the usual mechanical contrivances found in permanent hospitals may not be present, A sling for the more convenient treatment of bed sores was designedHOSPITAL GANGRENE. 217 by Porter and used with advantage in cases where the sacrum and nates were severely implicated ; it may be applied in camp or in permanent hospitals. The sling consists of a strip of West of England canvas, 18 by 24 inches. At either end it is stitched on two pieces of strong wood about the dia- meter of the common office-ruler, which keeps the canvas expanded when under the patient, and forms a means of fastening the stays, which are spliced together and attached to 3-inch blocks. These blocks have i-opes passing through them and through blocks of the same size attached to jjoles or uprights (fig. 126), by which means the shng can be raised or Fig. 126. lowered. A piece of canvas, round in shape, and 4 inches in diameter, is removed from the centre of the sling, through which the sores can be dressed or cleaned. In appljring the sling, it is necessary to place a mat- tress doubled at one end under the patient's shoulders, the thin end extending to the loins. A pillow should be placed under the knees, and, except for dressing the sores, the patient should not be raised more than 1 inch off the bed. For local application, numerous remedies have been recommended. Cleanhness shoiild be the first consideration, and the removal of sloughs if any exist. Equal parts of castor-oil and balsam copaiba may be applied. Balsam of Peru, either pure or diluted witli the yolk of egg, spread on lint, or spirits and glycerine, are useful. Salicylic or boric acid ointment have been found useful sjDread on very thin linen, and warm astringent applications, such as the tincture of catechu, mjo-rh, iodine, and the resin ointment, l\ave been spoken highly of. The health of the patient must be carefully attended to, as, -without improvement in it, the sores will not heal. HOSPITAL GANGRENE. "Putrid Ulcer," "Phagedfena Gangrenosa," "Sloughing Phagedc-ena," "Pourritured'Hdpital." =00, Forms of Hospital Gangrene.—Delpech describes three forms, the ulcerative, the pulpous, and the gangrenous.HOSPITAL GANGRENE. follows closely on the inflammation, the dead tissue forming ^a puW fs intently crt?^ous " " "^''""''^^ "^'^^ ^"""^^ and TnTiK?^??^!^ ^'P^?^ ^^^^""^^ ^^^'^^'^ °^ cleanliness ana ventilation, a so to intemperance. Guthrie said "It oric-inates aSd'^it ^om^ '^^r^^^ wounded Ln??mong and Around whom cleanliness has not been too well observed " liabWn'n^nf f usual Unsanitary Conditions which were the mn^t^hLTw I ' >'f^''' ^^^Jf^ke^-" Yet we have observed it in the most healthy hospitals, m well-ventilated corridors, in churches in barracks, and even under canvas, and that under the mo t strict hySnS observances. Can it be averted, while large numbers of wounded Se the atminf 'T' •^^^^'^^"^ ' ^^^^ ^e propagated through and SSsiSs.^ «°^tagion, by spoSges, charpie, .n?^f^of ff^ P^i-ely local affection, and that the constitutional symptoms did not make their appearance betore the third, fourth, or sometimes not till the eleventh day Hennen described the disease, as it occurred at Bilbao, in the followinc- words — Let us suppose that our wounded have all been going on weU for several days, when suddenly one of our most promising patients com- plains of severe pain in the head and eyes, a particular tightness about the forehead, want of sleep, and loss of appetite, and that these feelings are accompanied with quickness of pulse and other symptoms of fever • his wound, which had been healthy and granulating, at once becomes tumid, dry, and painful, losing its florid colour, and assuming a dry and glassy coat. This is a description of the first stage of our Bilbao hospital gangrene ; and if a brisk emetic was now exhibited, a surgeon not aware of the disease that was about to form, would be astonished at the amehoration of the sore, and the unusual quantity of bile and indigested matter evacuated by vomiting. If, however, this incipient stage was overlooked, the febrile symptoms very soon became aggravated; the skin around the sore assumed a highly florid colour, which shortly became darker, then bluish, and at last black, with a disposition to vesicate, while the rest of the limb betrayed a tendency to oedema. All these threatening appearances occurred within twenty-four hours; and at this period also the wound, particularly if it was situated on a muscular part of the thigh, buttock, or calf of the leg, whatever might have been its original shape, soon assumed the Circular Form. The sore now acquired hard, prominent, ragged edges, giving it a cup-like appearance, with particular points of the lip of a dirty-yellow hue, while the bottom of the cavity was lined with a flabby blackish slough. " This rapid progress and circular form of the ulcer were highly char- acteristic of hospital gangrene, and obtained almost universally, in every wound infected with it, wherever situated. * Obsej-vations on Military Surgery.219 HOSPITAL GANGRENE. " The gangrene still advancing, fresh sloughs were rapidly formed, the increasing cup-like cavity was filled up and overtopped by them, and the erysipelatous livor and vesication of the surrounding skin gamed ground, while chains of inflamed lymphatics could be traced from the sores to the adjoining glands, these exciting inflammation and suppuration, which often furnished a new nidus for gangrene. The face of the suffereT assumed a ghastly, anxious appearance; his eyes became haggard, and deeply tinged with bile, bis tongue loaded with a brown or blackish fur, his appetite entirely failed him. and his pulse was considerably sunk m strength, and proportionally accelerated. In this stage the weakness and irritability of the patient was such, that the slightest change of pos- ture, or the most delicate examination of the sore, put him to torture, increased by his inability to steady the limb, which, if moved at all from the bed, was seized with tremors and spasmodic twitches." Mr, Hennen speaks of the torture of this disease as something terrible — "Men," he says, "who had borne amputation without a groan, shrunk at the washing of their sores, and shuddered at the sight of a dead com- rade, or even on hearing the report of his death, instantly predicting their own dissolution, and sinking into sullen despair. The third and last stage was now fast approaching. The surface of the sore was con- stantly covered with a bloody oozing, and, on lifting up the edge of the flabby slough, the probe was tinged with dark-coloured grumous blood, with which also its track became immediately filled; repeated and copious venous bleedings now came on, which rapidly sunk the patient; the sloughs, whether falling off spontaneously, or detached by art, were quickly succeeded by others, and discovered on their removal small thickly studded specks of arterial blood. At length an artery sprung, which, in the attempt to secure it, most probably burst under the ligature. Incessant retchings soon came on, and, with coma, involuntary stools, and hiccup, closed the scene. Often, however, the patient survived this acute state of the disease, and sunk under severe irritation, absorption of putrid matter, and extensive loss of substance, without any other symptoms than those of hectic fever, arising from other sources." The muscles may become extensively exposed or destroyed, leaving a cavity with tendons, vessels, and nerves stretched across from side to side. The bones sometimes become denuded of pei-iosteum, or are attacked with the disease. Blackadder, who recorded the disease as it appeared in himself, said it commenced with local symptoms. He wounded himself accidentally with a scalpel. In the course of about sixty hours the wound became inflamed, and he was occasionally attracted to it by a smart, stinging sensation, which ultimately extended a considerable way up the arm. On the fourth day the inflammation had increased, and the stinging sensation was almost constant; headache, nausea, and general indis- position followed, with frequent chills, which increased very much to- wards evening, but which, with other symptoms, were considerably relieved by the use of neutral salts, the pediluvium, and warm diluents. A vesicle, having a depression in its centre, and having a watery fluid of a livid colour, was now forming upon a hard and elevated base ; theHOSPITAL GANGRENE. 220 surrounding mtegumenta became tumefied, of an anserine appearance, and extremely sensitive to the touch ; at about the distance of thf fourth of an inch from the base of the tumour, a distinct areola of a bluish red colour niade Its appearance, and remained visible for several days At this period circumstances rendered it necessary for him to be exposed to ivnli f "^'^^^^o considerable fatigue, and immediately afterwards to travel to a considerable distance. The inflammation, however, gradually nnS? :i stinging, accompanied by the burning sensation, still continued ; and the sore had no disposition to heal, yet it did not enlarge i^™'^^^^','^'^* disposed to burrow under the integuments Mr. Taylor, late of H. B M. 29th Regiment, experienced an epidemic at rerozepore, in India. He remarks-" First, I could tell, by the peculiar dark florid countenance of the patient, that his wound had taken on the gangrenous affection; yet I cannot say that there was in these cases any marked inflammatory fever. In many cases the disease seemed purely local; but in the great majority there was certainly much teyerish constitutional disturbance accompanying the local affection, and often preceding it." The causes of this disease are, then, associated with the growth of micrococci m the wound; consequently, it is highly contagious, and, therefore, aggravated by overcrowding of patients. Experience has shown that when once a building has been contaminated with this disease it will be dangerous to place in it any woimded men • the building- ought to be vacated. ° There is no doubt as to its highly contagious and infectious character, that it is capable of being transmitted by nurses, clothing, dressin^-s' instruments, sponges, and by atmospheric dust; that it attacks wounds m every stage and condition; that it can be inoculated ; that it is generally aggravated by overcrowding of wounded, bad ventilation, want of cleanliness, privation, intemperance, and previous exposure, but that there are occasions when it occurs in the form of an epidemic, notwith" standing the most rigid and careful sanitary regulations ; that it appears in all climates, in all seasons and weather, the wet and moist or very cold being most favourable to its production; and, finally, that there may be predisposing causes, such as patients having a scorbutic taint, an enfeebled constitution, or a nervous system depressed by the effects of a severe operation. The symptoms in every feature of the disease have been so AveU described by Hennen, Blackadder, and Taylor, in the foregoing remarks, that it is not necessary to repeat them. With regard to the treatment of this formidable disease, no specific has as yet been laid down for its cure, but each medical officer who has had the misfortune to meet with it has recommended such treatment as he found most successful. The first consideration of the surgeon will be to try and prevent a further spread of the disease, by removal of the infected jiatient from among the other wounded, and by prophylactic measures, such as the use of antiseptics, plenty of fresh air, strict sanitary arrangements in and about the hospital buildings, destruction by fire of all dressings, the221 ERYSIPELAS. total disuse of sponges, cleanliness among the patients, attendants, clothing, and bedding, evacuation of infected buildings, and fumigation of them. The sufferer will have to be considered with respect to local and con- stitutional symptoms. For the former, the careful and strict use of the most potent antiseptics such as corrosive sublimate lotion, iodoform, &c., is required, but if these should fail then all sloughs should be removed as far as possible, and an antesthetic having been administered, the parts should be thoroughly swabbed out by a caustic such as nitric acid, acid nitrate of mercury, pure carbolic acid, chloride of zinc, &c. Professor von Nussbaum, of Munich, testifies as to the great benefit to be derived from practising Lister's antiseptic dressings in the treatment of this affection. He writes—" Hospital gangrene had got the upper hand to such an extent that 80 per cent, of all wounds and ulcers were attacked, and after five years' experience he states that any recent wound treated by this method is guaranteed against pyaemia, hospital gangrene, erysipelas, &c."—Glieyne* Professor Vollonann, of HaUe, gives a similar experience, he had an unhealthy hospital, yet upon adopting Listerian dressings, infective dis- eases which were attacking every patient disappeared at once.—Cheyne. Blackadder recommends the use of Fowler's solution of arsenic as an escharotic; he found that it answered well in arresting the progress of the disease at Passages and at Antwerp, Constitutional Treatment will consist in giving whatever food and stimulants the patient can take and digest, combined with quinine, opium, ammonia, &c. ERYSIPELAS. Erysipelas belongs to the infective class of disease. It frequently attacks sick and wounded in civil and military hospitals, it is un- doubtedly contagious. Pehleisen saysf it is due to the growth of micro-organisms in the tissues which he named the streptococcus erysipela- tosus; the streptococci extend into the lymph spaces and canals of the skin, and he has produced erysipelas in man by the inoculation of the cultivated specimens of streptococci, but has never been able to discover them in the blood-vessels in true erysipelas. He denies that the strepto- coccus of erysipelas possesses pyogenic properties; but when suppuration takes place, as in phlegmonous erysipelas, it is due to the presence of another pyogenic streptococcus. Infection most frequently occurs through accidental or intentional wounds, however insignificant they may be. Experiments have shown that the time of incubation is from fifteen to sixty-one hours. Infection may also take place through a mucous surface as well as through the skin. Erysipelas has generally been arranged in three divisions—"(1) The * Antiseptic Surgery. t " Micro-Parasites in Disease," New Sydenham Society, 1886.222 ERYSIPELAS. cutaneous ; (2) the cellulo-cutaneous, or phlegmonous; and (3) the ceUuHH« or diffuse inflammation of the connective tt^sue," whS Sleisen saSf IS not erysipelas. ' ^ emeisen says The first, or cutaneous, is known by redness of the skin whiVli a:. appears momentarily on pressure, withLvere Turning or siS'pafns" and sweUing from effusion into the cellular tissue. The intensity of thp redness, which is the characteristic symptom of this disease Tl Vepend very much upon the state of health of the patient, as ik debihtated subjects It takes on more of a yellowish tint. In tSs form miW LTaSnd'crus?' 'PP'"' ''^'^^ day, when the^ The constitutional symptoms of idiopathic erysipelas, caused by the absorption into the blood of ptomaines, are thus described by Fehleilen- An initial shivering, the characteristic sharply-defined redness, the more or less rapid spreading on the surface (the so-called migration of the rose , the progress of the fever, and finally terminating in resolution and healing without suppuration or abscess, confirm the diagnosis of true erysipelas. Traumatic erysipelas is of a more serious nature and if there IS a wound or granulating surface, it takes on an unhealthy action ■ * ^'^'^^^'^^ become flabby, and covered with thin serum, instead ot Healthy pus ; granulations become pale and more or less absorbed or the wound may become dry and the edges swollen ; and when there is a tendency in a wound to unite, the adhesions give way. On the other Jiand, an attack of erysipelas has sometimes a distinct therapeutic effect upon wounds and tumours. In the second, or cellulo-cutaneous or phlegmonous, the redness is deeper, sometimes even dusky or purple ; inflammation extends deeper into the tissues, and, if neglected, will terminate in diffuse suppuration or sloughing of them, extending even to the intermuscular septa, the sfieatfis of the vessels and tendons, or the tendons themselves • the swelhng is much greater, is hard and brawny, pitting on pressure • the pam IS severe and throbbing. ' _ The constitutional symptoms, due also to absorption of ptomaines, as in the cutaneous form, but more intensified, will, however, soon assume a typhoid character if the patient is weak and has been subjected to much privation and exposure; but, if under the influence of proper treatment, and the patient is strong, the inflammation will subside and the disease will gradually disappear. In the so-called third kind, a cellulitis or diffuse inflammation, the disease affects the connective tissue primarily, and the skin seconda'rily. It is characteristic by the same local and constitutional signs and symptoms as phlegmonous erysipelas, but more intense. As the disease advances, the skin becomes mottled, livid in patches, and rapidly runs into blackish sloughs. It may extend to any distance up a limb, and even invade the trunk ; it will also affect the sheaths of the vessels and tendons, and the tendons themselves. The joints may also become involved, and bones be denuded of periosteum and become necrosed. The treatment which should be adopted in the first form must be, to clear out the stomach and bowels by an ipecacuanha emetic andERYSIPELAS. 223 mercurial purge. Then the condition of the patient as regards con- stitution, age, and previous habits will be the best guide. Should he be young and robust, spare diet and diaphoretics, with the local application of warm carbolised or mercurial lotions, wiU be sufficient; but in men who have loeen exposed to privations, or who may be debilitated from any cause, when the disease assumes a lower tjqDe, ammonia, bark, camphor, tincture of the sesquichloride of iron, wine, and nutritious diet should he administered. The tincture of iron and also of quinine have been found most beneficial, acting speedily. In the milder forms, nothing cold should be applied. The part may be dusted with flour, starch-powder or peat-powder, and then covered up with cotton wool. Often hot fomentations of chamomile or poppy-heads will soothe the irritation that exists. Erichsen says—"At University College Hospital, the treatment recommended by Valette, of Lyons, has been tried in several cases with very good results. A 30 per cent._ solu- tion of perchloride of iron is pre^Dared (roughly gi of solid perchloride to §iv of water), forty minims of this solution may be given internally every two or three hours, and externally the pure solution is applied to the inflamed area. Valette insists that this must be done thoroughly, the solution must not merely be painted on, it must be rubbed in with a piece of lint or cotton wool. The application is repeated twice a day as long as it is necessary." Dr. Behrend, of Sarga, recommends washing the parts afltected with absolute alcohol three times a day. He says the progress of the disease is at once arrested. * Dr. Ebstein, of Breslau, advocates inunction with a 5 per cent, carbolic vaseline. * In the ceUulo-cutaneous form, the object is to prevent the inflamma- tion running into a state of gangrene ; for this purpose purgatives and diaphoretics should be administered in the first instance. If the disease advance to supjjuration or gangrene, it will be necessary to support the patient by tonics, stimulants, and generous diet. The parts should be kept at rest and elevated. Fomentations, with chamomile or poppy- head applications, may soothe the disease, but if it become brawny, indurated, and tense, and likely to advance to suppuration and gangrene, incisions should be made to relieve the tension—several small ones being preferable to one long one. The wounds should be dressed antiseptically with warm wet antiseptic lint covered with w^aterproof. The parts having first been sprinkled with iodoform, the limb should he. raised, and a smooth bandage applied firmly but evenly to assist the circulation in the weakened tissues, but iodoform cannot be relied upon alone, carbolic or sublimate lotion should be used in addition. _ Burrowing of pus under the skin must be prevented by following up sinuses and dividing unhealthy vascular connections. Tissues in a state of slough or gangrene will have to be gently removed, as their presence may produce most serious consequences by their decomposed condition. In the treatment of cellulitis, support may be required from the first. The local treatment is the same as in phlegmonous erysipelas. * Year Book, 1890.224 PHLEBITIS. The after-consequences of the cellulo-cutaneous form and ceUulitis inflammation has extSed to he ^fffn.l ^ • • .^'^^^^^^ and the tendons themselves. There may be wWe the W LTl ^"^t'-a^tion of the fingers, wrist, elbow, and knee! mot on. r^2^1 •^'T'"-*' ™afc*«<l together that the bones mavtfpi y impaired, if not destroyed, or the joints and bones may be so diseased as to require amputation of the limb j,ftp. !l.t^r^ """"^ ^'^"'^^ *o ™eet with diffuse inflammation dntv t'lV'^"''''^'! ^"/"^ ^'^^"'^^ f'^o™ «Pli^ters of wood. Soldiers doing anim«k * departments, and employed in the slaughtering of animals are very hable to the disease. h« voJ appearance of erysipelas, the infected individual should « from the vicmity of the sick or wounded or, better still, the sick or wounded should be removed from the vicinity of the erysipelas : tne latter m_ most cases being utterly impracticable, aU that the surgeon can do is to isolate the sufferer and prevent all communication between enforced patients, hygienic measures being at the same time PHLEBITIS. Inflammation of the veins may be divided into two kinds—idiopathic and traumatic. The idiopathic form as a primary affection is rare, it is usually con- nected with thrombosis, and is met with in gouty subjects and after fevers, and is found most frequently in the long saphenous vein, but occasionally in the deeper veins. "Traumatic phlebitis," Erichsen says, "maybe simple and local, or septic and spreading. The coats of a vein in the same way as any other tissue become inflamed, if submitted to any injury of sufficient intensity, whether it be the application of a ligature in a surgical operation, acci- dental _ mechanical violence, or the action of caustics. As the result of an injury, a clot forms within the vein, and ultimately may become absorbed, or the vessel may become obliterated. But, if the discharges of a wound are in a septic condition, the thrombus in the plugged vein may become infected with micro-organisms. It then softens and decom- poses, and thus excites inflammation in the coats of the vein spreading beyond the part originally injured. Portions of the softened clot are washed on giving rise to dissemination of septic emboli and pyeemia. It is this that has been mistaken for the spreading inflammation of the vein as the primary affection, and led the earlier pathologists to associate phlebitis with pyaemia." Diffuse septic inflammation in the connective tissue may also involve the coats of the veins in the infected area. The Symptoms.—An enlargement of the vein, which becomes hard, swollen, painful, and knobbed, having a reddish-purple colour; stiffness, and severe twitches through the limb, with hard, tense feel, and pitting on pressure, from the state of oedema. Much stress has been laid on this latter symptom by some authorities as a diagnostic sign in deep-SEPTICEMIA. 225 seated thrombosis, when the vein cannot be felt, and may be the first symptom noticed. "The oedema may give rise to a hard, white, and tense condition of the limb, which pits on pressure, though in some cases the hardness is too great for this." These symptoms may be relieved by the clot becoming absorbed under suitable treatment; but should the disease become septic, there will be high fever, shivering, and the usual symptoms denoting that suppuration has taken place, or is about to do so. The treatment of the idiopathic variety will consist in most perfect rest; warm ai)plications, such as fomentations, &c., and when the patient can bear it, the administration of saline purgatives. Erichsen highly praises the application of extract of belladonna and glycerine in equal parts, covered by a thick layer of cotton wool and a bandage, but care should be taken not to disturb, irritate, or break the thrombosis. If there is depression, it will be necessary to administer ammonia, bark, and stimulants. In suppurative phlebitis local abscesses may form, which run their course like other abscesses, and are bound and limited by inflammation, so preventing their contents entering the vessels, and mingling with the current of the blood; they should be opened under antiseptic precautions, and the patient will require all the sustaining that is possible by food, wme, and medicine. It is generally pysemic in character, and commences as an_ ordinary case of inflammation of the veins, but soon takes on alarmmg symptoms, characterised by extreme prostration, dry brown tongue, fluttering pulse, sordes on the teeth and mouth, diarrhoea, dehrram, and death. Such a case would require the same line of treatment as that recom- mended for erysipelas of the worst form, or pyaemia. SEPTICEMIA. True sepsis is looked upon as a general infection from some local source, unattended by any gross pathological changes. Septicjemia is used to express a condition that may arise from two dififerent causes— (1) irue progressive septicemia, caused by the introduction of microbes into the_ tissues, where they multiply, and later reach the blood. (2) baprtemia, putrid intoxication, in which few or no microbes are found ptomaines * ^^'^^^^ ^^'^^^ entirely to the presence of Septic Intoxication or Saprgemia is a condition which may occur when- ever the discharges from a wound are allowed to accumulate in sufficient quantity and to decompose. It is now thought that the fever accom- panying large recent \younds, in which decomposing matter is in contact with the raw surface, is in great part or entirely due to the absorption of the poisonous chemical products, tox-alhumim, of the putrefaction, and that this fever continues until the surface becomes covered by healthy granulation tissue, which is believed to prevent further absorption, * Surgical Bactei-iology, Senn. 15SEPTICAEMIA. 226 unless the se|-)tic fluids are pent up in contact with it at some degree of pressiire. The condition necessary for its rapid absorption would be found in all recent wounds, the raw surfaces of which, before they are covered by healthy granulation tissue, form one of the most active absorbing surfaces conceivable. The poison does not multiply in the body, and, according to Koch, no organisms are found in the blood of animals suffering from septic intoxication. " This form of sepsis may be caused by any microbes, otherwise harmless, or only with slight pathogenic properties, as the bacilli of putrefaction, which cause putre- faction in any dead tissue and the symptoms arise as the ptomaines are absorbed, and are proportionate to the amount absorbed and subside with the cessation of absorption and their elimination through some of the excretory organs-"* The term septic intoxication is used to express the condition when a sufficient quantity of the poison has been absorbed within a few days of the injury or operation to endanger life. The milder effects of the same poison are classed as traumatic fever, and the continued absorption of small quantities over a long period produces the condition termed septicemia. _ Septicaemia is also applied to the condition due to septic infection, as distinct from septic poisoning. This is a true infective process, started m the organism by the introduction through a wound of some pathogenic micro-organisms which multiply in the body, and produce effects which are not directly proportional to the dose. Chej'ne writesf —'' Continued absorption of the poisonous material from wounds will keep up a feverish state, with all the symptoms of septicemia. In other cases micrococci grow in the tissues of the wounds, and pour their products or ptomaines into the blood. Here micrococci may be found in the blood, but the essential seat of disease is in the tissues. In a third form, micrococci grow in the blood, and multiplying there give rise to the symptoms. In a fourth form, organisms grow in the blood, but they belong to the class bacilli." "The symptoms of septic poisoning and septic infection are very similar, and difficult, if not impossible, to distinguish clinically, a chill or rigor on the second day, followed by feverishness, headache, loss of appetite, a quick pulse, a dry furred tongue, and delirium at night. On the third day after the injury, some disturbance of the alimentary tract sets in, vomiting is common, but diarrhoea is not frequent. In very acute cases syinptoras of collapse quickly set in, the pulse becomes rapid, feeble, and irregular, the tongue dry and brown, and the lips covered with sordes ; the temperature falls, consciousness is lost, and the patient may become comatose before death. DyspncEa is a common symptom during the last day. The skin may assume a yellowish tint and purpuric spots appear, and the body evolve a sickly odour. The urine sometimes contains albumen." "Post-mortem Appearances.--In extremely acute cases the signs of decomposition set in early, and the cutaneous veins mark the surface. Rigor mortis is often fully marked, the blood is often imperfectly coagu- * Surgical Bacteriology, Senu. u t Antiseptic Treatment of Wounds, p. 23.PYEMIA. 227 lated, with visceral congestion, subserous petechise, early and intense po>it-morlem staining, and usually a swollen and softened spleen. In some cases there is pneumonic consolidation of the luug, and there may be pleurisy, with blood-stained effusion."—Erichsen* Treatment.—Locally thorough antiseptic treatment of the wound, plenty of fresh air, and everything that could sustain and strengthen the flagging powers, as wine, brandy, quinine, &c. PYEMIA. The science of bacteriology has quite demonstrated that pyasmia can no longer be considered a specific disease. It has been shown that in pyaemic products one or more kinds of the pyogenic cocci are always present,^ thus estabhshing the direct relationship between a suppurating process in some parts of the body and the development of metastatic or pyasmic abscesses. Pyaemia, then, depends upon an e.xtension of the suppurating process from the primary seat of infection and suppuration in distant organs, by the transportation of emboli infected with pus microbes through the systemic circulation. The distant or metastatic abscesses contain the same microbes as are f(jund in the wound secre- tions, or the abscess from which the purulent infection took place. _ It also has been proved that the introduction of pus microbes into the circulation is not necessarily or even usually followed by pyaemia, if they do gain entrance their pathogenic action is prevented by an adequate resistance on the part of the tissues, and they are effectively disposed of by the leucocytes (phagocytosis). If, however, the same number of microbes are present in combination with fragments of a blood-clot or other solid materials which, after they have become impacted in the blood-vessels by embolism, produce sucli alterations in the tissues sur- rounding them as to prepare the parts for their pyogenic action. The same happens, if free pus microbes localise in a part the vitality of which has been previously diminished by a trauma, or by antecedent i)athological changes which render them weak, and unable to offer sufficient resistance to the growth and development of pathogenic micro-organisms.f Eosenbach divides the cases of pyagmia into two chief groups. The first is represented by cases which occur in connection with larger or smaller local affections, always, however, of considerable size, such as a suppurating joint or compound fracture, an abscess unopened or im- perfectly opened, &c. The main point in these cases is that the general symptoms are maintained by local deposits, whicli are continuously supplying the body with morbid materials. Here we see the patients pme away and die with hectic fever, and often without any other note- W()rthy symptom. The second group consist of cases in Which there is not necessarily anythmg worthy the name of a local centre The infec- tive material often enters through a small puncture, or scratch, or boil, &c. ihe main point in these cases is that a general pyjemic affection • Erichsen's Surgery. Eighth Edition, t Surgical Bacteriology, Seiin.PYEMIA. 228 follows a single, often very transitory infection, without the presence of a permanent local centre. Surgeon Sandford Moore, 4th Dragoon Guards, who had considerable experience when aiding the sick and wounded during the Franco-German War (lb70-71), remarks:-" Pyaemia and hospital gangrene proved as great scourges as ever in the hospitals. It seemed extraordinary how these diseases appeared in some buildings and not in others, although both apparently presented the same conditions for attracting the disease." tie also says that the diseases do not occur in hospital buildings until they have been occupied for at least ten days. He has not seen the diseases occur m a room for only one patient unless it was previously occupied by wounded, nor has he seen them occur among patients m the upper stories of a house. A room once poisoned, no disinfection or white-washing seems to be sufificient to drive away the poison imme- diately, for the remaining patients placed in the room speedily become pysemic also; and men with slight as well as severe wounds take pygemia. " The attack is usually very sudden, coming on generally between the tenth and twentieth days after receipt of injury, and is marked by severe rigor, followed by profuse perspiration, which will in all probabQity leave the patient apparently well, but will recur in a day or so, pro- ducing great depression, the pulse becoming feeble, rapid, or variable, often intermittent, and the temperature high, but is subject to consider- able fluctuation. The rigor may be preceded by secondary hsemorrhage, described as parenchymatous haemorrhage, characterised by general oozing from the surface of the wound or stump. "The sufferer maybe attacked with cough, vdth or without expec- toration, pleurisy, pneumonia, bronchitis, by peritonitis, pericarditis, or effusion in the head ; but these complications may be entirely absent, or exist separately. The appetite disappears, the tongue becomes dry and brown, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhoea supervene, the countenance becomes yellow or jaundiced, delirium sets in at night. The temper- ature is subject to considerable fluctuations of a marked character, and perspirations are still more profuse and exhausting, preceded by severe rigors ; abscesses rapidly form in the joints, or among the various tissues of the body ; these are of a widely-spread character, and very insidious, as they often occur without any local signs (the pus sometimes infiltrating the cellular tissue and muscles of a trunk to a great extent), and are most frequently met with in the axilla, in the groin, back, iliac fossa, thigh and calf of the leg, giving rise to much suffering and exhaustion, from which the patient rapidly sinks. The disease may be at first mistaken for ague, rheumatism, or typhoid fever, but the continued rigors, followed by profuse perspirations, exhaustion, and suppuration, will soon declare the true nature of the disease." The prognosis is most unfavourable. The disease is usually fatal, mild cases may recover, but when it is acute, the rigors quickly follow one another: when the pulse is unsteady, the temperature high, and the patient restless, the disease will in all probability prove rapidly fatal.229 OSTEO-MYELITIS. The treatment consists in giving brandy, wine, ammonia, bark, quinine, and nutritious diet : above all, hygienic measures must be strictly enforced as far as possible, which may be a difficult point to attend to, when the accommodation may be limited, the weather inclement, and no means of preventing overcrowding. The surgeon should keep in view the experience obtained during the war of 1870 71, when it was observed that pyteoiia occurred most frequently in permanent buildings ; next in frequency in huts, and least of all in tents. Pure air is of the greatest importance, and one must ever remember the remarks of Sir J. Paget, who declares that tlie feiu patients ichom he had known to recover from the disease, owed their lives to being kept in a current of fresh air. The local treatment will require that free openings of all pus collections under antiseptic precautions must be established and perfect drainage maintained, and every means used by antiseptic applications to destroy and prevent any jjutrefaction that may have been set up in the wound discharges or the tissues themselves. But the great object must be to prevent this class of disease by such treatment of wounds as has been pi'oved to be able to do so ; and at the same time to remember that, in addition to the antiseptic local treatment, the surrounding sanitary conditions are of the first imijortance. Operations during Pysemia. —The opinion given by Sir J. Paget is, that, witli acute pyaemia, in which the patient has rigors once or more in a few days, and profuse sweatings with very rapid pulse and breathing, and with delirium, and rapid wasting, or with dry tfingue and 3'ellowness of skin, or any considerable number of these symptoms, the i)robability of good is so small and of harm so great that you should refuse to operate. But if the pysemia have become chronic, attended with only wasting and sweating and the formation of abscesses here and there, and if the injured part be manifestly useless, or a source of irritation or of exhaustion, the mere existence of pyjemia in the chronic form need not deter the surgeon from the necessary operation. OSTEO-MYELITIS. Acute septic inflammation in bone is now considered to be a purulent process due to the presence of some of the pyogenic inicro-organisms, and tliat the rapid diffusion of the process is largely due to the unyielding nature of the tissues: general dissemination and metastatic foci in distant organs, or in other bones, are often observed because the microbes re-enter the circulation again, and by so doing cause thrombosis ; and subsequently intravascular growth and general dissemination from such centres of germ growth take place. In some cases, even during the earliest stages, the general symptoms are out of all proportion to the local lesion, presenting a clinical picture characteristic of intense septic intoxication.* Cheyne saysf—"The irritation may be due to organised irritants, such * Siir-yica! Baderiology, Senn. t Antiseptic Surgery.230 OSTEO-MYELITIS. as the micrococcus and bacillus, which have the power of t?rowinir in the mng tissues of the animal body. These organisms having glS fccess to the wound may spread until they reach the periosteum or the medulla and thus set up an acute septic periostitis or osteo-u.yelitis wiJh acute ^nnr'^'r?,^'"" T'y^""'-^' death of the bone may nJt be exlnd ui°b.t'f?;f'^ P'-'^'^r' •^"^ th^B-n^rmrative infiammatLJ may extend up beneath the periosteum or in the medulla, giving rise to acute suppurative periostitis or acute osteo-myelitis, in either case leading to S: tit. rSt aTfh" Um^e."'^ '^'^ ^^^"^ endangering^he It was remarked during the Franco-Prussian War, 1870-71, that gun- shot fractures, owing either to the nature of the missile or to the trans- port ot the patients, were attended in a most remarkable manner bv suppurative osteo-myelitis and pyaemia. The presence of the disease may be suspected when, after an operation or injury, the patient is attacked with shivering, deep-seated pain, and swelling. If It be an amputated bone, the medulla will protrude like a tungus, and the periosteum will be detached from the bone, the soft parts retoct, and the bone appear dry and discoloured. Fayrer says *—" The symptoms in this formidable disease are, in the outset said to be obscure. The local symptoms, no doubt, may be so when the affected bone is unexposed or undivided. The constitutional symptoms are those of pyemia, and, at tlie outset, may be mistaken for a mere access of fever, a rigor such as may follow any surgical operation or may occur from other causes. But as the local and constitutional symptoms progress, the doubt is soon cleared up. The symptoms, in the acute form, generally make their appearance early (within a week or ten days, or it may be earlier) after the operation, wound, or injury. Ihe stump, wound, or contusion, may have been doing well. It may, perhaps, have sloughed a little, and the sloughs have cleared away', healthy granulations having appeared. The flaps may have united almost by the first intention, or all but at a point or two, whence dis- charge continues. The pain is not necessarily acute, and the tenderness on pressure of the stump is but slightly increased. The discharge becomes more profuse, but it is not healthy, well-elaborated pus. A probe being introduced, the bone is found dry and denuded, and, if exposed, the medulla will probably be found protruding like a fungus, whilst the periosteum is stripped from the end of the bone. With all this there may have been only a quickened pulse ; or a febrile condition at some time of the day, the tempierature at others being at, or even below, the natural standard ; or rigors, as yet so slight as hardly to have attracted attention, may have occurred. Such are the early stage and symptoms, local and constitutional. These rapidly progress and develop themselves in the most marked manner. And now the critical period has arrived when it is necessary to make a thorough examination, and decide the question whether it be osteo-myelitis or not. Exploration should be made with the finger, the stump, if necessary, being sufficiently reopened to admit of doing so, and the condition of the bone should bo * Clinical Surgery in India.OSTEO-MYELITIS. 231 carefully examined and ascertained. In incipient cases the medulla will be found i>rotruding like a fungus, and the bone surrounding it exposed to a greater or lesser extent. At a later period, the end of the meduUa is found already blackened and encrusted, but within it is a putrid mass of bone debris and pus—a probe readily passing down the entire length of the shaft. In the former stage you can wait and watch progress, the mischief may be limited, and a ring of bone be thrown off. But in the latter case immediate interference is necessary, and nothing less than amputation, either at or above the next joint, will suflBce. The consti- tutional symptoms will also have indicated the necessity for interference, and they are the symptoms of pycemia of a marked character." "The condition of the soft parts must not deceive. It is no uncommon thing to see the dead and putrid bone lying in the midst of perfectly healthy soft parts, and therefore the condition of the bone and the con- stitutional symptoms must be the guide as to the time and necessity for operation." M. Jules Roux, in consequence of the fatal results of amputation and resection for this disease, proposed and carried out disarticulation of the injured bone. Of twenty-two cases in which he performed secondary disarticulation of joints for osteo-myeUtis, aU recovered ; whereas every soldier died whose limb was secondarily amputated through the con- tinuity of the injured bone, after the battles of Magenta, MontebeUo, and Solferino. Fayrer urges the removal of the limb at the next joint above the affected bone. He says, in the cases of the hip and shoulder, disarticu- lation, of course, alone is practicable ; whereas, in the leg and forearm, the respective advantages of disarticulation at the elbow or knee may fairly be questioned—and he has no hesitation in siiying that, except in cases of endemic tendency to osteo-myeiitis, section of the humerus or femur, in their lower third, is as good an operation as disarticulation, if not better than the latter. The great point to be attained is the removal of the whole of the suppurating bone. Whenever there is an endemic tendency to osteo-myelitis in a hospital, this disarticulation, though, in itself, inferior as an operation to section of the bone (according to his view in the case of the elbow and knee), should be preferred to amputa- tion through the bone, as the fresh bone-wound might, under the endemic influence, give rise to a fresh attack. Operative measures should be adopted at an early period, before pysemic sj'mptoms have commenced to appear, as, once that disease has set in, amputation, disarticulation, or excision are of no avail. It is, however, a difficult point to decide how long amputation may be deferred on the chance of the mischief being limited, and the diseased part thrown off without the constitution being affected. The constitutional treatment in this disease should be improvement of the system by tonics, wine, nutriment, change of air, and strict attention to hygienic conditions.ANTHRAX. 232 ANTHRAX. sol?s'Ese.''^^'^^^'°' "Contagious Carbuncle," "Wool- A specific contagious disease communicated to man from the diseasA of horned cattle, horses, sheep and other herbivora known as tZn^o Qu2^T^ '^"^ '° 'y^'^^ «^ bkcXs anSrS.- There are three forms of the disease met with in man, the cutaneous the pulmonary, and the gastro-lntestinal. ' ^"^aneous, ihe cutaneous form is caused by direct inoculation on one of the morp usually exposed parts of the body, as the face, neck, haSd or arm and is of an"mair°" ^^'^ ^^"^ hair, Ind hidej The pulnionari^ s^nd intestinal forms are due to infection by means of the atuQospheric germ-laden dust which is either breathed, o/swaSSwed m the food and drink by those exposed to its influences. In 1880 there was an outbreak of the disease at Bradford, where it was called wool! sorters disease,' and the force of the disease fell upon the respiratorv organs. In the intestinal form the stress falls upon the gastrrSS ST'tib^enlrSi^^^ ^^^^'-^^ . ''T^^' the charbon or malignant pustule, begins as a small red inflamed and itching spot which in twelve or fifteen hours vesiculates, the skin beneath the vesicle appearing as a dry brown or black slough In the course of the second day another crop of vehicles appears round the original seat of disease, the parts around become cedematous. In this stage of the disease there is little pain, the slou-h IS always dry and there is no pus, the sloughing spreads from the skin down to the subcutaneous tissue instead of as in carbuncle from the latter to the former.f In cases of charbon the constitutional symptoms may be slight or wanting. But when the general system is involved the symptoms may present great variety, but there is generally great mental depression and physical exhaustion, cold sweats, diarrhoea, followed by delirium and coma. In internal anthrax the symptoms may be general or accompanied by local afltections, usually pulmonary or gastro-intestinal, but they are generally such as we connect with extreme prostration, gi-eat mental depression and anxiety. The chief post-mortem lesions, are scattered haemorrhages m various organs; difltuse cellular exudations, congestion of lungs, and frequently a swollen and pulpy condition of the spleen. This disease in all its varieties is due to the presence of the anthrax bacillus in the connective tissue of some part of the body. Koch states that in animals and man the bacillus can enter the organism either *J)iclionarp of Medicine. t T/ie Practice of Surgery, Bryant.233 TETANUS. through the skin, or through the mucous membrane of the gastro- intestinal canal or respiratory passages. This bacillus is destroyed by a temperature of 60° C. and decomposition soon destroys it, but the sporea retain their vitality for years and are unaffected by ordinary dangers of climate or temperature. Treatment. —Charhon, being at its origin local, Bryant says, should be locally treated, and there can be no doubt that excision of the inflamed and vesiculated area is the best practice to adopt even in advanced cases. The bodies of animals which have died from splenic fever should be burnt and not buried, for Pasteur has shown that in cases where infected bodies have been buried, the pasturage over their graves has been directly infected, and thus caused fresh outbreaks of splenic fever owing to the earth worms bringing the bacilli to the surface, and spuming them in their casts over the fresh grass. M. Pas tear has also proved that sheep can be protected from the ravages of splenic fever (due to anthrax) by the vaccination of them with attenuated tox-albumins caused by the growth of these bacilli in suitable media. TETANUS. The infectious nature of tetanus was suspected for a long time, but it is only quite recently that the real microbic cause was discovered almost simultaneously by Nicolaier and Rosenbach. Nicolaier found a bacillus in earth which produced tetanus in animals bj' inoculation. Rosenbach found a similar bacillus in the jtos of a patient suffering from traumatic tetanus. The bacillus has been found in different kinds of soil and in street dust. In man it has been found in tetanic patients in the wound secretions, in the nerves leading from the seat of infection, and in the spinal cord. The question then arises, is the disease of which the bacillus is the specific cause due to the presence of the microbe, or of its products (ptomaines) in the organism? Brieger has demonstrated beyond all doubt that the ptomaines of the bacillus tetani cause tetanic convul- sions. * M. Verneuil traces the infection to horses. This view has received great credit in France. Horse dung seems especially open to suspicion, and thus it is found that ordinary dust, garden earth, and surface soil play an important part in the causation of tetanus, f There are two varieties of this disease—the idiopathic and traumatic ; the former seemingly connected with exposure to cold or damp, particu- larly if the body has been previously exposed to heat and perspiring ; and the latter to some kind of injury, in which exposure to cold may predispose to its attack, as occurred after the battles of Feroxepore and Chillianwallah, when the wounded were exposed during the cold nights, after very hard work during the day in a burning sun. It also occurred in Egypt under the same circumstances, as mentioned by Larrey; and * Surgical Bacteriology, Senn, p. 153. t Bril. Med. Join:, Oct. 25, 1890, p. 9-15.234 TETANUS. ^?Sff?f! ^'f,*^' of Ticondergo when the wounded were exposed the whole nigh t after the action m open boats upon Lake George degree.'^'"^'"'"' '"^ ^"^^ exactly the same, but'they may vary in The experience of army surgeons is, that tetanus may supervene on every description and in every stage of wounds, from the Ili "htest to the Te mo^i^m^l^anV^' ^"'^ -cised ind ut^^^^^^^ the most simple and the most complicated ; in all cmstitutions • in the strong and robust, and in the feeble and debilitated. It is however EwereT* t debilitated subjects when the nervous'sy tem l^ IZll ^i IB more comnion in hot than cold climates. It occurs in all the weather ^^"'"'P^^^^' ^^st common during sudden changes of ^^•'•fiiu°'P'''"^*^^^'™^*^^.*^e disease seldom supervenes before the fourth or htth day. In hot climates it may appear sooner; but it may take has cicatrised'''"'' infliction of the injury, even after the wound Tetanus maybe acute or chronic, the former proving in general rapidly tatal, and the latter continuing for a considerable period. The further the prolongation of the disease, the better are the prospects of recovery 1 he disease is^ generally ushered in by a disturbed state of the digestive organs, with a feeling of malaise, a sense- of weakness, and general de- pression ; stillness or soreness about the jaw, face, and neck : inability to swallow food or drink. As the disease advances, there is pain in the pit of the stomach, spasms of the voluntary muscles, the countenance assumes an aged and agonised expression, the angles of the mouth bein^^ drawn up (risus mrdo}iicus). Cramps and pains wiU attack the muscles ot the legs ; difficulty of breathing will set in M'ith a loud sobbing from spasms of the diaphragm. The skin will be hot, the pulse quick, and the perspiration profuse with a pungent odour. The mind in all probability will remain clear, but the sleeplessness will cause much distress. The muscles of the trunk become affected, the body being sometimes bent back forming an arch (opisthotono.s), or to one side; or the body may be straight stiff, and rigid, with the belly drawn in and chest expanded ; or the body may be arched forward (emprosthotonos). There may be constipation, but the sufferer will have perfect control of the bladder. Ihe voice will be weak from spasmodic contraction of the muscles of the chest and neck. The temperature generally becomes very high, particularly immediately before death, which occurs from exhaustion. The sufferer may have short intervals of relief, the spasm being again induced by a slight current of air passing over the body, by taking food or fluids, or by shifting his position or the bed-clothes. Hennen remarks—" Happy should I be could I afford anything satis- factory on this dreadful complaint; but, in truth, my observations have tended more to sliow me what I could not trust to, than what I could place the smallest reliance on, when the disease was fully formed;" and further on he says—" I have never been fortunate enough to cure a case of Acute Symptomatic Tetanus; in some instances of the Chronic speciesTETANUS. 235 I have effected or witnessed relief." Compare these remarks, written fifty-five years ago, with what Mr. Erichsen now says—" Nothing can be more unsatisfactory than the treatment of the acute form of traumatic tetanus. In it all medicines are useless as curative agents ; but though medicines are of no avail as means of cure, they may act as palliatives and afford relief to the patient.'' The line of treatment must be local, constitutional, and, if we believe in the microbic origin of the disease, thoroughly antiseptic. For this purpose, if there is a wound, it should be most carefully cleansed, and all extraneous substances, such as jjieces of clothing, bullets, and splinters of bone, should be removed. If matter is pent up, it must be evacuated; and, if the wound is inflamed, an endeavour should be made to bring it to a healthy state, taking care at the same time to guard against changes of temperature by suitable coverings if the nights are cold. Section of Nerve.—When tetanic symptoms have been induced by puncture or laceration of a nerve, Larrey recommended that the nerve should be divided, and was successful in the treatment. This expedient has also been adopted by others, and with satisfactory results. Professor Fayrer, of Calcutta, mentions a case of tetanus caused by a wound of the hand, and relieved by section of the median nerve. A case of tetanus having occurred, the bowels should first be relieved by a large turpentine enema, after which perfect quietness in a darkened room, free from noise or currents of air, must be insisted vipon, as the best means of preventing the ai:)proach of spasm. The use of the ice-bag along the spine, as recommended by Todd, has afforded relief in allaying the spinal irritation, but is a great depressant. Chloroform has been extensively used, but without any permanent benefit. Hamilton remarks on this remedv, that " it has been tried very largely during the past few years, and, so far as we can learn, almost universally by our army surgeons, but not with a success which, in our judgment, would warrant its continuance, or, to say the least, its substitution for opium or morphine." After enumerating the various remedies proposed, he goes on to say—"In our opinion, but few of these remedies are entitled to any special confidence ; by far the largest mass of testimony having accuumlated in favour of nutritious food, tonics, stimulants, and opiates, the latter of which, if employed at all, must be given in the most liberal and persevering manner ; in some cases both by the mouth and by the rectum, or by the endermic method." With regard to sedative and anti-spasmodic agents, Erichsen considers that they are of no use whatever in acute traumatic tetanus. " I have," he says, " seen many drugs of this kind employed without producing any effect in lessening the violence of the convulsions. In most cases, how- ever, the inhalation of chloroform, or the administration of chloral, materially lessens their severity, and gives the patient at least temporary ease." _ The Calabar bean has been used of late years with some success, but, like all other medicines, it has failed in many hands. It is a great depressant, and with it large quantities of stimulants as well as beef-tea should be given, so long as the patient can swallow them, if not, by236 TUBERCULOSIS. com- three days .norning-and e^eiit " l-"'""-I'"* P»«-ered i„ for twenty. oufed tropium SLSrf^ 1'"'°,'""''? "5 ''t™"- to^'e-i hemi, ?if ° """I '"T""' "'Jmrnistration of chloroform and R Chloroform, trix. Ext. of hemp, gr. i. Mucilage, 5i. Camphor Mixt. |ss. Every six hom-s. thfn'i^v^(-hp?t°"™'^'"^'''*v?P'^^^ *° prospects of success tflan any other means, and with the use of chloroform to lessen thp spa^^ms, perfect rest, quietness, and freedom from currents of air the sufferer may withstand the exhaustion in the chronic form of the Sas. On this Ime of treatment Sir T. Watson remarks-" In aU cases, ther^ SiZTT^ ''""''^'^^ I should be more SSposed to Tup '^^ Q^cant^t^es and nutriment than any particular thf"rSL^ t'?> *r^V ^«<^e?ber, 1890, Drs. Behring and Kitasato, of .ntsS ^ Institute of Hygiene, report that they have succeeded in curing animals which have been infected with tetanus or diphtheria Moreover, by inoculations of an inorganic chemical substance they have succeeded in rendering healthy animals refractory to these diseases Ihey maintain that the immunity of rabbits and mice from tetanus is due to an alteration m the active property of blood serum, which has the ettect of rendering harmless the toxic tetanus-producing substances, ihey have succeeded m protecting rabbits against living tetanus baciUi as well as against the tetanus virus. No mouse or rabbit in its natural condition is found refractory to the influence of the tetanus poison. TUBERCULOSIS.* _ At the Berlin International Medical Congress in 1890, Professor Koch in his address " On Bacteriology and its results," announced that at last he had found "a remedy which is capable of rendering animals experi- mented on insusceptible to inoculation with the tubercle bacillus, and which arrests the process of tuberculosis in animals already diseased." Ihe remedy does not take effect through the stomach, but must be intro- duced by subcutaneous injections. Human beings are very much more susceptible to the effects of the remedy than guinea-pigs '(the animals * Translation from the original paper in the Deutsche Medizinische Wochenschrift.TUBERCULOSIS. 237 experimented upon). Koch thus describes the symptoms felt by himself after the injection of 0'25 cubic centimetre ; pains in the limbs, fa,tigue, inclination to cough, difficulty of breathing, all of which speedily in- creased ; in the fifth hour he was seized with a violent fit of shivering which lasted nearly an hour, at the same time there was sickness, vomiting, and the temperature of the body rose ; after twelve hours all these symjjtoms gradually grew less, the temperature fell, and by next day was again normal. The heaviness in the limbs and the feeling of langour lasted a few days longer, and the spot where the injection had been made continued red and painful for the same length of time. A healthy human being reacts either not at all or very slightly under the injection of 0 01 cubic centimetre. But it is quite different when the patient is tuberculous, as this same dose will be followed by a strong general as well as local reaction. The local reaction can best be observed in those patients whose tuber- culous affections are visible; for instance in cases of lupus, a txiberculous affection of the skin. Here, a few hours after the injection has been made under the skin at some distant part (generally between the shoulder-blades), the lupus spots begin to swell and grow red, shivering follows; and while the fever lasts, the swelling and redness continue to increase, so that the lupus tissue becomes necrotic and of a reddish-brown colour in places. After the fever has subsided, the swelling of the lupus spots gradually decreases, and after two or three daj's they have entirely disappeared. The seat of the lupus is then covered with a crust of oozing serum which dries into a scab; this scab ultimately falls off, leaving a smooth red scar. Several injections are required to remove the lupus tissue completely. The local reactions in tuberculosis of the glands, bones, and joints are less striking, but are attended by swelling, increase of pain, and redness of the superficial parts. The reaction in the internal organs, especially in the lungs, cannot be observed, but patients with decided tuberculosis of the lungs are far more susceptible to the remedy than those suffering from surgical tubercular affections. The remedy does not kill the tubercular bacilli, but the tuberculous tissue. In some parts there is an instant destruction c/f the diseased tissue after one injection, so that it falls off like a dead mass. In other ]iai-ts there seems to ensue a disappearance or sort of melting away of the tissues, which requires repeated injections of the remedy for the com- pletion of the cure. It is only capable of inflaming living tuberculous tissue ; it produces no effect whatever on dead tissue'such as, for instance, necrotic cheesy masses, necrotic bones, all of which will need to be removed by surgical operation, to effect which every effort must be made. Phthisical patients with large cavities, who almost always suffer from other complications (arising, for instance, from the penetration of other pus-forming micro-organisms into the cavities, &c.), w^ill probably, Koch thinks, only in exceptional cases derive any lasting benefit from the use of this remedy, and he raises the question whether it might not beSCURVY. undertaken in cas s f enw" Thth wol^id r''"'>'l'^' '""'^ ^'^ SCURVY. nr,^^^^-ff'"'"T?'"^'^''*' '^'^^^ so^'^ie" in t™e of war, it appears under diflEerent forms, such as swelling of the limbs, ulceration, especiaUv of old cicatrices having a livid colour, and irregular tumid border S a surface covered with a spongy, dark coloured" strongly-adheSfSid crust dysentery, haemorrhage, nodes, spongy swelling of the gums and petecbise, rendering the subjects quite inefficient, and Wai'Lf^wS or injuries by preventing their healing ^^uunj wounas „f '1?''''''''^ "^7 iiiduced by deficiency of fresh vegetables, deficiency sLeSTdTet ' ^''^^''^^ '^^ '^'"'^^^"^^ I'lt may be cured by the use of fresh vegetables, salts of vegetable acids, increased nitrogenous food, and by variety of diet Once scurvy is set up in a body of men, dysentery, diarrhoea, typhus, rheumatism ulcers &c., are sure to break out, and it besides leaverthe system totally unfitted to resist any epidemic poison that may present Itself upon the scene, so that cholera and typhoid fever find easy victims " t Measures to be adopted in time of war, or in prolon-ed sojourn on board ship, or at stations where fresh vegetables are scarce are - 1. I he supply of fresh vegetables and fruits by all the means in our power Even unripe fruits are better than none, and we must risk a little diarrhoea for the sake of their antiscorbutic pn.perties. In time of war every vegetable should be used, which it is safe to use, and when ™f; ijito soups, almost all are tolerably pleasant to eat. 'j^' '^l^n ^^PV^y ^"^'i vegetables, especially potato, cabbage and cauliflowers; turnips, parsnips, &c., are perhaps less useful; dried peas and beans are useless. As a matter of precaution, these dried ve<^e- tables should be issued early in a campaign, but should never supersede the fresh vegetables. " 3. Good lemon-juice should be issued daily (1 oz.), and it should be seen that the men take it. "4. Vinegar oz. to 1 oz, daily) should be issued with the rations, and used in the cooking. * Military Hygiine, Eoyal United Service Institution, 1870, by Professor F de Chaumont, F.E.S. t Parkes' Manual of Practical Hygiene, p. 493.FOOTSORENESS. 239 " 5 Citrates, tartrates, lactates, and malates of potash should be issued in bulk, and used as drinks, or added to the food Potash shouM be selected as the base, as there is seldom any chance of the supply of soda bein- lessened. The easiest mode of issuing these salts would be to have packets containing enough for one mess of twelve men, and to instruct the men how important it is to place them m the soups or stews. Possibly they might be mixed with the salt, and issued merely as salt. " Amchurconsists of peeled mango. The green mangoes are peeled the stones removed, and the cut pulp is sun-dried. Sixty-seven^raiiis of amchur contain 19 grains of citric and mahc acids, and are, therefore, equivalent to gi of lime-juice.f , ., . , , „^ , Iron in the form of the tincture of the perchloride, m doses of 30 drops three times a day, has been recommended by Dr. Hammond for this disease. Attention should be paid to cleanliness, air, and exercise. FOOTSORENESS. Professor Parkes remarks—" Footsoreness is generally a great trouble, and frequently arises from faulty boots, undue pressure, chafing, riding of the toes from narrow soles, &c. Eubbing the feet with tallow or oil, or fat of any kind, before marching is a common remedy. A good plan is to dip the feet in very hot water before starting, for a minute or two ; wipe them quite dry, then rub them with soap (soft soap is the best) till there is a lather; then put on the stocking. At the end of the day, if the feet are sore, they should be wiped with a wet cloth, and rubbed ^yith tallow and spirits mixed in the palm of the hand (Galton). Pedestrians frequently use hot salt and water at night, and add a little alum. Some- times the soreness is owing simply to bad stockings ; this is easily remedied. Ij.tockings should^be frequently washed, then greased. Some of the German troops use no stockings, but rags folded smooth over the feet. This is a very good jjlan. " Very often soreness is owing to neglecteil corns, bunions, or ingrowing nails ; and the surgeon must not despise the little surgery necessary to remedy these things; nothing, in fact, can be called little if it conduces to efficiency. " If blisters form on the feet, the man should be directed not to open them during the march, but at the end of the time to draw a needle and thread through the blister; the fluid then gradually oozes out. " All footsore men should be ordered to reitoit themselves at once. Chafing. — " Occasionally men are much annoyed with chafing between the nates or inside of the thighs. Sometimes this is simply owing to the clothes, hnt sometimes to the actual chafing of the parts. Powders are said to be the best—flour, oxide of zinc, and above all, it is said, Fullers' earth." ♦Parkes' Manual of Practical fJygihie, p. 492. t Appendix to A. M. D. Reports^'Vi'il, p. 343.240 TREATMENT OF THE APPARENTLY DROWNED. TREATMENT OF THE APPARENTLY DROWNED. Sjf itrf Tv,^* restoration of breathing, and secondly, after breathing is restored, the promotion of warmth and circulation. rv,i;T°''!i''* "/"-f clothing and wipe the body dry, cleanse the minith and nostrils, and draw the tongue forward i^lace the patient on the ground with the face downward, and one of the arms under the forehead, turn the patient well and instantly on the side supporting the head, and excite the nostrils with snuff, salts, or tickle the throat with a feather. Rub the chest and face warm and dash cold water, or cold and hot water alternately, on them. If there be no success, instantly replace the patient on the face, raising and supportino' the chest well on a folded coat or other article of dress. Turn the body very gently on the side and a little beyond, and briskly on the face back repeating these measures cautiously, efficiently, and perseve'ringly about hfteen times in the minute, or once every four or five seconds, occasionally varying the side. On each occasion that the body is replaced on the face, make uniform but efBcient pressure with brisk movement on the back between and below the shoulder-blades, or bones on each side, removing the pressure immediately before turning the body on the side. During the whole of the operations, let one person attend solely to the movements of the head and of the arm placed under it. Should these efforts not prove successful in the course of from two to five minutes, proceed to imitate breathing by Dr. Sylvester's method, as follows:— Place the patient on the back on a flat surface inclined a little upwards from the feet, and support the head and shoulders on a small firm cushion or folded article of dress placed under the shoulder-blades. Draw the tongue forward, and keep it projecting beyond the lips ; an elastic band over the tongue and under the chin will answer this purpose, or a piece of string or tape may be tied round them, or by raising the lower jaw, the teeth may be made to retain the tongue in that position. Remove all tight clothing from about the neck and chest, especially the braces. Standing at the patient's head, grasp the arms just above the elbows, and draw the arms gently and steadily upwards for two secoads. Then turn down the patient's arms, and press them gently and firmly for two seconds against the sides. ReiDeat these measures alternately, deliberately, and perseveringly, about fifteen times in a minute, until a spontaneous effort to respire is perceived, immediately upon which cease to imitate the movements of breathing, and proceed to induce circulation and warmth by commencing to rub the limbs uiawards with pressure and energy. The friction should be continued under the blanket or over dry clothing; promote warmth of the body by the application of hot-flannels, bottles of hot water, heated bricks to the pit of the stomach, the armpits, between the thighs, and to the soles of the feet. On the restoration of life, a teaspoonful of warm water should be given,241 COOKING-PLACES. and then, if the power of swallowing have returned, small quantities of wine, warm brandy and water, or coffee should be administered. The patient should be kept in bed and a disposition to sleep encouraged. COOKING-PLACES. " The simplest kitchen consists of a trench dug in the direction that the wind is blowing, of such width that the kettle, when placed on it, should not rest above an inch on each side. When the width is 9 inches, its depth should be 12 at the end from which the wind is blowing, and continue that depth for 4 feet, decreasing then gradually to 3 inches at the opposite end, where a space must be left equal to the breadth of the trench, to serve for a chimney. The fire is lit at the end where the trench is deep ; it should not extend beycmd 3 or 4 feet up the trench. The kettles are placed touching one another along this trench ; dry sods should be used to stop up the chinks made by the roundness of the kettles, so that the space under them may form a flue. It is advisable to pile up sods, or, with stones and earth, to erect a chimney of at least 1 foot in height at the end away from the fire. All grass round the fire- places should be cut to prevent accidents from fire. "These kitchens are susceptible of great imi3rovement. The chimney can be made of mud, or wattle and daub, and the draught may be increased by using short pieces of hoop-iron, as bars stretched across the trench to support a filling-in of clay round each kettle, or in other words, to make a regular place for the kettle, into which ib will fit exactly, so that its position may be frequently changed, to prevent the contents of one being cooked before the other. As the day following the wind may change to an exactly opposite direction, a similar trench must be dug in continuation of the former one, the same chimney being used. In this manner the same chimney will serve for trenches cut to suit the wind blowing from all four quarters. The openings from these trenches into the chimney must all be closed with a sod, except the one to be used when the fire is lit. In some places, where bricks or stones suitable to the purpose are to be had, it is better to construct these kitchens on the ground instead of below its surface. " In well-wooded countries, like America, two logs rolled together in the direction of the wind, the fire being kindled between them, make a good kitchen. In such places fuel is no object, so the construction of chimneys can be dispensed with, and the kettles hung from a stick resting at each end on a forked upright. Field Ovena.—"The simplest method of making them is as follows :— Take any barrel (the more iron hoops on it the better), the head being out; lay it on its side, having scraped away the ground a little in the centre to make a bed for it; or, if there is a bank near, excavate a place for it, taking care that the end of the barrel does not reach within 6 inches of the edge of the bank; cover it over with a coating of about 6 or 8 inches of wet earth or thick mud, except at the open end, which IS to be the mouth of the oven. Pile up some sand or earth to a thick- 16242 LATRINES. ness of about 6 inches over the mud, arranging for an opening 3 inches in diameter being left as a flue (to increase the draught) to lead from the upper side of the barrel, at the far end, through the mud and earth 1 his Hue IS only left open when the fire for heating is burning. When bread is put in, it should be covered over. Form an even surface of well-kneaded mud at the bottom within the barrel, to form a flooring to place the bread on. Li-ht a fire within the barrel, and keep it up until the staves are burnt. You will then have a good oven of tough, burnt clay, tied together by the iron barrell hoops. When required for use, aJ^ ^ ^^^^ ordinary oven. When the ashes are drawn out, and the bread put in, close the mouth with some boards, or a piece of tin LATRINES. A latrine should be made as soon as the hospital arrives on the ground. A small shallow trench will suflice for one night. In standing camps, latrines may be with seats, as shown in fig. 127. The seat being a simple pole, additional comfort may be given by adding a top pole to form a back ; but this is quite needless, except for hospitals. The trench should be made as narrow as possible, and from 3 to 4 feet deep. Too much care cannot be bestowed in selecting the site of the latrine, and placing it so that no filtration from it may reach the water Fig. 127.t supply. A small piece of canvas maj' be carried to give some shelter to the latrine. If trees or brush are in the neighbourhood, it can be enclosed by a screen about 4 feet high. Twice a day, about 10 a.m. and * The Soldier's Pockd-Book, by Col. Sir Garnet "Wolsley, p. 152. t Fig. 127 is talien from Kegulations and Instructions for Encampments, Horse Guards, 1st August, 1889, plate xxvi.243 WATER. 6 P.M., the bottom of the pit should be covered with a 3-inch layer of dry- earth. The wood ashes from the cooking-places should be spread about in the vicinity. Lime, if it is to be had, should be used in large quantities. The health and comfort of every one in hospital depends very much upon the manner in which these duties are conducted. Pure water being so essential, the following instructions may be given here :—" When the halting-ground is reached, it may be necessary to filter the water. A common \Aa,n is to carry a cask, charred inside, and pierced with small holes at the bottom; it is sunk in a small stream, and the water rises through the holes. A better plan still is to have two casks, one inside the other ; the outer pierced with holes at the bottom, and the inner near the top ; the space between is filled with sand, gravel, or char- coal if procurable ; the water rises through the gravel between the barrels, and flows into the inner barrel (fig. 128). It is advisable to heat sand or gravel to redness before use ; the same applies to charcoal if there be any question of its pui-ity. All these media must be changed fre- quently. " Medical offi cers should make arrangements for the different places of supply. Men and cattle should be watered at different points ; places should be assigned for washing; and, if removal of excreta by M^ater be attempted, the excreta sliould flow in far below any possible spring. In case of a spring, several reservoirs of wood should be made, and the°water allowed to flow from one to another—the highest for men, the second for cattle. If It is a running stream, localities should be fixed for the special purpose; that for the men's drinking-water should be highest up the WATER. Fig. 12S.244 WATER. Btream, for animals below, washing lowest; sentries should be placed as soon as possible. "The distribution of water should be regulated ; streams are soon dried up, made turbid, and the water becomes undrinkable for want, perhaps, of simple management." In India, especially on board river steamers, where drinking-water is taken direct from the river, which is generally very muddy, a lump of alum is moved rapidly through it with satisfactory results, in proportion of 6 grs. to a gallon. In the Ashanti campaign of 1873, the water was purified by Surgeon- Major Gouldsbury's direction in the following way, in the absence of proper filters:—Alum was added to precipitate suspended matter—the water was passed through a rough filter, consisting of (1) sponge, (2) sand, (3) charcoal in pieces; it was then boiled, and a few drops of solution of potassium permanganate added. Water, even taken from a hole in a marsh, was innocuous after this treatment.* Maignen's filter was used by the troops in Egypt. As it is unlikely that any organic poison will resist the temperature of boiling, it is of the greatest importance that all suspicious water should be boiled before use. During epidemics, such as cholera, this is essential; it may even be advisable to try and supply the men with distilled water at such times : any sort of rough still would answer. One great advan- tage would be that impure water could not be substituted for it, as a few drops of solution of nitrate of silver would at once detect the presence of chlorides, which are present in all except distilled water. The Russian soldiers abstain from drinking water on the line of march in their Turkestan routes until the end of the day's journey, when they at once make tea^ and then assuage their thirst. In judging of water a few rough qualitative tests may be useful. 1st. Try as far as possible to get water that is clear, free from sediment, and colourless. 2nd. Test it with a little nitrate of silver solution and a few drops of dilute nitric acid ; good water should give only a faint haze. 3rd. Add a few drops of ^Nessler's solution: good water should give no colour. A yellow tinge makes the water suspicious. 4th. Add a little permanganate of potash solution: good water should remain pink for about ten or fifteen minutes ; if the colour fades rapidly or liecomes brown the water is to be suspected. 5th. Add some solution of starch, a little iodide of potassium solution, and a few drops of dilute sulphuric acid; if a blue colour appears at once, or within a minute or two, the water is suspicious. Other tests may be added, but these are generally sufficient for practical purposes, while thej' entaO. the use of no special apparatus. * Manual of Practical Bygiene, 7th edition, p. 31. Edited by Professor de Chaumont.RATIONS. 245 Water Required Daily for One Man, &c. For cooking and drinking, ... 6 pints, or 8 in the tropics. Ablutions, including baths, ... 5 gallons. For personal and domestic use, without baths, 12 ,, ,, with baths, 16 ,, If the supply is running short, 4 gallons _a-head per diem for all purposes is the least amount that ought to be given. Elephants require ... 25 gallons daily. Camels „ ... 10 ,, Horses „ ... 6 ,, Oxen ... 6 ,, Mules and ponies require, . . 5 ,, RATIONS. Two bullocks, roughly speaking, will feed 1,000 men for one day. In case of active operations in the field, a special scale will be fixed according to the climate and the circumstances of the expedition, but the following scale will, as far as possible, be adopted as a guide :— 1 lb. fresh, salt, or preserved meat. 1^ lb. bread, or 1 lb. biscuits or 1 lb. flour. ^ oz. tea. ^ oz. coffee. TfV oz. pepper. 5 lb. fresh vegetables, when procurable, or 1 oz. compressed vege- tables. gal. lime juice gill), ^ with ^ oz. sugar on days when I at the discretion of the G.O.C. on the fresh vegetables are not issued. \ recommendation of the M.O. ^ gal. rum (-i gill). J When the supply of cattle is abundant the ration of 1 lb. of fre.sh meat during active operations may be increased by the G.O.C. to 1| lbs.* Vinegar is of great value as an antiscorbutic, and its use should be encouraged. Condiments are also most important. Fat has about two and a-half times the potential energy of the carbo-hydrates, but will not replace them, hence the value of bacon in the above scale. Bacon was issued for the first time as a ration in the late expedition up the Nile (1884-85), when it was greatly appreciated. For a scale of rations used on that occasion, see Appendix IV. The late Professor de Chaumont wrote—" In cases of extreme fatigue, * Para. 20, Allowance Begulations, 1890.246 RATIONS. nothing 80 rapidly recruits the exhausted frame as Liebig's extractum nrTi f ^•'^"gly f'^"i^mends its issue to men beforfS on trench or packet duty m cold, wet weather, or to men on coming off Wy duty, lonirtlrrfvf;."'*''' to sleep. It can be%repared^^n no ieTs'SvXeously. ^e taken. * Daily Amounts of Water-Free Solids Required to Maiktain Health tor an Adult Man. In Eest. In Ordinary "Work. In Laborious Work. Albuminates, . 0Z3. 4-5 Ozs. 4-5 Ozs. 6 to 7 1-0 3-5 3-5 to 4-5 Carbo-hydrates, 12-0 12-0 16- to 18- Salts, .... 0-5 1-7 1-2 to 1-5 16-0 j 21-7 26-7 to 31-0 On service, in the field hospitals, the sick and wounded are suppUed with their usual daily rations, which should be supplemented by medical comforts, or by such articles as the Supply Department may be able to provide. or^Yc^^^'^ energy is expressed as so many tons raised 1 foot in height, 3G0 foot-tons may be taken as ordinary work, 350 as hard work, 400 as laborious work. The simplest mode in which the force of man can be employed is m transporting the weight of his body along a level road. This, at the rate of three miles an hour, is equivalent [Haughton) to raising tjV of his weight through the distance walked. Hence (W + Wi)xD , "^Q~:j7 2 240 of work done. W=weight of body. Wi = weight of clothing, &c. D = distance in feet. 20=co-efficient of resistance. 2,240=lbs. in a ton. One mile=5,280 feet. * Manual of Practical Hygiene, de Ohaumont. t Lecture on "The Food of the Soldier," by Surgeon A. M. Davies, M.S., Assistant Professor of Hygiene.SPACE AND VENTILATION. 247 By this means of calculation, a ten-mile march with a 60-lb. fair day's work, being altogether equal to 300 foot-tons. SPACE AND VENTILATION. Army Eegulations on the Space Allowed fob Each Man. In Temperate Climates. Cubic Space. Superficial Area. 600 cubic feet. 50 square feet. 1,200 „ „ 90-100 „ „ In India. In Bari'acks— 1,800 cubic feet. 90 square feet. Hill Stations, .... 600 „ „ 60 „ In Hospitals- 2,400 „ „ 100-120 „ „ Hill Stations, .... 1,632-1,836 „ „ 102 „ „ A bell tent is issued on service to every fifteen men ; it measures in area of base (diameter, ]2'5 feet) 123 square feet, and yields 427 cubic feet.—Lord Wolseley. The hospital marquee covers 396 square feet, and contains 3,366 cubic feet. It can accommodate ten men without cots and eight men with cots comfortably. By regulation it is intended to hold eighteen sick. Parkes and de Chaumont give '6 per 1,000 volumes of carbonic acid in the air as the limit of impurity allowable—of this, '2 is derived from respiration, and the remainder is the normal quantity in the air. To maintain the air at this standard, an ordinary man who inspires and expires 30 cubic inches at every respiration sixteen times in a minute, requires to be supplied with 3,000 cubic feet of air per hour. In order to get this without draughts, sufficient cubic space and super- ficial area must be allowed for each patient, so that the air would main- tain this if changed three or four times in an hour. The surface area per tent for different densities of population per square mile is as follows :—248 SPACE AND VENTILATION. No. of Square Yards per Tent. No. of Tents per Square Mile. No. of Troops per Square ' Mile. 60 ■« 500 1,000 61,952 30,976 6,195 3,097 929,280 464,640 92,928 46,464 The density of population London, . . Liverpool, Manchester, Philadelphia, . IS m Per Square Mile. . 35,840 . 72,832 . 56,236 . 45,000 miS ^^^''.^y population in a camp with the above, we must, as he points out m our calculation divide the superficies of the ? cSai^ ^«tT ?^-^.^^th, and not the actual spice ocTupifd b; fncl3?n^h1ir\Ti;S^^^^^^ '^^^ ^^^^^ ^^1^^' -^'quarl For example a, Eegiment of Infantry in open column of companies we h Jp'if r'"^"^"' ' strength, 1.096 men, and we have 77 6 square yards per man-or, taking a more compressed form in double companies, with only 15 yards between the compinies instead i 9r{ Ti^^'-.^o^.f.^rP^* y^^^^ ^'^d a depth of 150 yards. 120x150=18,000 square yards^l,096, gives 16-4 square yards per man, equivalent to 188,175 men per square mile. ^ But after all, the compression is not in the regimental but in the company hues, where fifteen men are packed into one b.adly-ventilated bell tent. Under these conditions, the regulations of 1871 should be strictly observed Company tents should never be arranged in double imes-short single lines are best. The tents in line should be separated Irom each other by a space at the very least equal to a diameter and a lialt ot a tent. Whenever the troops remain in camp more than three if^^'J , ^ ""^"^ ^® ^^^^y ^^ys, all arms, straw, and blankets should be removed from the ground, and the ground should be swept clean and left exposed to the sun and wind. Whenever troops remain more than one night in camp, the tent flys should be roUed up the first thing every morning. In rainy weather the fly may be rolled up on the lee- ward side of the tent. Eemember a camp is a temporary town without paving or proper drainage, hence the great care requisite to ensure a proper surface cleansing, &c.ROYAL NAVY AND INDIAN PILOT SERVICE. 249 The space between corps should be 25 yards or 30 paces—distances in Infantry Camps are usually reckoned by yards. 5 yards = 6 paces. A square mile = 640 acres = 3,097,600 square yards. REGULATIONS AS TO DEFECTS OF VISION FOE CANDIDATES FOR COMMISSIONS IN THE ARMY.* The following will be substituted for paragraph 10136, added to the Regulations for the Army Medical Department by Clause 53, Army Circulars, 1887 :— Letters and numbers corresponding to Snellen's Metrical Test-Types (Edition 1885) will be used for testing the standard of vision. If a candidate's vision, measured by Snellen's test-types, be such that he can read the types numbered D. = 6 at 6 metres or 20 English feet, and the types numbered D. =0'6 at any distance selected by himself, with each eye separately and without glasses, he will be considered tit. If a candidate cannot read with each eye separately, without glasses, Snellen's types marked D, =36 at a distance of 6 metres or 20 English feet, i.e., if he do not possess one-sixth of Snellen's standard of normal acuteness of vision, although he may be able to read the types D. = 0'6 at some distance with each eye, he wiU be considered uniit. If a candidate can read with each eye separately Snellen's types numbered D. = 36 at a distance of 6 metres or 20 English feet, without glasses, but cannot; read them beyond that distance, i.e.. if lie just possesses one-sixth of normal acuteness of vision, and his visual deficiency is due to faulty refraction, he may be passed as fit, provided that, with the aid of correcting glasses, he can read Snellen's type D. =6 at 6 metres or 20 English feet, with one ej'-e, and at least Snellen's tj'pes D. = 12 at 6 metres or 20 English feet, with the other eye ; and, at the same time, can read Snellen's type marked D. =0 8 with one or both eyes, without the aid of glasses, at any distance the candidate may select. Squint, inability to distinguish the principal colours, or any morbid condition, subject to the risk of aggravation or recurrence in either eye, will cause the rejection of a candidate. ROYAL NAVY AND INDIAN PILOT SERVICE.f 1. A candidate is disqualified unless both eyes are emmetropic. The candidate's acuteness of vision and range of accommodation must be perfect. 2. A candidate is disqualified by any imperfection of his colour sense. 3. Strabismus, or any defective action of the exterior muscles of the eyeball, disqualifies a candidate for the Royal Navy. ♦Para. 779, Part i., Regulaiions for Medical Services. 1890. t "Regulations as to Defects of Vision for the Civil and Military Services of the Goveniment of India," by Sir J. Fayrer, K.O.G.I., F.R.S.250 THE INDIAN CIVIL SERVICE. as guards, engine-drivers, signal and pointsmen on tne Indian railways, come under the rules prescribed for the Pilot Service and Royal Navy. THE INDIAN CIVIL SERVICE, {Covenanted and Uncovenanted). 1- ^ candidate may be admitted into the Civil Service of the Govern- ment of India, if ametropic in one or both eyes, provided that with correcting lenses the acuteness of vision be not less than ^ in one eye and I in the other; there being no mocbid changes in the fundus of either eye. 2. Cases of myopia, however, with a posterior staphyloma, may be admitted into the service, provided the ametropia in either eye do not exceed 2-5 D., and no active morbid changes of choroid or retina be present. 3. A candidate who has a defect of vision arising from nebula of the cornea is disqualified, if the sight of either eye be less than ; and in such a case the acuteness of vision in the better eye must equal | with or without glasses. ' 4. Paralysis of one or more of the exterior muscles of the eyebaU dis- qualifies a candidate for the Indian Civil Service. In the case of a candidate said to have been cured of strabismus by operation, but without restoration of binocular vision, if with correcting glasses the vision reach the above standard (1), and if the movement of each eye be good, the candidate may be passed. The same rule applies to the case of unequal ametropia without binocular vision, both eyes having full acuteness of vision with glasses and good movement. Candidates for admission into the following Departments come under the rules laid down for the Civil Service :—Ecclesiastical, Education, Salt, and Opium. Candidates for the Departments of Public Works, Forest, Survey, Telegraph, Eailway, Factories, as well as Police, and various artificers, may be admitted into the service under the following rules :— 1. If myopia in one or both eyes exist, a candidate may be passed, provided the ametropia do not exceed 2'5 D., and if with coi-recting glasses, not exceeding 2 "5 D., the acuteness of vision in one eye equal %, and the other ^, there being normal range of accommodation with the glasses. 2. Myopic astigmatism does not disqualify a candidate for the service, provided the combined spherical and cylindrical glasses required to cor- rect the error of refraction do not exceed - 2 5 D. ; the acuteness of vision in one eye, when corrected, being equal to f, and in the other eye f together with normal range of accommodation with the correcting glasses there being no evidence of progressive disease in the choroid or retina. , 3, A candidate having total hypermetropia not exceeding 4 D. is notTHE INDIAN MARINE SERVICE. 251 disqualified, provided the sight in one eye (when under the influence of atropine) equal |, and in the other eye equal |, with+4 D., or any lower power. 4. Hypermetropic astigmatism does not disqualify a candidate for the service, provided the combined lens required to cover the error of refrac- tion do not exceed 4 D., and that the sight of one eye equal f, and the other I, with or without s\ich a lens. 5. A candidate having a defect of vision arising from nebula of the cornea, is disqualified if the sight of one eye be less than -^.j- In such a case the better eye must be emmetropic and possess normal vision. Defects of vision arising from pathological or other changes in the deeper structures of either eye, which are not referred to in the above rules, may exclude a candidate from admission into the service. 6. A candidate is disqualified if he is unable to distinguish the principal colours (Achromatopsia). 7. Paralysis of one or more of the exterior muscles of the eyeball disqualifies a candidate for the service. THE INDIAN MARINE SERVICE. [Including Engineers and Firemen). 1. A candidate is disqualified if he have an error of refraction in one or both eyes which is not neutralised by a concave, or by a convex 1D. lens, or some lower power. 2. A candidate is disqualified if he cannot distinguish the primary colours and their various shades, red, green, violet or blue, and yellow. 3. Strabismus, or any defective action of the exterior muscles of the eyeball, disqualifies a candidate for the Marine Service.J APPENDIX 1. FORMULARY. Alkaline Bath. Take of— Carbonate of soda, . Water, .... Mix. Iodine Batli. Tnke of— Iodine, .... Solution of potash,. Watei-, .... Mix. 4 oz. 30 U. i oz. 2 11. oz. 30 C. Linseed Meal Poultice. Take of— Linseed meal, ... 4 oz. Olive oil, . . . . i fl. oz. Boiling Water, . . 10 fl. oz. Mix the linseed meal with the oil, then add the water gi'adually, constantly stirring. Mustard Poultice. Take of— Mustard, in powder, . 2^ oz. Linseed .Meal, ... oz. Boiling water, . . 10 fl oz. Mix gradually the linseed meal with the waier, and add the mustard, con- stantly stirriug. Freezing Mixtures. Take of— No. 1. R ^o^tc rThermometer Sal-ammoniac,5 parts, \ gini.™ f,.™ Nitre, . . 5 ^'""^^ Water, . IG Mix 1 50° to 10° Fahr. Take of— Snow, . Common salt, No. 2. Mix. (Thermometer ' •>; sinks from ' (32° to 0°Fahr. Liniment of Sulphuret of Lime. 1 part. 2 parts. 10 parts. Take of— Quicklime, Sublimed sulphur, . Water, Mix. Boil, constantly stirring witli a piece of wood, until the lime and sulphur are perfectly combined. Decant, and keep In a well-stoppered bottle. Wash the body well with warm water, and then rub the liquid into the skin for half un hour. For itch. Carbolic Acid Solution. Take of— Carbolic acid, ... 1 part. Water 20 parts 1-20—dilute with equal parts of water, it equals 1-40. Boracic Acid Solution. Take of— Borncic acid. Distilled cold water (60° Fahr.). Dissolve as much as the water will take up.APPENDIX I. 254 Salicylic Acid Solution. Same directions as for the boracic acid, i Mercurial Solution. Solution of th e perchloride of mercury (b.F.) = 1 in 870. One grain of sublimate in 8 ozs. of Kr'engS' = ' '-'"'-^ ^^^"^ The niercurial solution is coloured blue by Sir Joseph Lister, by means of an aniline dye. The l-ono solution is simply one pirt of corrosive sublimate ditsolyed in 5u0 pans of water. It is only to be usad of this strength for cleansing the skin, washing out the wound before stitching up in the case of an operation, or for purifying in the first instance an accidental wound. Chloride of Zinc Solution. Take of— Chloride of zinc, . 40 stb Water 1 oz. ' Mix. Sir W. Burnett's solution of chloride of zmc contains 300 grains in one ounce, therefore if diluted with 6a parts of water it will equal 40 grains in one ounce. To purify sick-rooma, night- chairs, csspocls, privies, add 1 part of iiuruett 8 solution to 100 parts of water. Chlorinated Soda Solution Take ol*— L;q. Sodffi Chloratos, . . i part. Water, 9 parts. Useful as an application to unhealthy wounds. Take of Eucalyptus oil, Olive oil. Eucalyptus Oil. 1 part. 10 parts. Boracic Acid Ointment. Take of— Boracic acid, While wajc, . Paraffin, Almond oil. 1 part. 1 pirt. 2 parts. 2 pjrts. and paraffin by First mix the wax heating them together, then acid the oil Mix the crystals with th s in a warm mortar, and continue the process of mixing till the liquid solidifles. The half strength contains half the quantity of boracic acid. Boracic lint is ordinary surgical lint soaked in a hot saturated solution of boracic acid and then hung up to dry. a lUre.^'^''^^''"'' °^ ^° ""^"^ ^^""^^ ^ 1°0°> exact measurement, is 1 gramme in 1 gramme — 15-4.3 grains (or 1 c c ) equaTrmin°m.'''°'^'"^'^" P''''^- ^^^b calculation 1 gram may be taken to thJv n?^®^*;^- Sponges—After they have bsen wnshed out in 1uke-<varm water, mey aic- put into a I per cent, solution of hyposulnhite of sod-., to which is added ^nll\l'^'!^Ji J\^ P/?" ""u '- solilion of coQC°ntrated hydrochloric acid in water. 11 ey are st.rred abOMt in this with a wooden st ck until tney have lost their brown colour, it they are left tor, long in thissulution they tpar easily. Fortwenty-flve ■ P'^^fs^ "bout 17.5 fl. ozs. of the hyposulphite solution and 35 fl. ozs. of the hydrocliloric acid solution w.ll be required.APPENDIX 11. ANTISEPTICS CONTAINED IN Field Medical Companion. Vaseline, antiseptic, Bandages, first dressing (Esmarch), Boric wool, Sulptauro-chromic catgut ligatures, in > leather case, 1 Surgical Haversack. Lint, antiseptic, cai bolised, .... Loose wove bandages, antiseptic, . First dressing bandages, antiseptic, Boric wool, Medical Field Panniers. No. L—Medicine Panniek. Acid, boracic, „ cai'bolic cryst, liq., .... Iodoform, Parafflnum molle, antiseptic, Zinci chlor., Lint, antiseptic, CottOT woo!, antiseptic, Antiseptiij g luze. Silk, protective, Tenax, Carholised catgut, . Draiua„e tubing, Field Fracture Box. Cotton wool, antiseptic, . Tow, carbolised Flannel serge, antiseptic. Surgery Wagon. Acid, carbolic, . „ „ liq., Hydrarg. perchlor.. Iodoform, . T. benzoin co., . No. 2.—Mateeiai, Pannier. Quantities. 1 box. No. -J. 2 oz. 4 oz. No. 4. 3 2 oz. 2 oz. "I 4 oz. I 4 oz. } 2A oz. I lilb. j 1 oz. 8 oz. 1 lb. 6 vd .) 1 lb. 6 hiinks. 6 yards. ilb. iib. 2 yards. 8 oz. 12 oz. 2 oz. 6 oz. 12 oz. Where placed. In body of pannier. Drawer No. 3. Basket A. Basket B. Wrapper. Tin C Basket A.256 APPENDIX II. Surgery Wagon—continued Paraffin urn molle, antiseptic, Zinci chlor., Carbolised catgut, "Wire, Rilver, Bandngps of kinds, Boric woo', Carbolised gauze, ^. " 'o«', Lmt, antiseptic. Protective, . Macintosh,. Bandages, . ,, first dressing 1, • . Boric wool. Carbolic gauze, „ tow, . Lint, antiseptic. Protective, Macintosh, Boric wool, Bandages, . Carbolised tow, Boric wool. Lint, antiseptic, Special Surgical Panniers. No. 1 Pannier. All appliances are antiseptic. Acid, carbolic, Iodoform, Drainage tubing, L R. bottles for wa hing wounds, Gtauze, No. i Pannieb. Boric wool, Eeserve Medical Field Panniers No. 1.—Kesekve Mkdical Pannier. Acid, boracic, .... ,, carbolic eryst, iiq., . Iodoform, Parafflnum molle, antiseptic, Zinci chlor., .... Iodoform, in 2 stoppered bottles. Drainage tubing, Bunda.aes, first dressing. Lint, antiseptic. No. 2.—Reserve Mateuial Pannier. Gauze, antiseptic, Silk, antiseptic, protective, Tenax, . . - . Wool, antiseptic, Lint, antiseptic, Quantities 2| lbs. 4 oz. 1 oz. 101 80Z. G yards 1 lb. 2 lbs. 2 yards. 3 yards. 76 20 15 5 oz. 6 yards. 1 lb. 2 lbs. 2 yards. 3 yard.-;. 1\ lbs. 200 3 lbs. ^Ib. 16 lbs. 8 oz.) 1 lb. ■ 12 yds 4 y.ts, 12 yds. 1 lb. 4 oz. "I 4 oz. I 4 oz. I 5 oz f 2 lbs. I 2 oz. J 12 yards. No. 101 lib. r 12 yds. 4 yds, 1 lb, ^Ib. lib. •I Where pUced. Basket A. Basket B. Basket C. Partition under bskts. 142. Basket D. Basket F. Tin A. Tin B. In lower division. In body 0/ pannier. Drawer No. 2. Diawer No. 3. Drawer No. 4. Tin A. Tins O and E.APPENDIX II. 257 Pharmacy Wagon. Acid, boracic, „ carbolic, liq., .... Collodion, Hydrarg. perchlor., .... lodum, Iodoform, Liq. Sodee chlor., .... Zinci clilor., Bandages, antiseptic. Ligature, catgut, .... Lint, antiseptic, .... ,, marine, yilk, protective, .... Tow, carbolised, .... Wool, salicylic, .... Drainage tubing, .... Irrigators, Sulpliuro-chromic catgut. Large Fracture Box. Tow, carbolised, .... Cotton wool, antiseptic, . Flannel serge, antiseptic. Medicine Chest. Acid, carbolic liq., .... „ crystal, . Hydrarg. perchlor., .... Iodoform, lodum, Liq. sodaa chloi\, .... Zinci chlor., Vaseline, antiseptic, Zinci chlor., Sp. rectif., Bandages, various, .... Gauze, antiseptic, .... Ligature, chromic catgut, Lint, antiseptic, .... Wool, antiseptic, .... Quantities, 8 oz. 8 oz. 2 lbs. 4 oz. G oz. 8 oz. 3 lbs. 2 lbs. 8 oz. No. 524. 6 hanks. 70 lbs. 36 lbs. 4 yards. 28 lbs. 6 lbs. 12 yards. 1 set. 2 lbs, 1 lb. 2 yards. 4 oz. 2 oz. 3 oz. 2 oz. 3 oz. 8 oz. 12 oz.' 2 lbs. 8 oz. 2 oz. 8 oz. 34 6 yards. 2 lbs. 1 lb. Wliere placed, compartment, slide 2. „ 2. „ 6. I ;: 1. „ 2. drawers 1, 2, 3. slide 3. » 4. leather case. (12) (10) Leather case. (10) (7) Note.—'When dressings are said to be antiseptic without further explanation, no information is given in the Regulations. Note.—TnE First Field Dressing.*—The first field dressing is not authorised at present. The antiseptic in it will be the sublimate of mercury; it will not contain a triangular bandage. ♦Par. 201, Regulations for Medical Services, part 11., 1890. 17APPENDIX III. G emVnArmyf-*"""^'"'^^ '^''^ '"^'^^'^ *° ^^'^^''^l Department of the INSTEUCTIONS FOR PricparING AKD APPLYIKG ANTISEPTIC BANDAGING Material (Sublimate Bandages). -^"^"'"o A. Preparation. De\achment'?C'°tL°i.i^t ^'^"/^P"" bandaging material, which the Sanitary Distilled water, . . 7500 " Glycerine, 2500 Fuchsm, 0'5 '^^^?hf''^H'/r'^ grammes suffices for the saturation of 400 metres of gauze. • addition of fuchsm it is intended merely to give a red colour to the ean?^ in order to distinguish it from non-prepared materiaL ^^^^ flff;.„ be dipped into the antiseptic fluid and well kneaded. After It shoull be removed and well squeezed, and then hung up on I line to dry The drym-must be done without exposure to the sun, other^^se the nr'^^n?bleached. Ti,e drying takes about twelve hours in a room not heated or mne hours m a room heated to U5° P. "cauou, fnt'r,.?,u°'^.ln.''!''f "°if require a more rapid preparation, then the water in the formula may be substituted by spu-its of wine 5. After tlie drying (the gauze will still feel somewhat moist owing to the glycerine), the pieces of gauze (40 metres) should be folded up smooth and sub- mitted to a screwpress in order to obtain cubes of 11-5 centimetres (4 3-5"), and then they should be well tied up with string. 1 vi^^^^io^"!?®^ of pressed gauze should be wrapped in red packing-paper and labelled bublimate Uauze." The same wrapping up and labelling must be given to subhmate gauze even when prepared in the field. ^- Tbe above given formula for the antiseptic fluid may, in certai i cases be modifled according to directions from the surgeon. For use in the field ordinarv water may be substituted for distilled water. 8. Sublimate Cotton Wool for Wounds.—The, directions for preparing antiseptic cotton wool are the same as given in paragraphs 2, 3, 4, and 7, but the cotton wool takes up more fluid than an equal weight of gauze. 9. During the drying process attention has to be given to ensure the wool dries loose and not in a lump. * firieg's-Sanitaets-Ordnmig, Appendix V., § C3, dated 13th May, 1886.259 APPENDIX III, 10. Quantities of 1 kilo. (35 ozs. of the antiseptic cotton wool, after drying, are to be pressed into packets of 11-5 centimetres, tied with string, wrapped in red paper, and labelled "1 Kilo. Sublimate Cotton Wool." In the medical chest carried with the troops smaller pressed packages of sublimate cotton wool weighing 100 grammes 3 ozs.) will be found. 11. Sublimate Catffut.—Catgnt should be placed in a 5 per cent, watery solution of sublimate for from 8 to 10 or 12 hours, and afterwards preserved in spirits of wine for use. 12. Sublimate Silk.—Si\k should be well boiled, and then placed for several hours in a 5 per cent, watery solution of sublimate, to which 20 per cent of glycerine has been added. It should then be dried and wrapped up in apiece of waterproof cloth. Immediately before use the silk should be placed in a 3 per cent, carbolic solution, or a 1 per cent, sublimate solution. 13. Antiseptic Drainage '/'«6e«.—Drainage Tubes are to be disinfected by placing them in a 5 per cent, solution of carbolic acid from six to twelve hours, and then preserving them in a fresh solution of the same strength. Should there be only one vessel for holding antiseptic drainage tubes and catgut, then the drainage tubes should be preserved dry, wrapped up in a waterproof material, and only imme- diately before use, placed in a 3 per cent, carbolic solution or in a 1 per cent sublimate solution. 14. Disinfecting Sponges for vse with Wounds.—Sponges should be freed from all adherent matter, repeatedly put under a stream of boiling water well squeezed and then placed for twelve hours in a 1 per cent, sublimate soiution. The dial infected sponges are to be preserved dry in linen bags. B. Application. The antiseptic dressing at the bandaging place, (a) The dressing of a wound of the lower leg, as an example The application of the antiseptic dressing, after any previous needful manipula- tion as checlung haemorrhage, may be divided into 3 parts •— 1. First Fart—Preparing the iround—Disinfection of the surrounding parts of the wound by rubbing them with a 1 per cent, sublimate solution or a 3 per cent carbolic solution; irrigation of the wound by means of one of these solutions 2. Second Part—The Dressing.-The wound should be covered with pieces of sublimate gauze, and then the whole leg should be wrapped in layers of sublimate 'f^'',^'^^* ? ''T^'''- '^^'"S liowever, a piece of sublimate cotton wool sliould be placed above and below the wound underneath the eauze in order to confine the margins of the deeper dressing. Over the layers of sublimate Hnn hv*^^!^'' °f ^'\te'-P'-°° clotH is to be placed and the whole maintained in posi- tion by a gauze bandage which has been freshly dipped in a carbolic solution J) 01 a permanent dressing in the hospital the larger waternroof cloth is nnt required, but the folds of gauze should be more numerSua "^^'^^P'^°°'^ »8 not Ihe sublime gauze may in every case be replaced by sublimate cottonwool in L''nTtrn?»urs^e^To^ioi^l'^ ^^^'^^^^ °^ '""^ ''^ ^« Su^^r^oTU^ wfys-* ^'"''^ ^"'■""^''^ /'«mo6t7Ma(;ion.-Immobilisation may be done in two 5^ the limb in a moulded iron splint (Volkmann); or 30ver the knee and ankle-oints, in accordance with the principles which cufd^t^fA C. The First Dressing Packet.APPENDIX III. 26o and 6 cm. (2") broad; a safety-pin and a wrapper of waterproof material, 28 cm long and 18 cm. (7") broad. . • i / In applying a first dressing by means of this packet, the wound Is to be covered with the two compresses (gauze in an 8-fold layer), over tliis the waterproof cloth is placed, and the whole fixed with the cambric bandage and secured by means of the safety-pm. In case of a simple gun-shot injury with entrance and exit, both openings should be covered each with a compress of gauze and half the waterproof material. Should there not be a sufQciency of first dressing pacl.ets at the dressing station then suitable pieces of waterproof matprial, about 12 cms. (4|") square, ought to be kept ready, in appropriate numbers, to be used in addition to gauze compresses, cambric bandages, and salety-pins, in store in the same manner as the contents of the first dressing packets were intended. Iodoform Dressings. Simple, not too extensive, injuries may receive a covering dressing of iodoform. The wound is to be dusted over with a thin layer of iodoform, then covered with a gauze compress or some prepared cotton wol, over this a piece of waterproof material, and the wl.ole fixed by means of a roller bandage and safety-pin or by a triangular sling.APPENDIX IV. List of Supplies sent in each Boat peoceeding up the Nile, Calculated for Twelve Men in a Boat, and tq last 100 Days—1884-85. ■Wfit, Totn 1 for Article. Proposed Daily Issue per Man. 799 lbs. Preserved corned beef, . 1 lb. four clays out or six. 192 „ ,, Ircsh meat, . . 1 lb. one day out of six. 168 „ 48 „ Boiled mutton, ... .J 1 lb. one day out of six. 66 „ f oz. 770 ,, 240 „ 1 lb. five days out of six. 200 „ 1 lb. one day out or six. 523 pin* bottles. 3 oz. four days out of six. 17 tins. 17 „ Ij oz. two days out of six. 80 lbs. Tea, 1 oz. 240 Siierfl,r 3 oz. 19 „ 5 oz. ^ „ Preserred vegetables, . . ^ 1 oz. 7i gals TjTjTj- gal. 432 rations Cocoa and millc, .... 1 ration every third day. 40 lbs. For occasional use. 2 gals. 40 ibs. Vinegar, . . • . 40 „ 10 „ Baking powder, . . . 2 „ 40 „ On repayment 27 „ Soap, common, .... 9 „ „ carbolic, .... 192 boxes. 1 Field Hospital Supply Oa se.* DIRECTIONS. The column for the daily issue shows the data upon which the supplies of each article have been calculated; but, provided the total ration is not exceeded, the various articles may be issued in such proportion as may be considered advisable by Officer Commanding. * Field Hospital Supply Case contained 3 bottles brandy. 3 bottles port wine. 124-oz. tins Liebig's extract carnis. i lb. mustard. 1 lb. soap, yellow. I lb. candles. II n alum. 25 lbs. arrowroot, i lb. salt 4 tins condensed milk. 6 tins cocoa and milk. 2 boxes safety matches. i lb. compressed tea. 1 corkscrew. 1 opening knife. 1 bottle permanganate of potass.APPENDIX V. KIT OF OFFICERS IN THE FIELD.* The following List is published as a guide to Officers as to the Articles of Kit, &c., which they should take into the Field. (1.) WoKN, OR Carried on the Person. Approximate weight. Approximate weight. Full dress head-dress Tunic, or patrol jacket ... Trousers Boots (Shooting) Socks (Woollen) Drawers Flannel shirt Flannel belt Silk pocket handkerchief.. Leggings Clasp knife Pouch belt and pouch for instruments lb. oz. 3 ■" 0 2 8 4 0 0 3 0 6 0 10 0 "" 1 0 9 0 ^ Drinking cup and water- bottle Pocket book Field glass (and compass), with strap "Watch Waterproof coat (Eegula- tion pattern) Haversack 1 map of the country Sword Pistol lb. oz. 0 15 3 4 0 *" 6 2 8 0 15i * Manual for Field Service, par. 680.263 APPENDIX F. (2.) Carried in a Bed Valise, or Otherwise. Approximate Approximate weight. weight. lb. oz. lb. OZ. 1 waterproof sheet with 1 housewife 0 4 eyelet holes 3 7 6 spare boot laces 0 2 I greatcoat 5 0 1 tin of dubbing 0 2 1 blanket 5 0 1 portfolio, containing pen, 1 pair of trousers 2 8 ink, and paper 0 4 1 pair shooting boots 4 0 1 journal book 0 15 2 pairs of socks U n U 1 flannel belt 0 5 1 pair of drawers 0 5 1 field dressing (carried on 1 flannel shirt A u person when in presence 1 silk pocket handkerchief 0 1 of the enemy) 0 4 1 woollen nightcap 0 2 1 candle lamp, and a few i towels u 12 candles inside it 3 12 1 holdall, containing 1 1 tin match box 0 1 comb, 1 small huir 2 tin plates 1 5 brush, 1 tooth brush 1 cup, containing knife. 1 small clothes brush, fork, spoon, pepper, and 1 pair of scissors, and 1 salt pots 1 8 metal soap box and I indiarubber basin 0 8 soap I 2 1 small sponge in bag ... 0 8 23 13 9 6 Total in valise 33 lb. 3 oz. Notes.—The total weight to be carried in the regimoutal wagons must not exceed for Commanding Offlcer 80 lb., for Field and other Mounted Offlcers 50 lb., and for all others 40 lbs. This does not include canteens. In addition to the above, which is to be looked upon as the light equipment of OflScers, a bullock trunk will be allowed to every OfQcer, to carry about 100 lb. weight of personal baggage. This trunk will be embarked with Offlcers, but will be left at the Base of Operations during active movements in the field, and it will be brought up only when it may be deemed convenient to the service by the General Officer in chief command. Offlcers to cook by companies or squadrons, and to provide their own cooking utensils; 201b. allowed for each company, and for every three Offlcers of Hegimental Staff, &c. W ith a view of allowing Mounted Offlcers to carry any extra articles of kit that they may require, a saddle bag (in addition to the wallets) has been authorised, and pattern can be seen in the Pattern Koom, Horse Guards, War Office. The Officer drawing the camp equipment for the Staff should include picketing gear (as under) for all the Officers' horses, public or private, and one waterproof sheet (Oavalry pattern) for each Mounted Officer. Previous to a campaign all Mounted Officers should make sure that this provision has been made for their own horses. Picketing gear to be carried on the horse :— 1 length of built up rope. Headrope. Peg. Heelrope and p°g. 1 mallet for every 3 horsea.INDEX. A. Abdomen, wounds of (see Wounds), 99. foreign bodies in cavity of, 111. non-penetrating wounds of, 99. penetrating wovmds of, 103. treatment of penetrating wounds of, 106. Advanced DepOt, 28. Acupressure, 204. .fflsophagus, wounds of, 88. Alcohol, 55, 69. Alembroth wool, 54. Alum, burnt, 65. Ambulance lift, 18. Amputation, 156. of ankle-joint, 176. of arm, circular, 164. bloodless operations (Esmarch's), 161. by skin flaps, hints by Lister, 159. Garden's method, 173. cases which demand, 158. different methods of, 158. division of, into primary, intermediary, secondary, 157. double, 160. through elbow-joint, circular (Hamil- ton's), 165. flies after, 161. of forearm, 166. of foot, Ohopart, 177. of foot, Syme's, 176. Parry's, 176. Guthrie ou periods for, 157. Hamilton's, at shoulder-joint, 162. Heather Bigg's suggestions, 159, 160. at hip-joint, 147, l(i9. Furueaux Jordan's, 171. of index, or little finger, 168. at knee-joint, 172. of leg, 173. Lisfranc's, at shoulder-joint, 163. Lister's method to prevent hoemor- rhage in, 161. Longmore on periods for, 156. maggots after, easy generation of, 161. of metacarpal bones, 168. of metatarsal bones, 177. of phalanx, second and distal, 169. Amputation, Pirogoff's, of foot, 180. primary, periods for, 157. proper periods for, 157. secondary, periods for, 157. at shoulder-joint, Hamilton, 162. stumps, treatment of, 160. sub-periosteal, 180. Teale's, 179. of thigh, 129,172, 173. of metacarpal bone of thumb, 168. great toe, distal phalanx of. 179. great toe, metatarsal bone of, 178. little toe, metatarsal bone of, 178. toes, second, third, fourth, 179. at wrist, 167. Amussat, torsion of arteries, 203. Anajsthesia, 153. Aneurism, circumscribed traumatic, 196. diffused traumatic, 196. ergot in glycerine for, 201. Aueurismal varix, 195. Ankle, excision of, 190. Ankle-joint, wounds of, 151. amputation at, 176. Anthrax, 232. Antiseptic treatment of wounds, 51-57. Antiseptics in field equipment, 255-257. Anus, wounds in, 118. Apparently drowned, treatment of, 240. Appliances, extemporary, 3. to gun shot fractures, 32. Arm, circular amputation of, 164. fractures of, 35, 121. Arm slings, 48. Arrow wounds, and treatment, 66. Arteries, acupressure, 204. cauterisation of, 204. Erichsen on ligature of, 205. flexion of, 204. hsemorrhage from, 195. hot-water for haemorrhage from, 162, 204. ice, or cold, for heemorrhage from, 161, 204. laceration of inner coats of, 195. ligature of, 205. periods of separation of ligatures^ 206i punctured womids of, 196. styptics, 204.INDEX. 266 Arteries, torsioa of, 203. treatment of wounded, 196, 197, 201, 203. ' . ) > wounds of, 195. Astragalus, excision of, 193. Axillary artery, ligature of, 208. B. Bacteriology of wounds, 49, 70. Balsam of Peru, for bed sores, 217. Bandages, 30, 67. Esmarch's, 30. Baths, arm and foot, for wounds, 67. Bayonet wounds (see Punctured Wounds), 56, 66. Bearer Companies, 3, 21. plan of camp for, 26. war establishment of, 22. wheel and pack transport of, 23. Bed cradles, extemporised, 72. Bed sores, 216. remedies for, 217. sling used for, 217. Beds, water or air, for bed sores, 216. Bedsteads, extemporised, 12, 13, 70, 71. Bergmann on joint injuries, 150. Bismuth, 55. Blackadder on hospital gangrene, 219. Bladder, lithotomy, 116. MacCormao on rupture of, 102. puncture of, 116. rupture of, 102. wounds of, 115. Bleeding after wounds, to preyent, 201. Bloodless operations, 161. Bones of toes, fractures of, 138. Boat ration, 261. Boracic acid, 54. Brachial artery, ligature of, 208. Brain, inflammation of, SO. Bryant's ilio-femoral triangle, 148. Bulbts, modern effects of, 58. Bullet wounds, rules tor exploring, 59-62. extraction of, 63. 0. Oacolets, 18. Calabar bean for tetanus, 235. Calf, amputation of, 175. Cammerer, Dr., on gun-shot wounds, 65. Camps, 26-27, 248. Carbolic acid, 53. , ■, , Garden's amputation through condyles of femur, 173. Carpal ends of bones of forearm, exci- sion of, 185. Carriage of sick and wounded on stretcbers, 3-11. Carriage of sick and wounded up and down ascents and descents, rules for, 5. Cauterisation for hromorrhage. 204 Charbon, 232. Cheeks and forehead, wounds of the, 86. Chest, wounds of the (see Wounds), 89. foreign bodies in cavily of, 94. Ciiest, htcmorrhage in cavity of, 90-91. Chloride of zinc, as disinfectant, 55, 254. Chlorinated soda, 55, 254. Chloroform, 153. Chopart's amputation through the tarsus, 177. Clavicle, excision of, 182. fracture of, 124. Cocaine, 156. Collecting stations, 21. Colotomy, 111. Common carotid, ligature of, 206. Compression of brain, 77. of spinal cord, 112. Concussion of brain, 76. of spine. 111. Condy's fluid, 55. Constitutional treatment of wounds, 69. Contre-coup, 74. Contused wounds with fracture of the cranium, 73. Contusions of the head, 72. Cooking-places, 241. Corrosive sublimate, 53. Cotton-wool dressing for wounds, 55. Coxeter's extractor, 63. Creosote to prevent maggots, 161. Cubic space, 247. Cyanide of mercury and zinc, 54. D. Delorme on effects of modern bullets, 58. Depot, advanced, 28. at base, 29. De Wilde's explorer, 62. Diaphragm, wounds of the, 98. Diffused traumatic aneurism, 196. Discharges from gun-shot wounds, their character, 64. Double amputation, 160. Drainage of wounds, 52. Dressings, first field, 29, 30, 257. tor wounds, 51, 52, 56, 65. Dressing-stations, sites of, and duties at, 21. Drowned, treatment of the apparently 240.267 INDEX. E. Ear, wounds of the, 85. Ecchymosia in heemothorax, 91. Elbow, amputation of arm above, 164. Elbow-joint, amputation through, 165. excision, 182. wounds of, 141. Electric explorers for bullets, 62. Emphysema, 90, 94,102. Empyema, 96. Ergot in glycerine for heemorrhage and aneurism, 204. Erysipelas, 221. cellulitis, 22.'. cellulo-cutaneous or phlegmonous, 222. exciting causes of, 221. simple or cutaneous, 222. Esmarch's apparatus for resection of wrist-joint, 185. bloodless amputation, 161. splint for excision of elbow-joint, 183. splint for excision or resection of ankle-joint, 192. Esmarch's (and others') splint for fracture of thigh, 135. Ether, 155. Excisions ot joints, 138, 181. of ankle, 190. of astragalus, 193. of carpal ends of bones of forearm, 185. of clavicle, 182. of elbow-joint, 182. of eye, 193. of head of humerus, 181. of hip-joint, 145, 186. of knee, 189. of OS calcis, 192. of scapula (Syme's), 182. of shafts of long bones, 193. Iiy subperiosteal operation, 19;!. of tarsal bones, other than ppecilipd, lii3. of wrist, 184. Explorer, de Wilde's, 62. Liebreich's, 62. Longmore's, 62. Tailor's, 62. Extemporaneous transport, blauketK, 7. boughs of trees, or fascines, 12. country carts, 13. hammocks or cots, G. hay or straw rope, 9. rifles, tunics, and clothing, 9, 10. sacks, tents, clothing, behs, 8. various methods for, 6-14. Extemporised bed cradles, 72. bedsteads, 70-71. mattresses, 70. Extemporising appliances, &c., 3. Extraction of bullets, &c., the instru- ments used, 63. Extremities, wounds of the (see Wounds), 119. Eucalyptus oil, 55. Bye, wounds of the, 86. enucleation of, 193. F. Face, wounds of the, 82. Facial artery, ligature of, 207. Fat embolism, 48. Fayrer on cases of tetanus, 235, 236. osteo-myelitis, 230, 231. Femoral artery, ligature of, 211. Femur, amputations above condyles of, 172. fracture of (see Thigh and Wonnds), 32,125. Fergusson on amputation at hip-joint, 170. on amputation of forearm, 167. on excision of humerus, 181. Field, medical assistance in, 20. hospital, 23. plan of encampment of, 27. variations in India, 28. war establishment of, 24. wheel and pack transport of, 25. Field kit for ofQcers, 262. Field ovens, 241. Filters for water, 243. Finger, index or little, amputation of, 168. amputation of whole, 169. First field dressings, 29, 257. First line of medical assistance, 21. First relief to wounded, 31. Flexion, for heemorrhage, 204. Fhes, after amputation, 161. Foot and its bones, fractures of, 138. Footsoreness, 239. Forci-pressure, 203. Forearm, amputation of, 166. excision of carpal ends of bones of, 185. Forearm and wrist, fracture of, 38, 124. Formulae, 253. Fractures of arm, 35, 121. general remarks on gunshot, 32, 119. of hand, 124. of humerus, 38, 121. of leg, 34, 131. management in the field, 32,119. partial, 120. of radius and ulna, 124. simple and compound, 120.INDEX. 268 Heart, wounds of the, 98. of both lungs, 93* Fractures of skull, 73,74. of spino, 112. Stromeyer's cushion for, 122. of thigh, 32, 125, 131, Freezing mixture, 156, 263. Gall-bladdek, rupture of, 101. Gangrene, 213. acute spreading, 215. bed sore, 216. frost-bite, 214. hospital, 217. idiopathic, 21G. microbes as a cause, 213. of protruded intestine, 103. remedies for bed sore, 217. sling for bed sore, 217. traumatic, 213. General hospital at the base, 29. Germ theory of putrefaction, 49. German army order on antiseptics, 258. Giraud-Teulon triangle, 148. Gross on excision of hip-joint, 186. Gudrin on difficulties of disarticulation, 178. Gun-shot fractures, 32,119. of arm, 35,121. arm slings for, 48. extemporary appliances for, 32. of leg, 34, 136. of thigh, 32, 125. Gun-shot wounds, antiseptic treatment of, 65. bandages used for, 67. baths, arm and foot, for, 67. character of discharges from, 64. constitutional treatment in, 69. cotton-wool dressing for, 55. head, injuries of the, 72. classification of, 72. compression in, 77. concussion in, 76. contused wounds, with fracture, 73. contusions in, 72. fractures, 73. fracture from contre-coup, 74. fracture of base of skull, 74. fracture of both tables, 74. furrowing of outer table, 73. penetrating wounds, 74. sabre wounds, 76. scalp wounds, 76. how influenced, 58. instruments for extracting missiles from, 63. irrigation for, 68. Gun-shot wounds of muscular parts 64 poultices for, why objectionable, 56, Oo. rules to observe in exploring, 60. sanitary treatment of, 70. their examination, the importance of, 59. treatment, 65. ventilation of buildings in, 70. washing, excellent plan for, 69. Guthrie on excision of ankle, 190 on gangrene, 214. on injuries to the head, 72. on periods for amputations, 157. on treatment of wounded arteries, 19G, 197-200. H. HjEMoeehage, 195. after bloodless operations, how pre- vented, 161. ergot in glycerine for, 201, expedients to suppress, 201. from arteries, 196. from lungs, 91. from stumps, 199. intermediary or reactionary, 198. intermittent, 201. into cavity of abdomen, 99-104. into cavity of chest, 90. on primary, 195. perchloride of iron tor, 204. secondary, 196, 198. styptics, 201. treatment of wounded arteries, 197. HaBmorrhagic diathesis. 198. Heemothorax, 90. Hamilton on excision of humerus, 181. on primary hesmorrhage, 19-5. Hammocks, ship's, 17. Hammond's splint for lower jaw, 84. Hand and fingers, fracture of, 125. Handcock's excision of ankle, 190. Head, injuries of the, 72. classification of, 72. compression, 77. concussion, 76. contusions of, 72, 73. fracture of, 73, 74. furrowing of outer table, 73. hernia cerebri, 80. Inflammation of brain and membranes, 80. penetrating woimds of, 74. sabre wounds of, 76. suppuration within cranium, 80 trephining, 78, 81,269 INDEX. Hemiplegia, 78. Hennen on hospital gangrene, 213. on periods for amputations, 156. on tetanus, 234. Hernia cerebri, 80. of intestine, 103. of lung, 97. of omentum, 103. Hey's operation of all the metatarsal bones, J 77. Hip-joint, amputation at, 1G9, 171. Bryant's ilio-femoral triangle for, 148. ■exact position of, IH, 148. excision of, 18G. Giraud-Teulon's triangle for, 148. N^laton's line for, 148. wounds of, 143. Holmes on treatment of wounded arteries, 197. Horse litters, 17. Horsley on trephining cranium, 82. spine, 113. Hospital gangrene, 217. Hospitals, field, 23. stationary, 28. base, 29. plan of encampment of, 27. Hospital gangrene, Blackadder on, 219. caustics used to arrest, 221. constitutional treatment of, 221. Delpech's descriptions, 217. Hennen on, 218. Legouest on, 218. Lister's antiseptic dressings, 221. remarks on treatment of, 220. Taylor on, 220. Hospital trains, 15. means to prevent shock from motion in, 15,17. ship's hammocks, for use in, 17. Humerus, excision of head of the, 181. fracture of, 3,5, 121. Hydrothorax, 95. I. Ice or cold, for haemorrhage, 204. recipe for, 2.o3. Iliac artery, external, ligature of, 210. Ilium, i.<!Ctiium, pubis, fracture of, 115. Immediate amputaiions, 157. India, rules of, for field hospitals, 28. Infective disease, 213-238. Inflammation of the brain and mem- branes, treatment, SO. Injuries of the head, 72. classiflcation of, 72. compression in, 77. concussion in, 76. Injuries of the head, contused wounds with fracture, 73. contusions in, 72. fracture from contre-coup, 74. .fracture of base of skull, 74. fracture of both tables, 74. furrowing of outer table, 73. hemiplegia, 78. hernia cerebri, 80. penetrating wounds, 74. sabre wounds, 76. scalp wounds, 76. suppuration within cranium, 80. trephining, 81, 82. Instruments, method of preserving, 3. Intermediate amputations, 157. Intermediary htemorrhage, 198. Intestines, gangrene of, 103. method of stitching wounded, 108. peritonitis, 110. protruded, wound of, 103. protrusion of, 103. rupture of, 102. wounds of, without protrusion, 104. Iodine, as disinfectant, 55. Iodoform, 55. Iron, perchloride, for hsemorrhage, 204. Irrigation, for wounds, 68, 69. J. Joints, wounds of (see Wounds), 138. Jaw, lower, wounds of, 83. K. Kidney, rupture of, 101. wounds of, 10.^. Kit of ofBeers in the field, 262. Knee, excision of, 189. Knee-joint, wounds of, 149. amputations through, 172. L. Lacerated wounds, 57. Lachrymal bones, wounds of the, 87. Lance wounds (see Punctured Wounds), 56, 66. Langenbeck on hip-joint injuries, 144. on knee-joint injuries, 149. Laparotomy, 107. Larynx, wounds of the, 87. Latrines, 242. Leeomte's probe, 62. Leg, amputation of. 173. fractures of, 34,13L27o INDEX. Leg-bones, gun-shot fractures of, 34 136 i-egouest on hospital gangrene, 218 Lembert's suture, 108. Liebriech's explorer, 62. Ligature of arteries, 205. of anterior tibial, 212. of axillary artery, 203. of brachial artery, 208. of common carotid, 206 of external iliac, 210 of facial, 207. of femoral artery, 211. instruments used for, 205. of lingual artery, 207. P^l^ods of separation of, old form of, of posterior tibial artery, 211 of radial artery, 209. of subclavian artery, 207. of ulnar artery, 209. Ligatures, cat-gut, 206. Light, extemporised means of, 32. Lines of communication, medical aid for. Lingual artery, ligature of, 207. Lister on excision of wrist, 184. Lister's dressuigs, 52, 54. Lister's method to prevent hemorrhage after amputation, 161. Lithotomy, 116. Litters, 18. horse, 17. Liver, rupture of, 101. wounds of, 105. Longmore on periods for amputation, 156. examination of gun-shot wounds, 60 Luers' forceps, 64. Luke's method of amputation of thigh. Lungs, wounds of the, 90. gun-shot wounds of both, 93. secondary causes of death after wounds of, 99. M. MacCormac, on abdominal injuries, 99. on enteroraphy, 104. on Esmarch's splint for re-section of wrist-joint, 185. on penetrating wounds of abdomen, 106. on rupture of bladder, 102. on secondary hasmoi-rhage, 199. on torsion of arteries, 203. Maggots, generation of, how to be averted, 161. Mattresses, extemporised, 70. Medical stores, advanced depot, 28. Mercurial chloride, 53. Metacarpal bones fracture of 125 Metatarsal bones, amputation of,'l77 Moore, Surgeon Sandford, on pyemia, Mortiflcation (see Gangrene), 213 Mountain transport, 18. Mouth, wounds of the, 87 N. Nausbaum on Listerian dressings, 221. Neck, wounds of the, 87 Necrosis, 130, 194. Nflaton's probe, 62. line, 148. Nerves and tendons, wounds of (see Wounds), 152. Nitric acid for hospital gangrene, 221 JNose, wounds of the, 86. O. CEsoPHAGUs, wounds of the, 88 Oil, eucalyptus, 55, 254. carbolic, 53. Omentum, protrusion of, 103. Operations at dressing stations, some reasons for not attempting, 23. 59 Orbit, wounds of, 85. =• < • Os calcis, excision of, 192. fractures of, 138. Osteo-myelitis, 229. Fayrer on, 230. Jules Eoux on, 231. Pads and cushions, extemporary, 41. cautions on same, 42. Paget on operations during pycemia, 229. Pain of gun-shot wound, 32. Paracentesis thoracis, 96. Paraplegia, 78, 113. Parotid duct and gland, wounds of the, 86. Patella, wounds of, 151. Pelvis, injuries of, 114. ilium, fracture of, 115. ischium, fracture of, 115. pubis, fraclure of, 115. sacrum, fracture of, 115. Penetrating woimds of the cranium, 74. abdomen, 103. chest, 89. Penis, wounds in, 117. Perch loride of iron for scurvy, 239. Pericardium, wounds of the, 97.INDEX. 271 Perineum, wounds in, 117. Peritonitis, 110. Permanganate of potass, as disinfectant (Condy's fluid), 55. Petit's screw tourniquet, 201. Phagocytosis, 51. Phalanx, second and distal amputation of, 169. Phlebitis, 224. Pirogoff's amputation of foot, 180. Plaster of Paris splints, 42. Pneumocele, 97. Pneumothorax, 95. Population, density of, 248. Porter, J. H., on treatment of bed sores, 217. Porter's stretcher and bed for excision of head of femur, 188. Poultices, why objectionable, 56-68. Primary amputation, 157. Probe, Lecomte's, 62. F^latons, 62. Punctured wounds, 56, 66. Pyffimia, 227. Moore, Surgeon Sandford, on, 228. operations during, 229. supposed conditions favoui'ing, 227. treatment of, 229. R. Radial artery, ligature of, 209. Radius and ulna, fracture of, SS-124. Railway hospital trains, 15. means to prevent shock from motion— Bry's system, 17. Zavodovsky, 15. ship's hammocks for use in, 17. Rations, war, 215, 261. daily amount required, 246. water, 243. Rectum, wounds in, 118. Regiments, medical aid to, 20. ReHef to wounded after engagement, 21, Responsibilities in the field, 1. Retention of urine, HG, 117. Reyher, Dr. Carl, on gun-shot wounds, S. Sabre wounds of head, 76. Sacrum, fracture of, 115. Salicylic acid, as disinfectant, 54. Salol, 55. Sanitary treatment of wounds, 70. Sayer's splint for excision of head of femur, 187, Scalp wounds on head, 7G. Scapula, excision of, 182. fracture of, 124. Scorbutic taint sometimes antecedent to gangrene, 215. Scrotum, wounds in, 118. Scurvy, 238. Secondary amputations, 157. Secondary htemorrhage, 196, 198. Second line of medical assistance, 23. Septiceemia, 225. Septic infection, 226. inflammation, 50. poisoning, 225. Service in the field, 20-32. articles carried on surgeon's person, 20. field hospitals, 23. operations at dressing stations dis- credited, 23. positions and duties of dressing stations, 21. Sequestra, 130, 195. Shafts of long bones, excision of, 193. Ships, embarking and disembarking in- valids, 18. Ship's hammocks, 17. Shock, 31. Shoulder-joint, amputation at, 163. wounds of, 140. Slings, arm, 48. Sores, bed, 216. Space, regulation, 247. Spencer Wells' artery and torsion for- ceps, 204. Spermatic cord, wounds in, 118. Spine, wounds of, and other injuries to (see Wounds), 111. Spleen, rupture of, lul. Splint, articles useful for, 33-48,183-186. for excision of head of femur, 187. Sponges, 53, 254. Stationary hospitals, 28. Stomach, rupture of, 102. wounds of, 105. Straw mats for fractures, 34. Stretcher sections, 3, 21. carriage of wounded on, 3. Stromeyer's cushion, 122,123. fracture box, 136. Stumps, heemorrhage from, 199. maggots in, 161. necrosis of, 194. rules for treatment of, 160, 199. various affections of, 194. Styptics, for heemorrhage, 204. Subclavian artery, ligature of, 207. Sub-periosteal amputation, 180. for excision and resection, 193. Sulpho-carbolate of zinc, 55. Superficial area, 247, 248.272 INDEX. Suppuration, 51, 56. within cranium, 80. Surgical assistance in the field, 20, 21. instruments, care of, 3. dressing stations, 21. field hospitals, 23. operations at dressing stations dis- credited, 23. Sutures, 53, 108. Sword wounds (and see Wounds, incised), 49, 56, 6(i. Syme's amputation at ankle-joint, 176. excision of scapula, 182. T. Tailor's explorer, 62. Tarsal bones, other than those specified, excision of, 193. Tarsus, amputation through, 177. Taylor on hospital gangrene, 220. Teale's amputation of foot, 179. method of amputation of thigh, 172. Tenax, 56. Tendons, wounds of, 152. Tents, 26, 27, 247. Testes, wounds in, 118. Tetanus, acute and chronic, 233. chloroform for, 236. chloroform and hemp for, 236. excision of part of injured nerve for, 235. hot-air baths for, 236. idiopathic, 233. M. Vei-neuil's views on causes of, 233. nitrate of amyl for, 236. stimulant and nourishment best remedies for, 236. traumatic, how originated, 233. two varieties of, 233. Thigh, amputation of, 172. Esmarch's splint for fracture of, 134. gun-shot fractures of, 125. splints, aud contrivances for fracture of femur, 131. Stromeyer's fracture box, 136. Third line of medical assistance, 28. Thumb, amputation of, 168. Tibia and fibula, fractures of, 136. Tibial artery, posterior, ligature of, 211. anterior, 212. Tire-fond screw, 64. Toes, wounds of, 138. amputation of distal phalanx of, 179. amputation of second, third, fourth, 179. amputations of metatarsal bone; of great, 178.[j amputation of metatarsal bone of little, 178,; Tongue, wounds of the, 87. Torsion of arteries, 203. Tourniquets, 201. Esmarch's, 202. Hunter's, Dr. John, R.N., 203. iugenious modifications of the screw. 202. Mott's, 202. Petit's screw, 201. Trains, hospital, 15. Transport, extemporaneous, 6. in mountainous districts, 18. organisation of, 2. Traumatic aneurism, circumscribed, 196. diffused, 196. gangrene, 213. Treatment of compound fractures, 120. constitutional, 69. of penetrating wounds of abdomen, 103. Trephine, 74, 81. application of, as recommended by Sir W. Fergusson, 81. how used in spinal injuries, 113. Trochanterj wounds of, 148. Tuberculosis, 236. Turpentine, to prevent maggots, 161. U. Ulnar artery, ligature of, 209. Urethra, wounds and foreign bodies in. 117. Urine, retention of, 117. V. Veins, wounds of, 205. Velpeau, torsion of arteries, 203, Ventilation of buildings, 70, 247. Vision, defects of, V49. Volkmann on Listerian dressings, 221. W. Wagstafp on relief of tetanus by sweat- ing, 236. Wai-m water for wounds, 204. Washing wounds, 68. Water, i!43. Wind-balls, 57. Wire splints, 39. Wood-wool, 54. Woolsorter's disease, 232. Wounded, carriage of, by men, 3,^73 INDEX. Wounds to be first relieved, 31. accidental, 53. antiseptics, 53. antiseptic treatment of, 52. arrow, bayonet, lance, sword, 66. bacteriology of, 49. bandages used for, SO, 67. baths, arm and foot, for, 67. ■ boracic acid for, 5i. constitutional treatment of, 69. cotton-wool dressing for, 55. drainage of, 52. examination of, 59. general treatment of gun-shot, 65. gun-shot, how influenced, 58. how inflicted, 49. incised, 49, 56. Instruments for extracting mi siles from, 63. irrigation for, 68. lacerated, 57. nature of, 49. of muscular parts, by gun-shot, 64. poultices for, why objectionable, 66,63. punctured, 56, 66. rules for exploring, 59, 60, 61. sanitary treatment of, 70. suppuration, 51, 56. treatment of, 51. washing of, excellent plan for, 68. of the arteries, 195. of the abdomen, 99. colotomy, HI. diaphragm of, 98. gall bladder, rupture of, 101. how to stitch wounded intestines, 108. intestines, wounds of, 103. intestines, rupture of, 102. kidneys, rupture, of, 101. kidneys, wounds of, 105. liver, rupture of, 101. liver, wounds of, 105. non-penetrating, 99. penetrating, 103. peritonitis, 110. protruded intestine gangrene of, 103. wound of, 103. protrusion of intestine, 103. spleen, rupture of, 101. stomach, rupture of, 102. stomach, wounds of, 105. treatment, 52, 106. wounds of intestines without pro- trusion, 106. of the cheeks and forehead, 86. of the scalp, 76. of the chest, 89. ecchymosis in, 91. emphysema in, 90, 94, 95. "Wounds of the chest, extraneous bodies in cavity of pleura, 94. extraneous superficial bodies in, 94. gun-shot wounds of both lungs, 93. Esemorrhage from lungs, how treated, 91. hasmothorax, 90. hernia of lung, 97. hydrothorax, 95. non-penetrating, 89. paracentesis thoracis, 96. penetrating, 89. penetrating, how treated, 90. place for t8Cj)ping the chest, 96. pneumocele, 97. pneumothorax, 95. search for extraneous bodies in, 94. secondary causes of death after, 99. of the diaphragm, 98. of the ear, 85. of the extremities, 119. bones of toes, 138. clavicle, 124 Esmarch's splints for thigh frac- tures, 134. femur, 125. foot and its bones, 138. forearm and wrist, 125. general remarks, 119. hand and fingers, 124, 125. humerus, 121. management in the field, 120. OS calcis, 138. partial fractures, 120. radius and ulna, 124. scapnla, 124. simple and compound fractures, 120. splints and contrivances for fracture of femur, 131. Stromeyer's cushion, 122. fracture box, 136. tibia and fibula, 136. trochanter major, 148. of the eye, 86. of the face and adjacent parte, 82. bones of the face, 82. fracture of symphysis, 85. lower jaw, 83. Hammond's splint for lower jaw, 84. of the heart, 98. of the pericardium, 97. of the joints, 138. ankle-joint, 151. elbow-joint, 141. hip-joint, 143. knee-joint, 149. patella, 151. shouldei'-joint, 140. trochanter, 148. wrist-joint, 142. 18274 INDEX. Wonnds of the lachrymal bones, 87. of the larynx, 87. of the lung, 90, 93. of the mouth. 87. of the neck, 87. of the nerves and tendons, 152. of the nose, StJ. of the oesophagus, 88. of the orbit, 85. of the parotid duct and gland, 86. of the pelvis and other injuries, 114. anus, 118. bladder, 115. contusions, 114. fractui-es and dislocations, 114. injuries to o 'gana of defsBcation, 118. generation, 117. Wounds of the pelvis, injuries to organs of micturition, 115. penis, perineum, and urethra, 117. rectum, 118. scrotum, 118. spermatic cord, 118. testes, 118. urethra, 117. of the spine and other injuries to. 111. compression of spinal cord, 112. concussion, 111. dislocations, fractures, 112. injuries above phrenic nerve, 113. paralysis, 11-3. trephine, how used in, 113. of the tongue, 87. of the veins, 205. Wrist, amputation at, 167. Wrist-joint, wounds of, 142. BULL AND BAIIf, PRIHTKKS, CLASGOW3»