439 posed of beef alone : it must be composed of beef, veal, and fowl, the constituents of consomme, in the proportion of 6 lbs. of beef to 2 of veal and 1 of fowl. Now see what this means. If Gouffe, though he heartily approves of any good addition to the stockpot, allows you to make bouillon of beef and beef-bone alone, concocted in four times its weight of water; if his consomme is made by another concoction of the broth thus obtained with a trio of beef, veal and fowl; and if, on the other hand, Dubois and Bernard insist that bouillon is in the first instance to be made from a trio of beef, veal and iowl dissolved in no more than their own weight of water—indeed, rather less ;*•—all this surely means that the first broth of Dubois and Bernard ought to be as good as the second or double broth of Gouffe, and is obtained by a much simpler process. The consomme or double broth, as distinguished from plain broth or bouillon, may thus be nothing but a grand name, meaning no more than the celebrated phrase of Mr. Squeers ’—“ Here’s rich- ness, boys ! ” The simple bouillon of one kitchen is often richer and better than the most elaborate soup of another. It is a curious proof of the folly of laying down tight rules, that often in the French books one stumbles upon the statement—“ Notez qu’on ne peut esperer faire un bon bouillon que dans une marmite de terre ”; and English housewives will account for their bad soup by saying, “We cannot have the pot-au-feu as in France because our pots are metal.” The one advantage—a great one, no doubt —of the French earthen pot is, that earthenware is a bad conductor of heat—slow to heat and slow to lose heat. The * As it tnay seem extravagant to prescribe rather less than pound for pound, it is right to give their exact quantities for bouillon. “ Proportions approximatives : 14 kil. de boeuf, 5 kil. de veau, 2 poules ou l’^quivalent de parures, 30 litres d’eau." This, reduced to English measure, means as nearly as possible 46 lbs. of meat to 43 lbs. or pints of water.