Salt 407 use of the term beyond chloride of sodium to salts in general, Bernard Palissy (translated by Henry Morley^ has an eloquent passage, mixed with some considerable errors, on its importance in the economy of nature. “ I tell you, he says, speaking of salts, “ there is so great a number ol them that it is impossible lor any man to name them all; and tell you further, that there is nothing in this world which has no salt in it, whether it be in man, the beast, the trees, plants, or other vegetable things, or even in the very metals; and tell you yet more, that no vegeta- tive things could grow without the action of salt which is in seeds; what is more, il salt were taken from the body of a man he would fall to powder in less than the winking of an eye. If the salt were separated from the stones that are in buildings, they would fall suddenly to powder. . . . Salt bleaches everything; salt hardens everything; it preserves everything; it gives savour to everything; it is a mastic which binds everything; it collects and unites mineral matters, and of many thousand pieces makes one mass. Salt gives sound to everything : without salt no metal would yield a voice. Salt rejoices human beings ; it whitens the flesh, giving beauty to reasonable creatures; it preserves friendship between the male and female by the vigour given to the sexes; it gives voice to creatures, as to metals. ” “The experiments of Boussingault on animals”—to quote Dr. Letheby—“ have shown that although salt mixed with the fodder does not much affect the quantity of flesh, fat, or milk obtained from them, yet it seriously affects their appearance and general condition ; for animals deprived ol salt, other than that contained naturally in the food, soon get heavy and dull in their temperament, and have a rough and staring coat. Reulin states that animals which do not find it in their food and drink become less prolific, and the breed rapidly diminishes in number. This is confirmed by Dr. Le Saine, who says in his prize essay on salt, that it