i6o Duck Duck.—The French notion of the tame duck is perfectly given by Grimod de la Reynifere. “ He appears rarely in a roast at refined tables. His modesty adapts itself better to a couch of turnips after he has been cooked in a succulent braze.” The general order is, that the wild duck is to be roasted; the tame duck or duckling either stewed or brazed. If ever the latter is allowed the honours of the spit, he must be barded. In England the duck brazed in turnips is rarely seen, and the roast duck or duckling is in great favour. Roast Duck or Duckling.-—A duck should always be stuffed; a duckling may, or may not. The stuffing is the same as for geese, and will be found among the force- meats. Also duck or duckling should be well done. Per- haps one of the reasons for the dissatisfaction which the roast duck gives in France is that it is roasted, if roasted at all, like the wild duck—very much underdone. Gouff'd allows only sixteen minutes for roasting a duck. A duckling will take at least half an hour of a brisk fire; a duck perhaps an hour. When the time comes for serving these birds, let them have a good brown gravy not upon them but around them, and in a boat apart; or else one made from their necks, gizzards and livers stewed down with some browned onions, sweet-herbs and spioe. The most common vegetable garnish is green peas or sometimes cresses; but try also cooked endive or celery, turnips browned in butter, and almost any kind of salad. As for potatoes with duck—never. Brazed Duck.—The name is given not merely to duck brazed in the ordinary way, but to any arrangement by which it may be botli stewed and roasted, which is the object of brazing. Let the duck be half roasted and then stewed ; or let it be baked slowly in a stewpan and two or three ounces of butter till it is well browned, and then let it be stewed. This last is the simplest of the methods. Between the baking and the stewing, dredge in two table- spoonfuls of flour, and stir it until well mixed with the