442 Soup tions, and chiefly because broth No. i is uncertain—it is “pot luck.” Some cooks add no beef whatever, calcu- lating- that when the bouillon or beef broth which liquefies the consomme is further reduced by five hours’ boiling, there is quite enough beef in it already. If the first beef broth has a good supply of beef in it, they are quite right in adding none to the second. Assuming that when boiled down it will be sufficiently strong in beef, the next object is to make it smooth upon the tongue and sapid. To this end add a knuckle of veal and a fowl, from which the fillets have been removed. Instead of the veal calf’s feet will do, or some pigskin—both rich in gelatine, and giving the broth a velvety smoothness. Instead of the fowl a wild rabbit will suffice. Pour on this meat double the quantity of broth—that is, a quart for every pound. Bring it gradually to the boiling-point, and skim it. When the skimming is at an end, the usual order is to garnish it with carrots, onions, leeks, and a little mace; but this is because cooks so seldom know when they have enough of a good thing; they forget that the broth which goes into the pot is already charged with vegetables. Let the whole simmer for five hours, at the end of which time strain it, keep clear of the fat, look to the salt and the caramel; and there ought to be a fine soup ready for use. Some of the French cooks recommend that the veal, but more especially the fowl used as above, shall first be roasted, baked or brazed—partly for the sake of the colour so produced, partly for the flavour which it de- velopes. This is too troublesome for every day, but it is worth while to take the trouble on special occasions. 3. Veal Stock, or Blonde de lean.—This is, although not so called, another consomme or double broth, but pre- pared in a peculiar way. Butter a deep stewpan, and line the bottom of it half an inch thick with slices of onion. Upon this cushion put a slice of ham, quite free from fat, and a knuckle of veal which has been boned; put in