Sauce 4i 7 rapidly, till solid and fluid roast together—that is, fall to a glaze; and finally by filling the vessel with broth or with water, and letting it simmer for hours till the decoction is perfect. 4. It is very common to finish sauces by thicken- ing them with roux ; and roux is nothing more than flour which has been roasted in butter. 15. One of the most ancient methods of the F rench kitchen for the perfection of a brown sauce, or a superexcellent consomm^, is to roast a fowl first, or it may be two, and then to boil them down in the stockpot; and those cooks who are afraid that some goodness may depart from the fowl in roasting it before a clear fire stipulate for brazing it—which is only another mode of roasting. It will now be understood that a cook proficient in sauces must have the most delicate skill in roasting; and at the same time we reach the true meaning of the Spanish sauce. The introduction of the Spanish ham into the stockpot for brown sauce is but one out of many ways of awakening that taste of the fire which ought to mark it. Not that the ham has itself been roasted : it has only been smoked. The roast flavour in this case is the flavour of wood which has been roasted and burnt. The flavour has risen in a vapour which has been identified with creo- sote and pyroligneous acid, and which, seizing on the ham, has incorporated with it. This incorporation may to some extent soften and tone down the tarry flavour of charred or roasted wood ; but essentially the roast flavour, which through the Spanish ham is supposed to improve a brown sauce, is a modification of the flavour of charred pinewood. Knowing this, we can rate at its true worth the direction of the French cooks to put ham into all sauces and soups which are to be very good. The introduction of ham or of anything smoked, in however faint a degree, into white sauce, is opposed to its character. It is quite possible that the creosote in the ham may be too feeble to do any harm : the question is, what good does it do? It is the nature of 27