457 Taste matters of taste we are not put out by great differences, but we wax furious over trifles. That an Eskimo should eat tallow candles; that the Dutch should eat their pickled herring raw; that the astronomer Lalande should enjoy the nutty taste of spiders; that an Australasian savage should stock his larder with his dog and his wife; that widows in tne Andaman Islands should have the skulls of their late husbands nicely mounted, wear them dangling from their necks, and use them as an English lady uses her bag,—are matters of taste which do not rouse in us a tenth part of the emotion produced by the suspicion of garlic in a sauce, by the use of a spoon instead of a fork, steel instead of silver. There is a characteristic anecdote told of the Reverend Father de Madot, who towards the end of the seventeenth century was appointed to the bishopric of Belley. When he went to take possession of his see, the people of Belley gave him a dinner. He partook of it with remarkable satisfaction; but more especially seemed to enjoy a fondue of cheese, which gave a glory to the latter end of the least. What was the surprise of his entertainers to see that the man of God ate it not with a fork but with a spoon ! The company looked at each other with astonishment in the corners of their eyes, but they were too polite and reverential to say anything. Next day it was all over the town. “ Do know how the new bishop eats a fondue? ” says one. “Ah, my dear sir,” says another, “it is quite true—I had it from an eye-witness -—he eats it with a spoon.” The tidings were soon wafted over the diocese, shook the minds of the faithful, and imperilled the Church. The impression produced was also a lasting one. A hundred years afterwards Brillat-Savarin (born in that diocese) was told the story by one of his grand- uncles, who was consumed with laughter at the notion of a bishop eating fondue with a spoon. And so this worthy father in God, De Madot, is for ever known in the history of his country—not for his good works, his prayers and