Gallimdwfrey 202 oi old ones. The result was the Forme of Cury—which was the old English way of spelling Queuerie—the business of a Queux or Cook. It was a cookery book in which the most cursory reader will detect the work of many hands, repetitions, varieties, here a new receipt in the language of the period, there an old one in a corrupt or forgotten language, further on a recently-worded explanation under an antique heading, and there again another set off with foreign phrases. M. Wallon has devoted two considerable volumes to the life of Richard II. : he has not said a word in it about this book and the gastronomic rage of the court. English scholars have given it the most superficial atten- tion, and have strangely neglected its hints. The language has puzzled them sorely, and they have put it aside as beneath them. Nevertheless this cookery book, and the contemporary Rolls of Cookery, some of which have been published, while others still remain in MS., chiefly among the Sloane MSS. in the British Museum, is to those who care to read it a mine of wealth. We can see in our own time how there still remain in the kitchen the relics of an antiquated speech unknown to books; and 500 years ago in the kitchen of the English king it was the same. There remained the fragments of a language which was not only unknown to books, but was also scarcely understood by those who employed it,—words which had passed out of general acceptance, which had become unrecognisable, and which are now to the philologist what an oyster-shell on a hillside is to the student of geology, and the bones of bear, hyaena and lion in the London clay to a palaeontologist. We light upon words which do not belong to the current language, and which are foreign to it, but which must at one time have been current somewhere in an antecedent speech ; and we are driven back to the conception of an extremely remote language—not Sanscrit, but perhaps a brother or a cousin to it, from which the European dialects