175 Entrees These are of two kinds, the great and the small. The small ones we all know; the large ones are not always reckoned as such, because they are known by other names—Releves in French, Removes in English, so called simply because they take the place of the soup tureens. And here the Eng- lishman begins to get confused. These removes or large entrees do not seem to him to have the character of entrees at all. Perhaps one of them is a fish; probably the other is what the French call an entree de broche-—what he would call a joint. One of the removes being a fish, he is willing to discuss it at once, though he would be gravely scanda- lised at the nation of calling it an entree—a name which he always associates with made dishes; but the other being a joint, and probably a roasted or brazed one, he thinks it ought to be postponed to the place in the dinner which is especially allotted to the roast, so that he may eat all his roasts together. In the French, or at least in the original idea, the removes are entries not less than the little dishes which are commonly so called, though it must be allowed that in later practice it is usual to class them as something distinct from entries. But be the name what it may, if people must have a joint, or remove, or pi&ce de resistance to fall upon, then the proper place for it, in the French idea, is at the beginning of the first course and not at the end. There are only two limitations as to the nature of these joints, removes or large entrees, and neither of these is very strict. The first is that to give them the character of an entrde they should be accompanied bv a good sauce or dainty vegetable garnish; the second that they should not include fowl or winged game, which are best reserved for the roast proper. Second Course.—As the first course began with sub- stantial and rather plain dishes, the removes, tapering off into the more delicate entries, it is assumed that the dinner is now prepared to run a second race of entremets, begin- ning with something plain and substantial in the form of a