192 Fritters Take as for ordinary batter equal quantities of solid and liquid—say, half a pound of flour as against half a pint of water; and take three eggs and an ounce of sugar as against four ounces of butter. Put the water, butter, sugar, and a pinch of salt in a saucepan on the fire, and as soon as it boils dredge in the flour and stir it over the fire for four or five minutes. When it is removed from the fire put in a few drops of flavouring essence—as orange or almond, lemon or vanilla—or do without flavouring alto- gether. The three eggs are next to be broken into it and carefully mixed—one at a time. The paste should be stiff enough now to hold together; but if too stiff, break another egg into it, or half one. Make round balls the size of small walnuts, and put them on strips of buttered paper. Dip them into the frying kettle, holding on by the strip of paper, from which the balls will soon detach themselves. As the balls are frying move them about in the kettle till they reach a fine colour and puff well out. Then drain them, sprinkle them with sugar, and serve them on a napkin. 6. Brioche Fritters.—Take paste No. 9, using half the quantity of butter, and milk instead of water. Cool it on ice, and then roll it out thin. With a paste-cutter make circles about two inches in diameter. Put a small spoonful of apricot or other jam upon each; purse it up like a little dumpling, and drop it for ten minutes into hot fat. This is the German fashion—the dainty being of German origin. Alwaj's on New Year’s Eve, or St. Silvester’s night as it is called, these fritters are eaten throughout Deutschland. Marie Antoinette brought the remembrance of them with her from Vienna to Paris, and instructed the French cooks to make them for her, she being then the Dauphiness. They cut the paste as follows :—With an inch-and-a-half cutter they made circles, upon which they dropped the apricot jam —not much—the size of a cobnut. With a two-inch cutter they made large circles, which they placed above the jam.