o j4 Pastry 0 0/4 becomes part of the paste. In puff paste the butter and the paste are separate and there is no mixing or kneading —only what may be called fine sandwiching. The flour is made into a paste by itself, which by successive rollings is divided into thinner and thinner layers separated one from another by layers of butter, which by the same rollings are made thinner and thinner. The process of baking separates the films and puffs them up one above another; and the great art of the pastrycook is by delicacy and rapidity of touch, also by guarding carefully the coldness of the butter and its freedom from moisture, together with the freedom of the paste from stickiness, to make sure that as far as possible the thin flakes of butter and paste shall not interpenetrate. 4. Puff paste for pies. When once the principle of the puff paste is understood the cook can take liberties with it. The foregoing receipt will produce the lightest puff paste, rising several inches and fit for a Yol-au-vent; but for ordinary pies less care is necessary and less butter—say ten or twelve ounces of butter to the pound of flour. Also, though it is always best to use butter, and it is imperative to do so if there is any chance of the pie being eaten cold, —for a hot pie there is no objection to beef-fat pounded with milk or sweet oil in a mortar to the consistency of butter. Lastly, as one does not expect the crust upon a pigeon-pie or an apple-pie to rise very much, one need not be too anxious to multiply the films, and one can spare a turn or two. 5. Puff paste for cheesecakes and tarts. Add about three ounces of sifted sugar to the pound of flour. Some- times two yolks are added, but with doubtful benefit. 6. Short paste. It has been already explained that for short crust the intermixture of the butter with the flour is by kneading, not rolling. For the best short crusts take equal quantities of butter and flour. But even half of butter will make a fair crust. For meat pies the lesser