Salad 39 7 conceal the oil or to take the place of it. All this messing is death to the salad and to the true taste of the green herb. About salad-oil two points are worthy of notice, though it is necessary to insist only on one. The first is, that it is the most simple and digestible form in which oleaginous matter can be presented to the stomach, and that it has a medical value in its combination with raw herbs. English people would not be so timid of what they call green meat ’ if they could bring themselves to swallow it saturated with oil. But here is the chief point: the oil is not only good and wholesome in itself, but it catches up and preserves in a remarkable manner the subtle flavour of the salad. There are certain oils and fatty substances which have a peculiar affinity for odours; and it is well known that those chemists who make it their business to prepare scents from rose-leaves, jasmine, lavender, and other flowers, make use of these oils and fats for storing up the perfumes, with which they become quickly impregnated. One can see what oil as a custodian of flavour in rivalry with vinegar is if one can remember the taste of a sardine. See how delicate the flavour is preserved in oil, and imagine how it would be lost in brine —or English pickle. It is the glory of the Lucca oil that it acts in this way upon the salad, bringing out and pre- serving its delicacy of flavour; which, on the other hand, is dissipated in water, and overpowered in a mess of cream and egg, syrup and mustard. Be a counsellor with the salt, is the old saying; be a miser with the vinegar; but be a spendthrift with the oil. And we English would be happier with our salads if we could learn to put up with the beautiful oil of Lucca and to forego the astonishing combinations (sometimes including anchovy sauce and mushroom ketchup) with which we disguise our green herbs, till, in opposition to the accepted principles of English cookery, they are irrecognisable. The best salad mixtures will be found described in the preceding