Matelote 292 colour two dozen small onions; take out the onions, and put in their place two good spoonfuls of flour, which is to be worked into a roux. Add to this the strained liquor of the fish, the little onions, and a like quantity of mushrooms. Let the cooking go on till onions and mushrooms are suffi- ciently done; and then reduce the sauce on a quick fire and remove the grease from it. Lastly, make a pyramid of the fish upon a dish, pour the sauce over it, and garnish it with crayfish and fried crusts of bread. The sauce thus prepared, with a garnish of onions, mushrooms, crayfish, and crusts, is known as the Matelote Relish or Ragout. White Matelote.—This is commonly called in France the Matelote Vierge; and it must not be mistaken for the Normandy Matelote, which is also white. It is most fre- quently used for eel, but it is good also for other fish. Cut the eel into lengths of two or three inches, and set them to boil for four or five minutes in salt and water, together with two tablespoonfuls of vinegar. This preliminary step, though necessary for eel, is not so for other fish. Melt in a saucepan a piece of butter with a spoonful of flour; dilute it with half white wine (French) and half broth, and add to it pepper, salt, and a faggot of sweet-herbs. Place the fish in it with a number of small onions and mushrooms, and let it cook for twenty or twenty-five minutes. When cooked, remove the fish, onions, mushrooms and faggot, thicken the sauce with yolk of egg, finish it with lemon- juice, and strain it over the fish, which will also be garnished with the onions and mushrooms and with fried crusts of bread. In effect this sauce is but a variety of the white-wine sauce prescribed hereafter for sole. Normandy Matelote.—This is the grand white Matelote —a magnificent dish, but unhappily only possible during the months when oysters and mussels are in season. It is excellent for a brill or a chicken turbot; but it was first of all invented for the benefit of a large sole, and the