194 Frying between the mediums, be it water, fat, air, or steam, which may surround the food in the process of cooking : it is a difference entirely of temperature; and frying, which by means of the fats conveys heat to the food at a tempera- ture varying from the boiling point of water upwards to • 3000, 4000, 5000, and even higher, is in fact a species of roasting. Any one who likes may try this experiment, which ought to enlighten him as to the nature of frying. If he wishes to be very accurate, he can send to E. Cetti and Co., 11, Brooke Street, Holborn, London, who will provide him with a thermometer registering up to 5000 Fahrenheit for three shillings. Negretti and Zambra will charge double and four times the sum. Put a leg of mutton into a kettle of fat at the frying temperature of 4000. In 1 yi or hour (it depends on the size)—that is, in half the ordinary time—it will come out a perfectly roasted gigot, and nobody at the table who is not warned of a difference will discover any between it and a leg of mutton roasted in the ordinary way. This is a little secret for those who have to study the arts of impromptu cookery ; and here it is let out only to illustrate the nature of frying, and to show that it is but a manner of roasting—the most certain and expeditious manner of safely transmitting the roasting heat. If the reader has grasped this explanation and will superintend this experiment, he will be prepared to appre- ciate clearly the distinction between frying proper and the half-frying which is so often in England supposed to be the same thing as whole-frying—the distinction, in short, between a frying-kettle and a frying-pan. In the kettle the thing to be fried is completely immersed in the liquid fat, the heat is transmitted to every part alike, above and below, and a crisp unbroken surface is on every side created which excludes grease; so that whatever is thus fried will when drained appear at table without any oiliness. In the flat frying-pan, which is best known in England, it