Galantine 198 an agreeable spicy odour, in which it resembles the roots of some East Indian grasses that, when moistened, are used by the English to perfume their houses.” In Parkin- son’s time—that is, about 1650—it was still used in con- fectionery and cookery ; but he says that the use of it was then dying out, and that it was chiefly employed for the perfume of houses. He describes also the extraordinary virtues which the plant was supposed to possess for the internal organs of men and women, while for a wonder he ventures to cast a doubt on their efficacy. Although it is perfectly clear that the galantine of old times (which, by the way, was not a solid as it is now, but a sauce with a garniture in it—what in the language of the modern kitchen is known as a ragout) was a prepara- tion of the galingale or galangale, it is not so clear how the word galantine came to be formed ; and it is important to explain this, because it has a curious bearing on a sub- sequent discussion. It is the key to a whole class of words beginning with gallimawfrey. The first step is to deter- mine the meaning of galingale. The final syllable is a generic term indicating the nature of the plant; we have something parallel in sea kale. The first two syllables (which find their kindred in gala and regale) declare that the gale in question is a galing or regaling gale, and their meaning has survived in the modern English name for the plant—the sweet. Cyperus, in the sense in which we speak of sweet herbs, as sweet Basil and sweet Marjoram. And what then is galantine? At first sight one is staggered by the termination, which suggests a Latin origin—but it is a good English word. Tine is a generic term which here takes the place of gale. As we have an old English mistle-tine as well as mistletoe, so there was galintine as well as galingale. In the old receipts the)' said indifferently—powder of galingale or powder of galin- tine. In dictionaries of provincial and obsolete English anybody will find the root tine preserved in various words