Salad 393 It is the best medicine in the world.” As for lettuce, it is recommended by Galen as a soporific, and the prepared juice, lactucarium, is to be found in every chemist’s shop. The old herbalists, however, had another theory. They said that the lettuce was not only soothing like opium, but had the supreme virtue of enabling us to forget womankind. It was the salad of all others for monks and nuns to eat, for it has a hallowing influence that makes one oblivious of love and all its fever. Lest the romantic lover should on this account refuse lettuce, let me remind him that tobacco which is not indeed a salad, but belongs to the order of nightshades, that has yielded several salad-plants, such as the potato and the tomato—was supposed to have a like effect; and there is a vulgar opinion that Sir Isaac Newton never married because he smoked too much. According to the same old theory, there is no love-potion so efficacious as an onion. Would you win a woman’s love—give her onions to eat, whatever the consequences. The French, too, have a proverb, that if a wife only knew what a loving charm there is in celery, she would send to Rome for it every day to provide a salad for her husband. If one must, however, have a love-charm, there is the tomato, the old English name of which is love-apple. This reminds me of an odd omission in the story of the loves of Mr. Pickwick and Mrs. Bardell. Dickens nowhere explains how it came to pass that when his hero ordered tomato- sauce with his mutton-chops, the sensitive soul of Mrs. Bardell took this for a proposal of marriage and the voice of love. There is not a hint even in the speech of Serjeant Buzfuz that the tomato is the love-apple, and that the sauce which Mr. Pickwick ordered was love-apple sauce. There is, no doubt, a great deal of fancy in all this. We expect certain effects, and they are produced by the association of ideas. But there is this always to go upon—that most of the salad-plants have an exhilarating effect, a distinct action upon the nervous system, and through the nerves upon the