Salad 401 shall be the garniture of any salad depends much on place an season. There are two sets of herbs used—one of the aromatic sort, such as tarragon, burnet, chervil, sometimes even parsley; the other, the onion tribe, from garlic, which ue m England abhor, down to the more delicate varieties spnng onions, shalots and chives. There are some persons w 10 set their faces against the most bashful and refined of onions even against chives. What is the use of saying as some fanatics about salad do, that to them a salad is impos- sible. The garniture must be taken as we like it or as we md it. Early in the year, when the cabbage-lettuce comes m, there is no tarragon or chervil, and we must be content wit spring onions and shalots; if these are objectionable we fall back on tarragon vinegar to mix with the oil. When the cos-lettuce appears, we have tarragon and vinegar in perfection, and with it the most innocent of the onion race chives. . When the curly endive comes in, the French as above said, forego tarragon, sometimes retain thechervil’ mt revel in the odour of garlic. In a week or two, when ie Batavian endive—the escarole—is ready, they will re- turn to the garniture used for the cos-lettuce. It is necessary to conclude, and I conclude with a lament, here are salads in abundance, and with a little trouble we can have them in perfection. But all modern salads want ie finishing touch which made them most exquisite in days of old. Our modern manners forbid that touch, for it was found to be not always convenient. In bygone times the fairest and the youngest lady at the table was expected to mix the salad with her fingers. This was enchanting when the lady was in the heyday of beauty and iere were men who would be too pleased to drink cham- pagne out of her slipper. The fashion, however, had its inconveniences; it has passed away, and it survives only in the phrase, Ketourner la salade avec les doigts, which is a way the French have of describing a lady to be still young and beautiful. 26