Hotch Potch 252 confusion may be infinite and variety indescribable, it is a word of wide application. The Scotch, however, seem to have set their hearts upon this word rhyming to their name, and have fixed it for ever upon a magnificent dish which they call a soup, but which looks more like a stew. It is a soup of the class which the French call a Garbure. The principle of it and of the other mutton broths will be explained hereafter in the article .Scotch Broth. When Prince Albert paid his first visit to the Highlands he was profoundly interested in this great national dish—the Scotch Hotch Potch, which is devoured by rich and poor alike with incredible gusto. He made his first acquaintance with it on a hillside, where a herd-laddie was dipping his spoon into a tin can. The Prince asked the boy what he had for dinner, and was told it was Hotch Potch. “ And what is Hotch Potch? ” said the Prince. “There’s carrots intil’t,” said the boy, “there’s neeps (turnips) intil’t, there’s peas intil’t, there’s cabbage intil’t ” The Prince stopped him : “Yes, my little man, but what’s intil’t,’?” “There’s peas intil’t,” continued the boy, “there’s carrots intil’t.” “Yes, yes,” rejoined the Prince, “but I want to know what’s ‘intil’t,’ ” “I’m telling ye-—there’s carrots intil’t, there’s cabbage intil’t, there’s peas intil’t.” “Still I don’t know what is ‘intil’t.’ ” “Did ye ever hear the like?” said the boy; “am n’t I telling you that there’s peas intil’t?”—and so forth. The Prince was not enlightened until one of his gillies came up and informed him that in the language of the country “intil’t,” means into it or in it : “ There’s peas in it, there’s carrots in it.” The following receipt is taken from the cookery book of Mrs. Dalgairns, which I always read with awe because the great Wizard of the North, Sir Walter himself, is said to have contributed to its pages. Who knows but this receipt came in all its robust simplicity from his hands? “ Cut in dice a good quantity of young turnips and carrots, and boil them gently, with one or two lettuces cut