As/>/c 47 ready, add to it for final flavour sherry or Marsala, and some tarragon vinegar in which a faggot of ravigote herbs have- boiled. Test the strength of the jelly, clarify it with white of egg, and strain it through a jelly bag. And now it may be asked : Why is it called aspic? There is upon this point the most curious ignorance, although the explanation lies upon the surface. Most Englishmen think it must have to do with the asp, and the more readily since they remember the question of Cleopatra, bitten by the snake—“ Have I the aspic in my lips? ” Even French- men, who ought to be better informed, make a similar mistake. The great lexicographer, M. Littr6, who has pro- duced the standard dictionary of the French Language—a monument of learning—says that aspic is so called because it is cold as a snake, which is proverbially cold ! The absurdity of this must be evident if it is remembered that aspic is sometimes served hot; and yet one way or another all the dictionaries connect it with the asp. It has in truth nothing to do with anything so venomous. It means lavender—in old French, espic or spic; in good old English, spike, lavender-spike, and spikenard. Lavender- spike is to be found in the sauces of Roman cookery ; it is mentioned among the pot-herbs used in France five hun- dred years ago; one of the spikes—the spikenard of Spain —is in English books of the same period mentioned as a flavouring ingredient of Hippocras; and a couple of centuries ago Parkinson, the botanist, describes a decoction of lavender, horchonnd, fennel, and asparagus, which was considered a wonderful tonic—a stomachic, a cure for the toothache, for epilepsy, for faintness, but most of all potent in the maladies of women. To come down still later, at the time of the French Revolution the great master in the art of distillation was Dejean, who wrote a book on the subject. His thirty-second chapter is devoted to the preparation of waters, spirits, and extracts of aspic, thyme, basil, and sage. Later still, Grimod de la Reyni&re, in one