392 Salad The fact is that a salad is more than food, and we are attracted to it by more than hunger. I am not enough of a chemist to go into details; but here are two facts which explain a good deal. One is that the most important herb used in salads, the lettuce, abounds in a juice which has not only the effect of opium, but where opium would be hurtful takes the place of it in pharmacy. The other is that the plant of next importance for salads, the endive or chicory, is largely used in its root as a substitute for coffee. These and like facts point to the conclusion that salads have an attraction for us over and above that of palatable food— an attraction which has its parallel in a man’s craving for the tobacco-leaf, in a woman’s craving for the tea-leaf, and in the passion which drives a Chinese to the poppyhead. In other words, a salad is not merely a food, but has also an action on the nervous system, stimulating or sedative, which is immensely agreeable and acts like a spell. What- ever be the nature of the charm it is a powerful one, and renders the salad a sort of prince incognito among the assemblage of dishes. It has an undefinable rank on the table, which makes it more important than it seems. Without it, in the eyes of the epicure, the finest dinner has failed of its supreme relish; and to a very common- place dinner it gives an etheral grace. Any one who dips into the works of the old herbalists will be astonished to see how they insist upon the virtues of the salad plants. Many of these virtues are no doubt imaginery, but some are real enough. Thus the herbalists praised endive as a cure for the gout. We have forgotten all about this, and are content to find the refreshment of coffee in the root, the refreshment of a salad in the leaves. Here and there the old theory survives. I remember hearing a physician say to a patient who was much too apt at blue- pill, “That is ruin. I will tell you what to do. Eat a parboiled cauliflower three times a week by way of salad, and be sure you eat the bitter stalks as well as the flower.