Sauce 416 miracle—the sudden generation by fire of a flavour which was not there before. The chemists do not explain it : their minds are occupied with much more distant matters — such as tetranitronaphthalene and tungstosotungstic bromide. It would be too much to expect them to forget for a moment itamonochloropyrotartaric and hydropara- coumaric acids, to attend to anything so common as a complete statement of the chemical distinction between oiled butter and nut-brown butter. Whatever it may be that is developed by the process of roasting, it is typical of the entire difference which separates every form of brown sauce from every form of white. Although the principle is ever the same, it is to be observed that there are many ways of introducing into brown sauce the roast flavours, i. The most direct method of all is to create the proper flavour by roasting the sauce itself—that is, to use a common expression, by boiling the juices of meat down to a glaze. This expression, how- ever, is faulty; for it seems to convey the notion that the grand result is produced by boiling—which it is not. A thin broth or gravy will roast or burn no more than water will; but it may be boiled down to such a consistence that the pan will then catch it as it catches butter, roast it, turn it to glaze, and, if care is not taken, burn it. To boil down the sauce only prepares for the change which is to follow : the decisive change is produced by roasting. A pint of good stock will boil down to but a spoonful or two of such glaze, and a very little of this will go a long way to flavour sauces and soups. 2. Another way is to put the solid ingredients of the sauce, the meat and the vegetables, into a pan with butter, to brown them for a time—that is, really, to roast them—and then to boil them down either in water or bouillon. 3. A third way is to get the juices of the meat by boiling it slowly for a short time, say half an hour, in a small quantity of broth; by then stabbing the meat, to make the juices flow out of it; by next boiling it