last straw. Can one wonder if he curses his hard fate, the cook, and lamentabile dictu, even the wife of his bosom ? If on the other hand he is presented with a really good dinner, well chosen, well cooked, well served, tempting, the cloud on his brow disappears gradually with each successive course, and by the time he has had a fragrant cup of coffee, and a liqueur, and has lighted a good cigar, he finds himself taking a different and brighter view of life. Then again, there is that announcement which strikes terror into an unprepared hostess : “ I am bringing a friend home to dinner ! " Or, what is worse still, a friend brought horn to dinner without previous warning, “to take pot luck!’’ How is the poor lady to break the news to an irascible cook of whom under the most favorable circumstances she stands in profound awe ? But to the most autocratic tyrant of the kitchen such an emergency presents no difficulty and therefore constitutes no casus belli if she is armed with Kettner’s Book of the Table. She knows that with its aid she can, out of unconsidered trifles, add something to a menu which will transform what was a frugal meal for two into a feast for three. Of course it is not only when a man is down in his luck that the boon of a nice little dinner is appreciated. When his affairs are prospering it adds to his happiness and caps the climax. Then his heart expands, and his purse-strings relax. How many a smart frock, and how many a costly ornament, owe their existence to the gratification which a hungry but dis- criminating spouse derives from a nice little dinner ! The numerous copies of the first edition of Kettner’s Book of the Table which were struck off. have been long since exhausted. The work has been for a lengthy period out of print. Was there any motive to reproduce it ? The name and fame of Kettner’s were established. Nothing could increase them or put them on a firmer foundation. Personal motive, therefore, there was none. But what of the Public ? Was the present generation to be deprived of a priceless boon which their predecessors had enjoyed and had so highly appreciated ?