195 Frying is not so. There is so little butter, fat or oil in it, that the food—say a sole,—which is on its lower surface subjected to a very high temperature, is on its upper surface open to the air at a much lower temperature. The cooking is thus unequal; and worse than this, the sole is knocked about in. the flat frying-pan, to prevent burning ; the skin breaks; and while the fish is being cooked on its under side the bubbling fat splutters on to the broken upper surface, which being at a low temperature, incapa- ble of resistance, absorbs these splutterings, so that when presented at table it is decidedly greasy. If the sole be cooked whole in a frying-kettle, instead of being half-fried in a frying-pan—that is, half at a time—there will be no such complaint of greasiness. It must not be supposed that the frying-kettle is expensive because of the large quantity of fat required for it. The fat lasts, and can be used over and over again with little waste, whereas there is great waste of fat in the frying-pan. One of the reasons why frying is supposed to be a greasy mode of cooking is because lard is so much used for it. Lard is the very worst of fats which could be selected for frying, and invariably makes the food look greasy. Probably there is nothing so good as oil; but it is not in general suited to English tastes, it is expensive, and it requires extraordinary care—for it must be heated very slowly, and is always apt to boil over. Butter also is expensive, and requires much care and slowness of heating. The best of all the fats for frying is the cook’s perquisite—the clarified dripping of roast meat and the top fat of the stockpot; but in small households there is never quite enough of it. Practically the fat which is found to be most available is beef fat. Break it to pieces, melt it slowly, and then strain it for use—taking care, however, that it is not so hot as to melt the solder of the strainer. When the strained fat is to be used, let it reach the proper heat before anything is put into it. The proper