398 Salad pages, under the names of Cruet Sauce, Mayonnaise, and Remoulade. As for the herbs to be used in salad, we are in England rather limited in our tastes. Of the infinite variety of salads which can be made from wild plants—the salad burnet, the ladies’ smock, the stonecrop, the sea bindweed, the sweet Cicely, the buckshorn plantain, and the ox-eyed daisy—our people know next to nothing, and they allow quantities of excellent food to be wasted on the cattle. The dandelion, which is a favourite salad in France, and a herb renowned for its virtues, we should be half ashamed to see on our tables. Nothing will do for us in England but the most highly-cultivated kinds. First of all, there is the lettuce, which is of two sorts—the cabbage-lettuce, known in France as the laitue pommee, and the cos-lettuce, which the French term the laitue romaine. Of these—and there are endless varieties of either—we seem in England to prefer the latter, with its long leaves, because it can be eaten by itself; while the French probably care more for the former. Then comes the endive in three classes . first, the broad-leaved or Batavian endive, which the Fiench call escarole—a prime favourite; next, the curly-leaved endive, which the French call sometimes chicorie and sometimes . laitue jrisee; lastly, the wild endive or succory (succory being but the old English word for chicory), which is called by the French barbe de capucin, and whose roots are supposed to make a very fair imitation of coffee. Perhaps next in order of rank deserves to be mentioned celery, but we only use the bare stalk, whereas the French will put the whole plant into the salad-bowl, from the root at one end to the leafage at the other. Even better than the celery is the celeriac,—that is, a celery with a turnip-like root, which is the celeri-rave of the French and the knott- sellerie of the Germans. The latter are especially fond of it, and go into ecstasies with moist eyes and flowing mouth when they talk of it. In England, although it may be