Salmon 404 lower the flame, and stir the salmi well until all the flavours are harmoniously blended. It is to be noted that in this salmi there is no gravy; and if the quantity of lemons seem too much, it must be remembered that when woodcocks come in, lemons are small, and their juice scanty. Salmon.—There is a myth that salmon was once so common that in the indentures of apprenticeship in New- castle, Perth, and other towns, it was wont to insert a stipulation that the apprentice should not be obliged to eat of this fish for dinner more than thrice a week. Now the said apprentice never sees it at table; and to prevent the utter extermination of the king of fresh-water fish, it has been found necessary to establish a close time during the spawning season,when he and his queen shall not be hunted to death. Nevertheless, salmon is to be had in London during a considerable portion of the closed season—but they are salmon from the Rhine. The best salmon known in Eng- land (and best chiefly because the freshest) is that caught in the Severn and in the Scotch rivers. The sooner a salmon can be cooked after it has been killed, the better; and there is no comparison in flavour between a salmon cooked on the day it has been caught, and one cooked in London three or four days afterwards. It is quite possible to get on a London dinner-table in the evening salmon which has been disporting in a Scotch river early in the morning. Apply at Groves’, or any first-rate fishmonger’s. The salmon will be killed in the Tweed at three or four in the morning; it will be instantly crimped and parboiled, and it will be in Bond Street by five or six in the evening. Boiled Salmon.—Whether whole, in parts, or in slices, the salmon is to be boiled like other fish, beginning with cold water and salt. It must be thoroughly well done, thoroughly well drained, and served on a napkin. It is common enough in England to take lobster sauce with it— but this is much too heavy for so rich a fish. Better take