6 5 Beef do- so frankly, and not make a pretence of broiling. Put the steak or the collops with a piece of butter into the pan, and fry them briskly on each side, but take care not to burn the butter. When the meat is done take it out. Then dredge in a little flo-ur into the pan, and add a ladle- ful o-f gravy or broth, which after being stirred on the fire for a minute or two may be strained into a saucepan ; into which also put a quantity of olives, or of mushrooms, or of oysters, which have been previously prepared, and heat them up in the sauce. A glass of sherry or Marsala may go with them, or may take their place. This is not a very brilliant substitute for a good grilled steak; but the French take to- it—in the form of the Filet saute aux olives, aux champignons, aux truffes, au vin de Madfere. Beefsteak Stewed.—Have a large and thick rump-steak, —even more than may be necessary, for this is a dish which, if the sauce be good and plentiful, seems to surpass itself when cold, and comes in graciously at breakfast and at supper. Put the steak with butter into an oblong pan that will hold it nicely laid out at length; brown it on both sides, dredging it lightly with flour; and when it has taken colour pour over it broth enough to- cover it and more than cover it. Sometimes water is used ; but this is a mistake, as it is important that the sauce when cold should be almost a jelly. Set the steak to- boil, skim it, add to it a Mirepoix of red wine, and let it simmer gently for two or even three hours. A quarter of an hour before it ought to be ready, see how the sauce is in consistence and in taste. This is especially necessary for those cooks who- moisten the steak with water or with broth which is too thin. The sauce should be a cullis, and if it is not so it may be well to stir into it a little corn-flour. As for taste it is perilous to attempt to improve upon a good Mirepoix; but mushroom ketchup sometimes comes in well if used with discretion ; pepper may be needed; and 5