HIE ORIGIN OF KETTNER'S RESTAURANT. — HE author of this book was M. Auguste Kettner, the noted Chef who, ‘having held remunerative appointments in some of the leading Restaurants of the Continent, accumulated enough capital to come to London in 1867 and start a Restaurant of his own in Church Street, Soho, W. Soho in those days was quite a different locality to what it is at the present time, for then Shaftesbury Avenue did not exist and the Palace Theatre was a place oEthe future. Notwithstanding its geographical dis- advantages Kettner’s Restaurant quickly became the rendezvous of all the bon-viveurs of London, and in a very short time the single house at 29, Church Street proved inadequate to accommodate the rapidly increasing clientele. 1 he excellence of the cuisine and wines rapidly attracted the leading members ol Society, the Stag'e tend the Literary W ot Id, and M. Kettner was compelled to enlarge the Restaurant in order to cope with the ever increasing demand on his accommodation. In 1877 M. Kettner was persuaded by his good friends and clients, Mr. Geo. Augustus Sala and Mr. J. J. Dallas, to give the benefit of his skill and knowledge of cookery to the English-speaking people, and there is no doubt that those two gentlemen well-known in the literary world of the day rendered him invaluable assistance in the compilation of this book, as in addition to a superlative culinary knowledge, it exhibits, literary ability of the highest order. In the same year M. Kettner, after a very short illness, was called from the region where he had so well catered for the alimentary requirements of his fellow mortals, leaving his business, then firmly established as one of the institutions of London, to Madame Kettner. Madame Kettner ere long took another partner both in the business and matrimonial sense in the person of M. Giovanni Satigiorgi whq, with his vast experience in both Hemispheres, was equally as well qualified as his predecessoi to cater for the requirements of an ever increasingly disci iminat- ing and fastidious public. Under his guiding hand Kettner s Restaurant grew' in popularity, additional houses were acquired, parts of the premises rebuilt, and ultimately the Restauiant as it is now known by all who appreciate good food in preference to elaborate decoration, was completed.