371 Ragout of Mutton fresh-water fish is called a matelote; of salt fish, a brandade; of winged game, a salmi; of hare, a civet; of rabbit, a gibe- lote; of chicken, a fricasse; of pigeons, a compote; of beef, a daube; of mutton, a haricot or a Navarin. They seem to have been particularly pressed to find a name for the stew of mutton. During many centuries they had been making a stew of it, combined with turnips, carrots, and onions, which they called a ragout. The word was twisted about on the German frontier till it came back to France un- recognisable—as haricot. Five centuries ago the French adopted this odd new name for their favourite old dish, which was still a stew of mutton with turnips, carrots, and onions. But about two hundred years afterwards the name of haricot was given also to a kidney bean, and stuck to it in such a way as to produce in the French mind more puzzle and confusion than all the mysteries of fate and free-will—especially as they reversed the order of things, and got a notion into their heads that the name of haricot for the stew came after the name of the bean. Why should a stew be called after a bean which has nothing to do with it? What it means has been explained under the name of Haricot. Here it is enough to say that the French, having introduced the word haricot in place of ragout, felt, after many years of confusion, that they must introduce some other word in place of haricot. They fixed upon Navarin for this, among other reasons—that it seemed to suggest, in a loose, punning title, the navet or turnip, which had be- come all important in the famous haricot of mutton. Anciently this ragout or haricot was adorned with three chief vegetables—turnips, carrots, and onions. Gradually the last two came to be pushed into the background, and the first alone to be prominent. The haricot of mutton settled into a brown ragout of mutton and turnips, which the French cooks who wished to get rid of the word haricot named after the battle of Navarin. The receipt for this stew will accordingly be found under the head of Navarin.