456 Taste often attain their highest perfection when deprived of companionship. Hearing will become more acute with loss of sight, and touch more sensitive with deafness. But taste is made for marriage, and smell is its better half. It loses all its delicacy when it cannot mate with a fine olfactory nerve. Though thus deficient, it is by common consent chosen as the type of all that is most refined in human enjoyment—the worship of the beautiful. This is a feather in the cook’s cap. It is the business of his life to minister to the sense of taste—and taste is at once so fine and so potent that it is selected from all the senses to designate the standard of art and the power of detecting all that it loveliest in heaven and earth. We have one and the same name for the faculty which comprehends a suck- ing-pig and for that which delights in Beethoven—for the appreciation alike of a Strasbourg pie and of the Elgin marbles. The Greeks gave one and the same name to the palate and to heaven—Uranus. It is very odd, however, to see how tastes differ in small things as well as in great, and how fierce are the controversies waged round a dinner-plate. He is an outer barbarian who does not agree with us about a leek or a peppercorn, a bit of pig’s grease or a little oatmeal. If there were no religious wars to waste us, there would certainly be gastronomical ones; and w'ho knows but there is some hidden law which connects our creed with our food? It has indeed been observed that in the great schism of the Reformation the people who held to the oil-jar and the wine-butt remained faithful to the Pope; while those who drank good ale, and found in the keg' of butter a sufficient feast of fatness, nearly all turned Protestant. Philosophers have never adequately ex- plained, and it will probably remain a mystery to the end of time, how it comes that as in religion the wider differ- ences of dogma seldom excite wrath, while the earth is devastated by controversies about the smallest details—the spelling of a diphthong or the lighting of a taper,—so in