77 Boiling lor the first few minutes. All depends on the question whether a piece of meat is going- to- be eaten or not. ll: it is not to be eaten, and we only want to get all the good- ness out of it in the form of a broth or stock, the meat is put into cold water which is gradually heated, and then only seethed or simmered or slow-boiled considerably below the degree of 212. If the meat is to be eaten, however, it is a great and most important object to keep the juices within it. The leg of mutton is therefore at once plunged into the hottest boiling water, which coagulates the albu- men on the surface, and produces a thin but perfect coat of mail all round the meat, through which the juices cannot escape. Five minutes of quick boiling at the outset, or even less, having produced this coat of mail, there is no further need of so great a heat. The quick boiling is, by the addition of cold water, brought down to slow boiling or simmering; and though we still speak of the leg of mutton as boiled, it is really not boiled at all, but only simmered, save in the first five minutes. It will thus be seen that boiling, as distinct from slow- boiling, simmering or seething, is an operation of very limited scope in cookery. It may be described as the middle, not to say neutral point of culinary heat. It is notorious that the kitchen produces two kinds of cookery the brown and the white, or, as the French sometimes express it, the brunette beauty and the blonde. The one comes ol intense heat, far above the boiling point, pro- ducing the roast savours and the brown appearance; the other comes of gentle heat, a little below the boiling point, producing mild decoctions, pale of tint and with natural flavours. But genuine boiling at a temperature of 2120 yields no such characteristic results. It is a temporary process, of short duration and of limited use, being chiefly available, as above mentioned, for two things—to’ coagulate and harden the surfaces of food, and to reduce liquids by evaporation.