Hospitality 250 Hospitality.—But be not thou like the too flowery Chinese, of whom the Abbe Hue gives the following account—the hero of the tale, observe, being not a heathen, but a Christian, Chinee. “ During the time when we were at our Northern Mission, we were witnesses of a most curious fact, which was wonderfully characteristic of the Chinese. It was one of our feast days, and we were to celebrate the Holy Office at the house of the First Catechist, where there was a tolerably large chapel to which the Christians of the neighbouring villages were in the habit of coming in great numbers. After the ceremony the master of the house posted himself in the middle of the court, and began to call to the Christians who were leaving the chapel—* Don’t let anybody go away. To-day I invite every one to eat rice in my house ’; and then he ran from one group to another urging them to stay. But every one alleged some reason for going, and went. The courteous host appeared quite distressed. At last he spied a cousin of his, who had almost reached the door, and rushed towards him saying—‘ What, cousin! are you going too? Impossible, this is a holiday, and you really must stop.’ ‘ No,’ said the other, * do not press me; I have business at home that I must attend to. ’ ‘ Business ! W’hat to-day— a day of rest! Absolutely, you shall stop; I won’t let you go ! ’ And he seized the cousin’s robe, and tried to bring him back by main force, while the desired guest struggled as well as he could, and sought to prove that his business was too pressing- to allow of his remaining. ‘Well, said the host at last, ‘ since you positively cannot stay to eat rice, we must at least drink a few glasses of wine together. I should be quite ashamed if my cousin went away from my house without taking- anything. Well, replied the cousin, ‘ it don’t take much time to drink a glass of wine,’—and fie turned back. They re-entered the house, and sat down in the company room. The master then called in a loud voice, though without appearing to