The Lady Mayonnaise 295 and there is no other name of a sauce so frequently thus used save those which, like Bechamel, are substantives confessed. This, however, is so deceptive that at starting we must not rely upon it. Many a time it happens that an adjective is for shortness turned into a substantive. But if it can be proved independently that the word is a noun, the name of a lady, and not an adjective, then here we have an important corroborative fact to return to : that whereas most other French sauces have names indicated by adjectives—Sauce Italienne, Espagnole—this one has a name which is much more often used as a substantive. ' The name is a great puzzle to the French themselves. Why Mayonnaise? What can be the meaning of it? The last syllable (nearly always in French representing the Latin termination -ensis) would seem to imply that it is an adjective of place—as Franfais or Franqaise, from France, Marseillais or Marseillaise, from Marseilles. But there is no such place as Mayonne, and there lies the difficulty. In the beginning of the century Grimod de la Reyni&re suggested that there was some corruption in the word, and that it ought to be Bayonnaise, after the town of Bayonne on the Spanish frontier. His suggestion was deemed so important that the sauce is so named in a number of approved dictionaries, and there are purists to this day who always mention it as Bayonnaise. Grimod, however, also pointed cut another solution. The word might be Mahonnaise, in honour of Marshal Richelieu’s achievement in capturing the great stronghold of Mahon in the island of Minorca. It was in attempting to relieve this fort, it may be remembered, that the English Admiral Byng made the failure for which he was shot—“pour en- courager les autres,” as Voltaire says in Candide. But on the whole it was considered that this explanation was not so good as the other; and for the moment it was discarded. Then came Car6me—a great cook, but not much of a linguist, and a very conceited man, with an egotistical,