Gall ivi a wfrey 205 turbit variety—which is called mowchen. In Icelandic, the name of a gull is mar (plural mavar); but a crow is ben-mar and blod-mar; a raven Iggjar-mar, Odin’s mar. In French there is mauviette, which is supposed to mean a lark ; but it has no such meaning in literary language. No French poet could by any possibility speak of a mauviette instead of an alouette singing in the sky; and M. G6nin has shown that it is an old kitchen term for any little bird. It is the remains of a lost language which has survived among the pots. Again, see the number of names of birds, besides those mentioned, which begin with this syllable or a similar one : Mallard, marrot (the great auk), mavis, macreuse, machette (French for an owl), merle, merlin, martin, missel, merganser. I do not give every word in this list as coming certainly from an ante- cedent root—maw, ma or mi; but at least they demand a note of interrogation, and the received account of them cannot be accepted as final. It is not at all clear that mallard, for example, means, as the French etymologists will have it, a male; that the mavis is a bird bad (mal) for the vines; and that merganser is a merging or diving anser. I am not bound to explain what all these words really mean : a full and correct account of them would take too much space and time. It is enough for present purposes to make out a primd-facie case for the interpreta- tion of ma or maw as the g'eneric name for a bird or fowl in the lost language from which the European languages have descended. That lost language might go further back even than Sanscrit, which has mayara and maruka as the name for a peacock, marala and marula for a duck, and mallika for a goose; but still, as far as we know, does not yield ma or maw as a generic name to include all three. The nearest hold we have of maw or mav as a generic word for bird or fowl is in the Latin language, if we may accept a conclusion to which all the evidence points, though it has not yet been absolutely proved—that avis may origi-