Gallimazvfrey 2 11 in the way of this interpretation lies not with malicho, which, after the account above rendered of Malachi and Madame, ought to be plain enough, but with miching. To mich means to lie hid and to muffle up : what has this to do with cooking? It has this to do with it—that the French have a verb mijoter (old form, migeoter), which means to muffle up and to simmer or stew, and to this day it is the common French term for slow-boiling. A similar double meaning will be found in the English word coddle, which in the codling apple means an apple for stewing. But the word mijoter is evidently derived from a shorter one, which the French are at their wits’ end to discover, and which for want of a better they take to be mie or mige, a crumb of bread. Now here is a much more likely root, the English mich or miche, which has been long known in one of the senses of the French mijoter—to lie hid, to nurse up, but which has not hitherto been found in the more common sense of stewing or simmering. Is it un- reasonable to suggest that it had this sense? that we have indications of it in other English words, as mishmash and mess, as well as in the German meischen, to stir the malt in hot water? and that we have it in full bloom in Hamlet’s phrase of miching malicho—cooking the goose and settling the hash? And now for Blancmanger, a word which is as different from what it must have been originally as the thing we thus name—a jelly of isinglass, almonds, water and sugar—is from the original mess, a fowl pounded in milk, rice and syrup, or in almonds, rice, broth and sugar. It is indiffe- rent whether we take for analysis the word as we now write it—Blancmanger, or as it was more anciently written—Blanc Mangier or Blanc Mengier; but at least it will be useful to bear in mind the older spelling. And this being premised, I proceed to show that the word is resolv- able into Blanc Ma-en-sire, and means white fowl-in-syrup —the whiteness referring not to the fowl by itself, but to