Sauce 4i5 oi making- a sauce fall to a glaze. To understand all that is involved in browning a sauce, or in making it fall to a glaze, it is better to use a more general expression, and to say that it is roasted. If it be objected that it is not English to speak of roasting anything in a pan, the reader must be reminded of the roasted chestnuts which he can see at every street corner, and of the coffee which is roasted in a closed cylinder. Now this roasting of coffee, with its result, affords a good illustration of what happens in the roasting of a sauce. It has never been properly explained how or why, but we all know that the roasting of coffee develops in it qualities certain salts and volatile oils, one of them with a wonderlul perfume which no amount of boiling can educe from the raw berry. In five minutes after the coffee is roasted and g'round, we get with boiling water a glorious beverage, which mortal man never yet came near with unroasted coffee. And it is to be observed that the result obtained by torrefaction is not merely a change of colour and an access of fragrance, but also the development of qualities that palpably affect the human frame, and ex- hilarate the nervous system. There is no such extraordi- nary contract in its effect upon our system between brown and white sauce; but the coffee illustration may be accepted as the most extreme statement which could be given of the difference that may be created in precisely the same ingre- dients by roasting and not roasting them. There is a much milder, but not less remarkable, illustration within every- body s reach. In five minutes the experiment can be made with two pats ol the best butter. Take one of these and simply melt it in a ladle over a flame, making oiled butter. Take the other and roast it to a light hazel tint, making what is called nut-brown butter. The difference is astonishing. The roasting develops a fragrance in the nut-brown butter than which nothing can be more ex- quisite, although nothing is more simple. It is a perpetual