Salad 396 not to touch his prepared mixture. He takes it away, wounded in his feelings, and assumes that you are going to eat the lettuce with salt. You next make a demand for oil and vinegar, and try to explain that a salad to be pro- perly mixed must, according to the saying, be mixed by a madman; it cannot, therefore, be mixed on a flat plate. The waiter then brings a soup-plate; if you are not satisfied with that he brings a vegetable-dish, then perhaps a slop- basin ; and if you are still discontented, he tries you last of all with a soup-tureen. As for a salad-bowl—which one can get at once in the paltriest French restaurant—it is not, as a rule, to be found in the splendidly furnished establishments of Spiers and Pond. This simply means that a salad properly prepared does not belong to the English system of the table, and does not enter into the calculations of those who cater for it in public. I some- times at English inns manage to get a salad-bowl by asking for a punch-bowl. Mine host is nearly always prepared to make punch, though he does not know what a salad is. When the Englishman, still more the Englishwoman, determines that a salad is not to be eaten with salt alone, but must be bathed in some mixture, one discovers a curious weakness in the national taste,—a chariness of oil, and love of vinegar. An odd proof of this is to be found in the scientific nomenclature of the gardeners. Like all sciolists, they are fond of inventing new names. They are not content to call salad-plants, as of old, salad-plants,— that is, plants to be eaten with salt; they have invented the name of acetarious plants,—that is, plants to be eaten with vinegar. There is the true English idea—a salad is the infancy of mixed pickles. We have a besotted love of pickles in England, and never seem to understand that vinegar in a salad must be doled out with a niggardly hand. As for oil, little of it is used, and that little is often overwhelmed with cream, with yolk of egg, with mustard, with sugar,—a succession of incongruous expedients to