119 Chicken Spatchcock is the name for a broiled chicken. It is pre- cisely the same word as “spitclicock,” the name for a broiled eel; and both are a corruption of “spitstuck,” referring to the fact that the chicken or the eel to be broiled must, like a kidney, be stuck on a little spit or skewer, to spread it out. (See the word itself further on.) The chicken is to be split open at the back, spread upon a skewer, sprinkled with salt and pepper, rubbed with butter, and then grilled the inside surface first of all taking the fire. Roast Chicken.—See that when the fowl is trussed the nefarious habit of keeping back the liver is departed from- The liver wing is always the best part of a roast fowl. Very young chickens being dry in flesh, are often barded ; but full-sized and well-fed fowls do not require it. Let them be dusted with flower, and basted frequently with butter. A large capon takes an hour, or even more, to’ roast; a chicken about half the time. They are usually served with a garnish of cresses which have been sprinkled with salt and vinegar. The garnish, however, would be more welcome if it were less frequent. Boiled Chicken or Fowl.—In the English way the fowl is boiled, or rather stewed, in plain salt and water. In the French way it is rubbed with lemon-juice, slices ol lemon are laid upon its breast, slices of bacon are tied over all, it is put into the pot surrounded with carrots, onions and a faggot of sweet herbs, and it is boiled or stewed or brazed in broth or double broth. With boiled fowl the livers and gizzards are not served; but the English mode of boiling the fowl is so simple that it is always insipid unless accom- panied with some salt meat—tongue or bacon—:to' create a contrast. The sauce that goes with it and is poured over it is a blanquette or white sauce. It may be the maitre d’hotel sauce known in England as parsley and butter sauce; it may be the poulette sauce, which is a kind ol mock Allemande; or it may be Bechamel. To one and all