Salad 395 there comes next a great question about the appropriate mixture to go with them. There are numbers of English who think that no mixture is necessary, and who limit their fancy to the cos-lettuce, which they pluck leaf by leaf, and eat with a little salt. It is no wonder that they fail to appreciate the salad, and rob it of the importance which it ought to attain at a well-appointed table, when they do not know, or do not care for, the art of educing its finer qualities, and making of the simplest dish in the world a feast worthy of Olympus. Some people take to eating a salad in this crude way because of a vague theory that it is good for the blood; and others avoid it because of some theory that so much “green meat” cannot agree with them. The one set never acquire the true gusto for salad, and the other have a continual suspicion of it. Now these are the only two classes for which the English eating-house keeper thinks it worth his while to cater. It is a matter of hard fact that a salad-bowl is a thing unknown in 999 out of 1,000 eating-houses in England. In private houses and in clubs of course it is to be found, because English gentle- men of the class who belong to clubs know that a salad to be enjoyed must be mixed, and that it cannot be properly mixed without a good-sized bowl. But let us go into one of Spiers and Pond s establishments—and in singling them out I pay them a compliment. They are at the head of their profession, they have deserved well of the public, and if they fail in any point we may be sure that the failure belongs not to them individually, but to the English sys- tem. I have not been to all their establishments, but in those I have visited this is what I find. They keep an immense bowl on the buffet, crammed with a confusion of salad-herbs soaking in water. You ask for a salad. The waiter brings you a wet lettuce cut in halves upon a flat plate, and he puts down beside it an annulated bottle, full of the abominable compound known as salad-mixture. You politely hint to the waiter, first of all, that you prefer