julienne 263 meaning- of Julienne? We are no nearer to this goal until we make an assumption—namely, that the sorrel proper to Julienne is not the common sorrel but wood- sorrel. It is an assumption suggested by the earliest known receipt for making the soup. We are told to take each sorrel leaf and give it two cuts of the knife. Why two cuts, and only two? Two cuts administered to each sorrel leaf will divide it into three and suggest the trefoil of the woodsorrel. The common sorrel which is used in our kitchens is a sort of dock. The woodsorrel has a more delicate acid, is said to be more wholesome, and belongs to a different family. It is not much used in cookery, but it is still classed among pot-herbs both by the French and by the English. Now this woodsorrel has many names. In France it is known as la petite oseille, l’oseille a trois feuilles, trfefle aigre, surelle, herbe de bceuf, and pain de coucou. In England it is known as woodsorrel, stubwort, sour trefoil, and cuckoo’s meat. But over and above these names there is another, common to both countries and belonging also to Italy and to Spain—Alleluia or Allelujah. There is a tradition that the woodsorrel is the true and original shamrock, and that when St. Patrick beheld this emblem of the Trinity in his favoured island he fell to praising God. It is no doubt from a sentiment of this kind that the name of Allelujah for the woodsorrel arose in the south of Europe, in Italy and in Spain, and spread northward to France and to England. But the name was subject to corruption. All persons have not the strong- religious sentiment which would lead them to cry Allelujah at the sight of a sour trefoil. In England and also on the Continent the word was corrupted into Lujula. This cor- ruption got such hold of the men of science that they insisted upon its being the true word, and the Pharma- copoeia of the London College gave directions for a conserve of woodsorrel to be made under the scientific name of Con- serva Lujuloe. In the south of Italy another corruption was