7i Bisque has been stated to show that a consonant has dropped out of biset, and that the word is by rights bisquet. It does not follow from this that the French etymologists are abso- lutely wrong in connecting biset with the colour bis—light- brown ; but if there is any justification for them, it is not because the wood-pigeon is of a light-brown colour, but because light-brown is the colour of wood, and it is not im- possible that the colour as well as the pigeon may be named from the wood. Neither, again, does it follow that, taken literally and by themselves, bisque and biset mean anything more than wood or belonging to a wood. Just as tree came to signify the cross, and iron fetters, the name of the wood might easily pass to' the pigeon, and the name of the pigeon to the soup. It is still in the French idiom to' add the word pigeon to biset,—saying pigeon biset. The reader will probably expect to find here the old receipt for Bisque, and I give him with pleasure the receipt of La Varenne, which runs as follows :—“ Bisque of Young Pigeons. Take young pigeons, cleanse them well and truss them up, which you shall do in making a hole with a knife below the stomach, and thrusting the legs through it. Whiten them ; then put them in the pot with a small faggot of fine herbs, and fill the pot with the best broth you have, and have a special care that it may not become black.” The grand object was to make it red— to produce a bisque rouge; and in fact it was to develop redness that the crayfish came into play and in the end displaced the pigeon. ‘‘Then dry your bread and stew it (mitonnez) in the pigeon broth. Then take it up (dressez), altei it is well seasoned with salt, pepper and cloves, garnish it (that is the bisque) with the young pigeons, cockscombs, sweet- breads, mushrooms, mutton-juice, pistachios. Serve, and garnish the rims of the dish with slices of lemon. This, it will be observed, is a soup of pigeons with the pigeons and a Ragout (see Ragout) in it. W hat is now called Bisque is neither a soup of pigeons, nor is it a soup