324 Oysters Fuller said that the best in England were the fat, salt, green-finned sort bred near Colchester. Since then, although the green-finned oysters are prized above all others on the Continent, they have come to be slighted in England through a fear that the greenness may be the effect of copper. Mr. Frank Buckland, however, has recently written : “I am glad to inform the public that the green-bearded oysters native to the river Roach (not far from Southend, Essex) are about to be introduced into the London market. For over a hundred years this kind of British oyster has been shipped vid Ostend to the Paris and Continental markets, where, under the name of ‘ Les huitres verts d’Ostende,’ they have been and are considered a great delicacy. The reason why oyster-eaters in England have not hitherto availed themselves of these home-bred oysters is that their beards (i.e., breathing gills) are in the winter months more or less tinged with a green pigment. This peculiar green is imparted to them by the sporules of the seaweed called crow-silk, which grows abundantly in the Roach river. Dr. Letheby’s analysis has pronounced this pigment to be purely vegetable, without the slightest trace of copper or other mineral. I consider that this vegetable pigment imparts a peculiar taste and agreeable flavour to the meat of these plump little oysters. For many years I have been trying to persuade the Messrs. J. and F. Wiseman, oyster merchants, of Paglesham, Roch- ford, Essex, to send their natives to the home markets. The present scarcity of oysters has now induced them to supply the English rather than the French markets. The shells are thin and porcelain-like, and the proportion of meat to shell in my catalogue of oysters is one-fifth. The English arc not only peculiar in their recent dislike to the green-finned oyster; they are so likewise in their manner of opening all oysters. In Scotland and in France oysters are always opened and left in the hollow half of the shell which retains the brine; in England the oyster is