Pastry 333 ing in the centre will completely envelope the butter. We have here a simple sandwich of paste and butter, and this is called the first turn, after it has been rolled out in one direction to the extent of, say thirty inches. Give it now a second turn—that is, fold it over in three, so as to renew the square of ten inches, and roll it out again to thirty inches, but this time in a cross direction. We have now a triple sandwich in which there are four thin sheets of paste alternated with three of butter. Give it three turns more, •—in all five turns—each time rolling it crosswise. At the end of the fifth turn we have a sandwich which, if the rolling were delicate and even, and if the paste and the butter were in perfect condition, ought, in theory at least, to consist of eighty-four thin films of paste alternated with eighty-three of butter. In practice this is not to be hoped for. One’s touch is not always light and even; the paste is apt to be sticky and the butter to melt; and many of the films under pressure will smudge into one another. We must be content if we can make sure of a goodly number of films remaining perfect. And to make sure of this, there is a step in the process which has not yet been mentioned. This is to cool the paste between the turns. How often and how much it should be cooled will depend on the time of year. In warm weather, when the butter is apt to flow and the paste to stick, it should certainly be cooled, if not between every turn, at least twice. This is done by transferring the paste to a floured baking-sheet, and placing it either on ice or in a draught of air. Say that it is left to cool for half an hour between the second and third turns, and for a quarter of an hour between the fourth and fifth. A piece of paste a quarter of an inch thick prepared thus carefully will puff up to five, six, and even eight times its original height. Dexterity is required, but the great thing is to understand the meaning of the process. In short paste the butter is kneaded with the Hour, and