Soup 443 also the bone, with any fresh trimmings of poultry, or a whole fowl if there is one, and with nearly a pint of broth. Put it on the stove fire, and boil it briskly until it is well reduced. Then prick the veal with a sharp knife, to let the juices flow out, and turning it frequently to prevent burn- ing, boil it slowly, very slowly, till the glaze darkens to a deep red. Next fill up the pan (a pint for a pound) with boiling beef broth (No. i), or simply with boiling water if it is not wanted very strong, and let the pan remain off the fire for a few minutes, to detach and melt the glaze. Put it on the fire again, boil it, skim it—and if the pot has been filled with water, not with broth, garnish it with carrots, turnips, celery, a faggot of parsley, some pepper- corns, a blade of mace, and perhaps a pinch of sugar. It should simmer on the angle of the stove for three or four hours; and when strained through a napkin and clarified, it should have a rich amber tint, as it is much used for colouring the clear soups and for finishing sauces. 4. Fowl Broth.—This broth, as now ordered to be made by some of the greatest authorities, differs in no essential from ordinary consomme or double broth. Consomm^ is, according to them, made of beef, veal, and fowl boiled in beef broth; consomme of fowl is made of fowl, veal and beef boiled in broth; and we have already seen that blonde de veau is composed of the same materials—veal, fowl and beef boiled in broth. This is mere thimble-rigging. The fact is, that there is no such broth as consomme of fowl distinct from ordinary consomme. A little more or a little less fowl cannot constitute a difference of kind; and the difference of name only perplexes cooks, who, if they work out a consommd in the proper way, are fairly entitled to some freedom in the choice of quantities. It is a farce to suppose that the addition of a second fowl to a consomme alters its character, and entitles it to a new name; for the name of consomme has a special meaning, which does not apply to the following receipts.