44 Asparagus gratifying to know that this truly Elysian lily—though it does not look like a lily when it comes to table—is a native of England. Of kindred plants, besides the lily-of- the-valley, there are also in England Solomon’s seal and butcher’s broom. Both of these have young shoots which may be eaten like asparagus; and the latter is a great curiosity, having a flower which grows out of the leaf. All these plants have a certain narcotic and soothing influence, which is due to a peculiar principle named by the chemists, after their wont, asparagin. ft is a pretty name, but it does not tell us much. We have banished asparagus from the British pharmacopoeia, but the French still hold to it— chiefly, however, making use of the root. It is supposed to' still and soothe the action of the heart, like foxglove; it is also supposed to act as a lithic in preventing gravel; and it is known to have a marked and very rapid action on the kidneys. Whatever may be its medical virtues, we in England know them only through the charm of the vegetable when it comes to the table. And certainly nowhere is it cultivated to such an extent as in the neigh- bourhood of London. It grows wild near the seaside. At Kynance Cove, in Cornwall, there is an island called Asparagus Island, because of its abundance there. London, who ought to know, declares that nowhere, unless in Holland, is the plant brought to such perfection as in England; and he adds—without any exception whatever —that the asparagus beds of Mortlakc and Deptford are the most extensive in the world. The greatest defect of the English arrangement of dinner is that almost always vegetables are of no account save as adjuncts. It is not understood, except in the dinners of the poor, that a vegetable may make an excellent dish to be eaten by itself alone. To this rule, however, there are two exceptions made—in favour of artichokes and asparagus. It is a question whether this exception is due to a pure admiration of the vegetable, or to the circumstance that,