The Lady Mayonnaise 296 arrogant style. He was very angry with Grimod for daring- to say that the language of the kitchen is not remarkable for its purity. It is in the great kitchens, he said,—“ c’est la que les puristes resident: ” a very startling statement to those who are aware that no sets of terms in either the French or the English language are so corrupt and obscure as those connected with food. Be that as if may, Careme declared loudly that with regard to this particular word it was the men of letters squabbling over the comparative merits of Mayonnaise, Bayonnaise, and Mahonnaise, who were corrupt and igno- rant ; that the cooks knew better—they were the true guides to pronunciation—and with them the genuine word was Magnonnaise. He maintained that an)' one could see at a glance that the name was intended to suggest the difficult process of manipulating the sauce. It came from the verb manier, and referred to the continual manie- ment which is needed to produce it. Careme was not always of this opinion, for he has in one curious passage, in which he enumerates the list of dishes named after French localities, mentioned Magnonnaise among them, as if this sauce too were taken from the name of a place. There is no such place as Magnon, however, and no one with the instincts of a philologer could derive Magnonnaise from the verb manier—-which, to say no more, does not account for the introduction of the n at the commencement of the third syllable. The grammarians could only deride Careme’s attempt at etymology, and they dismissed his theory on the spot as not worthy of notice. These are discussions which belong to the first quarter of the century; and now that we have come to the last quarter it will be asked—What are the final opinions of French philologers, after fifty years of research which have thrown a flood of light on the sources of the French language? The leading dictionaries of the present day have no clear opinion to express upon the subject; they