Braze 86 be imagined. It is at the same time on its upper surface subjected to another process of heat. The lid is tightly closed upon it, sometimes with clay or dough, and is in a lorm to hold burning embers which ought to generate upon the surface of the stew a heat that if applied below and in contact with the metal bottom might burn it. Below, there is a slow stew going on; above, the meat is in a sort of miniature oven, baking and browning. It is a favourite mode of cooking with the French, and is supposed to create unusual flavour—combining the advantages of roasting and boiling. Whether it does so is another question. Brazed meat is no doubt an improvement upon boiled; but it never reaches the flavour of roast. This, however, is a matter of opinion; and French cooks often put paper over delicate meat which is to be brazed—say a fowl or turkey —to make sure that the heat of the brazier above will not give it too much of a taste. Braze is a common name for the ingredients which are put into the brazing-pan to stew with the meat and to give it a flavour. Obviously in this sense the braze may be as variable as the viands which are to be stewed and as the tastes which have to be consulted. The Mirepoix, men- tioned later, will be found a very good braze indeed, and it does not differ much from what is commonly called a braze—that is, a few slices of bacon, some carrots, four or five onions, one of which is made a pincushion for cloves, two bayleaves, a little thyme, and a bunch of parsley- Indeed, the multiplication of names is one of the greatest follies of the kitchen; and mention is made here of braze not with approval, but only to prevent disappointment. To judge by the current receipts, it would be extremely difficult to make out a' clear difference between Braze, Blanc, Poele, and Mirepoix. Each and all are a confusion of well-favoured vegetables and herbs, one heaped upon another, with little regard to quantity and none to com- bination. See more upon this point under Faggot.