A A 'i Pie o4j tative explanation is very curious. It was suggested by the lexicographer Junius, more than two centuries ago; and it holds its ground among the very valuable etymologies in Webster’s dictionary for which Dr. Mahn is responsible. Junius put it forth only as a conjecture that pie or pye is a corruption of pastie or pastye; but Mahn states it as a fact. Now, the fact is that pasty or paste, as used in mediaeval English and French, is a later word than pie; and therefore pie could not well be contracted from it, even if it were a likely form of contraction. It is odd that this explanation should still hold its ground, seeing that a very little inquiry into the history of food would have suggested two other etymologies, either of which might singly account for the word pie, though I believe that both have contri- buted to it. In Le Grand d’Aussy’s work on the history of private life in France, it is stated that the word pain signified a pie before the word pate came into use. There is a very probable etymology at once. If any Englishman should have the audacity to call out in a French restaurant, with a thoroughly English pronunciation, “Pie!”—as one of Thackeray’s snobs was heard to call out “Oh !”-—then the waiter would as surely bring him bread as the snob got water. There may be English people who cannot dissociate in their minds the pie from the pie-dish, and may therefore find it difficult to understand how a pie should have ever been considered as a pain—a loaf. They must get rid of that idea, and think of the pie as originally made—what we now call a raised pie—all surrounded with crust, like a pain or loaf. But the two words pain and pie in this sense fared very differently in France and in England. The former was ambiguous—meaning to the French ear a loaf as well as meat baked in a crust. When, therefore, the word past6 or patd found its way into France from Italy, it very quickly supplanted the word pain in the latter sense, which completely disappeared. But the parallel word pie in England had no such ambiguity to contend