104 Carp For a stew, dress him either in a matelote or a la poulette. In this case he can be served either whole or in pieces, and in company with his friends—the eel, the tench, the perch, and the gudgeon. But the grand style of announcing the fish was invented at Chambord, and is known as Carp a la Chambord.—-There is a great lake in this royal demesne where carp abound. The fish is best in running water; in still water it partakes too much of mud, and needs an extraordinary effort on the part of the cook to prepare it for human association- At Chambord it was deemed necessary to make this effort, and the result was so successful that it has sometimes been applied to fish like the salmon, which it is quite impossible for art to improve upon. A great idea struck one of the cooks at Chambord —to- lard the carp. It is lamentable that in our degenerate days cooks who pretend to serve a fish in the Chambord manner neglect the most important point of all—the lard- ing, and are content to bard him with slices of bacon in the cooking. This is not enough : the larding is essen- tial ; and if a cook does not dare to lard a salmon—(where is the cook who could be guilty of such profanation?) he must not call it saumon a la Chambord. First of all, after being duly cleaned, the carp is to be stuffed with ordinary veal stuffing or with. quenelle of whiting. The skin is then to be removed from head to tail wherever the larding needle is to' be applied. Ibis simply means that the skin may be left on his shirtfront for the better preservation of his stuffing. He is next to be larded with bacon in geometrical lines, but if the day should happen to1 be Friday, the strips of bacon may be replaced by strips of eel or of cooked truffles, in which case he must at least in the brazier be enfolded in shoes of bacon. He is, thus attired, to' belaid in state—that is, not on his side, but in the position of life—on the drainer of a fishkettle, and to be somewhat more than half immersed in a Mirepoix of white wine. He is to be covered over with buttered paper