133 Cod - caught chiefly on the Doggerbank—are brought alive to the Thames in well-boats, so that there is no excuse for stale fish at the fishmongers’. These well-boats were first built at Harwich in 1712, so that the system is of long standing; the fish are kept in store at Gravesend, where the Thames water is sufficiently salt; and they are brought up to Billingsgate as occasion requires. Boiled Cod.—If the fish is perfectly fresh, there is no way of preparing it so' good as boiling. It is seldom that a whole cod has to be boiled, and it is almost impossible to' do it successfully without dividing the tail part from the shoul- ders, and afterwards making a pretence of joining them on the dish. By the time the tail part is cooked, the upper part will be underdone. It is well that the fish submits nobly to the operation of being sliced. In this case choose the slices for boiling as near the shoulder as possible. The tail part is best fried. The boiling takes place in plain salt and water—nothing else. A whole cod will take half an hour to boil—slices from ten to fifteen minutes. When the cod is served it should be garnished with some of the liver; but this should be boiled separately, for the super- fluous oil escapes and would affect the flavour of the cod. The sauces that may be served with it are oyster sauce, plain English sauce, egg sauce, mustard sauce, or simply oiled butter. Boiled cod is one of the few fish with which potatoes may be served as a garnish. Cod’s Head and Shoulders—The Scotch way, described by Meg Dods :—“This was a great affair in its day. It is still a formidable, nay, even a respectable-looking dish, with a kind of bulky magnificence, which, at Christmas- tide, appears imposing at the head of a long board. Have a quart of good stock ready for the sauce, made of beef or veal, seasoned with onion, carrot, and turnip. Rub the fish (a deep-sea or rock cod) with salt over night, taking off the scales, but do not wash it. When to be dressed, wash