382 Roasting the application to it of a roasting heat; and a roasting heat may be described as the highest degree of heat which will cook food without burning it up and destroying it. Roast- ing, commonly so called, broiling, baking, and frying, are but different methods of applying this extreme heat. The heat of a common fire is said to be equivalent to 1145 degrees of a thermometer on Fahrenheit’s scale; an ordinary red head is said to be 980°. How near to such a heat can we approach so as to roast meat without burning it? A roasting heat varies from 3500 to 450°-—that is, about double the heat of boiling water; and as we have defined roasting- (which includes roasting proper, baking, broiling, and frying) to be the cooking of food by the application to it of the utmost degree of heat which will cook it without destroying it, so we may define boiling (which includes boiling proper as well as simmering and stewing) as the cooking of food by the application to it of the lowest degree of heat which will cook it in a reasonable time. This lowest degree of heat ranges between 1700, for very slow stewing, and 2120, for the quickest boiling. The extreme heat required for roasting evolves certain flavours which it is impossible to reach by mere boiling; and it will be seen, by reference to the numbers, that whereas a roasting heat is about half of what is called red heat, a boiling heat is about the half of roast- ing heat. It may be added, that between the two extreme forms of cookery, roasting and boiling, with all that they severally include, there are two modes of producing a medium heat with a medium result. One is called brazing —the meat being in a stewpan with live coals on the lid above, whereby while the under part is stewing the upper part is roasting. The other is called tossing in butter (sauter), and is a process of frying in which the roasting heat that would be developed if the pan were left still is arrested by tossing its contents, so that they never reach the browning point, which is the chief indication of roasting.