Gallimawjrey 209 in the receipts of the kitchen : there were new-fangled names for old receipts, and there were old, unintelligible, corrupt names for receipts couched in the current lan- guage. Thus we have Douce Ame as the name for a dish of minced fowl exactly like those already described. Remem- bering that in those days the mute e had a decided pro- nunciation almost like an o, it is difficult to escape the suggestion that Douce Ame was a courtly attempt to put a pretty meaning into a phrase which, as involving the word ma or maw—let us, to be definite, say Galima—had become unintelligible and perhaps vulgar. This becomes all the more probable when we look into the Sauce Madame. Sauce Madame was a goose. Let no one be misled by the word sauce. It was not then, as now, strictly a noun ; it was hovering between a noun and an adjective, being used in the sense of its original salsa, and like the first syllables of salmagundi, salmi, salpicon, saugrenu, saupiquet, etc. The word, therefore, had the force of sauced Madame, and Madame was a goose. The name was evidently invented to endue with a new and pleasant meaning some word on a par with mawfrey, matias, ma- gundi, mawmene, and malachi, which had become stale and obscure. Probably that word was malachi, mispro- nounced maladi, confounded with my lady and translated madame. The following is the receipt for Sauce Madame : “Take sage, parsley, hyssop, and savory, quinces and pears, garlic and grapes, and fill the geese therewith, and sew the hole that no grease come out; and roast them well, and keep the grease that falleth thereof. Take galintine and grease and do in a posnet |porringer]. When the geese be roasted enough take and smite them in pieces. And take that that is within and do it in a posnet, and put therein wine if it be too thick. Do thereto powder of galingale, powder douce and salt, and boil the sauce and dress the geese in dishes and lay the sowe (sauce) onward.” This is all fairly expressed in the language of 14