476 Vegetables of food unless accompanied with a potato ever try to imagine what dinners were two centuries ago, when pota- toes were as rare as truffles? The great sin, however, of the English treatment of vegetables goes much deeper than Walker indicates; and it is a moral fault, as well as one of taste—a great social wrong, as well as a gastronomical blunder. Take the general run of English tables, putting out of account the very poor and the highly refined : from year’s end to year’s end one will probably never on a single day see there a vegetable dish to be eaten by itself alone. This is a political error; for there is many a poor man obliged most days to dine on vegetables with nothing else; and our sleek middle-classes protest every day of their lives against this fare for themselves—they will never con- descend to eat a vegetable by itself. A fine example for their servants, who are taken from the poorer classes; and a fine thought for the peasantry to know that not only will their masters refuse a vegetable dinner—but also they will never look at a vegetable as a thing to be eaten by itself ! Scorn of the peasants’ food is all the more remarkable inas- much as a vegetable dish may be the greatest delicacy of the table. This is one of the advantages which the Catholic religion has contrived for the French : it has compelled them to make the best of Lenten fare. In England this is fiat popery; but it is a species of popery to which the poor man is obliged to submit, and to which we ought all to be converted. At a French table the vegetable dish at the end of dinner is as much coveted and counted on as the pudding and the tarts are by children at an English table. Almost the only vegetable which Englishmen eat by itself is the artichoke, and this entirely because it cannot be put on their plates with meat and eaten with a fork— they have to strip it with their fingers. There is something in asparagus, too, which conduces to the same arrange- ment; but if, by possibility, an Englishman can get the