Salmi 403 up in what our ancestors intended by the syllable sal-,—a salmi sauce. The inside and the trimming’s of the roast game aie chopped up and put into a stewpan, with a bay- leal and a sprig’ oi thyme, to be fried in a tablespoonful of salad oil. Add to them afterwards a glass of French wine (white or led), with half a pint of brown sauce, and simmer them for ten minutes. Skim off the grease, strain the sauce, heat up the pieces of game in it, and serve. 7 he Bemardin Salmi has a little of the pungency which in England would procure for it the name of a devil; but it is a mild devil, and a wet one too. The receipt takes its name from the circumstance that it was given to Grimod de la Reynifere by the prior of an abbey of Bcrnardins, who made him promise that he would never attempt to put it into practice at any table within twenty leagues of the Abbey of Haute-Seille. The salmi, it should be understood, is not prepared in the kitchen, but at table, before the eyes of the assembled guests, which proves its simplicity; but as this might also excite the contempt of the reader, Grimod de la Reynifere adds the wise caution that care must be taken to serve the salmi on its passage to the mouth with a fork, for fear of devouring one’s fingers in case they should touch the sauce. Take three woodcocksthe sys- tem is applicable to other birds, such as ducks (wild or tame), widgeons, teal, plovers, partridges, and even beyond winged game to the melancholy hare; but the woodcocks will do for an example. Let them be roasted ; let them come to table underdone; and let them be carved. Take a silver dish, and on this bruise the livers and trails of the woodcocks; squeeze on them the juice of four lemons and grate the zest of one; add the members of the woodcocks, seasoned with salt, with mixed spices (or with nutmeg instead), and with two spoonfuls of French mustard ; pour over all half a glass of very good white wine; and then put the dish on a spirit lamp, to become very hot, but with- out boiling. When it is near to boil, add a dash of salad oil,