Jidienne 262 long strips or straws. There are cookery books which make absolutely no distinction whatever between Julienne and other spring soups but this—that whereas in the other soups the roots may be cut into dice or shaped into peas, or may have any convenient form whatever, in Julienne they must be cut into little straws. The tradition is not invariably observed, and plenty of receipts (especially in England) may be found in which there is no mention of the vegetable straws as an essential characteristic of the soup. There were cooks who naturally argued that the shape of the vegetables could not affect the quality of the soup, and refused to bow to the superstition which compelled them to be cut into strips. Reason or no reason, the usage is almost invariable in France, where a master-cook would consider himself disgraced if it could be said of him that he had put carrots into his Julienne without cutting them into straws. And the usage is so well understood that in prescribing- the arrangement of other dishes, it is always enough to say— cut the vegetables as for Julienne. 2. There is another tradition—that Julienne must always have sorrel in it. Some cooks neglect this, and fail to put sorrel in the Julienne; or they forget the peculiarity of Julienne, and put sorrel into all the soups of similar character. Francatelli is an excellent cook, but he has not the historical instincts of a Frenchman, and he will tell his pupils to put sorrel alike into Brunoise and into Julienne, but not into spring soup. Frenchmen like Dubois and Bernard will allow to Brunoise the same vege- tables as to Julienne, but always except the sorrel, which is peculiar to the latter. A Parisian physician, Dr. Roques, who had a great authority as a gastronomer, gave a warn- ing to the French cooks of the last generation not to forget sorrel in the Julienne. “ Certes,” he said, “ votre Julienne serait manquee, si l’on y avait oublie l’oseille. ” But even with these traditions ringing in our ears, how are we nearer to a solution of the question as to the