Gourmand There is a difference, however. In French the words gour- mand and gourmandise do not express the same amount of gluttony as do the corresponding words in English. Kings and queens of France, princes of the blood, and the most beautiful ladies of the court, thought it no shame to be gourmands. They took a pride and pleasure in cookery ; they invented and suggested dishes; and their names are handed down to posterity in connection with the triumphs of the kitchen. The most delicate lady in France does not proclaim herself a glutton and need not blush because she enrols herself among those to whom the Almanack des Gourmands is addressed. But gormandising in the English idea is sheer gluttony—and no one dare own to it, however much he may indulge in it. To an English ear, accordingly, the word gourmet is too suggestive of the gourmand, the gourmand is too suggestive of the glutton, and the sound is altogether unpleasant. Therefore, in spite of all ex- planations, it is doubtful whether the word gourmet will survive in the English language, much as we need some such term to indicate a fine taste as distinct from voracity. English is singularly weak in this way. “ Some people,” said Dr. Johnson to Boswell, ‘‘have a foolish way of not minding or pretending not to mind what they eat. For my part, I mind my belly very studiously and very care- fully; for I look upon it that he who does not mind his belly will hardly mind anything else.” Here, by the use of a strong word which is identified in our minds with belly-gods and gluttony, the great moralist appears to give a gross meaning to what is perfectly innocent. For belly say food or eating, which is all he meant, and no one need be offended. As some people can make love passionately, but cannot do it lightly and gracefully, so others cannot show that they are particular as to their eating without showing eagerness and greed. It would be a good thing if some English poet would invent a phrase to denote nicety of taste at table without