Wherever it entered Kettner’s Book of the Table brought with it happiness, domestic peace, content. The reader may ask how and why ? The explanation is simple. “ Feed the brute! ” was the advice given to the youthf ul bride by the experienced matron, when consulted as to the best way of managing a husband. Excellent advice, although the terms in which it was conveyed leave something to be desired. But how was the gentleman to be alimented, to use a Scottish expression ? Ay, there was the rub ! In ancient times the daughters of the house were initiated into the mysteries of boiling and stewing, baking and roasting, grilling and frying. The secret of making soup or ragout, pastry or preserve, and omelet, sweet or savoury, yes, and how they should be served too, was taught to the fair demoiselles who lived in the days of the Crusaders and the Barons' Wars. But times have changed, autres temps, autres mceurs. The kitchen and the larder know not the society lady, and know too seldom the wife of the ordinary well-to-do citizen. Indeed, the entry of either into such sacred precincts would be resented as an intrusion. The modern wife, alas! has not learned how to cater for her mate, whether he happens, or does not happen, to be a “ brute,” which, in the matter of eating, at all events, he most frequently is not. Au contraire he is often very much the reverse, requiring to have his meals properly cooked, sufficiently diversified, and served with neatness, taste, and elegance. What a difference do such things make, especially the first-named! Like true wit, good cooking “ Is nature to advantage dressed.” " To-night,” writes Li Hung Chang, the great Chinese philosopher and statesman, in his diary now in course of publication in the Observer, “ To-night I am to attend another banquet given by the 1 sar, which, I hope, will not continue as long as the one last night. It is true that they prepare foods especially for me, but,” he adds pathetically, “ they do not taste like the foods at home, or those of our own cooks which we have brought along.’ By the way, he does