155 Dariole There is a curious fact about this word which has yet to be explained, and which raises it into something like a literary landmark. The French have a word Dariolette, the name for a lady’s maid, and they profess to derive it from the lady’s maid of the Princess Elisene in the romance of Amadis of Gaul, who was called Dariolette. Now this romance, which was spared from the flames by the licentiate in Don Quixote, is generally considered as of either Spanish or Portuguese origin. Southey insists on the Portuguese knight Vasco Lobeira, wlm died 1403, being its author. How came from the pen of a Portuguese writer the Anglo-Norman word Dariolette? A French writer, the Comte de Tressan, has attempted to prove that the romance was originally written in French, that it was translated from the French into Portuguese, and thence into Castilian, in which language we have the oldest version that remains to us. He has not proved his point, and Southey ridicules his theory. It is quite certain that the Comte de Tressan attempted to' prove too1 much; but, on the other hand, permit us to quote from what we have written elsewhere. “ Southey has not allowed weight enough to the fact that the Amadis of Gaul is the first work of romance which appeared in the Portuguese and Castilian languages; that it was preceded for more than a century by other romances of Anglo-Norman origin; and that in its idea, in the character of its incidents, and in much of its geography, it belongs to' the world of Anglo- Norman romance. What though we cannot lay our hands on the French original from which Lobeira translated, any more than we can lay our hands on Lobeira’s own work from which the Castilian version has been made? We still know that all the ideas and materials, all the design, all the machinery of Amadis of Gaul, belong to the Anglo- Norman cycle of romance which was in vogue before Lobeira was born.” To' this it is now to be added, that here is the name Darioleta of the Castilian or Portuguese