Bread 87 Bread.—When Dr. Lister, the physician of Queen Anne, went to Paris in the beginning of last century, he declared that the French bread made in London was better than that made in Paris. It is the same now. English bread itself is not good. Even baker’s bread is poor stuff; and home-made bread realizes pretty well the image of a son asking his father lor bread and receiving a stone. Nevertheless, observe two* things : the best bread for cooking purposes is known in the French kitchen as pain Anglais—it is the English pan loaf; and the best bread in the world is made in London—but it is made by French bakers from Hungarian flour. The chemists tell us that this bread is not SO' nourishing as the coarser kinds ; but what is the worth of their analysis we have already seen at page 15. We may take the navvy as a good practical judge. He knows what suits him best, and lie will always be found eating the finest bread he can get. The English bread, as a rule, is so bad that at our dinner- tables it has been displaced by the potato. The English- man wants a potato with every dish that comes before him -—he cannot do without it, no matter what other vegetables are provided. The Frenchman, on the other hand, eats bread throughout dinner; and many have been heard to complain that at an English dinner they are quite ashamed of the number of times they have to ask for bread—they can never get enough. The bread or potato thus eaten throughout a meal serves two ends : it supplies the farina- ceous element of food, and it acts upon the palate as a sponge 1o prepare it for a new experience. Which for the latter purpose is the more serviceable—the French or the English style—the bread or the potato ? Suppose one were tasting wines : will the English wine-taster ever come to eating potatoes between his sips of the different vintages? He eats bread, which is the best thing possible tor the renovation of his taste- Here is a marked point in which the French arc ahead of the English in understanding the