437 Soup give another and another to cover a different set of par- ticulars not included in the first. I might quote receipts furnished by the great masters—Beauvilliers, Careme, Dubois, Gouffe from which a logician could easily prove, setting one against another, that there is no distinction between beef broth and consomme, broth and double broth ; and even that veal stock and fowl broth are in substance (though not in process of cooking) the same thing. Take Gouffe, for example, who is the greatest living authority, and rarely makes a mistake. According to him the animal ingredients of the best veal stock are : 4 lbs. of veal, 2 lbs. of grav^ beet, 2 hens, and 5J4 quarts of beef broth, which ought to represent 7 or 8 lbs. of beef; and those of the best fowl broth are 6 lbs. of veal, 2 hens, and 5 quarts of similar beef broth. Compare the two. There is more veal in the fowl broth than in the veal stock; and the name of veal is given to that which contains least of it for this only reason that before it is set to simmer in the five quarts of beef broth, it is first reduced to a glaze with an extra pint of that broth. Further, taking liquid and solid together, there is in the veal stock more of beef than anything else—not far from ten pounds; and in the fowl broth it is the same, though in less degree. 1 here is a remarkable difference of opinion as to the quantity of cold water to be added to beef and beef-bone in ordei to make broth or bouillon. A pound of water is exactly a pint; and whereas some authorities (Liebig, Dubois and Bernard the latest) declare that a good broth tequires equal quantities of solid and liquid—a pound of the one to a pint of the other—the most recent authority of all, and a very great one too (Jules Gouffe), recommends in one receipt 2^ pints, in another 3^-, in a third no less than 4, pints or pounds of water to the pound of beef. Here is an immense range; and between these extremes there is endless variety of opinion. The difference is incalculable between a broth made by adding- a pint of water, and one