4i A rchitecture of the Table we peer into a kaleidoscope we have no desire to eat the variegated patterns; and it is not to be supposed that food will be more relished for being arranged as a landscape or a garden, or for being built into picturesque ruins and handsome statuary. There is something childish in this desire to make our edibles pictorial. It may be left to children to eat gingerbread kings and saccharine horses. Nevertheless a great cook, perhaps the greatest of this century—Careme, though he had other titles to our grati- tude, is most of all famous for his picturesque pastry; and some of his structures may still be seen in the storerooms of the Tuilleries, if they were not burnt in 1871. It is a mistake, however, to suppose that Careme originated this kind of ornament. Horace Walpole describes how in the last century the Intendant of Gascony gave a magnificent banquet on the birth of the Duke of Burgundy. The centrepiece was covered with wax figures moved by clock- work, which at the conclusion of the feast were set in motion, and gave a representation of the labour of the Dauphiness and the happy birth of an heir to the monarchy. He also tells an anecdote of Lord Albemarle’s cook in this country, who prepared a middle dish of gods and goddesses eighteen feet high, and complained bitterly because Lord Albemarle would not demolish the ceiling of his dining- room to make room for the gorgeous structure. In the previous century an English cook, Robert May, contrived an astonishing trophy—a ship with guns charged with veritable powder, and a castle of pies full of live frogs and birds. After the guns were fired the ladies were directed to take eggshells full of perfume and throw them at each other, “ to sweeten the stink of powder.” Then the lids were to be removed from the castle of pies; the frogs would jump out, making the ladies shriek ;the birds would fly forth, putting out the candles; and nobody knows what kisses and struggles and pretty adventures might happen when the lights were out. When the candles were lit again,