298 The Lady Mayonnaise reference to the mode of its manipulation. That is an important fact, and it gives a clue to the mystery if we follow it up. Careme, we have seen, fixes upon the verb manier not only as indicating the meaning of the word, but also as indicating its root. This is clearly wrong. But may there not be some other word ? In the old Provencal tongue, the dead language of the Troubadours, which contains the earliest literature of Modern Europe, which seemed at one time as if it would be the dominant speech of France, and which though finally displaced by the dialect of the North, by French, the language of the Trouveres, yet contributed to it very many words and forms of words, many that we know, but not a few doubtless that we never suspect,—in this ancient tongue, which spreads over Southern France and gave its name to Languedoc, there was a verb one of the forms of which was mahonner, and one of the meanings of which was to fatigue. The verb was spelt in many and extremely diverse ways—not only mahonner and majhonner, but mechaigner, mehagner, maganhar, mehenier, and others ; it had also many and extremely diverse meanings,—to strike, to kill, to wound, to mutilate, to box, to maltreat, as well as to worry and fatigue. If the reader is inclined to allow that the verb mahonner, still more majhonner from its spelling, has a fair surface claim to be deemed the original of Mahonnaise and Mayonnaise—he may still kick at its meaning and ask how are we to get a salad mixture out of a verb meaning to fatig'ue? The process is very simple. One of the most common French phrases for mixing a salad is to fatigue it; and this phrase is so odd that in connection with it a tradition has always been preserved, and is known to most persons of any information, that it is of Provencal origin. The verb mahonner, as applied to the mixing of a salad, conveyed an image of that exaggerated and picturesque kind which we associate with slang or cant. I do not mean anything coarse 01