141 Crayfish sees a salt-water crayfish at a first-class London table; but in Paris enter a shop like Chevet’s or a restaurant like Bignon’s, and the horrible monster will be seen in the windows of the one or on the tables of the other, offered among the most tempting delicacies of the season. There is much more to be said for the French love of the river crayfish, which it would be much more accurate to call the river lobster. The crayfish of English rivers are not very abundant, and being rather small, are more for ornament than food. The best crayfish in London come in a curious roundabout way from Berlin. They are not to be found in London shops—and one has to send to Paris express for a hamper of two or three hundred, which will be delivered all alive. The French rivers are not equal to the demands of the Paris market. The German rivers are therefore laid under contribution, and 10,000 at a time are sent from Berlin. An immense number of the smaller crayfish are used in Paris for the mere decoration of dishes; but apart from this use of them the crayfish are chiefly consumed in two ways. They are eaten bodily with a rich sauce which is described under the name of Bordeaux, the dish being known as Ecrevisses a la Borde- lais e; and they are worked into a soup which is commonly called Bisque (see that word), and which shall here be called more simply— Crayfish Soap.—Heat up to boiling point a plentiful Mirepoix of white wine, and cook two dozen crayfish in it for from twenty to twenty-five minutes, tossing them from time to time. When they are perfectly red take them off the fire and let them cool. Then shell them, all but the claws. The shells and the claws go into the mortar to' make crayfish butter; the flesh of the tails is reserved to be put into' the soup at the last; the body part goes back into the Mirepoix, to which two quarts of water (or broth) may now be added, together with four ounces of blanched rice. In the meantime it is necessary to prepare the cray-