Gallimawfrey 206 nally have been mavis, which survives in English as the name of a thrush. Let it be remembered that in Latin there was a curious tendency to get rid of the m sound, whether initial or final. How in Latin prosody the final m disappears before a vowel is one of the first metrical facts whipped into a schoolboy. As for the disappearance of the initial in, we are familiar enough with it in this country, where it is notorious that the ap of the Welshman is no other than the mac of the Caledonian. That this tendency to drop the initial in existed in Latin may be shown by two marked words. The Greek monos appears in Latin as wins; and the English milk, the Anglo-Saxon miluc, appears in Latin as lac. It is therefore strictly within the rules to suggest that the Latin avis may origi nally have been mavis, and was identical with the maw, ma, or mi, which has the meaning of a fowl in the language of the old English kitchen. It would be out of place here to follow up this suggestion by turning it to the elucidation of the names of birds. Still I venture upon three predic- tions : first, that the old name of marrot for the great auk will be found to be an exact translation of the great auk, which means a g'reat bird (auca, avica, avis); second, that the martin, otherwise known as martelet or marrelet, will be found to derive its name, not from March, the time of its arrival, nor from Martinmas, the time of its departure, but from its being a ma with a habitation either in the sand or in the house-roof; and thirdly, that mallard, which is also spelt in old English maulard and maiidelard, has no reference whatever to gender, but implies the bird or maw which has been decoyed. Scanty though our knowledge of the word be, there is evidence enough to show with absolute certainty that the ma or maw of mawfrey, matias, magundi, mawmene, and malachi, is a fowl. 1 here are at least a dozen receipts for mawmene or mawmenny, and every one of them has to do with fowl minced, teased, pulled, frayed, pounded, brayed,