Red Mullet 374 how nearly all the books, after first laying down the rule that it is wrong to clean this fish, at once proceed to explain how the rule may be violated, and he is to be served with only his liver. The fact is, that the red mullet is not a choice feeder, and his trail is by no means the delicacy which the rule so often violated would lead one to imagine. What, then, is the reason of the rule? It is simply this : that the liver of the red mullet is particularly good—so good that, in order to preserve it intact, the epicures of ancient times were content, cooking the fish whole, to have the other vis- cera sent to table along with it. We know better now; and, while careful to preserve every atom of the liver, reject the trail without any compunction. Next to the liver in repute stands the head. Heliogabalus had a dish made of the barbels alone—but this was of a red mullet peculiar to the Mediterranean. Red mullets, on account of the tenuity of their skins, are best cooked in paper cases. Make a paper cradle for each fish,' oiling it and baking it for a few minutes in order to harden it. Sprinkle the cradle with pepper and salt, and lay on it a piece of the best fresh butter. On this couch deposit the red mullet, and put a piece of fresh butter over him. Arrange the paper cases in a flat stewpan, or even in a baking-tin, and put them into the oven for twenty or thirty minutes. At the end of this time the red mullets, bedewed with lemon-juice, will be as pleasant to taste as lovely to look at. Only never forget, amid the blaze of vermilion tints, that the true worth of the fish resides not in the glitter of the skin, but in the dull brown of the liver, which may either lie exposed to view in the paper cradle at the side of its owner, or may be hidden from sight, as precious virtues often are, in the bosom of the mullet. A more highly seasoned method is the following :—Put into a stewpan, or into paper cases, butter, white wine, minced shalots, pepper and salt. Arrange the mullets in