3i A nise-seed Angelica is not only thus gloriously called in ordinary speech : its scientific name is A ngelica Archangelica; and its virtues were supposed to be so wonderful that it has also been called The Holy Ghost, while the Carthusian monks of the monastery at Grenoble have appropriated the sacred plant to themselves, and made of it a liqueur— Chartreuse—the name of which they stoutly defend in the law courts as their monopoly. The great virtues of this angelic drink, which the holy fathers claim to be alone possessed of, are sudorific, diuretic, and carmina- tive. It is interesting to think of the angelic plant, and the holy fathers who cultivate it, being so kindly to the bowels of the human race, and ever intent on defeating the wind and coaxing perspiration. The plant has a fine pungent flavour; and the holy fathers know how to allure the senses, for they invest their distillation with lovely tints, making a green as well as a yellow or golden Chartreuse. In the olden time angelica used to be blanched for salad like celery. In this respect it has shared the fate of the alisander or parsley of Macedon: it is no longer used for salad. The stems, however, the stalks, and the midribs of the leaves, are candied, and are used like candied orange and citron peel to flavour and ornament sweet dishes. The Laplanders, however, to this day roast the stalks, and eat them for hoarseness, for coughs, and to produce perspiration. This shows that if the plant be indeed worthy of the celestial personages whose names it has received, they must be very favour- able to copious perspiration and to diuretics. Anise-seed, Anisette.—Anise belongs to a class of plants, including carraway or carvy, cumin, dill, and coriander, which are supposed to have a carminative virtue. It is therefore much prized in nurseries where the infants suffer from flatulence. It is also supposed to increase the supply of milk in mothers. The French seem to prize greatly the liqueur known as Anisette of Bor-