Galantine 197 About the end of the fourteenth century—say 1390— the master-cooks of King' Richard II., after taking- counsel with the physicians and philosophers of the court, made a collection of their most approved receipts, which they put together under the name of the Forme of Cury, and which gives valuable information as to the dishes most in request among the courtiers of that time. The MS. has unfortu- nately been lost, but it has been twice reprinted by learned doctors of the Church—first the Reverend Doctor Pegge, then the Reverend Doctor Warner, who may be relied on for the accuracy of the text, though they have not been too successful in its elucidation. In this collection of 198 receipts, the galantine, or galyntyne as it was spelt, is mentioned not once but many times, and always in con- nection with galyngale. Here is the receipt for making galyntyne—Number 138. “ Take crusts of bread and grind them small. Do [add] thereto powder of galyngale, of canel [cinnamon], gyngynes [ginger], and salt it. Temper it with vinegar and draw it up through a strainer and mess [dish] it forth.” There are other receipts for making sippets of galyntine, fillets of pork in galyntine, lampreys in galyntine, lamperns in galantyne. They are all in the same strain, and always imply the powder of galyngale, generally but not always mixed with bread- crumb. The word has passed out of the modern French dictionaries, which acknowledge the plant referred to only under the name of Souchet. But that the name existed in old French as it still exists in English may be ascer- tained by referring to an authority which all Frenchmen respect—Cotgrave. In this Englishman’s dictionary of the French language, published in 1640, he gives as the French equivalent of galingale—galange, galangue, galingal. And for the plant itself, which belongs to the family of the sedges, and is technically known as Cyperus, this is what Sowerby says of it: ‘‘The root is perennial, long, creeping, twisted, astringent, chiefly remarkable for