185 Fish are all eager for it; but it is excessively dear, whereas it ought to be excessively cheap. If it were the fishermen who demanded the big price, we could sympathise with them; they risk their lives for our good, and they should be well paid. But a first-class trawler considers himself well paid if he can 3d. a pound for the best of his fish. Why are we to pay in London and all over England is. and is. 6d. a pound for fish which the trawlers deliver on the shore to the salesmen at 2}4d. and 3d. a pound? There is no great trade in the world which is allowed to make such profit as that of the fish salesmen; and there is no trade with which co-operative societies could interfere more advantageously for the benefit of families. For cooking fish—one thing is clear : if it is of the first order and perfectly fresh, do not give too much heed to French directions. The only safe guides are the English and the Dutch. The French, when they settled their methods of cooking fish, did not get it so fresh as it was to be had in England and in Holland—it was generally a day older. When a noble fish—a salmon or a turbot—is quite fresh, the simplest way of cooking it is the best, and it is impossible to improve upon the English and Dutch methods. On the other hand, when the fish is poor, or a day older than need be, the French cooks can give many a good hint, and their rich sauces and garnishings, their marinades and matelotes have a magical effect. There are few dishes more worthy of honour than a carp a la Cham- bord, a sole in a Normandy matelote, the remains ol a turbot in a cream au gratin, or the tasteless little river cray- fish done up a la Bordelaise. With regard to the freshness of fish, however, there is a remarkable difference to be noted. Some fish will keep perfectly sweet and fresh longer than others; and we can even detect a law in this distinction. Divide fish into those which keep to the surface of the water and those which hold to the ground. It may be presumed that the