208 Gallimawfrey to break, whence khanda—sugar which is broken, lump sugar, and the modern candy. But with loss of the n the same word still exists in French as coteT, to break or bruise , it has relations with the first syllable of the English cudgel, and it also exists in a curious word which the French authorities profess themselves unable to explain, Godi- veaLl—that is, veal minced and pounded to a soft forcemeat. As for malachi, it will be intelligible to any one who will turn back to read Wynkyn de Worde’s inventory of terms for carving. He says that to carve brawn is to lesche it. The word is otherwise written leach, and it is to be identified at root with lash, slash, and (in the beating sense) lick. In provincial English to malahawk is to carve awkwardly and cut to pieces. This malachi (fowl leached or licked) has had a fate different from that of mawfrey, matias, magundi, and mawmene. It survives to the present day, though in an altered form. For the name of a fowl—ma—substitute cock, and there is the Scottish dish of cock-a-leekie. They fancy in Scotland that the latter part of the word refers to the leeks which are used to flavour the pottage. This is a mistake: it refers to the fact that the cock is to be leached —as the French said, alachi. But now we can go still further. If the foregoing ex- planation of Gallimawfrey, Galimatias, Salmagundi, Salmi, Mawmene, and Malachi be sound, it throws a new light upon certain other words, in some of which no difficulty has hitherto been suspected—Sauce Madame, Miching Malicho, Blancmanger, and Mullagatawny. Of these in their order. Any one who will examine the old receipts, amounting to several hundreds, collected together in Dr. Warner’s Antiquitates Culinarice, will feel that even five centuries ago, when the cookery books were compiled, maw in the sense of fowl was altogether obsolete as a simple word, and as part of a compound was archaic, scarcely if at all understood, and easily corruptible. It was then as now