Duxelles 163 which has reference not to flavour, but to the mincing-, can scarcely be claimed for the Duxelles as against other faggots—the Ravigote, for example. The name of Dux- elles will probably hold, because it commemorates, though indirectly, the name of the artist who first brought the combination into, prominence. La Varenne was the first great French cook of modern times; and his cookery book, published in Paris about 1650, may be described as, on paper at least, the starting-point of modern cookery. He was lord of the kitchen of the Marquis d’Uxelles; and. he describes himself on the title-page of his book as “ Escuyer de Cuisine de M. le Marquis d’Uxelles.It was not he, however, who gave the name of Duxelles to his mushrooms : he called them Champignons a 1’olivier. What is the meaning of this name is not quite clear, but the successors of La Varenne brushed it aside, and adopted Duxelles instead, which did at least this much honour to. La Varenne—that it connected the mushroom alliance which he favoured with the kitchen where it. originated. The original receipt for the Mushrooms i 1’olivier is worth quoting, for it will serve to show how the more recent Duxelles differs from it. “ Cut them (that is, the mushrooms) in quarters, and wash them in several waters. Place them between two plates, with an onion and salt, and then upon the chafing-dish that they may get rid of their moisture. Press them between two plates. Then take fresh butter with parsley and cibol, and fry (fricassez) them. After that, set them to stew, and when they are well done, you may add cream to them or blancmanger. ” In the course of time this receipt became developed into what is now known as Duxelles-—which is composed of equal weights of mushrooms, parsley and shalots. These are chopped very fine, and fried for five minutes in a saucepan, with rasped bacon, pepper and salt. That is the receipt of Beauvilliers, and it has been followed ever since, though one may have leave to doubt whether it