122 Chiffonnade the chicken of the battle is sent to table with the super- fluous oil floating loose about the dish and on the surface of the sauce. It is not everyone who can stand this, but those who have their appetites and digestions prepared for it by a great field day, declare that the battle of Marengo was well fought as a preliminary to the chicken of the name. This chicken is cut up as for fricassee, and is fried for twenty minutes or thereabouts, until it takes a good colour, in half a tumblerful of oil seasoned with pepper and salt. Those who object to oil may use clarified butter in- stead. When the chickens are nearly cooked, add to them a clove of garlic, a couple of shalots, and a faggot of sweet- herbs. At the end of twenty or twenty-five minutes, take out the pieces of chicken and keep them hot. Add to the sauce a tablespoonful of tomato puree, a ladleful of Spanish sauce or good gravy, and a very small pinch of sugar. Stir it boiling over the fire for a few minutes, pass it through the pointed strainer, and finish it with a little lemon-juice. Arrange the chicken in a dish, pour the sauce over it, and add a garnish of fried bread and of eggs fried in oil. Chicken Saute or Tossed is in principle the same as the foregoing. Cut up the chicken, and fry it in butter, pepper, and salt for twenty or twenty-five minutes, till it becomes of a golden tint. The legs may be cooked for a few minutes before the other pieces are put into the pan, as they take longer time. Add at the last, as for the chicken a la Marengo, ai clove of garlic, two shalots, and a faggot of sweet-herbs. Then stir into the pan a spoonful of flour, together with a glass of Marsala and a little broth, and toss it on the fire till it boils. Arrange the chicken on a dish, strain the sauce over it, and add to it a garnish of mush- rooms with a sprinkling of lemon-juice. Chicory.—See under Endive and Salad. Chiffonnade.—The word is scarcely classical, and, mean- ing Odds and Ends, is not too exalted for so refined a soup