Bake useful as a means of keeping things hot with no danger of their being too hot. Practically, however, this heat is a good way below the boiling point; and it is a mistake to suppose that the same bain marie will at once do for cook- ing and for keeping things hot. In ihe language of the French kitchen, to cook an bain marie means simply to cook in a double saucepan—the water in the outer saucepan being kept continuously at boiling point. This should be remembered by English people, who are disappointed when they find that the grand new bain marie they have ordered for their kitchens, though good for keeping things hot after they are cooked, will not at the same time cook like a double saucepan. The fault is probably with the French, who give a more extended use to the name of Mary’s bath than that ingenious Jewess thought of. A bain marie in her view, and as commonly understood, is. but ai means of retaining heat. To cook au bain marie is to create a heat by means of a double saucepan which, rising to>2i2 degrees of Fahrenheit, shall have no chance of getting beyond that temperature. Let there be no mistake, therefore, as to a fact so elementary. A bain marie cannot have water in it which is both at boiling point for cooking purposes and below boiling point for keeping things hot. Bake.—The chemist who will tell us what is the precise difference between baking and roasting will confer a benefit on mankind. YVe all see, or fancy that we see, a difference in the results; but what it is nobody has yet been able to define. The difference in the process is clear enough. In roasting, the meat is swinging or turning in free air before a bright fire. In baking, the meat is motionless in a con- fined space, and whatever heat comes to it is dark. The degrees of heat as marked by the thermometer may be the same in either case. Is there any difference in taste due to the fact that in the one case the rays of heat fire bright and act in a free current of air, while in the other the rays