i74 Entrees stantial to the light and delicate. Fish is usually con- sidered more delicate and less substantial than meat; but always in an English dinner it is attacked first, when the appetite is most robust, and it would be an appalling breach of good manners to ask for it in the later stages of the repast, when the appetite is satisfied, declines all serious business, and will only play with food. The theory of the English dinner is that we are to work up by slow degrees to the grand event of the dinner—the Joint. The fish and the side-dishes are but the walk and the canter before the race. This is all very well as a metaphor, but metaphors are misleading. There are two great objections to the system. The first is that it makes no provision for persons of weak digestion, who come faint to a late dinner, who resolve to content themselves with the joint, and who have to wait for it an hour or more while the side dishes are being devoured. The second is that whereas the order of dishes lead up to the joint, this joint is nearly always a roast, and immediately afterwards the second course begins with another roast—namely of game. These two roasts, one upon the heels of another, are surely a mistake, and extremely inartistic. The French service of the table, as remodelled by Careme, is better devised, and proceeds upon the principle already mentioned of a progression from the more solid and plain dishes to the lighter and more curious. The dinner has two courses and two only, which are signalised by the two names of entrees and entremets. The first course consists of entries with a joint to begin with. Tire second course consists of entremets with a roast to begin with. First Course.—The soup is served with the first course, but it is, properly speaking, no part of it, and is rather a natural preface to the whole dinner. We sit down tired, and want a few mouthfuls of something to set us up. We imbibe the soup, our spirits are restored, and we are then ready to begin the dinner in its first course—the entries.