Restaurant 378 to scorn the old fowl, and insisted that a young one is much better—fuller of nourishment and of flavour. For three hundred years his advice has been set aside, and the old fowl has been imperative in French kitchens for a good soup. At the end of these three hundred years Gouffe produces his book on cookery—the best that has appeared in France since the death of Careme. He has come to the conclusion that the tradition of the French kitchen—the old fowl—is a mistake; and he insists on the superiority of a fowl in its prime. It is difficult to decide between the two, and impossible to lay down a fixed rule to which no exception can be taken. There is no rule more certain than this-—that four-year-old mutton is better than the two- year-old meat which comes to market, and that full-grown animals are better than the very young. But exceptions crowd upon us. If the older meat is so good, why do we take to lamb and to veal, and pay high prices for them? Our affections are divided between the old and the young, and we shall never probably be constant to either. We get tired of the old because it is apt to be strong, and of the young because it is apt to be insipid. The Marquis de Cussy laid down the following rule:—“Voyez-vous, les meilleures viandes sont celles qui sont le moins viandes, comme les poissons exquis sont ceux qui sont le moins poissons : soyez convainqu de ce principe.” In plain En- glish, good fish ought not to taste fishy, nor should meat be meaty, nor should fowls taste of the henhouse. And these faults are more liable to the old than to the young. The great and almost incredible fault of the Restaurant, however, was not in the substance it used, but in the manner of using it. A fowl was to be minced small with butchers’ meat, and was to be distilled in an alembic with barley, roses, cinnamon, corianders, and currants. The dew thus distilled, which was nothing but water without substance and without flavour, was declared by the phy- sicians of the sixteenth century to have a wonderful restora-