;o Bisque are both soups of pigeon with a ragout: or rich garniture added—something between the Financial and the Turtle Relish, if the reader goes on turning the pages of La Va- renne’s book he will come to a receipt for roasting wood- pigeons ; he will find that they are called bisets; and he will there at once detect the origin of the bisque or wood-pigeon broth. The bisque was a soup of the biset—with the biset added to it in the tureen together with a ragout or relish. Having reached this point, the discussion might fairly come to an end. The explanation of the bisque is there, even if we can go no further. There is a detail, however, which it would be well to account for. How are we to account for the fourth letter in bisque, which does not appear in biset? This involves the further question, How does the wood-pigeon come to be called biset ? And here, if we go to the Frenchmen for assistance, we find that they are all wrong—or if not absolutely wrong, helpless. They say that biset comes from the adjective of colour, bis— brown or whitey-brown; and they candidly confess that they know not whence bis in this sense comes. It is impos- sible to mention the name of Littre without respect for his extraordinary merits as a lexicographer, and yet he too seems to be infected with the Frenchman’s wildness in ety- mology. The real root of biset is to be found in hois, and the root of hois is the Low Latin boscus, which in English survives in bosk, busk, and bush, and which turns up in French as bisque, buis, buis, and buisson. Just as the Latin discus dropt the k sound and was transformed into dais, while at the same time there survived a doublet retaining it —disque; so the Latin boscus has survived with the k sound in bisque, and without it in bois and biset. I find in my notes a statement which I am unable for the moment to verify—that Humboldt has derived the name of Basque, or Biscay, from Basoa, a forest, and Baso-coa, belonging to a forest. It would be curious if this should turn out to be the same word, but it is immaterial to the argument. Enough