148 Currants this is a mistake which is the more provoking because it has led to a theory that these currants, having a foreign name, cannot be natives of the British soil. It is quite well known that they are indigenous in these islands; and we must therefore look out for an indigenous name. Now, it is remarkable that most of the old writers, and good ones too, when they speak of currants, write currans. English custom evidently taught them to drop the t when speaking of the familiar currant-bush. We are confirmed in this view when we discover that in our provincial dialects the name for a gooseberry is carberry; we are settled in this view if we remember that belonging to a different family there is the cranberry, and if we know why it is so called. The dictionaries declare that it is called after the crane, “ because its slender stalk has been compared to the long legs and neck of a crane.” It is really so called because cran means red, and it has nothing whatever to do with the crane, unless that bird is so called from its red eyes. There is a flower called cranebill, which has just as much to do with the crane, though we are told that it has an appendage to the seed-vessel which resembles the beak of a crane or stalk. The word is really a corruption of cran- bell—a red bell as distinct from a blue bell. Those who take an interest in the herring fishery may have read of boats catching so many crans of fish. These are baskets of the red osier. We find the root car, red, spreading far away through many European languages—in Greek, in Latin and its later dialects, in Gaelic, in Welsh, in Old German, and in Old English. We have it in the first syllables of carnation (flesh colour), carmine, crimson, cramoisie, carrot—which in Gaelic is curran, cargoose—an old name for the grebe which has a chestnut-red kind of head, a brown-red back and red eyes—carbon, carbuncle, char (the verb—to burn), char, the fish which has a red belly, and I will add cherry, in spite of the etymologists, who' go to some long-forgotten place, Kerasos in Asia