Almond not say that it is the most useful of fruits—a title which it disputes with the apple—it is the most versatile and the most poetical. The very form of the almond is delight- ful, and there are phrases in which we liken to it things so diverse as the eyes and finger-nails of beautiful women. Theie is something startling to the imagination also in the knowledge that this fruit, so fine of shape, so sweet and soft to the palate, so soothing and medicinal in its in- fluence, contains within itself the most potent and rapid of poisons—hydrocyanic acid. It is another striking fact that the almond blossoms before its leaves come out When “ thro’ wild March the throstle calls,” “ the sunlit almond blossom shakes ” not only round the Queen’s palace walls, but in thousands of gardens throughout the land; and it is one of the joys of early spring about Lon- don—indeed, all over England—to see this, about the earliest of the flowering shrubs, with its pink blossoms upon bare branches, suggesting images of hope in sorrow and triumph m desolation. Strange, too, that the almond is a peach and a nectarine at the same time. It is not only the parent of these fruit trees, but there are almond trees in which almonds will be found in a state of transi- tion to peaches, and with both peaches and nectarines on the same branch. Another curious point is the caprice of the almond in bitterness. There are not only bitter almond trees, but a number of bitter almonds will be found growing on sweet almond trees, and no one can be absolutely certain whether the kernel he is about to taste will be sweet or bitter. To all this is to be added that the almond goes to form the most tempting sweetmeats of children, who revel in nougat and macaroons, in hard- bake, in sugared almonds or pralines and in the fond union of almonds and raisins, happy pairs of bride and bridegroom, entering into that rosy chamber of bliss— the pearl-barred mouth of a red-lipped child. The usefulness of the almond is wonderful. The phy- sician knows this well. Mention has already been made