228 LITHOTOMY. stands on a table and communicates with the evacuating catheter by an india-rubber tube. Ether is given, and the sitting may be prolonged for an hoiu-. There are many details to be attended to. Vide a Paper by Bigelow, in Clin. Soc. Tram. vol. xii., 1879. Facts so far indicate an excellent future for this operation. See also observations by Sir H. Thompson and Mr. Cadge at the meeting of the British Medical Associa- tion, Cambridge, 1880. Lithotomy.—Definition.—An operation in -which the bladder is cut into for the extraction of a calculus. Varieties.—Two kinds, viz., supra-pubic and perinseal (vaginal in the female). Varieties of perinseal lithotomy, viz., (1) lateral, (2) median, (3) bilateral, (4) medio-lateral. Bilateral lithotomy is so rarely em- ployed that we must refer to larger works for a description of it. I;ATEBAL Lithotomy (by far the commonest operation).— Instruments.—' Staff,' grooved on side or on convexity, lithotomy knife, lithotomy forceps, scoop, bandages or straps to fix ankles and wrists, large metal syringe, sponges, towels, catheter and lint for plitgging wound if it should be required. Stool or low tihair for operator. Pocket case ; anfesthesia; razor and oil to shave perineum. Operation : place patient in lithotomy posi- tion, bandaged or strapped (or the legs may be held in position by two assistants). Buttocks to be well over end of table. The stone shoiild be detected whilst the patient is on the table, or else the operation should be postponed. The surgeon sits at a con- venient height, with his instruments on a table close by, and an assistant to hand them (the latter should be instructed as to the size and Hnd of forceps required, &c.). The sui-geon passes the staff, and gives its handle to an assistant on the patient's left This assistant keeps the handle of the staff perpendicular, <n-asping it firmly, but with the thumb upright. He should keep the concavity of the staff pressed up against the symphysis pubis Surgeon now incises skin and fat from a pomt m median raphe one inch and a-half in fi-ont of anus, outwards and backwards, to midway between anus and tuberosity of ischium Incision may be extended backwards in ischio-rectal re-ion if necessary. Deepen incision until the groove m the sta^ff can be felt with the tip of the left forefinger. Using the