218 DISEASES OF LARYNX. patients. In treating them, beware of severe parenchymatous- haemorrhage. {See article Haemorrhage.) Cysts of the labia are particularly frequent in young -women^ especially shortly after marriage. They are commonly caused by hypertrophy of the follicles of Oowper's glands. Lay them freely open and insert lint in the cavity. Hypertrophy of the labia or of the clitoris usually originates- in venereal inflammation, but persists after the cause is removed. Treatment.—Excision, Acupressure may be used to repress troublesome baemoiThage. Congenital Cohesion of the labia.—Easily remedied by tear- ing with the handle of a scalpel. Oil the sm-faces well, and instruct the nurse to keep them separate with a piece of oiled lint for a few days. Larynx, Diseases of.—^Acute catarrh (acute laryngitis). Chronic catari-h (including clergyman's sore-throat). (Edema glottidis, syphilitic affections, phthisis, cancer, inflammation and necrosis of cartilages, tumours, foreign bodies, ' nervous' disorders (including laryngismus stridulus). Larynx, Acute Catarrh of. Acute Laryngitis.—Causes. Cold, cold with damp ; excessive shouting, speaking, or singing erysipelas spreading inwards to larynx. Mechanical and chemical irritants. Scalds. Acute exacerbations sometimes superA-ene in cases of chronic catarrh. A larynx diseased from any cau^se is more liable to acute inflammation than a sound organ. Spread of a naso-pharyngeal catarrh to larynx. Influenza. Exanthemata, e.g., measles, small-pox, typhoid. Symi^toms.—Functional derangements, viz., loss of voice or hoarseness. Pain in throat near hyoid bone, perhaps tenderness- in that region when swallowing. Tickling in throat. Hacking cough. At first scanty tenacious sputa, afterwards looser and more purulent. If the case progresses unfavourably, dyspnoea comes on, and this is liable to sudden and most dangerous increase, during which tracheotomy or laryngotomy may be necessary to prevent asphyxia. The local symptoms are usually much more serious than the general. But more or less fever i» present. Pathology.—Whole mucous tract of larynx is not always affected. The appearances are Hke those of mucous