HEENIA TESTIS. 305 Moreover the testicular sensation usually remains and is diffuse, owong to the glandular substance being present on every side of the tumour. In hydrocele and hsematocele, this sensation is, of course, confined to the seat of the testicle. A good-sized trochar is usually employed to settle the question. Treatment.— Castration. But, if a patient has only one testicle, a less radical operation may be considered. Note.—Cystic disease is sometimes associated, not only with enchondi^oma, but with recurrent sarcoma and with soft carcinoma. Testicle, Imperfect Development op, may occui-, affecting either the body of the gland or the epididymis, or both. So also part of or even all the vas deferens may be absent, the testicle being present and even fuU-sized. Such cases may be virile, though necessarily sterile. Another form of imperfect development will be noticed under heading Malposition. Testicle, Enghondeoma of.—Usually associated with cystic disease, sometimes with soft cancer, the small masses of cartilac^e growmg into the cysts. ? as to whether growths commence in lymphatics or in tubuli of the gland. Appearances, naked-eye and microscopic, much like those of hyaline cartilac^e i Diaq MIOSIS.—Characteristic weight and hardness. Treatment — Excision. Testicle, Fibrous and Fibro-cellular Tumours of— Very rare. Refer if necessary to Curling or Humphry Hernia Testis, the condition in which, as a result usually of abscess, but sometimes of wound, the whole or a part of the tubular part of the gland escapes through an aperture in the tumca albuginea, and through a corresponding opening in the scrotum. Any form of chronic orchitis may lead to hernia testis. The projection looks like a mass of granulations. Both the tubuli and the margins of the opening through which thev protrude are thickened by fibrous deposit. Treatment ! Cleanhness res , unguent, hydrargyi-i oxidi rubri or unc hydrarg nitrat. locally, or strapping, combined with appropriate general treatment, usually cause the skin to cicatrize over In onty more^r^JousT ' ^^'^^^ ^ specimen, 'Likepearls X