CASTEATION. tj-pical form presents a slongh reaching right through cheek ; skin white, swollen, hard, with a red blush in centre. In- ternally, a fonl, sloughing nicer, opening mto mouth; foul odour; gums swollen and ulcerated. Child suffers little, and dies comatose. Peculiar moving bodies in blood in a case of Noma; virulent infectiousness of such blood (Sansom). Prognosis.—Of the severe form, only one in twenty recovers. Treatment— Support strength by enemata if necessary; nitric acid freely to sloughing parts; chlorate of potash lotion to mouth; qiiinine internally. Carbuncle.—Cattses.—Occurs chiefly in men over forty-five. Diabetes; debility. See also Boils. C/iciracier.—Inflammation of skin, and cellular tissue beneath. May begin with a small pustule, but essentially proceeds from a non-circumscribed sloughing of cellular tissue. Brawny, painful swelling; sup- puration ; formation of several openings; destruction of all affected parts down to subjacent muscles and tendons—then gra- dual healing and cicatrisation. Constitutional disturbance more or less severe; blood-poisoning; sometimes death from pysemia : less frequently from exhaustion. Treatment.—Support strength with tonics and good diet; fresh air; crucial incision ; subcu- taneous incision ; pressure by strapping with plaister ; caustics ; destroy the centre of the carbuncle (about one-fourth its area) by caustic potash; strong carbolic acid. Paget recommends em- plastrum plumbi on leather, with a small hole in the middle, for small carbuncles, and resin cerate under a poultice for larger ones. Danger of hsemoiThage when incisions are made. Carbuncle, Facial.—Carbuncle attacking face, especially lips, is particularly dangerous. It is so, probably, from causing ])hlebitis, which extends to the cerebral tissiies. There is swell- ing of the cheek and nose, and exophthalmia. Fatal cases present also symptoms of pysemia. Prompt incision, and qui- nine to cinchonism recommended. Castration.—Required for malignant or other hopeless disease of the testicle. Scalpel; forceps ; artery forceps; cat- gut ligatures for scrotal vessels; whipcord ligature for cord ; 1 Nomn is a gangrene of the genitals of female cliildren, analogous to cancnmi oris.