374 APPENDIX. MICROSCOPIC ORGANISMS. Mumps. ORGAjaSM Cocco-bacteria (genus—' mona- dina'). Tuberculosis. Sj-philis. Ditto. Ditto (variety ' lielicomonas' of Glanders. Klebs). Ditto. Some of the diseases in which, though not hitherto observed, it is highly probable that microscopic organisms will be found are cholera, yellow-fever, and madura-foot. Methods op Studying these Organisms.—High power usually required. Many micrococci look small even when magnified 700 diameters. Most, but not all, resist the action of acids and alkaUes, while animal tissues do not. Staining fluids : hsematoxylin and aniline dyes, especially latter. Special illumi- nation apparatus : Abbe's. ^ Examination may be made of either (1) the diseased animal tissues, (2) the soil, water, or air in which some of the organisms unquestionably flourish, (3) cultivation-fluids and solids, or of (4) the tissues of animals artificially inoculated. -When cultivation-fluids are used or animals inoculated, conclusiveness may be given to the experi- ments by separating the solid microscopic organisms from the liquid in which they lie. This is done in two ways—(1) Chauveau's, who used the sediment deposited by vaccine; (2) filtration through porous clay (Klebs); or through gypsum (Pasteur). Further, though individual animals have very similar susceptibilities to these organisms, yet different species are often very unequal in this respect. Thus the living animal body can be sometimes used as a filter, to separate even one kind of minute organism from another (Koch), and it is, of course, easy to separate any organism which infects the body generally from one which infects only locally. Botanical Position.—The microscopic organisms, not animal, which are found in animal bodies in infective diseases all belong to the sub-class Thallogense. In the order hyphomycetiB are achorion, trichophyton, and oidium. In the order alg£e is leptothrix. In the order schizomycetse may be distinguished two widely different forms, viz., bacilli and cocco-bacteria. 1 Made by Zeiss (London agent,—Baker, of Holborn).