129 FEACTUEES. the fracture, though easily reduced, at once reciu-s, and there is also crepitus. Still, even these points will not distinguish fractiu-e of the anatomical neck of the scapula from dislocation of the humerus with fracture of the glenoid fossa. Fracture of the surgical neck can be recognised by bearing in mind that the coracoid process goes with the separated neck, and is detached from the body of the scapula. All fractures of the necks of the sca.pula are excessively rare. Treatment.—Eaise the elbow with a sling, and keep the parts at rest with a pad in the axilla and a bandage round arm and chest. Stei 'num, Fracture of.—Causes.—Great direct violence : rarely indii-ect; occasionally, even muscular effort during la- bour. Signs.—^Deformity, pain, mobility, &c. Treat Hke a broken rib. Tihia, Fracture o/.—When the shaft of this bone is broken, the fibula remaining entire, the deformity is almost or quite nil, and other symptoms are very mild. Trace rido-e of shin carefully with forefinger. Best treatment, a plaister "case. Separation of upper epiphysis may cause arrest of growth. Fracture of internal malleolus is generally combined with dislocation of foot inwards or outwards, quod vide. Tihia and Fibula, Fracture of '{Fracture of Leg).—Com- monest situation.^unction of middle and lower third. Causes. —Violence, direct or indirect, sometimes slight. Rare in chU- dren. Signs.—TjT^icsl and unmistakable. Deformity.—V^^qv fragment projects forwards and inwards in most cases Ten- dency to eversion of foot (as in almost'all fractures of lower extremity). Treatment.—lS.^uA\e carefully and set at once because of danger of converting simple into compound fracture' through sharp end of upper fragment piercmg skin. Set with great toe m line with inner border of patella, so that recovery may not take place with eversion of foot. Keep straic^ht the line of tne anterior border of the tibia. Anaisthetise if neces- sary. Division of tendo AchiUis perhaps required in rare cases. Apparatus.-l. Starch bandage and mill-board, plaister of Paris Bavarian splint, or some other fixed apparatus. See general article on Fkactures above. 2. Cline's splints (common lateral ones with foot-pieces). 3. Fracture-box, i.e., ty^o plaiia side K