159 INJUKIES OF HEAD. A somewhat rare symptom of fractured skull is escape of brain- matter. Cerebro-spinal fluid is very watery, saline, and contains only a trace of albumen, and the faintest trace of sugar. When such a fluid escapes from the ear du^ectly after an injury, it is pathognomonic of fracture of the base. Amount of fluid some- times very considerable. ^ In diagnosing fracture of the skull, always consider the brain-symptoms, if such are present, and consider also the nature of the force which caused the accident. Serious and long-continued cerebral symptoms following a heavy blow on the head are usually caused by fracture and its compli- cations. Prognosis.—Depends usually altogether upon the amount of injury done to the brain. In estimating tliis, con- sider the cause, the situation, and the shape of the fracture, the age, habits, and health of the patient. The injury done by sharp instruments is generally local and pretty manifest to the svu'geon's senses. Heav}', blunt, soft bodies are apt to severely concuss and contuse the brain and fracture the base of the skull, while causing very little superficial damage. Fractures of the base are usually, but not always, fatal. Fractures with escape of brain-matter have been recovered from. Fracture at root of nose may only affect anterior wall of frontal sinus. Young children have no frontal sinus. Depressed, and es- pecially punctured fractures, very Hable to wou^nd dm-a mater and brain. Kidney-disease makes wounds in this, as in other regions, very serious. Treatment.—In all cases, rest, coolness, low diet, high, hard pillows beneath head. Ice locally, a purgative at commencement. Vigorous antiphlogistic treat- ment the moment signs of inflammation appear. Leeches. Cold douche. Continue observation of simple cases at least a month. Eemove loose, depressed pieces in comminuted fractm'e. Indications for TrepJiining.—They are simply the occurrence and persistence, in spite of treatment, of symptoms of local intracranial suppuration, or hasmorrhage, or of cerebral irrita- ' E. W. Collins {Duh. Med. Jmtrn. Feb. '77) demonstrates that (1) sugar is not constant in the fluid ; (2) when present, though reacting to Trommer's, Moore's, and Bcittgen's tests, it usually does not deflect polarised light, or ferment with yeast; (3) three coyistant characters of cerebro-spinal fluid are (1) very low sp. grav., (2) almost complete absence of albumen, (3) com- paratively large proportion of sodium chloride.