134 GANGEENE. Worse wlien from constitutional than when from purely local causes. Treatment.—When only a small part, e.g., the end of a finger, is affected, and when the cause is traumatic, treatment is purely local, otherwise it is also constitutional. Local treat- ment.—Two objects : 1, to promote detachment of the gangrenous parts; 2, to prevent the gangrenous parts from decomposing, and thus infecting the patient and his chamber or ward. Use absorptive compresses of tow or oakum, wet with chlorine water, carbolic lotion, kc, but not too wet. Charcoal powder. Iodo- form. Never drag off sloughs. Remove them gently when they are fully formed. After separation of dead parts, treat like an ordinary granulating wound. Question of Amputation.—It is a very safe rule in civil practice never to amputate till a line of demarcation has formed. Leave single toes to fall off. ' If the whole foot or leg be affected, do the amputation so that it may be merely an aid to the normal process of detachment; i.e., on the borders of the healthy parts you try to dissect up only enough skin to cover the stump, and saw the bone as near as practicable to the line of demarcation ' (Billroth). Constitutional Treatment.—Relieve pain with opium (up to gr. ^ every three hovirs) or morphia, subcutaneously. If these disagree, use chloral (gr. xx. 6"^ horis) or some other anodyne. Watch theii- effect weU. Extent to which you give or withhold stimulants and nourishment depends on relative importance you attach to remediable weakness and inflammation respect- ively, as factors in extending the gangi-ene. Nourishing food, quinine, acids, gentian, camphor, or ammonia, are used as a rule; but Syme declared that in senile gangrene he got the best results from comparatively low diet. Prophylaxis.—Yox gangrene threatening from excess of ten- sion, use free incisions. Gangrene from ai-terial obstruction, local warmth. Gangi-ene from venous obstruction, elevation of limb, support by gentle, even bandaging.—^See also Bed-Soees. In severe crushes, where gangi-ene seems inevitable, it is better to amputate before reactionary fever has set in, unless indeed the limits of the parts hopelessly injured caimot be sufficiently made out.