6 AMPUTATION. (But the term 'Lymphoma' is usually applied to any tumour resembling lymphatic gland.) "When not pure these tumours are called Adeno-sarcoma, Adeno-myxoma, &c. Occurrence.—In the ' mucous polypi' of the nose, rectum, and uterus: vide Polypi; in thyroid gland : vide Bronchocele; in parotid, lips, tonsils, and skin. Physical Character : movable, rounded, ovoid, or lobulated. Growth, variable in rapidity. Treatment.— Divide capsule and enucleate in suitable cases. Also refer to articles Polypi, Bronchocele, Breast Tumour, &c. Amputation (when through a joint it is termed Disarticu- tion.)—WlLen required.—^For incurable and disabling disease, deformity, or injury of the part; for disease which would take too long time in recovery; to save Hfe when nature would find it easier to heal tiie amputation wound than to cure the disease or injury; for aneurism below or even above the site of opera- tion ; for secondary haemorrhage. General Principles.—1, Remove no more of a limb than is necessary; 2, obtain sufficient coverings for the stump; 3, arrange that the cicatrix shall not lie on the end of the bone; 4, do not take hopelessly unsound tissue into the flaps; 5, take every precaution to check haemorrhage and to prevent its recur- rence ; 6, cut the large blood-vessels transversely; 7, remember the paramount importance of dressings and after-treatment. Instruments.—1, Knives appropriate to each case ; 2, saw ; 3, bone-forceps; 4, lion-forceps; 5, common scalpels ; 6, artery- forceps ; 7, dissecting-forceps; 8, ligatures; 9, needles and sutui-es; 10, dressings, sponges, retractors, towels, water, &c. Assistants.—1, Chief, who sponges, secures arteries, &c., usually stands opposite operator; 2, holds part to be removed : 3, secures main artery, unless tourniquet be used; 4, hands instruments when wanted; 5, chloroformist. Number of as- sistants of coui-se depends greatly on supply accessible. Methods.—1, Circular; 2, oval; 3, flap; 4, mixed of skin- flaps and circular cut thi-ough muscles. Steps.—1, Divide soft parts ; 2, saw bone (avoid splintering, cut off spiculse); 3, tie vessels and trim soft tissue; 4, adjust flaps and insert sutures ; 5, apply first dressings. Circular Amputation.—1, Sweep through skin and fat