206 DISEASES OF JOINTS. bouring soft tissues or bone. Tlie commonest cause is a wound of the joint. Signs and Diagnosis.—Acute pain and swelling ; redness and oedema, which may disguise fluctuation. Fixation in some position peculiar to each joint, e.g., flexion and ex- ternal rotation in case of knee-joint. High fever and rigors. After a time fluctuation appears, not only in the joint, but often also in its neighbourhood (secondary abscesses). High fever continues. To distinguish a supei-ficial abscess near a joint from acute articular suppuration, notice that in the former case the symptoms are so locahsed that some part of the joint will be accessible to examination, and be found healthy. The centre of an extra-articular inflammation will perhaps be noticed to correspond to some bursa, or to some superficial injuiy. Prog- nosis.—Destruction of joint very probable. Danger to life great in old age, if joint be a large one. Danger of pysemia. Best result that can usually be expected is ankylosis in good position. Complete recovery from early stage possible. Pathology.— In early stage, synovial membrane is red, greatly swollen, pufiy and infiltrated mth corpuscles and serum. Contents of joint are, synovia mixed with more or less pus. In later stage, synovial membrane is red, covered with fibrous rinds, and partly ulcerated ; the contents of the joint are thick yellow pus, mixed with fibrous flocculi, the cartUage is breaking down, and even the adjacent cancellous bone inflamed. Treatment.—If called to the case early, and there is sufficient reason to believe that the stage of actual abscess and synovial cavity filled with thick pus has not been reached. Anassthetise patient.—Place the joint in a suitable position. Pad both limb and joint freely with cotton wool. Then apply a fixed apparatus (plaster of Paris, or starch and millboard) from near the extremity of the limb to a con- siderable distance above the joint afiected. Be extremely careful to bandage evenly. Place ice-bags over joint. Give morphia subcutaneously. Elevate limb. Great benefit is often derived from extension by weights. If the case is more advanced, or if it gets worse under the above treatment, and if the evidence of abscess in the joint is unmistakable, the question of opening the joint presents itself. Grooved needle or aspirator may be used to confirm diagnosis. Unless a drainage-tube is used, make