36 STINGS OF BEES. The buttocks, &c., should be rubbed twice a day for five minutes with camphorated spirit, or with a mixture of ohve oil and brandy (equal parts) ; or bathe the part with Hydrarg. perchlor. in Sp. Vin. Rect. (gr. ij-^j); prominences should be covered with amadou plaister ; when an abrasion forms, apply collodion and try to take off the pressure; when a slough is forming, use a thick poultice; when slough separates, use stimulants, e.g., resin ointment, balsam of Peru on cotton wool. Prone position sometimes necessary. Bees, Stings of.— Treatment.— Rubbing with olive oil, strong liquor ammonise, indigo, eau de Cologne, vinegar, flour, &c.; remove the sting if it can be found; ice. Biceps Humeri, Contraction of.—Treatment.—If the arm can be extended under anaesthetics, keep it so for some time on a splint; otherwise, tenotomy may be required ; but manipula- tion, patiently practised, will often succeed. Biceps Humeri, Division of Tendon of.—Insert knife on inner side, pass it beneath the tendon, and cut outwards and towards the skin; press brachial artery away during operation. Biceps Femoris.—In dividing this, pass tenotome in paral- lel to, and keep it close to the tendon. Bites of Poisonous Snakes.—Symptoms.—Local, are rapid swelling, redness, lividity, phlyctenulse filled with sanious fluid; swelling spreads, whole body assumes a jaundiced hue; resem- blance to ordinary phlegmonous erysipelas; but 'the first symptom, in nearly all cases, appears to be a general shock to the nervous system'—faintness, tremor, great depression, some- times stupor, loss of sight, vomiting, trismus, and general in- sensibility; great local pain. Pathology.—First effect, is a shock to the nervous system; second, is a diffuse cellulitis, spreadincr from the wound. It appears that virulent snake-poison may be applied to slight abrasions, to denuded muscle, cartilage, periosteum, to mucous membrane, and even to the medullary cavity of bones, vnth no more effect than local irritation, though the same poison inoculated into the subcutaneous cellular tissue would be rapidly fatal. Prognosis.—T>epends on relative size of snake and victim, on situation of wound (worst when on face or trunk), and, of course, on kind of snake.—See G. Busk m