DISEASES OF BREAST. forms, the hole in the skin is clean-punched. Prognosis.—The true chronic mammary tumour usually grows slowly, and does not return if removed ; local recurrence is common in the case of the sero-cystic sarcoma, rrea^mm^.—Absorbents, ointments of iodine and the iodides; pressure by air-bags and spring con- trivances : these means are praised by some, ridiculed by others. Excision; the tumour may be simply enucleated, or in very bad cases, especiaUy of the fungating sero-cystic kind, the gland may be removed as well. Painful Mammary Tumour includes the cases often described as Lobular Induration of the Breast, or the term may be applied only to such ' chronic mammary tumours' as are the subjects of severe paroxysmal pains. In Lobular Induration of the Breast, one or more lobes, or the whole breast is thick- ened and hardened, but there is no tumour distinct from the breast, and the hard part does not project; therefore, the hand laid lightly on the breast does not feel any tumour. Occurs mostly in single or sterile women ; age, from 25 to 4.5; pain often shoots along course of intercostal-cutaneous nerves going to gland : tenderness on pressure over their course. Treatment for such painful conditions. Support, if the breasts hang down; pressure; belladonna plaister; the usual constitutional and local remedies for neuralgia ; attention to the generative organs, which are often functionally deranged. 2. Cystic Tumour of the Breast may be 1, simple, or 2, multiple, or 3, combined with sarcoma, or 4, sanguineous, or 5, hydatid, 6, milk-cysts. 1. Simple cysts vary greatly in size and in tension; they may be so hard as to be mistaken for solid tumoui's; diagnosis may be confirmed with a trochar and cannula; may arise from obstructed ducts. 2. Multiple cysts are rare, unless combined with solid growths. 3. Cysto-sarcoma : for its symptoms and treatment see Chronic Mammary Tumour, of which it may be regarded as one form, the other being adenoma. 4. Sanguineous cysts may cause bleeding from nipple. 5. True hydatids are very rare; the term ' hydatid disease' used to be applied to sero-cystic sarcoma of the breast. 6. Ga- lactocele, vide above. 3. Fibromata,