52 DISEASES OF BONES. Syphilitic Disease of Bone.—^Usually, if not always, begins in tbe adjacent soft parts. Symptoms.—The first are usually pains like those of rheumatism, and worse at night. They are called ' osteoscopic' Then nodes are found. They are circum- scribed, round, or oval swellings, occurring chiefly on such bones as are subcutaneous, but sometimes elsewhere, e.g., upon the inner surface of the skull. The primary affection is in the periosteum. Small tendency to suppuration. Production of new bone. Caries and necrosis caused by more acute syphilitic periostitis. Three forms of syphilitic ulcei-ation of bone, viz., the annular, the tuberculated, and the reticulated. Dry caries (caries sicca) is frequently syphilitic. Syphilis, by destroying the bones, causes peculiar deformities in some parts, e.g., flat nose, destruction of palate, &c. Syphihtic ozoena. Epilepsy from pressure of intra-cranial nodes. Diagnosis.—Ulcerations have characteristic syphilitic shape, appearance, and history. Syphi- litic nodes are known by their position, hardness, indolence, and liability to nocturnal pains. Prognosis.—Good except in tertiary syphilitic ulceration; bad cases of this are sometimes quite incurable. Treatment.—Vide Syphilis. Bone, Malignant Disease of.—True carcinoma of bone is said to be always secondary, never primary. Most so-called ' cancers of bone ' are sarcomata. For full details as to struc- ture of ' osteoid cancers,' see Walsham in S. Bart.'s Rep. vol. xv., and for full details as to clinical history of malignant tumours of bone, see Butlin's lectures in Brit. Med. Journ. for July, 1880. Sarcomata of bone commence either centrally or subperiosteally. The latter are far more Hkely to recur and to infect the system than the former. The lower end of femiu- and upper end of tibia are the most common seats of central sarcoma. The lungs are the usual seats of secondary infection. Both central and periosteal tumours of bone frequently become ossified (osteo- sarcoma, osteo-chondroma, &c.). However much the shaft of the bone may be affected, the articular cartilage remams healthy. Some tumoui-s are perfectly encapsuled, others infiltrate every neighbouring structure. The bone may give way at the seat of disease, a fracture thus resulting. When carcinoma of a bone does occur, it is usually encephaloid. Diagnosis.—Vide Cancer.