TUBERCLE. 321 Head, Injuries of. The operation is occasionally done for cases of epilepsy, in which the surgeon thinks he recognises signs of localised mischief. And it is Hkely enough that the labom-s of Ferrier, Fritz, Hitzig, Duret, and others, together with the development of antiseptic surgery, may lead to further co-operation between the physician and the surgeon in the treatment of cerebral diseases. Operation.—Scalpel, dissecting forceps, artery forceps, trephine, elevator, piece of quill, sponges, antiseptic dressings, spray, &c. Unless bone is already exposed by a scalp-wound, reflect soft tissues siiificiently by Y-shaped incision. Adjust trephine so that the pin shall project very slightly beyond the teeth. If there be a fracture, place the pin on a firm edge of bone. In working trephine, take care to press evenly on all sides, lest dura mater be reached on one side before other side of trephine is half through. As dura mater is approached, saw very gently, and frequently probe with the piece of quill. As soon as tliis detects dura mater on one side, tilt trephine towards other side. When loose enough, remove disc of bone with elevator. Dangers: (1) of wounding dura mater : to be avoided by precautions mentioned above; (2) of wounding a sinus or large arterial branch : to-be avoided partly by same precautions, but chiefly by bearing in mind anatomical landmarks. Trochanter, Injuries ot—7icle Fractures of Femur.— Prolonged weakness, and sometimes permanent atrophy, occa- sionally produced by falls upon the great trochanter, even without fracture. Tubercle.—A term applied to three substances, which are sometimes, but not always, merely three forms of the same substance, viz., (1) 'miliary tubercles '—smaU, round, transpa- rent or semi-transparent, millet-seed-like nodules, the most usual seats of which are the substance of the lungs and the surface of serous membranes; (2)' cheesy' or ' crude' tubercle— dry, opaque, cheesy masses, tending either to soften into puru- lent, curdy, creamy fluid, or to 6hange to (3) a cretaceous mass Forms two and three may be results of the metamorphosis of form one. But they may also be due merely to changes in ordmary mflammatoiy products. I say ' ordinary,' because it is