62 Bursae.—Situations of chief—aci'omion^ olecranon, gx'eat trochanter, tuberosity of ischium, beneath psoas, lower, superior and outer parts of patella, condyles of femur, popliteal space, tuberosity of tibia, and the os calcis. They also occur on almost any hard prominence, especially if subject to pressure, and under any tendon which glides over bone. Diseased Conditions of Bues^.—Four, viz., 1, simple en- largement with fluid contents ; 2, enlargement and solidification; 3, enlargement and formation of melon-seed bodies; 4, inflam- mation. As a type of all bursffi, let us take the Bursa Patell/E.—All the above diseases may occur here, and are the result of undue and repeated pressure. Inflammation may follow a blow only, but especially a blow on bursa already enlarged. 1. Simple Eodargement. — A globular swelling, obviously in front of patella or lig. patellas, and therefore not in the joint. Fluctuation sometimes, or even transparency. Usually painless. Stifihess. Perhaps no trouble whatever. 2. Solidification.—May be judged by the feel, or detected after incision. 3. Melon-seed bodies may cause a crackling feel. 4. Inflammation caiises heat, redness, <fec.,and leads almost always to abscess. Treatment.—For 1. Remove cause, iodine or blister- ing externally, tapping simply, or with injection of tincture of iodine (5j) ; seton; free incision with gentle but firm compres- sion. 2. Excise the solid bursa. In dissecting it out, remember the absolutely close proximity of the joint. 3. Melon-seed bodies are to be let out by incision if the bursa is troublesome. 4. For inflammation—leeches, fomentations, poultices, rest, elevation, back-sphnt. When abscess forms incise freely. Svippuration may cause cellulitis all about knee, bursting of pus into neighbouring tissues or jomt, or disease of patella. Enlarged bursa over olecranon often causes difi"use celluUtis of fore-arm. Bursa in popliteal space, and beneath semi-mem- hranosus, very liable to communicate with knee-joint. Hence caution in tapping; antiseptic. Enlarged bursa with liquid contents can be easily reduced by elastic pressure. But this elastic pressure requires experience and care to be used with perfect safety. . Calculus.—?7?-ma?-?/ deposits.—TsMe of two classes, organic and inorganic:—