210 DISEASES OE JOINTS. The frequency "with which disease begins in the ligaments is a point not yet settled. Disease beginning in the bone. Ostitis is the commencement of most cases which are genuinely strumous, and of many cases which are not strumous at all. The prime appearances are those of Inflammation of Bone, quod vide. Sometimes the joint becomes implicated, because the inflamma- tory action in the articular lamella spreads to or separates the cartilage. Sometimes necrosis or caries leads to abscess which bursts into joint. The course of events leads to synovitis, which spreads all i-ound the joint, to pulpy thickening of the synovial membrane, and to its usual results, as described above, on both faces of the joint. In rare cases the bone becomes full of soft tuberculous matter. However the disease may begin, if it go on, the ligaments give way, the ends of the bones become displaced, and perhaps necrose wholly or partially. Suppuration and the formation of sinuses often do not occur, especially when the patient, excepting his articular disease, is healthy. The most profuse suppimation occurs in the weakest and most ill-nourished, or else when acute suppurative synovitis becomes chronic. Symptoms and Course.—Insidiousness of first stage (unless affection is a sequel of acute disease). In case of joints of lower extremity, limping, occasional complaints of pam or weak- ness. Surgeon soon detects signs of a synovitis, marked much more by thickening of synovial membrane than by effusion into joint. See notices under names of individual joints, e.g., Rip-joint. Or the first symptoms observable may be those of articular ostitis {see p. 207). The limb assumes a pecvdiar ap- peaxance, distinguished by the sweUing and pallor of the diseased oint, and by the wasting of the muscles. The joint assumes \ bent position. At a later stage, dislocation takes place. Suppuration may occur at any time, or not at aU. Sinuses. Func^ous granulations. When bone becomes affected, startmg pains at night, excruciating pain on sudden movement or on pressing i oint-surfaces together. Sometimes secondaiy abscesses. Orating may indicate roughness of cartUages. Necrosis may be cuessed at from the history or from occurrence of marked crepitus, but can only be certainly known when joint is oiDen^ Probe may not detect caries when granulations cover the diseased