WOUNDS. 368 skin, &c. Amount of pain varies with character, anr] even with occupation of patient. Of course, loss of f unction and displace- ment may amount to permanent paralysis and deformities. It is when the surgeon is about to inflict wounds {i.e., operate) that he has mosi; to consider the above-mentioned ' consequences.' In treating accidental wounds, the ' consequences' are generally only too manifest. Prognosis depends on (1) locality, (2) extent, (3) health of patient, especially state of kidneys and lungs, (4) age, (5) habits, (6) surroundings, (7) character, i.e., whether incised or lacerated or poisoned or otherwise, (8) treatment. There are also other conditions less generally active, e.g., race, which also may be secondary to such influences as habits. That wiry countrymen are much more hopeful subjects than fat, flabby townsmen, is an example of the action of * habits' and ' health.' Wounds of the upper do better than those of the lower extremity, especially as age advances. Generally, youth is a great advantage; but infants bear haemorrhage badly. There is no more unfavourable habit than habitual drinking. Treatment.—Indications are : (1) to check hasmorrhage, (2) to remove shock, if very severe, (3) to remove foreign bodies and to cleanse, (4) to adjust, (5) to dress, (6) splints, position, &c., 1 and 2 vide Hemorrhage and Shock. 3. Use of hot water, cold water, sponges, camel's-hair brushes, forceps, fingers, &c., according to peculiaiities of each case. Gentleness is im- peratively required. 4. In adjusting, avoid tension. Arrange- ment of joints, &c., so as to relax parts divided : e.g., after accidental division of tendo Achillis, foot should be extended and leg flexed. 5. Dressings : prime objects are, flrstly, to keep the divided parts in proper position ; secondly, to prevent local and general complications which may interfere with healing and even endanger life. First object is fulfilled by use of sutures, strapping, pads, splints and position; of course, all this array of means is not used in every case. Second object requires precautions to be taken against (1) exposure to draughts of cold air, (2) painful movements and positions, (3) septic in- fluences. Changes of dressing should be quickly efiected, and windows and doors closed during the process. Pain is prevented