186 HYSTERIA. body, usually tlie genital organs. Uterine infarctions, ulcera- tions, and flexions. Ovarian diseases. Abnormal sexual irrita- tion, onanism. If you want to cure your patient, do not let modesty or benevolent belief in human nature blind you. Do not ignore those causes which undoubtedly second what is usually the prime cause ; but there is much less fear of this error than of the error which consists in being satisfied with the discovery of some psychical explanation of a given case, e.g. excessive intellectual exeition, or unhappy married life. The surgeon must judge the causation from objective symptoms. Slight degrees of hysteria are not at all uncommon in men; but almost all marked cases occur in women. Usual age, from 12th year to 20th, and again at the ' change of life.' Se- dentary occupation. Town life. Bad training in cliildhood. Signs.—1, Derangements of sensibility. General hyperesthesia, ' nervousness.' Great acuteness of the senses. Idiosyncrasies. Desires for peculiar foods, objections to common foods, (fee. Neuralgias. Painful and tender breasts, migraine, face-ache and other pains. Clavus hystericus—that is, pain in one small point in the head. Tenderness of the back. Severe pains and exquisite tenderness in some joint or other. In contrast with above symptoms are the frequent cases of real or pretended anesthesia. Difficult to tell whether some cases of hysterical anesthesia are real or sham. Unnatural consciousness of the actions of healthy organs of the body. Palpitations. Sense of weight in epigastrium during digestion. Great thirst. Fre- quent desire to pass water, 2, Hysterical convulsions. These vary in intensity from slight local spasms to severe general spasms with opisthotonos or other convulsive curvature of the spine. In these attacks patient never loses consciousness. Yawning, laughing, crying, globus hystericus. Eructations, 3, Curvature of the spine. Affections of joints, 4, Derangements of vaso-motor system. Cold hands and feet. Sudden and pro- longed flushing of the face. Hypersemia of kidney, causing large flow of limpid urine, ' urina spastica.' 5, Mental symp- toiias. Rapid alternations between gi'ave and gay. General tendency is towards depression. Craving for sympathy. It is this craving, probably, wliich produces a tendency to exaggeration