GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 143 Thorax.—Classification, diagnosis, complications, &c., much the same as other wounds of chest. Non-penetrating wounds of any violence almost sure to bruise lung. Penetrating wounds' fatal 9 times out of 10.—Treat like other wounds of chest, A liny fii-stly htemorrhage, secondly inflammation. To check bleeding from an intercostal artery :—a large piece of linen i» laid over wound, ' and the middle portion of this linen is pressed into the wound by the finger, so as to form a kind of pouch. This povich is then distended by sponge or lint pushed into it until the pressure arrests the bleeding; on stretching oiit the corners of the cloth the pressure of the plug will be increased' (Longmore). Abdomen.—Resemble wovmds from other causes. But even non-penetratiug wounds often fatal. Penetrating wounds. Ball may pierce more than one viscus. The chief sign, sometimes the only sign, of penetration is the extreme collapse. Recovery may take place; then often a fsecal fistula. Gxin-shot wounds of bladder have often recovered. Proposal, in case of injured viscera, to open the abdomen, search, clean, and suture. Extremities.—Injuries to soft parts only, usually do well, unless some large artery or nerve be struck. Injuries to hones are remarkable for commuiution, and frequency of longitudinal fissure into joints. Consequent great liability to osteomyelitis and blood-poisoning. Impossible to be so conservative in treat- ment as is usual in civil practice. The rule is to amputate for fractures in middle and lower third of femur. Put up most other fractiu^es iu immovable plaister case. In gun-shot injuries of extremities, as of other parts, ordinary rules of surgery apply, only bearing in mind the smashing and splinter- ing and the special difiiculties in after-treatment. Hence, exci- sion of knee and hip condemned by experience. Shoulder, elbow, and ankle suitable for excision. Put up excisions in immovable plaister cases. In some cases of wounded knee- joint, an attempt may be made to save the limb; here again a plaister case is necessary. Fractm-ed thighs not to be trans- ported far to hospital. Hsematocele.—Effusion of blood into tunica vaginalis. Sometimes unnecessarily classified into traumatic and sponta-