DUEA MATEE. 97 to the nearest glands are reddened, tender and sometimes sur- rounded by inflamed and even suppurating cellular tissue (phleg- monous erysipelas), these glands are tender and enlarged, and abscesses tend to form ai'ound them. Chills, rise of temperatui'e, and other feverish symptoms come on within twenty-four hours. Symptoms such as these are common to almost every case, but the further course is vai-iable. In the third grade of cases, within forty-eight hours, to quote Mr. Callender, ' the patient, flushed, anxious, restless, even delirious, is in a hopeless con- dition, with prostration and rapid sinking.' In the second grade, there may be extensive cellulitis or the formation of numerous abscesses near glands; but so long as the disease is subacute or chronic, and provided actual pysemia does not occur, the prognosis is very hopeful. In these cases the spirits are usually very low. In the first grade, recovery takes place in a week or two or even in a few days. Treatment.—If, while dis- secting, the hand should be wounded, grasp it so as to check the return of venous blood, wash it, suck the wound, permit it to bleed freely, and let a stream of cold water flow over it. If after- wards signs of local poisoning appear, give the limb complete rest, and the patient a country holiday, with instructions to avoid any kind of exertion, for excitement of the circulation appears to drive poison from the wound inwards. Cauterise the wound; a warm bath for the limb; generous diet; fresh air; tonics; purgatives ; rest in bed for the severe cases ; to properly rest a hmb, splints are necessary; mill-board and starch apparatus; poultices. Open abscesses as they form. Drowning.—See article Asphyxia. Dura Mater, Fungus of.—A tumour springing from the dura mater, and pressing outwards through the cranium ; simple and malignant forms; the thinned skull may be felt crackling over the tumour after it has pressed its way through, and the tumour pulsates with the resph-atory movements like the brain Before tumour appears externally, there are usually signs of mtracramal pressure, e.g., diplopia or even convulsions Prog- nosis.—Eventually fatal, without treatment; very unpromising with. Treatment.—M.o([emiQ compression gave relief in some cases. In suitable cases expose tumour by a crucial incision •