211 DISEASES OF JOINTS. bone. Granulations fungating through a sinus almost always indicate caries. Prognosis.—Depends on (1) patient's constitu- tion, (2) his nutritive condition, (3) his command of time and money, (4) the joint affected, (5) the anatomical origin of the disease, (6) the treatment adopted. "Where there is also phthisis or kidney-disease the case is almost hopeless. The state of nutrition is the most important. Poor patients sometimes cannot afford to wait till nature cures the disease, and prefer amputation: the surgeon can rarely be justified in acting on this consideration. Moreover, fresh, healthy, highland or sea air is denied to urban poor. Primary osseous disease is of worse prognosis than synovial. Treatment.—General and local. General. — Indications: (1) to improve nutritive condition, (2) to obtain best possible conditions of fresh air, cheerful Hght, sound sleep, &c. In many cases general rest, in the sense of total confinement to bed, not desirable. Rather combine general, out-door, moderate exercise, with local rest. But long intervals of repose and gentleness of exercise essential. Cod-liver oil, iron, quinine, milk, &c., according to special features of case. Local t^-eatment.—Indications : (1) perfect rest, (2) one or more of the following remedies :—A firm plaster case over a flannel bandage, and extending from some way below to a considerable distance above the joint affected. Instead of plaster of Paris, starched bandage and millboard may be used. Scott's dresssing, i.e., ung. hydrarg. co. rubbed on joint and then strips of pitch plaister spread on leather applied to it. Gentle uniform pressure with elastic bandage such as ' Martin's.' Hydraulo-elastic pressure. Extension by weights. Extension by Sayre's splints. Elevation. Suspen- sion in Salter's swing. Continuous cold; ice-bags. Counter- irritation. Tiling.' Blisters. When acute exacerbations supervene, a few surgeons recommend leeching. Perfect local rest not always desirable. A certain amount of gentle or of passive exercise, combined with ' shampooing "and° the elastic bandage, better for some cases.—^ee Barwell in Practitioner vol. xiii. p. 365. At a certain stage arises the question of ex- cision, or of excision versus amputation. This is decided bv considering (1) the joint affected ; (2) state of general health; p 2