Ill INELAMMATOEY FEVEE. Any clironic suppiirative disease, especially abscesses connected with bone-disease -which have opened externally. Empyemata, chronic suppuration of mucous tracts, of compound fractures, or of diseased joints, &c. Pathology.—Pvob&Uj owing to the absorption into the blood of the products of inflammation or disintegi-ation. Symptoms.—Remittent or intermittent daily. Temperature rises towards afternoon or evening; red circum- scribed flush on cheeks; tongue dry; skin dry and hot; eyes bright; slight excitement and sleeplessness. This stage is followed nightly by profuse sweats; towards morning, patient falls asleep; on awaking he is still bathed in perspiration, but with the fever and high temperature either wholly or compara- tively passed away. In the afternoon the same round of symp- toms recommences. In the later stages of hectic, the ' colliquative' sweats, as they are called, get more and more profuse and exhausting, and the fever often recurs twice a day ; the mouth becomes aphthous and the legs cedematous. Mental state usually clear throughout; range of temperature generally be- tween 99° and 102° ; diarrhoea is common. Prognosis.—Depends on the cause. Treatment.—If possible, remove cause, e.g., chisel out carioiis bone; make large abscess aseptic; give abundant nourishment, but do not overpower the digestion; quinine in 5-grain doses; sulphiuic acid, ii-on, opium, strychnine, astrin- gents ; give opium cautiously; its use is to relieve any coin- cident pain. Elevate the cedematous legs; flannel bandages carefully applied to these limbs; astringents for the diarrhoea. Fever, Inflammatory (or Surgical).—The fever which usually accompanies inflammations and injuries. No line can be marked out as separating this fever from sejiticiemia; the two conditions pass imperceptibly into one another; in applying either name to a given case, one considers whether the symptoms and facts point to the raised temperature, or to an absorption of septic material as being the cliief direct cause of the pheno- mena which the case presents. Causes and Pathology. 1^ The blood being simply heated by passing through an inflamed and conseqiiently heated part; 2, the blood being poisoned by absorp- tion of some product of inflammation, whether decomposed or not. All the symptoms of inflammatory fever and of its ally,