» 246 DISEASES OF NOSE. nostrils witli hot saline solutions, and afterwards insert melted ung. hyd. nitrat. dil., or iodoform ointment. Of course remove fox-eign bodies. Treatment of ozzena must be persevering, and used twice, or even three times a day. Nose, Tumours of, are either (1)' mucous polypi,' (2)' fibrous polypi/ (3) malignant, (4) cartilaginous, or (5) osseous. The first three are the most common, especially the first. Causes. As obscure as those of tumours elsewhere; but mucous polypi sometimes appear to arise from long-existing chronic catarrh, Symjytoms and Diagnosis.—Those of nasal or naso-pharyngeal obstruction, often combined with nasal catarrh and leading to deformity of the face. Mucous polypi may usually be seen and recognised by their pale, semi-transparent appearance and soft consistence. Fibrous polypi cause hfemorrhages, are red and firm, are usually single, and are attached to the roof of the naso-pharyngeal cavity. Malignant tumours grow rapidly, bleed, fungate, infiltrate neighbouring parts, cause pain (often considerable), and cachexia. Cartilaginous and osseous tumours are rare, and may be known by their consistence. Verj'' rarely certain extraordinary loose osseous tumours are found in the nose or the adjoining sinuses. Pathology.—Mucous polypi are fibro-cellular tumom-s, or myxomata, or fibro-myxomata. Fibrous polypi are fibro-sarcomata or pure sarcomata. Mucous polypi are usually attached to the outer side of the nasal cavity, especially to the middle turbinated bone. Fibi'ous polypi spring from the periosteum. They are usually attached towards the back of the roof of the nose. See Cancer, for the structure of cancerous tumours. Treatment.—Twist and tear out mucous polypi with polypus forceps. Ordinary dressing forceps do not usually bite well enough. Afterwards, to prevent or delay recurrence, prescribe tannin as snufi", or else spray of solution of sulphurous acid. A. sulphurosi (P-B.) j—aquae iij. Polypus snare. Naso-pharyngeal polyfi. Fibrous polypi, if they cannot be snared, may require operations even of the first magnitude, e.g.^ removal of superior maxillary bone. Other procedures involve cutting through hard and soft palate, or slitting up nose close to middle line, or Langenbeck's operation, which resembles excision of upper jaw, only that .bone, after