132 GANGEENE. large enougli to let melon-seed bodies pass through its cannula. "Wash away these bodies by injection with warm water. Inject tinct. iodini 5js + aquas gjs. Let injection escape after two minutes. Then apply compress, splint, and bandage. 2, In- cisions above and below annular ligament. These should be longitudinal. Antiseptic dressing very advisable. Gently re- move melon-seed bodies by syringing with weak carbohc lotion. Gangrene.—The term signifies the death of a part of the soft tissues of the body. The dead part is called a ' slough,' and the term ' sloughing' is often applied indifferently to the diseased action which results in the slough and to the reparative process by which the slough is afterwards cast off. Varieties.—Two main classifications :—1, into drrj and moist; 2, into traumatic and idiopathic. Causes.—A, of traumatic gangrene,—1, me- chanical violence, e.g., crushing and disintegrating action of a cart-wheel passing over a limb ; 2, mechanical pressure, e.g., bed- sore, and strangulation of a limb by a tourniquet; 3, chemical, e.g., the effects of corrosive acids, or excessive heat or cold, or of extravasated urine. B, IdiopatHc gangi-ene has for its remote causes the. following,—1, general ancemia, e.g., gangrene has been known to follow excessive venesection; 2, arterial obstruc- tion from embolism or thrombosis in cases of atheroma. This form usually occvu^s in old people, and is called senile gangrene. 3, Sioecific fevers and their sequelae, especially typhus, typhoid, and septicc^mia. 4, Certain diseases, mostly inflammatory, e.g., carbuncle, phagedoina, &c. 5, Foisons inoculated or swallowed, c g ergot of rye, serpent's poison, &c. Certainly many of the above causes, and probably all, act either by diminishing the supply of blood to the part, or by obstructing its escape from the part, or by both ways combined. Gangrene produced purely by dimu^ished blood-supply is dry; that caused partly or whoUy by obstructed return of blood is moist. Inflammation is an agaravating element in most cases of gangrene and an essential element in many. Two or more of the above causes are fre- quently combined; e.g., senile gangrene results often from a wound of the toe of an old person with atheromatous arteries. Fathology may be inferred to a great extent from what has been said above concerning the causes, and what will be said below