JEACTUEES. 113 com, tends to perforate to dorsum of foot, is often attended by peculiar affection of the nerves of the foot diseased, and is some- times so difficult to ciare as to lead to amputation. Treat on general principles.—Vide Ulcer and Sinus. Fracture, Varieties.—The main peculiarities of fractures are expressed by the terms,—complete, incomplete, simple, com- jjoimd, im2)acted. Complete fractures classified into transverse, oblique, longitudinal, dentate, multiple, and comminuted. In- complete include fissure, infraction, splintering, perforation. The usual name for infraction is green-stick fracture. Lastly may be added separation of an epiphysis. Causes.—Predis^ posing : 1, an exposed situation, e.g., that of ossa nasi; 2, bones of right side break oftener than those of left; 3, rough occu- pations of male sex; 4, adult age—bones of children are soft and less brittle; 5, i-ickets; 6, osteomalacia; 7, absorption of part of thickness of bone by ulceration or abscess or tumour. Exciting causes are either : 1, direct, or 2, indirect violence, or 3, muscular action. Symptoms.—1, Pain; 2, swelling; 3, ecchy- mosis; 4, crack felt or heard by patient when fracture occurs; 5, abnormal mobility; 6, displacement; 7, crepitus; 8, loss of function (' paralysis') of the limb; 9, injury to neighbouring soft parts, e.g., compression of brain by fracture of skull. 8 and 9 are classed together as ' rational' symptoms, the rest being called ' sensuaV Abnormal mobility is the only pathognomonic sign. One or more of the above list may be absent, e.g., an impacted fracture presents neither crepitus nor abnormal mobility. Swell- ing is due to extravasation of blood at first, and afterwards often to oedema and slight inflammation. Displacements are of several kinds, viz. :—angular, transverse, longitudinal, and rotatory. In longitudinal displacement the fragments usually overlap and thus cause shortening. In rare cases they are pulled asunder; thus, lengthening, of course, results. A good example of rotatory displacement is that which causes eversion of the foot in fracture of the neck of the femur. Besides impaction, displacement of the fragments or intervening blood may prevent crepitus. The soft crepitation caused by effusions, especially those into tendinous sheaths, also the grating of certain rheu- matic affections, must not be mistaken for crepitus. Diagnosi.'i I