335 TUMOUES. Blood Cysts, Sanguineous Cysts.—Are either serous cysts into which hemorrhage has occurred, or else ha;matomata. Treat on the same principles as serous cysts, and hematocele of the tunica vaginalis. Blood cysts frequently occur in malignant tumours, in which they are, of course, of quite secondary importance. Cutaneous Cysts.—^Under this head may be considered sebaceous and congenital cutaneous cysts. Sebaceous Cysts are of two Icinds, one of which shows the punctiform vestige of the orifice of the follicle by whose obstruction the cyst has been produced, whilst the other does not. The vestige above-mentioned is a dark point which can usually be found. Locality.—Anywhere, but especially head and face. Walls usually soft connective tissue. Contents.— White, pulpy epidermal matter, mixed with crystals of cho- lestearine, often offensively smelling. Colour occasionally brownish, and consistence sometimes very soft. /Shape round, smooth, often changeable by pressure. Growth slow. Age of first ajjpearance, before middle age; but the surgeon is not usually consulted about them at first. They have to be diag- nosed from chronic abscess and other soft innocent tumours. Note the characters mentioned above. Locality, history, absence of quick elasticity, and presence of the black point are important. Congenital Cutaneous Cysts.—ZocaZi^.—In or near orbit, often deep-seated. May extend through aperture in bone, even into cranial cavity. Walls very thin. Contents usually turbid, oily fluid. Size small (half an inch). Diagnosis.—From nsBvus, lipoma, and fronl seroiis cyst. Congenital cutaneous (dermoid) cysts occur also in other parts of face and neck, but always in the lines of the branchial clefts. Hence their possible origin from the accidental enclosure of dermal tissue when these clefts closed. (Verneuil. See Wagstafie, Path. Trans., 1879.) Congenital dermoid cysts of the head sometimes perforate the cranium, and then may be confounded with meningocele or encephalocele. This is not so serious a mistake as the converse. See Meningocele. Treatment of the Cutaneous Cysts.~\. Dilate the black punctiform opening with a probe, and squeeze