388 APPENDIX, I'ecognised by the pain, which is at fii^st confined to the affected tooth, being of a dull aching character, which soon becomes more intense and lancinating, and appears to spread over entire side of head and face. Disease is almost always accompanied by cax-ies, and may run on to suppuration and gangrene of the pulp. Treatment.—In children the extraction of the offending tooth is generally called for; but, in adults, either application of arsenious acid, ^-^ of a grain, may be used to hasten the destruction of the diseased pulp, or the constant and renewed applications of car- bolic acid on pellets of cotton wool may attain the desired end. The tooth may then be afterwards filled. Chronic Inflammation is generally the sequel of acute inflammation of the tooth-pulp, and, if the occurrence is frequent, the tooth had better be extracted. The pain is of a duU and gnawing kind. Acute Periodontitis may arise from a blow, or be the sequel of acute inflammation of the pulp, or may arise from constitutional causes, such as rheumatism or scrofula. Pain commences with a feeling of uneasiness, which increases to an aching, combined with great tenderness on pressure. The tooth is felt long, neighbouring teeth become involved, and the in- flammation spreads to the palate and cheek, which is swollen and oedematous. Suppuration takes place, pus is formed, and an abscess may bui-st at any point, either external or internal, to the dental arch. Treatment.—If the tooth is far involved in caries, extraction of the offender is the best remedy. When it is desii-able that the tooth should be re- tained, applications of potdtices or poppy fomentations are of great benefit, but must be applied inside the mouth only, and about the region of the affected tooth ; or local bleeding by leeches, and free incisions, and the prescribing of such constitu- tional remedies as may be indicated. Chronic Periosteal Inflammation is generally the sequel of the above disease. The character of pain is the same, but more modified, and the treatment is nearly always extraction of the tooth. Dental Exostosis is an outgrowth of osseous tissue from the surface of the cementum of the fnng. The usual cause of