76 CICATEICES. tercostal and Internal Mammary arteries. Usually recom- mended not to attempt ligature, but to trust to rest, cold, &c. Vanzetti's ' uncipression.' But. Surg. Hist, of War of Kehel- lion, says that these wounda demand ' the rigorous application of the rules for the management of wounded arteries, the ex- posure of the bleeding point, and a proximal and distal ligature.' In wounds of the chest, with lodgment of foreign bodies, it can rarely be advisable to make any dangerous search for them. Always consider instrument wounding, and direction of wound. Chest, Viscera Injured without External Wound.— Rare. Signs, treatment, etc., may be infen-edfrom notes above. Chilblains.—Inflammation of skin owing to sudden change to or from a frosty temperature. Occurs usually in females and children with feeble circulation. Concrestive stage and ulcerated or broken stage. Itching. Symptoms aggravated by warmth, dietetic indulgence, and approach of evening. Treatment.— Regular and free exercise, fresh air, healthy living, well-fitting boots, straw or cork ' socks' in soles of boots. Locally, in fu'st stage, stimulating liniments, fiiction with snow, painting with iodine, or solution of sulphate of copper (gr. iij to ^j). In broken stage, use water-dressing at first, afterwards collodium flexile or Pemvian balsam. Small doses of laudanum, fre- quently rejieated, stimulate the capillary circulation. Chloroform.—Vide Anaesthesia. Cholecystotomy.—The gall bladder has been excised by Marion Sims ; result fatal. George Brown tapped the gall bladder successfully. Cicatrices.—Liable to neuralgia, contraction, ulceration, cheloid, epithelial cancers, besides other rarer affections. Cicatrices, Neuralgia of,—May arise Trom implication of a nerve, or the bulbous end of a nerve in a contracted cicatrix. Separate the cicatrix from the parts beneath, or, if necessary, excise the end of the nerve. If such a cause cannot be found, treat on general principles. Cicatrices, Contraction of.—Is a natural process, and results from the escape of water from a new scar as it dries up and atrophies to ordinary connective tissue: most frightful