180 HIP-DISEASE. lengthening. In healthy people, the lower extremities are often slightly unsymmetrical.i But in such persons if one leg is much shorter than the other, the feet will probably also be dispro- portioned. Comparntive measurements should be taken from ant. sup. spine of ilia to upper or lower end of patella or to inner malleoli. Nelaton's line, Bryant's iUo-femoral triangle. Bryant's ilio-femoral triangle is formed by a horizontal line across top of trochanter, a perpendicular line from ant. sup. iliac spine downwards, and an oblique hne from ant. sup. iliac spine to top of trochanter. The lines are equal on both sides in normal persons. Enlarged bursa under psoas is very rare ; and the pain, if present, is relieved not aggravated by flexing thigh on abdomen. Hip-joint disease could hardly be accompanied by such marked swelling over the joint without presenting characteristic and marked symptoms. Hysteria must be diagnosed on general princi])les. See Hysterical Diseases OP Joints. It would really be a waste of space to give the diag- nosis of hip-disease from psoas abscess, sacro-iliac disease, and congenital dislocation ; for it may be assumed that the surgeon will not try to diagnose a doubtful case without taking the patient's clothes off, and manipulating carefully. Prognosis depends on stage of disease, original constitution of patient, present condition of patient, on parts actually diseased, and on aae of patient. In first stage of disease, especially if symptoms point to origin in joint itself, treatment may be expected to result in recovery with or without ankylosis in good position. Scrofulous patients are very likely to become tuberculous else- where when the bone is affected. When necrosis or caries has occurred, prognosis is very bad as to life. It is worst m adults ITtricidar disease. The only cases in which recovery without ankylosis is to be reasonably looked f-'^^^^ which the cartilage and bone have never been affected. T^eat- raent -Best of the joint essential. Sayre's splint is supposed to Take rest in bed unnecessary in many cases in which the d^ase has not too far advanced. Extension by pulleys and weights 3 to 10 lbs, according to age and individual pecuhan^^^^^^^^ Long splint (long splint on sound side, weight to diseased limb) , 1 See Garson, Journ. Anat. and Fhys. 1880.