VAEIX. 359 to genital irritation of which the varicocele is itself a result. Operations—Tv70 kinds and many varieties. Both subcutaneous, in one the veins are merely constricted, in the other they are constricted at two points and divided intermediately. The vas deferens (easily recognised by its cord-like feell, must be slipped well out of the way : the spermatic artery lies close to it. Lee's operation is probably as good as any. In it, the veins are con- stricted in two places by needles beneath them ard figure-of-8 ligatures over them. As these ligatures are not subcutaneous, they must not be tight. A tenotomy knife divides the veins intermediately. On the 6th day, remove needles. Bed for three weeks : then suspensory bandage. Varix.—Dilatation of veins. Causes.—Mechanical obstruc- tion {e.g., varix of saphena from pressure of pregnant womb on external ihac vein). Occupations in which there is much stand- ing, e.g., those of laundress and shopwoman. Such intiuences as the above act chiefly on persons with an individual or a family predisposition, and on certain localities, namely saphenous and spermatic veins, and their radicles. It is said that the deep veins of the legs are nearly as often affected as the super- hcial. Frequently the minute cutaneous venous radicles are alone affected. This often occurs in the face, and is frequently hereditaiy. Pathology.—Hypertrophy as well as dilatation of the venous coats, of the muscular as well as the fibrous elements. Dilatation sometimes regular, sometimes saccular. Extent varies from a small part of one vein to nearly all the veins of one or both lower extremities. As the valves do not grow pro- portionally, they soon become insufficient. Thickening of con- nective tissue round the veins. This may increase to general thickening of whole limb. CEdema from difficulty of circulation through the dilated veins with inefficient valves. Oedema leads to eczema : eczema to ' varicose ' ulceration. Occasional burst- ing and hsemorrhage. This may lead to ulceration. Coagulation in certain parts of the vein, generally near valves, ' phlebolites.' Symptoms.—No person who has seen one varicose vein can fail to recognise another; but when such a vein is surrounded by brawny tissue it may escape the sight: it can then be felt as a soft, subcutaneous ' channel.' Colour varies from flesh-colour to