354 URINE, RETENTION OF. For the value of the above deposits, &c., see the sections treating on Diseases and Injuries of Bladder and Urethra, Abdominal Injuries, Impotence, Calculus. Urine, Retention of.—A term applied only to acute stoppage of the urethra, and never to mere habitual diflficulty in urination. Varieties.—(1) Retention from organic stricture, (2) from inflammation, (3) from spasm, (4) from internal ob- struction, e.g. by calculus, (5) from external pressure, e.g. by abscess, (6) from enlarged prostate, (7) from hysteria, (8) from operations on pelvic or even on distant regions. Caixses.—Partly indicated in the last sentence. But the exciting cause of re- tention, whether purely spasmodic, or arising in the course of organic stricture, or of gonorrhoea (inflammatory retention), is usvially drink or exposure to cold. Besides gonorrhoea, various drugs, e.g. cantharides, ergot, and CA'en quinine, will sometimes temporarily close the urethra (by spasm or inflam- matory effusion, or by both?). The predominance of certain causes depends greatly on the age. In children the least rare are impaction of a calculus or a foreign body, a string tied round penis, an injury to the perinseum, abscess, phimosis, and adherent prepuce. In adults the most common are alcohol and cold during organic stricture or gonorrhoea. Rarely, too strong urethral injections. In old age the chief cause is pros- tatic hypertrophy. Symptoms.—An adult in his senses of course knows that he cannot pass his urine properly. But adults when delirious, or prostrate, or insensible, and children when young, may present no direct or striking sign of reten- tion unless it be looked for. The bladder usually rises in the abdomen, making dull successively the hypogastric and even the umbilical regions. But, in old cases of stricture, the bladder may be organically so contracted that it would rupture before distending enough even to rise out of the pelvis. Diagnosis.— The most dangerous mistake is that of taking a case of reten- tion with overflow for one of pure incontinence. Always catheterise if there be the slightest doubt. In suppression of urine the bladder is nearly or quite empty, and the symptoms belong rather to the kidneys and nervous system (e.g. lumbar pain and afterwards coma), than to the bladder and urethra.