^yt) EYE, DISEASES OF. the pupillary area. (2) No choroidal reflex with ophthalmo- scope. (3) Patient is able to distinguish light from darkness, but is unable to count fingers when held up before the eyes! "When one eye only is affected, or when one is less affected than the other, extraction should be deferred until the better eye is no longer useful, unless for special reasons. When both cataracts are mature, only one should he operated on at a time, with an interval of a few months. When there is no perception of light do not operate, as cataract alone is not sufficient to pre- vent this. Occasional Results of Extraction.—1. Sloughing of cornea, very rare since flap operation was abandoned. 2. Suppurative inflammation extending from wound to the whole cornea, iris, and vitreous, variable in degree, but, when established, gene- rally going on to suppurative panophthalmitis, or to severe plastic irido-cyclitis with corneal opacity and contraction of eye-ball. 3. Iritis of a plastic nature which deposits a mem- brane in pupillary area. 4. Prolapse of iris into the wound either at the time of operation or afterwards. Conditions of Sight after Operation.—Eesults are good when, with the aid of proper spectacles, patient can read any of Snellen's test types from No. 1 to No. 14 at 22 centimetres (8 inches), and from No. 6 to No. 24 at 6 metres (20 feet). The operation renders the eye very hypermetropic for want of the lens. Yery sti'ong convex glasses are required to com- pensate for its absence. Glasses should not be worn for three months after operation, and then not continuously at first. Two pairs of spectacles are needed, one pair making the eye emmetropic and giving clear vision for distant objects (about -f 12 dioptres), the other pair stronger, to render the eye myopic, so that the patient is able to read, etc., at about 8 or 10 inches about +16 dioptres). Choroid. — Diseases.— 1, Hypercemia; 2, Choroidiids; 3, Sclerotico-choroiditis posterior; 4, Tubercle; 5, Tumours; 6, Bone formation; 7, Coloboma; 8, Rupture. Choroiditis may be (1) Syphilitic, (2) Sim2}le, (3) Sup- ]mra,tive. Syphilitic Choroiditis is the most common. It is cha-