259 PEOSTATE. solution of nitrate of silver (gr. x-xxx to |j) to the prostatic part of the urethra. As Sii- H. Thompson says,' To be successful an efficient instrument is absolutely necessary, as well as care in injecting the fluid at the right spot.' For enlargement of pros- tate left by acute inflammation give a prolonged course of pot. iod. and pot. bromid.; sea-bathing and tonics. Prostatic Abscess.—1. Acute.—"When prostatitis leads to abscess, the acute symptoms persist for more than a week or two, pain and tenderness increase, rigors probably occur, and the prostatic swelling inay throb. Fluctuation may be felt sooner or later, perhaps per rectum. Abscess tends to open into urethra, more rarely into rectum. Either termination is of good prognosis. In exceptional cases, abscesses recur again and again. Treatment.—Incise early in the median line of the periaseum. Foment and poultice. ' When the suppuration is due to stricture, and probably extravasation, the propriety of dividing the stricture and laying open the pei^inseum down to the prostate cannot be questioned' (Bryant). 2. Chronic Prostatic Abscess.—Either a sequel of acute abscess or the direct result of old stricture of urethra. Wbole prostate may be destroyed. Condition always serious. Chi'onic cystitis, pro- gressive emaciation. Treatment.—Rest, highly tonic and soothing regimen, fresh air. Sometimes perinseal incision is indicated. Prostate, Hypertrophy of.—A senile afiection. Never occurs before fifty, usually over sixty. But, of old men, it attacks no greater a proportion than one-half. Afiects every constituent of the prostate, but chiefly the muscular and fibrous elements. Enlargement may be general or limited. In the latter case, an outgrowth sometimes occurs from the centre of the gland backwards towards the bladder, improperly called the 'enlarged third lobe.' Either lateral lobe may be dispropor- tionately hypertrophied. Isolated, almost independent, tumours (myomata) are very common in the substance of hypertrophied prostates. They contain very little glandular substance, and that ill-developed. Effect on the C/j-ei/ira.—Prostatic part of urethra ia lengthened, and its antero-posterior diameter increased, while its transverse diameter is lessened. Its direction is altered in a manner which varies according to the part of the gland which s 2