INFLAMMATION OF VEINS. 361 cuiTence of thrombosis is generally the most serious part of a case of phlebitis. Hence in treating any case of phlebitis or pevi- phlebitis,the idea of thrombosis and of its possible consequences— e.g., solid cedema and pysemia—never leaves the surgeon's mind. Phlebitls. — Causes. — Injury, e.g., phlebitis of saphena following a dog-bite, thrombosis or embolism, gout, obscure influences, possibly presence of irritating materials in the blood. Varicose veins particularly liable, Paget, classifying phlebitis according to its causes, gives 8 kinds, viz : (1) from injury, (2) from exhaustion, (3) from propinquity of inflamed or otherwise diseased parts, (4) rheumatic, (5) pysemial, (6) puerperal, (7) gouty, (8) from poisoning by foul drains. Some of these causes are qualified in the original lectiire. See Paget's Clinical Lectures. Symptoms.—Redness, hard swelling, tenderness, more or less pain in the course of a vein or of part of a vein. Swelling sometimes knotty, knots said to correspond to seat of valves. (Edema in parts whence the vein should drain blood. Some- times visible enlargement of collateral veins. If suppuration occurs, there is local softening and general rise of temperature. Perhaps a rigor. Diagnosis has chiefly to be made from lym- phangitis. It depends on the situation of the redness, &c., and on the width of the band of inflammation (greater in phlebitis). Glands also more likely to be enlarged in lymphangitis. Pa- thology.—Inflammation of the vein itself is almost always I^receded by thrombosis; and, when not preceded by thrombosis, it is probably secondary to periphlebitis. The experiments of modern pathologists, e.g. Lee and Callender, certainly prove that the older pathologists were accustomed to mistake mere thrombosis for an exudation of lymph from the wall of the vessel, but, to my mind, considering the anatomy of the veins, and arguing analogically, they are not numerous and severe enough to prove that exudation of lymph never takes place; and they most assuredly do not justify the dismissal of true phlebitis from our nosology. But any thickening of the outer or of the middle coats, or roughness of the inner coat of an in- flamed vein, IS so rarely found, independently of thrombosis, and is, in itself, of such small importance, that the most inter- esting pathological features associated with phlebitis must be