276 SEPTICEMIA. conditions. Treat local manifestations on general surgical prin- ciples. Owing to impossibility of melting lime-juice on sledge excursions in polar regions, concentrated lime-juice lozenges have been devised. Septicaemia.—A disease in which the blood is poisoned by septic matter. In this respect it does not differ from pysemia, and many if not all cases of surgical fever. Bryant even writes, ' Surgical, suppurative, or traumatic fever ; septicaemia, ichorse- mia, puerperal fever, and pysemia, may all be considered as so many different names for, and manifestations of, one condition, blood-poisoning.' In practice, however, ' sui'gical fever,' ' septi- caemia,' and 'pyaemia' are not considered as different names for one condition, though it is difficult to define the limits of each. I have most often heard surgeons apply the term septicaemia to acute cases in which the nervous and digestive organs were the seat of prominent symptoms, while there was an absence of clear signs of secondary abscess. Compare with pyaemia. Causes.—Vide Pysemia. Signs.—Apathetic state; rarely excitement. Tongue very dry. Speech feeble. No appetite. Either perspiration or dryness of skin. Symptoms often bear considerable resemblance to those of typhus. Urine scanty. Temperature, at first high, tends to fall as death approaches. Occasional extreme rapidity of rise.' Bed-sores form; urine and fseces are passed in bed. Finally collapse and death. The elevation of temperature is often slight, especially in weak, old people. Chronic blood-poisoning is more likely to take one of the forms of pysemia or the form of hectic fever. Pathology.— Condition of the blood not at all characteristic, ' If we have not seen the patient during life, we shall often examine the dead body in vain for some palpable cause of death.' (BUlroth.) Spleen often enlarged and softened, rarely normal. Liver con- gested and very friable. ' In the heart the blood is lumpy, half-clotted, tarry, and rarely firmly coagulated, huffy : in most cases the lungs are normal. Where the course of the affection 'has been very long (a fortnight or more) the disease shows itself mostly by extensive suppuration of the cellular tissue' 1 From 102-6 to 107 in 10 minutes in a case under Mr. Bickersteth (5. M. J. 1879).