SPINE, INJURIES OF. 288 Spine, Dislocations of.—Causes.—IJsually indirect vio- lence, e.g. the back being violently bent forward by a soft body falling on the bead of a person stooping. Occasionally dii-ect violence, or even (in atlo-axial region) destruction of the liga- ments by disease. Usual Situation.—Lower cervical refion Direction.—Upper vertebra is almost always displaced forwards. Signs.—Mostly ' rational' and indirect. The most important der pend on injury to the cord: paralysis of parts supplied by nei-ves given off below seat of inj ury. Perhaps local pain and tenderness. Shock : collapse at first. In some cases inanifest deformity. Variations in Symptoms according to Seat of Injury.—(1) Dis- location in lower lumbar region. As a rule, merely partial paralyses of lower limbs or pelvic organs from partial injuries to Cauda equina; (2) upper lumbar region—paralysis of lower limbs and sphincters; (3) lower dorsal—paralysis of abdominal wall also ; (4) upper dorsal—unpaired breathing from paralysis of intercostals; (5) lower cervical—paralysis of every pai't below neck except diaphragm, respiration entirely diaphragmatic; (6) above third cervical vertebra, i.e. above origin of phrenic nerve—instant death. Of course the higher lesions include all the paralytic effects of the lower. Priapism. Later symptoms : alkalinity of urine and catarrh of urinary organs; bed-sores. These last-mentioned complications cause death eventually. But, in cervical dislocations, death results from obstruction of the lungs by frothy secretion. Diagnosis.—From (1) fracture, hardly possible. Prom (2) mere concussion, by sudden onset and by nature of cause; also by deformity when there is any. Prognosis.—Its badness varies directly with the height of the vertebra displaced. High cervical dislocations perish usually in from two to three days, dorsal in two or three weeks. But dorsal may recover, lower dorsal frequently. Lumbar offer hopes even of complete cure. Treatment.—Rest on back. Gentle examination and nursing. Gentle extension. With- draw urine twice daily; wash out bladder if urine become alkaline. {See Bladder, Catahrh of.) Attend to bowels with enemas. The ntursing is of vital importance. Smooth, clean sheets, gentle change of position, dryness, daily examination of sacral and trochanteric prominences. Good food. Trephining