260 EEOSTATE. is enlarged. The urethra takes an abnormal curve whose con- cavity corresponds to the lateral lobe most enlarged. So also the vesico-urethral orifice takes a crescentic form with the concavity towards the enlarged lobe. When the ' third lobe' is enlarged, the urethra is bent suddenly upwards in front of it. Occasional outgrowth of median portion of prostate, over- lapping vesico-urethral orifice as a valve, which obstructs the flow of urine. Size of enlarged prostate often very consider- ably increased. Diameter of over four inches and weight of twelve ounces known. A weight of even one oimce signifies hypertrophy. Consistence varies. Symptoms.—(In earliest stage nil.) Diminution of force with which urine is ejected. Fre- quent desire to micturate; micturition is, as it were, incom- plete. Uneasiness and weight about perinseum and neck of bladder. Tenesmus. Haemorrhoids tend to develope. Some- times flattened stools. After a time, chronic cystitis. Some- times urethral discharge, or frequent erections of penis. Urinary obstruction increases; bladder overflows at night. Bladder-dulness tends to ascend higher and higher in abdomen. General health gets worse. Accidental circumstances, e.g., slight excesses, bring on attacks of retention. Small hsemorrhages. Urinary changes similar to those of chronic cystitis. Neutral or alkaline reaction. Mucus. Phosphatic masses, soft and white, Muco-pus. Diagnosis is usually determined by examination with the left forefinger in the rectum. Information may be thus acquired concerning the size, shape, and consistence of the prostate, and concerning the presence, absence, or position of fluctuation. Such examination is assisted by simultaneously minipulating a catheter in the urethra. ' If the catheter has passed easily, say for nine or ten inches, and still no urine flows; and if, in addition, while following its course, the handle has become more than usually depressed, there will be little doubt in respect of the existence of prostatic enlargement' (Thompson). Of coiirse, with a healthy urethra, urine should flow through a catheter entered six and a half to eight inches. When the catheter is deflected laterally in passing, the side towards which the handle turns is probably the more enlarged. An exarainaticm should be made with a short beaked sound, such