DISEASES OF RECTUM. the walls of the rectum ; (2) syi^hilis ; (3) cicatricial contraction after operative procedures; (4) or after sloughing caused by pressure during parturition ; (5) or after strumous, dysenteric, or other ulceration. The chronic inflammation which leads t<; stricture may be caused by the impaction of foreign bodies or by the constant irritation of hard f^ces. PatJiology.^^},^ seat of a simple stricture is marked by a fibrous deposit, which mav extend wholly or partially round the bowel. When slight, it lies usually in the submucous tissue; but often the whole thickness of the rectum is affected. The usual seat is from one inch to one inch and a half above the anus. Bowel above stricture dikted and hypertrophied. Secondary abscesses and hstulaj often form, as in case of stricture of urethra. Signs— (1) Constipation, (2) burning pain on passing a stool, (3) straining at stool, (4) blood or mucus in stools, (5) patulous anus, (6) 'tape-like' motions, (7) detection of a stricture by digital examination or by a bougie. The 2nd, 3rd, 4th, and 5th Bigns mark the ulcerative stage; the 6th sign is not thoroughly reliable. Examine very gerftly, especially if using a bougie. Roughness may do fatal damage. Do not mistake for stricture, obstruction caused by mucous folds or by the pressure of pelvic tumours. Sooner or later the constipation ends in complete obstruction, which may come on with gi-eat suddenness. In advanced cases the general health breaks down under the influence of pain, dyspepsia, and anxiety. Treatment.—The prime agents are (1) dilatation by bougies, (2) incision. The latter is suited only for traumatic strictures close to the anus. Accessory means are, rest in bed, warm water enemata, regu- lated diet, morphia suppositories, and hip baths. Oil the bougies well, pass them every other day, gradually increasing the size. Patients, when cured, should continue to pass bougies or wax candles for themselves, either weekly or bi-weekly, or even daily, as may be found necessary. When complete obstruction occurs try rest, warm hip-baths, warm, oily enemata and purgatives. The surgeon should not be in a hurry to operate, for these cases may relieve themselves after weeks of obstruction. The last resource is colotomy. When the stricture is high up, give the enemata through the long tube.