72 CANCEUM OEIS. iron. Anodynes necessary in later states. Diet ample and nutri- tious. Local treatment.—Support and rest when not actively inteifering with it; layer of cotton-wool and bandage; iodine, opium, and lead retard growth of tnmour ; amadon plaister; for sloughing, a bread poultice with powdered charcoal; terebene; wash ulcers with a weak solution of zinc chloride and laudanum; tepid lotion of chlorate of potash to be used frequently; lotion of citric acid said to be sedative to epithelial cancers. For oedema of a limb caused by pressiire, soft bandages. For hemor- rhage, perchloride of iron, or ligature of any bleeding artery, or bathing with water as hot as it can be borne. For pain, extract of belladonna with glycerine, locally. Apply to a painful cancerous sore, morphia and glycerine on lint, or iodo- form ; chloral or morphia internally. Question of operating.— Objects of operation—1, to prolong life; 2, to give an interval of ease and usefulness. Reasons for not operating—], un- healthy conditions of patient, e.g., sevei-e kidney or lung disease; 2, diffusion and wide infiltration of a cancer; 3, cancerous cutaneous tubercles ; 4, disease of glands which cannot them- selves be removed ; 5, considerable adhesion of a scirrhous breast to pectoral muscle; 6, more than one tumour (except in rare and chronic cases); 7, cancers beneath scalp. If the conditions are favourable, the sooner the cancer is removed the better. It should be removed freely, the neighbouring parts carefully examined, and, in many cases, treated with cauistics, e.g., zinc chloride (gi-. xx to Suspicious glands should be removed entire. Ecraseur instead of knife in cancer of tongue, neck of uterus, &c.; galvanic cautery to cancers of skin ; caustias; Maissonneuve's caustic arrows ; injection of dilute acetic acid (1 to 3), its efficacy doubtful. Injection of bromine in alcohol (m. v to gj). Esmarch and Billroth have treated cancer, with some success, by increasing doses of arsenic, long continued. Cancrum Oris (or Gangrenous Stomatitis).—A phagedenic ulceration of the cheek in childhood (second to eighth year). Causes.—Usually a sequel of one of the exanthemata; low, damp lodgings, bad air, food, <fec.; mercury to excess in feeble constitu- tions. Symptoms.—Mild form marked by small grey, sloughy foul ulcers on inside of cheek, with red gums and foul breath. The