30 AETERIES. at first. Place of selection—just above omo-hyoid (i.e., level of cricoid cartilage). Line of artery, st?vno-clavicuiar articu- lation to midway between mastoid process and angle of jaw ; incise skin along anterior border of stemo-mastoid three inches ; platysma; deep fascia. Raise head, relax and retract stemo-mastoid; look for omo-hyoid; carotid sheath with de- scendens noni. As a rule, jugular vein and vagus nerve not seen. 2. In tying artery low down, divide partially sterno- mastoid, sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroids. Fatality.—40 per cent. : in ordinary cases one in three. When operation is for haemorrhage, 56 per cent. die. When for aneurism, on Brasdor's method, only one in four. For affections of the nervous system, only one in thirty-four. Chief Dangers.—Brain symptoms and secondary haemorrhage. Carotid, External and Internal.—Ligature of common carotid preferred. For external carotid proceed as follows : line of incision same as for common carotid ; incision from angle of jaw to thyroid cartilage; freely incise any glands which may be in the way; tie and divide cutaneous veins ; look for hypoglossal nerve ; tie the artery between origins of supra-thyroid and lingual arteries. Femoral.—The common femoral rarely tied ; ligature of external iliac ]")referred. Incise in line of arteiy; crural branch of genito-crural nerve ; open sheath ; tie about one inch below Poupart's hgament; pass needle from within outwards. Supe'>-ficial Femoral tied in two places: 1. At apex of Scarpa's triangle. Position : abduction and rotation outwards; knee flexed ; line of artery, from middle of Poupai-t's ligament to front of inner condyle; incise skin 3-4 inches at junction of upper and middle one-thirds of thigh; divide fat; avoid saphena vein ; divide fascia lata well to inner side of sartorius, so as not to open sheath of that muscle; retract sartorius outwards; feel for sheath of artery; branch of ant. crural over sheath; open sheath; clean artery with point of di- rector; pass needle from inner side. 2. In Hunter's canal. Done when operation in Scarpa's triangle fails. If done at lower end of Hunter's canal, draw sartorius to inner side; in- cision in the same line as when arteiy is tied in Scarpa's