APPENDIX. 386 Bullse (pempHgus neonatorum syphiliticus) occur especially on palms and soles. This is a point in diagnosis. Mucous tubercles at comers of mouth and eyes, in flexure of limbs, on neck and behind ears. Characteristic eruptions are very copper-coloured. Stomatitis. Mucous tubercles in mouth, throat and larjTJX. Iritis sometimes, especially about fifth month. Deafness occa- sionally. Osteo-chonclritis.—Important diagnosticaUy, because it is often the only pathognomonic symptom. It is caused by syphilis exclusively. Affects chiefly epiphyses of long bones— femur, tibia, humerus, &c , clavicle, sternum, ribs. Epiphysial cartilages swell, and can be felt projecting as would a rrag round the bone. The swelling is usually smooth. Little or no pain or interference with movement. Occasionally causes ulceration and necrosis. Is commonly symmetrical. Leaves no ill effects if resolution takes place quickly. Otherwise may permanently afiect growth of limb. Period of its occurrence, usually at birth or during first month. For a very full account read Bumsted and Taylor. But Wegner, of Berlin, first described it. Spleen is enlarged in at least fifty per cent, of cases, and often accompanied by hypertrophy of liver (Gee). Later effects. About period of second dentition, or about puberty (in giiis especially), appear interstitial keratitis, serpiginous ulcerations, eruptions almost rupial in character, ulcerations of throat and hard palate, nodes, affections of viscera; and certain nervous affections, especially epilepsy, chorea, and even paralyses (HughHngs Jackson). The characteristic signs present at this period, besides the manifestations just mentioned, are certain relics of infantile syphilis, viz., flattened nose, projecting forehead, dull coloured skin, lines about the corners of the mouth and ' Hutchinson's teeth: The peculiarities of the last are due to stomatitis in infancy; therefore, if the syphilitic infant escape stomatitis, it will escape teeth deformity. The upper front permanent teeth are the most peculiar, the central mcisors especially These converge towards each other, are dirty lookmg, imperfectly covered with enamel, often small and short, and are either notched or pegged on their cutting edges. Pro- anosis —Depends mainly on the severity of the symptoms. The worst "cases usually die. But most infants and adolescents