DELIRIUM TREMENS. 83 dering of tlie mind, usually limited to delusions about certain things ; e.g., the patient, while knowing perfectly well where and with whom he is, yet fancies there is a demon or some noxious animal in the corner of the room, or following him about from place to place. His mind is ever recurring to these fancies, and he frequently talks about them and insists upon taking measures to escajis from his imaginary enemies : his delirium is a fussy, ' busy ' one. He is always in a state of dread, and is often inclined to suspect his friends of harbouring designs against him. In his active anxiety to escape from these, he may do himself or even bystanders some injury. Hands unsteady. Tongiie not only tremulous but coated, usually with a creamy fur. Bowels confined. Breath foul, frequently alcoholic. No appetite. Sleeplessness, which has usually existed as a premonitory symptom before the delirium sets in. Diagnosis.—From (1) acute mania, (2) meningitis, (3) delirium of fevers. Note the coolness and moisture of the skin, absence of fever and, very likely, of pain in head. In the continued fevers, prostration has probably preceded the delirium, but thermometric observations and a consideration of the history (which is, unfortunately, not always easy to get) should settle the diagnosis. There is something very characteristic about the manner of the delirium in Delirium Tremens. Prognosis.— sleep can be quickly procured, good. If not, and especially if the tongue gets dry and brown, bad. Treatment.—InAic&tions (1) to procure sleep, (2) to keep up the strength. Watchful, firm and gentle, good-natured nursing. Milk, strong beef-tea' and small quantities of nutritious solid food, if it can be borne,' at frequent intervals. Stimulants should either be forbidden altogether or else allowed only in small quantities at a time, and then only on condition that food be taken with each draught. Beer is the best stimulant in these cases. A dose of calomel (5^10 grains) justifiable at first. Morphia subcutaneonsly Hydrate of chloral (30 grains) repeated in two hours and then m another three hours. Digitalis in large doses has been recom- mended. Mr. Holmes's remarks on treatment of Delirium Tremens in bis Treatise are very clear and instructive Diabetes, Traumatic, has followed injury to the brain and o 2