FEACTUEES. 122 Fracture of Forearm maybe of radius or ulna separately, or of both bones. See Fracture of Radius, Ulna, &c. Humerus, Fracture of.—9 kinds, viz: 4 of the upper end, 1 of the shaft, and 4 of the lower end. Intra-cafsular of Neck of Humerus (anatomical neck of course). Cause.—Direct violence. Signs.—Those of a severe injury to the shoulder-joint, causing paralysis, swelling, &c., but very little shortening (^-inch) or deformity. Indeed, this fracture is diagnosed by the absence of the marked symptoms of other fractures and of dislocation. Often impacted. "When not impacted, thei-e is crepitus. Prognosis.—Expect bony union, with, very likely, excess of new bone. Treatment.—Pad in axilla, leather shoulder-cap, bandage, and sling. Whole arm should be bandaged gently and evenly. Sling should support hand rather than elbow in all fractures of humerus. Impacted fractures not to be disturbed. Extra-capsular Fracture of Neck of Humerus, i.e. through surgical neck. Signs.—Sharp end of lower fragment projects into axilla or beneath coracoid. But head of humerus remains in glenoid cavity. Distinct crepitus. Shortening—1 inch. Pain from irritation of brachial plexus. Prognosis.—In rare cases the bone atrophies. Treatment.—Bandage limb from finger upwards. Pad in axilla. Carry elbow forward and in- wards. Apply a leather cap to shoulder and outer side of upper arm. Support hand but not elbow with a sling. Erichsen's bent leather splint. Separation of Upper Epiphysis of Humerus resembles accident last described, but the upper end of the shaft forms a remarkable and smooth projection beneath the coracoid process. The patient is usually very young, and must be less than twenty. Treat like fracture of surgical neck. Fracture of Great Tuberosity.—Cause.—Dii-ect violence. Signs.—Increased breadth of shoulder. The tuberosity is dragged backwards by the muscles inserted into it, and the head of the humerus forwards beneath the coracoid (a semi-dislocation) by the pectoralis major, &c. Crepitus. Ti-eatment.—-Pad in axilla and leather cap on shoulders, or rest in bed with the arm extended. Fracture of Shaft of Humerus.—Gauges.—Direct violence.