EXCISION OF UPPEE JAW. ^06 tumour of the bone, /wcisiow.—Depends on extent of bone to be removed. Considerable portions can be taken away through an incision entirely within the mouth. Larger portions require an incision along the lower margin of the jaw and chin. This, if necessary, may be extended upwards in the median line towards the lip; but only tumours of rare magnitude justify division of the lip itself. A tumour which reached from two inches above the zygoma nearly down to the clavicle required a curved incision from the front of the ear to and through the lower lip. Many tumours may be almost entirely separated from their connections before even the facial artery need be divided. In the large tumour above referred to, this artery was cut by the last touch of the knife, and tied almost before it spurted. All bleeding vessels should be secured without delay, as free haemorrhage is pecidiarly embarrassing in operations about the mouth. In the smaller tumours, a tooth is extracted on each side of the growth, and the jaw partially sawn through and partially divided by cutting forceps. When the symphysis has to be removed, the tongue must be perforated and held forward by a piece of whipcord, lest it fall back and close the glottis. This whipcord may be removed after twenty-four hours. When the ramus is encroached upon, disarticulation is necessary. Then keep the edge of the knife close to the bone, lest the internal maxillary arteiy be divided. Strong forceps may be useful. Depress the bone well, and open the joint from the fi'ont. Do not divide or remove any more mucous membrane than can be helped. It is worth remembering that, in case of dangerous haemorrhage after an extensive operation of this kind, the external carotid, or even the bifurcation of the common carotid, can easily be compressed between the finger in the phai-ynx and the thumb on the skin of the neck. Anfesthesia should be eflfected through Trendelenburg's trachea-tampon and tube or Mills' apparatus. Excision of Upper Jaw.—Complete or partial. Performed for tumour of the bone. CompZeie excision. Incise skin, &c., down to bone along a line through middle of upper hp, round ala of nose, up to near inner canthus of eye, and lastly along lower margin of orbit. Very large gi'owths may require also