SPINE, INJUEIES OF. 289 is for the most part condemned. In certain cases of injury to the spine, especially if in lumbar region, it would be justifiable to apply a plaster of Paris corset during extension. Sayre has published a case of this soii;. Spine, Feactoee of.—Almost everything written above of dislocations is applicable to fractures. In practice it very seldom that any distinction is or can be made dm^ing patient's ife. Seat.—More frequent in the cervical region, but common enough in the dorsal. Concussion of the Spine.—A term applied to a variety of traumatic affections which can easily be differentiated post mortem, and sometimes more or less easily diagnosed during life. They concur in having one common cause, and in tending, so far as the worst cases of each kind go, towards similar, if not identical, terminations. The common cause is injury to the cord without fracture or dislocation of the spine. The worst termination is disorganisation of the cord with con- sequent paralysis. Fortunately most cases stop short of this. Conditions included in the term ' Concussion of the Spine.'— 1. Mere concussion. 2. Compression from hsemorrhage or effusion. 3. Laceration. 4. Inflammation, Causes. Injury, direct or indirect, to the spinal column. Especially common in railway accidents. Blows, falls. Pathology.—Amount of visible injury in the cord varies from slightest swelling or ecchymosis to considerable contusions, lacerations, ecchymoses, effusions, and haemorrhages. Membranes of cord suffer also! Ligaments of spinal column sometimes sprained or torn. At a later stage are found softenings and thickenings, and, still later, atrophy or disintegration. Sig7w.~The most serious symptoms arise much more from secondary inflammation than from the injury itself. Concussion may be localised or diffused. When the injury is localised to one part of the cord, either (1) the rational symptoms are confined chiefly to paralysis or iiTitation of the nerves arising from that part, or (2) the local mischief is severe enough to damage the functions of all the cord below seat of injury. But the smallest local injury may serve as the starting-point for the gravest general disease. In diffused or general concussion the signs are often u