202 TUMOURS OF JAWS. those of ostitis, pain like toothache, swelling, &c.; then sup- piiration, formation of sinuses, detection of exposed bone, offensive discharge. Effect on general health usiially greater than necrosis elsewhere. Fathology.—That of other necroses. Phosphorus necrosis is said to attack only where there are carious teeth; but Langenbeck denies this. Formation of new bone usually redundant; but it tends to waste when the sequestrum is removed. A sinus opening externally near jaw sometimes merely signifies a carious tooth. Treatment.—Treat the cause. Remove sequestrum when it has fairly loosened, but not before. Avoid cutting skin if possible; if unavoidable, make incisions below edge of jaw, and, in males, where whiskers may cover scar. Whole jaw has been removed piecemeal through mouth. Gargles and lotions of Condy's Fluid, borax, salicylic acid. In severe cases rest may have to be secured by bandages and gutta-percha or other splints. Tonics, soft nutri- tious food, fresh air. Fit artificial teeth to new jaw. Specific remedies where indicated. Lower jaw affected oftener than upper. Amorphous phosphorus does not give off the injurious fumes. Jaws, Tumours of, may be cystic, fibro-cystic, fibrous, sar- comatous, carcinomatous, cartilaginous, fibro-cartilaginous, or osseous. A fibrous or sarcomatous tumour connected with the periosteum of the alveoli is called an ' epulis.' This has been noticed under that heading. Cystic tumours are the most common, and are noticed among the diseases of the Antrum, quod vide. Cartilaginous tumours are rare, but may be very large. Exostoses on the jaw are often of the ivory variety. Diagnosis.—See article on Tumours in general. The chief point is to recognise innocency or malignancy. Malignant growths increase rapidly, are usually softish, infiltrate neigh- bouring parts, affect glands, are painful, and sooner or later tend to fungate. Treatment.—O^en simple cysts by a very free incision, stuff with lint, and allow to granulate up. Other tumours must be removed thoroughly with knife, small saw, and cutting pliers. Bad cases may require removal of part or even whole of jaw itself. See Excision of Jaw. Excision of Lower Jaw.—Partial or complete. Done for