INTESTINAL OBSTEUCTION. 199 tional clei^ression; there are modified and special symptoms added according to prime cause. Diagnosis.—1st, from other diseases caxising vomiting, constipation, and pain; 2nd, of the particular nature of a given case of obstruction. 1st, bear in mind possibility that the symptoms are caused by peritonitis, perityphlitis, passage of a gall-stone, impaction of a calculus in the ureter. Abstract of Mr. J. Hutchinson's memoranda for diagnosis. 1, If patient be a child, and the onset of symj)toms be sudden,—probably intussusception or peritonitis. 2, If an elderly person,—impaction of faeces, or else malignant disease (stricture or tumour). 3, Middle age,—intussusception and malignant disease very unusual. 4, Intussusception causes frequent straining, passage of blood and mucus, incompleteness of constipation, discovery of a sausage-like tumour either per amoni or through abdominal walls. 5, Also in intussusception, parietes usually lax, and therefore it is almost always possible to feel the sausage-like tumour by manipulation under ether. 6, Malignant stricture. Old person, continued abdominal uneasiness, repeated attacks of temporary constipation. Con- stipation often not complete. 7, Tumour should be discoverable either through parietes or else per anum or per vaginam. Beware of confounding with scybalous masses. (Latter may probably be indented or pressed into a different shape.) 8, If there have been repeated attacks of dangerous obstruction with long intervals of perfect health, suspect diverticula, or bands, or pouching Avith liability to twist (volvulus). 9, Abdomen hard and distended from near commencement of case, peritonitis almost certainly. 10, Intestines visibly rolling about. Almost certainly no peritonitis. 11, The tendency to vomit is in pro- portion to (1) nearness of impediment to stomach, (2) tightness of constriction, (3) persistence with which food and medicine have been given by the mouth. 12, Vomiting often absent in cases of obstruction in the colon or rectum. 13, Violent retch- ing and bile-vomiting often more troublesome in cases of gall- stones or renal calculus simulating obstruction than in true conditions of the latter. 14, Frecal vomiting can occur only ■when the obstruction is moderately low down. When happening