70 SOFT CANCER. mechanically with vital organs; 3, general infection of blood and consequent cachexia, &c. Histology.—Every cancer consists of cells lying in the interstices of a network of fibrous tissue ; the network may be clase or open, strong or weak; the cells are of two kinds : one, the larger, are of epithelial origin; the other, the ' small cell formation,' of connective tissue origin. It may here be mentioned that the cells of a sarcoma are all of connective tissue oiigin, and primarily directly connected with the meshwork in which they lie.—Vide Special varieties of can- cer. Cancer-juice is fluid containing cancer cells and often oil particles and debris. Varieties of Cancer.—Some of the sarco- mata, and, indeed, exceptionally almost any kind of tumoiir may have most of the characters of malignancy. In these cases, the characters are usually so modified as to cause a condition spoken of as ' semi-malignant.' But most cancers are carcino- mata. There are five varieties of carcinoma, viz. : 1, hard; 2, soft; 3, colloid; 4, squamous (ordmary) epithehal; 5, cylindrical epithehal cancer; besides villous, melanotic, and osteoid cancers. Cancee, Hard. Scierhus.—The fibrous part preponderates over the cell elements. Patholoyy.—Hard, section concave, white or grey, dotted with j^ellow points; no defined margin; juice. Either tuberous or infiltrating; ' tuberous' means * form- ing a distinct nodule.' When infiltrating, the neighbouiing parts are hard, adherent, and often drawn in; infiltration of skin with tubercles, a very valuable clinical symptom. Parts of the cancer often atrophy, or even slough. The cancerous ulcer is irregular, fetid, with thick, hard edges. Locality,—Breast, skia, rectum; found also in testicle, tonsil, eye, <fec. Cancer, Soft. Encephaloid.—Fibrous part small; cells abundant; special characters of other varieties absent; not dis- tinct in nature from scirrhus. If a scirrhus be removed, cancer often recurs as encephaloid. Consistence, often as soft as, or even much softer than, brain ; colour, white, creamy, or l)lood-stained. "When connected with bone or periosteum, Hable to contain bony plates or even a complete bony framework; often contains large blood cysts ; may be encapsulated ; soft and fluctuating. Punc- ture lets out blood and often cancer-juice as well. May ulcerate and fungate as a bleeding mass; grows fast, and is covered by