GONOERHCEA. prove, whereas he ought to persevere with the treatment even for a week after the cUsease is apparently quite cured. Within that period, even half a glass of claret may cause a relapse. The following rule is of prime importance. The surgeon should teach the patient how to inject. He should admimster the first injection himself; and, if it be effectively done, this first injection may strike the death-blow of the gonorrhoea. _ A suspensory bandage should be worn as a prophylactic against epididymitis. The ordinary one is often quite useless. The bandage made by Messrs. Arnold, of West Smithfield, should be used. To absorb the discharge, and keep the linen clean, an excellent application is a thin layer of absorbent cotton-wool, stuck to gutta-percha tissue, and tied to the penis by a piece of tape. Chastity is necessary in the first three stages. Gleet is not always infectious, but abstinence from intercourse is de- sirable even du.ring this stage. Copaiba, Cuhebs, and Oil of Sandal FoocL—Copaiba^ not advisable in the acute stage, cubebs best in first stage, oil of sandal wood good for any stage. Dose of copaiba, 2 capsules thi-ee or four times a day, or 3 gr. of the balsam made into an emulsion with yelk of egg, or floating on infusion of roses, three times a day. Dose of cubebs : a heaped teaspoonful four times a day mixed with soda-water. Cubebs and copaiba together : make the cubebs up into pills with copaiha balsam and white wax, and give ten pills three times a day. Dose of oil of sandal wood : m. xv ter die. R ol. santalini §ss—sp. vini rect. §iss. m ft. mist. S. 5j ex aquae ^j ter die. Copaiba Rash is papular, and sometimes resembles urticaria, sometimes measles; but there is no fever, and the rash is patchy, chiefly affecting skin over joints. Warn patients of danger of gonorrhceal ophthalmia. GoNORRHCEA IN Female.—Parts affected.—Vagina and vulva. Disease may spread considerably, even up urethra to bladder, and, it is said, through Fallopian tubes to peritoneum. Other complications are bubo, labial abscess, and warty growths. Less common are metritis and ovaritis. Treatment.—Main special points are, to use large quantities of weak injections pumped freely into vagina, to insert a piece of clean lint