HIP-DISEASE. 179 logy'). Before abscess opens, 3rd stage has usually commenced. 3rd stage. Stage of real shortening. This results from the gi-adual destruction of head and neck of femur by caries or necrosis, usiially by caries. Top of trochanter ascends above Nelaton's line, a line drawn from ant. sup. spine of ilium to tuberosity of ischium. Abscesses or sinuses, lordosis, flexion of thigh on abdomen, wasting of buttock and thigh, and pain continue as in former stages. The disease naturally terminates either in death from exhaustion or amyloid disease, or in recovery with ankylosis. The ankylosis is in the flexed position and accompanied by a compensatory spinal curve of the kind called lordosis. Pathology.—Disease may begin either (1) in the bone near the joint, or (2) in the soft tissues, synovial membranes, or ligaments of the joint. In the latter case the disease is sometimes named 'arthritic' It is a generally accepted doctrine now that the only joint-disease which begins in the cartilage is chronic rheumatic arthritis. For a descrip- tion of the general changes which take place in hip-disease, see Diseases of Bones and of Joints. Ligamentum teres soon gives way. Headof femur perishes by caries or by necrosis. If aceta- bulum is affected, it is apt to perish partially by necrosis, often becoming perforated. Even when head of femur is destroyed remains of neck of femur rarely leave acetabulum. True dis- location on dorsum ilii does occasionally occur, or, acetabulum bemg perforated, head of femur may slip throixgh into pelvis. The natural tendency is towards a cure by ankylosis. In ace- tabular disease, sinuses usually form in buttock, or close to pubes. In femoral disease they usually open lower down thi<.h especially below and in front of great trochanter. Diagnosis — Most cases of hip-disease are unmistakable. Sometimes diffi- cult to distinguish incipient hip-disease from other afiections which cause pain about the hip, accompanied by lameness com- mon rheumatism for example. In fact many cases of hip-disease do actually begin as rheumatic synovitis. No disease of the parts about the h,p causes such stiffness of the joint : that is a ^reat point. Pam in the knee may lead off the attention to'' the wrong place. Many affections, e.g. curvature of spine, and hysteria, cause rocking of pelvis and apparent shortening or K 2