STEICTUEE OP URETHRA. smallest soft French catheter you possess. 6. If this ftiils, try to_ the patient's left groin). 7. Bring the handle up to the middle line of the abdomen, keeping the point of the catheter well down the urethra. 8. Lightly depress the handle, at the same time pushing the point onwards round the sub-pubic curve into the bladder, employing only the slightest degree of force with the lightest hand possible. By ' depress the handle' is meant ' bring it downwards, from the linea alba towards the interval between the thighs.' When in the bladder, the catheter should be^ parallel with the thighs, or nearly so. Difficulties: (1) point may entangle in lacunas in roof of urethra, or in a false passage; (2) or may be obstructed by the anterior layer of the triangular ligament, through which the urethra passes about six inches from the meatus; (3) or by spasm; (4) or by an elevation near prostate or neck of bladder. At first keep the point on the floor of the urethra. Always be patient and gentle. Force can do no good, and may cause much harm, especially false passages, haemorrhage, and pain. Gum-elastic catheter : be very careful to preserve its curve. When you have got the point well down the urethra, depress the handle rather suddenly, but still with a light hand. French soft instruments : simply push them gently on into the bladder. Indications for treatment of stricture : (1) to restore normal size of ui-ethra (or to dilate as much as is consistent with safety and comfort); (2) to maintain the ground gained. At the first examination of a case of supposed stricture—1. Pass, or try to pass, a medium-sized instrument. If it passes very easily, try a larger and a larger, till you find the largest which passes without much pain. Note the size and position of the stricture. 2. If it will not pass, let the patient make water, if he can. The size of the stream will usually be a little larger than the diameter of the stricture. 3. If he cannot make any stream of water, carefully examine hypogastrium, to see if bladder be dis- tended. A finger in the rectum to palpate base of bladder may assist in this examination. 4. If you have seen a stream of water, take an instrument a little smaller than that stream, and try to pass it. 6, But if there is no stream of urine, or if the insti'ument advised in last paragraph (4) have failed, tiy the