ABSCESS. 4 or spontaneously, its walls fall together and it closes; 2, a sinus or fistula remains; 3, acute abscesses sometimes cause serious mischief by opening into blood-vessels and serous cavities. Diagnosis.—An acute abscess can scarcely be mistaken. Treat- ment.—Local rest very important; general rest in serious cases. Treat cause if possible. Warm moist applications. Quinine internally. Calomel (5 to 10 grains) if the tongue is not clean. Indications for opening.—1, when in sheath of a tendon; or 2, under strong fibrous membranes ; or, 3, anywhere else where pus is likely to burrow instead of coming to the surface; 4, near a joint; 5, under the periosteum; 6, when pi-essure is likely to be dangerous; 7, when it may cause some direct obstriTction to some passage; 8, when caused by some noxious infiltrating fluid, e.g., urine; 9, when a spontaneous ojDening would produce de- formity, e.g., in neck; 10, when near anus. After abscess is open, employ pressure, if necessary, to prevent fistula, but poulticing usually suffices as a dressing. Method of opening acute Abscess.—1, By Paget's or Syme's knife or lancet; 2, by Hilton's method when deep and in a dangerous situation. ' Hil- ton's Method.'—Incise skin and deep fascia; then push a director on into abscess; lastly, pass a pair of dressing forceps along director, and when they have entered the cavity, open the blades. Opening to be dependent, parallel with any neighbouring im- portant structures, and free. Chronic Abscess.—Causes. Dead bone : all causes of acute abscess, quod vide. Scrofula. Constitutional debility. Signs.— A swelhng, at first hard, afterwards soft and fluctuating, usually situated near a lymphatic gland, or in some special situation, e.g., in the psoas muscle, or in loose ceUular tissue, e.g., that of buttock. Often a certain amount of pain and tenderness; often evident disease of bone. Pressure on nerves may cause pain or spasm. Abscesses near mucous canals sometimes, but rarely, become emphysematous. Course.—Often very tedious, usually tends to burst, either thi-ough skin or into some internal cavity, but usually the former. May remain stationary for years; and may contract while its contents partly degenerate, partly ai-e absorbed. ComtitiUional Effects.—Vm&Wj little or none till it opens and its contents are exposed to the air. Then, if the