415 RETINA. retinitis). Prognosis must be guarded. Treat disease of kidneys. Rest and protect eyes by cobalt-blue glasses. Retinitis Apoplectica.—From sudden hsemorrbage from a retinal vessel, from disease of vessels, or of heart. Retinitis Pigmentosa.—Cbaracterised by a peculiar deposit of dark pigment—varying in pattern—usually commences at the periphery of the fundus, and gradually approaches the centre. Optic disc of a pale yellow colour. Often associated with posterior polar cataract. Often occurs in several members of the same family. Prognosis bad. May remain stationary. May go on from bad to worse. Detachment of Retina may be partial or entire. Causes : (a) Elongation of coats of eyeball as in extreme myopia, (b) Diminution of vitreous, (c) Haemorrhage or serous exudation between retina and choroid, (d) Tumours of choroid.. Symp- toms.—By direct examination the detached portion appears as a bluish-gray film bounded by a sharp line. The vessels traced from disc give a sudden bend at the line of detachment. The detached portion is seen to be pushed forwards, and the vessels upon it are tortuous, small, and of dark colour'. The field of vision is limited. Prognosis is unfavourable. Glioma, a small round-celled growth proceeding from the granular layers of the retina, occurring generally in very young childt'en. It is seen as a glistening white substance at the bottom of the eye, and if allowed to remain, it rapidly spreads along optic nerve to the bram, and to the suiTounding structures within the orbit. Secondary deposits may occui'. Treatment. Early excision of globe. Refraction of the eye signifies the influence exercised by the transparent media upon rays of light entering it. • Emmetkopia signifies normal refraction. Ametropia signifies abnormal refraction, and may be divided into (1) Myopia, (2) Hypermetropia, (3) Astigmatism. Emmetropia is that condition of refraction in which raya from distant objects, and which are practically parallel, come to a focus upon the retina when the eye is at rest, that is,' when accommodation is relaxed. The Emmetropic eye cannot see near objects without increasing the convexity of the crystalline