EYELIDS. 407 Ptosis is partial or complete closure of the upper eyelid. Causes, various. May be congenital and due to non-develop- ment of the levator palpebrte superioris muscle. May be due to paralysis of the third nerve, which supplies that muscle. May be the result of injury to that muscle. Treatment varies with cause. Graefe's operation; make incision through skin three lines above the margin of upper lid, and extending through its whole length, and expose the orbicularis palpebrarum muscle; seize the muscle with forceps, excise a portion about iive lines in width. In bringing edges of skin together pass the suture through the cut edges of the muscle. Trichiasis, ingrowing of the eyelashes, causing ii-ritation of the globe. Frequently catised by contraction of the tissues after gi-anular lids and after the application of caustics to inside of lids. Treatment.—If only a few lashes are turning in, these may be removed with epilation forceps. If many exist, then excision of the hair-bulbs should be performed as follows :—Fix the Ud by means of compressorium forceps. Make two incisions along the margin of the lid, one on each side of the row of eye- lashes. Cut deeply, unite the incisions at each end, and remove the piece with scissors. Sutures not required. Symblepharon is imion of the palpebral and ocular con- junctivae or of the margins of the eyelids. Caused generally by burns, as with molten lead, or caustic, as quickhme. Treat- ment.—1. When the edges of only the lids are united, or when a probe can be passed beneath the united conjunctivae; (a) simply divide adhesions with knife, and keep the parts separated by means of oiled lint; (&) pass a strong silk ligatiu^e beneath the bands, and tie tightly, allowing the ligature to come away by itself. 2. When no pi'obe can be passed beneath the adhe- sions, the results of operation are less satisfactory. Separate the parts by incision, and then dissect up the conjunctiva on both sides, and endeavour to bring the flaps thus formed over tlie raw surface by means of very fine silk sutures; still keep the ocular and palpebral portions apart by oiled lint. Entropion.—Inversion of the eyelids, generally caused by cicatrices after caustics such as lime or nitrate of silver, or