315 ULCERATION OF TONGUE. as obscure as those of cancer elsewhere. Chronic irritation of sharp teeth doubtless an occasional factor. Clay-pipes. Most frequent in males and in late middle age. Commences as a fissure (rarely as a wart). SyphiUtic disease said to sometimes pass into epithelioma. Diagnosis.—Distinguish from syphilitic ulceration by (1) hardness of base and edges; (2) absence of collateral signs of syphilis ; (3) position—cancer usually begins at side of tongue, deep syphilitic ulcer generally lies neai' septum ; (4) pain is greater in cancer; (5) glands are affected earlier and more extensively, and eventually form a huge, hard mass, in cancer; (6) fixation of tongue fi'om cancerous infiltration; (7) salivation. Unfortunately, in the very cases in which diagnosis is most difficult and most important, the above signs may not be well-marked. Hence the surgeon sometimes has to try anti- syphilitic remedies merely because he does not know whether he has to deal with cancer or syphilis. Tenderness—intoler- ance of firm pressure distinguishes cancer, and the characteristic hardness is of the same nature as that of scirrhus mammae, i.e., not like inflammatory induration. Prognosis.—Without opera- tion, hopeless. With operation, varies from some hope of non- recurrence when a small cancer and a wide margin of apparently- healthy tissue is excised, to the certainty of recurrence when the conditions are reversed. Treatment.—If diagnosis be doubt- ful, try large doses of pot. iod. (gi-s. x-xx ter die). Draw bad teeth. Forbid smoking. Eegulate diet. Question of removal depends iipon extent of disease. If removal of whole tongue will not suffice to take away all the disease, treatment must be palliative. Removal. By (1) knife, (2) ecraseur, (3) galvanic cautery, (4) ligature, (5) Richardson's scissors. Prefer knife for comparatively limited operations : Ecraseur most popular ia extensive ones. Remove disease of anterior part of tongue, and in suitable cases even more extensive disease by operating entirely through mouth. In some instances the whole tongue could be thus removed, if Sir James Paget's advice be followed— to pass scissors into the mouth and divide the muscles which attach the tongue to the jaw, before pulling forward the tongue. In such an operation the galvanic 6craseur, very deliberately used, would be safest, for severe htemorrhage would here bo