308 STKUMOUS TESTICLE. altliough this- condition may exist separately). Causes and Fathology.—{l) reflex; (2) the obscure state of the nerves and vessels of a part commonly associated with neuralgia else- where, and manifested cMefly by signs of congestion; (3) in some rare cases, the presence of coarse organic disease, e.g., chronic abscess {vide specimen in Hunterian Museum); (4) malaria. Keflex neuralgia results from stone in the bladder or kidney, from varicocele, indigestion, &c. The age most subject is the period of puberty, and the next ten years. The exciting cause, frequently, undue excitement of the gemtal organs. Prognosis,—Time almost invariably works a sponta- neous cure, both of the individual attack and of the disposition to it Eemove the cause. Treat varicocele, indigestion, &c. Suspensory bandage,' cold bath, moderation in diet and m exercise of gland, &c. Quinine for intermittent cases. Hypo- dermic injection of morphia (quarter grain). Horizontal position, or elevation of pelvis and lower extremities. Strumous Testicle.—Ccmses.- Vide Sckofula. Patliology. —A deposit of tuberculous matter takes place within the con- voluted tubes of the epididymis. This matter is probably at first mainly a collection of epithelial cells. Subsequent change into a cheesy, or into a calcareous mass. In the meantime chronic inflammation tends to destroy the walls of the tubes, and to connect the tubercle into one mass. Colour of tubercle, white, or yellowish-white. Disease usually begins m epididy- mis, but when it commences in the body of the gland, small scattered grey tubercles first appear. These enlarge, and orsce in'parts of the gland. The ordinary processes o chro- nic inflammation occur around the deposits. Th^e usually e- u t in formation of abscesses and smuses. Yas deferens usually th ckened Both testicles often affected. Coincident disease ofirs freq^^^^ and of kidney, prostate, vesicul. seminal^, &c. ofcasional. '^^..-Epididymis, and body a. 1 .1 .r.Uv^^ slowlv • very little pain except whai an ab- t^:ts^^—• "Li r deferens. ScroMous appearance of patient. Scmefmes co 1 iSee Varicocele.