220 DISEASES OE LAEYNX. Catarrh usually afiects also the neighbouring mucous tract of the pharynx. Direct observation of the pharynx with the un- assisted eye, and of the larynx with the laryngoscope, shows the miicous glands enlarged, a dusky, congested mucous mem- brane, small varicose veins, and a glairy mucous secretion cling- ing to parts of the region. A troublesome, tickhng cough sometimes. Almost always a habit of clearing, or rather °of attempting to clear the throat by hawking. Thirst. Frequently a hypochondriacal state which exaggerates the subjective symp- toms. Often symptoms pointing to the cause of the chi-onic laryngitis, e.g., signs of alcoholism. Pathology.—Inflammatory congestion and eventually thickening of the submucous tissue. Hypertrophy of the mucous glands. A glairy mucous or muco- purulent secretion clinging to the mucous membrane. Rarely ulceration, unless the disease has a specific cause. Varicosities of the small vessels. Diagnosis.—Compare symptoms with those of specific diseases of, and with those of ulcers, and of growths in larynx. Prognosis.—Only good when the causes can be removed or a change of climate can be obtained, or local treatment persistently carried out for a long period by skilled hands. Treatment.—Rest from irregular or much speaking or singing. All the ordinary precautions against catarrh, viz. :— good thick boots, warm socks, dry clothes, dry lodging, dry climate if possible. Exercise in fresh air without thick cover- ing on throat, but merely a thin tie or handkerchief. Regular habits. Avoid night air. Open bowels. Moderate diet. No stimulants. In a few cases generous diet is beneficial. Gar- gling with hot (not luke-warm) saline solutions, especially of •chlorate of potash; sponging pharynx and glottis with sol. argent, nit. (gr. xx-§j). Inhalations of medicated sprays (especially argent, nit. gr. j-x to or of chloride of am- monium vapom". Painting pharynx with glycerine of tannic acid. The health of the other organs and systems of the body should always be inquired into carefully and attended to. Chloride of ammonium, belladonna, mercury, sulphur, ipeca- ■cuanha, antimony, iodide of potassium, are all sometimes beneficial. CEdema Glottidis.—Causes.—Usually some ulceration or