SYPHILIS. 299 Ehei'matic Iritis. Alwa3's acute symptoms. Rapid development. Neither discoloration nor dimness. Circle very distinct. Rarely synechi*. Never pimctated keratitis. Never condylomata. Photophobia intense. Watering of eyes abundant. Unusual brightness of eyes. iritis by a consideration of the following table (from Lancereaux, after Desmarres):— Syphilitic Iritis. No acute symptoms. Slow development of the disease. Yellowish green discoloration of the iris, dimness of the cornea and aqueous humour. Perikeratic circle little distinct. Svnechia; and pupillary exudations. Punctated keratitis in the last period. Condylomata of iris. Very little photophobia. No watering of eyes. General dulness of eyes. Course and prognosis of syphilitic iritis depend greatly upon whether the affection develops early or late during the secondary period. In the latter case, adhesions usually form between iris and capsule of lens, which keep up an ii-ritation apt to lead to choroiditis, retinitis, and permanent impairment of vision. Period of Gummy Products. Tertiary Syphilis.—In the preceding paragraphs, ' we saw the morbid localisations of syphilis limited chiefly to the skin, to some of the mucous mem- branes, and to a small number of the organs,' e.g. the eye; ' from this time syphilis extends its manifestations beyond these limits, and we find it everywhere where a web of connective tissue exists, that is to say in all parts of the body.' ' It is no longer simple hypersemias with or without exudation, inflammations slight and of short duration, but profound changes essentially slow in their evolution, and marked by chronic inflammations. Sometimes extensive and disseminated in a single organ, they are rather comparable to the chronic phlegmasise; sometimes more limited and circumscribed, these changes appear in the form of nodules or tubercles, and it is then that the name of Gummy Tumours is more particularly reserved for them.' These two anatomico-pathological varieties, differing only in form, have the same starting-point and the same structure. Tertiary syphilis is usually separated by a distinct interval of time (sometimes many years) from secondary syphilis. And its own manifestations, in some cases, show a tendency to appear in a certain ordei", viz. : firstly, deep-seated lesions of the skin;