226 DISEASES OF LARYNX. side. 3. Bodies lying loose in the air-passages are apt, as they from time to time come in contact with the glottis, to cavise sudden and violent paroxysms of choking and dypsncea. 4. Of course, sharp and jagged bodies produce greater irritation, and cause far greater danger of ulceration, &c., than smooth ones. diagnosis.—The history generally makes this clear. Laryngo- scope is very valuable. Lay stress upon the sudden access of the symptoms without warning, and on the absence of fever. Of course, when inflammation has resulted, fever will be present. Prognosis.—Most grave, unless the body can be re- moved. The instances in which substances have remained •without producing serious consequences are very rare. Sooner or later disease of the lungs ensues and proves fatal. Treat- ment.—M.esiS\xves must be taken to remove the foreign body. In some cases the finger suffices to hook away an obstruction partly withiu and partly without the larynx. In adults, the laryngoscope will sometimes enable forceps, hooks, or loops to be used successfully; and, in chUdren, inversion of the body (applied by Mr. Brunei to himself) should be tried, aided by succussion and by slapping the back. The remaining proceeding is tracheotomy or laryngo-tracheotomy. And, when employmg inversion, succussion, &c., the surgeon should always be prepared to do tracheotomy at a moment's notice. If the foreign body is in the trachea or bronchi, do tracheotomy low down. If the foreign body be in the larynx, and cannot otherwise be ex- tracted, the tracheal wound may be extended upwards, even thi'ough the thyroid cartilage itself. If, when the wound has been made, extraction cannot, even with the help of inversion and succussion, be effected, the wound must be kept open m the hope that the patient may shortly cough out the body. And a cannula must not be worn unless the foreign body is known to be above the wound. • ^ -4. Rules for LARyNGOSCOPY.'—1. Position of patient : sit- ting, body and head erect, knees together, head slightly thi-own back 2. Lamp : m line with patient's ear, nine inches to left of his head. 3. Position of surgeon: opposite patient, with mirror properly adjusted to head and eye. 4. Mouth : wide 1 Abbreviated from Lennox Browne.