DISLOCATION. 89 Dislocation of ulna backwards.—Ke-^A of radius can be felt normal; but olecranon is too far back from internal condyle Dislocation of radius forwards (most common of the three modes) —Elbow somewhat flexed, and midway between prona- tion and supination. Further flexion, as well as supination, very limited; head of radius can be felt displaced. After re- duction, very liable to recur, because orbicular ligament is rup- tured. Not uncommon in childhood. Dislocation of radius hachwards.-'R&^^ of bone can be felt behind external condyle. Dislocation outwards recognised by manipulation. Causes.-Falls upon elbow or hand. Half the cases occur in boys. Eeducdon of Dislocations of Elbow.—G-am often be effected by merely pressing the bones into position. Sometimes exten- sion, and even anesthesia, requii^ed. Dislocations two months old have been reduced, after breaking down adhesions by forcible flexion and extension. In dislocation of the radius, extend from the hand. Bending elbow across knee a useful method of reduction. Compound Dislocations.—Amputation seldom necessary. Dislocation of Head of Fibula.—Extremely rare. Dislocations of Fingers.—Are not common, and may be reduced by extension. Amputation should never be done for compound dislocation, unless the finger be hopelessly crushed. Dislocation of Hip.—Four chief directions : 1, backwards and upwards on dorsum ilii; 2, backwards into sciatic notch ; 3, downwards into obturator foramen; 4, inwards on pubes. Other varieties, e.g., into perinasum, are very I'are. First form is most frequent. Causes.—The backward dislocations take place when a person is in a stooping position, and either falls heavily on his feet, or is struck by a heavy weight falling on his back. Dislocation into the thyroid foramen is caused by sudden and violent abduction, and dislocation on the pubes by sudden and violent extension of the limb, especially if coincident with a blow on the back of the thigh. Anatomy.—The anterior part of the capsule, including Y- ligament of Bigelow, remains wboUy or partially unruptured in