THE BLADDPm. 38 or enlarged prostate ; often paralysis; atony, ulceration, tu- mours, cancer; a sequel of acute cystitis; may arise fi'om disease of neighbouring parts, anus, rectum, vagina, and uterus; gout, gonorrhoea, foreign bodies, and, in fact, any irritant which can affect the bladder. Symptoms.—-Frequent micturition ; urine ammoniacal, foetid, mixed with stringy mucus, deposits phosphates; the general health gradually gives way; pain, generally dull and radiating along perinseum, anus, urethra, &c. PatJwlogy.—The mucous membrane is thickened and congested, and the subjacent muscular tissue hypertrophied. Prognosis.— Recovery may take place in recent cases, but old cases generally die eventually, worn out, or else in a typhoid state. Treat- ment.—1. Local: wash out bladder with warm water, or solutions of acetate of lead gr. to 1 oz.), argent, nitrat. (1 gr. to 1 oz.), nitric acid to gj); the strength may be gradually increased. P. P. White, of Dublin, uses 4 gr. borax to 8 oz. of ' very hot water.' When the urine is foetid, carbolic acid (lllj to giv). Manipulate very gently, and inject only 2 or 3 oz. at a time. Counter-irritation ; croton oil or iodine to pubes ; linseed a,nd mustard poultices to pubes. 2. Internal, remedies : Anodynes by mouth and rectum. Aperients. Bnchu, uva TU'si, pareira brava, triticum repens, ii-on. Dr. Gross strongly recommends copaiba and cubebs when the secretion is excessive. Demulcents ; decoctions of marsh mallow, linseed, Irish moss, elm-bark, or barley. The urine should be made neutral if acid. Diet is very important: light, nutritious, farinaceous. Milk and fish. Rest horizontally; warm clothing; warm climates. In severe cases the lithotomy-incision has been made by Gross, Wheelhouse, Teevan, and others. Bladder, Dilatation of, without hypertrophy, sometimes exists. Bladder, Extroversion of.—A congenital malformation in which the anterior wall of the bladder and the adjacent part of the abdominal wall are absent. More common in males than in females. Sym.ptoms.—ThQ red mucous membrane of the pos- terior wall of the bladder presents in the pubic region as a flattened tumour, on which the orifices of the ureters may be found; umbilicus absent; epispadias; urine always dribbling;