FEACTURES. 125 violence. The former fracture often occurs in missing a step whilst walking down stairs, or in some similar and trivial manner. In it the fragments generally separate widely, while in the stellate fractiu-e there may be little or no separation. Consequently the former always ends in fibrous union, the latter frequently in bony union. Sulcus between fragments in the transverse fracture. Great swelling and efiusion into knee- joint. Inability to extend knee. Treatment.—Kest in hori- zontal position or with heel raised. Straight splint along back of limb. Elastic straps to pull upper fragment downwards and lower upwards. Figure-of-8 bandage. Callender's ar- rangement of weight, strapping, and pulleys. Malgaigne's hooks. Malgaigne's hooks fixed into plaister after Spence's plan. No doubt one of the chief indications is to reduce the efiusion into the knee-joint without delay. It has been recom- mended to do this with the aspirator j but it can be effected to a great extent by bandaging and compressing, using plenty of cotton wool. Hence a starch and mill-board apparatus is useful. Compound Fracture of Patella.—Very serious indeed, but not always requiring amputation. Pelvis, Fractures of, may occur in part or parts of the os innominatum, but, for practical purposes, are best classified into those which injure a large part of the bone, e.g., the body or rami of the pubes, and those which merely chip ofi" a pro- minence like the ant. sup. spine of the ilium. The former are veiy serious, from the violence often done to the pelvic viscera, especially the bladder. Cause.—Usually a vehicle passing over the part. Signs.—Crepitus, pain (inability to stand in the first or serious class of cases). Often signs of ruptured bladder, urethra, or rectum. Treatment.—Pass a catheter to examine the state of the bladder. Rest in bed. Bandage round hips and knees. Sometimes displaced parts may be set by manipulating with the finger in the vagina or rectam. See also Fracture of Acetabulum, Rupture op Bladder, &c. Radius, Fractures of.—1, of head; 2, of neck; 3, of shaft; 4, of lower extremity. The first three are caused usually by direct violence, and present usual signs of fi'acture, viz., ere-