188 IMPOTENCE. hair-follicles. Syphilitic impetigo occurs in large patches. Treatment.—Poultice to fetch off scabs, Ung. zinci; ung. hydrarg. ammon.; ung. sulphuris, and mixtures of these ointments. Treat general health, and syphilis if present. Sulphur baths. Impotence.—Incapacity for sexual intercourse. Note the difference between this definition and that of sterility. Impo- tence occurs in women as well as men. Causes.—1. Original malformation of copulatory organs; marked epispadias or hypospadias; absence or occlusion of vagina and double vagina. 2. Accidental deformity of copulatory organs; amputation of whole penis; occlusion or obliteration of vagina by cicatricial contraction. 3. Organic affections of the less superficial genito- urinary organs ; spermatorrhoea; varicocele; castration. 4. Nervous influences. The condition called ' irritability with weakness' usually depends on both thiixl and fom-th class of causes. "When impotence is not the effect of visible malforma- tion, it almost always is the result of masturbation, very rarely of sexual excess. Masturbation usually leads, in the first place, to ' irritability with weakness.' Here ejaculation takes place before entrance is effected, or else erection is impossible, and, consequently, copulation impossible. This condition is not always the result of masturbation. Disgust for the female, or the fear of sin or of contagious disorders, doubtless causes it in some cases. Signs and Prognosis.—Some are given in the pre- ceding paragraphs. Sometimes the genitals are flabby, cold and small. If, in such cases, erections never occur, not even in bed in the morning, the prognosis is not very good. But so long as erections occur at all, the prognosis is very hopeful. Treat- ment.—Four principles: 1, strengthen general health; fi-esh air, sleep, moderation in all things—in exercise, in diet, and in mental work; 2, avoid all unnatural excitement of genital organs; 3, treat any physical defect which can be found. If there is the slightest sign of varicocele or relaxation of scrotum, give patient a suspensory bandage; 4, to complete the cure—at all events, to demonstrate the cure to the patient—requires the moderate and regular practice of sexual intercourse for a short time. Of course, it is right that this should be done in the