ULCEES. 341 truly carcinomatous as epithelioma, according to Billroth.' Lupus is pathologically allied to tubercle, quod vide. Treat- ment.—Lupus : use Volkmann's erosion treatment, i.e., scrape the disease away with some spoon-shaped instrument. Anti- scrofulous remedies : cod-liver oil, &c. Rodent ulcer : thorough destruction with cautery or caustic. Benzoline cautery. Among caustics, arsenic is very convenient, but unsafe except in case of very small sores ; nitric acid acts rather superficially ; Vienna paste and chloride of zinc paste are the best deep caustics. For treatment of cancerous ulcers, vide Cancer. Esmarch and Billroth have had encouraging results from large doses of arsenic internally in cancer cases. Reasoning by analogy, the power of arsenic over psoriasis (superficial epithelial hypertrophy) suggests a possible power over cancer (interstitial epithelial hypertrophy). Lupus often returns. Rodent ulcer, if completely extirpated, rarely returns. Prognosis after opera- tion for epithelioma depends on whether or net time has been given for glandular infection. For other cancerous ulcers see Cancer. Section III.—Yarieties of Ulcer depending on Local Conditions.—They do not need a full description, as each term owes its existence to some single important condition grafted on one or other of the ulcers already described. The nature of this characteristic, together with causation, diagnosis, and treatment, have to be considered. Varicose Ulcer.—Its characteristic is, that it owes either its origin or continuance mainly to the existence of varicose veins. Two direct modes of origin : (1) in suppuration over a thickened varix; (2) in eczema caused by obstructed cutaneous circulation. Form assumed by varicose ulcer is that of inflam- matory, of eczematous, or of chronic ulcer, q. v. The Treat- ment is according to the particvdar nature of the individual ulcers. But, always, either rest and elevation or else pressure. Martin's bandage. Give ii-on internally. The terms (edematous, exuberant, and hcemorrhagiG refer to the state of an ulcer's granulations, and almost explain them- 1 Paget inclines to the same view. But Thin says that Rodent ulcer is an adenoma of the sweat-glands.—Fath. Trans., 1879.