■^'^y EYE, DISEASES OF. after injury. Treatment.—-When very severe, and the conjunc- tiva is much contracted, remove the whole row of eyelashes as recommended for trichiasis.- When less severe, perform Streat- feild's operation of gi-ooving the cartilage. EcTBOPioN.—Eversion of the eyelid; may be partial or entii-e. Cfmses.—Contraction after injury or inflammation of the parts of the eyelid wliich are external to the tarsal cartilage ; or con- traction of cicatrices of the face following burns, lupus, etc. Treatment.—Try to prevent the progress of eversion by skin grafting on to wounds of face. When permanently established try a plastic operation. Glaucoma is so called from the occasional greenish appear- ance of the pupillary area. The pathognomic symptom in all cases of glaucoma is increased hardness or ' tension' of the eyeball. Classification.—1. Acute; 2. Chronic; 3. Secondary. Acute Glaucoma. Early Symptoins.—Increased tension. Rapidly increasing presbyopia. Periodic dimness of sight. Halos or ' rainbows ' around the candle or other lights. Dimi- nution of the field of vision. Later Symptoms.—Acute pain. Congestion of conjunctiva, and of ciliary region. Dilated and sluggish pupil. Rapid impairment of vision. Tension of globe much above normal, T + 1 to T + 3 or T + 4. There may be turbidity of the vitreous obscuring the fundus, other- wise the Ophthalmoscope reveals—1. Cupping of the whole of optic discs, the edges being abrupt. 2. Probably pulsation of the retinal vessels. 3. Tortuosity of the veins. 4. Small hfemorrhages occasionally. Chronic Glaucoma presents the same symptoms as the acute form, but in a modified degree. The tension of the globe is above normal, T to T -)- 1 or T + 2, but the increase of tension is less rapid. The pain is much less, and may be absent altogether. Secondary Glaucoma is so called when occurring as a result or complication of some other disease or injuiy of the eye, as iridochoroiditis, needle operation, (fee. It is a very gi^ave symptom. Pathology.—What is the cause of the increased tension 1