319 INDICATIONS FOE TRACHEOTOMY. children, especially in cold, damp climates. Pathology.—An hypertrophy of both glandular and fibro-cellular constituents of tonsil, the result of chronic inflammation! Signs.—Visible enlai-gement of tonsil. Peculiar throaty voice. Occasionally, difBculty of breathing. Mouth usually kept open ; characteristic expression of face. Deafness. Extra liability to acute and subacute tonsillitis. Prognosis.—Considerable enlargement, if coming on before puberty, will often greatly diminish as adult life is approached. But it seldom disappears spontaneously and entirely. Treatment.—For severe cases of long standing— excision. Other cases should be treated as pharyngitis, quod vide. Excision of Tonsil may be effected with a bistoury and vulsellum forceps. In using tonsil guillotine, take care to apply it with the speai' or hooks towards the median-line and the ring next the tonsil. Pass the guillotine into the pharynx horizontally, and rotate it to the perpendicular as you place it over the tonsil. In many cases the tonsil can be pushed into the guillotine by the forefinger of the left hand placed outside the neck. Torticollis.—See Neck (Wry-). Trachea, Foreign Bodies in.—See Larynx, Foreign Bodies IN. Tracheotomy, Indications for.—1. Foreign bodies in trachea or bronchi or pharynx. 2. Scalds of glottis in children. 3. Very advanced and extensive disease of larynx. 4. Croup. 5. Diphtheria in children. 6. As a preliminary step in extensive operations on and about the jaws and throat. In such cases the anaesthetic is usually administered through a tube in the tracheal opening. At the same time, the glottis may be shut off from the lungs by using Trendelenburg's ' trachea-tampon,' thus preventing any blood from passing down the trachea. Operation.—T\ro chief varieties, viz., (1) high and (2) low, respectively above and below isthmus of thyroid. Latter not usually either necessary or desirable. Instruments.—^oxil^oi, dissecting forceps, artery forceps, bull-dog forceps, metal re- tractors, blunt hook, sharp tracheotomy hook, cannulte (Fuller's bivalve preferable at first; Baker's rubber tubes may be sub- stituted after a few days). Lawson recommends the bivalve