130 FRACTURES. splints witli back-piece furnished with foot-board. 4. M'Intyre's splint. 5. When there is much tendency to antero-posterior displacement, laying limb on its outer side, with knee and hip flexed, is often successful. 6. Anterior wii-e-splint. With most of these apparatus, some form of swing may be advantageously used. Keep foot at right angles to leg. Duration of treatment, usually five weeks before patient's limb may be trusted in a mere light gum and chalk case. Comjiound Fracture of Leg—Hwo kinds: firstly, when a fragment pierces a moderate wound in skin from within out- wards ; secondly, when the wound is very large, or when it is produced by severe, crushing, external "sdolence. Practically, most cases can be thus classed, and the latter are very much more serious than the former. Do not attempt to what is called ' close the wound, and convert it into a simple fracture.' If the case is slight enough, you will not be able to prevent it from closing itself, unless you are meddlesome. Support the whole limb by plaister bandaging over a layer of cotton wool, and immediately over the wound and its neighbourhood apply oakum to absorb all discharge. Protect skin and wound from irritation of tar in oakum by greasing with zinc ointment. Or use Lister's antiseptic treatment. So-called 'open treatment is scarcely more open as regards the wound than a thick layer of porous and absorptive material like oakum; though, of com-se, it is open enough to noxious influences floating about the^sick room But it is only just to say that the ' open treatment has had excellent results under Humphry and others. Haemorrhage can almost always be restrained by pressure. For complications, erysipelas, abscess, pyaemia, &c., see articles on those subjects. Ulna, Fracture o/.-Three kinds-1, shaft; 2, olecranon; 3, coronoid process. ^Aa/i.-Treat like fi-acture of shaft of ridius. Fracture of Olea-anon. C«me..-Palls on elbow; rarely muscular violence. ^i,n..-Swelling, ecchymosis, and tender- ness. Fragment drawn up by tiiceps. rrm^m.r.«.-Antenoi splint, thickly padded in bend of elbow, so that the limb may be slightly flexed. Passive motion in fifth week. Result^ Union often ligamentous. Fracture of corono^d process. cessively rare. Ulna dislocated backwards from trochlea, easily