HERNIA. 177 placed over the crural ring. Femoral and inguinal hernife are distinguished from each other by their relations to Poupart's ligament and the pubic spine, and by the state in which the inguinal and crural rings are found. Although a femoral hernia may ascend, yet its neck is always below Poupart's ligament. Prognosis.—Femoral hernia, very liable to acute and fatal strangulation. Treatment.—Best truss probably moc-main. In case of strangulation, flex and adduct thigh during taxis. In operating, cut upwards. Notch slightly because of danger of wounding abnormal obturator artery. Seat of stricture may be falciform process of Burns, Gimbernat's ligament, deep crural arch, or neck of sac itself. Use of term ' Hey's ligament' ought to be abolished as unnecessary and confusing. Obturator Hernia.—Vevj rare. Sigm obscure. Fulness below Poupart's ligament, beneath rather than internal to femoral vessels. Pain down inner side of thigh. Femoral rino- found normal. Age of patient usually advanced. ' Symptom? of obtLu-ator hernia may be those of chronic obstruction associated with emaciation' Goodhart [Path. Transact. 1876). Opera- tion for strangulation would be conducted on general principles with due care of blood-vessels. It would resemble that for femoral hernia, but fascia lata and pectineus would require incision. Herpes.—A dermatitis resembling eczema, but differino- from It because the vesicular eruption is more marked and thelctual cutaneous inflammation less marked than in eczema, and also because it runs a cyclical course. Classified according to locality into herpes labialis, herpes preputialis, &c., and accordin<. to form into common herpes, herpes circinatus, herpes iris he?pes zoster. Causes-Perron, origin of herpes zoster, connection of herpes facialis with influenza and pneumonia, and of heroes preputiahs with temporary local irritation. (Eczema arises mostly from chrome irritation.) %«..-See defiidtion. Vesicles appear m successive crops, their contents grow turbid then scabs form These scabs fall off within a fortnigbt. Burlg pam Febrile disturbance. Eruption may correspond t! chstnbuti^^^ of some nerve. Herpes iris and' circiZs ba smaller vesicles, spread concentrically, desquamate instead of