349 STRICTUEE OF URETHRA. about l-inch. As a rule, pass no instrument for forty-eiglit hours. Then pass a sound at intervals, which should gradually increase, commencing at every other day. Always press its curve well down into site of incision. Internal urethrotomy is relatively best, and absolutely excellent in the penile portion of the m-ethra. Mortality, 10 in 1,192 (Teevan). External Urethrotomy.—Suitable cases are those in which ' large, numerous, or obstinate perinseal fistulse coexist with old or obstinate strictures. When other treatment has failed, and the fistulse refuse to heal, even although the patient has withdrawn for some weeks his urine entirely by catheter, no proceeding perhaps offers so good a chance of cure as this. It is for such cases I reserve it now.'' Operation.—Pass Syme's staff. Lithotomy position. Best light obtainable. Operator sits. Incise in line of raph^, 2 inches. Feel for staff with left forefinger. Take staff in left hand, and straight bistoury in light. With right-hand supine, cut through stricture along groove of staff from behind forwards. Withdraw staff ;|^-inch, and extend incision that distance further forwards. Shoulder of staff will now easily pass on through site of divided stricture, if the division has been thorough. Thompson passes a concave, curved director through the wound and towards the bladder, with the aid of which a catheter (not smaller than No. 10) is afterwards guided into the bladder. If catheter is ob- structed on its passage, stricture requires more complete division, which shoiild be done there and then. Morphia suppository. India-rubber tubing to catheter. Withdraw catheter after forty-eight hours. Pass No. 12 bougie at intervals, first of four days, then one week, then a fortnight, and so on. If any difficulty in passing this be experienced before wound heals, pass a grooved staff, and, with a tenotomy knife in the wound, divide the obstruction. Rules for Managing a Stricture impermeable to ordinary means.—It is assumed that there is no urgent retention. 1. Rest in bed without instrumental disturbance for three days or more. 2. Low diet, purgative, alkaline medicines, demulcent drinks. 3. Plenty of bed-clothing. 4. Opium, twenty drops of ' Thompson on Stricture, p. 241.