18] HYDROCELE. Thomas's splint, plaister cases, leather cases, <fec. Treatment should be continued so long as there is any tenderness or sign of active disease and for a little longer. Limb should be straightened under chloroform, if weight fails to bring it down gradually and easily. Inflammatory reaction after this mani- pulation may be treated by ice or by hot poultice locally, accord- ing to which seems to act best. When there are signs of struma, give cod-liver oil and iron. In suppui'ative stage, treat abscesses and sinuses on general piinciples. Question of excision. When suppuration continues, patient's exhaustion increases, and there is e%T;dence of bone-disease; and, especially if the patient's cii-cumstances are so poor that he cannot get proper attention during long rest in bed, the surgeon is justified in operating to remove the dead bone. Still the operation has its dangers, and the resulting limb is likely to be shorter than after the natural cure. Moreover it is very difficult, sometimes impossible, to thoroughly remove pelvic necrosis. Por operation, vide article Excision. Horns.—Vide Warts. Housemaid's Knee.—.^ee Burs^, Enlarged. Hydatids occur in bones, breast, muscles, and other parts, and, in surgery, are rarely diagnosed from other cysts till opera- tion has let out booklets, &c. Hydrocele.—An accumulation of serum forming a swelliD<y in connection with the testicle or spermatic cord. Varieties.— 1. Hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis testis (common hydrocele). 2. Hydrocele of the cord (sometimes called ' encysted hydrocele of the cord'). 3. Encysted hydrocele (frequently called ' en- cysted hydrocele of the epididymis,' or ' of the testicle ') 4 Diffused hydrocele of the cord. 5. Congenital hydrocele. 6.' Infantile hydrocele. Hydrocele of the Tunica Vaginalis Testis. — Causes ~ Middle age, weak constitution, and gout predispose. Injury and orchitis excite. In most cases there has been no known exciting cause. Signs.—A. scrotal tumour, smooth, oval, pyri- form, or globular (often constricted in the middle); elastic tense or fluctuating, transparent or semi-transparent (rarely quite opaque). No connection with abdomen. Cord free near