104 EXCISION OF ELBOW. because it leaves tlie hand. At knee, amputation is generally to be preferred, because of the great danger of excision. Excision of ankle is often a good operation; but, if the tarsal bones are diseased, there is great danger of recurrence, and removal of too much bone would leave too weak a foot. Ojjeration.— Instruments—knives, forceps, lion forceps, saws (Butcher's saw, keyhole saw, chain-saw, &c.), chisels, cutting-pliers, rasping instruments for scraping off periosteum, retractors, directors, excision-director. Esmarch's bandage generally to be used. The following six directions are abbreviated from Erichsen. 1, Make incisions sufficiently free, and parallel to important parts, so as not to divide them; 2, economize length of bone by use of gouge; 3, leave epiphysial cartilage in children; 4, don't open medullary canal in adults; 5, keep periosteum; 6, don't con- found new bone or bone softened by inflammation, but other- wise healthy, with diseased bone, &c. Process of Repair after Excision.—This is entirely analogous to the process of repair after compound fractures. Special Excisions. Ankle-joint, Excision of.—Disease should be limited to ends of leg-bones and to astragalus. Oj^eration.—Incisions two, one internal, along edge of inner malleolus; the other, external, along posterior border of lower two inches of fibiila, around outer malleolus and as far forward on outer side of foot as within one inch of base of fifth metatarsal bone. Saw and nip off inner malleolus through inner incision. Dissect soft parts snfiiciently away, pulhng peronei tendons backwards and down- wards, and keeping close to bone to avoid posterior tibial artery. Cut oflf outer malleolus ; push tibia out of external wound, and saw off its articular surface. Next remove part or whole of astragalus according to its condition. Dress the wound and place the limb on a firm splint. i?esMZ<.—Generally good. Often a movable joint. Fatality 1 in 5^, success greatest when disease is of traumatic origin. Elbow, Excision of.—In this joint, excision, if practicable, always preferred to amputation. A matter of opinion whether in mere suppurative, synovial disease, the results of excision or of natural cure are the best; but in necrosis, excision should be