LITHOLAPAXY. 227 open. 5. Reflect light upon fauces at correct focal distance of reflector. 6. Warm laryngeal mirror over lamp. Test it against cheek or hand. 7. Direct patient to protrude his tongue. 8. Hold it between thumb and index-finger, in napkin (thumb uppermost). 9. Hold laryngeal mirror like a pen. 10. Place its back gently against uvula. 11. Move your hand slightly towards patient's left, so as to keep it out of line of view. 12. Patient to draw a deep breath, and say'ah,' 'ur,' ' eh,' or ' ee.' Be always quiet and • gentle; encourage the patient; let each examination be short, even if unsuccessful. Be careful not to hurt patient's tongue, or to burn his mouth, or to push either his uvula or the mirror against the back of the pharynx. Laeyngotomy.—Steady larynx between thumb and fore- finger of left hand. Make a perpendicular incision through skin and fascia over crico-thyroid membrane, and one inch long. Pass a sharp scalpel through crico-thyroid membrane transversely. In the absence of a cannula {e.g., in operations done with a pen- knife to prevent choking), turn the blade on edge to hold open the woimd. In operations done deliberately, of com-se some tube must be introduced. See Tracheotomy. Tie any bleetUncr vessel as soon as it is divided. * Lips are liable to congenital deformities {vide Hare-lip) to fissures, chancres, epitheliomata, cysts, nfevi, wounds, car- buncles, &c. See general articles, e.g., Tumour, Cystic L Fissure of LiP.-Often syphilitic. Avoid laughing.' Touch with argent, nit.; afterwards use weak img. hyd. nit cold cream, ckc. Antisyphilitic remedies if necessary. Make a shallow cut through base in obstinate cases. Carbuncle of Lip is singularly fatal. See Carbuncle Litholapaxy (or Lithotrity, with immediate evacuation) Professor Bigelow, considering that the practice of leaving sharn fragments in the bladder for weeks was more hurtful than the prolonged use of the lithotrite, evacuating catheter and bottle bemg struck, moreover, by Otis's emphatic announcements of the great cahbre of the urethra-developed this operation H. uses a special lithotrite, an evacuating catheter of a size if possible, of No. 30 (French), and an aspirating syphon, whU Q 2