THE ANUS, wosis.—Permanent cure difficult if the openings be numerous and phthisis coexist. Ordinary cases easily remedied. Treat- ment.—Intro^wcQ first a probe, then a director. Make blind fistula complete. Then slit up, on the director, the bridge of skin and sphincter covering fistula. Precede operation with a purge and an enema. Dress with oiled lint, pad, and T bandage. Check severe haemorrhage with styptics and pads. Galvanic cautery. Ligature. Elastic ligature. Coexistence of phthisis does not usually conti-aindicate operation. Anus, Fissure of, usually accompanied by Anal Ulcer. Causes.—Female sex : Debility, cachexia, dirty habits, eczema. Signs.—Bxvcnmg pain after defajcation, sometimes lasting for hours; seat of pain, chiefly sacro iliac articulation; genito- ui-inary irritation; purulent, bloody and mucous exudation; patient feels and looks worn and despondent; on examining anus carefully (a speculum may be required), one or more small ulcers or fissures seen, generally very tender; sphincter very irritable and spasmodic; ulcer usually near coccyx and just ■within anus. Treatment.—G\e&-D\xD.e&& •, soap and water; zinc ointment; glycerine of tannin; nitrate of silver; anodyne and astringent suppositories ; division of ulcer or fissure and super- ficial fibres of sphincter to depth of one-eighth of an inch. Kest in bed for some time after operation. Anus, Imperforate (including congenitally malformed rec- tum). Six kinds. Case 1. Congenital narrowness of anus. Treatment.--l^oich. and introduce sponge-tents. Case 2. Com- plete closure of anus; rectum normal. Treatment.—Crucial incision; no plug required. Case 3. Closure of rectum by a membranous septum : anus normal. Treatment.—Pass an ear- speculum up to the septum; pass a tenotomy-knife throiigh speculum, and, cutting in the median line, with an inclination toioards the sacrum, divide the septum. Case 4. Complete absence of anus. Case 5. Absence of a considerable part of the rectum; often a fibrous cord instead. Treatment.—In cases 4 and 5 an attempt may be made to dissect up to the rectum as follows :—02)eration.—Keep in mind small size of pelvis and relations of bladder and internal ihac vessels; empty bladder; incise exactly in the position of the anal depression;