FLAT-FOOT. 112 septicsemia, can be produced by injection of pus, putrid liquids, SH^, (fee, into tbe blood or cellular tissue of animals. Symptoms. —Usually within forty-eight hours, almost always within seven days of an injury, the following symptoms may appear : increase of heat, subjective, and evident also to the thermometer, frequent pulse, chilliness or rigors, fvirred tongue, sleeplessness, excite- ment, even slight delii-ium ; urine high-coloured, deposits urates; increased urea; bowels confined. The fever usually lasts a week. Persistence beyond a week denotes some complication, e.g., abscess or erysipelas. If a complication cause the symptoms to recur after once disappearing, we have ' secondary fever.^ Prognosis.—No danger from the traumatic fever itself, provided complications do not happen. In children, latent tuberculosis readily awakened by surgical fever.—Paget. Treatment.—See the treatment of wounds and the prophylaxis of septicaemia. Saline refreshing drinks, fresh air, quiet, rest, &c. Fistula.—See Anal Fistula, Lachrymal Fistula, (fee. Flat-foot.—Causes.—Prolonged standing or excessive walk- ing in persons of weak and relaxed fibre, synovitis of ankle, injury to ankle, gonorrhceal rheumatism of ankle, genu valgum. Pathology.—The ligaments which brace up the arch of the instep are lengthened, the head of the astragalus sinks through relaxation of the calcaneo-scaphoid ligament, and the scaphoid tuberosity projects excessively ; in bad cases the metatarsus is turned more or less outwards, and the outer edge of the foot turned upwards by the peronei; ankle bends inwards, hence the name talipes valgus. Treatment.—Steel spring or india- rubber pad under arch of foot, the former being let into sole of boot; internal upright bar to support inner ankle ; bad cases of talipes valgus require a horizontal bar for the attachment of straps to correct abduction of metatarsus. Even division of peronei occasionally required. Always strengthen general health; avoid standing; and exercise systematically flexor muscles. Mr. Willett and myself have succeeded in nine cases out often at least, merely by judicious exercise of the leg muscles (Evans's plan) combined with an india-rubber bandage properly applied to the instep and ankle. Perforating Ulcer of Foot.—Usually begins beneath a