CLUB-POOT. 11 deformities often result. Treatment.—I, Preventive ; hasten healing of large ^youncls by skin-grafting; prevent contraction during and for sometime after cicatrisation by splints and band- ages. ''2, Curative; divide carefully the contracted bands ; keep the wound stretched during recicatrisation; gi^aft; transplant large piece of skin in suitable cases. When the contraction is merely linear, a Y-shaped incision can be made, and when the tongue of skin thus formed retracts towards its base, the two outer sides of the V-shaped wound should be sewn together at and near the apex of the Y. Pressure by strapping will weaken and make thin a thick cicatrix. Cicatrices, TJlceeation of.—Yery liable to occur, especially in lower extremities, and in old and feeble people. Such cica- trices should be protected from friction and damp. Treatment.— Stimulant apphcations ; rest; good living. Cicatrices, Warty (that is, indurated and thickened).— May be blistered or painted with iodine. Do not mistake epithelioma for these. Cicatrices, Cheloid of.—Vide Cheloid. Circumcision.—Done for phimosis in children and for various diseases of the prepuce and glans penis in adults. With the penis in its natural position, apply a pair of long-bladed polypus forceps exactly on a level with the corona glandis, but inclined slightly forwai'ds rather than perpendicularly; as the glans slips back, compress the prepuce with the forceps: then slice off prepuce close to the forceps; slit up mucous membrane with scissors right to glans; stitch mucous flaps to skin flaps ; check hsemor- rhage. In infants, intead of sutures, merely wrap a piece of lint round behind corona and also over all the pai'ts. Prog- nosis.—Fatal result extremely rare. Cirsoid Aneurism.—See Aneurism. Clitoris, Hypertrophy of.—Occasionally large size; danger of haemorrhage when removing it. Club-foot.—Four types : 1, talipes varus ; 2, talipes valgus ; 3, talipes equinus ; 4, talipes calcaneus. Talipes equino-varus (a combination of 1 and 3) most common. Causes.—The cause of congenital talipes varus, or equino-varus, is arrested development. At the commencement of their development, the lower extrem-