411 lEIS. (3) For syiAilltic iritis employ the treatment proper for secondary syphilis. For rheumatic iritis give alkalies, iodide of potassium, colchicum. (4) Eest the eyes; all eye work to be discontinued; order a shade for both eyes; darken the room, or bandage the affected eye with a pad of cotton wool, especially in rheumatic cases. (5) Iridectomy should be performed (1) in those cases in which judicious local and internal treatment have been tried for several weeks without benefit. (2) Where adhesions exist and attacks are recurrent. (.3) When there is complete exclu- sion of the pupil. Operation of Iridectomy.—(1) Separate lids by a spring- stop speculum. (2) With lance-shaped knife incise sclerotic one line from corneal margin, and let the point enter anterior chamber just in front of iris, keeping point well forward to avoid wounding the lens. (3) Introduce iiis forceps through wound, and seize iris near pupillary margin; draw this out through wound and cut off with fine scissors. Artificial pupil is mostly made by (1) iridectomy; but for cases in which this is unsuitable one of the following methods may be adopted :—(2) By using a broad needle and hook. (3) By irido-desis, or ligature of iris. (Critchett's operation.) (4) By division of iris with Wecker's scissors in- troduced into anterior chamber (iridotomy). Prolapse of iris generally follows penetrating and incised wounds of cornea. Treatment.—(1) By removal of prolapsed portion with fine scissors. (2) By compress applied externally over closed lids. (3) By frequent puncturings of the prolapsed iris with a fine needle. In either of these methods a soothine treatment should be adopted. Atropine drops three times daily; bathing with belladonna lotion. After some days a shade should be worn, and the eyes carefully watched. Coredialysis is a partial detachment of the iris from its ciliary border forming a second pupil. It is generally caused by a sharp blow. Congenital irideremia (absence of iris) is occasionally seen. Colohoma of the iris (congenital cleft) appears like a very regular result of iridectomy downwards, or downwards and