294 SYPHILIS. labia minora. Sometimes on cervix or os uteri. Diagnosis.— From hei'pes, by the latter being, at most, an excoriation. From Hunterian chancre, by absence of characteristic indura- tion, by state of inguinal glands, by more active character of ulceration, and by ulcers appearing immediately after ex- posure to contagion. Prognosis.—Soft chancre has been said to occasionally lead to constitutional syphilis. The advocates of dualism {i.e. the great mass of modem authority) deny it. Bubo (suppurating) attends or follows soft chancre occasionally, especially if chancre affect frsenulum, or be irritated. Treat- ment.—1. Of simple chancre : Restrict walking exercise. Low or moderate diet, cleanliness, wash with hot water twice daily, each time dressing with lint and lotio nigra (calomel 5j > aquse calcis giv) or blue-wash (cupri sulph. gi-. j ; aqua §j), or with iodoform (contra-indicated if the sore be inflamed). If seen in first week cauterise with any caustic (argent, nit., acid, nit., acid, carbol. fort, &c.). In later stage, when indolent, stimula- tion with u.ng. hyd. oxid. rubri, or a touch of argent, nit. may do good. For painful erection at night, use morphia supposi- tories. When phimosis is present, try frequent hot injections beneath prepuce, rest, and elevation. AvoivJ operation if possible. 2. Phagedfenic chancre requu-es generous diet, regu- lation of digestive and other systems, opium internally, and local caustic and antiseptic applications (carbolic oil i-x. Acid, nitric, dil. 5j, aqujE giv). Some sores can only bear non-irritant lotions, such as lead and opium. Change of air often seems to act wonderfully. Bulo.—^(^.Q separate notice in alphabetical order. In addi- tion to the notes given there, it may be stated that the bubo consequent on a soft chancre is itself a chancre of the gland affected. Matter from the interior of this suppurating gland will, when inoculated, excite a true soft chancre. Syphilis {true syphilis) is either acquired or hereditary. Acquired SyiMlis.—OvAhx&xj true syphilis. Causes.— Always contagion; almost always direct contagion, e.g. impure sexual intercourse, kissing, nursing (i.e. suckling), unnatui-al offences, and sometimes, unfortunately, the performance of obstetric duties. The blood and other constituent fluids of a