FEACTUEES. 120 smaller than on the sound side; 5, crepitus; 6, tenderness; 7, emersion (except in rare cases); 8, shortening, ^ to 1 inch at first, later on, owing to capsule giving way, sometimes 2| inches. Pathology.—Lower fragment usually outside upper. Very little extravasation. Union.—By fibrous tissue. Sometimes nil, rarely osseous. Diagnosis.—See Extra-capsular Fracture. Prognosis.—The unavoidable confinement to bed in some cases depresses the system fatally. In any case lameness and shorten- ing are to be expected. Treatment.—Bed for two or three weeks. Pillows beneath knee. Then leather or poro-plastic splint to hip; crvitches and gentle attempts to use. In strong constitutions, attempt to obtain firmer union by longer rest and use of starch bandage. Good diet. Water bed. Fracture, Extracapsular of Neck of Femur.—Two kinds : 1, Simple; 2, Impacted. Fracture wholly or partially outside capsule of joint. Cause.—Direct and consideiable violence. Signs.—Firstly, when not impacted—1, inability to raise limb; 2, bruising and swelling of hip, indicating great extravasation • 3, crepitus at great trochanter, which may sometimes be dis- tinctly felt to be in several pieces; 4, great pain and tenderness; 5, usually very marked eversion, sometimes inversion ; 6, short- ening, 1^ to 2^ or even 3^ inches. Secondly, impacted fracture. Symptoms less marked than if there is no impaction. Less eversion ; little or no crepitus, only slight shortening, not more than an inch. But there is local tenderness, followed in a day or two by thickening over great trochanter. Treatment.—Ex- tracapsular fracture is to be treated on similar principles to those applied in treatment of fractured shaft of femur. Seek for union by secui'ing immobility with Listen's splint, &c. Compress trochanter with a belt round hips. Fracture of Trochanter Major.—Signs.—Local pain, tender- ness, crepitus, eversion, no shortening. Fracture of this with- out fracture of neck or shaft of femur almost unknown. Fracture of Shaft of i^eOT2«-.—Classified according to po- sition, whether in upper, middle, or lower thii-d. Signs.— Typical signs of fracture. Displacement.—In upper and middle thirds, the upper fragment inclines forwards and usually out- wards, lower fragment inclines inv ards and is rotated outwards.