i02 ERYSIPELAS. want of cleanliness, diabetes, kidney-disease, alcoholism, contact * of atmospheric germs with a wound. Signs.—1. Simple Erysipelas. At first, rigors, fever, sudden rise of temperature, sometimes to 104°, symptoms of disordered digestive organs, e.g., furred tongue, constipation, or diarrhoea. In about twenty- four hours, sometimes later, a rosy redness appears on the tract of skin affected. Margins of redness either well or ill-defined. It disappears on pressure. Slight superficial swelling : when the face or head are afiected there is often considerable oedema, especially of eyelids. Progress of fever is irregular, and depends on whether rash spreads or not. Recovery usually takes place in mild cases in a few days, in more severe cases in a week or so, and is followed by desquamation. Often the adjacent lym- phatic glands enlarge before the erysipelas appears. The rash may spread all over body (erysipelas ambulans), or disappear in one place to reappear in another (erysipelas erraticum). These varieties are more serious. When there is a wound, it ceases to secrete healthy pus for a time. Pain is rarely severe. 2. Cellulo-cutaneous Erysipelas (Phlegmonous erysi- pelas.)—Constitutional symptoms are as in simple erysipelas, but more severe. Eedness deeper. Swelling greater. Within a week the swelling becomes boggy, and next fluctuates, indicat- ing suppuration. Throbbing pain and perhaps a slight subsi- dence of the symptoms may precede suppuration. Extensive sloughing usually occurs. 3. Diffuse Cellulitis is always preceded by a wound, especially a dissecting wound or the bite of some venomous animal. The skin is not much affected; but the subcutaneous cellular tissue presents the same oedema, swelling, hardness, bogginess, fluctuation, suppuration, and sloughing as are seen in phlegmonous erysipelas. The constitutional symptoms are severe and usually of an asthenic type. Danger of pyajmia. Pathology.—AU the above forms are related and are pri- marily inflammations of the lymphatics (lymphangitis), ery- sipelas simplex afiecting only the cutaneous absorbents. In the boggy stage of cellulitis and phlegmonous erysipelas, the cellular tissue is distended with efi'usion, and parts of it are approaching a state of mortification. Sloughing and suppui-ation almost