14 AJSr^STHESIA. cision, Operatoi' should stand beside the hand or forearm, not in front of it; otherwise his own left hand will get in his way. Beware of locking knife under sesamoid bones; and keep close to metacarpal bone^ to avoid wounding radial artery. Arteries: dorsales and arteria magna pollicis. 2. Thumb at Metacarpo-iJhalangealJoint.—Oval amputation. Toe, Geeat.—At Tarso-metatarsal Joint.—Two methods, flap and oval. 1. Flap.—Cut a flap from whole length of inner side of metacarpal bone. Better not transfix for this. Then transfix between first and second metacarpals, and cut downwards right tlirough web of toes. If possible, save base of metacarpal bone; otherwise divide tendon of peroneus longus and dis- articulate. Beware of sesamoid bones, and of dividing com- municating branch between dorsalis pedis and external plantar artery at base of interosseous space. Artery divided always : first digital. 2. Oval Amputation.—Commence incision half-an-inch pos- terior to where the bone is to be divided or disarticulated. ijoES.—Amputated in same way as fingers. AliEesthesia.—The term usually applied to the production of insensibility to pain for surgical or medical x-easons. This state is induced for five purposes. 1, To relieve the pain of operations or examinations ; 2, to facilitate such proceedings as the reduction of dislocations and hernise; 3, where spasm interferes with diagnosis; 4, where hysteria or malingering is suspected ; 5, as a curative agent, e.g., in puerperal convulsions. Anaesthetics are either general or local. General anaesthetics in ordinary use: 1, chloroform; 2, ether; 3, a mixture of chloroform, ether, and alcohol; 4, bichloride of methylene; 5, nitrous oxide gas. Their physiological action consists in paralysing temporarily almost all the nerve-centres, except those necessary to main- tain life. Advantages and Disadvantages peculiar to eac/t.—Nitrous oxide is the least dangerous, but it is inconvenient for long operations. It is, par excellence, the anaesthetic for short opera- tions. Bichloride of methylene has a quick action and causes