INJURIES OF HEAD. 161 as the injury to the head. 2, Extravasation in cavity of ai-achnoid. Very common.—Pathology.—When not absoi-bed has a tendency to form blood-cysts contained in a new fibro- serous membrane which is attached to the parietal layer of the arachnoid, and makes a depression on the surface of the brain. Signs ami diagnosis.—Cannot be distinguished from other intra-cranial hemorrhages. Long after the original injury, it is liable to cause headaches and mental irritability. Treatment d-c, see Coinpression and Gerehral Irritation.—3, Extravasation on sul•^;^ce of brain, beneath visceral arachnoid. Accompanies general cerebral injuries. Never encysted. May spread very widely. No special signs. No special treatment. 4, Extravasations into substance of brain or into its ventricles. Not to be distinguished from apoplexy except by the history. Treatment dx., as in Apoplexy. Contusion and Laceration of Brain.—Pathological Aoiatomy. —Minute extravasations, sometimes few, sometimes numerous, sometimes occupying only a limited portion of grey matter,' sometimes chffused through greater part of brain; sometimes attended with very little injiu-y to cerebral substance, some- times followed by complete softening and cHsintegration, or, after a longer interval of time, by atrophy of brain-substance. Situation often opposite the part of cranium struck {contre- coup). Usually middle or anterior fossa of base. Lacerations are often complicated with large extravasations.—^2/«yj<o?ns.— Partial spasms and paralysis, occasionally coma. Frequently concussion. None of these symptoms belong specially to cere- bral contusion and laceration, which are so difficult to diagnose satisfactorily that their treatment, dc, wiU best be considered under the heads of concussion, compression, cerebral inflamma- tion, n-ritation, &c. Encephalitis, Traumatic.~Thh includes meningitis for during life, mflamma,tion of the membranes cannot be diagnosed from that of the brain-substance; though a shrewd guess may sometimes be formed by considering the exciting cause. Clas- sihed into, 1, acute, and 2, sub-acute or chronic. Causes —All injuries of the head. For even a scalp wound may excite hi-stly, osteitis, and secondarily, meningitis and cerebritis.