OVAHIES (BY ME. DOKAN). 381 angle of the great trochanter. At the point thus found, pass in a sharp-pointed steel director backwards, inwards, and a little downwards till it stops at the neck of the femur. Along this director pass a scalpel down to the bone; first cut towards the trochanter, then, rotating the director and reinserting the scalpel, cut towards the anter. sup. spine. The incision should • just admit the forefinger. Do not withdraw the director till the osteotome is inserted. Rotate osteotome so as to bring it across the neck of the femur, cut nearly through and break the rest. Division of Neoh of Femur with Saw (Adams's opera- tion).—"W. Adams passes in a long tenotomy knife * a little above the top of the great trochanter,' and straight down to the neck of the femur. He divides the muscles and ' opens the capsular ligament freely.' A narrow-bladed saw is passed into the wound and across the front of the neck of the femur, with its flat side against the bone. It is now turned on edge and the division accomplished. Extension by weight, and without any splint, after osteo- tomy of the neck of the femur, is to be preferred. Sometimes a second weight puDing outwards from upper third of thigh adds to comfort. When it is used a felt splint should be moulded to the inner side of the thigh to distribute the pressure. Keep the foot perpendicular, or even a little inverted. Eemoval of Wedge of Bone for Curvature of Tibia. Use a chisel. Make a single incision, the loose skin will permit this to be moved up and down. The wedge need not go more than three-fourths through the bone. Supposing it to be made at the apex of the angle of curvature, its upper surface should be at right angles to the border of the tibia above, and its lower surface at right angles to the border of the tibia below. When adjusting the bony surfaces avoid nipping muscle. The fibula can either be broken or divided through a separate in- cision of the soft parts. See general directions above. Every commencing osteotomist should study McEwen's book. Ovaries. Chief afiections : inflammation, acute and chronic; cystic disease; solid tumours. IT ' Coptri'^iited by Mr. Alban Doran, Assistant-Surgeon to the Samaritan