AMPUTATION. H cially by keeping great trochanter out of the way; 3, controls tourniquet. . Long Anterior Map Operation.-Lett hip : transfix from a point midway between Ant. Sup. spine of ilium and great trochanter to another point just in front of tuberosity of ischium. Knife should pass behind femoral vessels and lay open hip-joint. Right hip : transfix in the same way, but m the opposite direction. Other operative procediu-es same for both right and left Umb. Length of flap, 8 or 10 inches. Next, draw k^fe across capsule of joint, opening it freely. Divide ligamen- tum teres and external rotators. Cut verticaUy downwards through remaining soft parts. Manipulations by Assistant having charge of limb.—I, whilst anterior flap is being formed, flex slightly, adduct, and rotate inwards. Then extend and rotate outwards, till, the ligaments being divided, head of femur leaves its socket with a sucking noise. Then, again slightly flex, adduct, and extend forcibly. Absence of posterior flap favours drainage. Arteries : femoral, profunda, obturator, sciatic and minor branches. Double-flap ^mpwtoiion.—Manipulations and proceedings resemble preceding; but there are two flaps, anterior, five inches, posterior, four inches long. In cutting posterior flap, have limb rotated inwards to clear great trochanter. Lateral Fla23S.—External is composed of skin. Internal, of skin and muscle, is cut from within outwards. Angles, where flaps join, are : in front, just outside femoral vessels; behind, close to tuberosity of ischium. When done for injury, amputation at hip-joint is almost always fatal; when for disease, three recover out of five. Knee-Joint, Disaeticulation at.—Chief methods : 1, an- terior skin-flap; 2, antero-posterior double flaps, either the anterior or the posterior being the longer; 3, long posterior flap (usually including flesh); 4, lateral skin-flaps; 5, anterior and posterior skin-flaps, with circular incision through muscles. The patella is generally left; then the tendon of the quadriceps extensor may be divided. Incisions in lateral flap method begin one inch below tubercle of tibia. Flaps to be somewhat square. Cartilage to be left, unless diseased. Mortality.—^For disease, one in three.