SPINE, DISEASES OF. 285 male. Inequality in length of lower extremities. Rickets. Rachitis adolescentium. {See K^ock-k^be.) Pathology.-- Always a primary and secondary, sometimes a third and fourth cur^e Lumbar curve has its convexity to the left, nine times out of ten. Lumbar and dorsal curves together form a line like the itaUc S. Simultaneous rotation of vertebrae, so that m each curve the bodies of the vertebra which form it are turned, towards its convexity. Hence the actual extent of lateral curvatm'e of the bodies is greater than the apparent amount of curvature noticeable by merely examining the spines. Hence, also, the transverse processes on the side, towards the convexity are twisted backwards, while those on the side of the concavity turn forwards. Thorax is rotated forwards and compressed on the concave side, and rotated backwards and dilated on the con- vex side of the dorsal curve. Waist sinks in on concave side of lumbar curve and disappears on the opposite side, where its place i^ taken by a depression halfway up the thorax. Thus in an ordmary case of lateral curvature we should notice, (1) in the middle line, the row of spinous processes curved with the lumbar convexity to the left and the dorsal to the right; transverse pro- cesses prominent on the convexities, sunk in on the concavities; (2) on the left side, the waist bulging, a spurious waist caused by a depression in the thorax, and the thorax itself prominent ■ anteriorly,flattened posteriorly, and compressed throughout; (3) on the right side the shoulder prominent (' growing out'), the thorax dilated and forming a large swelling posteriorly, the waist sunk in, and the hip prominent. In bad cases the last rib on this side impinges on the iliac crest. It is extremely likely that the immediate cause of lateral curvature is a softened state of the bones due to an affection of the epiphysial cartilages, like that which causes knock-knee. The curvatures become confirmed by the bones themselves altering in shape, atrophying where the pressure is increased, hypertrophying where the pressure is taken off. Signs are essentially the naked-eye appearances which result from the changes just described. Diagnosis.—See Angular Curvature. To distinguish structural from temporary lateral curvature, make the patient bow down low. In the former case the curve in the back persists. Prognosis.—Difficulty of cure