HYSTERIA. 185 appear near frfennm linguse between third and twentieth day after bite. It has been recommended to examine patient twice a day dm-ing this period, and lay open and cauterise the lyssi as they appear. Trousseau supports this recom- mendation. Hypertrophy.—Increase in size of the tissues of a part, not the mere natural result of growth in youth. Sometimes ac- companied by increased development of the individual micro- scopic constituents of the tissue: e.g., when the gravid uterus enlarges, the individual muscle-cells also grow. Causes.— Exercise, ii-ritation, hyperemia, general over-feeding, special over-feeding, certain special diseases. Irritation may be direct or indirect. An example of indirect irritation as a cause is hypertrojihy of breast from uterine irritation. Irritation certainly acts partially, if not wholly, by producing hyperemia through reflex inhibition of vaso-motor system. By special over-feeding is meant the excessive deposit of fat which may result from taking fat-forming food to excess. As examples of hypertrophy from special diseases, may be cited the large joints of rickety children and the thickened skin in elephantiasis scroti. Treatment.—Remove cause. Favour venous circula- tion. Pressure. Treat special diseases. Operative measures. Vide various articles in this book on hypertrophy of particular organs and parts. Hysteria.—Hysteria is, according to custom, held to be in the province of the physician, and the surgeon is only called in when ' this protean malady ' assumes the outward form of surgical disease. Hence the best general articles on hysteria are to be found in medical treatises. From the surgeon's point of view, Mr. Savory treats the subject graphically in. Holmes's System, Vol. I. Its essential nature. Paget has called it ' mad- ness of the spinal cord '; but its phenomena are, perhaps, more easily explained on the supposition that it arises from ' a nutritive derangement of the general nervous system, both central and peripheral.'—Hasse, as quoted by Niemeyer, Causes.—No doubt a congenital predisposition often exists. In most cases there is certainly to be found an exciting cause in the form of chronic irritation of some system or organ of the