232 LITHOTEITY. operation. Bowels to be cleared. Bladder should contain four or five ounces ofurine or warm-water. Eecumbent position. Pillow beneath buttocks. Blankets to keep trunk warm. Warm and oil lithotrite and pass it well into bladder. Be extremely gent'e throughout sitting. Seize stone by one of two methods : 1. (Civiale's), in this the calculus is picked up by the lithotrite, just as a bird picks up a pebble with his beak. The following rules are usually followed :—I. In the case of small or medium- sized stone (1) pass the lithotrite, closed, to the back of the bladder; (2) if the lithotrite has touched or is touching the stone rotate it slightly away from the stone and withdraw the male blade; rotate it back again to a little beyond its original vertical position, and close the blades. The stone will probably be caught j (3) in any other case proceed to find and seize the calculus systematically, thus : 1, withdraw the male blade, then half-rotate (45°) the lithotrite to the right, thus / and close; 2, withdi-aw the male blade again, then half-rotate to the left, \, and close; 3, rotate (90°) to the left horizontal, and close; 4, rotate to the right horizontal. In each case withdraw male blade befure rotation, and also depress handle of lithotrite half an inch, so as to slightly tilt up its blades; 5, 6, search the sides of the floor of the bladder by a still further rotation (135°) first to right, then to left. Before doing this depress handle of litho- trite one inch and a half; 7, having opened the blades, turn them to the inverted perpendicular and close, at same time, depressing handle still further. In this way the lithotrite searches all round its own axis at intervals of 45°, and cannot well miss anything. Every movement is to be conducted with extreme gentleness, and, in particular, the centre of motion, when the instrument is moved at all, should be the prostatic part of the urethra, where serious results would be most likely to follow injury inflicted by rough manipulation. Small stones usually lie towards the back of the trigone.—II. In the case of a large stone, rotate away the blades to open them, as in the cases previously noticed; but do not open the lithotrite by pulling back the male blade : open it by pushing forward the female blade, leaving the male at the neck of the bladder; then rotate towards the stone and seize. 2. English mode of seizing stone.—