HYPERMETEOPIA. 410 which we wish the patient to work. Thus suppose a myope of 10 D. wishing to read No. 1 Snellen at 40 cm. From 10 D. deduct the lens whose focal length is 40 cm., viz., 2'50 D. ; then —10 + 2-50= —7-50 D., and —7-50 D. is the strength of spectacle required. In prescribing for patients over fort}', proper allowance must be made for presbyopia {see Presbyopia). Hypermetropia is that condition of refraction in which parallel rays come to a focus behind the retina—the eye being at rest. Causes.—1. Most commonly the axis of the eye is too short. 2. The curvature of the cornea or of the surface of the lens may be insufficient. 3. The refractive index of the media may be too low. The disease is frequently hereditary. Symptoms.—Since rays from a distant object (parallel rays) come to a focus behind the retina, it follows that rays from a near object {divergent rays) will be focussed still further behind the retina, and therefore a hypermetrope is unable to see any- thing clearly, either distant or near, without using accommoda- tion. If therefore the hypermetropia be slight, and the accom- modation powerful, there will be no inconvenience, either for near or distant vision. But if the accommodation is failing, as it always does from age, and as it frequently does from disease, the patient cannot see near objects for long together without aching pains or sense of fatigue in the eyes, combined with dimness of vision. In high degrees of hypermetropia the greater part of the accommodation is required for distant vision, and the patient is never able to see near objects clearl}'. The symptoms therefore vary with the degree, and become more manifest as age advances. Hypermetropia is frequently an indirect cause of squint {see Strabismus). The objective symptoms are as follows :— 1. Keratoscopy reveals a shadow which passes in the oppo- site direction to that of the reflected light. 2. Ophthalmoscopy.—Direct method at a good distance from the eye shows the image of vessels of fundus, and this image moves in the same direction as the observer's head when the latter is moved from side to side. E E 2