HERNIA. 174 II. In the Mesogastrium.—1. Ventral (also in other regions). 2. Umbilical, 3. Lumbar. III. In the Hypogastrium.—1. Inguino-scrotal (labial in female). 2. Femoral. 3. Obturator. 4. Perineal. 5. Pu- dendal. 6. Vaginal. 7. Ischiatic. Dia'phragmatic Hernia.—Three kinds, viz. : 1, congenital, left leaflet of centrum tendineum usually absent; 2, ordinary, abdominal viscera pass thi-ough one of the naturally deficient parts of the diaphragm, usually close to ensiform cartilage; 3, traumatic, through a wound. Birkett adds to these, cases of relaxed diapln-agm bulging upwards from pressure of viscera below. Signs.—Malposition of viscera may be detected by auscultation and pei-cussion. Occasionally symptoms of ob- struction, strangulation, or impeded respiration. Perhaps history of accident.' In traumatic and congenital cases there is no sac. Prognosis.—Traumatic cases usually fatal. Others may never even be suspected during life. Treatment.—Nil. JSpigastric and Ventral Hernia are to be recognised and treated on general principles. Umbilical Hernia.—Appears commonly either in infants or fat middle-aged women. Umbilical hernia in infants, though termed ' congenital,' differs from congenital inguinal hernia, in having to form its own sac by pushing peritoneum before it. Cove7'ings. — Skin, fat, and fascia usually matted together. Neck of sac thickened and strong. Contents.—Various. Sto- mach, small intestine, omentum. Often very large. Prognosis.— In infants tendency is towards spontaneous cure. Obstruction a more common accident than strangulation. Treatment.—Cork and strapping ; pad and bandage ; proper trusses or abdominal belts for severe cases. In operating for strangulation divide the coverings very carefully. See also treatment of hernia in seneral, above. Inguinal Hernia.—Classification: I. Direct or internal. II. Obhque or external, including (1) common or scrotal, (2) congenital, (3) funicular, (4) infantile. Direct comes out in- ternal to deep epigastric artery, i.e. in triangle of Hesselbach. 1 In one case the affected side of thorax was disproportionately large.— Garlik, Path. Trans. 1879.