223 DISEASES OF LAEYNX. Xaryngeal strictures have been treated by the passage of metallic and vulcanite instruments (Trendelenburg and Schrbtter). Tertiary Ulcer. 1. Attacks epiglottis first 2. Progresses rapidlj- 3. Little thickening 4. Expectoration thick, tenacious, yellowish Phthisical Ulcera- tion. Attacks first near aryte- noid cartilages Does not advance rapidly Great thickening Granular appearance of posterior surface of epiglottis Expectoration, frothy, thin, muco-purulent Epithelioma. Usually commences over pharyngeal aspect of arytenoids Progress slow Irregular thickening At firs t thin,often bloody. Laryngeal Phthisis.—Vide medical •works or special treatises. The diagnosis mainly rests on the co-existence of pulmonary disease and of hectic fever, on the absence of specific disease, such as syphilis, and on the laryngoscopic appearances. The latter may show ulcerations especially at the back of the epiglottis and near the arytenoid cartilages. The disease is tuberculous; though it may be the result of local infection by phthisical sputa passing over laryngeal mucous membrane. Treatment is addressed locally to the ulcerations and chronic laryngeal catarrh (vide above), and generally to the phthisis. Larynx, Cancer op.i—Affects chiefly male sex, and almost always occurs in late middle life. Begins usually on left side. Primary cancer is about as often encephaloid as epithelioma, seldom or never scirrhus. The diagnosis has to be made from laryngeal phthisis and from syphihs. Phthisis causes earlier and more complete loss of voice. Before there is much evident new growth it is next to impossible to distinguish laryngeal cancer from syphilis. There are symptoms analogous to those of cancer elsewhere, viz :—pain, offensive odour, hcemorrhao-es glandular enlargements. Treatment.—While the diagnosis is at all doubtful give anti-syphilitic remedies. Afterwards morphia subcutaneously for pain, carbolic acid inhalations for fetor, atomised solutions of tannin for hajmorrhages. But above all,—tracheotomy, which in Fauvel's cases, prolonged 1 See especially: Fauvel's Tmito Pratique des 3Ialadies da Larynx Paris • Uelahaye; and a review of the same work in Med. Rec. vol. iv. p. 476.