UEIKE. 353 Oxalate of Lime is recognised, under the microscope, by its dumb-bell and octahedral crystals. Renal Casts, found often in albuminous urine. Basis usually fibrin. May be waxy or fatty. May contain blood or pus-corpuscles or epithehal cells. Miicus may occasionally come from the prostatic urethra,, and consequently be only accidentally mixed with the urine. Patient then generally passes it towards end of act of micturi- tion. But mucus and pus, existing together, are usually accom- panied also by phosphates and an alkaline reaction. Urine reacts also to tests for albumen. Pus, unmixed with mucus, if diflPused, is probably from kidney ; if not diffused, is from an abscess opening into bladder or urethra. Blood in the urine may come from kidney, ureter, bladder, or urethra. Yery unlikely to come fr'om ureter, even in case of injury to abdomen. If renal, blood is diffused, producing 'smoky' urine; if vesical, less likely to be entirely diffused, almost sure to pass partly pure; if urethral, is likely to pass quite independently of urine, sometimes without micturition, sometimes immediately after micturition. Bloody urine is necessarily albuminous. Sham hsematuria sometimes produced with colouring matters by impostors. Gi-ape Sugar increases specific gi^avity of urine, imparts a •sweet odom-, and increases flow of urine (diabetes). Trommer's test : add a few drops of solution of cupric sulphate to urine then add excess of Hq. potassse, lastly boil : a red precipitate (cuprous oxide) is quickly thrown down. Pavy's test-pellets are handy. Bile-pigment.—In cases of jaundice, sufficient bilirubin may exist in urine to answer to Gmelin's test. ' Treated with oxidising agents, such as nitric acid yellow with nitrous acid it displays a succession of colours in order of the spectrum The yellowish golden red becomes green, this a greenish blue then blue, next violet, afterwards a dirty red, and finally a na'e yellow ' (Foster's Physiology). ^ P ^® Epithelium and Spermatozoa, as well as casts and crvstal<, are discovered by the microscope. ^^ystais, A A