DISSECTION WOUNDS. and base of first phalanx on dorsal aspect. Main obstiicle to reduction is engagement of neck of metacarpal between two heads of flexor brevis polUcis, as in a button-hole. Reduc- iiow.—The efforts are directed to disengage from flexor brevis pollicis; bend the metacarpal joint of the thumb well into palm of the hand, thus relaxing the muscle; now press the first phalanx of the thumb well backwards, i.e., hyperextend it; at the same time pull the thumb downwards, i.e., towards the tips of the fingers ; lastly, flex the thumb (every joint) into the palm ; if this fails, the pulleys may be tiied. Anaesthesia; subcuta- neous division of one or both heads of flexor brevis, or lateral ligaments; passing a blunt hook through a small incision and hooking tendons of flexor brevis over head of metacarpal bone. After reduction, keep thumb bent towards palm for a day or two. Dislocation of Wrist.—Extremely rare; readily reduced. Diagnosis.—From Colles's fracture; in fracture the styloid pro- cesses go with the hand ; in dislocation, they approach too near the finger-clefts. Dissection Wounds.—Under this head we notice the lym- phatic and cellirlar inflammations and blood-poisoning produced by absorption of animal poison from dead bodies. Bodies lately dead much more dangerous than those which have been long dead; bodies dead from erysipelas, peritonitis, puerperal and typhoid fevers, especially dangerous. Peritoneal fluid particu- larly poisonous after death from peritonitis. Not necessary that there should be a skin wound. Poison absorbable through hair follicles or through unbroken skin. Signs and Prognosis.— Three grades of severity : in the first the symptoms, except slight fever for a few days, are trivial and almost confined to the limb poisoned; in the second, there is either severe cellulitis in the limb, or abscesses form in parts of the body beyond the limb, or both these troubles may be present. This grade is liable to pass into chronic pyaemia. The third grade is marked by violent and sudden symptoms of septicaemia and often terminates fatally in two or three days. The point of inoculation usually looks angry and purulent, and presents either a vesicle, a pus- tule, or a scab; it is painful; the lymphatics extending from it