TAESUS, DISEASE OF. 302 scribed in same mixture, especially in scrofulous subjects. E,ed or periodide of mercury results. Mercui-y usually given cautiously till the gums become slightly touched, and then stopped. When giving pot. iod. the signs of iodism should be watched for—to guard against them, not to produce them. They are catarrh of the mticous membrane of the nose, frontal sinuses, eyes, &c., great nervous depression, and sometimes a rash. Locally, many secondary affections require no treatment, e.g. roseola and most squamous syphilides. For sore-throat, gargarisma nigra; for mucous tubercles, calomel + zinci oxidi aa sequales partes, occa- sionally argent, nit. 3 for ulcers, ung. hydrarg. oxid. rubri, or calomel ointment, or lotio nigra, or purely non-specific treatment. For intra anal and rectal affections, cleanliness and mercurial suppositories. Vacctno-syphilis and Hereditary Syphilis. See Appendix, Talipes.—ISee Club-foot. Tarsus, Disease of, usually begins in the bones. Diagnosis. From disease of the ankle-joint by the swelling being below the malleoli in affection of the astragalo-calcaneal joint, and by the motion of the ankle-joint being comparatively free: of course disease of anterior part of tarsus is easy to distinguish from ankle-joint disease. Diagnosis of exact tarsal joints and bones affected very important from its bearing on treatment. When the swelling, tenderness, &c., are on the outer side of the foot, whether affecting os calcis, or cuboid, or both, if disease be inveterate, excision is decidedly indicated. But when disease affects scaphoido-cuneiform joints, and centre of tarsus, the necessity of amputation is to be feared. Excise for disease of astragalus, or astragalo-calcaneal joint. Disease of OS calcis usually confined to bone, not reaching any joint for some time. It should be gouged out. Exact diagnosis is easiest when there are sinuses through which dead bone can be felt. Suphuric acid, slightly dilute (1 in 3), well adapted for dissolving dead bone in some of these cases. In early stages, rest, pressure, he, combined with outdoor exercise, indicated. A high heel should be placed on the sound foot, a plaster of Paris"bandage on the diseased one, and the patient sent about on crutches. {Vide Bone. Scrofula, &c.)