253 PENIS. the pelvis. 2, Fractures and dislocations of the bones forming the pelvis. 3, Injuries of those organs in relation with the pelvis which are connected with the functions (A) of micturition ; (B) of generation, male and female; (C) of defsecation. See Bladder, Eectum, Urethra, Perin.eum, Fractures, etc. Penis.—Most common affections are venereal. Others are congenital malformations, usually slight; phimosis and para- phimosis ; herpes preputii, warts, elephantiasis, cancer, gangrene, priapism. Penis, Congenital Malformations of.—(1) Hypospadias, (2) epispadias, (3) deficiency of corpus spongiosum, (4) the penis may be bound down to the perinseum, between the testes, so as to arch forward during erection (I have seen one such case, and I think Mr. Erichsen's case of ' Adhesion of Penis to Scrotum ' was probably exactly similar), (5) adhesion between glans and prepuce. Hypospadias.—Urethra stops short on lower surface of penis. Slight degrees common, and of no consequence. If it extend far backw.ards, e.g., so that the urethra opens near the root of the penis, both urine and semen are emitted at right angles to the penis. But even in such cases paternity is not absolutely impos- sible. Plastic sui'gery is sometimes successful in such cases (vide "Wood, Med. Times, vol. i. 1875 ; Jordan, Lancet, vol. i. 1876). Epispadias.—Urine flows from a groove on upper surface of base of penis. Always combined with extroversion of bladder, q. v. In such a case as 4 (above) divide the adhesion. Con- genital adhesion between prepuce and glans may be torn asunder with any small blunt instrument. With malformations, the followiag condition may be classed when congenital. Phimosis.—Prepuce cannot be drawn back. Either Congeni- tal, or the result of swelling, usually inflammatory and specific, of the prepuce {acquired). Consequences of Congenital Phimosis.— Local irritation, balanitis, calculous concretions between prepuce and glans. Urinary obstruction and vesical irritation. Mas- turbation. Reflex convulsions, paralyses, and contractions (Sayre). Even hip-joint disease (Barwell). Treatment of Congenital Phimosis.—Circumcise. If cu-cumcision be objected to, success