STERILITY. 292 by means of plenty of good cotton ■wool, or else by using india- rubber bandage wHch probably fulfils all the above indications better. This india-rubber bandage, if propei-ly applied, gives great relief in cases of flat-foot, the pain of which arises partly from a kind of chronic spraining of ligaments and tendons. When the sprain is severe, complete rest for a few days may be desirable, and severe exercise should certainly never be allowed till it is quite well. The mobile treatment prescribes, or rather permits, only gentle, regulated, limited movements; and what it chiefly condemns is the continual and repeated resort to splints.' Under such a treatment it sometimes happens that each fresh walking experiment reveals a worse and worse state of things; the patient goes to the bone-setter, submits to a Httle violence, courageously defies his doctor's warnings, walks about, and gets well. When the treatment above sketched fails, as it will sometimes, then is the time for putting on a plaster of Paris case. The perfect recovery of old sprains is often prevented by the presence of adhesions in or about the joint. Break down these by free movements. If inflammatory reaction is feared, fix up the limb for a few days and apply an ice-bag. Sterility.—In males, usually a consequence of impotence, quod vide. But there are probably cases in which men per- fectly virile are yet sterile. No rules can be given for the treatment; but if the surgeon should be consulted on such a case, he should inquire carefully into it, and possibly he may do good—even if it be only by finding that the patient is not I'eally sterUe at all. Sternum.—Liable to necrosis from syphilis, from struma, or from injury. This may lead to abscess and perforation, and occasionally to mediastinal abscess. TreaiTneTii.—Apply general principles, for which see Bone, Necrosis of, and Syphilis, &c. Synovitis.—See Joints. SyphiUs.—Former extended application of the term so as to include all venereal diseases, even gonorrhoea. In modern language usually restricted to the constitutional disease, and to . Billroth. Sir Jan,os Paget savs ' ^ cledtog upon ^^^^o'-fj^/^*^,-^^^^^^^^^^