TUMOUES. 323 It is not impossible that malignant tumours are contagious, though there are no clinical proofs of it. Considering how slow most cancers are to infect the sufferer's own system (since early removal often effects a perfect cure), the absence of such proofs is not surprising. Certain localities and certain ages are specially subject to certain tumours; e.g., lower lip of middle- aged, to epithelioma. Sex generally acts in a manner easily explained. For example, it is not difficult to see why men alone should have epithelioma scroti, women alone fibroid of the uterus, and women almost the monopoly of tumours of the breast. Classification.—Fatty tumour ; fibrous tumour; car- tilaginous tumour; osseous tumour; myoma; neuroma; vascu- lar tumours; sarcoma ; lymphoma, including glioma; recurrent fibroid; fibro-cellular tumour; myxoma, &c.; papilloma; adenoma; cystic tumours ; carcinoma.i The carcinomata, with most sarcomata and certain lymphomata, are often classed together as malignant, the rest being termed innocent. Malig- nancy means simply endowed with a tendency to infect the system. In diagnosing a tumour, the most important question to answer is that of innocent or malignant? In some cases this is the only practical question. Fatty Tumours, Lipomata.—Two varieties, viz., 1, Circum- scribed ; 2, continuous. The common fatty tumour belongs to the former variety. Best example of continuous lipoma is ex- cessive double chin. Cause.—Usually unknown. Sometimes follows local irritation. Rarely appears in children or very old people. Continuous lipoma generally begins about age of forty. Female sex most liable. Anatomy.—Common fatty tissue sur- rounded by a fibrous capsule and divided into lobes by fibrous partitions. Sometimes outlying lobes project into the adjacent parts. Fibres connect the capsule with the skin and cause the latter to dimple. Signs.—Lipomata are soft, elastic, 'piUowy,' movable, but causing the skin to dimple as they move. Norm- ally without pain or tenderness, except a little aching from mere weight, and, in a few cases, a little pain, apparently neur- algic. Almost always single. Occasionally multiple. Bulk unlimited, even up to 50 lbs. avoirdupois. Multiple fatty 1 Paget adds : Neuralgic, Pulsating, Floating, and Phantom 2