35 BED-SOKES. line of spinous processes straight; tenderness more or less diffuse; patient can probably, though with pain, raise himself into the erect position, straightening his spine. Prognosis.— Good, even when there is hematuria; even severe paralj'sis sometimes passes off in a day or two, but danger of inflammation spreading to meninges of cord. This danger is greatest in atlanto- axial region. See Spinal Meningitis, Fracture, Hemorrhage, &c. Treatment.—Eest. ^Jee Sprains.—Actual cautery and Cor- rigan's Button or Sayre's Jacket in obstinate cases. Balanitis.—Inflammation of glans penis or lining mem- brane of prepuce. Causes.— Gonorrhoea, phimosis, dirty habits, ill-health. Treatment.—Warm water, zinc ointment, astringent lotions, nitrate of silver A chancre may coexist. Bar at Neck of Bladder.—Definition.—' Any bar' at the inferior aspect of the neck of the bladder, and not prostatic in its nature.—Extremely rare. Treatment.—Relieve accompany- ing chronic cystitis; occasionally pass a large catheter. Vide Thompson and Guthrie. Barbadoes Leg'.—See Elephantiasis Arabum. Bath, Continuous Water Bath, or Immersion Treatment of wounds and compound fractures. Temperature varies; cold water delays the healing, but prevents blood-poisoning; in com- pound fractures the limb is placed in a fenestrated plaster case, made water-tight with shellac, cement, or collodion. Used at Berlin. 1 Bed-Sores attack the skin over hard prominences, e.g., sa- crum, ischial tuberosities, trochanters, condyles of knees, elbows, and the heels. First the skin reddens, then an abrasion may form, then a slough; in bad cases even spinal canal may be opened. Cf6Mse5._Predisposing are debility, continued fevers, especially typhoid, paralysis, old age; exciting causes are continued pres- sure, irritation of faeces and urine, the under sheet and night- .shirt not being kept smooth by the nurse, &c. Prognosis. Depends chiefly upon whether the cause can be removed or not. Treatment.—Preventive measures are good nursing, dry, smooth draw sheets, water beds or cushions, frequent change of position. ' It has been found that it causes the lips of the wound to swell creatlv and sometimes, therefore, to prevent escape of discharge,-il/fc/. Record ^ D 2