STRILTUEE OF URETHRA. 6i6 taous, (4) bridle, (5) caruncle, (6) traumatic; B. Of hetero- plastic origin: epithelioma, &c. Causes.—0/ Spasmodic Stricture : almost always an organic predisposing cause, situated within the urethra. Dyspepsia or gouty diathesis with consequent acid state of the urine. Irri- tating diuretics, e.g., cantharides. Some foreign body, e.g., passage of a bougie or of a minute calculus. Some disorder of the central nervous system. Of Inflammatory Stricture : exer- cise, excitement, alcoholic or other excess during course of a gonorrhoea. Of Organic Stricture : the great majority arise from gonorrhoea, especially chronic gonorrhoea or gleet. Some follow non-specific m-ethritis. Vide causes of urethritis. Trau- matic strictures follow rupture of the urethra. Hot climates. Abuse of alcoholic drinks, especially malt liquors. Neglect of proper treatment in gonorrhoea. Caustics. Syphilitic ulceration of meatus. Position.—Spasmodic stricture occurs in various parts of the urethra. Indammatory stricture is due to acute inflamma- tion of the prostatic part. Of organic strictures, two-thirds are in the bulbous part of the urethra, i.e., in the posterior inch of the spongy part (Thompson). This is denied by Otis, who says that strictures are most common in the penile part of the urethra. For confirmatory observations, see Lockwood, St. Barth.'s Hosp. Rep., 1879. Signs.—'EidixW.est symptom is usually a slight gleet; (almost all obstinate gleets are said to be caused by stricture). Some- times retention is the first sign of all. Altered size and shape of stream—small, twisted, spirting, forked, or even divided. A few drops of urine trickle away after micturition has apparently been completed. Commencement of the act of urination difli- cult and slow, act itself prolonged. Advanced S^/m2}toms.— Constant desire to make water. Night's rest broken. Strain- ing. Sense of heat, soreness, and smarting about neck of bladder, ' greatly aggravated by an excess of acid in the urine, hy cold, or imprudence of any kind telling on the parts.' Pain in pubic region, in perinseum, back, and loins. Pain during coition. Semen may recoil back into bladder. In some stric- ture-cases a discharge like that of gonorrhoea may follow sexual