300 SYPHILIS. secondly, affection of tlie subcutaneous cellular tissue, muscles, and bones; thirdly, disease of the viscera. The peculiarities of tertiary syphilis of the special organs and parts are described under the corresponding headings, e.g., Bone, Tongue, Larynx, Eectum, Testicle, Ulcers, &c. It may be stated here that tertiary syphilis attacks the skin as rupia and ecthyma; and that the great cachexia often observed at this stage is sometimes due to diseases of the abdominal absorbent glands. Structure of a Gumma.—Primarily, granulation-tissue, with a delicate stroma of fibres and a few blood-vessels. Afterwards, partly degenerates into a granular detritus. Its naked-eye appearance has been well compared to boiled cod-fish, but it sometimes really resembles a solution of gum. Prognosis.—Certainly is affected for evil by bad nourish- ment, want of cleanliness, changeable climate, damp, darkness, very early age, and originally feeble constitution. Some cases are manifestly bad, others as plainly benignant from the first. Indications may be drawn from the character of the prime lesion. Very indurated, and, still more, phagedfenic chancres are of evil omen. ' The first syphilide,' according to Diday, ' is the most valuable sign to rely upon.' With a trivial roseola, not showing any tendency to become papular, spontaneous cure is almost certain. Papular, squamous, pustular, and vesicular syphilides indicate probability of a worse attack of syphilis, ' Syphilis once, syphilis ever,' is the teaching of an influential body of pathologists who have yet to prove their thesis. Num- berless instances have been observed of syphilitic patients who during the remainder of a long lifetime have enjoyed sound health, and begot families of vigorous, apparently untainted children. Treatment.—Public prophylaxis. Registration and periodi- cal inspection of prostitutes. In some Continental towns, males who visit immoral houses are also inspected. Private hygiene : none thoroughly effective except morality. Cleanliness, <kc. Carbolic soap. Oil of eucalyptus. History of treatment of syphilis may be divided into three main periods : the first, when mercury was almost all in all, being rivalled only by guaiacum, sarsaparilla, and other vegetable diaphoretics; the