252 PAROTID TUMOURS, near angle of scapula. Both may be tried if fluid do not come through the first. Operation.—^nnctm-e skin with a lancet. Insinuate aspirator needle with a twisting motion over lower rib, close to it (because intercostal artery is near upper rib). Then plunge needle smartly through pleura; turn cock of aspirator and collect fluid. Whether it is or is not such a serious matter to admit air into the pleural cavity has been the subj ect of many papers and speeches. For references, see Neale's Medical Digest, p. 240. Dangers.—Woxmding (1) intercostal vessels, (2) lung, (3) diaphragm, (4) admission of air and conse- quent collapse of lung, empyema, etc. (?) (5) rupture of pleura or capillaries by excessive suction with the aspirator, (6) sudden death (see Med. Times, vol. ii. 1875, p. 382, &c.). If it is d&sired to make a. free incision, this is easily done by cutting along a grooved needle used as a director. Keep close to rib below the space. A counter-opening can be made either in the same way as the first, or by the help of a long bent probe or dii^ector, inserted to be cut down upon. Parotid Tumours, divided, for practical purposes, into (1) innocent, (2) malignant. Former commence near lobe of ear as small, hard swellings, perhaps originally enlargements of a lymphatic gland. They are fibro-cartilaginous. Increasing, they tend to grow outwards as a square mass, and inwards so as to displace part or whole of the parotid. But cancerous tumours are more diffuse, more fixed, more painful,-increase faster and tend to infect the lymphatics of the neck. Treatment. —A movable tumour corresponding to the first description above given should be excised ; a malignant tumour is fixed, and can rarely be advantageously meddled with. In excising a parotid tumour, cut as much as possible in the direction of the fibres of the facial nerve, and keep the edge of the knife towards the tumour. Simjjle tumours can sometimes to a great extent be shelled out. Facial paralysis, which sometimes follows these operations, is usually incurable. Remember the size of the vessels embedded in the parotid. Remember also position of Steno's duct, a wound of which may cause salivary fistula. Pelvis, Injuries of, are thus classified by Birkett:—1, Con- tusions involving the soft parts in contact with the outside of