1G8 HERNIA. inguinal and femoral. Prognosis.—In spite of the regular use of trusses, hernia usually persists throughout life. Fair prospect of recovery in umbilical hernia of male infants, and in slight inguinal hernite promptly, patiently, and persistently treated. Congenital hernise are most liable to strangulation, irreducible hemire to obstruction. Umbilical hernise of women may attain enormous size, especially in fat flabby women. So also may other hernise, if neglected. Treatment.—Palliative, that is the truss. Common truss, single or double, inguinal or femoral; Salmon and Ody's; moc-main ; various pads, "Wood's horse-shoe pad, circular pyriform and oval pads, water-pads, air-pads. Bag-trusses for irreducible hernia. Spring of common truss encircles pelvis just below crest and anterior superior spines of ilium. Salmon and Ody's has a ball-and-socket joint, with a spring going half rovmd body on side opposite to rupture. Moc- main has a soft belt with a lever spring near the pad. Wood directs pad to be ilat, saying that rounded pads tend to dilate hernial apertures. For umbiHcal hernia, pads with belts, corks, strapping, &c. Umbilical Hernia. Points to be noted in fitting a truss:—1, Side of hernia (right or left) 2, size of projection, 3, size of hernial aperture, 4, kind of hernia (inguinal or femoral). Measiirements, 1, girth of body midway between great trochanter and anterior superior spine of ilium, 2, distance between anterior superior spine and hernial aperture, 3, direction in which pressure should be made. In fat large-bellied people this is usually upwards and back- wards, in thin people it may be simply backwards. The pressure of the spring should be adjusted carefully. Infants should have two trusses, that one may be worn while the other is being cleaned. Mocmain truss probably most comfortable, but has very little strength. Persons who have to make great efforts occasionally should have an extra strong truss for such times. Radical cure of hernia, oj?erative treatment.—See Wood on Eupture, or some large treatise on surgery. The operation is done only for inguinal hernia. GomiMcatiom of hernia, three primary ones, viz: 1, Ob- struction, 2, strangulation, 3, inflammation. Gangrene and ulceration are secondary to one of these primary complications.