DISEASES OF BONES. 51 and a bruit (the latter sometimes, but rarely, absent). Tumour may be partially emptied by pressure, and then the bony margin of the cavity in which it lies may be felt. Crackling shell of bone sometimes felt over it. Diagnosis.—1. The diagnosis of innocent fi-om malignant pulsating tximour: in the latter case there may be evidence of malignant disease elsewhere; the tumours may be multiple; the growth is probably more rapid and the tumour more painful. 2. From ordinary aneurism : by considering the situation and the characters mentioned above. Pi •ognosis.—Depends upon whether tumour is malignant or not. Treatment.—For innocent cases try pressure on, or ligature of, the main artery; Esmarch's bandage might be tried; innocent tumours have also been gouged out. All other cases require amputation. Sanguineous Tumours of Bone.— Vide Cystic Tumours. ■ Scrofulous Disease op Bo^-e..—Causes.— Vide Scrofula. Often follows injury. Symptoms.~^^veUmg, usually of an indolent and chronic character; superjacent skin commonly pale, hence the term 'white swelling.' Other symptoms of scrofula : in a large proportion of cases some internal organ is the seat of tuberculous or cheesy deposit. As the disease ad- vances, there are symptoms of caries and abscess, the latter often appearing far away from the diseased bone. Most of the sufferers are children. The mischief often spreads to nei<^h- bounng joints, and the suppuration tends to spread far and wide along intermuscular spaces, &c., before the abscess bursts Diagnosis rests on the local symptoms above given, and on the presence or absence of other signs of the scrofulous diathesis Prog7iosis.—Local recovery may usually be expected (in about two years according to Stanley) if the general health holds out but relapse is very common both in the original seat of the disease and elsewhere. Treatment.—QqtiqvaI treatment of scrofula. Locally: complete rest; counter-imtation by paintin- with iodine, &c., till abscess fairly forms, and even afterwards (Fumeaux Jordan). There are special apparatus to give rest to special parts of the body : e.g., for Morbus Coxoe and for Pott's curvature, quod vide. Remove the diseased bone bv oneratinn m suitable cases, ^ ^'"I'luu K 2