326 TUMOUES. traumatic neuroma is the bulbous end of a divided nerve. When painful, excise. Vascular Tumours. Angiomata, N^evi. Erectile Tumours.—Definition.—Tumours composed almost exclusively of vessels held together by a slight amount of connective tissue. Va/rieties.—Three:—(1) capillary, including common nsevi and 'port-wine stains;' (2) venous, or cavernous angiomata; (3) arterial, or pulsating, erectUe tumours; with which may be placed ' aneurism by anastomosis.' Etiology.—Many are con- genital (especially the first kind). The others usually commence in early childhood, excepting aneurism by anastomosis, which often develops in young people, after injuries. Anatomy.—(1) Capillary angioma consists of a mass of dUated capillaries, arranged in lobuli, each of which corresponds to the blood- supply of a single hair or cutaneous gland. The whole mass is of any size from a pin's head to a sixpence or a penny, or a much larger space, and of varying, though usually trifling thickness. Colour from deep red to slaty-blue. But sometimes the skin itself is not involved, and it then may be of normal colour. Redness disappears under pressure, so also does part of thickness of tumour when there is any perceptible thickness. Capsule, more or less defined. (2) Cavernous angioma consists of an assemblage of spaces filled with blood and resembhng dilated veins, or, more accurately, the corpus cavernosum penis. In some of the spaces, chalky 'vein-stones' may be found. (3) Aneurism by anastomosis, or cirsoid aneuiism, is a convolution of dilated and elongated arteries. Signs.—Port-wine stains and ordinary naevi are easily recognised by their colour, and their congenital or early origin. All ptirely vascular tumours are more or less soft and compressible. The venous ones dilate during forced expiration. The arterial pulsate. Seats.—Mostly sub-cutaneous tissue of scalp, face, and trunk. Venous tumours not unfrequently occur more deeply, especially in orbit, tongue, inter-muscular spaces, and even in the hver. Degeneration, especially cystic, may occur. Number of nsevi in an infant often multiple. Diagnosis.—Rarely presents any difficulty except in the deeper venous and capillary tumours. These may be confounded with lipomata or cysts; but the possibility