356 VAGINA. site vaginal walls, easily torn open, and prevented from re- adhering by oiled cotton wool. Not to be confounded with a very serious malformation, viz., Imperforate Hymen. This latter condition causes retention of the menstrual fluid till long after puberty. The treatment is to open by incision. Danger of resultant inflammation spreading to peritoneum. (Open with antiseptic precautions.) Yagina may be a mere cul-de-sac, associated with arrested development of uterus and ovaries. To diagnose the latter condition, examine (1) with catheter in bladder and finger in rectum; (2) with speculum. Nothing can be done. Alsence of Vagina occurs in rare instances. Vaginal Fistula.—(1) Vesico-vaginal, (2) urethro-vaginal, (3) recto-vaginal. Causes.—Laceration or sloughing, the re- sult of difficult labour, or, more rarely, of accident. Syphilis. (Fistulse from cancer are so irremediable as to be best not con- sidered here.) Symptoms.—Incontinence of urine or of fteces. But the latter may not occur unless the rent is very large or the fffices fluid. Flatus may escape and little or no faeces. Seat and extent of fistula must always be determined by combined digital and specular examination. Catheter often useful. Treatment.—FnveXj operative. Cautery may be tried in very trivial cases. Instruments.—Duck-bill speculum, long straight and long angular knives, long forceps, tubular needles, with Startin's handle, wire-twister, long curved scissors, long soft india-rubber catheter, silver wire, silk, handled sponges, &c. Chief points of operation are 10 : (1) Health good, (2) rectum empty, (3) Position—lithotomy, (4) nates held widely apart by assistant, (5) duck-bill speculum. Operator will occasionally hold this himself, but usually hand it to an assistant. (6) Drag the fistula towards the vaginal orifice. This may be done in various ways, e.g., with a blunt hook, or by one of the sutures. (7) Thoroughly pare the edges on the vaginal side, (8) but do not meddle with vesical mucous membrane, (9) sutures must not enter bladder, nor be pulled too tight. (10) Sutures should enter and leave about half-an-inch from edges of wound. As soon as operation is done, place, secure, and leave flexible catheter in bladder. This should be cleaned twice daily.