BUNION. bubo is called a ' sympathetic' one. ' Bubon d'embl^e' means a syphilitic bubo from absorption of vii-us, without intermediate ulceration; scrofulous constitution or severe local disease of genitals aggravates bubo. Symptoms.—Those of inflammation and sometimes suppuration of and around the inguinal glands; suppuration may greatly undermine and destroy skin; chronic or acute. Diagnosed from deeper abscesses by its connections, situation, history, and course. Prognosis.—Proper treatment will often prevent abscess; liability to slough and open arteries. Treatment.—1, to prevent abscess: rest, counter-irritation, blisters, iodine-paint, ex. belladon. and glycerine on cotton- wool, pressure, cold, leeches. General treatment for cause: attend to bowels, quinine, iron. 2, when abscess forms, poultice, foment, then open freely; destroy rotten skin; stimulating ointments, red oxide of mercury powder or ointment, ung. resinae, caustics when required; iodoform. Creeping Bubo heals at one side, extends at other : horse-shoe shape. Bunion.—Thickening of bursa over head of metatarsal bone of great toe; occasionally the term is applied to any enlarged bursa on the foot. Symptoms.—First a tender spot, then swell- ing, effusion, liability to inflammation; suppuration, sinus, large cavity with narrow orifice, thin discharge; distortion of toe out- wards, displacement of flexor longus pollicis tendon in same direction; changes like those of chronic rheumatic arthritis in the subjacent joint, or more serious articular disease, which may lead to fatal inflammation of the foot; may be starting-point of senile gangrene. Prognosis.—Earely altogether curable when it has long sujopurated. Treatment.—Rest; remove the pres- sure of the boot, which is always the cause; restoi'e the toe to natural position by mechanical contrivance; it may be justifiable to divide tendons or ligaments : corn plaisters, soap plaister; iodine or ointments of iodides to produce resolution; when dis- charging, apply stimulating dressings, e.g., ung. resinte; when inflamed, poultices, fomentations, &c. Nitrate of silver solu-, tion will harden tender skin. Burns, including Scalds.—Six degrees: 1, cutaneous hyper- jemia,, like slight erysipelas; 2, blistering; no mark left after