LITHOTRITY. 233 The handle of the lithotrite is raised so as to depress its blades against the base of the bladder. The male blade is then with- drawn, the handle being simultaneously raised a little more. If the calculus does not then fall between the blades, tap the lithotrite lightly in front or on one side, so as to try by the slight concus- sion to dislodge the calculus. This failing, the blades may be ro- tated sHghtly, first to one side, and then, if necessary, to the other. The stone being seized, rotate the lithotrite a fourth of a turn on its axis before crushing, so as to find if any mucous membrane has been accidentally trapped. Work always as near the middle of the bladder as possible, and always oyer the same spot. On this spot the fragments will fall, and from it they can be picked up and further crushed, if necessary. No sitting should last more than five minutes.' If pain is pro- duced, the sitting should be cut short. Sometimes one sitting will crush the stone completely. The smaller the stone and the healthier the bladder the longer each sitting may be made and the fewer are the operations which will be required. The first sitting should be shorter than the others. Crush the calculus by a series of short sharp turns of the screw. Usual interval between sittings three or four days. Throughout the process keep the position recumbent, more especially in the interval between the first and second sittings. It is at that time there is great danger of impaction of an angular fragment in neck of bladder or in urethra. When removing lithotrite always previously see that the male blade is pushed home, and that there is no fragment separating it from the female. The frag- ments and dehris may be left to be washed out by the urine, or partly brought away through a silver catheter with a large eye in its concavity; or they may be washed out by means of Clover's syringe.^ Finally, before prouounchig the case complete, a most careful exploration of the bladder should be made with a small lithotrite, lest a single fragment should remain to form the nucleus of a new stone. The diet should be rather low, the drinks demulcent and copious, the clothing warm. Morphiu suppositories may be useful. 1 This is the old rvile, now upset by Bigelow's ercperience and teacliings.— -See ' Litholnpaxy.' ' a See also ' Litbolapaxy.'