LYMPHANGITIS AND LYMPHADENITIS. 236 may be absorbed through unbroken skin. Chronic glandular inflammation and enlargements are scarcely distinguishable from strumous glands on the one hand, and from lymphoma on the other; they will, therefore, not be fm-ther noticed here. ^naiomy.-Chiefiy deduced by analogy from observations on uterine lymphangitis. Vicinity of lymphatics and glands is the seat of hyperemia and plastic infiltration. This often leads in parts to "local (rarely diffused) abscesses, mcludmg even deposits of pus in the lymphatics themselves. The process usually ceases at the first glands on the upward course of the lymphatics afiected. The glands themselves become congested, swollen by serous effusion, and crowded to obstruction with corpuscles. The main terminations of lymphangitis are three : (1) resolution, (2) suppuration, almost always with satisfactory recovery, (3) pyajmia, and then usually death. Not unfrequently cases of dissecting wound with lymphangitis and abscesses in the track of the lymphatics affected, are wrongly spoken of as pyajmia. If such cases were true pyaemia, recovery in them would scai-cely be so frequent as it is. The cellular thickening caused by lymphangitis and adenitis is often very persistent, and the small erysipehitous patches may enlarge vastly. Signs.— Track of inflamed lymphatics marked by red lines, or red band, or by mere thickening and hardening of the lymphatic cord. Often oedema in the neighboiu-hood, or even of the whole region or limb. Pain, tenderness, stifl'ness. In certain places frequently patches of superficial cutaneous redness simi- lar to (possibly identical with) erysipelas. "Where suppuration occurs, there is softening, easily detected by drawing the tip of the forefinger lightly over the part. The amount of fever .and gastric disturbance varies from nil to the highest grade. Usually a sudden rise of temperature, even to 104-5°. In the course of any wound, rigors or such a temperature usually signify local lymphangitis. Diagnosis.—From phlebitis. Course of veins and of lymphatics not anatomically identical. No glands on the veins. Inflamed veins are ' knotty.' Prog- nosis.—Usually in all respects good; but in the case of large operation wounds, compound fractures, and the like, signs of lymphangitis requu-e very prompt attention; and there are