JOINTS.—GONOEEHCEAL RHEUMATISM. 212 (3) state of kidneys, lungs, and liver; (4) the stage of the disease (5) whether operation is required to save life or merely to shorten period of illness and treatment. While excision may frequently be useful in the elbow and hip, and sometimes in the wrist, it can seldom be desirable in the shoulder (except after gun-shot wound or compound fracture) ; and some surgeons never excise the knee. See articles Excision of Joint and Amputation. Swabbing out joint with dilute sulphuric acid (one in three). Operative measures of any kind rarely justifiable until joint is on the point of opening spontaneously. Suppuration and free discharge do not counter-indicate plaster cases. Small windows can be cut in the case. These windows should be really small, i.e., not large enough to spoil the case as a uniformly supporting a^ent. Sinuses may be slit up and loose pieces of necrosed bone removed. Chronic Eheumatic Arthritis. Rheumatic Gout.—See Rheumatism. GoNORRHCEAL RHEUMATISM.—An afiection of the joints occurring in the course of a gonorrhoea. Relation of the two diseases uncertain. The arthritis may be due to blood-poisoning, or to reflex irritation through spinal cord; for it seems that various affections of the genitals will cause inflammations of the joints. Symptoms.—li usually attacks knee, hip, wrist, ankles, especially knee. Pain, stiffness, swelling, heat; various degrees of acuteness or of chronicity. Seldom goes on to suppuration and disorganisation of joint. Usually confined to synovial membrane and ligamentous structures. FatJiology.—The ap- pearances of synovitis, ostitis, or abscess are not characteristic of their gonorrhceal origin. See above for pathology of Syno- vitis, &C.'' Pro^/wosis.—Considerable danger of ultimate anky- losis' Often complete recovery. Relapse may occur if gleet return Treatment.—Gxxre the gonorrhcsa or gleet. Make the urethra aseptic {see Gonorrhcea). Treat the joint-affection accordiii'^ to the rules given above for the particular form of ioint-infllmmation each case of gonorrhceal rheumatism may most resemble. When chronic arthritis persists after gonorrhoea is cured, great benefit often derived from an elastic bandage, and ten-grain doses of pot. iod. ter die.