TOOTHACHE (BY MR. LYONS). 387 (especially the former) with inherited syphilis are strilcingly amenable to treatment. Treatment is to be conducted on exactly the same principles as that of acquired syphilis, q. v. Children readily take hyd. c creta, or respond to mercurial inunction. Always add iodide of potassium when bone is affected, and in the later manifestations. Vaccino-Syphilis.—The chief practical points connected with this subject are that (1) the child from whom the lymph is taken should not be less than four months old; (2) the lymph first drawn from the pustule should be used; (3) it should be clear, entirely free from any perceptible admixture of pus or blood; and, of course, (4) the appearance and history of the child and its parents should be unimpeachable. But Keber, of Dantzig, has shown that even clear vaccine lymph contains pus and blood corpuscles, and in a small proportion of infants (5 in 158, Diday) congenital syphilis does not show itself till later even than the fourth month. Lymph from the calf is much less likely (according to some certain) to be free from any taint of syphilis. When syphihs is communicated by vaccination the pock runs its normal course, and no sign of specific infection appears till about the twenty-eighth day. Refer to Hutchinson's Illustrations of Clinical Surgery, fasc. vi.; and to Hugh Thompson, Glasgow Med. Journ. 1879. Toothache > is a pain arising from a lesion, either within or about the region of a tooth. Causes.—G&ries; irritation of the pulp; acute and chronic inflammation of the tooth-pulp; acute and chronic periodontitis; exostosis and necrosis. Symp- toms.—When toothache arises from caries, the pain is of a dull aching character, and is treated by the application of creosote, morphia, mastiche, and various anodynes, which are inserted into the cavity of the afl^cted tooth, and then in a few days the carious matter excavated, and metallic fillings placed in the tooth. In irritation of the pulp th^e pain is the same as in the above affection, but is more prolonged, and is treated in the same manner. Toothache from Acute Inflammation of the Pulp is mew^ntS' Dental-Surgeon to St. Bartholo- c c 2