HYDROCELE. 182 abdominal ring. No impulse on coughing. Penis gets * ab sorbed,' as it were, into tumour. Diagnosis.—Vide H^emato- CELE and Inguinal Hernia. Treatment.—1, Palliative; 2, Radical cure. Palliative = tapping with trochar and cannula, or mere use of discutient lotions + suspensory bandage. In tapping, make out position of testicle by palpation, by assistance of patient's sensations, and by use of candle and stethoscope. Grasp tumoiir firmly in left hand, so that testicle lies in centre of left palm. Plunge trochar obliquely upwards and back- wards into junction of middle and lower thirds of hydrocele. The fluid usually collects again. Lotio ammonise hydrochlor. (5j to gvj) used as a discutient. Radical cure.—First empty the hydrocele, then inject two drachms of port wine or of tinct. iodi and water, equal parts. Let the injection flow out after a minute or two. Platinum cannula should be used for tinct. iodi. Lewis recommends carbolic acid and glycerine, aa 5ss., instead of iodine, and says it is less painful. Treatment by seton not to be recommended. After-treatment.—BeA. for two or three days. Pathology.—K serous dropsy of the tunica vaginalis, probably of chronic inflammatory origin. The radical cure acts by checking the secretion of the tunica vaginalis, and rarely results in the production of adhesions. Hydrocele of the Cord.—Its pathology is probably that of a dropsy of a small unobliterated part of the tunica vaginalis funiculi. It may sometimes be an independent cyst. Its appearances are quite characteristic. It is transparent, feels like a pigeon's egg, only more elastic, and slips tip and down between the fingers with great mobility. You may fancy that you have reduced it into the inguinal canal, when suddenly, m a humorous way, it may be discovered half-way down the cord towards the testicle. Occurs in the young. D^agnos^s.-Q^\J in rare cases, when it extends right into inguinal canal, and patient is so fat as to hide transparency, can this affection be mistaken for a hernia. Treatment.-l^H^ and iiiject with tinct iodi and water, equal parts. Before injecting be sure that the case is not one of ' congenital' hydrocele. ^ . , , Encysted nydrocele.-Signs.-^\.o.. of cyst attached to the testicle, usually to the head of the epididymis. Pathology.-^