EYE. DISEASES OF. and iron internally. Phosphorus, nitrite of silver and strych- nine are each sometimes employed. Try the interrupted voltaic current. Retina.—The healthy human I'etina is so transparent during life that it is hardly seen with the ophthalmoscope. The vessels of the retina are seen radiating from the optic disc. InSam- matory and other deposits in the retina are also seen when pi'esent. The chief diseases of the retina are, Hypersemia, Eetinitis, Detachment, Embolism of the central artery, Glioma, Cysts. Hyperemia.—Generally caused by overwork, especially if patient be ametropic. Fundus looks too red, and optic disc has a pinkish, flushed appearance. Treatment—Functionul rest, local depletion by leeches or blister if necessary. Coirection of ametropia by use of spectacles. Retinitis.—(a) Syphilitic, (b) Albuminuric, (c) Apoplectic, (d) Pigmented. Syphilitic Retinitis.—One of the many secondary symp- toms of syphilis—generally occurring between six and eighteen months after infection—occurs in inherited as well as ia acquired syphilis. Ophthalmoscope shows a grayish-white haze ai'ound optic disc, patches of yellowish-white exudation over the fundus, generally more or less choroiditis, generally more or less turbidity of vitreous. Treatment.—Functional rest of eyes, general treatment for secondary syphilis. Albuminuric Retinitis (Nephritic R.) may come on gra- dually with the advance of kidney disease; may be dependent on uraemia and occur in the later stages of kidney disease. May be caused by temporary albuminuria, as in that which occasionally occurs during pregnancy. In early stage sight may be unafiected. Ophthalmoscope shows a dull gray haze in central region of retina due to oedema, generally a few small patches of hsemorrhage scattered over fundus. Optic disc may be also swollen. In advanced stage sight gi-eatly affected in one or both eyes. Central region occupied by numerous dots, spots, or patches of an opaque white substance gi-ouped around the yellow spot. HsemoiThages are frequent, and usually have a striated appearance. Optic nerve sometimes inflamed (neuro-