214 DISEASES OF KIDNEY. cheerful manner, as though the recollection of them was not so very painful after all; (4) stiflhess and contractions disappear under ansesthetics; (5) instead of being hotter than the healthy- joint, as in the case of inflammations, the affected joint is often colder; (6) other hysterical symptoms, and even a manifest cause for them, may coexist. But bear in mind that hysterical patients are not exempt from organic disease, and that' hysteria' itself even sometimes leads to actual alterations in the joints. This is not surprising, considering the intimate relations, patho- logically as well as physiologically, between the spinal cord and the joints. Treatment.—See Hysteria. Refer to Paget's Clin. Led. Kidney, Diseases of.—Frequently comphcate, and are pro- duced by bladder and urethra disorders, especially such as obstruct; the flow of urine. Amyloid kidney is a common result of prolonged suppurations and of syphilis. According to Marcus Beck (his contribution to Erichsen's Surgery, ed. 7, vol. ii., should be carefully read), such diseased conditions of the Ureters and Pelvis of the kidneys are met with in three chief forms, viz., 1, the results of simple over-distension with- out acute inflammation; 2, acute inflammation without signs of over-distension; 3, a combination of the two. Simple chronic over-distension leads to dilatations with a certain amount of thickening. The conditions of the kidney are classified as follows:—1, change resulting from pressme by urinary obstruction; 2, acute interstitial inflammation; 3, acute interstitial inflammation with scattered abscesses; 4, the results of former acute and subacute attacks, from which the patient has recovered. 1. Pressure hy Urinary Obstruction causes dUatation of the kidney, absorption of the pyi-amids, cellular infiltration of the intertubular tissue (interstitial ne- phritis), and little or no change in the tubules themselves in the cortex. Capsule tough and adherent. In severe cases even the cortex is almost entirely atrophied, so that the kidney becomes a mere sac. 2. Acute diffuse Interstitial Inflammation. —Kidney soft and swollen; capsule separates readily, but kidney-substance gives way during the separation. Surface mottled ; section also mottled; cortex pale, but pyi'amids much