198 INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. invagination takes place chiefly at the expense of the lower, that is the containing part of the bowel; e.g., an intussusception commencing at the lower part of the small intestine will gradu- ally absorb c^cum, ascending colon, &c., till the caecum appear even out of the anus. Of course a section of an intussusception would show three concentric cylinders, of which the inmost and middle present serous surfaces towards each other, while the middle and outmost touch each other on their mucous surfaces. Between the inmost and middle cylinders is the mesentery, taper- ing to a point at the lower end of the involution and causing an arching of the involuted part of the intestine towards its mesen- teric border. The orifice at the lower end of the central cylinder, namely that which opens into the bowel below the disease, is a slit and not circular. Peritonitis and adhesions usually occur, though often not till very late in the coui'se of the case. Enteritis occurs and causes mucous and bloody stools. The natural process of cure is for the involuted intestine to inflame, become strangulated, slough, and come away ^jer amm. 2. Strangulation by hands or hy congenital diverticula. Bands are usually adhesions of inflammatory origin; they are often attached to diverticula. Diverticula are mostly found at the lower end of the ileum. They originate either from a partial persistence of the omphalo-mesenteric duct or from a hernia of the mucous coat of the bowel. 3, Volvulus; three varieties; 1 st, when bowel is rotated on its own axis, only occvirs in ascending colon • 2nd, when mesentery forms the axis and is twisted mto a cone, only occurs in small intestine; 3rd, when one cofl of intestine forms the axis round which another coil is bent. Most volvuli occur in sigmoid flexure. Loose flabby mesentery usually found in these cases, Internal hernial. ^eeHEKNiA. 5, Strictures. Almost aU occur in large intestme. Caaises cicatrices of tuberculous or of dysenteric ulcers, or of ulcers caused by irritation of foreign bodies; inflammatory eff-usion and contraction in the substance of the intestinal wall; cancer. The last cause is the most common. The pathology of the remaining causes of intestinal obstruction need not be considered in detail here. . . ,., ^i^^s.—Vomiting, constipation, abdominal pam; constitu-