98 ECZEMA. enlarge opening in skull if necessary with trephine, and remove tumour from dura mater, if possible. It is next to impossible to diagnose before operating, whether similar tumours spring from the dura mater or from the cranium itself. Refer to Louis on Fungous Tumours of Dura Mater, Sydenham Society's Translation. Dura Mater, iRRiTATioisr of.—Injuries of the head which cause this produce symptoms such as contractures and con- vulsions on the same side of the body.—See Duret on ' Cerebral Traumatism,' and an abstract by Terrier, in Brain, for 1879. A very severe case of this affection recovered under cold douche. —See Trans. CUn. Soc., 1879, p 145. Dysphagia is a symptom arising from obstruction to the CESophagus, e.g., by pressure from aneurism, tumours, &c., or from ulcers, cancers, or foreign bodies; sometimes merely spas- modic.— Vide CEsoPHAGUS. Eczema.—A supei'ficial inflammation of the skin, with a tendency to spread, and attended by the formation of minute vesicles from which escapes a discharge, usually serous. Three varieties: 1, eczema simplex, or ordinary eczema; 2, eczema im- petiginodes, where the secretion is purulent; 3, eczema rubrum, where there is great redness and inflammation. Eczema squa- mosum is a term applied when the transudation dries quickly. Causes.—Three classes, 1, direct irritants, e.g., solar and tropical heat, the water cure, mercurial inunction, irritation of parasites; 2, venous obstruction, e.g., varicose veins in legs; 3, constitu- tional causes; sometimes congenital; occasional connection with dyspepsia and disordered menstruation. Scrofulous and rickety children are much disposed to eczema. Gout. Symptoms and Course —Skin red and moist, the moisture exuding from mmute vesicles. Or, instead of moisture, a branny dryness. Itching. Tendency to become chronic and to recur. Prognosis.—As a rule, quite amenable to treatment. Treatment.-Vng. hjdr^vg. am- moniat.; lotion of hydrarg. perchlor. (gr. ij ad gj); ung. zinci. Scabs to be removed by fomenting and poulticmg or by soakmg in oil; lotions of carbonate of soda to check discharge. For very extensive eczema with great itching, use the shower-bath two or three times a day for ten or fifteen minutes m a warm