^48 STRICTURE OP URETHRA. practised it. A cradle keeps the bed-clothes off the hips, &c. Liq. opii sed. m xx, or morphia suppositories will relieve severe pain. Some patients cannot endure the treatment at all. Orchitis is a possible complication. Diarrhoea may require chalk mixture. Haemorrhage may occur. Slight purulent discharge accompanies the treatment. ' Vital' Dilatation.'—When instrument will not pass through stricture, and there is yet no retention, pass a bougie down to stricture and leave it. Perhaps in a day or two it will pass. Rupture by Holt's Dilators.—Mr. Holt passes an instrument consisting of two parallel blades, and then forcibly driving a tube down between them, ruptures the stricture. Give ether. Use suflScient force. Pass a No. 10 catheter immediately. Remove it at once, and pass it again at intervals of two days in first week, then once a week, then once a fortnight, lastly, once a month. This plan has a great deal in its favour. See Mr. Holt's book. Dilatation from Behind.—In certain cases, impermeable from the front, Mr. Furneaux Jordan has plunged a bistoury into the membranous part of the urethra, from the rectum, adjacent to which the membranous urethra lies. This is done by placing the patient in the lithotomy position, feeling for the anterior border of the prostate, and cutting exactly in the median line. Then a fine bougie is insinuated from behind forwards, through the wound. Internal Urethrotomy.—Various forms of urethrotome. Some cut from behind forwards, others from before backwards, in almost all cases with a guide previously jDassed through stricture. Division from behind forwards preferred. Suit- able cases are those strictures which either cannot be dilated beyond a small calibre, or which rapidly recontract after dilatation. Operation (with Civiale's urethrotome) : Ascertain position of stricture by means of bulb at end of instrument. Pass the urethrotome so far down the urethra that when the blade is projected the incision shall commence about ^-inch beyond the stricture. Pull out the instrument, incising the urethra for about l^-inch altogether. There is no danger in a long incision, but real danger in incising very deeply. Proper depth ^ Dupuytren, Legons Oiales.