278 SINUS. dangerous condition is that termed * prostration with excite- ment,' in which. ' the languor or stupor of collapse is succeeded by restlessness, jactitation, tremor, and twitchings of the mus- cles, prtecordial anxiety, often but not always delii-ium of various degrees.' (Savory.) Treatment.—Warmth, hot water bottle to feet, flanks, and epigastrium, warm affusion to head. Hori- zontal position. Frictions. Stimulants : brandy, ammonia. Do not pour fluids down a patient unable to swallow. Gal- vanism to prsecordia. Treat haemorrhage if present. Remember that collapse in some cases of internal haemorrhage is useful by giving time for nature to close the bleeding vessels. In such cases the treatment had better be limited to horizontal posture, strict quiet, external warmth, and such action as the bleeding may demand. Transfusion. When reaction has commenced, food must be given, e.g., small quantities, frequently repeated, of brandy and egg mixture, milk, and strong soup. With regard to operating dm-ing shock, the surgeon seldom hesitates now, relying upon the stimulating powers of ether, and the relief from pain and discomfort which follows the removal of a mangled limb. But every care must be taken to prevent haemorrhage, which is very badly borne by a collapsed patient. Sinus.—An abnormal passage whose length decidedly exceeds its diameter, and which is not a healthy, healing wound. Paget, in describing sinus and fistula together, says they include three classes, viz.—(1) long, narrow, suppurating canals, (2) canals giving exit to unnatui-al secretions {e.g. gastric fistula, biliary fistula), (3) abnormal apertures between mucous cavities {e.g. vesico-vaginal fistula). He goes on to say that ' if a dis- tinction is to be made between the terms,' 'sinus' should be applied exclusively to those of the first form, in which the canal has but one opening. To thus limit the term 'sinus,' would be to differ from many surgeons. {Vide, e.g.. Pott's chirurgical works, p. 590, where ' sinus' means either blind or complete fistula.) Causes.—U&usllj (1) abscess; sometimes (2) wound, (3) ulceration, (4) sloughing. In addition to these, one or other of the following secondary causes almost essential, viz.—(1) Presence of dead bone, or of foreign body, (2) some mechanical obstruction to the free discharge of pus, (3) the