CANCEE. 69 these special symptoms, viz., 1, bearing-down pains; 2, incon- tinence of urine. Diagnose carefully from uterine disease, by sounding and vaginal examination. Frognosin.—LinhWitj to ulceration into vagina, and consequent vesico-vaginal fistula, Treament.—'Remove calculus. Three classes of methods, viz., 1, urethral dilatation; 2, lithotrity; 3, lithotomy. The dilata- tion is best done with a screw, three-bladed dilator. Vide also articles Lithotomy and Lithotritt. Danger of incontinence if the urethra is dilated too much. The limits of size for dilatation shordd be a diameter of one to one and a half inch for adults, and half as much for children. Slow dilatation almost always followed by incontinence. (Eefer to Walsham, St. Bart. Hosp. Rep. vol. xi.) Cancer,—The term is commonly used as if synonymous with ' mahgnant,' and therefore including other new growths besides ' carcinomata.' Characters of Malignancy.—A cancer tends to 1, infiltrate neighbouring tissues; 2, recur; 3, affect lymphatic glands; 4, be followed by secondary deposits ; and if the cancer be left long enough, all these four events are pretty sure to take place. Cancers also tend to soften and ulcerate, and ' there is scai'cely a tissue or an organ which they may not iiivade.' Causes.—There can be little doubt but that hereditary influence has some effect in this as in the liability to most other diseases. Still the cancer at its origin is probably local, and various local irritations, such as blows, smoking clay pipes, decayed and rough teeth, (fee, can often be traced as exciting causes. Soft cancer occurs chiefly in youth, hard cancer in middle age. It is certain that affections at first pure chronic inflammations in their nature sometimes pass into cancer. Symptoms.—Those of a new growth differing from an innocent tumour in more or less of the following characters : 1, it tends to infiltrate; 2, to involve neighbouring tissues; 3, to attack neighbouring lymphatic glands ; 4, it grows more rapidly than innocent tumours; 5, it is usually more pain- ful ; 6, it tends to soften and ulcerate; 7, it has the peciiUar fea- tures of one of the varieties of cancer Prognosis.—Vide Cancer OF Breast, &c,—Epithelial cancers kill, on the average, in fifty- three months; scirrhus in thirty-two (Sibley), Soft cancer is still more rapid. Cancer kills by, 1, htemorrhage; 2, interference