264 PYEMIA. (4) unmanageableness and restlessness. Many slight cases of feverishness have been converted into aciite blood-poisoning by severe exercise, e.g., ascending a mountain. ' You will find in every day's pi-actice that fatigue has a larger share in the pro- motion or permission of disease than any other single causal condition you can name' (Paget). • After wounds, children are singularly free from pyaemia' (Paget). Pathology.—T^e natxire of the changes in the blood is unknown. Localities attacked are (1) joints, (2) viscei-a, (3) serous membranes, (4) mucous membranes, (.5) skin; and to these may be added the veins, lymphatics, and cellular tissue throughout the rest of the body. In the viscera are foiuad low inflammations and metastatic abscesses. The affected joints and serons cavities are inflamed and filled with pus. External to the joints are oedema and flushes of redness. The afiected mucous membranes are in- flamed, and may give vent to gi'eat discharge. This, in the case of the gastro-intestinal canal, causes diarrhoea and even vomiting. When the skin is affected, blood-poisoniag usually shows itself as erysipelas {quod vide), or as pustular inflamma- tion. Veins become the seat of thrombosis, with or without precedent inflammation. Jaundice and suppression of urine sometimes occur in the course of pysemia. Symptoms and Course.—1. Acute Pyaemia: rigors and feehng of illness. Perhaps purging and vomiting, with or without jaundiced hue of skin. High temperatiire. Eapid and frequent pulse. Eiy- sipelatous inflammation of neighbourhood of wound. Tender and inflamed glands. Acute pneumonia or pleurisy. Finally, ' the patient—flushed, anxious, restless, even delii-ious—is in a hopeless condition, with prostration and rapid sinking.'' Duration: about five or six days. 2. Sub-acute or Chronic Pysemia : A typical case presents, successively, the following symptoms :—wound dry and inflamed, its edges swollen. This local inflammation spreads. Pain and tenderness; burrowing of pus; fever; rigors; abscess forms near the wound; neigh- bouring joint swells; other abscesses form. Large lymphatics and glands may inflame and suppurate. Fever continues; temperature rises and falls irregularly, high rises usually coin- 1 Cnllender in Holmes's Systam.