EXCISION OF WRIST. 107 Hfemon^hage occasionally very serious. In removing the entire bone, divide tlie muscles attached to posterior border at an early sta-e of the operation, and leave the subscapular vessels till last. °Tie the vessels as the operation proceeds. Prognosis.— Danger not so great as might be expected. Excision of Shoulder.—Done for gunshot wounds and com- pound dislocations, and occasionally may be justifiable in cases of bone-disease or innocent tumour. But, in cases of bone-disease, the cure by natural ankylosis affords a perfectly satisfactory result, which is not improved" upon by excision. Ojyeration.—lnciAon. Longitudinal from just outside coracoid process downwards and outwards for five inches, right down to bone. Open capsule and divide muscles attached to tubercles of humerus, rotating oiit- wards while cutting internal rotator (sub-scapularis), and vice versd. Arm should at same time be brought across chest. Pull tendon of biceps aside. Operator himself now seizes upper arm in his left hand and pushes head of humerus out of wound. Clean soft parts from line of saw-cut. Saw. If, upon opening the joint, amputation is judged expedient, make a circular in- cision at the lower end of the longitudinal one, and disarticulate. Excision may be performed with a flap incision, raising the deltoid. Glenoid cavity rarely removed. Prognosis.—Very good. Useful limb. Fatality: of fifty cases, in seventeen the glenoid cavity was interfered with, and in thirty-three the head of the humerus only was touched ; of the seventeen, seven died; of the thirty-three, only one died. But in military surgery, one in four died. Excision of Tahsal Bones.—See Excision of Os Oalcis, above. Excision of these bones for disease requires a little knowledge of anatomy, and then the surgeon had best be left to adapt his incisions to the particular case. The astragalus may be removed very well by incisions similar to those given for excision of the ankle-joint. Its excision gives excellent results. Excision of the smaller tarsal bones is often by no means a good substitute for amputation. Excision of Wrist.—Lister's method. Its description includes at least twelve directions, besides the application of Esmarch's bandage. L Make first incision (two are required)