EXTRAVASATION OF URINE. 109 of cancellous bone covered with a thin layer of hyaline cartilage. The cartilage grows on its superficial surface, and keeps ossify- ing on its deep surface. Ivory exostosis has the structure of compact bone, but the Haversian canals are smaller, and the lacuna3 less regular. Growth slow, and tends to stop, eventually, even without treatment. Seat.—Spongy exostosis : epiphyses of tibia, fibula, humerus, and femur, &c. Ivory exostosis : bones of face and skull, pelvis, scapula, and ungual phalanx of great toe. Characters and Sij7nptoins.—Thej ai-e recognised by their hard bony feel, their immobility and theii- position. The ivory exostosis is especially round, nodulated, and smooth. The neck of the tumour varies in size, and this is an important point in treating hard exostosis. They often cause aching and pain in the limb, and may be serious from pressure on important parts. Treatment.—They should be let alone, unless they cause great deformity or pain, or press upon important parts. For they often are dangerously near to joints, may even be covered by a pouch from the articular synovial membrane; and the hard exostoses of the skull sometimes I'equire great violence to re- move them. An incision should be made over the exostosis to be removed, and then saw, chisel, or cutting-pliers applied. It is said that the neck need not be removed. But Stanley writes: ' Absolute security against the reproduction of an exostosis can be obtained only by the removal of every part of its circumference.' If necessary, he adds, the potassa fusa, or nitric acid, may be used to produce exfoliation of the base of the tumour. DilFuse bony tumour may require amputation of a limb or extirpation of an entire bone, and even then it has been known to recur. Nothing can be done for ' exercise-bones.' Extravasation of Urine.—When extravasation of urine is described as a distinct disease, it usually means that which is caused by the urethra bursting just behind a stricture. Rup- ture of the urethra from violence causes similar symptoms. Extravasation into the pelvis, or into the peritoneal cavity, may result from ruptm-e of the bladder, quod vide. Symptoms. —Patient has a stricture of the urethra with retention. Sudden sensation of relief and, simultaneously, of something giving way in perinseum, succeeded by stinging, burning pain