AMPUTATION. Leg, Amputation of.—Any one of the ordinary methods can be used; but double-skin flaps and circular through muscles are very good. Care should be taken not to lock the knife between the two bones, and not to tm-n its edge upwards in cleaning between the bones. The sharp anterior edge of the tibia should be bevelled off with the saw. Sawing through the fibula should always be completed before the division of the tibia. Mortality.—For disease, one in twelve; for injury, 60 per cent. ^ Penis, Amputation of.—Clover's clamp or tape to check haemorrhage. Corpus spongiosum to be cut half-an-inch longer than C. cavernosa. Value of galvanic cautery ecraseur. Urethra to be split into three and sewn to skin. Skin to be divided higher up than the ' corpora,' i.e., the very reverse of the prin- ciple adopted in amputating a limb. Shoulder-Joint, j^ mputation of.—Three chief methods, viz.: 1, lateral flaps; 2, anterior and posterior flaps; 3, oval in- cision. But in cases of extensive injury to upper arm, almost any operation may be expected to give a satisfactory stump. Lateral Flaps.—Transfix in cases of injury. Cut from without inwards when for disease. Knife, narrow-bladed. Three assistants : 1, holds the limb; 2, raises the flap; 3, follows the knife as it cuts behmd the humerus, and grasps the inner flap with the axillary artery. Subclavian may be compressed. Position of operator : for right limb, stand before; for left limb, stand behind. Right side : enter knife midway between acro- mion and coracoid process. Left side, enter well behind spine of scapula, at posterior border of axilla. Outer flap should contain most of deltoid. Secondly, open capsule, divide muscles attached to great tuberosity (arm rotated inwards) and subscap- ularis (arm rotated outwards). Thirdly, having dislocated head of humerus, pass knife behind it and cut down for a distance of three inches, keeping close to inner side of bone (so as not to divide artery too soon). Then complete inner flap by turning 1 These statistics of amputations are average; and, of course, differ from those of some exceptionally successful surgeons. Moreover, surgical operations have been steadily increasing in safety for years, thanks to Lister and others.