128 FRACTURES. of diapliragm and abdominal viscera, liver, or spleen. 1 and 2 imply a wound of the lung; 4 implies either a wound or bruise of the lung. Emphysema is far the commonest compli- cation. Practically, cases of fractured rib are classified into those without and those with injury to the lungs. Secondary complications are inflammations and empyema. Diagnosis.— When crepitus cannot be obtained, consider generally all the symptoms present. Prognosis.—If there is no visceral injury, speedy union with formation of provisional callus may be ex- pected. If there is visceral injuiy, then prognosis depends on its nature and amount. The danger in such cases is threefold : firstly, shock; secondly, haemorrhage; thirdly, inflammation. Treatment.—Broad bandage round chest, prevented from slip- ping down by braces of bandage across shoulders. Strapping all round chest, or extending merely from spine to sternum over injured side. In some cases, bandaging ajjpears to press the sharp ends of the fragments inwards; it is then, of course, contraindicated. In bad cases, rest in bed for a few days and moderate diet. For treatment of complications, see articles HEMORRHAGE, INJURIES OF Thoeax, Lungs, &c. Treatment lasts a month. Sacrum, Fracture of.—Causes.—Either severe crushing force applied to the whole pelvis, or else gun-shot wounds. Prognosis.—^Yery bad, Tj-eat each case with its complications on general principles. Scapula, Fracture of.—Varieties.—Four, viz., 1, of body; 2, of neck; 3, of coracoid process; 4, of acromion {See Frac- ture OF Acromion and of Coracoid). Fracture of Body of Scapula.—Causes.—Severe direct violence. Signs.—(Often obscure,) pain, loss of power, crepitus, irregularity in spine of scapula if fracture passes throygh that process, ^^reaimen^.—Bandage pad over scapula, elbows sup- ported by a sling. Prognosis.—Ddovmiij not unlikely. Fractures of Nech of Scapula.—Two kinds, viz., 1, of ana- tomical neck, i.e., external to coracoid; 2, of surgical neck, i.e., internal to coracoid process. In fracture of the anatomical neck, the symptoms resemble those of dislocation of the head of the humerus into the axilla; but the deformity produced by