404 EYE, DISEASES OF. infantile sypHlis can generally be ascertained, either in the patient or his brothers and sisters; or a history of acquired syphilis in the parents may be traced. A few cases have been seen in which this disease has occurred as the result of acquired syphilis. Treatment.—A long but mild coui'se of mercury. Mei-curial inunction, gray powder, blue pill, &c. Iodide of potassium may be combined with these. Keep a strict watch against salivation. If the patient be anaemic or strumous, give iodide of iron, bark, quinine, &c. Keep the eyes shaded. Use atro- pine drops daily, as iritis may occur without beiag detected through the opaque cornea. When inflammation has subsided, apply calomel powder, or ointment of yellow oxide of mercury to the cornea daily, in order to promote the absorption of the opacity. Keratitis punctata is charactei-ised by the presence of small dots of opacity on the posterior elastic lamina of the cornea. They are generally arranged in the form of a triangle, having its apex at the centre, and its base towards the lower margin of the cornea. This condition is generally secondary to some form of inflammation of iris. It is frequently seen in sympathetic ophthalmitis. Arcus senilis is caused by fatty degeneration of the corneal tissue just within its margin. Pannus is the result of friction from a granular condition of the upper lid, trichiasis, he. It is characterised by haziness of the cornea, with vascularity, the vessels being continuous with those of the conjunctiva, and the anterior layers of the cornea more or less infiltrated with plastic matter. Treatment. —1. Try to cure the granular lids. 2. The operation of sijndec- tomyov perit07ny—\h&t is, the removal of a zone of conjunctival and sub-conjunctival tissue from aroimd the cornea—is strongly recommended by Mr. Critchett in old intractable cases of pannus. 3 Very severe and universal pannus is best treated by inno- culation with pus from purulent ophthalmia, or even from <.onorrhoeal discharge. It is a severe remedy, and may be fol- lowed by sloughing of cornea. It should never be resorted to if there is any portion of the cornea transparent.