EYE, DISEASES OF. shades off towards circumference. It mostly occurs in old people, when it is hard at the centre and of amber colour, men occurring before the age of 35 it is softer and whiter. 2. CoETiCAL OR Eadiating.—Opacity begins at surface of lens as triangular or pyramidal streaks pointing towards centre. When advanced they involve whole structure of lens. 3. Lamellar or Zonular.—Opacity consists of a shell-like layer deposited within the substance of the lens at a variable distance from its siirface. It occurs in very young subjects (1 to 3 months), and is sometimes congenital; the subjects of it frequently suffer from infantile convulsions. 4. Capsular.—(a) Pyramidal ■ (b) Posterior Polar, (a) Pyramidal.—Occurs as a very white well-defined opacity on front part of lens just beneath the capsule. It is generally caused by ulcer of cornea following purulent ophthalmia, and, consequently, is generally associated with opacity of cornea. (b) Posterior Polar.—Begins at posterior part of chief axis of lens and radiates; generally associated with disease of choroid and vitreous. 5. Traumatic.—Follows wound of the lens capsule by which the aqvieous humour is admitted to the lens substance, causing swelling, opacity, and final absorption of thLs, and leaving only a chalk-like deposit upon the remaining capsule. 6. Secondary Cataract is so called when it is the result of some other- local disease, as glaucoma, irido-cyclitis, (fee, or of some general disease, as diabetes mellitus. Any combination of the above forms would be called a mixed cataract. The degree of hardness of a cataract depends chiefly upon the age of the patient, all cataracts occurring before the age of 35 being ' soft.' Diagnosis.—Gradual failure of sight without local inflam- matory symptoms is a subjective indication of cataract. A greyish appearance of the pupil is often observed in old people, which is not due to cataract, the lens being transparent. When the presence of cataract is suspected the pupil should be dilated by atropine and examined. (1) £i/ Daylight, diffused rays condensed upon the pupil with a convex lens. (2) By Gas- light in a similar way. These will give a white, amber-like, or