LITHOTRITY. downwards and backwards to reach bladder (which should contain several ounces of fluid), pushing away the peritoneum if necessary, and keeping near the back of the pubes. 3. Depress handle of staff which is in the bladder, so as to raise its point; and open bladder by cutting down on this point. 4. Enlarge incision in bladder towards its neck. 5. Extract with lithotomy forceps. Chief dangers are from peritonitis and urinary infiltra- tion, and they are immensely increased by the bad state of the kidneys, usually found when the calculus is large, and conse- quently when the supra-pubic operation is done. A soft catheter should be left in the urethra till the wound becomes fistulous. The supra-pubic operation can be done antiseptically, Lithotrity.—Operation, by which a calculus is crushed in the bladder and the fragments afterwards extracted through the urethra.' Circumstances under which suitable.—When (1) age is 15 or upwards, (2) stone is less than one inch in diameter (if the other conditions are favourable this limit may be con- siderably exceeded), (3) it is of soft or friable material, e.g., phosphates, (4) urethra is healthy, (5) bladder and kidneys are healthy, (6) prostate is normal. A combination of the above conditions should make success certain. Noticing each individu- ally, it may be observed that lithotomy is safer when the age is under 15, when the bladder and kidneys are diseased and the stone large or the stones numerous, when the urethra is narrowed by a stiicture and the bladder at the same time not very healthy, and when the prostate is so enlarged as to make manipxilation of the lithotrite or removal of the fragments difficult. But there are many cases in which the reasons for or against lithotomy or lithotrity are very nicely balanced. The main considerations are, undoubtedly, age pf patient and health of genito-urinary organs. A practised lithotritist is justified in crushing where a less experienced surgeon ought to cut. Operation.—Instru- ments : lithotrite, Clover's syringe, linen cloth on which to wipe lithotrite, oil, basin of water to receive fragments, warm water to inject if required. Preparation.—Rest and treatment of vesical irritability, if present, for a short time before day of 1 Professor Dolbeau's ' Perinaeal Lithotrity' is outside the above definition. His operation is really a combination of lithotrity and lithotomy.