SPINE, INJUEIES OF. ^o7 Excess of cerebro-spinal fluid in fetal Hfe, according to Lowne. Pathology.—'Pevhai>s primarily a local inflammatory dropsy of spinal meninges. At all events, these membranes bulge through defect in spinal canal. Spinal cord or spinal nerves often in the tumour (when present, always in middle line, though often widely spread). Dura mater and arachnoid blend with skin. Symptoms.—A fluctuating tumour in median line be- hind, usually in lumbar region, sessile or pedunculated, often translucent, springing from the bones; may be partially reduci- ble by pressure—such pressure may cause spasms or convulsions. May sweU when child cries. Skin thickened and rough or thin and bluish-red. Diagnosis.—It is usually easy to see that a true spina bifida is one. It is not always easy to be certain that a cyst closely connected with the bones is not one. Compare each case with the signs just detailed. Prognosis.—Grave. More hope- ful when the neck of the tumour is very narrow. Treatment.— (1) Palliative, (2) radical. Palliative : a leaden shield, well- padded and accm-ately fitting. Radical : three forms, viz., (1) injection with iodine, (2) pressure, (3) excision. Operation very dangerous; and surgeon should be content with palliative measures, unless tumour is getting steadily worse or on point of bm-sting. Pedunculated tumours ofifer best prospect of success from injection. An endeavour should be made to isolate sac from general cavity of spinal membranes during injection. Sometimes long-continued pressm^e, e.g. by Dtipuytren's entero- tome, will effect this isolation permanently, and thus cure the case. To inject iodine, a part of the fluid shotild first be drawn ofl^, and then two drops of pure tincture of iodine injected. [See Holmes's System, vol. v. p. 806.) Repeated aspiration may be ti'ied with- out injection. Morton of Glasgow has been very successful with the following injection :—R iodi. gr. x; pot. iod. gr. xxx ; glycerini §j. About 5ss to 5ij is injected through a medium- sized canula. Ptepeat if necessary. Avoid unnecessary escape of spinal fluid. Spine, Injuries of, include dislocation, fracture, and sprain. With these should be studied concussion, traumatic compres- sion, and traumatic inflammation of the spinal cord and its membranes.