HERNIA. Obstructed hernia.—In this condition the impediment to the transit of feces lies mthin the bowel, not external to it as in strangulation. But the symptoms differ from those of strangu- lation chiefly in degree. When obstruction is complicated with inflammation, diagnosis from strangulation is very difficult. Umbilical hernia} are the favourite seats of obstruction. Pam, flatulence of tumour, increased tension and size of tumour ; on manipulation, gurgling may be produced and solid fffical matter felt. Feverishness, nausea, vomiting, ^'reaimeKi.—Poultices and aperient enemata. Gentle purgations before vomiting occurs. When an irreducible hernia is obstructed, it is sometimes called an ' incarcerated hernia.' Straiujulated Hernia.—The herniated parts are so compressed at or near neck of sac that the circulation of blood through their vessels and of ftecal matter through herniated intestine is obstructed. Predisiwsing causes :—Disordered or relaxed state of health. Sudden formation and descent of a congenital hernia. Working without having the prudence to keep up a hernia by a truss. SymjJtoms.—Local: pain, tenderness, swelling, usually increased tension, uneasy feeling in hj^ogastrium, dragging sensations from neighbourhood of rupture. General: nausea, anorexia, vomiting, constipation, tenesmus; feverishness, flushed cheeks, frequent pulse, furred tongue. Then vomiting gets worse, local tenderness increases, peritonitis comes on, patient collapses and dies. The vomiting is rarely absent. It is of a characteristic nature. Large quantities of fluid are thrown out of the mouth with a sudden gush. This fluid at first comes from stomach, then intestines, it is then called ' faecal,' sometimes ' stercoraceous.' Constipation is complete. Pathology.—Con- striction of hernial tumour at point of strangulation, so that when the bowel is liberated a distinct groove still remains, marking the line of stricture. Changes which take place in strangulated bowel or omentum are, 1, congestion and swelling, 2, inflammation, 3, gangrene. The signs of these three stages will be given in describing the operation of herniotomy; as it is most important to bear them in mind during that operation. The fluid in the sac will be described at the same time. Diagnosis.