STRICTURE OF URETHRA. 345 TION OF. Treatment of strictures in which there is no urgent retention. Varieties may be classed as follows : (1) dilatation, (2) rupture, (3) urethrotomy. These three classes include at least eight methods, viz.: (1) intermittent dilatation, (2) con- tinuous dilatation, (3) vital dilatation, (4) rupture, (5) dilatation from behind—Jordan's operation, (6) internal urethrotomy, (7) external urethrotomy, (8) perinseal section.^ 1. Dilatation.— Instruments : silver, gum-elastic (English), or French catheters or bougies. The soft French instruments are preferred to silver ones by the majority of people accustomed to both. Sir Henry Thompson strongly recommends them. The English gum-elastic has the advantage that it can be moulded to any curve in warm water, and stiffened in the new curve by plung- ing it into cold water. Silver catheters permit their points to be directed with greater precision than soft ones. The advan- tage of using a catheter instead of a bougie, is only that the former instrument, by giving passage to urine, tells you when it has entered the bladder. French instruments usually taper near the end, but have the end itself nobbed to prevent catch- ing in the urethral lacunas. Hence the name ' bougie a boule.' The French sizes No. 3 to Ko. 21 correspond nearly to our No, 1 to No. 12 : the number of each size of the former scale repre- senting the number of millimetres in its circumference. Catgut and whalebone bougies are also used for very narrow strictures. Rules for Ordinary Gatheterism.—\. Patient may stand upright with his back against the wall; but as he may faint, it is safer for him to he down on his back. 2. Stand on patient's right if he is lying down. Sit in front of him if he is upright. In difficult cases bring the patient to the foot of the bed, and stand between his legs. 3. See that your catheter is clean and not blocked up. 4. Warm it slightly. 5. Oil it well. 6. Steady the penis with your left finger and thumb, and, holding the instrument lightly between the thumb and two fingers of your right hand, pass its point five inches down the urethra, that is as far as it will easily go while the instrument is in its present position (that is to say, with its handle parallel ' To these should be added dilatation hv Wakley's tubes, which glide one over the other, and the smallest over a small silver catheter.