DISEASES OF KIDNEY. 2l0 concrested. Microscopically, great cellular infiltration heU een the^tubuli. In many parts tubuH are seen compressed or destroyed. Most infiltration round Malpighian bodies. 3. Acute Interstitial Nephritis with Scattered Abscesses.—Fr^- quently coincident with acute pyelitis and putrid iirme m pelvis of kidney. Kidney shows, in the parts affected, signs of the condition described in the last paragraph (interstitial nephritis), and, in addition, scattered groups of bright yellow spots. These spots are minute abscesses. In certain cases this disease may advance to general suppiu-ation of the whole kidney. 4. Effects of former attacks from which the Patient has recovered. These correspond to the changes which result from interstitial inflammations elsewhere. In mild cases complete resolution is possible; but in more severe ones cicatricial fibroid changes make the kidney contracted and tough, obliterating many of its glandtilar elements. The capsule is hard to separate; many small cysts lie beneath it; the cortex is greatly thinned; but the pyramids are little altered. Causes of Interstitial Inflam- mation.—I, tension; 2, reflex irritation; 3, septic matter in pelvis of kidney. The origin of reflex irritation in these cases is usually some disease in, injury to, or operation on the bladder and prostatic part of the urethra. But, in Beck's opinion, it is likely that, ' in all cases of operation on the urethra, there is a miniature representation of that intense congestion of the kidney which is found in cases of death from suppression of the m'ine after simple catheterism.' Symptoms of Kidney-disease in Surgical Affections of THE Genito-Urinary Organs. Those of simple dilatation of the kidney are few. The most important are increased quantity and diminished specific gravity of the iirine. The urine to be examined should be collected for twenty-four hours. Subacute Interstitial Nephritis is often obscured by the affection which has led to it, e.g., by vesical catarrh. But even in such cir- cumstances a dry tongue, persistent nocturnal rises of tempera- ture (rarely to above 101° F.), emaciation, and occasional nausea, are ominous symptoms. Urine copious : its specific gravity usually low. Acute Interstitial Nephritis with scattered Abscesses.—Begins