42 BLEEDING. Strengthen general health, attend to digestion and state of urine. Teach patient to pass a catheter for himself, so that he may be free from fear of retention (Paget's Clin. Led.). Bladder, Tubercle of, seldom, if ever, occurs except with tubercle of other urinary organs. Symptoms.—Those of ulceration in a tuberculous patient. Treatment.—That of tuberculosis : anodynes; rest. Bladder, Tumours of, are, 1, fibrous; 2, villous- or 3, cancerous and not villous. The first may cause no symptoms, or, if unfortunately situated, those of obstruction or irritation. The second causes constant haemorrhage, which is generally at last fatally exhausting. For the thii-d see Cancer of the Bladder. The catheter mvxst be gently used where there is ob- struction ; mild astringents and rest for haemorrhage; strength to be supported by chalybeates, good diet, (fee. In women, vesical tumours may sometimes be felt and removed through the urethra. The villous growth is sometimes the cause of severe pain, and may or may not be cancerous.* Bladder, Washing out, may be done either with a double- current catheter or with Clover's appai-atus, with Bigelo\7's apparatus or with a syphon-tube. Bleeding.—^Vensesection. Veins used : median-cephalic, median-basilic, external jugular, saphena veins near ankle, veins of scrotum. Instruments required : bleeding-tape or bandage, bowl, lancet, pad, sponge, and water. Apply tape to middle of upper arm, tight enough to congest veins, but not to affect pulse. Hang arm down a little while; then choose spot and apply thumb just below it. Pass lancet gently and obliquely into vein, and enlarge opening without deepening incision; draw ofi" enough blood. If necessary, make patient work his hand, opening and shutting it. Finally, apply pad over wound; fix it with the tape; put arm in sling for two days. In opening external jugular, put the pad just above the clavicle, and cut in the direction of the fibres of the sterno-mastoid. Bathe the veins of the scrotum with warm water before and after opening them. Arteriotomy.—Cut the temporal artery, 1 Papilloma of Bladder is always attached to trigone between the two ureters (Rindfleisch).