J-' - HERNIA. sary the knife must be re-introduced and the constricting band notched again. But there are certain conditions under which it is not right to reduce the hernia after dividing the stricture. It follows, of course, that when indications of these conditions are present no attempt should be made to reduce a hernia without opening the sac to see the actual state of things. Gangrenous hoioel, bowel manifestly ulcerated at the seat of stricture, and omentum inflamed or bruised should not be returned into the abdomen. In the former two cases an arti- ficial anus will form. In the case of inflamed omentum its return would probably set up general peritonitis; therefore the practice is to tie a stout ligature round its neck and cut the omentum off, merely leaving the neck or stump of it to block up the hernial ring. Slight wounds of the bowel do not contra- iudicate its reduction. The sides of a puncture can be lynched up and ligatured. A larger wound would i-equire the glover's suture. Characters of the serum in the sac.—1, "Within a few hours, it is pale yellow and clear. 2, After many hom-s, it becomes dark brown, but clear. 3, When intestine is more inflamed, oedematous, and leathery, the fluid is turbid and coffee- like. 4, As gangrene approaches, blood-clots, lymph-flakes, and pus mix with the fluid. 5, When intestine gives way, fseces and gas escape. Characters of the intestine at different stages of strangulation.—First stage. Congestion, various degrees from mere swelling and redness up to pui'ple colour with patches of extravasation causing a mottled look. Second stage. Inflamma- tion, same appearances as those of first stage ; but surface is dull and perhaps adherent, being covered wholly or partially with lymph. Third stage. Gangrene; more adhesive; surface duller; colour black or ashy; sloughing and perforation about to occm-. Artificial Anus results when herniated bowel sloughs or is deliberately and freely opened by surgeon. Possibility of former event happening even a week after reduction of hernia. Then adhesions prevent intra-peritoneal extravasation. Pathology.— Two openings, one into intestine above, other into intestine below. Former tends to enlarge, latter to diminish. Tendency to prolapsus of mucous membrane. Irritation and excoriation of skin. Spur between upper and lower portions of bowel.