272 SCROFULA, the patient moves out of doors on crutches. Before suppuration takes place, use counter-irritation, especially the actual cautery. Dead bone, if detected by probe, should be removed, if possible. Cod-liver oil, iron. High, dry, and healthy localities. Salivary Calculus.—A concretion sometimes obstructs a salivary duct. Slit up the duct, if necessary, and remove it. May cause swelling of gland. Ducts usually affected are the sublingual or submaxillary. Salivary Fistula (1) from obstructed duct. Treatment, —Establish an opening into the mouth by passing a seton right through the fistula into the mouth and tying its two ends together. Part of the cheek is thus, of course, enclosed in the loop. When an opening into the mouth is thus kept open for ten days, endeavour to close the external opening by cauteri- sation, unless it close spontaneously. (2) Salivary fistula from abscess in a gland is difficult to cure. Try cauterisation, Sarcocele.—See Testicle, Sarcoma.—See Tumours. Scalp, Injuries of.— Vide Head. Sciatica.—Neuralgia of great or of lesser sciatic nerve. Causes.—(1) Catching cold, (2) pressure of hardened faeces in rectum or of pelvic tumours, (3) peripheral iiTitations, e.g., inflamed corns, (4) many cases are of quite obscure origin. Always bear in mind that sciatic neuralgia may be only a sign of some more serious disorder.. Diagnose from hip and from Bacro-iliac disease. Treatment.—Vide Neuralgia. In obstinate cases try cautery (Coirigan's button), or even' nerve-stretching.' Purgatives, quinine. Iodide of potassium. Morphia injections. Blisters. Electricity. For Pathology, &c. of Sciatica, vide Neuralgia. Scrofula.—Definition.—A diathesis rather than a disease. Its characteristics are neatly given by Billroth as follow: ' Exists chiefly during childhood, though more advanced ages are not free from it.' * ' Persons with this diathesis, especially children, are greatly disposed to chronic inflammatory sweUings of the lymphatic glands, even after inconsiderable ii-ritations, to certain inflammations of the skin (eczema, impetigo), especi- 1 Read Paget on ' Senile Scrofula,' in his Clinical Lectures.