351 Sl'EICTUEE OF URETHEA. the urethra beyond. No trace of a meatus had remained, the surface of the glans being merely cicatricial tissue. If the impermeable stricture be in the penile part of the urethra, but not near the meatus, divide it subcutaneously, that is, pass a grooved director down to the stricture. Feel the size and position of the stricture with the finger and thumb, from the outside. Then, observing your landmarks carefully, and having the penis well and steadily held up on your director, pass a sharp tenotome through the skin opposite the end of the director. Next, without enlarging the skin-wound, and cutting always in the middle line, divide the stricture. "When the tenotome has once reached the urethra on the proximal side of the strictuie, the division can be accurately and thoroughly completed on a grooved staflP. For genuine impermeable strictui'O in the bulbous part of the urethra, perinseal section must be done, or the bladder may be punctured, after which catheterisation may be possible, owing to the repose which the stricture thus gets from pressure d, iergo. For treatment of Retention, see Retention of Ukine. PerincBal Section. — This operation resembles, external urethrotomy, but differs from it in that, the stricture, being impermeable, is not divided on a staff, but is carefully dissected through. The surgeon requires an excellent light. He should use all his knowledge of anatomy, constantly refer to the land- marks which are visible or palpable, and will do well to make the starting-point of his dissection the junction of the distal part of the urethra with the stiicture, a point which can be fixed by the end of a staff passed down to it. Work throughout in the exact median pla/ne of the lody. The details of this operation have been admirably worked out by Wheelhouse, of Leeds. He uses a staff with a button-like end. Urethra is opened a quarter of an inch in front of strictiure, the oiifice of the latter being then searched for with the probe. See Brit. Med. Jotmi., June 24,1876. Accide7Us of Stricture are—Perinseal abscess, perineal fistula' pemle or ante-scrotal fistula, retention of mine, each of which IS noticed m its alphabetical place. False Passage is a common eflect of rough catheterism. Treatment.~lf there is retention, the bladder may be reached