238 DISEASES OE MUSCLES. 3, reflex irritation, e.g., from worms (intestinal irritation), phimosis (sexual irritation); 4, ' antagonism,' i.e., contraction of one set of muscles because its opponents are paralysed j 5, continued relaxation of a muscle, e.g., the state of the flexors of a Hmb which has long been kept on an angular splint. Muscles in such a state tend to become permanently shortened. Most cases of paralytic taUpes are probably caused by the limb per- manently assuming a certain position under the influence not, as was formerly supposed, of true ' antagonistic' contractions, but of mere gravity; 6, mal-developmentj but a muscle which has never been developed to its proper length cannot be properly termed ' contracted.' The diagnosis of the affection is manifest; that of its cause depends chiefly on the history. Treatment.— In a few cases it is sufficient to remove the cause, e.g., to circumcise for phimosis, or to give santonin and scammony for worms. In mild cases, regular manipulation by stretching or continuous mechanical extension may suffice. But usually tenotomy is indicated. See Club-foot. Tenotomy should be followed by mechanical extension, either gradual or immediate and total. Muscles, Paralyses of.—Almost all cases which the surgeon has to treat may be classified as : 1, those arising from injury to nerves. {See Nerves, Injuries of.) 2, Those aris- ing from direct blows on a muscle; 3, infantile paralysis; 4, Duchenne's disease; 5, paralysis from disuse ; 6, neuromimetic or hysterical paralysis. Paralyses from direct injury require rest till tenderness has disappeared ; afterwards, manipulation, rub- bing, kneading, and passive exercise. Infantile Paralysis.—Causes.—Can sometimes, but rarely, be traced to catching cold. Almost, but not quite, exclusively a disease of childhood, from infancy to the fourth year, inclusive. Four times as common in summer as in winter (Sinkler). Simi- lar though perhaps not identical, paralyses occasionally follow acute diseases, such as measles. Symptoms.—Sudden commence- ment usually with fever; sometimes with severe cerebral symptoms (deafness, deliiium, coma, general convulsions). Very rapidly developed, complete paralysis of certain parts, with entire relaxation of the aff^ected muscles. Parts affected, van- I