421 ASTIGMATISM. 3. Compound Myopic—Both meridians myopic, one more than the other, 4. Compound Eypermetropic—Both meridians hyperme- tropic, one more than the other. 5. Mixed.—One meridian myopic, the other hypermetropic. Causes.—ChieQ.j unequal curvature of cornea, perhaps irregularity of lens also. Symptoms vary with the kind and the°degree of astigmatism. The lower forms often pass un- heeded tm rather late in life. The higher forms caiise such fatigue and distress that the eyes are disqualified from prolonged exertion. Astigmatism must always be suspected when by testing with spherical lenses the patient cannot be made to read Nos. 6 or 9 Snellen at 6 metres (the fundus being otherwise healthy). When astigmatism is suspected, proceed to examine each eye carefully as follows :— 1. Retinoscopy—The intensity, direction, and velocity of shadow will indicate the kind of error in each meridian. 2. Ophthalmoscopy.—Bjindivect examination the optic disc appears oval instead of circular, and by withdrawing the used away from the patient's eye the disc appears to change its shape. By direct examination, the mirror being held close to patient's eye, the vessels of the difierent meridians may be seen with lenses of dilferent powers, the difference between the powers of the lenses thus used being an exact measure of the degree of astigmatism. 3. Place patient at distance of six metres from Snellen's test types, and with spherical lenses correct the ametropia as far as possible. Then rotate in front of the correcting lens a stenopaic slit; by this means the two principal meridians will be found, and must be corrected seriatim. The diiference of power between the lenses which correct these two meridians is an exact measure of the degree of astigmatism. The same object may be effected by the use of cylindrical glasses without the slit. 4. An excellent instrument for finding the two meridians is Tweedy's Optometer (see Lancet, October 28, 1876). Whatever means be employed in diagnosis. Cylindrical lenses should be prescribed which fully correct the astigmatism. The patient may not be able to see very much at fii-st, but by