213 HYSTEEIA OF JOINTS. Note.—The muscular pains often occurring in the course of a gonorrhoea are by some classified as a form of gonorrhceal rheumatism. Cure the cause, and direct flannel to be worn. Chloral may be necessary at night. Change of climate. Loose Cartilages.—Causes.—1. They grow, like warts, ou the synovial membrane, and afterwards break off; (2) they are, in rare cases, pieces chipped off the joint cartilage itself. (3) There is also a theory of their formation by a process identical with that of ' Quiet Necrosis' (Paget's Clin. Led. p. 343, and Teale). Symio- toms.—Liability to sudden and sickening attacks of pain, caused by certain movements, and followed by synovial effusion. The loose cartilage may, in many instances, be felt near the superficial aspect of the joint. These symptoms make the diagnosis quite clear. Pathology.—Number tasually single, but sometimes very numerous. Shape rounded or flattened with rounded edges. Size from that of a shot to that of a broad bean, or, in excep- tional cases, much larger. Structure rarely cartilaginous, usually fibrous. Joint most commonly affected, the knee. Treatment.—1. India-rubber bandage and moderation in exer- cise of joint, especially restraint from violent motions. Perse- verance in this may cause permanent cessation of unpleasant symptoms, perhaps adhesion of the loose cartilage to a con- venient part of the joint. 2. Operative. This must be either subcutaneous or antiseptic. Subcutaneous excision.— Fix the cartilage between the finger and thumb; then pass a tenotome through the skin at a distance, and, with it, divide the capsule of the joLut until the cartilage can be squeezed out into the areolar tissue. Fix it there by strapping, &c., and place the limb on a splint, or in a plaster of Paris case. A week after- wards, if the surgeon choose, he may cut out the cartilage altogether.—See Square, Med. Times, vol. ii. 1857. Joints, Neuromimesis, or Hysteria, of.—Diagnosis from ' organic' disease is based on the facts that, in neuromimesis, (1) the subjective symptoms, pain, tenderness, &c., are often great while there is in the joint no alteration visible to the surgeon at all; (2) the pain and tenderness are often chiefly in the skin rather than in the joint itself; (3) the patient some- times describes her sufferings in strong language, but in a