248 STEICTURE OF CESOPHAGUS. (Esophagus, Stricture oi.-Forms: 1, cicatricial after mjury; 2, idiopathic fibrous thickening; 3, syphiUtic ulcera- tion; 4, cancer; 5, pressure of neighbouring tumours. No 2 IS very uncommon; No. 4 is, unfortunately, not so. The most usual form of tumour to compress the oesophagus is a thoracic aneurism. The essential one is dysphagia—difficulty of swallowing. This may come on so gradually as to be unper- ceived until the power of swallowing anything but the smallest morsels has been lost. More or less pain. Progi^essive emacia- tion. The most terrible symptom to the patient is the feeling of unappeased hunger. Ulceration is indicated often by fcetor of the breath, or by the presence of blood on a bougie passed gently. To dtagnose the nature of the stricture, whether cancerous or syphilitic or simple, consider the age, history, and collateral symptoms of the patient—e.^., a tumour may be felt at the root of the neck, or cancerous glands may be found in the neck, or examination of the chest may discover indubitable symptoms of aneurism, and so on. The patient's feelings are deceptive as to the locality of the stricture, he usually referring it to beneath the manubrium sterni. Prognosis.—In most cases, death from starvation, sometimes from haemorrhage or the spread of cancer. Difficult to treat even a fibrous stricture successfully with bougies. Great gentleness, tact, patience, and perseverance may succeed. Whenever the cause can be removed, the prognosis is good, unless there be a severe ulceration, likely to be followed by cicatricial contraction. Treatment.—First examine with a well- oiled bougie. If one can be passed gently, try to gradually dilate, by passing from day to day increasing sizes, unless the cause be manifestly pressure from without, e.g., anemis- mal. If the cause be clear, of course treat it. In case of doubt, iodide of potassium and rest are generally worth a good trial. Excision of cancer of the oesophagus has hitherto been unsuccessful; and gastrotomy [quod vide) has had dis- couraging results (two successes to many failures), perhaps partly because it is mostly postponed till too late. Life can be prolonged by nutrient enemata when swallowing has become impossible. , Orbit,—rAn enlargement hei'e may be aneurism {quod vide)