366 WOUNDS. across the wound, allow blood once more to flow in its old course, and thus relieve the collateral fluxion. At this stage the scar grows redder, and its surrounding edges iDaler. The new capil- laries are developed in two ways : (1) by loops which grow out from the vessels divided by the wound ; (2) by certaia rows of spindle-cells which develope into capillaries. At a later stage, the new fibrous * cicatricial' tissue contracts, becomes ' drier,' i.e., less succulent, and, in contracting, obliterates many of the new capillaries. The cicatrix becomes, therefore, smaller and paler. Of course, after healing by the first intention, it is merely linear at first; but in a short time it may defy detection altogether. So rapidly does this disappeai-ance take place in some cases that pathologists have desciibed what they call ' im- mediate union ' or ' primary adhesion,' meaning, presumably, a perfectly simple cohesion like that of one piece of melted sealing-wax with another, and without further interstitial changes. Granulation.—The process of healing when raw sur- faces cannot be brought into' apposition, and unfortunately also in some cases where they can. The microscopic anatomy of this process differs from that of ' pi'imary union,'in that (1) the accumulation of leucocytes forms, on the surfaces of the wound, small elevations called granulations; (2) much of the waste tissues and superfluous corpuscles, which would be ab- sorbed or profitably used in healing by the first intention are, in the case of healing by granulation, cast ofi" as pus; (3) the new capillaries cannot extend from one edge of the wound to the other, because they are too much separated either by distance or by some other obstruction, e.g., a foreign body or excessive clot; (4) a much larger production of epidermis is required to cover the surface of the wound. The resulting scar is larger, coarser, and much more prone to mischievous contraction. The new epidermis is developed from the most superficial layer of corpuscles in the granulations; but it appears concentrically from the epidermis at the edge of the wound, or else spreads from islets of old epidermis left by nature or placed by art on the area of the wound. {See Skin-Geafting.) Pus-corpuscles are identical with leucocytes, but often contain several nuclei, indicating a tendency to multiply by division. Connective