PEACTUEES. 117 With the use of a fracture-box or Cline's splints, correct posi- tion is obtained by pads of lint or cotton wool. For time of each application, vide Special Fractures. Itching of skin if5 relieved by cleanliness, oHve oil, &c. Severe pain may require morphia subcutaneously; but it is usually a sign that apparatus requires readjusting. Pain should never be neglected. Compound Fractures.—Special Notes on their Treatment. Question of amputation. Consider, 1, cause of the fracture (was there much crushing or twisting force V); 2, main arteries or veins torn ? 3, amount of haemorrhage; 4, condition as to collapse, reaction, &c. Depth and extent of bone-injury should also be considered. Injury to nerves, even large ones, not of much account. Eupture of large artery not an absolute indi- cation for amputation. WlLL the limb be useful, even if patient does recover, or will it be in the way ? Al ways treat the wound in a compound fracture very gently. After first dressing and cleaning, never probe or touch it if possible tiU the wound is quite fistulous. Then, if necrosis is found, treat it like necrosis from osteitis. A firm starched or plaistered bandage, applied as soon as possible after accident, is the treatment. It should be thickly lined with cotton wadding. Dress the wounds either by Lister's strict plan or with oakum. Extensive discharge or large wounds may require a fracture-box, interrupted or not. Generally, windows in a plaister bandage suffice. Attend to complications as they arise. ' Immersion treatment.' Treatment of Ununited Fracture.—1, Rubbing fragments together; 2, blisters or iodine externally; 3, firing neighboui-ing skin; 4, acupuncture needles left for a few days in the false joint; 5, electro-puncture; 6, seton; 7, scraping ends of frag- ments with a tenotomy knife; 8, excision of ends of fragments ; 9, scraping back periosteum and then excising; 10, sutures; 11, driving in ivory pegs ; 12, metal screws. But, in many cases, the prolonged application and skilful management of a plaister bandage are sufficient. Attend to general health. Give phosphates. Fractures united with Deformity.—Treatment.—If there ia malposition in a compound fracture, and the wound is healinw