PALATE. 250 accessory incisions to relieve tension may be done (1) a few days before the operation, as suggested by Callender, or (2) just before the operation, or (3) just after the operation. They are either (1) simply lateral cuts parallel to the clefb and close to alveoli, or (2) more scientifically planned pi-oceedings to divide levator palati and palato-pharyngei. Palato-pharyngei divided by merely snipping across posterior pillars of fauces. Two ways of dividing levator palati, viz., Fergusson's and Pollock's. Few people competent to perform either with certainty after merely reading a verbal description; while anyone can do either after half-a-minute's practical illustration. Fergusson divided the perpendicular part of the levator palati midway between the Eustachian tube (its origin) and the hamular process, where it bends into the palate. Pollock divides the horizontal part of the levator palati as it lies in the soft palate. Fergusson used a rectangular knife, which he passed through the cleft in the palate. Pollock uses a straight knife, which he passes through the soft palate close to the hamular jorocess (which can be felt with the finger). ' If the palate will not come easily together, two lateral oblique cuts may be made, one on either side, above the highest suture, separating the soft from the margin of the hard palate to a small extent.' (T. Smith.) Hard Palate, Operation for Cleft of.—Resembles, in principle, that for cleft of soft palate. Mucous membrane and subjacent periosteum are scraped from lower surface of palate plates. Incisions are made along alveolar border of palate, and the edges of the cleft pared. Then the loose dependent flaps are brought together in the middle line, and united by strong sutures. Beware of ' button-holing' the flaps in scraping them. Various forms of raspatories may be used. In separat- ing the flap from the bones, work from without inwards. When to Remove Sutures.—Lower two on second day, the rest alternately, according to position, on third and fourth day. Soft food till union is complete. The less conversation the better. The last observations apply to both hard and soft palate. Cleft of both hard and soft palate may be dealt with at one operation.