156 INJUBIES OF HEAD. lip. 2, the common interrupted wire suture. This answers well for ordinary cases and is less likely to leave scars. All pins should be removed on third day very gently, the lip being well supported at the time and strapped immediately aftei-wards. Act of suckUng, rather beneficial than otherwise, as it tends to close the fissure. In order to bend back the inter-maxillary bone when it projects, instead of breaking its base it is a better plan to cut a V-shaped piece out of the septum nasi. Head, Injuries of the.—Important because almost all varieties are liable to be complicated with cerebral mischief. Classification is primarily anatomical. 1, Scalp injuries, 2, fractures of skull, 3, injuries of brain and its membranes, 4, injuries of cranial nerves. I. Scalp may be contused or wounded, or both. Con- tusions OF Scalp.—Very common. Extravasation may be diffused or circumscribed. Circumscribed extravasation occui-s either, 1, above cranial aponeurosis, 2, just beneath it, or 3, between epicranium and bone. A special kind of scalp extra- vasation is Cei^halhcematoma, which lies mostly just beneath epicranial aponeurosis and very rarely beneath epicranium.— Signs.—Fluctuation, hard and thickened margin, soft centre, rarely any discolouration. Cephalhsematoma occurs in the newly-born, and is caused by pressure of maternal passages or of obstetric forceps. Its usual situation is over the parietal bone.—Fluid contents.—Blood with its corpuscles more or less disintegrated, its colouring matter moi-e or less difiused and perhaps partly crystalUsed, while its plasma is often partly coagulated. The coagulation may entangle the colouring mat- ter and leave the fluid contents pale and yellow. Diagnosis.— Fi-om fracture. The hardened margin of an extravasation can usually be deeply pitted by steady and continued pressure. See Fractiore.—Treatment.—Cold and pressm-e. Afterwards discutient lotions (lotio ammonii chloridi, &c.). Only the most obstinate cases should be aspirated or punctm-ed by a small knife. After puncture apply antiseptic dressings. When suppuration occurs, open freely and poultice. Sccdj), wouiuls o/._Often contused and lacerated.—Prognosis.—Yery good even in the most severe cases, because the vessels of the scalp