296 SYPHILIS. Chancre of Ricord.—Usually occurs just behind corona glandis. When pinched up beneath the finger, it feels like a thin, hard wafer, or piece of parchment. Two such chancres out of three leave no permanent induration behind them. Ordinary Hunterian chancre not only has a hard base, but is surrounded by an elevated, hard, callous border, so that it is deeper in the middle than at the periphery. When the result of inoculation, its successive appearances have been observed to be as follow ;—red spot, red or dirty yellow papule, covering of greyish scales, scales accvimtilated to a crust, finally a cup-shaped ulcer. Fully developed, its sm'face is indolent, glossy, lardaceous, and its secretion scanty, thin, degenerate, not pus, and not re-inoculable on the same subject. Usually heals after about six weeks. The characteristic hard- ness feels like half a split pea, and does not usually entirely disappear in less than four months; it may be permanent. Seat of hard chancre is, in females, usually external genitals, rarely vagina, sometimes uterine neck or os, sometimes quite other regions of the body. Indolent Bubo. True Syphilitic Bubo.—Glands afiected always multiple, usually numerous. Surrounding cellular tissue not affected, each gland is consequently distinguishable. Cha- racters,—hardness, smoothness, oval or round shape, enlargement not great. Sometimes one gland much larger than rest. Never suppurates except under circumstances of special irritation. Appears coincidently with induration of chancre, and consider ably outlasts it. Subsequent Induration of other Lymphatic Glands, especially in nape of neck, axiUa, and groin of opposite side, very frequent. This may last for years, and is valuable to assist in diagnosing a case where histoiy of syphilis is not easy to get. Secondary Syphilis. Period of General Eruption.— Often ushered in by feverishness, gastric disturbance, dizziness, pains in joints, lassitude. These symptoms have before now led to a false diagnosis of intermittent fever, typhoid, nem-algia, or rheumatism. The parts chiefly affected by secondary syphilis are—1, skin; 2, mucous membrane j 3, glands j 4, iris and neigh- boiu'iiig pai-ts of eye.