EYE, DISEASES OF. trophy of a meibomian gland, occurs as a small hard nodule trom 1-4 mm. m diameter in upper or lower lids ; one or more may appear at the same time. The skin is freely movable over the tumour, which is hard, and not painful. If left alone it generally causes thinning of the conjunctival tissue, or it may point through the surface. Treatment.—E^YQvi the lid and remove by incision from the conjunctival surfece. When it points outwards it is better to remove through the skin by incision parallel to margin of eyehd. When thus thoroughly removed it does not recur. When only incised it may remain for some time. Warty growths occasionally appear on edges of lid. Ee- move freely with scissors. MoLLUScuM coNTAGiosuM often appears in region of eyelids. Consists of one or more hemispherical elevations of from one to six.mm. in diameter, containing sebaceous material. Treat- ment.—Divide each little tumour by vertical incision, and squeeze out the contents by means of the thumb-nails applied to the bases of each. Rodent ulcer (epithelial cancer, rodent cancer) begins as a slight elevation near margin of eyelid; this is followed by a shallow ulcer with slightly indurated edges, and generally a brownish incrustation. Mostly occurs in persons over forty. Progresses slowly. Seldom cicatrises. Attacks all surrounding tissues. Neighbouring glands not enlarged. Treatment.—Re- move all the diseased structure with the knife, or with the thermal cautery, as early as possible. In severe cases apply chloride of zinc paste in addition, after removal with the knife. Syphilitic ulcers are more acute, more punched out in appearance, have less indurated margins, and are more amenable to treatment than I'odent ulcer. Lupus generally occurs in younger subjects, and in other parts of the face. It is less indm-ated and more inflamed than rodent ulcer. NiEvus, often congenital, occasionally occurs on the eyelids, may be confined to the skin, or may involve subcutaneou'< tissue. Treatment.—1. By electrolysis. 2. By subcutaneous ligature. 3. By galvano-puncture.