° AMPUTATION. gut—torsion or acupressure is to be employed. Sponging with cold or with hot water to stop oozing.' Actual cautery to check obstinate bleeding from bone. Muscles retract greatly in ti-aumatic cases, but very little in limbs affected with old disease. Knife to be used with a free sawing motion. Parts to be relaxed during transfixion. Com- mence sawi7ig the bone by drawing the saw back to make a groove. Mortality after Amputation.—Chief causes : 1, shock; 2, secondary haemorrhage; 3, pyaemia (in nearly half the fatal cases); 4, erysipelas; 5, phlebitis; 6, congestive pneumonia. Besides which, 7, hospital gangrene, 8, sloughing of stump, and, 9, tetanus, occasionally carry off patient. Pyaemia most common after traumatic, rare after chronic disease cases. Circumstances affecting Patient's chance of Recovery.—Two classes : 1, constitutional conditions; 2, circumstances of opera- tion itself. Class 1 : age, general health, and hygienic condi- tions. Child's twice as good as a young man's, three times as good as an old man's. Class 2 : seat of amputation, structure of bone sawn through; whether amputation is for injury or disease; nature of the affection; time after the injury. Dis- eased kidneys, town life, amputation high iip a limb, amputa- tion for injury, or through much cancellous tissue of bone—all these darken the prognosis. Nature of disease : after chronic disease, prognosis good ; malignant or tuberculous disease, bad ; acute suppurative disease of joints, very bad; amputation of expediency, very bad. Time after injury : primary or secondary. Primary are such as are done within thirty hours of the injury. Secondary are amputations done after suppuiation has occurred. Primary always more dangerous than secondary, except in am- putations of the upper extremity done in civil practice. Death after primary amputation usually caused by shock, haemori-hage, or exhaustion ; after secondary, by erysipelas, pyjemia, kc. Amputation at Ankle.—Pirogoff's.—Resembles Syme's. But the lower incision extends from one malleolus to the other across the sole of the foot, and inclines forwards and downwards; while the os calcis is sawn through obliquely, downwards and forwards, just behind the articular surfaces for the astragalus. 1 See Fractitionei; Feb. 1879.