PERINEUM. ^^'J that of cancer elsewhere, but it is usually slow, and it seldom infects other organs. T^reaimOT*.—Thorough excision. Amputa- tion not necessary where a clean sweep can be effected without so radical a measure. When there is sufficient doubt about the diagnosis, give a fair trial to antisyphilitic remedies. Penis, Gangrene op.—Besides the ordinary simple and specific inflammations to which the organ is liable, Humphry instances the following as recorded causes of gangrene : typhus and para- plegia. Spontaneous gangrene has been observed (Partridge). Priapism is rather a symptom than a disease, and points to one of two classes oi causes : (1) reflex irritation, e.g., from gonor- rhoea, prostatic disease, and injuries to penis; (2) paralyses, e.g., from injuries to spinal cord. The penis is liable to many other affections common to the ordinary tissues, and these are frequently mistaken for specific affections; e.g., I have known one of the most able specialists in London to diagnose an inflamed lymphatic as a hard chancre. Phlebitis occurs occasionally, producing the ordinary symptoms. Penis, Injuries of.—Chief points in connection with these are that (1) extensive contusion produces priapism, lasting for days; (2) wounds should be carefully adjusted, and united by sutures ; (3) bleeding is easily arrested by cold and pressure; (4) swelling of the penis in children should suggest the possibility of a string tied round the organ having been hidden by the swelling. PerinsBum,—Chief affections are abscess and fistula. Hernia and a misplaced testicle in the perinseum occur very rai-ely. Perin^eum, Abscess in the.—Commonly caused by a slight urinary extravasation behind a stricture. Symptoms.—At first attention is attracted by fever, perhaps rigoi'S, and pain in the region of the bulb. A hard lump is felt; this increases and softens. Treatment.—Open early; incise in the middle line. If a stricture co-exist, it is good practice to divide it at the same time (external urethrotomy). At all events the stricture, being the cause of the abscess, must be treated. Perineal Fistula.—A result of perinseal abscess. Generally closes when the original stricture of the urethra is cured. Peri- nseal fistulse occasionally have their origin in comparatively remote affections, e.g., cancer within the pelvis. In order to cure