FRACTURES. 121 Causes of the displacement are : 1, miiscular action of psoas, iliacns, adductors, &c.; 2, lower fragment forces upper fragment outwards at time of accident. Treatment.-l, position merely; 2, Listen's splint; 3, double inclined plane; 4, extension by a weight; 5, anterior splint; 6, starched bandage or other fixed apparatus. 1. Position.—Lay limb on outer side, with knee bent. In infants, merely lay limb straight out m bed, taking weight of clothes off with a cradle (preserve body-warmth m latter case). 2. Liston's splint.—Length, it should reach from a hand's length below heel to a hand's breadth below axilla. Pad ankle well. Turn bandage twice round ankle and instep, then fix foot to splint. Avoid crushing the small toes. Bandage to just above knee with figures of eight. ' Kettle-holder ' on inner aspect of thigh. Perinteal band. Extension and setting. Ap- paratus for combining Liston's splint with continuous extension by elastic bands or by weight and pulleys. Sand-bags. Bottom of bed should be level. 3. Double inclined plane. 4. Extension by weight.—Stirrup of wood and plaister. Strapping extend- ing up to knee. Bandage over strapping. Raise foot of bed on blocks. Weight consists usually of sandbags or tins of shot, 5 to 10 lbs. 5. Anterior iron splint.—May be combined with a plaister splint. 6. 'Fixed' apparatus. Plaister of Paris, starch bandage, &c. Unless attended to with great vigilance, liable to have very bad results in fractured thigh. The hip should be thoroughly fixed—not an easy matter. Fracture of Femur, lower third, that is, near knee-joint. Upper end of lower fragment projects backward. Hence these cases should be treated with the knee semi-flexed. Compound Fracture of Femur.—Very dangerous. But amputation for it is extremely fatal. Treat each case according to its own peculiarities. Fibula, Fracture of.—Tibia acts as a splint, making diagnosis difficult. Seek for crepitus and increased mobility by pressing fibula at different points against the tibia. Occurrence frequent. Treatment.—Cline's (side) splints, or some immovable apparatus. Fracture of fibula about two or three inches above ankle, with rupture of internal lateral ligament and dislocation of foot out- wards is called ' Pott's Fracture.'—See Dislocation of Ankle.