355 UVULA. Prognosis.—If unrelieved, great danger of rupture of urethra, extravasation of uiine, urinary abscess and fistula, or even gangrenous cellulitis and death. But this does not apply to hysteiical retention; nature usually remedies that herself after a time. Treatment.—Hot bath (104°), liq. opii, \r\ xx., then bed and warm blankets. Catheterise at once (except in hys- terical cases). For spasmodic stricture use a No. 5 soft French catheter warmed by friction and well oiled. For organic stric- ture try the same instrument. If it does not pass at once adopt the measures detailed on pp. 350 and 351. If they fail to lead you to the bladder, and if his retention be complete or nearly so, the patient must not be left unrelieved. Aspiration above the pubes is perhaps the safest and best means of afibrding immediate relief. Other methods are (1) supra-pubic puncture with a small trochar and cannula, directed backwards and slightly downwards, (2) puncture per rectum, (3) opening the urethra behind the stricture, (4) ' perineal section' proper, i.e. without a guide. If the surgeon never hopes to open the urethra satisfactorily again, he had better perhaps adopt plan 1. If he knows the stricture to be of that class for which Syme recommended external urethrotomy, and if he have confidence in his own skill, he is justified in attempting to cure both re- tention and stricture by plan 4. In other cases his choice undoubtedly is practically confined to aspiration and puncturing per rectum. When retention is caused by impaction of a, calculus or foreign body, the obstruction must be withdrawn if possible; but if it cannot be extracted per urethrum, it had better be pushed back into the bladder, and reserved for further treatment, e.g. crushing by Uthotrite, or extraction through a median perinseal incision. Uvula. Cleft.—Slightest grade of cleft palate. Paxe edges and unite with fine sutures. Uvula, Relaxed.—Usually part of a general condition of pharyngeal catarrh. Often causes troublesome cough. Astrin- gent gargles. Touch with silver nitrate. Tonics. ^Stomachics. Attack cause, e.g., over-indulgence of any kind. Or seize the extremity with forceps and cut it oflT. Vagina, Imperforate.-UHually .a mere adhesion of oppo- A A 2