334 TUMOURS. contain growths within them. They are practically identical ■with ' compound cysts.' All other cysts are ' simple.') Causes, —Extravasation cysts are due to extravasation of blood. They ai-e usually traumatic. See Hematoma. Exudation cysts, at least such as are ordinarily regarded as tumours, are of unknown origin, except such as arise from local irritation. Retention cysts are due to obstruction of the orifice of some gland causing dilatation behind it. It ought to be noted that the class ex- udation cysts is by Virchow considered to include such serous dropsies as hydrocele, ganglion, and hydrarthrosis; while ' reten- tion cysts' include even dropsy of the gall-bladder, dilatation of the Fallopian tubes, and so on. We shall now consider the anatomy, diagnosis, prognosis, and treatment of each variety of cyst separately. Serous Cysts.—Seats.—Most commonly in or near glands, Hdneys, thyroid, breast, sublingual, &c. When in the neck they are called ' hydrocele of the neck.' They may occur almost anywhere and in any tissue. Contents.—Eluid usually thin, but sometimes honey-like, usually yellow and clear, but may be dark even to blackness. Walls of connective tissue lined with tesselated epithelium. Number, various. Orowth is usually slow. Diagnosis.—Not difficult when the fluid is thin and the cyst not tensely filled; but a very tense cyst may be mis- taken for a solid growth. The practised touch usually suffices to distinguish the fluctuation of a cyst from the elasticity of an adenoma, a fibro-cellular, or other soft solid tumour. The latter are more likely to be lobed, and possess various special cha- racters described above. Abscesses may be recognised by the history, by considering locality, age, pain, &c. It is not often very important to make a diagnosis before puncturing. Treat- ment.—Pvincture with trochar and cannula, followed by pressure. Iodine injections. See Bronchocele. Drainage : in large cysts, antiseptic precautions to be taken. Cauterising interior. Free incision. Excision. Multiple cysts may require excision of a whole afiected gland. When the cyst is not complicated with some recurrent, solid growth, and when operations on it are performed with due care, prognosis is most favourable. Mucous Cysts.—Type, ranula, q. v.