EXCISION OF HIP-JOINT. 105 done. Operation.-\JBe a strong knife and ordinary saw Longitudinal incision 5 inches long, right down to bone, wi h its centre opposite inner border of olecranon. Then with scalpel separate soft parts from bones, proceeding carefnlly be- tween olecranon and internal condyle, and guarding ulnar nerve with nail of left thumb. Divide lateral ligaments, push end oi humerus out of wound and saw it off freely. Then project ulna and radius, grasp olecranon with Hon forceps, and saw both bones at level of neck of radius. Sometimes orbicular ligament can be preserved with advantage. Some do whole operation sub- periosteally with aid of rasps. Subperiosteal resection of doubt- ful advantage. Remits.—In good cases, a strong joint with all its natural movements. After-treatment.—Hmge^ splint. One contrived to permit supination and pronation useful. In a week's time, flex the elbow to a right angle. When wound is nearly healed use passive motions. Hip-joint, Excision of.—Indications for operation. See Disease of Hip-joint and Gun-shot Wounds. OiJeration.— Incision, free semi-lunar with convexity backwards over pos- terior border of great trochanter and down to bone. Follow neck of bone to head, open capsule, and let assistant, by adducting, rotating inwards and pushing upwards, project head of femur out of wound. Ligamentum teres may have to be divided. Joint very rarely found dislocated. If femur be diseased, saw below trochanter. Chain-saw useful. If acetabulum only be diseased, saw through neck of femur and gouge acetabulum, or cut'it with pliers. Pelvic fascia thoroughly separates acetabulum from pelvis. Acetabular disease requires freer incisions. After- treatment.—Plaster apparatus; long splints with iron interrup- tion ; mere extension by weight and pulley; Sayre's wu-e breeches. In dressing the wound a stretcher with a hole opposite the hip, like that of Mr. Croft, is useful. For heavy adults a stretcher contrived to slip easily, piecemeal, under the patient, and to leave the hips exposed, is very useful. The stretcher being slipped under the patient, is lifted up and placed with its two ends on two chairs beside the bed. A dressing pan being placed on the floor, the wound can be syringed if necessary, and dressed; while, in the meantime, the bed-sheets are changed or