363 WARTS. Pathology.—When first formed, clot usually small, rarely large. Increases by laminar deposits. Usually fills the vein : rarely leaves a channel beside it, i.e. between it and the wall of the vein. Sometimes spiral in shape. Soon adheres to vein wall. (In all above respects, it contrasts with post-mortem clots.) In time, come (1) changes in the clot, (2) changes in the vein itself, (3) changes in the peri-venous tissues. To these may be added (4) changes in the parts formerly drained by the vein. The clot may either (1) disintegrate and pass into the circulation, or (2) organise into a fibrous band united with the vein, oj- (3) that part of it first formed may melt into a puri- form fluid—differing from true pus in containing granular debris and not corpuscles. In this case the portion of clot last formed almost invariably remains to shut off the liquefied part from the circulation, or (4) the white corpuscles which wander into the clot, may, instead of converting it into a fibrous mass (as in case 2), be the agents in forming true pus within the vein, or (5) a portion or the whole of the thrombus may be washed away, thus becoming an embolus. When suppuration occurs in the course of a thrombosis it must be understood that the pus is usually in the first instance outside the vein. The course taken by the vein and its contained thrombus is almost always identical with the changes taking place in the cellular tissue around the vein. Diagnosis.—See Vein, Inflammation of. But thrombosis may be recognised by the hard, cord-like feel of the vein affected, before inflammatory change has commenced, and by the oedema. Prognosis.—Varies most widely .accord- ing to the extent and position of the clot, according to its first cause [e.g., whether the mere ligature of a vein, or the entrance of putrid fluid into it), and according to the course the case takes while under observation. The danger of embolism exists to a slight extent in almost every case, and of pyaemia in such as show a tendency to local suppurations or as arise in the course of wounds. Treatment.—See Veins, Inflam- mation OF. Warts.—See Papillomata (under head of Tumours). "Whitlow.—Erysipelatous inflammation of finger. Varies in extent from trivial but painful blush beside nail, to diffuse