200 INTESTINAL OBSTEUCTION. early in the case, it is very serious, as it implies tightness of con- striction. 15, Hand in rectum may obtain useful information. Treatment.—Fii'st question is that of gastrotomy. Indications for gastrotomy are a tolerably clear diagnosis of intussusception, strangulation by band, volvulus, or internal hernia. Of course in many of these cases other means should have been fairly tried before resorting to abdominal section. It is to be remembered on the one hand that most operations of the kind have been fatal, while many cases presenting bad symptoms have recovered spontaneously ; on the other hand there are cases in which hope of spontaneous recovery is out of the question. Antiseptic precautions wUl diminish the risk. In cases of incurable stricture, an artificial anus must be formed. Vide Colotomy. When exact seat of disease is doubtful, operate in right loin. If upper part of large intestine be found empty, bring a coil of small intestine into wound. In certain cases of insuperable obstruction, in which the seat of disease is believed to be above the c^cum, small intestine may be opened through anterior abdominal wall. Measures not involving cutting operations.— In all early stages and in all acute cases, abstain entirely from giving either food or medicine by the mouth. Make a careful examination under ether administered fully. Copious fluid enemata. Insufflation of air. Latter, though good iq intussus- ception, not to be used where stricture is suspected. For severe pain, give opium or morphia with belladoima. Employ abdomi- nal taxis, that is an^sthetise the patient, invert him, shake him, forcibly knead abdomen, give enemata in inverted position, pre- scribe prone position with pelvis elevated. ^ Operation should be done antiseptically. Seat of pain may indicate seat of obstruc- tion. Bands are usually found in umbilical region. When the intestines are allowed to escape freely, considerable difficiUty in returning them is likely to occur. Still it is sometimes neces- sary to allow it to a certain extent. Puncture is justifiable, to facilitate their return in cases of drfiaculty.