THE BLADDEE. Sl Holmes's system. Treatment.—Ligature above part bitten; sucking wound ; caustics, actual cautery; excision; injection of wound with ammonia or carbolic acid ; injection of ammonia into the veins (Halford); Liq. ammon. fort, rrix, ad aquse tixxx, to be injected into a large vein near the wound; riibbing with olive oil. The strength must be kept up with milk, eggs, wine, soups, &c.; the spirits must be cheered. Bites of Rabid Animals.—See Hydrophobia. Bladder, Atony of, arises from muscular weakness of old age, or after fevers, or paralysis, or from continued obstruction by enlarged prostate or organic stricture. It must not be con- founded with actual paralysis. Symptoms.—Retention, or else incontinence of urine, caused by the overflow of the bladder. 2'reatment.—Catheterism twice a day ; cold douche and frictions to lumbar spiue, and injections of cold water. Electricity. Sometimes strychnine when a spinal affection seems to be the cause. Prognosis.—Depends upon curability of the cause and upon duration of the disease. Bladder, Cancer of.—Epithelioma is very rare, and slow in its progress. Scirrhus is most rare, except as an extension from neighbouring organs. Encephaloid is more common. Symptoms.—FvQi\\\en.i. and difficult micturition; pain in neck of bladder, often extending to loins and hips as well as peiiuEeum; haemorrhage usually sudden and copious; frequent and con- tinuous oozings are more characteristic of villous growth (Thomp- son); enlargement of pelvic and lumbar glands; sometimes cancer cells are found in ui-ine ; growth may be felt per rectum or by catheter; cachexy. Progrraos/s.—Encephaloid cases last, on an average, twelve months; Brodie has known a duration of seven or eight years. Treatment.~A.tienA to general health, state of bowels, appetite, &c. Use anodynes, especially subcu- taneous morphia injections, with no niggard hand; morphia suppositories; alcoholic stimulants. For the hemorrhage, cold rest, and injections, silver nitrate, gr. ss. to gj, iron, and'other local astringents. Recumbent posture in some cases. Some tumours in the female bladder are accessible for operation. Bladder, Catarrh of.—Chronic inflammation with muco- purulent secretion. Ccmses.—Generally either stricture, calculus