AETEKIES. 'ii triangle, but longer, and of course lower clown thigh. Other steps similar to first operation. Fatality.—Ona in four. Syme was successful twenty-three times in succession. Iliac, Common.—lAne of artery: from half-inch to left of umbilicus to middle of Poupart's ligament. Incision, from end of last rib downwards and forwards to crista ilii, and then forwards above and parallel to crest of ilium as far as anterior superior spine; divide muscles and transversalis fascia, using finger as a director; roll up peritoneum and intestines out of way, and tie artery. Second method : incise skin first from outside internal abdominal ring, parallel to Poupart's ligament, three or four inches towards ant. sup. spine of ilium; then continue incision with a curve inwards towards umbilicus, and proceed with muscles and transversalis fascia much as in first method. Remember relation to veins, lu-eter, and spermatic vessels. Fatality.—Very great—twenty-five in thirty-two ! Chief causes : exhaustion and haemorrhage. Iliac, External.—Line of artery same as common iliac. Incise skin half an inch above Poupart's ligament from just external to internal abdominal ring outwards in a curve three inches long, and parallel to the ligament; divide muscles and transversalis fascia carefuUy; push up peritoneum; separate artery from vein; pass needle from within outwards; the higher up the artery is to be tied, the farther must the outer end of the incision be extended upwards and inwards, the in- cision thus becoming like that for the common iliac. Beware of seven dangers : 1, wound of epigastric artery; 2, wound of spermatic cord; 3, laceration of peritoneum; 4, puncture of external iliac vein; 5, of circumflexa iJii vein; 6, ligature of genito-crural; 7, too free disturbance of sub peritoneal cellular tissue. Fatality.—One in three. Chief causes : gangrene, . haemorrhage, and peritonitis. Iliac, Internal.—Steps of operation as for common iUac. Trace internal iliac from bifurcation of common iliac; scratch artery clean with finger-nail and director; pass ligature three- quarters of an inch from origin. Beware of ureter, vein, and peiitoneum. Fatality.—One in two. Innominate.—Incision, along anterior border and sternal