DISEASES OF LAEYNX. 219 catarrhs elsewhere, i.e., swelling, redness, mucous, purulent, or sero-piirulent exudation; occasionally, in severe cases, small sub-mucous hemorrhages. The dyspnoea mentioned above, when sudden, is partly or wholly spasmodic. But the most dangerous kind results from great serous effusion in the sub- mucous tissue of the glottis, ' osdema glottidis.' After death the appearances are much less marked than when shown by the laryngoscope during life. Diagnosis.—Roa.vseness, and occa- sionally dyspnoea, indicate larynx as the seat of affection. Laryngoscope will exhibit actual state of organ. Catarrhal laryngitis differs from croup in that, 1, the dyspnoea is not per- sistent, and varies more; 2, there is no false membrane; 3, there is usually less fever; 4, a known cause and history may point unmistakably to acute non-croupous laryngitis. Prog- nosis.—Very guarded, danger of sudden and fatal dyspnoea. Laryngotomy and tracheotomy, while they avert this danger, introduce others, such as pulmonary congestion. Recovery usually complete, but acute sometimes passes into chronic catarrh. Treatment.—Rest in a room of uniform and warm temperature. Atmosphei-e charged with steam. Hot moist sponge to throat. Low diet. Milk and soda-water. Avoid greasy food. Salt food and saline drinks beneficial. Emetics : ipecacuanha, tartar emetic. Aconite {see Ringer's Therapeutics, p. 399). Diaphoretics. Purgatives. Forbid attempts to speak or whisper. If, in spite of treatment, dangerous dyspnoea should come on, perform tracheotomy. For (Edema glottidis, see p. 220. Larynx, Cheonic Catarrh of. Chronic Laryitgitis. Clergyman's Sore-throat.—Causes.—Same as those of acute catarrh. But in order to produce the chronic affection they have to be applied in a milder form and more persistently, or repeatedly. In addition to these, alcoholism, syphilis, phthisis, and occupations in which the voice is frequently strained, pre- dispose to the affection. So also does a low tone of the nervous and vascular systems. Damp, cold climates. Herpetic diathesis. Symptoms.—Hoarseness; weakness of voice; voice also loses its firmness and becomes uncertain, especially in the higher notes. Liability to intercurrent attacks of acute laryngeal catarrh..