20 ANEURISM. ternal or surgical. Every method aims at producing a clot wliicli shall stop the growth of the aneurism, excepting the method of Antyllus. Surgical Treatments are 1, ligature (Anel's, Hunter's, and Brasdor's operations); 2, pressure (in- strumental and digital) ; 3, flexion ; 4, use of Esmarch's bandage (Keid); 5, acupressure and temporary ligature; 6, manipula- tion; 7, galvano-puncture; 8, coagulating injections; 9, wire in the sac. Ligature. Method of Antyllus. — Operation.—Command artery above aneurism. Open sac and turn out clots. Find the arterial orifices opening into it, and tie the artery above and below aneurism, controlling haemorrhage in the meantime by pressure with the fingers. When suitable : 1, in gluteal aneu- risms ; 2, axillary aneurisms; 3, traumatic aneurisms at bend, of elbow ; 4, when an aneurism has been opened accidentally ; 5, when the sac has burst. Hunterian Operation.—Artery tied at point of selection above aneurism. Operation.—Instruments : scalpel, forceps, retractors, artery forceps, ligatui-es, aneurism-needle, &c. Ob- serve landmarks, incise or separate structures to expose sheath of vessel, make a very small opening in the sheath, gently separate artery from sheath at point selected. Pass aneurism- needle from the side where vein lies. The great advantages of Hunter's operation are that artery is most likely to be healthy, and certain to be accessible, at the part chosen. Anel tied the artery immediately above the aneurism. Brasdor's Operation.—Artery tied on the distal side of aneurism. Chiefly applicable to carotid in aneurisms at root of neck. Pressure.—Either (1) direct, i.e., upon the aneurism itself— very unusual; or (2) upon the artery. Effected either by the fingers or by mechanical contrivances, e.g., Carte's tourniquet or''p. H. Watson's weight compressor. The treatment by Esmarch's bandage should be classed as a treatment by pressure. Under anesthesia almost any aneurisms, except the thoracic, may be treated by compression; and certam thoracic aneurisms might, perhaps with advantage, be treated by distal compres- sion of the carotid, &c., on the principle of Brasdor's operation.