SOKE NIPPLE. 243 pass throiigli long canals, e.g., infra-orbital canal; ^ (6) poisons in the blood, e.g., malaria, mercury, lead, copper, &c.; (7) neu- ralgia appears to be sometimes reflex, and to be caused by ii-ritation of some other nerve than tha,t affected. Lastly, in an immense number of cases, the cause is quite unknown. The exciting cause of a neuralgia is frequently catching cold, or exer- cising the part subject to the complaint. Pathology.—When any distinct anatomical change is found, the affection is no longer called a neuralgia, but a ' neuritis,' or whatever may be the nature of the change observed. During a neuralgic paroxysm, there is generally local hypersemia. Symptoms and coMrse.—Extremely various. Continuous or remittent or inter- mittent, short or enduring, circumscribed or diffuse, lancinating, aching, or burning. Often relieved, sometimes aggravated, by pressure. Tender spots occasionally found, e.g., where lateral in- tercostal cutaneous nerves pierce the external intercostal muscles in nem-algia of breast. Years sometimes do not suflSce to remove obstinate neuralgia. Treatment.—Treat cause. Iron in ansemia. Quinine in remittent cases. Anti-rheumatics in rheumatic cases. Locally: linimentum aconiti; linimentum belladonnse; empl. belladonna ; tinct. capsici; chloroform; chloroform saturated with iodoform ; blisters; ether-spray; hot fomentations; ice; ung. veratrise. Electricity, Faradisation: constant current. Also excision of nerves and nerve-ganglia. Internally.—(Besides ii'on, quinine, tfec, mentioned above) chloride of ammonium in half-drachm doses; phosphorus; croton-chloral (gr. v every three hours); chloral; gelseminum ; chloroform ; ' tonga,' in 5j doses, three times a day; stomachics; tonics, &c. Vide works on ' Therapeutics;' change of air and scene : hydropathy; colchicum in gouty subjects. Sometimes morphia subcutaneously seems to be the only resource. But such injections are contra- indicated in cases of great debility, in advanced age, in cerebral hypersemia, and in organic disease of the heart (Brb). Nipple, Sore.—Solid nitrate of silver to any fissure. Ung. hyd. nit. No soap, merely hot water in washing. Lotions of zinci sulph. or borax. Leaden shields. Cure any aplitha of cliild's mouth. • Henle, quoted by Nieineyer. S2'