TETANUS. 311 mucli more fixed than before. Skin bathed in perspiration. Temperature raised to about 100°. Bowels constipated. Ees piration impeded by stiffness of respiratory muscles (chest feels ' as if in a vice'), intellect quite clear, no sleep; pain in the muscles, becoming intense when the spasms are aggravated. Slight noises, draughts, and other trifling irritants cause the tetanic spasms to be suddenly trebled in force. During one such paroxysm, patient dies asphyxiated. Or he lingers on for a few days or a week, and perishes of gradual asphyxia (carbonic acid poisoning) or of exhaustion. Such is the course of acute tetanus, and traumatic tetanus is usually acute. But the disease is sometimes chronic, especially if it be idiopathic. Then all the symptoms are less severe, the patient is able to take a fair amount of nourishment, and gets some sleep. His breathing is not seriously interfered with, and he has considerable chance of recovery. There are intermediate grades of severity of every shade. Expression of face called risus sardonicus arises from contemporary spasm of all the muscles of the face, dilators, com- pressors, levators, depressors, altogether. Thus every line is deepened and every feature fixed by its muscles, just as a ship's mast is by its stays. This expression may persist long after otherwise perfect recovery. Sometimes the trunk is arched forward (emprosthotonos) or sideways (pleurosthotonos). Tetanus Neonatorum is attributed to the wound caused by dividing the umbilical cord. It is first observed by the mother or nurse in consequence of the lock-jaw preventing entrance of finger or nipple into mouth. Course presents nothing peculiar. Almost always fatal. Diagnosis of tetanus.—From (1) strychnia-poisoning, (2) hydrophobia, (3) hysteria, (4) rheumatism. Strychnia-poisoning is much more rapid, both in its onset and in its advance to a fatal result. The paroxysms of spasm are interrupted by periods of complete relaxation. Hence there is no continuous lock-jaw. Death almost always takes place within two hours, at latest. In tetanus, the most rapid death on record was after four hours' duration. Hydrophobia. See following table (ab- breviated and slightly modified from Poland):—