FRACTUEES. 118 rapidly, do not try to rectify till tlie wound is heaJed. Remfidies for obliquity are bandaging, extension by weights, manipulation, re-breaking (by flexion or extension), cutting operations. Two cutting operations : 1, subcutaneous osteotomy. Small incision down to bone. Gimlet-bole through bone. Insert keyhole saw, and saw partially through, first one side, then the other. Lastly, break the bone in two. 2. Antiseptic osteotomy. Of course bloody operations are dangerous, but the danger is very small with antiseptic treatment. Special Fractures.—Acetabulum, Fracture of.—Causes.— Great violence applied to femur. Varieties.—H^o. Firstly, fracture of rim of acetabulum : crepitus, dislocation of femur, probably easy to reduce, but very difficult to keep in position. Secondly, fracture through bottom of acetabulum. Head of femur may be driven through acetabulum into pelvis, and even impacted. And there are, very likely, severe injuries to neigh- bouring parts. Treatment.—Extension ; rest; long splint, weight, or fixed apparatus. Prognosis.—Shortening of limb may be expected. Acromion, Fracture of.—jS'i^'tcs.—Flattening of shoulder; inability, entii-e or partial, to raise arm; crepitus; arm feels to patient as if dropping ofi"; the fragments can be felt separated. Prognosis.—Union is not unlikely to be hgamentous. Treat- ment.—Support elbow well, so as to make use of head of humerus for a splint. Fix the arm as firmly as can be done without binding it too closely to the side. Clavicle, Fracture of .—Causes.—Almost always indirect violence, e.g., falls, on shoulder. Situation.—I (most common), great concavity; 2, acromial end, between or external to coraco- clavicular ligaments; 3, sternal end (inside rhomboid ligament very rare). Character.—Ohliqne, when from indirect violence in adults; transverse in chHdren; transverse or comminuted from direct violence. Dis2dacement.—1, Fracture in middle of bone—outer fragment downwards and inwards beneath inner fragment, the acromial end being rotated forwards; 2, fracture of Acromial end outside coraco-acromial ligaments—outer frag- ment strongly forwards, inwards, and slightly downwards. Fracture between conoid and trapezoid : deformity almost ml,