418 EYE, DISEASES OF. types) will hold it within the distance of his far-point from the eye. Vision improved by concave spherical lenses, made worse by convex lenses. Retinoscopy reveals a shadow which passes in the same direction as the reflected light. Ofhihalmosco'py.— 1. By direct examination with mirror alone, image of vessels of fundus seen at distance from eye, and moves in the opposite direction to the observer's head when the latter is moved from side to side. 2. By indirect examination, the optic disc appears smaller than in emmetropia, and appears to increase ia size on withdrawing the lens used. 3. By direct examination, when the instrument is held close to the patient's eye the retinal vessels, optic disc, and other details of the fundus cannot be clearly seen without the intervention of a concave lens, the strength of the lens required for this purpose being a measure of the degree of myopia. In many cases a crescentic patch of yellowish-white appearance {myopic crescent) is seen on the outer side o'f the optic disc; this is caused by atrophy of the choroid. In high degrees of myopia other patches of choroidal atrophy are often seen. Choroidal haemorrhages, and haemor- rhages into vitreous, occasionally occur. Causes.—Too great length of globe. Too great curvature of cornea. Too high refractive power of media of eye. Hereditary tendency. Pro- longed use of eyes in looking at close objects. Treatment.— Having ascertained accurately the degree of myopia, order spectacles to be worn. 1. To give clear vision of objects at a distance (Nos. 6 to 60 Snellen's at 6 metres). 2. To enable the patient to read small print (No. 1 Snellen) at the same distance as an emmetrope. In all cases of myopia below 6 or 7 dioptres, where the accommodation is good, the glasses which exactly correct the myopia should be used for near and • for distant vision. They should be worn constantly. In most cases where the myopia is higher than 7 D., and in all cases where the accommodation is feeble, two kinds of spectacles must be worn : one pair for distance, equal in strength to the degree of myopia, another pair for near vision, of lower power. The requii-ed strength of these is found in the following manner (Donders):— From the lens which exactly neutralises the myopia dedtict the strength of a lens whose focal length is equal to tJie distance at