.SPINE, DISEASES OF. 283 -laminEE and spinous processes of adjacent vertebra unite. Symptoms.—\n children, the first sign observed is generally a prominence of one or more vertebral spines ; but if the lumbar region be affected, no prominence may be discovered till after the appearance of abscess, or signs of general or local weakness and pain. Adults usually remark pain and weakness before deformity. The erector spiufe, rigid at first, soon atrophies. Deformity varies in extent from the slightest degree up to a huge ' hump.' Compensatory curves in the lumbar and cervical regions make the chin project and the head sink down beneath the shoulders. To take weight off spine, patient supports him- self with his hands on his knees. "When picking up an article from the floor, he squats down, keeping the affected part of his back rigid. If the atlo-axial joint be affected, he turns his body to the right or left instead of rotating his head. Pain may be absent. In acute cases pain and tenderness are excessive. Often more pain is felt in the side or abdomen than in the spine. ■ Paraplegia may come on, or temporary want of control over the sphincters. Incapacity for and dislike to active exercise : health suffers in consequence. When abscess opens and chronic septicaemia results, health may break down rapidly, or abscess may dwindle to a comparatively unimportant sinus. Dictgnosis. —Usually easy. Difficult (1) at commencement, (2) when it occiu-s in hysterical females. A lateral curvature often results from caries of the lumbar vertebrae; but, in this case, there is no rotation, as in true latei-al curvature, and there are pro- bably collateral signs of caries, e.g. abscess. Some persons attach importance to eliciting pain by concussing the top of the head, or by running a hot sponge down spine. Stiff"- ness of spine an early sign. Prognosis.—Favourable as regards life when proper treatment is adopted. Prospect of undoing angle of curvature hopeless. Paraplegia is frequently recovered from. Treatment.—Three classes—(1) Rest in bed, (2) moveable supports, (3) fixed supports. Also general treatment. Rest in bed, essential in the worst cases, e.g. those complicated by para- plegia and abscess ; but it is itself injurious by taking away the benefits of fresh air and exercise, and even when in bed the spine should be securely fixed. Spinal supports are of various