AMPUTATION. ' and dissect up for half diameter of Hmb, tm-ning edge of knife slightly away fi^m skin to avoid scoring the v^sels which su;ply the skin-flap; 2, sweep through muscles, 'retracting all the time ; 3, siill having the muscles well retracted, one or two inches, and having divided the periosteum by a sweep of the knife, saw through bone. Finish as directed above. Oval AMPUTAXION.-See amputation of finger at metacarpo- phalangeal joint. -r^ 11 -m o Flap Amputation.—Three varieties: 1, Double Flap; I, Rectangular (Teale's); 3, One Long Flap. BouhU Flap, may be lateral, antero-posterior, or oblique. Cut thin flaps from without inwards, but thick and fleshy ones by transfixion. Flap containing vessels to be cut last, and vessels cut long. Rectangular Maps {Teale's).—AM the soft tissues down to the bone included in the flaps. Main artery to be in short flap. Ends of flaps square. Long flap : its length and breadth each equal half the circumference of the limb. Short flap : its length equals one-fourth that of long flap. Bones sawn exactly at angle of union of flaps, without any retraction. SpeMes Operation (a modification of Teale's).—No posterior flap; retraction instead. Anterior flap simply hangs down over bone. Lister cuts an anterior rounded flap two-thirds diameter of limb in length ; skin and enough muscle to cover bone. Pos- terior rounded flap (one-third limb's diameter), all skin. Posterior muscles cut as short as possible (to free flaps from effects of their contraction). Retract soft parts for two inches, and saw bone. Single Flap amputation. Vide amputation at phalangeal joints of fingers. Skin Flaps and Circular Incision through Muscles.— Cut two skin-flaps by dissecting from without inwards. Then finish as in circular amputation. Ecemorrhage diiring amputation to be prevented temporarily by digital pressure on main artery, by tourniquet, or by Es - march's bandage. ^ Afterwards, ligature by silk, hemp, or cat- 1 For a resume of the advantages of Esmarch's bandage, see Med. Rec, 1874, p. 271.