ANEURISM. 19 2, their pulsation is tin equable rise and fall, and not expansive; 3, an abscess probably shows signs of suppuration (but an aneurism may suppui'ate too); 4, the tumour can often be di-agged off the aitery which communicates to it its pulsation. Diagnosis from Pulsatilp. Tumours of Bone.—1, Bruit in pulsatile tumour rarely so well marked, and often absent; 2, pulsation more sudden and less expansive; 3, signs are often to be found in the state of the neighboiu^ing bone : thus, a plate of bone may be felt in the tumour. Pulsatile tumours may dilate the bone : aneurisms cut a clean hole through bone; 4, these tumours being almost always cancerous, may be accompanied by other signs of cancer. Diagnosis from Aneurismal Dilatation.— By the absence of all marked symptoms of a genuine aneurism. ^ Prognosis.—Spontaneous cure does sometimes occur, but very rarely. Without treatment a fatal event from bursting of the sac is to be expected. With treatment the patient's chance depends mainly on the situation of the aneurism, partly on its cause, the fitness of the case for operation, and on whether the aneurism be single or multiple. CoM?-se.—Enlargement in size; formation of layer after layer of coagulum; absorption, fii-st of adjacent parts, and next of the aneurismal sac itself. Then one of the following terminations:— ° Terminations.—I (most common), rupture of sac and death; 2, escape of piece of clot, embolism beyond aneurism, and spontaneous cure; 3, suppuration of sac; 4, flow of blood through aneurism checked by its own growth and pressure on artery above; 5, coagulation may go on to so great an extent as to fill sac with fibrinous lamina;, and stop pulsation and further enlargement; 6, the condition may remain stationary All these events, except the first and sixth, may cause sponta- neous cure. But the third may cause fatal hfemorrhage. Aneu- risms burst through serous membranes with a large opening causing instant death, but through mucous membrane and skiii with a small opening so that death is preceded by several nsemon-hages. rreciimewi.—Classified into internal or medical, and ex- * From Holmes's System, vol. iii. p. 455.