GANGEENE. -l about the symptoms. The appearances are primarily those of a region where the vessels are either almost empty or else distended with stagnant blood. Then, in the part itself, if blood can pass through it at all, but always in its immediate neighbourhood, inflammation occurs. Now, if the part is exposed to the air, it next begins to decompose, and one should notice that most of the so-called appearances of gangrene, e.g., foul odour, are really signs of putrefaction in the gangrenous tissues. For a time, the inflammatory a,nd gangrenous process spreads. When it reaches its limits, the inflammation on its borders produces granulations between the living and dead regions, which granulations, as it were, push oif the dead structures. In gangrene of embolic origin, emboli are found in the arteries. The line where the gangi-enous process stops and the wall of granulations is formed, is called the line of demarcation. Symptoms and Course.—(1) Dry gangrene. Pii'st appearance often a brown spot on one toe; this spreads, the parts afiected gradually shrivelling up, the skin wrinkling, and becoming brownish black. This process is called ' mummification.' (2) Moist gangrene begins with signs of inflammation. Then the swelling becomes boggy, skin mottled or violet. Bullae. Dis- colouration spreads and deepens. Local insensibility. Fall of temperature locally. Emphysematous crackling. Foul odour. Extent of process varies from part of toe to a whole limb. Either of above series of symptoms observed in senile gangrene. Traumatic gangrene is always more or less moist and inflam- matory. If patient survives, the dead parts are cast off" in the way described above (^Pathology), the tendons and fasciae giving way last but one, and the bone absolutely last. Process of spontaneous separation of any segment of a limb occupies months. Constitutional Symptoms.—In traumatic gangrene, those of great prostiation and fever of a low type. In senile gangrene, they may be very slight, but usually they are those of chronic septicsemia, viz., gradual exhaustion, feeble pulse, dry tongue, nervous sensibility dulled, &c. Diagnosis.—Gangrene must be distinguished from ecchymosis caused by blows, and from lividity the result of exposure to cold. Prognosis.—Bad, unless part affected is small or a line of demarcation has formed.