WOUNDS. 365 "Wounds.—Classification.—(1) Incised, (2) lacerated, (3) contused, (4) punctured, (5) poisoned. "Wounds are also either open or ' subcutaneous.' 1. Simple incised.—Its characters are clean edges, freedom from bruise or laceration and from poisonous matters, at least when first inflicted. 2. Lacerated.— Its edges are usually irregular, and frequently more or less con- tused. Comparatively small tendency to bleed. 3. Contused.— Has bruised edges ; is usually also ' lacerated.' 4. Punctured. —E.g., a bayonet stab, generally narrow and deep. When caused by gun-shot, its walls are bruised. 5. Poisoned wounds are such as snake-bites and dissection-wounds. In sub-ciUa- neous wounds the aperture in the skin is small compared to the incision beneath it, e.g., in ' tenotomy.' Pathology.—Process of repair, &c. (compare with Inflamma- tion, quod vide).—When a simple incised wound is inflicted, Nature first checks haemorrhage by closing the ends of the divided vessels in the manner described under Haemorrhage, i.e., by coagulation and contraction. At the same time there is usually a thin clot formed between the two surfaces of the wound. In consequence of the blood being vmable to find its way through the divided vessels, there is congestion of the vessels about the wound ; and the congestion of the neighbour- ing parts, caused by the blood pressing through the nearest uninjured channels, is called ' collateral fluxion.' In this way is produced the narrow line of ledness around a fresh wound. The course of events after this is determined by whether the wound is to heal by the first intention (primary union), or by granulation. First intention.—There is a great accumulation of white corpuscles, both inside and outside the blood-vessels near the wound. These leucocytes permeate the clot, if there be one, cause its liquefaction and absorption, and take its place. At the same time, the edges of the wound are themselves to some extent dissolved and replaced in the same manner. The leucocytes pass gradually through an oval into a spindle shape. These spindle-cells form, partly of themselves and partly of the intercellular liquid substance in which they lie, fibi-es 'of con- nective tissue, thus tying the two sides of the wound together. At the same time, new capillaries are formed, which bridf^e