'» CLUB-FOOT. ities are so placed that, if extended, the feet would point back- wards ; hence they have afterwards to rotate on their axes ; when this rotation is not fully accomplished in the foot, club-foot results. Talipes valgus is only another name for flat foot, which results from excessive standing or walking when the general strength is small; the muscles, being then weak, do not sufficiently assist the ligaments, which give way to the strain. Infantile paralysis leads to equino-varus, because that is the position in which gravity places a foot uncontrolled by healthy muscles. Symp- toms.—Pure varus.—Yevj rare ; in it, only inner border of foot is raised, and anterior part of foot is bent inwards on posterior half Equino-varus.—In this, the heel is more or less raised; in severe cases the bones are much altered : the dorsum of the cuboid and fifth metatarsal bone sustains the weight of the body. The scaphoid and iimer edge of the metatarsus look upwards ; the inner malleolus almost touches the scaphoid, and the astra- galus is pushed outwards. Fibula lies in a line behind tibia; tuberosity of os calcis looks upwards ; in talipes calcaneus the heel is down and the front of the foot iip. The tendons con- tracted in each case will be mentioned under the head of treat- ment. Course.—If left alone, patient learns to walk on deformed foot; callosities form where there is friction or pressure; the leg wastes; the foot and leg thus get the peculiar clubbed appearance. Treatment.—Mild cases do not require tenotomy ; employ friction, and twist the foot for a quarter of an hour three times a day into its natural position, pulling and fixing foot in position with strapping; strapping combined with splints; Bar well's elastic bands; shoes, &c., for talipes. The above con- trivances used after tenotomy. Tenotomy.—For equinus, divide tendo Achillis; for equino-varus, tendo Achillis after tibialis posticus and anticus (sometimes also plantar fascia, and some plantar muscles). Valgus and calcaneus seldom require ten- otomy.—See Flat-foot. Tenotomy knives, blunt-pointed and sharp pointed; pads of lint; hot-water can and sti'apping ; bandage; splint. Tendo AchilHs.—Position, on face. Assistant makes tendon tense; pass a sharp-pointed knife beneath tendon, one inch from insertion; place left forefinger over it; cut gently with sawing motion towards skinj assistant should relax when