CATAEACT. -^y^J plunge freely and obliquely through into anterior chamber, and carry point to centre of pupil. (5) Dip point of needle back through the capsule into superficial layers of lens at centre, make a few gentle to and fro movements, so as to break up its substance, then steadily withdraw the needle. After treatment. —Dilate the pupil with atropine (gr. iv. ad %].) three times daily. Bandage the eye lightly, and employ dark room for several days. In case of iritis apply leeches to region of eye, and ice or evaporating lotions to Hds. The result varies with the amount of the opacity of the lens. In cases of complete cataract no marked change will be observed for some weeks after operation. In partial cataract the ruptured portion of the lens will become opaque and swollen in a few days, and in seven weeks the lens will be smaller. After six to eight weeks, if the eye be perfectly quiescent, and not otherwise, the operation may be repeated, and the needle used more fi-eely. A third or fourth operation may be required. 3. Suction Operation.—Only applicable to soft cntaract, and requires great skill in its performance, to avoid danger of iritis, or cyclitis. (1) Dilate pupil with atropine. (2) Make oblique opening in cornea with a broad cutting needle between its centre and its margin, and lacerate' capsule freely. (3) Withdi-aw needle and pass nozzle of syringe through wound, and dip into lacerated lens substance. In lamellar cataract, and some other cases, it is necessary to allow an interval of three days between the needle operation and the suction, in order that the lens may be softened by the admission of the aqueous. (4) Use very gentle suction, and remove if possible the whole of lens substance at one sitting. After treatment is the same as for needle operation (but in" the case of waiting, careful watch must be made, and suction performed at once if inflammation be set up by the rapid swelling of the lens). When to Perform Extraction.—The more complete the opacity of the lens, the more easily is it shelled out of its capsule; whilst in immature cataract some of the transparent lens substance is apt to remain, this will become opaque and may interfere with result of operation. The signs of this ' ripe' condition are :—(1) No shadow of iris thrown upon lens within