J EYELIDS. 405 Conical cornea is caused by a bulging forwards of the central part of the cornea forming a blunt conical curve, which gives rise to irregular astigmatism and myopia. In advanced cases the protrusion of the cornea is very evident, and the apex of the cone may become nebulous. In some cases vision may be improved by concave glasses in combina-tion with a screen having a narrow slit or small hole in it. In advanced cases operation is needed : (1) Graefe's. Shave off apex without entering anterior chamber, then apply mitigated nitrate of silver stick to the raw surface to cause ulceration and cicatrisa- tion. (2) Cut off apex with a cataract knife, enter anterior chamber, leave wound to unite by itself or use sutures; use atropine drops. Wounds of Cornea.—When penetrating, if iris is prolapsed push it back with a bkmt instrument, and order atropine drops; if iris not protruding, order atropine drops. If only abraded, stiU order atropine drops. Close the eye with a bandage to prevent friction. Eyelids.—Blepharitis, Stye, Tarsal tumour. Warty growths, Molluscum contagiosum. Ulcers, Rodent ulcer, Ptosis, Ectro- pion, Entropion, Symblepharon. Blepharitis (tinea tarsi, ophthalmia tarsi, sycosis tarsi) is an inflammatory condition of the edges of the eyelid, which commonly attacks the glands and the follicles of the eyelashes. It varies in degree from mere congestion with a sticky exuda- tion to chronic or subacute inflammation with thickening of the tissues, excoriations, and even pustules. Treatment.—(1) Keep the eyelids clean and free from scabs by bathing twice daily with warm water or warm alkaline lotion. (2) Apply dilute nitrate of mercury ointment twice daily; in severe cases pull out the lashes with epilation forceps, and apply nitrate of silver to the edges of the lids. Stye (hordeolum) is a small furunculus at the margin of the lid, often very painful. Successive crops very common. Treatment.—Foment with warm water, apply bread-and-water poultice; puncture with a sharp lancet as soon as pointing has commenced. Tarsal tumour (meibomian cyst, chalazion) a chronic hyper-