49 DISEASES OF BONES. Prognosis depends on the acuteness of the inflammation, and on the extent of bone involved. Acute necrosis of the whole shaft of along bone is excessively dangerous. Pytemia sometimes follows the opening of the abscess. Treatment.—Treat the cause, e.g., struma; before suppuration, try to cause resolution by counter- irritants, cold, &c.; when abscess has fairly formed, open it; some recommend incisions before then, merely to relieve the tension of the periosteum ; Billroth condemns this plan, saying that it pre- disposes to pyaemia. When necrosis has actually taken place, you must wait till the sequestrum has loosened and then remove it, treating the general health in the meantime. Unless the seques- trum can be felt loose, a very considerable time, even many months, had better be allowed before attempting to remove it by operation. Operation for Necrosis.—Toui'niquet, oi' (much better) Esmarch's bandage; sponges, &c., scalpel, Hey's saw, cutting pliers, necrosis forceps, gouges, chisels, hammer, probe, oiled lint, bandages, and minor instruments. Incise the soft parts; it is often advisable to unite two sinuses by the inci- sion. Cut a sufficient, but no larger, opening in the sheath of new bone; divide the sequestrum if it cannot easily be re- moved whole; plug the cavity with oiled lint. When the whole shaft of a long bone has necrosed, it had better be removed as soon as the acute symjjtoms have passed away, unless the epi- physial cartilages have been involved in the inflammation. It may be desirable to divide it in the middle by a chaia saw. A new shaft may be expected to form, unless the epiphysial cartilages have been destroyed : in this case a new shaft can only be expected when the sequestrum is left for a long time in sitH. If the ne- crosis be extensive, and for some reasons cannot be removed, while the patient's health is giving way, amputation must be done. Hypertrophy of Bone is commonly the result of inflam- mation, which may or not be specific. The cause should be treated. The disease may follow a blow. Bone, Injuries of.—Blows are liable to cause atrophy in the old, and strumous disease in the young and weakly; they are sometimes followed by Hypertrophy. See FRACTaRES, &c. Molhties Ossium.—a disease allied to fatty degeneration of bone. Cawaes.—Mostly attacks females; age, middle life or £