94 DISLOCATION. it is present elsewhere; 3, there are such signs as are common to dislocation of all joints, viz., stiffness, pain, &c. 1. Sub-coracoid.—Head of bone under or slightly internal to coracoid process. To feel it, raise the elbow. Elbow pro- jects from side. Slight lengthening, real or apparent, of upper arm ; rarely slight shortening. Stifihess : movement only pos- sible antero-posteriorly. 2. Suh-glenoid.—Much Hke sub-coracoid, but head of bone more distinctly felt in axilla, elbow projects more, and there is lengthening, one inch. Marked symptoms of pressure on axillary vessels and nerves. 3. Sub-clavicular.—An extreme degree of ' sub-coracoid.' Prominence of head of bone beneath clavicle. Elbow projects backwards and outwards. 4. Sub-sjnnous.— Head of bone felt beneath spine of scapula. Elbow outwards and foi-wards. 5. Upwards.—Always compUcated with fracture of acromion or coracoid. Consequently, injury and swelhng likely to be severe. Shortening. Crepitus and deformity. Anatomy.—In the first three forms the inner and lower part of the capsule is torn, and, if the displacement be great, either the great tuberosity of the humerus, or else some of the muscles attached to it (supra and infra-spinatus and teres minor), have to give way. In sub-glenoid, the sub-scapularis also goes. In sub-spinous, also, the sub-scapularis is torn. In sub-spinous, head of bone lies between sub-scapularis and teres minor; in sub-glenoid between sub-scapularis and long head of triceps; in sub-clavicular, on second and third ribs. Diagnosis.—1. From fracture of neck of humerus. This fracture is never caused by anything but direct violence. Then there are the general differences between fracture and disloca- tion. Both injuries may occur together. 2. From mere paralysis of deltoid. Then, although there is flattening, still head of bone is easily felt in glenoid cavity. Eeduction.—Bj heel in axilla,; by manipulation; by pulleys; by knee in axilla ; by air-pad in axilla; by extension upwards. Heel in axilla.—Patient lies on back. Surgeon sits with un- booted heel in injured axilla. Extension made either by himself,