DISEASES OF MUSCLES. 239 able. Generally lower limbs. Sometimes one or both arms, or separatO muscles, e.g., deltoid. Serratus magnus sometimes affected (Lees, Clin. Soo. Trans., 1879). The muscles atrophy, the development of the bones is retarded, and, the local circula- tion stagnating, the limbs become cyanotic. But the general health and nutrition remain vigorous, and there is no affection of the sphincters, nor any considerable disturbance of sensation. In the course of time deformities result, e.g., talipes, contracted hip, &c. Fathology.—Essentially an inflammation of the an- terior horns of the grey matter of the spinal cord, especially in the lumbar and cervical enlargements. Prognosis.—Little or no danger to life or general health, except indirectly from the crippling. But little hope of important benefit from treat- ment, except orthopaedic. Treatment.—In early stages, treat the main affection vigorously (of course, not forgetting patient's tender age). Strips of blister along spine, near cervical enlarge- ment in case of paralysis of upper extremities, near lumbar when legs are affected. Cathartics. Ergotine, belladonna, or pot. iod. internally. Prone position if possible. Cold affusion for severe head-symptoms. La'er on, galvanism. Constant current to spine itself. Large electrodes, one to cervical or lum- bar enlargement, other to anterior smface of trunk. Alternate place of anode and cathode every two minutes. Persevere, at intervals, for years (Erb). Faradic electricity to affected muscles. Anode to spine or nerve-trunks ; cathode to muscles. Fresh an-, good diet, cod-liver oil, warm clothing to limbs. Massage, friction, ' beating,' sea-baths. Orthoptedic treatment and appliances.—To prevent the necessity for these, keep the paralysed limbs in a good position when at rest. Paralytic deformities are mamly caused by action of gravity, but partially perhaps by antagonistic contraction of the stronger muscles. Duchenne's Disease, or Pseudo-Hypertrophic Paralysis. Cause unknown. Age, childhood. Three stages : (1) of weak- ness of muscles of lower limbs ; (2) of gradual hypertrophy of, successively, gastrocnemii, glutei, and lumbar muscles, weak- ness still persisting; (3) of wasting and increased paralysis. The muscular enlargement is due to growth of connective tissue and fat. Idiocy often co-existent. Prognosis.—Bad. Quite hope-