SPEAINS. 290 remarkably vasjue and insidious. Earliest are lassitude, insta- bility, ' inaptitude,' sleeplessness. Then come pains and numb- ness in various parts. Next, fixed pain in the back and rigidity of the spine announce definitely the presence of spinous or intra-spinous inflammation. Then, uncertain gait, general clumsiness, disorders of sight, hearing, taste, or smell, mental confusion, paralysis. Diagnosis.—(1) From fracture or disloca- tion of spine. (See Dislocation of Spine.) The symptoms are usually less decided, less sudden, and less severe. (2) From malingering. Sometimes very dif&cult. Attach greatest weight to objective symptoms, but notice if any of these vary when patient is off his guard. Cross-examine about subjective symp- toms; but gross exaggeration is not uncommon even when real concussion is present, so the detection of one falsehood proves little. Test by galvanism. Muscles really paralysed do not contract properly under galvanism. Extensor muscles usually most afiected. Prognosis.—When symptoms last long and are extensive, recovery is very unhkely. Treatment.—The most trivial case deserves complete rest in horizontal posture till the symptoms have entirely passed away. Prone position preferable. Moderate or low diet. No stimulants. Calomel, OT. v-x. When local pain or tenderness is present, dry cup- ping. Ice-bags. Pot. bromid. and chloral hydrat., gr. xx- xx^ at night. Later stages: Merctury, e.g. liq. hydrarg. per- chlo'.-., 3j t. d. s. ; or pot. iod. Counter-irritation over s]3ine^' blisters, &c. Still later, when active disease in the spine seems to have passed away while its effects remain, em- ploy strychnia, tonics, exercise—passive or active, shamiwoing, galvanism.^ Spinal Cord, Teaumatic Inflammation of, | ^^.^ ^^^^^^^ Spinal Cord, Compression of, J as secondary phenomena occurring in the course of a case of Concussion of the Spine. {See above.) 1 I would venture to su-£?est that in the case of many patients, especi.ally those with t ivial concussion who will not keep the prone position, e g fractious childrl and in the case of other patients convolescinf; a of ^ a . cnuureii, .luu u , rovfninlv nothin'T does so much good to the vei\ Sbr^ li. °aments, while other cases would benefit fron. thorough local rest.