382 APPENDIJi. OVARIES. OvAEY, Acute Inflammation of.—(7fmses.—Gonorrhaa sexual excesses, exposure to cold, &c. Symptoms.—^eyer^ pains m one or both iHac fossae, radiating to loins. By pressing the left hand on the iliac fossa, and introducing two fingers of the right hand into the vagina, pressing upwards, the ovary may be felt between the right and left-hand' finger—it will be distinctly swollen, and very tender. Treatment.—Ahsolute rest. Leeches and poulticing to Uiac fossa. OvABY, Chronic Inflammation of.—"Very insidious, and often begins gradually; not always preceded by acute symptoms, may end in cii-rhotic changes; and is sometimes associated with persistent dysmenorrhoea so intolerable that both ovaries, when thus afiected, have been of late years frequently removed, with- out always relieving the symptoms. Fixed pain in iliac fossse, and detection of swollen ovary the chief signs of the disease, local complications infinite. Treatment.—Blisters, rest during period; observe closely the condition of surrounding viscera, and treat accordingly. Ovary, Cystic Disease of.—Pathology not yet absolutely settled. Cysts that are evidently developed from enlargement and non-rupture of the Graafian vesicles seldom appear to form a large tumour. Commonest form is the multilocular cyst, originating in morbid changes in the stroma and its vessels, and containing glairy fluid more or less coloured ; con- tents may be partly sohd. Another type is the parovarian cyst, unilocular or nearly so, and containing clear, watery, transparent fluid. A third is multilocular, and contaios exu- berant papillary growths in its cavities. This also holds clear fluid, and like the second kind, is believed to be developed from vestigial rehcs of the Wolffian body. Lastly, come dermoid cysts, containing hair, sebaceous matter, teeth, bone, and walls lined with skin, bearing complete glandular structures. Symptoms.—Gradual distension of abdomen ; a prominent fluctuating tumour occupies the hypogastric, umbilical, and often epigastric regions of the abdomen, extending more or less into the flanks. May bulge into Douglas's pouch, where it can be felt from the vagina, or may draw uterus high up; then it cannot be detected by vaginal examination.