16 ANAESTHESIA. 2a.—It is an excellent plan to administer successively, nitrous oxide and ether, a mixture of the two, and lastly ether alone. Mr. Clover has contrived an apparatus which answers this purpose admirably. No stimtdant should be given before administering ether. Pure anhydrous, washed ether always to be used. Bobbins' ether for local anaesthesia is dangerous. 3. The Mixture, of alcohol 1 part, chloroform 2 parts, and ether 3 parts, is to be given like chloroform ; but the air should not be allowed to mix quite so freely with the vapour (?). 4. Bichloride of Methylene.— 5j- is placed in Rendle's appa- ratus. This is a cone of leather lined with flannel, has small perforations at the apex, and is held close over the mouth and nose, as in giving ether. If a second drachm is afterwards used to prolong the anaesthesia, the efiects resemble those of chloroform. 5. Nitrous Oxide Gas.—Is given perfectly pure, from a bag, which is replenished from an iron bottle, which contains the gas compressed to a liquid state. The appearances pro- duced are somewhat alarming; for the blood is temporarily ' unoxygenated,' like venous blood. But this is not really dangerous. Causes of Danger from AncBsthetics.—1, sudden stoppage of respiration, either from paralysis of nerve-centre, or from me- chanical obstruction, e.g., falling back of the tongue, or passage of blood into larynx ; 2, sudden paralysis of the heart. But it would appear that heart-disease does not contra-indicate an- esthetics ; and ether is a powerful cardiac stimulant; 3, shock. Precautions.—1, Do not push the anaesthetic too much at first. Be careful about the quantities used ; 2, aUow plenty of air with chloroform; 3, recumbent position, especially with chloroform, though not required with gas; 4, loosen all tight coverings on chest and neck ; 5, have ether of the right quaUty; 6, it should be possible to let a free supply of fresh aii- into the room if necessary; 7, administrator should confine his attention to the administration only; 8, he should cai^efuUy watch the pulse and respiration—the former most closely with chloroform, and the latter with ether. Ireatment of Dangerous Symptoms.—VaW the tongue out