DISLOCATION. 86 even after two or three months, very difficult. Tenotomy has been employed, but not very successfully; for the chief obstacle is the firm adhesion of the head of the bone in its new position. Is reduction of such old dislocations desirable ? Often preferable to let patient simply exercise limb well in its new position. Breaking up adhesions about the head of the bone by rotating it forcibly {vide Anesthesia) may facilitate this. Pressure on bi^achial plexus may require excision of head of humerus. Complicated Dislocations.—1. With fracture. Always attend to this, and apply an apparatus till it has united, chang- ing it and putting the joint in a new position, say every ten days, to prevent stiffness. 2. With compound fracture. Resect joint, or try to save it, using some thoroughly antisej^tic method. If there is considerable crushing and tearing of the soft parts, amputation may be required. Congenital Dislocations.—Distinguish from those caused during parturition. Occur in most of the joints of the ex- tremity, but especially in the hi]). Head of bone above and behind acetabulum. Generally readily replaced. Peculiar wabbling gait. If the dislocation is one-sided, patient, lying on his back, turns the foot inwards. Acetabulum is too shallow, and, in adults, filled with fat. Ligamentum teres, if it exists, is abnormally long. Head of femur too small. Articular cartilage usually completely formed. Capsule veiy large and relaxed. Cure mostly impossible. Causes.—Perhaps excessiA'-e quantity of fluid in joint, at very early period of uterine life. Perhaps also extreme adduction in uterine life. Besult.—In course of time, sjpinal curvature. Treatment.—It has been recommended that the thigh should be kept for a very long time in a position of abduction. See Med. Rec. 1880. ' Dislocation of Ankle.—Four directions : outwards, in- wards, backwards, forwai-ds. 1. Outwards.—Accompanied by fracture of fibula above outer malleollus and rupture of deltoid ligament or fracture of inner malleolus. Same thing as ' Pott's Fracture.' Foot turned outwards. Depression over fracture of fibula. Treatment. — Dupuytren's splint (to inner side), or ordinary leg-splints. Keep foot well in, and sole at right