^0 DISLOCATION". all ordinary dislocations, and thus limits the position of the bone, interferes with reduction by extension, and can be utilized m reduction by manipulation. The obturator internus is a strong tendinous muscle ; and backward dislocations are on the dorsum ilii, or towards the sciatic notch, according as they escape from the acetabulum above or below that muscle respec- tively. In the lower dislocation, the head of the bone is super- ficial to the obturator internus. Fracture of the acetabulum not uncommon, especially in dorsal dislocation. Symptoms.—1. Dislocation on dorsum ilii. Hip looks widened. Peculiar position of limb; rotation inwards : slight flexion of both hip and knee j -axis of thigh intersects lower third of sound thigh ; ball of great toe rests on instep or ankle of other foot; heel raised. Abduction and external rotation im- possible ; stiffness and immobility under chloroform; head of bone makes a iDrominence in its new position; trochanter is above a line between ant. sup. spine of ilium and tuberosity of ischium (Nekton's line). Shortening, one, two, even three inches. 2. Dislocation in sciatic notch.—Symptoms like those of dorsum ilii dislocation, only less marked. Axis of thigh across opposite knee; ball of toe on ball of other great toe. Shortening, half to one inch. 3. Dislocation into thyroid foramen.—Body bends forwards ; foot points slightly outward ; a hollowness takes the place of the trochanter. Lengthening, two inches. Head of femur perhaps discoverable in its new position. 4. Dislocation on pubes.—In this and the other rarer forms of upward dislocation, head of bone can be felt in its high position ; flattening of hip ; abduction and eversion. Shorten- ing, one inch. Diagnosis.—Of dislocation on dorsum ilii from impacted fracture of neck of femur with invei'sion. Under anaesthetics, the foi-mer shows immobility, the latter mobility. In the former the trochanter is behind, in the latter it tends to lie below the ant. sup. spine of ilium. Reduction.—Each kind of hip-dislocation can be reduced in two ways, viz., extension and manipulation. Extension method is partly based on the idea that muscular contraction is the chief difliculty. But it is not so. The main i-esistance proceeds from