376 APPENDLX. MICEOSCOPIC OEGANISMS. through the air. Some of the organisms exist constantly in certain localities in the air, the water, or the soil. Some ciing to certain buildings, perhaps to the walls, floors, ceilings, or furniture. Do the Microscopic Organisms, cause the Diseases, or are they merely accidental concomitants, 'parasites of the diseases,' so to speak ?—To answer the first part of this question positively in the affirmative, it would be necessary to demonstrate that (1) the organisms exist in every case of each disease; (2) that they exist also in sufficient numbers and in the proper localities to cause the phenomena of the disease ; (3) that when transferred successfully and purely fi-om one animal body to another of the same species they reproduce the disease. Moreover, it would be very desirable to show that the organisms of different diseases have themselves different morphological pecuharities. The difficulties of fulfilling all these requirements are immense; but they have been overcome in the case of a sufficient number of distinct diseases to encourage hope that ultimate success will attend the investigation of the others. Finally, it should be noticed that Koch, having produced pyjemia in mice, found that the micrococci adhered to the red corpuscles, and that the red corpuscles thus affected tended to crowd together in the capilla- ries. The ultimate result of this was thrombosis. This, perhaps, explains the occurrence of ' metastatic ' abscesses in pytemia. Many substances are fatal to every kind of bacteria. Such are carbolic acid, oil of eucalyptus, salicylic acid, and iodoform. There are strong reasons for believing that certain substances are especially destructive to particular species, e.g., quinine to bacillus malarise. Koch says that ' Eidam came to the conclusion that different forms of bacteria require different conditions of nutriment, and that they behave differently to- wards physical and chemical influences.' But it is not too much to hope that the marvellous resources of organic chemistry may soon j)rove to us that in science, as in law, there is * no wrong without a remedy.' The discoveries of Pasteur, Chauveau, and Toussaint suggest the possibility of applying the principle of inoculation as a prophylactic against many, if not all, specific Pasteur has shown that by the action of heat and