DISEASES OF BREAST. 56 iodides; externally, belladonna, hemlock (and internally too, with opium). When milk curdles, and forms hard lumps in the gland, use stimulating liniments. Galactocele.—A milk-tumour, caused hy the dilatation or by the rupture of a duct. Always forms during lactation. At first fills and grows larger each time the child sucks; fluctua- tion J no pain; no discoloration of skin; afterwards, fluid parts of contents tend to be absorbed. At this last stage, the main element in diagnosis is often the history. Treatment.— Incise or puncture with a trochar and cannula, obliquely from nipple towards tumour. HyperjEsthesia of Breast and Neuralgia of Breast.— Causes.—Chiefly lie in state of uterus, ovary, or other organs of generation; weakness; 'nervous temperament.' Mostly young girls; sexual depravity. Symptoms.-—Pain, variable, often intense, shooting into arm, neck, and back; superficial tenderness, often exquisite; sometimes redness and swelling ; swelling of nipple. Diagnosis.—Rests on age and character of patient, on variability of pain, and superficial nature of the ten- derness, and on negative signs. Treatment.—Remove the cause; if necessary, use the speculum, but avoid it if jiossible; correct bad habits; treat all disordered functions; use the ordinary remedies for restoring the tone of the nervous system. Avoid handling and examining more than is necessary. Emp. Belladon. Hypertrophy of Breast.—Two forms, viz., 1, firm; 2, pendulous and loose. Causes.—Unknown. Appears soon after puberty. Symptoms.—In form 1, the breast projects, large and firm; in form 2, the organ hangs down relaxed, and may reach an enormous size. Both breasts generally affected. Neuralgia often occurs with it. Treatment.—Not very successful. Sup- port and pressure. In extreme cases, amputation may be done. Inflammation of Breast.—May occin- even in infancy, but most cases occur in suckling women. C«wses.—Debility ; protracted suckling; the irritation of some disease of the nipple; obstruction to a gland duct; often coincident with defective nipple. Symptoms.—Lobular induration, perhaps owing to the obstruction of a duct: this is called a ' lump, knot, or coring of the milk;' pain; tenderness; redness;