313 DISEASES OF TONGUE. pharyngeal spasm. If given by the stomach, 1 gr. of the extract rubbed up with a little weak spirit. According to Frazer, Calabar bean should be given at the very onset of the attack, for the contraction of muscles begets a substance which excites muscular contraction. When Calabar bean is given, its action should be carefully watched, lest the respiratory muscles become paralysed by it. Kational indications, derived from the post- mortem evidences of hypersemia, &c., of spinal cord, are to give belladonna, and to employ every available means of diminishing spinal congestion (Fitzgibbon, Dublin Med. Jour. March, 1877). And also, I think, if the wound be not too large, to swab it thoroughly with pure carbolic acid. The patient should be patiently and frequently fed with milk and the strongest beef- tea. Tracheotomy has been recommended when there is a tendency to laryngeal spasm. Thorax.—See Chest. Thrombosis.—See Veins. Thumb may be bifid, or it may be double. Thumb, Dislocation op.—See Dislocations. Thyroid.—See Bronchocele, Toes may be hypertrophied, be webbed, bifid, or super- numerary. Hammer-toe.—A condition in which the last phalanx is bent perpendicularly downwards. If necessary, divide subcuta- neously, opposite second phalanx, the corresponding digital offset of plantar fascia. Doubtful whether its origin be a nervous contractiu^e or the pressure of tight boots. Tongue, Diseases of.—With a view to facilitating diagnosis (a rather difficult task to the student of tongue diseases), I shall adhere to the following analytical classification, which starts from the most palpable feature of each disease. I. Superficial ulcerations—simple; syphilitic primary, secondary. II. Deep ulcerations—1, simple, 2, syphilitic, 3, malignant. III. Localised swellings—abscess, innocent tumour (very rare), nrevus, gum- mata, malignant. lY. General swelling—acute inflammation, congenital enlargement, general enlargement secondary to other diseases of tongue or of digestive tract. V. Non-ulcerative superficial afiections—psoriasis, ichthyosis, papilloma.