SYPHILIS. 298 loured patches, size of sixpence, chiefly on neck, face, and abdomen. Alopecia.—' Primary' or ' consecutive.' By ' primary ' is meant the alopecia which occurs independently of any visible anatomical lesion during the secondary period of syphilis. ' Consecutive' is the alopecia which attends various local ter- tiary syphilitic affections. Very common indeed, especially in women. Not confined to crown of head like senile alopecia. Affects scalp iiTegularly. When of long duration, indicates a severe syphilis. JVails. Onychia.—Usually moist and ulcerative; sometimes dry, and co-existent with psoriasis elsewhere. Affects toes more than fingers. Part primarily affected is, of course, the matrix. Pain of ulcerative form often considerable. Psoriasis of the nail makes it horny, thickened, and fissured. Mucous Membranes.—Especially of mouth, throat, nose, larynx, and rectum. Secondary affections of these are either—(1) erythemas, (2) superficial ulcerations, or (3) condylomata. Type, Syfhilitic Sore-throat (secondary).—Red patches, more or less irregular, on pharynx, soft palate, and often at same time on mucous membrane of cheeks. These may be attended or followed by small superficial ulcers, surrounded by a dark red margin, covered with yellowish material, and tender, readily smarting. ]\Iust not be confounded with mercurial stomatitis and angina. The latter produce swelled gums and the odour of salivation. The throat, in the male sex, is the commonest seat of condylomata. Condylomata. Mucous Tubercles.-—Cliief seats :—Yulva, pharynx, palate, mouth, anus, buttocks, glans penis, prepuce, scrotum, and intervals between toes. Structiu-e :—sarcomatous, or soft connective tissue. Prognosis :—they indicate a very mild foi'm of syphilis. Secondary Visceral Affections.—Of liver, nervous system, <fec. (^See medical works.) Secondary affections of the joints occur rarely, and may be diagnosed by the history. Secondary thickenings of the muscles and of the periosteum are very uncommon. Iritis, when syphilitic, may be distinguished from rheumatic