OVARIOTOMY (BY ME. DOEAN). 383 Diagnosis.—From ascites : as the patient lies supine, the bulging and dulness is in the front of the abdomen in cj'stic ovarian disease, in the flanks in ascites; in the latter resonance is altered by change of position, but not in the case of ovarian cyst. From cystic kidney : in this disease the dulness is very marked in one flank, and seldom extends far across the median line to the opposite side of the abdomen. It may push the colon forwards, which may be detected, as a cord, or a tube resonant on percussion, in front of it. From hydatid cysts : when in the liver, there is resonance in the lower part of the abdomen, but abnornal dulness to the right side above; the fluctuating cysts project from the solid liver. When in the great omentum, the abdomen becomes distended, but not prominent anteriorly; the small fluctuating cysts can be detected separately, feeliug on pal- pation like potatoes in a sack. In all cases of hydatid disease tapping will procure the characteristic fluid. From Jibro-cystic uterine tumours : chiefly by introducing the sound into the uterus. If it move very intimately with the tumour, that growth may be uterine, or else an ovarian cyst with very close connections with the uterus. The diagnosis from soft solid gi'owths must depend on careful palpation. Complications.—Inflammation of the cyst wall, indicated by sudden attacks of abdominal pain, and generally causing adhesions to abdominal walls, omentum or viscera. Suppuration of cyst, iudicated by rigors. Strangulation of cyst by twisting on its own pedicle, so as to obstruct its nutrient vessels. If partial, this may cause diminution in size of cyst from atrophy; if complete, the cyst will slough, with fatal results if not relieved. Ruj)ture of cyst, from violence or from degeneration of its walls; the tumour gets suddenly smaller and less defined, with more or less severe abdominal symptoms. Treatment.—If patierft be very weak, and sufier from extreme distension, the tumour may be tapped, and operation deferred a few weeks. It is always right to operate, and as early as possible, except in cases of cysts that appear to contain solid malignant growths, and are at the same time suspected of being intimately adherent to other structures. Ovariotomy.—Place the patient on her back, with shoulders (