DISEASES OF JOINTS. 208 compression witli the strong elastic bandage. By means of a soft elastic bag containing water and placed beneath the elastic bandage, the pressure can be measured and regulated to a nicety, without removing the bandage. I have found the hydraulic pressure of a column of water 28 inches high sufl&cient; but this point must vary with the case.^ Scott's di-essing. Failing these methods, aspiration may be combined with elastic pres- sure, or tapping with injection of iodine. In case of knee-joint insert a trochar and cannula close to side of patella, draw off fluid, inject tinct. iodi., aquse, aa ^ss. Let iodine escape after three to five minutes, according to amount of pain. Now put up limb as after punctured wound of joint. Splint, swing, or starched bandage, &c. Iodine injection is dangerous both to life and limb, and can very rarely be justifiable. Joint may be tapped and drained with antiseptic precautions. Chronic Joint-disease. W7dte Swelling. Strumous Dis- ease of Joints. Including Pulpy Degeneration of Synovial Membrane, ' Ulceration of Cartilage' (and Articular Ostitis when it leads to chronic degeneration of the adjacent joint).— To anyone more familiar with chronic joint-disease in books than in the human body, the above long heading may seem unnecessarily fraught with confusion. But I trust that it is not so; for, although some of the above terms represent dif- ferent conditions at the outbreak of disease and for a short time afterwards, yet these different commencements almost always tend towards the same course and termination, viz., implication of every element of the joint, synovial membrane, cartilage, bone-surface, and ligaments. There are numbers of diseased joints which, even when exposed to the eye by excision, amputation, or death, do not reveal the oiigin of their dis- organisation. Moreover, in deciding upon a plan of treatment, one considers not so much what was the commencement as what is the present state; not what was, but what is, determines the decision. Still it is true that the consideration of the past may throw light on the future. Moreover, examiners sometimes base their questions on anatomical pathology. Therefore care 1 But to prevent relapse it is necessary to insist upon the patient's wearing a common elastic bandage roimd his joint for months after leaving hospital.