INJUEIES OF HEAD. 165 tion. "When reaction has taken place, if not before, precau- tionary measures against hfemon'hage, inflammation, ifec, should at once be adopted.—See Precautionary Treatment of Fi'actures of Skull. Compression.—Fathology.—Depressed fracture of skull, ex- travasated blood within the cranium, inflammatory thickening or oedema of the brain, or pus within the cranium are foimd, besides, in each case various conditions such as are sketched in the above notices of contusion, intracranial hsemori-hage, inflam- mation, ikc. Symptoms of Concussion and Compression con- trasted :— C'OXCUSSION. 1. Insensibilitj', from which patient can usually be partlj' arouped. 2. Eespiration feeble, like that of a person in a faint condition. 3. Pulse weak, irregular, and often frequent. 4. Special senses dulled. 6. Pupils variable but usually sensi- tive to light. 6. Nausea as recoverj' is taking place. 7. Bowels relaxed, but sphincters not paralysed. 8 Blarlder can expel water. 9. Com es on ius tantaneously and passes ofi'gradually. Compression. 1. Total insensibilitj'. 2. Respiration stertorous, slow, and puffing. 3. Pulse full, slow, laboured. 4. Special senses paralysed. 6. Pupils widely dilated, or, sometimes one dilated and the other normal or contracted. 6. Stomach insensitive. 7. Sphincters may be paralysed, but bowels are torpid. 8. Bladder paralysed. Consequent re- tention of urine. 9. Does not usually appear at moment of injuiy, but afterwards, and tends to get worse. Trealvient of Conijiression varies with the suspected or known cause, whether extravasated blood, or depressed fracture, or inflammation, or suppm^ation, or foreign body. But always attend to these points—1, dark room; 2, head high; 3, head shaved; 4, head cool; 5, low diet: 6, see that the bowels act freely, if necessary, placing a drop of croton oil in a little sugar on the tongue. The treatments of inflammation and suppm^a- tion are given above. The question of trephining for compression has been answered in the aflfii-mative or the negative, accorcUn- as the intracranial mischief is believed to be-local and acces- sible, or to be general. But I am inclined to hold that the introduction of the antiseptic treatment reopens this question, and that antiseptic trephining may be justifiable to relieve general intracranial tension.' I must again also call attention 1 See Yeo, Brit. Med. Journ. May 14, 1881.