64 CALCULUS. Namk Characters Urine a dirty- red colour ; after standing, a slight- ly flocculent, brownish sedi- ment. Heat co- agulates the albu- men. There may be blood enough to form a clot; then the urine is dark brownish- rcd. Or the blood may be quite un- mixed with the urine. Causes Pus-corpuscles, under the micro- scope, are spheroi- dal and granular. The pus gene- rally subsides as a dense layer of a ' pale-greenish cream-colour,' which can be mixed thoroughly with the urine by shaking. Not af- fected by acetic I. Kidney dis- ease. Calculi, congestion, in- flammation, in- jury, scurvy, the Bilharzia capeu- sis. Malaria may cause intermit- tent hematuria. Blood from the kidney is gene- rally mixed uni- formly with the urine, and forais blood - casts. 2. Bladder affec- tions ; injuries, stone, tumours. Blood from blad- der often flows pure after the urine. 3. Ureth- ra : blood pure, and comes before or with urine, or without urine at all. Symptoms Abscess, ulcera- tion, or merely catarrh of any part of the urinary passages. 1. Pus from the kidneys is usually diflused throughout urine passed. 2. Pus from bladder is mostly mixed with mucus. 3. Pus from an ab- scess is usually Those of cause. Use Heller's teat for blood. Heat urine, then add KHO and heat again. The phos- phates then fall down with the co- louring mat- ter of tho blood. The sediment has a dirty - red colour hy re- flected, and a splendid blood - red colour by t r ansmitted light. Treatment Those the cause. of Best and internal styptics, e.g., gallic and s u 11) h u r i c acids,acetate of lead with opium. Dry cupping the loins also in renal hajmor- rhage. For vesical haj- m 0 r r h a g e use similar treatment and local re- medies : ice to pcrinajum and epigas- trium and in rectum. Do not cathete- rise unless there is re- tention of urine. If the clots will not come away without in- ter I'e r e n ce, use,cautious- )y, Clover's e xh a usting apparatus for lithoto- my, or a sy- ringe and full-sized c.v theter. Rus- pini's styptic. Treat the cause.