303 TESTICLE. Tendons, Ruptured, should be treated like ruptured mus- cles. Rest in relaxed position for a fortnight. Afterwards careful and gradual motion for weeks before attempting free use. Tendons, Cut, can often be advantageously united by suture. Tendons, Syphilitic Gummata of, occur. Testicle.—Abscess; Absence; Atrophy; Cancer; Cystic disease; Development imperfect; Enchondroma ; Fibrous and fibro-cystic tumour ; Hernia testis; Inflammation (orchitis and epididymitis); Injuries ; Malposition,—Inversion, Testicle in perinseum. Testicle in groin below Poupart's ligament, Re' tained testicle in abdomen, in inguinal canal; Neuralgia; Scrofulous testicle; Syphilitic testicle. Testicle, Abscess of.—Causes.—Generally, chronic or sub- acute orchitis, of syphilitic or scrofulous origin. Occasio'/ial liesuUs.—Hernia testis, troublesome sinuses, and recurrent inflammations. Treatment.—Apply general principles. Do not open too early. Testicle, Absence op.—An extremely rare condition, ex- cept in cases of general abnormality of the genital organs, Cm-ling quotes trustworthy case from the practice of Page, of Carlisle. Testicle, Atrophy of.—Causes.—1, the contraction of lymph effused in the course of any variety of orchitis; 2, similar contraction the result of hsematocele, and even of hydrocele; 3, excesses, sexual or alcoholic; 4, varicocele; 5, operations for varicocele, especially those in which the spermatic arteiy is injured; 6, elephantiasis scroti; 7, injuries of the head; 8, iajuries of the spine; 9, blows on the back of the neck; 10, old age. Treatment.—Remove the cause if possible; use means to excite the arterial circulation in the part, and to sujDport the veins. Attend to general health. In some cases rest, in others exercise of the genital organs will be indicated. Froy- nosis depends on cause and persistence. In genuine cases, bad. Testicle, Cancer of.—Almost always encephaloid. Fatho- —Begins usually in the body of the testis. At first the tubular structure of the testicle is spread around the cancerous mass, not mixed with it. Cancerous mass is soft and pulpy,