WOUNDS. 369 by careful adjustment of dressing, of splints, of position (especially by elevation and flexion), by use of swing-cradles, of cushions, &c. Opiates sometimes desii-able, especially morphia subcutaneously. Septic influences : their avoidance can probably be thoroughly secured in only one way, viz., by preventing the access of living germs to the wound. But much good mly be done by removing, as fast as they collect, all discharges which can form a nidus for these germs. The former end is most surely secured by the antiseptic system rigorously applied. The latter aim can be more or less successfully attained by several means. Lister's antiseptic system, though indirectly (e g. by ex- pecUting cure) economical, is directly expensive, especially when the surgeon does not habitually employ it, and in the case of very large operation-wounds, e.g., amputations of the thigh In these cases immense quantities of expensive dressings have to be changed, often daily, because of the great discharge. Aff aJso, no antiseptic system can provide against all the dangers of wounds. It IS not surprising that a surgeon, after losing a case or two, dressed with thorough antiseptic precautions, should be disposed to return to more familiar methods, upon which in past times, his fortune may have smiled more favourably 'in the case of moderate-sized wounds, Lister's antiseptic system i^ simply perfect, and almost proof against ordinary carelessness Ignorance, and stupidity. On the other Land, ' open treatment' and oakum dressings are free from the objections which may be urged against Lister's antiseptic system, in the case of ^re.t amputations. They are very cheap and simple. They doubt ess both act by gaining the second end above mentioned, viz " the removal of discharge from the woimd as fast as it form^' and, consequently by depriving the septic germs of materinJ to work upon. Pasteur's experiments prove aerms to h. !T universal for the oakum dressings to acf otherCe a; no cautions, such as the carboUc spray, are usually tiken whilst changing hem. Oakum dressings have these superioritielovex open treatment, they protect the wound from cold 1^ 7. they destroy offensive smells, keeping the « ^ T^^^^^ ward pure, and they actively drain L wound by their n I capillary attraction. What I saw when l.ol:':^JrZ:l B B