225 DISEASES OF LARYNX. forceps, guillotines, and even galvanic cautery are used. Of course the parts have to be made visible by laryngoscope during operation, and no small skill is usually required. See special notice of Laryngoscopy. Puncture cysts. Tracheotomy is done prior to thyrotomy, and may be required, in case of severe dyspnoea from tumour, merely to avert immediate danger to life. Larynx (Trachea or Bronchi), Foreign Bodies in.^— How they gain entrance.—Through glottis, or, very rarely, through a wound. Children most liable, from practice of play- ing -with things in their mouths. Laughing or coughing whilst swallowing : the deep inspirations taken in those actions sud- denly draw food into the air-passages. Syphilitic ulceration may impair laryngeal orifice or sphincters. General palsy of the muscles which close the glottis. Palsy of the vocal cords is not in itself enough to cause any danger of entrance of foreign body. Parts where they lodge.—^h&vp bodies usually stick in larynx, especially in or near the ventricle, or just above the glottis. Of course, only bodies of limited size can pass through glottis. Small smooth, rounded bodies most likely to di-op into trachea or bronchi, especially into right bronchus. Septum between bronchi is to left of middle line. Right bronchus is larger than left. Signs—Depend (1) upon size of body, (2) upon its position, (3) upon whether it is impacted or not, (4) upon its nature, whether sharp and jagged or smooth and rounded. I. A sufficiently large substance will cause speedy suffocation unless removed. 2. Bodies near the glottis usually cause acute irritation, spasm, cough and chokino- sensation ; perhaps haemorrhage and pain. Symptoms may be aggravated by each act of swallowing. If not removed, ulcer- ation, catarrh, or even abscess will ensue. Impaction in the trachea causes signs mainly of impeded respiration, but also produces general laryngo-tracheal irritation, and, eventually inflammation and ulceration. The interference with respira' tion, as well as the tracheitis, soon affects the lungs. Bronchitis and pneumonia. When a bronchus is the locality, the si^ns re semble those of foreign body in the trachea; but the pulmonarv symptoms are confined to or most marked in one lung There IS decrease or absence of respiratory murmur on the affected Q