SYPHILIS. 301 second period, when the still powerful school of anti-mercurialists had its origin in the experience of the British army stirgeons during the Peninsiilar war; and the third and present period, in which nine surgeons out of ten give mercury, with discretion both as to amount and time, and frequently substitute for it iodide of potassium. Practically convenient to notice treatment of primary, secondary, and tertiary syphilis independently. Primary ^S'yjo/wYis.—Sigmund's statistics tend to prove that cauterisation of the spot inoculated is very successful in averting, if only it be effected early in the period of incubation (before any chancre has appeared).^ Mercury unable to prevent secon- daries, but useful to hasten the absorption of a very indurated chancre, which is slow to disappear. Locally, cleanliness and lotio nigra, or calomel ointment one part + simple ointment four parts, applied three times a day. For treatment of phagedena, see Soft Chancre. Treatment secondary sypliilis.—General and local. Gene- ral : Mercury in small doses, e.g. hydrarg. c. creta gr. iij bis die; calomel gr. ij with opii gr. \ ter die; hydrargyri iodidi virid. gr. ij ter die; pil. hydrargyri gr. v, opii gr. ^ bis die; liq. hydrarg. perchlor. 3j ter die. Mercuria linunction, ung. hydrargyri 3ss- 5j, rubbed into skin of inner side of thighs, arms, and of belly alternately, every evening ; calomel ointment, which is cleaner, may be substituted. The peroxide of mercury dissolved in ohve oil is another ' elegant' preparation for external use. Fumi- gation.—Apparatus required : spirit lamp, common tin plate, small tin for boiling water, tripod to support tin plate over spirit lamp, cane or wood bottomed chair and blanket. Calomel gr. XX to be placed on plate dry. Tin of boiling water to be put on plate beside the calomel; lamp lighted, patient sits on chair with blanket round him. Lamp to be blown out in ten minutes ; but patient sits a quarter of an hour longer, and then gets into bed without drying his skin. Eepeat every night or every other night. Iodide of potassium often given in secondary syphilis. Dose v-xv grains, best combined with some alkali. Iodide of potassium and liq. hydrarg. perchlor, sometimes pre- ' Sir James Paget and Mr. Hutchinson are in favour of trial of cauterisation in early stage of hard chaucre.