310 TETANUS. 4, male sex. Wounds in which nerves are lacerated or left in contact with sharp spiculse of bones or with foreign bodies, and wounds of the hand or foot, are said to be especially liable. Tetanus is a more common complication of compound fractures than of surgical operations. Exposure to cold or sudden change of temperature rarely acts without a pre-existing wound. Negro race is very subject. Pathology.—Kichardson, Billroth, and others teach that it is a zymotic disease, i.e., a poisoning of the blood through the absorption of septic material, which septic ma- terial is formed by decomposition in the wou^nd. Brown-Sequard, and many others regard tetanus as an afifection of the spinal cord which has spread from some irritated sensory nerve or nerves in the wound when there is one. In favour of the latter theoiy may be cited cases in which the spasm has been confined to the injured side of the body, or even to the iujured limb itself. Often no post-mortem appearances have been seen in the cord; sometimes softening of the central grey matter. It. has been truly observed that great changes ought not to be expected, because 'it would be quite impossible for motor im- pulses to originate from a spinal marrow reduced to a mass of debris.' Coats (see Med. Chi. Trans, vol. Ixi.) observed changes in medulla oblongata like those in cord, and even a morbid con- dition of the motor regions of the convolutions. There was an accumulation of leucocytes round the vessels of the medulla, of the cord, and of the kidneys, which in his opinion supported the theory of a poison circulating in the blood. Symptoms and Course.—Typical case : A man with compound fracture of fore- arm, about three or four days after the accident, complains of pain in the part, and is rather feverish. The next morning his neck is stiff and his jaw also: he thinks he has caught rheumatism in that region. Within twenty-four hours short spasms of the back occur when the patient is momentarily exposed or fed or otherwise excited. The spasms rapidly afiect also the abdomen and the extremities; and now, instead of being merely transitory as at fi.rst, they never wholly pass away, the abdomen feels hard like a board, the back is arched (opisthotonos), the hands are clenched, the face marked by the risus sardonicus, and the jaw