3 ABSCESS. Simple Penetrating "WoUiNDS.—Sometimes marked by escape of reddish serum. If sutures should be required, place them close to or through peritoneum, give opium, and apply general principles of practice. Prognosis fairly good. Wounds with Protrusion of Uninjured Yiscera.— Cleanse and return protrusion; if necessary, snick edge of wound to make room. Omentum, if much injured, may be cut off after ligaturing. See that the herniated viscera are faii-ly and entirely passed into abdominal cavity, and not slipped be- tween muscles. Gangrenous bowel: leave it in siH to slough, and form artificial anus. Wounds with Injury and without Protrusion.—Yeiy serious. Possible escape of urine, fieces, bile, or gas through external wound. Extravasation into peritoneal cavity not in- variable. Other symptoms and treatment like those of contu- sion of abdomen with ruptm-e of viscera. Vide above. Wounds with both Injury and Protrusion.—Treatment. Restrain htemorrhage by ligature or clamp. Do not be anxious to return sohd viscera if they are at all seriously injured. Sew up wounds of intestine with silk or strong catgtit. Glover's suture, unless the wound be lacerated or involve much of bowel's cahbre; then stitch bowel to edge of external wound to form artificial anus. Allow no food, except ice and barley- water, for three days. See also Peritonitis (Traumatic), Fis- tula (Gastric and Biliary), Artificial Anus. Abscess.—A circumscribed collection of pus. Two chief kinds, acute and chronic. Term ' cold' is sometimes used as synonymous with chronic, and sometimes means a chronic abscess which has formed without any noticeable signs of inflammation. Acute Abscess.—Causes. Injury, irritation of a foreign , body, follicular obstruction, absorption of poison, especially by lymphatics, and some obscure constitutional conditions. Symp- toms.—Chills, rigors; temperature often lises suddenly to 104'^. Local symptoms of inflammation. Throbbing pain, which becomes more dull and aching as pus forms. (Edema of skin. Fluctuation. The swelling, which is at first hard, gradually softens in centre. Pointmg of abscess : the cuticle rises,the skin ulcerates or sloughs, and bursts. Terminations.—1, when opened either surgically M 2