TUMOUES. 329 fibrous bands; and, from the pale yellowisli colour of the section, an inexperienced observer miglit readily suppose them to be chiefly fat. They are very succulent and juicy when freshly cut. These are the fihro-cellular tumours.* Other sar- comata, especially the ' net-celled,' are of loose, gelatinous ap- pearance, even so much so as to trickle away on section, like the vitreous humom- of the eye. These are the myxoviata. Others resemble lean 'flesh,' and, on section, are seen to be blotched with red, though in the main grey, or yellow and shining. Such often contain giant-cells. Finally, tumoiu-s which will recur, or have already recurred, are very often soft, and, with each recurrence, tend to get more and more encepha.- loid or more and more gelatinoiis. Sarcomata are liable to cystic, calcareous, osseous, and mucous degenerations. Symptoms of Sarcomata.—Distinct, encapsulated tumours. Usually rounded and smooth, often lobulated. Consistence varies from great firmness to the softness of jelly. "When con- nected with bone, they frequently ossify. Cicatricial shrinkage very rare (this contrasts with carcinoma). Partial mucous softening and cystic degeneration frequently modify the con- sistence of a sarcoma. Ulceration occurs early in the course of superficial sarcomata, but is not usually very destructive. The tumour may then fungate. The chief points for the diagnosis of sarcoma are thus concisely given by Billroth : ' Sarcomata develope with peculiar frequency after precedent local irritations, especially after in- juries. Cicatrices, also, are not imfrequently the seat of these tumours; black sarcomata may come from irritated moles. Skin, muscles, nerves, bone, periosteum, and, more rarely, glands (among these the mamma most frequently), are the seats of these tumours. Sarcomata are rarest in children, rare between ten and twenty years, most frequent in middle life, and rarer again in old age. According to my observation, men and women are afiected with equal frequency. If these tumours be not located in or on nerve-trunks, they are usually painless till they break out. If the sarcoma be in the subcutaneous cellular tissue or in the bi'east, it may be felt as an encapsulated 1 See p. 830.