34 SPKAINS OF BACK. from jugular. If there is obstruction to passage of air through mouth or nose, open trachea. Then, friction, warmth, warm bath (100°), ammonia to nostrils; but begin at once artificial respira- tion, and continue it. Artificial respiration by 1, inflation from mouth to mouth; 2, bellows; 3, split sheet; 4, Marshall Hall's method; 5, Sylvester's; 6, Howard's; 7, inhalation of oxygen; 8, galvanizing phrenic nerve. "With bellows, 15 cubic inches should be introduced 12 times a minute. Oxygen was success- fully administered after three-quarters of an hour's asphyxia, in Weeks' case. Sylvester's method.—Lay body on back, on a plane inclined slightly towards feet; cushion under head; head in line with trunk; tongue drawn forward ; grasp arms just above elbows and draw upwards till they nearly meet above head; there retain them for two seconds ; then depress them again and press them firmly for two seconds against the sides, combined, if possible, with pressure on lower part of sternum ; repeat about fifteen times per minute. Remember, artificial respiration is to be attended to the first thing; warmth and friction are secondary; the endeavours should be kept up for at least three or four hours, even without any encouraging signs. In Hanging, besides asphyxia, there is usually some apoplexy as well as injury to the spinal cord. Aspiration.—The aspirator is an exhausting syringe, used for drawing off fluids without admitting ingress of air, and in exploring for purposes of diagnosis. The needle should be pressed in with a screwing motion, and the taps should be managed carefully and without huiTy. Atheroma.—Vide Aeteeies, Atheboma of. Atheromatous Tumours.—Fi(^e Tumours (Cysts). Back, Sprains of.—Usually occur in neck or loins, often affect intervertebral Kgaments; tumefaction, rarely ecchymosis, stiffness, tenderness; in severe cases, patient lies on his side, semi-flexed; hajmatmia when the kidneys are hurt; occasionally symptoms of paralysis; if such persist, intravertebral hsemor- rhage, inflammation of the meninges, or injury to the cord are indicated. Causes.—Falls on head or buttocks, railway collisions Euaby football, &c. Diagnosis.—From fracture or dislocation.