362 INFLAMMATION OF VEINS. sought for under the head of venous thrombosis. Prognosis.— Vide Venous Thrombosis. Treatment.—R&st. Elevation, gentle and even pressure. If a common roller be used, place a layer of cotton wool beneath for the sake of elasticity. Eegulate bowels. Moderate or low diet. If abscess threatens, it may be poulticed, fomented with hot water, and opened early. Exten- sive cases of solid oedema from venous obstruction are rarely entirely cured, some thickening remaining. As ammonia readily enters the blood and, when there, retards coagulation, there is a rational indication for giving it in cases of phlebitis. I believe Dr. Richardson has demonstrated its value in cases of thrombosis. The carbonate in large doses would be the best form to administer. Concerning gouty phlebitis, Paget says it is ' either associated with ordinary gouty inflammation in the foot or joints, or occurs, with little or no evident provocation, in persons of marked gouty constitution or with gouty inheritance. Not rarely it has pecu- liar marks, especially in its symmetry, apparent metastases, and frequent recurrences.' Treatment.—Employ same means as in managing gout affecting other external parts, especially rest and elevation. When vein affected is large, rest should continue a month from date of last marked attack of pain, to lessen risk of emboUsm. Venous Thrombosis.—Formation of a clot in a living vein. Causes.—(1) Injury to a vein, e.g. a wound. Tliis may act either by causing a roughness or projection into the cahbre of the vein, or by obstructing the flow of blood altogether. (2) Constriction. This is probably the way in which inflammation external to the vein usually acts : the immediate elFect is to slow the blood-current. (3) Dilatation, by retarding the flow of blood, will produce thrombosis, e.g. occasionally in varicose veins. (4) Another cause analogous in mode of action to the last two is constitutional debiKty, ' marasmic thrombosis.' (5) The entrance of an irritant or of septic poison into .the blood. (6) Thrombosis in one vein may be merely the result of extension into it of a clot from a neighbouring vein, e.g., in certain cases of ' white leg,' obstruction of external iliac has spread up from uterine veins through internal iliac. (7) Gout.