'^84 SPINE, DISEASES OF. 2 See St, Barth. Hasp. Rep. vol. xiv. kiads. If an apparatus be applied, it should be frequently examined and adjusted. Fixed apparatus, plaster of Paris, poro -plastic, leather, paraffin, &c. To Sayre is chiefly due credit of demonstrating their value. He uses bandages with plaster of Paris, applying them from below the anterior superior iliac spines up to the armpits, while the patient is suspended by a collar beneath the chin and loops in the axilte, his toes only touching the ground. The bandages are made of crinoline. Pads of cotton wool over epigastrium, female breasts, and prominent spines. Tight-fitting jersey next skin. Patient lies horizontally for an hour after appKcation of jacket (longer if convenient). Similar apparatus applied with patient in supine position (Walker),• or suspended from the armpits and hips in prone position (Willett), or in hammock (Davy).^ Patient's complaints as to pain, etc., should be attended to, lest a sore form from pressure over projecting spines. The suspending rope should be held by hand, as grown-up people sometimes faint, and require instantly lowering to the horizontal, and httle children might get hanged if hooked up and left. Case should be cut up at least once in three or four months; six months minimum of treatment. With a Sayre's case, exercise and play become enjoyable in cases where walking had previously been impossible. In case of pain near the prominent spine, cut a trap-door in the case. When the cervical region is affected, the head should be either suspended from a jury mast, or supported by a leather collar, well moulded to the chin, occiput, and base of the neck. Use the jury-mast also in upper dorsal cases. Con- stitutional treatment is conducted on general principles. Cod- liver oil, Parrish's food, sea-side, fresh air, sufficient diet, repose, &c. Abscess.—Its opening should be delayed as long as possible ; and then strict antiseptic treatment should be carried out. Spine, Lateral Curvature of.— In practice the lateral curvatures which sometimes result from empyema or from lumbar caries are not included under this head. Causes.—Mus- cular weakness and excessive sitting or standing in a lounging position about the age of puberty. Female sex much more than 1 See Brit. Med. Jnurn. Dec. 1878. ■