APPENDIX. OSTEOTOMY. Place of Incision in Chiene's Operation.—' An incision two to three inches in length is made over the tubercle' (that of the adductor magnus,) ' and is carried upwards for a sufficient distance.' T/ie Wedge.—' The long axis of the wedge runs downwards and outwards towards the notch between the condyles.' Grasp the tibia at its lower extremity, and by pressui-e inwards bend the neck of bone attaching the condyle to the femur. {See Edinburgh Medical Journal, 1878.) Ogston's Operation for Genu-valgum.—If the genu-valgum be severe, operate with the knee bent, otherwise with the knee extended. A tenotomy-knife is inserted at a point as far back as the level of the internal condyloid ridge, and about four inches above the most prominent point of the internal condyle. It is passed downwards, outwards, and forwards, to the notch between the two condyles, until the point can be felt projecting in front of that notch. Before withdrawing it, the periosteum and cartilage are incised. An Adams's saw is now passed in, and the internal condyle sawn two-thirds off. Now, extending the limb (if it has been flexed hitherto), and using the tibia as a lever, with the operator's knee as a fulcrum, the limb should be bent inwards till the internal condyle cracks off and slips upwards. With sphnts and pads place and keep the limb straight till union has taken place. Commence passive motion about the end of the third week. Of course, use strict anti- septic treatment. (iS'ee Edinburgh MedicalJournal, March 1877.) Dressings, &c., of Osteotomies for Genu-valgum.—See general remarks above. Well and judiciously padded box-splints are commonly used. But, as few or no changes of dressing are usually required, the limb can be once for all fixed in a moulded case of plaster of Paris or similar material. Osteotomy fob Ankylosis of Hip in a Bad Position.— If there be a good neck to the" femur, in other words, if the great trochanter appear to be set far enough away from the os innominatum, divide the neck of the femur. Otherwise operate below the great trochanter. Division of Neck of Femur with an Osteotome.—Bisect a line between the ant. sup. spine of ilium and the ant. sup.