INFLAMMATION. 193 nervous influence. Billroth thus states this view : —' We actually know such phenomena from physiology; the obstruction of the heart's action by irritation of the vagus nerve, of the movements of the intestines from irritation of the splanchnic nerves, &c. Here a vaso-motor nerve-system is snj)posed which an-ests the contraction of the muscles; could not such a vaso- motor nerve-system also be supposed for the vessels—nerves, irritation of which lessens the tone of the muscles of the vessels and thus renders the walls less capable of resisting the pressure of blood 1' That local nerves have an unquestionable influence over the circulation in inflamed parts has been experi- mentally proved.—A^ee Holmes's System, vol. v. p. 735-6-7-8. Ammonia when used as an irritant to excite inflammation has this exceptional property—it excites a preliminary arterial contraction before the ordinary vascular dilatation. 2. Exu- dation.—As soon as the rate of circulation begins to slacken, white blood-corpuscles or leucocytes begin to accumulate and loiter along the side of the minute veins and the capillaries. ' In this way the vein becomes lined with a continuous pavement of these bodies, which remain almost motionless, notwith- standing that the axial current sweeps by them as continuously as before, though with abated velocity. Now is the moment at which the eye must be fixed on the outer contour of the vessel from which (to quote Professor Cohnheim's words), here and there, minute colouiiess button-shaped elevations spring, just as if they were produced by budding out of the wall of the vessel itself. The buds increase gradually and slowly in size until each assumes the form of a hemispherical projection of width corresponding to that of a leucocyte. Eventually the hemisphere is converted into a pear-shaped body, the stalk end of which IS still attached to the surface of the vein while the round part projects freely. GraduaUy the little mass of proto plasm removes itself further and further away, and, as it does so, be^ns to shoot out delicate prongs of transparent proto- plasm from Its surface, in no wise difiering in their aspect from the s ender thread by which it is still moored to the vessel Finally, the thread is severed and the process is complete' The observer has before him an emigrant leucocjiie.'-Burdon- 0