EPISTAXIS. 100 regions wliere the collateral circulation is poor, e.g., in the bi-arn, death of the parts whose blood-supply is obstructed by the em- bolus may occur. When emboli are of a septic nature, they produce pysemic abscesses. Entozoa have been known to con- stitute the emboli. Emphysema.—In surgery, means only the passage of air into the cellular tisstie. Causes,—Mostly wounds of lung, especially by broken ribs. Yery rarely decomposition and consequent production of gas in a wound. The air almost always passes first into the pleural cavity, and is pumped thence by respira- tory movements into cellular tissue. Symptoms and Course.— The peculiar crackling feeling is unmistakable and pathogno- monic. Unless the air continues to pass into the cellular tissue, it is soon entirely absorbed. The emphysema is first noticed near the wound, and spreads thence often to great distances. The rupture of an air-cell in the lung may cause emphysema of the mediastina and the neck. Treatment.—Treat the cause; put a pad over the wound. Empyema.—Fluid, at first serum or blood, effused in the pleural cavity, may become purulent. The condition thus produced is called an empyema, and is described more fully in medical than in stirgical works. But I must call attention to the treatment by excision of part of a rib.—(Peitavy, Med. Record, Aug. 1876; W. Thomas, Birm. Med. Review.) Encliondroma.—See Tumours. Epistaxis.—Bleeding from the nose. Cawses.—Congestion of mucous membrane of nose; this may result from catarrh, from a varicose condition of tbe nasal veins, the result of old catarrh, from congestion of the liver, fi^om heart-disease, and even from dyspepsia. Childhood and puberty are the usual ages, but middle life (from liver, heart, or kidney disease, &c.)'is also subject. Epistaxis in old age sometimes appears to result from weakness, which it of course aggravates. Blows ; hajmorrhagic diathesis; vicarious menstruation. Pr•0(7^^os^s.—Dangerous in old and weakly people. ^Trea^men^.—Perfect rest, coolness, but extremities should be warm ; bathing face with hot water to diminish congestion of mucous membrane; sometimes cold water acts better; raising hands above head; head not to be held