ULCERS. 340 Small doses of liq. hydrarg. percUor, siiTm, gr. V—x ter die. &c. Yide Syphilis. Lupous Ulcers, Rodent Ulcers, and Ulcerating Epithe- lioma may be usefully contrasted as follows :— Lupous Ulcer Locality: most fre- quently face, especially tip or alse of nose, upper lip, cheek. Female ex- ternal genitals. Ante- rior, inferior part of nasal septum. Pharynx. Borders : abrupt, irre- gular, sometimes slighily elevated or thickened, verj" rarely undermined. Base: more or less level. Granulations nearly absent, or else coarse and dusky. Often scabbed over. Preceded bj'pink, firm, flattened tubercles. Rodent Ulcer Most frequently, cheeks, ej'elids, upper lip, nose, scalp. Also vulva, vagina, areola of breast, near anus, &c. Abrupt; perhaps with low tubercles near, never under- mined, not everted; tough, hard. Smooth, dull reddish- 3'ellow, looking half- drj' and glossy, void of granulations. Base feels tough and hard, as if bounded by a layer of indurated tissue half a line to a, line in thickness. Very little discharge indeed. Commences in some tubercular or scaly spot of long duration. Ulcerating Epithelioma of the SMn Great majority occur on lower lip, lower eye- lid. Other places where skin and mucous mem- brane join, e.g., anus, vulva, prepuce. Also scrotum, back of hand, and any other part of skin. Generally raised, evertfd, hard, nodular, wart v. Uneven, concave, hard, nodular, warty, fissured. ( oarse granu- lations. Base and sur- rounding parts hard, thickened and infil- trated with cancer. Often scabbed over when small. Begins in vaany ways—tubercles.warts, ulcers, fissures, cica- trices, &c. The course of each is destructive to every neighbouring tissue. Progress usually slow, always sure. Lupus is often associated with scrofulous constitution. Rodent ulcer more frequently coexists with perfect general health. The same may be said of epithelioma; but epithelioma is, of all the three, most usually painful and productive of cachexia. Epithelioma alone involves, secondarily, the glands; and the infection may spread to the entire system. This is what constitutes its truly cancerous nature. Rodent ulcer would only be described as semi-malignant. The last sentence is meant to be understood in a pure'y c'.inical sense. Pathologically, 'Rodent ulcer' is as