ULCEES. 337 distinguished from gangrene by the fact that in the latter j>rocess the dead particles cohere together after their death, and form n asses visible to the naked eye, whereas in ulceration the disintegrated tissue falls away in granules or pieces of micro- scopic size, or else is absolutely liquefied. The liquid in which the particles flow away is called ' discharge' or ' ichor,' and varies ■with the character of the ulceration. Chief varieties of discharge. —1. Thin and serous, containing gi-anules, debris, and some- times a little diffused blood (sanguinolent), or a little pus (purulent). 2. Foul, quickly decomposing, sometimes contain- ing shreds of gangrenous tissue. 3. Laudable pus, which consists almost entirely of serum crowded with pus-corpuscles, which are leucocytes escaped from the blood-vessels. Its creamy appearance well known. Contagious discharge may assume any of the above appearances. The first kind flows from spreading ulcers, the second from still more active ulcerations (phagedoena), the third from healthy, healing ulcers. Classification of Ulcees (Paget's).—I, (Type) Simple or healthy ulcer.* ' II. Varieties depending on constitutional causes (eleven) :—1. Inflammatory; * 2. eczematous ; * 3. cold; 4. senile. (* 5. Strumous; * 6. scorbutic; * 7. gouty; * 8. syphi- litic—strictly constitutional.) 9. Lupous; * 10. rodent; IL cancerous. III. Varieties depending on local conditions (eight) : —L Varicose ulcer ; 2. oederaatous ; * 3. exuberant; 4. hemor- rhagic ; * 5. neuralgic or irritable; * 6. inflamed; * 7. chronic or callous; * 8. phagedsenic and sloughing. It is customary in describing an ulcer to notice its (1) locality, (2) shape, (3) size, (4) base, (5) border, and (6) secretion. Simple or Healthy Ulcer.—^Arises from loss of substance due to accident or to some pre-existing, but now past, diseased condition. Locality, number, shape, and size—very variable. Base—covered with small red granulations, not painful and nob readily bleeding, neither raised nor much sunk below level of surrounding skin. Border—outer circle of thin white new epidermis, inner circle of still thinner (and therefore) blue ' '''!'^ thirteen varieties mnrkerl with an asterisk are the most important to rememuer. ll,e res: ,ne, so to si.eak, subsidiary either to other ulcers or to altogether special diseases. un-trs oi lo