FEACTUEES. 119 or else as in last variety (Gordon); 3, fracture of sternal end inside rbomboid ligament—outer fragment horizontally for- wards, simulating dislocation. Additional sym^j^oms.—Flattening of shoulder, prominence of inner fragment, crepitus, inability to raise arm, tenderness. Complications.—Occasional injury to subclavian vein or brachial plexus. Treatment.—Three indications : 1, keep shoulder and scapular fragment outwards; 2, correct rotation forwards of shoulder; 3, elevate shoulders. Best results from recumbent, supine position, for two or three weeks. Bandages, pads. Many special apparatus. Coccyx, Fracture of.—Causes.—Parturition, falls and blows. Treatment.—Regulate bowels. Best. Colles' Fracture.—See Fracture of Radius. Coracoid Process, Fracture of.—Causes.—Blows; dislo- cation of humerus. Prognosis.—Ligamentous union to be expected, it is said. Treatment.—Rest. Biceps and coraco-bra- chialis to be relaxed by flexing elbow and bringing arm across front of cheat. Uncomplicated fractui'e of coracoid process is extremely rare. Facial Bones, Fracture of.— Cause.— Direct violence. Prognosis.—Almost equally good in both compound and simple fractures. Great deformity sometimes unavoidable. Treatment. —See Fracture of Nasal Bones, &c. Femur, Fracture of.—Three main divisions : 1, of upper extremity; 2, of shaft; 3, of lower extremity. 1. Fracture of upper extremity, three subdivisions, viz. : a, intracapsular frac- ture of neck of lemur; h, extracapsular fracture of neck of femiu-; c, fracture of the trochanters not involving the neck. Fracture, Intracapsular of Neck of Femur.—Fracture alto- gether within capsule of hip-joint. Causes.—Predisposing—old age, consequent senile atrophy and lessened obliquity of neck of femur. Exciting cause, very trifling, e.g., slight fall, or even turning in bed. Almost all intracapsular fractures occur in old age. More common in female sex. Signs.—1, loss of power ; limb cannot be raised from the bed (except in rare cases) ; 2, flattening in region of trochanter; 3, trochanter rises above Nelaton's line; 4, it moves, on rotation, in an arc of a circle