217 LABIA. 1880.) Anatomy.—The diaphyses of the femur and tibia grow faster on the inner than on the outer side. Thus the internal condyle is pushed downwards, and the inner part of the upper epiphysis of the tibia upwards. At the same time the diaphyses often gi-ow curved with the convexity inwards. The patella tends outwards towards the external condyle. The internal lateral ligament is relaxed in cases which commence at or near puberty, but not in the knock-knee of rachitic children. Treat- ment.—In early age, the most severe cases can usually be cured by judicious and persevering use of splints or irons, and elastic force, combined with tonic medicines and hygiene. But some plan of osteotomy has to be followed when the bones are hard.^ Such operations are (1) Ogston's, (2) Chiene's, (3) McEwen's, (4) Reeves's, on the femur, and (5) Barwell's, on femur, tibia, and fibula. M. Delore forcibly bends the knee straight during anaesthesia, and then secures it in a movable dressing. He says that this procedure separates the inferior epiphysis of the femur. Dr. Ogston makes a small incision throiigh the skin and saws off the internal condyle subcutaneously, and then easily brings the limb straight. McEwen chisels neai-ly through the femur above the condyles, and then puts the limb straight. This is a very satisfactoiy operation. Use antiseptics. Chiene's and Reeves's modes of operation differ from Ogston's in that the former re- moves a wedge of bone and therefore alters the joint-surface less, while the latter chisels up to, but not through, the articular car- tilage. Chiene uses the chisel.—See Osteotomy in Appendix. Labia.—The external genital organs of the female are Kable to (1) hypertrophy, (2) cystic tumours, (3) venereal diseases, especially warts and ulcers, (4) epithelioma, (5) hsematocele, (6) varix, (7) abscess, beside other affections of less frequent occur- rence. Affections of the labia are modified by (1) the vaginal and vesical discharges to which they are so often exposed ; (2) the hindi-ance to the circulation due to the dependent position of relaxed or hypertrophied labia ; (3) the dirty habits of some 1 It is difficult to give an)' concise and precise rules or indications for osteo- tomy in genu valgiim. In each case the age of the patient, the amount of the deformity, its duration, its causes, its precise anatomical nature, and the effect upon it of experimental splinting, have to be considered.