270 RICKETS. tongue. Shift the mirror slightly to right or left of uvula',' according to which side it is desired to examine. 10, Direct patient to exhale quietly and continuously by the nostrils. ^ Rickets.—Rachitis. A disease of early childhood manifested chiefly by abnormal softness of the bones and consequent deformity, and by backward development of the teeth. Causes. —Improper feeding in infancy, especially giving yovmg infants farinaceous food to supplement a scanty supply of milk. Other bad hygienic conditions probably assist. Signs.~Xt first the little patient often has diarrhoea. He shrinks from being touched; for movement is painful. Head perspii-es. Kickin<» off bed-clothes at night. Backward dentition. Laryngismus stridulus. Emaciation. The above symptoms are entirely or partially absent in older children. Disease usually commences in second year. The infant ceases to walk when disease is at its height. Deformity of chest (pigeon-breast) now takes place. Bow-legs, knock-knees, curvature of spine (lateral and antero- posterior), as well as, though more rarely, pelvic deformities, occur when the patient walks about again. ' Beading' of junc- tions of ribs with costal cartilages. Enlargement of wrists, knees, and ankles. Fontanelles remain open. Head grows too fast, face too slow : hence projecting brows. Large belUes ^; fre- quently enlargements of liver and spleen. Bronchitis. The subjects of rickets in childhood will not, in later life, attain normal height. Pathology.—Mineral constituents of bone not deposited in normal amount; but animal portions grow norm- ally. Hence the bones soften, lacunae enlarge, periosteum and epiphysial cartilages proliferate; and, as ossification does not keep pace with this, long bones are apt to bend beneath the weight of the body, especially at the junction of their epiphyses with their shafts. For similar reasons the growing brain forces apart the cranial bones and keeps open the fontanelles. These changes near the epiphyses account for the beaded ribs, the enlarged wrists, and the deformed knees and shins. Also general thicken- ing, with partial thinning of cranial bones. When the rachitis disappears, leaving a bent long bone, the concavity of the curved bone is eventually strengthened by deposit of a ridge of compact * An early sign of great value (Clement Lucas).