TUMOUES. '^^^ thoroughly. Uterine fibroids require special consideration, and are neither to be rashly interfered with nor supinely let alone. Remrrence.—?\\TQ fibroma probably only recurs when excision has been incomplete. But fibro-sarcomata may infect the system. Cartilaginous Tumour. Enchondroma. — ^wa^om?/.— Eesembles sometimes hyahne and sometimes fibro-cartilage. But pathological difiers from normal cartilage in three respects, viz.—(1) it is traversed by ' capsular-lihe,' commimicating con- nective-tissue meshes; (2) these meshes are usually vascular, while normal cartilage has no vessels ; (3) the intercellular sub- stance may be gelatinous or friable. The section cuts gristly and is bluish or yellowish-white, or the tumour may be softened or degenerated. Locality.—Chiefly the bones : metacarpals and phalanges of hand; femiir, pelvis, &c.; parotids, testicles, ovaries, iDreasts, other glands. Frequently mixed with other tumours. Age.—Youth. ' The younger the age at which a tumour of bone begins, the more is it likely to be cartilaginous, if its general characters agree therewith' (Paget). Characters. ■— Hard, nodular, incompressible, or perhaps very slightly compressible, with a very quick elastic recoil. Rarely soft, but even then very elastic. Bate of growth not characteristic. Size variable Coincident ossification often occurs and alters character of tumour. Diagnosis.—Consider carefully locality, age, and rate of growth. Prognosis.—Purely cartilaginous tumours are as innocent and non-recurrent as any class of tumours. Treat- ment.—See Enchondroma of Bones, of Parotid Gland, and OF Testicle. Osseous Tumours. Osteomata.—See Exostoses. Myoma.—A tumour consisting of muscle cells or fibres. Pure myomata are unknown; but muscular elements, both striped and unstriped, occasionally are found in fibromata. Neuroma.—The surgeon often applies this term to any tumour situated on a nerve; the strict pathologist confines it to a tumour consisting mainly of nerve filaments or substance. The latter, so-called 'true neuromata,' are very rare, most tumours growing on nerves being fibromata, or fibro-sarcomata. Usually multiple, often recurrent. Excision without injury to nerve itself rarely possible. As a rule best let alone. A