INFLAMMATION. 192 head in toothaclie; or reflected, e.g., pain in knee from hip-disease. Heat.—Inflamed parts, except in very chronic cases, feel sen- sibly hotter than normal. According to Mr. Simon and Dr. Montgomery, the blood leaves the inflamed part hotter than it enters it, and the inflamed part is hotter than either the blood which flows into it or the blood which flows out of it. Conti- nental observations on this question have been numerous and conflicting. The subject of rise of general bodily temperature is noticed under the head of Fever. Redness.—Due to hypersemia. Bright when there is active fluxion of blood to the capillaries of the part, as is usual in acute inflammations; dull, perhaps blue or brownish-red, when the congestion is more passive, as is ixsual in chronic inflammations. When a non-vascular part inflames, the redness is observed in the neighbouring vascular t-egion from which the inflamed part derives its nutrition. Swelling.—Partly due to congestion, partly to eff"usion. Effii- sion resembles in character liquor sanguinis, but it contains excess of chloride of sodium and of phosphates. It also contains leucocytes and even red blood-corpuscles. As a con- sequence of excess of chloride of sodium in the efi'usion, there is a deficiency of that salt in the urine. The characters of the effusion differ in different inflammations; especially variable is the amount of fibriiie. Pathology.—Microscopic observation of an inflamed part, e.g., the web of a frog's foot which has been exposed to ir- ritation, shows appearances which may be described under three heads, viz. : 1, disorder of circulation; 2, exudation ; 3, stasis. After describing these, I shall consider the structural changes which take place in the constituents of the inflamed part. 1. Disorder of Circulation.—'Dila.tsXwn of the arteries is the first phenomenon observed in an inflamed region. It is or- dinarUy preceded by no antecedent contraction. It increases gradually for ten or twelve hours, and remains at its maximum for many hours. Dilatation of the veins follows at a long interval of time. The rate of circulation at the commencement is in- creased, but this soon changes to the very reverse, viz., abnormal slowness. The cause of the vascular dilatation is undetermined, but a very reasonable hypothesis attributes it to inhibitory