FEACTUEES. 123 falls upon the elbow, and, not rarely as compared with other bones, muscular action. Signs.-Tmo^l Treatment.-Tv^o or three splints, one being an angular elbow-splmt. Support hand but not elbow in a sling. Stromeyer's cushion for com- pound fracture of humerus. Vide Bryant's Surgery, p. 942. Danger of delayed union in fracture of shaft of humerus. Fracture of Lower End of mimerus.—i kinds Transverse fracture ; 2, fracture of either condyle ; 3, fracture between the condyles into the joint (this is always combined with transverse fracture); 4, separation of the epiphysis. Causes. —Usually, falls on the bent elbow. Signs.—\, of transverse fracture. It may be either above or below the condyles. The symptoms are given in the following diagnosis between it and the injury with which it is most frequently confounded, viz., dislocation of radius and ulna backwards. The Fracture. 1. Crepitus. 2. Easily reduced, but deformity at once reappears. 3. Prominence of lower end of upper fragment of humerus projects for- ward above the bend of the skin in front of the elbow joint. 4. Internal condyle in normal relation to olecranon. The Dislocation. 1. No crepitus. 2. jN'ot so easily reduced. But then does not reappear. 3. Prominence of lower articular sur- face of humerus projects forward beneath the bend of the skin in front of the elbow-joint. 4. Distance increased between in- ternal condyle and olecranon. 2. Signs fracture of condyles. Pain. Crepitus produced by direct manipulation, and by pronation and supination of forearm. 3. Signs of fracture between condyles into joints. Pain. Crepitus. Effusion into joint perhaps considerable. The patho- gnomonic sign is the increased breadth from condyle to condyle. 4. Signs separation of epiphysis. Like those of transverse fractui-e; but the crepitiis is softer, and the patient is necessarily young. In every obscure case of injury to the elbow, make the patient place his hands one above the other upon his head, then ^ring his elbows together and compare them, using your eyes and fingers. Treatment of fractures of lower end of humerus. Reduce and put up in lateral angular splints, with elbow at right angles and hand in sling. When elbow tends to displace- ment backwards, apply angular splint behind, and a shoii; splint