ENLAEGEMENT OF TONSIL, developes. Foul tongue (owing to oral catarrh); offensive breath • fever—temperature may rise to 104°—and sUght delirium for one or two nights not infrequent. Diagnosis.—Seldom presents difficulty, except when the mouth will not open. Then, upon looking carefully at the patient, it will be seen that the swellincr however diffuse, has its centre below and beneath the angle of the jaw, is not chiefly in front of and below the ear as in miLps, or over the jaw as in diffuse inflammation commencing near the gums and teeth. Moreover, the voice is generally charac- teristically guttural, and the Hstory clear of an acute course commencing in the throat. It is to be remembered that in- flammation of the tonsils may be only part of a more serious disease, e.g., scarlatina or diphtheria. Prognosis.—Tomimtis usually attacks those accustomed to it, and who generally know how, by a little care, to check it. But it frequently goes on to suppuration; and in exceptional cases, when very diffuse, causes death by exhaustion or by suffocation. Treatment.—Prophy- lactic is the same as that for catarrhs in general. In addition, do not wear low shirts and collars, especially as regards the night-dress. Wear a light wrapper round the throat when out at night; avoid hot, smothering comforters. Early retirement to bed, with a narrow piece of flannel round neck, will often cut short a sore-throat. Gargling, sometimes good, is oftpn more irritating than useful. Best gargles are those of capsicum, of guaiacum, and of chlorate of potash. Give mist, guaiaci, or pot. chlor. ad libittim internally. When swelling is very great, especially if fluctuation can be felt, puncture tonsil. Use a bistoury wrapped in lint, except towards the point, or a gum- lancet, and direct its edge and point somewhat inwards {i.e., towards median plane of body and away from great vessels). If mouth cannot be opened, patient must simply rest in bed, with a high pillow, in a rather warm, thoroughly dry room, using derivatives, such as hot mustard and water, to feet, in- haling the steam of hot water, with a little creosote dropped in it. Hot fomentations may be applied externally, or leeches beneath the angle of the jaw. Do not forget that leech-bites leave scars. Tonsils, Chronic Enlargement of.—Common in scrofulous