DISEASES OF BREAST. Ob 40-50 years. Cancer in youth mostly encephaloid. Sex—fe- male. Depressing influences (?). Change of hfe (1). Injuries. Family predisposition.* Follows chronic eczema of the nipple. Symptoms.—Fixstlj, of scirrhus. A tumour, hard, nodulated, heavy. Implication of neighbouring tissues, retraction of nipple. Affection of skin, which reddens and thickens, and afterwards ulcerates; severe pain; cachexia; enlarged and hardened glands in axilla, afterwards in neck; oedema of the arm; occasional direct infection of the pleura. Constitutional in- fection. Encephcdoid of Breast begins as a soft oval tumour, usually deeply placed, grows rapidly, may be mistaken for abscess; feels hke several soft tumours together; skin ulce- rates; fungus; sloughing; bleeding; glandular infection, &c. Diagnosis.—Vide Tumours of Breast. Prognosis.—Almost always recurs after removal. Average duration of scii-rhus, four years; longer in old people. Treatment.—Palliative or operative. 1. Palliative : pressure by Arnott's bags, or soft compresser and bandages; belladonna, atropine, and aconite externally; poultices with belladonna. For ulcerated stage, carbolic lotion with oakum; opium ; iodoform; ol. eucalypt.; terebene ; caustics for ulcerated surfaces. 2. Operation : pros- pects doubtful as to whether it will lengthen hfe or not. But Morrant Baker found in eighty-four eases, not operated on, duration of hfe to be forty-three months, and in sixty-two cases operated on, fifty-six and a half months. Operation certainly may be expected to free patient from much cUscomfort and dis- tress. When fatal, it ia usually because of erysipelas or pyjemia. Contra-indications to operation are, 1, considerable affection of skin; 2, of glands in axilla, or even slight aflFection of cervical glands; 3, affection of parts beneath breast; 4, cancer in both bi-easts; 5, great cachexia; 6, constitutional infection ; 7, Very chronic course in old people. Old age and weakness are not absolute contra-indications, nor is ulceration, per se. For operation, vide Amputation of Breast. Functional Disorders of Breast.—The milk may be excessive or deficient, or (3) it may flow away (galactorrhoea), or (4) may congest the gland. For galactorrha-a, tonics, iron, 1 This exerta much less influence than is commonly believed.