197 INTESTINAL OBSTEUCTION. t)ecome actively congested and feet warm when ice-bag is applied to lower part of spine. On the other hand, the hot-water spinal bag has an action the very reverse of this; hence the ice-bag •can be nsed to obtain a derivative action, and the hot-water bag to directly contract the arterioles of an taflamed part. C. Differences in treatment, according to whether the inflam- mation is Acitte or Chronic.—-In acute cases the indications are usually to save life, to check the attack before serious local mischief has been effected, to prevent the spread of a localised inflammation, and to relieve pain. In treating chronic cases the siu'geon has rather to attempt the removal of what may be termed pathological habits, and their evil effects. In acute cases he employs such active agents as venesection, free leeching, and the administration of drugs which powerfully affect the nervous and vascular systems {e.g., opium and aconite). In chronic cases resoi-t is had to pressure, friction, counter-irrita- tion, and stimulant or astringent drugs locally {e.g., silver nitrate), with ' alteratives' internally {e.g., mercury, iodide of potassium, sarsaparilla). It is especially in many chronic cases that a tonic and generous plan of treatment has to be adopted. In dealrag with chronic inflammations always seek for some long-acting cause, or for some specific influence {e.g., syphilis, struma, rheumatism). Insects, Stings of.—^ee Bees, Stings op. Intestinal Obstruction.—Cfttfses.—l, Intussusception; 2, strangulation by bands or by congenital diverticula ; 3, volvulus or twisting; 4, internal hernise; 5, strictures—malignant, cicatricial, or simple; 6, pressure of tumours or dragging of the bowel out of place; 7, impaction of fseces or of foreign bodies; 8, pouching of intestine: 9, intestinal paralysis. According to Pollock, of 135 cases, 24 arose from intussuscep- tion, 36 from bands, diverticula and the like, 33 from intrinsic stricture, 8 from internal hernia, 7 from concretions, calculi, and foreign bodies, 4 from volvulus of sigmoid flexure, 3 from ftecal accumulations, 9 from peritoneal adhesions, tubercle, tfec; and 8 were doubtful. Pathology.~l, IntimusceiJtion. Portion of intestine, usually lower end of ileum, becomes invaginated in the portion immediately below it. If the case proceeds, the further