DISLOCATION. in pad between splint and spine. Difficulty of keeping bone Its place. Truss to press on head of bone displaced forwards. At the^ acromial e?if/.—Dislocation almost always upwards, but sometimes below acromion, or even below coracoid process. Reduction easy by pulling shoulders backwards. Here also difficult to keep bone in its place. Gutta-percha or leather shoulder-cap, with a pad over end of clavicle. Bandage in a line parallel to upper arm over shoulder and elbow. Then bandage arm to side. Dislocation of Coccyx may result from falls or during parturition. Eeduce with the assistance of a finger in the rectum. Dislocations of the Elbow :— I. Complete dislocation of radius and ulna : 1, backwards; 2, forwards. In the former there may be fracture of the coronoid process; in the latter, fracture of the olecranon; 3, inwards ; 4, outwards. The latter two are rarely complete. II. Ulna alone : backwards only. III. Radius alone: 1, forwards; 2, backwards; 3, out- wards ; 4, partial forwards. IV. Ulna backwards, with radius forwards. Injuries of elbow often obscured by great swelling. Follow- ing excellent directions, as to the points to be noticed in an injury to the elbow, are from Holmes (abbreviated) : 1. Is there transverse fracture of humerus? 2. Longitudinal or partial fracture of lower end of humerus 1 e.g., of condyles. 3. Distance between olecranon and internal condyle 1 4. Fracture of olecranon? 5. Are motion and position of head of radius normal ? 6. Do axes of radius and ulna correspond in di- rection ? Dislocation of both bones backwards.—Prominence of ole- cranon ; distance between it and internal condyle increased. Prominence of lower end of humerus below fold of skin at front of elbow-joint. (In fracture of lower end of humerus, the prominence of the upper fragment is above that fold.) Fracture of coi'onoid process causes increased mobility, as well as crepitus. Dislocation of both bones forxoards.—Arm is lengthened, and olecranon, unless broken oftj is on a level with condyles.