STEICTUEE OF UEETHRA. 347 your finest bougie or catgut or Thompson's probe-pointed catheter, or Maisonneuve's conducting bougie (if you possess them). Each instrument should have a fail- and patient trial. Use plenty of good sweet oil. Sir H. Thompson directs it to be injected into the urethra. Another plan is to inject it m steadily at the very same time that you are gently pushing on your fine bougie. The stream of oil, entering the stricture, may carry the point of the bougie with it. 7. If the stricture resist all this, put the patient to bed, and if there is no imme- diate retention, reserve him to be treated as a difficult case. In the meantime, tincture of opium, hot baths, and rest in bed may bring his stricture to a state of easy permeability. Dilatation, according to the ordinary plan, is thus managed. An instrument as large as the patient can comfortably endure is passed the first day. Then, at intervals of about two days, more or less according to the patient's urethral sensibility, a larger and a larger size are passed, till No. 14 (English) is reached. Modern opinion is opposed to resting content with No. 12. If any attempt is made to hurry the steps of this treatment, the severest rigors and urethral fever may result. Some cases show similar serious symptoms if the surgeon tries to dilate beyond even No. 7 or 8. Such cases often get on very well with that calibre of urethra, and require no further treatment. Each instrument should be taken out as soon as it is passed. After ten minutes' horizontal rest, the patient may go about his business again, provided no unpleasant symptoms ensue. Continuous Dilatation.—The instrument is not withdi'awn for forty-eight hours, and then only to have a larger size substi- tuted for it. This is an especially good plan (a) when the instrument has been introduced with difficulty; {b) when false passages exist; (c) if ordinary dilatation is ineffiictive; (d) if each introduction of the instrument induces pain or rigors. Of course the bed must be kept during the treatment {i.e., for a week or two). The catheter or bougie, when in, can be fixed by tapes or strapping {vide works on bandaging, &c.), or by tying it with thread to the hair of the pubes, a direction which some critic of Smith's and Walsh am's operative surgery has termed unpractical. Practical or unpractical, I have myself constantly