^'■^ EYE, DISEASES OF. (2) Ghmuje in ynoUlity is indicated by the pupil not re- sponding actively to light, but becoming sluggish or quite inactive. The iris becomes more or less adherent by its posterior surface to the capsule of lens, constituting partial or complete posterior synechia; when partial the pupillary margin becomes jagged under atropine; when complete, the pupil cannot be dilated by mydriatics. When exudation of a layer of lymph takes place into the pupillary area the condition is termed ' occlusion.' When margin of pupil is adherent to lens capsule by its whole circumference the condition is termed ' exclusion.' (3) Increase of vascularity in the ciliary zone, around the margin of the cornea, generally occurs early, and the conjunc- tival vessels are generally congested. (4) Pain of a neuralgic character in and around the eye, variable in degree. (5) Impairment of vision is always more or less marked, may be owing to turbidity of aqueous, exudation of lymph on capsule in the pupillary area, impairment of accommodation by extension of inflammation to the ciliary body. (6) Fhotophobia ami Lachrymation may or may not be present. In Syphilitic Iritis, which only occurs in secondary syphilis, there is tendency to effusion of lymph, and formation of nodules in the structure of the iris. It seldom relapses; it is often symmetrical; pain not generally severe. In Rheumatic Iritis there is little tendency to effusion of lymph, nodules never formed, generally unsymmetrical, although both eyes may suffer in turns; frequently relapses at intervals of months or years; congestion and pain often severe; sight not much affected. Treatment.—(1) Use atropine drops (atropise sulph. gr. ij. ad. §j.) three times daUy to prevent adhesions, or to break down those "which may have recently formed, also to relieve pain and congestion. (2) If pain and congestion he severe apply leeches to temple, malar eminence, or septum nasi; repeat if necessary; apply blister to temple; avoid stimulants.