TUMOUES. 324 tumours rarely grow to more than 1 inch in diameter. Growth slow. Their loose connections often permit fatty tumours to shift their positions under the influence of gravity. They are liable to cystic, cretaceous, and ulcerative degenerations. Seat.— Chiefly trunk and adjacent parts of limbs. Diagnosis.—When there is no cutaneous dimpling and they are unusually firm, they may be mistaken for cysts, or for fibrous or sarcomatous tumours; but the mistake is of no consequence. Treatment.— Let the continuous lipoma alone, unless restricted diet and judicious exercise will benefit it. Or give liq. potass, mm. x ter. die for a long time. Other single fatty tumours should be excised. Cut straight down upon the tumour, or into it if you like, and then dissect or tear it away from its connections. In dressing the wound attend to drainage, and proper adjustment of pressure and suppoi"t. Multiple fatty tumours should be let alone as a rule. Lipomata are occasionally pendulous : these should simply be cut oflf. Fibrous Tumours. Fibromata.—Anatomy.—Fibrous tissue variously arranged, sometimes in interlacing bundles^ sometimes in concentric circles. Arrangement of fibres may or may not be visible to the naked eye. Section whitish or pale red in colour. Consistence generally firm and elastic, sometimes quite soft. Mucous softening, serous infiltration, calcification, even true ossification not rare. Large cysts may form. Sarcoma- tous tissue (round or spindle cells) frequently mixed with the filjres,—' fibro-sarcomata.' Vascularity usually low. S^ats.— Usually uterus, bones, nerves, cellular tissue near joints, sheaths of tendons, testicles, and ear-lobules. Characters.—Bounded or modelled to surrounding parts, smooth, non-lobed, firm, resistant, elastic, generally hard, occasionally soft. Of course degenera- tion alters their physical properties. Growth slow. Size unlimited. Pain absent. Commence in middle life. Those connected with nerves or bones sometimes commence in the young (after puberty), Number :—periosteal fibromata usually solitary; but uterine and neuromatous fibroids, especially the latter, are more often multiple. Diagnosis.—'Consistence, locality, age, mode of attachment and form of the tumour almost always lead to its correct recognition.' Treatment.—RQT:no\Q