HEENIA. 175 Oblique descends externaUy to deep epigastric artery, i.e. comes down ingiiinal canal. Common Scrotal Hernia has a sac alto- gether independent of tunica vaginalis, and usually lying anterior to it. Congenital has for its sac the unclosed tunica vaginaHs -testis. Funiciolar.—' Hernia into the funicular process of the peritoneum,' occupies the funicular portion of the tunica vagiuaUs, which peritoneal process has, in this case, closed only at or near the external abdominal ring. Infantile or Encijstecl Hernia.—This occurs when the tunica vaginalis is unobliterated from the testicle up to the external abdominal ring. The sac lies enveloped in the tunica vaginalis. ' Hernia ■en bissac' is a kind of congenital hernia in which the intestine has burst through a constricted part of the tunica vaginalis. The tunica vaginahs may have been completely divided by •a septum at the seat of constriction before the hernia forced its way downwards. Bubonocele is an inguinal hernia which lies wholly in the inguinal canal. Diagnosis, of congenital from the ordinary scrotal hernia.—^Congenital hernia occurs in children and youths, appears suddenly, descends i-apidly, and envelopes testicle. Ordinary hernia occurs in adult age, descends slowly, and is separated from testicle. Infantile hernia, &c., are recognised after death or daring operation. In operating you divide, in common scrotal hernia, congenital hernia, funicular hernia, hernia en bissac, one serous layer; in infantile or encysted hernia, three serous layers. In congenital hernia testicle is found in sac. Diagnosis of hernia from other inguinal and scrotal sioellings.—A. Inguinal swelliags.—1. Encysted hydrocele of ■cord, though often reducible, is otherwise altogether unlike a hernia, being transparent, oval, very defined, and tense. 2. Un- descended testis. Testis is, of coiu-se, absent from scrotum. It gives the characteristic pain on pressm^e, and is irreducible. In- flamed testis in this situation causes symptoms like those of strangulated hernia. Still the vomiting is persistent and con- tinuous, not gushing. Diffused hydrocele of the cord, hfema- tocele of the cord, tumours of the cord, may, like elephantiasis scroti, be left to the surgeon's common surgical knowledge and common sense. B. Scrotal swellings.—1. Ordinary hydrocele. Begins at bottom of scrotum, has usually no neck extending up