221 DISEASES OF LAEYNX. deeper affection of the larynx than mere non-specific catarrh, e.g., syphiKtic disease of the cartilages, small-pox. Sometimes erysipelas spreading inwards from face. Scalds. The oedema often supervenes quite suddenly in the course of such diseases. Signs.—Firstly, there are the symptoms of the original disease, e.g., hoarseness, loss of voice, cough ; then gradually or quickly, signifying the occurrence of ' oedema,' there appears great dys- pnoea, almost entirely inspiratory. This assumes a fearful form; and the patient's attitude and expression, as he exerts every muscle to get breath and avoid the strangulation which appears to him imminent, are never to be forgotten. Diagnosis.—From croup. The latter occurs in children, but oedema glottidis almost always in adults. On pushing the finger boldly into the pharynx, and feeling behind the bact of the tongue, the epiglottis and ary- t«no-epiglottidean folds may be felt j the former as a median pear-shaped swelling, and the latter as two lateral elastic swollen rolls of distended membrane. In the cases where the oedema is unilateral, of course a swelling will only be felt on one side. The swollen epiglottis is sometimes visible. Pathology.—^The oedema results from what is called collateral fluxion, that is, from the active congestion which is apt to take place near a centre of inflammation, especially an tilcer. Niemeyer aptly draws attention to its analogy with oedema of the prepuce com- plicating a chancre. The swellings may be pale or red, according to whether effusion or hypersemia predominates. Treatment. Scarify with a bistoury wrapped round all but the point by lint or strapping. If the case is not urgent, croton oil may be given ; and an emetic when there are many moist rales indica- ting bronchial and pulmonary congestion. Warmth to the extremities. Patient should swallow slowly small bits of ice. Whether the symptoms are urgent or not, he should be carefully watched and surgical assistance be at hand; for tracheotomy may be required very suddenly to save from instant suffocation. When the above plan of treatment does not arrest the diseasej perform tracheotomy. The prognosis after operation is hopeful! (^ee also treatment of Acute Laryngitis.) Larynx, Syphilitic Affections OF. Varieties (A) secondary affections: erythema, condylomata, ulcers; (B) tertiary affections: