ERACTURES. 114 s rarely difficult except when only one of two mutually support- ing bones is broken, or when there is impaction. In the former case there is little or no deformity, in the latter no crepitus or increased mobility. Careful measurement, inspection or palpa- tion usually settle the question. Prognosis.—Simple fractm'es, when properly treated, almost always recover without deformitj'-. In some bones, e.g., the clavicle, slight deformity is to be expected. Compound fractiires are liable to numerous serious and sometimes fatal complications. The chief of these are : 1, decomposition in the wound ; 2, extensive gangrene of crushed or dead parts; 3, progressive suppuration; 4, accompanying protracted, exhausting fever; 5, erysipelas; 6, septicemia; 7, pyaemia ; 8, tetanus; 9, delirium tremens. The prognosis of a compound fracture may be to a great extent inferred from what will be written about the question of amputation. Occasionally a fracture resists all ordinary means employed to procure union —' ununited fracture.'' Union in Fracture.—In the first week the sui'rounding soft parts are found swollen and the seat of inflammatory effu- sion. More or less blood^is extravasated about the fracture and in the medullary cavity at the same point. Amount of escaped blood very variable. During the third week the corpuscles or leucocytes which crowd the effusion, produce either fibrous tissue or cartilage. Later still, soft young bone appears in—1, the medullary cavity; 2, beneath the periosteum ; 3, outside the periosteum in the periphery of the fibrous or cartilaginous swell- ing round the ends of the bones (which swelling is called ' callus '). A new periosteum forms outside the caUus. The bony callus consists entirely of spongy substance. Subsequently the medullary cavity is restored, the excess of new bony uniting material removed, and that which remains gradually becomes compact and hard. When fii-mly and steadily set and supported, fractures unite directly, new bone only being formed between and not around the fragments. In other words, there is then no ' provisional calkis.' Yeiy little callus in flat bones; very little external, but a good deal of internal {i.e., inside the spongy spaces), in spongy bones. The new ossification is usually in fibrous tissue in adults, but is preceded by cartilage in children.