TONSILLITIS. 317 Tongue, Gummata of.—Seldom seen before stage of ulcera- tion. Vide Deep Syphilitic Ulcer of Tongue (above). Tongue, Malignant Tumour of.—Vide Malignant Ulcer- ation OF Tongue (above). Tongue, Acute Inflammation of (Acute Glossitis).—Eare. Causes.—Mercurial salivation, ioclism, injury, unknown in- fluences. Symptoms.—Swelling, often enormous. Pain. Sali- vation. Danger of suffocation. Treatment.— Treat cause, Asti-ingent gargles. Deep, longitudinal, dorsal incisions in severe cases. As lower surface of tongue is more extensile than upper, the former tends to present upwards. Bear this in mind while incising (Wormald and Holmes Coote). Support strength. Tongue, Congenital Enlargement of (Macroglossia).— Very rare. Treatment.—Remove V-shaped piece from anterior part of tongue, and bring flaps together. Use 6craseur. Re- member that children bear haemorrhage badly. Slight enlarge- ment of tongue is a common sign of constitutional disorder. Treat the cause. Tongue, Psoriasis of.—Sometimes, but not always, syphi- litic. Whitish and dry-looking patches on the tongue, with shallow fissures. Under the microscope, the epithehal layer is found slightly thickened, but the papillse smaller than normal. The condition should be compared and contrasted with that in ' chronic superficial glossitis' (Fairlie Clarke), in which, accord- ing to ButHn, the papillae are absent, the surface almost as smooth to the microscope as to the naked eye, the epidermis thinned, but the subepithelial tissue thickened and infiltrated with cells {Med. Chir. Trans, vol. Ixi.). Tonsillitis, Acute (Quinsy).—Causes.— Predisposing are chronic enlargement and depressing influences, e.g., dark, damp residences, defective drainage. Exciting cause, usually catching cold. Signs.—Pain on swallowing, at first slight, but gradually increasing in some cases till the act of deglutition in- flicts a pain Uke the stab of a knife. SwelKng both internally and externally. The swelling may become so difl^use that the jaws may be scarcely separable. When suppuration takes place, pain usually strikes into ear and becomes throbbing. Fluctuation