40 THE BLADDER. poultices to the abdomen and perinseum ; fomentations; leeches (five, ten, or more) to the perinseum and margin of anus. Cupping the loins when there is pain, in that region. Retention shovild be watched for and may require catheterism. Painting liypogastrium and perinseum with T. iodi. Bladder, Inversion of.—Four cases have been recorded. Occurs in female children only. Bladder, Irritability of the, always a symptom only, though its importance has given it the rank of a disease. Causes.—1, disease of the urinary apparatus : vesical catarrh, stricture, prostatic disease, foreign body, tumour or calculus in bladder, disease of kidney or ureter, gonorrhoea; 2, state of nrine, most common in elderly males; 3, diuretics, cantharides; 4, venereal excesses, onanism, a long and narrow prei^uce; 5, indigestion, ascarides, haemori'hoids, fistulte, prolapsus ani, prr^- ritus ani; 6, nervous disorders, hysteria, depressing emotions, excessive mental exertion; 7, debility from many causes; 8, exposure to cold; 9, ovarian and uterine diseases. Symptoms. —Frequent micturition, but the total amount of urine passed not excessive. Prognosis.—Good, when the cause can be re- moved. The disease is intractable in weak, scrofulous subjects. Treatment.—Remove the cause if possible; anyway, treat the cause. Ext. belladonnse, gr. one-sixth per diem; copaiba; tinct. cantharidis; buchu; pareira brava. Farinaceous diet. Bladder, Neuralgia of.—^Very rare. Sometimes reflex, and depending on conditions of the liver, kidney, nerve-centres, &c. Bladder, Paralysis of.—A name ajiphed to loss of power of the bladder from nervous afifections. Weakness from injury or disease of its muscular walls is called atony (which see). Causes.—Injuries or diseases of the spinal cord and brain ; reflex paralysis from operations, especially those for hajmor- rhoids ; shock; debilitating diseases, especially continued fevers ; sexual excesses, especially in old men; mechanical injury, e.g., in protracted parturition; over-distension; severe inflamma- tion ; hysteria. Symptoms.—Firstlj retention, and then incon- tinence also. Paraplegia often present. The distended bladder forms an abdominal tumour. Prognosis.—De^Q^^^ chiefly on cause. Sometimes fatal, even when promptly relieved. Treat-