384 APPENDIX. OVARIES. slightly elevated. Make an incision a few inches long over the linea alba, beginning about an inch below the umbiUcus. Bleeding vessels are best secured till the end of the operation by self-holding forceps, which check hajmorrhage permanently. When the peritoneum is divided and the cj^st exposed, plunge the special trochar into the tumom-, withdrawing fluid contents through cannula into a pail or other receptacle under the table. Break down solid contents of cyst with hand introduced into the tumour. If there be adhesions to parietal peritoneum, break them down with hand, and secure any bleeding vessels ; adherent omentum must be cut away, and the vessels secured; pelvic and visceral adhesions require great care in separation. Then place two or three clean sponges into pelvic cavity and above tumour. Kaise the flaccid tumour out of the wound; the pedicle must then be transfixed (avoiding large veins) by a stout needle armed with two stout silk threads. The ends of each thi-ead on one side of the pedicle must be crossed over each other, then tie the free ends round the opposite sides of the pedicle. If the outer border of the pedicle be very tense, secure the ovarian vessels separately, else they will slip. The pedicle, if very broad, may require a second transfixion, the threads must then be crossed again on one side as before. Next cut the tumour away and drop the pedicle. Search for the other ovary, and remove it, if it be distinctly cystic. Then take out the sponges, and see if they show that there has been fresh haemor- rhage from separated adhesions; use fresh sponges to mop up any cystic fluid or clots that may have escaped into the cavity of the peritoneum. Remove all forceps and sponges, count them, sew up abdominal wound with silk-thread or silk-worm gut threaded to a needle at each end, introducing the needles from the peritoneal side, and avoiding the recti muscles. Some operators use the cautery instead of the ligature for securing the pedicle; the clamp is almost entirely discarded. Lister's precautions valuable in this operation. In cases of strong ad- hesions, with exudation from peritoneum after they have been separated, pass a glass drainage-tube into Douglas's pouch through the abdominal wound. Ovary, Solid Tumoues of the.—Fibroma or fibre-myoma