379 OSTEOTOMY. or they clean themselves in the bone. Check all haemorrhage before di-essing. When both limbs are osteotomised, the first wound can be compressed with an antiseptic sponge and gauze bandage while the other is being operated on. Operate strictly antiseptically. Cut away any projecting cellular tissue, as it delays cicatrisation. Use no drainage-tube unless some acci- dental circumstance occurring diiring the operation leads you to expect suppuration. Healing usually takes place by organisation if blood-clot (see Wounds), but by granulation where cellular -issue is exposed uncovered by blood. After-treatment.—Take temperature morning and evening. A. temperature of 101° demands inquiry. It may arise from iome quite accidental complication independent of the opera- tion, or from a tight bandage, or from an accidental sore-throat, or trivial ailment. If it cannot be thus accounted for, expose and examine the wound. After osteotomy of the lower limbs, unless the divided bone is supported in a firm plaster case, some contrivance is useful to facilitate defsecation, e.g. a mattress with a moveable central piece, or my stretcher. Immediately after the bone has been divided it should at once be put into the position ultimately required. After osteotomy of the limbs, attend during the first twenty-four and forty-eight hours very carefully to the state of the toes or fingers, as the case may be. They should be free from numbness and obstructed circu- lation. Permeation of discharge should be looked for from day to day, though it seldom occurs after the first two days. So long as it is absent the dressing does not need removal. Genu-valgum, Osteotomy for.—Place of Incision for McEioen's Operation.— On the inner side of the limb, at a point where the two following Hnes bisect one another : a line drawn a finger's breadth above the level of the upper border of the external condyle, and a line drawn parallel to and half-an- inch in front of the tendon of the adductor magnus. Manage- ment of Osteotome.—To begin with, place it against ]wsterior part of inner border of femur and cut from beliind, forwards and outwards, away from femoral artery. Remember that, just above the condyles, the outer border of the femur is thicker than the inner.