AMPUTATION. ^ The posterior piece of the os calcis is then placed in apposition with the tibia, whose articular surface is previously sliced off. The resulting stump is longer than Syme's; but if the tarsus is diseased there is a Uability to return of the disease in the os calcis. Syme's Amputation.—Imxev angle of incisions is thi-ee- quarters of an inch below and behind inner malleolus; outer angle exactly opposite outer malleolus. Upper incision has an angle of 45° to sole of foot; lower incision inclines downwards and somewhat backwards. Os calcis may be dissected from heel-flap either before or after disarticulation at ankle, i.e., either from below or from above. Syme dissected out os calcis from below, and disarticulated afterwards. Avoid scoring flap. The anterior tibial and both plantar arteries, and not the posterior tibial, are divided. Arm, Amputation of.—Upper Arm.—Double flap by trans- fixion often employed. Also circular and mixed operation. Arteries divided: brachial, superior profunda, and inferior profunda. Fore Arm.—In upper and lower thirds prefer skin-flaps and circular through muscles (T. Smith). Arm to be held either supine, or midway between supination and pronation. Ai'teries : radial, ulnar, anterior and posterior interosseous. Elbow Joint, Disarticulation at.—Seldom done. Best to cut a large anterior flap (Lister). Fingers, Amputation of.—Usually done by disarticulation. To remove the second or third phalanx, cut a single palmar or double (palmar and dorsal) flaps. As the heads of the bones form the knuckles, the articulations are just in front of the knuckles. In case of injury, here as elsewhere, ' cut according to your cloth.' Metacarpo-phalangeal Disarticulation.— So, called 'oval,' really ' pyriform' incision. Commence half an inch posterior to head of metacarpo-phalangeal joint, carry incision right round palmar suface of base of finger and back again. Divide lateral ] igaments, twist the bone out of its place and remove it. Extensor tendon should be cut by first incision. Kemoval of head of meta- carpal makes hand more sightly, but much weaker.