108 EXOSTOSIS. from dorsum of base of second metacarpal bone upwards as far as base of styloid process of radius, always internal to extensor secundi internodii poUicis. 2. On the thumb side of this in- cision separate the soft parts from the bones, carefully because of radial artery. At the same time divide the extensor carpi radialis brevier. 3. Sever trapezium from rest of carpus with cutting pliers. 4. Clean soft parts from bones on ulnar side of incision. 5. Make ulnar incision near anterior edge of ulna, and extending from two inches above styloid process to middle of fifth metacarpal bone. 6. Eaise all the soft tissues com- pletely from the dorsal surface of the carpus; then, of course, the two wounds communicate. In doing this the extensor carpi ulnaris should be severed from its insertion. 7. Clean anterior aspect of carpus and ulna, cutting off pisiform bone and hook of unciform bone, so as to leave them attached to the soft parts. Do not go so far forward as to wound deep palmar arch. 8. Divide ligaments and remove carpal bones (except trapezium) ■with forceps. 9. Clean and saw off ends of ulna and radius. All cartilage of radio-ulnar joint should be removed. 10. Cut off bases of metacarpals so far as they are covered with cartilage. 11. Take away trapezium and base of first metacarpal bone. 12. Cut off cartilage of pisiform and leave the rest, and the hook of the unciform, unless they be diseased. The operation may be shortly summed up thus: The whole carpus except the pisiform and the hook of the unciform, and also the ad- jacent cartilage-covered parts of the radius, ulna, and meta- carpal bones are removed piece by piece, in the order found most convenient, through two longitudinal incisions, one ulnar and palmar, the other dorsal and radial. Result.—Very useful hand. After-treatment.—Very imjDortant. Large lump of cork under palm of hand. Flat wood palmar splint. Regular passive motion from the first. Encouragement to active motion. Exostosis.—Two kinds of true exostosis, and two allied bony growths. True exostosis is either (1) spongy or (2) ivory. The allied osseous growths are the ' exercise-bones,' and other ossifi- cations of tendons and muscles, besides the ' diffused osseous tumour.' Causes.—Usually unknown. Begin in youth, rarely after thirty; male sex. Pathology.—Spongy exostosis consists