402 EYE, DISEASES OF. junctivse; they are cauliflower excrescences. To be snipped off with scissors. Epithelioma and Sarcoma may occur on the conjunctiva. Cornea.—Inflammation of the cornea may be circumscribed or diffused; may involve its proper layers, or may be confined to its anterior or posterior epithelial layer. It may be local, leading generally to suppuration or ulceration, or it may arise from constitutional disease, as inherited syphilis. It may exist with other inflammations, as in kerato-iritis, cyclo-iritis. Local Keratitis (Corneitis). — Symptoms. — Commences with a more or less perfect zone of pinkish-red vessels around the margin of the cornea. Photophobia more or less severe. Cornea becomes hazy, and has a steamy or ground-glass appear- ance. Generally there is lachrymation, and frequently pain in and around the eye. Pathology.—The intercellular substance becomes opaque from infiltration with leucocytes, which are supposed to have emigrated from the surrounding vessels. The cells of the corneal tissue proper also undei-go proliferation into small corpuscles, greatly resembling leucocytes. The disease often has a tendency towards recovery, but more frequently leads to supptiration and ulceration. Ulceration of Cornea is preceded by inflammatory infiltra- tion, and the inflamed part breaks down at the centre, forming an ulcer with more or less infiltrated base and edges. Symp- toms.—Photophobia, congestion more or less, consisting of a circular zone of vessels beneath the conjunctiva at periphery of cornea, and sometimes also of conjunctival vessels. Pain sometimes acute. Ulcers may be (1) small and central, with infiltration of base and edges. These generally heal quickly, but leave a hazy (nebula) or an opaque spot (leucoma). 2. Small and central, without much infiltration. These heal slowly and with loss of tissue, perhaps without opacity, but give a facetted appearance to the cornea. 3. Phlyctenular ulcers (Herpes cornese). 4. Serpiginous ulcers. 5. Acute suppurating ulcer following abscess or otherwise. Treatment. —mv&t secure rest, either by bandaging the