85 DISLOCATION. opening, or its occlusion by the euti^ance of the soft parts. 3, certain" tensions of the capsular or strengthening ligaments. Beduction.—busiest immediately after the injuiy.^ Later, anaes- thesia often required. Manoeuvres depend on joint affected. Usually, the assistants make the motions while the surgeon himself manipulates head of bone. Often everything depends on correct anatomical knowledge. Multiplying pulleys, Bloxam's dislocation tourniquet: these things novf only used imder anassthetics; when they involve the application of straps round the chest, they make anaesthesia more dangerous. If too great violence is used—1, patient may collapse; 2, limb may mortify from the pressure; 3, great vessels or nerves may be ruptured ; 4, rupture of other soft parts, as skin or muscles ; 5, fracture of bone; 6, limb may be torn off. These accidents occur mostly in attempting to reduce old dislocations. The results of pressure best prevented by fastening the straps over a wet bandage previoiisly applied from below upwards. Nerves and muscles are most liable to rupture when adherent to deep cicatrices. Use of Malgaigne's dynamometer, to measure force employed. After-treatment.—Reduce synovial inflammation, which always ensues, by moist bandages and cold compresses. Passive motion; in shoulder, not for a fortnight; in elbow and hip, earlier. Too early motion may cause :— Habitual Dislocation.—When a joint has been several times dislocated, it becomes extremely liable to dislocation. Treatment.—Long rest of the joint. Irreducible Dislocation.—Hestore the movements as far as possible by passive and active exercise, otherwise the muscles atrophy. The anatomical changes are as follow :—The extrava- sation is reabsorbed; the capsu.le folds together and atrophies ; the soft parts about the misplaced head become infiltrated with plastic lymph, and transform to cicatricial, firm connective tissue, which partly ossifies; the cartilage metamorphoses into connective tissue, and adheres to the neighbouring parts; the surrounding muscles suffer considerably from molecular disinte- gration and fatty metamorphosis. How long Dislocations are Jleducible.—Depends on joint. Ball and socket much longer than hinge-joints. Shoulder may be reduced after years. Hip,