HERNIA. i' i for a long time. This may lessen its bulk. By-and-by, stOl keepinc^ vtp this compression with one hand, attempt with the fincrers^and thumb of the other to manipulate the neck of the hernial tumour back into the abdomen. It is said that m very thin persons assistance may be derived from insinuating the finger end or nail beneath one edge of the constricting ring and pulUng it outwards. "When reduction takes place, bowel goes back suddenly with a gurgle. Warm bath, average time twenty minutes. Laudanum, dose twenty minims. Anaesthesia not only makes patient insensible to pain of proceedings, but destroys any muscular resistance that he might otherwise make. Practice of inverting patient during performance of taxis. Aspiration of hernial tumour before taxis. Herniotoiny.—Usually classed as 1, herniotomy without opening .sac, 2, herniotomy with opening sac. Both operations identical up to a certain point. Scalpel, forceps, director, artery forceps, ligatures, retractors, hernia director, hernia knife; strong ligature to tie omentum. Empty bladder, shave, line of incision 2 to 3 inches long over neck of sack. Observe the position of certain anatomical land-marks, e.g. spine of pubes, Poupart's ligament, femoral artery. Skin may be divided by pinching up and transfixing. Divide fascia, fat, and cellular tissue on director, layer by layer down to sac. Before opening sac feel for any constricting bands external to sac and divide them if possible. If strangulation cannot be relieved thus, proceed to open sac by pinching tip a small part of it with forceps and cutting it with knife held flatwise. Complete opening of sac on a director. How to distinguish sac from intestine :—The sac is a transparent membrane without the special marks possessed by intestine, such as arborescent arrangement of vessels, smooth, glittering surface, &c. It is also thinner than intestine. The opening of the sac is almost always recognised by the sudden escape of fluid. Division of stricture:—Use left index finger as a director, insinuate finger-nail under stricture, pass hernia knife flat, along palmar surface of finger, through stricture, then turn its edge upwards and slightly inwards and cut ^tli to ^th of an inch, i.e. a mere notch, no more. Reduction of the hernia is then eflected by manipulation like that of the taxis. If neces-