DISEASES OP JOINTS. 209 -will be taken in the following notes not to lose sight of ana- tomical distinctions. Causes.—Most cases can be traced to blows or falls, or exposure to cold or wet. Struraous constitution pre- disposes. As any acute inflammation of a joint may become chronic, so every cause of acute may also be a cause of chronic arthritis, including gonorrhoea and other specific influences. But it is rare for gout, syphilis, or acute rheumatism to lead to destructive inflammation of a joint. Pathology.—Commence- ment may be in synovial membrane (usually after blows, cold, or specific disease), or ia ligaments (usually after sprains), or in bone (often in strumous constitutions); but, according to modern pathology, seldom or never in cartilage. When the synovial membrane is affected primarily, the result is Brodie's ' pulj)y degeneration of synovial membrane.' In this disease parts of the synovial membrane swell, look cedematoiis, pulpy, reddish-grey, and soft. This condition spreads, eating up, so to speak, the underlying cartilage. The microscopical structui-e of the pads and tufts of swollen synovial membrane becomes identical with that of vascular granulations. In the subjacent layer of cartilage which is in process of conversion to the same granulation-tissue, the cartilage cells themselves divide, proliferate, and assist in the dissolution of the matrix of their own cartilage. In this way the pulpy tissue reaches the bone. The process does not stop here, but the bone itself inflames, erodes, and now the joint is carious. In the mean- time the ligamentous structures of the joint have been softening, ■ thickening, and, in some places, perhaps, yielding to the en- croachments of the pulpy tissue, which may even pierce the skin and present externally as a fungous granulation. At the same time that the synovial outgrowths are destroying the cartdage, destructive inflammation may appear in the articular lamella of the bone, so that the cartilage is attacked both above ^ below, like a whale between a 'thrasher' and a sword-fish When the disease begins in the ligaments it is usually in the hip or knee-jomts, which have internal ligaments. From these It spreads to either the synovial membrane or the bone or t! both. Then the features of the case cease to have anythin" to distinguish them from those of disease originating eLwhle' P