EHINOSCOPY. de^neration of the cartilages. 'In some places it becomeg nodular, then rough on the surface, may be pulled into filaments, and when the disease is far advanced, it is altogether absent in places, leaving the bone exposed, quite smooth, and polished.'— (Bilb-oth.) Cartilage-cavities enlarged and containing increased numbers of new cartilage-cells. The bone, devoid of cartilage, compact, and polished by friction, is termed ' eburnated.' ' Stalactitic' formation of osteophytes in immediate neighbour- hood of above changes. Bone being absorbed in one place and formed in another, situation of a joint may shift considerably. Synovial membrane thickened, slightly vascular, tufts elongated. Separate ossifications near the joint (additamentary bones). New bone always compact. Muscles of affected joint tend to contract. Joints tend towards a state popularly described as ' di-awn up ;' witness rheumatic fingers of old people. Treatment.—Meant rather to arrest or to palliate than to cure the disease. Improve the diet. Eemove from wet and cold localities. Clothe in flannel. Frictions with stimulating liniments. ' Shampooing.' Douching with alternately very hot and cold water. India-- rubber bandages. Combinations of warm stomachics, diapho- retics and mild purgatives, e.g., rhubarb, ginger, sulphur, inezei-eon, sassafras, cream of tartar, &c. Iodide of potassium, especially when pain is worse at night. Chloral and pot. bromid. when pain is very severe. Actsea racemosa (15 to 30 minims of tincture three times a day). Residence at certain watering- places, e.g., Buxton, Harrogate, and Aix-la-Chapelle. Leather or even plaster of Paris supports useful in some cases of rheu- matic knee-joint. Treat menorrhagia, if present. Rhinoscopy.—Examination of nares by aid of laryngeal miiTor turned upwards in pharynx. DifiBcult. Natural causes of difficulty.—1, Irritabihty of pillars of fauces, and of posteiior wall of pharynx. 2, Enlarged tonsils and uvula. 3, Insufiicient distance between uvula and posterior wall of phaiynx. Rules.—■ Same as those for Laryrujoscofy {quod vide), up to Rule 6. Rule 7, allow patient's tongue to remain at rest and untouched in the mouth. 8, Hold mirror like a pen and with the reflect- ing surface upwards. 9, Let its shank rest lightly on the dorsum of the tongue; but be vs.ry careful not to touch the base of the