126 FEACTURES. pitus, pain, (fee. Unless the ulna is broken also, there is little deformity. Treatment.—For first three cases : An angular splint to fix elbow and extend along back of forearm. Fore- arm midway between pronation and supination. Short splint along palmar surface of forearm. Splints should be fiat and wide, so as to prev^ent bandage from squeezing radius and ulna together. Fingers to be left free. The fourth case, viz., frac- ture of lower end of radius, is called Colles' Fracture.—Causes.— Falls on outstretched hand. Very i-arely direct violence. Especially frequent in old women. Signs.—Peculiar spoon-shaped deformity. Prominence of styloid process of ulna. Crepitus generally absent, or at least indistinct. Doi'sal prominence is nearer the hand than palmar prominence. Pain severe. Power of supina,tion or pronation lost. Ana- tomy.—^Upper fragment occasionally impacted into lower; lower sometimes comminuted. Dorsal prominence formed by lower fragment, palmar prominence by flexor tendons stretched over lower end of upper fragment. Position of fracture gene- rally about one inch above carpal articular surface of radius. Prognosis.—If the deformity can be removed and the fracture perfectly set at first, all should be well. Otherwise, deformity will be permanent, and stifiuess of the wrist and fingers may continue for many months. Diagnosis.—From dislocation of the wvist-joint, by the fracture's not altering the distance between the styloid processes and the knuckles. Treatment.— Every effort to be made to reduce and set properly at com- mencement. Extension and counter-extension. Bruce Clarke dissected a specimen in which reduction was easy, if the ex- tensors of the thumb and carpus (radial side) were first relaxed by appropriate movements of the hand and thumb. Apparatus used are of three kinds :—First, Nelaton's pistol-shaped. splint applied along palmar side separately, or along dorsal side in conjunction with a short splint on palmar side of shaft of radius. Thick dorsal pad opposite lower fragment. Palmar pad thickest on radial border. (The word palmar applies here to the arm only, not the hand.) Passive exercise of fingers after second week. Second, Long straight posterior and short anterior splint, padded like Nelaton's apparatus. In this case