330 TUMOURS. movable tumour. The growth is sometimes rapid, sometimes slow; the consistence varies, so that it can scarcely be used as a point in diagnosis.' Topography of ^arcowia.—GHoma is connected with the neuroglia of one or other of the nervous parts. It occurs in the eyeball, or attached to one of the cerebral nerves, and is peculiarly a disease of chUdhood. Myeloid tumours occur in medullary cavity of long bones, but more frequently in lower jaw. When commencing inside a bone, they dilate it to a mere shell at the part affected. In those of the lower ex- tremity, an aneurismal murmur may often be heard. Intra- osseous sarcomata contain giant-cells, and are almost always solitary and innocent. But sarcomata which grow from periosteum are malignant, and generally more or less ossified : sometimes they are myxomata. Those sarcomata which origi- nate in muscular interspaces, in fasciae and in the skin, are almost always spindle-celled and recurrent, but (at all events, in the first place) not infectious. The typical recurrent fibroid is to be found among these. In glands, a mixture of adenoma and sarcoma is more com- mon than pure sarcoma. Cysts often form, and into these sar- comatous tissue may grow (proliferous cysts). Thus are formed sero-cystic sarcomata. Of the glands, the female breast and the salivary glands are most liable to sarcomata. Fihro-cellular Tumours are sometimes myxosarcomata and sometimes merely fibromata of an unusually soft and cedema- tous nature. Or they may be a combination of both. Course and Prognosis of Sarcomata.—Some—e.g., most myeloid tumours—are solitary, perfectly innocent; recurrence, when it takes place, being probably due to imperfect removal. Others are not less infectious and malignant than encephaloid carcinoma. 1. Those which grow rapidly are soft, and the softer the tumour the worse the prognosis. 2. The more simple and less differentiated the character of the microscopic elements of a sar- coma, the more dangerous it is. Recurrent fibroids, with each recurrence, are apt to become softer in consistence and more ' embryonic ' in microscopic structure. It is stiikingly charac- teristic of sarcoma that it infects the system through the blood-