50 DISEASES OF BONES. later ; pregnancy. Symptoms.—At first, rheumatic pains, then various bones soften and bend, and afterwards fracture. The general health is only injured by the physical effects of the re- sulting fractures and deformities. The chest and spine being deformed, the thoracic and abdominal viscera may be compressed, and a distorted pelvis impedes delivery. Large quantities of phos- phates in the urine. Diagnosis.—From rheumatism, syphilis, and cancer; a bone fractured through the weakening effect of can- cerous deposit gives way suddenly without bending previously. Prognosis.—Almost always fatal sooner or later, through weak- ening the power of the constitution to resist intercurrent disorders; rarely fatal through its own cachexia; cases of re- covery are excessively rare. Treatment.—Tonics, cod-liver oil, phosphates, attention to digestive functions; special gymnastics for the deformities. Osteitis Deformans.—^A very rare disease, lately described by Sir James Paget in the Medico-Ohirurgical Society's Trans- actions. Chief Characteristics.—General enlargement of the bones, Avith sufficient softening to permit slight loss of height (several inches) through arching of the long bones of the lower extremities and bending forward of the head on the breast; ribs also thick and immovable ; skull thickened; ci'anial sutures obliterated; compact substance greatly increased. According to Butlin, the microscopic changes indicate that the disease is an inflammation rather than a new growth. In this vieAv Paget concurs, hence the name 'osteitis.' But the frequent coincidence of sarcoma or carcinoma with this affection is most remarkable. Little or no pain usually, only clumsiness. Disease lasts for years, and death has often occurred from the inter- currence of the above-mentioned malignant tumours. The usual remedies for other forms of osteitis appear to be of no avaU. The large doses of pot. iod. and of arsenic, which have given Esmarch and Billroth encouraging results in the treat- ment of new gi-owths, have not, to my knowledge, been tried m this very rare disease. OsTEO-Aneurism, or Pulsating Tumour of Bone.—Almost always malignant; usually occurs in cancellous ends of long bones, in skull, and pelvis. Symptoms.—K tumour, 'oval, uniform, and elastic to the touch, growing slowly;' pulsation