EYE, DISEASES OF. lens, because the rays from near objects are divergent, and would therefore focus behind the retina. This change of shape in the lens is effected by the cihary muscle, and is called accommodation. The furthest distance of distinct vision in any state of re- fraction is called th^ far-point, the shortest distance of distinct vision is the near-point. The near-point and the far-point are found by means of test types. Those of Snellen and Jaeger are in common use. The distance between the near-point and the far-point is called the range or amplitude of accommodation. It is the distance over which the eye has command by means of its accommodation. Accommodation, as we have seen, depends upon the con- tractility of the ciliary muscle, and upon the elasticity of the crystalline lens. Now, as age advances, the ciliary muscle gradually loses its contractility, and the lens its elasticity. So that in emmetropia the near-point gradually recedes from the eye. This recession commences at about the age of ten. Thus at the age of ten years the amplitude of accommodation is equal to a lens of 14 D., and the distance of the near-point from the eye is 7 centimetres ; at fifteen years the distance is 8 cm.; at twenty years it is 10 cm.; at thirty years it is 14 cm.; at forty years it is 22 cm.; at fifty years it is 40-5 cm. The emmetropic eye, therefore, can read No. 6 of Snellen's test types at the distance of six metres without the aid of either convex or concave lenses (V=f) at all ages. It can read No. 1 of Snellen's test types for reading as near as 7 centi- metres up to the tenth year of age, but after that time there is a gradual recession of this near-point. At the age of forty years the near-point is 22 cm. Presbyopia (Old Sight) is that condition in which the near- point has so far receded as to cause discomfort in reading and fine work. This distance is about 22 cm. (8 inches). In the normal eye this distance (see Emmetropia) is reached at about forty years, so that after that age all fine work, such as reading, needlework, &c., must be held at moi'e than 22 cm. from the eye. This inconvenience is easily overcome by prescribing con- vex lenses to be worn for reading and fine work. The following