67 CALCULUS IN THE KIDNEY. The urates are formed from acid, the phosphates from alkaline urine. Vide Table of Urinary Deposits. Symptoms of calculus in the bladder.—(Often so trifling as to attract no attention for a long time.) 1, Pain radiating from bladder to perinseum and in glans penis, especially after mic- turition ; 2, riding ov jolting may aggravate the pain by shaking stone about; less pain when prostate is much enlarged; 3, urine sometimes stops flowing suddenly; 4, frequent mictwi- tion; 5, in children, incontinence of urine; 6, blood in urine; 1, signs of vesical catarrh ; 8, prolapsus ani; 9, priapism. Many of these symptoms are often absent. For physical signs we employ the process called Soumling.—The sound should have a short, sharply curved beak, and is best hollow. Warm, oil, and introduce. Hold lightly and gently. Push backwards and forwards, and from side to side. Then turn point downwards, to examine base of bladder. The finger in the rectum, or suddenly letting the urine flow through the sound will sometimes assist. Points to be ascertained: 1, presence or absence of stonej 2, size; 3, number; 4, nature; 5, whether the stone is encysted or not; 6, state of bladder as to rugosity. Size and number are best found by seizing and measuring with a lithotrite. Nature best judged by considering the urine and the patient's age and constitution. Fallacies result from mistaking a fasciculated bladder or the feel of some bony pelvic prominence for a cal- culus. The stone should be heard as well as felt. A stone may be hidden away in a sacculus. It there keeps always in one position, and perhaps is only felt occasionally or not at all. ' The surgeon should always remember that when irritation at the neck of the bladder arises from stone it is referred to the glans penis; when from disease of the bladder, to the organ itself; and when from disease of the prostate, to the perinajum or rectum ' (Bryant). Treatme7it.—\, Palliative : treat the complications, e.g., vesical catarrh; recumbent position; decoction of tri'ticum repens. 2, Operative. As lithontripsis is not yet of any value, refer to articles Lithotomy, Lithoteity, and Litholopaxy. Calculus in the Kidney.—Cawe^.—ficZe Table of Urinary