HiEMOKRHOIDS. iOi tion, flexion, and re-tying at tlie bleeding point have failed. In such cases, tying the main artery in the continuity is very Hable to be followed by gangrene, and re-tying at the bleeding point is often impossible from the depth of the wound and the state of the tissues. HEemorrhoids.—Are essentially varices of the inferior hse- morrhoidal veins. Three varieties, viz., 1, external; 2, internal; 3, intero-external. Causes.—{a) Predisposing: everything which congests the portal system or the hsemorrhoidal tribu- taries of that system. Constipation, high living, sedentary habits, liver complaints, indigestion, feeble circulation, inflam- matory disease of the rectum or other pelvic or perinasal parts, e.g., fistula; pregnancy, relaxing climate. Early manhood and middle age. Uncommon in young women. (li) Exciting causes : various forms of local ii-ritation; fits of intemperance in eating or drinking, dirt, use of rough irritating material for the person, sitting on cold slabs, drastic purgatives. It will be obsei'ved that no sharp line sepai-ates some of the exciting from some of the predisposing causes. Pathology.—A-U piles at first are merely local congestions or vascvilar dilatations ; but even- tually the blood clots in some part of them, and the connective tissue and vessels contained in them hypertrophy. Usually a small artery lies in the centre. External piles vary gi-eatly in appearance, according as they are swollen or contracted. In the former case they are almost globular and tense; in the latter they may be so shrivelled up as to look like mere folds of thickened skin. Internal piles are classified into 1, longitudinal or fleshy and, 2, globular. The former are usually ' blind,' that is, non-bleeding; the latter are bleeding piles. The former are sessile and dusky; the latter are more vascular, and therefore blue or red, and often pedunculated. The relative proportion of arterial, venous, and fibrous material in piles varies gi'eatly. Superficial excoriation and ulceration common. Liabihty also to inflammation and strangulation. Symptoms.— Itching, irritation and discomfort; then tenesmus, pain in lumbo-sacral region and in testicles; ii-ritabiUty of bladder, disturbed nights, miserable bodily condition, and pinched-up countenance. When there is htemorrhage to any extent, anemia.