TREPHINING. cannula without the inner tube. Durham's ' lobster-tail' can- nula less irritating than ordinary metal tube. H. A Martin of Boston, U.S., does not use tubes at aU. See DiMin Med Journ. Sept. 1878. Tape to tie cannula in place. Sponges* ligatures, gauze, feather, kettle, curtains, &c., the latter for after-treatment. Patient lies on his back; surgeon stands on right side. Pillow beneath neck, head back. Get best lic^ht possible. Determine exact median-line by seeing and feelin^ Feel lower border of cricoid cartilage. Incise skin from this point downwards two inches. Avoiding anterior jugulars, cut in midcUe line carefully down to trachea. When thyroid isthmus is recognised it may, if necessary, be hooked down or even divided. When trachea is reached, it can easUy be distinctly felt. Now insert sharp hook into trachea, always keeping to median-Hne. Slightly raise trachea with this hook. It thus becomes defined, and can be incised with confidence. Tracheal opening to be perpendicular, and of size proportional to the patient's and to that of the cannula to be used. Always keep to the medmn-line, and take care that the parts are not displaced laterally by the retractors. In opening trachea, tm-n edge of knife upwards. After-treatment.—JJmsl practice is to surround bed with curtains, to conduct steam of a kettle by a tube to within the curtains, and to keep the room at a temperature of about 70° Fahr. But some surgeons {e.g., Lawson) are less particular about these points, preferring abundance of fresh air. Over the tracheal wound plaBe a sponge or a fold of gauze. From tune to time, when the patient coughs, assist with a feather to clear away mucus or false-membrane. Twice a day, or oftener if necessary, remove inner tube and clean it. Surgeon may occasionally remove and clean outer tube with advantage. This must frequently be done if inner tube is not used. Support strength with abundant liquid food, milk, beef- tea, &c. Of course, when cannula has to be kept in any time, it does .not prevent return to solid food. Insensitiveness of glottis generally supervenes, and allows part of food to trickle into larynx. Complications.—(1) Haemorrhage, (2) bronchitis and pneumonia, (3) erysipelas. Trephining.—Indications for the operation are given under