99 EMBOLISM. room. For old cases with tliickening of the skin, soft soap, tar, and caustic potash may be used; rub the soft soap in twice a day with flannel, for three days, then stop, leaving the soap on for three more days, then remove the soap by a bath. A few days after this, commence a similar course again, and repeat till a thorough cure is effected. When the eruption is dry and scaly, use tar ointment. Danger of tar-poisoning (known by diarrhoea, vomiting, tarry odour of urine and vomit). When soft soap and tar are well borne but do not cure, apply caustic potash aquas ^ij) once a week; immediately afterwards apply cold wet compresses to relieve the violent pain. Con- stitutional treatment often advisable. Laxatives, arsenic, Donovan's solution, iodide of potassium, in increasing doses. Vigorous local treatment should not be employed in moist eczema of the face or scalp of children, or when the eczema appears to be vicarious for other diseases. The probable cause should never be neglected. In eczema of the legs from varicose veins, prescribe horizontal rest in middle of day, and support from rubber bandages or elastic stockings. Always superintend the use of these bandages at first. Elephantiasis Arabum.—Causes unknown. Occurs in hot countries, especially West Indies and South America; rare in Europe. Symptoms.—Gvesit hypertrophy of skin and subcu- taneous areolar tissue of some part of the body. Parts usually affected are lower extremities, scrotum, labia, and face. Path- ology.—It appears to depend on obstruction of the lymphatics and lymphatic glands. The arteries of the part are usually much enlarged. Treatment.—Ligature of the main artery of the limb has cured some cases, but failed in others. Elephantiasis of Scrotum.—FicZe Scrotum, Diseases of. Embolism.—Signifies the conveyance of some solid body, small or large, by the current in a blood-vessel, till it stops and obstructs some vessel; this obstructed vessel may be an artery, or a vein, or a capillary, and it may be in the systemic or the piUmonic circulation. The obstructing body is called an embolus, and is usually a piece of fibrin washed from one of the cardiac valves, or from the clot in an aneurism, or from an inflamed vein. Where the embolus rests an abscess is apt to form. In a 2