ANEURISM. 22 2. Ahdominal Aneurism.—May be either of aorta or of one of its branches. Diagnose from 'hysterical pulsation,' from pulsating cancer, and from abscess. In hysterical pulsation there are no true aneurismal bruit and no tendency to progress, but there are concomitant signs of nervous disorder. The other sources of error may be avoided by applying general principles, and watching a doubtful case for a short time. Treatment must generally be medical; but success has attended compres- sion of abdominal aorta under anaesthesia for several hours (Murray, Med.-Chi. Trans., vol. xlvii.). Directions for tying the iliac arteries will be found undpr Arteries. Axillary Aneurism.—Generally treated by ligature of sub- clavian (3rd part). Compression of subclavian. Operation of Antyllus recommended by Syme. Carotid Aneurism.—Commonest seat—bifurcation of com- mon carotid. When seated at root of neck, tie distally (Ward- rop's and Brasdor's operation). Femoral Aneurism.—Comparatively common, and admirably suited for treatment by compression. If ligature is resorted to, external iliac must be tied for aneurism of common femoral. Gluteal Aneurism.—Usually traumatic, and singularly liable to be mistaken for abscess. Suitable cases for such treat- ment as galvano-puncture. ' Many cases, I have no doubt, might be cured by compression of the aorta or common iliac artery under chloroform.'—Holmes. Compression per rectum might be also suggested. See also Holmes, iawcei, July 11,1874. Orbital Aneurism.—Usually common aneurism, but very exceptionally 'cirsoid.' Symptoms.—BesiAQS, pulsation, there are displacement of the eyeball and loss of sight. Treatment.— Spontaneous cure possible. Compress carotid digitally. Other treatment dangerous, but may be unavoidable. Ligature would have to be applied to tte common carotid. Refer to Eivington, Med.-Chi. Trans, vol. Iviii. Subclavian Aneurisvi.—lAg&inre of the innominate and of the first part of the subclaxdan artery have been always fatal, excepting in one case. Therefore, subclavian aneurism is best adapted for the diet and rest treatment, or for galvano-punctui^j, or for manipulation. Amputation at the shoulder-joint is in