WRY-NECK. 241 hyd. oxid. rubri, or carbolic oil. Nitrate of lead. Ung. iodo- fovmi would be worth trying when inflammation is reduced. R liq. arsenicalis 5iij, aquae ad gij, m. ft. lotio. Black wash. Internally give tonics and cod-liver oil. Hyperteophied Nails should be removed, and measures be taken to protect against local irritation. Psoriasis op the Nails.—'The central part of the nail becomes thickened, rough, and scabrous, and unnaturally convex; the free edge is often split; the cuticular fringe at the bottom of the nail is ragged and retracted, leaving a deep fissure between the nail and the skin of the finger. The whole nail, in an extreme case, resembles the outside of the concave shell of an oyster.' (T. Smith.) Treatment.Smooth down with sand- paper. Dress at the margin with equal parts of ung. picis liq. and ung. hydi-arg. aramon. Constitutionally give arsenic or antisyphilitics, as may be indicated. Remember that parasitic disease of the nails—' ring-worm'—occui-s, but with extreme rarity. . May be detected by the microscope. Neck, Injuries of.—See Sprain; Throat, Cut; Spine, Dislocations of, &c. ' Neck, Congenital Fistula in, called ' Branchial Fistulfe,' because they are probably due to incomplete closure of the branchial clefts. Very small; usually give exit to a serous discharge. Neck, Tumours op, are usually enlarged glands, or abscesses resulting therefrom. More rarely, adenomata, cysts,' hydroceles ' aneurisms, or cancers. See also Bronchocele. Lipomata not uncommon at back of neck. .1, Hydrocele op.-A cystic tumour, usually situated at the base of the posterior triangle. Conients.-Yellow or brown serous fluid. Diagnosis.~By fluctuation and transparency ireaftmen^.—Tap and inject with iodine. WRy-NECK.-Depends on contraction of the sterno-mastoid (Besides true wry-neck, there are hysterical wry-neck and a spm-ious wry-neck, caused by caries oP the cervical vertebra') Causes.-ncle Muscles, Contraction op. S„toms.~ms. tance rom ear to sterno-clavicular articulation, shoiLed on s^de of contracted ste^o-mastoid. Head bent over towards, and 7ll K