EXCISION OF JOINTS. 106 always follow. Great thickening and stiffness are often left after the deeper varieties of erysipelas. Diagnosis.—Do not confound the redness and oedema over an abscess beneath deep fascia with erysipelas. Diagnose also from Phlebitis. Prog- nosis.—B&A. when the habits are intemperate, kidney or liver diseased, age old or very young, cause epidemic, form erratic or recurrent, duration prolonged, or if very severe and occurring in the head and face (or neck especially). Treatment.—GomrnQnce with purge (calomel gr. v-x) Salines. Tinct. ferri perchlor. (m. XX 4*" horis). Diet nourishing but light; avoid loading with more food than is digested. Stimulants recommended by most authorities. Moderate temperature, fresh air, but no draughts. Opium not well borne. Local treatment in simple erysipelas, cotton-wool, flour, ainc oxide, especially for erysipelas interti'igo, that is the form caused by two moist cutaneous smfaces rubbing against each other. Caustics, cii-cumscribing rings of argent, nit. or tinct. iodi of very doubtful benefit. In the deeper varieties of erysipelas, fluctu.ating spots should be opened, and tense parts marked with small incisions (2 inches), before they fluctuate. Poultices. If incisions cause hsemor- rhage, stuff with dry or oiled lint. At commencement of ery- sipelas in strong, otherwise healthy persons, with foul tongues, give an emetic. This sometimes aborts the attack. Elevate position of part affected. Excision of Joints.—The indications for excision and the conditions of success vary with each joint. Objects of excision may be : 1, to merely expedite recovery; 2, to restore motion to an ankylosed joint; or, 3, one of the various purposes for which amputation is done. Hence the choice often lies between excision and amputation. Comparison of Excision and Amputation.—Life is always to be considered before limb. Excision involves a larger wound and greater strain on the constitution : hence it is bad for tuber- culous and cachectic people. Much depends on the particular joint. Excision safer than amputation at shoulder and hip. Danger equal for the two operations at the elbow; at knee excision is far more dangerous than amputation. At elbow and wrist excision is, of course, far preferable to amputation.