230 LITHOTOMY. the measure itself as from the state of things for which it has been required. The bladder is now carefully explored for another calculus or for debris. In case of hemorrhage, use a plug made like an umbrella, i.e., a piece of catheter with lint or linen tied round it towards one end. Tliis end is passed into bladder, and lint or wadding pushed into the wound between the lint and the catheter. The whole can afterwards be with- drawn by pulling at the lint. Tie the legs together, and send patient back to bed. The dangers and accidents of lithotomy are (J) haemorrhage, (2) wounding rectum, (3) missing the bladder with the knife, (4) leaving a calculus or piece of calculus in bladder, (5) pelvic cellulitis, (6) peritonitis, (7) cystitis, (S) erysipelas, pyjemia, and other accidents common to wounds in general. Any of the above complications may be fatal. But the great cause of death after lithotomy is pre-existing kidney disease. After-treatment.—Merely rest, warmth, cleanliness, and careful observation. Oil buttocks and thighs while mine continues to flow through wound. Median Lithotomy.—Allarton's form of the operation : 1, pass a grooved staff into bladder; 2, place left forefinger in rectum; 3, feel with the same finger for the apex of the prostate; 4, enter a straight knife half an inch in front of anus and direct its point to the urethra, just in front of apex of prostate; 5, with this knife cut upwards a little, dividing small portion of urethra; 6, pass a probe-pointed director into the bladder, and withdraw the staff; 7, gently insinuate finger along this dii-ector and dilate (or tear 1) prostate with the finger; 8, extract the stone with forceps. This operation is adapted for extraction of foreign bodies. Several operators, including Buchanan and Teevan, use a rectangular staff when performing lithotomy. At Guy's a ' straight' staff is used. N. E. Smith's ingenious apparatus is figured in Erichsen's Surgery, ed. vii. p. 778. For Bilateral and Medio'bilateral Lithotomy, see large works. Supra-PUBIC Lithotomy, or' high' operation.—Instruments: scalpel, artery forceps, dissecting forceps, curved staff, or metal catheter, retractors, lithotomy forceps. 1. Incise skin in middle line from pubes upwards, for three inches. 2. Dissect carefully