SCEOFULA. 273 ally of the face and head, to catarrhal inflammations of the mucous membranes, especially of the conjunctiva, more rarely of the intestinal canal and respiratory organs, to chronic in- flammations of the periosteum, and of the synovial membranes of the joints." ' Formerly the condition called ' tuberculosis ' was unanimously included in the term scrofula. Majority of modern pathologists differentiate the two, while acknowledging the frequent origin of the former from the products of chronic inflammations induced by the latter. Causes.—Inheritance. Unfavourable conditions of life (1), e.g. low, damp dwelling, want of light, insufficient food, mental depression. Attacks of acute infectious fever, especially measles, PatJiology mid Symptoms.—See under head of Glands, Chronic Disease of; Ulcers, Scrofulous; Joints, Chronic Disease of; Ophthal- mia, Strumous, &c. Chronic inflammations, the result of scrofula, are indolent and slow to disperse. They tend greatly to suppu- ration and caseous degeneration. Certain general appearances of the person are described as scrofulous types, especially two, viz.: (1) thick lips, muddy skin, coarse features, pot belly^ flabby muscles, often with tendency to fatness; (2) fair, thin, clear skin, long eyelashes, fine hair, pearly teeth, bright' refined, ' delicate' look. These so-called typical appearances are of very doubtful diagnostic value. Dyspepsia very common. Z'iagrKosM.—The great question is, ' what justifies the surgeon in terming a cei'tain patient " scrofulous " %' The answer usually depends greatly on the surgeon's individuality. By some authorities such a thing as scrofula is hardly admitted to exist; all the appearances associated with its name being referred to local or special causes. Usually, any such morbfd manifesta- tions as have been catalogued above, if the known exciting cause is trivial, or if no cause at all be known, are regarded as scrofulous; and especially if more than one suchaffection attack the same individual, and if he present the peculiarities of personal appearance mentioned above. Prognosis —Under treatment, with moderately favourable conditions, the individual manifestations usually disappear, often leaving ugly scars But the diathesis almost always remains. It may lie latent throuc^h cut a vigorous manhood, and reappear in a decrepit old a^'ae. T "