DISEASES OF KECTUM, 265 cldent with rigors. Distant joints swell. Progressive emacia^ tion- yellow skin; no sleep; no appetite; despondency. Cou-h; pain in chest (indicating pleurisy or metastatic pneu- monia). Tongue furred and dry. Bed-sores. Occasional dehnum. Eyes dull. Finally, utter prostration and death. Duration of sub-acute pyemia, two to four weeks: of chronic one to five months. Prognosis.—Oi acute cases, practically hopeless. Chronic and mild cases may recover, especially if prime cause can be removed. Paget relates a case which lasted three years and finally recovered. 5Vea<»ie«i.—Chiefly prophylactic.^ It includes the whole art of treating wounds properly {quod vide^ Cleanliness, quietness, &c. Antiseptic treatment. Hospitals properly situated, arranged, and ventilated; wards periodically cleansed and disinfected; clean bedding; obedient and sensible nurses. When pytemia is actually developed, plenty of fresh air, diligent nursing, feeding with milk, eggs, &c.; cooling drinks; quinine (5-15 grains for a dose); morphia at night; hyposulphite of soda (gr. xx every two hours); warm^ baths and wrapping in blankets to produce copious diaphoresis. In chronic pyeemia amputation may be indicated. Liq. potassse (5j ter die) to remove pyaemic deposits (Paget). The com- monest surgical causes of pyaemia are compound fractures. Kanula.—A cystic tumour occurring in two situations, (1) close by frsenum linguse, (2) between mylo-hyoid muscle and mucous membrane. The latter form of ranula bulges externally between chin and hyoid bone. Contents : glairy, mucous fluid. But the second form may contain matter of a cheesy consistency. Causes.—Ranulas are probably ' retention cysts,' but not caused by obstruction of Wharton's duct (Morrant Baker). Treatment. —Open in the mouth, and cut away a part of the cyst-wall. Empty, and if the fluid re-collects, repeat the operation, in addition cauterising the interior of the cyst. Rectum, Diseases of (for those of Anus, vide Anus).— Stricture, cancer, polypus, malformation, hemorrhoids (yid6 H^MOREHOIDS). Rectum, Stricture of.—Two kinds, viz., Simple and Can- cerous. For latter, vide Cancer of Rectum. Simple Stricture. '—Causes,—(1) Contraction of simple inflammatory deposit ia