240 NAILS. less iu third stage. Treatment.—Electricity; manipulation; ' shampooing.' Pabalysis from Disuse is practically identical with atrophy, and requires shampooing, passive or active exercise, and perhaps stimulus of electricity. Hysterical Paralyses.—Vide Hysteria. Muscles, Tumours of.—Almost any variety may occur. Sarcomata probably most common. Ossifications of muscles themselves present appearance of hard tumours. Such ossifica- tions sometimes afiect the adductors of cavalry soldiers (' rider's bones'). Cysts. Cancer. The Trichina spiralis, & nemsitoidi worm, is a parasite which lies encysted in the muscles of patients aSected with ' Trichiniasis,' as the afiection is termed. Muscles and Tendons, Rupture of.—Tendo Achillis and quadi-iceps extensor of thigh most often affected. Occurs chiefly in middle age. Treatment.—Fix in a relaxed position for a fortnight. Resume use cautiously and gradually. Naevus.— Vide Tumours, Vascular, (AngiomaLa.) Nails.—Chief affections.—In-growth, onychia, hypertrophy, and psoriasis. Nail, In-grown Toe, is really the over-growth of the flesh at the side of the nail, caused by pressure of boot and by not cutting the nail square. Treatment.—Bad cases require perfect rest. "With the jDoint of a pen-knife insinuate a little cotton- wool beneath the side of the nail and between the edge of the nail and the overlapping flesh. Avoid cutting the nail. Poultice and rest thoroughly if there is much inflammation. In a few cases avulsion of the whole nail (of course, under either local or general anaesthesia) may be necessary. Onychia.—An ulceration of the matrix of a nail. Varies . much in severity. The worst cases are termed ' Onychia maligna.' Causes.—Bad constitution; weakly children especially liable; local injury, neglect, syphilis. Signs.—Ulceration some- times confined to one angle of the matrix, sometimes extending along both sides and base of matrix. Nail blackens, loosens, and peels off, perhaps in strips, Sanious, foul discharge. Often great pain. Treatment.—Remove nail. Carry hand in a sling beneath chin; poultice a day or two; then dress with ung.