262 PSOEIASIS. being found, and coincidence of symptoms of tubercle elsewhere, correct the diagnosis. Avoid instrumental interference; pro- tect from other sources of irritation; and treat the tubercle and its results, e.g., abscess, on general principles. Prostate, Cysts of.—Small cysts sometimes occur. Often numerous; often contain small concretions. Probably dilata- tions of gland-tubules. No known symptoms of consequence; therefore no treatment.^ Psoas Abscess.—See Spine, Caries of,«Zso Abscess,Chronic. Psoriasis.—A 'squamous' disease of the skin, always chronic, often recurrent—especially in spring and autvmin—often syphi- litic, sometimes hereditary. The suflPerers are, for the most part, in perfect health, except when syphilitic. Infants and very old people are almost exempt. Psoriasis is a super- ficial dermatitis, without subepidermic effusion, i.e., without causing vesicles. It forms red spots or patches, covered with white, shining (epidermal) scales. The classification of psoriasis into many varieties is of little more than nominal importance, e.g., psoriasis guttata, psoriasis diffusa, psoriasis circinnata (formerly * lepra vulgaris '), psoriasis nummularis, &c., psoriasis palpebrarum, psoriasis scrotalis, psoriasis palmaris, psoriasis plantaris, &c. Diagnosis of Syj)hilitic from Gommo7i Psoriasis. —Syphilitic is (1) generally darker in colour, (2) rarely affects knees and elbows, (3) is frequently palmar and plantar—the latter is always syphilitic, (4) inay lead to painful fissures, and even ulcers, Non-specific psoriasis has, for its favourite seats, the extensor sides of the knee and elbow; because there the skin is coarse and dry. Of course, the history may be inquired into. Treatment.—Vigorous external treatment, and arsenic internally. Begin with two Turkish baths, or several warm baths, using plenty of soap. Locally, prefer ung. picis. Olive oil, in conjunction with repeated baths, may suffice. Crocker recommends thymol ointment (gr. x-xxx to | j). Ung. Acidi Chrysophanici (gr. xx to g j) (liable to stain linen). Begin with three minims of liq. arsenicalis three times a day, and gradually increase to six minims. Note,—Arsenic at first ■ ' The above account of diseaBCS of the prostate is chieflv condensed from the writings of Sir Henry Thompson.