TUMOUES, to a fatal result. Excision is followed by recurrence. Systemic infection may take place. Prognosis is almost hopeless. Anatomy of lymphoma.-AU tlie cellular elements of the gland are multipKed and enlarged; 'the structui-e of the gland is gradually lost entirely; the whole organ becomes a mass of lymph- cells, although a fine network is generally preserved.' 'The blood-vessels are preserved and their walls greatly thickened' Treatment.~At first try anti-strumous remedies, cod-liver oil, iron, &c. Iodine injections, electrolysis, and compression appear to succeed occasionally, but rarely. Excision may be performed when the glands are distinct and are causing local trouble. Billroth treats malignant lymphoma successfully with arsenic, liquor arsenicali, tinct. ferri, aa m. v. bis die. Increase by one drop every second or third day till symptoms of poisoning appear. Then diminish by one drop every second day. See Allgemeine Med. Gent. Zeit., May 16, 1877. Papillomata. —Include warts and horny excrescences. Papillomata are formed of hypertrophied cutaneous papilla, covered by hypertrophied epidermis. Warts usually show each papilla, with its thickened epidermal covering, distinct to the naked eye. The ordinary wart is too well known to need description, but there is a disease described by Mr. Erasmus Wilson as verrUca conjluens, in which a considerable area of skin becomes the seat of a warty growth. Syphilitic and gonor- rhceal condylomata are more like hypertrophied granulation tissue than like true papillomata. Causes.—-Unknown. Much more common before than after puberty. Irritating fluids, such as the hands of the post-mortem clerk are exposed to, often cause a warty state of the skin. Treatment.—Bha.ve off the non-vascular summit and apply some caustic. ISTitrate of silver, strong nitric acid, glacial acetic acid, acid nitrate of mercury. Milder applications may suffice, e.g., strong tinct. ferri perchlor. For gonorrhcBal warts, try powdered sulphate of copper, and for syphilitic, calomel, with oxide of zinc. Dr. Verco has observed a severe crop of common warts disappear rapidly dining a sea- voyage. Horny excrescences in man are epidermal in structure with a papillomatous base. Treatment.—Shave off and thoroughly cauteiise base or excise base. Some radical opera-