131 GANGLION. reduced, but slips back again directly. Treatment.—Posterior angular splint, straight splint in front of humerus. Frost-Bite.—Frost-bites vary in degree as much as burns and scalds. Signs—In severe cases : tingling, numbness, coldness, stiffness, white or mottled appearance. Reaction is accompanied by inflammatory symptoms, and by gangrene in the severer cases. The gangrene may be either immediate, when it will be of the dry vai-iety, or secondary to the inflammatory symptoms, when it will be moist. Treatment.—Resembles that of burns ; but the greatest care is required in restoring circulation to the frost-bitten part. Cold room, friction with snow, or cold flannel or fur. Stringently avoid hot water, fires, &c. In those cases where persons exposed to cold are overcome with sleep, they should not be suddenly carried into a warm atmosphere. Use friction and gradual warmth. Ganglion,—Two kinds, simple and com2JOund. Simple is • said to arise from a cystic enlargement of a cell in one of the ftdnges of synovial membrane lining the sheath of the tendon (Paget), and it is also said to be originally a partial ' hernia' of the sheath of the tendon (BilLroth), Any way it is rarely found commimicating with a tendon sheath at all. It is a fibrous sac, containing a fluid, usually jelly-like, sometimes quite serous in consistence, Sitication.—Most frequently over extensor tendons at back of radial side of wrist. Ap2Jearance, globular, hard or fltictuating, transparent swelling. It causes feeling of weakness and often pain. Treatment.—1, Rupture. Place patient's wrist on yoiu' knee, then steady it with your fingers, while you squeeze, with ends of both yoiu' thumbs, the ganglion against a ridge of bone, beneath it. 2, Iodine paint or blistering. 3, Pressure. 4, Subcutaneous puncture. Follow up both 1st and 4th method of treatment with pressure by pad and bandage. Compound Palmar Ganglion is a dilatation of a consider- able part of a tendon sheath, or of several tendon sheaths. Situation.—Palm of hand and lower part of forearm just above annular ligament. Similar compound ganglia occasionally found in foot. Signs.—Fluctuating swelling above and below anterior annular ligament; crackling from melon-seed bodies usually contained within. Treatment.—1, Puncture with a trocar K 2