158 INJURIES OF HEAD. is a depression witli three triangular sides sloping downwards till their apices meet in the centre of the depression. In frac- tures of the base, sutures—e.g., the petroso-occipital—are some- times torn open. Most fractm^es of the base are continuations of fissiu'es of some part of the vault. But a few appear to be genuine cases of contre-coup. This is what is meant by contre- coup. Suppose a watch lying with its face towards the table, and a weight to fall upon the back of the watch. If the glass cracked, that would be a fractui-e by contre-coujy. In some of these cases, the base of the skull is said to be broken by con- cussion Avith the atlas. One table is usually more damaged than the other, and the least damaged lies towards the surface where the violence has been apphed, therefoi'e the most damaged is almost always the inner table. Extravasations within the cranium, damage to internal and middle ears, and to <;erebral centres and nerves, as well as membranes of brain, very common. Signs and Diagnosis.—Obvious in compound fractures with depression. In compound fractures -wathout depression, fissure looks like a red line. One of the sutiu-es must not be mistaken for a fissure. Simple fractures without depression can only be recognised or suspected indii-ectly through their complications. Simple fractiu^es with depression have to be distinguished from contusions with thick, hard margins. The depression in fracture is generally more abrupt at one part of its margin than another, while the hard margin of a contusion is usually tolerably circular and uniform, as well as impres- sionable by steady pressure with the finger. Fractures of frontal sinuses, or of mastoid cells, often cause emphysema. Sigyis of fracture of the base of the s^mZZ.—BleecUng from ear, nose, or mouth, escape of cerebro-spinal fluid from the ear,' sub-con- junctival ecchymosis, paralysis of cranial nerves, especially of the seventh pair. Tenderness of mastoid process and ecchy- mosis in sub-occipital region indicate fi-acture of posterior fossa, unless direct violence has been applied to the tender and bruised parts. The anatomical explanation of the above symptoms is obvious. Hfemorrhage from the ear is the commonest of them. 1 In rare cases, cerebro-spinal fluid has been known to flow from nose or from a fracture of the vertex.