401 COENEA. Very rare in this country, and must not be confused with muco-purulent or purulent ophthalmia, in which there is often a distinct layer of inspissated pus beneath the lids. In mem- branous ophthalmia the whole thickness of the conjunctiva is occupied by a solid exudation, which is called ' diphtheiitic ' by some surgeons. It may appear in patches, or may cover all the whole inside of the lids. Granulae Ophthalmia.—Very common. Symptoms.— Firstly, appearance as of small gi-anules like sago-gi-ains on the inner surface of the lower lid, due to inflamed lymphatic follicles. These extend to upper lid; then progressive changes in the palpebral conjunctiva in which it becomes thickened, vasculai-, and roughened by granular elevations. New tissue is formed in the deep parts of the conjunctiva, which afterwards is partly absorbed, and partly undergoes cicatricial contraction. Causes. —Feeble health. Prolonged residence in badly-ventilated dwellings. Treatment.—Generally tedious. Evert the eyelids and apply a solution of nitrate of silver (gr. xx, ad §j.) with camel's hair brush, once, twice, or thrice a week; or apply the mitigated nitrate of silver stick; in each case wash the lids with water before inverting them. Sohd sulphate of copper may be used instead of these. Glycerine of tannin applied daily is beneficial. Results.—(1) Haziness of cornea; (2) Pannus (see cornea); (3) Entropion, Trichiasis. Xerophthalmia (Xerosis. Cuticular conjunctiva) is a condition of excessive dryness of the ocular and palpebral con- junctivae. Pterygium is a triangular patch of thickened conjunctiva, generally placed opposite the palpebral fissm-e, its apex pointino- to or encroaching upon the cornea. Rare in this country. Treatment.—Dissect up from apex and transplant it into a cleft below the cornea. This is said to be more effectual than ex- cision or ligature. Pinguecula, a harmless patch of yeUowish white thickened conjunctiva situated near margin of cornea. Lupus may occur on conjunctiva. Warts are sometimes seen on the ocular and palpebral con- D D