DISEASES OF LARYNX. 224 life, on the average, two years in epitlielioma and nine months in encephaloid. See treatment of Cancer. The results of operation of extirpation of larynx have not yet been en- couraging. Laryngeal Cartilages, Perichondritis and Necrosis of. Causes.—' Catching cold,' syphilis, exanthemata. Indirectly, any cause of laryngeal ulceration; for perichondritis may supervene on ulcer of larynx. Patients are usually in a cachectic state^ Signs, etc.—Firstly those of inflammation: pain very great. Then suppuration : collection of pus may cause intense dyspnoea. Lastly, necrosis of cartilage, which varies from very trifling extent to the loss of whole cartilages. Portions of cartilage are coughed up. Sinuses may form ia neck. Cricoid cartilage most frequently aifected. The immediate cause of tLe necrosis is usually separation of inflamed perichondrium rather than in- flammation of cartilage itself. Diagnosis.—Easy when necrosis, with abscess or siaus, is fully advanced. But earlier stages are accompanied by signs of laryngeal irritation, which may re- semble those caused by a foreign body. Use laryngoscope and consider history of case. Treatment.—On general principles. Open abscess. Perform tracheotomy if dyspnoea is urgent and dangerous. Treat syphilis if present. Larynx, Innocent Tumours of.—Varieties.—Fibrous and fibro-sarcomatous polypi, adenomata, papillomata, mucous cysts. Fibrous polypi and papillomata are the most common. Other varieties, such .as lipomata, occur with extreme rarity. Can- cerous tumours are described elsewhere. Position.—Very rarely on the posterior wall (where ulcers are very frequent). Signs.— Dyspnoea when the tumour is large enough or so situated as to be liable to get between the vocal cords. When the tumour is above the glottis inspiration is most likely to be obstructed, when below the glottis the dyspnoea may be expiratory. Sensa- tion as if foreign body were in larynx. Sometimes secondary laryngeal catarrh: cough, hoarseness, aphonia. Diagnosis.— Use laryngoscope. Treatment.—Eemoval through the mouth in most cases. Sometimes the larynx has to be opened from the neck, by median division of the thyroid cartilage for instance. In removing through the mouth, snares, 6craseurs, laryngeal