HEENIA, 176 into inguinal canal, is tense or fluctuating, transparent, without impulse, and generally of ehai-acteristic pyriform or oval shape. But hernia and hydrocele may coexist. 2. Hsematocele. Cord defined, no impulse. Perhaps ecchymosis. 3. Varicocele. Worm-like feel. Though reducible when patient is recumbent, yet appears again when he stands up, in spite of finger placed over inguinal ring. 4. Tumours of testis. Cord may be thickened but is usually clear. Testis itself involved. Tumour heavy, opaque, perhaps hard and ii-regular. Of course no im- pulse. Often pain. Treatment.—See that of hernia in general. Pad of truss should cover whole of inguinal canal in obhque inguinal hernia, and should never compress cord against pubes. In operating for strangulation, constriction is mostly foimd either at neck of sac or at external abdominal riug. Femoral Hernia.—Hernia into the crural sheath. Almost always comes through femoral, i.e. crural, ring. In a few rare cases has been seen external to femoral vessels. Occurs much more in women than ui men. But it must not be thought that inf^uinal hernia is uncommon in women. In childhood and youth, hernia in females is almost always inguinal; after forty years of age it is usually femoral. For coverings, relations, etc. vide books on anatomy. Signs.—^Quevsl characteristics of hernia. Situation of tumour : it appears below Poupai-t's liga- ment, just external to spine of pubes, and, though at first descending, eventually turns upwards and outwards in a dii-ec- tion parallel to Poupart's hgament. Femoral hernia is not large usuaUy, but occasionally attains an enormous size. Diag- nosis —Sometimes difficult. From 1, enlarged glands, 2, psoas abscess, 3, varbc of saphena. Enlarged glands have no impulse are often multiple, may have an obvious cause, e.g. an inflamed bunion Also they can usually be felt to have no base like the neck of a hernial tumour. In psoas abscess fluctuation can often be produced from one side of Poupart's ligament to the other, that is from the thigh to the abdomen and vice versd It cainot be reduced with a gurgle like a herma Manifest spinal disease may co-exist. Varix probably extends^ some distance down saphena; and, though reducible m the honzont.1 posture, it rapidly returns in the erect, in spite of the fingei