INFLAMMATION OF VEINS, mation of the cellular tissue around the vein; (5) that the con- purple ; usually bluish-grey. Aching pain after long standing, varix of spermatic vein may cause neuralgia and mental de- pression. See Varicocele, above. Varicose veins, when inflamed, bacome hot, tender, &c. Progrwom.—Easy to alleviate. Almost impossible to cure without operation,—which is rarely justifi- able (or entirely effectual when disease is exten.sive). Treat- «tew«.—Support by pressure of (1) elastic bandages, (2) elastic stockings, (3) common bandages—preferably starched, (4) strong lace-up stockings. Avoid standing or long sitting with legs dependent. Regular but moderate walking with legs well bandaged. Attend to bowels and general health. Iron. Horizontal rest in middle of day for an hour or two. Bathing in cold water after exercise. Elastic stockings should fit well, and are somewhat expensive, since they do not wear so long as bandages. Operations.—A proceeding similar to one or other of those described above under head of varicocele, is applied to as many parts of a varicose vein as may be required to obliterate it, e.g., the vein may be compressed in several places between needles passed beneath it and strips of india-rubber stretched over it (outside the skin), and subcutaneously divided between the points of acupressure (Lee). Caustics and injection of a drop or two of perchloride of iron have been used and recommended, the latter as an adjunct to acupressure (Bryant). Operation of 'excision of varicose vein with antiseptic precautions (spray, &c.), is much practised at Guy's Hospital by Howse and others. It is neatly described by Dunn in St. Bart's Hasp. Rep. 1879. Veins, Inflammation of.—A subject which in most surgical works is considered as if inseparable from Thrombosis. The separation is really difficult; but the mixture generally plunges the cautious student into doubt and confusion as to what he is really reading about. Let it be premised that (1) inflammation of a vein is apt to lead to thrombosis in it, but does not neces- sarily do so; (2) that it is sometimes impossible to diagnose whether a given case is phlebitis with or phlebitis without throm- bosis ; (3) that thrombosis is almost sure, unless quickly resolved, to lead to changes in the vein obstructed ; (4) that many cases called phlebitis are really cases of periphlebitis, i.e., of inflam-