MICROSCOPIC ORGANISMS. The bacilli have been respectively named after the diseases in which they occur. {See above.) Cocco-bacteria are divided again into microsporina and monadina. Morphology.—In bodies so minute there cannot be great variety in shape. The chief forms are delicate rods and gran- ules. The former are sometimes jointed, and the latter are frequently arranged in a chain-like series. "When a number of bacilli are joined end to end a thread-like appearance results. Masses of organisms occur termed zooglcea. The size varies somewhat according to the species. Parts they inhabit.—Chiefly the blood-vessels. But those which are the probable causes of local diseases are found only locally. The contents and, still more, the walls of abscesses. Ogston says they are always to be found in acute abscesses. Pytemic deposits. The small metastatic deposits of pyjemia, puerperal fever, &c., consist of bacteria; and the discovery of this (by Rindfleisch) was ' the first communication regarding the occuiTcnce of bacteria in the organs of those who have died of traumatic infective diseases ' (Koch). Granulations. Joint- sm^faces. Serous membranes. Diphtheritic exudations. Pus. Kenal glomeruli and tubuli. Indeed, every organ or tissue where the blood can penetrate appears to be liable to invasion by some septic organism or another. The monadina are ac- tively movable, and penetrate the cells, causing considerable swelling of them. How DO THE Organisms enter the Body, and whence DO THEY Come ?—They do not exist normally in the healthy body. The best observers, those who have added most positive information to our knowledge of minute anatomy, have been quite unable to find them herein. The same class are practically unanimous in rejecting the idea of spontaneous generation. Many of the organisms enter seldom or never except through wounds or slight abrasions, scratches or punctures. Others readily cling to and grow into the cells of mucous membranes. Possibly, some may have the power of piercing skin, or at all events the skin of a person not in perfect health. The organisms sometimes pass from one animal to another by con- tact with secretions or excretions, or, in a few instances perhaps,