H^MOKEHAGE. 150 by haemorrhage. Horizontal postm-e, ammonia, ether, wine. The application of Esmarch's bandage to a Hmb has been sug- gested, to drive more blood into the vital centres (Wharry). Transfusion. See Teansfusion. Secondary Hmmorrhage.—Its causes are, 1, defect in the ligature itself; 2, defect in the manner of tying it; 3, the liga- ture's having been applied too near an offset of the artery, so that collateral chcculation has prevented the formation of the usual fibrinous plug ; 4, atheroma; 5, suppuration or slougliing of the wall of the artery (which suppuiation or sloughing is sometimes the result of a contusion and sometimes of erysipelas); 6, vascular excitement. The approach of secondary haemorrhage is usually insicUous, but it is frequently very sudden, and may be fatal even in a few minutes if the artery be large. 2'reatment of Secondary Hmmorrharje.—Never delay or temporise in these cases. The first thing to be tried is pressiu-e, and if properly applied it will rarely fail. The mode of application must neces- sarily vary with the case, only it should always be firm and uniform; the bandages, unless elastic, should be starched; the compresses over the bleeding point should be carefuUy graduated, and, if the bleeding artery be in a limb, the bandage should cover the whole of the limb. With pressure should be combined perfect rest, elevation, and flexion. To secure rest, splints are sometimes useful. For vascular excitement, give vascular seda- tives, e.ij. tinct. digitalis. Vide Treatment of Hasmorrhage in general. When these means fail, the choice then lies between ligature of the bleeding vessel at the bleeding point, ligature of the artery in the continuity, digital jDressure, and amputation of the limb. Some cases are adapted for the use of the actual cautery, of styptics, or of aciipressure. Ligature of the artery in the continuity is to be deprecated, because it is Hable to be followed by gangrene, and is, moreover, far from a certain remedy. Ligature at the bleeding point is often useless, because the tissues are there so diseased, or it is objectionable because it would in- volve opening up a large stump nearly healed. Digital pressure is not always readily obtainable. Certain cases are suitable for amputation. These cases are secondary haemorrhage from the main arteries of the lower extremity, when pressm-e, rest, eleva-