KERATITIS. 403 affected eye, and so reducing friction against eyelids, or by shading both eyes. Soothe local pain by atropine drops. In suppm^ating cases apply hot fomentations to lids; if abscess is defined, open by valvular incision. When indolent, stimulate ulcer by astringent drops, ointment of yellow oxide of mercury, calomel powder, eserine drops (gr. iii. ad gj.); &c. Counter-irritants to temple, as seton or blister. Constitu- tional treatment. Hypopion signifies a collection of pus or purolymph in the lowest part of the anterior chamber. The pus is derived (1) from the rupture of an abscess through the posterior layer of the cornea; (2) from suppuration of the epithelioid layer covering Descemets' membrane ; (3) from surface of iris. Onyx is a term applied to that condition in which pus is observed between the layers of the cornea at its lower part. Syphilitic Keratitis (Interstitial K. Parenchymatous K.).—Symptoms.~The visible changes of the cornea are usually preceded for a few days by some ciUary congestion and lachry- mation; then there is cloudiness in one or more patches, and after a few weeks a ground-glass appearance. Frequently accompanied by iritis and posterior synechise. Blood-vessels often appear in the layers of the cornea, extending from the ciLary vessels; they are thickly set in patches (salm-on patches), of a reddish-pink colour, and of various shapes; they may extend all over the cornea, except, perhaps, to the immediate centre. _ The disease is always symmetrical (contrast with local keratitis), but second eye is usually attacked a few weeks after the first. Age generally between six and fifteen. Often accom- panied by inflammation of the cihary region and iids, which may give rise to secondary glaucoma, to stretching and elongation of the globe m the ciliary zone, or to softening of the eyeball; but as a rule, the cornea throughout its whole structure under^^oes a chrome inflammation, showing no tendency either to suppura- tion or ulceration the inflammatory products being partiaHy or entirely absorbed after several months. CauslLj^^ZZ If no other signs are shown in the patient, a history of I) D 2