INJURIES OF CHEST. 75 1. Wou7icl of P^eztra—Earely occurs without wound of lung. May present all the local symptoms of wound of lung, except that any air expelled from the wound by respiration is not chiuned up with blood into fine froth. Such air must, of course, have entered the pleural cavity from without the chest.. Treatment.—As for wound of lung. 2. Wound of Lung.—Signs.—Escape of air from wound, often churned up with blood into froth; pneumothorax; hsemothorax; cough; blood and bloody froth coughed up; emphysema. After-consequences (both of this and the preced- ing injury).—Pleurisy; pneumonia; hydrothorax ; empyema. Prognosis.—Bad, but very far from hopeless. If a week passes over, hope is considerable. Treatment.—Perfect rest in bed on injured side; strap chest; dress antiseptically; low diet : give iced milk ; avoid stimulants, even to remove collapse. Collapse helps to stop haemorrhage, which is the first great danger. If pulse rises, or inflammation threatens, bleed. Vide also Pneu- mothorax, Emphysema, &c. 3. Hernia of Lung.-—Two kinds : 1, primary; 2, consecu- tive. Consecutive comes on when the wound has healed. Primary should be reduced so long as the lung tissue is healthy and uninjured. Consecutive can only be guarded by a shield. 4. Wotmd of Pericardium.—Signs.—1, A likely position and direction of wound ; 2, those of haemorrhage and shock ; 3, those of pericarditis, viz., friction-sound, extended dulness on percussion, ' thoracic oppression,' dyspnoea, anxiety, kc. Pulse small and frequent. Prognosis.—Not absolutely hopeless. Treatment.—Cold locally and internally; perfect rest; venesec- tion ; digitaUs and belladonna. 5. Wound of Heart.—When death is not instantaneous, the above remarks orf wound of pericardium apply to those of heart, only the signs are more severe. Tremor of the heart and disturbance of its action are more marked. When death is instantaneous, patient either leaps up or falls down, often uttering a shriek. A patient may live for years, even with a foreign body in his heart. 6. Wounds of Thoracic Blood-vessels.—Those of aorta and vena cava usually at once attended by fatal hffimorrhao'e. In-