FKACTUEES. li^7 the hand is often left entirely free, so that the fingers may be exercised, and the weight of the hand may keep the radial side of the wrist extended. Thiixl, Gordon's splints. Hand kept in prone position. Two straps. No bandages. Eidge on radial side of palmar splint. ' Overhanging lip' on radial side of lower end of dorsal spUnt. Gordon says that impaction is uncommon in this fracture. Lower fragment of radius occasionally, but rarely, displaced forwards instead of backwards. Dr. L. S. Pilcher demonstrates that in Colles' fi'acture the strong periosteum on the back of the radius remains untorn, and is the main obstacle to the reduction of the fractiire. To relax it, bend back the hand and wrist. Then make slight extension in the line of the forearm, accompanied by moderate pressiire on the dorsum of the lower fragment. Reduction is thus effected. The only apparatus Pilcher uses are a broad band of adhesive plaister round the seat of fracture, and a sling to support the arm. I can recommend this plan from my own experience. Radius and Ulna, Fracture of Shaft of.—Treat like fracture of either bone singly. Green-stick fracture not uncommon. Splints to be wide, and to be applied whilst hand is supinated. Ribs, Fracture of.—Causes.—Predisposing : old age. Im- mediate are of thi-ee.kinds :—1, direct violence; 2, indirect violence, the chest being compressed at one part the rib gives way at another, just as a spring or a stick might; 3, musciilar action, as from violent coughing or severe labour. Situation.— Usually the convexity of the rib a few inches in front of angle. Middle ribs most frequently broken, first and second ribs rarely, because protected by clavicle. Signs.—Catching pain on in- spiration or coughing. Tenderness. Crepitus. Crepitus some- times difficult to get, especially when the fracture is beneath the thick muscles of the back. Press alternately with the fingers of each hand, one on one side, the other on the other side of the supposed fractiu-e. Take care to apply both hands to the same rib. Breathing shallow and abdominal. Other symptoms often arise from complications, eg., hfemoptysis. Complications.—1, Emphysema; 2, pneumothorax; 3, ha?mo- thorax; 4, hsemoptysis; 5, wounds of heart, pericardium, or great vessels ; 6, wounds of intercostal vessels; 7, &c., wounds