''"^ INJURIES OF CHEST. suitable dressings. Hold testicle in left hand, so as to tighten the scrotum; incise skin, &c., from external abdominal ring to bottom of scrotum, so as to expose testicle; pull down the cord, and put whipcord ligature right round it. In cancer cases] dissect upwards, and tie corJ as high up as is safe. Cut cord a quarter of an inch below ligature; a touch or two of knife then liberates testicle. Prognosis.—Opemtion very safe. Peritoneal process has been opened in a child, causing fatal peritonitis. Catheterism.—See Stricture op the TJrethra. Cellulitis.—See Erysipelas. Cephalhaematoma.—A blood-extravasation, caused in child- birth. Two kinds : 1, between aponeurosis and pericranium ; 2, between pericranium and skull. Former is diffuse : the latter is circumscribed and small, and never extends across a suture. Treat on general principles. Chancre.—See Syphilis. Cheek, Congenital Fissure of.—Extremely rare. Accom- panied by imperfect development of external ear. Ti-eat by methods used for hare-lip. Cheloid.—Two kinds : 1, Cheloid of AUbert. A fibrous or fibro cellular outgrowth from a cicatrix, forming a tubercle at first pink, afterwards whitish. Tends to disappear spontaneously, especially in youth.' Treatment.—Excise if hard and unsightly, or following puncture of the lobule of the ear for earriugs. Very liable to return. 2. ' True Cheloid' of Addison. ' Not a tumour at all; but a patch of hide-bound skin, in which the skin, fascia and muscles are adherent together, and the surface is yellowish and covered with scales' (Holmes). Chest, Injuries of.—Divided into (1) non-penetrating, (2) penetrating. Wounds of the soft parts present nothing special. Rupture of the pectoral muscles sometimes takes place, as, for in- stance, by a falling man catching at some support in liis descent. For Fractures of the Ribs and Sternum, vide ai'ticle Fractures. Chest, Penetrating Wounds of.—These will be noticed, according to the parts injured, under the following heads :—1, wound of pleura; 2, wound of lung; 3, hernia of lung; 4, wound of pericardium ; 5, wound of heart; 6, wounds of certain blood-vessels. 1 See Clm. Soc. Trans. 1880, p. 61.