SACRO-ILIAC DISEASE. 271 boiie. Rachitic pelves are usually flattened antero-posteriorly. Femora curve forwards. Tibiae and fibulfe usually bend for- wards and outwards (chiefly at junction of lower epiphyses). Spine affected with general posterior curvature in early infancy, with lumbar lordosis in early childhood, and occasionally with lateral curvature. Thorax—'pigeon-breasted.' Diagnosis.— Quite easy, except in early stage. Prognosis.—Sometimes fatal to very weakly infants. Recovery usual, but rarely without residual deformity. Treatment.—Correct diet. Plenty of mUk. Sufficient animal food. Cod-liver oil. Syrup of phos- phates of ii'on and lime. Parrish's chemical food. Vinum ferri. Cold sponging and dry rubbing. Fresh air. Splints and other mechanical contrivances to correct deformities. In severe cases, osteotomy, or forcible straightening of limbs under chloro- form. Keep a young rickety chUd off" its feet as much as possible without depriving it of fresh air and exercise. Sleep on a mattress. Sacro-iliac Disease.—Causes.—Either struma or injury or both together. Symptoms.—Local pain and tenderness. Pain during defsecation, sometimes also during micturition. Pecu- liar posture, {vide figures in Sayre's Ortliopoedic Surgery, p. 333). Patient bends his body over from the affected side, * for the purpose of removing pressure from the diseased structures by bringing the weight of the limb to bear upon the ilium.' Hence obliquity of the pelvis and apparent lengthening of limb on side of disease. When abscess forms, it may appear either bver the articulation, or in the buttock, loin, groiii, or even rectum. Diagnosis.—Fvom. neuralgia, sciatica, and Potts disease, but, above all, from hip-disease. In sacro-iliac disease, if the pelvis be firmly fixed, the hip-joint can be moved norm- ally and painlessly. In sufficiently advanced cases, the pelvis can be seen to be deformed; and when abscess has opened, a probe wiU often reach dead bone. Sayre's vertebrated probe may be useful. When pelvis is not fixed, either lateral com- pression of trochanters, or abduction of thigh causes pain. Prognosis bad. Treatment.—Rest, extension and counter- extension. Sayre puts a thick-soled shoe on the foot of sound side BO that the affected limb swings free of the ground when