54 ABSCESS OF BREAST. at first, then that of chronic abscess. If the patient's general health be tolerably good, and the locahty of the disease suitable, the carious bone may be removed by gouge, gouge-forceps, chisel, or Marshall's osteotrite. Use of strong or slightly dilute nitric or sulphiarifi acids. When a bone is stifiiciently diseased, resection (complete or partial) is sometimes justifiable, or ampu- tation may be required, occasionally, to save life. Boutonniere Operation.—A term applied to a proceeding in which a 'button-hole' is purposely made in some part. It is done through the soft palate, to facilitate the extraction of polypi, and into the urethra from the perineum, in order to expose the commencement of an ' impermeable stricture.' Breast, Abscess of.—-Thi-ee varieties : 1, supra-mammary; 2, mammary; and 3, post-mammary. Abscess in the breast almost always attacks suckling women in a feeble state of health, and generally soon after delivery. First variety is the most common in other people; subjects of third variety are often tuberculous. Symptoms.—General symptoms of abscess. Supra-mammary runs a quick course. Intra-mammary causes the greatest pain. Post-mammary j^ushes the whole breast forwards : in it, too, the fluctuation is, at first, quite deep, and eventually several openings often form. Treatment.—On general principles. Deep abscesses should be 0]^)ened as soon as fluctu- ation can be fairly felt. Line of incision should radiate from nipple. Attention to the general health will usually cure the ifistulse which often remain. Quinine. Breast, Amputation of.—Scalpel, forceps, artery forceps, sutures, sponges, dressings. Elliptical incisions parallel with fibres of pectoralis major; lower to be made first: separate gland from parts beneath before making upper incision. Pro- per support and pressure required from dressings. Di-ainage. Mortality, 10 per cent. Breast, Atrophy of—Occurs after middle age. It may be caused by the occurrence of new growths. Breasts apparently ati-ophied may perform their functions properly when called upon. Breast, Cancer of.—Almost always scirrhus. May be ence- phaloid or colloid; or may be complicated with blood-cysta. ■Causes.—Obscure. Age, middle and later life, especially from