274 SCROTUM. Danger of tuberculosis supervening ; said to be greatest in fair, delicate, or ' sanguine' type of the scrofulous. Treatment.— Hygienic and medical, general and local. Hygienic requires the various conditions usually considered ' strengthening,' fresh air, good food, dry lodging, daylight, cheerful occupation, flannel clothing, moderate exercise. Cleanliness of head and skin. Strict attention to each trivial ailment. Medical treatment is (1) antidyspeptic, and (2) tonic and nutritive. Tongue, stomach, and bowels must be attended to on general principles. Gregory's powder and hydr. c. cret. often useful, especially in children. Sodse bicarb, (grs. x-xv) ter die in inf. calumbse just before meals. Cod-liver oil is the remedy. Give it after meals, gj bis die increased gradually up to ter die. Occasionally suspend its administration if it disagree with stomach. Small doses of nitric acid and strychnine useful adjuncts. (Williams, quoted by Savory.) Iron, ammonio-tartrate, citrate, fresh carbonate, vinum ferri (iodide of iron, in fat, flabby children). Iodides sometimes mischievous if fever be present. Mineral acids. Quinine, tinct. cinchonse co. Pancreatic emulsion. Change to a new climate, which, whether warm or temperate, should certainly be dry : English watering-places, Margate, &c. Madeira, sea voyage. Local treatment is given under special heads. In old age, ' iron, cod-liver oil, sea air, &c., of little potency. Eest, warmth, and good food more important.' (Paget.) Scrotum.—Wounds heal very readily. Bruises often pro- duce hcematocele, quod vide. Scrotum, Diseases of.—The scrotiim, consisting as it does chiefly of skin and cellular tissue, is liable to the ordinary cutaneous diseases. Moreover, inside its serous hning ai'e found hydroceles, hsematoceles, hernias, and diseases of the testicle. Certain affections of the scrotum present special features worthy of note. The chief of these are (1) inflammation, (2) elephanti- asis, (3) epithelioma. ScEOTUM, Inflammation of, is remarkable for the amount of oedema which accompanies it, for its usually diff'use chai-acter (a kind of erysipelas), and for its frequently ending in partial sloughings. Its usual causes are extravasation of urine, or continued irritation of some trivial local affection. Prognosis