79 COCCYDYNIA. he feels that the tendon has gone ; withdraw knife and instantly place finger over wound; then put on pad instead of finger, strap, bandage and spHnt. Tibialis posticus.—One inch above inner malleolus. Inner edge of tibia. In fat infants, midway between anterior and posterior borders of leg. Insert sharp tenotome half an inch, so as to open deep fascia. Substitute blunt tenotome; pass this with one surface towards tibia, and other towards tendon. Assistant meanwhile holds foot inverted. Now foot is inverted, at same time edge of tenotome is turned to tendon. If blanching of foot and much bleeding show wound of post-tibial artery, merely pad and evenly bandage and con- fidently expect good result. But postpone instrument treatment for a fortnight. Tibialis anticus.—Merely extend foot, insert tenotome, and divide tendon from behind forwards. Peronei.— Sometimes divided for valgus. Divide behind external malleoli or a Kttle higher; adduct foot. After-treatment.—Three or four days after tenotomy, commence to extend by strapping, splints, Scarpa's shoe, elastic bands, or some other mechanical contrivance, according to gravity of case. In infants, exten- sion should be effected in a month. In adults, three or four months may be occupied. At first the instrument should be shaped to fit the deformity; never force a foot into an ill-fitting instrument; attend daily to the case; beware of pressure sores ; plaister of Paris bandages may be used instead of movable appa- ratus. Process of healing in a divided tendon.—The divided ends of the tendon retract, and the neighbouring cellular tissue presses in between them, filling the interspace. In this cellular tissue, . corpuscles and lymph (inflammatory new formation) are poured out, which organise into fibrous tissue, uniting and exactly resembling in structure the divided tendon. The process resembles that by which the external callus unites a frac- tured bone. The advantage of tenotomy is that this new uniting medium is so much more extensible than the original tendon. Many surgeons now put up the foot in plaister of Paris as soon as the tendons have been cUvided; and Ogston treats even severe cases of club-foot with plaister of Paris, and with- out previous tenotomy. Coccydynia.—A painful afiection of coccyx; female s.ex;