160 INJUKIES OF HEAD, tion, after a blow on the skull. TrepMning is contra-indicated in cases of diffused injury to the brain, and even in cases of depressed fracture unattended by cerebral symptoms. (Vide Gamgee, in Brit. Med. Journal, 1877.) Bryant is 'almost tempted to believe that depressed bone by itself never gives rise to marked symptoms of compression, and that when these are present hemorrhage exists with it.' Wlien there is a de- pressed fracture, it is right to trephine as soon as ever cerebral symptoms appear. Otherwise, ice-bags, leeches, &c., should have a fair trial first. When there is comminution, depressed pieces can sometimes be raised by the elevator or forceps only. See article Trephining. Further points are touched upon in the next section, which is about— III. Injuries of the Brain and its Membranes.—These include extravasations of blood within the cranium, contusion and laceration, inflammation and suppuration of traumatic origin, hernia cerebri; and here also must be noticed the con- ditions styled ' concussion' and ' compression.' Extravasations of Blood loithin the Cranium.—I, Between dura mater and bone; 2, in cavity of arachnoid; 3, on the surface of the brain between it and the arachnoid; 4, in the substance of the brain or in its ventricles. 1, Extravasation between diu-a mater and bone—Causes.—Wounded blood-vessel, usually a branch of middle meningeal artery, sometimes a wounded sinus, especially the lateral ^imx^.—Pathology.-ViiQ effused blood forms a clot, often of enormous size and having very little tendency either to be absorbed or to become encysted. This clot, when large, causes a corresponding depression on the surface of the brfdn Sicjns.—M.2.y be nil if clot be small, or even in the case of a large hemorrhage, if it be poured out so gradually that' the brain has time to accommodate itself to the pressure. When symptoms are present they are those of compression or_ of irritation The most valuable evidence of extravasation exists when symptoms of compression come on, not immediately after an iniury, but after an interval of consciousness. _ For prognosis, treatment, &c., see paragraphs about Gompress^on. It is to be noted that irritation of the nerves of the dura mater causes reflex convulsions and contractm-es of the same side of the body