CONJUNCTIVA. 399 floating opacities. There may be neuro-retinitis. Tension of globe often increased. In the mildest forms of the disease there may be only sUght serous iritis. In severe cases the eye either shrinks or may become glaucomatous with bulging of the sclerotic, total posterior synechia, secondary cataract. Treatment.—1. When there is, as yet, neither sympathetic irritation nor sympathetic ophthalmitis, the injured eye must be watched as to the seat of its inflammation, and, if this is found to threaten the iris and ciliary region, precatition must be taken to do all that is possible to subdue it. Atropine should be apphed. Patient kept in dark room for long period; eye bandaged. Mild mercurials and iodide of potassium internally. 2. If initation is set up, the foregoing remedies to be applied to both eyes, and if the exciting eye is past hope of recovery it should be excised at once. 3. If ophthalmitis is established and exciting eye quite blind it should be excised at once; but if any useful sight remains it should be saved, as it may prove the better eye in the end. In the latter case, do all yoti can to save both the exciting and the sympathising eye. (1) Use atropiue drops every few hours; (2) rest the eyes by exclusion of light; (3) apply leeches, blisters, warm fomentations, &c.; (4) give mercurials. Do not perform any operation on the eye until inflammation has subsided. Conjunctiva.—Ophthalmia.—This term is applied to all forms of conjunctivitis. Chief forms are 1, Purulent; 2, Muco- purulent; 3, Membranous; 4, Granular. PuEULENT Ophthalmia is generally due to contact with pus from the urethra or vagina, which may be gonorrhceal or otherwise. The quality of the infecting discharge greatly in- fluences the nature of the ophthalmia. When caused by gonorrhoea the course is very violent. When occurring in newly-born children it is called O. Neonatorum. Symptoms.—In from twelve to forty-eight hours after infec- tion there are itching and slight injection of the conjunctiva, these soon become intense; then chemosis, tense swelling of the lids, great pain and discharge, at first serous, then turbid, then uniformly purulent. If untreated the discharge ceases in