152 HEMORRHOIDS. sometimes to tlie utmost degree, ensues. Hsemorrhage often periodical: arterial or venous or capillary, trifling or moderate, or sudden, copious and most injurious. Mucous or muco-purulent discharge. The latter indicates ulcei'ation. Com2Mcation8,— Fistula, fissure, prolapsus, and the various diseases which are so often the predisposing causes of the piles themselves. Diag- nosis.—From prolapsus, polypus, and condylomata. Vide these diseases and compare symptoms. Treatment.—Remove cause if possible. Some cases obviously require operation; othei's can plainly be cured by gentler means. In a third class of cases, milder treatment should be tried first, operation afterwards if necessary. General treatment: gentle exercise alternating with rest on a cool hard couch; temperate diet; gentle purga- tives : conf. sennse co., sulphur, cream of tartar, Friedrichshall, Pulna, Hunyadi Janos, &c. Enemata of cold water. Conf. piperis co. Conf. pip. co. should always be combined with or followed by a laxative. Tonics in suitable cases. Blue pill, taraxacum, &c., for the liver. Glycerine in 5j doses. When the piles have been cured, but anaemia remains, give mist, ferri CO. or pil. ferri co. freely. Local treatment: I. non-operative. Cleanliness, but avoid irritating soaps; glycerine soap and warm water; cold water. If piles prolapse at stool, return at once. Astringents: ung. gallse co., Astringent injections. Quantity : two ounces nightly. Strength : tinct. ferri perchlor. mm. x-aqu« g j. Suppositoria acidi tannici. For inflamed piles : foment, poultice, leech the neighboui-hood of the pUe. When a large clot forms in a pile, incise pile and turn out clot. Su]}- purating-piles : puncture when mature. Strangulated pilesre- duce gently. Reheve pain on general surgical principles. II Operative treatment: external piles are excised; internal are removed by, 1, ligature; 2, cauteiy; 3, nitric acid. Excision of external piles.—Seize with vulsellum forceps, clamp, snip oflT with scissors curved on the flat, pass a cautery hghtly over stump, unclamp; snip off any pendulous little fold of skm; pad of oiled lint; T-bandage. Ligature of internal pifes.—Let the nurse empty patient's rectum with an enema shortly before operation. Patient should sit over warm water to relax the parts, and make it easier to protrude the piles. He then hes