HERNIA. 173 Many cases recover spontaneously. Wlien opening is high up in small intestine, general nutrition suffers considerably by escape of chyle. Treatment.—Zinc ointment round apertm-e; bag to catch fa3ces, or plug to retain them temporarily; clean- liness. When the condition persists, operate. Divide spur gradually with Dupuytren's enterotome ; division should occupy several days. Then close artificial anus with hare-lip pins, after paring edges. Fcecal Fistula is a veiy mild degi-ee of artificial anus, which usually closes spontaneously. Otherwise treat it on general principles. Feduction en masse.—In the course of taxis, hernia dis- appears, but symptoms of strangulation come on or remain. Bowel has slipped, not back into peritoneal cavity, but sideways between peritoneiim and muscles of abdominal wall. Two vaiieties : in one, bowel bursts through a hole in neck of sac; in other, sac as well as bowel is misplaced. Signs.—If sru'geon himself causes the misfortime, he notes the absence of that sudden jerk with which a hernia properly reduced usually dis- appears. The history of the case points to the occurrence. Symptoms of strangulation remain unrelieved. Treatment.— Operate; open sac; pull bowel out of its malposition; divide strictiu'e and reduce. An intra-2Mrietal sac, a diverticulum from the ordinary sac, sometimes exists. A hernia may be pushed into it instead of into abdomen. After-treatment of Herniotomy.—Chiefly negative. Rest in bed ; liquid food till the bowels have acted; opium unnecessary; no piu'gatives; enema if bowels do not act spontaneously mthin ten days. If peritonitis should arise, it must be treated promptly and vigorously, like peritonitis from other causes. Irreducible Hernia.—Causes.—1, adhesion; 2, neglect of reduction combined with hypertrophy of the herniated parts. Adhesions of the parts uncovered by peritoneum make all hernise of the bladder and caBCum irreducible. Omentu.m is apt to become irreducible. Treatment.—Gradual compression by a bag made to lace up, as advised by Langton. Combine this with pot. iod. internally. Special Herni^e.—Birkett's classification :— I. In the Epigastrium.—1. Diaphragmatic. '1. Epigastric.