254 PENIS. will generally attend steady efforts repeated day by day to draw back the prepuce. Acquired Phimosis must be treated accord- ing to the indications of each case. Generally rest in bed, cleanliness and patience suflBce in an acute case; but occasionally it is absolutely necessary to either circumcise, slit up, or forcibly dilate the prepuce. If the prepuce be itself inflamed, it is best to merely slit it up in the dorsal middle line. Paraphimosis.—The prepuce behind the glans strangles it, and cannot be pulled forward by the patient. Treatment.—Inva- riable success, except in old cases, may be expected from Mr. Fur- neoux Jordan's plan of compressing the penis gently and patiently in the cavity formed by hollowing slightly the palms of the two hands and then opposing them. Soon the oedema yields, and then the paraphimosis is reduced by the fingers and thumbs. The preliminary compression, if gently and patiently done, makes bearable an otherwise intolerably painful procedure. 2. In case of need, the following operation may be done: draw the glans forward, ' then, passing the point of a narrow-bladed scalpel into the sulcus on the dorsum of the penis, make a perpendicular incision about one-third of an inch in length through the integu- ments at the bottom of the groove directly across it'—Erichsen. Thus the constricting band is divided. Herpes Preputii may be mistaken for chancre. Distinguish- able by its extremely superficial character, by the number of vesicles at first, and afterwards by there being nothing to see except excoriation and pus. Lasts a few days. Readily cured by washing once a day with hot water and di-essing with zinc ointment. Patients subject to it should never use soap to the part, but wash daily with water only and dry thoroughly. Penis, Warts on.—For pathology, &c., vide Condylomata, and Syphilis. Treatment.—^ni^ off with scissors. Dress with cupri sulph. pulv. and zinci oxid. Or keep constantly applied lint soaked in R acid, nitric, dil. 3ij, aqute Oj. In obstinately recun-ent cases, the prepuce should be worn back and the glans kept exposed. Penis, Cancer of. Epithelioma.—(Scirrhus is extremely rare.) Usually commences after middle life, on the glans, as a firm wai-ty growth, with a broad base. Its progress resembles