INFLAMMATION, 190 nence from paralysis, see Bladder, Paralysis of. Inconti- nence also arises from enlargement of middle lobe of prostate. See Prostate, Hypertropiiy of. Inflammation.—Definition.—When a structure is attacked with inflammation, there is active hypersemia of the part itself, accumulation of leucocytes outside its blood-vessels, and a dis- turbance of its nutrition. In the case of a non-vascular part, the hypersemia is in its immediate neighbourhood, and, perhaps, the increase of corpuscles is due to division of the proper corpuscles of the part. So far there is nothing in the above definition to distinguish inflammation from the process of repair. And there can be no doubt that the word ' inflamma- tion ' is constantly used to name action which is identical with the process of repair, e.g., in the case of most slight localised ' inflammations ' terminating in what is called ' adhesion.' In- flammation is usually defijied from ' repair ' by saying that it is ' an excess of action.' This definition appears to be scarcely satisfactory. When the surgeon says that a wound is inflamed, in ninety-nine cases out of a hundred, if not in the whole hun- dred cases, the state of things is probably this :—Processes identical with those necessary to ' repair' have begun around the lymph capillaries near the wound; whereas the action ought to have been confined to the actual base and borders of the wound itself. The term inflammation, as commonly used in surgery, thus does sometimes mean an excess of action; and sometimes means action which it would be absurd to call ^ ex- cessive ; as, for instance, in the very localised ' inflammation' which so often prevents extravasation of faeces through a wound of intestine. In the latter case the phenomena of ' inflamma- tion' cannot be shown to difier from 'repair.' In the former they difi"er in this respect, namely, that the processes have spread from the region where they might have been useful to the vessels round the neighbouring lymphatics, where they are worse than useless. Caution.—1 do not recommend the student under examina- tion to trouble himself about the immediately foregoing remarks. He wUl find most safety in merely speaking of inflammation as ' a perverted vital action' or ' modified nutrition,' and then plung-