242 DISEASES OF NERVES. turned away from same side ; head also bent downward. Con- tracted sterno-mastoid feels tense, especially when an attempt is made to raise head. Lateral curvature of spine frequently a secondary result. Arrested development of face, on affected side. Other muscles besides sterno-mastoid sometimes con- tracted, but not so firmly. Treatment.—Divide sterno-mastoid subcutaneously, and afterwards fix the head straight or slightly inclined towards opposite side by a special machine, or by strap- ping and bandages. A leather collar sometimes useful in mild cases. Division of sterno-mastoid.—Divide close to origin. Divide sternal and clavicular heads separately. Turn edge of knife towards skin, first passing blade beneath muscle. Do not insert knife too deeply; as death has occurred several times from wounds of important vessels. After-treatment must be persevered in for a month or two. Manipulation suffices towards the latter part of the time. For hysterical wry-neck, division of sterno-mastoid is generally rather prejudicial than useful. Treat on the principles laid down for Hysteria, q. v. In wry- neck from spinal caiies, treat the prime disease. Nerves, Infiammation of.—(1) Acute, (2) chronic. Acute neuiitis is uncommon, and is marked by continuous pain, tender- ness, and swelling along the course of the affected nerve, and often by spasms of the muscles connected with it. Chronic neuritis.—Causes.—Exposure to cold and damp: the same causes combined with injury, injury alone, excessive fatigue, rheumatic constitution. Symptoms.-^om^i^^^^ like those o acvite neuritis, but milder and more persistent. After death the nerve is found swollen, injected, and occasionally suppu- rating yreatoimi.-General and local antiphlogistics; rest; position of relaxation; leeching; purgation; iodide of potas- sium. Specific remedies when rheumatism, gout, or syphibs is diagnosed. Nerves, Tumours o^.-See Tumours, Neuroma Neuralgia.-Pain in the course of a nerve, and not caused by any visible disease or injury to the parts supplied by that nLve Causes.-{1) Obscure injury to the nerve ; (2) foreign body irritating it; (3) tumours pressing on it; (4) compression b> contracted cicatrices ; (5) overfilling of vems near nerves as the)