18 ANEUEISM. of a diseased part of the wall of some artery. The whole wall may be so softened as to dilate; but usually the inner coat is ulcerated, and then, from the fii-st, the aneurismal sac consists only of the outer and part of the middle arterial coat. But always, before the tumour reaches the size of an average orange, all trace of distinction between the arterial walls and the sur- I'ounding tissues is lost in its sac. In the meantime, wherever the inner coat of the artery is absent, the blood tends to deposit layer after layer of fibrin : the outer layers, after a time, have become organised and pale, while the inner are still soft and dark-coloured. Fusiform aneurisms have the inner coat of the artery most sound, and only a few shreds of fibrin adhere to their walls. The wall of an aneurism itself tends to thicken and strengthen. Adjacent parts are pressed upon, nerves are irri- tated or paralysed, ducts obstructed, bones absorbed. Symptoms.—Patient generally applies for advice either because of the swelling, or of the pain caused by the pressm-e of the tumour; but the earliest symptoms are generally those of slight muscular weakness of the limb. Tumour, in the course of some artery, soft at first, harder as it progresses. Pulsation, expansive. Bruit, loud and rasping, or soft, or alto- gether absent. Pulse below aneurism weak. Often oedema, neuralgia, spasm or paralysis from pressiu-e on veins or nerves. Compress artery above, tumour- less tense or smaller; compress artery below, tumour may become larger or more tense. The tumour can often be partially emptied by pressure. Diagnosis.—M.&jhQ confounded with—tumours, or abscesses in the course of large arteries; malignant tumours of bone; or mere enlargement and relaxation of the artery. It is always to be borne in mind that the pulsation of an aneui-ism is heaving, whUe that of a vascular tumour is usually sudden and more abrupt; also, that aneurisms do not always pulsate,i and that when a,n aneurism is emptied by pressure, it gradually re- turns to its full size. Diagnosis from Tumours and Abscesses pressing on the Artery.-l, such swellings mostly have no brmt; 1 For Diagnoses, S:c., of aneurisms which do not ^te see Holmes, in Brit. Med. Jnurn., Jan. 1880, and Morrant Baker, in St. Barth. s Hasp. Rep.. 1879. Auscultate and observe the eftl-ct of pressure on the mam artei> .