178 HIP-DISEASE. scabbing, and are usually of parasitic origin. Treatment.— Soothing and protective. Cotton wool for herpes zoster. Zinc ointment for herpes preputialis. For herpes circinatus (ring- worm), blistering fluid, which should be applied quickly and then washed off at once with water. Ung. Hydrarg. Ammon., or Tinct. lodi., or Lin. Crotonis. See Alder Smith, on' Ring-Worm.' Hip-disease.—Morbus coxse. Disease of hip-joint. Causes.— Predisposing are scrofula and the ages of childhood and early youth. Exciting are local injuries, often very slight, and exposure to cold. Cause often uncertain. Affections of the generative organs sometimes cause hip-disease, probably in a reflex manner. Varieties.—Tli^-disease has been divided anatomically according as it affects the femur only or the acetabulum. In many cases both are involved. Also it may be acute, sub-acute, or chronic. Or it may be strumous or purely traumatic or rheumatic in origin. Practically it is rarely possible to say whether a given case is or is not strumous. Some diseases of the liip-joint, e.g. chronic rheumatic arthritis, never have the term' hip-disease' applied to them. Symptoms.— 3 sta<^es. 1st, inflammatory ; 2nd, stage of abscess ; 3rd, stage of real shortening. Inflammatory stage. Before the symptoms are well marked, the term ' incipient' is used. Stiffness of joint When patient Hes on his back his knee is bent upwards If an attempt be made to straighten it, the small of his back becomes hollow, because the pelvis moves with the femur Wasting of limb, often a very early symptom: flattenmg ot buttock and obliteration of gluteal fold. Pain often referred to inner side of knee. Pain is most severe when disease begins m the bone. Fulness over joint, best marked when disease begms n synovial membrane. Apparent lengthening, sometime, apparent shortening, both due to rocking of pelvis. Yery rarely real lengthening due to effusion into joint. Of coui e the patient limps. 2nd stage. Stage of abscess^ The suppu ration is sometimes entirely outside joint. Pus burrows, flu Ition occui-s sometimes in one place, ^o^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ sinuses form. Probe very likely fails to hud dead bone. sT;?: vt:tebi.ted probe useful. Situation of situation of disease, whether acetabular or femoral {see Patho