322 tumours; believed by many that even miliary tubercle is sometimes a product of inflammation. That the presence in the system of cheesy masses, the result of inflammation, predisposes in some way to the formation of miliary tubercle, is pretty generally allowed. See Scrofula for treatment, &c. Tumours.—Definition.—Word ' tumour' not always used in same sense. (1) Surgeons sometimes use it loosely, as if synonymous with 'swelling of undetermined nature,' as, e.g., in such a speech as this, ' Examine this tumour and tell me whether you think it is an aneurism, or a new growth.' (2) The usual meaning of ' tumour' is an abnormal swelling in the tissues, which cannot be clearly regarded as mere inflam- matory new formation, or as aneurismal dilatation of a single vessel. The margins of this definition are necessarily uncertain, because the limits of the process of inflammation are not quite known. Causes.—There can be no question but that tumours do frequently arise from continued local irritation, but to what extent hereditary predisposition acts as a predisponent is not yet settled. The very common idea that cancerous tumours are almost as hereditary as Roman noses is certainly wrong. That heredity plays no part in their production is equally incredible. Why, it plays an unquestionable part in the production of wooden legs, because the martial spirit which has exposed his inferior members to shot and shell is often ' bequeathed from bleeding sire to son.' It ^f^ould appear from the clinical observa- tions of Sir James Paget, confirmed by the microscopic ones of Mr. Butlin, that the processes of inflammatory new-formation, of ordinary cellular infiltration, may pass, by a gradual com- mingling, into the process of cancerous infiltration with new cells genetically sprung from epithelium. Often also cancer is seen to attack localities which have long been the seat of syphi- litic, of eczematous, or of some other chronic fissure or ulceration. It is possible that new growths may arise £i-om ii-ritation in a quite distant part. They can be removed in that way. I have seen a recurrent tumour over the scapula, which had shrunk gra- dually to one-eighth its former size during the progress of phthisis and fistula in ano. Such new growths as elephantiasis and bronchocele proceed from endemic, perhaps miasmatic influences.