167 HEENIA. tion refers only to hernia abdominalis. Causes.—Predisposing : 1, Sex, four times as often in males as in females. 2, Age, most hernias develop before age of 3-5. 3, Occupation, habit of making violent efforts. 4, Hereditary conformation, including patent tunica vaginalis funiculi, abnormal laxity of mesentery, congenita] defects of abdominal walls. 5, General weakness of the system. 6, Excessive obesity and flabbiness. 7, Pregnancy. 8, Defects in abdominal wall of traumatic origin, cicatrices, etc. Observe that number 4 includes 3 causes. Cause 6 acts strongly if obesity rapidly diminishes. Exciting causes.—Sometimes a strain or violent efforts often repeated. Cough. In male infants, the application of a truss to an umbilical hernia may result in the production of an inguinal hernia. Symptoms.—In earliest stage, merely ' weakness' locally, with slight fulness in erect position and impulse on coughing. Then a soft, round or oblong tumour developes, reducible generally with a gurgling noise. If containing omentum it is called ' E2nplocele' and may be hard and lobulated. Hernise are opaque, and dull on gentle percus- sion. Mode of appeai-ance and growth, usually sudden in ' con- genital ' hernia, gradual in other forms. A hernia passes by a broad neck into the abdomen. Subjective signs are dragging pains and dyspeptic feelings. Herniaj are often irreducible. Anatomy.—A hernia consists of (1) contents, (2) sac, (3) cover- ings. Contents : intestine, omentum, or, more rarely, one of the other abdominal or pelvic viscera, e.g. ovary, stomach, gall- bladder. Fluid between sac and contents, variable in quantity. An ' enterocele' contains bowel only, an ' epiplocele ' omentum only, an ' entero-epiplocele' both. Sac: is continuous with peritoneum. It is identical with tunica vaginalis in ' congenital ' hernia; but, in other cases, is formed by gradual pushing out of a pouch of peritoneum. It consists of a mouth, neck, body and fundus. Mouth and neck are originally puckered; but, with time, this puckering obliterates, and, still later, the' neck and mouth are apt to thicken and contract. Hence many cases of strangulation. If a hernia be reduced before its sac has had time to grow old, thickened, and adherent, the sac will be drawn up into the general peritoneal lining of the abdomen again. Diagnosis.—Bee special varieties of hernia, especially