184 HYDROPHOBIA. Hydroplwhia in JfreTO.—Proportion of bitten cases attacked, estimated by Trousseau at one in two, by Billroth at one in twenty ! Period of incubation : six weeks to more than a year. Rarely less than six weeks. Symptoms.—Firstly, gi-eat irrita- bility, excitement, and restlessness. Spasms on attempting to swallow occur sometimes, but rarely, in this stage. Irritability and sensitiveness to light, sound, &c., increase and become excessive. Soon the slightest causes produce spasms. Then gradually comes the fear of water, together with unspeakable thirst. Sleeplessness Terror of the spasms and their causes. Actual madness occurs rarely. Appearance of most fearful anxiety. Hoarseness. Frothing at the mouth. Severe tetanic spasms now, from time to time, suspend respiration; and, finally, in one of these, the patient dies asphyxiated. Note the different ways in which death occurs in the dog and in man, for in the former it comes by exhaustion. Diagnosis.—1. From tetanus. In tetanus there is a certain amount of persistent spasm, in hydrophobia there are intervals of complete relaxa- tion. Tetanus is also a quiet disease, so to speak, and is unac- companied by horror of water, even although the suff"erer may be unable to drink. 2. From hysteric or nem-omimetic hydro- phobia. In the sham disease there is dysphagia, but no alarm- ing spasm of the respiratory muscles. Prognosis.—Roi^eless. Pathologij.—Congestion of spinal cord has been observed with collection of leucocytes around the capillaries. Treatment.— All remedies hitherto tried have been vain. Suffering may be alleviated by rest, darkness, and perhaps by anajsthetics. Try tracheotomy. With regard to prophylaxis, cauterisation should be done, early if possible, but better late than never. Surgeons of great ability have named various limits of time at which they say cauterisation ceases to be of any use. These limits differ considerably, and, in my humble opinion, it has yet to be shown on what sufficient grounds they have been fixed. One may ask for demonstration that the poison does not remain near the wound during the period of incubation. Cauterisation may be painful and .obnoxious; but what are these considerations when compared with the fanitest chance of preventing the most horrible of diseases 1 Vesicles (' lyssi')