DISEASES OF BONES. 46 years. So long as it remains, the new bone around it usually grows thicker; when it is removed, the remaining cavity fills with granulations, which ossify ; gradually the new bone, by a process of external absorption and internal growth, gets to re- semble more and more the shape and consistence of the original bone, whose place it is to take. Practically speaking, only the smallest sequestra can be absorbed. In necrosis of fiat, and of short spongy bones, there is small prospect of thorough repro- duction ; in these cases, necrosis is usually combined with caries, and often with a chronic constitutional disorder. Necrosis, when confined to the surface of a bone, is called ' superficial,' and when to the interior of a bone,' central:' in the former the sequestrum is called an ' exfoliation;' central necrosis constitutes almost an independent disease. Patliology of Central Necrosis.—Is the result of inflamma- tion of the deeper parts of a bone, and is usvially accompanied by caries : it leads to a bone-abscess, to a simultaneous periostitis on the neighbouring external surface of the bone, and to a con- sequent apparent thickening of the bone. Note, though central necrosis is pretty sure to lead to abscess, yet abscess of bone does not usually imply necrosis. Chronic Abscess of Bone.—First described by Brodie. Most usual seat, head of tibia. Causes.—Ohscuve, sometimes injury. Symptoms.—Taom of ostitis and periostitis confined to a circumscribed locality. An abscess is suspected because of the persistence of the symptoms, and because of the localised and circumscribed tenderness. Diagnosis and Treatment require the same proceeding, viz., trephining at the tenderest spot. Generally the abscess is here very superficial. The trephine has in some cases just missed the cavity. Holmes advises in such cases to perforate the walls of the trephine hole in several directions m search of the pus. Prognosis is excellent when the trephine pierces the abscess; otherwise there is danger of abscess open- in »■ into neighbouring joint. ° Inflammation of Bone.—Three chief varieties, according to part mainly attacked, viz., ostitis, periostitis, and osteo-myelitis. 1. Osii^is.—Inflammation may begin in the bone proper without afi'ecting the periosteum or medulla at first. Cavses.—