256 PEEIN^UM. a perinfeal fistula it may be necessary to (1) teach the patient to catheterise himself four times a day, or (2) to incise the fistula freely, or (3) to cauterise it; (4) it is to be remembered that the presence of a small calculus may prevent healing.—(Thompson.) Perineum, Injuries to.—CaMses.—Blows received in climb- ing over railings, &c., or by being thrown on the pommel of the saddle. Pressure of child's head in parturition. The injuries vary in seriousness from slight bruises to injuries involvino' such important structures as the urethra, rectum, and bladder. Parturition may result in— Ruptured Perinceum.—Varies much in extent. The more extensive ruptures often allow the walls of the vagina, rectum, or bladder, as well as the uterus, to prolapse. The utmost annoyance may be caused by inability to hold the fteces. Treatment.—Sutures should be put in at the time when the injury occurs. Otherwise it is, except in trifling cases, advisable to postpone the operation until the chUd can be weaned and the mother restored to the best attainable health. Opera- tion.—Scalpels with short and with long handles, forceps, long and short, strongly curved needles with handles (e.g., Baker Browne's needle), sutures of silk, whip-cord and sUver or catgut. Ligature, artery foi-ceps, etc. Handled sponges. Duck-bill speculum ; retractors. Lithotomy position. Assistant holds duck-bill speculum against anterior wall of vagina. Perinseum, etc. is shaved. Square flaps of skin and mucous membrane are marked out on either side of rupture, involving part of the vaginal surface of the recto-vaginal septum, and widening some- what towards the surface of the perinseum. The flaps to' reflected thoroughly, not the slightest bit of mucous membi-ane to be left. But the flaps need not be removed altogether, should rather be left and sewn together over the vaginal edge of the wound. Pass posterior suture first. It should go through recto-vaginal septum, i.e., should never appear in the rupture at all. Suture to enter and leave skin at one inch from edge of wound. Fasten on two pieces of elastic catheter, or else use button suture. "When deep sutures are tightened, wound gapes superficially. To remedy this add a few small silver sutures. Before sutures are tightened, stop all hsemor-