OSTEOID CANCEE. 7L large cutaneous veins, owing to its obstructing deeper veins; large vessels and nerves not generally compressed; amount of pain, variable; ' cancer of young life.' Localitij.—Bones, female breast, eye, testicle; attacks also uterus, bladder, &c. Cancer, Colloid. Alveolar Cancer.—Its carcinomatous nature doubtful; consists of a stroma of wide meshes, with rounded or oval nuclei; meshes contain a jelly-like substance, besides cells, some of which have concentric laminaj like an oyster shell; to the naked eye this cancer has a markedly jelly- like appearance. Locality.—Peritoneum, ovary, breast, limbs, parotid, rectum; in alimentary canal, it is said to arise fi-om Lieberkiihn's follicles. Cancer, Squamous Epithelial, or ordinary epithelioma.— Least malignant of the carcinomata ; cells flattened like those of epidermis; tendency to arrange themselves in ' nests.' First appearance, usually a hard lump or wart, which may be di-y for a long time, but usually ulcerates sooner or later. Ulcer has hardened, elevated edges, and often an excavated base; occasion- ally cauUflower-like ; glands slow to be afiected; infection of the system slower still. Locality.—Places where skin and mucous membrane meet, e.g., lips, eyeUds, anus, &c.; also warts on the skin, back of hand, front of leg, prepuce (from irritation of soot), tongue. Life usually destroyed by local causes. Cancer should be removed, even if glands are somewhat enlarged, for the en- largement may be merely the result of irritation or inflammation. If done early, there is fair hope of non-recurrence. Cylindrical Epithelial Cancer occurs in macous mem- branes. Both primary and secondary deposits contain cylinders of cylindrical epithelium, like the structure of mucous membi^ane itself. Villous Cancer.—Vide Diseases of Bladder. Osteoid Cancer.—Here not only the primary tumour has a skeleton of bone, but bone also appears in the secondary deposits. Melanotic Cancer is simply cancer with deposits of pig- ment in the cells. Its primary seat is usually a part originally highly pigmented, e.g., a dark mole. May be either carcinoma or sarcoma. Treatment of Cancer.—Constitutional.—Tonics, especially