HEENIA. 170 Generally easy. But, if the general symptoms of intestinal obstruction coexist with any tumour in one of the recognised seats of hernia, unless that tumour is known positively not to be a hernia, and unless the case is yieldiug to other treatment,, the sui-geon should cut down upon the tumour. Yery little- harm can result from the procedure. Strangulation is some- times difficult to distinguish from mere obstruction with inflam- mation. In the latter case there is less vomiting, always great local tenderness, and, instead of absolute constipation, the occa- sional passage of flatus and liquid. It is to be borne in mind that peritonitis may complicate without being caused by a hernia. Treatment.—1, Taxis, 2, warm bath, 3, opium, 4, rest in warm bed, 5, anaesthesia, 6, herniotomy. Although numbers 2, 3 and 4 are usually described as auxiliary to the taxis, I put them separately for two reasons, viz : 1, that they are in a few cases perfectly competent to reduce the hei'uia without the assistance of the taxis ; 2, that they are much underrated now-a- days in consequence of the reaction against that sad mistake which has allowed so many cases to pass bejoud hope before operation, and in consequence of the notion that these minor remedies act only by relaxing the constricting bands; whereas they may act directly on the strangulated parts themselves by reducing the congestion and consequently the size of the strangulated intestine. Some amount of circulation must usually exist during the first stages of strangulation, or the in- testine would not live as long as it does. In every case, fii-stly, make a short and gentle application of the taxis. Secondly, give 20 minims of laudanum, then a warm bath for a time proportional to patient's strength, and then place him in bed between blankets. Still keeping the patient warm in blankets, ansesthetise him, and try the taxis gently again. If it fail this time, operate at once. The taxis. Position of patient, supine with his legs drawn u.p. Bear in mind resisting forces, viz :—1, tightness of constricting ring or band, 2, swelhng of strangulated viscus. Manipulate hernia as nearly as possible into a line with the axis of the ring which constricts it. Then compress it gently but steadily and completely with the hands or with the fingers