EYE, DISEASES OF. Ciliary Region.—Sympathetic Irritation and Sympathetic Ophthalmitis.—In sympathetic irritation the changes in the sympathising eye are chiefly functional. In sympathetic ophthalmitis they are of a destructive inflammatory kind. _ PatJiology.—ThQ exact mode of transmission from the ex- citing to the sympathisLQg eye is not well known. Very interesting facts are known. 1. The change commences in the region of the ciliary body and iris of the exciting eye, and its effects are mostly seen in the corresponding part of the sympathising eye. This region is richly supplied by branches of ciliaiy nerves (fifth, sympa- thetic, and third). 2. In exciting eye inflammatory changes are always found, and in some cases have been found to extend to the ciUary nerves. It is considered probable that the disease passes along the ciliary nerves, probably as neuritis, to some nerve centre, and thence to the other eye. 3. The optic nerve is considered to have no part in the transmission of the inflammation; but the space between the dural and pial sheaths of the optic nerve is a probable channel of communication. Symptoms in SymjmtMsing Eye.—1. Irritation.—Eye ex- tremely weak and irritable; patient may be able to read No. 1 of Soellen's type, but soon becomes tired, because the power of prolonged accommodation fails. Eye sometimes reddened, may be watery; neuralgic pains common. Iris not affected. iVb plastic exudation nor disorganising changes fake place. Liable to recur. Excision of exciting eye at once cures the disease. 2. Ophthalmitis.—Begins from one to three months, or more, after affection of exciting eye. May be ushered in by irritation. May be well marked from the first, or may commence in a manner so insidious as to escape notice. It consists chiefly of irido-cyclitis or irido-choroiditis, the ii-itis evincing a tendency to the formation of tough and extensive synechias. There is a zone of ciliary congestion. Thickening and muddy appearance of iris. Tendency to formation of dots of opacity (keratitis punctata) on the posterior layer of the cornea. The vitreous, when the condition of the pupil allows it to be seen, presents