PYEMIA. 263 appears to aggravate the disease. Give it after meals. Other internal remedies are tinct. cantharidis and iodide of potassium (gr. X doses). For syphilitic psoriasis, rely mainly on ordinary anti- syphilitics. Pysemia.—A disease characterised by remittent fever and the formation of multiple collections of pus in various parts of the body. It is a near ally of septicsemia and of ordinary surgical fever; but the scattered abscesses are characteristic. Causes.—The immediate cause is granted to be the absorption of pus or of septic material into the blood. It is still disputed whether pus, in order to produce pysemia, must be putrefying ; and it is still uncertain whether the immediate cause of pysemia can be absorbed through the mucous membranes, or whether it can enter only through an open wound. Advocates of the germ theory suppose that almost every case of pysemia is due to the entrance of microscopic germs into open wounds, and produce strong experimental proof of that belief; but how those germs cause the multiple abscesses is not so clear. The immediate cause of each scattered abscess ('metastatic' ab- scesses, they are often called) is venous thrombosis and em- bolism ; but what is the exact way in which the thrombosis is brought abovit 1' Some of the abscesses near the original wound are merely terminations of lymphatic inflammations, a track of inflamed lymphatics being sometimes traceable to them from the wound. Cases of pysemia sometimes occur apparently spontaneous in origin, and are called ' idiopathic pysemia.' It must be remembered that their idiopathic nature rests on negative evidence only. Conditiom predisposing to Pyaemia are (1) bad ventilation and foul air; (2) accumulation of many wounds in one ward; (3) neglect of having sick-rooms thoroughly and periodically cleansed; (4) dirty and careless dressing and nursing; (5) unnecessarily meddling with and disturbing injuries; (6) bad drainage, 7 other analogous conditions. A second set of causes belong more personally to the patient. They include (1) drunken habits, (2) old age, (3) weak constitution,. J See Note on 'Mksroeeopic Organisms,' in Appendix,