"^22 EYE, DISEASES OF. the continued use of spectacles the vision will generally im- prove. •' Strabismus (Squint).—The visual line is the axial line joining the centre of the object observed, with the centre of its image on the yellow spot of the retina. Deviation of the eye from the visual Ime, so that the image does not faU on the yellow spot, but on some other part of the retina, is called squint. This deviation may produce double Yision—dij^lopia— when the image formed by the squinting is usually famter than that of the other eye, and is called the false image. When the false image appears on the same side of the true image as the deviating eye, the diplopia is termed homonymous, when on the opposite side the diplopia is crossed. The greater the deviation of the eye the fainter the image appears, as it falls more upon the periphery of the fundus. Patients learn to disregard the false image, and so to use one eye at a time or one eye only. Causes of squint.—{a) Ametropia, {h) Affection of ocular muscles, as over-action, weakness, paralysis, (c) Disuse of eye. Chief kinds are internal and external. Internal Strabismus (Convergent).—Very common, gene- rally caused by hypermetropia. In hypermetropia the patient is obliged to use accommodation in order to see even distant objects. Now accommodation is always accompanied by con- vergence, and when a near object has to be seen, the accommo- dation and, consequently, the convergence used are so great that the eyes deviate internal to the visual line, so that the image does not fall upon the yellow spot, and is therefore not distinct. Patient then fixes one eye upon the object, i.e., causes it to move in the direction of the visual line whilst the other eye still deviates. The amount of deviation is measured by the distance between two vertical lines, one bisecting the pupil, the other bisecting the eyelids. Diagnosis.—In well-mai-ked cases let patient look steadily at the tip of index finger placed about a foot in front of eyes, then screen each eye successively, and watch the eye thus screened. The squinting eye makes a decided movement towards the visual hne when the working eye is covered, but the working remains quite stationary when the squinting is screened. In less marked cases the diagnosis