PALATE. 249 or abscess, or enlargement of lachrymal gland, or exostosis, or hydatids, or cancerous or other tumour. Ozsena.— Vide Diseases of Nose. Palate.—Cleft Palate.—A congenital deformity, due to non-union of palate plates of palate bones and superior maxil- laries with their fellows, or of the superior maxillaries with the priemaxillaries, or to non-union of the two halves of the soft palate. The amount of imperfection varies from merely biiid uvula to a complete chasm from pharynx to face. Often com- plicated with hare-lip. The parts affected are more or 1 ess stunted in growth : hence width of cleft varies.—Treatment.—An infant with cleft-palate cannot suck : hence it requires hand-feeding. But it should be hand-fed with its mother's milk only, for the first two months. Upon all cases, except a few in which the cleft is too wide, a plastic operation must be done. If possible, operate before the child has begun to talk. When the cleft is hopelessly wide, let a dentist fit the mouth with an ' obturator ' of gold or vulcanised rubber. Staphyloraphy (for cleft of soft palate).—Essential steps of the operation are three, viz., (1) paring edges of cleft, (2) uniting them by sutures, (3) incising to relieve tension. Chlo- roform children. Anaesthesia optional in case of adults.. Insert Smith's gag. (It is as well to see that this gag fits on the day before the operation.) The edges are pared by means of long forceps and long-handled knife. Avoid unnecessary and rough sponging, as it increases flow of saliva. Sutures are of horse-hair, catgut, silk and silver wire. Their strength is in the inverse order in which they are named here. The ends of silver wii-e may irritate the tongue. Alternate sutures of horse-hair and silk • answer well. The sutui-es are passed by long-handled and curved needles. Startin's needle. Plan of ]mssing thread through ■ one flap, then through loop of a thread ali'eady passed through other flap, and lastly dragging it com- pletely through by means of this loop. There is a simple little instrument for twisting wire sutures. Pass most of the sutures before tying one. Check bleeding before tying. Bleeding rarely troublesome. Iced water, gentle pi'essure with small sponge, and waiting a minute or two, suflB.ce to check it. The