^' ^ APPENDIX. OSTEOTOMY. tome can be driven by a mallet through the femur of an ox without splintering the latter or damaging itself. Never use a hammer. Osteotomes are used for simple division. Chisels are entirely unfit for this purpose except in the case of very small bones, and should be reserved for removing wedge-shaped pieces. Place limb on a sand pillow (moistened just before operation and covered with waterproof). Management of the Saw.—Adams's is commonly used. It has a shank and is usually pointed. The soft structures are incised with a long tenotomy knife down to the bone, and the periosteum is cut -with the same knife. The orifice of the incision is usvially only half-an-inch long, or even less. The knife being withdrawn, the saw is passed into the tunnel just prepared for it and its cutting edge turned to the bone. The saw is generally withdrawn when two-thii-ds of the bone are divided, then the remainder is broken. Use of the Osteotome.—Insert a scalpel right down to the bone at the place to be divided. Wait two or three seconds, to give the muscles penetrated time to quiet, then complete in- cision. Size of incision should at first be large enough to admit finger. As operator gains experience he will ventui-e safely to dispense with this and pass in the osteotome alone. Incise in line with the bone to be divided. Rotate osteotome when it reaches the bone. Do this lightly so as not to damage the periosteum. Hold handle of osteotome firmly in left hand, with ulnar border of that hand against the skin of the limb. The direction and management of the instrument vary with the site of operation. As a rule, cut away from large arteries and divide the hardest part of the bone first. When removing the osteotome, keep the thumb and fiirst two fingers closed upon it, and gradually work it out by alternate contractions and relaxations of the other fingers. When two-thirds of the bone are divided, the rest can usually be broken. In using the chisel turn the bevelled side towards the wedge. If the wedge is to be thick, cut a thin wedge first and chip away other pieces from each side of the gap. Never use either osteotome or chisel as a lever to break bone. Keep saws, osteotomes, and chisels bright and free from rust,