338 ULCEES. epidermis. Pus, if present, laudable. Treatment.—WevQly pro- tective, e.g., simple ointment on lint, and avoidance of irritation. Process of healing.—lAeniicel with that of superficial wound with loss of substance. Inflammatory Ulcer.—Locahty : usually lower part of shin. Shape, irregular. Size : usually less than an inch. Base : without granulations, raw and sloughy. Edges, abrupt. Dis- charge thin, acrid, often blood-tinged. Surrounding skin inflamed, (Edematous. Causes.—Qeneral causes of inflamma- tion, especially constant local irritation, bad diet, old age, and drink. I'reatment.—'RQst, elevation, water-dressing, poultices, warm lead-lotion, followed in twenty-four hours by Martin's elastic bandage. Or the bandage may be applied without any preparatory treatment.' EczEMATOUS TJlcer.—Resembles the last-mentioned (in- flammatory) in character, but appears in the middle of a patch of eczematous skin, in the vesicles of which it has often originated. Sometimes its immediate cause is a slight injury. Treatment.—Treat surrounding eczema, e.g., with zinc ointment. But the sore itself must be managed as an inflammatory ulcer. Martin's bandage. Danger of causing internal disease by curing eczematous ulcer (?) Cold Ulcer.—Resembles chilblains, and occurs on fingers and toes of people with feeble circulation and cold, congested extremities, especially young women with deranged sexual function. Aloes, iron, warm gloves, thick boots, free exercise in open air. Dry lint. Stimulating lotions, e.g., zinci sulph. (gr- iU--3j)- Senile Ulcers.—Kind of inflammatory ulcer, occurring in withered old people. Nearly related to senile gangrene, with which it may be combined. Vide Senile Gangrene, Locally : resin ointment and Peruvian balsam. Strumous Ulcers.—Locality : neck, groin, knee, ankle, elbow, wrist, and sometimes elsewhere. Often multiple. Shape : oval when single. Size : small singly, but often very large by coalescence of several. Edges undermined. Base soft, granu- 1 The casfi must then he carefiil\v wntclied. for there is a dnnser of ery ■ sipelas. Iodoform is a valuable applioatiou to anj- ulcer not actually inflamed.