DEFORMITIES OF HAND. 153 on one side, and diws up his knees. Sei^e each tumour with pile forceps, cut thi'ough that side of it next skin with scissors, surround base of tumour with a hempen thread, tie the pile very tightly. Cut ends of Ugature short, oil weU, and push hack the hgatured mass within the anus again. Ligature separates in about a week. An anodyne is to be given after the operation, and a laxative on the second day. Anaesthesia often dispensed with. Dress with dry cotton wool. _ Gaute- risation of internal ^jifcs.—Preparation same as for Ugature. Smith's clamp, ivory side downwards, snip off pHes with scissors, sear bases with actual or with galvanic cautery. Latter said to cause least after-pain. Unclamp gradually, and cauterise any bleeding point. Suppository of morphia. Usual to ansesthetise during this operation. After-treatment same as for ligature. Eecovery quicker. Danger about the same, but in either case very little. IVitric acid.—Suitable for sessile hsemorrhoids. Apply with a piece of wood through speculum. Concave clamp to protect healthy mucous membrane. Galvanic cautery ap- pUed lightly answers admirably for sessile hsemorrhoids. Note. When operating for haemorrhoids, avoid as much as possible damaging the line where the mucous membrane joins the skin. When there is a fissure, operate on it first. Hand, Deformities of (inclusive of fingers). Four classes, viz :—1, Deficiency, 2, excess, 3, webbed fingers, 4, contractions. It is rare to find a finger or any part of the hand congenitally deficient. Supernumerary fingers are frequent: one is the common number, and it lies usually on ulnar side of httle finger. Thumb may be bifid, or there may be a supernumerary thumb. A finger may be too long or too short. A very rare deformity is a double hand on the same wiist. Contractions.—Four classes, 1, Congenital 2, paralytic, 3, traumatic or cicatricial, 4, rheumatic. Congenital contraction assumes the form called ' clubbed haTid,' which is analogous to clubbed foot, but very rare. Rhevmatic contraction bends the fingers upon the palm and is, practically, the most important deformity of the hand. Causes. Either chronic rheumatic diathesis, or the habit of pressing on