17 ANEUEISM. of the mouth. Clear the throat out if there be any suspicion that blood or vomited food is obstructing the larynx. This failing, tracheotomy may be found justifiable. Artificial re- spiration. Galvanism : one pole on the throat near the phrenic nerve; the other in pit of stomach. Hot affusion to head. Perpendicular position, with head downwards. As much fresh ail- as possible. Local Anesthetics.—Extreme cold produced.—1, ice and salt; or, 2, ether spray. Use twice as much powdered ice as salt, in a gauze bag. Useful for small operations on the skin or about the nails : excision of small epitheliomata, &c. Aneurism,—A considerable dilatation of an artery, or any hollow tumour communicating with the interior of an artery. Classification.—According to the relation of its sac to the wall of the artery, into—1, true; 2, false; and, 3, dissecting aneui^ism. According to its shape, into fusiform and sacculated. And, according to its apparent cause, into spontaneous and traumatic. Cirsoid anemism and varicose aneurism not usually included in this classification. A true aneurism used to always mean one whose sac con- sisted of all three arterial coats. The term, rarely now used at all, often means merely that the sac is formed chiefly by the wall of the artery. False, in the same way, may mean either that the sac is wholly, or that it is cliiefly, formed of tissues outside the artery. Dissecting aneurisms are formed when the blood burrows between the coats of an artery. Causes.—Dilated arteries are almost always found to be atheromatous (Vide Atheroma of Arteries.)—I, occupation : soldiers, sailors, employments where severe and prolonged efforts are required in-egularly. Soldiers are chiefly hable to thoracic, sailors to subclavian and axillary aneurisms (probably fi'om climbing, &c.); 2, abuse of alcohol; 3 syphilis : the Uability of soldiers is partly attributed to the latter two causes, and partly to the strain on the thoracic organs, caused by the old-fashioned stock and knapsack; i, strains; 5, age: very rare in child- hood, commonest between thirty and forty; 6, traumatic aneu- risms are caused by direct wounds. Pathology.—An idiopathic aneurism begins by the dilatation