350 STEICTUEE OF URETHRA. tincture ; and 5, hot bath, 100°, rapid drying with towel half an hour before surgeon's attempts to pass an instrument. 6. During catheterism, expose only the genital organs. Cover trunk and arms with blankets. 7. Give ether. 8. Commence with the very finest soft French bougie you possess. If you have not a filiform one, snip off the bulb of a ' bougie a boule.' 9. While an assistant is in the very act of injecting oil into the urethra, glide your bougie, by the side of the nozzle of the syringe, down to, and if possible through, the stricture. 10. If that fails, try a catgut; but, if there are false passages, pass a ITo. 6 gum-elastic down to the stricture, and glide your filiform bougie down by its side. 11. As a rule, a perfectly new filiform bougie answers best, but occasionally the surgeon finds an individual one of particular merit, which he treasures up and uses again and again. 12. As the orifice of the strictiu'e is not always in the axis of the urethra, the instrument should be conducted carefully first along one side of that passage, then on the other, then along the roof, then along the floor. The soft instruments can only be used in this way when the stricture is very near the meatvis. Deeper strictures, when eccentric in position, require the silver catheter. (Thompson's jsrobe-pointed catheter should be employed.) 13. When an instrument has been passed at last, but with great difficulty, it should be left in a considerable time, say forty-eight hours, careful note being made of the particular manoeuvre which proved successful. Instead of withdrawing it to make room for a larger size, a Wakley's tube can, with advantage, be passed over it. Wakley's tubes are of various sizes, and glide over the originally intro- duced catheter, which acts to them as a guide. 14. Whatever method is tried should have a fair trial. Fickleness is very likely to result in failure. 15. The attempts, if necessary, may be renewed on a future day. Suppose, however, one of those rare cases of genuine impermeability. The stricture may be near the meatus. Of course there will be felse passages. In such a case I saw Mr. Furneaux Jordan pass a very sharp, fine- pointed bistoury into the glans where the meatus ought to have been (the meatus was itself occluded, and the last quarter or half-inch of the urethra too), and fortunately or skilfully hit