AETEEIES. 27 crucial incision; cut beyond the posterior margin of the de- pression ; cut deeply with first incision; introduce finger with the point upwards and backwards. Generally the cul-de-sac of the bowel can be felt when the child cries, or when the abdomen is pressed upon by the assistant. Puncture upwards and back- wards; enlarge with probe-pointed bistoury; bring mucous membrane of gut down to external wound if possible; keep open at first with a suppository. If the operation fails, never plunge a sharp instrument blindly into the pelvis; but perform Littre's operation. Vide Colotomy. Case 6. Rectum may communicate with or open into vagina, bladder, or urethra. Treatment for case 6.—Plastic operation; operation for arti- ficial anus; or nil. Colotomy sometimes causes a mere com- munication to close up, and all the faeces to pass per anum. Ani, Prolapsus, is really a prolapse of rectum, usually of its mucous coat only. Causes.—Constitutional weakness. Rectal, genital, and urinary irritation causing straining. Piles. Polypi, urinary calculi, worms, phimosis, constipation. Age of child- hood. Signs.—Protrusion of a ring of mucous membrane becoming dark and turgid if allowed to remain prolapsed. Strangulatior, suppuration, and oven mortification may occur. Treatment.— Reduce prolapse at once. Regulate bowels ; mild aperients, Priedrichshall water,' effervescing citrate of magnesia.' Recumbent position after, or even during defajcation. Astringent injections, alum, tannin, iron. Tonics, u-on, strychnia. Always seek for and remove cause. In bad cases, ligature pai-ts of the prolapsus, or paint it with strong nitric acid, bathing afterwards in cold water. Incise freely a strangidated prolapsus. Children should have one buttock pulled to one side obliquely during de- fsecation. This causes a tight fold of skin to support aims. Arteries, Atheroma of.—Term applied to the effect produced on arterie.s by a chronic or sub-acute inflammation. Causes.— In many cases, unknown. Alcohol, syphilis. Common in ad- vanced age. Atheroma is common where an artery pulsates against a bony surface (A. Barker). Signs.—During life such arteries as the radial and temporal are often found hardened and even looped. Liability to aneurisms and rupture of the arteries. Pathology.—Begins by a deposit of cells in the inner,