SPINE, DISEASES OF. 28l the most rational indication is to be derived from its being essentially a secret vice, practised cbieily or entirely in bed. A patient who eventually lost his reason through it, even when the habit was inveterate, always ceased from it so long as his attendant slept in the same bed with him. The sex of the bed- fellow does not affect the result, therefore marriage may be advisable. Occassional intercourse with lewd women, which has been recommended even by physicians, is of somewhat doubtful value, and of course morally objectionable. Cold hip-baths in the morning. Patient should get np and empty his bladder as soon as ever he awakes in the morning, even if he gets into bed agam. Hard mattress. No supi>ers; no tea in evening. Attend to digestion. Revalenta Arabica, or fish and milk diet may be useful. Keep bowels open. Bhsters to perinseum. When varicocele or relaxed genitalia co-exist, patient should wear my suspensory bandage, made by Arnold, of West Smith- field. If improvement be not satisfactory, cauterize prostatic part of urethra with Lallemand's ' porte-caustique.', E«peat three or four times if necessary. Drugs given are (1) belladonna, gr ^ of extract, -f zinci sulph. gr. iiss. ter die; (2) bromide of potassium. Phosphorus, quinia, strychnia, iron, and cantharides are given when spermatorrhcea is associated with impotence. Spine, Diseases of.—Term ' spinal disease' sometimes restricted to caries. Angular curvature is, of course, always described with caries. Besides the above, there are lateral and antero-posterior curvatures, hysterical and rheumatic afiec- tions, and spina bifida. Angular Guevatuee : Pott's Cuevature of the Spine : Caries of the Spine.—These three terms are not quite synony- mous, but they are constantly used as such. Caries precedes and causes the curvature. Causes.—Scrofulous constitution— male sex in children, female sex in young adults, rare in more advanced life. Often a history of a fall or blow.' Whooping-cough. Pathology,—Commences either as simple caries, or as tuberculous disease of the vertebral bodies, or as 1 See a paper by Mr. Willett in St. Barth.'s Hosp. Reports, vol. xiv. p. 325. Out of (iO cases, the assigned enuse was a blow or fall in 21 cases, previous ill- ness in 6, and cause unknown in the remaining 34 : 14 were strumous subjects ; that is, were sickly, delicate persons of btrumous aspect.