PAKACENTESIS THOEACIS. 251 Palate, Kon-Malignant Tumours of, are usuaUy either (1) cystomata or (2) fibromata, or (3) papillomata. Abscess also occurs. Palate, Ulceration of, a frequent result of syphilis, but not always specific. TreatmenL-Me^ouxial gargles and specific remedies. . im- Palate, Perforation of, the result of disease (syphilis, more rarely small-pox and measles) or injury, may require an obturator. . n Paracentesis Abdominis.—Position of Patient.—On side near edge of bed. An ink-mark may be made exactly m median line, midway between umbilicus and pubes, as patient lies on his back before turning him on his side. Preparation.— Ascertain by percussion presence of fluid in spot to be pierced. Bladder should be empty. Apply a broad flannel belt round abdomen with its ends behind held by an assistant, who keeps up gentle pressure while the fluid flows, and finally secures it. The''tapping may be done through a hole in it. Use a cannula with an india-rubber tube leading into a bucket. Have ready strapping and pad of lint to apply after operation. Incise skin at point where the trochar is to be thrust in. Dangers.—(1) Haemorrhage, from not keeping to the middle line; (2) wound of bladder, from not emptying it; (3) wound of bowel, from not tapping in a thoroughly dull spot, or from plunging trochar in too deeply; (4) fainting. Paracentesis Pericardii.—An operation of extreme deli- cacy. Use the aspirator. Place of Puncture.—Fifth intercostal space, two inches from sternum. Mark spot with ink. Use No. 1 or 2 Dieulafoy's needle. Aspirator cock must be turned as soon as needle-point is beneath skin, so that fluid may rush through needle the moment pericardium is opened. Direct needle upwards and inwards, and hold it perfectly steady. Paracentesis Thoracis.—Formerly done with common trochar and cannula ; now usually with an aspirator. Position of Patient, sitting up in bed. Preparations.—Ascertain by percussion, etc., presence of fluid. Place taps of aspii-ator in proper position. Place of Puncture.—Fifth intercostal space in mid-axillary line, or a lower space more posteriorly, e.g., seventh.