21 ANEURISM. Statistics of results mucli better than those of ligature. But prolonged, unsuccessful compression sometimes appears to make worse the prognosis of a subsequent operation for ligature. Prepare the patient by rest in bed and limited diet (both as to fluids and solids). Chloral if necessary. Bandage limb, shave seat of pressm^e and dust it with hair powder. If pressure be instrumental and there be room, apply two instruments to the artery and use them alternately. Keep bed-clothes well off the tourniquets. Patient may sometimes be instructed to manage his own treatment. Anodynes if necessary. Use the minimum pressure absolutely necessary to check the flow of blood. Keep it up continuously, even during sleep if the patient can be got to bear it. In compressing the abdominal aorta or the iliacs, it is best to produce anaesthesia and keep it up for hours. Aneurisms may thus be cured by one spell of compression. Digital compression requires relays of assistants. A weight should be suspended so as to press down on the assistant's fingers, and supply the compressive force. Duration of pressure treatment, very variable, often a month, in some eases cure has resulted in a few hours. Many valuable papers on, and cases of treatment of aneu- rism by compression, are to be found in the Dublin Medical Journal. 3. Flexion.—Especially applicable to aneurisms situated in the flexiu-es of joints, e.g., popliteal, and on the superficial aspect of the artery. Bend the limb, not too acutely at first, and fix it thus with straps, buckles, or bandages. Rest in bed and restricted diet as accessories. Slight simultaneous compression of artery above sometimes advisable. (See Ernest Hart, Mecl- Chi. Trans, vol. xlii. p. 405.) - 4. Esmarch's bandage should be applied under ansesthesia, and may be kept on for two hours or more. But one applica- tion for one hour has sometimes been found quite sufficient (Dr. W. Reid, RK) Notes on Special Aneurisms.—Aorta, Aneurism of. Tho- r(icic.—8ee medical works. Usually treated by rest and restricted diet (Tufnell's treatment). Galvano-punctm-e and distal ligature {i.e., of the carotid) have both been employed beneficially.