THE BLADDER. 39 consequent excoriations and urinous odour; imjDotence in the male. Treatment.—Zinc ointment for excoriations; urinals carefully fitted to the case. Eadical cure by operations of Ayres, Wood, or Holmes. Skin-flaps are turned down from the neigh- bouring parts—groins, scrotum, &c.—and united so that one surface of skin turns towards bladder, the other outwards. T. Smith's operation—Ureters into rectum. Bladder, Foreign Bodies in.—Treatment.—^Urethral for- ceps, lithotrite, operation as for median lithotomy. Bladder, Hypertrophy of, arises from obstniction to the passage of urine, and from continued irritation. Commonly coexists with catarrh. Its existence can be inferred from that of its causes. Treat the catarrh and remove the causes. Bladder, Acute Inflammation of, usually affects trigone. Causes.—Predisposing are male sex, adult age, cold weather and season, intemperate habits, urinary obstruction. Common exciting causes are wounds, e.g., lithotomy; calculi, intemperance, stricture, gonorrhoea, injury daring parturition, protracted reten- tion. Other causes are blows on perinEeum or hypogastrium, sti- mulant diuretics, e.(/.,cantharidesj blisters, catheterism, lithotrity. Symptoms.—Pain locally, affecting perinasum, pubes, groins, sacrum, thighs; extreme irritability of bladder; urine voided spasmodically as soon as it enters bladder. In severe cases, such as those which may foUow lithotomy, there are rigors, often delirium, extreme local tenderness, and great danger. In milder cases, such as often result from gonorrhoea, the symptoms are chiefly local. Urine deposits mucus and pus; in severe cases it is bloody. Pathology.—Usually commences at, and is often confined to neck of bladder; mainly affects mucous mem- brane ; this is thickened and congested; in protracted cases, it gets dark in colour. Occasionally lymph is exuded so as to form false membrane. Prognosis.—The mild form yields to treat- ment. The virulent form, especially in shattered constitutions, is often fatal, death being sometimes preceded by gangrene. Treatment.—Cathartics: castor oil, black draught, or calomel; diaphoretics; demulcent drinks flavoured with a little lemon juice ; all drinks to be t-pid ; opiate suppositories and enemata; colchicum in gouty cases. Hot baths; linseed and mustard