268 ehecjmatism:. through complication with injury to more serious parts, such aS the peritoneum. The causes of the 2nd and 3rd class require immediate removal with the aid of fingers, forceps, speculum, plenty of oil, &c. The 3rd and 4th class of cases are apt to produce troublesome fistulse. They should be treated with as little delay as possible.—FicZe Vaginal Fistula. Rheumatism.—A name applied almost indiscriminately by the public to painful non-traumatic afiections of the joints and muscles, more especially when chronic. The form called 'rheu- matic gout' chiefly concerns the surgeon. He terms it Chronic Rheumatic (or Rheumatoid) Arthritis.—Causes.—TredisposiRg influences are mal-nutrition, poverty, approach of old age, male sex. Exciting cause usually unknown. Sometimes injury, or disordered menstruation. St/mptoms.—7a.bx in the affected joint, aggi-avated by wet or cold weather and by exercise. Stiffness. Wasting of muscles which act on the joint, e.g., of glutei and ham- strings in chronic rheumatic arthritis of hip. Dry crepitation when the joint is moved. Eventually, more or less enlargement of the bones of the articulation. Thickening of the ligaments. Stiffness may proceed to anchylosis. When the hip is affected shortening takes place sooner or later from absorption of head of thigh bone. Pelvis becomes oblique; foot is either everted or inverted. When the ternpero-maxUlary joiiit suffers, disloca- tion of one or both sides of jaw forwards may result from destruction of eminentia articularis. Prognosis.—Progress of disease usually not uniform, but effected by recurrent attacka with intervals of comparative comfort. But, unfortunately, the joints do not return to the normal state in these intervals. Recovery almost impossible. No direct danger to life. Billroth says: ' When you have such a patient to treat, arm yourself with patience, and be not surprised if he consults first one then another physician, and finally all the quacks about, and lastly, blames you for the origin and extent of his disease.' Diagnosis. —From (1) scrofulous arthritis, (2) gout, (3) dislocation from injury. Compare with symptoms as given elsewhere. Particu- larly consider history and course of disease, as well as age and circumstances of patient.' Pathology.—Begins by a fibriUous 1 See, in Ai^pendix, ' Charcot's Joiat-diseaso.'