397 CHOROID, racterised by the presence of numerous distinct patches scattered about fundus, but most abimdant towards periphery; they are at first of a yeUowish red appearance, which soon changes to yellowish white or glistening white, according to the extent of choroidal atrophy. The patches are more or less pigmented. Vision is affected in proportion to the extent of the disease. Usually no pain. Generally a history of acquired or inherited syphilis. Treatment.—Mercury combined with iodide of potas- sium. Rest of eyes by means of dark room. Artificial leech or dry cupping to temples. In the early stage mercury does great good,'and in old cases where failure of sight is increasing it should be given. Prognosis, guarded. Simple Choroiditis.—In this form the patches of atrophy are similarly distributed but are confluent (compare with syphilitic form). Or, large areas of incomplete atrophy are interspersed with separate patches, or there may be a wide- spread superficial atrophy with pigmentation. The field of vision is here also affected in proportion to the change. SuppuKATiVE Choeoiditis ,is acute, and occurs in conjunc- tion with similar inflammation of neighbouring parts (panoph- thalmitis). ScLEROTico-CHOEOiDiTis PosTERiOB, is limited to the regions of the optic disc and yellow spot which present many varieties of localised change. It is common in myopic eyes, and the appearances thus produced are known as ' posterior staphyloma,' ' myopic crescent,' etc. Tubercle of Choroid appears in the form of small circular, circumscribed spots (0-3 to 2-5 mm.) situated chiefly in the region of optic disc. Tumours.—1, Sarcoma; 2, Carcinoma. Bone Formation sometimes occurs on the inner sui-face of choroid of eyes which have been long destroyed; it varies in thickness from a mere film to a dense osseous cup. E,UPTURE OF Choroid may occur from a blow on the globe and may exist with or without rupture of other coats. Haemor- rhage at once occurs, and blood may be effused (1) between choroid and retina; (2) between choroid and sclerotic; (3) into vitreous.