59 DISEASES OF BREAST. 4. Osteomata, 5. Enchondromata, of breast, all extremely rare. Male Breast subject to same diseases as female, but much less frequently attacked. For ' Cancer of Male Breast,' refer, if necessary, to complete papers by Milton {Med. Chi. Trans, vol. xl.), and to Wagstaffe {Path. Trans, vol. xxvii.). Bronchocele.—Two kinds: ordinary and exoiMhalmic goitre j the former may be endemic or sporadic, simple or cijstic, and it may be acute. Cawses.—Immediate cause unknown, but certainly povex-ty and an unbealthy mode of living greatly conduce to it. Character and ^/ecfe.—Enlargement of the thyroid gland or part of it, fluctuating if cystic; occasionally causes dyspnoea, dys- phagia, or loss of voice, or displaces neighbouring parts; cysts usually contain serous fluid when single, grumous fluid when multiple. Exophthalmic Goitre.—Pulsation, anaemia, promin- ence of eyeballs. Diagnosis may have to be made from carotid aneurism. Treatment.—General hygiene; high, dry, breezy jjlaces; iron, iodine internally and externally; iodide of potas- sium ; lead iodide and mercuric iodide ointments; pressure; tapping cysts and injecting them with iodine or iron tinctiu-e (3j to 5ij with water); pressure ; seton (dangerous); ligature ot thyroid arteries; excision when pressure of tumour threatens death; for acute bronchocele, if the pressure gets dangerous, tap any cysts and divide the binding cervical fascia. D'Ancona claims to have cured a case of exophthalmic goitre by galvanisa- tion of the cervical sympathetic.—{Dublin Journal, Feb. 1878). Bruise.—Possible after consequences.—Abscess, contraction or shrivelling {e.g., of the ear after hematoma), permanent thick- ening, long-continued pain and tenderness, paralysis of nerve or muscle, necrosis or hypertrophy of bone, a weakness and lia- bility to disease. Treatment.—Pressure—uniform, equable, and tight, especially by cotton-wool and starch bandage; stimu- latiiig liniments, ice, cold lotions; or, in severe cases, warmth and exclusion from the air. Rest. When the effusion remains, try friction, kneading, or pressure, or tap antiseptically. Bubo.—Causes.—Syphilis (suppurating bubo caused by the soft chancre), gonorrhoea, and any irritation about skin of external genitals. When there has been no visible sore, the