VAGINA. 357 Patient now lies on her side. Unless untoward symptoms arise, leave sutures in ten days. Operation for recto-vaginal fistula is precisely similar. Keep bowels confined for ten days. ' Whether or not the sphincter ani should be divided will depend upon the degree of tension which is present when the parts are brought together. It is not a slight measiu-e, and should not be heedlessly resorted to' (Hutchinson in Holmes's System). Wash out vagina daily ■with a syphon. In operations about the vagina, remember the erectile tissue which lies immediately beneath the mucous mem- brane, and, therefore, remove the latter with delicacy, to avoid hsemon-hage. Such hsemorrhage I have seen instantly con- trolled by hot-water injections (Temp. 120°-130° Fahr.). Vagina, Foeeign Bodies in, generally pessaries or sponges, may cause a false diagnosis of metritis, leucorrhcea, or even cancer, patient forgetting their presence. Sometimes they have to be removed piecemeal. Pessaries have for years remained unsuspected in the vagina, causing foul discharge, &c. Yagina, Infantile Tumours of,—Yery rare. See T. Holmes in his System, vol. v. p. 851. Yagina, Lacerations of.—Usually the result of parturition, occasionally caused by broken chamber-utensils or by assaults, &c.; in rare instances, even by bridal intercourse. Treatment.— Trivial cases require only rest, silver nitrate, &c.; medium cases require sutures, and, if neglected at first, eventually opera- tion for recto- or vesico-vaginal fistula. Severe cases may cause collapse and rapid death. Complete cii-cular rupture of vagina, with expulsion of uterus, has been known during parturition ! And this, also, without violent instrumental interference. Yaginal Prolapsus, Yaqinal Tumours of Adults, and Yaginal Discharges, Non-gonorrhc^al, are apt to be so intimately connected with uterine afi"ections that they are most fully treated in Gynajcological works. ^ Non-specific Vaginitis of Children may cause evil sus- picion; but the afi'ection should always be presumed to be innocent, unless there is collateral evidence to the contrary. Cause.~ln some cases the passage of thread-worms from rectum