NEUEALGIA OF TESTICLE. 307 Mous Testicle, and Syphilitic Testicle. The treatment for syphilitic is adapted also for non-specific, chronic orchitis. Testicle, Injuries of.—Blows cause intense shock. Mobi- lity of testicle and strength of tunica vaginalis greatly protect testicle. Extravasation into cord may extend up to kidney, or even higher. Chronic, and, more rarely, acute orchitis may supervene. This orchitis may hopelessly damage organ. Treat- ment.—A.-p^\j general principles. Testicles bear incised wounds well. Recovery from self-mutilation usually rapid. Testicle, Inversion of.—When testicle lies in front of, instead of at back of, scrotum, it is liable to be injured in tap- ping a hydrocele. Testicle, other forms of Malposition of, are known, as : 1, retained testicle; 2, descent of testicle into perinteum'; 3, descent of testicle into groin. The testicle in the perineum is liable to injury, especially during riding. Operations to restore It to the scrotum have been performed by Adams and by Annandale. An undescended testicle may remain above the internal abdominal ring, or may enter the inguinal canal. Size and maturity of gland then sometimes imperfect; but impotence not necessary, and perhaps not usual even when both glands are retained. Liability to certain accidents, e.g., (1) inflam- mation, which may be confounded with strangulated hernia or_ with bubo; (2) attacks of severe pain omng to testicles being suddenly 'trapped' between abdominal fasciiB: (3) en- cysted hydrocele; (4) complication with congenital hernia frequent. Excessively troublesome testicles in inguinal canal' have been excised. Treatment.-When a hernia adherent to testicle threatens to descend with it, both had better be kept in abdomen by a truss. When a non-adherent congenital hernia exists apply a truss above testicle and below hernia; or, if testicle IS stdl m abdomen, dispense with truss for a while in the hope hat It may descend. Be in no hurry to operate upon a hydrocele of the testicle in the inguinal canal. Remember that tumca vagmahs cavity usually in these cases communicate with that of peritoneum. ^^j^uiucates Testicle, Neuralgia of ('witb wTnVT, rv,„^ -u