SYPHILIS. 293 siicli primary sores as are followed by infection of the system. But it is considered natural and convenient by most writers to place together, for descriptive purposes, the soft non-infecting chancre and the ' hard' or ' Hunterian' chancre with its con- sequences. The same plan will be followed here. Venereal Diseases.—1. Gonorrhoea (see separate notice). 2. Soft sore (false syphUis). 3. Syphilis proper. Soft Soee, soft chancre, simple chancre, chancroid.— Catises.—Inoculation from another soft chancre. According to Hutchinson's views, it is non-specific in origin, and arises merely from inoculation with pus, the result of ordinary suppui-ation at a certain stage. Contracted not only through impure sexual intercourse, but occasionally also by accoucheurs, mid wives, &c., accidentally. Bassereau, ' by the aid of repeated confrontation of the patients infected with those who had given them the disease, succeeded in proving that' soft chancre ' resulted from a chancre of the same kind.' Relative frequency (as compared with hard chancre).—Four to one (8,045 to 1,955). Objective characters.—(Period of incubation, nil.) Successively, red- ness, slight swelling, vesicular pustule, ecthymatoid pustule, ulcer. Ulcer is rounded, clean-punched, spreading, rather deep, with a floor, uneven, dirty-looking, purulent, and with abun- dant highly contagious secretion. Any hardness of base is rare; but such as there is, is that of ordinary inflammatory thickening. Course is progressive, tendency destructive for three or four weeks; then natural termination is in cica- trisation, with depressed white soft scar. Complication.— 1, inflammation; 2, gangrene; 3, phagedsena; 4, phimosis. In consequence of the liability to these, a classification has been made of soft chancres into—1, simple; 2, phagedenic; 3, gangrenous or sloughing. The phagedenic is characterised by unusually rapid, obstinate, destructive ulceration. Its form is irregular, edges livid, surrounded by copper-coloured areola; secretion thin, very ofi"ensive. Occurs in broken- down subjects. Gangrenous chancre is usually a consequence of phimosis with inflammation. The prepuce is the part which usually sloughs. Great hemorrhage may occur. Usual Positions of Chancre in Wonmi.—JuBt inside fourchette or