ANTISEPTIC TREATMENT. 23 some cases justifiable. Willett lias suggested a combination of amputation at the shoulder-joint with ligature of the carotid. Ankle-Joint, Disease of.—Swelling causes prominence of and fluctuation beside extensor tendons. Diagnose from disease of tarsus. In the latter case there is free movement at the ankle under ansesthetics. Prognosis is the more favourable, because general exercise can be combined with local rest. Ankylosis.—3 Kinds: 1, extra-articular fibrous; 2, intra- articular or ordinary fibrous or false ankylosis ; and 3, hony or true ankylosis. In the first case there are not, in the second there are, fibrous bands within the joint. First case results from iuflammatory thickening of surrounding parts, contracted ligaments and tendons, ifec. Often there is a combination of all three. Diagnosis.—In osseous ankylosis there is no motion whatever; in intra-articular fibrous there is some motion, which is checked more abruptly than in extra-articular. Anajsthetics may be required. Sayre tries to move the joint vigorously for two minutes under chloroform. If, within twenty-four houi-s, any swelling result, the ankylosis is, of course, not bony. Causes.—Joint-disease, &c. Osseous ankylosis usually caused by traumatic disease. Treatment.—1, Preventive : proper pas- sive motion applied in time. If ankylosis is inevitable, select the best position ; 2, Curative,— 1. Fibrous Ankylosis.—Passive motion, friction, douches, steam baths, screw splints, weights. Ansesthetics : subcutaneous rupture. Take a short hold (near the joint), and try to rupture by fiexion. Tenotomy. Division of tight fascia. 2. Osseous Ankylosis.—Do not interfere if possible. Fresh disease may be excited, or the operation may be fatal. ' Subcutaneous resection ' Sawing, drilling, fracturing; cutting out wedge-shaped piece of bone; fractui-ing shaft of bone just below joint. Little more than a good position usually aimed at. Antiseptic Treatment, The.—Almost always means Lister's method only. Principles: 1, an open wound does worse than a subcutaneous wound, because atmospheric germs enter it and produce fermentation, resulting in irritation, decomposition, &c., which again lead to inflammation, blood-poisoning, &c.; 2, certain substances, e.g., carbolic acid, destroy these germs. Details :