4 TUMOURS. 331 vessels and not through the lymphatics (except in some rare cases quite late in the course of the sarcoma). Contrast this with carcinoma. Different sarcomata present every intermediate grade of infectiousness. Interval between recurrences very variable. Death eventually occurs, in malignant cases, either from the disease recurring in a part where operation is impossible, or from infection (often embolic) of internal organs. Number of secondary sarcomata unhmited. Their favourite internal sites are peritoneum, pleura, and lungs. Treatment.—Depends to a certain extent on locality; but, as a general rule, prompt excision is indicated. In the case of mammary, subcutaneous, intra-muscular, and osteal or periosteal sarcoma, there need be no hesitation; but adeno-sarcomata of the sahvary glands in elderly people are prone to extremely quick recurrence. Excision must be thorough, and include every offset. Caution.—Small sarcomata are occasionally over- looked when lying near larger ones. Esmarch claims for pot. iod. in large doses a curative power over recurrent fibroid. Lymphoma.—(1) Idiopathic disease of the lymphatic glands, or (2) a tumour resembling a mass of lymphatic cells with a stroma of adenoid tissue but not situated in the site of any normal lymphatic gland. As, microscopically, almost all affec- tions of lymphatic glands are indistinguishable, and as so-called * lymphomata' present every grade from innocency up to intense malignancy, it is obvious that milder cases cannot be separated from mere secondary glandular inflammations or from scrofula. Indeed lymphomata, as a class, have been termed ' scrofulous sarcoma,' But surgeons are generally agreed in setting apart from other glandular diseases, cases like the following. (1) One or more glands, in the neck iisually, enlarge and resist treatment. Obstinate anaemia comes on. Suffocation by mechanical pres- sure may cause death ; or the progressive anaemia—frequently with leucocythemia—proves fatal. Occasionally the disease is arrested by antiscrofulous treatment or even spontaneously. "Various glands in other parts of the body often enlai-ge also. (2) Glands enlarge quickly to soft 'medullary tumours,' the lymph-corpuscles simultaneously infiltrating the neighbouring tissues. Anaemia and marasmus come on and advance rapidly