H^MOERHAQE. 145 veiy rarely. Symptoms, &c., can easily be inferred. Blow on pai't, ecchymosis, swelling, &c. Haematoma.—See Tumours (p 335). Haematuria.—See Urine. Haemophilia.—Hemorrhagic Diathesis. A congenital ten- dency to free bleeding after trifling injuries, or even no injuiy at all. Mostly hereditary. Want of fresh air, of dry lodging, and of exercise, said to increase the diathesis. Attacks males more than females. Symptoms and Course.—Bleeding from nose and mouth, with or without obvious exciting cause. Spon- taneous ecchymosis beneath the skin. Bleeding often preceded by premonitory symptoms, such as vascular excitement, smell of blood in nostrils, and pains in limbs. In intervals of hsemor- rhages, joints swell and even inflame. Loss of blood produces ansemia. Pathology.—' Trohahly abnormal thinness of the arterial walls' (Billroth). Prognosis.—Most patients die young. Some seem to outlive the malady. Treat7ne7it.—Bmploj every means to strengthen general constitution. To check hsemorrhages use ordinary means, and, in addition, in serious cases, give sod« sulphatis, g ss., occasionally, and two to five grains of ergot every half-hour. Turpentine in di-achm doses. >S'ee Legg on HemophiHa. Haemorrhage.—Hsemorrhages are classified in several ways, viz., firstly, accordmg to their source, into 1, arterial; 2, venous; 3, capillary; and 4, parenchymatous. 'Parenchyma- tous ' is a term applied by the Germans to hemorrhage from the tissues full of small arteries and veins, e.g., the penis and the tongue. Secondly, hemorrhages are classified, according to the time of theii^ occurrence, into 1, primary {i.e., at time of wound); 2, intermediate or recurrent (within a few hours) • 3 secondary (i.e., a few days after wound). A third classifica- tion IS into 1, traumatic; 2, spontaneous (^;ic?e Hemophilia) Surgeon-major Porter described an intermittent hemorrhage from makrial influence. Arterial hemorrhage contrasted with venous hemorrhage: Arterial is florid and spurts in iets • venous is dark, and either does not spurt rhythmically at all or does so only in relation with the acts of respiration. Arterial however is dark when respu-ation is interfered with • and venous is florid sometimes, when it wells up from a deep