BOILS. or its anterior branch, half in two transversely; when enough blood has flowed, divide it completely, and apply a pad and bandage. Blenorrhoea = Gleet, vide Gonoeehcea. Bons.—Cames.—Debility or plethora (but these causes are probably never sufficient when uncomplicated); change of diet; excessive perspiration; hydropathy; sea-bathing; air of dis- sectmg-rooms; training; spring and early summer season; diabetes; diseased meat; irritation of sexual organs; local irritants of various kinds, e.g., edge of a frayed shirt collar; poultices. Sijmptoms.—HhQ local appearances are well known. There is rarely any fever. Sometimes premonitory symptoms, such as feehng of chilliness, bad temper, &c. Pathology.—Itl the first instance, a boil is frequently indistinguishable from an acne- spot. Indeed, in a person suffering from an attack of boils, almost any acne-pimple can be irritated into a boil by persistent friction, or by exposure to some continuous irritant, such as the sea-water constantly wetting the wrists of fishermen. A boil is a local cellulitis, often spreading from an inflamed seba- ceous follicle ; and the reason of this spreading is, in most cases, not the specific nature of the original cause, but persistent local irritation. As it is quite as easy to protect from local irrita- tion, and to check acne, as to cure the specific cause of boils, if there be one, I hold that this view of boils is of practical importance: The ' core ' of a boil is a central slough of cellular tissue. Treatment.—Local. Soap plaistei*. Poultices or water- dressing should be avoided, as they bring out fresh boils. In- cision (complete) of very painful ones. Ext. belladonnse and glycerine on lint. Blind boils may be aborted by the applica- tion of a strong caustic to the commencing vesicle; strong carbolic acid locally (Eade of Norwich). General Treatment.— Regulate the diet. When any poison appears to have been absorbed, use eliminative treatment, e.g., purgatives, Turkish bath ; moderate exercise; light clothing; arsenic; yeast, one tablespoonful three times a day. See Smith's article in Holmes' System, vol. v> Bathe part where the boils chiefly appear with water as hot as it can be endured, and, above all, remove every cause of local friction or chafing.