236 MENINGOCELE, certain forms of blood-poisoning whicli first manifest themselves by lymphatic inflammation, and which are singularly fatal. The fatality of such cases is usually due more immediately to pypemia, phlebitis, thrombosis, and embolism ; while its remote cause is often either the intense septic malignancy of the absorbed poison, or perhaps local anatomical peculiarity, e.g., proximity to cerebral sinuses. Treatment.—Rest, general and local; eleva- tion, fomentations, poultices, pressure. Pressure, to succeed, should be very skilfully and gently applied. Equal parts of extractum belladonnse and glycerine, on cotton wool, may be bandaged upon inflamed glands. Puncture as soon as softening is distinct. Mercurial ointment, iodine paint, pressure, and ' massage ' (shampooing) for persistent thickenings. Attend to general symptoms. Calomel and valines often valuable. As a rule, prefer low diet. Wounds of Lymphatics almost invariably close by spon- taneous coagulation of lymph. Lymphatic discharging sinuses are very rare. Treatment.—Pressure. Varix of Lymphatics,—Very rare. Treatment.—Vves&vive. Meningocele.—A congenital hernia of the membranes of the braiu. When such a tumour contains braiu, it is termed an encephalocele. Causes.—Probably a combination of im- perfect development of the skull-wall with a tendency to hydrocephalus. Signs.—A tumour situated in the line of one of the sutures, usually in the median line and towards the occiput, sometimes at the root of the nose, or even in the pharynx. Occasionally there is a peduncle. Bluish, or colour of natural skin, transparent, pulsating with the brain and with re- spiration. Sometimes compression of it will cause convulsions. More or less marked hydrocephalus almost always coincident. Prognosis.—Almost hopeless as to ultimate recovery. A small, pedunculated tumour without symptoms of hydrocephalus would give the most hope. Diagnosis from n£evus or from congenital cysts may be difficult. ' The diagnosis' of menin- goceles and encephaloceles 'rests first upon their congenital occurrence and position, at one of the membranous portions of the foetal head; next, upon their fluid nature; thirdly, upon their considerable and decided increase in volume or tension, with