GONOEEHCEA. " 137 ivory, &c.; (4) clay bougies (Ciiiene); (5) powders insufflated (Wilders, Lancet, vol. i. p. 73). There are also external local applications, such as cold sitz bath, ice to perin£Eum, blisters (Milton), &c. Rides for injectinc/.—Pass the nozzle into the urethra, right up to the hilt, and press it home. Hold the glans close up to it with the left finger and thumb. Inject slowly about half a drachm. (There need be little or no fear of mischief from an ordinary injection entering the bladder. It is unlikely to get so far at all.) Eetain the injection three to five minutes if possible. In most cases inject after each urination. Injec- tions.—As a basis, ' strong' tragacanth mucilage is excellent. It will remain in the urethra all night. The many urethral injections which have been used successfully may be classed, more or less accurately, as (1) antiseptics, (2) astringents, (3) sedatives, (4) cleansing. Antiseptics : iodoform (gr. xxx to tragacanth. emuls. gj), carbolic lotion (1 to 40), permanga- nate of potash (gi-. j-g x), chloralum (gr. iii to §j), borax (gr. Y.-^j), zinci chlor. (gr. j-|j). "With these might be classed also solutions of iodine, chlorate of potash, and many also of the astringent injections, which are both astringent and antiseptic. Glycerine is constantly combined with injections of all kinds, and its value possibly lies in its power of checking fermentative changes. Secondly, astringent injections : tannic acid (gr. v- §j), zincisulph. (gr. ij-|j), zinci sulpho-carbolat. (gr. ij-§j), zinci acet. (gr. ij-gj), plumbi acet. (gr. ij-|j), argent, nit. (gi-. |- §j). Also solutions of kino, catechu, and eucalyptus gum. Thirdly, sedative injections : sedatives are almost always used in combination, e.g., liq. morph. acet. m. x, glycerini acidi tannici m xx, aquse |j. Fourthly, cleansing injections, such as warm water, used in very acute gonorrhoeas. Many excellent injections are combinations. Such a one is the French injection of M. Brou, containing probably calamine, opium, and some vegetable decoction. Powders, such as zinci oxid., in suspension, are believed to cling to the urethral surface. Soluble Bougies can be medicated with any of the above substances. It is customary to place a piece of lint or cotton- wool over the meatus after passing the bougie, and to fix it witK strapping.