LITHOTOMY. 229 same finger and its nail as a guide, send the point of the knife into the groove iii the staff—of course opening the urethra. Next glide the knife along the groove till it reaches the bladder. The passage of the knife into the bladder is recog- nised by the disappearance of the sense of resistance vrhich is felt when the prostate is being cut, and perhaps, also, by the escape of urine.' As the knife glides along the groove, its handle should be depressed, so that the point of the knife may never leave the groove till it fairly enters the bladder. A neglect of this precaution may result in the knife getting between the bladder and the rectum. Withdraw the knife, ' lateralising' it and deepening the incision in the prostate during withdrawal. In case of a large stone, knife may, during withdrawal, be moved out of groove of staff a little to deepen incision. Insinuate left forefinger into bladder, and, as soon as you are perfectly sure that your finger is in the bladder, withdraw the staff, hut not before. Take the forceps with your right hand and pass them into bladder, along dorsum of left index finger. When they have reached bladder open them, and, very likely, the gush of urine which usually now takes place will wash the stone into the grasp of the forceps. If this should not happen, care must be taken in. seizing the calculus not to include any vesical mucous membrane, and the calculus should be so grasped that its long diameter may be in a line with the axis of the forceps. In extracting stone, forceps should be pulled in a downward and backward direction, and with a twisting movement. When wound is very deep, blunt gorget may guide forceps into bladder better than index-finger. When calculus is large, finger may be used to dilate incision of prostate and neck of bladder, or a blunt-pointed bistoury may be used to deepen prostatic incision. Sometimes stone can be more easily ex- tracted between forefinger and scoop than by forceps or by finger alone. If stone breaks up, use of scoop and of syringe will be required. If stone is very large, surgeon may have to purposely break it with a strong lithotrite, and extract it piecemeal. When the last-mentioned proceeding has to be re- sorted to, the prognosis is not very hopeful, not so much from 1 See notice of Gritti's operation in Appendix.