THE BLADDEE. 4i «ie«<.—Pass a full-sized catheter; only partially empty bladder at first if the distension be great; regular catheterism twice a day; cathartics ; .tonics; strychnine; cantharides ; iron ; quinine ; arsenic. Electricity. Counter-irritation: cold douche. If pos- sible, avoid catheterism in hysterical cases; try ordinary reme- dies for hysteria. Bladder, Puncture of.—1. Supra-pubic : incise skin for half an inch in middle line, just ai)0ve pubes; then plunge in curved trochar downwards and backwards; leave a soft catheter in the wound. 2. Per rectum. Guide a curved trochar on the left index finger in the rectum till the point can be placed against the bladder, in the middle line, just behind the prostate. During this first step, keep the trochar quite sheathed; then project the point, and plunge the instrument into the bladder ; leave in a soft catheter. Bladder, Rl'pture of.—The bladder is generally full at the time, and the patient often intoxicated. The usual causes are the passage of a heavy waggon over the abdomen, a fall or blow on the hypogastrium, a wound, or eKtreme retention of urine. Symptoms.—Sudden and violent pain in the pelvis or hypogastrium ; great desire to urinate, but no ui'ine passes; the catheter readily enters the bladder, but draws off only a small quantity of urine, which may be bloody. Collapse, then peritonitis. Prognosis.—Almost always fatal, except where there is an open wound, with the peritoneum uninjured. Treatment.—Use a catheter open at the extreme tip, to keep the viscus empty ; do not pass it far into the bladder; use the proper remedies for peritonitis, especially opium and warm applications, but avoid depletory measures. If you feel sure of your diagnosis, it is justifiable to open the abdomen antisepti- cally, wash it out, and sew up a rent in the bladder. Bladder, Stammering of, or, rather, of munary organs.— A condition in which, without any more visible organic disease than exists in stammering of the vocal organs, the sufferer cannot micturate freely at will. The stammering is usually aggravated by anything which directs the patient's attention to the act of mictuiition, or which makes him ' nervous,' or by temporary disorder of digestive or urinary organs. Treatment.—