25 THE AN as. perhaps escape of pus into nose. Treatment.—Rexnove the offending tooth and perforate through its socket, or extract second molar, or perforate canine fossa with a carpenter's gimlet. Wash out with Condy or carbolic lotion. Keep a free exit for the pus. Kestore symmetry by pressure. Antrum, Tumours of, include, strictly, above-mentioned cysts; also fibrous, sarcomatous, osseous, cartilaginous, fatty, erectile, and carcinomatous (epithelial and encephaloid); fourth, fifth, and sixth kinds very rare. Diagnosis practically has only to be made between (1) simple and (2) malignant disease; or between (1) malignant and within the antrum, and (2) malig- nant and extending beyond the antrum. If an operation is proposed, it should also be determined, if possible, where the tumour began, e.g., behind the antrum or not. In doubtful diagnosis from cysts, determine by perforation. Malignant tumours (1) gi'ow rapidly, (2) early affect submaxillary glands, (3) protrude early into neighbouring cavities, forming a fungus. Point of origin.—Tumours of malar bone spread over upper jaw; intra-antral tumours expand it on all sides; post-antral tumom-s push it bodily forwards without distorting it. Treat- ment.—Operative or palliative. Question of operation.—If the soft structures of the cheek are not freely movable over the tumour, and if the glands are affected, do not operate; nor if disease be malignant, advanced, and post-antral in origin. In simple disease remove no more of the maxilla than the side diseased. For the operation, vide Excision of Upper Jaw. Anus, Artificial.—See Colotomy. Anus, Cancer of, usually spreads from rectum. If primary, commonly epithelioma. May be excised at first. See Cripps, on Cancer of Rectum. And, Fistula in.—Causes.—It is the sinus left by an ischio-rectal abscess, quod vide. Varieties and signs.—Com- plete and incomplete, former opens both inside and outside anus; blind internal and blind external. Sometimes there ai'e several openings; outer opening usually within one inch of anus; gi'anulation often projecting from it; course of fistula feels hardened and thickened; purulent discharge; tenderness ; history of former abscess; constitution often phthisical. Prog-