CUT THEOAT. 81 ment.—Sedatives at first; dress with oakum; protect edges of wound with zLqc ointment; india-rubber bag and soft bandage afterwards; give good diet early; if opening con- tracts,, use sponge-tents; lower part of intestine should, after convalescence, be occasionally washed out with warm water. Prognosis.—According to Caesar Hawkins two-thirds recovered. But many more cases have since been recorded, and the fatal cases appear to die not so much from operation as from original disease; therefore operation should be done in time. Compression \ Concussion f Brain.—Fic^e Head, Injuries of. Condylomata—Causes.—Mostly syphilis, gonorrhoea and du't. Pathology.—PwpiWifovm, but sarcomatous or made of soft connective tissue in structure; non-recurrent; infectious. Seat.— About anus, foreskin, prepuce, and mucous membrane of mouth. Treatment.—Tonch with argent, nit.; zinc oxide, calomel, copper sulphate; cleanliness, dryness; wear prepuce back. Contusion.—/S'ee Bruise. Corns.—Causes.—Intermittent pressure, or friction from tight or over-loose boots. Pathology.~A.t first a thickening of cuticle, then a bursa forms beneath; afterwards cuticle may grow thin while fibrous structures beneath hypertrophy and form base of corn, or the pressure of the thickened cuticle may cause absorption of the parts beneath; tendency to inflame and suppurate. Resulting lameness may lead to secondary effects ^Trea^men^.-Remove cause. Proper boots. Acetic acid, nitrate ot silver, alkaline solutions, soap, water-dressing, &c., to soften cuticle ; knife to remove it. Open suppurating corns. Soft corns {i.e., those which form beneath the toes) may be also cured by cotton wool between the toes, dusting with zinc oxide or with French chalk, and by above remedies also. Boots should be broad m sole, and straight along inner border. Belladonna plaister. Coxalgia.—A term for hip-disease. Cut Throat-Usually suicidal. Po.^iion.-Generally oppo- site larynx, which it of course opens, unless the wound be super- by blood-clot; 3, suffocation by a displaced solid structure; 4,