ACUPKESSURE. O abscess be of any size, decomposition of its contents tends to occur with high fever. Yide Hectic Fever, Septiccemia, <L'c. Liability to burrow, to open into important vessels,^ and to, cause injurious pressure effects. Diagnosis.—From, 1, innocent and mahgnant tumours; 2, aneurisms. 1, in cases of doubt, use trochar, grooved needle, or aspirator. 2, vide Aneurism. Prognosis depends upon size, position, age of patient, curability of cause, and upon treatment. Middle-age most hopeful. Treatment.—Remove cause, vide Caries. If there is no great tensive pain, or if there is no reason to suspect that burrow- ing is going on, opening may be delayed. An effort may be made to obtain resolution by counter-irritation, iodiae, mer- curial plaisters, and rest. Various modes of opening—1, by knife; 2, by trochar and cannula; 3, aspirator; 4, caustics. Free openings, counter-openings, drainage tubes, repeated partial evacuations by aspirators, &c. Antiseptic Treatment, quod vide. Dangerous septic symptoms, a probable consequence of prematurely opening a chronic abscess. Puerperal Abscesses occur after parturition; are pro- bably pysemic in nature. Locality.—Iliac fossa, orbit, joints, thigh, (fee. Acupressure,—Eour chief modes; 1, a long needle is thrust right through flap and made to bridge over artery ; 2, a short needle, with a twisted wire through eye to extract it by, is thrust into soft tissues on each side of and made to bridge over artery; 3, the vessel is compressed between a needle and a loop of wire, like the common hare-lip suture; 4, needle is thrust thi'ough soft tissues beside artery, then twisted down upon the artery through an arc of a circle, and thrust into the neigh- bouring soft tissues again. Advantages of acupressure. —No - foreign body is left in wound more than a day or two, as, after that time, the needles are removed. A few hours suffice for small artexies. Acupressure does capitally in scalp-wounds and when varicose veins burst. Vide Pirrie's and Sir James Simp- son's writings. Adenitis. —FicZe G-lands, Diseases of. Adenocele. Adenoma— Glandular Tumour. A growth, the whole or part of whose structure resembles that of some gland.