201 NECEOSIS OF JAWS. Intussusception.—See preceding notice of Intestinal Ob- struction. Irrigation.- Practice of passing a continuous stream of water, usually cold, over a wound. Various apparatus. "Wide- necked bottle, witb skein of worsted or strip of lint acting like 3. capillary sypbon. Tins and india-rubber tubes. The bend wbere the india-rubber tubing passes over edge of vessel may be prevented from closing tubing up by lashing the curve in the tubing to a metal skewer bent into a gentle curve. Water may be medicated. Object of irrigation is to remove injurious discharges as fast as they are formed, and to keep down inflam- mation by action of cold. Ischio-rectal Abscess.—^Acute or chronic. Former usually occurs in sti'ong constitutions, latter in weakly persons. Symp- toms.—Signs common to abscess everywhere. Chronic cases tend to spread nearly round rectum, and to form sinuses which may on the one hand burrow into buttock, and on the other become 'fistulse in ano.' Causes.—Blows, kicks, falls, anal fissures, ulcerations, impaction of foreign body in rectum, phthisical constitution. Treatment.—Acute abscess requires poultices, fomentations, and ordinary treatment. Chronic ab- scesses should also be opened early by free incision, or great danger of fistula will be incuxTcd. Treat general health. Jaws, Diseases of [Partly noticed under heading, Antrum, Diseases of]. Jaws, Closure of.—Causes.—1 (very rare), ankylosis of tempero-maxillary articulation ; 2 (usual), cicatricial contraction after biurns, scalds, cancrum oris, &c. Treat^nent.—In very slight cases the mouth may be forced open, and cicatrix stretched by screw appliances. But in most cases the only hope of relief lies in osteotomy. Two methods of osteotomy, one from within mouth (Eizzoli's), the other from without (Esmarch's). In the latter, which is preferred, a wedge-shaped piece of bone is cut out of lower jaw anterior to cicatrix. Operation for temporo- m axillary ankylosis consists in operating within the mouth, and cutting piece of bone out of ramus of jaw. Jaws, Necrosis of.—Causes.—Blows, exanthemata, syphilis, salivation by mercury, chronic irritation of carious teeth, fumes of phosphorus. Cause sometimes obscure. Signs.—Firstly,