PROSTATE. 261 fts that pictured in Holmes's System, vol. iv. p. 926; or one of those described and illustrated by Teevan in Lavcet, vol. i. 1880. With this a possible calculus should be searched for. Stricture of Urethra contrasts with prostatic obstruction, in that (1) it occurs anteriorly to prostatic urethra, (2) it appears before middle life, (3) the stream of urine is more diminished in volume (in prostatic obstruction it is rather force than volume which is lessened). Other conditions from which prostatic enlargement has to be distinguished (though it may co-exist with them) are vesical calculus, tumour of the bladder, atony of the bladder, paralysis of the bladder. Compare with the symptoms of these given under Diseases op the Bladder. Treatment.—A catheter should be passed twice a day, oftener where urination is extremely feeble. Patient should learn to catheterise himself. Elastic instruments prefei-able. Silver prostatic catheters ai'e either made with a large curve or else with a short beak. Great irritability of the bladder, disturbing sleep, may require a vulcanised india-rubber catheter to be tied in all night. Treat coincidently such complications as catarrh of the bladder [quod vide). Attend to the general health and regulate the habits. Clothe lower limbs warmly. Operations on diseased prostate are by most surgeons avoided. Prostate, Atrophy of.—Unusual and unimportant. Prostate, Malignant Disease of.—Encephaloid is the form which affects this gland. Occurs only in childhood and at advancing age. Progress very rapid in children. The symp- toms are the usual ones of cancer, added to those of prostatic obstruction, including, especially, severe pain, occasional bfemor- rhages, and cachexia. Lymphatic glands of lumbar, and some- times of iUac region, enlarge. Urinaiy deposit may exhibit cancer cells when examined. Treatment.—If catheterism cannot be avoided, be as gentle as possible. Relieve pain by anodynes, &c. Treat haemorrhage on general principles. Sup- port the general strength. Perhaps Chian turpentine, which Clay appears to have found useful in carcinoma uteri, might be fairly tried here. Prostate, Tubercle of.—Very rare. Always secondary. Symptoms probably raise a suspicion of calculus; but no stone