DISEASES OF BONES. 47 Thougli it is often excited by an injury, there is iisually some predisposing cause—syphilis, struma, or simple constitutional debility. ^2/mj9i!o??i5.—Deep-seated aching pain, worse at night, and other symptoms, all like those of periostitis. Results.—It usually ends in either caries or sclerosis, quod vide. Treatment.— Counter-irritants, e.g., iodine, or warmth and moisture locally, or cold applications. Treat cause; iodide of potassium. Linear osteotomy,in bad cases—Erichsen. Linear osteotomy is the lon- gitudinal division of the part of the bone affected, down to the medullary canal, by a Key's saw. Mild counter-irritants, rest, an elevated position, perhaps gentle compression and weak pirrgatives, are the best abortive treatment when the disease is commencing. 2. Periostitis, Chronic or Sub-Acute.—Causes.—Syphilis, rheumatism, injuries; may be secondary to ostitis, or spread from an inflamed articulation. Symptoms.—Swelling, aching pain, worse at night; heat; skin usually not reddened; swelling mostly in the form of a node. Prognosis.—Usually ends in resolu- tion, often causes thickening of the bone, growth of osteophytes; rarely ends in suppviration. Treatment.—^S'ee Ostitis.—Also an incision subcutaneous or otherwise to relieve a bad case. Periostitis, Diffuse.—Causes.—Age, usually about puberty; sex, mostly in boys; generally follows injury; strumous. The effusion strips the periosteum from the bone and almost always causes necrosis, sometimes of an entire shaft of a long bone. Symptoms.—Femur or tibia usually affected; swelling, heat and pain, easily confounded with celluhtis or acute rheumatism, but it does not spread over the joints above and below the bone; both local and constitutional symptoms very severe; suppuration; then rigors, glistening skin, fluctuation, &c. For further course, &c., see Necrosis. Prognosis.—Highly dangerous ; death may occur before suppuration, or may result from exhaustion or pyaemia afterwards. Diagnosis.—From acute rheumatism or cellulitis; care only required ; no I'heumafcic affection of heart, or any separate joint; fever different, <fec. Treatment.—Rest, elevated position; local applications, warm fomentations; free incision when, abscess has fairly formed; incisions to remove tension at an earlier period usual. Such early incisions predispose to