409 GLAUCOMA. Theory 1. Active contraction of the sclerotic. 2. Excess of fluids of eye from increased supply of blood. 3. Dpfective re- moval of fluids from eye. The region of the ciliary body is generally found to have imdergone great changes. It becomes shrunken to half its natural size, its muscular fibres are atrophied and sclerosed. The base of the iris is found to be closely applied to the mar- ginal part of the cornea. The ciliary arteries are enlarged. These changes are supposed to impede the escape of fluid from the anterior chamber, and perhaps from the vitreous also. The glaucoma cup is caused by pressure from within. The lamina cribrosa which forms the floor of the optic disc being the weakest part of the capsule of the eye, slowly yields, becomes depressed and hollowed out, causing atrophy. Treatment for Acute Glaucoma.—Perform iridectomy with- out delay. (1) Make incision partly in cornea and partly in sclerotic. (2) Make wound large enough to allow of exit of one-fifth of iris. (3) Eemove iris quite up to its ciliary attachment. Apply leeches to eye, and warmth : give purgatives and derivatives internally. In Chronic Glaucoma.—First try action of eserine drops, with local depletion, and calomel and opium internally. If tension continues to increase perform iridectomy as in acute cases. Sclerotomy, by similar incision to that of the scleral iridec- tomy, but without removing a portion of iris, is sometimes practised. Trephining the sclerotic behind the cihary region has also been introduced, but these are both less efficient than iridectomy. Iris.—Iritis.—Causes. Syphilis. Rheumatism. Inflamed or ulcerated cornea. Injuries as in operation for cataract. Symptoms.~{\) Change in colour ; (2) Change in mobility ; (3) Change in vascularity; (4) Pain; (5) Impairment of vision ; (6) Photophobia and Lachrymation. (1) Change in colour is due to congestion, and to efiusion of lymph and serum into the texture of iris, as well as, in part, to turbidity of aqueous. It looks blurred and ' muddy.'