^o'J SPERMATOEKHCEA, testicle, e.g., by cancer. Subject independently to hydrocele {quod vide), hsematocele, lipoma, neuralgia, &c. Spermatorrhoea.—Ajq abnormal discharge of semen. A chronic disorder. Nocturnal emissions, if not oftener than once a fortnight, scarcely considered abnormal. Crmse.—Almost always masturbation. Symptoms.—^iQxsiQyev describes four classes of cases: (1) persons who have unnatural emissions simply because they continue to masturbate. To their doctor they describe such symptoms as ' nervousness,' lassitude, palpi- tation, various exaggerated pains about the genitalia, &c. They readily confess that they have practised self-abuse, but pretend they have given it up. (2) Robust-looking persons who have really- given up their bad habits and recovered their general health, but who are sexual hypochondriacs for some other reason. (3) "Weakly, anaemic persons, who have never masturbated, and in whom ordinary and not frequent wet-dreams produce dulness and lassitude. (4) True cases of spermatorrhoea, in which ex- haustion, (fee, are really produced by too frequent seminal losses. Their symptoms are as follow : sadness, dislike to work, lassi- tude, inattention, cowardice, tremblings, noises in the head, dizziness, neui-algic pain in back of head, &c. E^semblance to hysteria. In these cases especially, semen often flows away with the urine or during defsecation. But note, the latter symptom is not tmcommon in healthy men. Distinguish between mere mucus and semen by the microscope, which in the latter case should discover spermatozoa. PatJwlogy of the last form (true spermatorrhoea).—Probably a state of chronic congestion and relaxation about the prostatic part of the lu'ethra and the openings of the seminal ducts, added to an undue ii-rita- bility of the nervous system; in fact, a condition similar to the hysteria caused in women by ulceration of the os uteri. Prognosis. —Ciu'e difficult in many cases, (1) because patient will not re- frain from bad habits, either of self-abuse, of alcohol-drinking, of excessive meat-eating, of lying in bed in the morning, or of sedentary employment without proper outdoor exercise; (2) because of chronic nature of ailment. Treatment.—Insist upon total abstinence from the vices just enumerated. The difficulty of stopping masturbation is well known. It seems to me that