■222 DISEASES OF LAEYNX. ' paptilo-tubercular elevations,' ulcers, gummata, pericbondritis, necrosis of cartilages. Secondary affections may be suspected from tbe altered voice, combined witb secondary eruptions else- ■wbere, especially in tbe fauces. Tbey can be seen with the aid of the laryngoscope and require ordinary constitutional anti- sypMlitic treatment, aided, in some cases, by such local treatment as inhalations of calomel vapour, sprays of chloride of ammonium and corrosive sublimate, or applications of nitrate of silver. Fatigue of the voice should be avoided. Tertiary affections of the larynx are more destructive and dangerous. The papulo- tubercles affect any part of the laryngeal mucous membrane, and, though occasionally causing dyspnoea, chiefly signify their presence by affecting the voice. Teetiary TJlcees of the larynx begin either superficially, or from softened gummata, or from perichondritis. Usually multiple; generaUy first attack epiglottis. Spread in any or every direction, destroy vocal cords, necrose cartilages. Cause dangerous and suffocative spasms, ^^/m^^toms.—Hoarseness or loss of voice; in many cases attacks of dyspnoea : coincident syphilitic history and, usually, syphilitic appearance. Swallow- ing sometimes difficult from tendency of fluids to pass through <Tlottis. Prognosis.—In favourable cases, cicatrisation takes place ; but, even then, voice remains impaired, and a stricture of larynx may result, seriously impeding respiration. So long as disease is active there is great danger of sudden and fatal spasm Diagnosis has to be made chiefly from phthisis and epithelioma. Treatment.—Where there is dyspnoea which cannot be rapidly removed by milder means it is dangerous to delay laryngotomy or tracheotomy. Usually the former opera- tion is to be preferred. Iodide of potassium (grs. x to xx ter die) must be given; cod-liver oil, tonics, best hygienic_condi- tions which can be obtained, are indicated. Locally, astringent, stimulant, and mercW applications may be made with the aid of the laryngoscope, e.g., strong solutions of sulphate ot copper. McEw^n has lately (in Brit. Med. Journ. for July 24 nnd 31 1880) demonstrated that tracheal tubes introduced through'the mouth may be used as a substitute for tracheotomy or laryngotomy in cases both of disease and of operation.