PHAEYNX. 257 rWe. Iced water usually recommended for this. I think hot water will be found to answer better (120° to 130° Fahr.). The hjemorrhage will be less if the mucous membrane only, without any of the subjacent erectile tissue, be shaved off (T. Smith). To lessen tension, the superficial fibres of the sphincter ani may be divided laterally; or lateral incisions may be made a short distance outside the external ends of the sutures. Bowels should have been well opened before, and should, after the operation, be kept closed by hq. opii »]_ x bis die, for a fort- night. For ten days draw off urine thrice a day with a catheter; and, for a week or two afterwards, patient should urinate on her hands and knees. Pay attention to the diet. Keep the wound and vagina clean. After washing with any antiseptic lotion, dry carefully a.nd gently. Periostitis.—Vide Bone. Phagedsena.—Vide Ulcers and Syphilis. Pharynx.—Its chief affections are inflammation, abscess, tumours, epithelioma, syphilitic disease, ulceration, wounds, and presence of foreign bodies. Congenital Discontinuity of Pharynx and (Esophagus, A complete monograph on this, by Ilott of Bromley, is in Fath, Transact, for 1876. Acute Diffuse Pharyngitis.—Highly dangerous. Usually spreads from fauces. Dyspnoea, dysphagia. Great swelling, internal (and often also external). Progress rapid. Termina' tion.—Usually death, in a few days, either suddenly or with signs of sinking. Pathology.—Inflammation of cellular tissue of pharynx and of oesophagus; great oedema ; often suppuration. Treatment.—Supporting, stimulating. Enemata. Quinine. Laryngotomy to avert danger of suffocation. Post-Pharyngeal Abscess.-—Cause.—Often caries of cervi cal vertebrije. Most dangerous in children : because then may not be diagnosed till it has produced suffocation. May open exter- nally in neck. " Treatment.—Puncture with an abscess knife having its blade, except near the point, protected by lint. Finger may be used as a director. Ulcers cf Pharynx, usually syphilitic in adults and sorae- s