136 GONORRHOEA. Gonorrhoea.—Definition.—Inflammation of mucous mem- brane of male m-ethra or of female genital?, following impm-e sexual intercourse. I have worded the definition as above, because, in practice, one applies the term gonorrhoea to any urethritis following impure intercourse, whether there be specific contagion or not. Causes.—1. Specific infection by contact with gonorrhoeal or gleety secretion. 2. Irritation or infection by non-specific secretion from a diseased mucous surface (?). Symftoms and Course.—Four stages. 1. Preinoni- tor?/.—Itching, swelling, and stickiness of meatus : occurs about two to seven days after intercourse, and lasts twenty-fom- hours, more or less. 2. Inflammatory.—Scalding, discharge of pus, painful erections, chordee, tenderness along urethra, or confined to part actually inflamed. Occasionally spasmodic retention. Glans and prepuce swollen : sometimes phimosis or paraphi- mosis. Duration, one week to one month. 3. Inflamma- tion passes gradually away, but a thick discharge remains. 4. When only a thin serous discharge remains, called gleet. Patliology.—Redness, swelling, &c., of mucous membrane of urethra. Occasionally slight excoriation or ulceration. Micro- cocci and vibriones have been found in gonorrhoeal pus, and perhaps infest the inflamed membrane itself. Parts chiefly affected, fossa navicularis and bulbous part. Cause of chordee, eff'usion of lymph into corpus spongiosum, which eff'usion pre- vents lower border of jpenis from extending proportionally during erection. Com23liGations.~B\\ho, balanitis, phimosis, paraphi- mosis, hfemorrhage, cutaneous rash, gonorrhoeal rheumatism, epididymitis, cystitis, prostatitis, retention of urine, choixlee. All but chordee are noticed in separate articles. Treatment.—Local and general.—Local is effected by (1) injections; (2) soluble bougies of cacao butter (Sir H. Thompson and Mr. W. T. Cooperor of ' ice ' (Abrath); (3) insoluble bougies, e.(/., wax, 1 As cacao-butter bougies melt as soon as the}' enter the urethra, they difl'er little from a thick fluid injection. They have these advantages, that they are sure to enter the urethra, and that they remain there, but they do not distend the urethra, as a properly administered fluid injection does, for several minutes. A soft and flexible bougie which will slightly distend the urethra as long as may he desired, can be made as follows. EoU a square piece of antiseptic gauze, like a pipe-light, dip it into medicated cacao-butter, or into medicated vaseline thickened by mixing wth sperm or firm paraffin. Use for gleet only.