DISEASES OF EECTUM. 267 - -Eectum, Cancer of.—Usually sdrrhus. Patlwlocjy.— Originates in proliferation of tlie glands of the mucous membrane. These ' orow in the shape of tortuous and branched tubes ; the calibre of the gland is often maintained; and they fill with •mucus, and the cylinder cells may maintain this form and become very large.'-Billroth. The infiltration and induration ■tend to surround the rectum with a hard ring. ' Leaf-hke pro- liferations commence close above the sphincter ani.' Ulceration, ) Inguinal and retro-peritoneal glands affected rarely and late.' Ulceration may lay open bladder, urethra, vagina, peritoneum, hip-joint, &c. Symptoms.—At first, discharge of bloody mucus, and either constipation or diarrhoea. Defsecation becomes more and more painful. HEemorrhage becomes more serious. Digital exammation usually reveals the hard, nodular ring, and perhaps ulceration. Diagnosis.—At fii-st from hjemorrhoids, a little later from simple stricture. Usually settled by digital examina- tion. ^reciimeKi.—l. Palliative; 2. Radical. I. Palliative.— Anodynes, e.g., morphia suppositories; afterwards, morphia sub- cutaneously or by the mouth. Sometimes gentle aperients, warm water enemata. Enemata of cupri sulph. and opium or of zinci chlor. (gr. aquae) may check foul discharges. Obstruc- tion or extreme pain in defsecation may demand colotomy. 2. Radical.—Excision of rectum for cancer has usually been condemned on acco'ont of the risk of dangerous htemorrhage, and of opening the peritoneal cavity. But there are good reasons for taking an opposite view, e.g., the neighbouring glands are not secondarily affected at an early stage. Subject fully (discussed by W. H. Cripps (' Cancer of the Rectum.') Rectum, Polypus of.—Usually occurs in children, is adeno- matous in structure, apt to signify its presence by occasional haemorrhages, and may be snipped off with scissors. In excep- tional cases a ligature may be considered necessary. Rectum, Malformations of.—Vide Anus, Imperforate. . Rectum, Injuries op.—Causes.—May be classed as follows, (1) falls on sharp-pointed objects, e.g'., spikes; (2) sharp bodies swallowed, e.g., fish-bones; (3) objects wilfully inserted; (4) pbstetric processes; (5) surgical operations on neighbouring parts. The first class xisually recover thoroughly, unless fatal