DISLOCATION. 95 or by assistants or pulleys. Antestliesia. Slight rotation of limb facilitates. Neither anaesthesia nor assistants necessary m most cases. Mmiipulation.—Bring arm with a sweep round in front of chest and face, then rotate inwards whilst bringing the arm down to the side again. This should be done by one hand of the surgeon, while, with the other, he tries to press the head of the humerus into its place. Anaesthesia helps. Pul- leys. — Anaesthesia. Caution: danger of rupturing nerves, axillary artery, &c. Fore-arm has been torn off. First apply a wet bandage to the arm, then put on a clove-hitch over the bandage, above the elbow. Extension should be slow and patient. Counter-extension by a jack-towel, or by surgeon's heel or knee. Knee in axilla.—Pa.tient sits on a chair. Surgeon places one foot on chair and the knee in axilla. He then seizes the arm, extends a short time, and, lastly, steadying the shoulder with left hand, uses the knee as a fulcrum on which to lift humerus into its place. Or, as recommended by Flower in Holmes's system, the surgeon can place his back against a door-post and have extension made through the doorway by assistants, whilst he steadies the shoulder with both hands. Mr. Cock placed an air-pad in the axilla and bound the elbow firmly to the side. In three days the dislocation was found to be reduced. All other attempts had previously failed. Extension upwards can also be made with the heel against the shoulder; or extension outwards with counter extension from opposite wrist. Skey has shown that, owing to the great mobility of the scapula, the real direction of the extendiug force is much the same, whatever it may be apparently. Compound Dislocation of Shouldee.—Rarity. Question of resection uncertain. Antiseptic treatment. Complications.— 1, With fracture of neck of humerus attempt reduction by manipulation, then treat fracture. If reduction impossible, put up fracture, and in sixth week (when union has taken place) again attempt reduction. If rupture of axillary artery occur, reduce dislocation first, and then tie both ends. Dislocation of Thumb (Metacarpo-phalangeal Joint).— Almost always backwards. Signs.—Thumb is bent back. Head of metacarpal can be felt projecting on palmar aspect,