DISEASES OF BONES. 48 pyemia—Billroth. Such incisions can be made antiseptically.— Vide also Necrosis. 3. Osteo-myelitis, or inflammation of the medulla of a bone, is extremely rare, except as the result of direct injury, e.g., from compound fracture or after amputation through a bone. Inflam- mation of a bone may be judged to begin in the medulla if the swelling does not appear till some days after the severe local pain; there is always violent fever; the periosteum separates from the diseased bone without being pushed off" by suppuration; the prognosis and treatment resemble those of difi'use periostitis, only the former disease is even more serious; authorities are divided as to whether a limb, known to be afiected with acute osteo-myelitis, should be amputated or not; a limited osteo- myelitis, after amputation and leading to a slight necrosis, is frequent, and not necessarily serious. Necrosis.—Causes.—The same as those of periostitis, ostitis, and osteo-myelitis. Necrosis of the jaw occurs, less frequently now than formerly, among workers in phosphorus ; and it is said that the phosphorus fumes attack only those with unsound teeth. For immediate causes, see the section on Pathology of Bone Diseases (supra). Symptoms and Diagnosis.—Necrosis may be fairly presumed to have occurred when (1) inflammation of a long bone or its periosteum has been acute or prolonged, while (2) extensive hard thickening has taken place, indicating the formation of new bone, and (3) the pus from any sinus existing is thick and yellow. In caries, on the other hand, the spongy bones are the usual seat, the formation of new bone is usually slight, the pus thin and serous ; but the probe is required to settle the diagnosis. If gently used it causes little or no pain in necrosis, usually much pain in caries; the sequestrum in ne- crosis feels smooth and hard; carious bone is rotten; but it is to be remembered that the probe may fail to reach the sequestrum, and that in a few cases enormous thickening exists with caries only. The probe should be pressed firmly against the sequestrum, to feel if it is movable and ready for ' sequestrotomy.' Necrosis is sometimes found to have occurred without any history of pre- cedent inflammation. This is called'Quiet Necrosis.' FiiePaget's Clin. Led. and Morrant Baker, in .S'. Bart. Hosp. Reports, vol. 13,