400 EYE, DISEASES OF. about six weeks, leaving the palpebral conjunctiva thickened, relaxed, and more or lesa granular. Cicatricial changes follow! The cornea is in danger from two chief causes, viz., (1) strangu- lation of the vessels from pressure, and (2) the influence of the discharge. If within the first few days the cornea be hazy and dull, it may partly or entirely slough. In milder cases trans- parent ulcers may appear and sometimes cause perforation. In many cases no corneal opacity occurs. Treatment.—"When one eye only is afiected, carefully pro- tect the other by a watch glass strapped on. Frequently and thoroughly remove the discharge by free douching with water. Use astringent or caustic lotions or drops every hour in severe cases, e.g., lotio aluminis, gr. x. ad gj.; lotio zinci, gr. x. ad ; lotio hydrarg. perchlor. gr. |- ad gj.; lotio argent, nit. gr. ij. ad |j. Apply simple ointment to the eyehds to prevent adhesion. Evert the lids and brush a strong solution of nitrate of silver (gr. X. or XX. ad gj.) freely over the conjunctiva once daily, and well wash off immediately afterwai-ds either with water or with solution of common salt. Repeat less frequently as the dis- charge diminishes. In cases where the lids are so swollen that nothing can be applied to their conjunctival surfaces, the outer canthus can be divided, or Mr. Critchett's method of dividing the upper lid by a vertical incision can be adopted. Treatment should be continued as long as any discharge or granulations remain on the lids, for fear of a relapse which is apt to occur. Muco-PURULENT OPHTHALMIA (Catarrhal Ophthalmia).— Very common, very contagious, mostly attacks both eyes, differs in severity in members of the same household, who are generally attacked at the same time. Syrnptovis.—Congestion of con- junctiva, with patches of ecchymosis. Gritty pain, sometimes severe. Spasm of lids. Free muco-purulent discharge. Lids somewhat swollen and red, never tense. The cornea seldom suffers. Spontaneous recovery takes place in about two weeks. Treatment.—Any mild astringent lotion or drops will cut the malady short. An outbreak of this malady in a crowded communi'y is serious. Very common in pauper schools. Membranous Ophthalmia (Diphtheritic Ophthalmia).—