328 TUMOURS. Glioma), consists of corpuscles Hke those of lymph. Intercel- lular substance is homogeneous, striated, or reticulate, varyin- widely in amoimt. ^ Spindle-celled Sarcoma.—QeWs acutely spindle-shaped. In- tercellular absent or scanty, homogeneous or fibrous. Most recurrent sarcomata contain this tissue; but every spmdle- ceUed sarcoma does not recur. Giant-celled Sarcoma, Myeloid Tumour.—In addition to the structural elements of one of the other varieties of sar- coma, these tumours contain large cells with many nuclei, and ■often with many offshoots. Net-celled Sarcoma, Mucous Sarcoma.—TMs, is not exactly the^ same thing as myxoma. Myxomata are sarcomata of various kinds, but agreeing in having a gelatinous appearance. Net-celled sarcoma contain stellate cells with long processes and gelatinous intercellular substance. Alveolar Sarcoma.—Yery rare : great resemblance to carci- noma, but the cells are not so easily detached from the mesh- work in which they lie. The cells are large, and usually lie each in a space to itself, ' embedded in a fibrous, or more rarely homogeneous, slightly developed intercellular su.bstance of ex- quisite areolar type' (Bilboth). Pigmentary Sarcoma, Melanotic Sarcoma, Melanoma.— Pigment may occur in any variety of sarcoma. The pigment almost always lies in the cells. All the cells mentioned above as occurring in the different varieties of sarcoma are related genetically to corpuscles of the connective tissues (areolar tissue, bone, kc). Consequently, the cells of a sarcoma are united by processes to the intercellular substance. In these two peculiarities, sarcoma is distinguished fii-om carcinoma, the cells of which lie free in the alveoli of the cancer, and are genetically related, not to connective tissue, but to epithelial cells. Naked-eyed appearances of Sarcomata.—These do not corre- spond very exactly to varieties in the kind of cell found under the microscope. In fact, several forms, e.g., spindle-cell, round cell, and giant-cell, are often found in the same tumour. Some sarcomata and fibro-sarcomata are firm and tense, more or less lobed. On section, they are seen to be intersected with white