13 AMPUTATION. edo'e of knife inwards and cutting through. Arteries : axillarj^ circumflex, subscapular, &c. Oval Amputation.—When uncertain whether to resect joint or amputate, perpendicular incision may be made as for re- section {quod vide), and the joint examined. Then, if desirable, the limb can after aU be removed by cutting obliquely right round the limb from and to the lower end of the longitudinal incision. This is Spence's plan. Mortality. —For disease, one in two; for accident, one in three. Thigh, Amputation OF.—Methods.—1, Gritti's; 2, Garden's; 3, Spence's j 4, lateral flaps (Vermale's); 5, circular; 6, double flap by transfixion ; 7, mixed ; 8, Teale's. OrittVs.—Done 'just above condyles with an anterior flap, in which the patella is preserved, its surface being sawn and applied to the cut surface of the femur.' Incision extends from upper end of fibula to inner side of joint, reaching downwards below patella. Carden's.—Through the condyles. Single anterior flap. Circular cut through deeper parts. Slight retraction of them before sawing bone. Advantages: the medullary canal not being opened, there is less risk of pyaemia. The skin of knee is accustomed to bear weight of body in kneeling; &c. Arteries : popliteal and some of its branches. Spence's.—Long anterior; no posterior flap; circular cut through muscles; retract two inches and saw bone. Lateral Flaps.—Not to be recommended. This operation and the other modes of amputating thigh all done in the ordiaary way. Arteries: femoral, profunda, external circum- flex, anastomotica magna if flap reaches low down, muscular branches. Mortality of Amputation of Thigh.—After injury, three in five (much more in military practice) ; after disease, one in three. But for chronic knee-joint disease it is particularly safe Thumb, Amputation of.— 1, At Carpo-metacarpal Joint. Incision along dorsum of metacarpal bone, commencing at palmar side of trapezio-metacarpal joint and ending at web of thumb. Flap from ball of thumb, by transfixion. Right thumb • transfix first. Left thumb: transfix after making dorsal in-