HEREDITARY SYPHILIS. 385 sometimes observed in the ovary. Its occurrence there can he understood now that the strong resemblance of the spindle-cells in the stroma to uterine tissue is well recognised. Sarcomata and cai-cinomata form soHd tumours distinguished from uteiine growth by their being free from the uterus, as the sound will detect. They are nearly always accompanied by ascites : the health rapidly deteriorates. Treatment.—Fibromata and even malignant tumours may be removed by ovariotomy. Abdominal wound must be large, often extending above umbilicus; the pedicle is generally very thick and vascular. Never operate on malignant growths when there is much ascites with large cells in the fluid, oedema of the abdominal walls, evidence of stron" adhesions, or marked cachexia. Scarlatina not unfrequently complicates the after-course of operations on children. It appears to differ little from ordinary scarlatina, provided only nature or antiseptic treat- ment guards the little patient from coincident septictemia. If anything, it is less dangerous than ordinary scarlatina. The subject has been extensively treated of late years in the journals and hospital reports, and at the Societies, i by Messrs. Mai-sh Howse, Owen, (fee. ' Hereditary Syphilis (Congenital Syphilis).—In heredi- tary syphilis the foetus either (1) dies early in utero, abortion taking place, or (2) is born alive prematurely, or (3) is born dead at full term, or (4) is born apparently healthy, the disease manifesting itself afterwards. The more recent the syphilis in the parents, the greater the danger to the infant. In the case of syphilis of the placenta the fcetal portion is much more commonly affected than the maternal. Gummata are foun.l therem m the form of yellowish-white tubercles. Henni^ showed their intimate relation to the vessels. The obliteration of the vessels, if extreme, interferes with aeration of the fcetal bloo.l' thus producing death of the foetus (Prankel, quoted by Baumler ' Infants with congenital syphilis are generally m apvZll old, small, and shrivelled. They have sluffles, L na"l and erupt^ons These, usually papular or roseolar, te ."^ ' times bull., but rarely pustular, and very rarely' vetiX » Also at the International Consrees, London, 1881. C C