352 UKINE. sometimes by passing first one middle-sized instrument, then a fine catheter beside it. Otherwise, it is best to suspend attempts at passing instruments till the false passage has had time to heal. An instrument in a false passage moves freely, one in a stricture is gripped more or less tightly. Macleod, of Glasgow, recommends a course of quinine during the treatment of stric- ture. It is not unreasonable to think that it might act as a prophylactic against septicaemia. Urine. — Normal urine is clear, pale amber-coloured, of specific gravity not greater than 1,030, and acid in reaction. It does not respond to the tests either for albumen or for sugar, and it does not deposit urates as it cools. From thirty to fifty ovmces are usually passed in the twenty-four hours. The chief urinary deposits are—urates, phosphates, and oxalates, casts of the renal tubuli, mucus, and pus. Blood may be diffused in the ui'ine, or even be passed per urethram, almost unmixed with urine. Grape sugar may be present in solution. Epithelium, bile-acids, bile-pigments, spermatozoa: certain constituents of the food may also be found, e.g., in the strong-smelling urine passed after eating asparagus. The acidity of healthy urine, probably due to presence of acid sodium phosphate. When a free acid is present, ' the reaction to test paper is far stronger, and the Liquid deposits on standing, little, red, hard crystals of uric acid ; but this is no longer a normal secretion' (Fownes's Chemistry, eleventh edition). Alkalinity of healthy urine very rare, and then due to neutral potash or soda salts of vegetable acids {e.g., tartrates, citrates, and acetates) taken into the stomach. Alkalinity in retention cases is due to fermentation, which forms ammonium carbonate from urea.' Urates usually red, but vary from pale yellow to purplish. Readily dissolved by heat. Phosphates may be thrown down from neutral urine by boiling, but dissolve instantly when a drop of nitric acid is added. Contrast with albumen. Phosphates are most abundant in the alkaline, muco-purulent urine of chronic cystitis. ' lu addition to what follows. cnncprnirK iiri sif-S, aee. CALCULUS.