DISLOCATION. 87 ancrles to le<^. 2. /nzwarcZs.—Accompanied by fracture of inner malleolus. Treat on same principle as Pott's Fracture, only keeping foot well out. 3 and 4. Dislocations backwards and forwards may be distinguished from fracture of leg bones by rela- tion of malleoli to tarsal bones. After reduction, apply starched bandages and mill-board, or some other firm apparatus.^ Compound Dislocation of Ankle-Joint.—Requires am- putation if tibial arteries be ijijured, or other important parts be much damaged. Otherwise, remove small fragments, clean, set, and dress. Primary excision of the joint occasionally advisable. Ankylosis pretty certain. Use antiseptic dressing. Dislocation of Astragalus.—If simple, must be either backwards or forwards. Latter has an inclination either out- wards or inwards. Dislocation directly outwards or inwards is always complicated with fracture of leg-bones. Dislocation forwards most common. Complete or incomplete. Prominence of head of bone beneath skin in front of ankle. Malleolus of side towards which the bone is inclined projects. Danger of skin sloughing from pressure. Treatment.—Flex knee to relax gastrocnemii; extend foot and push astragalus into its place. This is tolerably easy in partial dislocation. But complete dis- location may require anaesthesia and division of tendo Achillis. Dislocation backwards is very rare and difficult to reduce. C'ompoimd dislocation.—Except in the most favourable cases, reduction is not to be tried. The question lies between excision and amputation. Decide and treat on general principles. In simple irreducible dislocation, piimary excision is not advisable. The bone may remain harmless in its new place. Dislocations of Separate Carpal Bones, especially of os magnum, can be reduced by pressure, and generally require, for some time, apparatus to prevent recurrence. Dislocation of Clavicle.—At the sternal end, three varieties, viz. : 1, forwards; 2, backwards; 3, upwards. Forwards most common; others very rare. The deformity is in each case so manifest that diagnosis is palpable. In disloca- tion backwards, end of clavicle presses on trachea, oesophagus, and great vessels of neck. Treatment.—Extend shouldei's backwards, and bandage to a splint applied to the back with a