DISEASES or BONES. 53 Enchondroma and even cancellous exostoses sometimes resemble malignant tumours in theii- rapid growth. But they may be recognised by theu- hardness. Prognosis.—As above mentioned, central sarcoma is less likely to recur than periosteal sarcoma. Fi-equently no recurrence takes place after thorough removal, and these tumours occasionally reach a large size before infecting the system. Treatment.—Excise, except when disease has in- filtrated regions which cannot be removed, e.g., certain parts of the skull. Unless the tumour is evidently circumscribed, re- move the whole bone. This generally necessitates amputation at the joint above. But in cases of disease of the lower end of , the femur, it is not usual to exarticulate at the hip, that opera- tion b'iing so dangerous. Still, when the cancer is soft and diffuse, even this risk should be run. Tumours of Bone.—The innocent are enchondroma, exos- tosis, cystic, fibrous, fibro-cystic, and hydatids. Vide the various articles. Tumour, Exostosis, Entozoa, &c. The great majority of innocent tumours of bone are either exostosis or enchondromata. Ulceration of Bone.—Vide Caries. Caries.—Causes.—Predisposing are scrofula, syphilis, and constitutional weakness, such as arises from old age. Exciting cause, often some injury. Symptoms are those of ostitis lead- ing to the formation of an abscess. When this opens, a probe can often detect the softened bone. If the probe will not reach the disease, the occurrence of certain deformities, e.g., Pott's curvature, may offer a sm-e sign. Scrofulous caries usually attacks the vertebrae, articular epiphyses, phalanges, and me- tacarpal bones. Syphilitic vilceration affects mostly the tibia, cranium, sternum, hard palate, and nasal bones. Diagnosis.— In the early stage the bone may not be recognised to be diseased at all, or may be supposed to be merely rheumatic. Prognosis.—Ulcers of bone often cicatrise : bad cases not very hopeful. The younger the patient, and the less important the bone, the better the prognosis. Danger of amyloid disease, and fatty degenerations of important organs supervening. Treatment.—Constitutional for the scrofula or syphilis, (tc. Local.—Rest; elevation; the usual treatment of inflamed bone