^•^^ ULCERATION. out contents. Repeatedly squeeze out if they reform till the sac has time to obHterate itself. 2. Cauterise (to the size of a sixpence) with potash or strong nitric acid. Afterwai-ds pull cyst out through the opening. 3. Incise skin over tumour, seize with forceps, and dissect out. Operation easy unless inflammation has taken place. Compound Cysts. Prolipeeous OYSTS.—Befinition.—Cystic tumours containing growths. When these growths are them- selves cystic, the tumour is called a cystigerous cyst. But the growths are usually solid. Excellent examples of cystigerous cyst are furnished by many ovarian tumours. Note.—Many cysts clustered together do not in themselves constitute a compound, but a multiple cystic tumour. Anatomy of Proliferous Cysts.— solid intra-cystic growths appear to grow from one point in the wall of the containing cyst. They gradually fill up the containing cyst, displacing the fluid which previously occupied it. Sometimes cysts and their contents cohere altogether, so that only the appearance of a section indicates that the tumour has ever been cystic at all. The nature of the intra-cystic growth is usually sarcomatous or adeno-sarcomatous. Their physical characters are as various as possible, flat or arborescent, soft or hard, pale or dark red. And they may be themselves cystigerous. Diag- nosis.—Locality almost always some gland—breast, thyroid, <fec. Their general characters resemble so closely those of adenoma and fibro-cellular tumour, that unless palpation discovers evidence of fluid in some parts, and of solid in others, diagnosis will probably be impossible. Skin quite healthy unless the tumour fungates. Age—most commonly between thirty and forty. The chief practical indication is to distinguish them from cancer. This is done on the general principles by which other innocent tumours are thus distinguished. Prognosis.— Usually favourable. Prospect of recurrence if the whole tumour be not removed, or if the solid part of the tumour be soft and sarcomatous. Treatment.—Thorough excision. Cabcinomatous Tumours.—See Cancer. Triceration.—One of the ' terminations ' of inflammation. The destruction of a part by gradual molecular disintegration.