AKTEEIES. . wound, and dress. Before actually tying ligature, make sure that you have surrounded the artery, the whole artery, and nothing but the artery. Needle should be passed between the artery and its vein. Process of repair, &c.—Th.e two inner coats are divided by the ligature and retract a little. A clot forms up to the nearest branch. Lymph is effused around the ligature. In the most favourable cases, the lymph and the clot organise; and the cut arterial coats grow together, so that when the outermost coat is ulcerated through, a new barrier has been formed against hfemorrhage. But these processes may wholly or partially fail. Then there is more or less danger of secondary hemorrhage. Dan- gers.—Secondary haemorrhage from above cause, or from suppura- tion. Gangi'ene, from non-establishment of collateral circulation, from injuiy to, and consequent coagulation in, the vein, or from suppuration of an aneurysmal sac. Ei-ysipelas and other accidents to which all wounds are liable. 2. Ligature of an artery open in a wound.—Be careful not to include neighbouring nerve. Reef- knot. Hemp, silk, and catgut ligatures. Oarbolised catgut is absorbed or organised, and scarcely, if at all, acts like a foreign body in the wound. One end of a bemp or silk ligature must be left hanging out of the wound. Axillary.—Very rarely tied. Line of artery. From just internal to coracoid process, curving outwards and downwards to commencement of brachial artery. Divide skin and pector- alis major. Beware of vein and brachial plexus. Ligature of Special Arteries.—Abdominal Aorta.—1st method : incise the abdominal wall as in ovariotomy. Divide the peritoneum covering the aorta, and pass the ligature. 2nd method : make an incision like that for ligature of common iliac, and proceed as if for ligature of that vessel, but keep a little higher. Doubtful whether operation is ever justifiable. For details, vide, larger works. Brachial.—In middle of upper arm. Line of incision, inner edge of biceps. Avoid basilic vein and internal cutaneous nerve; open deep fascia; look out for median nerve; artery usually lies just beneath it, but may be superficial to it. Re- member occasional high division of brachial. Carotid, Common.—Position : head back, face turned away