•COLOTOMY. 80 generally follows an injiuy, this injury may be received in par- turition ; comes on when coccygeal muscles are put in action, as by sneezing, coughing, walking, defecation, &c. Treatment.— If obstinate, divide all muscular and ligamentous structures from borders and tip of coccyx. Collapse.—See Shock. Colotomy,—PFAew required.—In obstruction to the large in- testine, as from stricture of rectum (malignant or otherwise), or imperforate anus; in diseases of rectum or colon, e.(/., ulceration, or recto-vesical fistula, where it is desirable to prevent the irri- tation of ffeces in the diseased parts. Three operations, viz.: 1, Amussat's in right lumbar region ; 2, Amussat's in left lumbar region; 3, Littre's in left groin. The left lumbar operation is sometimes named after Oallisen, who merely attempted, but never effected, an operation. Amussat's in left lumbar region.— Scalpel, forceps, retractors, director, handled needles, &c.; inci- sion midway between last rib and crest of ilium, transverse or oblique, i.e., parallel to nerves; extent, 5 inches : centre half an inch posterior to middle point of crest of ilium (AUingham) ; outer edge of quadratus lumborum thus exposed; now divide, from quadratus outwards, on a director, the muscles to the extent of the skin wound (latissimus dorsi, obliquus externus and intern VIS, and transversalis) ; secure vessels; distinguish, if possible, transversalis fascia from peritoneum ; divide fascia ; find colon; pass two ligatures through skin at both edges of wound, piercing colon on their way ; make opening in bowel big enough to admit forefinger; pull out hoops of ligatures and divide them, thus making four Hgatures: tie each. Oil margins of wound and place patient in bed. Occasional difl&culty in finding bowel, especially when there is not complete obstruction and it is nearly empty. Use of distending injection before operation. Bowel must not be sought for too far out fi-om spine; always lies in front of or below kidney. Boll patient on his left side, keeping finger in wound, bowel will sometimes then fall upon finger ; not much danger of wounding peritoneum if bowel be distended. Much danger of wounding peritoneum in infants, because descending mesocolon often exists. Operation in right lumbar region done in a similar manner. After Treat-