237 DISEASES OF MUSCLES. strong expiratory eflfbrts; fourthly, upon their reducibility in part or entirely; and fifthly, upon their sharing in the motions of the brain.' (Holmes, in his System of Surgery, vol. v. p. 968.) Treatment.—Support carefully and gently with a smooth soft pad and bandage. Puncture justifiable when increase is con- tinuous. Injection of iodine has been tried with doubtful success. Annandale ligatured and excised successfully in a somewhat exceptional case. Mollities Ossium.—See Bone, Diseases of. Muscles, Diseases of.—The chief are: 1, Atrophy and degeneration; 2, contractions; 3, inflammation; 4, paralysis; 5, parasites (trichiniasis); 6, syphilitic affections ; 7, tumours. Some of the above are primarily nervous affections, but they are mentioned here for the sake of completeness. Muscle, Inflammation of.—Chiefly occurs as an extension from inflammation of neighbouring parts, or as a result of injury, or of syphilis. Liable to end in abscess, which may be very troublesome, especially in certain parts, e.g., abdominal wall. Considerable pain and constitutional distui-bance. Treatment. Local rest, poultices, &c. Muscles, Atrophy and Degenerations of.—Four chief forms, viz., 1, simple atrophy; 2, granular degeneration ; 3, fatty degeneration; 4, 'waxy' degeneration. Simple atrophy \s. the form which occurs from disuse, as, e.g., in chronic joint-disease. Microscopically there are abnormally few striated muscle-fibres and the appearance becomes more that of fibrous tissue. Waxy degeneration occurs as a sequel of continued fevers. All the forms of degeneration are found in progressive muscular atrojjhy. The microscope shows in the case of fatty degeneration, numbers of fat-cells in the place of the muscle-fibres, and in the case of waxy degeneration, a ' homogeneous, colourless, glistenino- mass.' Progressive Muscular Atrophy.—Fic/e medical works in which it is most fully treated, e.g., those of Trousseau, Eey- nolds, Niemeyer, Charcot {Maladies clu Systeme Nerveux), &c For treatment of atrophy, see that of Paralysis of Muscles. ' Muscles, Contractions oy.—Causes.—\, Inflammation of, or abscess in the muscle; 2, disease of nerves or nerve-centres •