394 EYE, DISEASES OF. scoop passed behind the lens. The chief types of operation for extraction are : (1) Graefe's modified linear or peripheral linear. —Here the incision is made with a long, narrow knife, slightly beyond the sclero-corneal junction, involving conjunctiva and forming a small arc of a circle larger than the cornea, the plane of incision forms a large angle with that of the iris. Iridectomy follows the incision. (2) The incision has nearly the same curve as the above, but is not carried so far towards sclerotic, being mostly in the cornea. Iridectomy is not usually per- formed here. (3) Flap operation (old),—Incision just within margin of cornea, and concentric with it, equal to half its cir- cumference, and parallel to plane of iris. Beer's triangular knife. No iridectomy. Disadvantages of modified Hnear opera- tion. Frequent hsemorrhage into anterior chamber. Greater risk of loss of vitreous. Risk of irritabihty from prolapse of iris into comers of wound, and of sympathetic ophthalmitis in the other eye. Disadvantages of the old flap operation. The large flap is liable to gape or fall forwards, causing sloughing. Frequent prolapse of iris. Frequent severe iritis. After treat- ment for either of these methods. Keep the patient in bed for a week. Apply a piece of soft linen to the closed eyelids, and a pad of cotton wool over this to both eyes, and secure by a four-tailed bandage. Keep the room nearly dark. Remove dressing, and gently cleanse the lids with warm water twice daily, just separating their edges to allow escape of tears that may be retained. Use one drop of atropine solution daily after the third day to prevent iritic adhesion. During the first few hours there will be some soreness, and the fii'st dressing a little bloodstained; after this there should be no pain, and only a little mucous discharge. If doing well there will be slight con- gestion, but no chemosis, edges of wound united, and pupil black. Discontinue bandage after eight to ten days, and order a large shade. 2. Needle Operation for Solution.—(1) Dilate pupil by atropine. (2) Give anaesthetic unless the patient is old enough to control himself well. (3) Hold lids open by stop-speculum, and use fixation forceps to steady globe. (4) Direct a fine cataract needle to a point just within the margin of the cornea,