358 VARICOCELE. to vagina, and local irritation. Struma ? Treatment.—Local cleanliness, dryness, and mild astringents. Attend to general health. Varicocele.—Sometimes no less than seven causes of vari- cocele are given ! And all these exist in every healthy individual, old or young, yet varicocele is almost unknown in yovmg children and old people. Quite sufficient causes are to be found in the lax nature of the scrotum, and in the aijiount of violent conges- tion to which the spermatic veins are subject in many young adults. The left side is oftenest affected. Several reasons have been givsn, e.g., rectangular junction of left spermatic vein with renal, and relation of former vein to sigmoid flexure of colon. Neither of these reasons will bear strict criticism. The left side of the scrotum is almost always larger than the right, and therefore laxer, as the left testicle is no larger than the right. The veins are enlarged, lengthened, and thickened. The enlarged veins coil around the cord and against the testicle in such a way as to feel ' like a bag of worms.' Increase on standing. Decrease on lying down. Impulse (slight) on cough- ing. Often aching pain and tenderness. Depression of spirits. Treatment.—I beg to recommend the suspensory bandage which I have myself contrived. If properly fitted, it removes the venous congestion as soon as appUed, and will often substitute for low spirits and aching pain a feeling of brightness and of being well braced up. Other local apparatus are Wormald's ring, the common suspensory bandage (generally inefficient), Morgan's (of Dublin) suspender; an inguinal truss (which is said to 'sustain' the column of blood above, though it mani- festly must equally obstruct the flow of blood from below). Cold douching. Attention to the digestive system and bowels. Correction of evil habits. Operations for varicocele are not unpopular with some, who, by good luck, have had no shock- ing accident from embolism. Operation is justifiable when a patient finds it urgently desirable to pass into the public service without delay, or when a varicocele causes severe symp- toms and will not yield to milder measures. Atrophy of the testicle said to be caused by varicocele. Many of the efiects attributed to varicocele in certain cases are quite as much due