ULCERATION OF TONGUE. Tongue, Simple Superficial Ulcerations OT.-Cause~ Indigestion: irritation of sharp-edged teeth. Occasionally aphthous inflammation. Diagnosis.~^o induration, or at least no marked degree of it. Ulcers sometimes multiple iongue frequently red and glazed. Corresponding sharp ed-e of tooth may be detected. Signs of indigestion. Pain, fre- quently. Absence of syphilitic history and of collateral symp- toms. Treatment—File sharp teeth. Touch ulcer with silver nitrate. Purgatives. Sodse bicarb, with infus. calumb^ before meals. The more superficial the ulceration, the more likely is chlorate of potash to be highly useful. Tongue, Superficial Syphilitic Ulceration of (Second- ary or Tertiary).—i}m^nosis.—Similar ulcerations on sides of mouth or fauces. Perhaps psoriasis also present. No such marked induration as is common in cancer. History and pa- tient's aspect may be syphihtic. ^reatoieii^.—Antisyphilitic. LocaUy—gargarisma nigra, hydrarg. 6 creta, inhaling calomel fumes (5 grains nightly). Internally either pot. iod. or hydrarg. perchlor. For obstinate syphihtic ulcer of tongue, Berkeley Hill recommends a pill of iodoform, gr. i, ext. gentian, gr. \\, three times a day. Primary Ulcer (Chancre) of Tongue is not unknown. Tongue, Simple Deep Ulceration of.—Very rare. Diag- nose from cancer and syphilis chiefly by negative signs, especially absence of induration. Tends to heal, unless phagedfenic. Treatment.— Vide Simple Superficial Ulceration. Tongue, Deep Syphilitic Ulcerations of (Tertiary).— Causes.—Gummatous abscess, or (rarely) spread of superficial ulcer. Appearance.—A deep ulcer or fissure, with abrupt edges, usually towards the centre of the tongue, sometimes at the edge, and often with a history of previous tumour or swelling (gumma). Speaking of gummata of the tongue, Morrant Baker says :— ' They are usually, but by no means always, multiple; they rarely or never lead to fixation of the tongue, or to salivation, or to very much pain ; and they are very tolerant of pressure.' In these respects they contrast with cancer. Treatment.—Anti- syphilitic, especially pot. iod. (gr. x ter die). Tongue, Malignant Ulceration of (Epithelioma).—Games