364 WHITLOW. suppuration spreading up forearm and destroying tendons, phalanges, and even wrist-joint. Causes.—Local punctures' cuts and scratches, poisonous or otherwise. Predisposing causes are same as those of erysipelas, quod vide, e.g., low state of hearth, diseased kidneys, epidemic and endemic influences. Patkology.~K cellulitis, at first, usually, of cellular tissue around ungual phalanx, but tending to spread to sheaths of tendons, to skin and subcutaneous tissues of back of hand and even, as above stated, to phalangeal, and in the worst cases to metacarpal and still larger joints. May subside. Usually sup- purates. Local and general effects precisely similar to those of cellulitis elsewhere. If a phalangeal joint be affected, or a tendon slough, there will probably be a stiff and contracted finger afterwards. Sy'mj>toms.— \jic?\ redness, heat, throbbing, pain, tenderness, and swelling. Feverishness in slight cases, prostration in severe ones. Increased swelling and oedema when pus has formed. As incision is generally made early, and the part is exquisitely tender, fluctuation need not necessarily be felt for. Diagnosis.—Effects of a foreign body in the finger or hand may be mistaken for a simple whitlow. Prognosis.— Usually good as regards life, even in extensive cases extending up forearm. Bad or good locally according to extent to which tendons and joints are affected. Treatment.—Eest, local and general. Elevation and flexion; carry hand in sling just be- neath chin. Pressure on brachial artery : patient can be taught to make it with the thumb of his sound hand. Poultices : frequent hot fomentations. After forty-eight hours, if symp- toms are unrelieved, make two longitudinal incisions; one on each side of palmar surface of finger (of course, excepting those slight cases where this part remains unaffected). Give a pur- gative, e.g., calomel, gr. x., afterwards iron (tinct. ferri perchlor., m. XV. ter d. s.). Regulate diet according to patient's condition and constitution. As a rule, avoid meat. Appetite is generally bad. Phalanges may have to be excised or fingers amputated, in consequence of ill effects of old whitlow. During conva- lescence, if contraction threatens, place finger on a splint. Stiffness of hand may persist for a very long time, and be eventually removed by passive exercise, fiictions, &c.