187 IMPETIGO. and malingering. Of course all the above remarkable symptoms cannot be looked for in the same case. Diagnosis.—Hysteric imitations of organic disease are always imperfect; because hysteria, if one may be allowed to personify it, is quite ignorant of pathology and knows little of anatomy. Hence pain rarely confines itself with accuracy to any defined anatomical structure or region. In hysteric joint-afiections the skin over the joint is often exquisitely tender, while deep, firm pressure upon the joint itself may cause little or no pain. At the same time the limits of that portion of skin which is tender bear no relation to the distribution of any known nerve or vessel. Subjective symptoms last even for years without producing any correspond- ino- alterations in the structure of the affected part. A hysterical patient describes her sufferings in a characteristic way. It is not diflicult to make her smile and talk with cheerfulness and liveliness even when the subject is pain which she describes as 'agonising,' 'unendurable,' 'excruciating.' Hysteric spasms disappear under ansesthetics and often also during sleep. There are, also, concomitant general signs of hysteria. Prognosis.— Some cases of hysteria resist all treatment. Many of these have one foot across the narrow line which separates hysteria from insanity. Treatment.—Treat the cause, whatever that may be. Moral treatment: encourage and lead the patient to exercise her will. Hysteria often attacks persons who have never in childhood been taught to control themselves. Sea bathing, cold shower bath, early rising, open air life, tonics, bromide of potassium. 'Antispasmodics,' valerian, assafcetida. Electricity is invaluable in treating many neuromimetic [i.e. hysteric) diseases. Contracted joints may be extended under ether and then fixed by splints. For Hysteric Paralysis, try Metal- lotherapy. Impetigo.—It is nearly allied to eczema, and eruptions are common which are intei'mediate between the two. But impetigo is a pustular, not a vesicular disease, and forms thick crusts and scabs. Causes.—Chronic irritation ; for instance, ' grocer's itch,' an impetigo of the hands, is caused by constant contact with sugar. Dirt, lice, contagion, syphilis. Situation.— Usually head, hands, or face. Pustules usually correspond to