DISEASES OF JOINTS. 204 a, cut through cheek from angle of mouth to malar bone. Turn this flap out and divide bone in the following places, in what- ever order may be found most convenient in each individual «ase, but preferentially as follows :—(1) zygoma, (2) outer wall ■of orbit into spheno-maxillary fisstu-e, (3) inner angle of orbit, (4) hard palate and alveolar process, through socket of central incisor tooth, previously extracted. Effect each division with cutting forceps; but commence each, except the third, with a narrow saw. Now apply lion forceps, depress the bone, separate remaining adhesions with fingers leather than with knife, and wrench out. Avoid unnecessary injui-y to soft parts of palate. The removal is comparatively easy in a child, be- cause the sutures are much less firm (H. Marsh). Arrest hsemorrhage, pad the cavity, replace the cheek-flap. Suture. Hare-lip pins through lip. Prognosis.—Large majority of cases recover. Chief dangers, hEemorrhage and blood-poisoning. Death on operating-table perhaps commoner in operations about jaw than in any others. Partial Excision of Upper Jaw.—There are growths which afiect so limited a part of the upper jaw that it would be bar- barous to remove the whole bone for them. The orbital part may be excised and the palate left, or vice versA. Still more limited operations sometimes suffice. The external incision is done in the same line as that for total excision, but made no longer than is necessary in each case. Joints, Diseases of.—1. Acute synovitis. 2. Acute suppur- ation (or abscess, or acute suppurative synovitis). 3. Acute ostitis of a joint (inflammation of the articular end of a bone). 4. Chronic synovitis, with which is usually considered Hydrops articuli. 5. Chronic'joint disease.' White swelling. Strumous joint* (including both ' pulpy degeneration of synovial mem- brane,' and ' ulceration of cartilages'). 6. Chronic rheumatic arthritis (rheumatic gout). 7. Acute rheumatism. 8. Gout. 9. Gonorrheal rheumatism. 10. Pysemic arthritis. 11. Puer- 1 These terms are used often as if quite synomnnous. But some surgeons confine the term ' strumous' to cases in wliich thej' believe the patient is origin- allj- of a scrofulous constitution; some surgeons would discard the term < strumous' altogether ; and some even use clinically such terms as ' Ulceration of curtilage,' j ust as if such a term described a primary disease.