PROSTATE. 258 times strumous in children. Treatment.—See Treatment of Syphilis and Scrofula. Dilatations and Pouches of Pharynx occur. Food is apt to lodge in them. Diagnose by the history given by the patient. Regurgitation sometimes occurs, or patient may be able to empty the pouch by external pi-essure. Secondary laryn- gitis may occur. Pharynx, Foreign Bodies in.—Vide CEsophagus. Phimosis.— Vide Penis. Prostate. — Chief Affections. — Inflammation, acute and chronic; abscess, periprostatic abscess; hypertrophy; simple tumours; atrophy ; tubercle ; cysts ; malignant disease. Prostate, Acute Inflammation of. — Causes. — Gonor- rhoea, cystitis, strong injections, cauterisation, mechanical in- juries, e.g., from sounds. Catching cold, alcoholic excesses, and sexual excitement will determine an attack if some other influence pre-exist, such as gonorrhoea, gout, or rheumatism. Symptoms.—Local pain extending into loins and back, weight, and fulness. Frequent and painful micturition, especially painful at the close of the act. Pain becomes shooting and throbbing. Anal and perinseal tenderness and fulness. De- fsecation painful. Mictvuition often difiicult or impossible. Fever. Pus in urine when abscess bursts. Per a7ium the prostate can be felt enlarged. Piles may be induced. Treat- ment.—Rest in bed. An aperient to commence with. Anti- mony. Acetate of potash in full doses. Ten to twenty leeches to perinseum and round anus. Hot hip-bath. Poultices to perinteum. Retention usually relieved by hot baths and liq. opii. Or a soft catheter may be passed. Prostate remains for a long time afterwards enlarged and hard, obstructing flow of urine. Prostate, Chronic Inflammation of.—Usually a sequel of acute. Generally, but not always, enlargement of the gland. Obstruction to passage of urine. Anal and periniseal pam. Gleety discharge. Sometimes nocturnal emissions. Pain in sexual intercourse. Irritable bladder. Treatment.—Kest. Regular and unstimiilating diet. Tonics and stomachics. Iron, with a mild aperient. Counter-ii-ritation to perineum. For the noctui-nal emissions, make three or four applications of a