GONORRHCEA. 138 Insoluble Bougies are sometimes dipped in an active agent, sometimes used unmedicated, for gleet. Modifications in Treatment according to the Stage of the Disease.—First stage. 'Abortive treatment.' Rest as mucli as possible; at all events avoid fatigue. Moderate diet. No stimulants. Frequent cold hip-baths ; saline purgatives; alka- line and demulcent drinks; acetate of potash ; weak astringent and antiseptic injections repeated as often as possible (acid, tannic, gr. v, glycerini, m xx, aquse Ij). Second stage. <jreneral treatment same as first stage. But be more cautious about introducing irritants into the urethra. Treat complica- tions. For chordee : belladonna extract along outside of corpus spongiosum, morphia and henbane suppositories; warm baths; sleeping draught at night. Sp. camph. 3ss doses, internally. One minim of tinct. aconiti every hour will sometimes cut short this stage. Third stage. Still prohibit stimulants and avoid fatigue. Persevere with injections; vary them if the case be obstinate. For use of copaiba, &c., see below. Fourth stage (that of gleet). Continue injections and general treatment, but improve diet. Change of air. Tonics, e.g., iron, quinine, strychnia, gentian, &c. But gleet is so often kept up by a sUght sti'icture, that it is imperative to examine well the urethra in obstinate cases, and to dilate it if necessary. It is a good rule, in treating gonorrhoea, to inject after every act of mictu- rition. Persons away from home all day should use the com- pressible metal tubes, filled with injection, and having a nozzle to enter the ui-ethra, made, at my request, by Mr. Cooper, of 26 Oxford Street. They should be carried in the coat side- pocket. Mr. Watson-Cheyne urges that, in treating a gonorrhoea, the first thing to aim at should be the destruction of the specific nature of the disease. To effect this he recommends a bougie (iodoform, gr. v, ol. eucalypti, gr. v, ol. theobromsB, q. s). Patient passes the bougie, and lies down for six hours. Follow up with injections of emulsion of eucalyptus oil till a slight simple urethritis remains. Then resoit to some ordinary as- tringent injection. The chief difficulties in curing a gonorrhoea .arise from the disobedience or impatience of the patient, who relaxes his attention to his disorder as soon as it begins to im-