DISEASES OF NOSE. 246 saline Later on, astrin-ents should be added in small quantities to the saline washes. Nose not to be blown for a short time after douching. The same fluids may be applied with an atomizer instead of the douche. Inhalation of vapour of chloride of ammonium. Insufflation of powdered alum, bismuth, and starch, &c. Iodoform powder sniffed up. Iodoform m vaseline (gr. XX-gj) ; appUed with a smaH brush far up each nostril. (Lennox Browne and Brandeis.) With regard to the douche, it should be noted that Professor Roosa of New York strongly condemns it as too dangerous to the ears; and even Professor CasseUs, who stoutly defends it, never trusts patient to use it himself. Sleep with a high pillow. Moderate diet. Fish and milk. Avoid stimulants. Cod-liver oil at night sometimes beneficial. Change of air and scene. Dry, elevated regions. Internally, large doses of chlorate of potash. Oz^NA.—An habitual and offensive odour from the nose, often amounting to a horrid stench, and almost always of a certain characteristic nature. Causes—(l) Strumous ulcera- tion, (2) syphilitic ulceration, (3) necrosis from non-specific causes, (4) long-continued chronic catarrh, (5) foreign bodies impacted, (6) merely a peculiar tendency to decomposition of the nasal secretion. Seat of Disease.—Any part of nasal walls, or of sinuses opening into nose. Amount of Discharge very variable. Often all passes backwards into pharynx. Prognosis.—Unless cause can be detected and easily removed, ozaena is very difficult to cure. May last for years. When complicated with bone-disease, deformity a frequent result. Treatment.—Antisyphilitics for syphilis. Cod-liver oil, iron, arsenic, &c., for struma. Explore nasal cavity carefully with a strong light, a mirror, and speculum. Remove dead bone. Nasal douche with hot alkaline or saliuo-astringent solutions, {See Nasal Catarrh.)- Solutions of Condy's fluid. Insuffla- tion of mercurial powders—white or red precipitate, 2 grains to 1 drachm of sugar. Iodoform. {See Nasal Catarrh.) Pugin Thornton strongly recommends spray of solution of borate and carbonate of soda.' In syphilitic ozsena of infants, syringe out 1 B Sod® cavb., sod!8 biborat, aa 31) ; liq. sodse chlorinatie 3ss-3ij ; glycerin), jj; aq. ad Jviij,