AMPUTATION. 10 Foot, Amputations through.—ChoparVs. Between scaphoid and cuboid on the one hand, and astragalus and calcis on the other. Long plantar flap, reaching to roots of toes ; very short dorsal flap. Incisions commence, on inner side, just behind prominence of scaphoid; on outer side, one inch behind base of fifth metatarsal bone. Beware of opening ankle-joint. Dis- articulate before cutting plantar flap. Plantar flap to be longer on inner than outer side. Arteries : dorsalis pedis, plantar and digital. De Lignorolles'.—Removes aU the bones of the tarsus, except the astragalus. Heel and dorsal flaps. • Hancock's.—Leaves the astragalus and posterior end of os calcis, on the principle of Pirogofi''s. Lisfrands (commonly called Hey's)."^—Between tarsus and metatarsus. Long plantar flap, reaching to roots of toes, longer on inner than on outer side. Dorsal incision nearly transverse, with only slight convexity forwards. Ends of incisions, on inner side, one inch before tubercle of scaphoid, on outer side just be- hind base of fifth metatarsal. In disarticulating, remember dove- tailing of second metatarsal bone into cimeiform bones, and the obliquity of cuboido-metatarsal joint. Cut plantar flap from behind forwards after disarticulation, but cut its borders deeply down to bone when commencing operation. Arteries : dorsalis pedis, plantar and digital. Hand, Amputation through.—Not a single bone should be unnecessarily removed. The flaps have usually to be taken from where soft tissues are most available. Hip-Joint, Amputation at.—Three ways : 1, long anterior flap ; 2, double flap, anterior and posterior; 3, lateral flaps. Use Lister's tourniquet for aorta, or Davy's lever per rectum; let patient's buttocks project beyond edge of table, tie body and sound limb to table, have three assistants, and stand on left side of limb. Assistants : 1, takes charge of flap and pays greatest attention to instantly stopping all haemorrhage; 2, manipulates limb: he has mainly to prevent locking of operating-knife, espe- 1 Hifflily praised hy Nelaton. „ i, 2 Key's operation tliffers from Lisfranc's, in that tbe former saws tirough the second metatarsal bone.