BJEMATOCELE, 144 neous. Almost always traumatic, tlie cause being a blow or puncture. It is likely tbat hsematocele is often caused by a rupture of a varicosed vein. Slight violence is in many cases sufficient to produce tbis. Witness the cause of Miss Neilson's death—ruptured varix of Fallopian tube during an attack of gastralgia. Hence blood escaped into peritoneal cavity. When a varicocele ruptures, the blood fortimately is more likely to enter a less important serous sac, the tunica vaginalis. Pa- thology.—Tunica vaginalis contains blood, which usually re- mains fluid, only becoming gradually darker and tliicker and full of fibrinovis shreds. Sometimes it coagulates more or less. Tunica vaginalis thickens. At any period inflammation and suppuration may supervene. Symjjtoms.—Gradual but rapid formation of a smooth, globular or pyriform, hard or semi- fluctuating, non-transparent, heavy tumour. Testicle situated usually below and behind; on firm pressure in that region, the peculiar testicular pain is felt. Marks of bruising may appear in skin. Painless, except when quite recent. Diagnosis.— From 1, solid innocent enlargement of testis ; 2, solid malignant tumoiu'of testis; 3, hydrocele. Case 1. Chronic orchitis begins usually with acute orchitis, or there is a history of syphiHs or scrofula; it comes on more gradually than hfematocele. Case 2. Cancer begins more gradually, but enlarges more persistently, and is painful; lumbar glands enlarge sooner or later in cancer. In both chi'onic orchitis and cancer, thickening of cord is common. Case 3. As even hydroceles may be opaque, unless there is a history of severe violence followed by a sudden swelling and ecchymosis, a final diagnosis cannot be made without the trocar. Frogoiosis.—Only mild and recent cases offer any reasonable hope of absorption. Old cases, after reaching a certain size, usually remain stationary. Inflamma- tion may occur at any time. Treatment.—1. When hsemato- cele is recent. Rest in bed, appUcation of cold, elevation of pelvis and scrotum. 2. Later : tap with trocar and cannula, and then support with pressure. 3. In old cases with thick walls, or in any case when suppuration occurs, incise freely and empty. Do this antiseptically. Operation not without danger. Rcematocele of the tunica vaginalis of the cord occurs but