INJUEIES OF HEAD. 163 bags. Purging is highly praised. Calomel and butter placed on tongue. Small doses of calomel and morphia sometimes given, especially when furious delirium comes on a few days after a head-injury. Dark room, head raised on high hard pillows, hair cut short. For treatment when suppuration supervenes see following paragi-aph. Probably many cerebral iaflammations which have resulted from wounds would have been prevented by antiseptic dressings. Intracranial Suppuration.—Withiti the skull, as elsewhere, suppuration is one of the ' terminations ' of inflammation ; it is practically very important whether the pus be between the'skull and dura mater, just beneath the dura mater, or within the brain-substance. Signs.—ISot decisive. Symptoms of com- pression gradually coming on during encephalitis and accom- panied by fm-ther rise of temperature, and rigors. At the same time a co-existent scalp wound may become pale and dry or Pott's pu% swelling may form. If the wound be deep enough the bone may perhaps be seen exposed by separation of pericra- mum. When these local signs are present, it is not unhkely that the pus IS lying just beneath that part of the skuU. Prognosis very bad; to make it worse, pyaemia is a not unfrequent compli- cation. Treatment.-The main question is that of trephining. Difficulty of treatment consequent on difficulty of diagnosis. When above symptoms are well-marked, trephining is clearly mdicatec. Then if brain is not found pulsating beneath exposed diu-a mater, that membrane may be punctured. The knife has been plnnged boldly into the brain itself, not without success. Operate antiseptically. Hernia Cmi.-(7«»._Wound of skiUl imd dm-a beneath it. More common m childi-ea, and when aperture in pSIZ f "" ^'"""'"W-In/amma or" proliferation of connective tissue of bi-ain, leading to a hei-nnt of a substance whose structure is sometimes entirelv like of ="itrciSo\tt;r!!Htntrr'-^^^^^^^^ daysafterinJ„^.butm;,ap;:rmSLrtLTo::d« bro,™ m..s, p„l»ting synchronously ,vith respiratSn "Tt M 2 , u.