H^MOEKHAGE. culai-force. Bandagin'j—In arterialhsemorrliage from a limb, if an attempt be made to check it by the bandage and compress, the joints should be flexed and the whole limb bandaged. There is a form of compression, called ' plugging'; for instance, if a gluteal aneurism were opened freely in mistake for abscess, the proximal end of the ai-tery would very likely be in the pelvis and inaccessible; then the aneurism would have to be stuffed with lint and the pelvis bandaged, ^;iro tern., whilst further measm^es were considered or undertaken. Flexion.—Is closely allied to compression, and should almost always be combined with it. One objection to flexion is the disagreeably constrained position often unavoidable. To de- monstrate the value of flexion, bend the elbow strongly and feel the pulse at the wrist: it will be scarcely perceptible. Styptics.—1, heat; 2, cold; 3, drugs, e.g., iron, tannic acid, gallic acid, catechu, alum, matico, and many others. Heat.— The actual cautery is the only form in which the books speak of heat as a sty^Dtic; but, years ago, before cotomencing the study of medicine, I accidentally observed the power which very warm, that is decidedly hot water (120® to 140° Fahrenheit), has of closing small bleeding vessels. In haemorrhages from mucous membranes, for example, those wMch Billroth calls ' parenchymatous,' I believe hot water to be much more efiectual than cold; so also in oozing from wounds. In major amputations it should be preferable because it is less depressing than cold.^ The actual cautery should be used at a black heat, and held close to, but not touching the bleeding part. It causes an eschar with a suppm-ating sm'face beneath. Cold is applied chiefly in the form of ice or iced water. The most powerful styptic drug is perchloride of iron. The strongest tinctui-e is usually employed, and it is often made to saturate a compress. Thus, styptics, pressure, and flexion can all be combined if de- sirable. Billroth speaks of turpentine as a most effective but painful and heroic styptic. The above remedies should be sup- plemented by elevation of the part, general rest, and avoidance of anything likely to excite the patient's circulation. General Treatment.—Is indicated for the faintness and weakness caused ' See Practitioner, Feb. 1879.