142 GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. "bone and fall out of aperture of entrance. Course of slow bullets sometimes very peculiar.—Healing.—1, Small ring-shaped slough and gangrenous shreds thrown off. 2, Granulation and sup- puration. Opening of exit usually closes before that of entrance. Prognosis.—Depends entirely on amount and position of iajury. ' The extensive tearing and crushing caused by large missiles do not differ from other large crushed wounds caused by machinery. Treatment.—Principles of treatment same as those of other contused wounds; differences of detail chiefly depend on pecu- liarity of surrounding circumstances. 1. In battle, check haemorrhage by pressure, apply extem- porised splints to fractured limbs, give stimulants in case of syncope, and convey patient to place of first dressing. 2. Apply first dressings at a place previously selected. Here also remove all foreign bodies that are near the surface, and amputate limbs hopelessly crushed. Attach to each patient, before sending him on from here, a card with short account of his case, stating, e.g., whether ball has been extracted or a wound of the trunk is or is not perforating. Field officers should ligature, if possible, every wounded vessel of importance (Longmore). 3. Convey patient to hospital. Here examine every patient, operate, dress wounds, bed, and diet. Many wounded should not be kept collected in one place.—Extraction of bullet. Tiemann's forceps. Coxeter's extractor. If violent measures would be required for removal of bullet, let it remain, unless it is obviously setting up irritation.—Dressing.—The mam point is not to actively close the wound, bvit to leave free room for the discharge to escape. Tenax and oakum very good. Gun-shot Wounds of Special Paets.—Head.—Very dangerous, from the diffused injury done to the brain and its membranes. Inner table fractured more than outer. Frequent complication with meningitis, abscess, &c. Gun-shot woimd of brain almost always fatal. Fracture with depression usually iaisl.—Treatment.—Periect rest, darkness, low diet. Cold lo- caUy. Venesection maybe useful. Trephining contra-inchoated. Do not mistake a woimd in which part of outer table of skull has been ploughed off, for fracture with depression.