WOUNDS. 367 tissue, epidermis, epithelium, bone, and even nerve are repro- duced perfectly (the last only to a limited extent). Muscles are only repaired by development of connective tissue. Lace- rated, and even contused wounds, usually fail to heal by the first intention. The latter, especially, are liable to slough at the edges, and both tend to suppurate freely. Much depends on the conditions of each case, e g., on situation of vpound, on state of patient's viscera, and on treatment. Punctured wounds usually heal by first intention, except when also con- tused, as they are in gun-shot wounds. Five methods of healing have been recognised, viz., (1) primary adhesion; (2) first in- tention (or primary union); (3) granulation (or second inten- tion) ; (4) union of two opposed surfaces, each covered with graniilations (third intention); (5) scabbing. Method 4 com- bines, in succession, the processes of 3 and 2; 5 is probably similar to 3; only, such waste-products as there are, dry up into a scab, being of very small amount. Healing hy Organisation of Clot is exactly similar in nature to healing by the first intention, in which, indeed, a thin clot gene- rally does exist and becomes organised. A curious phenomenon is that, if any clot project beyond the level of the general surface, the new epidermis cuts off the projecting part, healing only over the remainder. Organisation of clot is beautifully seen after antiseptic osteotomy, and is well described by McEwen in his book on that subject. Lister rightly holds that the frequency of this process under antiseptic treatment is a strong proof of the soundness of his doctrines. Consequences of a wound are (1) pain, (2) hsemorrhage, (3) displacement, (4) loss of function, (5) shock. Pain of dividing skin, tense fascia, and bone comparatively great, ^ee H.emor- RHAGE for separate notice. Wounds by laceration, crushing, and cauterisation usually cause little, often no htemorrhaf^e. Displacement is usually a consequence of retraction. Not only muscles, but mere fibrous structures retract, by virtue of their elastic constituents. Loss of function varies in extent from stiffness, the result of tenderness, up to death. See separate notice for Shock. Retraction is greatest in the direction of the length of a limb, and in the muscles as compared with the