195 INFLAMMATION. or organisation; 3, suppuration, including abscess; 4, ulceration ; 5, gangrene or mortification. These processes are described respectively under the following heads : 1,2, and 3, Wounds, Repaie of ; 3, Abscess ; 4, Ulceration ; 5, Gangrene. Treatment of Inflammation.—Consider it under heads—A, indications; B, remedial agents; C, differences according to whether a case is acute or chronic. A. Indications.—1, to remove all sources of irritation and all predisposing causes; 2, to lessen local action; 3, to guard against or treat promptly all complications, or evil consequences; 4, to support the patient's strength during prolonged and exhausting cases; 5, to relieve pain. B. Eemedial agents. These are either local or general. Local agents—Eest, cold, blood-letting, pressure, ligature or compression of artery supplying inflamed part, incisions, antisepsis, warmth with moisture, astringent and stimulating drugs, counter-irritation ; and certain other agents which will be noticed in considering the treatment of chronic inflammation. Constitutional agents are: rest, blood-letting, dieting, stimulation, drugs, mercury, antimony, aconite, bella- donna, purgatives, diuretics, colchicum, iodide of potassium, quinine, opium, other anodynes; diaphoresis; ' spinal' ice-bags. Some of the agents in the above list overlap one another, e.g., 'cUaphoresis' partly includes 'antimony'; but it is impossible to devise a satisfactory list without this fault. Mest.—Bed., splints, sUngs, cradles, bandages (starch, plaister of Paris, paraffin, glue, gum, sUicate of potash). Position : elevation. Flexion or extension.—See Joint Diseases and" Fractures. Ice-bags, bags through which a continuous stream of cold water can be made to pass, irrigation, cold douche, wet-packing, evaporating lotions. Excessive cold with wet involves danger of frost-bite. Local hlood-letting.— Leeches, cupping, dry cupping,i incisions, scarification, punc- tiu-es, local venesection {i.e., pricking veins near inflamed part). Pmsiw-e.—Bandages with subjacent layer of cotton- wool, elastic bandage, pressm-e regulated by means of india- rubber bags containing water,^ shot-bags. Ligature, compression ^ &4^&*eVl8^^ blood-letting, but its action is similar o 2