^82 .SPINE, DISEASES OF. inflammatory softening of the intervertebral cartilages. As the destructive process proceeds, two striking effects almost always result, viz. : (1) a posterior angular projection of the correspond- ing spinous processes ; (2) less frequently, formation of abscess. As many as six or eight vertebral bodies have been known to break down: usually only two or three are involved. Lamina3, spines, and articular processes escape ; but there is a great tendency for them to anchylose together. Collapse of the spine anteriorly at the seat of caries causes the posterior angular projection. Com- pensatory curvatures in other regions of the spiue. Curvature in lumbar disease occasionally lateral as well as antero-posterior. Middle and lower dorsal regions commonest seats of caries, Sjiinal cord is (1) so small as compared with diameter of spinal canal, and (2) so well protected by its membranes, that it is usually unaffected; but in many cases parajdegia, usually motor and partial, and often temporary, occurs. The immediate cause is probably inflammatory effusion, or else pressure from a sudden, rapid increase of the deformity. Even aorta may be compressed between the diseased vertebrse as the latter fall together.* Abscess usually 'psoas' in disease of dorsal or lumbar vertebrae. Frequently lumbar. In cervical caries, abscess usually presents towards side of neck, sometimes in pharynx (retro-pharyngeal abscess). But the pus may burrow in various directions, e.g. into pelvis, buttocks, abdominal wall above Poupart's ligament, and from the neck into the thorax. Psoas abscess passes down in the sheath of the psoas muscle, forming a swelling first in the inguinal region of the abdomen, and next in the thigh beneath Poupart's ligament, towards the outer rather than the inner side of Scarpa's triangle. It may extend downwards much farther, and occasionally turns outwards or inwards. Sometimes it is double, i.e. passes down the sheaths of both psoas muscles. Lumbar abscess perforates the quadratus lum- borum, and presents in the loins immediately external to the erector spinse. Spinal abscess may (1) be absorbed, or, (2) after a more or less chronic course, burst, or (3) be opened by the surgeon. When opened, unless antiseptic precautions be taken, hectic fever supervenes. When anchylosis takes place, even the 1 Bee Goodhart, Path. Trans. 1878.