207 DISEASES OF JOINTS. free incisions, as Gay recommends. Antiseptic precautions very desirable. Many cases calm down into a chronic state. Acute Ostitis of a Joint. Inflammation of the Articular end of a Bo7ie.—Inflammation of spongy bone-substance ad- jacent to a joint is very rarely acute; though chronic joint- disease frequently begins in the bone. Causes.—Obscure, when the affection cannot be traced to injuiy. Signs and Pathology.—Those of Ostitis, quod vide. Pain, heat, and swelling. Redness combined with oedema when suppuration occurs. Synovial membrane of adjacent joint becomes iinpli- cated. Effusion into joint. In childhood, whole articular epi- physis may separate. Pai-tial necrosis more probable in adults. Diagnosis.—The disease may be known to have begun in the bone by the thickening of that part,i and by the history. Prognosis.—Danger of acute articular abscess, or in the event of acute inflammation being allayed, of chronic destructive disease of the joint. Treatment.—See Inflammation op Bone, Eest, elevation, cold, painting with iodine, (fee. Perhaps occa- sionally abscess may be prevented from opening into joint by a timely opening from without. Chronic Synovitis. Hydrops Articuii.—Causes.—Same as those of acute synovitis, of which affection it is usually a sequel. ^S'i^'tcs.—Almost always attacks the knee. Young men most Uable. Swelling and fluctuation of all the synovial pouches of the joint. Little or no pain or tenderness. The use of the joint is sometimes not much impeded, but it usually causes fatigue and pain. Biagnosis.—From white-swelling, by the absence of apparent thickening of the articular ends of the bones, of signs of ulceration of cartilage, of the great wasting of the limb which almost always occurs in chronic destructive disease of the joint, but above all by amount of effu- sion. In early stage age should be considered. Hydrops occurs chiefly in young adults, strumous disease mostly in children Prognosis.—Little or no danger of hydrops articuH leading to any serious joint-disease. Eelapse after cui^e very common Treatment.—-Perfect rest, counter-irritation, and, above all^ soft p" S ovtu!"^ '"''^ '''''' "^^"^ tl^e periosteum and