216 KNOCK-KNEE. with rigor and rise of temperature to 105° or 106° F. This may be repeated again and again. Tongue like broiled ham, Sordes. Nausea, vomiting. Rapid emaciation. Possibly diar- rhoea. So caUed ' typhoid ' symptoms. Tenderness over kidneys. Muttering deliiium. Patient sinks; but the profound coma and convulsions of ursemic poisoning are exceptional. <The urine varies much. It usually becomes more or less bloody, and in rare cases is suppressed, though much more frequently a con- siderable quantity is passed up to the time of death.' Much decomposed and mixed with mucus, pus, and blood. Diagnosis has to be made from (1) pyaemia, (2) peritonitis, (3) typhoid fever, (4) ague. ' From pysemia the diagnosis is somewhat diffi- cult, the most important point being the vomiting, the absence of secondary abscesses, the drowsy state into which the patient soon falls, and the fact that the temperature often remains, for days before death, below normal.' The kind of vomiting and the course of temperatui-e contrast with those of ijeritonitis. The temperature curves and the absence of spots distinguish from typhoid. In ague there should be complete intermissions. Prognosis.—In acute cases of ' surgical kidney ' always bad, but most so in suppurative nephritis. Treatment of kidney-disease complicating surgical cases.—Rest. Avoid every source of genito-urinary irritation. If catheterism is unavoidable, use soft instruments, thoroughly cleansed, oiled, and antiseptic. Treat the causes with mild and gentle means. For interstitial nephritis, dry-cup the loins, give purgatives, dress in flaimel, stimulate the skin, e.g., by hot-air baths. Shun surgical oiDerations. Knock-knee (Genu valgum).—A deformity in .which the knee is bent inwards. Causes.—Rickets; muscular weakness, combined with habits of excessive standing, or of carrying heavy burdens; lazy manner of walking and standing. About jDuberty a disease is liable to attack the epiphysial cartilages somewhat analogous to the rachitis of childhood. These cartilages are then peculiarly liable to give way from the causes above mentioned. Hence many cases of genu valgum, and even spinal curvature. {See Mikulicz in v. Langenbeck's Archiv, xxiii. 3 to 4; and also Busch, Die Belastungsdeformitdten der GelenJce, Berlin,