316 DISEASES OF TONGUE, embarrassing. Various plans have been devised for giving the operator more room to work in, especially (1) Nunneley'srwho passes the ecraseur chain through a wound in the mylo-hyoid space, and prevents it from slipping forwards by means of hare- ?^ Tir^'^^. ^^'^ll '^el^i^d the disease. {2} bedillots, who divides the sym^Dhysis of the jaw (in a > - shaped manner to facilitate correct apposition after the opera- tion). Of course the lower lip is divided also. SediUot's incisions combined with the 6craseur form the plan probably most frequently used for extensive cases. An interdental splint might be useful in after-treatment of divided jaw. (See Lyons SL Barth:s Hasp. Reports, 1878.) (3) Submental operation (Kegnohs). Broad-arrow-shaped incision in mylo-hvoid space through which tongue is dragged previous to removal. Protect facial arteries, and secure linguals as soon as divided. (4) T, Smith's—incision of cheek from coi-ner of mouth outwards. (5) Whitehead of Manchester cuts through base of tongue from before backwards slowly with scissors, looking out for the Hngual arteries. {Lancet, 1880.) In all operations on the tongue, a stout whipcord ligatm-e through middle of anterior third, metal retractors, and a simple gag, are required. Also prepare for hemorrhage. Use Clover's or Mills' method of anaesthesia through a tube. {Lancet, vol. i., 1879.) Proynosis. —Quite good for small operations. Grave for larger ones. Speech returns, perfectly in former; distinct, but sadly modi- fied, in latter. After-treatment.~FQQ^ through oesophageal tube and by enemas for a few days. Use simple gargles to cleanse mouth. For distressing salivation—alum and pyrethrum gar- gles. A pai'ticularly lengthy, complete,' and clear account of operations on tongue is to be found in Erichsen. Tongue, Abscess.—Very uncommon. Causes.—Obstruction of mucous glands? Syphilitic gummata ? Eoioign body. Make an exploratory puncture to clear up diagnosis. Tongue, Innocent Tumours of.—Very rare. Cysts beneath the tongue are common. Vide Ranula, Tongue, N^vus of.—Rare. Treatment.—Like that of nevus elsewhere. But if it cause no unpleasant effects, and do not grow, let it alone.