DISEASES OF BREAST. 57 shiverin'T: feeling of illness. The signs of mere inflammation may disappear after invohdng more of the breast, or may give way to those of abscess. ^'rm^mmi.-Locally : rest; support; warmth; moisture. If necessary, the milk had better be drawn off General treatment: purgatives; qmmne; bella- donna locally ; general rest also. Lobular Indukation of Breast.-^ee Painful Mammary Tumour. Malformation of Breast.—The breasts may be absent, or may be excessive in number ; or they may occupy strange situations, e.g., the back or groin. Tumours of the Breast.—Under this head will be noticed such new growths as are not carcinomatous, viz.: 1, chronic mammary tumour, including ' painful mammary tumour;' 2, cysts ; 3, fibromata; 4, enchondromata; 5, osteomata, 1. Chronic Mammary Tumour.—(SynoTijms—Adenoma, ' Hyj^ertrophie partielle,' Mammary glandular tumour, Hydatid disease of the breast (Sir A. Cooper), Sero-cystic sarcovia.)—The above names are not all strictly synonymous; some, such as adenoma, are applied to gi-owths, which, to the naked eye, appear of a solid, fibrous nature; others, e.g., sero-cystic sarcoma, are applied to tumours consisting chiefly of cysts with solid gi^owths inside them. These latter are really of a sarcomatous nature ; the true ' chronic mammary tumour ' is more of the nature of ade- noma. Causes.—Age, most frequently from 20 to 30 ; great majority of cases occur in single women ; ' blows, squeezss, lacteal irritation,' 'hysterical temperament,' 'uterine irritation,' 'sex- ual excitement of an irregular kind' (Erichsen). Symptoms.— Commence as a hard nodule, usually painless and not imbedded in the mammaiy gland, but movable : may be pedunculated ; . growth slow, but in rare cases very rapid ; mammary gland may atro])hy ; almost always single; sizs, perhaps considerable in old tumours; tumours prominent, not attached to skin; afterwards ulceration and fungation. Diagnosis.—1, vide lobular indura- tion of breast; 2, from cancer by (1) slow growth, (2) usual free- dom from pain; 3, non-implication of skin ; 4, healthy state of glands; 5, no retraction of nipple; 6, outline rounded; 7, consist- ence rather elastic than strong; 8, by mobility. When a fungus