HERNIA. 166 to the power of tbe cold douche long continued, e.(j., for houi-s, over intracranial inflammations. Cerebral Irritation.—Pathology.—Probably laceration of brain. Syn^itoms.^—Graphically described in Erichsen—1, bodily; 2, mental. Bodily : attitude of general flexion—knees drawn up, elbows bent, &c.; restlessness ; eyelids firmly closed; no heat of head ; pulse weak and not frequent; rarely retention. Mental: irritable temper, desire to be let alone; muttering, frownins, grinding of teeth if disturbed. When these symptoms subside, the mind is left for a long time Aveak and fatuous. Treatment.—On general principles: rest, darkness,quiet, coolness, ice-bag, patience. Chloral and even morphia may be given in some cases ; but their efiects should be keenly and caiitiously watched. IV. Injuries of Cranial Nerves.—Caicses: fractures of bones of skull, extravasated blood, inflammatory eflTusion. Signs. May be deduced from consideration of functions of these nerves. Paralysis in most cases, spasms in some. Disturbed nutrition of cornea and conjunctiva when fifth nerve is injiu'ed. Prognosis. Usually unfavoui'able; but when the paralysis or spasms come on during attacks of intracranial inflammation, recovery may take place on absorption of inflammatory effusion. Treatment, If possible remove the cause. Nerves most frequently affected are seventh and second pairs. To complete these notes on injuries of the head, we must notice traumatic osteitis of the cranial bones, which when acute is usually called ' inflammation of the diploe.' Chronic osteitis of cranium follows any injury (of course it is sometimes syphilitic); it may result in hyper- trophy, caries, or necrosis. Acute inflammation of cranium^ is very dangerous from its liability to spread to membranes of brain. Heart, Injuries of. See Injuries of Chest. Hernia. This word, which probably is derived from Greek ernos, a shoot, is applied to the projection of a viscus through the wall of any of the body-cavities, e.g., hernia cerebri, hernia of lung ; and, by extension, it is given even to such phenomena as bulging of tunica intima of an artery through an opening m the media and adventitia. But' hernia ' used without quahfica- 1 Not imlikely that the peculiarity of this set of symptoms is due rather to the part injured than to the kind of injury.