INJUEIES OF HEAD. 157 lie chiefly superficial to the aponeurosis. But, for the same reason, the blood-supply of the cranium is sufficiently inter- rupted in extensive lacerations to cause danger of necrosis with its consequences. Other dangers in scalp-wounds are erysipelas, and accumulation of pus, causing pufiy swelling. Treatment.— Clean carefully and replace flaps accurately. Use sutures if necessary, but do not pass them through the aponeurosis. Ex- perience of American Civil War was in favouy of sutures {Med. and Surg. Hist. War of Rehellion). Dressing should be just enough to support and protect from draughts of cold air, with- out heating. Bleeding vessels can sometimes be conveniently secured between a needle and twisted suture. Treat compli- cations on general principles, giving free exit for pus, <fec. II. Fractures of Skull.—Classified in three ways. Firstly, into simple and compound. Secondly, into fractures of the vault and fracture of the base. Thirdly, according to the physical characters of the fracture, into fissures, starred, depressed, punctured, elevated, and comminuted fracttu-es. It shou.ld also be noted, when possible, what is the relative amount of damage done to the inner and outer tables of the skull. Causes.—Blows and falls on the head, and, though very rarely, indii'ect violence, wyl., falls on the feet or blows on the lower jaw. The nature of the fracture naturally depends greatly on the cause. See pathology following. Anatomy and Pathology.— Position of fracttire. This depends chiefly on point where the causative force has been applied, and on nature of force. Sharp instriiments cause depressed fractures at. the point of contact. Sometimes they only crack the outer table, while they depress the inner. Heavy, softish bodies, e.g., a bale of cotton, are likely to cause fractures of the base. The skull has been divided into three * zones,' and evidence given to show that a blow on the vault of one zone is likely to cause a fracture of the base of the same zone. The middle zone consists of ' the parietals, the squamous, and the anterior surface of the petrous portions of the temporals, with the greater part of the basi- sphenoid.' The posterior and anterior zones include the rest of the skull. The middle zone is the commonest seat of fracture. Shape of fractures : vide classification. A very common shape