116 FRACTUEES. with protrusion may require skin wound to be enlarged or end of projecting fragment to be sawn off. Apparatus : Two kinds, 'fixed' and 'movable.' The 'fixed' are such as plaister of Paris, starch bandage, gum and chalk, moukled mill-board, gutta-percha, poro-plastic, leather, Hyde's felt, &c. The ' mov- able' are the ordinary fracture-box, Cline's splints, liston's splint, M'Intyre's splint, &c. The difference in the two varieties consists in tHs—the ' fixed ' apparatus is moulded specially to the individual case to which it is applied, while the ' movable ' splints can be adapted by fitting and padding to various suc- cessive cases. Some of the so-called ' fixed ' are not less mov- able than the other class. To all these may be added the inclined plane, extension by weights or elastic bands, support by sand-bags, etc. Great difference of opinion as to relative value of the above apparatus. Many English, and more Con- tinental surgeons apply a solid firm dressing, such as the starched bandage and mill-board, as soon as possible after the occurrence of a simple fracture, and after most compound fractures too. Other English surgeons teach that this is dangerous. In applying such a firm dressing, attend strictly to the following rules : 1, place no bandage next the skin; 2, Ime thickly with cotton wool or wadding; 3, include the joints both above and below the fracture ; 4, leave the toes or fingers bare, and never fail to examine them carefully twenty-four hours after applying apparatus. Indications for cutting up apparatus wholly or partially are : severe pain anywhere beneath it; signs of obstructed circulation in toes or fingers, or looseness of the apparatus. Starched bandages tend to loosen and requn-e trimming. In adjusting any fracture-apparatus, carefully avoid disturbing fracture. Starched bandage requires twenty- four hours to dry, plaister of Paris takes a quarter of an hour to set • borax will retard, and common salt hasten, settmg of latter.' Leather, poro-plastic, and millboard are softened m hot water before moulding. Starch should be applied with palm of hand after bandage has been put on dry. Leather and gutta-percha are better adapted to angular parts, e.g., shoulder, than is mill-board; but gutta-percha is rather de^', and leather very dear. Salter's swing. Cradle to keep off bed-clothes.