DISLOCATION. of bone is evidently absent from its place beneath acromion; 2, 1 Outwards (most common); patella rests on outer side of external condyle, generally with outer edge raised. 2 In- wards : most rare, almost unknown. 3, Edgewise: either iimer or outer edge of patella is twisted into mtercondyloid space, the bone standing on its edge. 4, Upwards : Ligamentum patellae is always ruptured. Quadriceps extensor pulls patella upwards. Reduction.-!^ first two varieties flex thigh on abdomen; press outer or inner edge of patella, according as chslocation is outivards or inwards. The other edge is thus raised and the bone freed, the quadi-iceps at once puUing it into position. Case 3 often presents great difficulties. Anaesthesia Manipulation. Manipulation combmed with bending leg and rotating it on axis of tibia. Forcible flexion. Sudden and violent extension made by patient himself. The cause of the difliculty said to be wedging of the superior angle of the bone in the intercondyloid space. Shun any division of tendons or ligaments. If dislocation be irreducible, wait, watch, and act according to the course taken by nature. 4, Upward disloca- tion : treat hke fractured patella. Dislocation of Lower Angle of Scapula.—Query as to pathology. Shpping of latissimus dorsi or paralysis of serratus magnus. On latter supposition use strychnine endermically (Erichsen); electricity; orthopaedic apphances. Dislocation of Shoulder-joint.—Five kinds : 1, down- wards, sub-coracoid; 2, downwards, subglenoid; 3, inwards, sub-clavicular; 4, backwards, sub spinous ; 5, upwards. Sub- coracoid is far the most common, sub-spinous very rare. Causes. Predisposing: the natural shallowness and free movements of the joint, previous dislocation, male sex, old age. Ex- citing : Falls on shoulder, elbow, or hand; muscular action. To produce the dislocation backwards, the elbow has to be directed across chest when falling, or else twisted inwards. Signs.—Six common signs (Erichsen): 1, Flattening of shoul- der; 2, hollow under acromion; 3, apparent projection of this process, with tension of the deltoid; 4, presence of head of bone in an abnormal situation; 5, rigidity; 6, pain in shoulder. These resolve themselves into three simply : 1, head