SKIN, DISEASES OF. occasional passage of secretions or excretions into the sinus, (4) presence of diseased glands (strumous or otherwise). Pas^ sage of sinus among muscles is a cause which may be classed with (2). Treatment.—Find out and treat cause. Sayre's vertebrated probe useful when track is sinuous. Remove dead bone, &c. Slit up, if situation of sinus permits. Injections of iodine, tannic acid, Condy, &c. Antiseptic bougies. Pressure. Drainage by passing a tube nearly to the bottom of the sinus. This can be combined with injection. Withdraw slightly each day. Cautery, especial galvanic or benzoline cautery. If the sinus pass among muscles, and cannot be slit up, the attach- ments of these muscles should be fixed by bandages, &c. Skin, Diseases of.—See Eczema,Ecthyma, Psoriasis, Corns, Warts, Elephantiasis, Scabies, &c., he.; only the commonest forms are noticed in this work. Skin, Transplantation of.—(1) Minute pieces of epidermis, which should include the youngest layers, namely, those next the true skin, are shaved or cut off and placed upon the surface of a healing ulcer, in order that they may there form nuclei whence cicatrisation may spread. (2) Skin is sometimes only partially severed from its connections, and then, with the circu- lation still active within it, transferred to the raw surface of another part. In this way, e.g., gaps in the skin of the chest may be fiUed in from that of the arm. Of course the arm has to be bound to the bosom until the skin has formed adhesions in its new site. (3) Pieces of skin even of considerable size, thoroughly cleaned free of subcutaneous tissue, have been suc- cessfully transplanted without any pedicle being left attached to them.—Vide papers by Wolff of Glasgow. In the first (far the commonest) method it is enough to place a small piece of gutta-percha tissue over each transplanted fragment, and to cover with water-dressing. Skull, Injuries of.—8ee Head. Sloughing.—See Gangrenk Snake-bites.—See Bites op Snakes. Snuffles.—See Syphilis, Congenital, (In Appendix.) Spectacles.—See Eyes. (In Appendix.) Spermatic Cord.—Frequently affected secondarily to the