CALCULUS. 63 Name C3 o a g C3 CHAKACTBRS Pinkish yellow, red, or lateritious (brick-dust) sedi- ment ; urine scan- ty, acid, and high- coloured. The precipitate, before subsiding, forms a cloud in the urine, which clears oft' when heated. Crystallin e form—uric acid, mostly rhombic prisms and plates. ' Gravel.' Causes 1. Rapid waste of tissues, e.g., as in fevers; 2, ex- cess in nitrogenous food; 3, dyspep- sia ; 4, obstructed perspiration ; 5, congestion of the kidneys (Golding Bird). Also im- perfect respira- tion. Cold weather will precipitate urates sometimes from healthy urine. Symptoms Those of the causes. Sometimes also a slight burning feel m passing water. Treatment Treat the causes. Mo- derate ani- m a1 food, plenty of ex- ercise, fresh air, particu- lar attention to the diges- tion, &c. Friedrick" shall and Vi- chy waters. Urates.—Minute spheres with acicular ppiculae of uric acid projecting from them. a o o Crystalline forms : 1, quadra- tic octahedra ; 2, dumb-bell crys- tals. ' 1. Phosphate nf Lime.—White, cloudy mass. Crys- tals : spherules, dumb-bells, ro- settes, oblique hexagonal prisms. 2. Phosphate of Ammonia and Magnesia (triple phosphate). - Crys- tals (large) : tri- angular, trunca- ted prisms, four- sided prisms, ir- regular six-sided plates; stellate crystals when am- monia has been added. Small and deli- cate crystalline sphen^les. Drum- sticks. ' Nervous ex- haustion ;' dys- pepsia; over- work; mental distress ; excess of saccharine food or alcoholic liquors. Alkaline urine is the immediate cause. It is caused b}- injuries and diseases of the bladder, especially paralysis and ca- tarrhal inflamma- tions ; renal in- flammation ; spi- nal injury or dis- ease. Nervous exhaustion ; ex- cessive use of al- kalies ; the .alkali- nity of the urine is said to result from the meta- morpliosis, of urea into carbonate of ammonia. The causes which determine the change of urea into carbonate of ammonia. Those of the causes. Occasion- ally, loss of sexual vi- gour, or dis- order of the sexual func- tions. Urine is o ft' e n s i V e, and often contains muco - pus. Signs of cau- sative dis- ease. No special symptoms known. De- posit rare. Treat the causes. Ee- gular diet, exercise, &c. M i n e r a 1 acids. Treat the causes. See Diseases of B L ADDE R, &C. Treat the conditions which ac- company it.