HYDROPHOBIA. 183 cyst containing sometimes pure serum, but frequently a mixture of serum and seminal fluid. An opening has often been found bet-ween the seminal tubules and the cyst. The cyst may originate from a dilated seminal tubule, or from a dilated cavity in the connective tissue, or, according to Osborne, from enlarge- ment of the 'hydatid of Morgagni.' Treatment.—Same as that of ordinary hydrocele. Diffused Hydrocele of Cord.—-UnknoAvn to living surgeons. Described by Pott. But hydrocele of cord sometimes receives this name if it forms a long, rather ill-defined tumour. Congenital Hydrocele.—Tunica vaginalis funiculi is open as in hernia into tunica vaginalis testis, but the open process contains peritoneal fluid instead of intestine. Treatment.— Puncture with fine trochar, and then tiy to close the opening by the pressure of a truss. Infantile Hydrocele.—Occurs in infants in whom tunica vaginalis has only closed at external abdomiual ring. Treat ment.—Discutient lotions. Puncture. If it is certain that there is no communication with peritoneal cavity, iodine injec- tion may be employed in obstinate cases. Many cases disappear with very little treatment. Hydrophobia.—A disease which developes primarily only in the dog, and from unknown causes; but which is com- municable by inoculation with the saliva of dog, cat, man, or any other animal who may suffer from it. Symptoms in Dog.—Two forms (or two stages ?), viz. : 1, a raving madness; 2, a quiet madness. Certainly these stages do sometimes follow each other ia the same dog. Or three stages may be distinguished: 1, of dulness with restlessness; 2, of fury; 3, of paralysis. In the first stage the animal wanders about ia a fidgety, uncomfortable manner, is evidently ill, and looks suspicious, unhappy, and distrustful. In the second stage, much of the fury is evidently due to halluciaations. He bites, but it is often at imaginary enemies, and he may still be mindful of his master's voice. In the third stage, paralysis makes the voice muffled or inaudible, the jaw drops, and the legs totter and fail. Finally death comes from exhaustion. The mad dog rarely shuns water, but laps it without swallowin<^.