HAEMORRHAGE. 147 Treatment.—Many cases requii'e great decision, sound ana- tomical knowledge, and saDguine courage for their pi-oper treat- ment. Classification of local remedies, seven chief classes, viz.: 1, ligature; 2, torsion; 3, acupressure; 4, compression; 5, flexion; 6, styptics; 7, position. Ligature.—Divided into—1, ligature at the bleeding point, and 2, ligature of the artery above the wound, i.e., ligatm-e ' in the continuity.' General rule.—In case of a vessel being wounded, cut down upon the wounded point, tie the vessel, • immediately above and below the wound. But in some cases, such an operation would involve a deep and large incision, e.g., in hsemorrhage from upper part of posterior tibial artery; and in other cases, the artery is diseased at the spot bleeding. In such cases the artery is often tied in the continuity. Materials used: silk, hemp, catgut. Operation.—Instruments required are scalpel, forceps, retractors, director, artery forceps (occasion- ally, also, aneurism needle), tenaculum. In tying an artery at the spot wounded, a sufliciently free incision should be made (usually by enlarging the wound which leads down to the artery), and then each end of the bleeding artery should be seized and ligatured if the vessel has been divided completely. But if the vessel has been only punctured, two ligatures must be applied \vith the aneurism needle, one above and the other below the wound. Secure the ligature with a reef-knot, puU- mg each end of the knot tight with the tips of the forefingers pressed against it; unless catgut be used, one end of the ligature is left hanging out of the wound. To tie the artery m the continuity, see the directions given under the head of Aneurism. Pathology; the effects of Internal and middle coats, divided, curl up within external coat which is merely constricted. Formation of conical jjlug of fibrin In- flammatory new formation {i.e., escape of leucocytes from blood- vessels into and around clot and arterial coats, and their organ- isation into fibrous tissue). Tied artery eventually dwindles into fibrous cord. Tor3ioii.~Bvj^nt'H directions are: 'The- vessel should be drawn out, as in the application of the ligature, and three or more shaq) rotations of the forceps made. In large aa^teries T, 2