275 * . SCURVY, T 2 in every way good, except in bad cases of extravasation. Treat- ment.—Vide Erysipelas, and Urine, Extravasation of. Scrotum, Elephantiasis of.—A cellulo-cutaneous hyper- trophy, with more or less oily infiltration. Very rare except in the East and West Indies, in Egypt, and in South America. Prime cause unknown. Exciting cause, occasionally some local irritation. The tumour may even attain a weight equal to that of all the rest of the patient, trunk and limbs inclusive. Surface sometimes smooth, sometimes tuberculated. Prognosis.—Steady growth. Perhaps eventually death from supervening ulcera- tion. Treatment.—Excision. If under 3 stones in weight, trv to dissect out and save testicles and penis. Danger of great haemorrhage. Scrotum, Epithelioma of (Chimney-sweep's Cancer). Chiefly attacks chimney-sweeps. Commences as a wart or tubercle ' oftenest near the lower and fore jjart' of scrotum. (Humphry.) Structure that of epithelioma elsewhere. Treat- ment.—Excise. Decidedly enlarged glands in groin should be excised too. Yery little tendency to affect the system, but great tendency to recurrence. Irritation of soot has been known to produce epithelioma on hand of a gardener. Scurvy.—Believed to be a blood-disease. Causes.—Salt meats. Want of fresh meat and fresh vegetables. Subsidiary causes are severe cold, and all depressing influences. ' In former Arctic expeditions scurvy occurred in men who indulged to excess in alcohol, and who had not been exposed to the deteriorating conditions that existed dtiring sledge-travelling.' i Morlid ilTiatomi/.—Extravasations all over the body, beneath skin, in serous cavities, in viscera, and in intermuscular spaces. Extreme emaciation. Ulcerations. Symptoms and Course.—Yv^moTyAovy signs, great lassitude, pains in joints. Then appear sore mouth, petechise, and, by-and-by, ulcers and blood-tumours. Hcemor- rhages of various kinds, internal and external; progressive exhaustion. Prosrwosis.—Fatal, unless the causes be removed Proper treatment rescues very bad cases indeed. Treatment — Vegetables. Eresh meat. Lime-juice. Best attainable hygienic ^'"'■"^' expedition, quoted by Mr. fl.