189 INCONTINENCE OF UEINE. marriage state. Paget writes : ' Some will expect you to pre- scribe fornication. I would just as soon prescribe theft or lying, or anything else that God has forbidden. Celibacy does no harm to mind or body; its discipline is excellent: marriage can be safely waited for.' If the patient is already married, attend to the first three indications, give some mysterious and harmless medicine, and forbid intercourse for three weeks. ' The nonchalance that he thus acquires during sexual excite- ment, and inattention to the strength and duration of the erections, render cohabitation possible, and he has the first"suc- cessful coitus during the time it was forbidden.' Lallemand's porte caustique. A solution of argent, nit. (gr. v. to gj) is applied to prostatic part of urethra every other day. This is a treatment now unjustly neglected. Faradisation of inner surface of thigh, of testicles, and lower part of spine. Constant current to spine. ' Positive pole over 5th dorsal vertebra, negative over sacrum or perinteum. Three or four sittings a week, one to three minutes each.' Battery, 20 to 30 Daniel's elements of medium size.' Incontinence of Urine.—Differs very much in cause and treatment according as it occurs in children, in hysterical young people, or in adults. Causes.—1, In children : either wilful laziness or a genuine disease, probably partial anaesthesia of bladder. More remote causes are worms, calculus, and struma ; 2, in hysterical girls : vide causes of hysteria; 3, in adults : a distended state of bladder, the result of paralysis. Those cases in which the urine can only be retained in the bladder for a short time may be classed with Irritability of the Bladder, quod vide. Treatment.—1, Of incontinence in children : re- move the cause; treat the patient kindly, rather encourage than frighten him; avoid corporal punishment in children; flannel clothing at night; wake the child every thi-ee hours to micturate; try cold douche to spine every morning. Extractum belladonnae gr. |-th, or tinct. belladonna \\\ x ter die. Tonics : strychnine, cantharides, chloral at bed-time. For hysterical incontinence, treat the hysteria. Cold sitz baths. For inconti • ' See Dreschfeld, Practitioner, vol. xiii. p. 360.