DISEASES OF NOSE. 244 Nipples, Retracted.—When merely a natural conformation, attempt to bring out by repeatedly drawing with the breast-pump. Noma.—See Cancrum Oris. Disease attacks external geni- tals of female children as well as mouth. Nose, Diseases of.—Those which require special notice are acne rosacea, lipoma, lupus, epithelioma, chronic nasal catari-h, ozsena, syphilis, tumours (including polypi), and deformities. Acne Rosacea,—Occurs chiefly in young women, in women of 50, and in men advanced in life. Causes.—Indigestion. Disorders of sexual system. Local irritation, e.g., from ex- posure to sun and weather. When attacking old men the cause is usually spirit-drinking. Pathology.—Cutaneous hyper- trophy and capillary congestion. Sebaceous glands not neces- sarily affected. Treatment.—Remove the cause if possible. Regulate the habits. Treat indigestion. Locally.—Ung. sul- phuris iodidi. Lotio hydi-arg. perchlor. (gr. ij-gj). Bathing with water as hot as it can be borne. Abstiaence from stimu- lants. Riding and driving exercise. The dilated capillaries may be slit up and touched with liq. ferri perchlor. Nose, Lipoma of.—Integumentary and subcutaneous hyfier- trophy of alse and tip of nose. Variable in extent and size. Attacks old men. Fibro-cellular and not fatty in structure. Treatment.—^Removable by suitable incisions. Slight danger of erysipelas. Nose, Lupus of.—Vide Lupus. Nose, Epithelioma of.—See Cancer. Nasal Catarrh, Chronic.—Causes.—Residence in damp, cold localities, repeated acute catarrhs, constitutional predis- position, struma, exposure to draughts, irritating dust, irrita- tion of nasal polypi (and specific causes—see ' Ozsena'). Sign^.— Mucous membrane swollen, red, covered with secretion, mucous or muco-pin-ulent, moist, or crusted. Sometimes a nasal tone of voice. Nose may be occluded by swelling of mucous membrane. Pharynx usually also affected. Treatment.—Treat the cause. Nasal douche with solutions of chlorate of potash, common salt, phosphate of soda, and carbonate of soda, in hot water (hot water is preferable to lukewarm). Use douche twice a day. Solutions should be just strong enough to taste