CALCULUS IN FEMALE. 68 Deposits. Position.—They may occur as small infarctions in the tubules, or as stones of various sizes, single or multiple, in the pelvis and calyces, often forming a cast of the pelvis and its offsets. Symptoms and Course.—Pain in the back; blood, pus, or ' gravel' in urine; sometimes intense pain (renal colic), caused by passage of a calculus down the ureter into the bladder; pyelitis. Treatment.—When an abscess forms it has been found sometimes practicable and justifiable to cut down upon and remove the stone. For the renal colic, use opium boldly, chloroform, and warm baths. Calculus in the Prostate.—Origin : either descends from bladder, or forms first in prostate. Number, 1 to 100 : size, grain of sand to cherry-stone; faceted; colour various; con- sistence, various; structure, usually concentric layers; chemistry, phosphate (rarely carbonate) of lime; position, projecting into or near the urethra usually, but sometimes near circumference of gland, and occasionally even partly in bladder and partly in prostate. Symptoms.—Those of irritation, inflammation, or abscess of the prostate, according to their effect; semi-erection of penis, and difficulty in seminal ejaculation. Calculus can possibly be felt by sound in the urethra or finger in rectum. Treatment.—Remove if possible by urethral forceps, or operate as for median hthotomy; but do not operate when the calculi are small, very numerous, or only to be felt per rectum. When operating, see if there be any calculus in the bladder also. Calculus in the Urethra.—Usually descends from bladder, but may be formed in sitH (then usually behind a stric- ture). Sym,ptoms.—Vsiin, obstruction, or retention of urine. If not relieved, dilatation of urethra, extravasation, abscess, and urinary fistula, through which stone may pass. Treatment.^l, Push forwards with finger and thumb; 2, extract with urethral forceps, wax bougie, or some specially devised instrument, if necessary slitting up meatus urinarius; or, 3, push back stone to posterior part of urethra, and do median lithotomy. If there is not serious obstruction, a little patience will sometimes allow the urine to wash the stone right to the meatus within twenty-four hours. In other cases delay is highly dangerous. Calculus in Female has, besides many of those of male.