' OPTIC NERVE. 413 lachrymation ceases. Various kinds of lachrymal probes are used, as Bowman's, Couper's, Weber's. Fistula of lachrymal sac frequently occurs in acute inflam- mation—a small tortuous sinus between the sac and the skin, from which a continuous oozing of the tears on to the cheek takes place. Treatment—(V) Cure the stricture and restore the mucous membrane to a healthy condition. (2) If necessary, pare the edges of fistulous opening, and bring together by fine siiture. Lachrymal Gland.—Hypertrophy, acute and chronic inflam- mation, abscess, fistula, cysts, sarcoma. Removal sometimes required for disease or for obstinate cases of lachrymation. Operation.—Make incision below upper and outer third of the orbital ridge through skin and the fascia: feel for gland with finger, seize with hooked forceps, draw forwards, sever with knife, do not close wound till hsjemorrhage has ceased. Optic Nerve.—Diseases; Neuritis; Atrophy. Optic Neueitis may extend from the brain to the retina (descending); may commence at the optic disc (papillitis) and thence pass along the nerve (ascending). When the disc is afiected there may be (a) simple congestion; (&) congestion with swelling, which renders the outline of the disc more or less ob- scure. Causes.—Cerebral tumour, meningitis, syphilis, albu- mimiria, lead-poison, wotmd of cornea, hypermetropia. The sight is aifected in proportion to the change in the optic nerve fibi'es. There may be lessened acuteness of vision, limitation of field of vision, altered colour perception. Treatment.—Endeavour to find the cause of the malady and treat this. Rest the eyes. In cases where syphiUs is a known cause, give a prolonged but mild coui'se of mercury and iodide of potassium. When syphilis is the probable cause, give iodide, and in the early stage give mercury also. In strumous cases, pursue tonic treatment. Atrophy of Optic Nerve may commence without any visible inflammation of disc (primary), or may follow as a result of papillitis. The optic disc varies in appearance from slight pallor to bluish-wbite. The vessels may be of normal size, or may be much atrophied. Treatment.—Give quinine