^° AETERIES. where it joins the middle coat. This inflammatory new formation takes one of three courses. Either (1) it softens down into molecules and fat, and causes an ulceration of the tunica intima; or (2) it organises into a fibrous thickening; or (3) it undergoes a calcareous degeneration. It is in the first case that aneurism is most likely to occur. In the smaller vessels it is the muscles which ossify. When the disease attains a high grade, the arteries bulge out, various stages found together at same time. In the smallest arteries the process affects chiefly the adventitia. In the largest artei-ies (which are almost void of muscle) it aflfects almost entirely the intima. Atheroma pulp consists of mole- cular and fat granules, cholesterine, crumbs of carbonate of lime, and hsematoidin crystals. Effects of Atheroma.—Secondary hagmorrhage. (Acupressure recommended for atheromatous arteries.) Gangrene. Aneurism. Arteries, Ligature of.—Arteries ai-e tied either in the continuity or at a point wounded or severed. 1. Ligature in the continuity.—Operation generally done at a point selected, be- cause, 1, it is not too near a diseased part of the vessel (e.g., an aneurism); 2, it is not so far an aneurism that collateral circulation would at once nullify the operation ; 3, it is not close to the origin of a large branch, the rush of blood through which would prevent coagulation and cause secondary haemorrhage. Operation.—Learn well the superficial and deep landmarks, and the anatomy of the part. Mark out the vessel's course. Incise the skin and superficial fascia equally and sufficiently. A director may be used for the deep fascia. Avoid superficial veins; avoid opening sheaths of muscles. ' The surgeon should not at the commencement occupy himself with looking for the ar- tery, but should seek the first marked point of guidance, then the second, then the thii-d, and so on to the end' (Bryant). Handle of knife will push muscles, &c., aside. Retractors, Feel artery pulsate. Opening in sheath to be small, and made with knife-blade held on a plane just superficial to the artery, that is ' on the flat.' Insinuate aneurism-needle round artery. Draw out ligature with forceps. In tying, press down knot with tips of forefingers; do not lift vessel from its bed. Cut one end of a silk ligature short, and both ends of a catgut one. Close