412 -EYE, DISEASES OF. inwards; usually symmetrical; variable in degree; generally associated with a corresponding defect in the choroid. Mydriasis (dilation of the pupil) is a derangement which may be caused by disease or by the action of mydriatic drugs, e.g., glaucomatous tension of the globe; diseases of choi'oid or retina, optic atrophy, paralysis of third nerve. Mydriatics, sulphate of atropia, extract of belladonna, sulphate of duboisine, sulphate of datiu-ine, etc. Myosis (contraction of pupil) may be caused by spasmodic action of the circular fibres of iris, loss of power of radiating fibres of iiis, hypersesthesia of retina, afiection of spino-sympa- thetic filaments which supply the radiating fibres of iris, myotic drugs, e.g., Calabar bean, sulphate of eserine, nitrate of pilo- carjjine. Lachrymal Apparatus.—Overflow of tears (lachrymation, epiphora, stillicidium) is caused by excessive secretion, or by some defect in the lachiymal apparatus which prevents the escape of the tears. This defect may exist (i.) at the puncta lachrymalia, which may be displaced or obstructed; (ii.) in the canaliculi, which may be obstructed by stricture near the sac or by foreign body; (iii.) in the lachrymal sac or nasal duct. Inflammation of the Lachrymal Sac is very common; generally caused by stricture of the nasal duct. Symptoms.— Lachrymation, presence of a tumour (mucocele) at the inner canthus, which may often be emptied by pressure with the finger, the contents passing upwards through canaliculi, or downwai'ds through nasal duct. The contents of the sac vary according to the character of the inflammation. At first it consists of viscid mucus, which may remain a long time, or may become semi-purulent; in more acute inflammation there is abundant suppuration with swelling of surrounding parts, and pointing either through the skin, when a lachrymal fistula is established, or through the conjunctiv^a near the caruncle. Treatment.—1. Slit up the canahculus, and so give free exit to contents of sac. This may be done upon Critchett's director, or by passing a Weber's canaliculus knife, or by a pair of delicate scissors. 2. Endeavour to cure the stricture of the nasal duct by passing a lachrymal probe every third day until