110 HECTIC FEVER. in the part. Then swelling successively of perinfeum, scrotum, penis, and hypogastrium. Pain; fever, which soon assumes a low or ' typhoid' character. Skin of parts affected dusky red or purple. Rapid sloughing wherever the extravasated urine finds its way. CEdema, emphysema. The retention itself is sometimes reHeved by this accident. Prognosis.—In some cases the urine again begins to flow by the urethra, further extrava- sation ceases, abscesses form, and the sloughs are cast off—the patient recovering. But it is generally considered that, in most cases, operative interference is urgently demanded. Then there is still great danger, first, from the acute gangrene, &c., and, lastly, from the prolonged suppuration which ensues. The whole of both testicles may be denuded by the sloughing; but, if patient survive, the skin wUl heal and contract over them. Anatomy.—It is almost always the bulbous part of the urethra which gives way. Then the attachment of the deep layer of the superficial fascia to the posterior border of the triangular ligament, to the rami and body of the pubes, and to Poupart's ligaments, prevents any passage of the urine into the thighs, ischio-rectal fossse, pelvis, or buttocks. Treatment.—Indica- tions : 1, to relieve the original retention; 2, to give vent to the sloughs and extravasation ; 3, to support the strength. To relieve the retention, a catheter shoiild be passed, if possible, and left in. The retention is sometimes relieved by the free incision which should be made in the perinseum, to give vent to the urine and sloughs. This free incision should always be made. In making it, place the left forefinger in the rectum, to protect that structure, and cut upwards in the median hne in the direction of the urethra. If the extravasation is con- siderable, other incisions should be made. Over the incisions place a poultice, sprinkled with some antiseptic. To keep up the strength, give abundant nouiishment, tonics, and stimulants. Face, Wounds of.—Eeadily heal. Greatest care should be taken to prevent deformities. Replace even hopeless-lookuig flaps; hare-lip pins; horse-hair sutures. Removal of pins and sutures early, lest they themselves should cause scars. Fever, Hectic.—The fever which results from and accom- panies chronic diseases of an exhausting character. Causes.—