DISLOCATION. 91 strong ligaments, and sometimes from too small a hole in the capsule. Hence the advantage of manipulation. Dislocation on dorsum ilii.-l. Extension. Apply pulleys just above con- dyles of femur, and extend knee across lower third of opposite thigh : fix peh-is with perinseal band. 2. Manipulation.-Place patient on back, and give anaesthetic completely; grasp knee and foot; flex well both knee and hip, adduct thigh, rotate out- wards, and suddenly bring down the limb into a straight line with body. If this fail, try again and again, or rotate inwards instead of outwards. Dislocation towards sciatic notch.—1. Extension. Place patient on sound side; apply permseal band and pulleys; flex limb, and draw it across opposite thigh. 2. Manipulation. Same proceedings as in dislocation on dorsum ilii. Dislocation into thyroid foramen.—1. Extension. A pelvic band pulls pelvis towards sound side. A perineal band, working beneath it, is connected with pulleys whicb extend upwards and outwards from the injured hip. The surgeon grasps the ankle of the dislocated limb, and, dragging inwards, thus prises the femur into the acetabulum. Instead of the pelvic and perinaeal bands, the bed-post may be placed in the patient's fork, and used as a fulcrum. 2. Manipulation. Flex hip, abduct slightly, rotate strongly inwards, adduct and straighten. Dislocation on pubes.—1. Extension. Extend limb, well abducted, downwards and backwards. At same time, pull head of bone outwards by a towel round thigh just beneath groin. 2. Manipulation. Pull strongly on thigh in line of axis of femur, at same time bending it on the abdomen ; rotate inwards, and bring down into a line with body; or employ same manoeuvres as in thyroid dislocation. Old Dislocations.—Reduction is tolerably safe to attempt up to two months. Afterwards, danger of inflammation of joint, or fracture of femur. Dislocation with Fracture of Femur.—Try to push head of bone into place, or let bone unite, and then, in sixth week, attempt reduction. Dislocation of Lower Jaw.—Usually bilateral. Causes. —Direct violence, or over-extension in gaping. Symptoms.— Bilateral.—Mouth widely open and cannot be shut; saliva