OSTEOTOMY. 377 oxygen, organisms, deadly to certain animals, may be so modified that, while preserving the power of infection, they can infect only mildly, and yet protect the inoculated animal against future infection by more active organisms of the same species. In constructing the above, unfortunately, very imperfect account of the present state of knowledge concerning a subject of absorbing interest and vast importance, I have been chiefly indebted to Koch, on the ' Etiology of Traumatic Infective Diseases,' translated for the New Sydenham Society by Cheyne, and to the addresses of Pasteur and Klebs at the International Congress, 1881. In these may be found the names of the numerous workers who have discovered what is at present known of the subject. Charcot's Joint-Disease.—Preceded by the 'lightning pains,' characteristic of tabes dorsalis or locomotor ataxy. The limb near the afi"ected joint sometimes swells quickly and extensively, after some time returning again to its normal size. Spontaneous dislocations. Fractures caused by gentle movements. Accom- panying signs of locomotor ataxy, e.g. more or less inco-ordina- tion of movements and loss of muscular sense. ' The very rapid and extreme wearing away of the articular extremities of the bones is the principal character which, fi-om aii anatomico- pathological point of view, distinguishes the arthropathies of ataxia from common rheumatic arthritis [arthrite seche).' There is also little or no formation of osteophytes.' Excellent model and specimens in St. Thomas's Hospital Museum. Osteotomy.—A term now practically confined to the division of bone for deformity, with, at most, the removal of a wedge- shaped piece. Instruments.—Saws, osteotomes, and chisels. Saws are very narrow and either blades or chains. Osteotomes resemble chisels, but they are bevelled on both surfaces, while the chisel proper is bevelled only on one. The temper of the steel and angle of the bevel are of high importance in the case of osteotomes and chisels. Improper instruments would easily cause fatal results, or, at all events, splintering of bone, great shock, perhaps failure to attain the object aimed at, and occa- sionally a piece of the chisel left in the bone. A proper osteo-