205 DISEASES OF JOINTS. peval rheumatism (from 7 to 11 commonly called specific inflam- mations). Loose cartilage. Ankylosis. Neuralgia of joints, Neuromimetic or hysterical joint. ' Of late, great importance has been attached (especially by French surgeons) to speaking,, first, of diseases of the synovial membrane, then of those of the cartilage, articular capsule, and bone, corresponding to the ana- tomical conditions. Correct as this division would be if it were only a question of representing the pathological anatomical changes, it is of little use in practice. The surgeon always views iuflammation of the joint as a whole, and although he should know which part of the joint sufiers most, this is only a part of what he should know ; course, symptoms, and con- stitutional state equally demand his attention and determine the treatment. Hence the entire clinical appeai-ance will deter- mine the divisions of this, as of many other diseases.'—Billroth. Acute Synovitis.—Causes.—Usually exposure to cold. Often blows or sprains. Predisposing cause sometimes, e.g., syphilis, rheumatic constitution, &c. But specific inflammations are noticed separately. Joints least supplied with a covering of soft parts are most liable. Signs.—Pain, heat, and swellings but not usually redness. Gi'eat tenderness. Swelling has a characteristic shape, bulging out exactly where the synovial membrane would tend to pouch when distended. Fluctuation. Tension sometimes great enough to prevent fluctuation. Fever- ishness. Pathology.—Synovial membrane is actively congested,, and cavity of joint distended with sero-synovial fluid, usually clear, but occasionally containing a few corpuscles or a little blood. Prognosis.—Altogether good, unless constitution be bad or treatment neglected. Diagnosis.—Distinguish from acute inflammation of any neighbouring bursa. Consider position and shape of swelling and history of case. Treatment.—Rest; splint or ' fi:xed apparatus.' Attend to position according to joint afiected. Cold. Pressure. Wet bandages. Cotton wool com- press and bandage over it. Leeches. Hot fomentations. Dover's powders internally. For specific cases give specific drugs. Acute Suppuration or Acute Abscess of Joint.—Causes. Sometimes one or more of the causes of ordinary acute synovitis. Sometimes the opening into the joint of an abscess in the neigh-