FRACTUEES. 115 The cells -which are the agents of the process escape from the blood vessels. Complete ossific union requires a period of one to two months. Restoration of the medullary canal and absorption of the external or provisional callus requires four or five months more. Union in compound fractures results from organisation and ossification of granulations which grow from the ends of the bones and from the neighbouring periostevim. The process is essentially the same as that of union of simple fractures. Fre- quently the ends of the fragments die, and then the sequestra are cast off" by the growth beneath them of granulations which . absorb the hard parts of the adjacent living bone. Granulations possibly dissolve the lime-salts of bone by developing lactic acid. Many compoimd fractures have the external wound healed so rapidly, that they really unite just like simple fi-actures. A bare piece of bone does not usually begin to granulate till about 8-10th day. In mean time, it is of a yellow colour. Dead bone is white or grey or blackish. Compound fractures require for uniting three times as long as simple fractm^es. Delaved Union and JSTon-Unign of Fractures.—Occurs natm-ally in some situations, as in intracapsular fracture of neck of femur, ditto of neck of humerus, fracture of olecranon, and of patella. Causes.—Predisposing : 1, bad nutrition ; 2, debility from repeated haemorrhage; 3, specific diseases of blood, e.g., scui-vy, the continued fevers ; 4, cancerous cachexia; 5, osteomalacia. Local causes are : 1, too loose a dressing ; 2, too large a gap of bone to fill up, perhaps owing to loss of°a large portion ; 3, too early motion. Too loose a dressing, and repeated meddling with and disturbing a fractui-e, are by far the commonest causes. In ununited fracture, as the condition is called, there is usuaUy fibrous union, sometimes a new synovial membrane and actual false 'joint.' It is rare for there to be no union at all between the fragments. Treatment of Simple Fracttore.—Three main indications • 1, reduction or setting; 2, keeping in proper position till firm union has taken place; 3, prevention or treatment of compli- cations. Setting : extension, counter-extension, manipulation relaxation of muscles by flexion of joints or by anjBsthesia' occasional propriety of dividing tendons. Compound fractures I 2