FOEEIGN BODIES IN (ESOPHAGUS. 247 heing tm-ved out, is replaced. Cancer requires excising like fibrous polypus, unless too far advanced. Abscess is an occasional cause of swelling m the nose, especially during syphilitic disease. Open early. Nose Deformities OF.-Congenital are very rare. Flat- tening from syphilis or from accident is difficult to treat, especrally the former. To raise a nose depressed by fracture, instruments such as those of S. Gamgee may prove_useful. (Esophagus, Foreign Bodies in.-May lodge in any part, but usually stop at commencement just behind cricoid carti- lage Symptoms.-LocsX pain, especially on attempting to swallow The character of the nain and the presence or absence of dyspnoea depend on the nature and size of the body So also do the prognosis and treatment. A sott, soluble, or macerable substance may pass eventually with little or no external assistance, or may easily slip down before a probang. A pin may be caught by the horse-haii^ probang, and a coin by the ' coin-probang,' or either may be brought up by forceps, such as those of Bryant. But large jagged bodies may demand a cutting operation; and, when they cannot be recovered by less serious means, cesophagotomy had better not be delayed. Urgent dyspncea may demand laryngotomy or tracheotomy. Oil the probangs and oesophageal bougies before using them. The fingers are useful, not only for examining the pharynx, but for hooking out foreign bodies from its lower end. If the foreign body reach the stomach, keep the patient in bed, and give large quantities of bulky food, but no drugs. (Esophagotomy.—Scalpels, forceps (dissecting and artery), retractors, director, probe, oesophageal forceps, or some other lono- curved instrument to act as a staff passed down the oesophagus. Place a pillow beneath shoulders. Incision for five inches along anterior border of sterno-mastoid (left, unless foreign body project to right), with its centre opposite position of foreign body. Proceed as in tying carotid; but, instead of opening carotid sheath, retract it and its contents outwards. Retract larynx the other way. In opening oesophagus, take care not to wound recurrent laryngeal nerve. Feed for a few days through an oesophageal tube passed thi'ough mouth and beyond wound, Prognosis very good.