33 ASPHYXIA. tibialis posticus; nerve crossing superficially a,iid obliquely from within outwards. 2nd method : incision, three quarters of an inch behind and parallel to posterior border of tibia, down to tibial origin of soleus. Separate soleus from bone, divide sub- muscular fascia, and find artery immediately beneath it. Near Ankle.—Artery lies beneath thick deep fascia, rather nearer malleolus than heel. Incise over it. lllnar.—Line : from middle of bend of elbow, curving in- wards slightly, to outer side of pisiform bone. Upper half: incise obliquely over course of vessel and well to inner side of arm; find outer border of flex, carpi ulnai-is; divide it from flex, sublimis, and find artery between superficial and deep flexors; inner border of flexor sublimis may be found in thin people by putting that muscle in action. Above Wrist.—^Divide skin and deep fascia just outside tendon of flex, carpi ulnaris. Nerve on the inner side. Asphyxia.—Causes.—1, Compression of chest; 2, compres- sion of lungs by air in pleura; 3, traumatic compression of trachea, as iu garrotting; 4, foreign body in air-passages; 5, immersion in some fluid, including {a) water (drowning), (6) some inert gas, (c) some poisonous gas; 6, disease, including {a) pressure by aneurism, oedema glottidis, accumulation of mucus, ifec, (h) paralysis of respiratory muscles. Hanging may be classed with cause 3. Appearances.—Lividity, swelling of face, perhaps bleeding from nose or mouth. Post mortem : engorgement of right side of heart, emptiness of left side of heart; arteries contain venous blood; abdominal viscera en- gorged ; lungs not peculiar when there has only been mechanical obstruction; but in drowning they are filled with frothy water, doughy and heavy, and the air-tubes are choked with frothy and bloody water and mucus. Brain sometimes hypertemic, es- pecLally after hanging or suffocation. Prognosis.—Almost hope- less after five minutes' submersion. Remember, a person may be immersed some time without being submerged. Recovery has taken place after three-quarters of an hour of asphyxia (Weeks). Prognosis much worse if water has got into the lungs. Treatment.—Ln drowning, hold the patient's head downwards for a few seconds to begin with. In hanging or choking, bleed D