INFLAMMATION. 191 ing instantly into a description of its observed phenomena, Causes.—A. Predisposing : 1, plethora, especially if coinci- dent with a weak cii'culation ; 2, local congestion ; 3, impurity of the blood, such as arises from kidney or lung disease; 4, alcoholism ; 5, chronic inanition (? does this cause inflammation or only modify it in an evil manner); 6, atheromatous artei-ies ; 7, defective innervation; 8, bodily state left after certain zymo- tic diseases, e.g., measles and typhoid; 9, specific 'diatheses,' e.g., gouty, strumous, and rheumatic; 10, congenital peculiari- ties. The above list could be amplified ad infinitum by going into detail, e.g.. Cause 2 includes all the causes of cedema and dropsy, varicose veins, pressure of tumours on veins, &c., &c. B. Exciting causes : 1, physical; 2, chemical. Both these may be either of external or internal origin, e.g., a joint may inflame from the physical iri-itation of a contusion, or of a loose cartilage, or from the chemical irritation of an iodine injection or of gouty products. The common practice, of classing qiute separately the morbid products of the body itself, is illogical; for these products act either physically or chemically; 3, injuries or diseases of nerves; 4, speciflc in- fluences. Physical causes include blows, wounds, strangula- tion, &c.; chemical include effects of strong acids and alkalies, and of septic material. An example of iaflammation following nerve-injuiy is that of the eyeball which follows injury of the ophthalmic nerve. Specific influences are such as syphilis, small-pox, and measles. The action of heat and cold are partly chemical and partly physical. Phenomena.—Classical signs,—pain, heat, redness, swelling. Pain.—results from either tension or compression of nerve- fibrils. Its character and intensity vary with the locality. Osteitis causes aching, phlegmonous erysipelas causes throbbing pain, and superficial inflammations produce burning, tingling pains. With pain is associated tenderness. In the nerves of special sense, special sensations take the place of pain, e.g., tinnitus aurium in catarrh of the tympanum, while the in- tolerance of light in ophthalmia is analogous to tenderness. Pain is often diffused, e.g., pain throughout one side of face and