82 delirium: tremens. entrance of air into a divided vein. (B, secondary) 1, exhaustion ; 2, erysipelas; 3, abscess; 4, some form of blood-poisoning; 5, broncbitis or pneumonia ; 6, secondary hsemorrhage, especially sucb as migbt be provoked by the patient tearing the wound open afresh. (C, remote) 1, cicatricial stenosis; 2, fistula. Prognosis.— When a large vessel is wounded, death is usually almost immedi- ate. In other cases the prognosis would be hopeful, but for the un- favourable state of body and mind usually coexisting in suicides. Treatment.—1, Arrest hemorrhage; tie bleeding vessels; 2, extract clots from air-passages ; 3, if the injured parts cannot be brought into apposition without sutures, and if these sutures will not interfere at all with drainage, use them. In most cases sutures are not necessary ; place a bandage round the head and another round the chest, and connect these in such a manner as to hold the chin down towards the chest ; 4, in cases where the injury is such as to seriously obstruct breathing through larynx, perform tracheotomy; 5,dress thewound with a mass of antiseptic crauze (of course, this is not meant to keep the wound aseptic) ; 6 the patient must be diligently fed, and if, from wound of the oesophagus or damage to the larynx, swallowing is impossible or difficult, a tube must be passed down the gullet and food passed through it. Be sure not to pass this tube into the trachea by mistake, a blunder easily made ; 7, see that the nursing is dili- gent, energetic, and vigilant. Cysts.—^S'ee Tumours. ., , , Deformities are of many different kinds, and are described else- where-Fii. articles Palate, Cleft; Club-foot; Cicatrices, Contraction of ; Joint Diseases ; Paralysis, Congenital ; Spine, Curvature of, &c. . . a.i r ^ Delirium Tremens, though usually arising directly from prolonged and excessive drinking, is not unfrequently produced by a wound or compound fracture acting as an exciting cause il patients who have not lately been guilty of g-t e.^.s^ Accessory causes are abstinence from food and any other depressing influence. Pathology.-'The striking appearance, depressm mn excessive serosity' in the ventricles post mortem, 'is that ot excesbivo e»™«/rtw<j — of the brain and between its membranes Symptoms. Tremor, especially observable in the hands and tongue. Wan-