TETANUS. 312 Tetanus. r 1. Spasms continued (tonic). 2. Cause—wound, or exposiire to cold. 3. Appears generally soon after injury. 4. Eisus sardonicus. 6. Frequently gastric pain, but no vomiting. Hydrophobia, 1. Intervals of complete relaxation (spasms clonic). 2. Bite of a rabid animal. 3. Period of incubation usually a month or more. 4. Countenance expressive of excite- ment, fearful distress and peculiar restlessness; occasionally fright- fullj' convulsed ; eyes briglit and glistening, but at times suffused. 5. Thirst; often aversion to fluids ; discharge of viscid saliva. 6. Vomiting and gastric ])ain3. 7. Mind becomes delirious. 8. No authentic case of recovery. 9. Intolerant sensibility of surface and organs of sense. Prognosis.—Acute traumatic tetanus almost always fatal. Subacute traumatic tetanus often i-ecovers, especially if it does not appear till some time after the wound, and progresses slowly. The prognosis is favourable according to the duration of the disease. Thus, a, tetanus which has endured three weeks is extremely likely to recover. Idiopathic and chronic tetanus have a favourable prognosis. The longest duration of any recorded fatal case has been thirty-nine days. Treatment,— Remove every source of excitement, keep the room dark and silent, lay down thick carpets, protect from draughts by screens. Cover the patient with light, warm clothing, so as to encourage copious diaphoresis. Examine the wound very carefully if one exists. Remove any foreign body or sijlinter. If a nerve is believed to be irritated, a portion of its coiu'se may be excised. Those who regard tetanus as a septic poisoning would be justi- fied in taking measures to make the wound antiseptic. Ampu- tation has been done. Many drugs have been tried, chiefly ano- dynes and antispasmodics. Most surgeons now choose between chloral, morphia subcutaneously, opium internally, and Calabar bean. Curare. Chloroform. Quinine. Ice-bags to spine. Of Calabar bean, Gari'od writes ; ' In tetanus, enough must be given to produce the physiological symptoms of the drug. One-third gr. of the extract, rubbed vip with 10-15 minims of water, and neutralised with a little carbonate of soda, may be injected every two or three hovirs subcutaneously, where swallowing causes