^2 DISLOCATION. dribbles; speech and deglutition almost impossible; depressions where condyles ought to be; prominences behind and beneath malar bones. Unilateral.-Symptoms less marked; chin in- clines towards sound side; depression in front of ear only on side dislocated. J/ec/mmsm.—Two views. One, that it is caused by the coronoid process locking against the malar bone. The second merely attributes it to excessive muscular action. Prognosis.—If left unreduced, a certain amount of motion re- turns, and the teeth can be made to nearly, if not quite, meet, Heduction.—Firstlj, disengage condyle by pressing downwards with thumbs, guarded by a towel, in mouth behind last molar teeth. Secondly, push chin backwards and upwards. Co7i- genital dislocation is generally accompanied by other signs of imperfect development. Subluxation is a kind of 'catching' of the jaw, which the patient can easily remedy for liimself. It occurs in young people of relaxed fibre. General Treatment. —Tonics and time. Dislocation of Knee.—Five kinds : forwards, backwards, inwards, outwards, and dislocation of semilunar cartilage, called 'subluxation.' The first four are unmistakable, from the obvious deformity. The lateral dislocations are most com- mon and not complete. One or other condyle sHps over to the opposite half of the tibial surface. Dislocation of the tibia forwards is dangerous from pressure on popliteal vessels by femur. Subluxation is marked by sudden and severe pain attacking joint, which then remains semiflexed. Reduction.— Extend and rotate slightly. Compound dislocation, except in favourable cases, requires amputation. Subluxation is reduced by flexion, followed when the patient is off" his guard by sudden extension, combined with slight rotation. Whilst manipulating, press firmly with one thumb on any tender spot. Dislocation of Metacarpal Bones.—Rare, obvious, and easily reduced by extension. Dislocation of Metatarsus, if compound, may require amputation. Dislocation op Patella —Four kinds : outwards (most common), inwards, edgewise, and upwards. Causes.—blow on the edge of the patella, or sudden muscular action. Signs, dsc.—