295 SYPHILIS. syjihilitic patient are capable of syphilising by inoculation. But excretions of such a patient are innocuous. It is even stated, but not proved, that vaccine lymph can only transmit syphilitic poison when mixed with blood. Faiholocjij and Semeiolocjy.—In the progress of syphilis there are four periods, viz.:—1. Incubation. 2. Local erup- tion, or primary lesion. 3. General eruption, or secondary sj'philis. 4. Gummy products, or tertiary syphilis. * Well- marked differences separate each of these periods; in the first it is the complete absence of local manifestations ; in the second, the presence of a single unique modification of the tissues at the point of deposition of the contagious matter. Numerous but superficial lesions, which generally leave no appreciable trace of their passage, characterise the third {i.e. secondary) period; while the fourth is distinguished by changes more deep-seated, and usually followed by cicatrices. More- over, inoculable and hereditary in the second and third periods, sypMlis does not appear to be contagious either in the first or in the last.' (Lancereaux.) Period of Incubation.—Three to five weeks.^ '■ Local Eruption (Primary Syphilis). Ilunterian or Hard Chancre. Infecting Chancre.—Microscopically examined, every hard chancre evidently owes its hardness to cellular infiltra- tion and consecutive formation of new fibrous tissue, and the ulceration is partly due to ' granulo-fatty metamorphosis' of the infiltration and the infiltrated tissue. Three kinds of hard chancre—1. Dry papuli. 2. Chancri- form or chancrous erosion. 3. Ordinary Hunterian chancre. Dry Pajmli.—Very rare. ' A papular protuberance, usually having the form of a patch, one or more centimeters in extent, of a dark or brownish red colour, round or oval, j??-m and elas- tic, and sometimes covered with whitish scales, which give it a certain analogy with the syphilitic papules of the next' {i.e. secondary) • period.' Chancrous or Chancriform Erosion. Parchment - like ' In vaccino-syphilis the vaccine soar besins to show syphilitic sWqo „ <, inflammation and induration, about a montli after inoculation, iii the mean time the pustide having followed quite a normal healiug course