TUMOUES. 333 tion quite necessaiy, or they gro-w again, and may become starting-point of epithelioma. Adenomata.—ParimZ Glandular Hypertrophy.—Tumours containing some proportion of glandular structure. This is usually mixed with some other tissue, and the relative pro- portions vary much. Thus are produced adeno-fibroma, adeno- sarcoma, &c. Microscopically, they are characterised by the presence of tissue resembling tubular, and sometimes racemose glands. By great dilatation of the tubules, cysts may be formed. In shape the tumours are usually round or oval, and lobed; but their other physical characteristics depend greatly upon the kind of tissue which accompanies the adenomatous— e.g., an adeno-myxoma would be very soft, an adeno-chondroma usually very hard. Any innocent, smooth, round, lobed, and elastic tumour situated in the breast, or in the paxotid, is very likely to be, at all events partially, adenomatous. Billroth says that he considers true adenoma of the breast to be very rai-e, the glandular tissue found in mammary sai-comata being merely part of the original -acini of the organ. Nasal, uterine, and rectal polypi are often partial adenomata; solid or semi-solid bronchoceles are adenomata. Treatment.—Pedunculated adeno- mata can be removed by polypus forceps, by ligature, by ecraseui-, or by scissors, or by combinations of ligature and scissors. See Polypus of Nose, of Rectum, and of Ear. Por treatment of thyroid and mammary adenomata, see Bronchocele and Breast respectively. It may be shortly stated that excision is the usual treatment, but that no tumours are so frequently cured spon- taneously, or without operation, as adenomata. Cystic Tumours, Cystomata, Cysts.—Definition.—'A tu- mour formed by a sac filled with fluid or p\dp.' Varieties.—The names of cysts have been given on principles nearly as various as those on which human beings have been named. Thus we have : —I. (1) Simple and (2) compound cysts. II. (1) Extravasation, (2) exudation, and (3) retention cysts. III. (1) Serous, (2) syno- vial, (3) mucous, (4) blood, (5) sebaceous, and (6) proliferous cysts. IV. Congenital cysts. The four classifications being based respectively on number, on mode of origin, on contents, and on period of origin. (Proliferous cysts are those which