HARE-LIP. bones. The deformity in hare-lip is homologotis to a fissure which is normal in some fishes, hut it has no homology with the cleft in the lip of the hare. It often co-exists with cleft- palate. Male sex predisposes. Double hare-lip almost always afiects boys, and is ten times less common than the single variety. The inter-maxillary bones in double hare-lip often project forward from the end of the nose, and are frequently only half-developed in size—Treatment.—Operative only. Best time, third to fifth month of infancy. Contra-indicated during dentition or ill-health. Plastic operations fail in syphilis (Yerneuil). Chloroform unnecessary, and difficult to administer. If desired, ausesthetic vapour may be pumped through a catheter. Child in a lying or sitting position on a table or on nurse's or surgeon's lap. Secm^e his limbs by rolling him up lightly but firmly in a towel. Assistant to check hemorrhage by holding each side of the upper lip between his finger and thumb. Sm-geon sponges for himself, or hp may be secured in T. Smith's forceps. Begin by separating, with the Icnife, the two sides of the Hp from the jaw subjacent, unless the former structures be already very free. Then pare the edges of the cleft. Remove enough, especially from the apex of the cleft and from the junction of the cleft with the edge of the lip. Then siiture, strap, and put on Hainsby's truss. The incisions are best made with a view to utilising the ' parings ' of the fissures. Vide diagi-ams in text-books. In double hare-lip the whole margin of the inter-maxillary nodule is pared. When this nodule projects it must, unless it is rudi- mentary, be broken at the base and bent back to the level of the lip. If it is rudimentary it may be removed altogether except the skin which covers it anteriorly. This must be stitched back, either to complete the nasal septum if that is deficient, or, otherwise, to fill the gap in the lip. Modes of suture. 1, The ' hare-lip' sutui-e proper. Two pins. Enter and exit ^ inch from fissure, pass deeply, nearly reaching mucous membrane. Lower one secures coronary artery. Twisted suture. Interrupted wire suture at red border of lip. Sharp ends of pins nipped off". Pieces of lint placed beneath ends of pins. Strapping, broad at ends and narrow in middle, brought across