234 LYMPHANGITIS AND LYMPHADENITIS. Accidents and Complications of Lithotrity.~l, Impaction of fragtoents in urethra or in neck of bladder; 2, retention of urme; 3, cystitis; 4, renal irritation, and even suppression of urine; 5, orchitis; 6, abscess in prostate; 7, inflammation of veins around neck of bladder ; 8, pytemia ; ninthly, may be added effects of culpable clumsiness in operating, e.g., laceration of the urethra or bladder. Impaction of fragments in urethra demands instant treatment. If it occui's near bladder, endeavour to push back fragment with large catheter. If it is nearer the meatus, attempt to extract it with Civiale's urethral scoop, using the greatest care and gentleness. It may be necessary to open the urethra from without. Eetention of urine is usually only temporary, and yields to warmth and liq. opii. Cystitis may only be an aggravation of a condition existing before the operation, or it may be due- to sharp fragments, or to the atony of the bladder, which in old people may prevent the expulsion of the fragments. It must be treated on general principles, one of which will be to remove the cause. The application of this principle may demand the use of the litho- tomy scoop or of Clover's or of Bigelow's syringe, or even the performance of median hthotomy to remove the ii-ritating fragments. The appearance of unpleasant symptoms in the course of a lithotrity case is usually held to indicate a pro- longed interval between the sittings. Renal irritation demands cupping to the loins, warmth, purges, <fec. Lungs.—See Chest, Injuries of. Lymphatics and Lymphatic Glands,—Both are liable to inflammation, to wovinds, to hypertrophy, and to cancer. The former are also subject to varix. Lymphangitis and Lymphadenitis.—Inflammation of the lymphatics and their glands. Like other raflammations it may be acute, eub-acute, or chronic. Most of the differences between these three forms are such as are analogous to their differences in inflammations of other superficial parts. Causes.—Almost always, especially in the case of acute and sub-acute forms, absorption of inflammatory or septic material from a wound or pustule, or fissm-e or sore. According to Paget, the poison or irritant, at all events in the instance of post-mortem virus,