STEICTUEE OF URETHRA, oriarin : (1) annular, (2) indurated annular, (3) difiuse or tor- selves. GEdematous granulations are usually connected with diseased bone. Exuberant gTanulations have to be diagnosed by their softness, from cancer. An ulcer may be hajmorrhagic from (1) vicarious menstruation, (2) small and diseased varicose veins, (3) scurvy, (4) hsemorrhagic diathesis, (5) phagedc^na, (6) malignant disease, (7) mere accidental injury or congestion. In the case of oedematous and hemorrhagic ulcei-s it is necessary to treat the cause. Pressure and caustics will destroy cederaa- tous or exuberant granulations. The popular name for the latter is ' proud flesh.' Neuralgic, or Irritable Ulcers.—Usually more or less inflamed, or subject to constant irritation, e.g., fissures round anus or mouth. If soothing ointments, cleanliness, and local rest will not cure them, a touch of solid caustic may. CarboUc lotion is an excellent local sedative. See Anus, Fissure of. Inflamed Ulcer.—Recognised by the presence of the four classical signs of inflammation in the borders of the ulcer. Surface of ulcer also changes, becomes ' angry-looking,' dusky, swollen, perhaps sloughy. Treatment.—Rest, elevation, weak carbolic or lead lotion. Purgatives. Occasionally, poultices are convenient. Chronic, Indolent, or Callous Ulcers.—Seat: almost always the leg. Border thick, hardened, brawny, abrupt, covered with thick, old, opaque epidermis, and devoid of any delicate, new epidermis such as surrounds a healing ulcer. Base, sunken, pale, or dusky, without granulations, usually insensi- tive. Secretion, thin, ofiensive. Yarious kinds of ulcers attain this condition through neglect or continued irritation, combined with feeble local circulation. Treatment.—Above all, pressure. Martin's bandage. Baynton's dressing (strapping with adhesive plaister). Covering ulcer and its borders with a blister. See Syme's 'Essays.' Very few cases of uncomplicated chronic ulcer can now justify amputation. Phagedenic and Sloughing Ulcers. See Gangrene and Syphilis. Urethra, Stricture of.—Classification: (1) spasmodic, (2) inflammatory, (3) organic. Organic are—A. Of neoplastic