AETERIES. 32 end of sterno-mastoid; divide as much of steruo mastoid as may be necessary to expose carotid, and trace carotid downwards to innominate. Fatality.—Only one case Las recovered. In it the carotid and vertebral were also ligatured (Smyth's case). Lingual.—Line of artery : just above greater cornu of hyoid bone; incision hoi'izontal, with centre opposite end of greater cornu of hyoid bone; look for hypoglossal nerve; artery crosses beneath it; divide hyo-glossus muscle from hyoid bone : artery is thus exposed. Object.—Usually to check haemor- rhage from cancer of tongue. Radial.—Line of artery : from inner side of biceps tendon at bend of elbow to half an inch internal to styloid process of radius. Ligature in ujy2')er third : incision in line of artery. Separate supinator longus from pronator teres, and tie. Lower third : divide skin and deep fascia to outer side of flexor carpi radialis. Siibclavian.—Tied only in third part of its course. Eaise patient on a pillow, head bade, face turned away, arm pulled down; incise along clavicle, pulhng skin down over it; divide border of sterno-mastoid if necessary; deep fascia; retract external jugular; separate vessels and cellular tissue beneath deep fascia without using knife-blade ; feel for scalene tubercle and scalenus anticus. Subclavian lies behind them; brachial plexus and subclavian vein; pass needle from below upwards. Fatalitij.—^Qscrly one in two. Chief causes: haemorrhage, o-ancrrene, intra thoracic inflammation, ' sloughing or suppuration of aneurism.' Tibial, Anterior.—U^e of artery: from head of fibula to midway between two malleoli. Upper or middle third : divide skin in line of vessel; look for a white line in deep fascia, marking outer border of tibialis anticus; di^dde the Hne and separate tibialis anticus from ext. long. dig. above, and from extensor prop. poll, below; nerve superficial; patient should put tibialis anticus into action before anaesthesia. Lower third : artery nearly superficial. , • , \ Tibial, Posterior.—Upper half: two methods—1 (Guthrie s), perpendicular incision, six inches long, through middle of gastro- cnemius, soleus and deep (submuscular) fascia; artery hes on