•84 DISLOCATION. then sometimes passed off as the cerebral injury was recovered from. Diphtheria is said to attack wounds when a layer of whitish false membrane forms on them and is at the same time accom- panied by sloughing. See Hospital Gangrene. Dislocation.—Three kinds.—1, traumatic; 2, congenital; 3, spontaneous. In traumatic, the capsule is almost always rup- tured. Complicated Dislocations.—In these there is either fracture, or wound of skin, or of large vessel, or of nerve, or several of these misfortunes. Causes of dislocations.—1. External force, which is (a) direct or (b) indirect. 2. Muscular action {e.g., usual in dislocation of lower jaw). Si/mptoms.—\. Altered form of joint. Compare two sides of body. 2. Line of direction of misplaced bone does not pass through the articular sui-face of the other bone. 3. Lengthening or shortening of limb. 4. Altered position of limb to trunk, e.g., projection of elbow from side. 5. Abnormal dis- tance between certain prominent points of skeleton, e.g., between internal condyle and olecranon. 6. Ecchymosis (rarely distinct at first, sometimes absent). 7. Pain. 8. Inability to move the limb. Manual examination must finally settle the question m most cases, showing the articular cavity empty and the head of the bone at some other point. Anesthesia may be necessary for a diagnosis, because of soft parts being so swollen and tender. A soft crepitation sometimes caused by rubbing head of bone on torn capsular hgaments and tendons, partly from the compres- sion of firm coagula. Diagnosis.—I. From dislocated articular fracture. Easily made by an attempt at reduction. The latter is readily reduced, but returns at once; 2, from contusion and sprain. Examine carefully; 3, from relaxation of the capsule in paralysed limbs. Here consider the history, and make a careful local examination. , , , i. Capsular opening is of variable size. Escaped head of bone does not always remain immediately opposite it. Occasional spontaneous reduction by muscular action. 3Iechanical ohstructions to reduction.-l. Contraction of muscles. Head of bone may be caught between two contracted muscles. 2. (a far more frequent obstacle), a small capsular