■l^o EXCISION OF SCAPULA. smoothed. Prognosis.—M.3jn.y cases die, but probably not one-tbird of these perish actually from the operation. Without interference some of the successful cases would have perished of the original disease. Knee, Excision of.—Indications. See Disease of Knee- JoiNT. Amputation almost always preferred for injury. Operation.—Nearly transverse incision below patella from back of one condyle to back of other, and dividing ligamentum patellse. Throw up soft parts from patella and front of lower end of femur. Divide lateral ligaments on the condyles. Re- tract soft parts and project femur. Saw through condyles below the epiphysial cartilage in children. Proceed very care- fully, both in separating soft parts from back of condyles and in making the last cuts with the saw, or popliteal artery may be wounded. Now push end of tibia upwards and forwards, and saw it off close to articular surface in case of children. Make saw-cuts through the two bones so to correspond that limb may be straight. If they do not fit in this way after first sections, other sections must be made. Carefully secure all bleeding vessels. After treatment.—Put apparatus on at once. Some fixed contrivance, like P. H. "Watson's combination of anterior iron splint with parafiined or plaister of Paris'd bandage, the best. Iron back splint with foot-piece and interrupted side splint. Bavarian splint. Salter's swing. Packard's splint.^ Do not disturb limb for first few days. Recovery and repair are very slow, average eight months. Some surgeons leave patella. Ankylosis should be osseous. An outward bend of the limb is a common misfortune after this excision. Excision of Os Calcis.-—Lines of incision: 1. Along upper border of os calcis from inner side of tendo AchUlis to a little in front of calcaneo-cuboid articulation ; this should divide the tendo Achillis. 2. Across sole of foot, from anterior end of first incision. Disarticulate from cuboid first, and from astra- galus afterwards. Beware of wounding posterior tibial vessels. A very useful foot results. Prognosis is excellent. Excision of Scapula.—Done for necrosis, caries, and mor- bid growth. Partial or entire. Crucial or T-shaped incision. 1 See Med. Bee. 74, approved by F. H. Hamilton and L. A. Sayre.