66 CALCULI. Table of Calculi. Physical Chabacters, etc. Chemical CHARACTEns Lithate of Ammonia. Occurs rarely except in children. Grey, smooth, dusty, non-laminated ap- pearance. Soluble in boiling water. Add HCl to solution and you get a precipitate of uric acid. Heat with potassium car- bonate : ammonia escapes. Blow-pipe utijiio It tiWtiy. Uric Acid. Smooth or wartj'. Yellowish or brownish. Concentric structure. Gives off no ammonia when heated with KHO. Evaporate to dryness with nitric acid. Cool, and add a little IsHj; the characteristic deep purple-red mu- rexide is then obtained. Blow-pipe burns uric acid away. Oxalate of Lime. Rough, warty, ' mul- berry ' appearance. Very liard. Dark ' blood- stained.' Easilj- soluble in nitric acid. Boil long in a solution of potnssium bicar- bonate, neutralise carefullv with nitric acid; then white precipitates can be formed wiih solutions of lime, lead, or silver. Blow-pipe reduces it, first to calcium carbonate, then to. quick-lime. Heat on platinum foil and it chars. Then add HNO3, and it effervesces. Cystic Oxide. Has a wavj' appear- ance, especially when fractured. Changes co- lour with age from pale yellow to brown, grpy, or green. Extremely rare. Contains sulphur. Dissolves, in great part, in ammonia: its solution then deposits, by sponta- neous evaporation, six-sided prismatic iTirl ttiKii 1'IT* nrvtafnlii T^l^iQnlvP in ^fronp* caustic potash. Boil, and add a little solution of lead acetate: a black pre- cipitate of sulphide of lead falls. Xantliic Oxide. Section, lustrous bright brown. Most ex- tremely rare. Has a peculiar deep yellow colour, when its solution in nitric acid is evapo- rated to dryness ; characteristic. Mixed Pliosphates of Lime Chalky, soft, brittle, laminated. ' Fusible calculus : ' melts in the blow-pipe flame. Dissolve in nitric acid and add excess of ammonia: white precipitate. Phosphate of lime and triple phosphate very rarely occur separately. Fibrinous calciili smell of burnt feathers when burnt, and are stained bright yellow by nitric acid. Uric acid forms the nucleus of most ' alternating ' calculi. The nature of the stone, while still in the bladder, may be guessed at by considering the urine and any deposit from it.