154 DEFOEMITIES OF HAND. some round-headed instrument like a chisel or a walking-stick. Signs.—One or more fingers, especially the little one, is flexed, a tense subcutaneous fibrous band bridging across from it to the palm. Pathology.—Chronic inflammatory thickening and con- traction of fibrous tissue between palmar fascia and sheaths of flexor tendons. Treatment.—Supernumerary fingers should be amputated. As their proximal joint sometimes communicates with one of the normal metacarpo-phalangeal articulations, in such a case the base of the supernumerary finger may be left. If the operation is done at an early age, this stump will not grow. Clubbed hand can only be treated on the same principles as clubbed foot, but with not neaiiy the same hope of success. Treat rheumatic contractions in this way. Divide, subcu- taneously if possible, or else antiseptically, the contracted fibrous bands, carefully avoiding any injury to sheaths of tendons. Then extend fingers on a splint. Attend to the cause. See Adams's little book on this subject. Webbed fingers, unless ingeniously treated, reunite after being cut apart. Method 1, pass a metal ring through the base of the web and keep it there till the aperture cicatrizes. Then complete the separation. Method 2, wrap a flap of skin taken from the back of one finger over the raw surface of the other finger, and another flap of skin taken from the palmar surface of the latter finger over the raw surface of the former, utilising of course the skin of the web itself. Method 3. Vide Barwell, Medical Press and Circular, 1866, or Holmes's System, v. 825. In this, skin is taken from the buttock. Method 4, gradual strangulation of the web by a clamp. Hanging. See Asphyxia. Hare-lip.—Cawses and Pathology.—Congenital. Many degrees of this deformity. Single hare-lip and double hare-lip. The fissure is not central, but corresponds, in smgle hare-lip to one side, and in double hare-lip to both sides, of the inter-maxil- lary bones. The inter-maxillary are the bones which form the front of the hard palate and alveoli carrying upper incisor teeth. Hare-lips vary in depth from a mere notch in the edge of the upper lip to a total lateral separation of the inter-maxillary