124 FEACTUEES. in front of humerus. Passive motion in 3 weeks,—in 1 week if the fracture extends into the joint. Complication of fracture of humerus,—injury of musculo-spiral nerve. See Injuries of ISTerves. Hyoid Bone, Fracture of. — Causes. — Direct violence : rarely muscular action. Signs.—Crepitus, &c., with difficulty in swallowing, speaking, and sometimes even in breathing. Reduce with one finger in patient's moutlu Jaw, Lower, Fracture of.—Cause.—Great and direct violence. Situation.—Order of frequency,—^near canine tooth, at angle, at symphysis. Neck of condyle and coronoid process are very unusual places. Occasionally multiple. Signs.—Pain, tenderness, mouth can scarcely be opened, saliva dribbles, crepitus, deformity ; frequently bleeding, for the fractm-e often opens throvigh the mucous membrane of the mouth. Prognosis. Union often slow. Treatment.—The interdental splint cannot be too strongly recommended. It should almost always be used. See that no tooth or foreign body hes between the frag- ments, if the fracture is an open one. {See Lyons, St. Earth's JIos}}. Rep. 1879.) Wire round teeth damages them. Thomas drills the fragments and inserts a silver suture. Leg, Fracture of.—See Practube of Tibia and Fibula, Metacarpus ) „ /. ^, -r^- , ■ , T,r , ^ i- Jcractures of.— Causes. — Direct violence. Metatarsus ) •' Treatment.—On general principles. Nasal Bones, Fracture of.—Occasional emphysema from coincident injury to frontal sinuses. Difficulty in reduction and in preventing deformity. A smooth silver female catheter may be inserted into the nostrils and used to raise the depressed bone. Adams's and Gamgee's apparatus for preserving the position of the bones. Yulcanised india-rubber dilator intro- duced empty and then filled with water has great power to raise a flattened nose. Above remarks aptply both to fracture of nasal bones and of septum. Patella, Fracture of.—Two kinds, one transverse and usually the result of muscular action, or muscular action com- bined with violence; the other stellate, Y-shaped, or, perhaps, quite simple, but not transverse, and always caused by direct