344 STEICTURE OF UEETHRA. intercourse Anus shows effects of straining-prolapsus, and lisemorrhoids. In a few cases, almost the only marked symptom IS the liabihty to attacks of retention. Urine tends to become alkaline and ammoniacal, COH4 N2 + H2O = 002 + 2 NH3 urea + water = carbonic acid + ammonia, is the reaction which represents transformation of urea into carbonate of ammonia This ammonia irritates the bladder, causing cystitis. The urine contains also triple phosphates in abundance, as well as pus and mucus, owing to the cystitis. Occasional hannaturia, from rupture of vessels near stricture during erection of penis. Complications.—1. Dilatation of urinaiy passages and organs posterior to stricture—prostatic part of urethra, bladder, ureters, kidneys. 2. Atony and absorption of same structures; kidney may suffer great atrophy of its substance. 3. Inflam- mations and suppurations of the same parts, especially of bladder and kidneys. 4. Incontinence of urine. 5. Rupture of the urethra or bladder, and extravasation of urine. 6. Chronic abscess and fistula. 7. Constitutional effects. For most of the above complications, see notices elsewhere, e.g., Bladder, Diseases of, Kidney, Urine, &c. Constitutional HffectR.—Loss of strength. Impaired diges- tion. Thinness. Careworn look. Irritability. Despondency. Pains in back and loins. Feverishness of intermittent charac- ter. Urethral fever may be excited by the passage of a bougie, especially if the instrument be comparatively large. "When there is organic kidney-disease, catheterism almost always causes severe rigors. Then death may also ensue suddenly, perhaps from poisoning by urea. Diagnosis is usually settled by passing instruments. History of case may help to demonstrate nature and cause of the stricture. Act of micturition should be observed. Prognosis.—Yery good if stricture be treated early. Serious, if neglect has allowed kidney-diseape to supervene. Treatment.—The immediate treatment of strictures (whether inflammatory, spasmodic, or organic) in which there is retention of urine will be considered under the head Urine, Eeten-