164 INJUKIES OF HEAD. creasing in size. Brain symptoms, sometimes very slight at first, are those of cerebral irritation and inflammation. In fatal cases, death ensues from the encephalitis. Prognosis bad. Diag- nosis.—From fungus of dura mater and fungus of cranium. Former appears gradually, and is preceded by no fracture from external violence, latter does not pulsate. Treatment.—'Pro- tective and slightly compressive. Shaving off is contraindicated. A hollow metal cap fitting accurately. Any ordinary dressing, combined with compression by a soft pad and bandage. OoNCUSSTON AND COMPRESSION OF Beain.—' Concussion' and ' Compression,' two terms which represent each a peculiar and important assemblage of symptoms, rather than a definite patho- logical state. Persons suffering from concussion are, in common pariance, said to be stunned. Compression means a more alarming condition, in which the patient cannot be aroused from stupor, and Ues wholly or partially paralysed. The presence or absence of paralysis has been given as the distinguishing mark between the two states. StUl there are cases which partake so of the nature of both, that no one would class them under either head except persons endowed with exceptional decision of char- actei' and indifference to both detail and accuracy. The origin of bhe terms should always be borne in mind : 'concussion of course, means ' shaking' or ' striking,' and ' compression imphes the pressure of something, e.g., blood, or pus, or bone, or serum, on the brain. ^. e . „• Concussion.-Pathohgy.-^o thoroughly satisfactory evi- dence of concussion's occurring without some bruising or lacera- tion of the brain. Sym.pto^^s.-^ee table contrasting them mth those of compression. Terminations.-^eco^evj may be, and usually is, perfect; or there remain headaches, mental_ irnt- abmty affections of the senses, weakness, impaired vu-ility, enilepsy Concussion frequently passes into compression.-,%e ConSon akb Lackkation ok Bbaxn (p. 161). Treatment.-At firTt warmth, hot blankets, hot bottles, friction, and other gentle femeL for shock. Alcohol contraindicated. And it should alwavs be borne in mind that concussion is not usually m itself tn'e ot, but that it is quite possible by too vigorous and too "tilting a treatment to bring on hemorrhage or mflamma-