61 BUENS AND SCALDS. recovery, except occasionally a slight stain ; 3, true skin partly destroyed : cicatrix, but no contraction; 4, total destruction of true skin : possible or probable great deformity; 5, muscles, &c., destroyed ; 6, a whole thickness of a limb charred. Symptoms— of the last four degrees are locally those of inflamed and sup- purating woimds casting ofi" sloughs. Constitutional Symp- toms.—At first, those of shock or collapse; then, within forty- eight hours, commences the second stage (of reaction and inflammation). The third stage (of suppuration and exhaustion) begins in about a fortnight. In the inflammatory stage there are fever, and liability to various complications, peritonitis, pleuritis, pneumonia, bronchitis, arachnitis, congestion of brain, ulceration of the duodenum. The symptoms of these special affections are not peculiar, but liable to be obscure. Third stage : hectic, same visceral lesions as those of second stage. Inflammations are of a low type. Erysipelas, pyaemia, and tetanus. Ulceration of the duodenum occurs most frequently in the second stage, and is found in 12 per cent, of fatal cases of burns : its symptoms are epigastric tenderness (not a valu- able sign) and haemorrhage from the anus. Prognosis.—Depends on age, extent of surface injured, and, to a less degree, upon depth. Most serious in young children. Treatment.—Locally. Rest; protect part from air; cotton wadding, oil, linseed-oil and lime-water, zinc ointment; or rags dipped in and kept con- stantly wet with solution of silver nitrate (gr. x ad Jj), or with a concentrated solution of carbonate of soda; starch, flour, balsam of Peru, &c. Afterwards the treatment of simple ulceration. Guard against contraction from cicatrisation. Vide CiCATEix. Terebene, carboKc lotion, and oakum for ofien- sive discharges. Don't irritate by dressing too often. Consti- tutional treatment.—In stage of collapse : opium, morphia subcutaneously, full doses; stimulants caiitiously; warmth; chloroform if necessary at first dressing. In later stages watch for and, so far as the patient's state admits, treat the complica- tions. Warmth externally for convulsions. Opium for diarrhoea but keep the bowels regular. Blood-letting sometimes for the visceral inflammations. Diet chiefly of milk. Judicious stimulants, good food and tonics often indicated; fresh air.