TESTICLE. 304 generally whitish in colour: cystic, cai-tilaginous and fibrous masses occasionally interspersed. Growth usually i-apid. Very little tendency to ulcerate through skin. Great tendency to infection of lumbar glands. Secondary formations occur in lungs and elsewhere. Inguinal glands sometimes affected. Signs.—A solid enlargement of the testicle progressing rapidly, without inflammation, is almost always cancer. Testicle .smooth, and firm, till localised softening occurs. Pain, dull. Special testicular sensation no longer evolved by pressure. Cord not affected early. General health perfectly good at first. Diagnosis.—The first thing is to make sure that the enlargement is solid. A trochar will settle this in doubtful cases. (FicZe Hydrocele.) Next, a diagnosis has to be made from orchitis, syphilitic, scrofulous, or simple. History, con- comitant symptoms, and the effect of mercury, pot. iod., oleum morrhuse, &c., help to decide this. ' The diagnosis from cystic disease may be based partly upon the rate of growth, but especially upon the information elicited by the trochar.' (Hum- phry.) Prognosis.—Usually fatal in one and a half to two years. Many cases of removal without recurrence have been recorded. Treatment.—Unless the disease has spread to the abdomen, remove the testicle. Testicle, Cystic Disease of.—Patlwlogy.—A tumour con- sisting of multitudinous cysts, of any size up to that of a walnut, with thin walls, lined by tesselated epithelium, and containing fluid varying in consistence from that of serum to an almost gelatinous thickness. At least three views as to the origin of the cysts, viz. : (1) dilatation of tubuli seminiferi, (2) dilata- tion of tubules of rete testis, (3) a fibrous or fibro-cartilaginous tumour in the testicle, with more or less of cyst-formation in the tumour. The cysts are sometimes' proliferating,' containing fibrous or cartilaginous masses. Symptoms and Diagnosis — Negative symptoms, such as absence of pain, of thickening of the cord, of inflammation, and of constitutional disease, together with positive symptoms, such as smoothness, oval or spherical form, and slow growth, generally reduce the final diagnosis to a distinction from hydrocele or hasmatocele. Cystic disease is heavier than hydrocele, fluctuates less, and is non-transparent.