WOUNDS. 370 Gamgee at Birmingham convinced me that no system of wovmd- dressing could be complete without some provision for gentle and elastic compression. This, Gamgee used to secure with cotton-wool; but as soon as Martin's bandages became known in England I took to completely covering with them most of my operation-woimds which were dressed antiseptically, and some which were not. I have never seen a stump which healed more rapidly, or looked better when healed, than one which had no dressing whatever but a rubber bandage over it, and a pad of oakum to drain into. But in this particular instance it was not practicable to dress antiseptically. The mode of dressing . used lately by Esmarch with a success perhaps unparalleled, not only as regards general results, but as regards individual cases, may be described as an instance of the successful combination of antisepticism with gentle compression. Next the wound are placed pads soaked in iodoform and absolute alcohol (ten per cent.), then an iodoformed bandage, then a large pillow of jute and gauze, then a moist bandage, and lastly an elastic bandage. Even after amputation of the thigh, this dressing seldom needs a single renewal. Healing takes place by the first intention, not even a hole for the drainage-tube being left; for Esmarch uses absorbable tubes of decalcified bone. It is most important before applying such dressings to check all oozing of blocd. Recurrent haemorrhage need scarcely be feared at all. The under-bandages should be put on as Hghtly as possible, and the elastic bandage should be apphed with great care and gentleness. Iodoform, insufflated, makes a capital dressing for many wounds, eg., lithotomy, perinseal section, operations near the mouth, anus urethra, and the like. Other modes of local treatment, comparatively rarely employed, are cotton-wool di-essmg, irri- gation, and immersion. Poultices of linseed, or of bread, are stiU in common use, and are certainly soft, moist, hot, and comfortable, and therefore possibly act favoui-ably on any loc^il inflammations that may be near the wound. Oakum (mcluding the kinds termed ' tenax,' ' stipium,' &c.) is apphed like a poul- tice Like every other antiseptic substance, it is somewhat irritating; therefore, a narrow strip of protective should be placed next the edges of the wound. The not uncommon