SPINE, DISEASES OF. 286 very great. Severe cases of any duration very nearly hopeless. Even commencing cases require most vigilant management. Treatment.—Various plans. Almost all endeavour to combine extension, exercise, and localised pressure. Many forms of spinal support. Sayre's plaster case. Gymnastic exercises, especially swinging by the hands, Standing and sitting are to be avoided. Rest should be taken in the horizontal position. Attend to general health. Tonics ; fresh air. Treat menstrual irregularities. Of course, search should be made after any pos- sible exciting cause, and its removal effected if possible. Friction to restore tone to spinal muscles. According to my experience, Sayre's treatment at least prevents bad curvatures from getting worse, greatly improves moderate ones, and even cures incipient cases; but daily extension by collar and pulleys is essential.^ Spine, Antero-Posterior Curvatures.—Lordosis, Eyj>hosis. Sometimes arise from causes precisely analogous to those of lateral curvature. Frequently secondary to hip-disease. In lordosis the concavity is posteiior, in kyphosis it is anterior. Treatment.—Drilling, careful exercise, with intervals of abun- dant horizontal repose. Attention to posture. Treat rickets if present. In these cases, Sayre's plaster corset combined with daily extension should be employed for a considerable time, then left off gradually, the intervals of wearing it being occupied in judicious exercises, frictions, careful attention to carriage, and abundance of horizontal rest. Spine, Hysterical.—Sometimes simulates spinal caries in young women. Spasms, paralysis, difficult micturition, local tenderness. But ' tenderness is excessive and superficial, so that the patient flinches, and complains more when the skin is pinched than when the vertebrse are pressed.' ^ There is never found the stiffness characteristic of spinal caries. No propor- tionate general wasting. Probably weak circulation and uterine or ovarian disorder. Treatment.—See Hysteria. Spina Bifida.—Causes.—Defective development and non- union of vertebral laminae and spines, usually in lumbar region, 1 I apeak confidently on this subject, for I have now taken a part in the apjilication of nearly seven hundred plaster jackets. ^ See Savory, in Holmes's System, vol. i. p. 381.