101 ERYSIPELAS. ' down over a basin ; injections of cold water, of hot water (tem- perature 100°) of tinct. ferri perchlor., pnre or diluted; these injections may be given by a syringe which directs the current • backwards. Ice to the back of the head ; cold to the spine; dry cupping between shoulders ; plugging ; plugging posterior nares. Operation.—A piece of whip-cord is passed through the nose into the pharynx by means either of Bellocq's sound or of an elastic catheter. It is then pulled from the pharynx into the mouth by forceps, and a plug of compressed sponge or lint tied to that part of the string now hanging out of mouth, but some distance from its end. Plug should be small and nicely shaped, or part of it will irritate back of pharynx or even top of larynx. Now pull the string back through the nose and guide the plug into the posterior nares. Nasal and oral ends of string should be tied together and fixed on face with strapping. When removed jjlug is to be pulled back through mouth. But string should not be taken away till danger of recurrence seems to be gone. Epithelioma.—See Cancer. Epulis.—A term applied to fibrous, sarcomatous, and cancerous tumours of the gums. Most are fibro-myeloid; the less of the myeloid structure, the more innocent the growth. Symptoms.—Non-cancerous epulis ; a fleshy, red tumour of the gum; teeth loosened, and pushed forward ; size variable ; some- times ulceration. Cancerous epulis has the special marks of malignancy, rapid growth, excavated ulcer, &c. Prognosis.— Neither fibrous nor myeloid epulis usually returns if the bone from which it springs be removed. Treatment.—'RQm.OYBl of tumour and attached alveoli with cutting pliers and small saw. Erysipelas.—A diffuse inflammation of the skin or sub- cutaneous areolar tissue, or of both together, almost always attacking the neighbourhood of some wound. Three kinds, viz. : 1, Simple; 2, Cellulo-cutaneous; 3, Diffuse cellulitis. Causes.— Usually a wound which has been exposed to unhealthy in- fluences, e.g., septic virus, draughts of cold air, constant mechanical irritation, certain epidemic influences, contagion from an adjacent case of erysipelas or puerperal fever. Predis- posing causes are bad ventilation, bad and insufficient food, dyspepsia, hospital air when impure, depressed nervous system,