SHOCK. 277 (near the wound), ' with more or less extensive gangrene of the skin.' (Billroth.)^ Prognosis and Treatment.—Vide PviEMiA. Shock,—Causes,—Injuries, especially if very painful, or attended with haemorrhage ; or if in certain localities, e.g. abdominal viscera, testicles, and the larger joints. Mental emotions. When an injury is foreseen and expected, shock is more severe than when the recipient is excited and careless. Children less liable than adults. But acute pain readily causes collapse in a few hours in children. (H. Marsh.) Signs.—Pal- lor, coldness, weakness, even amounting to utter prostration. Consciousness may or may not be seriously aiFected. The mind may be clear, and yet the limbs but little sensitive to pain. Temperature actually sinks 2°, 3°, or 4°, or more in severe cases. Pulse thread-like. Respiration sighing. Nausea, vomiting. In certain cases the patient is noisy and. dehfious. Generally he is either quiet, or wanders slightly in his mind. Course.—Death may result almost instantaneously, even when the prime injury is apparently trifling. This is most common in injuries to the abdominal viscera. But re- action usually occurs in a few hours, and is frequently excessive, passing into fever. And, again, shock may endure for many hours, and at last prove fatal. Pathology.—It is certain that paralysis of the vaso-motor nerves, probably inhibitory, is an essential part of shock ; but it is not so certain whether it is universal or local. Grolz showed that when a frog is struck on the abdomen, its heart ceases to beat, and at the same time the portal system is vastly distended with blood. He supposes the former phenomenon to be the effect of the latter, and the two together to account for the features of shock; but MouUin argues, and with reason, that, in shock, there is primarily a far more general inhibition of the vaso-motor system. Diagnosis from syncope, the result of haemorrhage. When the haemorrhage is internal, this diagnosis may be impos- sible at first; but in the Case of haemoiThage, when reaction takes place, the pallor of the gums and conjunctive persists. Prognosis depends on the amount, on the persistence, and on the attendant complications of the attack, A particularly ' See ' Microscopic Organisms ' in Appendix.