306 INFLAMMATION OF TESTICLE. more obstinate cases, try iBcision of constricting edge of tunica albuginea (Pagan of Glasgow), or, after slitting iip all sinuses, the edges of the skin wound may be freshened and brought together over the protrusion (Syme). Anything like paring off protrusion rarely necessary and usually mischievovis. Testicle, Inflammation of (Orchitis and Epididymitis). —Varieties.—1, Acute; 2, Chronic. A list of sub-varieties might be made out, founded on the setiology, e.g., gonorrhceal, traumatic, syphilitic, scrofulous, metastatic, &c. Vide Stru- mous Testicle and Syphilitic Testicle. Acute Orchitis (Inflammation of the body of the testicle).— Causes.—Blows, wounds, metastasis (mumps), and rheumatism. Symjjtoms.—Ordmsirj signs of inflammation, viz., pain, tender- ness, heat, redness, swelling. Efl'usion into tunica vaginalis. When accompanying mumps, it begins about fifth or sixth day. To-eatment.—nest, suspensory bandage, cold lotions, aperients, antimony (Antim. potass-tart. gr. j aqu^ fervent. §viij; gj horis). Leeches: they should be placed over the cord (Humphry). Puncture of tunica vaginalis, or even of testicle, with a sharp, narrow-bladed knife. Acute £:pididymitis.—Freqaeut\j, though not quite accu- rately, termed 'acvite orchitis.' Cawses.—Mostly gonorrhoea. Any urethral irritation, e.g., stricture, catheterisation, lithotomy, impacted calculus. Blows. Rheumatism, gout. Epididymitis may supervene during any stage of a gonorrhoea. Symptoms. —Tenderness, pain, swelling, and hardness of epididymis. Efl'usion into tunica vaginalis. Skin reddened and tender. Constitutional disturbance, fever, sickness. Resolution usually commences within a fortnight, but thickening may persist for months Treatvient.—See Acute Orchitis. Worth while to persist with treatment in order to remove the residual thicken- inc as the latter, if left, may interfere with function of testicle. . Suspensory bandage, moderation in aU things, and, experi- mentally, pot. iod. internally. Chronic Orchitis.-Causes.-{l) acute orchitis; (2) syiAilis ; (3) struma; (4) injuries. Acute inflammation in the testicle as' elsewhere, sometimes subsides into chronic Most cases of chronic orchitis ai-e syphHitic, and very indolent. See Stru-