GASTEOTOMY. 1^5 Gastrotomy.-A term applied to two distinct operations, viz. : 1, opening the stomach; 2, opening the abdominal cavity """^Gastrgtomy, or operation of maHng opening into stomach. CaUed ' Gastrostomy' when done for disease of the oesophagus. Indications.-\. When a foreign body has entered the stomach and cannot safely either pass through the pylorus or be vomited or extracted by the mouth. 2. When an impervious stricture of the oesophagus is of traumatic origin. Indication is then imperative. 3. In cases of cancer of oesophagus. In these, though death has always speedily followed operation, yet patient s sufferings have been much reUeved. Pro^/7^os^s.—Usually fol^ lowed by speedy death when done for disease of the cesophagus,i but very safe (1 death in 11) when done for foreign body. In former case, death is more from advanced disease than from • operation. Operation. —^csl^A, forceps, ligatures, director,- hooks, catch-forceps, retractors, handled needles, sHk ligatures, bits of bougie for quilled-suture. Incision, curved for 4 inches, just internal to edge of left costal cartilages, from sternal ex- tremity of seventh intercostal space, downwards and outwards. Divide successive layers on a director. Edge of left lobe of liver may be useful as guide to stomach. Pull stomach out with finger and thumb. When quite certam of having got the right viscus, seize it with catch-forceps, if gastrostomy is to be done. Two double ligatures from side to side through lips of wound and wall of stomach. Open viscus. PuU ligature loops out of wound and divide them. Quills inside and out. Additional s'utures at corners of wound. Unless patient is much exhausted, feed by enemata only for first twenty-four hours at least. When operating to remove foreign body, make opening in stomach small, and sew up with continuous suture unless opening spontianeously closes. Gleet,—See GONORRHCEA. Glioma.—See Tumours, Sarcomatous. Glottidis, (Edema.—See Laryngitis. Goitre.—See Bronchocele. 1 Two successful cases : Verneuil's, sec Lancet, J an. 13, 1877 ; and Staton's, •see Med. Press and Circ., Dec. 29, 1880. Both were dressed antiscptically.