393 CATAEACT, brownish appearance of lens. (3) By the Ophthalmoscope, when the opacity of lens will appear as dark patches, streaks, or a central nucleus; the red choroidal reflex will only be observed inversely as the amount of opacity. In lamellar cataract, a well-defined shell of opacity appears, surrounded by a clear (cortical) layer of lens substance, through which the bright red choroidal reflex is observed. When any portion of the lens substance remains clear, note should be made as to the state of the vitreous, optic disc, retina, and choroid, with a view to probable fitness for future operation. Opacities of cornea will also appear as dark patches with ophthalmoscope, and may be seen by superficial examination. Opacities of vitreous appear as moving bodies, and are distinguished by their continuing to move after the patient's eye has suddenly come to rest. Treatment.—In early stages of nuclear cataract the sight may often be improved by moderate dilatation of the pupil by atropine. Use atropine drops gr. iv. ad ^j. once or twice a week. Dark spectacles may be worn to favour dilatation of the pupil. In lamellar cataract patient can often see faii'ly well. When vision is seriously impaired and the margin of translucency is wide, make an artificial pupil by iridectomy; when the margin is narrow, perform the operation of solution, or of ex- traction. In forms other than lamellar, sight can be restored only by one of the following methods of operating on the lens. (1) Extraction; (2) Needle operation; (3) Suction. (1) Ex- traction.—Yarious methods are in use at the present time, but all have the following common points. (1) An incision in the cornea or at the junction of the cornea and sclerotic, or in the sclerotic just beyond the cornea, sufliciently large to allow exit of lens. The incision is usually made with Yon Graefe's straight knife. (2) Iridectomy is very frequently performed, either as a second stage of the operation or two or three weeks previously. This is done to lessen the danger of iiitis, which more frequently follows the older operation in which iridectomy was not performed. (3) The capsule is freely ruptured by a sharp-pointed instrument introduced through the corneal wound. (4) The lens is removed through the torn capsule, either by pressure and manipulation outside the eye or by means of a