SPEAINS. 291 Sprains.—A class of injuries in whicli the soft parts of and about joints are stretched or torn. Causes.—Usually a sudden wrench or twist occurring when the patient is unprepared to bring his muscular power to the assistance of his ligaments. Sprains not unfrequently accompanied by fracture, the tendons or ligaments in such cases being stronger than the bony processes to which they are attached. Complete rupture of a tendon is commonly described as an accident distinct from a sprain. {See Tendons, Injuries of.) Most sprains of severity involve lace- ration of the capsular ligament. Blood is rarely effused into the joint in any quantity, but subcutaneous ecchymosis is very common. Serous effusion into joint-cavity, and inflammatoiy swelling of surrounding soft parts take place. Pain, often excru- ciating, heat and tenderness—usually best marked at certain pomts. Diagnosis is to be made from fracture by negative evidence. Trust as much as you safely can to you? eye and to the history of the case. Prolonged physical search for crepitus to be much condemned, rreateieni.—Methods appa- rently diametrically opposed succeed with these injuries. In the great majority of cases nature is thoroughly competent to cure sprains imassisted. Many people ' walk them off,' as they say Spramed thumbs habitually get what is really no treatment at all; yet, common and severe as they are, how rarely any per- rnanent harm comes from them ! On the other hand, almost all the surgical authorities, alarmed by the number of joint-diseases and the like which are attributed (truly, no doubt) to neglected sprains, warn us to fix sprains'with wooden or iron spUnts for weeks. There may be some doubt about the amount of harm to be really attributed to treating sprains by motion: but there can be no question whatever about the mischief done bv the abuse of rest. Bone-setters depend for their living upon the orthodox and Hind worship of splints. A treatment which will be fovmd very successful (see the writings of Hood, Cowling Pdcher, and the traditional practices of thousands of the laitv)' IS to supply the place of the torn ligaments by applying careMv and thoughtfully bandages outside the ioint to L.Tf 1^ ^ and inflammation by the pressure of .^l^^l^^^Z: cure elasticity, and thus permit a certain amount orCement" u 2 '