TUMOUES. of partially or wholly emptying tliem, and the effect on them of forcible expiration, will often settle the question. Prognosis.— If let alone, they wiU occasionally progress till they cause deformity, weakness, and the absorption even of important parts. But they frequently remain stationary, or may even retrograde. Treatment.—I. By injection of tinct. ferri perchlor. ; dangerous, especially in nsevi of head and neck. 2. By galvano-caustic, benzoline cautery, bulbous nsevus cautery, small sticks of lunar caustic driven into tumour. 3. By nitric acid (best for small and superficial nisvi). 4. By Hgatlire : various modes, subcutaneous and otherwise. 5. By compression. 6. By excision. Before excision, the base of the nsevus may be surrounded by an elastic ligature, which should be tightened after pressing the blood out.^ Thus the operation is rendered bloodless. Nsevi being encapsuled, may be excised exactly hke any soUd tumour. Balmanno Squire treats port-vsdne stain by systematic scratchings and cross-scratchings with a hot cautery- needle. Excision is probably the best treatment for aneui-ism by anastomosis. Sarcomata.—This most interesting group of tumours, whose association and nomenclature are mainly due to Virchow, includes the fihro-cellular,t\iG mucous tumour, asndi th.e myeloid tumour oi English practical surgery; and the group, on the whole, nearly corresponds to Paget's recurrent fibroid. Therapeutic study and pathological study of these tumours have been, unfortunately, very independent of one another; consequently, the varieties of sarcoma have two quite different nomenclatures, one clinical and somewhat old-fashioned, the other scientific and chiefly German. The student has no right to resent this, unless he thinks that science and art should always be manacled together, and one never suffered to advance without the other. First, let us notice chief points in the anatomy of sarcomata, and in doing so, employ a strict pathological classification (after Billroth), viz., into (1) granulation sarcoma; (2) spindle-celled sarcoma; (3) giant-celled sarcoma; (4) stellate sarcoma; (5) alveolar sarcoma ; (6) pigmented sarcoma. Granulation Sa/rcoma, Round-celled Sarcoma (including > W. H. Bi-own of Leeds.