24 DISEASES OF ANTEUM. spray, carbolised instruments and hands, carbolised catgut, pro- tective next -wound, gauze (usually eight folds), mackintosh just beneath uppermost layer of gauze. Sometimes use a drainage tube, then its end must be well concealed by gauze. Carbolised bandage, elastic bandage in certain cases, safety pins. Ex- planation of details: spray (strength 1-40); carbolising the hands, &c., prevents access of live germs; protective protects from the irritating properties of carbolic acid; gauze absorbs and disinfects discharge; mackintosh prevents discharge from soaking through to the surface, and thus establishing a channel of disinfection. Lotion for washing instruments, &c. (strength 1-40). Dressing should be removed under spray and redone from time to time, according to amount of discharge, which should not, if possible, be allowed to soak quite through. In absence of spray producer, and in the case of accident wounds, wash the surfaces with lotion (1-40). Antiseptic 'veil' and irrigation, substitutes for spray. Boracic and salicylic acid, thymol, and ol. eucalypti have been used instead of carbolic acid. Strength of lotion for use in steam spray-producer^ 1-20 ; steam dilutes it to 1-40. Antrum, Diseases of, may be classified into Cystic Disease of. Suppuration in, and Tumours of Antrum. Antrum, Cystic Disease of.—Firstly there is the form known as Dropsy of the Antrum, not owing to obstruction of antro-nasal orifice, but to cystic disease of the mucous mem- brane; simple or multiple cysts; bulging into nose, mouth, orbit, and cheek; thinning of bone, even to crackling. Con- tents : thin, brownish, serous, with cholesterine. Treatment.— Catheterise through nose, or tap through anterior wall from mouth, or draw a diseased tooth and tap through its socket. Restore shape of cheek by pressure with a pad. A second variety, called ' Deniigerous Cysts,' connected with malplaced teeth. Small ones common. Large ones cause absorption of neighbouring parts. Treatment.—Open and remove the con- tained teeth; stufi* cavity with lint till it begins to granulate. If cyst be large, remove part of its wall. Antrum, Suppuration of.—Causes.—Carious teeth, blows. Signs.—Swelling, pain, pufiiness of neighboming soft parts;