ANAESTHESIA. 15 little vomiting. Kecovery is rapid ; but it is more danger- ous than ether, and perhaps as dangerous as chloroform. It is used in ophthalmic surgery and for ovariotomy. Chloroform has a quick and powerful action, is comparatively agi-eeable to take, and seems safe enough for children; but for adults is more dangerous than ether. It frequently causes vomiting. Ether is safe and powerful, and not much slower than chloroform when properly given. On the other hand, the patients some- times require strong assistants to manage them in the stage of excitement; and in old bronchitics bronchial ii-ritation is pro- duced. As air should not be mixed with ether, it is not adapted for operations aboiit the mouth. The mixture of alcohol, chloroform, and ether is much liked at Guy's Hospital. (Chloro- form has been said to be quite safe for parturient women, but several deaths have been recorded.) Modes of Administration.—Always see that all buttons and braces about neck and chest are loose. In bloody operations about the mouth the patient should sometimes be turned on his side. Prone position permissible if required. Carefully watch respirations and pulse, especially the former. 1. Chloroform. — Recumbent position. Clover's inhaler. Other inhalers. Piece of lint. Towel. Allow free access of air. Commence gently. Pour 5ss. upon the towel to begin with. 2. Ether.—Best administered in a towel folded conically with a sponge at the bottom, or in a cone of mackintosh lined with felt. Two ounces are not too much to begin with, and the drug should be administered boldly, especially in the stage of excitement. If the drug be pushed vigorously then complete anjetbesia usually follows immediately; if indecision or timidity be displayed the patient's struggles last a long time No air should be allowed to get under the apparatus, which should be held firmly down over mouth and nose. Patient may pull it off, unless assistants are arranged before commencing so that they may be ready to restrain the patient the moment restraint is necessary, gj. of ether is to be put into the cone from time to time. The patient's face is red and congested, and his breathing apt to be stertorous. Much saliva is secreted.