TETANUS. 309 inci Jent disease of lungs, &c. Any ordinary affection of testicle may be the commencement of strumous disease in a strumous person. Prognosis.—With suitable treatment, many cases make a satisfactory recovery, the tubercle degenerating and becoming encapsuled, or discharged. Treatment—Vide Scro- fula. Suspensory bandage, cold sponging in indolent cases, iodine externally. Lay open and clean obstinate sinuses. Only in thoroughly hopeless cases, such as resist treatment and obviously undermine the health, is excision justifiable. Vide Hernia Testis. Testicle, Syphilitic.—A tertiary manifestation. Fatho- Icgy. — (Compare with Strumous Testicle. See above.) Generally confined to body of gland, epididymis and cord remaining healthy. Deposit of lymph in areolar tissue Isetween the tubules, sometimes in nodules. Different lobules affected in different degrees usually. Lymph-nodules upon tunica albuginea. Disease sometimes spreads to tubuJi. Tendency to fibrous degeneration, eventual contraction, and even atrophy of the affected gland. Both testicles often attacked, usually one after the other. Liability to abscess and hernia testis. Symptoms.—Enlargement, usually slow. Amount of pain depends directly on rapidity of progress. Frequently neither pain nor tenderness. Stony hardness. Knotty feel (not always). Epididymis not usually distinguishable from rest of gland. Hydrocele often coexists. History of syphilis : per- haps other collateral symptoms, e.g., nodes. Diagnosis.— Compare symptoms, as given above, of strumous testicle. Chronic orchitis caused by injury, or by stricture, can scarcely be distinguished from syphilitic, except by the history and general symptoms. But it requires similar treatment. Prog- nosis.—Danger of atrophy. Liability to relapse. Quite under control of antisyphilitic remedies. Treatment.—Support by strapping may be employed, unless suppuration be progress- ing. Suspensory bandage. Iodine or mercurial ointment locally when pressure is not advisable. Open abscesses early. Give iodide of potassium internally, or order mercurial inunc- tions. See Syphilis. Tetanus.—Causes.—1, wound; 2, catching cold; 3, race;