OBLIQJJE MUSCLES, 125 eonvtnirel), quia costarum interstitia adeo minuta sunt, ut si musculi isti I’ectis angulis insererentur, breviores es- sent, quim ipsa musculorum natura patitur; quapropter ut dicti musculi justam longitudinem obtinerent, eos ob- lique, uti fit, costis iiisertos esse, oportet: cum tamen obliqua 1i£ec positio ad costas sursum movendas minus idonea sit; ideo natura machinatrix sapientissima, di- versi situs musculos constituit; ut, dum hiuc inde lequali nixu oblique costas trahunt, costae interea recta sureum ascendant, prout in Tab. 2. Jig. 4. ostenditur: ubi mus- culis exterioribus a a et interioribus c c simul se contra- hentibus, costa inferior, mobiliorque, non oblixpie, sed recta sursum asceudat; pcrinde ac si a musculo, rectis angulis ei alfixo, traheretur Without any comment, I shall now appeal to the read- er whether Dr Mayow -has said any thing more than a person might'have done who was entirely ignorant of geometrical principles, or of the advantages which co- operating muscles gain by their obliquity. He rests the whole advantage of obliquity of the inter- costal muscles on their being longer than straight ones • “ The oblique and contrary situation of the intercostal muscles shows this still farther. For although a straight insertion would suit better for moving the ribs upwards or downwards, yet Nature seems to have inserted them obliquely into the ribs, because the interstices of the ribs are so minute, that if these musccls were inserted at right angles, they would be shorter than tl»e nature of muscles suflers ; wherefore, tl>at the said muscles might obtain a just length, it was necessary to insert them, as is done, obliquely into the ribs. But as this oblique position is less fit for moving the ribs upwards, therefore Nature, a most wise contriver, hath disposed these muscles in dif- ferent situations, that whilst with an equal eH'ort they draw the ribs obliquely here and there, the ribs in the mean time ascend straight upwards, as is shewn in Tab. 2. fig. 1., where the eiternal muscles a a, and the interniJ c c contracting themselves at the same time, the inferior and more moveable rib will ascend, not obliquely, but straight, a$ if it were dragged by a muscle fixed tejt at right angles,”