202 OF THE SKELETON. Part I. infide, has the tendon of the fubfcapularls mufcle inferted into it The larger more external protuberance is di- vided, at its upper part, into three fmooth plain furfaces ; into the anterior of which, the mufculus fupra-fpinatus ; into the middle or largeft, the infra-fpinatus ; and into the one behind, the teres minor, is inferted.—Between thefe two tubercles, exactly in the fore-part of the bone, a deep long fofla is formed, for lodging the tendinous head of the bi- ceps flexor cubiti; 'which, after paffing, in a manner pe- culiar to itfelf, through the cavity of the articulation, is tied down by a tendinous Iheath extended acrofs the folTa} in which, and in the neighbouring tubercles, are feveral remarkable holes, wliich are penetrated by the tendinous/ and ligamentous fibres, and by veflels. On each fide of this fofla, as it defeends in the os humeri, a rough ridge, gently flatted in the middle, runs from the roots of the tubercles. Tire tendon of the pe£loral mufcle is fixed into the anterior of thefe ridges, and the latiffimus dorfi and teres major are inferted into the internal one. A little behind the lower end of this laft, another rough ridge may be obfeivcd, wdiere the coraco-brachialis is inferred. From the back-part of the root of the large 11 tubercle a ridge alfo is continued, from which the brevis extenfor cu* biti rifes. This bone is flatted on the infide, about its mid- dle, by the belly of the biceps flexor cubiti. In the middle of this plain furface, the entry of the medullary artery is feen flanting obliquely downwards. At the fore* fide of this plane the bone rifes in a fort of a ridge, which is rough, and often has a great many fmall holes in it, where the tendon of the ftrong deltoid mufcle is inferted ; on each fide of which the bone is fmooth and flat, where the brachlus in- ternus rifes. The exterior of thefe two flat furfaces is the largell; behind it a fuperficial fpiral channel, formed by the mufcular nerve and the veflels that accompany It, runs from