^76 Part I* OF THE SKELETON. {£) Ludov. m Ephitn. German, dec. l. _ann. 3. obf. 255. i the circurnference of this unequal furface, to connect them more firmly. The olTa innominata are conne£ted together at their fore-part by the ligamentous cartilage interpofecl between the two ofla pubis. Thefe bones can therefore have no motion in a natural ftate, except what is common to the trunk of the body, or to the os fiicrum, But it has been difputed, whether or not they loofcn fo much from each other, and from the os facrum, in child-birth, by the flow of mucus to the pelvis, and by the throes of labour, as that the ofiTa pubis recede from each other, and thereby . allow the paflage between the bones to be enlarged. Seve- ral obfervations (e) flicw that this relaxation fometimes happens: But thofe who had frequently opportunities of difleiSling the bodies of women who died immediately after being delivered of children, teach us to beware of regarding this as the common effect of child-birth j for they found fuch a relaxation in very few of the bodies which tliey examined (/)• Confidering the great weight that is fupported in oUr e- re£t pollure, by the articulation of the ofla innominata with the os facrum,' there is great reafon to think, that if the con- glutinated furfaces of thefe bones were once feparated, (with- out which the ofla pubis cannot fliuffle on each other), the ligaments would be violently flretched, if not -torn : from v hence many diforders would arife (g)* Each os innominatum affords a focket (the acetabulum) for the thigh-bones to m'ove in ; and the trunk of the bo- dy rolls here fo much on the heads of the thigh-bones, as to allow the mofl confpicuous motions of the trunk, which are commonly thought to be performed by the bones of the (e) Bauch'm. Theat. anat, lib. I. cap. 49—SpJgcl. Anat. lib. a. c. 14.— Rician. Anthropog. lib. 6. cap. 12.—Diemerbrock, Anat. lib. 9. cap. 16. (/) Hildan. cpill. cent. obf. 46.—Dionis Sixieme demonftrat. dcsos.— Morgagn. Adverf. 3. animad. 15.