Chap. II. BONES OF THE HEAD. 109 bone appears, which is efteemed the fourth procefs. On the Internal part of this we often meet with a ridge, almofl of the fame height with that in the nafal procefs, which runs tranfverfely, and is covered by a fimilar ridge of the palate- bone, on which the back-part of the upper edge of the 09 fponglofum inferius rells. The convex back part of this tuberofity is rough for the origin of part of the external ptery- goid mul’cle {«); and more internal is fcabrous, where the palate and fphenoid bones are joined to it.—That fpongy pro- tuberance (a:) at the lower circumference of this bone, where the fockets for the teeth are formed, is reckoned the fifth. - The fixth is the horizontal plate, which forms the greater part of the bafe of the noftrils, and roof of the mouth : Its upper furface, which belongs to the noftrils, is very fmooth; but the other below is arched and rough, for the ftronger , adhefion of the membrane of the mouth, which is ftretched upon it; and in chewing, fpeaking, &c. might otherwife be liable to be feparated. The feventh rifes like a fpine from, the inner edge of the laft, and forms a fmall part of the par- tition of the noftrils. The deprejjlom in each maxillary bone are, i. A finuofi- ty behind tike orbitar procefs, made by the temporal muf- cle. 2. A pit immediately before the fame procefs, where the origin of the mufculus elevator labiorum communis, and elevator labii fuperioris, with a branch of the fifth pair of nerves, are lodged fecurely. 3. The hollow arch of the palate. 4. The femicircular great notch, or entry to the lower part of the noftiils, between the root of the nafaJ procefs and fpine of the palate plate.—-Below this, the fore part of. the bone is flatted, or fometimes hollowed, by the mufculus depreflbr labii fuperioris. 5. Sockets for the teeth (y): The number of thefe fockets is uncertain; for (») Albin. dc ofllb. § 79, 0) ixnirwi, Alveoli, folTul*, mortaxioh, fracna, loc^i, cave, lo* cnUmcoU. 1