(Chap.II. INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. 237 • (of the medullary vefTels of the large bones of the extreml- I ties (/«); becaufe in feveral chirurgical cafes, a furgeon • who is ignorant of their fituation and courfe, may do mif- I chief to his patient. Thus, for example, if thefe veflcls are opened very near their entry into tlie bone, or while they are in the oblique paflage through it, an obftiuate hoemorrhagy may enfue : For the arteries being connedled to the bony paflage, ftyptics, and other like corrugators, are applyed in vain ; comprefiing inltruments can do no fervice, and ligatures cannot be employed. There feems to be a particular defigh in the contrivance of thefe canals; thofe in the os humeri, tibia, and fibula running oblique- ly downwards from their external entry ; whereas in the radius, ulna, and os femoris, they flant upwards, whereby the arteries and nerves which are fent into thefe three lafl bones mull fuffer a confiderable reflexion before they come ’■at the cancelli. The reafon of this dlverfity may perhaps be, that the arteries, which are fo fmall ■w'ithin the bones as to have no ftrong contractile propelling force in their coats, and where they are not allifled by the a£lion of any moving neighbouring organ, fhould have, at lead in their palTage through the bone, a favourable defeent for their li- quids : which, it is evident, they have in the defeending oblique'pafliiges formed for them in the lirfl: clafs of bones, to wit, the os humeri, tibia, and fibula, which are gene- rally depending ; and they alfo mod frequently acquire the like advantage in the radius, ulna, and os femoris ; becaufe the hand, in the mod natural podure, is higher than the elbow : And w^hen we fit or lie, the lower end of the thigh- comes to be at lead raifed as high as the upper end. In danding and walking, or when the arms are moved, the blood mud indeed afeend as it pafles through the bones of the fore-arm and thigh ; but the prefTurc of the mufrles, ’ ' then (m) Havers, Ofteolog. Nov. dif. I. p. 59,