222 OF THE SKELETON. Part L vitjr, flanting outwards: the internal pofterior angle of which is fo prominent, as to have the appearance of a pro- ' cefs. The internal fids of this bafe is made plain in the fame way as the external fide of the former bone, while its external fide has two hollow circular furfaces, for joining the third metacarpal bone; and between thefe furfaces there is a rough foffa, for the adhelion of a ligament, and lodging mucilaginous glands. The fliortcr head of the bi- cornis is inferted into the back-part of this bafe. The two Cdes of this bone are. almofl; equally flatted; only the ridge on the fore-part of the body inclines outwards. The tuber- cles at the fore-part of the root of the head are equal. The motion of this bone is very little more that than of the for- mer ; and therefore thefe two firmly refill bodies prefTed a- gainfl; them by the thumb or fingers, or both. metaca/pi digiil atwularts is fhorter than the fecond metacarpal bone. Its bafe is femicircular and convex, for its> conjumftion with the os unciforme. On its internal fide are two fmopth convexities, and a 'middle folia, adapted to •he fecond metacarpal bone. The external fide has a tri- angular fmooth concave furface to join it w’ith the fourth •f>ne. The anterior ridge of its body is fituated more to the cut than to the infide The tubercles near the head are e^. qual The motion of this third metacarpal bone is greater than the motion of the fecond. Os i\utacarpi wtnimi digiti is the fmalleft and fharpefV, Its bafe is irregularly convex, and rifes flanting outwards, —Its internal fide is exadlly adapted to the third metacar- pal bone, —The external has no fmooth furface, becaufe it is not contiguous to any other bone; but it is prorriinent where the extenfor carpi ulnaris is inferted. As this me- tacarpal bone is furnifhed witlr a proper moving muftle, has the plained articulation, is mod loofely connefted and lead confined, it not only enjoys a much larger motion th?^ 2 , any