*57 Chap.II. BONES OF THE TRUNK. cartilages between thefe vcrtebrx are much the tliickefl of any, and render the fpine convex within the abdomen, b/ their greatefl; thicknefs being at their fore-part. 3. The oblique procefl'es are ftrong and deep; thole in oppofitc lides being almoft placed in parallel planes •, the fuperior, which are concave, facing inwards, and the convex inferior ones facing outwards: And therefore each of thefe verte- brae receives the one above it, and is received by the one below; which is not fo evident in the other two clafles al- ready deforibed. 4. Their tranfverfe procefl'es are fmall, long, and almoR erc£l:, for allowing large motion to each bone, and fafficient infertion to mufcles, and for fupporting and defending the internal parts. 5. Between the roots of the fuperior oblique and tranfverfe procefl'es a fmall protu- berance may be obferved, where fome of the mufcles that raife the trunk of the body are inferted. 6. Their fpinal procefl'es are ftrong, ftraight, and horizontal, with broad flat fides, and a narrow edge above and below j tins laft: being deprelfed on each fide by mufcles. And at the root of thefe edges, we fee rough furfaces for fixing the liga- ments. 7. The canal for the numerous cords called cauda equina^ into which the fpinal marrow divides, is rather larger in thefe bones than what contains that marrow in the vertebra: of the back. 8. The holes for the palTage of the nerves are more equally formed out of both the contigu- ous vertebrae than in the other clafl'es ; the upper one fur* nilhes, however, the larger fliare of eaeh hole. The thick cartilages between thefe lumbar vertebr^, their deep oblique procefl'es, and their ere£l fpinal procefl'es, arc 'all fit for allowing large motion : though it is not fo great as what is performed in the neck •, which appears from com- paring the arches which the head deferibes when moving on the neck or the loins only. The lumbar vertebrte, as they defeend, have their oblique procefl'es