243 OF- THE SKELETON. Parti. and when the leg is fully extended, the rotula rlfes higher in its upper part than the pulley of the thigh-bone.— ■ Tlic plain fmooth furface is furrounded by a rough prominent edge, to \<^hich the capfular ligament adheres : Below, the point of the bone is fcabrous, where the flrong tendinous ligament from the tubercle of the tibia is fixed. The upper horizontal part of this bone is flatted and unequal, where the tendons of the extenfors of the leg are inferted. ' . The fubflance of the rotula is cellular, with very thin external firm plates; but then thefe cells are fo fmall, and fuch a quantity of bone is employed in their formation, that fcarce any bone of its bulk is fo flrong. Befides, it is covered all over with a thick ligament, (as it was obferved ' that this fort of-bones generally is), to connedl its fub- «f Bance, and is moveable to one fide or other: therefore it is fufficientiy flrong to refift the ordinary actions of the ..large mufclcs that are inferred into it, or any common external force applied to it; while a fixed procefs, fuch as the olecranon, would not have been fufficient to bear the whole weight of cur bodies, which frequently falls on it, and would ha\"e hindered the rotatory motion of the leg. Notwithllanding thefe precautions to preferve this bone from fuch injuries, yet I have feen a tranfverfc fradture in it, when, by the report of the patient, and of the people about him, and by the want of /welling, difcolouring, or other mark of bntife or coutufion, it was plain the bone was broken by the violent Braining efi’ort of the mufcles (y). The ugh my patient recovered the ufe of the joint of the knee, yet I think it reafonable-to believe, that this fort of fradlure is commonly attended with dilhculty of motion after the broken parts of the rotula are reunited ; becaufe the callous nratter probably extends itfelf into the cavity of the joint, where it cither grows to foine of the parts, or makes ' fuch * . * (q) See Rufyeh. Oblerv. anat, chirurg. obf. 3.