58 Parf I. OF THE SKELETON. tions are lefs confpicuous than in the upper part of the future, they called nditani 'ntum futHra lambdoidh (/). This future is fometimes very irregular, being made up of a great many fmall futures, which furround fo many little bones that are generally larger and n'orc confpicuous on the external furface of the flcull than internally. Thefe bones are, commonly called triquetra or Wormiana : but fome other name ought to be given them, for they are not al- ways of a triangular figure, and older anatomills (w) than Olaus Wormius («) liave deferibed them.—The fpecific virtue which thefe bones were once thought to have in the cure of the epilepfy (0), is not aferibed to them now ; and anatomills generally agree, that thqir formation is owing to a greater than ordinary number of points of offification in the fl<hill, or to the ordinary bones of the cranium not extending their offification far enough or foon enough; in which cafe, the uVioifificd interllice between fuch bones begins a feparate olfification in one or more points; from which the offification is extended to form aS. many dilHncl bones as there were points, that are indented into the large ordinary bones, and into each other. Probably thofe children who have a large opening in this place at their birth, will have the largcfl olfa triquetra. To confirm this account of the formation or thefe little bones, we may remark, that fuch bones are fometime^ feen in other futures, as well as in the lambdoidal (/>) ; and .they I Sre (l) Lambdoides liarmonialis, lambdoides inferior, occipitis corona. ( n>j Eviftach. Otnum examen. Baulun. Thcat. Anat. lib. 3-cap. 5.— Paaw in Ilippocrat. dc vulner. capit. p. JQ. (n) Mufteum, lib. 3. c. 26. (0) Bauhin. et Paaw ibid. Bartholin. Anat. reform, lib. 4.. c. 5.—— Hildan. Epiftol. 65. (^) Sec examples in Vefal. lib- t. cap. 6. fig. 4. Paaw in Hipi)o- crat. de cap. vulu. rBarthoIin. Hill. Anat. cent. i. Hift. 5I. Ruyfeh. Muf. Anat.——Sue Trad, d’ofleolog. p.47.