i6i BONES OF THE TRUNK. Chap. II. } ligamentous firings that go from this bone to the os ilium, with a cellular fubftance containing mucus, are lodged. The tranfvcrfe procefles of the two laft bones of the os fa- crum are much fmaller than the former.—At their back-part near their edge, a knob and oblong flat furfacc give rife to two llrong ligaments which are extended to the os ifehium •, an^i are therefore called facrofciatic. The fpinal procefles of the three uppermofl bones of the os facrum appear fliort, Iharp, and almoft ere£l, while the two lower ones are open behind ; and fometimes a little, knob is to be feen on the fourth, though generally it is bi- furcated, without the two legs meeting into a fpine •, in, which condition alfo the firfl; is often to be feen ; and fometimes none of them meet, but leave a fituis, or rather fofla, inftead of a canal [m).—The mufculus latiflimus and longilTimus dorfi, facro-lumbalis, and glutaeus maximus, have part of their ori- gins from thefe fpinal procefles. The canal between the bodies and procefles of this bone, for the cauda equina, is triangular; and becomes fmaller, as the cauda alfo does, as it defeends. Below the third bone, this paflage is no-more a complete bony canal, but is open be- hind ; and is only there defended by a flrong ligamentous membrane ftretched over it, wdiich, with the mufcles that co- ver it, and that are-very prominent on each fide, is a fulFicicnt defence for the bundle of nerves within. At the root of each oblique procefs of this bone, the notch is confpicuous ; by which, and another fimilar one in the laft vertebra of the loins, a paflage is left for the twenty- fourth fpinal nerve ; and in viewing the 03 facrum, either before or behind, four large holes appear in each fide, in much the fame height as where the mr,rks of the union of Its feveral bones remain. Some of the largeft nerves of the body pafs through the anterior holes; and fuperficial grooves. VoL. I. X fm) Verheyen, Anat. trail. 5. cap. 9,- -Sue Trad, d’ofteol. p. 127.