OF MUSCULAR MOTION. iPart IL 379 It has been doubted whether the. fibres of tendons are a I continuation of the moving fibres, or of a different nature. Many, both antients and moderns, have embraced the firft I opinion, others the fecond ; but if we confider that the ! tendinous fibres are not irritable, have no contraction, that they differ little from thofe which conflitute the ligaments, and that they degenerate fometimes into a fubflance truly cellular, we would be inclined to adopt the latter opinion. According to Ur Haller, a mufcle therefore is endowed at lead with a threefold force. Firft the vis mortua^ in common to it with other animal fibres. Another, which he has called the vii infita, and which has different phe- nomena from the former*. It is more peculiar to life ; and though it may continue for a few hours after death yet it difappears much fobner than the former. Again, in moft cafes, it acls by alternate ofcillations ; fo that, be- ing driven hither and thither, it fometimes conrraCfs the mufcle towards the middle j fometimes again it extends the mufcle from the middle towards the extremities, and fome- times alfo it has a reiterated motion. Moreover, it is ma- nifetlly quicker, and performs the greateft motions*. It is excited both by the pricking with a (harp Inftrument, and in the hollow mufcles by inflated air, by water, and every kind of acrimony, but moft powerfully of all by a torrent of eleClrical matter. Laftly, it is peculiar to the mufcular fibre, and is found in no other part of the human body with the qualities above mentioned. But we muft give a more particular explication of Its phenomena. It is natural to every mufcle to fhorten itfelf, by drawing the extremities towards its belly or middle. But to difeovev the moving power of a mufcle from the fabric which we have deferibed, it will be of ufe to confider the appearances obfervable in the mufcular contrablion. Every mufcle then 3 L 2 becomes * .See obfcrvati»ns on this fubjett in the fubfequent pages of this Chapter.