Chap. II. INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. 229 nal root. The mufcles inferted into thofe two procefTes being the principal inftvuments of the rotatory motion of the thigh, have occafioned the name of trochaniers to be given to thofe procefles. Flie tendons that are fixed into or pafs over the great trschantelTy caufe bruifes, by falls on this part, to be attended with great pain and weaknefs of the limb, which generally remain long. The body of the os femoris is convex on the fore part, and made hollow b'fchind, by, the action of the mufcles that move it and the leg, and for the conveniency of fitting, without bearing too much on thefe mufcles *, and probably the weight of the legs depending from the thighs in that pofture contributes to this curvature. The fore-part of the thigh-bone is a little flatted above by the beginning of the crurceus mufcle, as it is alfo below by the fame mufclc and the rectus.; Its external furface is likewife made flat below by the vaftus externus, where it is feparated from tlie former by an obtufe ridge. The vaftus internus de- prefles a little the lower part of the Internal furface The pofterior concave furface has a ridge rifing in its middle, commonly called litiea afpera^ into M’hich the triceps Is in- ferted, and the ftiort head of the biceps flexor tibiae rifes from it. At the upper part of it the medullary veflels en- ter by a fmall hole that runs obliquely upwards. little above which there is a rough fofla or two, where the ten- don of the glutrcus maximus is fixed The lower end of the linea afpera divides into two, w'hich defeend towards each fide The two vafti mufcles have part o’f their ori- gin from thefe ridges ; and the long tendon of the triceps is fixed to the internal, by a part of the fafeia aponeuro- tica of the thigh. Near the beginning of the internal ridge, there is a difeontinuation of the ridge, where the crural artery pafles through the aponturofis.' Between hefe two rough' lines, the bone is made flat by the large blood- \