(Chap-II. BONES OF THE HE AD. irp The figure of this bone is an irregular rhomboid. Its Ifides are flat and fmooth. Its poflerior edge appears in an coblique dire£Iion at the back part of the noftrils. The up- fper one is firmly united to the bafe of the fphenoid bone, rand to the nafal plate of the ethmoid ; and, when it can tbe got feparated, is hollow for receiving the proceflus azy- ggos of the fphenoid. The anterior edge has a long furrow i:in it, where the middle cartilage of the nofe enters. The Mower edge is firmly united to the nafal fpines of the max- ilillary and palate bone. Thefe edges of this bone are mucli t thicker than its middle, which is as thin as the thineft paper ; bby which, and the firm union, or conne£liqn this bone has rabove and below, it can very feldom be feparated entire in tadults : but in a child it is much more eafily feparated entire, sand its ftrufture is more diftindly feen 5 wherefore I (hall (examine all its parts in fuch a fubjeff. Its fituation is not always perpendicular, but often inclined aand bended to one fide, as well as the nafal plate of the eth- anoid bone. The vomer is convex at its upper part; and then is idlraight, as it is extended downwards and forwards, where lit is compofed of two plates ; the edges of which have, a ;great number of fmall prbeefTes, difpofed fomewhat like !the teeth of a faw, but more irregularly, and feveral of i’.them are refleded back. Between thefe plates a deep fofla is left, which, as far as to the top of the curvature, is wide land has ftrong fides, for receiving the proceflus azygos of 'the fphenoid bone. Beyond the arch forwards, the fofla i.s gradually narrower and fliallower to the point of the oone, receiving for fome way the nafal lamella ethmoidea ; which, after the ofTification is complete, is fo clofely u* ■nited to the vomer by the little procefles piercing its fub- Mance, as to prevent any feparation ; on which account it has jeen efteemed by fome authors {0) a part of the ethmoid bone. <c) Lieuuud, fiffais aaatomiciues, fcdl, i, l’c»J ethmoije.