Chap. ir. BONES OF THE HEAD. 75 They have no particular ufes befides thofe mentioned in the dcfcription of their feveral parts, except what are inclu- ded in the account of the general ftru£lure ofihe cranium. In a child born at the full time, none of the fides of this bone are completed ; and there never is a hole in the oflified part of it near the fagittal future. The large unofllfied ligamentous part of the cranium, obfervable between the parietal bones* and the middle of the divided oS frontis of new-born children, called by the vulgar the open of tlif head, was imagined by the ancients to ferve for the evacuation of the fuperfluous inoifture of the brain : and therefore they named it bregma (y), or tlie fountain; fometimes adding the epithet pulfiliJis, or beat- ing, on account of the pulfation of the brain felt through this flexible ligamento-cartilaginous fubllance. Hence the parietal bones are very frequently called ojfa Ircgmatls. The upper middle part of the head of a child, in a na- tural birth, being what prefents iifclf fiifi; at the os uteri (2), an accoucheur may reach the bregma with his finger, when the os uteri is a little opened. If the bregma Is ftfe'tched, and the pulfation of the brain is felt liirough it, the child is certainly alive : but if it is flirivelled and flac- cid, and without atiy obfervable pulfation in it, there is fome reafon to fufpc£l: the child to be Very weaki or dead. Thofe who pVaclife midwifeVy fliould therefore txamiiie the ftate of the bregma accurately. ‘ All the bregma is ^e'i\t’rally ofiified before feven Velars of age. Several authbi-s' fa) fay, they have otfCryed it unolTified in adults; an'd phyficians, who order the appli- cation of medicines at the''meeting of the dferbnal and fa-. ■ ■ IC 2 ‘ gittal' ' f • , ■ ' ' . • • (y) Pulpitans vertex, folioluiii, folium, triangularis lacuna. (s) Burton’s Midwifery § ji.—Smcllic’s Midwifery, book r. chap. i. § 5. (a) Bartholin. Anat. reform, lib 4. cap. 6.——Dlemerboeck,. Anat. lil/. 9. cap. 6.——Kcrkring Ofteogen. cap. 2.