2(5 OF THE BONES Fart I joined,to other bones by an immoveable articulation, there are fmullcr ones annexed, which afterv/ards became fcarce diflinguilhable from the fubflance of the bone itfelf. Thefe are called epiphyfes or appefidices («). Some bones have one, others have two, three, or four of thofe appendices annexed by the means of cartilages, wl'.ich are of a confi- derable ihicknefs in children, but' by age become thinner, the ofhfication proceeding fiom the end of the bone on one fide, and from the epiphyfes on the other, till at laft, in adults, the place of their conjuncflion can fcarcely be feen on the external furface ; and it is only fometimes that we can then fee any mink of diu.in£lion in the cancelli [o). Several procclTes [e. g. trbehanters of the thigh, fpine of the fcapula, &c.) have epiphyfes; and procefles frequently rife out from epiphyfes; for example, at the lower end of the femur, ulna, tibia, 5cc. (/>). The epiphyfes are united chiefly to fuch bones as are de- ftined for frequent and violent motion ; and for this pur- pofe they are wifely framed of a larger diameter than the bone they belong to: For, by this means, the furface of contaft between the two bones of any articulation being increafed, their conjundlion becomes firmer, and the mufcles inferted into them a£l with greater force by reafon of their .'axes being further removed from the centre of motion. Thefe advantages might indeed have been obtained by the expanfion of the end of the bone itfelf to a thicknefs equal to that of the cpipliyfosbut then the conftant leparation f)f new plates to form fo wide a cellular llru(flure, muft liave left the folid Tides of the bones fo thin as to yield ea- fily, eitlicr to the aiflion of the mufcles fixed to them and paflTing over them, to the weight feveral of them are obli- geci (/;) Applantatio, addit-amentum, adnafceiitia, adnexum, perone. (o) Winflow, Expcfilion anatomique de corps humaia, traitc ('cs os fees, § ii6. (j>~) Vefal. De human, corp. fabric.a, lib. i, cap. j.