Chap. I. IN GENERAL. On the Internal furface of the folid parts of the bones there are orifices of canals, which pafs outwards through the plates to open into other canals that are in a longitudi- nal dire£lion ; from which other tranfverfe paflages go out to terminate in other longitudinal canals; and this flru£lure is continued through the whole fubftance of bones; both thefe kinds of canals becoming gradually fmaller as they approach the outer furface {t). Thefe canals are befl; feen in a bone burnt till it is white. When it is broken tranfverfely, the orifices of the longitudinal canals are in view; and when we feparate the plates, the tranfverfe ones are to be obferved. Here, however, we are in danger of believing both thefe forts of canals more numerous than they really are ; becaufe the holes made by the procefles connecting the plates of bones have the appearance of the tranfverfe (u), and the paflages for the blood-ve.Tels re- femble the longitudinal canals. I do not know how we are to keep free of error about the tranfverfe canals; but think we may diftinguifli between the two kinds of longitudinal ones : for the pafiages of the veflels are largcfl; near the ex- ternal furface of the bone, and every tranfverfe feClion of them is circular; whereas the longitudinal canals are largeft near the cancelll, and their tranfverfe feCtions ap^ pear to me of a flat oval figure, which may be owing to the different momentum of the fluids conveyed in them.—The ficuation of the larger longitudinal canals, and of the paf- fages of the larger velfels, makes a bone appear more denfe and compact in the middle of its. folid fides, than towards its outer and inner furfaces, where it is fpongy. We fee marrow contained in the larger tranfverfe and longitudinal canals juft now defcribed, and from thence judge that it pafles alfo into the fmaller ones. The drops of oil which w'C difeover with a microfeope every where on the (/) Havers Ofteolog. Nov. p. 43. («) Jilorgagn. Adverf. %. aniinad. 25.