Chap. XV OF THE ABDOMEN. 297 ed from the laft rib to the fpine of the os ilium. From thefe origins the fibres run down obliquely forwards, and terminate in a thin broad tendon, whofe fibres are continued in the fame diredfion. Inferted into the whole length of the llnea alba * ; be- comes thicker towards the lower part of the abdomen, and is perforated in the middle by the umbilicus f. On the outfide of the re£lus mufcle, the tendon of the external ob- lique appears whiter than elfewhere, by Its being there- connected with the tendons of the internal oblique and tranfverfe mufclcs j fo that this part has been called linea fcmihmarisy from its curved fliape. The under part of the tendon divides into two columns, which leaves an oval fpace between them, named the ring | of the external ob- lique mufcle, for the pafiage of the fpermatic cord in the male, or round ligament of the womb; The anterior fuperior column paffcs over the cartilage between the ofla pubis, and is fixed to the oppofite os pubis j the other Is fixed to the os pubis of the fame fide. It is alfo inferted, tendinous and flefliy, into the middle of the fpine of the ilium. VoL. I. P p From * The liiiea alia IS, formed by the tendinous fibres of the two •blique and- tranfverfe mufcles, interlaced with thofe of the oppofite fide, the whole way from the cartilage enfiformjs to the os pubis; fo that fome anatomifts think they fiiould be called three digaftric mufcles, with a broad middle ten- don and two fiefiiy bellies. f The umiilicus was originally the paflage for the vefiels that cenncfled the foetus to the fecundines; and is really a hole through tlie teguments and tendons, filled up only by a tellular fubftance, and covered within by the peritoneum, ^ The ring of the external oblique mufcle is made fomewhat circular, by a thin tendinous or rough cellular fubfiance, whkh helps to fill it up; and though a few mufcular fibres of the internal are feparated, yet the IVridture in hernix only happens in the tendon of the external. I