97 Chap. ir. BONES OF THE HEAD. piediately below the anterior'cHnoicl procelTes, for the paf- fage of the optic nerve, and of the branch of the internal carotid artery that is fent to the eye. The fecond is the foramen lacerum, or large flit between the tVanfverfe fpi- nous and orbitar procefl'es: the interior end of which flit is large^; and, as it is extended outwards, it becomes nar- rower. The outer end of it is formed in the os frontis; and therefore this might be reckoned among the'common foramina. Through it the third, fourth, the firtl branch of the fifth, iind the greater Ihare of the fixth pair of nerves, and an artery from the internal carotid, go into the orbit. Sometimes a fmall branch of the external ca- rotid enters near its end, to be diflributed to the dura ma- ter {d); and a vein, fome call it the venous dudt, or Nuck^s aqueducly returns through it to the cavernous finus. The third hole, fituated a little below tire on^ juft now defer!- bed, is called rotundum, from its fliape. It allows paflage to the fecond branch of the fifth pair of nerves, or fupe- riQr maxillary nerve, into the bottom of the orbit. The fourth is the foramen ovale., about half an' inch behind the round hole. Through it the third branch of the fifth pair, or inferior maxillary nerve, goes out ; and fometimes a vein from the dura mater pafles out here (e).—Very near the point of the fpinous procefs is the fifth hole of this bone ; it is fmall and round, for a paflage to the larged artery of the dura mater, which is often accompanied with a vein—The fixth proper hole (/) cannot be well fecn, till the cuneiform bone is feparated from all the other bones of the cranium ; for one end of it is hid by a fmall VoL. I. N protuberance (i/) Wlnflow, Exppfitlon aoatoralque du corps humain, truite dcs arte- ries, § 6o. et de la tete, § a6. (e) Ingrad'. Commentar. in Galen, de odib. lib. i. comment. 8. (/) Vefal. Anat. lib. i. cap. Euftach. tab. 46. fig, 13. & 16. Vidns Vidius, Anat. lib. %, cap. 3. explic.at. tab. 5. Si tab. 6. fig. 8. 9. lit. Q.