Chap. II. BONES OF THE HEAD. 6^ (0) Fall^. Expofit. de ollib. cap. 13. formed in the upper part of the bafe of the crilla galli, wlrich is a procefs of the ethmoid bone (;?/). The os frontis is compofed of two tables^ and an Inter- mediate diploe, as the other bones of the cranium are: It is of a mean thicknefs between the os occipitis and the parietal bones; and is nearly equally denfe throughout, except at the orbitar procefles, where, by the adlion of- the eye on one fide, and prelTure of the lobes of the brain on the other, it is made extremely thin and diaphanous, and the meditullium is entirely obliterated. In this place there is fo weak a defence for the brain, that fencers efteem a pufli in the eye mortal (/?). The diploe is alfo cxhaufted in chat part above t^e eye- brows, where the two tables of the bone feparate, by the external being protruded outwards, tp form two large ca- vities, called Jitius frontales. Thefe are divided by a middle perpendicular -bony partition. Their capaci- ties in the the fame fubjecl are feldom equal; in fome the right, in others the left, is largeft. And in different bones their fize is as inconftant: nay, I have examined fome where they were entirely wanting; which oftener happens in fuch as have a flat forehead, and whofe f.igittal future is continued down to the nofe, than in others (o). In fome fliulls, befides the large perpendicular feptum, fe- veral bony pillars, or fhort partitions, are found in each Cnus: in others thefe are wanting. For the mofi; part theis entire; at other times it is difeontinued, and the two ftntifes communicate. When the finufes are feen in fuch flculls as have the frontal bone divided by the fa- gittal future, the partition dividing thefe ^..cavities is evident- ly compofed of. two plates, which eafily feparate.—Each finus (tt) IngrafT. Comment, in Gaien. dc offib. cap. i. comment. 8. (/>) Ruyfdi. Obferv. Anat.-chir. obferv. 54. Dicnierbroek, Anat. lib. 3. cap. 10. Bonet. Sepulch. Anat, lib. 4. § 3. obferv. 17.