44 Mode of preparation.—Wipe the meat, cut the ox-tail into small joints, put these in a stoneware marmite with the water, let come slowly to the boil, and remove the scum as it rises to the surface. Have the vegetables trimmed, cleansed, and pared, cut the carrots and turnips into convenient shapes, add these with the bay- leaf and pepper-corns to the soup, and let the whole simmer gently for about 2| hours. Add salt to taste during the process of cooking. To serve, cut the meat into equal portions, and place it in the small pots together with the vegetables equally divided. Toasted bread cut into small slices and spread with marrow- fat should be served separately with this dish. NOTE.—Some cooks add a fowl to the soup at the begin- ning, and use the fillet (breast portion) as a garnish. This improves the flavour of the soup, but adds, of course, to the cost. Pot-au-Feu Soup. This dish is as common to the French as roast beef is to the English. The pot-au-feu forms the favourite dish in many households in France, rich and poor alike, and its excellence and value as a sustaining food have been famed for several centuries past. This dish is usually prepared in an earthenware pot or “marmite.” Procure a piece of shoulder of beef, weighing about 3 lbs., also 1 lb. of bones, an onion stuck with a clove, 1 leek, 2 carrots, 2 turnips, a small bunch of parsley, and a small cabbage. Break up the bones, tie up the meat with string, and put both into a soup pot or marmite ; fill up with about four quarts of cold water, and add a little salt, then put it on the fire, and heat up slowly. Prepare the vegetables—scrape the carrots and cut in two-inch lengths, peel the turnips and cut in quarters ; wash and trim the cabbage, cut in four, or in two if very small, and tie up each piece with string ; wash and trim the leek and cut in three. Remove all the scum from the stock as it rises and comes to the boil. When all the scum is removed, add the vegetables by degrees, including the bunch of parsley.