42 liable to burn food in cooking. They do not tarnish, rust or stain, and do not, therefore, affect the contents cooked in them. Besides being handy and ever ready for use, earthenware fireproof casseroles, baking or braising pans, and dishes, are inexpensive to buy, and if proper care is bestowed they may last as long as metal pans. Food cooked in earthenware or stoneware casseroles is usually served up in the pots or pans in which it is cooked ; this is convenient as well as economical. All that is needed is to place the cooking pot or pan on a dish and send it to the dining-room, thus ensuring it being served hot—which is another point in favour of casserole cookery. This ware is also ornamental, and being used in the very best establishments it has become decidedly fashionable as a means of cooking and serving food. There are various kinds of these fireproof casseroles, etc., in use. Those made in brown earthenware are considered the best, others are white or yellow inside and brown or green outside ; the white china gratin dishes, souffle cases, and ramakins come under the same heading. This style of cooking is known as “ en casserole,” which in reality is the French name for stew-pan, and means that the dish is served in the vessel in which it has been cooked. Fish, meat, poultry, and game can be cooked in this way ; soups, especially those of the pot-au- feu kind, are cooked and served in marmites, which are another type of fireproof cooking-pots. Fruit, which needs to be carefully stev/ed, is excellent if cooked in this ware. For braising and stewing this kind of cookery has really no equal, and there are many other dishes cooked “ en casserole ” which have proved to be so superior in taste and flavour, that one had better abandon them altogether than attempt to serve them without the aid of this useful kind of cooking utensil. Anyone who has adopted the use of these casseroles, marmites, braising or baking dishes, will readily admit that the merits claimed for them are in no way exaggerated, for the cook will find them a most valuable assistant to ensure genuine, wholesome cookery. It is, however, well to remember that anything cooked in an earthenware pan must be heated gradually, and should not be cooked by fierce heat.