142 MUSCLES OF THE BACK. FIFTH LAYER. processes of the four upper dorsal, and four lower cervical vertebrae, and inserted into the rough surface on the occipital bone, between the two curved lines near to the spinous process. A portion of the complexus muscle is named Biventer cervicis, from consisting of a central tendon, with two fleshy bellies. The muscles of this layer are best removed by dividing them transversely through the middle, and turning one extremity upwards, the other downwards. In this way the whole of the muscles of the fourth layer may be got rid of, and the remaining muscles of the spine brought into a state to be examined. Fifth Layer. The Semi-spinales muscles are connected with the transverse and spinous processes of the vertebrae, hence their name semi-spinalis. The Semi-spinalis dor si arises from the transverse pro- cesses of the six lower dorsal vertebrae, and is inserted into the spinous processes of the four upper dorsal, and two lower cervical vertebrae. The Semi-spinalis colli arises from the transverse pro- cesses of the four upper dorsal vertebrae, and is inserted into the spinous processes of four upper cervical vertebrae, commencing with the axis. Occipital group. — This group of small muscles, is intended for the varied movements of the cranium on the atlas, and the atlas on the axis. They are extremely pretty muscles in appearance. The Rectus posticus major arises from the spinous process of the axis, and is inserted into the inferior curved line, on the occipital bone. The Rectus posticus minor arises from the spinous tu- bercle of the atlas, and is inserted into the rough surface on the occipital bone, beneath the inferior curved line. The Rectus lateralis is interposed between the transverse process of the atlas and the occipital bone ; it arises from the transverse process of the atlas, and is inserted into the rough surface of the occipital bone, external to the con- dyle. The Obliquus inferior arises from the spinous process of the axis, and is inserted into the extremity of the trans- verse process of the atlas.