233 SUPERIOR LONGITUDINAL SINUS. the examination and study of the brain, while it is firm and fresh.* The layers of the dura mater separate in several situa- tions, so as to form irregular channels which receive the venous blood. These are the sinuses of the dura mater : they are lined in their interior by a continua- tion of the lining membrane of the veins, and may he arranged into two groups: — 1st. Those situated at the upper and back part of the skull. 2d. The sinuses at the base of the skull. The former are, the Superior longitudinal sinus, Inferior longitudinal sinus, Straight sinus, Occipital sinus, Lateral sinuses. The Superior longitudinal sinus is formed by the split- ting of the layers of the dura mater along the line of attachment of the falx cerebri. It is triangular in form, is narrow anteriorly, and increases in breadth as it proceeds backwards. It terminates at the middle of the occipital bone, by dividing into the two lateral sinuses. This sinus sometimes communicates in front with the nasal veins through the foramen ccecum. In its interior are found the chordae Willisii above described, and some Pacchionian bodies. The cerebral veins opening into the superior longitudinal sinus present a very peculiar disposi- tion : they enter from behind forwards directly opposite to the venous current in the sinus, and so obliquely that the * Some students are in the habit of attempting to harden the brain previously to commencing its dissection : with this object they soak it for some days in dilute acid, which hardens it a little on the exterior, but leaves the interior to decomposition ; hence, on commencing to dissect, they find it soft and pulpy, and perfectly useless. There is no satisfactory mode of hardening the brain but by immersing it in pure alcohol after the pia mater has been wholly removed. But even by this plan the advantage is not compensated by the expense which has been incurred; for, although the cerebral substance be truly hard and rigid, the natural colour and texture are wholly destroyed. We are quite satisfied from a practical experience of some years, that a mode- rately fresh brain cannot be improved by any artificial means for the use of the dissector. The brain is naturally a soft organ, then let the dissector work softly.