69 ARRANGEMENT IN GROUPS. Hand. Radial Group. Flexor ossis metacarpi. Flexor brevis pollicis. Abductor pollicis. Adductor pollicis. Ulnar Group. Palmaris brevis. Flexor ossis metacarpi. Flexor brevis minimi digiti. Abductor minimi digiti. Palmar Group. Lumbricales. Interossei palmares. Interossei dorsales. The Anterior and posterior thoracic groups preserve the fixity and steadiness of the shoulder, and render it capable of supporting heavy weights and becoming the point of resistance to the actions of the humeral muscles. They also move the scapula freely on the chest, and afford all the advantages of the strongest articulation by bone. The humeral group carries the arm throughout all that circle of motion which is so necessary to an universal joint, and so valuable in application to its extensive uses. The muscles of the anterior brachial group are the flexors of the elbow, the perfect flexion of the joint being pro- cured by an advantageous attachment to both the radius and ulna. The posterior brachial group is the antagonist to the former, and extends the fore-arm. Now, it is fair to anticipate, that as the bones increase in number, and the limb is carried farther from the centre, the movements will increase in proportionate ratio. The movements of the shoulder were those of totality : the motions of the scapulo-humeral joint were of the most simple kind, such as would result from the application of a round ball against a shallow socket; those of the elboiv were in one direction only, flexion and extension ; but the wrist requires an apparatus for the action of the powerful twist which is so remarkable in that joint. And this is provided for by two pairs of the muscles of the fore-arm, the pronators and supinators, the former throwing the wrist and hand inwards, the latter outwards. Now this action could not be effectively produced without the exertion of muscular force upon the axis of support to the wrist; and we therefore find that the radius alone articulates with the wrist, and administers to all its movements, while the