LAYERS. 61 MUSCLES. Flexor brevis minimi digiti, Transversus pedis. Fourth Layer. Three plantar interossei (all adductors). The Abductor pollicis lies along the inner border of the foot; it arises by two heads, between which the tendons of the long flexors, arteries, veins, and nerves enter the sole of the foot. One head arises from the inner side of the tuberosity of the os calcis, the other from the in- ternal annular ligament and tuberosity of the scaphoid bone. Insertion, into the base of the first phalanx of the great toe. The Abductor minimi digiti lies along the outer border of the sole of the foot. It arises from the outer side of the os calcis, and from the base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe, and is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the little toe. The Flexor brevis digitorum (perforatus) is placed be- tween the two preceding muscles. It arises from the under surface of the os calcis and plantar fascia, and is inserted by four tendons into the base of the second phalanx of the four lesser toes. Each tendon divides, previously to its insertion, to give passage to the tendon of the long flexor : hence its cognomen perforatus. These muscles are to be divided posteriorly from their origin, and anteriorly through their tendons, and removed. This will bring into view the second layer, and the external plantar artery and nerve, which lie obliquely across it. At the point where the tendons of the long flexors cross each other, a communicating slip is sent between them, which associates their action. The Musculus accessorius arises by two slips from either side of the tuberosity of the os calcis ; the inner slip being fleshy, the outer tendinous. It is inserted into the outer side of the tendon of the flexor longus digi- torum. 1 he Lumbricales (lumbricus, an earthworm) are four little muscles arising from the tibial side of the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum, and inserted into the expansion of the extensor tendons, and into the base of the first phalanx of the four lesser toes.