292 MEIBOMIAN GLANDS. the middle, and tapering to each extremity. Its lower border is broad and flat, its upper is thin, and gives at- tachment to the levator palpebrae and to the fibrous mem- brane of the lids. The Inferior fibro-cartilage {fig. 33. 2.) is a narrow elliptical band situated in the substance of the lower lid. Its upper border is flat, and corresponds with the flat edge of the upper cartilage. The lower is held in its place by the fibrous membrane. The cartilages do not extend quite so far as the angles of the lids. The Fibrous membrane of the lids is firmly attached to the periosteum, around the margin of the orbit, bjr its circumference, and to the tarsal cartilages by its central margin. It is thick and dense on the outer half of the orbit, but becomes thin to its inner side. Its use is to retain the tarsal cartilages in their place, and give support to the lids ; hence it has been named the broad tarsal ligament. The Meibomian glands * are embedded in the internal surface of the cartilages, and are very distinctly seen on examining the inner surface of the lids. They have the appearance of parallel strings of pearls, about twenty or twenty-four upon each cartilage, and open by minute foramina {fig- 33. 1. 2.) upon the edges of the lids. They correspond in length with the breadth of the cartilage, and are consequently longer in the upper than in the lower lid. Each gland consists of a single lengthened follicle or tube, into which a number of small rounded follicles open ; the latter are so numerous as almost to conceal the tube by which the secretion is poured out upon the margin of the lids. They are figured, after a very careful examination, in Dr. Quain's “ Elements of Anatomy.” Occasionally an arch is formed between two of them, as is seen in that figure, and produces a very graceful appear- ance. The edges of the eyelids are furnished with a triple row of long thick hairs, which curve upwards from the upper lid, and downwards from the lower, so that they may not interlace with each other in the closure of the eyelids, and prove an impediment to the opening of the eyes. These are the eyelashes {cilia), important organs ♦ Henry Mcibomius, “ de Vasis Palpebrarum Novis,” 1666.