centrum ovale minus. 243 M 2 If the upper part of one hemisphere be removed with a scalpel, a centre of white substance will be observed, surrounded by a narrow border of grey, which follows the depressions of the convolutions, and presents a zig-zag outline. This appearance is called centrum ovale minus. The brain is composed of these two substances, the wrhite and grey. The white, or medullary substance, forms the great bulk of the cerebro-spinal axis. It is distinctly fibrous in structure, and, when hardened in alcohol, may be easily split in the course of its fibres. When cut across in the fresh brain, as in the section showing the centrum ovale minus, it will be found studded with small vascular points (jmncta), which are the divided cylinders of minute arteries and veins. The grey, or cortical substance (cineritious), forms a thin layer of equal thickness over the whole surface of the cerebrum and of the cerebellum ; hence its denomination, cortical (cortex, bark). It is softer than the medullary substance, and homogeneous in structure. It is also more vascular, receiving a prodigious number of minute straight arteries from the pia mater. Hence it is denominated the formative substance by Gall and Spurzheim, as being the nidus of support to the vessels, which are the source of nutrition to itself as well as to the medullary substance. The grey substance is found also in other situations than the surface, viz. in the interior of primitive ganglia of the cerebrum, the corpora striata, and thalami optici, in the tuber cinereum at the base of the brain, in the commissura mollis of the third ventricle, in the floor of the fourth ventricle, in the centre of each lobe of the cerebellum, each corpus olivare, &c. It also exists in the interior of the spinal cord and crura cerebri, but of a much darker colour than elsewhere. Indeed, the dark appearance in the centre of the section of the crus cerebri, is termed “ locus niger.” Now separate carefully the two hemispheres of the cerebrum, and a broad band of white substance will be seen to connect them. Remove the upper part of each hemisphere with a knife to a level with this white layer. The appearance resulting from this section is the centrum ovale majus. The Centrum ovale majus is the large centre of white