182 OCCIPITAL ARTERY. The Masseteric branch is distributed to the masseter and buccinator muscles. The Inferior labial branch is distributed to the muscles and integument of the lower lip. The Inferior coronary runs along the edge of the lower lip, close to the mucous membrane, and inosculates with the corresponding artery of the opposite side. The Superior coronary follows the same course along the upper lip, inosculating with the opposite superior coronary artery. The Lateralis nasi is distributed to the ala and septum of the nose. The Inosculations of the facial artery are very nume- rous : thus it anastomoses with the sublingual branch of the lingual, with the inferior dental as it escapes from the mental foramen, infra-orbital at the infra-orbital foramen, transverse facial on the side of the face, and at the angle of the eye with the nasal branch of the opthalmic artery. The Posterior branches of the external carotid {fig- 15. 15.), viz., the mastoid, posterior auricular, and occipital, are next to be dissected and studied. 4. The Mastoid artery turns downwards to be distri- buted to the sterno-mastoid muscle ; sometimes it is re- placed by two small branches. 5. The Posterior auricular artery ascends beneath the lower border of the parotid gland, and behind the concha, to be distributed to the external ear and side of the head, anastomosing with the occipital and temporal arteries: some of its branches pass through the fissures in the fibro-cartilage, to be distributed to the anterior surface of the pinna. The anterior auricular arteries are branches of the temporal. Branches. — The posterior auricular gives off but one named branch, the stylo-mastoid, which enters the stylo- mastoid foramen to be distributed to the aqueductus Fal- lopii and tympanum. 6. The Occipital artery passes backwards beneath the posterior belly of the digastricus, the trachelo-mastoid, and sterno-mastoid muscles, to the occipital groove in the mastoid portion of the temporal bone. It then ascends between the splenius and complexus muscles, and is dis-