133 THORACIC AORTA. — BRANCHES. The Bronchial, two superior, and two inferior, arise from the upper part of the artery, and pass to the roots of the lungs, to be distributed with the bronchial tubes. They are the nutritious arteries of the lungs. The (Esophageal are several small branches given off from the front part of the aorta to the oesophagus. The Intercostal, or posterior intercostal branches are ten in number on each side, the two superior spaces being supplied by the superior intercostal artery, a branch of the subclavian. The right intercostals are longer than the left, on account of the position of the aorta. They cross the vertebral column behind the thoracic duct, vena azygos major, and sympathetic nerve, to the intercostal spaces, the left passing beneath the lesser vena azygos and sympathetic. In the intercostal spaces, or rather upon the external intercostal muscles, each artery gives off a dorsal branch for the supply of the muscles of the back. It then comes into relation with its vein and nerve, the former being above, and the latter below, and divides into two branches, which run along the borders of the contiguous ribs between the two planes of intercostal muscles, and anastomose with the anterior intercostal arteries, branches of the internal mammary. The branch corresponding with the lower border of the rib is the larger of the two. They are protected from pressure during the action of the intercostal muscles, by little tendinous arches thrown across and attached by each ex- tremity to the bone. The venae azygos and superior intercostal vein, form a kind of system of themselves for returning the venous blood from the parietes of the chest and vertebral column, in the vacant interval left by the two cavae, as they ad- vance forwards to be connected with the heart. They likewise establish a communication between those two trunks. The Vena azygos major {fig. 13. 3. fig. 11. 11.) arises in the lumbar region by a communication with the lumbar veins ; sometimes it is joined by a branch directly from the inferior vena cava, or by one from the renal vein. It passes through the aortic opening in the diaphragm, and ascends upon the right side of the vertebral column to the third dorsal vertebra, where it arches forwards over