ACTIONS or THE MUSCLES OF THE SHOULDER. ' 85 therefore, confine ourselves to the designations derived from their relations. The external head arises from the humerus immediately below the insertion of the teres minor. The internal head (short) arises from the humerus immediately below the insertion of the teres major. The scapular head (long) lies between the two others, and arises from the upper third of the inferior border of the scapula. The three heads unite to form a broad aponeu- rotic tendon, which is inserted into the olecranon process of the ulna. The scapular head of the triceps passes between the teres minor and major, and divides the triangular space between those two muscles into two smaller spaces, one of which is triangular, the other quadrangular. The triangidar space is bounded by the teres minor, teres major, and scapular head of the triceps ; it. gives passage to the dorsalis scapulae artery and veins. The quadangular space is bounded on three sides by the three preceding muscles, and on the fourth by the humerus. Through this space pass the posterior circumflex artery and veins, and circumflex nerve. Having thus examined all the muscles of the shoulder and upper arm, let us now inquire into their functions. Actions.—The pectoralis major draws the arm against the thorax, while its upper fibres assist the upper part of the trapezius in raising the shoulder, as in supporting weights. The lower fibres depress the shoulder with the aid of the latissimus dorsi. Taking its fixed point from the shoulder, the pectoralis major assists the pectoralis minor, subclavius, and serratus magnus, in drawing up and expanding the chest. The pectoralis minor, in addition to this action, draws upon the coracoid process, and assists in rotating the scapula upon the chest. The subclavius draws the clavicle downwards and forwards, and thereby assists in steadying the shoulder. The serratus magnus is the great external inspiratory muscle, raising the ribs when the shoulders are fixed, and thereby increasing the cavity of the chest. Acting upon the scapula, it draws the shoulder forwards, as we see to be the case in diseased lungs, where the chest has become almost fixed from apprehension of the expanding action of the respiratory muscles. Ihe trapezius muscle carries the entire