52 FIBUL AR REGION. — MUSCLES. The Peroneal cutaneous nerves have been described at page 45.; they communicate with the three other nerves. The Anterior tibialnerve accompanies the dorsalis pedis artery, supplying the extensor brevis digitorum and the great toe, and communicates with the internal peroneal cutaneous. The External saphenous nerve passes from the posterior part of the leg behind the outer malleolus, and is distri- buted to the outer border of the foot, accompanying the branches of the external saphenous vein. This nerve usually communicates with the external peroneal cuta- neous by means of a large branch. The Internal saphenous nerve crosses the inner ankle by the side of the internal saphenous vein, and is distri- buted to the inner border of the foot and great toe. It sends, or receives, a communicating branch from the in- ternal peroneal cutaneous. Fibular Region. If the leg be turned upon its inner side, and the deep fascia be removed from over the fibula, two muscles will be exposed which arise from that bone; these are the peroneus longus and brevis. The Peroneus longus (nspovrj, fibula, extensor tarsi fibularis longior) arises from the upper third of the fibula : its tendon passes behind the outer malleolus to a groove in the cuboid bone, through which it proceeds obliquely across the foot to be inserted into the base of the meta- tarsal bone of the great toe. A sesamoid bone is deve- loped in that part of the tendon which is lodged in the groove of the cuboid bone. The Peroneus brevis (extensor tarsi fibularis brevior) arises from the lower two thirds of the fibula, passes be- hind the external malleolus, with the tendon of the pre- ceding muscle, and is inserted into the base of the meta- tarsal bone of the little toe. Actions. — The peronei muscles are extensors of the foot conjointly with the tibialis posticus. They antagon- ise the tibialis anticus and peroneus tertius, which are flexors of the foot. The whole of these muscles acting together tend to maintain the flatness of the foot, so necessary to security in walking.