30 FEMORAL HERNIA. OPERATION. relief. This operation consists in dividing carefully all the structures covering the hernia, down to the intestine. The surgeon must, therefore, know well what parts are likely to meet his knife in the living dissection. Two of these are common to the whole body, and must be di- vided in every operation; the others are peculiar to the region: they are The integument, Superficial fascia, Cribriform fascia, Fascia propria (sheath of the vessels), Septum crurale, Peritoneal sac. After opening the peritoneal sac, the surgeon exa- mines the intestine and feels for the stricture. This is generally at the margin of the femoral ring; and, intro- ducing his finger nail beneath this margin, he divides it slightly with a blunt-pointed bistoury, and returns the intestine into the abdomen, after having satisfied himself of its uninjured condition. Now the student might ask, What structure produces the stricture? or what band, being thus slightly divided, so immediately liberates it ? Let him make this expe- riment on the dead body. Cut through Poupart’s liga- ment while the finger is forced through the femoral ring: the constriction is not removed. Cut Gimbernat’s liga- ment, the inner boundary of the ring, the constriction still remains ; but cut a thin fibrous band which crosses the vessels beneath Poupart’s ligament, and the ring falls instantly flaccid. This is the margin of the unopened sheath of the vessels, and therefore must be the seat of the stricture. This is the anatomical principle of practice in every case of femoral hernia; and pursued in this way no danger is incurred to the patient. But if the operator be a bad dissector, and, by a necessary consequence, a bad operator, he may, instead of loosening the ring by the slight manoeuvre here described, carry his incision alto- gether through Poupart’s ligament, or very likely still far- ther, and cut across the spermatic or epigastric artery, and so complete the operation with the life of his patient.