36 ISCHIATIC artery. metlius and minimus, to the anterior superior spinous pro- cess, where it terminates by anastomosing with the superfi- cial circumflexa ilii and external circumflex arteries. It is distributed to the gluteus medius and minimus muscles. 3. A deep inferior branch, which descends obliquely upon the gluteus minimus muscle to the trochanter major, and inosculates with the external circumflex artery. The arteries in this region are all branches of the in- ternal iliac within the pelvis, and the nerves are derived from the sacral plexus ; hence, a part of their course can- not, at present, be seen. They all quit the pelvis thruogh the great sacro-ischiatic foramen. The Ischiatic artery, one of the terminal branches of the internal iliac, escapes from the pelvis beneath the pyriformis muscle, and passes downwards with the is- chiatic nerves, in the interval between the tuberosity of the ischium and the trochanter major. It gives off three branches. 1st. Coccygeal, which pierces the great sacro- ischiatic ligament, and is distributed to the coccygeus and levator ani muscles, and to the integument about the coccyx. 2. Inferior gluteal, — several muscular branches supplying the lower part of the gluteus maximus. 3. Comes nervi ischiatici (companion to the ischiatic nerve), a small but long and regular branch, which accompanies the great ischiatic nerve. Besides these, branches are distributed to the neighbouring muscles, the external ro- tators. The ischiatic artery inosculates with all the sur- rounding arteries, viz. with the gluteal, internal pudic, obturator, the external and internal circumflex, and su- perior perforating of the profunda. The Internal pudic artery, 14., the other terminal branch of the internal iliac, also issues from the pelvis, and below by the gemellus inferior. 5. The quadratus femoris muscle. 6. The adductor magnus. 7. The vastus externus muscle. 8. The long head of the biceps. 9. The semitendinosus. 10. The gracilis. 11. The gluteal artery and nerve, escaping from the pelvis above the pyriformis muscle. 12. The great ischiatic nerve. 13. The lesser ischiatic nerve, and between the two the ischiatic artery. 14. The pudic artery and nerve. All these vessels and nerves pass out from the pelvis below the pyriformis muscle. 15. The great or posterior sacro-ischiatic ligament. * The tuberosity of the ischium. 16. The posterior branches of the sacral nerves.