ZONULA CILIARIS. 287 nerve, and forms a thin semi-transparent bluish white layer, which envelopes the vitreous humour, and extends forwards to the commencement of the ciliary processes, where it terminates in an abrupt scolloped margin. The Vascular membrane consists of the ramifications of a minute artery, the arteria centralis retinae, which pierces the optic nerve and enters the globe of the eye through the porus opticus in the centre of the lamina cribrosa. This artery may be seen very distinctly by making a transverse section of the eyeball. Its branches are continuous anteriorly with the zonula ciliaris. The retina is deficient posteriorly at a spot correspond- ing with the axis of the globe of the eye. This spot is called the foramen of Soemmeiing * {fig. 31. 2.), and is sur- rounded by a yellow halo, the limbus luteus. It exists only in animals having the axis of the eyeballs parallel with each other, as man, quadrumana, and some reptiles. The Zonula ciliaris {fig. 31.3.fig. 32. 9.), (Zonula of Zinn f) is a thin vascular layer which connects the an- terior margin of the retina with the circumference of the lens. It presents upon its surface a number of small folds corresponding with the ciliary processes, between which they are received. These processes are arranged in the form of rays around the lens, and the spaces be- tween them are stained by the pigmentum nigrum of the ciliary processes. They appear to derive their vessels from the vascular layer of the retina. The under surface of the zonula is in contact with the hyaloid membrane, and around the lens forms the anterior fluted wall of the canal of Petit. The connection between these folds and the ciliary processes, may be very easily demonstrated by dividing an eye transversely into two portions, then raising the anterior half, and allowing the vitreous humours to sepa- rate from its attachment by its own weight. The folds * Samuel Thomas Soemmering is celebrated for the beautiful and accurate plates which accompany bis works. The account “ De humanae> hrnbo luteo cincto,” was published in 1719, ,n the Commentationes Soc. Reg. Scient. Gotlivgevsis. f John Gottfried Zinn, professor of Anatomy in Gottingen: his Dcacnptio Analomica Oculi Humaniwas published in 1755 ; with excellent plates. It was republished by Wrisberg in 1780.