LATERAL THORACIC REGION. — MUSCLES. 75 superiorly by the costo-coracoid membrane, 3., which covers in the subclavius muscle, and by the second rib and two adjoining interspaces internally. In this triangular space, 5. are found, the subclavian vein, 6., the subclavian artery, 7., and the brachial plexus of nerves, 8., all resting on the first rib; the acromial thoracic, 10., and superior thoracic arteries, 9., with their veins and nerves, and the cephalic vein, 11. Below the pectoralis minor, the axillary artery is seen embraced by the two heads of the median nerve 16., having to its inner side the axillary vein, and in front the inferior thoracic, 13., and axillary thoracic, 14., branches. The Pectoralis minor arises by three digitations from the third, fourth, and fifth ribs, and is inserted into the coracoid process of the scapula. The Subclavius muscle arises by a round tendon from the cartilage of the first rib, and is inserted into the under surface of the clavicle. This muscle is concealed by the costo-coracoid membrane, an extension of the deep cer- vical fascia, by which it is invested. Before proceeding any farther with the dissection of the arm, the student should turn to chapter 3., on the Thorax, and commence the study of that cavity. Lateral Thoracic Region. Serratus magnus. The Serratus magnus (serratus, indented like the edge of a saw,) arises by fleshy serrations from the nine upper ribs excepting the first, and extends backwards upon the toralis minor muscle. 5. The triangular space, in which the sub- clavian artery is tied below the clavicle ; and which contains, 6. The subclavian vein. 7. The subclavian artery. 8. The brachial plexus of nerves. 9. The superior thoracic artery and nerve. 10. The thoracic branch of the thoracico-acromialis artery. 11. The descend- ing branch of the thoracico-acromialis, descending by the side of the cephalic vein. 12. The acromial branch of the thoracico-acromialis. 13. The inferior thoracic artery and nerve. 14. The thoracico-alaris branch of the axillary artery. 15. The internal cutaneous and ulnar nerves resting on the axillary vein. 16. The median nerve, embrac- ing the axillary artery, with its two heads. 17. The external cuta- neous nerve, piercing the coraco-brachialis muscle. 18. The coraco- brachialis. 19. The biceps muscle. E 2