the liver. 352 distributed to the pancreas, as the splenic artery runs along its upper border. One of these, larger than the rest, follows the course of the pancreatic duct, and is called pancreatica magna. The Vasa brevia are several small branches distributed to the great end of the stomach. The Gasti'o-epiploica sinistra runs forwards from left to right along the great curve of the stomach, and inoscu- lates with the gastro-epiploica dextra. It is distributed to the greater curve of the stomach and great omentum. The Gastric and splenic veins terminate in the portal vein, and the hepatic veins in the vena cava. Each of the arteries is accompanied by a corresponding plexus of nerves derived from the solar plexus ; they are the gastric, hepatic, and splenic plexuses. The relations of the vessels situated in the right border of the lesser omentum should now be examined more particularly. The hepatic artery will be found to the left, the ductus communis choledochus to the right, and the portal vein behind and between them. The student will also perceive very distinctly how the lower boundary of the foramen of Winslow is formed by the hepatic artery. The Ductus communis choledochus is formed by the junction of the hepatic with the cystic duct. It descends along the right margin of the lesser omentum, and behind the descending duodenum to its inner border. It termi- nates with the pancreatic duct, near the inferior angle of the duodenum, after running for some distance obliquely between the muscular and mucous coats of the intestine. Just before its termination it is considerably constricted. Its entrance upon the inner surface of the intestine is marked by a small elevated papilla. The Liver may now be removed from the abdomen and examined separately. To effect this object it will be necessary to cut through the folds of peritoneum which are connected with its upper surface, and the hepatic artery, ductus communis choledochus, portal vein, and vena cava from below. The Liver is situated in the right hypochondriac region, and extends across the epigastrium into the left hypo- chondrium. It presents a narrow thin border anteriorly, which corresponds with the margin of the thorax, and a rounded border posteriorly, which rests against the dia- phragm. Superiorly it is convex, and infcriorly concave.