IRIS. CILIARY PROCESSES. 285 the ciliary ligament, called the ciliary canal, or the canal of Fontana f, from its discoverer. The Iris (Jig. 30. 5., Jig. 32. 6.) (iris, a rainbow) is so named from its variety of colour in different individuals : it forms a septum between the anterior and posterior chambers of the eye, and is pierced in its centre by a circular opening, which is called the pupil (Jig. 30. 6., Jig. 32.*). By its periphery it is connected with the ciliary ligament, and by its inner circumference forms the margin of the pupil: its anterior surface looks towards the cornea, and the posterior towards the ciliary processes and lens. It is composed of two layers, an anterior, or Jibrous, consisting of radiating fibres which converge from the circumference towards the centre, and have the power of dilating the pupil, and circular, which surround the pupil like a sphincter, and by their action produce con- traction of its area. The posterior layer is of a deep purple tint, and is thence named uvea, from its resem- blance in colour to a ripe grape. The Ciliary processes may be seen in two ways, either by removing the iris from its attachment to the ciliary ligament, when a front view of the processes will be obtained, or by making a transverse section through the globe of the eye, when they may be examined from behind. The ciliary processes consist of a number of triangular folds, formed apparently by the plaiting of the internal layer of the choroid. They are, according to Zinn, about sixty in number, and may be divided into large and small, the latter being situated in the spaces between the former. The base of each triangle is situated towards the circumference of the eye, the apex towards the centre. The periphery is connected with the ciliary ligament, and is continuous with the internal layer of the choroid. I he central border is free, and rests against the circum- ference of the lens. The anterior surface corresponds with the uvea; the posterior receives the folds of the t, Felix Fontana, an anatomist of Tuscany. His “ Description of a New Canal in the Eye," was published in 1778, in a letter to the Professor of Anatomy in Upsal.