457 PUBIC LIGAMENTS. middle than at each extremity. It is attached by its smaller end to the inner margin of the tuberosity and ramus of the ischium, where it forms a falciform process which protects the internal pudic artery and is continuous with the obturator fascia. By its larger extremity it is inserted into the side of the coccyx, sacrum, and posterior inferior spine of the ilium. It forms a part of the lateral boundary of the perineum and is pierced by the coccygeal artery. The two liga- ments convert the sacro-ischiatic notches into foramina. 3. Between the sacrum and coccyx. ulus passing from the anterior surface of the sacrum to he front of the coccyx, The Posterior sacro-coccygean ligament is a thick liga- nentous layer which completes the lower part of the acral canal, and connects the sacrum with the coccyx posteriorly. Between the two bones is a thin disc of soft interverte- bral substance. In females there is frequently a small ynovial membrane. 4. Between the ossa pubis. The Anterior pubic ligament is composed of ligamentous bres, which pass obliquely across the union of the two iones from side to side, and form an interlacement in ront of the symphisis. The Superior pubic ligament is a thick band of fibres :onnecting the angles of the pubic bones superiorly, and illing the inequalities upon the surface of the bones. The Sub-pubic ligament is a thick arch of fibres con- lecting the two bones inferiorly, and forming the upper >oundary of the pubic arch. The Inter articular fibro-cartilage unites the two sur- aces of the pubic bones in the same manner that the ntervertebral substance connects the bodies of the ver- ebrae. It resembles the intervertebral substance also in •eing composed of concentric layers, which are more dense owards the surface than near the centre. It is broad in ront, and narrow behind. A thin synovial membrane is ometimes found in the posterior half of the articulation. The Anterior sacro-coccygean ligament is a thin fasci- The Posterior pubic ligament consists of a few irregular bres uniting the pubic bones posteriorly.1 x