87 AXILLARY ARTERY.— RELATIONS. dorsi; and, internally, by the serratus magnus and side of the chest. The axillary space contains the Axillary artery with its seven branches, Axillary vein, Axillary plexus of nerves, Long thoracic or external respiratory nerve, Three intercosto-humeral nerves, Lymphatic glands imbedded in cellular tissue. Axillary Artery. The Axillary artery forms a gentle curve through the axillary space from the lower border of the first rib to the lower border of the latissimus dorsi. Its relations are, — In Front. Pectoralis major. Pectoralis minor. Pectoralis major. Internally. First intercostal muscle. First serration of ser- ratus magnus. Plexus of nerves. Behind. Plexus of nerves. Tendon of sub- scapularis. Coraco-brachialis. The artery is separated from its anterior relations by cellular tissue above, and below by the two heads of the median nerve. The axillary vein lies at first to its inner side, and then gets in front of the artery. A slight inspection of this artery and its numerous relations, will serve to show that its ligature would be an extremely injudicious and dangerous operation, warranted only by the pressure of extreme circumstances. But the student may be called upon to give the steps of the operation ; he must, therefore, reflect upon the position, depth, and relations of the artery. A superficial vessel requires only a short incision, the length increasing with the depth of the artery. Operation. — An incision is to be made along the middle of the axilla, about two inches in length ; the integument, superficial, and deep fascia, which is very thin, are to be divided. Ttie operator bends the fore-arm to relax the nerves; and, drawing aside the vein, and separating the nerves, he carries the needle around the artery. The objections to this operation are numerous. The breaking up of the loose cellular tissue may give rise to suppuration and sinuses. Nerves may be injured or tied, the vein or veins may be wounded, and, even when the artery is reached, it is tied in the midst of a num- ber of branches.