M 4 MIDDLE CORNU. 24:7 situated between the under surface of the fornix, and the anterior extremities of the thalarni optici, and forms a transverse communication between the lateral ventricles, and below with the third ventricle. The choroid plexus is variable in its appearance, and sometimes presents groups and clusters of small serous cysts, which have been mistaken for hydatids. The Corpus fimbriatum (fig. 24. 6.) is a narrow white band, which is situated immediately behind the choroid plexus, and extends with it into the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle. It is the lateral thin edge of the fornix. The Fornix is a white layer of medullary substance, of which a portion only is seen in this view of the ventricle. The Anterior cornu is triangular in its form, sweeping outwards, and terminating in a point in the anterior lobe of the brain, at a short distance only from its surface. The Poste/ior cornu or digital*cavity curves inwards, as it extends into the posterior lobe of the brain, and likewise terminates near to the surface. An elevation correspond- ing with a deep sulcus between two convolutions projects into the floor of this cornu, and is called hippocampus minor. The middle or descending cornu, in descending into the middle lobe of the brain, forms a very considerable curve, and alters its direction several times as it proceeds. Hence it is described as passing backwards and outwards and downwards, and then turning forwards and inwards. This complex expression of a very simple curve has given birth to a symbol formed of the primary letters of these various letters, and by means of this the student recollects with ease the course of the cornu, bodfi. It is the largest of the three cornua. The middle cornu should now he laid open by inserting the little finger into its cavity, and making it serve as a director for the scalpel in cutting away the side of the hemisphere, so as to expose it com- pletely. Its Superior boundary is formed by the under surface of the thalamus opticus, upon which are the two projections called corpus geniculatum internum and externum, and the inferior wall by the various parts which are often