10 SURGICAL OBSERVATIONS. marks the altered position of the limb in dislocations or diseases of the hip-joint, or fractures about the neck of the femur. It is a point little liable to variation from strength or muscularity ol the limb; but is necessarily more prominent and more sharply defined in an ema- ciated individual. A line, 8. drawn from the upper point of the trochanter major to the most convex part of the crest of the ilium, and another, 7., extended from the same point to the anterior superior spinous process, may be compared with the same admeasurements on the oppo- site limb. An important measurement of the thigh, for the detec- tion of dislocation, is obtained by extending a line from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium to the apex of the patella, and comparing its length with that on the opposite limb. If shortening be found to exist, whilst the distance, 8., between the trochanter major and the crest of the ilium is the same on both sides of the body, then the cause of the diminution of length must exist in the bone, and be the result of fracture. This may be determined by another admeasurement, made between the apex of the trochanter major and the lower point of the patella. Let it not be said that these directions are too obvious to deserve attention: they must be followed carefully; and before the student commence his dissection, he should have himself made and repeated the observations here advised; have impressed well upon his memory the relative position of each landmark; and have cut down upon the artery at various points. By such means he will gain confidence in his knowledge and precision in the performance of surgical operations. Again, in displace- ment of the ends of the bone from fracture of the femur, it is of the greatest importance to their proper adjust- ment, that he be well acquainted with the position of the patella in relation to the spines of the ilium and pubis. The lower extremity is divided anatomically into seve- ral distinct compartments or regions, the separate and relative study of which serves materially to facilitate the student’s apprehension of the whole. The regions of the thigh are, the anterior femoral, internal femoral, gluteal, posterior femoral, and popliteal; of the leg, the anterior