APPENDAGES OF THE EYE. 291 o 2 the eye have for their office the refraction of the rays in such proportion as to direct the image in the most favour- able manner upon the retina. Where the refracting medium is too great, as in over convexity of the cornea and lens, the image is thrown beyond the retina (pres- byopia, long-sightedness) ; and where it is too little, the image falls short of the nervous membrane (myopia, short- sightedness). These conditions are rectified by the use of spectacles, which provide a differently refracting medium external to the eye, and thereby correct the transmission of light. Appendages of the Eye. The Appendages of the eye (tutamina oculi) are the eyebrows, eyelids, eyelashes, conjunctiva, caruncula lachry- malis, and the lachrymal apparatus. The Eyebrows {supercilia) are two projecting arches of integument covered with short thick hairs, which form the upper boundary of the orbits. They are connected beneath with the orbicularis, occipito-frontalis, and corru- gator supercilii muscles; their use is to shade the eyes from a too vivid light, or protect them from particles of dust and moisture flowing over the forehead. The Eyelids {palpebrce) are two valvular layers placed in front of the eye, which defend it from injury by their closure. When they are drawn open they leave between them an elliptic space, the angles of which are called canthi. Near to the inner canthus two small projections {fig. 33. 5.) are observed on both lids, upon which are seen the openings of the lachrymal ducts (puncta lachry- mal ia). Hence they are named lachrymal tubercles. The eyelids have, entering into their structure, integu- ment, orbicularis muscle, tarsal cartilages, Meibomian glands, and conjunctiva. The tegumentary cellular tissue of the eyelids is re- markable for its looseness and entire absence of adipose substance. It is particularly liable to serous infiltration. I he fibres of the orbicularis muscle covering the eyelids, are extremely thin and pale. The Tut sal cartilages are two thin lamellae of fibro- cartiiage, which give form and support to the eyelids. I lie superior {fig. 33. 1.) is of a semilunar form, broad in