194- thyroid AXIS BRANCHES. hind the sheath of the carotid vessels, to the inferior part of the thyroid gland, to which it is distributed. It also gives branches to the trachea, lower part of the larynx and oesophagus. It is in relation with the middle cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, which rests upon it. I he Surra-scapular artery, 12., (transversalis hu- meri) passes obliquely backwards behind the clavicle, and across the ligament of the notch, to the supra_spinatus fossa. It is distributed to the muscles on the dorsum of the scapula, and inosculates with the posterior scapular, and beneath the acromion process with the dorsal branch of the subscapular artery. The Posterior scapular artery, 11., (transversalis colli,) passes transversely across the subclavian triangle at the root of the neck, to the superior angle of the scapula. It then descends along the posterior border to its inferior angle, where it inosculates with the subscapular artery, a branch of the axillary. Relations. — It passes behind, and sometimes in front of the scalenus anticus, between the nerves forming the brachial plexus, and beneath the levator anguli scapulae rhomboideus minor and major muscles. Branches. — Some ascending branches are given off at the superior angle of the scapula, which inosculate with the profunda cervicis. The Superficialis cervicis artery, 9., is a small vessel, which ascends upon the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae, and distri- butes branches to the muscles on the anterior aspect of the vertebral column in the neck. The Profunda cervicis, 10., passes backwards be- tween the transverse processes of the sixth and seventh cervical vertebrae, and then ascends the back part of the neck, between the complexus and semi-spinalis colli mus- cles. It inosculates above with the princeps cervicis of the occipital artery, and below with the posterior sca- pular. The Superior intercostal artery, 14., descends be- hind the pleura upon the necks of the two first ribs. Its branches supply the two first intercostal spaces. The Internal mammary artery, 13., descends by the side of the sternum, resting upon the costal cartilages,