RETE MUCOSUM. —CUTICLE. 310 are numerous, but small and very vascular; opposite to the part of the nail called lunula, they are scarcely raised above the surface, and less vascular, but beyond this point they form lengthened vascular plicae, which afford a large surface for secretion. These lengthened papillae deposit the horny secretion in longitudinal lamellae, which give to the nail the ribbed appearance it presents on its surface. Vessels and nerves.—The papillae are abundantly sup- plied with vessels and nerves, the former to enable them to perform the office of secretion in the production of the cuticle, the latter to give them the sensibility necessary to an organ of touch. The Rete mucosum (Jig. 36. 3.) is a distinct layer, in- terposed between the cuticle and cutis, and is the seat of the colour in the negro and the darker tribes of mankind. The name rete mucosum given to it by Mal- pighi conveys a very inaccurate notion of its structure, for it is neither a network, nor is it mucous. It is thin upon the general surface of the body, but is thick in the palm of the hand and sole of the foot, where it may be easily separated as a distinct layer. Examined beneath the microscope, it is seen to be moulded accurately upon the papillae, being thick in the spaces between these, and thin over their convexities ; hence arises the appearance of a network. In the rete mucosum from the hand, these depressions are seen to be arranged in a linear series, as are the papillae; in other situations they are more irre- gular, but correspond always with the distribution of the papillae. There is no rete mucosum beneath the nails. The colouring particles are situated in the rete mu- cosum, and are most abundant upon the ridges- which cor- respond with the furrows between the papillae. Vessels and nerves. — The rete mucosum has been injected by Mr. Cruikshank, and in a case of small-pox by Sir Astley Cooper. No nerves have been traced into the substance of the rete. The Cuticle (fig. 36. 4.) (epidermis, scarf-skin) is the horny unorganised lamella secreted by the cutis, which covers and protects the entire surface of the more delicate layers of the skin. At the entrance to the cavities it is continuous with the epithelium or cuticular covering of the mucous membrane.