374 POSTERIOR ABDOMINAL MUSCLES. both of which situations it is continuous with the trans- versalis fascia. It crosses the psoas muscle, and passes beneath the iliac vessels to be attached to the brim of the pelvis, where it is continuous with the pelvic fascia. Below it forms the posterior wall of the sheath of the femoral vessels : and above it is continued upon the psoas muscles, to be attached to the sides of the lumbar vertebrae and ligamentum arcuatum internum. The Iliacus internus muscle occupies the fossa on the inner surface of the ilium, from which it arises. It is crossed by the external cutaneous nerve ; and the crural nerve lies in the groove between it and the psoas magnus. It is inserted by a tendon common to it and the psoas magnus, into the trochanter minor. The psoas magnus should be removed, in order to bring into view the quadratus lumborum muscle. The Quadratus lumborum muscle is concealed from view by the anterior lamella of the aponeurosis of the transversalis muscle, which is inserted into the bases of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae, and ligamentum arcuatum externum. When this lamella is divided, the muscle will be seen arising from the last rib, and from the transverse processes of the four upper lumbar vertebrae. It is inserted into the posterior fourth of the crest of the ilium. If the muscle be cut across or removed, the middle lamella of the transversalis will be seen attached to the apices of the transverse processes ; the quadratus being enclosed between the two lamellae as in a sheath. Actions.—The diaphragm is an inspiratory muscle the contraction of its fibres increasing the cavity of the chest. It acts also as a muscle of expulsion, by pressing upon the abdominal viscera, as in the expulsion of the excretions of the foetus, &c. The spasmodic action of the muscle produces hiccup, sobbing, &c. The psoas and iliacus muscles, flex the trunk upon the lower extremities or the legs upon the pelvis, at the same time everting the foot. The quadratus lumborum is an expiratory muscle, and assists in fixing the chest. The psoas magnus, if not previously removed, must now be care- fully dissected from its origin for the purpose of bringing into view the lumbar plexus of nerves, which is situated behind it.