164- PAROTID GLAND. genio-hyo-glossus would dart it from the mouth, while its anterior fibres would restore it to its original position. The whole length of the muscle acting upon the tongue, would render it concave along the middle line, and form a channel for the current of fluid towards the pharynx, as in sucking. The apex of the tongue is directed to the roof of the mouth, and rendered convex from before backwards by the linguales. The hyo-glossi, by drawing down the sides of the tongue, render it convex along the middle line. It is drawn upwards at its base by the palato-glossi, and backwards or to either side by the stylo-glossi. Thus the whole of the complicated movements of the tongue may be explained, by reasoning upon the direction of the fibres of the muscles, and their probable actions. We have now proceeded as far as this stage of the dissection will permit us. The examination of the other groups will require a pre- paration that would be injurious to the opposite side of the neck, which we have as yet kept untouched, for the purpose of studying the arteries and nerves. We postpone, therefore, the consideration of the remaining layers until the progress of the dissection shall enable us to examine them. The student should now commence the dissection of the opposite side of the face and neck, with a view to study the vessels, nerves, and glands which are situated in those regions. For this purpose he should carry a vertical incision directly downwards in front of the external ear from the posterior part of the temple to the angle of the lower jaw; from this draw four transverse incisions, the uppermost along the .middle of the forehead to the middle line, another to the angle of the eyelid, a third to the angle of the mouth, and a fourth along the border of the lower jaw to the chin. Then dissect each of these strips of integument carefully away, so as to expose the super- ficial fascia over the whole of the side of the face. Immediately in front of the external ear, between it and the ramus of the lower jaw, is the large salivary gland, the Parotid (napa, near ; ovg, uto<;, the ear). This gland extends for some little distance over the side of the face, overlapping the masseter muscle. It reaches inferiorly to below the level of the angle of the lower jaw, and pos- teriorly to the mastoid process, slightly overlapping the insertion of the sterno-mastoid muscle. At its upper ex- tremity near the root of the zygoma, the temporal artery is seen issuing from beneath it; and in front, along its an- terior border, the transversalis faciei artery, the excretory duct, and several branches of the facial nerve will be observed.