SUPERFICIAL FASCIA. — DEEP FASCIA. 3 b 2 resisting, and is made up of fibres and bands closely inter- woven into each other, so as to give strength and support to the tegumentary covering. The superficial fascia (fascia, a bandage), placed imme- diately beneath the tegument over every part of the body, is the medium of connection between that layer and the deeper parts. It consists of cellular tissue, in which is deposited an abundance of adipose matter. The fat, being a bad conductor of caloric, serves to retain the warmth of the body ; while it forms at the same time a yielding tissue, through which the minute vessels and nerves may pass to the papillary layer of the skin, without incurring the risk of obstruction from injury or pressure upon the surface. By dissection, the superficial fascia may be separated into two layers, between which are found the superficial or cutaneous vessels and nerves ; as the superficial epigastric artery, the saphenous veins, the radial and ulnar veins, the superficial lymphatic vessels, or the cutaneous nerves, and in one instance a muscle, platysma myoides. The deep fascia is a dense and resisting layer, found chiefly in the extremities and in the neck, where large vessels are carrying onwards the circulating fluids in opposition to the laws of gravity, and where muscles are often acting with prodigious force. In other situations, as over the trunk of the body or upon the head, this layer cannot be said to exist. The deep fascia in the limbs is a tendino-fibrous membrane, formed by a close interlacement of tendinous fibres, which cross each other in various directions. To the eye it presents a brilliant, nacreous lustre. It is strong and unyielding, enclosing the entire limb, and is prolonged into its substance so as to form distinct sheaths to all the muscles. Upon the inner side of the limb it is thin; on the outer and less protected side it is dense and thick. It is connected to the prominent points about the limb, as to the pelvis, knee, and ankle, in the lower extremity, and to the clavicle, scapula, elbow, and wrist, in the upper extre- mity. Its tension is regulated in some situations by muscular action, as by the tensor vaginae femoris and gluteus maximus in the thigh, and by the biceps and palmaris longus in the arm.