342 JEJUNUM. ILEUM. — CCECUM. — COLON. then passes nearly transversely across the vena cava and aorta, opposite the third lumbar vertebra. It terminates in the jejunum on the left side of the second lumbar vertebra. The first part of its course is completely enclosed by the peritoneum: the second is in apposition with the peritoneum only in front, and the third lies between the diverging layers of the transverse meso-colon. The transverse portion of the duodenum is crossed by the superior mesenteric artery and vein. The perpendicular portion receives the ductus communis choledochus, and pancreatic ducts, near to its lower angle. The Jejunum (jejunus, empty) is named from being found generally empty. It forms the upper two-fifths of the small intestine, commencing at the duodenum on the left side of the second lumbar vertebra, and terminating in the ileum. It is thicker to the touch than the rest of the intestine, and has a pinkish tinge from being more vascular. The Ileum (fikav, to twist, to convolute) includes the remaining three-fifths of the small intestine. It is thinner in texture, and paler than the jejunum ; but there is no mark by which to distinguish the termination of the one or the commencement of the other. It terminates in the right iliac fossa, by opening into the colon. The Large intestine is divided into the ccecum, colon, and rectum. The Ccecum (coecus, blind) is the blind pouch or cul- de-sac at the commencement of the large intestine. It is situated in the right iliac fossa, and is retained in its place by the peritoneum, which passes over its anterior surface ; its posterior surface is connected by loose cellu- lar tissue with the iliac fascia. Attached to its extremity is the appendix vermiformis, a long worm-shaped tube, the rudiment of the lengthened coecum, found in all mammiferous animals but man and the higher quadru- mana. The Colon is divided into ascending, transverse, and descending. The Ascending colon passes upwards from the right iliac fossa, through the right lumbar region, to the under surface of the liver. It then bends inwards, and crosses