CORPUS SPONGIOSUM. 389 s 3 an incomplete partition, which is named septum pectini- forme. They terminate anteriorly in a rounded extremity, which is received into a depression on the posterior part of the glans penis. The Corpus spongiosum (_fig. 45. 19.) is situated in the groove upon the under surface of the two corpora caver- nosa. It commences, posteriorly, by a considerable en- largement, which is called the bulb, 21., and terminates, anteriorly, in a rounded extremity, named the glans penis, 20. The bulb is attached to the anterior layer of the deep perineal fascia, by a process which is sent for- wards to enclose the membranous portion of the urethra. The corpus spongiosum is connected to the corpora cavernosa by means of cellular tissue, and the glans is applied against their extremity and attached to it by the same medium. The urethra enters the bulb as soon as it escapes from the deep perineal fascia, and runs forwards through the corpus spongiosum to the meatus. The corpus spongiosum is named from its spongy cellular structure, which resembles that of the interior of the corpus cavernosum. It is enclosed in a thin layer of fibrous membrane. The Glans penis (fig. 45. 20.) is covered by a very thin cuticle, and is surrounded by an elevated ridge, called corona glandis. A number of sebaceous glands, the glandulce odoriferce, or Tyson’s glands, are situated around the corona. The glans is protected by a duplicature of integument, called the prepuce, which is retained in con- nection with the under surface of the glans, by a thin fold called the frcenum preputii. There is a deep fossa around the corona glandis, between it and the attachment of the prepuce, in which syphilitic sores occasionally occur; when this is the case, they are extremely trouble- some, and often burrow beneath the corona to a consider- able depth. The integument of the penis is remarkable for its loose- ness, and for the absence of adipose substance in its cellular tissue. I he penis is supported by a ligament, Ligamentum suspensorium (Jig. 45. 23.), which descends from the sym- phisis pubis, to be inserted by two portions into the cor- pora cavernosa.