5 LYMPHATICS. NERVES. BONES. b 3 form valves. The position of these valves is evidently marked on the exterior of the tube, by the swellings on that part of the vessel which immediately precedes them. The lymphatics (lympha, water) are small, delicate vessels which accompany the veins, and present many points of resemblance with them. They return a limpid fluid to the venous circulation, and are provided with a number of valves placed at short distances, which, with the corresponding swellings, give them a knotted appear- ance. Their coats are the same as those of veins and arteries. Near the flexures of the joints they enter small red bodies, called glands, from which they emerge fewer in number, and larger in size. They are too minute to be seen in an ordinary dissection, unless the subject be anasarcous. The nerves (vsvpa, nerves) are white flattened cords, composed of filaments, which are connected by one ex- tremity with the cerebro-spinal axis; and, by the other, are distributed to all the textures of the body, commu- nicating to them sensibility and power of motion. The smallest nerve is made up of a number of filaments, enclosed in a peculiar transparent sheath, called neuri- lema ; which, when freshly exposed, presents a continuous zigzag line along its cylinder. The nerves are usually found accompanying the arteries, and, in the extremities, are placed nearer to the integument than those vessels, as if to be ready to apprize the neighbouring muscles of the first approach of injury, that they may withdraw the more immediately important organs, the arteries, from its consequences. The hones are the organs of support to the animal frame. They give firmness and strength to the entire fabric, afford points of connection to the numerous mus- cles, and bestow general form upon the body. In the limbs they are hollow cylinders, calculated by their form and structure to support weight, and resist violence. In the trunk and head, they are flattened and arched, to protect cavities and provide extensive surfaces of attach- ment. In many situations they present projections of considerable length that serve as levers ; and smooth surfaces that possess all the mechanical advantages of the pulley. While strength and solidity are the principal