391 TUNICA VAGINALIS. — ALBUGINEA. S 4 The Cremasteric covering (erythroid) is formed by the expansion of the fibres of the cremaster muscle, which are also carried down in the descent of the testicle. The Fascia propria consists of the transversalis fascia, carried down by the testicle in its descent. The Proper coverings of the testicle are, the tunica va- ginalis, and tunica albuginea. The Tunica vaginalis is a pouch of serous mem- brane derived from the peritoneum in the descent of the testicle, and afterwards obliterated from the abdomen to within a short distance of the testicle. Like other serous coverings, it is a shut sac investing the organ, and thence reflected so as to form a bag around its circumference ; hence it is divided into the tunica vaginalis propria, and tunica vaginalis rejlexa. The Tunica albuginea is a thick fibrous membrane of a white colour, and is the proper tunic of the testicle. From the union of a serous membrane with a fibrous tunic, the tunica vaginalis is considered as a fibro-serous mem- brane, and is ranged with the dura mater and pericar- dium. If the tunica vaginalis reflexa be laid open, it will I be found to contain, in its interior, the testicle and a flattened body lying to its outer side, the epididymis. The Testicle * is an ovoid gland slightly flattened at its sides. If it be divided by a transverse section, it will be observed that the tunica albuginea {Jig. 46. l.), after in- vesting it completely, is reflected inwards along its pos- terior border, so as to form a projecting ridge in its in- terior, called mediastinum testis, 2., (corpus Highmoria- u! num.f) From the mediastinum, a number offibrous cords, 3. \ pass off and radiate in all directions towards the inner * For the anatomy of the testicle, we would advise the student to consult Sir Astley Cooper's beautiful monograph, entitled, “ Ob- servations on the Structure and Diseases of the Testis.” A sight of the preparations and injections of this organ and of the thymus gland is one of the greatest anatomical treats that this town is capable of af- fording. t Nathaniel Highmore, a physician of Oxford, in his “ Corporis Humani Disquisitio Anatomica,” published in 1651 : he considers the corpus Ilighmorianum as a duct formed by the convergence of the ibrous cords, which he mistakes for smaller ducts.