119 HEART. CIRCULATION. in the chest, the base being directed, upwards and back- wards towards the right shoulder ; the apex forwards, and to the left, points to the space between the fifth and sixth ribs, at about two or three inches from the sternum. Its under side is flattened and rests upon the tendinous por- tion of the diaphragm; its upper side is rounded and convex, and formed principally by the right ventricle, and partly by the left. Surmounting the ventricles are the corresponding auricles, whose auricular appendages are directed forwards, and slightly overlap the root of the pulmonary artery. The pulmonary artery is the large anterior vessel at the root of the heart: it crosses obliquely the commencement of the aorta. The heart consists of two auricles and two ventricles, which are re- spectively named, from their position, right and left. The right is the venous side of the heart; it receives into its auricle the venous blood from every part of the body, by the superior and inferior cavae and coronary vein. From the auricle the blood passes into the ventricle, and from the ventricle through the pulmonary artery, to the capil- laries of the lungs. From these it is returned as arterial blood to the left auricle ; from the left auricle it passes into the left ventricle ; and from the left ventricle is carried through the aorta, to be distributed to every part of the body, and again returned to the heart by the veins. This constitutes the course of the adidt circulation. The heart is best studied in situ. If, however, it be removed from the body, it should be placed in the position indicated in the above description of its situation. A transverse incision should then be made along the ventri- cular margin of the right auricle, from the appendix to its right border, and crossed by a perpendicular incision, carried from the superior to the inferior cava. The coagulated blood should be withdrawn. Sometimes some fine specimens of white fibrine are found with the coagulum, at other times it is yellow and gelatinous. This appearance deceived the older anatomists, who called these substances “ polypus of the heart;” they are also frequently found in the right ventricle, and sometimes in the left cavities. The Right auricle (Jig. 12. l.) is larger than the left, and is divided into a principal cavity, and an appendix