MUSCLES. MAXILLARY GROUP. 154? The Temporal muscle is next to be examined. It is covered in by a very dense fascia (temporal fascia) which is attached along the temporal ridge on the side of the skull, extending from the external angular process of the frontal bone to the mastoid portion of the temporal: in- feriorly, it is connected to the upper border of the zigoma. Make an incision along the upper border of the zigoma, for the purpose of separating this fascia from its attachment. Then saw through the zigomatic process of the malar bone, and through the root of the zigoma, near to the meatus auditorius. Draw down the zigoma, and with it the origin of the masseter, and dissect the latter muscle away from the ramus and angle of the inferior maxilla. Now remove the temporal fascia from the rest of its attachment, and the whole of the temporal muscle will be exposed. It arises from the whole length of the temporal ridge, and from the entire surface of the temporal fossa. Its fibres converge to a strong narrow tendon, which is inserted into the apex of the coronoid process, and for some way down upon its inner surface. By sawing through the coronoid process near to its base, and pull- ing it upwards, together with the temporal muscle, which may be dissected from the fossa, we obtain a view of the entire extent of the buccinator muscle. The Buccinator (buccina, a trumpet), the trumpeter’s muscle, arises from the alveolar process of the superior and inferior maxillary bones, and from a ligament stretched between the hamular process of the internal pterygoid plate and the extremity of the molar ridge of the lower jaw, the pterygo-maxillary ligament. The buccinator, by means of this ligament, is continuous with the superior constrictor of the pharynx. Its fibres converge to be inserted into the angle of the mouth, interlacing with the fibres of the orbicularis oris muscle. This muscle is pierced by the duct of the parotid gland opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw. The External pterygoid muscle is also seen in this dis- section. It arises by two heads, one from the crest on the greater ala of the sphenoid bone ; the other from the external pterygoid plate. The fibres pass backwards to be inserted into the neck of the lower jaw and inter- articular cartilage.