FOURTH VENTRICLE. 253 bounded on either side by a thick cord passing between the cerebellum and corpora quadrigemina, called the processus e cerebello ad testes {Jig. 27. 2. 2.), and by the corpus resti- forme, 3. 3. It is covered in behind by the arch of the cerebellum, which forms three remarkable projections into its cavity, named, from their resemblance, uvula and tonsils ; and by a thin lamella of white substance, stretched between the two processus & cerebello ad testes, termed the valve of Vieussens. * This layer is easily broken down, and requires that care be used in its demonstra- tion. In Front the fourth ventricle is bounded by the pos- terior surface of the medulla oblongata; above by the corpora quadrigemina, and the termination of the iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculum ; and below by a layer of pia mater and one of arachnoid, passing between the under surface of the cerebellum and the medulla ob- longata, called the valve of the arachnoid. We observe within the fourth ventricle the choroid plexuses, the calamus scriptorius, and linece transversce. The Choroid plexus resembles in miniature that of the lateral ventricles : it is formed by the pia mater, and lies against that part of the cerebellum called uvula and tonsils. The anterior wall, or floor, of the fourth ventricle is formed of grey substance, which is continuous with that contained within the spinal cord. This grey substance is separated into two bands by a median fissure, which is continuous with the calamus scriptorius. The two bands are considered by Mr. Solly as the true posterior pyra- mids ; and he has observed in their structure such an arrangement of fibres as induces him to name them the “ posterior ganglia of the medulla oblongata,” in opposition to the corpora olivaria, which he describes as the “ ante- rior ganglia of the medulla.” I he Calamus scriptorius {fig. 27. 6.) is a groove upon the anterior wall, or floor, of the fourth ventricle. Its pen-like appearance is produced by the divergence of the posterior median columns, 7., the feather by the linese * Raymond Vieussens, a brain and nervous system, published in Lyons, in 1685. great discoverer in the anatomy of the Ilis “ Nevrographia Universalis ” was