40 POPLITEAL REGION. magnus, and the lower border of the quadratus femoris. It inosculates with the external circumflex, ischiatic, and superior perforating arteries. The three perforating arteries emerge on the posterior aspect of the thigh, by passing through tendinous arches between the adductor magnus and the linea aspera. They anastomose with each other, with the circumflex and ischiatic arteries above, and with the articular branches of the popliteal below. The profunda escapes through the adductor magnus, close to the linea aspera, and is protected from pressure by a tendinous arch, which is thrown across the bone. It makes its appear- ance at about an inch above the commencement of the popliteal artery. The Nerves in this region are the greater and lesser ischiatic. The continuation of the lesser ischiatic is seen upon the semi-tendinosus muscle. The Great ischiatic nerve (Jig. 6. 7.) runs down the middle of the posterior femoral region, being situated between the flexor muscles and the adductor magnus. At the lower third of the thigh it divides into two nerves of nearly equal size, the popliteal, 9., and peroneal, 8. Its branches are simply muscular and cutaneous. Popliteal Region. The lower part of the posterior femoral region is a surgical region of some importance, the popliteal. We shall, therefore, describe it separately. The popliteal region {fig- 5.) is a diamond-shaped space, bounded above on each side by the two ham- strings l. 2., and below by the two heads, 3. 3., of the great muscle of the calf, the gastrocnemius. On dissect- ing back the integument, a large vein, 8., which runs up the middle of the posterior part of the leg, the external saphenous, is seen between the layers of the superficial fascia. To this several cutaneous veins converge, which must be divided in making an incision for the purpose of reaching the artery. If the superficial fascia be dissected away, the external saphenous vein will be seen passing through an oval foramen in the deep popliteal fascia, to terminate in the popliteal vein.