TEMPORAL ARTERY. 183 tributed upon the occiput, anastomosing with the posterior auricular and temporal arteries. Branches. — It gives off only two branches, inferior meningeal and princeps cervicis. The Inferior meningeal ascends by the side of the in- ternal jugular vein, and passes through the foramen lacerum posterius to be distributed to the dura mater. The Arteria princeps cervicis is a large but irregular branch. It descends the neck between the complexus and semi-spinalis colli, and inosculates with the profunda cervicis of the subclavian. This branch is the means of establishing a very important collateral circulation between the branches of the carotid and subclavian, in ligature of the common carotid artery. The Superior branches have now to be examined and traced throughout their course; we must commence with the two superficial arteries, the deeper ones requiring an especial dissection. 7. The Transversalis faciei (fig.l5.\7.) arises from the external carotid whilst that trunk is lodged within the parotid gland ; it crosses the masseter muscle in company with Steno’s duct, and is distributed to the muscles and integument on the side of the face. 8. The Temporal artery (fig. 15. 18.) is one of the two terminal branches of the external carotid. It ascends over the root of the zygoma, and divides into three branches :— 1st. Anterior temporal, which is distributed on the front of the temple and arch of the skull, anastomosing with the supra-orbital branch of the ophthalmic artery. 2. Posterior temporal, which passes towards the back of the head, anastomosing with the posterior auricular and oc- cipital arteries. And 3. Middle temporal, which pierces the fascia, and supplies the temporal muscle. Branches.—While resting upon the zygoma, the tem- poral artery gives off several branches to the external ear, the anterior auricular arteries. It is sometimes necessary to open the temporal artery for the purpose of producing a powerful effect upon the system ; in this case, the more prominent of the two superficial vessels should be chosen. The structures to be cut through are simply the integument and superficial fascia; and the mode of arresting the flow of blood is to