m LIGATURE OF THE CAROTID. Two operations are likewise practised in the inferior carotid triangle for the ligature of the lower part of the common carotid and the in- nominata artery. The former is called the low operation. The sterno-mastoid is still the guide for the incision, and the layers to be cut through are precisely the same as in the high operation. The sterno-mastoid is to be drawn aside, and the sheath will be found concealed by the sterno-thyroid muscle. This muscle is to be divided, and the sheath opened as in the previous operation. The descendens noni, if it extend so low, lies to the inner side of the sheath. The anterior jugular vein is situated along the inner border of the sterno- mastoid muscle, and should be looked for and avoided. The parts to be cut through are the Integument, Superficial fascia, Platysma, Deep fascia, Sterno-thyroid muscle, Sheath of the vessels. The operation for tying the Arteria innominata requires that an incision, three inches in length, should be made obliquely across the space between the two sterno-mastoid muscles, immediately above the sternum. This incision should commence over the right sterno- clavicular articulation, and be carried obliquely upwards to the sterno-mastoid muscle of the opposite side, dividing the integument, superficial, and deep fascia. The operator then separates the two sterno-thyroid muscles; and, following the course of the trachea, reaches that artery as it crosses that tube to the right side. In the injected subject the student will find this by no means a difficult operation : the artery is much more superficial than might be expected, and the practice of it on the subject will not only familiarise him with the natural position of the artery, but also with the proximity of the arch of the aorta, and the possibility of aneurism of that vessel making its appearance in this situation. The inferior thyroid veins are very much in the way in this operation, and care must be taken not to wound them. An inferior thyroid artery, from the innominata, is also occasionally met with. The layers to be cut through are the Integument, Superficial fascia, Deep fascia, Cellular tissue. There is another operation connected with this region that we must not pass over without remark, although but a trifling one compared with the preceding. Indeed, next to bleeding, it is the most import- ant operation on the human body. Its importance consists in the emergency of the circumstances under which the surgeon is called upon to act, and upon the liability of its occurrence to every prac- titioner, and at every instant of his life;—we mean Tracheotomy. No student should dissect the neck without performing this operation,