VESICULiE SEMINALES. 384 convex side downwards. The latter lies in contact with the rectum, and may be distinctly felt through its coats. It is retained in its place by the two tendons of the bladder, which are continuous with the anterior ligaments of the bladder, by the attachments of the pelvic fascia below, and by a process of the internal layer of the deep fascia, which forms a sheath around the membranous urethra, and is inserted into the prostate. It consists of three lobes, two lateral and a middle lobe ; the latter is a small transverse process connected with the base of the gland. It supports the elastic tissue which forms the projection of mucous membrane at the com- mencement of the urethra, called uvula vesicae, and when enlarged presses the uvula inwards towards the interior of the bladder, and produces a great impediment to the flow of urine. The Ducts of the prostate, from twenty to twenty-five in number, open into the prostatic urethra on each side of the veru montanum. The urethra, in passing through the prostate, lies nearer to its upper than its lower surface. VesiculjE seminales At the base of the prostate gland are the vesicuhe seminales {jig. 45. ll.) each formed by the convolutions of a single dilated tube, and enclosed in a dense fibrous membrane. Their larger extremities are directed backwards, and are separated from each other by a considerable interval; the smaller converge to a point anteriorly, and almost meet at the base of the prostate gland. They form in this manner the lateral boundaries of a triangular space, which corresponds with the triangle on the inner surface of the bladder, called trigone vesicale. Vasa defejrentia.— The Vas deferens (fig- 45. 10.) from each testicle enters the abdomen at the internal ab- dominal ring, and passes inwards to the side of the fundus of the bladder; it then descends along its posterior surface, and crosses the direction of the ureter to the base of the prostate gland. When it reaches the vesicula seminalis it becomes connected by cellular tissue to its inner border, and terminates by a small duct, which unites with a similar duct from the vesicula seminalis, to form the ductus ejacidatorms. The ejaculatory duct is about three