4'03 GENERAL IDEA. PERINEUM. S space belongs to the organs of generation, the posterior to the termination of the alimentary canal. Let us first examine the anterior or genital space. A strong, fibrous membrane is stretched across this an- terior space from the ramus of the pubis and ischium on one side to the same parts on the opposite side. This is called the “ Deep perineal fascia." It is a septum of divi- sion between the interior and the exterior of the pelvis, between the internal organs of generation and the ex- ternal. The deep perineal fascia is not, however, a single membrane, but consists of two layers, between which are situated the membranous portion of the urethra, the com- pressor urethrae muscle, part of the internal pudic arteries, the arteries of the bulb, and Cowper’s glands. Externally to the deep fascia is the penis, which is com- posed of three lengthened bodies, the two corpora caver- nosa above, and the corpus spongiosum below. The corpora cavernosa are firmly attached to the ramus of the pubis and ischium on each side, by two diverging pro- cesses, called crura penis. The corpus spongiosum is the medium of transmission for the urethra, which enters that body immediately that it escapes from the deep perineal fascia, and takes its course through its interior to its ter- mination at the meatus urinarius. The extremity of the corpus spongiosum, which receives the urethra, is considerably enlarged, and is called the bulb ; at its opposite extremity it is again enlarged, and forms the glans penis. The penis is moved by three pairs of muscles, which are the muscles of the perineum. It is supplied with blood-vessels and nerves from the internal pudic artery and nerve. The muscles, vessels, and nerves, are in im- mediate relation with the commencement of the penis, and directly external to the deep perineal fascia. Then the whole of these parts are covered in and held firmly in their places by the superficial perineal fascia, which is continuous with the deep perineal fascia pos- teriorly, and is firmly attached on each side to the ramus of the pubis and ischium, whilst anteriorly it is continuous with the cellular base of the common superficial fascia of the scrotum and abdomen. So that the genital portion of the perineum consists of