84 POSTERIOR BRACHIAL REGION. — TRICEPS. The Supra-spinatus muscle (supra, above; spina, the spine,) arises from the whole of the supra-spinous fossa, anti is inserted into the uppermost depression on the great tuberosity of the humerus. The tendon of this muscle cannot be well seen without cutting away the acromion process with a saw. The Infra-spinatus (infra, beneath ; spina, the spine,) is covered in by a layer of tendinous fascia, which must be removed before the fibres of the muscle can be seen, the deltoid muscle having been previously turned down from its scapular origin. It arises from the whole of the infra- spinous fossa, and is inserted into the middle depression upon the greater tuberosity of the humerus. The Teres minor muscle (teres, round,) arises from the middle third of the inferior border of the scapula, and is inserted into the lower depression on the great tuberosity of the humerus. The tendons of these three muscles, with that of the subscapularis, are in immediate contact with the joint, and form part of its ligamentous capsule, thereby preserving the solidity of the articulation. They are therefore the structures most frequently ruptured in dis- location of the shoulder-joint with violence. The Teres major muscle arises from the lower third of the inferior border of the scapula, encroaching a little upon its dorsal aspect, and is inserted in common with the tendon of the latissimus dorsi, into the posterior bicipital ridge. A large triangular space exists between the two teres muscles, which is divided into two minor spaces by the long head of the triceps. jPosterior Brachial Region. The remaining region of the shoulder and upper arm is the posterior brachial, in which only one muscle is found, the triceps extensor cubiti. The Triceps (tria — KE<paXai, three heads,) arises by three heads. Considered in relation to their length, these heads have been named long, short, and middle, and, in reference to their position, internal, external, and middle; the term middle, in the former case, referring to the external head, and in the latter case to the long head. This has given rise to much confusion and misunderstanding. We shall,