. PIA MATER. 237 cord so completely, as to enable it to occupy the whole of the space included in the sheath of dura mater. The arachnoid also secretes a serous fluid from its inner surface, which is small in quantity compared with the sub-arachnoidean liquid. It does not enter into the ventricles of the brain, as imagined by Bichat, but is reflected inwards upon the venae Galeni for a short distance only, and returns upon those vessels to the dura mater of the tentorium. It surrounds the nerves as they originate from the brain, and forms a sheath around them to their point of exit from the skull. It is then reflected back upon the inner surface of the dura mater. The cerebral nerves are re- tained in connection with the brain principally by this membrane, so that, in separating it from the brain, the nerves are also torn away. There are no vessels apparent in the arachnoid, and no nerves have been traced into it. Pia Mater. The Pia Mater is a vascular membrane composed of innumerable vessels held together by a thin cellular layer. It invests the whole surface of the brain, dipping into its convolutions, and forming a fold in its interior called velum interpositum. It forms folds (choroid plexuses), also, in other situations, as in the fourth ventricle, and in the longitudinal grooves of the spinal cord. This membrane differs very strikingly in its structure in different parts of the cerebro spinal axis. Thus, on the surface of the cerebrum, in contact with the soft grey matter of the brain, it is excessively vascular, form- ing remarkable loops of anastomoses between the convo- lutions, and distributing multitudes of minute straight vessels to the grey substance. In the substantia perforata, again, and locus perforatus, it gives off tufts of small arteries, which pierce the white matter to reach the grey substance in the interior. But, upon the crura cerebri, pons Varolii, and spinal cord, its vascular character seems almost lost. It has become a dense fibrous membrane, difficult to tear off, and forming the proper sheath of the spinal cord. I he pia mater is the nutrient membrane of the brain,