MEDIASTINUM. PERICARDIUM. 118 The Middle mediastinum (Jig. 11. 7.) contains the heart enclosed in its pericardium, 8. 8.'; the ascending aorta; the bifurcation of the trachea; the superior vena cava; and the phrenic nerves, 9. 9. The Posterior mediastinum is bounded behind by the vertebral column, in front by the pericardium, and on each side by the pleura. It contains the descending aorta (fig. 11. lo.); the greater, 11., and lesser azygos veins, and superior intercostal vein ; the thoracic duct, 12.; the oesophagus and pneumogastric nerves, 13.; and the great splanchnic nerves. Previously to opening the pericardium, if the sides of the middle mediastinum be examined, the phrenic nerves, 9. 9., will be seen shining through the pleura in front of the roots of the lungs. The left phrenic nerve is a little longer than the right, in consequence of having to curve around the convexity of the heart, and from the greater depth of the diaphragm on the left, than on the right side. The phrenic nerves arise from the third, fourth, and fifth cervical nerves, and are distributed to the diaphragm, where they communicate, particularly the left, with fila- ments from the solar plexus. Pericardium, (fig. 11.8) The pericardium is a fibro- serous membrane like the dura mater, and resembles that membrane, also, in deriving its serous layer from the re- flected serous membrane of the viscus which it encloses. It consists, therefore, of two layers, an external fibrous and an internal serous. The fibrous layer is attached, above, to the great vessels at the root of the heart, being con- tinuous with the thoracic fascia, and below to the ten- dinous portion of the diaphragm. The serous membrane invests the heart, and is then reflected upon the inner surface of the fibrous layer. If the pericardium be laid open, the heart is brought into view. The Heart (fig. 11. 7., fig. 12.) is situated obliquely in front of the root of the lungs. 10. The descending aorta. 11. The vena azygos. 12. The thoracic duct. 13. The oesophagus, accom- panied by the two pneumogastric nerves. These parts, from No. 10. to 13., are all within the posterior mediastinum, which is bounded on each side by the pleura, and behind by the vertebral column. 14. 14. The sympathetic nerve at each side.