116 STRUCTURE OF THE LUNGS. chial cells (air cells), of the ramifications of the pulmonary artery and veins, bronchial artery and veins, lymphatics and nerves. The whole of these structures being held together by cellular tissue, which forms their parenchyma. Bronchial tubes. — The fibro-cartilaginous rings which are observed in the trachea become incomplete and irre- gular in the bronchi, and in the bronchial tubes are lost altogether. At the termination of these tubes the fibrous coat ceases, and the cell is formed solely by the lining mucous membrane. The ramification of the bronchial tubes is effected by a binary subdivision. Vessels and Nerves. — The nutrition of the lungs is per- formed by the bronchial arteries. The lymphatics ter- minate at their roots in the bronchial glands. These glands are very numerous at the bifurcation of the trachea, and around the bronchi. In early life they resemble lymphatic glands in other situations; but in the adult, and in old age, they are quite black, and filled with carbon- aceous matter, and often with calcareous deposits. The Nerves are derived from the pneumogastric and sympathetic. They form two plexuses; 1. anterior pul- monary plexus, situated upon the front of the root of the lungs ; 2. posterior pulmonary plexus, on the posterior aspect of the root of the lungs. The branches from these plexuses follow the course of the bronchial tubes, and are distributed to the bronchial cells. Pleura. — Each lung is enclosed in a serous mem- brane {Jig. 11.5.4.4.), which invests it as far as the root, and is then reflected upon the parietes of the chest. That portion of the membrane which is in relation with the lung is called pleura pulmonalis, and that in contact with the parietes, pleura costalis. The reflected portion, besides forming the internal lining to the ribs and inter- costal muscles, also covers the diaphragm and the thoracic surface of the vessels at the root of the neck. The pleura must be dissected from off the root of the lung to see the vessels of which it is formed and the pulmonary plexuses. Mediastinum. — The approximination of the two reflected pleurae in the middle line of the thorax forms a septum which divides the chest into the two pulmonary cavities. This is the mediastinum. The two pleurae are