LEFT AURICLE. 126 mencement of the aorta, and are much larger and more capacious than those of the pulmonary artery. The Pulmonary artery commences by a scolloped bor- der, corresponding with the three valves, which are at- tached along its edge. It is connected to the ventricle by fibrous tissue, and by the lining membrane of the heart. The Left auricle {Jig. 12. 16.) is somewhat smaller than the right; of a cuboid form, and situated more pos- teriorly. The appendix auriculce is constricted at its junction with the auricle, and has an arborescent appear- ance. It is directed forwards towards the root of the pulmonary artery, to which the auriculae of both sides appear to converge. The left auricle is to be laid open by a J_ shaped in- cision, the horizontal section being made along the border which is attached to the base of the ventricle. It presents for examination five openings, and the mus- cular structure of the appendix these are : Four pulmonary veins, Auriculo-ventricular opening, Musculi pectinati. The Pulmonary veins {Jig. 12. 17.), two from the right lung, and two from the left, open into the corresponding sides of the auricle. The two left pulmonary veins ter- minate frequently by a common opening. The Auriculo-ventricular opening, 18., is the aperture of communication between the ventricle and auricle. The Musculi pectinati are fewer in number than in the right auricle, and are situated only in the appendix auriculae. Left ventricle The left ventricle is to be opened, by making an incision a little to the left of the septum ventriculorum, and continuing it around the apex of the heart, to the auriculo-ventricular opening behind. The left ventricle {Jig. 12. 19.) is conical, both in ex- ternal figure, and in the form of its internal cavity. It forms the apex of the heart, by projecting beyond the right ventricle, while the latter has the advantage in length towards the base. Its walls are about seven lines in thick- ness, those of the right ventricle being about 2£ lines. It presents for examination in its interior two openings,