NAILS. HAIRS. 311 1 l f In situations exposed to pressure, as the palm of the hand and sole of the foot, it is very thick; on other parts it forms only a thin layer. The cuticle is marked on the surface by a network of lines : these are more numerous and larger near to joints, where they form deep wrinkles on account of the inelastic nature of its structure. Their appearance differs in different regions of the body, but every where depends upon the same cause, the inelasticity of the cuticle. Upon the palms of the hands and soles of the feet the cuticle presents a number of linear elevations which cor- respond with the rows of papillae in those parts. This is particularly evident upon the tips of the fingers where there is a circular arrangement of papillae. Upon the inner surface of the cuticle a number of de- pressions and linear furrows are seen corresponding with the projections of the papillae. A number of conical pro- cesses are also observed on this surface, which correspond with the passage of hairs through the cuticle, and with the openings of the perspiratory ducts. The openings in the cuticle are the pores or openings for the perspiratory ducts, the openings for the passage of the hairs, and those of the sebaceous follicles. The Appendages to the skin are the nails, hairs, se- baceous follicles, and perspiratory ducts. The Nails are parts of the cuticle secreted in the same manner, composed of the same material, but disposed in a peculiar way to serve an especial purpose — the pro- tection of the tactile extremities of the fingers. The white semilunar mark at the base of the nail is called the lunula. The cuticle is closely connected with it all round, and in maceration the nail comes off with that layer. The Hairs have a very different structure and arrange- ment bom that of the nails: they grow by roots which are implanted in the corium, and traverse the papillary layer, the lete mucosum, and the cuticle, to reach the sur- face. As they pass through the rete mucosum and cuti- cle, they receive a reflected covering from each, and the cuticle is closely adherent around the cylinder of the hair before it emerges from the surface. 1 lie hair is homogeneous in structure, having no canal