421 VIDIAN NERVE. pterygoid or Vidian canal, to the foramen lacerum basis cranii, where it divides into two branches, the carotid and petrosal. The Carotid branch, 15., enters the carotid canal, and joins the carotid plexus. The Petrosal branch, 16., enters the cranium through the foramen lacerum basis cranii, and passes backwards beneath theCasserian ganglion, and beneath the dura mater, lying in a groove upon the anterior surface of the petrous bone, to the hiatus Fallopii. Entering the hiatus Fallopii, it immediately joins the facial nerve, just as that nerve is making its angular bend, previously to winding back along the inner wall of the tympanum.* The petrosal branch accompanies the facial nerve, 17., along the aqueductus Fallopii, enclosed in its neurilema, to within a few lines of the stylo-mastoid foramen. It then quits the facial nerve, returning upon itself at an acute angle, and enters the tympanum near the base of the pyramid. It now takes the name of chorda tympani, 18., and crosses the tympanum enveloped in mucous membrane, between the handle of the malleus and long process of the incus to the fissura Glaseri; passing through a small opening in this fissure, it descends behind the condyle of the lower jaw, and behind the auri- cular and inferior dental nerves to the gustatory nerve, 19., which it joins at an acute angle. + Accompanying the gustatory, enclosed in its neurilema, to the submaxillary * Here two rival opinions clash : one set of anatomists, and with them Swan and Arnold, believe that the petrosal branch unites with the substance of the facial nerve; the two latter writers even go so far as to describe a ganglionic enlargement upon the facial nerve at | this point, and Arnold would seem to intimate that the nerve is actually a branch of this ganglion : while another set maintain that the petrosal branch merely accompanies the facial nerve, being en- closed in its neurilema. As the question is yet litigated, and as we are prepared with no positive proof to decide for either party, we shall at present adopt the latter view as the more convenient for de- scription, and for explaining the connections between the different I cranial ganglia. The latter opinion has for its supporters Cloquet, jiRibes, and Ilirzel. f Here, again, the question of fusion of nervous substance, or mere contact, has been warmly agitated, but with no positive and unques- 1 donable results. We shall, therefore, for the reasons given above, t idopt the latter opinion until we shall find opportunity to decide the 1 natter for ourselves.