ACCIDENTS FROM BLEEDING. 80 dition of the lancet. A sharp blade and a clean wound can never do amiss. Occasionally the median basilic is completely transfixed, and the process of fascia derived from the edge of the biceps tendon is injured. Inflammation may supervene and be followed by contraction of the fascia, causing great pain and deformity to the patient. Let me refer the student to Mr. Liston’s admirable system of “ prac- tical surgery,” for the means of relief in this very un- pleasant termination of a simple operation. But this is not all; the brachial artery is sometimes wounded also. The lancet has transfixed the entire cylinder of the vein, the process of fascia, and the coats of the artery. The consequences of this accident present three varieties, and for the best information on these we must again refer the student to Mr. Liston. As, how- ever, such accidents are often destructive of a surgeon’s reputation and practice, let alone his peace of mind, and cannot be too strongly impressed upon the student’s re- collection, we will quote their characters from Mr. Lis- ton’s work: — 1. “ False aneurism is the most common form of disease following the accidental wound of the artery at the bend of the arm.” (Page 175.) In this case the blood rushing from the wounded vessel forms for itself a sac by the condensation of the surrounding tissues. 2. Aneurismal varix is the accident next in frequency : “ the coats of the vein and artery become firmly aggluti- nated,” and “ the arterial blood is poured into the vein at each contraction in a small and forcible stream, occa- sioning a peculiar shrill sound.” —Page 176. 3. The third variety, “ Varicose aneurism,” is rare. It consists in the formation of a false aneurism between the artery and vein, and communicating with both. Thus it may be shown that this operation, so apparently simple and easy of execution, that is constantly entrusted to the hands of the tyro apprentice, often before he has ever opened a manual of anatomy, is attended with dangers, if caution be not used, equal to those of many of the greater operations of surgery. We, therefore, advise the dissec- tor not to pass hastily over this region, but consider well its relations and appliances. If other reasons for his at-