ISCHIATIC OPENINGS. S3 tween the superior and inferior curved lines : its fibres converge to the anterior border of the trochanter major, into which it is inserted by means of a rounded tendon. To understand the exact relations and origins of the next muscles, the student should consult his skeleton. - Upon the posterior and lateral aspect of the pelvis, he will find a considerable vacuity. This is broken in upon by a sharp spinous process projected from the border of the ischium, the spine of the ischium: the excavated sweep immediately above this spine is called the great sacro-ischiatic notch, in contra-distinction to another sweep beneath the spine, named the lesser sacro-ischiatic notch ; and the lesser sacro-ischiatic notch is bounded inferiorly by a thick tubercle, the tuberosity of the ischium. In the subject, the narrow extremity of a radiated ligament is attached to the spine of the ischium, while its expanded end is connected to the side of the sacrum and coccyx : hence it is named sacro-ischiatic, and is known by the cog- nomina, lesser and anterior, which serve to distinguish itfrom another ligament, radiated at each extremity, attached by the broader end to the posterior spinous process of the ilium, the side of the sacrum and coccyx, and by its smaller end to the inner border of the tuberosity of the ischium. This ligament is necessarily longer than the former, and more posterior : hence it is named the posterior or great sacro-ischiatic ligament. These two ligaments convert the notches into foramina, which are thence called the superior or great sacro-ischiatic foramen, and the in- ferior or lesser sacro-ischiatic foramen. Let us now pro- ceed to the muscles, fig. 4. The Pyriformis muscle, 3., (pyrum, a pear, i. e. pear- shaped) arises from the anterior surface of the sacrum, by little slips that are interposed between the anterior sacral foramina. It passes out of the pelvis, through the great sacro-ischiatic foramen, and is inserted by a rounded tendon into the digital fossa of the trochanter major. Immediately below the pyriformis is a small slip of muscle, the Gemellus superior (gemellus, double, twin): it arises from the spine of the ischium, and is inserted into the upper border of the tendon of the obturator interims, and into the digital fossa of the trochanter major.