169 OPENING THE JUGULAR VEIN. mastoid muscle for nearly its whole course, being placed for a short space to its anterior border above, and upon its posterior border below. It is accompanied by the auri- cularis magnus nerve, and is covered by the platysma muscle, enclosed between the two layers of superficial fascia. Operations. — Now let us suppose that the student were called upon to open the external jugular vein, what would he cut through ? — Why, through the Integument, One layer of superficial fascia, Platysma, The other layer of superficial fascia, The vein. But here a very important surgical question arises ; — in what direction should he carry the point of his lancet ? Why, towards the back of the ear, in the direction (Jig. 14. 10.) of the sterno-mastoid muscle. He will thus cut across the fibres of the platysma, 9. : these will retract*', the wound will gape, and the blood flow. If he should make his cut in the opposite direction, i. e. parallel with the fibres of the platysma, the fibres acting spasmodically will be drawn close together, and close the wound, f The next step in the dissection is to open the sheath of the sterno-mastoid muscle, and carefully trace the three ascending branches of the cervical plexus to their desti- nation. The Superficialis colli {fig. 14. 11.) pierces the fascia at the anterior border of the muscle, and ascends obliquely towards the lower jaw, beneath which it forms a plexus with the cervico-facial branches of the facial nerve. It is distributed to the integument on the front of the neck. * It is the property of muscular fibres to contract when cut across; hence the frightful gaping wounds resulting from a trifling cut across a muscle. The same wound in the direction of the muscular fibres would give rise to no alarm. In dissection we apply this principle by drawing the knife always in the direction of the fibres : if the cel- lular tissue be removed in the opposite direction, a ragged unsightly surface is the consequence. f A patient might be lost in this way by the unskilfulness of the operator. For, if no blood should flow, the surgeon might infer that all circulation had ceased, and would deem the application of resus- citating means as hopeless; while the true cause of the absence of blood existed in the direction of the wound. I