73 ANTERIOR THORACIC REGION. MUSCLES. to the arm. The former are named thoracic and sca- pular : the latter consist of six nerves; — one, which sup- plies the muscles about the shoulder joint, the circumflex; two, going to the integument of the arm, external and internal cutaneous ; and three, like the three arteries, sup- plying the fore-arm and hand, musculo-spiral, ulnar, and median. Let us now proceed to the dissection of the upper ex- tremity. Dissection. —Make an incision along the line of the clavicle, from the upper part of the sternum to the acromion process; a second along the lower border of the great pectoral muscle, from the lower end of the sternum to the insertion of its tendon into the humerus ; and connect the two by a third, carried longitudinally along the mid- dle of the sternum. The integument and superficial fascia are to be dissected off the fibres of the muscle together, and always in the direc- tion of their course. For this purpose the dissector, if he have the right arm, will commence with the lower angle of the flap ; if the left, with the upper angle. He will thus expose the pectoralis major muscle in its whole extent. Muscles of the Shoulder and upper Arm. Anterior Thoracic Region. Pectoralis major. Pectoralis minor. Subclavius. The Pectoralis major muscle arises from the sternal two thirds of the clavicle, half of the sternum its whole length, and from the cartilages of all the true ribs, ex- cepting the first. It is inserted by a broad tendon into the anterior bicipital ridge of the humerus. That portion of the muscle which arises from the cla- vicle, is separated from that connected with the sternum by a distinct cellular interspace; hence we speak of the clavicular portion and sternal portion of the pectoralis major. The fibres from this very extensive origin con- verge towards a narrow insertion, giving the muscle a radiated appearance. But there is a peculiarity about the formation of its tendon which must be carefully noted. The whole of the lower border is folded inwards upon the upper portion, so that the tendon is doubled upon itself. Another peculiarity results from this arrangement: the e