250 VELUM INTERPOSITUM. downwards to the base of the brain. The two crura descend through the foramen commune anterius of the third ventricle, and terminate in the corpora albicantia, 6. Opening transversely beneath these two crura, just as they are about to arch downwards is the foramen of Munro, 9., through which the two lateral ventricles communicate, and the choroid plexuses are connected anteriorly. The lateral thin edges of the fornix are continuous pos- teriorly with the concave border of the hippocampus major at each side, and form the narrow white band called corpus jimbriatum. In the middle line the fornix is con- tinuous with the corpus callosum, and at each side with the hippocampus major and minor. Upon the under surface of the fornix towards its pos- terior part, some transverse lines are seen passing between the diverging lateral fasciculi : this appearance is termed the lyra, from a fancied resemblance to the strings of a harp. The fornix may now be removed by dividing it across anteriorly, and turning it backwards, at the same time separating its lateral connections with the hippocampi. If the student examine its under surface he will perceive the lyra above described. Beneath the fornix is the Velum interposition (fig. 24.7. Jig. l25. 8.), a reflection of pia mater introduced into the interior of the brain, through the transverse fissure. This velum is connected at either side with the choroid plexus, and contains within its two layers two large veins, the Vence Galeni (fig. 25. 10.), which receive the blood lucidum. 8. The velum interpositum. 9. The foramen of Munro. 10. The venae Galeni, escaping through the fissure of Bichat to enter the straight sinus. 11. The third ventricle. 12. Section of the anterior commissure. 18. Section of the middle commissure, com- missura mollis. 14. Section of the posterior commissure. 15. The foramen commune anterius, or space between the anterior and middle commissure, leading downwards in the direction of the arrow, between the crura of the fornix to the infundibulum : hence it is also named, iter ad infundibulum. 16- The pituitary gland. 17. The foramen commune posterius. 18. The cut edge of the corpora quadrigemina, which forms the superior boundary of the iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculum, leading from the third (11.) into the fourth ventricle 19. 20. The corpora quadrigemina. 21. The crus cerebri of the right side. 22. Section of the pons Yarolii. 23. Section of the medulla oblongata.