325 INTERNAL OBLIQUE MUSCLE. relation with the anterior border of the latissimus dorsi, which sometimes overlaps it. The external oblique is now to be removed by making an incision across the ribs just below its origin to its posterior border, and another along Poupart’s ligament and the crest of the ilium. Poupart’s liga- ment should be left entire, as it gives attachment to the next muscles. The muscles may then be turned forwards towards the linea alba, or removed altogether. The Internal oblique muscle (obliquus internus abdominis ascendens) is the middle flat muscle of the abdomen. It arises from the outer half of Poupart's ligament, from the middle of the crest of the ilium for two thirds of its length, and by a thin aponeurosis from the spinous processes of the lumbar vertebrae. Its fibres diverge from their origin, so that those from Poupart’s ligament curve downwards, those from the anterior part of the crest of the ilium pass transversely, and the rest ascend obliquely. The muscle is inserted into the pectineal line, crest of the pubis, linea alba, and lower borders of the five inferior ribs. Along the upper three fourths of the linea semilunaris, the aponeurosis of the internal oblique separates into two lamellae, which pass one in front and the other behind the rectus muscle to the linea alba, where they are inserted ; along the lower fourth, the aponeurosis passes altogether in front of the rectus without separation. The two layers which thus enclose the rectus, form for it a partial sheath. The lowest fibres of the internal oblique are inserted into the pectineal line, in common with those of the trans- versalis muscle. Hence the tendon of this insertion is called the conjoined tendon of the internal oblique and trans- versalis (jiff. 38. 6.). This structure corresponds with the external abdominal ring, and forms a protection to what would otherwise be a weak point in the abdomen. Sometimes it is insufficient to resist the pressure from within and becomes forced through the external ring : it then forms the distinctive covering of direct inguinal hernia. * The spermatic cord passes beneath the arched border o the internal oblique muscle, between it and Poupart’s igament. During its passage some fibres are given off