HEPATIC VEIN. — SUMMARY. 363 R 2 form the trunks of the hepatic veins; they are contained in canals formed solely by the bases of the lobules 4., hence they are named sublobular. The bases of all the lobules in the liver are in contact with the cylinder of these veins, and have no intermediate lining of capsular membrane. The coats of the vein are “ delicate in texture ; they are transparent; the lobules and fissures are seen through them,” and “ their internal surface is studded with the orifices (5) of the intra-lobular veins,” which are seen opening from the centre of the base of each lobule. “ The trunks ” of the hepatic veins “ are more dense in structure; their external coat is composed of longitudinal bands; their canals are lined by prolongations of the proper capsule, which render them opake.” The lobules and fissures cannot be seen through them, and “ they receive no intra-lobular branches.” “ Dense in structure, they are not adapted to receive these minute and delicate veins; their canals, therefore, unlike those containing the sublobular veins, are like those containing the portal veins, composed of the capsular surfaces of the lobules, the intra-lobular branches of which terminate in a neighbouring sublobular vein.” The nerves and deep-seated lymphatics “ ramify in the portal canals; I have not been able to trace them into the interlobular fissures. The lymphatics “may always be injected from the duct, and the bile is fre- quently propelled into the former vessels by injecting the latter.” No lymphatics “accompany the hepatic veins.” The “ superficial lymphatics ramify in the proper capsule.” “ Injection sometimes passes from the i arteries and portal veins into the lymphatics.” It is to Mr. Kiernan that anatomical science is indebted for the clear distinct and intelligible idea of the structure of this most com- plicated organ, which has been furnished by the researches of that matomist. To value this knowledge as it deserves, we have but to effect upon the unsuccessful, though not fruitless, labours of those ;reat discoverers in structural anatomy, Malpighi and Ruysch, upon he same subject. It is not, however, in an anatomical or even a ihysiological point of view merely, that we have to admire these dis- overies, for in their practical application to the elucidation of patho- ogical appearances, and the explanation of the phenomena of disease, hey are still more interesting. The liver has been shown to be composed of lobules;—the lobules excepting their bases) are invested and connected together, the vessels {I jpported, and the whole organ enclosed by Glisson's capsule;—and [ tey are so arranged that the base of every lobule in the liver is in intact with an hepatic vein. The Portal vein distributes its numberless branches through portal mals which are channelled through every part of the organ ; it brings e returning blood from the chylo-poietic viscera; it collects also the nous blood from the ultimate ramifications of the hepatic artery in e liver itself. It gives off branches in the canals which arc called final, and form a venous va,final plexus; these give off interlobular inches, and the latter enter the lobules and form lobular venous from the blood circulating in which the bile is secreted. •xuscs,