42 POPLITEAL ARTERY.— OPERATION. joeronei, and the peroneal nerve itself, 6., lying along the tendon of the biceps muscle. To the inner side of the popliteal nerve, at a variable depth, is the popliteal vein, to which the external saphe- nous vein will serve as a guide, and to the inner side of the vein, and still deeper, resting on the femur, is the popliteal artery. Operation. — In what then does the operation for tying this artery consist? — John Hunter’s operation, as it is frequently called, in compliment to that great surgeon, for it was his excellent know- ledge of practical anatomy, that bestowed upon surgery this valuable discovery for the cure of aneurism. Why ! it consists in making a longitudinal incision along the middle of the popliteal space, which shall divide the integument, the superficial fascia, remembering the external saphenous vein, the deep fascia, then cautiously making your way through the adipose substance, a little to the inner side of the middle line, down to the artery, hooking around it with the aneu- rismal needle, and tying the ligature. In the upper part of the popliteal space, the artery lies compara- tively superficially; and is altogether to the inner side of the popliteal nerve. In the middle portion it is deepest: and between the heads of the gastrocnemius, it again becomes superficial, but is crossed by numerous muscular branches, both of the artery and nerve, which would greatly interfere with the progress of an operation. The floor of the popliteal space is formed by the expanded inferior extremity of the femur, by the knee- joint, and by the popliteal muscle immediately below the joint. The Popliteal artery (Jig. 4. 5.) runs obliquely out- wards, through the middle of the popliteal space, from the tendinous opening in the adductor magnus, to the lower border of the popliteus muscle, where it divides into the anterior and posterior tibial arteries. Relations. — It rests first on the femur, then on the posterior ligament of the knee-joint, then on the fascia covering the popliteus muscle: superficial and external to it is the popliteal vein, and still more superficial and external, the popliteal nerve.