26 FEMORAL HERNIA. incline inwards to the sheath of the vessels, upon which they rest for some distance. The smaller of the two is the short saphenous nerve, 10. : it leaves the sheath at the lower third of the thigh, and is distributed to the vastus interims muscle. The larger is the long, or in- ternal saphenous nerve, ll.: it usually enters the sheath, and accompanies the artery, until that vessel is about to pass through the opening in the adductor magnus. The nerve then pierces the aponeurotic canal of the artery, passes between the tendons of the sartorius and gracilis, and gets into relation with the internal saphenous vein, by the side of which it descends along the inner side of the leg, in front of the inner ankle, and along the inner border of the foot and side of the great toe, supplying it and the integuments in its course. The Obturator nerve, 12. is formed by a branch from the third, and another from the fourth lumbar nerve. The nerve runs along the inner border of the brim of the pelvis, to the obturator foramen, where it joins the obtu- rator artery. Having escaped from the pelvis, it divides into two branches — anterior, which passes in front of the adductor brevis, supplying that muscle, the pectineus, and adductor longus, and sending a branch downwards to join the long saphenous nerve ; and a posterior branch which passes downwards behind the adductor brevis, sup- plying it, the obturator externus, and the adductor magnus. We advise the student to have made himself thoroughly master of this region and of each, before he venture to direct his attention to another, and to proceed methodically, following with care every line of proceeding here pointed out, unless, indeed, he can himself suggest a better or one more familiar to his mode of study, for we are well convinced that the same plan will not be found advantageous to all. Let him question his knowledge upon each of the preceding sections, and remark the adage “ Memoria augetur ex colendo.” Femoral Hernia. After proceeding, as we have here directed, with the common anatom)'- of the anterior femoral region, the student may now turn his attention to the special ana- tomy of that portion of the region through which the intestine finds its way in femoral hernia. With this ob-