313 THYROID AND CRICOID CARTILAGE8. The Thyroid (Ovptof— uZoq, like a shield) is the largest cartilage of the larynx : it consists of two lateral portions or alee, which meet at an acute angle in front, and form the projection which is known by the name ofpomum Adami. Where the pomum Adami is prominent, a bursa mucosa is often found between it and the skin. Each ala is quadrilateral, and forms a rounded border posteriorly, which terminates above, in the superior cornu, and below, in the inferior cornu. Upon the side of the ala is an oblique line, into which the sterno-thyroid muscle is inserted, and from which the thyro-hyoid takes its origin. Behind this is a vertical line which gives origin to the inferior constrictor muscle. In the receding angle formed by the meeting of the two alae upon the inner side of the cartilage, and near to its lower border, are attached the epiglottis, the chordae vo- cales, fhe fhyro-arytenoid, and thyro-epiglottidean mus- cles. The Cricoid (xpisoi;— like a ring) is a ring of cartilage, narrow in front and broad behind, where it is surmounted by two rounded surfaces, which articulate with die arytenoid cartilages. Upon the middle line, posteriorly, s a vertical ridge which gives attachment to the oesopha- pis. On each side of the ridge are the depressions which odge the crico-arytenoidei postici muscles. On either lide of the ring is a glenoid cavity, which articulates with \ he inferior cornu of the thyroid cartilage. The Arytenoid cartilages (apvrouva* *, a pitcher), two in f) mmber, are triangular in form. They are broad belovrfyj*** vhere they articulate with the upper border of the cricoid! nd give attachment to the crico-arytenoidei postici! rico-arytenoidei laterales, and thyro-arytenoidei muscles! nd chordae vocales; and pointed above, where they arti- jlate with two little curved cartilages, called cornicula vryngis (capitula laryngis). On the posterior surface icy are concave, and lodge the arytenoideus muscle. • This derivation has reference to the appearance of both cartilages <en together and covered by mucous membrane. In animals, which :re Pr;nc,Pa! ™VJ°f dlssec,ion amo”g ‘he ancients, the open! ? of the larynx with the arytenoid cartilages bears a striking re- nblance to the mouth of a pitcher having a large spout.