DIAPHRAGM. 372 Diaphragm. — To obtain a good view of this import- ant inspiratory muscle, the peritoneum should be dissected from its under surface. It is the muscular septum be- tween the thorax and abdomen, and is composed of two portions, a greater and a lesser muscle. The greater muscle arises from the ensiform cartilage, from the inner surfaces of the six inferior ribs, indigitating with the transversalis, and from the ligamentum arcuatum exter- num, and internum. From these points which form the internal circumference of the trunk, the fibres converge and are inserted into the central tendon. The Ligamentum arcuatum externum is a fibrous band, extending from the last rib.to the transverse process of the first lumbar vertebra, it arches across the origin of the quadratus lumborum muscle, and gives attachment to the posterior fibres of the greater muscle of the diaphragm above, and to the anterior lamella of the transversalis below. The Ligamentum arcuatum internum, or proprius, is a tendinous arch thrown across the psoas magnus muscle as it emerges from the chest. It is attached by one ex- tremity to the transverse process of the first lumbar vertebra, and by the other to the body of the second. The Tendinous centre of the diaphragm is shaped like a trefoil leaf; of which the central leaflet points to the ensiform cartilage, and is the largest; the lateral leaflets, right and left, occupy the corresponding portions of the muscle; the right being the larger and more rounded, and the left smaller and lengthened in its form. Between the sides of the ensiform cartilage and the cartilages of the adjoining ribs, is a small triangular space where the muscular fibres of the diaphragm are deficient. This space is closed only by peritoneum on the side of the abdomen, and by pleura within the chest. It is therefore a weak point, and a portion of the contents ol the abdomen might, by violent exertion, be forced through it, producing phrenic or diaphragmatic hernia. The Lesser muscle of the diaphragm takes its origin from the bodies of the lumbar vertebra? by two tendons. The right, larger and longer than the left, arises from the anterior surface of the bodies of the second, third, and fourth vertebne ; and the left from the side of the second