219 MUSCULAR BRANCHES. L 2 Escaping at the foramen ovale the nerve divides into two portions, an external, 18., into which is traced the whole of the anterior root of the fifth, and an internal, 19.; the two portions being separated from each other by the external pterygoid muscle. The External division, 18., obtaining the whole of the motor function of the fifth, by means of its anterior root, immediately divides into five branches, which are distri- buted to the muscles of the temporo-maxillary region: these are, — Masseteric, which crosses the sigmoid notch with the masseteric artery to the masseter muscle. Temporal, two branches passing between the upper border of the external pterygoid muscle and the temporal bone to the temporal muscle. Buccal, a large branch which pierces the fibres of the external pterygoid, to reach the buccinator muscle. External pterygoid, to the external pterygoid muscle. Internal pterygoid, to the internal pterygoid muscle. To see the branches of the internal division requires a little addi- tional dissection. The external wall of the orbit having been already removed to trace the superior maxillary nerve, the student should tmake a section through the great ala of the sphenoid bone to near the foramen rotundum. Another incision should be carried parallel .vith the margin of the petrous bone to near the foramen ovale, and die intervening portion of bone broken away with the hammer. The :hisel and hammer will complete the removal of the remaining bone, f the nerve be not already exposed as it is passing through the oramen ovale. The external pterygoid muscle, which has hitherto orotected the nerves from the saw and hammer, is then to be re- •ior ethmoidal foramen. 9. The infra-trochlear nerve. 10. The supe- •ior maxillary nerve. 11. Its orbital branch. 12. The branches of •ommunication with Meckel’s ganglion. 13. The posterior dental >ranches. 14. Middle dental branches. 15. The anterior dental (ranches. 15. The infja-orbital branches. 17. The inferior maxillary lerve. 18. Its external or muscular division. 19. The internal tivision of the inferior maxillary nerve. The arrow marks the sepa- ation of these two divisions of the nerve by the external pterygoid auscle. 20. The gustatory nerve. 21. The branch of communica- ion with the submaxillary ganglion. 22. The inferior dental nerve, rising by two roots. 23. Its mylo-hyoidean branch. 24. The uricular nerve. 25. Its branch of communication with the facial erve.