79 ACCIDENTS FROM BLEEDING. The Radial vein (Jig. 8. l.), collects the returning blood from the back of the hand, and runs up the outer side of the fore-arm to the bend of the elbow, where it is joined by the median cephalic, and becomes the cephalic vein. The Cephalic* vein, 2. the head), ascends along the outer side of the arm, to the insertion of the deltoid muscle, it enters the groove between the adjoining borders of the deltoid and pectoralis major, and gets in relation with the descending branch of the thoracico- acromialis artery. It then crosses the pectoralis minor muscle, and terminates in the subclavian vein. The Median vein, 8., is so named from its position in the middle of the fore-arm. It receives the returning blood from the front of the hand and fore-arm, and near to the elbow forms a trunk of moderate size, which is increased by a communicating branch, 9., from the deep veins. At the bend of the elbow, the median divides into two branches of equal size : one passes inwards to join the basilic vein, andis thence called median basilic, 11., the other outwards to the cephalic vein, thence median cephalic, 10. The former immediately overlays the brachial artery, being separated from it only by the deep fascia. Hence in theory, bleeding in this vein is prohibited ; in practice it is usually chosen, from being of larger size and more con- veniently opened. We would, however, caution the young practitioner or the unsteady hand to choose the side of security, even with the prospect of a less elegant oper- ation. Accidents from Bleeding. In the best performed operations on these veins, incon- venience sometimes arises from the wound or division of the cutaneous nerves. This accident is most likely to occur in opening the median basilic, because the internal cutaneous nerves pass in front of that vein ; the external cutaneous nerves being behind the median cephalic vein, rhe results of such an accident may be slight or serious, in proportion to the dexterity of the operator, or the con- This vein was imagined, by the ancients, to come directly from the head ; and was, therefore, selected for operation in all disorders of the head.