DEVELOPMENT OF THE SKELETON 434 Cranium. — The bones of the calvarium commence ossifying long before those of the base ; but at birth the base is solid and firmly ossified, while those of the calva- rium are yet imperfectly developed. The flat bones of the cranium are developed from one or more centres, which radiate in every direction between two layers of membrane, the pericranium on the external surface, and the dura mater within. At birth, the radi- ating edges of the bones have not approached each other, so as to unite by suture, but are simply connected by the two layers of membrane in which they are formed; this permits of their overlapping, during the compression which they undergo in their passage through the pelvis. The open spaces between the bones on the upper part of the skull are called the fontanelles. The anterior fon- tanelle is diamond-shaped, and is bounded by the anterior angles of the two parietal bones, and by the superior angles of the two portions of the frontal. The posterior fontanelle is triangular in form, and is bounded by the posterior angles of the parietal, and by the upper angle of the occipital bone. The Occipital bone is developed from four centres : one for the expanded portion ; one for each condyle ; and one for the basilar process. The Parietal bone is developed from a single centre of ossification. The Temporal bone is developed from five centres: one for the squamous portion; one for the mastoid; one for the petrous portion ; one for the external auditory process; and one for the styloid process. The Frontal bone is developed from two centres. The Sphenoid bone has twelve centres of development: four for the body ; two for the two lesser wings; two for the greater wings ; two for the external pterygoid plates; and two for the sphenoidal spongy bones. The Ethmoid bone has two centres ; one for each lateral half of the bone. Face. — The face is small, forming but a small portion of the entire skull. The rudiments of the teeth are con- tained within the upper and lower jaws. The lower jawr is as yet ununited at the symphisis. The maxillary, frontal, ethmoidal, and sphenoidal sinuses are not deve- loped.