137 CARDIAC GANGLION AND PLEXUSES. monary plexuses and posterior mediastinum, and of two named branches, the greater and lesser splanchnic nerves. The Greater splanchnic nerve (Jig. 50. 12.) is formed by the union of filaments from the sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, and tenth ganglia. It passes inwards to the pos- terior mediastinum, resting upon the side of the vertebral column, and pierces the crus of the diaphragm to join the semilunar ganglion in the abdomen. The Lesser splanchnic nerve, 14., is formed by the union of filaments from the tenth and eleventh ganglia. It pierces the diaphragm and joins the renal plexus. The Intercostal nerves, twelve in number, issue from the intervertebral foramina, and divide into two branches: — 1. A posterior branch which passes backwards between the ribs, and is distributed to the muscles of the back; 2. An anterior branch (intercostal) which follows the course of the intercostal artery between the two inter- costal muscles. It gives off numerous branches in its course, and near to the sternum pierces the external intercostal muscle, to be distributed to the pectoralis major and integument. At the great convexity of the chest it gives off a cutaneous branch, which pierces the muscles, and is distributed to the integument on the side * of the trunk. Cardiac ganglion and plexuses.— Beneath the arch of the aorta to the right of the ligament of the ductus arte- riosus is a large sympathetic ganglion, the cardiac gan- glion. It receives the superior cardiac nerve (superficialis cordis) from each side, and branches from the pneumo- gastric and recurrent nerves, and gives off a number of filaments, which form a plexus by their communications— the anterior cardiac plexus. The branches of this plexus pass downwards on the right side of the pulmonary artery to the left coronary artery, where they receive the name of anterior coronary plexus, and are distributed to the anterior aspect of the heart. The inferior and middle cardiac nerves converge to the great cardiac plexus, which is situated upon the bifurcation of the trachea, behind the arch of the aorta, and above the right pulmonary artery. From this plexus proceed two sets of branches— 1. Anterior, which pass