SPHENOPALATINE GANGLION. 223 L 4 descends by the side of the septum to the naso-palatine canal, where it communicates with the naso-palatine gan- glion. The Vidian * nerve passes directly backwards through the pterygoid canal, and divides into two branches, carotid and petrosal. The Carotid branch enters the carotid canal, and com- municates with the carotid plexus (page 203.). The Petrosal branch enters the skull through the fora- men lacerum basis cranii, and passes backwards beneath !the Casserian ganglion to the hiatus Fallopii, on the an- terior aspect of the petrous bone, where it unites with the facial just as that nerve is forming its angular bend. Near to the stylo-mastoid foramen, it is reflected back- wards from the facial nerve, and crosses the tympanum in a curved direction between the handle of the malleus and long process of the incus, and assumes the name of chorda tympani. Escaping from the tympanum through the fissura Glaseri, it descends to the gustatory nerve, which it joins at an acute angle ; and at the submaxillary gland it quits that nerve to enter the submaxillary gan- glion. The Submaxillary ganglion is situated in the sub- maxillary gland, close to the gustatory nerve, to which it is connected by the nerve above described, and by several smaller branches. It sends off a number of filaments, which are distributed upon the ducts of the submaxillary 1 gland. The Naso-palatine ganglion (Cloquet’s) is de- scribed by Cloquet as occupying the naso-palatine canal, giving branches, anterior palatine to the palate, and com- municating with Meckel’s ganglion by means of the nciso- | palatine nerve. Its existence is denied by Arnold, who has shown the naso-palatine passing as a distinct nervous filament through the naso-palatine canal to the papilla on the palate behind the incisor teeth. Cruveilhier, also, has been unable to • Vidus Vidius, Professor of Anatomy in the College of France, in 1542, and in Pisa, in 1.547. lie was the predecessor of Sylvius in the College of I'rance. Ill’s “ Anatomia Corporis Humani ” was published, in 1611, at Venice, after his death.