23 perforating arteries. tineus and psoas, and along the border of the external obturator muscle, to the space between the quadratus femoris and upper border of the adductor magnus, where it anastomoses with the ischiatic, external circumflex, and superior perforating arteries. It supplies the muscles on the upper and inner side of the thigh, anastomosing with the obturator artery, and sends a small branch through the notch in the acetabulum into the hip-joint. The Superior perforating artery passes backwards be- tween the pectineus and adductor brevis, pierces the adductor magnus, and is distributed to the posterior mus- cles of the thigh ; inosculating freely with the circumflex and ischiatic arteries, and with the branches of the mid- dle perforating artery. The Middle perforating artery pierces the adductor brevis and magnus, and is distributed like the superior ; inosculating with the superior and inferior perforantes. It gives off the nutritious artery of the femur. The Inferior perforating artery is given off below the adductor brevis, and pierces the adductor magnus, sup- plying it and the flexor muscles, and inosculating with the middle perforating artery above, and the articular branches of the popliteal below. It is through the medium of these branches, that the collateral circulation is maintained in the limb after ligature of the femoral artery. We now return to the superficial femoral: its muscular branches are distributed on either side to the adjacent muscles. The Anastomotica magna arises from the femoral, while in the tendinous canal formed by the adductors and vas- tus internus. It runs along the tendon of the adductor magnus to the inner condyle, and inosculates with the superior internal articular artery : some of its branches are distributed to the vastus internus muscle, and the crureus, and terminate by anastomosing with the descend- ing branches of the external circumflex and superior ex- ternal articular artery. When the pectineus muscle is divided through its origin and turned down, a small artery will be seen issuing from the opening in the upper part of the obturator membrane; this is the obturator artery, a branch of the internal iliac.