MUSCLES. INTERNAL FEMORAL GROUP. 18 tened form, is inserted into the middle third of the linea aspera. The pectineus must be divided near its origin and turned outwards, and the adductor longus through its middle, turning its ends to either side, to bring into view the adductor brevis. The Adductor brevis, placed beneath the pectineus and adductor longus, is fleshy, and thicker than the adductor longus : it arises from the body and ramus of the os pubis, and is inserted into the upper third of the linea aspera. It is pierced by the middle perforating artery, and sup- ports the anterior branch of the obturator nerve and artery. The adductor brevis may now be divided from its origin and turned outwards, or its inner two thirds may be cut away entirely, after separating the anterior branches of the obturator artery and nerve from its surface. This exposes the entire extent of the adductor magnus, and a fleshy mass of muscle which covers in the obturator foramen, — the obturator externus. The Obturator externus muscle (obturare, to stop up,) arises from the obturator membrane, and from the surface of bone immediately surrounding it, viz., from the body and ramus of the os pubis and ischium: its tendon passes behind the neck of the femur, to be inserted with the ex- ternal rotator muscles, into the digital fossa of the tro- chanter major. Although this muscle belongs properly to another group (glutaeal region), it has been deemed consistent with the object of this work to describe every organ which may come beneath the observation of the student in the progress of his dissection, in the precise situation which it actually occupies. The Adductor magnus is a broad and extensive muscle, forming a septum of division between the muscles situated on the anterior, and those on the posterior aspect of the thigh. It arises by fleshy fibres from the ramus and side of the tuberosity of the ischium, and radiating in its passage outwards, is inserted into the whole length of the linea aspera, and inner condyle of the femur. The adductor magnus is pierced by five openings : the three superior, for the three perforating arteries, and the fourth for the ter- mination of the profunda. The fifth is the large, oval open- ing in the tendinous portion of the muscle, that gives passage to the femoral vessels.