CARPO-METACARPAL LIGAMENTS. 465 x 5 membranes of the wrist; it is situated between the two rows of carpal bones, and passes between the bones of the second rank, to invest the carpal surfaces of the four me- tacarpal bones of the fingers. 4. The fourth is the synovial membrane of the articu- lation of the metacarpal bone of the thumb with the trapezium. 5. The fifth is situated between the pisiform and cu- neiform bones. The carpal bones have numerous articulations; — thus the scaphoid articulates with five bones, the semilunar with five; the cuneifoi-m with three, and the pisiform with one;—forming together, in the order of position from the radial to the ulnar side, the cipher 5531. Of the bones of the second row, the trapezium articu- lates with four, the trapezoides with four; the magnum with seven, and the unciform with five; which form, in the same order, the cipher 4475. Dislocations. — The dislocation of a carpal bone from violence is of very rare occurrence. The os magnum and cuneiform bones are sometimes partially dislocated from relaxation of tlieir ligaments : this is more frequent in the former than in the latter bone. 9. The Carpo-metacarpal articulation. — The second row of bones of the carpus articulates with the metacarpal bones of the four fingers by dorsal and palmar ligaments; and the metacarpal bone of the thumb with the trapezium by a true capsular ligament. The Dorsal ligaments pass from the carpal to the metacarpal bones, and transversely between the bases of the metacarpal bones. The Palmar ligaments are arranged upon the same plan on the palmar surface. The Synovial membrane is a continuation of the great synovial membrane of the two rows of carpal bones. The Capsular ligament of the thumb is one of the three true capsular ligaments of the skeleton ; the other two being the shoulder joint and hip-joint. The articulation has a proper synovial membrane. The metacarpal bones have a variable number of articu- lations with the carpal bones: the first articulates with the trapezium only; the second with the trapezium, tra-