PONS VAROLII. 258 peas; hence their synonym, pisiformia. They are the anterior extremities of the crura of the fornix, and are connected with the thalami optici by two white cords, which may be easily traced. The Locus perforatus is a layer of whitish grey sub- stance, connected in front with the corpora albicantia, and on either side with the crura cerebri, between which it is situated. It is perforated by several thick tufts of arteries, which are distributed to the thalami optici and third ventricle, of which it assists in forming the floor. It is sometimes called pons Tarini. The Crura cerebri are two thick white cords which issue from beneath the pons Varolii, and diverge to either side to enter the thalami optici. The third nerve will be seen to arise from the inner side of each, and the fourth nerves wind around them from above. If the crus cerebri be cut across, it will be seen to present, in the centre of the section, a dark spot, the locus niger. The Pons Varolii* (protuberantia annularis) is the broad transverse band of white fibres which arches like a bridge across the upper part of the medulla oblongata, and, contracting on either side into a thick rounded cord, enters the substance of the cerebellum under the name of crus cerebelli. There is a groove along its middle which lodges the basilar artery. The pons Varolii is the com- missure of the cerebellum, and associates the two lateral lobes in their common function. Resting upon the pons, near its posterior border, is the sixth pair of nerves. On the anterior border of the crus cerebelli, at each side, is the thick bundle of filaments belonging to the fifth nerve, and, lying on its posterior border, the seventh pair of nerves. The Medulla oblongata {fig. 19. 1.) is the upper en- larged portion of the spinal cord. Upon its anterior sur- face are seen two narrow projecting columns, the corpora pyraniidalia {fig. 19. 21.). These bodies are broad above * Constant Varolius, Professor of Anatomy in Bologna: he died in 1578. He dissected the brain in the course of its fibres, beginning from the medulla oblongata; a plan which has since been perfected by Vieussens, and by Gall and Spurzheim. The work containing his mode of dissection, “ De Resolutione Corporis Humani,” was pub- lished after his death, in 1591.