327 TRANS VERS A LIS MUSCLE. The internal oblique muscle is to be removed, by separating it from its attachment to the ribs above, and to th > crest of the ilium and Poupart’s ligament below. It should be divided behind by a vertical incision extending from the last rib to the crest of the ilium, as its lumbar attachment cannot at present be examined. The muscle is then to be turned forwards. Some degree of care will be required in performing this dissection from the difficulty of distin- guishing between this muscle and the one beneath. A thin layer of cellular tissue is all that separates them for the greater part of their extent. Near the crest of the ilium the circumflex ilii artery as- cends between the two muscles, and forms a valuable guide to their separation. Near to Poupart’s ligament they are so closely con- nected that it is impossible to divide them. The Transversalis is the internal flat muscle of the abdomen; it is transverse in the direction of its fibres, as is implied in its name. It arises from the outer third of Poupart’s ligament, from the internal lip of the crest of the ilium, its anterior two-thirds ; from the lumbar vertebrae, and from the inner surfaces of the six inferior ribs, indigitating with the diaphragm. Its lower fibres curve downwards, to be inserted, with the lower fibres of the internal oblique, into the pectineal line, and form the conjoined tendon. Throughout the rest of its extent it is inserted into the crest of the pubis and linea alba. The lower fourth of its aponeurosis passes in front of the rectus to the linea alba ; the upper three-fourths, with the posterior lamella of the internal oblique, behind it. The Posterior aponeurosis of the transversalis divides into three lamellae : — 1. Anterior, which is attached to the bases of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae. 2. Middle, to the apices of the transverse processes. 3. Posterior, to the apices of the spinous processes. The anterior and middle lamellae enclose the quadratus lumborum mus- cle ; and the middle and posterior, the erector spinae. The union of the posterior lamella of the transversalis with the posterior aponeurosis of the internal oblique, serratus posticus inferior, and latissimus dorsi, constitutes the lumbar fascia. I lie spermatic cord and oblique inguinal hernia pass beneath the lower border of the transversalis muscle, but have no direct relation with it. Direct inguinal hernia forces the conjoined tendon before it, which forms one of its coverings.