DEEP CERVICAL FASCIA. 159 layer of fascia, which covers in the whole of the side of the neck. This is the deep cervical fascia, the reflections of which we have next to examine. The Deep cervical fascia differs in structure from the deep fascia of the limbs, in having no tendinous fibres, and being composed entirely of condensed cellular tissue. It is attached posteriorly along the middle line of the neck to the ligamentum nuchae, being overlapped by the trapezius muscle. It then passes forwards around the side of the neck to the posterior border of the sterno- mastoid, where it divides into two layers which embrace that muscle, and unite again at its anterior border. It is then directed onwards to the middle line, where it becomes continuous with the deep fascia of the opposite side of the neck. The anterior layer, that which is superficial to the sterno-mastoid, is prolonged upwards on the side of the jaw and parotid gland, and downwards over the clavicle and pectoralis major muscle. The posterior layer, which can only be examined by removing or drawing aside the sterno-mastoid muscle, is attached superiorly to the styloid process of the temporal bone, and is thence re- flected to the angle of the jaw, forming the stylo-maxillary ligament. Inferiorly it forms a loop, which acts as a pulley to the omo-hyoid muscle, and is then continued down- wards behind the clavicle, so as to enclose the subclavius muscle. The extremities of the latter portion are attached firmly to the cartilage of the first rib and to the coracoid process : hence it is named costo-coracoid membrane or ligament. In the middle line the deep fascia is continuous with the thoracic fascia. This fascia is of great importance in a surgical point of view. In its normal condition, it binds down firmly all the structures of the neck, and preserves their natural position. When, however, tumours form beneath it, as bronchocele, enlargements of the lymphatic glands, aneu- rism, &c., the pressure which is then exerted by this membrane may be fatal to the patient, from the com- pression of the trachea, larynx, and nerves, unless the tension be relieved by an incision. The Sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle is to be exposed by opening the sheath formed around it by the deep fascia. It arises, as its name implies, from the sternum and