469 LIGAMENTS OF THE KNEE-JOINT. The Jive first are external to the articulation ; the Jive next are internal to the articulation ; the three remaining are mere folds of mucous membrane, and have no title to the name of ligaments. In addition to the ligaments, there are two fibro-cartilages which are sometimes very erroneously considered among the ligaments ; and a syno- vial membrane, which is still more improperly described by some authors as a capsular ligament. * The Anterior ligament, or ligamentum patellce, is the prolongation of the tendon of the extensor muscles of the thigh downwards to the tubercle of the tibia. It is, therefore, no ligament; and as we have before stated, in our first chapter, that the patella is simply a sesamoid bone, developed in the tendon of the extensor muscles for the defence of the front of the knee joint, it has no title to consideration, either as a ligament of the knee joint or as a ligament of the patella. A small Bursa mucosa is situated between the liga- mentum patellae, near to its insertion, and the front of the tibia. The Posterior ligament, — ligamentum posticum Win- slowii, is a broad band of ligamentous fibres, passing obliquely across the back part of the knee joint, from the posterior part of the inner head of the tibia to the space between the two condyles of the femur. It is formed chiefly by the ascending slip of the tendon of the semi- membranosus muscle : see page 39. The Internal lateral ligament is a broad diamond- shaped layer of ligamentous fibres, which descends over the inner side of the joint to be inserted into the head of the tibia. It is crossed at its lower part by the tendons of the inner hamstring, and covers in the anterior slip of the semi-membranosus tendon and the inferior internal articular artery. * Some students are in the habit of getting up seventeen ligaments for the knee-joint, in which number they include the ten true liga- ments with the three false above noticed, the two interarticular fibro- cartilages ! the synovial membrane ! ! with a posterior transverse ligament that has no existence. We would advise them not to abuse either their own judgment or that of their examiners any longer by such downright nonsense.