SEMILUNAR GANGLIA. — SYMPATHETICS. 367 The pancreas and duodenum may now be removed, and the nerves and vessels dissected which lie on the lumbar vertebrae. Near to the coeliac axis on either side and piercing the crus of the diaphragm is a large nerve, the greater splanchnic which enters an irregular ganglion of a semi- lunar form, situated by the side of the cceliac axis. The Semilunar ganglia send numerous branches of communication from one to the other, so as to form an intricate plexus around the cceliac axis, which is called the solar plexus. From the solar plexus, as from a centre, smaller plexuses are given off, which accompany all the branches of the abdominal aorta, and the aorta itself; hence we have the gastric plexus, hepatic plexus, splenic plexus, superior mesenteric plexus, spermatic plexus, in- ferior mesenteric plexus, renal plexus, aortic plexus, &c. A little external to the greater splanchnic nerve, is the lesser splanchnic, which usually pierces the diaphragm over the ligamentum arcuatum internum, and joins the renal plexus. The Sympathetic nerve, within the abdomen, descends in front of the lumbar vertebrae at each side of the great vessels. It presents four ganglia of a fusiform shape, from which branches are given off to communicate with the spinal nerves and other branches of large size, which pass inwards in front of the great vessels, and unite over the bifurcation of the aorta to form the hypogastric plexus. The branches of the hypogastric plexus are distributed to the viscera in the pelvis, and communicate very freely with those of the sacral plexus. The Abdominal aorta enters the abdomen through the aortic opening of the diaphragm, and descends, lying rather to the left side of the vertebral column, to the fourth lumbar vertebra, where it dividps into the two common iliac arteries. Relations. — It is crossed, in front, by the left renal vein, pancreas, transverse duodenum, and mesentery; and, behind, is in relation with the thoracic duct and receptaculum chyli. On its left side is the left semilunar ganglion and sympathetic nerve ; and, on the right, the vena cava, right semilunar ganglion, and commencement of the vena azygos. r 4*