162 ELEVATORS OF THE OS IIYOIDES. pression on the inner side of the lower jaw, close to the symphisis. The middle tendon is held in connection with the body of the os hyoides by an aponeurotic loop, through which it plays as through a pulley. The Stylo-hyoideus is situated in immediate relation with the posterior belly of the digastricus muscle, by which it is pierced. It arises from the middle of the styloid process, and is inserted into the body of the os hyoides. The digastricus and stjdo-hyoideus must be removed from their connection with the lower jaw and os hyoides, and turned aside to see the next muscle. The Mylo-hyoideus mola, i. e. attached to the molar ridge of the lower jaw) is a broad triangular plane of muscular fibres, forming, with its fellow of the opposite side, the inferior wall or floor of the mouth. It arises from the molar ridge on the lower jaw, and proceeds obliquely’ inwards to be inserted into the raplie of the two muscles and body of the os hyoides. After the mylo-hyoideus has been examined, it should be cut away from its origin and insertion, and completely removed. The view of the next muscles would also be greatly improved by dividing the lower jaw a little to the side of the symphisis, and drawing it outwards or removing it altogether, if the ramus have been already cut across in dissecting the internal pterygoid muscle. The tongue may then be drawn out of the mouth by means of a hook. The Genio-liyoideus (yiveiov, the chin) arises from a small tubercle upon the inner side of the symphisis of the lower jaw, and is inserted into the body of the os hyoides. It is a short prettily formed muscle, very closely con- nected with the border of the following. The Genio-hyo-glossus (y\u<roa, the tongue) is a trian- gular muscle, narrow and pointed at its origin from the lower jaw, broad and fan-shaped at its attachment to the tongue. It arises from a tubercle immediately above that of the genio-hyoideus, and spreads out to be inserted into the whole length of the tongue, from its base to the apex, and into the body of the os hyoides. Actions. — The whole of this group of muscles acts upon the os hyoides, when the lower jaw is closed, and upon the lower jaw when the os hyoides is drawn down- wards, and fixed by the depressors of the os hyoides and f