P 3 V 1*6 Wi u i MUCOUS MEMBRANE. — SACCULUS LARYNGIS. 317 from each other, and stretch the chordae vocales. The crico-arytenoidei laterales draw the arytenoid cartilages from each other, but relax the chordae vocales; and the thyro-arytenoidei increase the width of the glottis, by directly relaxing the chordae vocales. The thyro-epiglottideus acts principally by compressing the glands of the sacculus laryngis and the sac itself: by its attachment to the epiglottis it would act feebly upon that valve. The aryteno-epiglottideus superior serves to keep the mucous membrane of the sides of the opening of the glottis tense, when the larynx is drawn upwards, and the opening closed by the epiglottis. Of the aryteno- epiglottideus, the “ functions appear to be,” writes Mr. Hilton, “ to compress the subjacent glands which open into the pouch ; to diminish the capacity of that cavity, and change its form ; and to approximate the epiglottis and the arytenoid cartilage.’’ Mucous membrane, — The larynx is lined by the mucous membrane, which is continued from the mouth and pharynx, and prolonged onwards through the trachea and bronchi to the bronchial cells. The chordae vocales form two horizontal projections of the mucous membrane, and constitute the lateral boundaries of the glottis, or rima glottidis. Immediately above the horizontal projection of the chorda vocalis, at each side, is a depressed fossa, the ventricle of the larynx. The superior boundary of the ventricle is an arched border of mucous membrane, which is very incorrectly termed the superior chorda vocalis. If the rounded extremity of a probe be introduced into the ventricle of the larynx, and then directed upwards, it will enter a considerable pouch, which has been recently described by Mr. Hilton with great care, as the sacculus laryngis* From the ventricle of the larynx the sacculus * This sac was discovered and described by Mr. Hilton before lie was aware that it had already been pointed out by the older anato- mists. We ourselves made a dissection, which we still possess, of the same sac in an enlarged state during the month of August 1837, without any knowledge either of Mr. Hilton’s labours, or Morgagni’s account. The sac projected considerably above the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, and the extremity had been snipped o(F on one side in the removal of the muscles. The larynx was presented to us ,?r', Ge?.ree IVIoore of Camberwell: he had obtained it from a ci w ic died of bronchial disease; and he conceived that this pecu-