45 SUPERFICIAL ANATOMY. the other. And to expose the tendons on the dorsum of the foot, the longitudinal incision may be carried onwards to the outer side of the base of the great toe, and be terminated by another incision directed across the heads of the metatarsal bones. When the integument of these two regions has been turned aside, a small artery must be sought for near the head of the tibia, which pierces the deep fascia, and turns upwards upon the knee-joint, to inosculate with the arti- cular arteries. This is the recurrent branch of the ante- rior tibial artery. The superficial fascia may now be dissected from off the deep fascia. At the lower third of the leg, this separation must be conducted with care, for two nerves of considerable size will be found piercing the deep fascia near to the fibula, and running downwards in the super- ficial fascia to the dorsum of the foot. These are the peroneal cutaneous nerves (fig. 6. 15.), the cutaneous division of the musculo-cutaneous branch of the peroneal. These branches must be traced with care, following each filament, and separating it from the adhering cellular tissue. They are distributed to all the toes. The ex- ternal, the larger of the two, will be found supplying three toes and a half; the internal, the great toe, and one half the second. If the inner flap of the integument in the leg be dis- sected farther back, so as to expose the inner condyle of the femur and the superficial fascia behind the tibia and internal malleolus, the course of a vein of considerable size will be exposed in its entire length. Below, it will be seen resting on the internal malleolus, and collecting its blood by numerous small branches from the inner side of the dorsum of the foot. This is the commencement of the internal saphenous vein. It next runs upwards along the inner side of the leg, behind the inner condyle of the femur, and may be traced along the inner side of the thigh (fig. 1. 9.) to the saphenous opening. Immediately beneath the inner condyle of the femur, the internal saphenous nerve (fig. 2. 11.), a branch of the anterior crural, will be seen piercing the deep fascia, after having passed between the tendons of the sartorius and gracilis muscles. The nerve descends by the side of the of vein, giving off cutaneous branches in its course, crosses