172 CONTENTS OF THE TRIANGLES. of its area the submaxillary gland in which the facial artery lies embedded, while it conceals from view the commencement of Wharton’s duct, the gustatory nerve, and the submaxillary ganglion. The anterior angle is occupied by the mylo-hyoideus muscle, the submental branch of the facial artery, and the mylo-hyoidean nerve. And in the inferior angle may be observed a small portion of the lingual nerve. 2. The Superior carotid triangle, b., contains the upper portion of the common carotid artery, and its bifurcation into the external and internal carotids; the superior thyroid and the commencement of the lingual and facial arteries ; the internal jugular vein and a chain of lym- phatic glands ; the descendens noni nerve in front of the sheath of the carotid, the pneumogastric within, and the superior laryngeal and sympathetic behind. Crossing the upper angle is the lingual nerve. 3. In the Inferior carotid triangle, c., are found the lower part of the common carotid artery and jugular vein, descendens noni, pneumogastric and sympathetic nerves, and recurrent laryngeal nerve. 4. The Suboccipital triangle, d., contains the sub- occipital nerve at its upper angle, and the spinal accessory nerve and branches of the cervical plexus below. 5. The Subclavian triangle, e., contains the termination of the external jugular vein, the third part of the course of the subclavian artery, and the brachial plexus of nerves, and is crossed by the posterior scapular artery. We would not counsel the student to learn up the contents of these triangles by rote; the notice of their contents is meant chiefly for the dissector, who, in reading each structure, should seek for it in its appropriate place. The names of the regions carry with them the best idea of their principal features, and these the least attentive learner cannot fail of recollecting. The use of a good knowledge of the triangular spaces is its application to the operations for ligature of the arteries of the neck. Operations. — The Facial artery is usually tied while resting on the body of the lower jaw, close to the anterior inferior angle of the masseter muscle. It is here superficial, and may be felt and seen pulsating immediately beneath the integument. It is covered by the integument, superficial fascia, and plalysma. If it were necessary to