PORE-ARM. ARTERIES. 96 The Flexor longus pollicis arises from the upper two thirds of the radius, and part of the interosseous mem- brane. Its tendon passes beneath the annular ligament, to be inserted into the base of the last phalanx of the thumb. If the tendons of the two last muscles be drawn aside or divided, the third muscle of this group will be brought into view, lying across the lower part of the two bones. The Pronator quadratus arises from the ulna, and is inserted into the lower fourth of the oblique line, on the outer side of the radius. This muscle occupies about the lower fourth of the two bones, is broad at its origin, and narrower at its insertion. Actions.—The pronator radii teres and pronator quadratus muscles rotate the radius upon the ulnar, and render the hand prone. The remaining muscles are flexors : —two flexors of the wrist,flexor carpi radialis and ulnaris ; two of the fingers, flexor sublimis and profundus, the former flexing the second phalanx, the latter the last; one flexor of the last phalanx of the thumb, flexor longus pollicis. The palmaris longus is a tensor of the palmar fascia. Arteries of the Fore-arm. The Arteries on the anterior aspect of the fore-arm are the radial, ulnar, and interosseous. The brachial arterj' at the bend of the elbow divides into two branches, the radial and ulnar. Radial Artery. The Radial artery runs along the radial side of the fore-arm, from the bend of the elbow to the wrist: it there turns around the base of the thumb, beneath its extensor tendons, and passes between the two heads of the first dorsal interosseous muscle, into the palm of the hand. It then crosses the metacarpal bones to the ulna side of the hand, forming the deep palmar arch, and terminates by inosculating with the superficial palmar arch. In the upper half of its course, the radial artery is situated between the supinator longus muscle, and pro- nator radii teres, in the lower half between the tendons of the supinator longus and flexor carpi radialis. It rests in