CORNEA. 282 {fig. 29. 2.), derived from the expansion of the tendons of the four recti muscles. By its posterior surface it gives attachment to the two oblique muscles. The tunica albuginea is covered, for a part of its extent, by the mucous membrane of the front of the eye, the conjunc- tiva. And, by reason of the brilliancy of its whiteness, gives occasion to the common expression, “ The white of the eye.” At the entrance of the optic nerve, the sclerotic forms a thin cribriform lamella {fig. 32. 2.) (lamina cribrosa), which is pierced by a number of minute openings for the passage of the nervous filaments. One of these openings, larger than the rest, and situated in the centre of the lamella, is the porus opticus through which the arteria centralis retinae enters the eye. The Cornea {fig. 29. 8., fig. 32. 3.) (corneus, horny) is the transparent projecting layer that forms the anterior fifth of the globe of the eye. In its form it resembles a watch-glass. In structure it consists of five or six thin lamellae, connected to each other by a delicate cellular tissue. It is covered by the conjunctiva in front, and lined by the membrane of the aqueous humour behind. By its edge, which is sharp and thin, it is received within the bevelled border of the sclerotic, to which it is very firmly attached. It is thicker than the anterior portion of the sclerotic. The cornea is not perfectly circular, the transverse diameter being slightly greater than the vertical. This form is particularly evident in animals. The opacity of the cornea, produced by pressure on the globe, results from the infiltration of fluid into the cellular tissue con- necting its layers. This appearance cannot be produced in a sound living eye. The sclerotic and cornea are now to be dissected away from the second tunic; this, with care, may be easily performed, the only con- nections subsisting between them being at the circumference of the iris, the entrance of the optic nerve, and the perforation of the ciliary nerves and arteries. Pinch up a fold of the sclerotic near its anterior circumference, and make a small opening into it, then raise the edge of the tunic, and with a pair of fine scissors, having a probe point, divide the entire circumference of the sclerotic, and cut it away bit by bit. Then separate it from its attachment around the circumference