ARRANGEMENT. 301 The Smaller openings serve for the transmission of the chorda tympani nerve, and three of the muscles of the tympanum. The Oldening (Jig. 34-. 10.) by which the chorda tympani enters the tympanum, is near the root of the pyramid, at about the middle of the posterior wall. The Opening of exit ( Jig. 34-. 9.) of the chorda tympani, is at the fissura Glaseri in the anterior wall of the tym- panum. The Opening for the laxator tympani muscle (Jig. 34.8.) is also situated in the fissura Glaseri, in the anterior xvall of the tympanum. The Opening for the tensor tympani muscle (Jig. 34. 7.) is in the anterior wall, immediately above the opening of the Eustachian tube. The Opening for the stapedius muscle is at the apex of aconical bony eminence, called the pyramid (Jig. 34. 11.), which is situated on the posterior wall of the tympanum, immediately behind the fenestra ovalis. Directly above the fenestra ovalis is a rounded ridge (fg.S^. 2.), formed by the projection of the aqueductus Fallopii. Beneath the fenestra ovalis, and separating it from the fenestra rotunda, is the prcrmontory (Jig. 34. 4.), a rounded projection channelled upon its surface by three small grooves, which lodge the three tympanic branches of Jacobson’s nerve. The Foramina and processes of the tympanum may be arranged into four groups, according to their situation. 1. In the External wall is the meatus auditorius, closed by the membrana tympani. of the section, in its course downwards to the stylo-mastoid foramen. .5. 1 he fenestra ovalis. 4. the promontory. 5. The fenestra rotunda. Anteriorly (6.) is the entrance of the Eustachian tube. 7. The open- ing for the tensor tympani. 8. The opening for the laxator tympani • and (9.) the opening of exit for the chorda tympani nerve. Posteriorly (10.) is the opening of entrance for the chorda tympani; and (11.) the pyramid with the small opening at its apex which gives passage to th,° 8taPe<hu8 muscle. Superiorly is a large opening (12.) leading backwards to the mastoid cells.