333 CONGENITAL HERNIA. become placed exactly opposite the external, and the two together form its neck. In direct hernia, the fascia transversalis with the border of the conjoined tendon are the structures forming the neck of the sac. If oblique and direct hernia existed together, it is obvious from the position of the epigastric artery {Jig- 39. 5.), that that vessel would be placed between the necks of both ; and if either existed separately, the artery would be situated to the inner side of oblique, and to the outer side of direct hernia. In the division of the stricture, therefore the surgeon would make his incision upwards and outwards in oblique and upwards and inwards in direct hernia, to avoid wounding this artery. But as the diagnosis of the exact nature of the hernia is always uncertain, and as the division of the epigastric artery would possibly be fatal, and as moreover obliquity in the direction of the incision is quite unnecessary for the safety of the operation, ex- perience has established the rule, that the incision should he made directly upwards in every case of inguinal hernia ; and if the history of femoral hernia be referred to, it will be seen that a general principle may be established, that in all cases of abdominal hernia, inguinal, femoral, umbilical, or ventral, the incision is invariably to be made directly upivards. There are two varieties of oblique inguinal hernia occa- sionally met with ; these are congenital and encysted. Both result from protrusions, which take the course of the spermatic canal, and they differ from common oblique inguinal, and from each other, only in relation to the tunica vaginalis of the testicle. In the descent of the testicle from the abdomen into the scrotum in the foetus, a sac of peritoneum is carried with it. The form of this sac may be familiarly illus- trated by the simile of a Florence flask. The neck of the pouch from the internal ring to near the testicle, becomes gradually closed and obliterated, and that portion of it which remains and encloses the testicle is the tunica vaginalis. Common oblique hernia (fig. 40.), occurring in this con- dition of the tunica vaginalis, is placed altogether above it, and in a distinct sac or pouch of peritoneum. Congenital hernia (fig. 41.) results from the nonclosure