JVIUSCLES. INTERNAL FEMORAL GROUP. 17 have been collectively named quadriceps extensor, from their similarity of action. They extend the leg upon the thigh, and obtain a great increase of power by their at- tachment to the patella, which acts as a fulcrum. Taking their fixed point from the tibia, they steady the femur upon the leg, and the rectus, by being attached to the pelvis, serves to balance the trunk upon the lower ex- tremity. Internal group.—The origins of the iliacus and psoas muscles being situated within the abdomen, the entire muscles cannot be seen in this dissection ; but as a part of them quit that cavity to be inserted into the femur, that portion necessarily belongs to the anatomy of the thigh. The Iliacus internus is a flat, radiated muscle : it arises from the inner concave surface of the ilium, and, after joining with the tendon of the psoas, is inserted into the trochanter minor of the femur. The Psoas magnus lumbus, a loin,) situated by the side of the vertebral column in the loins, is a long fusiform muscle. It arises from the intervertebral sub- stances, part of the bodies and bases of the transverse processes, and from a series of tendinous arches, thrown across the constricted portion of the last dorsal and four upper lumbar vertebrae. These arches are intended to protect the lumbar arteries and sympathetic filaments of nerves from pressure, in their passage beneath the muscle. The tendon of the psoas magnus unites with that of the iliacus, and the conjoined tendon is inserted into the pos- terior part of the trochanter minor. Two synovial bursae are found in relation with the two last muscles : the first of considerable size is situated be- tween their under surface and the border of the pelvis; the other much smaller is interposed between the con- joined tendon and the anterior part of the trochanter minor. The Pectineus is the flat quadrangular muscle which arises from the pectineal line (pecten, a crest) of the os pubis, and is inserted into the line leading from the tro- chanter minor to the linea aspera. The Adductor longus (adducere, to draw to), the most superficial of the three adductors, arises by a round ten- don from the angle of the os pubis, and, assuming a flat-