230 CHAPTER VI. BRAIN AND SPINAL CORD. To examine the encephalon with its membranes, the upper part of the skull must be removed by sawing through the external table, and breaking the internal table with the chisel and hammer. After the calvarium has been loosened all round, it will require a considerable degree of force to tear the bone away from the dura mater. This adhesion is particularly firm at the sutures, where the dura mater is continuous with a membranous layer interposed between the edges of the bones : in other situations, the connection results from numerous vessels which permeate the inner table of the skull. The adhesion subsisting between the dura mater and bone is greater in the young subject than in the adult. Upon being torn away, the internal table will present the deeply grooved and ramified channels corresponding with the branches of the arteria meningea media. Along the middle line will be seen a groove corresponding with the superior longitudinal sinus, and on either side may be frequently observed some depressed fossas, cor- responding with the Pacchionian bodies. The membranes of the encephalon and spinal cord are the dura mater, arachnoid membrane, and pia mater. The Dura mater* is the firm, bluish, fibrous mem- brane which is exposed on the removal of the calvarium. It lines the interior of the skull and spinal column, and sends processes inwards for the support and protection of the different parts of the brain. It also sends processes externally, which form sheaths for the nerves as they quit the skull and spinal column. Its external surface is rough and fibrous, and corresponds with the internal table of the skull. The internal surface is smooth, and lined by the thin varnish-like lamella of the arachnoid membrane. The latter is a serous membrane. Hence the dura mater becomes a fibro-serous membrane, being composed of its own proper fibrous structure, and the serous layer derived from the arachnoid. There are two other instances of fibro-serous membrane in the body, formed in the same * So named from a supposition that it was the source of all the fibrous membranes of the body.