380 COATS OF THE BLADDER. the bladder by the vasa deferentia, which descend inter- nally to them to the necks of the vesicular seminales at the base of the prostate gland. The Coats of the bladder are three — a partial external coat, derived from the peritoneum, a muscular coat, and an internal lining membrane, or mucous coat. The peri- toneal coat covers the posterior surface and sides of the bladder, from about opposite the point of termination of the two ureters to its summit, whence it is guided to the anterior wall of the abdomen by the umbilical ligaments and urachus. The muscular coat consists of two layers of muscular fasciculi, which are disposed around the bladder in various directions, and cross each other in their course. Those of the external layer are longitudinal; they com- mence upon the upper surface of the prostate, where they are clustered together, and are firmly connected with the anterior ligaments of the bladder. Hence the lower fibres of these ligaments are sometimes called the tendons of the bladder. They then pass upwards upon the anterior surface of the organ, turn around its fundus, and return upon the posterior surface to the base of the prostate gland, where they are inserted into the fibrous tissue of the neck of the bladder. The lateral fibres pass off obliquely upon the sides of the organ, and some form loops of support to the ureters at their entrance between the coats of the bladder. The internal layer is best dis- sected by removing the mucous membrane from the inner surface of the bladder: it may also be demonstrated by dissecting off the longitudinal layer. The internal layer consists of muscular fibres, which are disposed in an oblique, spiral, and transverse direction, and cross each other frequently. They cease almost entirely at the neck of the bladder, and very few transverse fibres can be detected in this situation, so that the term f< sphincter vesicce” is very incorrect. This has been very clearly proved by the investigations of Mr. Guthrie.* The aggregate of the muscular fibres of the bladder is called detrusor urince. The mucous coat is thick and smooth, and in a con- * “ On the Anatomy and Diseases of the Neck of the Bladder and of the Urethra.”