MUSCLES OF THE FACE. 155 ACTIONS. h 6 The internal maxillary artery, as it curves inwards to enter the pterygo-maxillary fossa, is situated between these two heads. This muscle must now be removed, the ramus of the lower jaw sawn through its lower third, and the head of the bone dislocated from its socket, and withdrawn for the purpose of seeing the ptery- goideus internus muscle. The Internal pterygoid muscle arises from the ptery- goid fossa, and descends obliquely backwards to be in- serted into the ramus and angle of the lower jaw: it resembles the masseter very remarkably in its appearance and direction. Actions.—The occipito-frontalis muscle raises the eye-brows, producing the transverse wrinkles of the fore- head. Some persons have the power of moving the entire scalp by means of this muscle. The orbicularis palpebrarum acts as a sphincter in closing the eyelids ; the corrugatores superciliorum approximate the inner ex- tremities of the eyebrows, and throw the integument at the root of the nose into vertical wrinkles, as in frowning. The tensor tarsi, or lachrymal muscle draws the extremities of the lachrymal ducts inwards, so as to place the puncta in the best position for receiving the tears. It serves also to keep the lids in relation with the surface of the eye, and compresses the lachrymal sac. Dr. Horner is acquainted with two persons who have the voluntary power of draw- ing the lids inwards by these muscles, so as to bury the puncta in the angle of the eye. The pyramidalis nasi is merely a point of attachment of the occipito frontalis. It also fixes the expansion of the compressor nasi. The action of the muscles of the upper lip is expressed in their names. The orbicularis oris is the sphincter of the mouth. Ihe levator labii superioris alaeque nasi raises the upper lip, together with the ala of the nose. The depressor labii superioris alaeque nasi is the antagonist to this muscle, and draws the upper lip and ala of the nose downwards. I he levator labii superioris proprius is the proper elevator of the upper lip, and the levator anguli oris lifts the angle of the mouth. The zigomatic muscles draw the angles of the mouth upwards and outwards, as in laughter. Ihe muscles of the lower lip are also designated