128 STRUCTURE OF THE HEART. proper fibres of the auricles form a thin muscular layer over its surface, their extremities being attached to the fibrous rings of the auriculo-ventricular openings. The common fibres are wound transversely around both auricles, and serve to bind them together. The proper fibres of the ventricles are oblique, in their di- rection, and are wound spirally round and round, so as to form two irregular conical cylinders, open at both extremities. The common fibres take their origin from the fibrous rings of the auriculo-ventricular openings, and descend obliquely from the right towards the left, in front, and from the left to the right behind, to the apex of the heart. Here they are reflected inwards, through the opening in the inferior extremity of the cylinder of the proper fibres, and form the inner muscular stratum of the ventricles. They terminate by being inserted, as they arose, into the fibrous rings of the auriculo-ventricular openings. Thus it is, that the common fibres hold both the auricles and ventricles together, the common point of insertion being the zones of the auriculo-ventricular openings. They form, therefore, the superficial layer of the heart, passing from one ventricle across to the other, and by a peculiar turn upon themselves at the apex are reflected inwards through the inferior openings of the conical cylinders, so as to form the internal or deep layer of the ventricles, enclosing be- tween their two layers the cylinders of the proper fibres. Vessels. — The Arteries of the heart are the right and left coronary. The Left or anterior coronary passes forwards, between the pulmonary artery and left appendix auriculae, and runs along the line of union of the two ventricles to the apex of the heart, where it inosculates with the right coronary. It supplies the left auricle and the adjoining sides of both ventricles. The Right or posterior coronary passes forwards, between the root of the pulmonary artery and the right auricle, and winds along the auriculo-ventricular groove, to the posterior median furrow, where it descends upon the pos- terior aspect of the heart to its apex, and inosculates with the left coronary. It is distributed to the right auricle and to the posterior surface of both ventricles. Both coronary arteries arise from the root of the aorta in the sinus aortici, behind the semilunar valves.