86 AXILLA. BOUNDARIES. shoulder upwards and backwards, and is assisted in this action by the levator anguli scapulae, rhomboideus minor, and rhomboideus major. Acting in the opposite direction, they flex the vertebral column towards the shoulder. The lower fibres of the trapezius unite with the latissimus dorsi, in drawing the shoulder and arm downwards and backwards. When the arms are fixed, as by crutches, or seizing the branch of a tree, the latissimi dorsi muscles lift the entire trunk and carry it forwards. The supra-spinatus, infra-spinatus, teres minor, and subscapularis, are the circumductor muscles of the arm ; they regulate the movements of the head of the humerus against the glenoid cavity. The deltoid is the elevator muscle of the arm in a direct line, and, by means of its extensive origin, can carry the arm forwards or backwards so as to range with the hand a considerable segment of a large circle. The arm, raised by the deltoid, is a good illustration of a lever of the third power, so common in the animal machine, by which velocity is gained at the expense of power. In this lever the weight (hand) is at one extremity, the fulcrum (the glenoid cavity) at the opposite end, and the power (the insertion of the muscle) between the two, but nearer to the fulcrum than the weight. The muscles of the anterior brachial region are flexors; the coraco-brachialis flexing the humerus on the scapula, and carrying it inwards. The biceps andbrachialis anticus flex the fore-arm upon the arm. The former possesses also the additional action of supinating the fore-arm, by means of the obliquity of its insertion into the tuberosity of the radius. The triceps is an extensor of the fore- arm ; hence its title, triceps extensor cubiti. AXILLA. The Axilla (arm-pit) is the space between the side of the chest and shoulder. In form it resembles a triangular cone, the apex being above at the clavicle, the base below at the lower borders of the pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi. It is bounded in front by the two pectoral muscles ; behind, by the subscapularis, teres major, and latissimus