OVARIES. 400 FALLOPIAN TUBES. nated uterus it is decidedly muscular, and may be clearly demonstrated. The fibres are then observed to be dis- posed in three layers — an external, consisting of longitu- dinal fibres, a middle, of oblique fibres, some of which pass off upon the Fallopian tubes, and others upon the round ligaments ; and a third layer consists of concentric circles of fibres, having their centre at the commencement of the Fallopian tubes. In the cervix uteri the fibres are cir- cular. Vessels and Nerves.— The Arteries of the uterus are the uterine from the internal iliac, and the spermatic from the aorta. The Veins are very large and remark- able ; in the impregnated uterus they are called sinuses, and consist of canals channelled through the substance of the organ, and are merely lined by the internal membrane of the veins. The Nerves are derived from the hypogastric and spermatic plexuses, and from the sacral plexus. The Appendages of the uterus are enclosed by the lateral duplicatures of peritoneum, called the broad liga- ments. They are the Fallopian tubes and ovaries. The Fallopian * tubes (fig. 47. 7.) are two tubular prolongations which pass off on each side from the upper angles of the uterus. At their commencement (ostium uterinum') they are small, but they gradually increase as they pass outwards, and terminate by expanded fimbriated extremities, 10. (ostium abdominale). One of these fringes, 11., longer than the rest, is attached to the ovary, and serves to guide the tube in its seizure of that organ. The tube is lined by mucous membrane, which is con- tinuous with that of the uterus, and at the fimbriated extremity is in connection with the peritoneum. This is the only instance in the human being of a natural opening existing in a serous membrane. The Ovaries (fig. 47. 12.) are two oblong flattened bodies of a yellowish colour, situated in the posterior folds of the broad ligaments. They are connected to the * Gabriel Fallopius, a nobleman of Modena, was one of the founders of modern anatomy. He was professor at Ferrara, then at Pisa, and afterwards succeeded Vesalius at Padua. His principal observations are collected in a work entitled, “ Observationes Ana- tomicae,” which he published in 1561.