409 DORSALIS PENIS VEIN. The Veins of the perineum require no distinct notice : they maintain the same relation to the arteries that the smaller veins do in other parts. The principal vein of the penis, the great dorsal vein, is remarkable both for its mode of origin and for its size. It commences by a number of veins, which return the blood from the glans penis, and which converge to form a vessel of considerable bulk, which runs in the groove between the dorsal arteries, and receives veins from the corpora cavernosa in its course : it passes between the fibres of the suspensory ligament of the penis, and through- a tendinous arch beneath the symphisis pubis, to the prostate gland, where it communicates with a remarkable plexus of veins, situated around the neck of the bladder. The numerous veins which converge from the glans penis to form the dorsal vein have a peculiar arrange- ment, and form a kind of plexus upon the neck of the penis. In the dog, the dorsal vein is embraced by a muscle of considerable size, while passing beneath the arch of the pubis, the compressor vence dorsalis. This muscle has been described by Mr. Houston, of Dublin, as existing in the human subject. It arises from the ramus of the pubis on each side, and, arching upwards, unites by a thin tendon with its fellow of the opposite side, over the dorsal vein. The two muscles, when in action, would therefore draw down the tendon, and compress the vein against the root of the penis. The dorsal vein of the penis is so large, and its com- s . munications with the pelvic veins so free, that we have i: frequently succeeded in injecting the right side of the !, heart and veins of the neck by placing the injecting-pipe i in the dorsal vein of the penis. The Nerves of the perineum are branches of the in- iit ernal pudic. The Internal pudic nerve is an offset of the sacral Ifcolexus: it passes out of the pelvis with the internal i): )udic artery, and lies by the side of that vessel throughout ■Its course. Its branches correspond with the branches of ■'I he artery, and need no distinct description. The dissector may now remove the muscles and vessels of the t|. erineum, that he may see more clearly the texture and position of T