VISCERA OF THE ABDOMEN. 340 and, secondly, facilitating the movements of the intestines upon each other during their distension. The Transverse meso-colon (/ae<to<;, middle), being at- tached to the middle of the cylinder of the intestine, is the medium of connection between the transverse colon and the posterior wall of the abdomen: it also affords to the nutrient arteries a passage to reach the intestine. It encloses between its layers, at the posterior part, the transverse portion of the duodenum. The Mesentery (gso-ov evtepov, being attached to the middle of the cylinder of the small intestine) is the medium of connection between the small intestines and the posterior wall of the abdomen. It is oblique in its direction, being attached to the posterior wall, from the left side of the second lumbar vertebra to the right iliac fossa. It retains the small intestines in their places, and gives passage to the mesenteric arteries, veins, nerves, and lymphatics. The Meso-rectum, in like manner, retains the rectum in connection with the front of the sacrum. Besides this, there are some minor folds in the pelvis, as the false ligaments of the bladder and broad ligaments of the uterus. The Appendices epiploicce are small irregular pouches of peritoneum, filled with fat, and situated like fringes upon the large intestine. Three other duplicatures of peritoneum are situated in the sides of the abdomen : they are the gastro-splenic omentum, the ascending and descending meso-colon. The Gastro-splenic omentum is the duplicature which connects the spleen to the stomach ; and the ascending and descending meso-cola are the folds which retain the corresponding portions of the colon in their situations, Viscera of the Abdomen. The Viscera of the abdomen are the alimentary canal, the organs subservient to digestion, viz. the liver, pan- creas, and spleen, and the organs of excretion, the kidneys, and their capsules. The Alimentary canal is a musculo-membranous tube, extending from the mouth to the anus. It is variously