PULMONARY PLEXUSES. 136 left lung to the anterior surface of the oesophagus, along which it proceeds to the stomach. Branches. — At their entrance into the chest they both give off cardiac branches {Jig. 19. 14.) to the cardiac plexuses. The left {Jig. 17. 14.), while crossing the arch of the aorta, gives off the left recurrent nerve, which winds around the arch close to the cord of the ductus arteriosus, and ascends by the side of the trachea to be distributed to the larynx. At the roots of the lungs some branches are distributed upon their anterior aspect, forming the anterior pulmonary plexuses, and a larger number behind, constituting by their communications the posterior pulmonary plexuses. {Fig. 19, p.) The pulmonary plexuses, particularly the anterior, are augmented by branches from the great car- diac plexus. The branches of these plexuses are dis- tributed with the bronchial tubes to the bronchial cells. On the oesophagus the nerves divide into a number of branches, which communicate with each other and con- stitute the oesophageal plexus. {Fig. 19. 17.) Near to the pylorus they collect into two principal trunks, which form a kind of nervous collar around the lower end of the oesophagus, from which branches are distributed to the stomach. The left pneumogastric supplies chiefly the an- terior surface of the stomach. The right supplies the posterior surface, and terminates in the solar plexus. The great splanchnic nerves are derived from the dorsal portion of the sympathetic, with which they are described. All these parts contained in the posterior mediastinum are held together by a loose cellular tissue, in which are contained a number of lymphatic glands. The Sympathetic nerve {Jig. 11.14.Jig. 50.) in the chest consists of a chain of ganglia, extending along each side of the vertebral column. The ganglia, twelve in number, rest upon the heads of the ribs, and are covered by the pleura costalis. Each ganglion, considered as a centre, gives off four sets of branches—1. to join the ganglion above; 2. to join the ganglion below; 3. to each of the intercostal nerves; 4. to the viscera of the thorax and abdomen. The latter consist of branches to the cardiac and pul-