381 TRIGONE VESICALE.— UVULA VESIC/E. traded state is thrown into a number of rugae. It lines the interior of the bladder, is continuous, by means of the ureters, with the mucous lining of the kidney and urini- ferous tubuli, and, through the urethra, with the prostatic cceca, seminiferous tubuli, and Cowper's glands. It is but loosely connected with the muscular coat, and is sometimes, as in violent exertion, or in the continued efforts arising from the irritation of stone, or old stricture, forced between its fibres, and made to form a protrusion externally to the bladder. This is encysted bladder, and several of these cysts* may exist in the same individual. Sometimes they contain calculi; and, when a stone has escaped into one of these sacs, it ceases to be a source of irritation to the patient. The Submucous tissue is moderately thick throughout the whole of the bladder ; but around the openings of the ureters, at the trigone vesicale, and around the neck of the bladder and urethra, it becomes still thicker, more dense, and “ elastic, and is continuous with the elastic membrane of the urethra.” Mr. Guthrie considers it as a “ superadded structure,” which, by becoming thickened in chronic disease of the bladder, gives rise to the form- ation of a “ bar or dam,” quite independent of any en- largement of the prostate gland, and forms a considerable, and even fatal obstruction to the passage of the urine. Upon the inner wall of the base of the bladder, is a tri- angular smooth surface called “ trigone vesicale,” which is the most sensitive part of the whole organ, so that when rough calculi become placed against it, they give rise to extreme pain. The apex of the angle is situated at the commencement of the urethra, and corresponds with the projection of mucous membrane called uvula vesicce ; the posterior angles are formed by the openings of the ureters. The sides are bounded by two elevated ridges of mucous membrane, produced by two muscular bands, which pass from the extremities of the ureters to the commencement of the urethra; these are the muscles of the ureters ; they consist partly of muscular and partly of elastic tissue. * Our respected teacher, Mr. Abernethy, used to show a beautiful specimen of this disease in his lectures; it is still preserved in the Museum of St. Bartholomew’s Hospital : there are several fine speci- mens ol it in the Museum of the College of Surgeons.