39 MUSCLES AND ARTERIES. The Semi-tendinosus, remarkable for its long tendon, arises in common with the long head of the biceps from the tuberosity of the ischium. It is inserted into the inner tuberosity of the tibia. These two muscles must be dissected from the tu- berosity of the ischium to bring into view the origin of the next. The Semimembranosus, remarkable for the tendinous expansion upon its anterior and posterior surfaces, arises from the tuberosity of the ischium, in front of the com- mon origin of the two preceding muscles. It is inserted into the posterior part of the head of the tibia; at its insertion, the tendon splits into three portions, one of which is inserted in a groove on the inner side of the head of the tibia, beneath the internal lateral ligament. The second is continuous, with an aponeurotic expansion that binds down the popliteus muscle: the popliteal fascia; and the third turns upwards and outwards to the external condyle of the femur, forming the posterior ligament of the knee-joint (ligamentum posticum Winslowii). The tendons of the two last muscles, viz., the semi- tendinosus and semi-membranosus, with those of the gracilis and sartorius, form the inner hamstring. If the semi-membranosus muscle be turned down from its origin, the student will bring into view the broad and radiated expanse of the adductor magnus, upon which the three flexor muscles above described rest. Actions. — These three hamstring muscles are the direct flexors of the leg upon the thigh ; and, by taking their origin from below, they balance the pelvis on the lower extremities. Arteries of the Posterior Femoral Region. The Arteries of this region are the terminal branches of the external and internal circumflex, the three perforating, the termination of the profunda femoris and the popliteal. The branches of the external circumflex are seen pierc- ing the upper part of the vastus externus, to inosculate with the internal circumflex, ischiatic, and superior per- forating arteries. Ihe internal circumflex makes its ap- pearance between the upper border of the adductor