FEMORAL ARTERY. 19 The Gracilis (slender) is situated along the inner bor- der of the thigh : it arises by a broad, but very thin, ten- don, from the edge of the ramus of the pubis and ischium, and is inserted by a rounded tendon into the inner tuber- osity of the tibia, beneath the expansion of the sartorius. Actions. — The iliacus, psoas, pectineus, and adductor longus muscles bend the thigh upon the pelvis, and, at the same time, from the obliquity of their insertion into the lesser trochanter and linea aspera, rotate the entire limb outwards : the pectineus and adductors adduct the thigh powerfully ; and, from the manner of their insertion into the linea aspera, they assist in rotating the limb out- wards : the gracilis is likewise an adductor of the thigh, but contributes also to the flexion of the leg, by its at- tachment to the inner tuberosity of the tibia. Vessels of the Thigh. The arteries of the anterior aspect of the thigh are next to be examined: they are best dissected by following the branches through their ramifications from the main trunk. The scalpel may be carried along the side of their cylinder without danger of dividing their coats; but if it be turned in the opposite direction, they must inevitably be cut across. They are easily separated from the cellular tissue and adipose substance, and from the smaller veins which surround them. All the veins, excepting the main trunks, had better be removed at once, otherwise their intricacy and bleeding will greatly interfere with the student’s progress, and confuse his dissection. Femoral Artery. The arteries situated on the anterior aspect of the thigh are the femoral and its branches: they may be thus arranged: — Femoral artery. Branches. Superficial circumflex ilii. epigastric. external pudic. Deep external pudic. {External circumflex. Internal circumflex. Three perforating. Muscular. Anastomotica magna. The femoral artery and vein are inclosed in a sheath of condensed cellular substance. The sheath is broad and