78 BEND OF THE ELBOW. VEINS. of the three, and extends as far as the elbow ; it is some- times called the nerve of Wrisberg, * * 16. The External cutaneous nerve, 14., pierces the deep fascia just above the bend of the elbow, where it emerges from beneath the tendon of the biceps. It passes behind the median cephalic vein, and divides into several bran- ches, which supply the integument on the outer side of the fore-arm as far as the hand, communicating with the internal cutaneous. The Spiral cutaneous nerve, 17., is a branch of the mus- culo-spiral: it pierces the deep fascia immediately below the insertion of the deltoid muscle, and runs down the outer side of the fore-arm, to the integument of which it is distributed. Two veins return the blood from the inner side of the hand and fore-arm, the anterior, 3., and posterior ulnar, 4., veins; the latter commences by the vein of the little finger, vena salvatella. They ascend the ulna border of the fore-arm, one on the anterior surface, the other on the posterior, and near to the elbow unite to form a common ulnar vein, 5. At the bend of the elbow, the common ulnar vein is joined by the median basilic, and the common trunk is called the basilic vein. The Basilic vein, 6. ((3a<riXiKo<;, royal, or principal,) runs for a short distance along the inner side of the upper arm, then pierces the fascia, and continues upwards in front of the brachial artery to the axilla, where it becomes the axillary, and afterwards the subclavian vein. vein. 6. The basilic vein. 7. The point at which the basilic vein pierces the fascia. 8, The median vein. 9. The communication between the deep veins of the fore-arm and the median. 10. The median cephalic vein. 11. The median basilic vein. 12. A slight convexity of the deep fascia, formed by the brachial artery. 13. The slip of fascia derived from the tendon of the biceps, which separates the median basilic vein from the brachial artery. 14. The external cutaneous nerve, piercing the fascia and dividing into two branches, which pass behind the median cephalic vein. 15. The internal cu- taneous nerve dividing into branches, which pass in front of the median basilic vein. 16. The nerve of Wrisberg. 17. The spiral cutaneous nerve, a branch of the musculo-spiral nerve. * Henry Augustus Wrisberg was professor of anatomy at Got- tingen. He published several excellent treatises upon practical subjects, and upon the fifth and sympathetic nerves, between the years 1780 and 1800.