284 CILIARY LIGAMENT. connected to the sclerotic externally by an extremely fine cellular tissue, and by the passage of nerves and vessels. Internally it is in simple contact with the third tunic of the eye, the retina. It is pierced posteriorly for the passage of the optic nerve, and is connected ante- riorly with the iris, ciliary processes, and junction of the cornea and sclerotic, by a dense white structure, the ciliary ligament, which surrounds the circumference of the iris like a ring. The choroid membrane is composed of three layers, — 1. an external venous, which consists principally of veins arranged in a peculiar manner : hence they have been named vence vorticosce. The marking upon the surface of the membrane produced by these veins resembles so many centres, to which a number of curved lines con- verge. It is this layer which is connected with the ciliary ligament. 2. The middle, or arterial layer (tunica Ruy- schiana *) is formed principally of the ramifications of minute arteries, and secretes upon its surface the pig- mentum nigrum. It is reflected inwards at its junction with the ciliary ligament, so as to form the ciliary pro- cesses. 3. The internal layer is a delicate membrane (membrana pigmenti) which retains the pigmentum nigrum in its place. This membrane presents a beautiful appear- ance beneath the microscope, being composed of regular hexagonal plates, and resembling a tessellated pavement. In animals the pigmentum nigrum is replaced by a layer of metallic brilliancy, called the tapetum. The Ciliary ligament, or circle {Jig- 30. 4., Jig. 32. 5.), is the bond of union between the external and middle tunics of the eye, and serves to connect the cornea and sclerotic with the iris and external layer of the choroid. It is also the point to which the ciliary nerves and vessels proceed previously to their distribution, and it receives the anterior ciliary arteries through the anterior margin of the sclerotic. A minute vascular canal is situated within * Ruvsch was born at the Hague in 1638, and was appointed pro- fessor of Anatomy at Amsterdam in 1665. His whole life was em- ployed in making injected preparations, for which he is justly cele- brated. He came to the conclusion that the body was entirely made up of vessels. He died at the advanced age of 93 years.