251 THIRD VENTRICLE. m 6 from the ventricles, and terminate posteriorly in the straight sinus. Upon the under surface of the velum interpositum, are two fringe-like bodies which project into the third ven- tricle. These are the choroid plexuses of the third ven- tricle. If the velum interpositum be raised and turned back, an operation which must be conducted with care, particularly at its posterior part, where it invests the pineal gland, the thalami optici and the cavity of the third ventricle will be exposed. The Thalami optici (Jig. 24. 9.9.) are two rounded oblong bodies of a white colour superficially, inserted between the two diverging portions of the corpora striata. In the middle line a fissure exists between them, which is called the third ventricle. Posteriorly and inferiorly, they form the superior wall of the descending cornu, and present two rounded elevations called corpus geniculatum externum and internum. The corpus geniculatum externum is the larger of the two, and of a greyish colour ; it is the principal origin of the optic nerve. Inferiorly, the thalami are connected with the corpora albicantia by means of two white bands, which appear to originate in the white substance uniting the thalami to the corpora striata. In their interior the thalami are composed of white fibres mixed with grey substance. They are essentially the inferior ganglia of the hemispheres. The Third ventricle (Jig. 24. 10. Jig. 25. 11. ll.) is the fissure between the thalami optici and corpora striata. It is bounded above by the under surface of the velum inter- positum, from which are suspended the choroid plexuses of the third ventricle. Its Floor is formed by the anterior termination of the corpus callosum, the tuber cinereum, corpora albicantia, and locus perforatus. Its sides are formed by the thalami optici and part of the corpora striata. Anteriorly, it is bounded by the anterior commissure and cruia of the fornix, and posteriorly by the posterior commissure and aqueduct of Sylvius. I lie third ventricle is crossed by three commissures, the aiuerior, middle, and posterior; and between these