SUPERIOR MESENTERIC ARTERY. 348 peritoneal layer from the middle line, opposite the third lumbar ver- tebra, and he will expose the superior mesenteric artery, and by its side the superior mesenteric vein. The branches of the artery should be carefully cleared of fat and cellular tissue. In the progress of the dissection the nervous filaments, lacteals, and lymphatic glands will be exposed. The Superior mesenteric artery is the second single vessel given off by the abdominal aorta : it arises from that trunk behind the pancreas, passes forwards between it and the transverse duodenum, and descends within the layers of the mesentery to the right iliac fossa. It forms a slight curve in its course, the convexity being directed to the left, and the concavity to the right. Branches From the convexity are given off from fifteen to twenty branches to the small intestine, which supply the canal, from the commencement of the jejunum to the termination of the ileum; and from the concavity are derived the ilio-colica, colica dextra, and colica media. They may be better studied in a tabular form :— thus, Vasa intestini tenuis, 15 to 20. Ilio-colica, Colica dextra, Colica media. The branches of the mesenteric arteries have a peculiar distribution : they form in the first instance a succession of arches, by the communication of their larger branches. From these are developed secondary arches, and from the latter a third series of arches from which the branches arise, which are to be distributed to the coats of the intestine. By means of these arches a direct communica- tion is established throughout the entire length of the alimentary canal, from the stomach to the rectum. The branches to the small intestines communicate with the pancreatico-duodenalis, a branch of the hepatic, above, and with the ilio-colic below. The Ilio-colic is given off from about the middle of the trunk of the superior mesenteric; it divides into branches, which are distributed to the lower end of the ileum and the commencement of the colon, and inosculates on the