MEMBRANA PUPILLARIS. 439 U 4 of their circulating current, become reduced to fibrous cords, the former forming the round ligament of the liver, and the latter a fibrous band which may be traced along the fissure for the ductus venosus to the inferior cava. Nervous system. — The brain is very soft, almost pulpy, and has a reddish tint throughout: the difference between the white and grey substance is not well marked. The nerves are firm and well developed. Organs of sense. — Eye. — The eyeballs are of large size and well developed at birth. The pupil is closed by a vascular membrane called the membranapupillaris, which disappears at about the seventh month. Sometimes it remains permanently, and produces blindness. It con- sists of two thin membranous layers, between which the ciliary arteries are prolonged from the edge of the iris, and form arches by returning to it again, without anastomos- ing with those of the opposite side. Ear. — The ear is remarkable for its early develop- ment: the labyrinth and ossicula auditus are ossified at an early period, and the latter are completely formed be- fore birth. The only parts remaining incomplete are the mastoid cells, and the meatus auditorius. The membrana tympani in the fcetal head is very oblique, occupying almost the basilar surface of the skull; hence probably arises a deficient acuteness in the perception of sound. It is also extremely vascular. Nose. — The sense of smell is very imperfect in the infant, as may be inferred from the small capacity of the nasal fossae, and the non-development of the ethmoid, sphenoid, frontal, and maxillary sinuses. The Thyroid gland is of large size in the foetus, and | is developed by two lateral halves, which approach and become connected at the middle line so as to form a single cgland. It is doubtful whether it performs any especial function in foetal life. Viscera of the thorax. — The Thymus gland * con- sists “ of a thoracic and a cervical portion on each side. * In the description of this gland we have adhered closely to the his- | ory of it given by the great authority on this subject, Sir Astley ' Cooper, in his beautiful monograph “ On the Anatomy of the Thymus LGland,” 1832.