DURA MATER. 231 I way — the pericardium and tunica albuginea of the tes- ticle. On either side of the dura mater, the branches of the middle meningeal artery may be seen ramifying; and in the middle line is a depressed groove, formed by the subsidence of the upper wall of the superior longitudinal sinus. If the sinus be opened along its course, it will be found to be a triangular channel, crossed at its lower angle by numerous white bands, called chordae Willisii * ; granular bodies are also occasionally seen in its interior: these are glandulse Pacchioni. The Glandulcc Pacchioni -f- are small, round, whitish granulations, disposed in clusters. They are found in three situations : — 1. On the dura mater, to either side of the superior longitudinal sinus, where they often pro- duce considerable indentations in the inner wall of the skull; 2. In the superior longitudinal sinus ; 3. On the under surface of the dura mater, by the side of the sinus, connecting that membrane to the arachnoid and pia mater. If the student cut through one side of the dura mater, and turn it upwards towards the middle line, he will observe the smooth internal surface of the dura mater. He will perceive also the large cerebral veins filled with dark blood, passing from behind forwards to open into the superior longitudinal sinus, and the firm connections by means of these veins and the Pacchionian bodies between the dura mater and the pia mater. If he separate these with his scalpel, he will see a vertical layer of dura mater descending between the hemi- spheres, and if he draw one side of the brain a little outwards, he will distinctly perceive its extent: this is the falx cerebri. The processes of dura mater which are sent inwards towards the interior of the skull, are the falx cerebri, tentorium cerebelli, and falx cerebelli. The Falx cerebri (falx, a sickle), so named from its sickle-like appearance, narrow in front, broad behind, and * Willis lived in the seventeenth century : he was a great defender of the opinions of Harvey. t These bodies have no analogy whatsoever with glands. Their nature and use are but imperfectly known. They are not found in infancy. They were described as conglobate glands by Pacchioni, in an epistolary dissertation, “ De Glandulis Conglobatis Durae Me* ningis indeque ortis Lymphaticis ad Piam Matrem productis,” published in Rome, in 1705.