34-6 MUSCULAR COAT. — SEROUS COAT. Muscular coat.—The muscular coat of the pharynx consists of five pairs of muscles, which are described at page 224. The muscular coat of the rest of the alimentary canal is composed of two planes of fibres, an external, longitu- dinal and an internal, circular. The (Esophagus is very muscular; its longitudinal fibres are continuous above with the pharynx, and are attached in front to the ridge on the cricoid cartilage. Below, both sets of fibres are continued upon the stomach. On the Stomach there is a distortion of the longitudinal fibres in consequence of the expansion of its great end, which gives rise to a new order of muscular fibres, the oblique. The longitudinal are most apparent along the lesser curve, the oblique at the great end of the stomach, and the circular at the lesser end. At the pylorus the circular fibres produce a constriction, which, with a spiral fold of mucous membrane, forms the pgloric valve. The Small intestine is provided with both layers, equally distributed over the whole surface. At the ter- mination of the ileum the circular fibres are continued into the two folds of the ilio-ccecal valve, while the lon- gitudinal fibres pass onwards to the large intestine. In the Ccecum and colon these longitudinal fibres are collected into three bands, which, being shorter than the intestine, give it the puckered and sacculated appearance which is characteristic of the large intestine. The cir- cular fibres are very thin. In the Rectum the three longitudinal bands spread out and form a thick and very muscular, longitudinal layer. There are no circular fibres : they appear to have slipped downwards to the lower end of the intestine, and to have formed there a thick muscular ring, the internal sphincter ani. Serous coat—The pharynx and oesophagus have no other external covering than a layer of condensed cellular tissue. The alimentary canal within the abdomen has a serous layer, derived from the peritoneum. The Stomach is completely surrounded by the perito-