GUSTATORY NERVE. 220 moved, and the nerves, as they lie upon the internal pterygoid, cleared of fat and cellular tissue. The Internal division (Jiff. 22. 19.) of the inferior max- illary nerve divides into three large branches : — Gustatory, Inferior dental, Auricular. The Gustatory nerve (Jig. 22. 20.) descends between the two pterygoid muscles to the side of the tongue, where it becomes flattened, and divides into numerous filaments, which are distributed to the papillae and mucous membrane. Relations. — It lies at first between the two pterygoid muscles, next between the internal pterygoid and ramus of the jaw, then between the stylo-glossus muscle and submaxillary gland; lastly, it runs along the side of the tongue, resting upon the hyo-glossus muscle, and covered in by the mylo-hyoideus and mucous membrane. Branches. — While between the pterygoid muscles, it receives the chorda tympani, which joins it at an acute angle. At the submaxillary gland, the chorda tympani, 21., quits the nerve to enter the submaxillary ganglion. While resting on the hyo-glossus muscle, it sends fila- ments of communication (Jiff- 15. *) to the lingual nerve, which is also situated upon this muscle. The Inferior dental nerve (Jig- 22. 22.) arises from the inferior maxillary by two nervous cords, between which passes the arteria meningea media. It descends to the dental foramen with the inferior dental artery, between the internal lateral ligament and the ramus of the lower jaw. It thens runs along the canal in the inferior maxil- lary bone, distributing branches to the teeth, and emerges upon the chin at the mental foramen, where it commu- nicates with branches of the facial nerve, and is distri- buted to the integument. It gives oft' but one branch, the mylo-hyoidean, 23., which leaves the nerve just as it is about to enter the dental foramen. This branch pierces the insertion of the internal lateral ligament, and descends along a groove in the bone to the external surface of the mylo-hyoid muscle, to which it is distributed.