MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN. 3 23 P C frequent, in consequence of success, is also practised in the linea alba. Moreover, a weakening of the linea alba, from over- distension, or congenital deficiency, gives rise to the pro- trusion of intestine at the umbilicus, called umbilical hernia. Deficiencies of development also occur in this line, in which some of the abdominal viscera are exposed; the most frequent instance of this arrest is in the case where the mucous membrane of the bladder is protruded through the integument. The External oblique muscle {obliquus externus abdo- minis descendens) is the external flat muscle of the ab^ domen. Its name is derived from the obliquity of its direction, and the descending course of its fibres. It arises by fleshy digitations from the external surface of the eight inferior ribs. The five upper digitations being received between corresponding processes of the serratus magnus, and the three lower of the latissimus dorsi, it spreads out into a broad aponeurosis, which is inserted into the outer lip of the crest of the ilium for one half its length, the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, spine of the pubis, pectineal line, front of the pubis, and linea alba. The lower border of the aponeurosis, which is stretched between the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium {Jig. 2>7.3.) and the spine of the pubis, 4., is folded inwards, forming Poupart's ligament, 2. The insertion into the pectineal line is Gimbernat's ligament. * Just above the crest of the pubis is the External abdo- minal ring {Jig. 37.5.), a triangular opening formed by the separation of the fibres of the aponeurosis of the ex- ternal oblique. It is oblique in its direction, and corre- sponds with the course of the fibres of the aponeurosis. It is bounded below by the crest of the pubis; on either * Antonio de Gimbernat, was surgeon to the King of Spain ; lie published an excellent essay on femoral hernia in 1793, in which he pointed out the relations of this portion of the tendon of the ex- °hh<jue to the neck of the sac. Ilis work is entitled “ Nuevo Metodo de Operar en la Hernia Crural.”