SHEATH OF THE RECTUS. 328 The muscular branch of the circumflex ilii artery will be seen near to the crest of the ilium, ramifying upon the transversalis. Some muscular and cutaneous branches of the lumbar nerves will also be seen perforating its fibres. To dissect the rectus muscle, the sheath should be opened by a ver- tical incision extending from over the cartilages of the lower ribs to the front of the pubis. The sheath may then be dissected off and turned to either side: this is easily done excepting at the lines trans- versae, where a close adhesion subsists between the muscle and the external boundary of the sheath. The sheath contains the rectus and pyramidalis muscles. The Rectus muscle arises by a flattened tendon from the crest of the pubis, and is inserted into the cartilages of the fifth, sixth, and seventh ribs. It is traversed by several tendinous ziz-zag lines, called lineas transversae. One of these is situated at the umbilicus, two above that point, and one below. They are vestiges of the abdo- minal ribs of reptiles, and very rarely extend completely through the muscle. The Pyramidalis muscle arises from the crest of the pubis in front of the tendon of the rectus, and is inserted into the linea alba at about midway between the um- bilicus and the pubis. The rectus may now be divided across the middle, and the two ends drawn aside for the purpose ot examining the mode of formation of its sheath. The Sheath of the rectus is formed in front for the upper three fourths of its extent, by the aponeurosis of the external oblique and the anterior lamella of the in- ternal oblique, and behind by the posterior lamella of the internal oblique and the aponeurosis of the transversalis. At the commencement of the lower fourth, the posterior wall of the sheath terminates in a thin curved margin, the aponeuroses of the three muscles passing altogether in front of the rectus. The quadratus lumborum must be left until the viscera of the abdomen have been examined. Actions. — The external oblique muscle, acting singly, would draw the thorax towards the pelvis, and twist the body to the opposite side. Both muscles, act- ing together, would flex the thorax directly on the pelvis.