PERITONEUM. 336 chondriac (two — xovbpoi, under the cartilages). The mid- dle region of the middle zone is the Umbilical; the two lateral, the Lumbar. The middle region of the inferior zone is the Hypogastric (viro— yaa-T-qp, below the stomach) ; and the two lateral, the Iliac. In addition to these divisions, we constantly use the term Inguinal region, meaning thereby the vicinity of Poupart’s ligament. Position of the viscera. — In the upper zone will be seen the liver extending across from the right to the left side; the stomach and spleen on the left, and the pancreas and duodenum behind. In the middle zone is the transverse portion of the colon, with the upper part of the ascending and descending colon, omentum, small intestine-, mesentery; and, behind, the kidneys and their capsules. In the in- ferior zone is the lower part of the omentum and small intestines, the ccecum, ascending and descending colon, with the sigmoid flexure and ureters. The smooth and polished surface, which the viscera and parietes of the abdomen present, is due to the peri- toneum which may now be studied. Peritoneum. The Peritoneum is a serous membrane, and, therefore, a shut sac : a single exception alone exists in the human subject to this character, viz. in the female, where the peritoneum is perforated by the open extremities of the Fallopian tubes. The simplest idea that can be given of a serous mem- brane, which applies equally to all, is, that it invests the viscus or viscera, and is then reflected upon the parietes of the containing cavity. If the cavity contain only a single viscus, the consideration of the serous membrane is extremely simple. But in the abdomen, where there are a number of viscera, the serous membrane passes from one to the other until it has invested the whole before it is reflected on the parietes. Hence its reflections are a little more confused. In tracing the reflections of the peritoneum in the middle line, we commence with the diaphragm, which is lined by two layers, one from the parietes in front, anterior,