DIVERGING FIBRES. 260 and they also quit that body greatly increased in number and bulk. Precisely the same change takes place in the corpus striatum, and the fibres are now so extraordinarily multiplied as to be capable of forming a large proportion of the hemispheres, viz. the whole of the lower part of the anterior and middle lobes. From observing this remarkable increase in the white fibres apparently from the admixture of grey substance, Gall and Spurzheim considered the latter as the material of increase or formative substance to the white fibres, and they are borne out in this conclusion by several collateral facts, among the most prominent of which is the great vascularity of the grey substance; and the larger pro- portion of the nutrient fluid circulating through it is fully capable of effecting the increased growth and nutrition of the structures by which it is surrounded. For a like reason the bodies in which this grey substance occurs, are called by the same physiologists “ ganglia of increase,” and by other authors simply ganglia. Thus the thalami optici and corpora striata are the ganglia of the cerebrum, or in other words the formative ganglia of the hemi- spheres. Mr. Solly, in a recent work upon “ the human brain,” has designated the diverging fibres of the corpus pyra- midale that pursue the course above described, “ the cerebral fibres ; ” to distinguish them from another set of fibres discovered by that gentleman, which also proceed from the corpus pyramidale, and pass outwards beneath the corpus olivare to the cerebellum. These he names the “ arciformfibres,” and divides them into two layers, the superficial cerebellar, and deep cerebellar fibres. They join the corpus restiforme, forming one fourth of its whole diameter, and spread out in the structure of the cerebellum. The Corpora olivaria owe their convex olive-shaped form to a “ ganglion of increase ” ("the anterior ganglia of the medulla oblongata of Solly) placed in their interior. The white fibres which surround this ganglion form a fasciculus that is continued into the pons Varolii along with the corpora pyramidalia. Here its fibres are mixed with grey matter, and pass into the crus cerebri, forming its superior and inner segment. From the crus cerebri they