152 MUSCLES. INFERIOR LABIAL GROUP. forming a thick muscular plane. Its fibres are continuous all the way round, hence it has neither origin nor inser- tion. The Levator labii superioris alceque nasi arises from the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone, and, becom- ing broader as it descends, is inserted into the ala of the nose and upper lip. The Levator labii superioris proprius arises from the lower border of the orbit, and is inserted into the side of the upper lip. The Levator anguli oris arises from the canine fossa on the superior maxillary bone, and is inserted into the angle of the mouth. The Zigomatic muscles both arise from the malar bone, and are inserted into the angle of the mouth. The zigo- maticus minor is sometimes wanting. The Depressor labii superioris alceque nasi is seen by drawing upwards the upper lip, and raising the mucous membrane. It is an extremely small slip of muscle, situated on each side of the frsenum. It arises from the incisive fossa, and passes upwards to be inserted into the upper lip and ala of the nose. 5. Inferior Labial Group. Depressor labii inferioris, Depressor anguli oris, Levator labii inferioris. To dissect the inferior labial region continue the vertical section from the margin of the lower lip to the point of the chin. Then carry an incision along the margin of the lower jaw to its angle, and thence up the border of the ramus to the external ear. Dissect off the integument and superficial fascia from the whole of this surface, and the muscles of the inferior labial region will be exposed. The Depressor labii inferioris arises from the surface of the lower jaw-bone, near to the symphisis, and is inserted into the lower lip. The Depressor anguli oris is a triangular plane of muscle arising by its base from the side of the body of the inferior maxilla, and inserted into the angle of the mouth. The Levator labii inferioris (levator menti) arises from the incisive fossa on the inferior maxillary bone, and is inserted into the integument of the chin.