SPHENOPALATINE GANGLION. 420 quet’s), is a small lengthened body, situated in the naso- palatine canal. There is no difficulty in finding it in that situation, but it is still a question whether it be actually a ganglion. Arnold refuses to admit it in his plates of the cranial nerves, and denies its existence ; Cruveilhier agrees with him in opinion. But Mr. Charles Guthrie, prosector in King’s College, London, has recently satisfied himself of its existence, and of its ganglionic nature. Its Branches of distribution are two or three small filaments to the anterior part of the palate ; anterior pala- tine nerves. Its Branches of communication are two long delicate filaments, 13., which ascend upon the septum narium, be- neath the mucous membrane, and pass across the posterior part of the roof of the nares, and through the spheno- palatine foramina, to terminate in the spheno-palatine ganglion at each side. 4. The Spheno-palatine ganglion {figAS.9.~) (Mec- kel’s) occupies the pterygo-palatine fossa, and is of con- siderable size. Its branches are divisible into four groups : ascending ; descending ; anterior or internal; and posterior. The Branches of distribution are, the internal or nasal, 12., four or five in number, which enter the nose through the spheno-palatine foramen, and supply the mucous mem- brane on the outer wall of the nares ; and the descending or posterior palatine, 11., branches, three in number, which pass downwards through the posterior palatine canal, and are distributed to the mucous membrane of the nose and antrum maxillare, to the velum palati, and to the palate. The Branches of communication are the ascending * 10., two small branches which pass upwards to join the su- perior maxillary nerve ; and the posterior branch, or Vidian nerve. The Vidian f nerve {fig. 48. 14.) passes directly back- wards from the spheno-palatine ganglion, through the * Arnold figures, in his beautiful plates of the cranial nerves, two small ascending filaments which enter the orbit and join the optic nerve. f Guido-Guidi, latinised into Vidus-Vidius, was Professor of anatomy and medicine in the College of France in 1542. His work is posthumous, and was published in 1611.