MUSCLES. SUPERFICIAL GROUP. 55 d 4 fascia be turned aside, the three muscles forming the superficial group of this region will be brought into view — Gastrocnemius, Plantaris, Soleus. The Gastrocnemius (yaarpoKVfj^iov, the bellied part of the leg) arises by two heads from the two condyles of the femur, the inner head being the longest. They unite to form the beautiful muscle so characteristic of this region of the limb. It is inserted, by means of the tendo Achillis, into the lower part of the tuberosity of the os calcis, a synovial bursa being placed between the tendon and the upper part of the tuberosity. The gastrocnemius must be removed from its origin, and turned down, in order to expose the next muscle. The Plantaris (planta, the sole of the foot), an ex- tremely diminutive muscle, situated between the gastro- cnemius and soleus, arises from the outer condyle of the femur, and is inserted, by its long and delicately slender tendon, into the tuberosity of the os calcis, by the side of the tendo Achillis. The Soleus (solea, a sole) is the broad muscle upon which the plantaris rests. It arises from the head and upper third of the fibula, from the oblique line, and middle third of the tibia. Its fibres converge to the tendo Achillis, by which it is inserted into the tuberosity of the os calcis. Between the fibular and tibial origins of this muscle is a tendinous arch, beneath which the popliteal vessels and nerve pass into the leg. The soleus muscle must now be divided along its extensive origin, and turned down. Actions. — The three muscles of the calf draw power- fully on the os calcis, and lift the heel; continuing their action, they raise the entire body. This action is attained by means of a lever of the second power, the fulcrum (the toes) being at one end, the weight (the body sup- ported on the tibia) in the middle, and the power (these muscles) at the other extremity. They are therefore the walking muscles, and perform all movements that require the support of the whole body