INFERIOR MESENTERIC ARTERY. 349 one hand with the termination of the superior mesenteric artery, and on the other with the colica dextra. The Colica dextra arises from the superior mesenteric, a little above its middle ; it is distributed to the ascending colon, and inosculates with the ilio-colic and colica media. The Colica media arises from the upper part of the superior mesenteric, and passes forwards between the layers of the transverse mesocolon, to be distributed to the transverse colon. It inosculates on the right with the colica dextra, and on the left with the colica sinistra, a branch of the inferior mesenteric. Each branch of the superior mesenteric artery is accompanied by a vein, which is returning the blood from the intestines. The union of these veins forms a large trunk, the superior mesenteric vein, which is situated to the right of the artery, and passes behind the pancreas to unite with the inferior mesenteric, splenic, and gastric veins, and thus form the vena portce. The Lacteals are almost too minute to be seen in an ordinary dissection; but they may often be detected as a number of minute opaque lines, converging to the mesen- teric glands. They terminate in the receptaculum chyli. The Mesenteric glands are lymphatic glands in struc- ture and function ; they are most numerous near the attached border of the root of the mesentery. The Superior mesenteric plexus accompanies the branches of the artery, and is distributed to the coats of the intestine ; it is derived from the solar plexus. Dissection.— The small intestines should now be removed by cutting through the mesentery near to its intestinal border, and placing a ligature around the jejunum at its commencement, and another around the ileum near its termination. They may then be set aside for the purpose of examining their interior, and the arrangement of the mucous membrane, at a convenient moment. It would be desirable also that the student should inflate a portion of the upper part of the jejunum, and of the lower part of the ileum, that he may observe their appearance when dry. The valvulae conniventes will thus form a pretty and useful preparation. Then dissect carefully the anterior layer of the left meso-colon, and the inferior mesenteric artery, with its branches, will be brought into view. The Inferior mesenteric artery arises from the abdominal aorta, about two inches below the origin of the superior mesenteric. It descends between the layers of