379 URACHUS. URETERS. £ t v the true ligaments are seven in number, two posterior, two anterior, two umbilical ligaments, and the urachus. The false ligaments are four in number, and are formed by the peritoneum. The two Posterior ligaments are formed by the reflec- tion of the pelvic fascia upon the sides of the base of the bladder. The Anterior ligaments (fig. 45. 8.) are also formed by the pelvic fascia, which passes from the inner surface of the pubis, on each side of the symphisis, to the front of the bladder. The Umbilical ligaments {fig. 45. 4.) are the fibrous cords which result from the obliteration of the umbilical arteries of the foetus ; they pass forwards on each side of the fundus of the bladder, and ascend beneath the peri- toneum to the umbilicus. The Urachus {fig. 45. 3.) is a fibrous cord formed by the obliteration of a tubular communication in the em- bryo ; it is very strong and is attached to the apex of the bladder, and thence ascends to the umbilicus. The umbilical ligaments and urachus guide the ascent of the bladder in retention of urine. The False ligaments are folds of the peritoneum. The two Posterior correspond with the passage of the ureters from the pelvis to the base of the bladder ; and the two lateral are formed by the vasa deferentia, as they pass inwards from the internal abdominal ring to the sides of the fundus of the bladder. The Ureters {fig. 45. 5.) terminate in the sides of the base of the bladder, and pass for some distance obliquely between its coats, before they open on the mucous mem- brane. Their openings into the bladder are constricted, and surrounded by the thick and dense submucous tissue of the trigone vesicale, which prevents their free dilatation in an over distended state of the bladder, or in the pas- sage of a calculus. The obliquity of their entrance is preserved by the two muscles of the ureters, which are attached to their openings of entrance behind, and con- verge as they advance forwards to be inserted into the fibrous tissue of the uvula. The ureters are crossed in their course on the sides of