LIGAMENTS OF THE KNEE JOINT. 471 its coronary ligament; and by its two extremities is in- serted into the depression between the two projections which constitute the spinous process of the tibia. The two extremities of the external cartilage being inserted into the same spot, form almost a complete circle, and being somewhat broader than the internal, nearly cover the cartilaginous surface of the tibia. The two fibro-cartilages are connected anteriorly by the transverse ligament. The ligamentum mucosum and ligamenta alaria are the false ligaments of the knee joint: they are mere folds of the synovial membrane. The Ligamentum mucosum is a small cylindrical process which crosses from the apex of the patella to the space between the two condyles. It encloses a small quantity of fat; hence it has been called “ adipose ligament.” The Alar ligaments are two fringed folds of the synovial membrane, situated on either side of the patella, to which they give the semblance of wings. The Synovial membrane of the knee joint is the most extensive in the entire skeleton. It invests the carti- laginous surfaces of the condyles of the femur, of the head of the tibia, and of the inner surface of the patella; it covers both surfaces of the semilunar fibro-cartilages, and is reflected upon the crucial ligaments, and upon the inner surface of the ligaments which form the circumfer- ence of the joint. On each side of the patella, it lines the tendinous aponeuroses of the vastus internus and vastus externus muscles, and forms a pouch of consi- derable size between the extensor tendon and the front of the femur. It also forms the folds in the interior of the joint, called “ ligamentum mucosum,” and “ligamenta alaria.” When the knee joint becomes distended with fluid from effusion into the synovial cavity, a remarkable swelling is observed upon each side of the patella, particularly upon its inner side. This appearance results from the dis- tension of the two lateral portions of the membrane, which line the inner surface of the aponeurosis of the vasti muscles. A third swelling is also perceived immediately