63 ARTERIES AND NERVES. The posterior tibial artery immediately behind the inner malleolus divides into its two terminal branches. The Internal plantar, the smaller of the two, runs along the inner border of the foot between the abductor pollicis and flexor brevis digitorum muscles, and supplies the inner border of the foot and great toe. The External plantar artery passes obliquely outwards between the first and second layer of plantar muscles to the fifth metatarsal space. It then turns horizontally in- wards between the second and third layers to the first metatarsal space, where it inosculates with the commu- nicating branch from the dorsalis pedis. The horizontal portion of the artery describes a slight curve, having the convexity forwards. This is the plantar arch. Branches.—1st. Muscular, to the muscles in the sole of the foot. 2d. The digital, four in number, pass forwards to the cleft between the toes, and divide into collateral branches, which supply the sides of the three external toes, and the outer side of the second. At the bifurcation of the toes, a small branch is sent upwards from each digital artery to inosculate with the interosseous branches of the metatarsea; these are the anterior perforating arteries. 3d. The Posterior perforating are three small branches which pass upwards between the heads of the three ex- ternal dorsal interossei muscles, to inosculate with the arch formed by the metatarsea artery. Nerves of the Sole of the Foot. The Nerves of the sole of the foot are, like the arteries, the internal and external plantar {fig- 6. 12.), terminal branches of the posterior tibial. Posterior tibial - internal external three toes and a half. one toe and a half, sole of the foot. There is a difference in the distribution of the nerves in this region, as contrasted with the arteries which it is difficult to explain. However, as far as the student is concerned, it may be possibly as easy to recollect by a mnemonic of opposition as of resemblance. Thus the external plantar artery supplies three toes