4-73 LIGAMENTS OF THE ANKLE-JOINT. The Superior interosseous ligament is a broad layer of ligamentous fibres passing obliquely downwards and out- wards, from the sharp ridge on the tibia, to the inner edge of the fibula. There is an opening in its upper part, through which the anterior tibial artery takes its course forwards to the anterior aspect of the leg. The Inferior interosseous ligament consists of short and strong fibres, which hold the bones firmly together infe- riorly, where they are nearly in contact. The Anterior inferior ligament is a broad fasciculus that passes obliquely across the anterior aspect of the articu- lation of the two bones, at their inferior extremity. The Posterior inferior ligament is a similar band upon the posterior surface of the articulation. The Transverse ligament is a narrow band of ligamen- tous fibres, which passes transversely across the back of the ankle joint, between the two malleoli. 4. Aiikle joint The ligaments of the ankle joint are three in number: — Anterior, Internal lateral, External lateral. The Anterior ligament is a thin membranous layer, passing from the margin of the tibia and fibula, to tbe astragalus in front of the articular surface. The Internal lateral ligament, or deltoid, is a triangular layer of fibres, attached superiorly by its apex to the internal malleolus, and inferiorly by an expanded base to the astragalus and os calcis. The External lateral ligament consists of three strong fasciculi, which proceed from the inner side of the ex- ternal malleolus, and diverge in three different directions. The anterior fasciculus passes forwards, and is attached to the astragalus ; the posterior, backwards, and is con- nected with the astragalus posteriorly; and the middle, longer than the other two, descends to be inserted into the outer side of the os calcis. ( “ It is the strong union of this bone,” says Sir Astley Cooper, with the tarsal bones by means of the external lateral ligaments, “ which leads to its being more fre- quently fractured than dislocated.”