125 TRICUSPID AND SEMILUNAR VALVES. G 3 From this remarkable arrangement of the valves, it follows, that if the right ventricle be over distended, the thin, or “yielding wall” will give way, and carry with it the columns of the anterior and right valves. The cords connected with these columns will draw down the edges of the valves, and produce an opening between the cur- tains, through which the superabundant blood may escape, and the ventricle be relieved from its over pressure. This beautiful mechanism is therefore adapted, to fulfil the “function of a safety valve'.' The Columnce carnece (fleshy columns) is a name ex- pressive of the appearance of the internal walls of the ventricles, which seem formed of muscular columns in- terlacing in almost every direction. They are divided into three sets, according to the manner of their con- nection. 1. The greater number are attached by the whole of one side, and merely form convexities into the cavity of the ventricle. 2. Others are connected by both extremities, being free in the middle. 3. And a few are attached by one extremity only to the walls of the heart, the other giving insertion to the chordae tendineae. The Semilunar valves (_fig. 12. 13.) are three folds of the lining membrane, situated around the commencement of the pulmonary artery. They are attached by their convexities, and free by the concavities, which are directed upwards in the course of the vessel, so that, during the current of the blood along the artery, they are pressed against the sides of the cylinder, but if any attempt at regurgitation ensue, they are immediately expanded, and effectually close the entrance of the tube. In the centre of the free margin of each of the valves, is a small fibro-cartilaginous tubercle, called corpus Arantii*, which locks in with the two others during the closure of the valves, and secures the triangular space that would otherwise be left by the approximation of three semilunar folds. Between the semilunar valves and the cylinder of the artery are three pouches, called the pulmonary sinuses. Similar sinuses are situated beneath the valves at the com- * Julius Caisar Arantius, Professor of Medicine, in Bologna. lie was a disciple of Vesalius, one of the founders of modern anatomy. His treatise “ De Ilumano Fcetu” was published at Home, in 1564.