11 ANTERIOR FEMORAL REGION. tibial, fibular, sural, or superficial posterior tibial, and deep posterior tibial; of the foot, the dorsal and plantar regions. Anterior Femoral Region. The dissection of the anterior femoral region is best commenced by making an incision {Jig. 1. l.) from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium along the line of Poupart’s ligament to the spinous process of the pubis, then carrying a second, 2. along the course of the femoral artery to the inner condyle of the femur, and bounding it inferiorly by a third, carried transversely across the head of the tibia. The student then nips up the integument with his forceps at the upper angle, and dissects back that layer so as to expose the superficial fascia beneath, and form a broad flap upon the outer side of the limb. He then turns to the opposite side, and repeats the same proceeding. But the student who handles a scalpel for the first time, will not find its application so easy as this description would lead him to infer. If he ‘.examine the edge of his blade attentively with a lens, he will perceive that it is actually a microscopic saw. Now a saw divides by being drawn across the material to be cut; and no direct force applied to the saw, would carry it through the substance without this motion. Let him apply this reasoning to his scalpel, it must be handled lightly, and drawn without pressure across the textures to be divided : if he use force and pressure, the best edge would be useless in his hands. The art of dissecting with neatness and operating with dexterity, owes much to the good understanding existing between the knife and the hand; and the best operators have ever been the best dissectors. If the student have reflected the integument well, he will have exposed the superficial fascia, which may be known by its soft yellow surface, studded with vesicles of fat, surrounded with the white areolaa of cellular tissue in which they are contained. The under surface of the in- tegument, the corium of the skin, will appear quite white, and present a number of depressions, corresponding Avith the fatty depositions in the superficial fascia. The supcrjicial fascia is composed of two layers, be- tween which are situated the cutaneous vessels and. nerves. To examine these, incisions may be made through its superficial layer in the same direction with those pre- b 6