RIGHT AURICLE. 122 found in the left auricle, and in the right and left ven- tricles. The Auriculo-ventricular opening {Jig. 12. 9.) is the large opening of communication between the auricle and ventricle. Valves. — The Eustachian* valve {fig- 12.5.) is a part of the apparatus of foetal circulation, and serves to direct the placental blood from the inferior cava, through the foramen ovale into the left auricle. In the adult it is a mere vestige and imperfect, though sometimes it remains of large size. It is formed by a fold of the lining mem- brane of the auricle, and is situated between the opening of the inferior cava and the auriculo-ventricular opening. It is generally connected with the Coronary valve, 4., which is a semilunar fold of the lining membrane, stretch- ing across the mouth of the coronary vein, and preventing the reflux of the blood in the vein during the contraction of the auricle. The Annulus ovalis is situated on the septum auricu- larum, opposite the termination of the inferior cava. It is the rounded margin of the septum, 6., which occupies the place of the foramen ovale in the fcetus. The Fossa ovalis {fig. 12. 6.) is an oval depression cor- responding with the foramen ovale in the fcetus. This opening is closed at birth by a thin valvular layer, which is continuous with the left margin of the annulus. The depression or fossa in the right auricle results from this arrangement. There is no fossa ovalis in the left auricle. The Tuberculuni Loweri f {fig- 12. 7.) is the portion of auricle intervening between the openings of the superior and inferior cavae. Being thicker than the walls of the veins, it forms a projection, which was supposed, by Lower, to direct the blood from the superior cava into the auriculo-ventricular opening. The Musculi pectinati, 8., are small muscular columns situated in the appendix auriculae. They are very nume- * Bartholomew Eustachius, born at San Severino, in Naples, was Professor of Medicine in Rome, where he died in 1570. He was one of the founders of modern anatomy, and the first who illustrated his works with good engravings on copper. | Richard Lower, M. D. “ Tractatus de Corde j item de Motu et Colore Sanguinis,” 1669.