382 URETHRA—PROSTATIC AND MEMBRANOUS. The three sides of the trigone are about an inch and a quarter in length. The external surface of the trigone vesicale is also tri- angular, and is closely adherent to the rectum. It is bounded behind by the fold of peritoneum {fig. 45. 7.), that passes from the rectum to the bladder ; on each side by the vasa deferentia and vesiculae seminales, and the apex, by the third lobe of the prostate gland. It is through this triangle that the opening is made in the recto-vesical operation for puncture of the bladder. The operator must therefore be careful in selecting the centre of the space: if he push the trochar too near the prostate, he may wound that gland and not enter the bladder; if to either side, the vasa deferentia or vesiculae seminales may be transfixed; and if too far posteriorly he may wound* the peritoneum, and anticipate all the dangers of peritoneal inflammation. The adhesion between the bladder and rectum might also be separated by an inexpert operator. The Urethra is the excretory canal of the bladder, it commences at the neck of that organ, and terminates at the meatus upon the glans penis. It is about nine inches long, and is divided into three portions ; the prostatic, membranous, and spongy. The Prostatic urethra is the most dilated part of the canal, and is a little more than an inch in length. It is situated in the prostate gland, one third nearer to the upper than to the lower surface of that body. Upon its inferior wall or floor is a lengthened fold of mucous membrane, called caputgallinaginis, (cocks-comb) or veru montanum. At the commencement of this fold is a pouch of the mucous membrane, the sinus pocularis, and into this pouch open the two ejaculatory ducts from the vesi- culae seminales. On either side of the veru montanum are a number of openings, the terminations of the pro- static ducts. The Membranous portion of the urethra {fig. 45. 15.) is the narrowest part of the canal, is a little less than an inch in length, and is situated within the two layers of the deep perineal fascia. Its coverings are, the mucous lining; an elastic fibrous coat ; a muscular covering from the compressor urethrae muscle; and a fibrous investment from the deep perineal fascia. Immediately that it