THORACIC FASCIA. 114) The Triangularis sferni, situated upon the inner wall of the chest, arises by a thin aponeurosis from the side of the sternum and sternal extremities of the costal car- tilages, and is inserted by fleshy digitations into the carti- lages of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth ribs, and often into that of the second. Actions. — The intercostal muscles raise the ribs when they act from above, and depress them when they take their fixed point from below. They are, therefore, both inspiratory and expiratory muscles. The triangularis sterni draws down the costal cartilages. The Thoracic fascia * is a dense layer of cellulo-fibrous membrane stretched horizontally across the superior open- ing of the thorax. It is firmly attached to the concave margin of the first rib, and to the inner surface of the sternum. In front it leaves an opening for the connection of the cervical with the thoracic portion of the thymus gland; and behind it forms an arch across the vertebral column, to give passage to the oesophagus. At the point where the great vessels and trachea pass through the thoracic fascia it divides into an ascending and descending layer. The ascending layer is attached to the trachea, and becomes continuous with the sheath of the carotid vessels and with the deep cervical fascia; and the descending layer descends upon the trachea to its bifurcation, surrounds the large vessels arising from the arch of the aorta and the upper part of the arch itself, and is continuous with the fibrous layer of the pericar- dium. It is connected also with the venae innominatae and superior cava, and is attached to the cellular capsule of the thymus gland. “ The thoracic fascia,” writes Sir Astley Cooper, “ per- forms three important offices : — 1st. It forms the upper boundary of the chest, as the diaphragm does the lower. 2d. It steadily preserves the relative situation of the parts which enter and quit the thoracic opening. 3d. It attaches and supports the heart in its situation, through the medium of its connection with the aorta and large vessels which are placed at its curvature.” * For an excellent description of this fascia, see Sir Astley Cooper’s work on the “ Anatomy of the Thymus Gland.”