93 FORE-ARM. DISSECTION. between the brachialis anticus and supinator longus muscles, and thence onwards to the bend of the elbow, where it divides into two branches, the posterior inter- osseous and radial nerve. Its branches in the upper arm are, 1. Muscular to the triceps, hence its designation “ musculo “ spiral” being applied to its course. 2. Spiral cutaneous nerve, (Jig- 8.17.,) which pierces the deep fascia, between the deltoid and external head of the triceps muscle, and supplies the integument on the outer side of the fore-arm, as far as the wrist. It is described at page 78. The course of the median, ulnar, and radial nerves in the fore-arm will be described in the next section. Fore-arm. Dissection. — The dissection of the fore-arm has been partially com- menced in the examination of the bend of the elbow. It must now be continued by carrying the incision along the middle of the fore-arm and over the wrist to the root of the middle finger, where it may be ter- minated by a transverse incision made across the heads of the meta- carpal bones. The integument is then to be turned to either side. In performing this operation on the ulnar side of the hand, care must be taken to avoid raising the thin layer of muscular fibres which forms the palmaris brevis muscle. An incision is to be carried along the middle of the palmar surface of each of the fingers, and the integu- ment turned aside from these to show the flexor tendons, and the artery and nerve at either border of the finger. The superficial fascia is next to be dissected off, and the cutaneous nerves traced downwards between its layers to the hand. The super- ficial veins may also be cleared of the surrounding fat aiid cellular tissue. The Deep fascia of the fore-arm is dense and thick, and very different from the thin layer of the upper arm. Towards the inner condyle, it has a muscular connection, and is strengthened by the band of fascia (Jig. 8.13.), derived from the tendon of the biceps. It presents all the general characters of deep fascia; surrounding all the muscles of the fore-arm, being attached to the prominent points of bones, forming sheaths for the numerous muscles, and by its inner surface giving origin to muscular fibres. At the wrist it becomes much thickened, and is attached to the projecting points of the scaphoid and trapezium bones on one side, and to the pisiform and unciform bones on the