THYMUS GLAND. 440 The former is situated in the anterior mediastinum, and the latter is placed in the neck just above the first bone of the sternum, and behind the sterno-hyoidei and sterno- thyroidei muscles.” It extends upwards from the fourth rib as high as the thyroid gland, resting upon the peri- cardium, and separated from the arch of the aorta and great vessels by the thoracic fascia in the chest, and lying on each side of the trachea in the neck. Although described usually as a single gland, it consists actually of two lateral, almost symmetrical glands, con- nected with each other by cellular tissue only, and having no structural communication : they may therefore be “ pro- perly called a right and left thymus gland.” Between the second and third month of embryo exist- ence, the thymus is so small as to be only “just percep- tible ; ” and continues gradually increasing with the growth of the foetus until the seventh. At the eighth month it is large; but, during the ninth, it undergoes a sudden change, assumes a greatly increased size, and at birth weighs 240 grains. After birth it continues to en- large until the expiration of the first year, when it ceases to grow, and gradually diminishes, until at puberty it has almost disappeared. The thymus is a conglomerate gland, being composed of lobules disposed in a spiral form around a central cavity. The Jobuies are held together by a firm cellular tissue (“ reticulated”), and the entire gland is inclosed in a coarse cellular capsule. The Lobules are very numerous, and vary in size from that of the head of a pin to a moderate-sized pea. Each lobule contains in its interior a small cavity, or “ secretory cell," and several of these cells open into a small “pouch" which is situated at their base, and leads to the central cavity, the “ reservoir of the thymus." The Reservoir is lined in its interior by a vascular mucous membrane, which is raised into ridges by a layer of ligamentous bands situated beneath it. The ligamentous bands proceed in various directions, and encircle the open mouths of the pouches. This ligamentous layer serves to keep the lobules together, and prevents the injurious dis- tension of the cavity. When either gland is carefully unravelled by removing