304< SEMICIRCULAR CANALS. (Jig. 35. 3.) in its direction, and corresponds with a tuber- cle upon the anterior surface of the petrous bone ; another is oblique, 6.; and the third is horizontal, 8. Each canal presents a dilatation at one extremity, which is called ampulla, 4. 9. 7. The two undilated extremities of the perpendicular and oblique canals unite to form a sin- gle tube, 5.; all the others open singly into the ves- tibule, hence the Jive open- ings of the three canals. The vestibule contains two sacs formed by the expan- sion of the auditory nerve. The larger of these is the utriculus communis, the smaller the sacculus proprius. The semicircular canals contain tubes of nervous mem- brane, which communicate with the utriculus communis, and form three dilatations corresponding with the ampullae at the extremities of the canals. These sacs, together with the nervous tubes lodged in the canals, contain a limpid secretion, which is called liquor of Cotunnius. f The sacs likewise contain a calcareous deposit, which is analogous to the otolites or calcareous crystalline masses found in the vestibular sac of fishes. This deposit has been recently described by Breschet, and is called by him Otoconite (ovc, the ear — kovi?, dust). The sacs and membranous canals do not completely fill * Fig. 35. The labyrinth of the left ear. No. 1. The vestibule. 2. The fenestra ovalis, in its natural position, looking from the meatus auditorius externus; the en- trance into the vestibule from the tympanum. 3. The perpendicular semicircular canal. 4. Its ampulla. 5. Its union with the oblique canal. 6. The oblique semicircular canal. 7. Its ampulla. 8. The horizontal semicircular canal. 9. Its ampulla. 10. The cochlea, in- ternal to and rather in frontof the vestibule. 11. The fenestra rotunda, the entrance into the scala tympani of the cochlea. 12. The canal of the cochlea leading from the fenestra rotunda to make its first turn. 13. The extremity of the canal called the cupola. f Dominico Cotunnius, an Italian physician ; his dissertation “ De Aquaxluctibus Auris Humana; Interna;,” was published in Naples, in 1761.