82 POSTERIOR THORACIC REGION. — MUSCLES. muscles of the shoulder and arm may be examined. Two of these form the superficial layer of muscles of the back, the trapezius and latissimus dorsi. Dissection They are to be dissected by making an incision along the middle line of the back, from the tubercle on the occipital bone to the sacrum. From the upper point of this incision carry a second along the side of the neck, to the middle of the clavicle. Inferiorly, an incision must be made from the extremity of the sacrum, along the crest of the ilium, to about its middle. For the convenience of dissection, a fourth may be carried from the middle of the spine to the acromion process. The integument and superficial fascia, to- gether, are to be dissected off the muscles, in the course of their fibres, over the whole of this region. The Trapezius muscle (trapezium, a quadrangle with unequal sides) arises from the superior curved line on the occipital bone, from the ligamentum nuchae, spinous pro- cesses of the two last cervical and all the dorsal vertebrae. The fibres converge from these various points, and are in- serted into the scapular third of the clavicle, the acromion process, and the whole length of the upper border of the spine of the scapula. The inferior fibres become tendi- nous near to the scapula, and glide over the triangular surface at the posterior extremity of its spine, being sepa- rated from it by a bursa mucosa. When the trapezius is dissected on both sides, the two muscles resemble a tra- pezium or diamond-shaped quadrangle on the posterior part of the shoulders: hence the muscle was formerly named cucullaris (cucullus, a monk’s cowl). The cervical and upper part of the dorsal portion of the muscle is ten- dinous at its origin, and forms with the muscle of the opposite side a kind of tendinous ellipse. The Latissimus dorsi muscle covers the whole of the lower part of the back and loins. It arises from the spi- nous processes of the six inferior dorsal vertebras, all the lumbar and sacral, from the posterior third of the crest of the ilium, and from the three lower ribs by muscular slips, which indigitate with the external oblique muscle of the abdomen. The fibres converge as the muscle passes upwards and crosses over the inferior angle of the scapula, to be inserted with the teres major into the posterior bici- pital ridge of the humerus. A synovial bursa is interposed between the muscle and the lower angle of the scapula: sometimes it has a muscular connection with the scapula at this point.