407 INTERNAL PUDIC ARTERY. t pelvis, to be inserted into the lower extremity of the rectum. Actions.—The accelerators urinae being continuous at the middle line, and attached on either side to the bone, will support the spongy portion of the urethra, and acting suddenly, will propel the last drops of urine or the semen from the canal. The erector penis is rather a depressor than an erector muscle. The erection of this organ results from internal distension. The muscle tends to draw it downwards while in this state, and probably serves the purpose of a stay, to direct its course in its appropriate function. The transverse muscles serve to steady the tendinous centre, that the muscles attached to it may obtain a firm point of support. The External sphincter contracts the integument around the anus, and by its attachment to the tendinous centre, and to the point of the coccyx, assists the levator ani in giving support to the opening during expulsive ef- forts. The internal sphincter contracts the extremity of tthe cylinder of the intestine. The levator ani acts in unison with the diaphragm, and rises and falls like that muscle in forcible respiration. Yielding to the propulsive action of the abdominal muscles, it enables the outlet of the pelvis to bear a greater force than a resisting structure, and on the remission of such actions, it restores the pe- rineum to its original form. Arteries. — The perineal arteries are branches of the nternal pudic, one of the terminal divisions of the in- ternal iliac. The Internal pudic artery leaves the pelvis through .he great sacro-ischiatic foramen below the pyriformis nuscle, crosses the spine of the ischium, and re-enters the aelvis through the lesser sacro-ischiatic foramen ; it then crosses the internal obturator muscle to the ramus of the schium, being situated at about an inch from the margin >f the tuberosity, and bound down by the obturator fascia ; t next ascends the ramus of the ischium, enters between he two layers of the deep perineal fascia, lying along the ■order of the ramus of the pubis, and at the symphisis ierces the anterior layer of the deep perineal fascia, ery much diminished in size, and reaches the dorsum f the penis, along which it runs, supplying that organ