TRIANGLES OF THE NECK. 171 i 2 this space, from the anterior inferior to the posterior superior angle, and divides it into two triangles of nearly equal size, the great anterior and the great posterior tri- angle. The Great anterior triangle (fig. 14. a, b,c.) is bounded above by the body of the lower jaw ; in front, by the middle line of the neck ; and, behind, by the sterno- mastoid muscle. It is subdivided into three minor tri- angles : — 1. The submaxillary triangle, a., formed by the two bellies of the digastric muscle, 3, 3., and the border of the lower jaw, 2. 2. The superior carotid triangle, b., formed by the posterior belly of the digastric muscle, 3., the upper belly of the omo-hyoid, 4., and the sterno- mastoid. And 3. The inferior carotid triangle, c., which is bounded by the superior belly of the omo-hyoid mus- cle, the sterno-mastoid muscle, and the middle line of the neck. The Great posterior triangle (fig. 14. d, e.) is bounded, in front, by the sterno-mastoid; behind, by the border of the trapezius muscle ; and, below, by the clavicle. It is subdivided into two minor triangles by the inferior belly, 5., of the omo-hyoid muscle. 1. The suboccipital triangle, d., situated above the omo-hyoid ; and 2. The subclavian triangle, e., which is bounded in front by the sterno- mastoid muscle ; behind, by the inferior belly of the omo- hyoid ; and, below, by the clavicle. These triangles are thus particularly indicated, because they contain certain important parts ; for instance, the Submaxillary triangle, a., contains in the posterior half neck into two great triangles, the anterior and posterior, a. The submaxillary triangle, b. The superior carotid triangle, c. The inferior carotid triangle, d. The sub-occipital triangle, e. The subclavian triangle. 2. The border of the lower jaw. 3. 3. The digastric muscle. 4. The superior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle. 5. Its inferior belly. 6. The trapezius muscle. 7. The parotid gland. 8. The external jugular vein. 9. A dotted line, marking the direction of the fibres of the platysma myoides muscle. 10. A small arrow, showing the direction of the incision for opening the jugular vein. 11. The superficialis colli nerve, which forms a plexus with (12.) a branch from the facial nerve, over the submaxillary tri- angle. 13. The auricularis magnus nerve. 14. The occipitalis minor. 15. The descending superficial branches of the plexus. 16. The spinal accessory nerve.