SCAPULO-CLAVICULAR LIGAMENTS. 459 x 2 the clavicle with the cartilage of the first rib. It is situ- ated obliquely between the rib and the clavicle. It is the rupture of this ligament in dislocation of the sternal end of the clavicle, that gives rise to the consequent deformity. The Inter articular jibro-cartilage is circular in form, and thicker at the edges than in the centre. It is at- tached above to the clavicle, and below to the cartilage of the first rib. It divides the joint into two cavities, which are lined by two synovial membranes. Dislocations. — The dislocations of the sternal ex- tremity are two, forwards and backwards. The disloca- tion forwards may be partial. The Dislocation forwards, if complete, is accompanied by the rupture of all the ligaments of the joint. The Dislocation backivards is extremely rare. Sir Astley Cooper records only a single case, which occurred iin consequence of distortion of the spine. 2. The Scapulo-clavicular articulation.—The ligaments 1 of the scapular end of the clavicle are, the Superior acromio-clavicular, Inferior acromio-clavicular, I Coraco-clavicular (trapezoid and conoid), Interarticular fibro-cartilage, Two synovial membranes. The Superior acromio clavicular ligament is a thin .plane of fibres passing between the extremity of the cla- vicle and the acromion, upon the upper surface of the oint. The Inferior acromio-clavicular ligament is a thin plane dtuated upon the under surface. The Coraco-clavicular ligament (trapezoid, conoid) is a -.hick fasciculus of ligamentous fibres passing obliquely jetween the base of the coracoid process and the under surface of the clavicle, and holding the end of the clavicle n firm connection with the scapula. When seen from before it has a quadrilateral form, hence it is named trape- zoid; and examined from behind it has a triangular form, he base being upwards : hence another name, conoid. The Interarticular fibro-cartilage is often indistinct rom having partial connections with the fibro-cartila-