356 kiernan’s researches on the The apex is directed upwards, and the fundus projects slightly beyond the narrow free border of the liver. It has three coats, an internal mucous, middle fibrous, and, external, a partial investment of peritoneum. The Internal, or mucous coat, presents a beautifully reticulated structure in the interior of the bladder, and at its neck forms a spiral valve. It is continuous through the hepatic duct with the mucous membrane lining all the ducts of the liver, and through the ductus communis choledochus, with the mucous membrane of the alimentary canal. The Fibrous membrane is a thin, but strong layer, formed by an interlacement of tendinous fibres. It is connected on the one side with the liver, and on the other with the peritoneum. The Peritoneal coat is a partial covering, investing only that side of the bladder which is unattached. It serves to bind down the gall-bladder, and keep it in its place. The excretory duct of the gall-bladder is the cystic, which unites with the hepatic to form the ductus com- munis choledochus. It is by the latter that the bile is conveyed into the duodenum. Structure and Minute Anatomy of the Liver, according to Mr. Kiernan. The Liver is composed of lobules, of a connecting medium called Qlisson's captsule, of the ramifications of the portal vein, hepatic ducts, hepatic artery, hepatic veins, lymphatics, and nerves, and is enclosed and retained in its proper situation by the peritoneum. We shall describe each of these structures singly, following rigidly the dis- coveries of Mr. Kiernan. 1st. The Lobules are small granular bodies of an irregular form, and presenting a number of rounded projecting processes upon their surface. When divided longitudinally (jig. 44. 2.) they have a foliated appearance, and transversely (Jig. 43. 1.) a polygonal outline with sharp or rounded angles, according to the smaller or greater quantity of Glisson’s capsule contained in the liver. The base (Jig. 44. 4.) of each lobule is flattened and rests upon an hepatic vein, which is thence named sublobular. The rest of the surface of the lobule is called capsular, and is enclosed in a cellular sheath derived from Glisson’s capsule. This cellular sheath separates each lobule from those surrounding it, and the interval in which it is contained is called the inter-lobular Jissure (Jig. 44. 6. Jig. 43. S.). At the angle formed by the apposition of several lobules, the inter-lobular fissure