FCETAL CIRCULATION. 438 valve, the current in the inferior cava will be almost entirely excluded from the right ventricle. 3dly. That the blood which circulates through the arch of the aorta comes directly from the placenta ; and, al- though mixed with the impure blood of the inferior cava, yet is propelled in so great abundance to the head and upper extremities, as to provide for the increased nutri- tion of those important parts, and prepare them, by their greater size and development, for the functions which they are required to perform at' birth. 4thly. That the blood circulating in the descending aorta, is very impure, being obtained principally from the returning current in the superior cava ; a small quantity only being derived from the left ventricle. Yet is it from this impure blood that the nutrition of the lower extre- mities is provided. Hence we are not surprised at their insignificant development at birth; while we admire the providence of nature, that directs the nutrient current in abundance to the organs of sense, of prehension, and of deglutition, so necessary even at the instant of birth to the safety and welfare of the creature. After birth, the foramen ovale becomes gradually closed by a membranous layer, that is developed from the mar- gins of the opening from below upwards, and completely separates the two auricles. The situation of the foramen is seen in the adult heart, upon the septum auricularum, and is called the fossa ovalis: the projecting margin of the opening forms the annulus ovalis. As soon as the lungs have become inflated by the first spasmodic act of inspiration, the blood of the pulmonary artery rushes through its right and left branches into the lungs, to be returned to the left auricle by the pulmonary veins. Thus the pulmonary circulation is established, and the ductus arteriosus contracts, and degenerates to an impervious fibrous cord, serving in after life merely as a bond of union between the trunk of the pulmonary artery and the concavity of the arch of the aorta. The current through the umbilical cord being arrested, the umbilical arteries likewise contract and become im- pervious, and degenerate into the umbilical ligaments of the bladder. The Umbilical vein and ductus venosus, also deprived