90 BRACHIAL ARTERY. BRANCHES. Operation. — The brachial artery is usually tied at about its mid- dle. An incision, three inches in length, is made along the inner border of the biceps, which shall divide the integument, superficial, and deep fascia. The basilic vein, which lies in front of the sheath, is then to be drawn aside, together with the median nerve, which may be seen crossing the sheath at that point. The sheath must then be carefully opened, and a needle passed beneath the artery, taking care to avoid the two veins (venae comites) by which it is accompanied. The only difficulty the student will experience in this operation is the finding of the sheath, which is placed beneath the edge of the biceps. Brachial Artery — Branches : Superior profunda — Posterior articular, Inferior profunda, Anastomotica magna. The Superior profunda winds around the humerus, between the triceps and the bone, to the space between the brachialis anticus and supinator longus, where it inos- culates with the radial recurrent branch. It accompanies the musculo-spiral nerve. In its course it supplies the triceps muscle, and gives off one remarkable branch (pos- terior articular') which descends to the joint, and inos- culates with the posterior interosseous recurrent branch. The Inferior profunda descends to the space between the inner condyle and olecranon in company with the ulnar nerve, and inosculates with the posterior ulnar recurrent. The Anastomotica magna is given off at right angles from the brachial, at about two inches above the joint. It passes directly inwards, and divides into two branches which inosculate with the anterior ulnar recurrent, and inferior profunda. Axillary Plexus. The Axillary plexus of nerves is formed by the com- munications of the anterior branches of the four last cervical and first dorsal nerves. The plexus is broad in the neck, but narrows as it approaches the axillary artery, lying at first external to that vessel, then getting behind it, and at about the middle of the axilla completely sur- rounding it. At this point it divides into its six ultimate branches. The branches given off from the plexus, previously to its division, are thoracic and scapular.