INTEGUMENT.— SKIN. 2 In the same manner the performance of an operation with the aid of the knife, as, for example, the tying of an artery, requires the division of the integument, super- ficial fascia, and deep fascia, the separation of the mus- cles, and the finding and securing of the vessel. So again in amputation, the same structures are to be divided, and in precisely the same order. Thus the student will per- ceive that one principal object of dissection is the practice of his knife in the division and separation of these parts, so as to enable him to accomplish his end with ease and dexterity. All the operations of dissection should be conducted with the same delicacy that is observed in the treatment of the living subject. The result of such practice must be obvious — the attainment of that con- fidence and precision in surgical manipulations, which is so necessary to the intelligent surgeon. Now, let us inquire into the nature of the structures composing the preceding table. The integument (integere, to cover in), is the investing covering of the entire body ; in common parlance, the skin : it consists, of The cuticle (epidermis, scarf-skin) is the thin homy layer that protects the surface of the integument. The rete mucosum is the soft layer interposed between the cuticle and cutis, in which the colouring particles of the skin are deposited. It is modelled upon the papilla? of the cutis, so as to resemble a beautiful network when examined beneath the microscope. Hence its designation rete; and mucosum from having been seen only when softened by decomposition, or by the irritation of a blister when the cuticle is raised. It may however, with care, De separated from the cutis in layers of considerable size. The cutis (o-kvtos, the skin, dermis) is formed of two layers—a superficial, the papillary, which presents a sur- face bristled with papillary elevations variously arranged, in which resides the sensibility to touch ; and a deep layer, the coriitm (leather), which is firm, elastic, and Cuticle, Rete mucosum