165 FACIAL NERVE. The duct of the parotid gland (Stenon’s* duct,) pro- ceeds from the upper part of the gland, and crosses the masseter muscle transversely to its anterior border, where it pierces the buccinator muscle, and opens upon the mucous membrane of the mouth, opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw. A second portion of gland is often developed from the duct, while on the masseter muscle, and is called socia parotidis. If the border of the parotid gland be raised, a plexus of large nerves, branches of the facial (portio dura), will be seen beneath, and in its structure. This plexus is named from bearing some resemblance to the spreading foot of a palmipede, pes anserinus (goose’s foot). By tracing the branches back through the gland, we reach the trunk of the nerve, and with a little care it may be exposed as far as the point where it issues from the stylo-mastoid foramen. We must then follow its branches forwards, in the opposite direction. These will be seen to radiate over the side of the temples, face, and upper part of the neck. The Facial nerve (portio dura) arises from the upper part of the respiratory tract in the medulla oblongata. It enters the meatus auditorius interims with the auditory nerve (portio mollis), and at the bottom of that cavity passes into the canal which is expressly intended for it, the aqueductus Fallopii. In this canal it directs its course at first forwards towards the hiatus Fallopii, where it forms a gangliform swelling, and receives the petrosal branch of the Vidian nerve. It then curves backwards towards the tympanum, and descends along its inner wall to the stylo-mastoid foramen. Emerging at the stylo- mastoid foramen, it passes forwards within the parotid gland, and crossing the external carotid artery to the ramus of the jaw. While situated within the gland, it is joined by a branch from the auricular nerve, and divides into two trunks, which, by their subdivision and communica- tions, form the pes anserinus. The pes anserinus divides into the numerous branches which supply the muscles over the whole of the side of the face. * Nicholas Stenon, an anatomist of great research. He discovered the parotid duct while in Paris. He was appointed Professor of Medicine in Copenhagen, in 1672. His work « De Musculis et Glandulis Obser.,” was published in 1664.