450 OCCIPITO-ATLOID ARTICULATION. tween the arches of the vertebra? from the axis to the sacrum, and are composed of yellow elastic tissue. They are attached below to the posterior surface of the arches, and are inserted into the anterior surface of the arches of the vertebra above. They meet upon the middle line, but are not continuous with each other at that point. Articular processes The ligaments of the arti- ticular processes of the vertebrae are loose capsules, which surround the articulating surfaces. They are lined on their interior with synovial membrane, which is con- tinued over the cartilaginous surfaces of the bones. Spinous processes. — The Inter-spinous ligaments are thin and membranous, and are extended between the spinous processes in the dorsal and lumbar regions. The Supra-spinous are short, thick, ligamentous bands, passing from the apex of one spinous process to the next. They exist, like the inter-spinous, only in the dorsal and lumbar regions. Transverse processes. — The Inter-transverse are thin and membranous: they are found only between the transverse processes of the lower dorsal vertebras. 2. Articulation of the atlas with the occipital bone. — The ligaments of this articulation are four in number, Anterior occipito-atloid, Posterior occipito-atloid, Two capsular. The Anterior ligament is a thin membranous layer, which is thicker in the middle than at each side. It is attached above to the margin of the occipital foramen, and below to the anterior arch of the atlas. The Posterior ligament is also thin and membranous; it is attached above to the margin of the occipital fora- men, and below to the posterior arch of the atlas. It is closely adherent to the dura mater by its inner surface, and forms a ligamentous arch for the passage of the ver- tebral arteries. The Capsular ligaments are the thin and loose liga- mentous capsules which surround the synovial mem- branes of the articulations, between the condyles of the occipital bone and the superior articular processes of the atlas.