12 SUPERFICIAL VESSELS AND NERVES. viously described,! and this structure dissected back. The parts to be examined in the superficial fascia are Inguinal glands, Superficial circumflexa ilii artery, epigastric artery, external pudic artery, Internal saphenous vein, and its tributaries, External, middle, and internal cutaneous nerves. The inguinal glands are situated in clusters along the line of Poupart’s ligament, and near the termination of the saphenous vein. They receive the cutaneous lymph- atic vessels from the lower extremity, lower part of the abdomen, and genital organs. The three small arteries, the superficialcircumjlexa ilii, the superficial epigastric, and the superficial external pudic, are the first branches of the femoral artery. They pierce the deep fascia immediately beneath Poupart’s ligament, and are distributed to the skin and superficial fascia: the circumflexa ilii taking its course along Poupart’s ligament towards the crest of the ilium ; the epigastric ascending upon the abdomen towards the umbilicus; and the pudic passing inwards to the scrotum, or labia pudendi. The internal saphenous vein, fig. 1. 9., (tra^yy;?, per- spicuous, obvious) of considerable size, sometimes con- sisting of two parallel trunks, receives its current of blood from the superficial veins of the inner side of the foot, leg, and thigh, along which it runs, and terminates in the femoral vein near the pubic extremity of Poupart’s liga- ment, by passing through an aperture in the deep fascia, named, from this office, saphenous opening, n. Just as the vein curves inwards to enter this opening, it receives a number of small veins, 10., which converge from the abdomen, hip, and genital organs. These vessels play a conspicuous part in femoral hernia, and, therefore, must not be passed over without remark. The saphenous vein is accompanied by superficial lymphatic vessels through- out the whole of its course. The external cutaneous nerve, fig. 1. 12. (cutis, the skin) is derived from the second lumbar nerve, and pierces the fascia lata at about two inches below the an- terior superior spine of the ilium, where it divides into two sets of branches, one of which crosses the tensor vagina;