373 OPENINGS IN THE DIAPHRAGM. and third. The tendons form two large fleshy bellies (crura), which ascend to be inserted into the central tendon. The inner fasciculi of the two crura cross each other in front of the aorta, and again diverge to surround the oesophagus, so as to present a figure of eight like ap- pearance. The anterior fasciculus of the decussation is formed by the right crus. The Openings in the diaphragm are three : one, quadri- lateral in the tendinous centre, at the union of the right and middle leaflets, for the passage of the inferior cava ; a muscular opening of an elliptic shape, formed by the two crura for the transmission of the oesophagus and pneumo-gastric nerves ; and a third, the aortic, which is formed by a tendinous arch thrown from the tendon of one crus to that of the other across the vertebral column, beneath which pass the aorta, the right vena azygos, and the thoracic duct. One of the great splanchnic nerves sometimes passes through the aortic opening, but more fre- quently they both pierce the crura. The lesser splanch- nic nerves pass between the muscular fibres, which pro- ceed from the ligamentum arcuatum internum at each side. The Psoas magnus muscle lies at each side of the vertebral column in the lumbar region. It arises from the intervertebral substance of the last dorsal and four upper lumbar vertebrae, and from a tendinous arch thrown across the constricted portion of the bodies of the same bones. These arches are intended to protect the lumbar arteries, and communicating branches of the sympathetic nerve. It is inserted with the iliacus muscle by a common tendon into the lesser trochanter of the femur. The psoas muscle is traversed by the branches of the lumbar plexus, and is pierced by the genito-crural nerve, which runs upon its anterior surface. The Psoas parvus arises from the tendinous arches and intervertebral substance of the last dorsal and first lumbar vertebrae, and soon terminates in a long slender tendon which is inserted into the pectineal line of the pubis. The psoas and iliacus muscles are covered in by the iliac fascia, which may now be examined. It will be found attached to the inner margin of the crest of the ilium, and to the folded border of Poupart’s ligament; in