404 PERINEUM. — DISSECTION. two layers of fascia, which are connected posteriorly and at the sides, and enclose a triangular space, in which are contained the root of the penis, with its muscles, vessels, and nerves. Externally to the superficial perineal fascia, is the common superficial fascia of the body and the in- tegument. The Posterior or anal portion of the perineum, instead of a resisting membranous partition, like the deep perineal fascia, is divided from the cavity of the pelvis by a convex muscular septum, the levator ani muscle, which arises from nearly the whole circumference of the interior of the pelvis, and is inserted around the extremity of the rectum. A broad band of muscular fibres embraces the lower end of the intestine, forming the internal sphincter; and superficially to it is the flat ellipse of the external sphincter, which is covered by the common superficial fascia and integument. Dissection. — To dissect the perineum the subject should be fixed in the position for lithotomy, that is, the hands should be bound to the soles of the feet, and the knees kept apart. An easier plan is the drawing of the feet upwards by means of a cord passed through a hook in the ceiling. Both of these means of preparation have for their object the full exposure of the perineum. And as this is a dissection which demands some degree of delicacy and nice manipulation, a strong light should be thrown upon the part. Having fixed the sub- ject, and drawn the scrotum upwards by means of a string or hook, carry an incision from the base of the scrotum along the ramus of the pubis and ischium and tuberosity of the ischium, to a point parallel with the apex of the coccyx ; then describe a curve over the coccyx to the same point on the opposite side, and continue the incision onwards along the opposite tuberosity, and ramus of the ischium, and ramus of the pubis, to the opposite side of the scrotum, where the two extremi- ties may be connected by a transverse incision. This incision will completely surround the perineum, following very nearly the outline of its boundaries. Now let the student dissect off the integument carefully from the whole of the included space, and he will expose the fatty cellular structure of the common superficial fascia, which exactly resembles the superficial fascia in every other situation. Having exposed the Common superficial fascia, the student repeats the incision by which he divided the in- tegument, and dissects off the common superficial fascia in the same way as the preceding layer. This dissection displays the superficial perineal fascia» which is analogous to the deep fascia of other regions ; but, from the circumstance of another layer in the peri-