MUSCLES OF THE BACK. 146 In examining this table, the student will observe the constant recurrence of the number four in the origin and insertion of the muscles. Sometimes the four occurs at the top or bottom of a region of the spine, and frequently includes a part of two regions, and takes two from each, as in the case of the serrati. Again, he will perceive that the muscles of the upper half of the table take their origin from spinous processes, and pass outwards to trans- verse, whereas the lower half arises mostly from transverse processes. To the student, then, we commit these re- flections, and leave it to the peculiar tenour of his own mind to make such arrangements as will be best retained by his memoiy. Actions. — The first two layers are muscles of the shoulder and arm, to move which their efforts are di- rected. Their actions have been described, with those of the shoulder, at page 85. The two serrati are respiratory muscles acting in op- position to each other — the serratus posticus superior, drawing the ribs upwards, and thereby expanding the chest; and the inferior, drawing the lower ribs downwards and diminishing the cavity of the chest. The former is an inspiratory, the latter an expiratory muscle. The Splenii muscles draw the head backwards and to one side, so as to direct the face towards the shoulder. Both muscles, acting together, will draw the head directly backwards. They are the natural antagonists of the sterno-mastoid muscles. The Sacro lumbalis, with its accessory muscle, the longissimus clor si and spinalis dor si, are known by the general term of erector spince, which sufficiently expresses their actions. They keep the spine supported in the vertical position by their broad origin from below, and through their insertion by distinct tendons into the ribs and spinous processes. Being made up of a number of distinct fasciculi, which alternate in their actions, the spine is kept erect without fatigue, even when they have to counterbalance a corpulent abdominal development. The continuations upwards of these muscles into the neck preserve the steadiness and uprightness of that region. When the muscles of one side act alone, the neck is rotated upon its axis. The complcxus, by being