4 MUSCLES. ARTERIES VEINS. The deep fascia of the neck is different in its structure from that in the limbs; it is a cellulo-fibrous membrane, and consists of cellular tissue very much condensed. It has no tendinous fibres, and none of their resplendency. In its office, it acts precisely the same part with the ten- dino-Jibrous fasciae. The muscles (musculus, from movere, to move) are the moving organs of the body : they are made up of fibres disposed parallel to each other in a framework of cellular tissue. Towards the extremities of the muscles the fibres cease, and the cellular framework is condensed into a rounded cord, called tendon (tendo, a sinew), by which it is attached to the bones. The more fixed extremity of a muscle is called the “ origin its more moveable end the ccinsertion.” The muscles which enclose cavities, as the abdominal, are broad and extensive ; and their tendon is flattened out into a thin expansion, which is called “ apo- neurosis" (ano, longe—vEvpov, nervus — a nerve widely spread out). This derivation demands some explanation. The ancients named all the white fibres of the body vevpa^ or nerves. The vessels are of three kinds — arteries, veins, and lymphatics. The former are cylindrical tubes, composed of three layers — an external, formed of condensed cellular tissue, the “ cellular coata middle, of fibres of elastic tissue, the “fibrous coat f' and a lining membrane, or “ serous coat” After death they are usually found empty, but preserve their cylindrical form by reason of the thickness of their coats; hence their name (aijp TTjptjy, to contain air), from a supposition of the ancients that they were intended to confine the vital spirits. Their office is to convey the vital fluid to every part of the system; and their ultimate terminations are denominated, from their extreme minuteness, capillaries (capillus, hair). The veins are found in company with the arteries; with the exception of the superficial veins. They return the blood from the capillary vessels of the arteries to the right side of the heart, to be then circulated through the lungs. They are larger than the arteries, and after death are found filled with dark coloured blood. The coats are the same as those of the arteries, but much thinner; and the internal coat is reflected inwards at various points, so as to