66 NASAL FOSSiB, ethmoid, and the inferior a distinct bone of the face. The mperior meatus occupies the superior and posterior part of each fossa: it is situated between the superior and middle turbinated bone, and has opening into it three foramina, viz. the opening of the posterior eth- moid cells, the opening of the sphenoid cells, and the spheno-palatine foramen. The middle meatus is the space between the middle and -inferior turbinated bone; it also presents three forainina, the open- ing of the frontal sinus, of the anterior ethmoid cells, and of the antrum. The largest of the three passages is the inferior meatus, which is the space between the inferior turbinated bone and the floor of the nasal fossa; in it there are two foramina, the termination of the nasal duct, and one opening of the anterior palatine canal. The nasal fossae commence upon the face by a large irregular opening, the anterior nares, and terminate posteriorly in the two posterior nares. * A longitudinal section of the nasal fossae made immediately to the right of the middle line, and the bony septum removed in order to show the external wall of the left fossa. 1. The frontal bone. 2. The nasal bone. 3. The crista galli process of the ethmoid. The groove between 1 and 3 is the lateral boun- dary of the foramen caecmn. 4. The cribriform plate of the ethmoid. 5. Part of the sphenoidal cells. 6. The basilar portion of the sphenoid bone. Bones 2, 4, and 5, form the superior boundary of the nasal fossa. 7, 7. The articu- lating surface of the palatine process of the superior maxillary bone. The groove between 7,7, is the lateral half of the incisive canal, and the dark aper- ture in the groove the inferior termination of the left naso-palatine canal. 8. The nasal spine. 9. The palatine process of the palate bone. a. The su- perior turbinated bone, marked l>y grooves and apertures for filaments of the olfactory nerve, b. The superior meatus, c. A prolie passed into the posterior ethmoidal cells, d. The opening of the sphenoidal cells into the superior Fig. 40.*