PLANTAR NERVES. 506 knee-joint, two of the twigs accompanying the internal articular arteries. The External or short saphenous nerve (commnnicans poplitei, vel tibialis) proceeds from the middle of the internal popliteal, and descends in the groove between the two bellies of the gastrocnemius muscle to the middle of the leg ; it then pierces the fascia, and, after receiving the communicans peronei, comes into relation with the external saphenous vein, and follows the course of that vein to the outer ankle, to which, and to the integument of the heel and foot, it distributes branches. The Posterior tibial nerve is continued along the posterior aspect of the leg from the lower border of the popliteus muscle to the posterior part of the inner ankle, where it divides into the in- ternal and external plantar nerve. In the upper part of its course it lies to the inner side of the posterior tibial artery ; it then be- comes placed superficially to that vessel, and at the ankle is situ- ated to its outer side ; in the lower third of the leg it lies parallel with the inner border of the tendo-Achillis. The Branches of the posterior tibial nerve are, three or four muscular twigs to the deep muscles of the posterior aspect of the leg, the branch to the flexor longus pollicis accompanies the fibular artery ; one or two filaments which entwine around the artery and then terminate in the integument ;* and a plantar cutaneous branch which pierces the internal annular ligament and is distributed to the integument of the heel, and inner border of the sole of the foot. The Internal plantar nerve, larger than the external, crosses the posterior tibial vessels to enter the sole of the foot, and becomes placed between the abductor pollicis and flexor brevis digitorum ; it then enters the sheath of the latter muscle, and divides opposite the base of the metatarsal bones into three digital branches ; one to supply the adjacent sides of the great and second toe; the second the adjacent sides of the second and third toe ; and the third the corresponding sides of the third and fourth toe. This distribution is precisely similar to that of the digital branches of the median nerve in the hand. In its course the internal plantar nerve gives ofi" cutaneous branches to the integument of the inner side and sole of the foot; muscular branches to the muscles forming the inner and middle group of the sole ; a digital branch to the inner border of the great toe ; and articular branches to the articulations of the tarsal and metatarsal bones. The External plantar nerve, the smaller of the two, follows * It is extremely interesting, in a physiological point of view, to observe the mode of distribution of these filaments. I have traced them in relation with several, and I have no doubt that they exist in connexion vrith all the superficial arteries. They seem to be the direct monitors to the artery of the presence or approach of danger.