STRUCTUKE OP MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 614 the limitary membrane and subjacent granular tissue, instead of forming a raised network, is prolonged into papillae, which are termed villi. The villi vary in form, some being conical; others of the membrane, both on the valvulse conniventes and between those folds, and when immersed in water they give it the appear- ance of a fine velvet. There are no villi in the large intestine. The rete of the stomach and large intestine and the villi of the small intestine are both highly vascular; and, besides the limitary membrane and granular sublimitary substance, have entering into their structure capillary and lymphatic vessels. The villi have each a small artery and vein, with an intermediate capillary plexus; but no nerves have as yet been traced into them. The lymphatic or lacteal of each villus probably commences, as Henle has described, as a single csecal vessel. Krause thinks it begins both as a plexus and by several csecal tubes. Cellular coat.—The Cellular coat (submucous, vascular, ner- vous) is a moderately thick stratum of fibro-cellular tissue, which serves as the bond of connexion between the mucous and muscular coat. It gives support to the mucous membrane, and affords a nidus to the vessels and nerves previously to their distribution to that structure. It is firmly adherent to the mucous layer, but more loosely to the muscular coat. The cellular coat is thin and dense in the oesophagus ; thicker and more distinct in the stomach; and thicker than the other coats in the small intestine, where it is loose in texture, devoid of fat, and easily distended with air, excepting at * A portion of the mucous membrane of the jejunum, lying between the valvulae conniventes, magnified 19 times, and showing the lamellated and convoluted form of villi; the breadth of the lamellae is '^^ inch. Fig. 213.* cylindrical, and enlarged at the extremity; others again triangular or flat and lamellated. They measure in length about of an inch, and in thickness taper from to or of an inch, and are so numer- ous that Krause counted from fifty to ninety within the limits of a square line in the upper part of the in- testine; and lower down from forty to seventy; the entire number of villi in the small intestine he esti- mated at four millions. The villi are situated upon every part of the surface