229 PSOAS PARVUS. DIAPHRAGMA. lower border of the last rib. If the muscle be cut across or removed, the posterior lamella of the transversalis will be seen attached to the apices of the transverse processes; the quadratus being enclosed between the two lamellae as in a sheath. Relations.—Enclosed in the sheath formed by the aponeurosis of the transversalis muscle, it is in relation, in front, with the kidney, the colon, psoas magnus, and diaphragm. Behind, but also sepa- rated by its sheath, with the erector spinse. The Psoas parvus is a small and infrequent muscle which arises from the last dorsal and first lumbar vertebra and from the inter- vertebral substance between them, and terminates in a long slender tendon which expands inferiorly and is inserted into the ilio-pecti- neal line and eminence. The tendon is continuous by its outer border with the iliac fascia. Relations.—It rests on the psoas magnus, and is covered in by the peritoneum; superiorly it passes beneath the ligamentum arcua- tum internum of the diaphragm. Diaphragm A.—To obtain a good view of this important inspira- tory muscle, the peritoneum should be dissected from its under surface. It is a transverse muscular septum between the thorax and abdomen, and is composed of two portions, thoracic and lumbar, the former being named the greater, the latter the lesser muscle. The thoracic portion or greater muscle arises from the ensiform cartilage by a distinct slip and from the internal surface of the six inferior ribs indigitating with the transversalis. The fibres converge to be inserted into the central tendon. A triangular interval exists between the sternal and costal portion of the muscle at each side, closed by a few irregular muscular fibres and by the ssrous membranes of the cavity of the chest and abdomen. A protrusion of any portion of the contents of the abdomen through this opening constitutes phrenic or diaphragmatic hernia. The lumbar portion or lesser muscle consists of a right and left lateral half (pillars, crura); each of which is composed of three smaller pillars or crura, internal, middle, and externaL The critra arise from the front and lateral aspect of the bodies of the first, second, and third lumbar vertebrae, from the interverte- bral substance between the first, second, third, and fourth, from the transverse process of the first, ligamentum arcuatum internum and externum, and last rib. The left cms is shorter than the right by the breadth of a vertebra, and does not advance so far forward on the front of the vertebral column. The lesser muscle is inserted into the whole length of the posterior border of the central tendon. The origin of the lesser muscle takes place by a strong tendon on each side, from which and from the other points of attachment mus- cular fibres proceed. The internal pillar of the crus is its anterior fasciculus, which proceeds from the third lumbar vertebra ; the middle pillar, smaller than the others, proceeds from the second vertebra; the external pilla,r, the largest of the three, from the