ANATOMY OF THE TESTIS. 652 than the right, and permits the left testicle to reach a lower level than its fellow. The Arteries of the spermatic cord are, the spermatic artery from the aorta ; the deferential artery, accompanying the vas deferens, from the superior vesical ; and the cremasteric branch from the epigastric artery. The spermatic veins form a plexus, which consti- tutes the chief bulk of the cord; they are provided with valves at short intervals, and the smaller veins have a peculiar tendril-like arrangement, which has obtained for them the name of vasa pam- piniformia. The lymphatics are of large size,*and terminate in the lumbar glands. The nerves are the spermatic plexus, which is de- rived from the aortic and renal plexus, the genital branch of the genito-crural nerve, and the scrotal branch of the ilio-inguinal. The Vas deferens, the excretory duct of the testicle, is situated along the posterior border of the cord, where it may be distin- guished by the hard and cordy sensation which it communicates to the fingers. Its parietes are very thick and tough, and its canal extremely small, and lined by the mucous membrane continued from the urethra. The Coverings of the spermatic cord are, the spermatic fascia, cremaster muscle, and fascia propria. The spermatic fascia is a prolongation of the intercolumnar fascia, derived from the borders of the external abdominal ring during the descent of the testicle in the foetus. The cremasteric covering (erythroid) is the thin mus- cular expansion formed by the spreading out of the fibres of the cremaster, which is likewise carried down by the testis during its descent. The fascia propria is a continuation of the infundibuliform process from the transversalis fascia, which immediately invests the vessels of the cord, and is also obtained during the ^ descent of the testis. The Testis (testicle) is a small oblong and rounded gland, about an inch and a half in length, somewhat compressed on the sides and behind, and suspended in the cavity of the scrotum by the spermatic cord. Its position in the scrotum is oblique, so that the upper ex- tremity is directed upwa-rds and forwards, and a little outwards; the lower, downwards and backwards, and a little inwards ; the convex border looks forwards and downwards, and the flattened border, to which the cord is attached, backwards and upwards. Lying against its outer and posterior border is a flattened body which follows the course of the testicle, and extends from its upper to its lower extremity; this body is named, from its relation to the testis, epididymis {Ittl, upon, diSv/jLog, the testicle); it is divided into a central part or body, an upper extremity or globus major, and a lower extremity, globus minor (cauda) epididymis. The globus major is situated against the upper end of the testicle, to which it