TERES MINOR.—TERES MAJOR. 243 shoulder-joint; its tendon being lined by a prolongation from the synovial membrane. By its upper border it is in relation with the spine of the scapula ; and by the lower with the teres major and minor, being closely united with the latter. The Teres minor {teres, round) arises from the posterior surface of the lower border of the scapula for about the middle third of its extent; it is closely connected ^ith the lower border of the pre- ceding muscle, and is inserted into the inferior depression of the greater tuberosity of the humerus. The tendons of the three preceding muscles, with that of the subscapularis, are in immediate contact with the shoulder-joint, and form part of its ligamentous capsule, thereby preserving the solidity of the articulation. They are therefore the structures most frequently ruptured in dislocation of the head of the humerus. Relations.—By its posterior mrfciice with the deltoid, latissimus dorsi, and integument. By its anterior surface with the inferior border, and part of the dorsum of the scapula, the dorsalis scapulae vessels, scapular head of the triceps, and shoulder-joint. By its upper border with the infra-spinatus; and by the lotoer with the latissimus dorsi, teres major, and long head of the triceps. The Teres major muscle arises from the dorsal surface of the inferior angle of the scapula, and from its inferior border ; it is inserted conjointly with the tendon of the latissimus dorsi into the posterior bicipital ridge of the humerus. At its origin this muscle is covered by the latissimus dorsi, but the latter shortly afterwards curves around its lower border and becomes placed in front; the two tendons, at their insertion one lying behind the other are separated by a bursa. Relations.—By its posterior surface with the latissimus dorsi, sca- pular head of the triceps and integument. By its anterior surface with the subscapularis, latissimus dorsi, coraco-brachialis, short head of the biceps, axillary vessels, and branches of the brachial plexus. By its upper border it is in relation with the teres minor, from which it is separated by the scapular head of the triceps ; and by the lower it forms with the latissimus dorsi the lower and posterior border of the axilla. A large triangular space exists between the two teres muscles, which is divided into two minor spaces by the long head of the triceps. Actions.—The supra-spinatus raises the arm from the side; but only feebly, from the disadvantageous direction of its force. The infra-spinatus and teres minor are rotators of the head of the humerus outwards. The most important use of these three muscles is the protection of the joint, and defence against displacement of the head of the humerus, in which action they co-operate with the sub- scapularis. The teres major combines, with the latissimus dorsi, in rotating the arm inwards, and at the same time carrying it towards the side, and somewhat backwards. R 2