33 TEMPORAL BONE. nervus petrosus superficialis minor, a branch of Jacobson's nerve; and, lastly, a large foramen near the apex of the bone, the termi- nation of the carotid canal. The posterior surface forms the front boundary of the posterior fossa of the base of the sknll; near its middle is the oblique entrance of the meatus auditorius internus. Above the meatus auditorius intemus is a small oblique fissure, and a minute foramen; the former lodges a process of the dura mater, and the foramen gives passage to a small vein. Further outwards, towards the mastoid portion of the bone, is a small slit, almost hidden by a thin plate of bone; this is the aquceductus vestihidi, and transmits a small artery and vein of the vestibule and a process of dura mater. Below the meatus, and partly concealed by the margin of the posterior border of the bone, is the aqua^ductus cochlecBy through which passes a vein from the cochlea to the internal jugular vein, and a process of dura mater. The meatus auditorius internus is about one-third of an inch in depth, and pursues a slightly oblique course in relation to the petrous portion of the temporal bone, but a course directly outwards in relation to the cranium. At the bottom of the meatus, and upon its anterior aspect, is a reniform fossa, the con- cave border of which is directed towards the ^^9- 22.* entrance of the meatus. The reniform fossa is divided into an upper and lower compartment by ^sg^ a sharp ridge, which is prolonged for some dis- j f^A^ tance u|pon the anterior wall of the meatus, and ^^^Pl-. sometimes as far as its aperture; this ridge J^^^y ' marks the situation of the two nerves of the ~ tion. 2. Themastoid portion. Tlie numberis placedirmnediately above the inner opening of the mastoid foramen. 3. The petrous portion. 4. The groove for the posterior branch of the arteria meningea media. 5. The bevelled edge of the squamous border of the bone. . 6. The zygoma. 7. The digastric fossa, immediately iaternal to the mastoid process. 8. The occipital groove. 9. The groove for the lateral sinus. 10. The elevation upon the anterior surface of the petrous bone marking the situation of the perpendicular semicircular canal. 11. The opening of termination of the carotid canal. 12. The meatus auditorius iaternus. 13. A dotted hue leads upvrards from this number to the narrow fissure which lodges a process of the dura mater. Another line leads dovrawards to the sharp edge which conceals the opening of the aquseductus cochleae, while the number itself is situated on the bony lamina which overlies the opening of the aqueeductus vestibuh. 14. The styloid process. 15. The stylo-mastoid foramen. 16. The carotid foramen. 17. The jugular process. The deep excavation to the left of this process forms part of the jugular fossa, and that to the right is the groove for the eighth pair of nerves. 18. The notch for the fifth nerve upon the upper border of the petrous bone, near its apex. 19. The extremity of the petrous bone which gives origin to the levator palati and tensor tympani muscle. * The reniform fossa of the meatus auditorius internus; right temporal bone. 1. The ridge dividing the reniform fossa into two compartments, 2. The opening of the aqusedtictus Fallopii. The openings follomng that of the aquseductus Fallopii in a curved direction require no reference. 3. The cluster of three or four oblique openings on the posterior wall of the meatus. 4, The spiraUy-grooved base of the cochlea, D