lEIS.—CILIAKY PROCESSES. 528 In animals, the pigmentum nigrum, on the posterior wall of the eyeball, is replaced by a layer of considerable extent, and of metallic brilliancy, called the tapetum. The Ciliary ligament, or circle (annnlus albidns), is the bond of union between the external and middle tunic of the eyeball, and serves to connect the cornea and sclerotic, at their line of junction, with the iris and external layer of the choroid. It is also the point to which the ciliary nerves and vessels proceed previously to their distribution, and it receives the anterior ciliary arteries through the anterior margin of the sclerotic. A minute vascular canal is situated within the ciliary ligament, called the ciliary canal, or the canal of Fontana,* from its discoverer. The Iris (iris, a rainbow) is so named from its variety of colour in different individuals : it forms a septum between the anterior and posterior chamber of the eye, and is pierced somewhat to the nasal side of its centre by a circular opening, which is called the pupil. By its periphery it is connected with the ciliary ligament, and by its inner circumference forms the margin of the pupil; its anterior surface looks towards the cornea, the posterior towards the ciliary processes and lens. The iris is composed of two layers, an anterior or muscular, con- sisting of radiating fibres which converge from the circumference towards the centre, and have the power of dilating the pupil; and circular, which surround the pupil like a sphincter, and by their action produce contraction of its area. The posterior layer is of a deep purple tint, and is thence named uvea, from its resemblance in colour to a ripe grape. The Ciliary processes (corpus ciliare) may be seen in two ways, either by removing the iris from its attachment to the ciliary liga- ment, when a front view of the processes will be obtained, or by making a transverse section through the globe of the eye, when they may be examined from behind, as in Fig. 180. • They consist of a number of triangular folds, formed apparently by the plaiting of the middle and internal layer of the choroid. Ac- cording to Zinn, they are about sixty in number, and may be divided into large and small, the latter being situated in the spaces between the former. Their periphery is connected with the ciliary ligament, and is continuous with the middle and internal layer of the choroid. The central border is free, and rests against the circumference of the lens. The anterior surface corresponds with the uvea; the posterior receives the folds of the zonula ciliaris between its processes, and thus establishes a connexion between the choroid and the third tunic of the eye. The ciliary processes are covered with a thick layer of pigmentxim nigrum, which is more abundant upon them, and upon the anterior part of the choroid, than upon the posterior part of the * Felix Fontana, an anatomist of Tuscany. His " Description of a New Canal in the Eye," was published in 1778, in a Letter to the Professor of Anatomy in Upsal.