LIGAMENTS OF THE RIBS. 133 -f is ruptured, and dislocation of the fibro-cartilage with its condyle into the zygomatic fossa occurs. In elevation the fibrous cartilage and condyle are returned to their original position. The forward and backward movement is a gliding of the fibro-cartilage upon the glenoid articular surface, in the antero-posterior direction; and the movement from side to side, in the lateral direction. 6. Articulation of the Ribs with the Vertebra;.—The ligaments of these articulations are so strong as to render dislocation impossible; the neck of the rib would break before displacement could occur: they are divisible into two groups :- -1. Those connecting the head of the rib with the bodies of the vertebra^; and, 2. Those connecting the necJc and tubercle of the rib with the transverse processes. They are, 1st Group. 2nd Group. Anterior costo-vertebral or stellate, Anterior costo-transverse, Capsular, Middle costo-transverse, Interarticular ligament. Posterior costo-transverse. Two synovial membranes. The anterior costo-vertebral or stellate ligament (lig. capituli cos- tarum, fig. 65) consists of three short bands of ligamentous fibres that radiate from the anterior part of the head of the rib. The superior band passes upwards to be attached to the vertebra above; the middle fasciculus is attached to the intervertebral substance; and the inferior, to the vertebra below. In the first, eleventh, and twelfth ribs, the three fasciculi are attached to the body of the corresponding vertebra. The capsular ligament is a thin layer of ligamentous fibres sur- rounding the joint in the interval left by the anterior ligament; it is thickest above and below the articulation, and protects the synovial membranes. The interarticidar ligament is a thin band which passes between the sharp crest on the head of the rib and the intervertebral sub- stance. It divides the joint into two cavities, which are each fur- nished with a separate synovial membrane. The first, eleventh, and twelfth ribs have no interarticular ligament, and consequently but one synovial membrane. The anterior costo-transverse ligament (lig. transversarium in- ternum) is a broad band composed of two fasciculi, which ascend from the crest-like ridge on the neck of the rib, to the transverse process immediately above. This ligament separates the anterior from the dorsal branch of the intercostal nerve. The middle costo-transverse ligament (lig. cervicis externum) is a very strong interosseous ligament passing directly between the posterior surface of the neck of the rib, and the transverse process against which it rests. It is absent in the first and two inferior ribs. The posterior costo-transverse ligament (lig. transversarium ex-