SEROUS COAT OF THE INTESTINE. 619 fibres are most abundant at the lesser end, and at the pylorus are aggregated into a thick circular ring, which, with the spiral fold of mucous membrane found in this situation, constitutes the 'pyloric valve. At the great end of the stomach a new order of fibres is introduced, having for their object to strengthen and compress that extremity of the organ. They are directed more or less horizontally from the great end towards the lesser end, and are generally lost upon the sides of the stomach at about its middle; these are the oblique fibres. They are most numerous at the upper part of the cul-de-sac, near the cardiac orifice. In the Small intestine the muscular coat is thicker in the duo- denum and jejunum than in the ileum; the longitudinal fibres are most numerous along the free border of the intestine; and the circular fibres are more or less oblique in direction. At the termi- nation of the ileum the circular fibres are continued into the two folds of the ileo-csecal valve, while the longitudinal fibres pass onwards to the large intestine. In the Large intestine the longitudinal fibres commence at the appendix vermiformis and are collected into three bands, anterior, broad; and two posterior and narrower bands. These bands are nearly one-half shorter than the intestine, and serve to maintain the sacculated structure which is characteristic of the caecum and colon. In ;the descending colon the posterior bands usually unite and form a single band. From this point the bands are continued downwards upon the sigmoid flexure to the rectum, around which they spread out and form a thick and very muscular longitudinal layer. The circular fibres in the caecum and colon are thin; in the rectum they are thicker, and near its lower extremity are aggregated into the thick muscular band which is known as the internal sphincter ani. Between the latter and the mucous membrane are several narrow fasciculi of longitudinal muscular fibres, somewhat more than an inch in length, which have been described by Horner of Philadelphia. Serous coat.—The pharynx and oesopha-gus have no covering of serous membrane. The alimentaiy canal within the abdomen has a serous layer, derived from the peritoneum. The Stomach is completely surrounded by peritoneum, excepting along the line of attachment of the great and lesser omentum. The first or oblique portion of the duodenum, is also completely included by the serous membrane, with the exception of the points of attach- ment of the omenta. The descending portion has only a partial covering on its anterior surface, derived from the right meso-colon. The transverse portion is also behind the peritoneum, being situated between the two layers of the transverse meso-colon, and has but a partial covering. The rest of the small intestine is completely in- vested by it, excepting along the concave border (margo mesen- terialis) to which the mesentery is attached. The ccecum is more or less invested by the peritoneum, the more frequent disposition