275 SEMI-MEMBRANOSUS. sected from the tuberosity of the ischium, to bring into view the origin of the next. The Semi-membranosus, remarkable for the tendinous expansion upon its anterior and posterior surface, arises from the tuberosity of the ischium, in front of the common origin of the two preceding muscles. It is inserted into the posterior part of the inner tuberosity of the tibia; at its insertion the tendon splits into three portions, one of which is inserted in a groove on the inner side of the head of the tibia, beneath the internal lateral ligament. The second is con- tinuous with an aponeurotic expansion that binds down the popliteus muscle, the popliteal fascia; and the third turns upwards and out- wards to the external condyle of the femur, forming the middle portion of the posterior ligament of the knee-joint (ligamentum pos- ticum Winslowii). The tendons of the semi-tendinosus, semi-membranosus, gracilis and sartorius, form the inner hamstring. Relations. —By its superficial surface with the gluteus maximus, biceps, semi-tendinosus, fascia lata, and at its insertion with the tendinous expansion of the sartorius. By its deep surface with the quadratus femoris, adductor magnus, internal head of the gastro- cnemius, the knee-joint from which it is separated by a synovial membrane, and the popliteal artery and vein. By its inner border with the gracilis. By its outer 6ort^er with the great ischiatic nerve, and in the popliteal space, with the popliteal artery and vein. If the semi-membranosus muscle be turned down from its origin, the student will bring into view the broad and radiated expanse of the adductor magnus, upon which the three flexor muscles above described rest. Actions.—These three hamstring muscles are the direct flexors of the leg upon the thigh; and taking their fixed point from below, they balance the pelvis on the lower extremities. The biceps, from the obliquity of its direction, everts the leg when partly flexed, and the semi-tendinosus turns the leg inwards when in the same state of flexion. Anterior Tibial Region. Tibialis anticus. Extensor longus digitorum, Peroneus tertius, Extensor proprius pollicis. Dissection.—The dissection of the anterior tibial region is to be commenced by carrying an incision along the middle of the leg, midway between the tibia and fibula, from the knee to the ankle, and bounding it inferiorly by a transverse incision extending from one malleolus to the other. And to expose the tendons on the dorsum of the foot, the longitudinal incision may be carried onwards T 2