MONS VENERIS—LABIA MAJORA. 663 the uterine ; the spermatic or ovarian artery being distributed to the broad ligaments and not specially to the ovaries, according to Weber. The veins form an ovarian plexus which terminates in the uterine plexus; the nerves are derived from the spermatic plexus. The Round ligaments are two muscular and fibrous cords be- tween four and five inches long, situated within the layers of the broad ligaments, and extending from the upper angles of the uterus, and along the spermatic canals to the labia majora, in which they are lost. They are accompanied by a small artery, by several fila- ments of the spermatic plexus of nerves, by a plexus of veins, and by a process of the peritoneum which represents the serous mem- brane investing the spermatic cord in the male. In the young sub- ject, this process extends for a short distance along the spermatic canal, and is denominated the canal of Nuck; it is sometimes per- vious in the adult. The plexus of veins occasionally becomes vari- cose, and forms a small tumour at the external abdominal ring, which has been mistaken for inguinal hernia. The round ligaments serve to retain the uterus in its proper position in the pelvis, and, during utero-gestation, to draw the anterior surface of the organ against the abdominal parietes. * external organs of generation. The female organs of generation are divisible into the internal and external: the internal are contained within the pelvis, and have been already described ; they are the vagina, uterus, ovaries, and Fallopian tubes. The external organs are the mons Veneris, labia majora, labia minora, clitoris, meatus urinarius, and the opening of the vagina. The Mons Veneris is the eminence of integument, situated upon the front of the pubes. Its cellular tissue is loaded with adipose substance, and the surface covered with hairs. The Labia majora are two large longitudinal folds of integument, containing cellular tissue, fat, and a tissue resembling the dartos. They enclose an elliptical fissure, the common urino-sexual opening or vulva. The vulva receives the inferior opening of the urethra and vagina, and is bounded anteriorly by the commissura superior, and posteriorly by the commissura inferior. Stretching across the posterior commissure is a small transverse fold, the frcenulvm lahiorum or fourchette, which is ruptured during parturition; and immediately within this fold is a small cavity, the fossa navicu- laris. The length of the perinseum is measured from the posterior commissure to the margin of the anus, and is usually not more than an inch. The external surface of the labia is covered with hairs; the inner surface is smooth, and lined by mucous membrane, which contains a number of sebiparous follicles, and is covered by a thin cuticular epithelium. The use of the labia majora is to favour the