STRUCTURE OF MUSCLE. 166 Fig. 93.t distances throughout its whole extent. It also presents other markings or strige, having a longitudinal direction, which indicate the existence of fibrillse within its myolemma. The myolemma, or investing sheath of the ultimate fibre, is thin, structureless, and transparent. According to Bowman, * the ulti- mate fibres or fasciculi are poly- hedral in shape and various in size; the polyhedral form being due to mutual pressure and the variety of size, besides being met with in a single muscle, being also characteristic of different classes, genera, and even sexes of ani- mals : thus the average diameter of the ultimate fibre in the human female is -j-g^, in the male -j^, the average of both being in round numbers The largest fibres are met with in fishes, in which they average -^^2 '■> Ti&^it largest are found in man; while in other classes they range in the following order:—insects ; reptiles 4g-^; mammalia -^It j hirds -g-^. The ultimate fibrils of animal life, according to Bowman, are beaded filaments presenting a regular succession of segments and constric- tions, the latter being narrower than the former, and the component substance probably less dense. An ultimate fibre consists of a bundle of these fibrils, which are so disposed that all the segments and all the constrictions corre- spond, and in this manner give rise to the alternate light and dark lines of the trans- verse striae. The fibrils are connected together with very different degrees of closeness in different animals; in man they are but slightly adherent, and distinct longitudinal lines of junction may be observed between them; they also separate very easily when macerated for some time. Besides the more usual se- paration of the ultimate fibre into fibrils, it breaks when stretched, Fig. 94.J * On the Minute Structure and Movements of Voluntary Muscle. Philo- sophical Transactions, 1840. t Transverse section of ultimate fibres of the biceps, after Bowman. In this figure the polyhedral form of the fibres is seen, and their composition of ^timate fibrils. % B. An ultimate fibril of muscular fibre of animal life, according to the views of Mr. Bowman. c. A muscular fibre of animal life, more highly magnified. Its myo- lemma is so thin and transparent as to permit the ultimate fibrils to be seen through.