DEKMA OR CUTIS. 555 Fig. 190. the nipples and scrotum owe their contractile power, and the ge- neral surface of the skin the contraction which is known by the name of cutis anserina. The corium presents some variety in thick- ness in different parts of the body. Thus in the more exposed regions, as the back, the outer sides of the limbs, the palms, and the soles, it is remarkable for its thickness ; while on protected parts it is comparatively thin. On the eyelids, the penis, and the scrotum it is peculiarly delicate. It is connected by its under surface with the common superficial fascia of the body. The Papillary layer of the derma is raised in the form of conical prominences or papillse. On the ge- neral surface of the body the papillae are short and exceedingly minute ; but in other situations, as the palmar surface of the hands and fingers, and the plantar surface of the feet and toes, they are long and of large size. They also differ in arrangement; for, on the general surface they are dis- tributed at unequal distances and without order; whereas, on the palms and soles, and on the corresponding surfaces of the fingers and toes, they are collected into little square clumps, containing from ten to twenty pa- pillse; and these little clumps are disposed in parallel rows. It is this arrangement in rows that gives rise to the characteristic parallel ridges and furrows which are met with on the hands and feet. The papilla in these little square clumps are for the most part uni- form in size and length, but every here and there one papilla may be observed which is longer than the rest. The largest papillse of the derma are those which produce the nail; in the dermal follicle of * Anatomy of a portion of skin from the palm of the hand. 1. The papil- lary layer, in which the longitudinal furrows (2) marking the arrangement of the papihse into ridges is shown. Each ridge is, moreover, divided by trans- verse furrows (3) into small quadrangular clumps. The quadrangular clumps consist of a tuft of minute conical papiUse, of which one or two are frequently longer and larger than the rest. In this figure the long papillae are alone seen, the rest being too numerous to introduce into a wood-engraving. 4. The rete mucosum raised from the papillary layer, and turned back; the under surface of this stratum presents an accurate impression of the papillary layer; on it are seen longitudinal ridges corresponding with the longitudinal furrows, transverse ridges corresponding with the transverse furrows and quadrangular depressions corresponding with the quadrangular clumps of papillse. More- over, wherever one of the long papiUse exists, a distinct conical sheath vdll be found in the rete mucosum. 5, 5. Perspiratory ducts drawn out straight by the separation of the rete mucosum from the papillary layer; the point at which each perspiratory duct issues from the papillary layer, and pierces the rete mucosum, is the middle of the transverse furrow between the quad- rangular masses.