LESSER ISCHIATIO NERVE. 504 accompanies the internal pudic artery along the outer wall of the ischio-rectal fossa, lying inferiorly to the artery and enclosed in the same sheath. Near its origin it gives off the inferior Jicemorrhoidal nerve, and in the ischio-rectal fossa divides into a superior and in- ferior branch. The Inferior^hcemorrhoidal nerve, often a branch of the sacral plexus, passes through the lesser sacro-ischiatic foramen, and descends to the termination of the rectum to be distributed to the sphincter ani and integument. The Dorsalis penis nerve, the superior division of the internal pudic, ascends along the posterior surface of the ramus of the ischium, pierces the triangular ligament, and accompanies the arteria dorsalis penis to the glans, to which it is distributed. At the root of the penis the nerve gives off a cutaneous branch which runs along the side of the organ, gives filaments to the corpus cavernosum, and with its fellow of the opposite side supplies the integument of the upper two-thirds of the penis. The Perineal nerve, or inferior terminal branch, larger than the preceding, pursues the course of the superficial perineal artery in the perineum and divides into cutaneous and muscular branches. , The cutaneous branches (superficial perineal), two in number, ■posterior and anterior, enter the ischio-rectal fossa and pass for- ward with the superficial perineal artery to be distributed to the integument of the perineum, scrotum, and under part of the penis. The posterior superficial perineal nerve sends a few filaments to the integument of the anus and sphincter ani ; while the anterior gives oif one or two twigs to the levator ani. The muscular branches proceed from a single trunk, which passes inwards behind the transversus perinei muscle; they are distri- buted to the transversus perinei, accelerator urinse, and erector penis. The perineal nerve also sends two or three filaments to the corpus spongiosum. In the female the pudic nerve is distributed to the parts analo- gous to those of the male. The sujoerior branch supplies the clitoris; the inferior the vulva and perineum. The Lesser ischiatic nerve passes out of the pelvis through the great sacro-ischiatic foramen below the pyriformis muscle, and continues its course downwards through the thigh to the lower part of the popliteal region, where it pierces the fascia and becomes sub- cutaneous. It then accompanies the external saphenous vein to the lower part of the leg, and communicates with the external saphenous nerve. The branches of the lesser ischiatic nerve are, muscular and cutaneous. The muscular or inferior gluteal are several large branches distributed to the gluteus maximus. The Cutaneous branches are divisible into external, internal, and middle. The external cutaneous branches are several filaments