STRUCTURAL ANATOMY OF THE LIVER. 628 smaller canals where the coats of the vein are in contact with the walls of the canal. They then enter the interlobular spaces and divide into branches, which cover with their ramifications every part of the surface of the lobules, with the exception of their bases and those extremities of the superficial lobules which appear upon the surfaces of the liver. The interlobular veins communicate freely with each other, and with the corresponding veins of adjoining fissures, and establish a general portal anastomosis throughout the entire liver. The lobular branches are derived from the interlobu- lar veins; they form a plexus within each lobule, and converge from the circumference towards the centre, where they terminate in the minute radicles of the intralobular vein. '' This plexus, inter- posed between the interlobular portal veins and the intralobular hepatic vein, constitutes the venous part of the lobule, and may be calledi t}iQ lobular venous plexus.''"' The regular islets of the sub- stance of the lobules, seen between the meshes of this plexus by means of the microscope, are the acini of Malpighi, and are portions of the lobular biliary plexus. The portal vein returns the venous blood from the chylopoietic viscera, to be circulated through the lobules; it also receives the venous blood which results from the distribution of the hepatic artery. The Hepatic duct, entering the liver at the transverse fissure, divides into branches, which ramify through the portal canals, with the portal vein and hepatic artery, to terminate in the substance of the lobules. Its branches, like those of the portal vein, are vaginal, interlobular, and lobular. The Vaginal branches ramify through the capsule of Grlisson, and form a vaginal biliary plexus, which, like the vaginal portal plexus, surrounds the vessels in the large canals, but is deficient on that side of the smaller canals near which the duct is placed. The branches given off by the vaginal biliary plexus are interlobular and lobular. The interlobular branches proceed from the vaginal biliary plexus where it exists, and directly from the hepatic duct on that side of the smaller canals against which the duct is placed. They enter the interlobular spaces, and ramify upon the capsular surface of the lobules in the interlobular fissures, where they communicate freely with each other. The lobular diicts are derived chiefly from the interlobular ; but to those lobules forming the walls of the portal canals, they pass directly from the vaginal plexus. They enter the lobule, and form a plexus in its interior, the lobidar biliary plexus, which constitutes the principal part of the substance of the lobule. The ducts terminate either in loops or in ceecal extremities. The coats of the duct are very vascular, and are supplied with a number of mucous follicles, which are distributed irregularly in the larger, but are arranged in two parallel longitudinal rows in the smaller ducts.