240 MUSCLES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. clavicular, sternal, and costal; the two former are separated from each other by a well marked cellular interspace; the latter is dis- tinguished not only by its origin, but also by forming a fold beneath the sternal portion, and lying altogether behind it at its insertion. At this point the three portions are superimposed, the .clavicular portion being in front, the sternal portion next, and the costal por- tion behind; the clavicular portion being prolonged at its insertion to the lower extremity of the bicipital ridge, and the costal portion to its upper end. Relations.—By its external surface with the fibres of origiQ of the platysma myoides, the mammary gland, superficial fascia and integument. By its internal surface, on the thorax, with the clavicle, sternum, costal cartilages, intercostal muscles, subclavius, pectoralis minor, and serratus magnus; in the axilla, with the axil- lary vessels and glands. By its external border with the deltoid, from which it is separated above by a cellular interspace lodging the cephalic vein and descending branch of the thoracico-acromialis artery. Its lower border forms the anterior boundary of the axillary space. The pectoralis major is now to be removed by dividing its fibres along the lower border of the clavicle, and then carrying the incision perpendicularly downwards, parallel to the sternum, and at about three inches from its border. Divide some loose cellular tissue, and several small branches of the thoracic arteries, and reflect the muscle outwards. We thus bring into view a region of considerable interest, in the middle of which is situated the pectoralis minor. The Pectoralis minor (costo-coracoideus) arises by three digita- tions from the front and upper border of the third, fourth, and fifth ribs near their cartilages; and is inserted by a broad tendon into the anterior border and apex of the coracoid process of the scapula. It is closely united at its insertion with the coraco-brachialis. Relations.—By its anterior surf ace with the pectoralis major and superior thoracic vessels and nerves. By its posterior surface with the ribs, intercostal muscles, sei'ratus magmas, axillary space, and axillary vessels and nerves. Its upper border forms the lower boundary of a triangular space, bounded above by the costo-coracoid membrane, and internally by the ribs; in this space are found the axillary vessels and nerves. The Subclavius (costo-clavicularis) arises by a round tendon fi'om the cartilage and adjacent part of the first rib; it is inserted into the under surface of the clavicle as far as the costo-coracoid liga- ment. This muscle is concealed by the costo-coracoid membrane, an extension of the deep cervical fascia, by which it is invested. Relations.—By its upper surf ace with the clavicle. By the lower with the subclavian artery and vein and brachial plexus, which separate it from the first rib. In front with the pectoralis major, the costo-coracoid membrane being interposed. Actions.—The pectoralis major draws the arm against the thorax,