126 LIGAMENTS OP THE VEETEBRAL COLUMN. The Supraspinous ligament (ligamenta apicum, fig. 75) is a strong, fibrous cord, extending from the apex of the spinous process of the last cervical vertebra to the sacrum, and attached to each spinous process in its course. Like the anterior and posterior com- mon ligaments, it is composed of fibres of unequal length, the deeper fibres passing from one vertebra to the next, the superficial fibres extending over several spinous processes. It is thickest in the lum- bar region. The continuation of this ligament upwards to the tuberosity of the occipital bone, constitutes the rudimentary liga- mentum nuch^ of man. The latter is strengthened, as in animals, by a thin slip from the spinous process of each cervical vertebra. Transverse processes.—The intertransverse ligaments are thin and membranous ; they are found only between the transverse pro- cesses of the lower dorsal vertebrse. 2. Articulation of the Atlas vnth the Occipital hone.—The liga- ments of this articulation are seven in number : Two anterior occipito-atloid, Posterior occipito-atloid, Lateral occipito-atloid. Two capsular. Of the two anterior ligaments one is a ro-unded cord, situated in * An anterior view of the ligaments connecting the atlas, axis and occipital bone. A transverse section has been carried through the base of the skull, dividing the basilar process of the occipital bone and the petrous portion of the temporal bones. 1. The anterior round occipito-atloid ligament. 2. The anterior broad occipito-atloid ligament. 3. The commencement of the an- terior common Hgament. 4. The anterior atlo-axoid ligament, vrhich is con- tinuous inferiorly with the commencement of the anterior common ligament. 5. One of the atlo-axoid capsular ligaments; that on the opposite side has been removed, to show the approximated surfaces of the articular pro- cesses (6). 7. One of the occipito-atloid capsular ligaments. The most ex- ternal of these fibres constitute the lateral occipito-atloid ligament.