313 AKTERIA INNOMINATA. The Coronary arteries (cardiacas) arise from tlie aortic sinuses at the commencement of the ascending portion of the arch of the aorta, immediately above the free margin of the semilunar valves. The left coronary (coronaria cordis sinistra) passes forwards, between the pulmonary artery and left appendix auriculge, and divides into two branches; one of which winds around the base of the left ventricle in the auriculo-ventricular groove, and inosculates with the right coronary, forming an arterial circle around the base of the heart; while the other passes along the line of union of the two ventricles, upon the anterior aspect of the heart, to its apex, where it anastomoses with the descending branch of the right coronary. It supplies the left auricle and the anterior surface of both ventricles. The right coronary (coronaria cordis dextra) passes forwards, between the root of the pulmonary artery and the right auricle, and winds along the auriculo-ventricular groove, to the posterior longitu- dinal furrow, where it descends upon the posterior aspect of the heart to its apex, and inosculates with the left coronary. It is dis- tributed to the right auricle, and to the posterior surface of both ventricles, and sends a large branch along the sharp margin of the right ventricle to the apex of the heart. ARTERIA rroOMINATA. The Arteria innominata (fig. 134, No. 4) is the first and largest artery given off by the arch of the aorta. It is an inch and a half in length, and ascends obliquely towards the right sterno-clavicular articulation, where it divides into the right carotid and right sub- clavian artery. Relations.—It is in relation, in front, with the left vena innomi- nata, the sternum, and origin of the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles : behind, with the trachea and right pneumogastric nerve; to the right it has the right vena innominata and pleura; and to the left, the left common carotid artery and the remains of the thymus gland. Plan of the Relations of the Arteria Innominata. In Front. Left vena innomiiiata, Sternum, Sterno-hyoideus, Sterno-thyroideus. Might Side. Right vena inno- minata, Pleura. Arteria innominata. Left Side. Left carotid, Remains of thymus. Behind, Trachea, Eight pneumogastric nerve.