AURICULO-TEMPORAL NERVE. 467 and behind tlie tendon of the temporal, crosses the sigmoid notch with the masseteric artery to the masseter muscle. It sends a small branch to the temporal muscle, and a filament to the tempore- maxillary articulation. The Deep temporal branches, two in number, anterior and pos- terior, pass between the upper border of the external pterygoid muscle and the temporal bone to the temporal muscle. Two or three filaments from these nerves pierce the temporal fascia, and communi- cate with the lachrymal, subcutaneus malag, superficial temporal, and facial nerve. The Buccal branch is of large size, and pierces the lower fibres of the external pterygoid muscle at its anterior part. It sends a branch to the external pterygoid muscle, and is distributed to the bucci- nator, and to the mucous membrane and integument of the cheek, communicating with the facial nerve. The Internal pterygoid branch is a long and slender nerve which passes inwards to the internal pterygoid muscle, and gives filaments in its course to the tensor palati and tensor tympani. This nerve is remarkable from its connexion with the otic ganglion, to which it is closely attached. The External pterygoid branch is commonly derived from the bi^ccal nerve. 'The Internal division of the inferior maxillary nerve splits into three branches— Auriculo-temporal, Inferior dental, Gustatory. The Auriculo-temporal nerve originates by two roots, between which the arteria meningea media takes its course, and passes di- rectly backwards behind the articulation of the lower jaw. It then ascends between that articulation and the meatus auris, and, escaping from beneath the parotid gland, divides into two temporal branches. While behind the tempore-maxillary articulation, it forms a kind of plexus, and sends off several branches. Its branches are, a small branch to the temporo-maxillary articu- lation ; two or three to the parotid gland; two to the meatus auris, which enter the canal between the fibre-cartilage and the processus auditorius; two auricular branches to the pinna; a communicating branch to the otic ganglion; two communicating branches to the facial nerve, and the temporal branches. The auricular branches, superior and inferior, are distributed to the pinna above and below the meatus. The inferior branch com- municates with the sympathetic. The branches which communicate with the facial nerve embrace the external carotid artery in their course. The temporal branches are anterior and posterior; the anterior accompanies the temporal artery, and supplies the integument of the temporal region, communicating with the branches of the facial, H H 2