658 ANATOMY OP THE UTERUS. terior wall of the vagina is covered, on its pelvic surface, by the peritoneum; while, in front, the peritoneum is reflected from the upper part of the cervix of the uterus to the posterior surface of the bladder. On each side it gives attachment, superiorly, to the broad ligaments of the uterus; and, inferiorly, to the pelvic fascia and levatores ani. The Mucous membrane presents a number of transverse papillae or ruga; upon the upper and lower surfaces of the canal, the rug^ extending outwards on each side from a middle raphe. The trans- verse papillge and raphe are more apparent upon the upper than upon the lower surface, and the two raphe are called the columns of the vagina. The mucous membrane is covered by a thin cuticular epithelium, which is continued from the labia, and terminates by a fringed border at about the middle of the cervix uteri. The Middle or erectile layer consists of erectile tissue enclosed between two layers of fibrous membrane; this layer is thickest near the commencement of the vagina, and becomes gradually thinner as it approaches the uterus. The External, or dartoid layer of the vagina, serves to connect it to surrounding viscera. Thus, it is very closely adherent to the under surface of the bladder, and drags that organ down with it in prolapsus uteri. To the rectum it is less closely connected, and that intestine is therefore less frequently affected in prolapsus. UTERUS. The Uterus is a flattened organ of a pyriform shape, having the base directed upwards and forwards, and the apex downwards and backwards in the line of the axis of the inlet of the pelvis, and form- ing a considerable angle with the course of the vagina. It is convex on its posterior surface, and somewhat flattened upon its anterior aspect. In the unimpregnated state it is about three inches in length, two in breadth across its broadest part, and one in thickness; and is divisible into fundus, body, cervix, and os uteri. At the period of puberty the uterus weighs about one ounce and a half; after parturi- tion from two to three ounces; and at the ninth month of utero- gestation from two to four pounds. The Fundus and hody are enclosed in a duplicature of peritoneum, which is connected with the sides of the pelvis, and forms a trans- verse septum between the bladder and rectum. The folds formed by this duplicature of peritoneum on either side of the organ are the broad ligaments of the uterus. The cervix is the lowest portion of the organ; it is distinguished from the body by a well-marked con- striction ; around its circumference is attached the upper end of the vagina, and at its extremity is an opening which is nearly round in the virgin, and transverse after parturition, the os uteri (os tineas), bounded before and behind by two labia; the anterior labium being the most thick, and the posterior somewhat the longer. The opening