53 INFERIOR MAXILLARY BONE. border. The vomer not unfrequently presents a convexity to one or the other side, generally, it is said, to the left. Development.—By a single centre, which makes its appearance at the same time with those of the vertebr£e. Ossification begins from below and proceeds upwards. At birth, the vomer presents the form of a trough, in the concavity of which the cartilage of the septum nasi is placed; it is this disposition which subsequently enables the bone to embrace the rostrum of the sphenoid. The vomer has no muscles attached to it. Articulations.—With six bones: sphenoid, ethmoid, two superior maxillary, two palate; and the cartilage of the septum. Ineerior maxillary Bone.—The lower jaw is the arch of bone which contains the inferior teeth; it is divisible into a horizontal portion or body, and a perpendicular portion, the ramus, at each side. Upon the external swface of the body of the bone, at the middle line, and extending from between the two first incisor teeth to the chin, is a slight ridge, crista mentalis, which indicates the point of conjunction of the lateral halves of the bone in the young subject, the symphisis. Immediately external to this ridge is a depression which gives origin to the depressor labii inferioris muscle; and, cor- responding with the root of the lateral incisor tooth, another depres- sion, the incisive fossa, for the levator labii inferioris. Farther out- wards is an oblique opening, the mental foramen, for the exit of the mental nerve and inferior dental artery; and below this foramen, the commencement of an oblique ridge, which runs upwards and out- wards to the base of the coronoid process, and gives attachment to the depressor anguli oris, platysma myoides, and buccinator muscle. Near the posterior part of this surface is a rough impression made by the masseter muscle; and immediately in front of this impression, a groove for the facial artery. The projecting tuberosity at the posterior extremity of the lower jaw, at the point where the body and ramus meet, is the angle. Upon the internal surface of the lody of the bone, at the sym- phisis, are two small pointed tubercles; immediately beneath these, two other tubercles, less marked; beneath them a ridge, and beneath the ridge two rough depressions of some size. These four points give attachment, from above downwards, to the genio-hyo-glossi, genio- hyoidei, part of the mylo-hyoidei, and digastric muscles. Running outwards into the body of the bone from the above ridge is a pro- minent line, the mylo-hyoidean ridge, which gives attachment to the mylo-hyoideus muscle, and by its extremity to the pterygo-maxillary ligament and superior constrictor muscle. Immediately above the ridge, and by the side of the symphisis, is a smooth concave surface, which corresponds with the sublingual gland; and below the ridge, and more externally, a deeper fossa for the submaxillary gland.