TEMPORAL BONE. 34 seventh pair, facial and auditory, whicli are lodged in the meatus. Along the convexity of the reniform fossa, and arranged in a curved line from above downwards, are four or five openings, the two upper ones being the largest, and occupying the superior compart- ment of the fossa, the two or three inferior ones, smaller than the upper, the inferior compartment. Behind the latter, at the dis- tance of a line and a half, and on the posterior wall of the meatus, is a cluster of three or four oblique openings, two of which are minute. The inferior and larger compartment of the reniform fossa presents a well-marked spiral groove, which commences on the convex border of the fossa, immediately below the line of openings above described, and, sweeping round the convexity of the inferior com- partment, and becoming deeper as it proceeds, terminates by a small round aperture in the centre of the spire. The uppermost of the openings of the reniform fossa is the aperture of the aquseductus Fallopii, and gives passage to the facial nerve. The rest are cul de sacs, pierced at the bottom by numerous minute foramina for the passage of filaments of the vestibular nerve, while the cluster of three openings on the posterior wall of the meatus is intended for single filaments of the same nerve. The spiral groove corresponds with the base of the cochlea, and being pierced by a number of minute foramina for filaments of the cochlear nerve, is named tractus spiralis foraminulentus. The opening in the centre of the spiral impression leads into a canal which occupies the central axis of the modiolus, and is thence called tubulus centralis modioli. The basilar surface of the petrous portion is rough and irregular, and enters into the formation of the under surface of the base of the skull. Projecting downwards, near its middle, is a long sharp spine, the styloid process, occasionally connected with the bone only by cartilage, and lost during maceration, particularly in the young subject. At the base of this process is a rough sheath-like ridge, into which the styloid process appears implanted, the vaginal pro- cess (tympanic lamina*). In front of the vaginal process is a broad triangular depression, the glenoid fossa, bounded in front by the eminentia articularis, behind by the vaginal process, and externally by the rough lip of the processus auditorius. This fossa is divided transversely by the glenoid fissure (fissura Glaseri), which lodges the extremity of the processus gracilis of the malleus, and transmits the laxator tympani muscle, chorda tympani nerve, and anterior tympanic artery. The surface of the fossa in front of the fissure is smooth, to articulate with the condyle of the lower jaw; and that behind the fissure rough, for the reception of a part of the parotid gland. At the extremity of the inner angle of the glenoid fossa is the foramen of the Eustachian tube; and separated from it by a thin, lamella of bone, called processus cochleariformis, is a small canal for the transmission of the tensor tympani muscle. * Eetzius remarks that the tympanic lamina is a distinct bone in many vertebrata.