122 SYNOVIAL MEMBRANE. instead of being albuminous as in otber cells, is oleaginous, the oil at first appearing in separate globules, which subsequently coalesce into a single drop. The size of adipose cells at their full develop- ment is about y^th of an inch in diameter; when isolated they are globular in form, but are hexagonal or polyhedral when compressed. They are perfectly transparent, the cell-membrane being structure- less and their nucleus disappearing as they attain their full size. Synovial Membrane is a thin membranous layer, which invests the articular cartilages of bones, and is thence reflected upon the surface of the ligaments which surround and enter into the composi- tion of a joint. It resembles the serous membranes in being a shut sac (capsula synovialis), and secretes a transparent and viscous fluid, which is named synovia. Synovia is an alkaline secretion, contain- ing albumen, which is coagulable at a boiling temperature. The continuation of this membrane over the surface of the articular car- tilage, a much agitated question, has been decided by Henle, who ascertained the existence of an epithelium on cartilage identical with that produced by the reflected portion of the membrane. In some joints the synovial membrane is pressed into the articular cavity by a cushion of fat: this mass was called by Havers the synovial gland, from an idea that it was the source of the synovia; it is found in the hip and knee joint. In the knee, moreover, the synovial mem- brane forms folds, which are improperly named ligaments, as the mucous and alar ligaments, the two latter being,an appendage to the cushion of fat. Besides the synovial membranes entering into the composition of joints, there are numerous smaller sacs of a similar kind interposed between surfaces which move upon each other so as to cause friction; they are often associated with the articulations. These are the bursce mucosce; they are shut sacs, analogous in structure to synovial membranes, and secreting a similar synovial fluid. The epithelium of synovial membranes is of the kind, termed squa- mous or tesselated; it is developed in the same manner as the epi- thelium of other free surfaces, but instead of being stratified presents only a single lamina of cells. articulations. The joints may be arranged, according to a natural division, into those of the trunk, those of the upper extremity, and those of the lower extremity. Ligaments op the Trunk.—The articulations of the trunk are divisible into ten groups, namely, 1. Of the vertebral column. 2. Of the atlas, with the occipital bone. 3. Of the axis, with the occipital bone. 4. Of the atlas, with the axis.