265 ULUTEUS MINIMUS.—OBTURATOR INTERNUS, the gluteus maximus; and is covered in by a process of the deep fascia, which is very thick and dense. It arises from the outer lip of the crest of the ilium for four-fifths of its length, from the sur- face of bone between that border and the superior curved line of the dorsum ilii, and from the dense fascia above mentioned. Its fibres converge to the outer part of the trochanter major, into which its tendon is inserted. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the tensor vagina fe- moris, gluteus maximus, and its own proper fascia. By its deej) surface with the gluteus minimus and gluteal vessels and nerves. By its lower border with the pyriformis muscle. A bursa is interposed between its tendon and the upper part of the trochanter major. This muscle should now be removed from its origin and turned down, so as to expose the next, which is situated beneath it. The GrLUTEUS minimus is a radiated muscle arising from the surface of the dorsum ilii, between the superior and inferior curved line; its fibres converge to the anterior border of the trochanter major, into which it is inserted by means of a rounded tendon. There is no distinct separation between the gluteus medius and minimus anteriorly. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the gluteus medius, and gluteal vessels. By its deep surface with the ilium, long tendon iof the rectus femoris, and capsule of the hip-joint. A bursa is interposed between its tendon and the trochanter. The Pyriformis (pyrum, a pear, i.e. pear-shaped; iliacus extemus) arises from the anterior surface of the sacrum, by three little slips interposed between the anterior sacral foramina from the first to the fourth, and from the adjoining surface of the ilium. It passes out of the pelvis through the great sacroischiatic foramen, and is in- serted by a rounded tendon into the posterior border of the tro- chanter major. Relations.—By its superficial or external surface with the sacrum and gluteus maximus. By its deep or pelvic surface with the rectum, sacral plexus of nerves, branches of the internal iliac artery, great sacroischiatic notch, and capsule of the hip-joint. By its upper border with the gluteus medius and gluteal vessels and nerves. By its lower border with the gemellus superior, ischiatio vessels and nerves, and internal pudic vessels and nerve. The Gemellus superior (gemellus, double, twin) is a small slip of muscle situated immediately below the pyriformis, it arises from the spine of the ischium, and is inserted into the upper border of the tendon of the obturator internus, and into the digital fossa of the trochanter major. The gemellus superior is not unfrequently wanting. Relations.—'By its superficial surface with the gluteus maximus, ischiatic vessels and nerves, and internal pudic vessels and nerve. By its deep surface with the pelvis and capsule of the hip-joint. The Obturator internus arises from the inner surface of the