CUNEIFORME,—TRAPEZIUM, 89 Ake OS magnum; by its crescentic lateral facet, with, the scaphoid; and by the circular surface, with the cuneiform bone and with the point of the unciform. This surface is divided into two parts by a ridge, when it articulates with the unciform as well as with the cuneiform bone. The CUNEIFORM bone, although somewhat wedge-shaped in form, may be best distinguished by a circular and isolated facet, which articulates with the pisiform bone. It presents for examination three surfaces, a base and an apex. One surface is very rough and irregular; the opposite forms a concave articular surface; the third is partly rough and partly smooth, and presents that circular facet which is characteristic of the bone. The base is an articular surface, and the apex rough and pointed. To distinguish its appropriate hand, let the base be directed back- wards, and the pisiform facet upwards; the concave articular surface will point to the hand to which the bone belongs. Articulations.—With three bones, and the triangular fibrocarti- lage. By the base, with the semilunare; by the concave surface, with the unciforme; by the circular facet, with the pisiforme ; and by the superior angle of the rough surface, with the fibrocartilage. The PISIFORM bone may be recognised by its small size, and by possessing a single articular facet. If it be examined carefully, it will be observed to present four sides and two extremities ; one side is articular, the smooth facet approaching nearer the superior than the inferior extremity. The side opposite to this is rounded, and the remiaining sides are, one slightly concave, the other slightly convex. If the bone be held so that the articular facet shall look down- wards, and the extremity which overhangs the articular facet for- wards, the concave side will point to the hand to which it belongs. Articulations.—With the'cuneiform bone only. Attachments.—To tivo muscles, flexor carpi ulnaris, and abductor minimi digiti; and to the anterior annular ligament. The TRAPEZIUM (os multangulum majus) is too irregular in form to be compared to any known object; it may be distinguished by a deep groove, for the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis muscle. It is somewhat compressed, and may be divided into two surfaces which are smooth and articular, and three rough borders. One of the articular surfaces is oval, concave in one direction, and convex in the other (saddle-seat shaped); the other is marked into three facets. One of the borders presents the groove for the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis, which is surmounted by a prominent tubercle for the attachment of the annular ligament; the other two borders are rough, and form the outer side of the carpus. The grooved border is narrow at one extremity and broad at the other, where it presents the groove and tubercle. If the bone be held so that the grooved border look upwards while the apex of this border be directed forwards, and the base with the