PLANTAR ARTERIES. 378 branch, which arises from the posterior tibial ahove the origin of the peroneal artery, pierces the soleus, and is distributed upon the inner side of the head of the tibia, anastomosing with the inferior internal articular. The Internal calcanean branches, three or four in number, pro- ceed from the posterior tibial artery immediately before its division ; they are distributed to the inner side of the os calcis, to the integu- ment, and to the muscles which arise from its inner tuberosity ; and anastomose with the external calcanean branches of the poste- rior peroneal, and with all the neighbouring arteries, forming around the heel a network of inosculations, rete calcaneum^ PLANTAR ARTERIES. The Internal plantar artery (plantaris interna) proceeds from the bifurcation of the posterior tibial at the inner malleolus, and passes along the inner border of the foot beneath the abductor pollicis, supplying the inner border of the foot and great toe. The External plantar artery (plantaris externa), much larger than the internal, passes obliquely outwards between the first and second layers of the plantar muscles, to the fifth metatarsal space. It then turns horizontally inwards between the second and third layer, to the first metatarsal space, where it inosculates with the dorsalis pedis. The horizontal portion of the artery describes a slight curve, having the convexity forwards; this is the plantar arch (arcus plantaris). Branches,—The branches of the external plantar artery are the— Muscular, -p. .^^^ f collateral, Articular, (anterior perforating. Posterior perforating. The Muscular and Articular branches are distributed to the muscles in the sole of the foot and to the articulations of the tarsus. The Digital branches (interossese plantares) are four in number : the first is distributed to the outer side of the little toe ; the three others pass forward to the cleft between the toes, and divide into collateral branches, which supply the adjacent sides of the three external toes, and the outer side of the second. At the bifurcation of the toes, a small branch is sent upwards from each digital artery, to inosculate with the interosseous branches of the metatarsea; these are the anterior perforating arteries. The Posterior perforating are three small branches which pass upwards between the heads of the three external dorsal interossei muscles, to inosculate with the arch formed by the metatarsea artery. Varieties in the Arteries of the Lower Extremity.—The femoral artery occasionally divides at Poupart's ligament into two branches, and sometimes into three ; the former is an instance of the high