422 CLASSIFICATION OP NERVES, thetic, are situated enlargements which are termed ganglia. Ganglia are greyish in colour, invested by a smooth memhranons sheath, and composed of the three essential constituents of the nervous system, namely, nerve-cells, nerve-fibres, and nerve-granules. The nerve- cells of ganglia are firm in structure, and have stronger investing sheaths than those of the brain. From the exterior of their sheaths, filaments of fibrous tissue are given off, which interlace with each other, and hold the cells together; and at the same time form an investing network around the entire ganglion, the nerve-fibres passing into and out of the ganglion through the interstices of this network. Besides the sheath-filaments, certain of the nerve-cells give off" grey fibres, while others are free. The nerve-fibres of ganglia are of the two kinds met with in the rest of the nervous system. The white fibres are derived from the cerebro-spinal axis, and enter the sympa- thetic through the so-called roots of that nerve, namely, its commu- nications with the spinal nerves. In the ganglia these white fibres separate, and either pass directly onwards between the nerve-cells (traversing fibres), or make a series of turns around them (winding fibres); in either case they collect together after a plexiform course between the nerve-cells, and form fasciculi, which pass off as branches from the ganglion. The grey nerve-fibres originate from certain of the nerve-cells within the ganglion as finely granular threads, and pass away in the form of fasciculi, with or without association with the white fibres, to be distributed to the various organs, or to traverse other ganglia previously to their distribution. The nerve-granules occupy the interstices between the nerve-cells and nerve-fibres as in the cerebro-spinal mass. They are also con- tinued with the nerve-fibres, into some of the nerves given off by the ganglia. Like the interstitial substance of the brain, the granu- lar substance (gelatinous substance) of ganglia has intermingled with it minute cells and pigment granules. Nerves are divisible into two great classes; those which proceed directly from the cerebro-spinal axis, the cranial and spinal nerves, and constitute the system of animal life; and those which originate from the sympathetic system, or system of organic life. The division of nerves into cranial and spinal is purely arbitrary, and depends on the circumstance of the former passing through the foramina of the cranium, and the latter through those of the verte- bral column. "With respect to origin, all the cranial nerves with the exception of the first (olfactory), proceed from the spinal cord, or from its immediate prolongation into the brain. The spinal nerves arise by two roots; anterior, which proceeds from the anterior segment of the spinal cord, and possesses a motor function; and posterior, which is connected with the posterior segment, and be- stows the faculty of sensation. The motor nerves of the cranium are shown by dissection to be continuous with the motor portion of the cord, and form one system with the motor roots of the spinal cord; while the nerves of sensation, always excepting the olfac-