611 EPITHELIUM—COLUMNAR AND CILIATED. vagina between 1 and ; and on the skin 1 The nucleus, Fig. 207.* which is round or oval in shape, and flattened, measures in scales from the mouth -^-^^ of an inch. The Columnar epithelium consists of cells, which have an elon- gated or pyriform shape, their bases being directed to the free sur- face, and their apices to the corium. They are arranged side by side like columns, and their interstices are filled with a transparent jelly-like substance, similar to that which connects the cells of the squamous epithelium. Each column contains near its middle a nucleus, which gives it a swollen appearance, and the nucleus possesses one or more nucleoli; from the transparence of the column the nucleus may be seen through its base. The columnar epithe- lium occurs in the stom- ach and bowels, urethra, gall-bladder, and ducts of glands. In the gall- bladder the nucleus is less apparent than in other parts. The Spheroidal epithelium is composed of cells, which are sphe- roidal in shape, and more or less polyhedral from compression; in other respects they resemble in structure the cells of the preceding varieties. They are found in situations where the squamous and columnar epithelium are continuous, and on that account have been named by Henle transitional epithe- lium. The spheroidal epithelium also occurs in the excretory passages of the kidney, the bladder, and in the excretory ducts of the glands which open upon the mucous membrane and skin. The Ciliated epithelium is characterised by the presence of minute conical vibratile filaments {cilia) mounted on the broad ends of the colum- nar cells, or upon the free surface of those of the spheroidal kind. The cilia are in constant action, and produce a wave-like motion, which carries the secretions in contact with them towards the outlet of the organ in which they exist. They are found in the nose and sinuses communicating with the nose; in the nasal duct; upper part of the pharynx and Eustachian tubes; larynx, trachea, * Columnar epithelium from the small intestine: after Henle. a. Separate columns, showing nucleus and nucleolus, b. Appearance of the surface formed by the apposition of the bases of several columns. t Cells of spheroidal epithelium from the walls of a hair tube, magnified 155 times. R R 2 Fig. 208.t