234 MUSCLES OF THE PERINEUM. perineum ;* where it is coimected with the accelerator urinfe and sphincter ani. A small slip of muscle is sometimes found in front of the trans- versus perinei : this is the transversus perinei alter. By its inner end it is continuous with the accelerator. Relations.—By its stiperficial surface with the superficial perineal fascia, and superficial perineal vessels and nerves. By its deep sur- face with the triangular ligament and internal pudic artery and veins. By its posterior border it is in relation with that portion of the superficial perineal fascia which passes up to become continuous with the triangular ligament. To dissect the comioressor uretlircB, the three preceding muscles should be removed, so as to render the glistening surface of the ta-iangular ligament apparent. This ligament should then be care- fully dissected away, and the corpus spongiosum penis divided through its middle, separated from the corpus cavernosum, and drawn forwards in order to put on the stretch the membranous portion of the urethra, with which the muscles are connected. The compressor urethrse is, however, better seen in a dissection made from within the pelvis, after having turned down the bladder from its attachment to the os pubis, and removed a plexus of veins and the pelvic fascia. The Compressor URETfiRiE (constrictor urethrse membranacese, constrictor isthmi urethrse) directed transversely across the peri- neum above the triangular' ligament arises from the ramus of the pubes and ischium, at their point of union, and from the anterior ligament of the bladder and prostate gland. Proceeding inwards it divides into two fan-shaped fasciculi, superior and inferior, which embrace the membranous portion of the urethra, and are continuous with the muscle of the opposite side. The superior fasciculus is continued forwards to the junction of the crura penis, and back- wards to the prostate gland ; upon the upper surface of which it is spread out. The inferior fasciculus is attached to the bulb of the urethra in front, and extends to the prostate gland behind. A third fasciculus, closely united with the two preceding, consists of circular fibres, which enclose and form a muscular sheath for the membranous part of the urethra. Under the name of Wilson's muscles, a fourth fasciculus has been described as descending vertically from the body of the pubes, near the symphysis, to unite with the superior fasciculus of the compressor urethrae. This fasciculus is inconstant and its existence doubtful. * I have twice dissected a perineum in which the transversus perinei was of large size, and spread out as it approached the middle hne so as to become fan- shaped. The posterior fibres were continuous with those of the muscle of the opposite side; but the anterior were prolonged forwards upon the bulb and corpus spongiosimi of the m-ethra as far as the middle of the penis, form- ing a broad layer which usurped the place and office of the accelerator urmae.