73 EKUPTION OP TEETH. -organ becomes transformed into a laminated tissue, corresponding witli the direction of the fibres of the enamel, and the crystalline substance of the enamel is secreted into its meshes by the vascular lining of the sac. The cementum appears to be formed at a later period of life, either by the production of osseous substance by that portion of the dental sac which continues to enclose the fang, and acts as its peri- osteum, or by the conyersion of that membrane itself into bone; the former supposition is the more probable. The formation of ivory commences in the first permanent molar previously to birth. Eruption.—When the crown of the tooth has been formed and coated with enamel, and the fang has grown to the bottom of its socket by the progressive lengthening of the pulp, the formation of ivory, and the adhesion of the ivory to the contiguous portion of the sac, the pressure of the socket causes the reflected portion of the sac and the edge of the tooth to approach, and the latter to pass through the gum. The sac has thereby resumed* its original folli- cular condition, and has become continuous with the mucous mem- brane of the mouth. The opened sac now begins to shorten more rapidly than the fang lengthens, and the tooth is quickly drawn up- wards by the contraction, leaving a space between the extremity of the unfinished root and the bottom of the socket, in which the growth and completion of the fang are effected. During the changes above described as taking place among the dental Sacs contained within the jaws, the septa between the sacs, at first consisting of spongy tissue, gradually became fibrous, and subsequently osseous, the bone being developed from the surface and proceeding by degrees more deeply into the jaws, to constitute the alveoli. The sacs of the ten anterior permanent teeth, at first enclosed in the submucous cellular tissue of the deciduous dental sacs, and received during growth into crypts situated behind the deciduous teeth, advanced by degrees beneath the fangs of those teeth, and became separated from them by distinct osseous alveoli. The necks of the sacs of the permanent teeth, by which they origi- nally communicated with the mucous lining of the secondary groove, still exist, in the form of cords, separated from the deciduous teeth by their alveolus, but communicating through a minute osseous canal with the mucous membrane of the mouth, immediately behind the corresponding deciduous teeth. '' These cords and foramina are not obliterated in the child," says Mr. Groodsir, '' either because the cords are to become useful as ^ gubernacula'' and the canals as ' itinera dentium/ or, much more probably, in virtue of a law, which appears to be a general one in the development of animal bodies, viz., that parts, or organs, which have once acted an im- * Mr. Nasmytli is of opinion that it is " by a process of absorption, and not of disruption, that the tooth is emancipated."—Medico-Chirurgical Trans- actions, 1839.