200 MUSCLES OF THE NECK. of their extent, by raising the mucous membrane from off the pillars of the soft palate at each side. The Palato-glossus (constrictor isthmi faucium) is a small fasci- culus of fibres, which arises in the soft palate as a radiated expansion. from the raphe of the soft palate, where its fibres are continuous with those of the muscle of the opposite side; and is inserted into the inner surface of the pharynx and posterior border of the thyroid cartilage. This muscle is broad above where it forms the whole thickness of the lower half of the soft palate, narrow in the posterior pillar, and again broad and thin in the pharynx where it spreads out previously to its insertion. The levator palati passes to its in- sertion between the two fasciculi of origin of this muscle. Relations.—In the soft palate it is in relation with the mucous * Muscles of the soft palate. 1. A transverse section through the middle of the base of the skull, dividing the basilar process of the occipital bone in the middle line, and the petrous portion of the temporal bone at each side. 2. The vomer covered by mucous membrane and separating the two posterior nares. 3,3. Eustachian tubes. 4. Levator palati muscle of the left side; the right has been removed. 5. The hamular process of the internal ptery- goid plate of the left side, around which the aponeurosis of the tensor palati is seen turning. 6. Pterygo-maxiLlary ligament. 7. Superior constrictor of the left side, turned aside. 8. Azygos uvulae. 9. Internal pterygoid plate. 10. External pterygoid plate. 11. Tensor palati muscle, 12. Its aponeurosis expanding in the structure of the soft palate. 13. External pterygoid muscle. 14. The attachments of two pairs of muscles cut short; the superior pair be- long to the genio-hyo-glossi; the inferior, to the genio-hyoidei. 15. Attach- ment of the mylo-hyoideus of one side and part of the opposite. 16. Anterior attachment of the digastric muscles. 17. Depression on the lower jaw cor- responding with the submaxillary gland. The depression above the mjj^lo- hyoideus, on which the number 15 rests, corresponds with the situation of the sublingual gland. Fig. 106.* continuous with its fellow of the opposite side; and de- scends to be inserted into the side of the tongue. It is the projection of this small muscle, covered by mucous membrane, that forms the anterior pillar of the soft palate. It has been named constrictor isthmi faucium, from a function it performs in common with the palato- pharyngeus, viz., of con- stricting the opening of the fauces. The Palato-pharyngeus (constrictor isthmi faucium posterior) forms the poste- rior pillar of the fauces; it arises by two fasciculi