88 CAKPUS. To ascertain to which hand the bone belongs, let the student hold it horizontally, so that the convex surface may look backwards {i. e. towards himself), and the convex border upwards: the broad ex- tremity will indicate its appropriate hand; if it be directed to the right, the bone belongs to the right; and if to the left, to the left carpus. Articulations.—"With Jive bones : by its convex surface with the radius; by its concave surface, Mg. 49.* with the os magnum and semilu- nare ; and by the extremity of its upper or dorsal border, with the trapezium and trapezoides. A ttachm en ts. —By its tuberosity to the anterior annular ligament. The SEMILUNAR boue may be known by having a crescentic con- cavity, and a somewhat crescentic outline. It presents for examina- tion four articular surfaces and two extremities; the articular surfaces are, one concave, one convex, and two lateral, one late- ral- surface being crescentic, the other nearly circular and divided generally into two facets. The extremities are, one dorsal, which is quadrilateral, flat, and indented, for the attachment of ligaments; the other^aZmar, which is convex, rounded, and of larger size. To determine to which hand it belongs, let the bone be held per- pendicularly, so that the dorsal or flat extremity look upwards, and the convex side backwards (towards the holder). The circular lateral surface will point to the side corresponding with the hand to which the bone belongs. Articulations.—Withj^ve bones, but occasionally with only four; by its convex surface, with the radius; by its concave surface, with * A diagram showing the dorsal surface of the bones of the carpus, with their articulations.—The right hand. E, The lower end of the radius. U. The lower extremity of the vdna. F, The iater-articular fibro-cartilage, attached to the styloid process of the ulna, and to the margin of the articular surface of the radius. S. The scaphoid bone: the numeral (5) indicates the nimiber of bones with which it articulates. L. The semilunare articulating with five bones. C. The cuneiforme, articulating with three bones. P. The pisiforme, articulating with the cuneiforme only. T. The first bone of the second row, the trapezium, articulating with four bones. T. The second bone, the trape- zoides, articulating also with four bones. M. The os magnum, articulating with seren. U. The unciforme, articulating with five. The numerals, 1, 3, 1, 2, 1, on the metacarpal bones, refer to the number of their articulations with the carpal bones.