METATARSAL BONES. Ill with each other; the anterior extremity presents a rounded head, cir- -enmscribed by a neck, to articulate with the first row of phalanges. - Peculiar Metatarsal hones.—The first is shorter and larger than the rest, and forms part of the inner border of the foot; its posterior extremity presents only one lateral articular surface, and an oval 59 .t rough prominence beneath, for the insertion of the tendon of the pe- roneus longus. The anterior ex- tremity has, on its plantar surface, two grooved facets, for sesamoid bones. The second is the longest and largest of the remaining metatarsal bones; it presents at its base three articular facets, for the three cunei- form bones; a large oval facet, but often no articular surface, on its inner side, to articulate with the metatarsal bone of the great toe, and two externally, for the third metatarsal bone. The third may be known by two facets on the inner side of its base, corresponding with the se- cond, and may be distinguished by its smaller size. The fourth maybe distinguished by its smaller size, and by having a single articular surface on each side of the base. The fifth is recognised by its broad base, and by the large tube- rosity on its outer side. Development. — Each bone by two centres; one for the body and one for the digital extremity in the four outer metatarsal bones; and one for the body, the other for the base in the metatarsal bone of the great toe. Ossification appears in these bones at the same time with the vertebrae; the epiphyses t The sole of the left foot. 1. The inner tuberosity of the os ealcis. 2. The outer tuberosity. * Its posterior tuberosity. 3. The groove for the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum; this figure indicates also the sustentaculum tah, upon which it is placed. 4. The rounded head of the astragalus. 5. The scaphoid bone. 6. Its tuberosity. 7. The internal cuneiform bone ; its broad extremity. 8. The middle cuneiform bone. 9. The external cuneiform bone. 10,11. The cuboid bone. 11. Eefers to the groove for the tendon of the pero- neus longus; the prominence between this gToove and figm-e 10 is the tube- rosity of the bone. 12, 12. The metatarsal bones. 13, 13. The first phalanges 14,14. The second phalanges of the four lesser toes. 15,15. The third, or un- gual phalanges of the four lesser toes. 16. The last phalanx of the great toe.