146 WKIST JOINT. thin plane of aponeurotic fibres passing obliquely downwards from the sharp ridge on the radius to that on the ulna. It is deficient superiorly, broader in the middle than at each extremity, and per- forated at its lower part for the passage of the anterior interosseous artery. The posterior interosseous artery passes backwards between the oblique ligament and upper border of the interosseous ligament. This ligament affords an extensive surface for the attachment of muscles. The interosseous ligament is in relation, in front, with the flexor profundus digitorum, flexor longus pollicis, pronator quadratus, and anterior interosseous artery and nerve; behind, with the supinator brevis, extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, extensor primi internodii pollicis, extensor secundi internodii pollicis, extensor indicis, and near the wrist with the anterior interosseous artery and posterior in- terosseous nerve. The anterior inferior ligament is a thin fasciculus of fibres, passing transversely between the radius and ulna. The posterior inferior ligament is also thin and loose, and has the same disposition on the posterior surface of the articulation. The inter articular, or triangular fihrocartilage, acts the part of a ligament between the lower extremities of the radius and ulna. It is attached by its apex to a depression on the inner surface of the styloid process of the ulna, and by its base to the edge of the radius. This fihrocartilage is lined upon the upper surface by a synovial membrane, which forms a duplicature between the radius and ulna, and is called the memhrana sacciformis. By its lower surface it enters into the articulation of the wrist joint. Actions.—The movements taking place between the radius and ulna are, rotation of the former upon the latter; rotation forwards being tQxmQdipronation, and rotation backwards supination. In these movements the head of the radius turns upon its own axis, within the orbicular ligament and lesser sigmoid notch of the ulna; while inferiorly the radius presents a concavity which moves upon the rounded head of the ulna. The movements of the radius are chiefly limited by the anterior and posterior inferior ligaments; hence these are not unfrequently ruptured in great muscular efforts. 7. Wrist Joint.—The wrist is a ginglymoid articulation ; the arti- cular surfaces entering into its formation being the radius and triangular fihrocartilage above, and the rounded surfaces of the scaphoid, semilunar, and cuneiform bone below; its ligaments are four in number,-— Anterior, Internal lateral, Posterior, External lateral. The anterior ligament is a broad and membranous layer consisting of three fasciculi, which pass between the lower part of the radius and the sca]3hoid, semilimar, and cuneiform bone. The 2^osterior ligament, also thin and loose, passes between the