600 SALIVAKY GLANDS. Communicating witli the moutli are the excretory ducts of three pairs of salivary glands (glandules salivales), the parotid, submaxil- lary, and sublingual. The Parotid gland, (Trapd, near, ovq, wrog, the ear,) the largest of the three, is situated immediately in front of the external ear, and extends superficially for a short distance over the masseter muscle, and deeply behind the ramus of the lower jaw. It reaches inferiorly to below the level of the angle of the jaw, and posteriorly to the mastoid process, slightly overlapping the insertion of the sterno-mastoid muscle. Embedded in its substance are, the external carotid artery, temporal vein, and facial nerve; emerging from its anterior border, the transverse facial artery and branches of the facial nerve; and above, the temporal artery and auriculo-temporal nerve. The duct of the parotid gland (Stenon's* duct), about two inches in length, and about the diameter of a crow's-quill, issues from the anterior part of the gland, just below the zygoma, and crosses the masseter muscle; it then curves inwards over the anterior border of the muscle, and pierces the buccinator opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw; its opening in the mouth being indicated by a prominent papilla. The duct is dense in structure, and its walls of considerable thick- ness in proportion to the area of the tube, which is remarkably small. A small glandular appendage, the socia parotidis, is con- nected with the upper part of the duct on the masseter muscle; and opens into it by one or several small ducts. The Submaxillary gland, rounded in its form, is situated in the posterior part of the submaxillary triangle of the neck. It rests on the hyo-glossus, stylo-glossus, and mylo-hyoideus muscle, and is covered in by the body of the lower jaw and the deep cervical fascia. It is separated from the parotid gland by the stylo-maxillary liga- ment, and from the sublingual by the mylo-hyoideus muscle. Em- bedded among its lobules are the facial artery and submaxillary ganglion. Its excretory duct (Wharton^s), about two inches in length, issues from the middle of the gland, and passes between the mylo-hyoideus and hyo-glossus to the frsenum linguae, by the side of which it termi- nates at the apex of a papilla (caruncula sublingualis). A process of the gland is prolonged with the duct for a short distance behind the mylo-hyoideus. The Sublingual is a long and flattened gland, situated beneath * Nicholas Stenon, an anatomist of great research. He discovered the parotid duct while in Paris, He was appointed Professor of Medicine in Copenhagen in 1672. His work, " DeMusculis et GlanduHs Observationes," was published in 1664.