KNEE JOINT. 153 Anterior or external crucial, Posterior or internal crucial, Transverse, Two coronary, Ligamentum mucosum, ^ ^^^^^^ ligaments. Fig. 84.* Ligamenta alaria. Two semilunar fibro-cartilages, Synovial membrane. The first five are external to the articulation ; the next five are internal; the remaining three are mere folds of synovial membrane, and have no title to the name of ligaments. In addition to the ligaments, there are two fibrocartilages, and a synovial membrane. The anterior ligament, or ligamentum j'^citellce, is the prolonga- tion of the tendon of the extensor muscles of the thigh downwards to the tubercle of the tibia. It is, therefore, no ligament: and, as the patella is simply a sesamoid bone developed in the tendon of the extensor muscles for the defence of the front of the knee joint, the ligamentum patellae has no title to consideration, either as a ligament of the knee joint or as a ligament of the patella. A small bursa mucosa is situated be- tween the ligamentum patellse near its in- sertion and the front of the tibia ; and another jof larger size between the anterior surface of the patella and fascia lata. It is the latter which is inflamed in '' house- maid's knee." The ■ posterior ligament, ligamentum posticum Winslowii, is a broad expansion of ligamentous fibres, which covers the whole of the posterior part of the joint. It is divisible into two lateral portions, which invest the condyles of the femur, and a central portion which is depressed, and formed by the interlacement of fasci- culi passing in different directions. The strongest of these fasciculi is derived from the tendon of the semi-membranosus, and passes obliquely upwards and outwards from the posterior part of the inner tuberosity of the tibia to the external condyle of the femur. Other accessory fasci- culi are given off by the tendon of the popliteus and heads of the gastrocnemius. The middle portion of the ligament supports the * Anterior view of the ligaments of the knee joint. 1. Tendon of the quadriceps extensor muscle of the leg. 2. Patella. 3. Anterior ligament, or ligamentum patellae, near its insertion. 4, 4. Synovial membrane. 5. In- ternal lateral ligament. 6. Long external lateral ligament. 7. Antero- superior tibio-fibular ligament.