642 VISCERA OP THE PELVIS. Guthrie* observes that there are no fibres at the neck of the bladder capable of forming a sphincter vesicae; but Lanef has de- scribed a fasciculus of muscular fibres which surround the commence- ment of the urethra, and perform such an office. These fibres form a narrow bundle above the urethra, but spread out below, behind the prostate gland; they are brought into view by dissecting off the mucous membrane from around the orifice of the urethra. Sir Astley Cooper has described around the urethra, within the * " On the Anatomy and Diseases of the Neck of the Bladder and of the Urethra." t Lancet, vol. i. 1842-43, p. 670. % A side view of the viscera of the male pelvis, in situ. The right side of the pelvis has been removed by a vertical section made through the os pubis near the symphysis; and another through the middle of the sacrum. 1. The divided surface of the os pubis. 2. The divided surface of the sacrum. 3. The body of the bladder. 4. Its fundus ; from the apex is seen passing upwards the urachus. 5. The base of the bladder. 6. The ureter. 7. The neck of the bladder. 8, 8. The pelvic fascia; the fibres immediately above 7 are given off from the pelvic fascia, and represent the anterior ligaments of the bladder. 9. The prostate gland. 10. The membranous portion of the urethra. 11. The triangular hgament or deep perineal fascia. 12. One of Cowper's glands lying beneath the membranous portion of the urethra. 13. The bulb of the corpus spongiosum. 14. The body of the corpus spongiosum. 15. The right crus penis. 16. The upper part of the first portion of the rectum. 17. The recto-vesical fold of peritoneum. 18. The second por- tion of the rectum. 19. The right vesicula seminahs. 20. The vas deferens. 21. The rectum covered by the descending layer of the pelvic fascia, just as it is making its bend backwards to constitute the third portion. 22. A part of the levator ani muscle investing the lower part of the rectum. 23. The external sphincter ani. 24. The interval between the superficial perineal fascia and triangular ligament: they are seen to be continuous beneath the number.