ARBOR VIT^ UTERINA. 659 of the OS uteri is of considerable size, and is named the orificium uteri externum; the canal then becomes narrowed, and at the upper end of the cervix is constricted into a smaller opening, the orificium internum.* At this point the canal of the cervix expands into the shallow triangular cavity of the uterus, the inferior angle correspond- ing with the orificium internum, and the two superior angles, which are funnel-shaped and represent the original bicornute condition of the organ, with the commencement of the Fallopian tubes. In the canal of the cervix uteri are two longitudinal folds, anterior and posterior, to which numerous oblique folds converge, so as to give Fig. 231.t the idea of branches from the stem of a tree; hence this appearance has been denominated the arbor vitce uterina. Between these folds, and around the os uteri, are numerous mucous follicles. It is the closure of the mouth of one of these follicles, and the subsequent dis- tention of the follicle with its proper secretion, that occasions those vesicular appearances, so often noticed within the mouth and cervix of the uterus, called the ovula of Naboth. * The orificium internum is not unfrequently obliterated in old persons. Indeed, this obliteration is so common, as to have induced Mayer to regard it as normal. t The uterus with its appendages viewed on their anterior aspect. 1. The body of the uterus. 2. Its fundus. 3. Its cervix. 4. The os uteri. 5. The vagina; the number is placed on the posterior raphe or columna, from which the transverse rugse are seen passing off at each side. 6, 6. The broad liga- ment of the uterus. 7. A convexity of the broad ligament formed by the ovary. 8,8. The round ligaments of the uterus. 9,9. The FaUopian tubes. 10, 10. The fimbriated extremities of the FaUopian tubes; on the left side the mouth of the tube is turned forwards in order to show its ostium abdo- minale. 11. The ovary. 12. The utero-ovarian Ligament. 13. The FaUo- pio-ovarian ligament, upon which some smaU fimbriae are continued for a short distance. 14. The peritoneum of the anterior surface of the uterus. This membrane is removed on the left side, but on the right is continuous with the anterior layer of the broad ligament. u u 2