STRUCTURE OF MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 610 also it is composed of minute cells, generated on tlie surface of the corium in a soft, transparent, jelly-like substance, filled with small granules, the blastema, which serves besides the purpose of con- necting the cells together. The blastema, originally fluid, soon be- comes filled Math organic granules ; these granules congregating to- gether in small masses constitute the nucleus, or original part of the cell, the separate granules being the nucleoli. Around the nucleus other granules accumulate and grow, a boundary membrane is formed about them, and the cell is complete, consisting of its nucleus with included nucleoli, the cavity of the cell, which is composed of gra- nules and secondary cells, and the cell-membrane. This process of cell-formation being in constant operation on all the surfaces of the body, the old cells of the surface of the epithelium are regularly cast ofi", while young cells take their place from below. A section of epithelium would, therefore, like the epiderma, show cells in successive stages of formation and growth, namely, as simple gra- nules, aggregated granules or nuclei, small cells, and larger and complete cells. The cells of epithelium present some differences of form and arrangement which have given rise to their division into four varie- ties, namely, squamous, columnar, spheroidal, and ciliated. The Squamous epithelium is so named from the conversion of its superficial cells into thin, flattened, polyhedral squamae or scales, in which the original structure of the cell, together with its nucleus, is more or less effaced. On the serous membranes of the cavities of the body and on that of the blood and lymph vessels, the squamge form a single layer, but on the mucous membrane, as on the skin, there are several superimposed layers ; hence the names lamellated, tesselated, stratified, Andpavement epithelium, have been given to this variety. The squamous epithelium is found on the conjunctiva ; in the cavity of the nose near its external apertures; in the mouth and fauces; in the oesophagus, where it forms a thick layer, and terminates at the cardiac orifice of the stomach by a serrated border, ora serrata ; in the vulva, vagina, cervix uteri, and en- trance of the urethra. The squam83 are somewhat larger in the mouth and fauces than elsewhere; in longest dia- meter they measure between 4^ and -3-^ of an inch; in the * Epithelial scales from the movith; the large scale, magnified 310 times, exhibits the structure of the scale, as consisting of a nucleus vnth. nucleolus in the centre, and secondary nucleated cells, forming the body of the scale. In the other scales, magnified 155 times, the nucleus and nucleolus are alone seen distinctly; the secondary cells being reduced to the appearance of a few granules dispersed through the scale.