43 SUPERIOR MAXILLARY BONES. nerve. The superior border is narrow and thick, the inferior broad, thin, and irre- gular. Development.—By a single centre for each bone, the first ossific deposition mak- ing its appearance at the same time as in the vertebrae. Articulations.—With four bones : fron- tal, ethmoid, nasal, and superior maxil- lary. Attachment of Muscles. — It has in relation with it the pyramidalis nasi and compressor nasi ; but neither is inserted into it. Superior Maxillary Bones.—The superior maxillary are the largest bones of the face, with the exception of the lower jaw ; they form, by their union, the whole of the upper jaw, and assist in the construction of the nose, orbit, cheek, and palate. Each bone is divisible into a body and four processes. The hody is triangular in form, and hollowed in its interior into a large cavity, the antrum maxillare (antrum of Highmore). It presents for examination four sur- Fig. 28.t faces, external or facial, internal or nasal, posterior or zygomatic, and superior or orbital. The external, ov facial surf ace, forms the anterior part of the bone ; it is irregularly concave, and presents a deep depression towards its centre, the canine fossa, which gives attachment to two muscles, the compressor nasi and levator anguli oris. Imme- diately above this fossa is the infraorbital foramen, the termi- natioD of the infraorbital canal, transmitting the superior maxil- lary nerve and infraorbital artery; and above the infraorbital foramen is the lower margin of the orbit, * The nasal bone of the left side; its external or convex surface. 1. The superior border. 2. The internal or mesial border. 3. The external border. 4. The inferior or free border. 5. Foramen for a smaU artery. t The superior maxillary bone of the right side, as seen on its lateral aspect. 1. The external or facial surface; the depression in which the figure is placed is the canine fossa. 2. The posterior, or zygomatic surface. 3. The superior or orbital surface. 4. The infraorbital foramen; it is situated im- mediately below the number. 5. The infraorbital canal, leading to the infra-