VEINS OF THE DIPLOE, 385 nose, whicli terminate in the nasal arch; the ophthalmic, which commnnicates with the angular vein; ihe palpebral and nasal, which open into the angular vein; a considerable trunk, the (ieep facial (maxillaris interna anterior), which returns the blood from the spheno-maxillary fossa^ from the infraorbital, palatine, vidian, and spheno-palatine veins, and joins the facial beneath the zygo- matic process of the superior maxillary bone; and the veins corre- sponding with the branches of the facial artery. The Internal maxillary vein receives the branches from the zygomatic and pterygoid fossa; these are so numerous and commu- nicate so freely as to constitute a pterygoid plexus. Passing back- wards behind the neck of the lower jaw, the internal maxillary joins with the temporal vein. The Temporal vein commences on the vertex of the head by a plexiform network, which is continuous with the frontal, opposite temporal, auricular, and occipital vein. The ramifica,tions of this plexus form an anterior and a posterior branch which unite im- mediately above the zygoma; the trunk is here joined by another large vein, the middle temporal, which collects the blood from the temporal muscle and outer segment of the orbit, and pierces the temporal fascia near the root of the zygoma. The temporal vein then descends in the substance of the parotid gland to the angle of the lower jaw, where it divides into two trunks, one of which, mounting upon the sterno-mastoideus muscle, constitutes the ex- ternal jugular vein; while the other, uniting with the facial vein, becomes the tempore-maxillary vein. The temporal vein receives the anterior auricidar, masseteric, transverse facial, and parotid veins. The Teraporo-maxillary vein, a short trunk formed by the union of the temporo-maxillary trunk and facial vein, sends a branch to the anterior jugular, and terminates in the internal jugular vein. It receives the lingual, laryngeal, and superior thyroid vein. The Posterior auricular vein communicates with the plexus of the vertex of the head, and descends behind the ear to join the external jugular vein near its origin. It receives in its course the veins of the external ear and the stylo-mastoid vein. The Occipital vein commencing posteriorly in the plexus of the vertex of the head, follows the direction of the occipital artery, and passing deeply beneath the muscles of the back part of the neck, terminates in the external or internal jugular vein. This vein communicates with the lateral sinus by means of a large branch which passes through the mastoid foramen, the mastoid vein. VEINS OP THE DIPLOE. The diploe of the bones of the head is furnished in the adult with irregular sinuses {ven<B diploeticce), which are formed by a continu- ation of the internal coat of the veins into the osseous canals in which they are lodged. At the middle period of life these sinuses c c