418 NERVOUS SYSTEM.—STRFCTURE. the anterior pair, at first very small, decrease in size, and become almost lost in the increased development of the preceding pairs. We see here a chain of resemblances corresponding with the pro- gressive development observed in the lower animals; the human brain is passing through the phases of improving development, which dis- tinguish the lowest from the lower creatures; and we are naturally led to the same conclusion with regard to the architecture of the human brain that we were led to establish as the principle of develop- ment in the inferior creatures, namely, that it is composed of pri- mitive cords, primitive ganglia upon those cords, commissures to connect those ganglia, and developments from those ganglia. In the adult, the primitive longitudinal cords have become ce- mented together, to form the spinal cord. But, at the upper ex- tremity, they separate from each other under the name of crura cerebri. The first pair of ganglia, developed from the primitive cords, have grown into the cerebellum; the second pair (the optic lobes of animals) have become the corpora quadrigemina of man. The third pair, the optic thalami, and the fourth, the corpora striata, are the basis of the hemispheres, which, the merest lamina in the fish, have become the largest portion of the brain in man. And the fifth pair (olfactory lobes), so large in the lowest forms, have dwindled into the olfactory bulbs of man. The microscopic elements of the nervous system, are, white nerve- fibres, grey nerve-fibres, nerve-cells, and nerve-granules. 1. White nerve-pibres are the chief constituent of the brain, the spinal cord, and the cerebro- spinal nerves, and they also enter into the composition of the sympa- thetic nerve. They present some variety of size in different parts of the nervous system, measuring in the brain between -^-^^and ^^^^^^ of an inch in diameter, and in the cerebro-spinal nerves between ginrn" and go^Qo of an inch. Asa general rule, the white nerve-fibres are largest in the nerves, smaller where they enter the cerebro-spinal mass, and smallest at their termination. Mode of termination of white nerve- libres in loops; three of these loops are simple, the fourth is convoluted. The latter is found in situations where an exalted degree of sensation exists. 2. White nerve-fibre from the brain, showing the varicose appearance pro- duced by traction or pressure. 3. A white nerve-fibre erdarged to show its structure,—namely, a tubular envelope, and a contained substance, neurine. 4. A nerve-cell, showing its composition of a granular-looking capsule and granular contents. 5. Its nucleus containing a nucleolus. 6. A nerve-cell from which several processes are given qW. It contains, hire the preceding, a nucleolated nucleus. 7. Nerve granules.