169 STRUCTUKE OP MUSCLE. Fig. 98.* ment, much smaller than the fibre of animal life, flat, and without transverse markings. Besides these characters, there may generally be seen a dark line or several dark points in its interior, and not unfrequently the entire fibre appears enlarged at irregular distances. These appearances are due to the presence of unobliterated nuclei of cells from which the fibre was originally deve- loped. The fibres of organic life are collected into fasciculi of various size, and are held to- gether by dark nuclear fibres similar to those which bind the fasciculi of fibrous tissue (p. 120). The development of muscular fibre is efi'ected by means of the formation of nucleated cells out of an original blastema, and the con- version of those cells, by a process already de- scribed (p. 5) into the tubuli of ultimate fibres, while their contents, by a subsequent deve- lopmental action, are transformed into ulti- mate fibrils. According to this view, the cell membranes constitute the myolemma, and the contents of the cell are a blastema, out of which new cells are formed. The disposi- tion of these latter cells, in the production of fibrillse, is probably much more simple than has hitherto been conceived. In the mus- cular fil^re of organic life the process would seem to stop short of the forniation of fibrillge, the cells being accumulated without ap- parent order. The corpuscles, observed by Mr. Bowman, in foetal muscle, and the nodosities of organic fibre, are undeveloped cells and nuclei. Muscles are divided into two great classes, voluntary and involun- tary, to which may be added, as an intermediate and connecting link, the muscle of the vascular system, the heart. The voluntary, or system of animal life, is developed from the external or serous layer of the germinal membrane, and comprehends the whole of the muscles of the limbs and trunk. The involuntary, or organic system, is developed from the internal or mucous layer, and constitutes the thin muscular structure of the intestinal canal, bladder, and internal organs of generation. At the commencement of the alimentary canal in the oesophagus, and near its termination in the rectum, the muscular coat is formed by a blending of the fibres of both classes. The heart is developed from the middle, or vascular layer of the germinal membrane; and although involun- * D. A musctdar fibre of organic life from the urinary bladder, magnified 600 times, linear measure. Two of the nuclei are seen. E. A muscular fibre of organic Ufe, from the stomach, magnified 600 times^ The diameter of this and of the preceding fibre, midway between the nuclei, was ^^jo of an inch.