VERTEBRA PROMINENS. 13 face, to articulate with the anterior arch of the atlas; the other on its posterior face, for the transverse ligament; the latter sur- face constricts the base of the process, which has given rise to the term neck applied to this part. Upon each side of its apex is a pig^ 7_* rough depression, for the attach- ment of the alar ligaments ; and running down from its base on the anterior surface of the body of the vertebra a vertical ridge, with a depression at each side for the at- tachment of the longus colli muscle. The laminoi are large and strong, and unite posteriorly to form a long and bifid spinous process, which is concave beneath. The transverse processes are rudimentary, not bifid, and project only so far as to enclose the vertebral foramen, which is directed obliquely outwards in- stead of perpendicularly as in the other vertebrae. The superior arti- culating processes are situated upon the body of the vertebra on each side of the odontoid process. They are circular and nearly hori- zontal, having a slight inclination outwards. The inferior articu- lating processes look downwards and forwards, as do the same pro- cesses in the other cervical vertebrge. The superior intervertebral notch is remarkably shallow, and lies behind the articular process as in the atlas. The lower surface of the body is convex, and is received into the concavity upon the upper surface of the third vertebra. The Vertebra prominens, or seventh cervical, approaches in cha- racter to the upper dorsal vertebrae. It has received its designation from having a very long spinous process, which is single and termi- nated by a tubercle, and forms a projection on the back part of the neck; to the extremity of this process the ligamentum nuchse is attached. The transverse processes are but slightly grooved along the upper surface, have each a small foramen for the transmission of the vertebral vein, and present only a rudimentary bifurcation at their extremity. Sometimes the anterior tubercle represents a small but distinct rib. Dorsal Vertebrae.—-The body of a dorsal vertebra is as long from before backwards as from side to side, particularly in the middle of * A lateral view of the axis. 1. The body; the figure is placed on the depression which gives attachment to the longus coUi. 2. The odontoid pro- cess. 3. The smooth facet on the anterior surface of the odontoid process which articulates with the anterior arch of the atlas; the facet for the trans- verse hgament is beneath No. 2, where the constriction called the neck of the odontoid process is seen; the bulk of the process between 2, 3, would repre- sent its head. 4. The lamina. 5. The spinous process. 6. The transverse process, pierced obhquely by the vertebral foramen. 7. The superior arti- cular surface. 8. The inferior articular process.