TIBIO-PIBULAR ARTICULATION. 157 muscles, and forms a pouch of considerable size between the extensor tendon and front of the femur. It also forms the folds in the interior of the joint, called " ligamentum mucosum," and "ligamentaalaria." The superior pouch of the synovial membrane is supported and raised during the movements of the limb by a small muscle, the subcrureus, which is inserted into it. Between the ligamentum patellse and synovial membrane is a considerable mass of fat, which presses the membrane towards the interior of the joint, and occupies the fossa betvv^een the condyles. Besides the proper ligaments of the articulation, the joint is pro- tected on its anterior part by the fascia lata, which is thicker upon the outer than the inner side, by a tendinous expansion from the vastus internus, and some scattered ligamentous fibres which are inserted into the sides of the patella. This expansion has been termed the capsular ligament. Actions.—The knee joint is one of the strongest of the articula- tions of the body, while at the same time it admits of the most per- fect degree of movement in the direction of flexion and extension. During flexion the articular surface of the tibia glides forward on the condyles of the femur; the lateral ligaments, the posterior, and the crucial ligaments are relaxed; while the ligamentiim patellae, being put upon the stretch, serves to press the adipose mass into the vacuity formed in the front of the joint. In extension all the ligaments are put upon the stretch, with the exception of the liga- mentum patellae. When the knee is semi-flexed, a partial degree of rotaiion is permitted. 3. Articulation hetioeen the Tibia and Fibula.—The tibia and fibula are held firmly connected by means of seven ligaments, namely, Anterior, ) , -r, , . \ above, rostenor, ) Interosseous membrane, Interosseous inferior. Anterior, ) , . Tj J. • \ below, rostenor, ) Transverse. The anterior superior tibio-fibular ligament is a strong fasciculus of parallel fibres passing obliquely downwards and outwards from the outer tuberosity of the tibia, to the anterior surface of the head of the fibula. The posterior superior tibio-fibular ligament, thicker and stronger than the anterior, is disposed in a similar manner on the posterior surface of the joint. Within the articulation there is a distinct synovial membrane which is sometimes continuous with that of the knee joint.