588 BRONCHIAL TUBES. dichotomously to their ultimate termination in the intercellular pas- sages and air-cells. According to Mr. Rainey, * the bronchial tubes continue to diminish in size until they attain a diameter of to of an inch, and arrive within ^ of an inch of the surface of the lung. They then become changed in structure, and are continued onwards in the midst of air- cells, under the name of intercellular passages. Lastly, the inter- Mg. 200.t cellular passages, after several bifurcations, terminate, each by a caecal extremity or air-cell. The intercellular passages are at first cylindrical, like the bron- chial tubes, but soon become ir- regular in shape from the great number of air-cells which open into them on all sides. The air- cells in the adult lung measure between and ytj of inch, they are irregular in shape, and, most frequently, four-sided cavi- ties, separated by thin septa, and communicating freely with the intercellular passages, and sparingly with the bronchial tubes. In structure the bronchial tubes are composed of cartilages, fibrous membrane, muscular fibres, elastic fibres, and mucous membrane. The cartilages in the primary bronchi are six or eight in number in the right bronchus, and ten or twelve in the left. In the subse- quent divisions of the bronchial tubes, which are cylindrical in figure, the cartilages assume the form of thin plates of irregular shape and size, adapted to each other by their edges, and completely surrounding the tubes. The plates are most strongly developed around the bifurcations of the tubes, and the point of division is furnished with a cartilage of a semilunar form. They are found entering into the structure of the bronchial tubes until the latter are reduced to a quarter of a line in diameter, and are then lost. The fibrous membrane, wliich enters largely into the formation of the trachea and bronchial tubes, is the principal coat of the smallest tubes, and is continued to their terminations in the intercellular passages and air-cells. The muscular fibres, belonging to the class of non-striated or organic muscle, are arranged in rings around the tube, and form a muscular coat which is placed externally to the cartilaginous plates * Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. xxviii. t A diagram showing the dilatation of the ultimate bronchial tubes into intercellular passages, and the enlargement of the latter near the surface of the lung, a, a. Bronchial tubes, b, b. Intercellular passages, upon the walls of which are seen opening the air-cells, c, c. Air-ceUs near the surface of the lung.