SACRUM 18 al)ove, and proceeds gradually downwards; hence arrest of develop- ment gives rise to spina bifida, generally in the loins. Ossification of the bodies, on the contrary, commences from the centre, and proceeds from that point towards the extremities of the column; hence imper- fection of the bodies occurs either in the upper or lower vertebrse. Attachment of Muscles.—To the atlas are attached nine pairs of muscles; the longus colli, rectus anticus minor, rectus lateralis, rectus posticus minor, obliquus superior and inferior, splenius colli, levator anguli scapulae, and first intertransversales. To the axis are attached eleven pairs; viz. the longus colli, inter- transversales, obliquus inferior, rectus posticus major, interspinales, semi-spinalis colli, multifidus spinae, levator anguli scapulae, splenius colli, transversalis colli, and scalenus posticus. To the remaining rertebrce collectively, thirty pairs and one single muscle; viz. posteriorly, the trapezius, latissimus dorsi, levator angiili scapulae, rhomboideus minor and major, serratus posticus superior and inferior, splenius, sacro-lumbalis, longissimus dorsi, spinalis dorsi, cervicalis ascendens, transversalis colli, trachelo-mas- toideus, complexus, semispinal! s dorsi and colli, multifidus spinse, interspinales, intertransversales, levatores costarum : anteriorly, the rectus anticus major, longus colli, scalenus anticus and posticus, psoas magnus, psoas parvus, quadratus lumborum, diaphragm, ob- liquus internus and transversalis. The Sacrum is a triangular bone, situated at the lower extremity of the vertebral column, and formed by the con- solidation of five false ver- tebrae. It is divisible into an anterior and posterior surface, two lateral and a superior border, and an inferior extremity. The anterior surface is concave, and marked by four transverse lines, which indicate its original constitution of five sepa- rate pieces. At the ex- tremities of these lines, on each side, are the four anterior sacral foramina, which diminish in size from above downwards, * The sacrum seen upon its anterior surface. 1,1. The transverse lines marking the original constitution of the bone of four pieces. 2, 2. The an- terior sacral foramina. 3. The promontory of the sacrum. 4. The ear-shaped surface which articulates with the iUum. 5. The sharp edge to which the