BASE OP THE SKTJLL, 59 jaw. It contains the external pterygoid, part of the temporal, and internal pterygoid muscle, the internal maxillary artery and inferior maxillary nerve, with their branches. On the inner side and upper -paxt of the zygomatic fossa are two fissures, spheno-maxillary and ptery go-maxillary. The spheno-maxillary fissure, horizontal in direc- tion, opens into the orbit,* and is situated between the great ala of the sphenoid and the superior maxillary bone. It is completed externally by the malar bone. The pterygo-maxillary fissure is vertical, and descends at a right angle from the extremity of the preceding. It is situated between the pterygoid process and the tuberosity of the superior maxillary bone, and transmits the internal maxillary artery. At the angle of junction of these two fissures is a small space, the spheno-maxillary fossa, bounded by the sphenoid, palate, and superior maxillary bone. In this space are seen the openings of five foramina: foramen rotundum, spheno-palatine, pterygo-palatine, posterior palatine, and Vidian. The spheno-maxil- lary fossa lodges Meckel's ganglion and the termination of the internal maxillary artery. The BASE OF THE SKULL presents an internal or cerebral, and an external or basilar surface. The cerebral surface is divisible into three parts, which are named the anterior, middle, and posterior fossa of the base of the cranium. The anterior fossa is somewhat convex on each side, where it corre- sponds with the roofs of the orbits; and concave in the middle, in the situation of the ethmoid bone and anterior part of the body of the sphenoid. The latter and the lesser wings constitute its posterior boundary. It supports the anterior lobes of the cerebrum. In the middle line of this fossa, at its anterior part, is the crista gallij im- mediately in front of that process, the foramen ccBCum; and on each side the cribriform plate, with its foramina, for the transmission of the filaments of the olfactory and nasal branch of the ophthalmic nerve. Farther back in the middle line is the processm olivaris, and on the sides of this process the optic foramina, anterior and middle clinoidprocesses, and vertical grooves for the internal carotid arteries. The middle fossa of the base, deeper than the preceding, is bounded in front by the lesser wing of the sphenoid; behind, by the petrous portion of the temporal bone; and is divided into two lateral parts by the sella turcica. It is formed by the posterior part of the body, great ala, and spinous process of the sphenoid, and by the petrous and squamous portion of the temporal bones. In the centre of this fossa is the sella turcica, which lodges the pituitary gland^ bounded in front by the anterior and middle, and behind by the dorsm)% ephippii Sind posterior clinoid processes. On each side of the sella turcica is the carotid groove for the internal carotid artery, cavernous plexus of nerves, cavernous sinus, and orbital nerves; ^ and a little farther outwards the following foramina, from before backwards: sphenoidal fissure (foramen lacerum an- terius) for the transmission of the third, fourth, three branches of