LYMPHATICS OF THE VISCERA. 411 The deep lymphatic glands of the pelvis are the external iliac, internal iliac, and sacral. The External iliac are placed around the external iliac vessels, being in continuation by one extremity with the femoral lymphatics; by the other, with the lumbar glands. The Internal iliac glands are situated in the course of the in- ternal iliac vessels, and the sacral glands rest on the concave sur- face of the sacrum. Vessels.—The Beep lymphatic vessels are continued upwards from the thigh beneath Poupart's ligament, and along the external iliac vessels to the lumbar glands, receiving in their course the epi- gastric, circumflexa ilii, and ilio-lumbar lymphatic vessels. Those from the parietes of the pelvis, and from the gluteal, ischiatic, and obturator vessels, follow the course of the internal iliac veins, and unite with the lumbar lymphatics. And the lumbar lymphatic vessels, after receiving all the lymphatics from the lower extremities, pelvis, and loins, terminate by several large trunks in the recepta- culum chyli. j LYMPHATICS OP THE VISCERA. Lungs.—The Lymphatic vessels of the lungs, of large size, are distributed over every part of the surface, and through the texture of those organs: they converge to the bronchial glands, ten or twelve in number, situated around the bifurcation of the trachea and roots of the lungs. Some of these glands, of small size, may be traced in connexion with the bronchial tubes into the substance of the lungs. The efferent vessels from the bronchial glands unite with the tracheal and oesophageal glands, and terminate principally in the thoracic duct at the root of the neck, and partly in the ductus lymphaticus dexter. The bronchial glands, in the adult, present a variable tint of brown, and in old age a deep black colour. In in- fancy they have none of this pigment, and are not to be distinguished from lymphatic glands in other situations. Heart.—The Lymphatic vessels of the heart originate in the subserous cellular tissue of the surface, and in the deeper tissues of that organ, and follow the course of the vessels, principally, along the right border of the heart to the glands situated around the arch of the aorta and to the bronchial glands, whence they proceed to the root of the neck, and terminate in the thoracic duct. The cardiac glands are three or four in number. The Pericardiac and thymic lymphatic vessels proceed to join the anterior mediastinal and bronchial glands. Liver.—The Lymphatic vessels of the liver are divisible into the deep and superficial. The former take their course through the portal canals, and through the right border of the lesser omentum, to the lymphatic glands situated in the course of the hepatic artery and along the lesser curve of the stomach. The superficial lym-