V GLOSSO-PHARTNGBAL NERVE. 473 Auditory nerve (portio mollis).—The auditory nerve takes its origin in the lineas transversse (striae mecluliares) of the anterior wall or floor of the fourth ventricle, and winds around the corpus resti- forme, from which it receives fibres, to the posterior border of the erus cerebelli. It then passes forward on the crus cerebelli in com- pany with the facial nerve, which lies in a groove on its superior surface, enters the meatus auditorius internus, and at the bottom of the meatus divides into two branches, cochlear and vestibular. The auditory nerve is soft and pulpy in texture, and receives in the meatus auditorius several filaments from the facial nerve. Eighth pair.—The eighth pair consists of three nerves, glosso- pharyngeal, pneumogastric, and spinal accessory; these are the ninth, tenth, and eleventh pairs of Soemmering. Glosso-pharyngeal nerve.—The glosso-pharyngeal nerve, as its name implies, is the nerve of sensation of the mucous membrane of the tongue and pharynx, but it also gives branches to some of the muscles of these organs. It arises by five or six filaments from the groove between the corpus olivare and restiforme, or rather from the anterior border of the latter, and escapes from the skull at the innermost extremity of the jugular foramen through a distinct opening in the dura mater, lying anteriorly to the sheath of the prteumogastric and spinal accessory nerve, and internally to the jugular vein. It then passes forward between the jugular vein and internal carotid artery, and crosses the artery to reach the poste- rior border of the stylo-pharyngeus. Following the posterior border of this muscle for a short distance, it next passes across it and the middle constrictor and behind the hyo-glossus muscle, to be distributed to the mucous membrane of the tongue and pharynx and to the tonsUs. While in the jugular fossa, the nerve presents two gangliform swellings ; one superior, the ganglion jugulare (Miiller), of small size, and involving only the posterior fibres of the nerve ; the other inferior, nearly half an inch below the preceding, of larger size, and occupying the whole diameter of the nerve, the ganglion petrosum or ganglion of Andersch. * The fibres of origin of this nerve may be traced through the fasciculi of the corpus restiforme to the grey substance in the floor of the fourth ventricle. The Branches of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve are branches of communication and branches of distribution. The Branches of communication proceed chiefly from the gang- lion of Andersch ; they are, one to join the auricular branch of the pneumogastric ; one to the ganglion of the pneumogastric ; one to the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic ; and one, which * Charles Samuel Andersch. " Traetatus Anatomico-Physiologicus de Nervis corporis Humani AJiquibus, 1797."