154 KNEE JOINT. popliteal artery and vein, and is perforated by several openings for the passage of branches of the azygos articular artery and the nerves of the joint. The internal lateral ligament is a broad and trapezoid layer of ligamentous fibres, attached above to the tubercle on the internal condyle of the femur, and below to the inner tuberosity of the tibia. It is crossed at its lower part by the tendons of the inner hamstring, from which it is separated by a synovial bursa, and it covers the anterior slip of the semimembranosus tendon and the inferior inter- nal articular artery. External lateral ligaments.—The long external lateral ligament is a strong rounded cord, which descends from the posterior part of the tubercle on the external condyle of the femur to the outer part The short external lateral ligament is an irregular fasciculus situated be- hind the preceding, arising from the external condyle near the origin of the head of the gastrocnemius muscle, and inserted into the posterior part of the head of the fibula. It is firmly connected with the external semilunar fibro-cartilage, and appears princi- pally intended to connect that carti- lage with the fibula ; sometimes it is lost superiorly in the capsular liga- ment without reaching the femur. + The long external lateral ligament is covered in by the tendon of the biceps, and has passing beneath it the tendon of origin of the popliteus muscle, and the inferior external articular artery. The true ligaments luithin the joint are the crucial, transverse, and coro- nary. The anterior, or external crucial ligament, arises from the de- pression on the head of the tibia in front of the spinous process, and passes upwards and backwards to be inserted into the inner surface of the outer condyle of the femur, as far as its posterior border. It is smaller than the posterior. The posterior, or internal crucial ligament, arises from the de- * Posterior view of the ligaments of the knee joint. 1. Fascicuhis of the ligamentum posticum Winslowii, derived from 2. the tendon of the semi- membranosus muscle; the latter is cut short. 3. The process of the tendon wliich spreads out in the fascia of the popHteus muscle. 4. The process which is sent inwards beneath the internal lateral ligament. 5. The posterior part of the internal lateral ligament. 6. The long external lateral figament. 7. The short external lateral ligament. 8. Tendon of the popHteus muscle cut short. 9. Postero-superior tibio-fibular ligament. t Professor Eetzius considers the short external lateral ligament aa a part of the tendon of the popUteus muscle.