INTERNAL SAPHENOUS NERVE. 501 pierces the fascia at its lower third, near the internal saphenous vein. It then divides into two twigs, one of which continues on- wards to the inner side of the knee; while the other curves outwards to its outer side, communicating in its course with a branch of the long saphenous nerv^e. The inner branch descends along the inner and posterior border of the sartorius muscle to the knee, where it pierces the fascia lata, and gives off several cutaneous twigs. It then sends a small branch of communication to the long saphenous nerve, and passes down- wards along the inner side of the leg, to which it is distributed. While beneath the fascia lata it aids in the formation of a plexus by uniting with branches of the long saphenous nerve and descending branch of the obturator. When the latter is large the inner branch of the internal cutaneous nerve is small, and may terminate in the plexus, or merely give off a few cutaneous filaments. The Long or internal saphenous nerve inclines inwards to the sheath of the femoral vessels, and passes downwards in front of the sheath and beneath the aponeurotic expansion which covers the sheath, to the opening in the adductor magnus. It then quits the femoral vessels, and, continuing to descend, passes between the ten- dons of the sartorius and gracilis, and reaches the internal saphenous vein. By the side of the latter it passes down the inner side of the leg, in front of the inner ankle, and along the inner side of the foot as far as the great toe; being distributed to the integument in its course. The branches of the long saphenous nerve in the thigh are : one or two to join the plexus formed by the obturator and internal cuta- neous nerve; and a large branch, the cutaneus patellce, which pierces the sartorius and fascia lata at the inner side of the knee, and divides into many twigs, which are distributed to the integu- ment of the front of the knee. Above the patella this branch com- municates with the anterior branch of the internal cutaneous nerve, and with the terminal twigs of the middle, and external cutaneous. Below the patella it communicates with other branches of the long saphenous; the whole of these communications constituting a kind of plexus (plexus patellae). The branches of the long saphenous nerve below the knee are dis- tributed to the integument of the front and inner side of the leg. By one of these branches it communicates with the cutaneous branch of the obturator nerve. The Muscular branches of the anterior crural nerve supply all the muscles of the front of the thigh (with the exception of the tensor vaginse femoris, which obtains its nerve from the superior gluteal) and the pectineus. The branch to the pectineus passes behind the sheath of the femoral vessels; the branches to the sar- % torius, three or four in number, arise with the cutaneous nerves, and sometimes are supplied by the latter. The branch to the rectus enters the deep surface of that muscle. The branch to the vastus