129 LIGAMENTS OP THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN. 4. Articulation of the Atlas with the Axis.—The ligaments of this articulation are five in number,— Anterior atlo-axoid, Two capsular, Posterior atlo-axoid, Transverse. The anterior ligament consists of ligamentous fibres, which pass from the anterior tubercle and arch of the atlas to the base of the odontoid process and body of the axis, where they are continuous with the commencement of the anterior common ligament. The posterior ligament is a thin and membranous layer, passing between the posterior arch of the atlas and the laminge of the axis. The capsular ligaments surround the articular processes of the atlas and axis; they are loose, to permit of the freedom of move- Fig. 71* ment which subsists between these vertebrae. The ligamentous fibres are most numerous on the outer and anterior part of the articulation, and the synovial membrane usually communicates with the synovial cavity situated between the transverse ligament and the odontoid process. The transverse ligament is a strong ligamentous band, which arches across the area of the ring of the atlas from a rough tubercle on the inner surface of one articular process to a corresponding tu- bercle on the other. It serves to retain the odontoid process of the axis, in connexion with the anterior arch of the atlas. As it crosses * A posterior view of the ligaments connecting the atlas, axis, and occipital bone. The posterior part of the occipital bone has been savm away, and the arches of the atlas and axis removed. 1. The superior part of the occipito- axoid ligament, which has been cut away in order to show the ligaments be- neath. 2. The transverse ligament of the atlas. 3, 4. The ascending and descending slips of the transverse ligament, which have obtained for it the title of cruciform Hgament. 5. One of the odontoid ligaments; the fellow ligament is seen on the opposite side. 6. One of the occipito-atloid capsular ligaments. 7. One of the atlo-axoid capsular ligaments. K