615 CELLULAR COAT—GLANDS. Peyer's glands, where it is closely adherent. It is also thicker in the upper part of the small intestine than below, and is one cause of the greater thickness of the duodenum and jejunum ; moreover, it enters into the structure of the valvulae conniventes. Glands.—In the corium and in the loose cellular tissue con- necting the mucous with the cellular coat, are situated the glands of the mucous membrane. These glands present some variety of struc- ture, and admit of division into three groups, tubular, saccular, and cornpound. The tubular glands or follicles are minute csecal tubes, placed perpendicularly in the corium, and distributed in great numbers through the mucous membrane. They are composed of limitary membrane, surrounded externally by a plexus of capillary vessels, and lined within by a columnar epithelium; their contents are a transparent granular pulp. In the intestine these follicles are small (about of a line in length, by in breadth), and have re- ceived the name of simple follicles, those of the small intestine being the crypts of Lieberhillin. In the stomach they are long and sacculated at the extremity, and have received the name of gastric follicles (glandule pepsiniferse). They are more simple in structure at the cardiac than at the pyloric end of the stomach, and are so closely packed together, as to seem in a vertical section to be the chief component of the mucous membrane. The saccular glands (vesicular) are described as being small lentil-shaped (lenticular) sacs, situated in the substance of the corium, and apparently devoid of excretory opening. Their walls are thick and fragile, and their contents a transparent or whitish and opake granular pulp. Their function is not well known, but they are supposed to burst from time to time, and give exit to their secretion. The saccular glands, under the name of lenticular, are found in small numbers in the stomach, especially at its pyloric end. In the small intestine they are said to constitute the glandulse solitarise and agminatse. The glandulce solitaries (Fig. 212, a) are dispersed numerously over the mucous membrane, and may be recognised by their whitish and slightly raised surface, and by their oval form encircled by a ring of simple follicles. In the lower part of the jejunum and upper part of the ileum, several of these solitary glands are collected toge- ther so as to form patches of small size. The glandulce agminatce (aggregates; Peyer's glands) are oval and oblong patches of lighter colour than the surrounding mucous membrane, and situated in the ileum and lower part of the jejunum, but principally at the lower part of the former, where they are larger than above. They are found in that portion of the intestine which is opposite the attachment of the mesentery, and vary in size from half an inch to several inches in length, and from a quarter to half an inch in breadth. To the naked eye they have the ap-