168 STRUCTURE OP MUSCLE. — ? — s i Fiu. 97.t B C i — 8 - « i — 2 § 'i a S i B a a B i i i i i i 1 According to my investigations,* the ultimate fibril of animal life is cylindrical when isolated, and probably polyhedral from pressure when forming part of an ultimate fibre or fasciculus. It measures in diameter 20000 of an inch, and is composed of a succession of cells con- A B c T) nected by their flat surfaces. The cells are filled with a transparent substance, which I have termed myoline. The myoline differs in density in different cells, and from this circumstance be- stows a peculiarity of character on cer- tain of the cells. For example, when a fibril in its passive state is examined, there will be seen a series of dark ob- long bodies separated by light spaces of equal length; now, the dark bodies are each composed of a pair of cells containing the densest form of myoline, and are hence highly refractive, while the transparent spaces are constituted i_LLi_iJj' by a pair of cells containing a more fluid myoline. When the fibrils are col- lected together so as to form an ultimate fibre or fasciculus, the appearance of the cell is altered: those which look dark in the single fibril, that is, the most refractive, being ranged side by side, constitute the bright band; whUe the transparent cells of the single fibril are the shaded strife of the fibre. When the ultimate fibril is very much stretched, the two highly refractive cells appear each to be double; while the transparent space is evidently composed of four cells. The uUwiate fibre of organic life is a simple homogeneous fila- * These were made on dissections of fresh human muscle, prepared for me by Mr. Lealand, partner of the eminent optician, Mr. PoweU. t Structure of the ultimate muscular fibril and fibre of animal life. A. An ultimate musctdar fibril in the state of partial contraction. B. A similar fibril in the state of ordinary relaxation. This fibril measured 30000 mch in diameter. c. A similar fibi-il put upon the stretch, and measuring ^ol^o i^ch in diameter. D. Plan of a portion of an ultimate fibre, shoAving the manner in which the transverse striae are produced by the collocation of the fibrils. Nos. 1, 1. The pair of highly refractive cells; they form the dark parts of the single fibrils, but the bright parts of the fibre d. In the stretched fibril c, each cell has the appearance of being double. 2, 2. The pair of less re- fractive cells, hght in the single fibrils, but forming the shaded stria in d. The transverse septum between these cells is very conspicuous; and in c two other septa are seen to exist, making the number of transparent cells four. In d, the tier of cells immediately above the dark tier is partially iUimiined from the obhquity of the light. By an error on the part of the engraver the boundary linea of the fibril are omitted in a b and c.