282 FIBULAR REGION. Fibular Region. PeroneiTS longus. Peroneiis brevis. Dissection.—These muscles are exposed by continuing the dissec- tion of the anterior tibial region outwards beyond the filjula, to the border of the posterior tibial region. The Peroneus longus {Trepovr], fibula ; extensor tarsi fibularis longior) arises from the head and upper half of the outer side of the fibula, from the deep fascia and intermuscular septa, and terminates in a long tendon, which passes behind the external malleolus, and obliquely across the sole of the foot, through the groove in the cuboid bone, to be inserted into the base of the metatarsal bone of the great toe. Its tendon is thickened where it glides behind the external malleolus, and a sesamoid bone is developed in that part which plays upon the cuboid bone. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the fascia of the leg and foot. By its deep surface with the fibula, peroneus brevis, os calcis, cuboid bone, and near the head of the fibula with the external popli- teal nerve. By its anterior border it is separated from the extensor longus digitorum by the attachment of the fascia of the leg to the fibula; and by the posterior border by the same medium from the soleus and flexor longus pollicis. The tendon of the peroneus longus is furnished with three fibrous sheaths and as many synovial mem- branes ; the first is situated behind the external malleolus, and is common to this muscle and the peroneus brevis, the second on the outer side of the os calcis, and the third on the cuboid bone. The Peroneus brevis (extensor tarsi fibularis brevior) lies be- neath the peroneus longus; it arises from the lower half of the fibula and intermuscular septa, and terminates in a tendon which passes behind the external malleolus and through a groove in the os calcis, to be inserted into the base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the peroneus longus and fascia of the leg and foot. By its deep surface with the fibula, os calcis, and cuboid bone. The lateral relations of the muscle are the same as those of the peroneiis longus. The tendon of the peroneus brevis has but two tendinous sheaths and two synovial membranes, one being behind the external malleolus and common to both peronei, the other upon the side of the os calcis. Actions.—The peronei muscles are extensors of the foot, conjointly with the tibialis posticus. They antagonise the tibialis anticus and peroneus tertius, which are flexors of the foot. The whole of these muscles acting together, tend to maintain the flatness of the foot, so necessary to security in walking.