BRAIN. —MEMBRANES. 424 communications. The sympathetic nerves also differ from other nerves in their colour, which is of a reddish-grey tint. The capillary vessels of nerves are very minute. They run parallel with the nervous fasciculi, and every here and there are connected by transverse communications, so as to give rise to a network composed of oblong meshes very similar to the capillary system of muscles. The Nervous system may be divided for convenience of description into 1. The brain. 2. The spinal cord. 3. The cranial nerves. 4. The spinal nerves. 5. The sympathetic system. the brain. The brain is a collective term which signifies those parts of the nervous system, exclusive of the nerves themselves, which are con- tained within the cranium: they are the cerebrum, cerebellum, and medulla oblongata.* These are invested and protected by the mem- branes of the brain, and the whole together constitute the encephalon {kv KEcpaXi^, within the head). membranes of the encephalon. Dissection.—To examine the encephalon with its membranes, the upper part of the skull must be removed, by sawing through the ex- ternal table and breaking the internal table with the chisel and hammer. After the calvarium has been loosened all round, it will require a considerable degree of force to tear the bone away from the dura mater. This adhesion is particularly firm at the sutures, where the dura mater is continuous with a membranous layer interposed between the edges of the bones; in other situations, the connexion results from numerous vessels which permeate the inner table of the skull. The adhesion subsisting between the dura mater and bone is greater in the young subject and in old persons than in the adult. On being torn away, the internal table will present numerous deeply grooved and ramified channels, corresponding with the branches of the arteria meningea media. Along the middle line will be seen a groove corresponding with the superior longitudinal sinus, and on either side may be frequently observed some small fossee, corre- sponding with the Pacchionian bodies. The membranes of the encephalon and spinal cord are the dura mater, arachnoid membrane, and pia mater. The Dura MATERf is the firm, whitish or greyish layer which is brought into view when the calvarium is removed. It is a strong * The average weight of the human brain is three pounds for the male, and four or five ounces less for the female; the medium weight for the male ranging between forty-six and fifty-three ounces, and for the female between forty-one and forty-seven. Cuvier's brain weighed sixty-four ounces, and Dupuytren's sixty-three and a half. t So named from a supposition that it was the parent source of all the fibrous membranes of the body.