86 RADIUS. triceps extensor cuHti, one head of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and anconeus; by the coronoid process, brachialis anticus, pronator radii teres, flexor sublimis digitorum, and flexor profundus digitorum; by the shaft, flexor profundus digitorum, flexor carpi ulnaris, pronator quadratus, anconeus, extensor carpi ulnaris, extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, extensor secundi intemodii poilicis, and extensor indicis. Fig. 48.* Eaditjs.—The radius is the rotatory bone of the fore-arm; it is divisible into a shaft and two extremities; unlike the ulna, its upper extremity is small, and merely accessory to the formation of the elbow-joint; while the lower extremity is large, and forms almost solely the joint of the wrist. The superior extremity presents a rounded head, depressed upon its upper surface into a shallow cup. Around the margin of the head is a smooth articular surface, which is broad on the inner side, where it articulates with the lesser sigmoid notch of the ulna, and narrow iu the rest of its circumference, to play in the orbicular ligament. Beneath the head is a constricted circular neck; and beneath the neck, on its internal aspect, a prominent process, the tuberosity. The surface of the tuberosity is partly smooth and partly rough; rough below, where it receives the attachment of the tendon of the biceps; and smooth above, where a bursa is interposed between the ten- don and the bone. The shaft of the bone is prismoid, and presents three surfaces. The anterior surface is somewhat concave superiorly, where it lodges the flexor longus pollicis; and flat be- low, where it supports the pronator quadratus. At about the upper thii'd of this surface is the nutritious foramen, which is directed upwards. The posterior surface is round above, where it supports the supinator brevis muscle, and marked below by several shallow oblique grooves, which aff"ord at- tachment to the extensor muscles of the thumb. The external mrface is rounded and convex, and marked by an oblique ridrje, * The two bones of the fore-arm seen from the front. 1. The shaft of the rdna. 2. The greater sigmoid notch. 3. The lesser sigmoid notch, with which the head of the radius is articulated. 4. The olecranon process. 5. The coronoid process. 6. The nutritious foramen. 7. The sharp ridges upon the two bones to which the interosseous membrane is attached. 8. The capitulum ulnae. 9. The styloid process. 10. The shaft of the radius. 11. Its head surrounded by tlae smooth border for articulation -wdth the orbicular liga- ment. 12. The neck of the radius. 13. Its tuberosity. 14. The obUque line. 15. The lower extremity of the bone. 16. Its styloid process.