MUSCLES OP THE LARYNX. 581 The Aryteno-epiglottideus superior consists of a few scattered fibres, which pass forward in the fold of mucous membrane forming the lateral boundary of the entrance into the larynx, from the apex of the arytenoid cartilage to the side of the epiglottis. The Aryteno-epiglottideus inferior.—This muscle, described by Mr. Hilton, and closely connected with the sacculus laryngis, may be found by raising the mucous membrane immediately above the ventricle of the larynx. It arises by a narrow and fibrous origin from the arytenoid cartilage, just above the attachment of the chorda vocalis; and passing forwards and a little upwards, expands over the upper half or two-thirds of the sacculus laryngis, and is inserted by a broad attachment into the side of the epiglottis. Actions.—From a careful examination of the muscles of the larynx, Mr. Bishop* concludes, that the crico-arytenoidei postici open the glottis, while all the rest close it. The arytenoideus ap- proximates the arytenoid cartilages posteriorly, and the crico- arytenoidei laterales and thyro-arytenoidei anteriorly ; the latter, moreover, close the glottis mesially. The crico-thyroidei are tensors of the chordse vocales, and these muscles, together with the thyro- arytenoidei, regulate the tension, position, and vibrating length of the vocal cords. ^he crico-thyroid muscles effect the tension of the chordae vocales by rotating the cricoid on the inferior comua of the thyroid; by this action the anterior portion is drawn upwards and made to approxi- mate the inferior border of the thyroid, while the posterior and superior border of the cricoid, together with the arytenoid cartilages, is carried backwards. The crico-arytenoidei postici separate the chordje vocales by drawing the outer angles of the arytenoid carti- lages outwards and downwards. The crico-arytenoidei laterales, by drawing the outer angles of the arytenoid cartilages forwards, ap- proximate the anterior angles to which the chordae vocales are attached. The thyro-arytenoidei draw the arytenoid cartilages for- wards, and, by their connexion with the chordae vocales, act upon the whole length of those cords. The thyro-epiglottideus acts principally by compressing the glands of the sacculus laryngis and the sac itself: by its attachment to the epiglottis it would act feebly upon that valve. The aryteno-epi- glottideus superior serves to keep the mucous membrane of the sides of the opening of the glottis tense, when the larynx is drawn up- wards and the opening closed by the epiglottis. Of the aryteno- epiglottideus, the "functions appear to be," writes Mr. Hilton, "to compress the subjacent glands which open into the pouch ; to diminish the capacity of that cavity, and change its form ; and to approximate the epiglottis and the arytenoid cartilage." Mucous Membrane.—The aperture of the larynx is a triangular or cordiform opening, broad in front and narrow behind ; bounded ante-» * Cyclopaedia of Anatomy and Physiology, art. Larynx.