41 ETHMOID BONE. The perpendicular lamella is a thin central plate, which articu- lates with the vomer and cartilage of the septum, and assists in forming the septum of the nose. It is surmounted superiorly by a thick and strong process, the crista galli, which projects into the cavity of the skull, and gives attachment to the falx cerebri. From the base of the anterior border of this process there project forward two small plates, alar processes, which are received into corre- sponding depressions in the frontal bone, and often complete pos- teriorly the foramen csecum. On each side of the crista galli, upon the upper surface of the bone, is a thin and grooved plate perforated by a number of small openings, the cribriform lamella, which sup- ports the bulb of the olfactory nerve, and gives passage to its fila- ments, and to the nasal branch of the ophthalmic nerve. In the middle of the groove of this lamella the foramiua pierce the bone com- pletely, but at either side they are the apertures of canals, which run for some distance in the substance of the central lamella, inner wall of the lateral mass, and spongy bones. The opening for the nasal nerve is a narrow slit in the ante- rior part of the cribriform lamella, close to the cristi galli. The cribri- form lamella serves to connect the lateral masses with the perpen- dicular 'plate. The lateral masses (labyrinthi) are divisible into an internal and external surface, and four borders, superior, inferior, anterior, and posterior. The internal surface is rough, slightly convex, and forms the external boundary of the upper part of the nasal fossae. Towards the posterior border of this surface is a narrow horizontal fissure, the superior meatus of the nose, the upper margin of which is thin, and somewhat curled inwards ; hence it is named the su/perior turbinated bone (concha superior). Below the meatus is the convex surface of another thin plate, which is curled outwards, and forms * The ethmoid bone seen from above and behind. 1. The central lamella. 2, 2. The lateral masses; the numbers are placed on the posterior border of the lateral mass at each side. 3. The crista gaUi process. 4. The cribriform plate of the left side, pierced by its foramina. 5. The hoUow space imme- diately above and to the left of this number is the superior meatus. 6. The superior turbinated bone. 7. The middle turbinated bone; the numbers 5, 6, 7, are situated upon the internal surface of the left lateral mass, near its posterior part. 8. The external surface of the lateral mass, or os planum. 9. The superior or frontal border of the lateral mass, grooved by the anterior and posterior ethmoidal canals. 10. Eefers to the concavity of the middle turbinated bone, which is the upper boundary of the middle meatus.