DEVELOPMENT OF TEETH, ^0 free, granular papilla" of tlie mucotis membrane, projecting from the floor of the primitive dental groove; at the eighth week, the papilla of the canine tooth is developed; at the ninth week, the papillae of the four incisors (the middle preceding the lateral) appear; and at the tenth week, the papilla of the second molar is seen be- hind the anterior molar in the primitive dental groove. So that at this early period, the tenth week, the papillae or germs of the whole ten deciduous teeth of the upper jaw are quite distinct. Those of the lower jaw are a little more tardy; the papilla of the first molar is merely a slight bulging at the seventh week, and the tenth papilla is not apparent until the eleventh week. From about the eighth week the primitive dental groove becomes contracted before and behind the first deciduous molar, and laminae of the mucous membrane are developed around the other papillae; the laminae increase in growth, and enclose the papillse in follicles with open mouths. At the tenth week the follicle of the first molar is completed, then that of the canine; during the eleventh and twelfth weeks the follicles of the incisors succeed, and at the thir- teenth week the follicle of the posterior deciduous molar. During the thirteenth week the papillae undergo an alteration of form, and assume the shape of the teeth they are intended to repre- sent. And at the same time small membranous processes are de- veloped from the mouths of the follicles; these processes are intended to serve the purpose of opercula to the follicles, and they correspond in shape with the form of the crowns of the appertaining teeth. To the follicles of the incisor teeth there are two opercula; to the canine, three; and to the molars, a number relative to the number of their tubercles, either four or five. During the fourteenth and fifteenth weeks the opercula have completely closed the follicles, so as to con- vert them into dental sacs, and at the same time the papilla have become pulps. The deep portion of the primitive dental groove, viz. that which contains the dental sacs of the deciduous teeth, being thus closed in, the remaining portion, that which is nearer the surface of the gum, is still left open, and to this Mr. Groodsir has given the title of secondary dental groove, as it serves for the development of all the permanent teeth, with the exception of the anterior molars. During the fourteenth and fifteenth weeks small lunated inflections of the mucous membrane are formed, immediately to the inner side of the closing opercula of the deciduous dental follicles, commencing behind the incisors and proceeding onwards through the rest; these are the rudiments of the follicles or cavities of reserve of the four permanent incisors, two permanent canines, and four bicuspides. As the se- condary dental groove gradi;ally closes, these follicular inflections of the mucous membrane are converted into closed cavities of reserve, which recede from the ^urface of the gum, and lie immediately to the inner side, and in close'contact with the dental sacs of the deciduous teeth, being enclosed in their submucous cellular tissue. At about