176 MUSCLES OF THE PACE. tissue of the orbit, and m front with the glohe of the eye, the tendon of the superior ohlique muscle being interposed. The Rectus Inferior (depressor) arises from the inferior margin of the optic foramen by a tendon (ligament of Zinn) which is common to it, the internal and external rectus, and from the fibrous sheath of the optic nerve; it is inserted into the inferior surface of the globe of the eye, a little more than two lines from the margin of the cornea. Relations.—By its upper surface with the optic nerve, inferior oblique branch of the third nerve, adipose tissue of the orbit, and under surface of the globe of the eye. By its under surface with the periosteum of the floor of the orbit, and inferior oblique muscle. The Rectus Internus (adductor), the thickest and shortest of the straight muscles, arises from the common tendon, and from the fibrous sheath of the optic nerve; and is inserted into the inner surface of the globe of the eye at two lines from the margin of the cornea. Relations.—By its internal surface with the optic nerve, adipose tissue of the orbit and eyeball. By its outer siirface with the periosteum of the orbit; by its upper harder with the anterior and posterior ethmoidal vessels, nasal and supra-trochlear nerve. The Rectus Externus (abductor), the longest of the straight muscles, arises by two distinct heads, one from the common tendon, the other with the origin of the superior rectus fi-om the margin of the optic foramen; the nasal, third, and sixth nerves passing be- tween them. It is inserted into the outer surface of the globe of the eye, a little more than two lines from the margin of the cornea. Relations.—-Bj its internal surface with the third, nasal, sixth, and optic nerve, ciliary ganglion and nerves, ophthalmic artery and vein, adipose tissue of the orbit, inferior oblique muscle, and eye- ball. By its external surface with the periosteum of the orbit and lachrymal gland; by the upper border with the lachrymal vessels and nerve. The recti muscles present several characters in common; thus, they are thin, have each the form of an isosceles triangle, bear the same relation to the globe of the eye, and are inserted in a similar manner into the sclerotica, at about two lines from the circumference of the cornea. The points of difference relate to thickness and length; the internal rectus is the thickest and shortest, the external the longest, and the superior the most thin. The insertion of the four recti into the globe of the eye forms a tendinous expansion, which is continued as far as the margin of the cornea, and is called, tunica albuginea. The Obliquus Superior (trochlearis) is a fusiform muscle arising from the margin of the optic foramen, and from the fibrous sheatli of the optic nerve; it passes forwards to the pulley beneath the internal angular process of the frontal bone; its tendon is then reflected outwards beneath the superior rectus to the outer part' of