^40 BRACHIAL ARTERY. size : a musctilar trtmk, which gives off some of the ordinary axil- lary branches and supplies the upper arm, and a continued trunk, which represents the brachial artery. The next most frequent variety is the high division of the ulnar which passes down the arm by the side of the brachial artery, and superficially to the muscles proceeding from the inner condyle, to its ordinary distribution in the hand. In this course it lies immediately beneath the deep fascia of the forearm, and may be seen and felt pulsating beneath the integTiment. The high division of the radial from the axillary is rare. In one instance, I saw the axillary artery divide into three branches of nearly equal size, which passed together down the arm, and at the bend of the elbow resolved themselves into radial, ulnar, and interosseous. But the most interesting variety, both in a phy- siological and surgical sense, is that described by Dr. Jones Quain, in his " Elements of Anatomy." " I found in the dissecting-room, a few years ago, a variety not hitherto noticed; it was at first taken for the ordinary high division of the ulnar artery. The two vessels descended from the point of division at the border of the axilla, and lay parallel with one another in their course through the arm; but instead of diverging, as is usual, at the bend of the elbow, they converged, and united so as to form a short trunk, which soon divided again into the radial and ulnar arteries in the regular way." In a subject, dissected by myself, this variety existed in both arms; and I have seen several instances of a similar kind. The Brachial a/rtery (brachialis; humeraria) passes down the inner side of the arm, from the lower border of the tendons of the latissimus dorsi and teres major, to a little below the bend of the elbow, where it divides into the radial and ulnar artery. Relations.—In its course downwards, it rests upon the triceps, coraco-brachialis, brachialis anticus, and the tendon of the biceps. To its inner side is the internal cutaneous and ulnar nerve; to the outer side, the coraco-brachialis and biceps; in front it has the basilic vein, and is crossed by the median nerve. Its relations, within its sheath, are the vense comites. BRACHIAL ARTERY. Plan of the Relations of the Brachial Artery. In Front. Basilic vein. Deep fascia, Median nerve, Inner Side. Internal cutaneous nerve, Ulnar nerve. Brachial artery. Outer Side. Coraco-brachialis, Biceps. Behind. Short head of triceps. Coraco-brachialis, Brachiahs anticus, Tendon of biceps