PHALANGES.—PELVIS. 93 /owr, extensor carpi ulnaris, adductor minimi digiti, fourth dorsal and third palmar interosseous. Phalanges.—The phalanges are the bones of the fingers; they are named from their arrangement in rows, and are fourteen in number, three to each finger, and two to the thumb. In conforma- tion they are long bones, divisible into a shaft, and two extremities. The shaft is compressed from before backwards, convex on its posterior surface, and flat with raised edges in front. The metacarpal extremity or base, in the first row, is a simple concave articular surface, that in the other two rows a double concavity, separated by a slight ridge. The digital extremities of the first and second row present a pulley-like surface, concave in the middle, and convex on each side. The ungual extremity of the last phalanx is broad, rough, and expanded into a semilunar crest. Development.—By two centres; one for the shaft, and one for the base. Ossification commences first in the third phalanges, then in the first, and lastly in the second. The period of commencement corresponds with that of the metacarpal bones. The epiphyses of the first row appear during the third or fourth year, those of the second row during the fourth or fifth, and of the last during the sixth or seventh. The phalanges are perfected by the twentieth year. Articulations.—The first row, with the metacarpal bones and second row of phalanges; the second row, with the first and third; the third with the second row. Attachment of Muscles.—To the base of first phalanx of the thumb/oitr muscles, abductor poUicis, flexor brevis pollicis, adductor pollicis, and extensor primi internodii; to the second phalanx, two, flexor longus pollicis, and extensor secundi internodii. To the first phalanx of the second, third, and fourth fingers, one dorsal and one palmar interosseous; to the first phalanx of the little finger, the abductor minimi digiti, flexor brevis minimi digiti, and one palmar interosseous. To the second phalanges, the flexor sublimis and extensor communis digitorum; to the last phalanges, the flexor profundus and extensor communis digitorum. PELVIS AND LOWER EXTREMITY. The bones of the pelvis are the two ossa innominata, the sacrum, and the coccyx; and of the lower extremity, the femur, patella, tibia and fibula, tarsus, metatarsus, and phalanges. Os INNOMINATUM.—The OS innominatum (os cox«) is an irregular, fiat bone, consisting in the young subject of three parts, which meet at the acetabulum. Hence it is usually described in the adult as divisible into three portions, ilium, ischium, and pubes. The ilium is the superior, broad, and expanded portion which forms the pro- minence of the hip, and articulates with the sacrum. The ischium