CEREBELLUM. 44] several eminences or nuclei, from whicli, according to Stilling, the eighth, and ninth nerves, and probably also the fifth, take their origin. Higher up the fasciculi teretes are crossed by several white strise (lineae transversse), the origin of the auditory nerves. Upon the lower part of the floor of this ventricle is an impression resembling the point of a pen, and hence named calamus scriptorius; the lateral boundaries of the calamus are the processus clavati of the posterior pyramids. Above, the fourth ventricle is bounded by the corpora quadrigemina and aqueduct of Sylvius ; and helow by a layer of pia mater and arachnoid, called the valve of the arachnoid. Beneath this valve a communication exists between the ventricles of the brain and the subarachnoidean space. Within the fourth ventricle and lying against the uvula and tonsils are two small vascular fringes formed by the pia mater, the choroid plexuses of the fourth ventricle. LINING MEMBRANE OF THE VENTRICLES. The lining membrane of the ventricles is a serous layer distinct from the arachnoid ; it lines the whole of the interior of the lateral ventricles, and is connected above and below with the attached border of the choroid plexus, so as to exclude all communication between the lateral ventricles and the exterior of the brain. From the lateral ventricles it is reflected through the foramen of Monro on each side into the third ventricle, which it invests throughout. From the third it is conducted into the fourth ventricle, through the iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculum, and after lining its interior becomes continuous inferiorly with the sub-arachnoidean space of the spinal cord. The lining membrane of the ventricles is provided with a ciliated epithe- lium, and is the source of the secretion which moistens and lubricates their interior. The fifth ventricle has a separate lining membrane. CEREBELLUM. The Cerebellum (figs.159, 161, 162), seven times smaller than the cerebrum, is situated beneath the posterior cerebral lobes, being lodged in the posterior fossa of the base of the cranium, and protected from the superincumbent pressure of the cerebrum by the tentorium cerebelli. Like the cerebrum, it is composed of grey and white sub- stance, the former occupying the surface, the latter the interior, and its surface is formed of parallel lamellse separated by sulci, and here and there by deeper sulci. In form the cerebellum is oblong and flattened, its greater diameter being from side to side, its two surfaces looking upwards and downwards, and its borders being anterior, posterior, and lateral. In consideration of its shape the cerebellum admits of a division into two hemispheres, into certain prominences termed processes and lobules, and into certain divisions of its sub- stance called lobes, formed upon the hemispheres by the deeper sulci