569 RIGHT VENTRICLE. {columnce carnece) which stand out from the walls of the ventricle, and serve as muscles to the valves. A number of these tendinous cords converge to a single muscular attachment. The tricuspid valves prevent the regurgitation of blood into the auricle during the con- traction of the ventricle, and they are prevented from being them- selves driven back by the chordse tendineas and their muscular attachments. This connexion of the muscular columns of the heart to the valves has caused their division into active and passive. The active valves are the tricuspid and mitral; the passive, the semilunar and coro- nary. The valves consist, according to Mr. King,*of curtains, cords, and columns. The anterior valve or curtain is the largest, and is so placed as to prevent the filling of the pulmonary artery during the distention of the ventricle. The right valve or curtain is of smaller size, and is situated on the right side of the auriculo-ventricular opening. The third valve, or fixed curtain,'" is connected by its cords to the septum ventriculorum. The cords (chordas tendinese) of the anterior curtain are attached, principally, to a long column (columna carnea), which is connected with the "right or thin and yielding wall of the ventricle." From the lower part of this column a transverse muscular band, the ^Hong moderator hand," is stretched to the septum ventriculorum, or solid walV of the ventricle. The right curtain is connected, by means of its cords, partly with the long column, and partly with its own proper cohimn, the second column, which is also attached to the yielding walV of the ven- tricle. A third and smaller column is generally connected with the right curtain. The fixed curtain" is so named from its attachment to the solid wall" of the ventricle, by means of cords only, without fleshy columns. From this arrangement of the valves it follows, that if the right ventricle be over distended, the thin or ^'yielding wall" will give way, and carry with it the columns of the anterior and right valve. The cords connected with these colums will draw down the edges of the corresponding valves, and produce an opening between the curtains, through which the superabundant blood may escape into the auricle, and the ventricle be relieved from over-pressure. This mechanism is therefore adapted to fulfil the function of a " safety valve." The Columnce carnece (fleshy columns) is a name expressive of the appearance of the internal walls of the ventricles, which, with the exception of the infundibulum, seem formed of muscular columns interlacing in almost every direction. They are divided, according to the manner of their connection, into three sets. 1. The greater number are attached by the whole of one side, and merely form convexities into the cavity of the ventricle. 2. Others are connected * " Essay on the Safety-Valye Function in the Eight Ventricle of the Human Heart," by T. W. King. Guy's Hospital Keports, vol. ii.