516 CAEBIAC PLEXUS. along the front of the left pulmonary artery to the root of the left lung, where they communicate with the anterior pulmonary plexus; while the principal part of the plexus descends in the groove between the pulmonary artery and the aorta to the anterior longitudinal sulcus of the heart, where it comes into relation with the anterior coronary artery, and becomes the anterior coronary plexus. At the base of the heart, the anterior coronary plexus receives several filaments from the deep cardiac plexus. Its branches are distributed to the substance of the heart in the course of the left or anterior coronary artery. The Deep or Gtreat cardiac plexus is situated on the bifur- cation of the trachea, above the right pulmonary artery and behind the transverse portion of the arch of the aorta. It receives, on the right side, the three cardiac nerves of the sympathetic of the same side, and the cardiac branches of the right pneumogastric and right recurrent nerve. On the left side it receives the middle and infe- rior cardiac nerves of the sympathetic of the left side; the cardiac branches of the left pneumogastric (excepting the inferior), and several cardiac branches from the left recurrent nerve. In other words, it receives all the cardiac filaments of the sympathetic, pneu- mogastric, and recurrent nerves, with the exception of the left supe- rior cardiac of the sympathetic (nervus superficialis cordis) and the inferior cervical cardiac of the left pneumogastric, these two nerves being destined to the superficial cardiac plexus. The branches of the deep cardiac plexus, proceeding from its right and left division, pass downwardsto join the coronary arteries, and outwards to the pulmonary plexuses. From the right division of the plexus the branches proceed before and behind the right pulmonary artery. Those which pass in front descend upon the trunk of the pulmonary artery to the left coro- nary artery, and help to form the anterior coronary plexus; those which pass behind the right pulmonary artery are distributed to the right auricle; a third set of filaments, proceeding from the right division of the deep cardiac plexus, follow the course of the right pulmonary artery to the anterior pulmonary plexus. From the left division of the plexus branches proceed beneath the arch of the aorta immediately to the right of the ligament of the ductus arteriosus to join the superficial cardiac plexus; others pass outwards with the pulmonary artery to the pulmonary plexus; a few descend to the left auricle; but the chief bulk pass on to the right coronary artery and form the posterior coronary plexus. The A nterior coronary plexus proceeds from the superficial car- diac plexus, and receives other filaments from the deep cardiac plexus. It is distributed with the branches of the coronary artery on the anterior aspect of the heart. The Posterior coronary plexus proceeds from the deep cardiac plexus and principally from its left division. It follows the course of the arteries distributed to the posterior aspect of the heart.