563 CHAPTER X. OF THE VISCEEA. That part of the science of anatomy which, treats of the viscera is named splanchnology, from the Greek v/ords airXayxvov, viscus, and \6joQ. The viscera of the human body are situated in the three great internal cavities; cranio-spinal, thorax, and abdomen. The viscera of the cranio-spinal cavity, namely, the brain and spinal cord, with the principal organs of sense, have been already described, in conjunction with the nervous system. The viscera of the chest are: the central organ of circulation, the heart; the organs of respiration, the lungs; and the thymus gland. The abdominal viscera admit of a subdivision into those which properly belong to that cavity, viz., the alimentary canal, liver, pancreas, spleen, kidneys, and supra-renal capsules; and those of the pelvis : the bladder and internal organs of generation. THOEAX. The thorax is the conical cavity, situated at the upper part of the trunk of the body; it is narrow above and broad below, and is bounded in front, by the sternum, six superior costal cartilages, ribs, and intercostal muscles; laterally, by the ribs and intercostal muscles; and, behind, by the ribs, intercostal muscles, and vertebral column, as low down as the upper border of the last rib and first lumbar vertebra; superiorly, by the first rib at each side, the upper part of the sternum in front and the first dorsal vertebra behind; and inferiorly, by the diaphragm. The superior opening of the thorax is closed by the thoracic fascia, and gives passage to the following parts, namely, the sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and longi colli muscles; the trachea and cesophagus; the carotid and subclavian arteries and veins, and thoracic duct; the pneumogastric, phrenic, and sympathetic nerves; and the upper part of the lungs and pleurae. The cavity of the thorax is much deeper on the posterior than on the anterior wall, in consequence of the obliquity of the diaphragm, and contains the heart enclosed in its pericardium, with the great vessels; the lungs, with their serous coverings, the pleura; the* cesophagus; some important nerves; and, in the foetus, the thymus gland. THE HEART. The central organ of circulation, the heart, is situated between the two layers of pleura which constitute the mediastinum, and is enclosed in a proper membrane, the pericardium. 00 2