DURA MATER. 426 depressions on the inner surface of the cranium, or simply render the dura mater thin and cribriform. Sometimes they cause absorp- tion of the wall of the longitudinal sinus, and projecting into its cavity, give rise to the granulations described in connexion with that channel. If the student cut through one side of the dura mater, in the direc- tion of his incision through the skull, and turn it upwards towards the middle line, he will observe the smooth internal surface of this membrane. He will perceive also the large veins of the hemispheres filled with dark blood, and passing from behind forwards to open into the superior longitudinal sinus ; and the firm connexion, by means of these veins and the Pacchionian bodies, between the opposed surfaces of the arachnoid membrane. If he separate these adhesions with his scalpel, he will see a vertical layer of dura mater descending between the hemispheres ; and if he draw one side of the brain a little outwards, he will be enabled to perceive the extent of the process of membrane, which is called the falx cerebri. The processes of dura mater which are sent inwards towards the interior of the skull, are the falx cerebri, tentorium cerebelli, and falx cerehelli. The Falx cerebri (falx, a sickle), so named from its sickle-like appearance, narrow in front, broad behind, and forming a sharp curved edge below, is attached in front to the crista galli process of the ethmoid bone, and behind to the tentorium cerebelli. The Tentorium cerebelli (tentorium, a tent) is a roof of dura mater, thrown across the cerebellum and attached at each side to the margin of the petrous portion of the temporal bone ; behind, to the transverse ridge of the occipital bone, which lodges the lateral sinuses ; and to the clinoid processes in front. It supports the posterior lobes of the cerebrum and prevents their pressure* on the cerebellum, leaving only a small opening anteriorly, for the trans- mission of the crura cerebri. The Falx cerebelli is a small process, generally double, attached to the vertical ridge of the occipital bone beneath the lateral sinus, and to the tentorium. It is received into the indentation between the two hemispheres of the cerebellum. The layers of the dura mater separate in several situations, so as to form irregular channels which receive the venous blood. These are the sinuses of the dura mater, which have been described at page 387. The student cannot see the tentorium and falx cerebelli until the brain is removed ; but he should consider the attachments of the former on the dried skull, for he will have to incise it in the removal of the brain. He should now proceed to that operation, for which purpose the dura mater is to be divided all round, on a level with * In leaping animals, as the feline and canine genera, the tentorium forms a bony tent.