212 MUSCLES OP THE BACK. splenius. By its deep surface (in the lumbar region) witli the multifidus spirias, transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae, and lumbar fascia, which separates it from the quadratus lumborum; (in the dorsal region) with the multifidus spinse, semi-spiaalis dorsi, levatores costarum, intercostal muscles, and ribs as far as their angles. Internally or mesially with the multifidus spinae, and semi- spinalis dorsi, which separate it from the spinous processes and arches of the vertebrae. The fascia lumborum, with the spinal column, vertebral aponeu- rosis and ribs, form a complete osseo-aponeurotic sheath for the erector spinas. The Cervicalis ascendens vel descendens is the continuation of the sacro-lumbalis upwards into the neck. It arises from the angles of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth ribs, and is inserted by slender tendons into the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrae. The term descendens, applied to this muscle, can only be correct when it is described as arising in the neck and passing downwards to the ribs. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the levator angiili scapulae; by its deep su/rface with the upper intercostal muscles and ribs, and intertransverse muscles; externally with the scalenus posticus; and internally with the transversalis cervicis. The tendons of insertion are interposed between the attachments of the scalenus posticus and transversalis cervicis with which they are united. The Transvebsalis cervicis would appear to be the continuation upwards into the neck of the longissimus dorsi; it arises from the transverse processes of the five or six upper dorsal vertebrae, and is. inserted into the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae, from the second to the sixth. It receives a fasciculus from the longissimus dorsi and several small slips from the trachelo-mastoideus. Relations.—By its superficial snrface with the levator anguli scapulae, splenius and longissimus dorsi. By its deep surface with. the complexus, trachelo-mastoideus and vertebrae; externally with the musculus accessorius ad sacro-lumbalem and cervicalis ascen- dens; internally with the trachelo-mastoideus and complexus. The tendons of insertion of this muscle are intei'posed between the ten- dons of insertion of the cervicalis ascendens on the outer side, and those of origin of the trachelo-mastoid on the inner side. The Trachelo-mastoideus (complexus parvus) is likewise a con- tinuation upwards from the longissimus dorsi. It is a slender and delicate muscle, arising from the transverse processes of the three upper dorsal and last cervical, and from the articular processes of the three next cervical vertebrae, its origin being similar to that of the complexus, with which and the origin of the transversalis cer- vicis it is closely connected. It receives a fasciculus from the lon- gissimus dorsi, and is inserted into the posterior border and summit of the mastoid process.