622 THE LIVER. the inferior vena cava, previously to the passage of that vessel through the tendinous opening in the diaphragm. The Round ligament is a fibrous cord resulting from the oblitera- tion of the umbilical vein, and situated between the two layers of peritoneum in the anterior border of the longitudinal ligament. It may be traced from the umbilicus through the longitudinal fissure of the under surface of the liver to the inferior vena cava, to which it is connected. Fissures.—The under surface of the liver is marked by five fis- sures, which divide its surface into five compartments or lobes, two principal and three minor lobes ; they are the— The Longitudinal fissure is a deep groove running from the notch upon the anterior margin of the liver, to the posterior border of the organ. At about one-third from its posterior extremity it is joined by a short but deep fissure, the transverse, which meets it trans- versely from the under part of the right lobe. The longitudinal fissure in front of this junction lodges the fibrous cord of the umbilical vein, and is generally crossed by a band of hepatic substance called the pons hepatis. The Fissure for the ductus venosus is the shorter portion of the longitudinal fissure, ' extending from the junctional termination of the transverse fissure to the posterior border of the liver, and con- taining a small fibrous cord, the remains of the ductus venosus. This fissure is therefore but a part of the longitudinal fissure. The Transverse fissure is the short and deep fissure, about two inches in length, through which the hepatic ducts quit and the hepatic artery and portal vein enter the liver. Hence this fissure was considered by the older anatomists as the gate (porta) of the liver; and the large vein entering the organ at this point, the portal vein. At their entrance into the transverse fissure the branches of the hepatic duct are the most anterior, next those of the artery, and most posteriorly the portal vein. The Fissure for the gall-Madder is a shallow fossa extending forwards, parallel with the longitudinal fissure, from the right ex- tremity of the transverse fissure to the free border of the liver, where it frequently forms a notch. The Fissure for the vena cava is a deep and short fissure, occa- sionally a circular tunnel, which proceeds from a little behind the right extremity of the transverse fissure to the posterior border of the liver, and lodges the inferior vena cava. Fissures. Lohes. Longitudinal fissure, Fissure for the ductus venosus. Transverse fissure. Fissure for the gall bladder, Fissure for the vena cava. Right lobe. Left lobe, Lobus quadratus, Lobus Spigelii, Lobns caudatus.