612 STRUCTURE OP MUCOUS MEMBRANE. and bronchial tubes; uterus and Fallopian tubes ; and serous mem- brane of the ventricles of the brain. Fid. 209. B. The epithelium of the mucous membrane of the alimentary canal is, therefore, squamous in the mouth, guttural part of the pharynx and oesophagus; and columnar in the stomach, intestines, and mucous glands. In the upper or nasal portion of the pharynx the epithelium is columnar and ciliated, as belonging to the apparatus of the air passages. In the mouth the epithelium is thin and con- tinuous at the outer edge of the lips with the epiderma; in the cesophagus it is thick, and terminates by an abrupt and serrated border {ora serrata) at the cardiac orifice of the stomach; below this point the epithelium is thin and transparent. The CoRiUM is analogous to the corium of the skin, and is that part of the mucous membrane upon which its thickness depends. In structure it consists of two portions; of a thin transparent surface layer, the limitary membrane (membrana propria; basement mem- brane of Bowman), and a fibre-vascular portion, which constitutes the chief bulk of the corium. It is rich in blood vessels, and its fibrous element varies in quan- Fig. 210.t tity in different membranes, and also in difi'erent parts of the same membrane; thus, it is thick in the oesophagus, thin in the stomach and intestines, and thickest in the bladder and vagina. In the limitary membrane and in that part of the corium immediately beneath it, there is no fibrous tissue, the structure * Cells of the columnar ciliated epithelium of the nose, magnified 310 times. A. Separate cells, b. Appearance of the surface formed by the apposition of their bases. t A portion of the mucous membrane of the stomach, magnified 75 times. The alveoli measured ^ho of an inch in length, by in breadth; the width of the septa being of an inch. The smaller alveoli measured of an inch in length, and 3^ in breadth. The trifid or quadrifid division of a small artery is seen at the bottom of each alveolus, and in the depressions between the divisions of the artery, the apertures of the gastric follicles; two, three, or four, in each depression.