453 SPINAL CORD. median fissure. It forms a sheath for each of the filaments of the nerves, and for the nerves themselves; and, inferiorly, at the conical termination of the cord, is prolonged downwards as a slender ligament {filum terminale), which descends through the centre of the cauda equina, and is attached to the dura mater lining the canal of the coccyx. This attachment is a rudiment of the original extension of the spinal cord into the canal of the sacrum and coccyx. The pia mater has, distributed to it, a number of nervous plexuses derived from the sympathetic. The Memhrana dentata (ligamentum dentatum) is a thin process of pia mater sent oif from each side of the cord throughout its entire length, and separating the anterior from the posterior roots of the spinal nerves. The number of serrations on each side is about twenty, the first being situated on a level with the occipital foramen, and having the vertebral artery and hypoglossal nerve passing in front and the spinal accessory nerve behind it, and the last opposite the first or second lumbar vertebra. Below this point, the membrana dentata is lost in the filum terminale of the pia mater. The use of this membrane is to maintain the position of the spinal cord in the midst of the fluid by which it is surrounded. The Spinal cord of the adult, somewhat less than eighteen inches in length, extends from the pons Varolii to opposite the first or second lumbar vertebra, where it terminates in a rounded point; in the child, at birth, it reaches to the middle of the third lumbar vertebra, and in the embryo is prolonged as far as the coccyx. It presents a difference of diameter in different parts of its extent, and has three enlargements. The uppermost of these is the medulla oblongata; the next corresponds with the origin of the nerves destined to the upper extremities (brachial); and the lower enlarge- ment (lumbar) is situated near its termination, and corresponds with the attachment of the nerves which are intended for the supply of the lower limbs. The brachial enlaigement is flattened from before backwards, and extends from the third cervical vertebra to the first dorsal; the lumbar enlargement is flattened from side to side, and is smaller than the brachial. The spinal cord gives off near its ter- mination that assemblage of nerves which has received the name of Cauda equina. In form, the spinal cord is a flattened cylinder, and presents on its anterior surface a fissure, which extends into the cord to the depth of one-third of its diameter. This is the anterior median fissure. If the sides of the fissure be gently separated, they will be seen to be connected at the bottom by a layer of medullary substance, the anterior white commissure. On the posterior surface another fissure exists, which is so narrow between the second cervical and second lumbar nerve, as to be hardly perceptible. This is the posterior median fissure. It extends more deeply into the cord than the anterior fissure, and terminates in the