218 MUSCLES OF THE BACK. The .Intertransveksales (intertransversarii) are small quad- rilateral muscles situated between the transverse processes of the vertebrae. In the cervical region they are arranged in pairs corre- sponding with the double conformation of the transverse processes, the vertebral artery and anterior division of the cervical nerves lying between them. The rectus anticus minor and rectus lateralis represent the intertransversales between the atlas and cranium. In the dorsal region the anterior intertransversales are represented by the intercostal muscles, while the posterior are mere tendinous bands, muscular only between the first and last vertebrae. In the lumbar region, the anterior intertransversales are thin, and occupy only part of the space between the transverse processes. Analogues of posterior intertransversales exist, in the form of small muscular fasciculi (interobliqui, interaccessorii) extended between the rudi- mentary posterior transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrse. The Levatores oostartjm (supra-costales) are divided into long and short. The short (breves), twelve in number on each side, arise from the apex and lower border of the transverse process of the last cervical and eleven upper dorsal vertebrae ; and pass down- wards and outwards, radiating in their descent, to be inserted into the upper border of all the ribs, between the tuberosity and angle. The uppermost muscle is the smallest, and they increase in breadth from above downwards. The levatores costarum longi, four in number on each side, arise from the transverse processes of the dorsal vertebrse, from the seventh to the tenth, and are inserted into the four lower ribs; each muscle passing over a rib in its descent, and being attached to the rib below as far as its angle. The levatores longi lie super- ficially to the levatores breves and increase in size from above downwards. Relations.—^By their superficial siirface with the sacrolumbalis, longissimus dorsi and transversalis cervicis. By their deep surface with the ribs and intercostal spaces ; the levatores breves close the intercostal spaces, and are united by their external border with the intercostales externi. With regard to the origin and insertion of the muscles of the back, the student should be informed that no exact regularity attends their attachments. At the best, a knowledge of theii* pre- cise connexions, even were it possible to retain it, would be but a barren information, if not absolutely injurious, as tending to exclude more valuable learning. I have therefore endeavoured to arrange a plan, by which they may be more easily recollected, by placing them in a tabular form (pp. 216, 217), that the student may see at a glance, the origin and insertion of each, and compare the natural grouping and similarity of attachments of the various layers. In this manner, also, their actions will be better comprehended, and learnt with greater facility. In examining this table, the student will observe the constant