GREAT ISCHIATIC NERVE. 505 which turn arotmd the lower border of the gluteus maximus, and are distributed to the integument over the hip and outer side of the thigh. The internal cutaneous branches are distributed to the in- teg-ument of the upper and inner part of the thigh. One of these larger than the rest, inferior pudendal, curves around the tuberosity of the ischium, pierces the fascia lata near the ramus of that bone, and, after communicating v/ith the superficial perineal nerve, is distributed to the integument of the scrotum and penis. The middle cutaneo'us branches, two or three in number, are derived from the lesser ischiatic in its course down the thigh, and are dis- tributed to the integument. The Great ischiatic nerve is the largest nervous cord in the body ; it is formed by the sacral plexus, or rather is a prolongation of the plexus, and at its exit from the great sacro-ischiatic foramen beneath the pyriformis muscle measures three quarters of an inch in breadth. It descends through the middle of the space between the trochanter major and tuberosity of the ischium, and along the pos- terior part of the thigh to its lower third, where it divides into two large terminal branches, internal and external popliteal. This division sometimes takes place at the plexus, and the two nerves descend side by side ; occasionally they are separated at their commencement by a part or by the whole of the pyriformis muscle. The nerve in its course down the thigh rests on the gemellus supe- rior, tendon of the obturator internus, gemellus inferior, quadratus femoris, and adductor magnus, and is covered in by the gluteus maximus and biceps muscle. The Branches of the great ischiatic nerve, previously to its division, are, muscular and articular. The Muscular branches are given off from the upper part of the nerve and supply both heads of the biceps, the semi-tendinosus, semi-membranosus, and adductor magnus. The Ai'ticular branch descends to the upper part of the external condyle of the femur, and divides into filaments which are distri- buted to the fibrous capsule and synovial membrane of the knee- joint. The Internal popliteal nerve passes through the middle of the popliteal space, from the division of the great ischiatic nerve to the lower border of the popliteus muscle, accompanies the artery beneath the arch of the soleus, and becomes the posterior tibial nerve. It is superficial in the whole of its course, and lies exter- nally to the vein and artery. The Branches of the popliteal nerve are, ,muscular or sural, articular, and a cutaneous branch, the external saphenous nerve. The Muscular branches, of considerable size, and four or five in number, are distributed to the two heads of the gastrocnemius, to the soleus, plantaris, and popliteus. The Articidar branches, tvi^o or three in number, supply the