503 SACRAL PLEXUS. Each of the anterior divisions of the sacral nerves receives a filament from the sympathetic at its point of escape from the sacral canal. Sacral plexus.—The Sacral plexus is formed by the union of the lumbo-sacral, and the anterior divisions of the three upper sacral nerves and one-half the fourth. The plexus is triangular in form, its base corresponding with the whole length of the sacrum, and its apex with the lower part of the great ischiatic foramen. It is in relation behind with the pyriformis muscle ; and in front with the pelvic fascia, which separates it from the internal iliac vessels and viscera of the pelvis. The Branches of the sacral plexus are, The Visceral nerves are three or four large branches which are derived from the fourth and fifth sacral nerves: they ascend upon the side of the rectum and bladder ; in the female upon the side of the rectum, vagina, uterus, and bladder; and interlace with branches of the hypogastric plexus, sending in their course nume- rous filaments to the pelvic viscera. The Muscular hrancJies are one or two twigs to the levator ani ; an obturator hranch, which curves around the spine of the ischium to reach the internal surface of the obturator internus muscle ; two twigs to the pyriformis; a branch to the gemellus superior; and a branch of moderate size, which descends between the gemelli muscles and the ischium, and is distributed to the gemellus inferior, quadratus femoris, and capsule of the hip-joint. The Superior gluteal nerve arises from the lumbo-sacral near its junction with the first sacral nerve ; it passes out of the pelvis with the gluteal artery, through the great sacro-ischiatic foramen, and divides into a superior and an inferior branch. The superior branch follows the direction of the superior curved line of the ilium, accompanying the deep superior branch of the gluteal artery, and sends filaments to the gluteus medius and minimus. The inferior branch passes obliquely downwards and forwards between the gluteus medius and minimus, distributing numerous filaments to both, and terminates in the tensor vaginae femoris muscle. The PuDic nerve arises from the lower part of the sacral plexus and passes out of the pelvis through the great sacro-ischiatic foramen below the pyriformis muscle. It crosses the spine of the ischium, and re-entering the pelvis through the lesser sacro-ischiatic foramen. Visceral, Muscular, Superior gluteal. Pudic, Lesser ischiatic. Greater ischiatic.