486 BRACHIAL PLEXUS. The posterior divisions of the remaining cervical nerves go on pro- gressively decreasing in size to the seventh. The internal branches of the second, third, fouHh and fifth nerves lie upon the semispinalis colli mnscle, and are closely con- nected with a fascia which separates that mnscle from the complexus. The second and third, with a branch from the first, constitute the posterior cervical plexus; and all the branches in their course to the surface pierce the complexus and trapezius and some the splenius. The internal branches of the sixth, seventh, and eighth nerves pass beneath the semispinalis colli, and are lost in the muscles without reaching the integument. The Occipitalis major nerve, the internal branch of the posterior division of the second cervical nerve, ascends obliquely inwards, between the obliquus inferior and complexus, pierces the complexus and trapezius after passing for a short distance between them, and ascends the posterior aspect of the head in company with the occi- pital artery. Soon after its emergence from the trapezius, it receives a branch from the thii'd cervical, and divides into numerous branches, which are distributed to the occipito-frontalis and integument as far as the summit of the head. It communicates with the occi- pitalis minor nerve, and sends an auricular branch to the back of the ear. BRACHIAL PLEXUS. The Brachial or axillary plexus of nerves is formed by commu- nications between the anterior divisions of the four lower cervical nerves and first dorsal. These nerves are alike in size, and their mode of disposition in the formation of the plexus is the following : the fifth and sixth unite to form a common trunk; the last cervical and first dorsal also unite as soon as they meet, to form a single trunk; the seventh cervical nerve lies for some distance apart from the rest, and then divides into two branches, which join the other cords. At this point the plexus consists of two cords, from which a third is given off, and the three become placed, one to the inner side of the axillary artery, one behind, and one to its outer side. Lower down, each of the lateral cords gives off a branch which unites with its fellow in front of the artery, and completely surrounds that vessel; the trimk formed by the union of these two branches being the median nerve. The plexus is broad in the neck, narrows as it descends into the axilla, and again enlarges at its lower part, where it divides into its terminal branches. The brachial plexus communicates with the cervical plexus by means of a branch from the fourth to the fifth nerve; and receives branches from the two inferior cervical ganglia of the sympathetic. The plexus is in relation in the neck with the scaleni muscles; lower down it is placed between the clavicle and subclavius muscle