PATELLA.—TIBIA. 103 ^lip, vastus interims, pectineus, adductor brevis, and adductor longus; by its middle, adductor magnus; by the anterior part of the bone, crurseus and subcruragus; by its condyles, gastrocnemius, plantaris, and popliteus. Patella.—The patella is a sesamoid bone, developed in the ten- don of the quadriceps extensor muscle, and usually described as a bone of the lower extremity. It is heart- shaped in figure, the broad end being ^g- 55.* directed upwards, the apex downwards; the external surface is convex, and the internal divided by a ridge into two smooth surfaces, to articulate with the condyles of the femur. The external ar- ticular surface, corresponding with the external condyle, is the larger of the two, and serves to indicate the leg to which the bone belongs. Development.—By a single centre, at about the middle of the third year. Articulations.—With the two condyles of the femur. Attachment of Muscles.—To four; rectus, crurteus, vastus inter- nus, vastus externus ; and to the ligamentum patellae. Tibia.—The tibia is the inner and larger bone of the leg; it is prismoid in form, and divisible into a shaft, an upper and lower extremity. The upper extremity, or head, is large, and expanded on each side into two tuberosities. On the upper surface the tuberosities are smooth, to articulate with the condyles of the femur; the internal articular surface being oval and oblong, to correspond with the in- ternal condyle; the external, broad and nearly circular. Between the two articular surfaces is a spinous process; and in front and be- hind the spinous process a rough depression, giving attachment to the anterior and posterior crucial ligament. Between the two tube- rosities on the front aspect of the bone is a prominent elevation, the tubercle for the insertion of the ligamentum patellse, and imme- diately above the tubercle a smooth facet, corresponding with a bursa. Upon the outer side of the external tuberosity is an articular surface, for the head of the fibula; and upon the posterior part of the internal tuberosity a depression, for the insertion of the tendon of the semi-membranosus muscle. The shaft of the tibia presents three surfaces; internal, which is * The patella of the right side. 1. The surface of articulation with the ex- ternal condyle of the femur. 2. The surface of articulation with the internal condyle. 3, The apex of the bone.