270 INTERNAL FEMORAL REGION. of the patella. It is continuous by its inner border with the vastus internus, and is inserted into the upper border of the patella; its tendon occupying its cutaneous aspect. When the crureus is divided from its insertion, a small muscle is seen upon the lower part of the femur; it generally consists of two fasciculi, external and internal, which are inserted into the pouch of synovial membrane that extends upwards from the knee-joint, be- hind the patella; and is named, from its situation, suh-crureus. It would seem to be intended to support the synovial membrane, Relations.—By its superficial surface with the external circum- flex vessels, rectus, vastus internus and externus. By its deep surface with the femur, sub-crureus, and synovial membrane of the knee-joint. Actions.—The tensor vaginae femoris renders the fascia lata tense, and slightly inverts the limb. The sartorius flexes the leg upon the thigh, and, continuing to act, the thigh upon the pelvis, at the same time carrying the leg across that of the opposite side, into the position in which tailors sit; hence its name. Taking its fixed point from below, it assists the extensor muscles in steadying the leg, for the support of the trunk. The other four muscles have been collectively named quadriceps extensor, from their similarity of action. They extend the leg upon the thigh, and obtain a great in- crease of power by their attachment to the patella, which acts as a fulcrum. Taking their fixed point from the tibia, they steady the femur upon the leg, and the rectus, being attached to the pelvis^^ serves to balance the trunk upon the lower extremity. Dissection.—These muscles are exposed by the removal of the inner flap of integument recommended in the dissection of the an- terior femoral region. The iliacus and psoas arising from within the abdomen can only be seen in their entire extent after the removal of the viscera from that cavity. The Iliacus internus is a flat radiated muscle. It arises from the fossa of the ilium, the internal lip of the crest, and anterior border of the bone; and after escaping beneath the crural arch and joining the tendon of the psoas, is inserted into the trochanter minor of the femur. A few fibres of this muscle are derived from the base of the sacrum, and others from the capsular ligament of the hip-joint. Theile, with several other anatomists, regards the iliacus internus and psoas magnus as a single muscle arising by two heads; and it Internal Femoral Region. Iliacus internus, Psoas magnus, Pectineus, Adductor longus, Adductor brevis. Adductor magnus, Gracilis.