343 RADIAL ARTERY. Wrist. Superficialis volfe, Carpea anterior, Carpea posterior, Metacarpea, Dor sales pollicis, Dorsalis indicis. Hand. Princeps pollicis, Radialis indicis, Interosseae, Perforantes, Eecurrentes. The Radial recurrent branch (radialis recurrens) is given off im- mediately below the elbow; it ascends in the space between the supinator longus and brachialis anticus, sends branches to the muscles arising from the external condyle, and inosculates with the terminal branches of the superior profunda. The Muscular branches are distributed to the muscles of the radial border of the forearm. The Superficialis voice (radio-palmaris) is given off from the radial artery while at the wrist. It passes between the fibres of the ab- ducitor pollicis muscle, and inosculates with the termination of the ulnar artery, completing the superficial palmar arch. This artery is variable in size, being sometimes as large as the continuation of the radial, and at other times a mere muscular twig, or entirely wanting; when of large size it supplies the palmar side of the thumb and the radial side of the index finger. The Carpea anterior passes inwards along the lower border of the pronator quadratus, and forms an arch by inosculating with the anterior carpal branch of the ulnar artery. From this arch-twigs are given off to supply the wrist-joint. The Carpea posterior crosses the carpus transversely, and inos- culates with the posterior carpal branch of the ulnar artery. Supe- riorly it inosculates with the termination of the anterior interos- seous artery; inferiorly it gives off dorsal interosseous branches, which anastomose with the perforating branches of the deep palmar arch, and run forward upon the dorsal interossei muscles of the third and fourth metacarpal spaces. The Metacarpea or first dorsal interosseous branch runs forward to the metacarpal space between the index and middle finger. At the cleft of the fingers it inosculates with the palmar digital artery, and gives off dorsal collateral branches. It is joined opposite the heads of the interosseous muscle by the perforating branch from the deep palmar arch. The Dorsales pollicis are two small branches which run along the sides of the dorsal aspect of the thumb.