EXTERNAL CUTANEOUS KERVE. 498 Fig. 174 * external labium. At tlie internal abdominal ring this nerve sends off a branch "wMch, after supplying the lover border of the internal oblique and transversalis, is lost in the in- tegument of tbe groin. The crural branch (lumbo-inguin- aHs), the most external of the two, descends along the outer border of tbe external iliac artery, and, cross- ing the origin of the circumflex ilii, enters the sheath of the femoral 2 vessels in front of the femoral ar- tery. It pierces the sheath below Poupart's ligament, and is distributed to the integument of the anterior as- pect of the thigh as far as its middle. This nerve communicates with the middle cutaneous branch of the crural nerve, and is often very small. The External cutaneous nerve (inguino-cutaneous) proceeds from the second lumbar, and from the loop between it and the third. It pierces the posterior fibres of the psoas ^ / 20 * A diagram showing tlie lumbar and sacral plexuses, with the nerves of the lower extremity. 1. The first four lumbar nerves; which, with a branch from the last dorsal, constitute the limibar j)lexus. 2. The four upper sacral nerves; which, with the last himbar, form the sacral plexus. 3. The two musculo-cutaneous nerves, branches of the first lumbar nerve. 4. Genito-crural nerve. 5. External cu- taneous nerve. 6. Anterior crural or femoral nerve. 7. Its muscular branches. 8. Middle cutaneous branches. 9,10. In- ternal cutaneous branches. 11. The long or internal saphenous. 12. Obturator nerve. 1.3. Gluteal nerve; a branch of the lumbo-sacral. 14. Internal pudie nerve. 15. Lesser ischiatic nerve. 16. Greater ischiatic nerve. 17. Internal pophteal nerve. 18. External pophteal nerve. 19. Muscular branches. 20. Posterior tibial nerve; dividing at 21, into the two plantar nerves. 22. External saphenous nerve. 23. Anterior tibial nerve. 24. Mus- culo-cutaneous nerve, piercing the deep fascia, and dividing into two cutaneous branches, for the supply of the dorsum of the foot.