35 TEMPOKAL BONE. Directly behind, and at the root of the styloid process, is the stylo-mastoid foramen, the opening of exit of the facial nerve, and of entrance of the stylo-mastoid artery. Nearer the apex of the bone is a large oval opening, the carotid foramen, the commencement of the carotid canal, which lodges the internal carotid artery and carotid plexus. And between the stylo-mastoid and carotid fora- men, in the posterior border, is an irregular excavation forming part of the jugular fossa for the commencement of the internal jugular vein. The share of the jugular fossa formed by the petrous portion of the temporal bone is very different in different bones; but in all, the fossa presents a vertical ridge on its inner side, which cuts off a small portion from the rest. The upper part of this ridge forms a spinous projection, the jugidar process, the groove to the inner side of the ridge lodges the eighth pair of nerves, and the lower part of the ridge is the septum of division between the jugular fossa and carotid foramen. Upon this portion of the ridge near the posterior margin of the carotid foramen is a small opening leading into a canal, which transmits the tympanic branch (Jacobson's nerve) of the glossopharyngeal nerve. Between the jugular fossa and stylo-mastoid foramen is another small opening leading into the canal for the passage of the auricular branch of the pneumogastric nerve. The superior border of the petrous portion is sharp, and gives attachment to the tentorium cerebelli. It is grooved for the supe- rior petrosal sinus, and near its extremity is marked by a smooth notch jupon which reclines the fifth nerve. The anterior border is grooved for the Eustachian tube, and forms the posterior boundary of the foramen lacerum basis cranii ; by its sharp extremity it gives attachment to the tensor tympani and levator palati muscle. The posterior border is grooved for the inferior petrosal sinus, and exca- vated for the jugular fossa ; it forms the anterior boundary of the foramen lacerum posterius. Development.—By five centres : one for the squamous portion, one for the mastoid process, one for the petrous portion, one for the auditory process, which in the foetus is a mere bony ring, in- complete superiorly, and serving for the attach- ment of the membrana tympani, annulus mem- Fig. 23.* brance tympani; and one for the styloid process. Ossification occurs in these pieces in the following order : in the squamous portion immediately after the vertebrae, then in the petrous, tympanic, mastoid, and styloid. The tympanic ring is united by its extremities to the squamous portion during the last month of intra-uterine life ; the squamous, petrous, and mastoid portions are consolidated during the first year; and the styloid some years after birth. It not unfrequently * The annulus membranee tympani or tympanic bone of the foetal skull, right side. D 2