353 SUPERIOR MESENTERIC ARTERY. upper border of the pancreas, and divides into five or six large branches (r. splenici), which enter the hilus of the spleen, and are distributed to its structure. In its course the vessel is tortuous and serpentine, and frequently makes a complete turn upon itself. It lies in a narrow groove in the upper border of the pancreas, and is accompanied by the splenic vein which lies beneath it, and by the splenic plexus of nerves. The Branches of the splenic artery are the— Pancreatic8B parvse, Vasa brevia, Pancreatica magna, Grastro-epiploica sinistra. The Pancreatiom parvcB are numerous small branches distributed to the pancreas, as the splenic artery runs along its upper border. One of these, larger than the rest, follows the course of the pancreatic duct, and is called, pancreatica magna. The Vasa brevia (gastricse breves) are five or six branches of small size which pass from the extremity of the splenic artery and its terminal branches, between the layers of the gastro-splenic omentum, to the great end of the stomach, to which they are distributed, in- osculating with branches of the gastric artery and gastro-epiploica sinistra.. The Grastro-epiploica sinistra appears to be the continuation of the splenic artery; it passes forwards from left to right, along the great ciirve of the stomach, lying between the layers of the great omentum, and inosculates with the gastro-epiploica dextra. It is distributed to the greater curve of the stomach and great omentum. The Superior mesenteric artery (mesenterica vel mesaraica superior), the second of the single trunks, and next in size to the coeliac axis, arises from the aorta immediately below that vessel, and behind the pancreas. It passes forwards between the pancreas and transverse duodenum, and descends within the layers of the mesen- tery, to the right iliac fossa, where it terminates very much dimi- nished in size. It forms a curve in its course, the convexity being directed towards the left, the concavity to the right. It is in rela- tion near its commencement with the portal vein : and is accompa- nied by two veins, and the superior mesenteric plexus of nerves. The branches of the superior mesenteric artery are— Pancreatico -duodenalis Ileo -colica, inferior, Colica dextra, Vasa intestini tenuis, Colica media. The Pancreatico-cluodenalis inferior is a small branch which arises from the superior mesenteric while behind the pancreas, and curves upwards along the line of junction of the pancreas and duo- denum. It supplies both those organs, and inosculates with the pancreatico-duodenalis branch of the hepatic. The Vasa intestini tenuis arise from the convexity of the superior A A