214 MUSCLES OP THE BACK. The Semi-SPINALIS colli, larger than the preceding, arises from the transverse processes of the five or six upper dorsal verte- brse; and is inserted into the spinous processes of the cerricai vertebrae from the second to the fifth. Relations.—By their superficial surface the semi-spihales are in relation from below upwards with the spinalis dorsi, longissimus dorsi, complexus, splenius, profunda cervicis and princeps cervicis artery, and posterior cervical plexus of nerves. By their deep sur- face with the multifidus spinse muscle. On the middle line in the cervical region is a small muscle, which is the analogue of the spinalis dorsi, the spinalis cervicis. It is ex- tremely irregular; and arises from the spinous processes of the two upper dorsal or two lower cervical vertebrae; to be inserted into the spinous process of the axis, and sometimes into the next one or two vertebrae. Occipital Group.—This group of small muscles is intended for the movements of the cranium on the atlas, and the atlas on the axis. The Eectus posticus major (superficialis) arises from the spinous process of the axis; and is inserted into the inferior curved line of the occipital bone. The Rectus posticus minor (profundus) arises from the spinous tubercle of the atlas; and is inserted into the rough surface of the occipital bone, beneath the inferior curved line. The Rectus lateralis arises from the transverse process of the atlas, and is inserted into the rough surface of the occipital bone, externally to the condyle. The Obliquus inferior (major) arises from the spinous process of the axis, and passes obliquely outwards to be inserted into the extremity of the transverse process of the atlas. The Obliquus superior (minor) arises from the extremity of the transverse process of the atlas, and passes obliquely inwards to be inserted into the rough surface of the occipital bone, between the curved lines. Relations.—By their superficial surface the recti and obliqui are in relation with a strong aponeurosis which separates them from the complexus. By their deep surface with the atlas and axis. The rectus posticus major partly covers in the rectus minor. The rectus lateralis is in relation by its anterior surface with the internal jugular vein, and by its posterior surface with the vertebral artery. Sixth Layer. Dissection.—The semi-spinales muscles must be removed to obtain a good view of the multifidus spinse, which lies beneath them, and