162 TARSO-METATARSAL ARTICULATION. mentum hreve plantce, is situated closer to the bones titan the long plantar ligament, from which latter it is separated by adipose tissue; it is broad and extensive, and ties the under surface of the os calcis and cuboid bone firmly together. The interosseotis ligaments are five in number; they are short and strong ligamentous fibres situated between adjoining bones, and firmly attached to their rough surfaces. One of these, the calcaneo- astragaloid, is lodged in the groove between the upper surface of the OS calcis and the lower of the astragalus. It is large and very strong, consists of vertical and oblique fibres, and serves to unite the OS calcis and astragalus solidly together. The second interosseous ligament, also very strong, is situated between the side of the sca- phoid and cuboid bone; while the three remaining interosseous liga- ments connect strongly together the three cuneiform bones and the cuboid. The synovial membranes of the tarsus are four in number : one, for the posterior calcaneo-astragaloid articulation; a second, for the anterior calcaneo-astragaloid and astragalo-scaphoid articulation. Occasionally an additional small synovial membrane is found in the anterior calcaneo-astragaloid joint; a third, for the calcaneo-cuboid articulation; and a fourth, the large tarsal synovial membrane for the articulations between the scaphoid and three cuneiform bones, the cuneiform bones with each other, the external cuneiform bone with the cuboid, and the two external cuneiform bones with the bases of the second and third metatarsal bones. The prolongation which reaches the metatarsal bones passes forwards between the internal and middle cuneiform bones. A small synovial membrane is sometimes met with between the contiguous surfaces of the sca- phoid and cuboid bone. Actions.—The movements permitted by the articulation between the astragalus and os calcis, are a slight degree of gliding, in the direction forwards and backwards, and laterally from side to side. The movements of the second range of tarsal bones are very trifling, being greater between the scaphoid and three cuneiform bones than in the other articulations. The movements occurring between the first and second range are the most considerable : they are adduction and abduction, and, in a minor degree, flexion, which increases the arch of the foot, and extension, which flattens the arch. 6. Tarso-metatarsal Articulation.—The ligaments of this articu- lation are, Dorsal, Plantar, Interosseous. The dorsal ligaments connect the metatarsal to the tarsal bones, and the metatarsal bones to each other. The base of the second metatarsal bone, articulating with the three cuneiform bones, re-