582 MUCOUS MEMBRANE OP THE LARYNX. riorly by the epiglottis, posteriorly by the arytenoideus muscle, and on either side by a fold of mncons membrane stretched between the side of the epiglottis and the apex of the arytenoid cartilage. On the margin of this aryteno-epiglottidean fold the cuneiform cartilage forms a prominence more or less distinct. The cavity of the larynx is divided into two parts by an oblong constriction produced by the prominence of the chordae vocales. That portion of the cavity which lies above the constriction is broad and triangular above, and narrow below; that which is below it, is narrow above and broad and cylin- drical below, the circumference of the cylinder corresponding with the ring of the cricoid ; while the space included by the constriction is a narrow, triangular fissure, the glottis or rima glottidis. The form of the glottis is that of an isosceles triangle, bounded on the sides by the chordse vocales and inner surface of the arytenoid cartilages, and behind by the arytenoideus muscle. Its length is greater in the male than in the female, and in the former measures somewhat less than an inch. Immediately above the prominence caused by the chorda vocalis, and extending nearly its entire length on each side of the cavity of the larynx, is an elliptical fossa, the ventricle of the larynx. This fossa is bounded below by the chorda vocalis, which it serves to isolate, and above by a border of mucous membrane folded upon the lower edge of the superior thyro-arytenoid ligament (superior or false chorda vocalis). The whole of the cavity of the larynx, with its prominences and depressions, is lined by mucous membrane, which is continuous superiorly with that of the mouth and pharynx, and inferiorly is prolonged through the trachea and bronchial tubes into the lungs. In the ventricles of the larynx the mucous membrane forms a csecal pouch of variable size, termed by Mr. Hilton the sacculus laryngis.*' The sacculus laryngis is directed upwards, sometimes extending as high as the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, and occasionally above that border. When * This sac was described by Mr. Hilton before lie was aware that it had ah-eady been pointed out by the older anatomists. I myself made a dissec- tion, which I still possess, of the same sac in an enlarged state, during the month of August, 1837, without any knowledge either of Mr. Hilton's labours or Morgagni's account. The sac projected considerably above the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, and the extremity had been snipped oif on one side, in the removal of the muscles. The larynx was presented to me by Dr. G-eorge Moore of CamberweU; he had obtained it from a child who died of bronchial disease; and he conceived that this peculiar disposition of the mucous membrane might possibly explain some of the symptoms by which the case was accompanied. Cruveilhier made the same observation in equal ignorance of Morgagni's description, for we read in a note at page 677, vol. ii. of his Anatoviie Descriptive,-—" J'ai vu pour la premiere fois eette arridre cavite chez un individu atFecte de i^hthisie laryngee, oil eUe etait tres- developpee. Je fis des recherches sur le larynx d'autres individus, et je trouvai que cette disposition etait constante. Je ne savais pas alors que Morgagni avait indique et fait representer la meme disposition." Cruveilhier com- pares its form very aptly to a Fhrygian casque," and Morgagni's figure, Advers. 1. Epist. Anat. 3. plate 2. fig. 4, has the same appearance. But neither of these anatomists notice the follicular glands described by Mr. Hilton.