INTERNAL FEMORAL REGION. 272 internal saphenous vein, and lower down with the profunda artery. By its posterior surface with the capsule of the hip-joint, obturator externus and adductor brevis, the obturator vessels being interposed. By its external harder with the psoas, the femoral artery resting upon the line of interval. By its internal border with the outer edge of the adductor longus. Obturator hernia is situated directly behind this muscle, which forms one of its coverings. The Adductor longus (adducere, to draw to; caput longum trici- pitis), the most superficial of the three adductors, arises by a round and thick tendon from the front surface of the os pubis, immediately below the angle of that bone; and, assuming a flattened and ex- panded form as it descends, is inserted into the middle third of the linea aspera. Relations.—By its anterior surf ace with the pubic portion of the fascia lata, and near its insertion, with the femoral artery and vein. By its p)osterior surface with the adductor brevis and magnus, the anterior branches of the obturator vessels and nerve, and near its insertion, with the profunda artery and vein. By its outer border with the pectineus, and by the inner border with the gracilis. The pectineus must be divided near its origin and turned out- wards, and the adductor longus through its middle, turning its ends to either side, to bring into view the adductor brevis. The Adductor brevis (caput breve tricipitis), placed behind the pectineus and adductor longus, is fleshy, and thicker than the ad- ductor longus; it arises from the body of the os pubis, and is inserted into the line leading from the lesser trochanter to the linea aspera. Relations.—By its anterior stirface with the pectineus, adductor longus, and anterior branch of the obturator nerve and artery. By its posterior surface with the adductor magnus. By its outer border with the obturator externus, and conjoined tendon of the psoas and iliacus. By its inner border with the gracilis and adductor magnus. The adductor brevis is pierced near its insertion by the middle per- forating artery. The adductor brevis may now be divided from its origin and turned outwards, or its inner two-thirds may be cut away entirely, when the adductor magnus muscle will be exposed in its entire extent. The Adductor magnus (caput magnum tricipitis) is a broad triangular muscle, forming a septum of division between the muscles situated on the anterior and those on the posterior aspect of the thigh. It arises by fleshy fibres from the ramus of the pubes and ischium and from the side of the tuber ischii; and radiating in its passage outwards, is inserted into the whole length of the linea aspera, and inner condyle of the femur. The adductor magnus is pierced by five openings; the three superior, for the three perforating arteries; and the fourth, for the termination of the profunda. The fifth is the large oval opening, in the tendinous portion of the muscle, that gives passage to the femoral vessels.