303 FASCIA LATA. constitutes the outer boundary of the saphenous opening. The edge of this border immediately overlies, and is adherent to, the sheath of the femoral vessels, and the lower extremity of the curve is con- tinuous with the pubic portion. The pubic portion, occupying the pubic side of the saphenous opening, is attached to the spine of the pubes and pectineal line; and, passing outwards behind the sheath of the femoral vessels, divides into two layers ; the anterior layer is continuous with that portion of the iliac fascia which forms the sheath of the iKacus and psoas muscle, the posterior layer is lost upon the capsule of the hip-joint. The interval between the falciform border of the iliac portion and the opposite surface of the pubic portion is closed by a cellulo- fibrous layer, derived from the superficial fascia, and pierced by numerous openings for the passage of lymphatic vessels, the cribn- form fascia (lamina cribrosa). The cribriform fascia is connected with the sheath of the femoral vessels, and forms one of the cover- ings of femoral hernia. When the iliac portion of the fascia lata is removed from its attachment to Poupart's ligament and turned aside, the sheath of the femoral vessels (the femoral or crural canal) is brought into view; and if Poupart's ligament be carefully divided, the sheath may be isolated, and its continuation with the transversalis and iliac fascia demonstrated. In this view the sheath of the femoral vessels is an infundibuliform continuation of the ab- dominal .fascia, closely adherent to the vessels a little way down the thigh, but much larger than the vessels it contains at Poupart's ligament. If the sheath be opened, the artery and vein will be found lying side by side, and occupying the outer two-thirds of the sheath, leaving an infundibuliform interval between the vein and the inner wall of the sheath. The superior opening of this space is named the femoral or crural ring; it is bounded ia front by Pou- part's ligament, behind by the os pubis, internally by Gimbernat's ligament, and externally by the femoral vein. The interval itself serves for the passage of the superficial lymphatic vessels from the saphenous opening to a lymphatic gland, which generally occu- pies the femoral ring, and from thence they proceed into the current of the deep lymphatics. The femoral ring is closed merely by a thin layer of subserous cellular tissue, * which retains the lymphatic gland in its position, and is named septum crurale; and by the peri- toneum. It follows from this description that the femoral ring must be a weak point in the parietes of the abdomen, particularly iii the female, in whom the femoral arch, or space included between Poupart's ligament and the border of the pelvis, is larger than in the male, while the structures which pass through it are smaller. It happens, consequently, that if violent or continued pressure be * This cellular tissue is sometimes very considerably thickened by a deposit of fat within its areolae, and forms a thick stratum over the hernial sac.