641 URINARY BLADDER. The anterior ligaments are formed by the recto-vesical fascia in its passage from the inner surface of the pubes on each side of the symphysis to the neck of the bladder and prostate gland. The lateral ligaments are also formed by the recto-vesical fascia in its passage from the levatores ani muscles to the sides of the prostate gland and neck of the bladder. The ligament of the urachus is a fibrous cord resulting from the obliteration of a tubular canal (urachus) existing in the embryo. It proceeds from the summit of the bladder, and ascends along the linea alba to the umbilicus. The 2)osterior false ligaments are the fold of peritoneum formed on each side of the pelvis by the obliterated hypogastric artery ; this fold also contains the ureter and the vessels and nerves of the bladder. The lateral false ligaments are formed by the passage of the peri- toneum from the side of the pelvis to the side of the bladder. The obliterated hypogastric artery lies along the line of reflection of the membrane. The superior or suspensory false ligament is the fold of peritoneum caused by the prominence of the cord of the urachus and the cords of the obliterated hypogastric arteries. ;The bladder is composed of four coats, an external or serous, muscular, cellular, and mucous. The serous coat is partial, and derived from the peritoneum, which invests the posterior surface and sides of the bladder, from about opposite the point of termination of the ureters to its summit, whence it is guided to the anterior wall of the abdomen by the hy- pogastric cords and urachus. The muscular coat consists of two layers, an externallayer composed of longitudinal fibres, the detrusor urinse; and an internal layer of oblique and circular fibres irregularly distributed. The longitudinal fibres arise from the anterior liga- ments of the bladder (tendons of the detrusor urinse), the neck of that organ and the base of the prostate gland, and spread out as they ascend to the fundus; here a small fasciculus follows the course of the urachus, but the greater number converge upon the posterior surface of the organ and descend to its neck, where they are inserted into the isthmus of the prostate gland, and into a ring of muscular tissue, which surrounds the commencement of the prostatic portion of the urethra. In the female they are inserted into the vagina. The lateral fibres commence at the prostate gland and muscular ring of the urethra on one side, and spread out as they ascend upon the side of the bladder to descend upon the opposite side, and be inserted into the prostate and opposite segment of the same ring. Two bands of oblique fibres are described by Sir Charles Bell, as originating at the terminations of the ureters, and converging to the neck of the bladder : the existence of these muscles is not well established. The fibres corresponding with the trigonum vesicae are transverse. T T