56 SUTURES—OSSA TKIQUETRA. The serrated suture is formed by the union of two borders possess- ing serrated edges, as in the coronal, sagittal, and lambdoid sutures. In these sutures the serrations are formed almost wholly by the ex- ternal table, the edges of the internal table lying merely in apposition. The squamous suture {squama, a scale) is formed by the overlap- ping of the bevelled edges of two contiguous bones, as in the articu- lation between the temporal and lower border of the parietal. In this suture the approximated surfaces are roughened, so as to adhere mechanically with each other. The harmonia suture (dpelv, to adapt) is the simple apposition of contiguous surfaces, the surfaces being more or less rough and reten- tive. This suture is seen in the connexion between the superior maxillary bones, or of the palate processes of the palate bones with each other. The schindylesis suture {(rxivdv\r](rLQ, a fissure) is the reception of one bone into a sheath or fissure of another, as occurs in the arti- culation of the rostrum of the sphenoid with the vomer, or of the latter with the perpendicular lamella of the ethmoid, and with the crista nasalis of the superior maxillary and palate bones. The serrated suture is formed by the interlocking of the radiating fibres along the edges of the flat bones of the cranium during growth. When this process is retarded by overdistention of the head, as in hydrocephalus, and sometimes without any such apparent cause, distinct ossific centres are developed in the interval between the edges; and, being surrounded by the suture, form independent pieces, which are called ossa triquetra, or ossa Wormiana. In the lambdoid suture there is generally one or more of these bones; and, in a beau- tiful adult hydrocephalic skeleton* in the College of Surgeons, there are upw-ai'ds of one hundred. The coronal suture (fig. 37) extends transversely across the vertex of the skull, from the upper part of the greater wing of the sphenoid of one side to the same point on the opposite side; it connects the frontal with the parietal bones. In the formation of this suture the edges of the articulating bones are bevelled, so that the parietal rest upon the frontal at each side, and in the middle the frontal rests upon the parietal bones; they thus aff'ord to each other mutual sup- port and increased consolidation to the skull. The sagittal suture extends longitudinally backwards along the • vertex of the skull, from the middle of the coronal to the apex of the lambdoid suture. It is much serrated, and serves to unite the two parietal bones. In the young subject, and sometimes in the adult, this suture is continued through the middle of the frontal bone to the root of the nose, under the name of the frontal suture. Ossa triquetra are sometimes found in the sagittal suture. The lambdoid suture is named from some resemblance to the Greek letter A, consisting of two branches, which diverge at an acute angle from the extremity of the sagittal suture. This suture connects the * This skeleton belonged to IMr. Listen.