139 LIGAMENTS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. -f Tiie ligaments connecting the different pieces of the coccyx consist , 'of a few scattered anterior a,nd posterior fibres, and a thin disk of interosseous cartilage; they exist only in the young subject, as in the adult the pieces become ossified. 4. Bettoeen the Ossa Pubis.—The anterior puhic ligament is com- posed of ligamentous fibres, which pass obliquely across the union of the two bones from side to side, and form an interlacement in front of the symphysis. The posterior piihic ligament consists of a few irregular fibres uniting the pubic bones posteriorly. The superior puhic ligament is a thick band of fibres connecting the angles of the ossa pubis superiorly, and filling the inequalities of the surface of the bones. The sub-pubic ligament is a thick arch of fibres connecting the two bones inferiorly, and forming the upper boundary of the pubic arch. The interosseous fibro-cartilage unites the two surfaces of the pubic bones, in the same manner as the intervertebral substance connects the bodies of the vertebrse. It resembles the intervertebral substance also in being composed of oblique fibres disposed in concentric layers, which are more dense towards the surface than near the centre. It is thick in front, and thin behind. A synovial membrane is sometimes found in the posterior half of the articulation. This articulation becomes movable towards the latter term of pre- gnancy, and admits of a slight degree of separation of its surfaces. The obturator ligament (membrana obturatoria) is not a ligament of articulation, but simply a fibrous membrane stretched across the obturator foramen. It gives attachment by its surfaces to the two obturator muscles, and leaves a space in the upper part of the foramen for the passage of the obturator vessels and nerve. The numerous vacuities in the walls of the pelvis, and their closure by ligamentous structures, as in the case of the sacro-ischiatic fissures and obturator foramina, serve to diminish the pressure on the soft parts during the passage of the head of the foetus through the pelvis in parturition. LIGAMENTS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. The Ligaments of the upper extremity may be arranged in the order of the articulations between the different bones : they are, 1. Stemo-clavicular articulation. 2. Scapulo-clavicular articulation. 3. Ligaments of the scapula. 4. Shoulder joint. 5. Elbow joint. 6. Radio-ulnar articulation. 7. Wrist joint. ♦