ANKLE JOINT. 159 surface. It is in relation, in front, with the tendons of the extensors of the great and lesser toes, tibialis anticus and peroneus tertius, and anterior tibial vessels and nerve. Posteriorly it lies Fig. 88* in contact with the extra-synovial adipose tissue and synovial mem- brane. The internal lateral or del- toid ligament is a triangular layer of fibres, attached supe- riorly by its apex to the internal malleolus; inferiorly, by an ex- panded base to the astragalus, OS calcis, and scaphoid bone. Be- neath the superficial layer of this ligament is a stronger and thicker fasciculus, which connects the apex of the internal malleolus with the side of the astragalus. The internal lateral ligament is covered in and partly concealed by the tendon of the tibialis posticus, and at its posterior part is in relation with the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum, and flexor longus pollicis. The external lateral ligament consists of three strong fasciculi, which jiroceed from the inner side of the external malleolus, and diverge in three different directions. The anterior fasciculus passes forwards, to be attached to the astragalus; the posterior, back- wards, to be connected with the astragalus posteriorly; and the middle, longer than the other two, descends to be inserted into the outer side of the os calcis. "It is the strong union of this bone," says Sir Astley Cooper, with the tarsal bones, by means of the external lateral ligaments, '' which leads to its being more frequently fractured than dislocated." The transverse ligament of the tibia and fibula occupies the place of a posterior ligament of the ankle joint. It is m relation, behind, with the posterior tibial vessels and nerve, and tendon of the tibialis posticus muscle; in front, with the extra-synovial adipose tissue and synovial membrane. The synovial membrane invests the cartilaginous surfaces of the tibia and fibula (sending a duplicature upwards between their lower ends), and the upper surface and two sides of the astragalus. It is then reflected upon the anterior and lateral ligaments, and on the transverse ligament posteriorly. * Internal view of tlie ankle joint. 1. Internal malleolus of the tibia. 2, 2. Astragalus. 3. Os calcis. 4. Scaphoid bone. 5. Internal cuneiform bone. 6. Internal lateral or deltoid ligament. 7 Anterior ligament. 8. Tendo Achillis; a small bursa is seen interposed between this tendon and the pos- terior tuberosity of the os calcis.