650 URETHKA. of the canal ; but, during the action of the detrusor muscle of the bladder, the whole ring is expanded by the longitudinal muscular fibres which are inserted into it; and the veru is especially drawn downwards by two delicate ten- dons, which have been traced by Tyrrell from the posterior fibres of the detrusor into the tissue of this process. The Bfembranous portion, the narrowest part of the canal, mea- sures about three lines in dia- meter, and is somewhat less than an inch in length. It extends from the apex of the prostate gland to the bulb of the corpus spongiosum, and passes through the triangular ligament. Its coats are the mu- cous membrane, elastic fibrous tissue, and compressor urethrse muscle. The submucous tissue is richly supplied with vessels. The spongy portion, about six inches in length, forms the rest of the extent of the canal, and is lodged in the corpus spongiosum from its commencement at the triangular ligament to the meatus urinarius. It is narrowest in the body, and becomes dilated at each extremity, posteriorly in the bulb, where it is named the bulbous por- tion, and anteriorly in the glans penis, where it forms the fossa navi- cularis. The meatus urinarius is the most constricted part of the canal; so that a catheter, which will enterthat opening, may be passed freely through the whole extent of a normal urethra. Opening into the bulbous portion are two small excretory ducts about an inch in length, which may be traced backwards, between the coats of the urethra and the bulb, to the under part of the membranous portion * The bulbous, membranous, and prostatic urethra, with part oi the bladder. 1. Part of the urinary bladder; its internal surface. 2. The trigonum vesicae. 3. The openings of the ureters. 4. The uvula vesicae. 5. The veru mon- tanum. 6. The opening of the sinus pocularis. 7, 7. The apertures of the ejaeulatory ducts. 8,8. The openings of the prostatic duets. The numbers 7, 7, and 8, 8, are placed on the cut surface of the supra-urethral portion of the prostate gland. 9, 9. The lateral lobes of the prostate gland, a. The membranous portion of the urethra, b, h. Covrper's glands, c, c. The aper- tures of the excretory ducts of Cowper's glands, d. The commencement of the bulbous portion of the urethra, e, e. The upper surface of the bulb of the corpus spongiosimi. f,f. The crura penis. g,g. The corpus cavernosum, h. The spongy portion of the urethra.