494 INTERCOSTAL NERYES. plying the mtegmnent over its lower half by means of several filaments. Besides its muscular and cutaneous branches, the tronk of the nerve gives off an ai-ticidar branch, "which enters the shoulder- joint at its posterior and under part. DORSAL NERVES. The dorsal nerves are twelve in number on each side ; the first appearing between the first and second dorsal vertebra ; the last between the twelfth dorsal and first lumbar. They are smaller than the lower cervical nerves ; diminish gradually in ske from the first to the tenth, and then increase to the twelfth. Each nerve, as soon as it has escaped from the intei-vertebral foramen, separates into an anterior and posterior division ; the anterior divisions being the intercostal nerves, the posterior the dorsal branches of the dorsal nerves. The Dorsal hranches pass directly backwards between the trans- verse processes of the f ertebrse, lying internally to the anterior costo- transverse ligament, and each nerve divides into an internal and external branch. The internal hranches diminish in size from the first to the last. The six upper branches pass inwards beneath the semispinalis dorsi, between that muscle and the multifidus spinse, and, piercing the rhomboid, trapezius and latissimus dorsi muscles, become cutaneous close to the spinous processes, and are reflected outwards to supply the integument. The six lower branches are lost in the muscles of the spine. The ecdernal hranches increase in size from above downwards, and make their appearance in the line of separation between the longissimus dorsi and sacro-lumbalis. The six upper branches are distributed to those muscles and the levatores costarum. The six lower, after supplying the same muscles, pierce the serratus pos- ticus inferior and latissimus dorsi in a line with the angles of the ribs, and becoming cutaneous, are directed downwards and out- wards over the side of the trunk. Intercostal nerves.—The antericyr divisions of the dorsal nerves, twelve in number on each side, are the intercostal nerres. Each intercostal nerve passes outwards in the intercostal space in company with the intercostal vessels, below which it lies ; at the commencement of its course it rests on the external intercostal muscle, further outwards it is placed between the two planes of intercostal muscles ; beyond the middle of the rib it enters the substance of the internal intercostal and reaches its inner sxirface, being in contact with the pleura; finally, at the anterior extremity of the intercostal space, it crosses the triangularis stemi and inter- nal mammary vessels and pierces the internal intercostal muscle and pectoralis major, to be distributed to the integument of the front of the chest and mammary gland, under the name of anterior