197 MUSCLES OF THE PHARYNX. sterno-thyroid, thyro-hyoid, and crico-thyroid, and it frequently forms a tendinous arch across the latter; inferiorly it is blended with the circular fibres of the oesophagus. The muscle must be re- moved before the next can ^^9-105.* be examined. The Constrictor medius arises from the great cornu of the OS hyoides, and from the lesser cornu. It radi- ates, from its origin, upon the side of the pharynx, the lower fibres descending and being overlapped by the constrictor inferior; the upper fibres ascending, so as to cover in the con- strictor superior. It is in- serted into the raphe of the pharynx, and by a fibrous aponeurosis into the basilar process of the occipital bone. Relations. —By its ex- ternal ' surface with the vertebral column, longus colli, rectus a.nticus major, carotid vessels, inferior con- strictor, hyo-glossus, lingual artery, pharyngeal plexus of nerves, and some lymphatic glands. By its internal surface, with the superior constrictor, stylo-pharyngeus, palato-pharyngeus, and mucous membrane of the pharynx. The upper portion of this muscle must be turned down, to bring the whole of the superior constrictor into view; in so doing, the stylo-pharyngeus muscle will be seen passing behind its upper border. The Constrictor superior is a thin and quadrilateral plane of muscular fibres arising from the side of the tongue, the extremity of the molar ridge of the lower jaw, the pterygo-maxillary ligament, and the lower third of the internal pterygoid plate; and inserted into the raphe of the pharynx and basilar process of the occipital bone. Its superior fibres are arched, and leave a concave interspace between * A side view of the muscles of the pharynx. 1. The trachea. 2. Cricoid cartilage. 3. Crieo-thyroid membrane. 4. Thyroid cartilage. 5. Thyro-hyoidean membrane. 6. Os hyoides. 7. Stylo-hyoidean ligament. 8. (Esophagus. 9. In- ferior constrictor. 10. Middle constrictor. 11. Superior constrictor. 12. The stylo-pharyngeus, passing down between the superior and middle constrictor. 13. The upper concave border of the superior constrictor; at this point the muscular fibres of the pharynx are deficient. 14. Pterygo-maxiUary ligament. 15. Buccinator muscle. 16. Orbicularis oris. 17. Mylo-hyoideus.