STRUCTUKE OF THE UTEEUS. 660 Structure.—The uterus is composed of tliree tunics: of an external or serous coat, derived from tlie peritoneum, which constitutes the duplicatures on each side of the organ called the broad ligaments; of a middle or muscular coat, which gives thickness and bulk to the uterus; and of an internal or mucous membrane, which lines its in- terior, and is continuous on the one hand with the mucous lining of the Fallopian tubes, and on the other with that of the vagina. In the unimpregnated state the muscular coat is exceedingly condensed in texture, offers resistance to section with the scalpel, and appears to be composed of whitish fibres inextricably interlaced and mingled with blood-vessels. In the impregnated uterus the fibres are of large size, distinct, and disposed in two layers, superficial and deep. The super- ficial layer consists of fibres which pursue a vertical direction, some being longitudinal, and others oblique. The longitudinal fibres are found principally on the middle line, forming a thin plane upon the anterior and posterior face and fundus of the organ. The oblique fibres occupy chiefly the sides and the fundus. At the angles of the uterus the fibres of the superficial layer are continued outwards upon the Fallopian tubes, and into the round ligaments and ligaments of the ovaries. The deep layer consists of two hollow cones of circular fibres having their apex at the openings of the Fallopian tubes, and intermingling with each other by their bases on the body of the organ. These fibres are continuous with the deep muscular layer of the Fallopian tubes, and indicate the primitive formation of the uterus by the blending of these two canals. Around the cervix uteri the muscular fibres assume a circular form, interlacing with and crossing each other at acute angles. The mucous memhrane presents on its surface numerous minute apertures corresponding with mucous glands, and is provided with a columnar ciliated epithelium, which extends from the middle of the cervix uteri to the extremities of the Fallopian tubes. Yessels and Nerves.—The Arteries of the uterus are the uterine from the internal iliac, and the ovarian from the aorta. The veins are large and remarkable; in the impregnated uterus they are called sinuses, and consist of canals channeled through the substance of the organ, being merely lined by the internal membrane of the veins. They terminate on each side of the uterus in the uterine plexuses. The lymphatics terminate in the lumbar glands. The Nerves of the uterus are derived from the hypogastric and spermatic plexuses, and from the sacral plexus. They have been made the subject of special investigation by Dr. Robert Lee, who has successfully repaired the omission made by Dr. William Hunter, in this part of the anatomy of the organ. In his numerous dissections of the uterus, both in the unimpregnated and gravid state, Dr. Lee has made the discovery of several large nervous ganglia and plexuses. The principal of these, situated on each side of the cervix uteri immediately behind the ureter, he terms the hypogastric ganglion; it receives the greater number of the nerves from the hypogastric and