297 PERINEAL FASCIA. of the opposite side by a narrow interval, and the fascia passing from the side of the symphysis to the upper part of the prostate gland and front of the neck of the bladder, constitutes the anterior true ligament of the bladder (pubio-vesicale) ; a little further out- wards, the fascia passing to the side of the neck of the bladder con- stitutes its lateral true ligament: and reflected forwards from the neck of the bladder upon the prostate, it forms a sheath for that gland which encloses the prostatic plexus of veins. Upon the rectum and vagina it also forms a sheath. The posterior boundary of the pelvic fascia forms a free semilunar border in front of the pyriformis muscle. Perineal fasci.^;. The fasciae of the perineum are the superficial and the deep. Mg. 131.* * Side view of the viscera of the pelvis, showing the distribution of the pelvic fasciae. 1. Symphysis pubis. 2. Bladder. 3. Eecto-vesical fold of peritoneum, passing from the anterior surface of the rectum to the posterior part of the bladder; from the upper part of the fundus of the bladder it is reflected upon the abdominal parietes. 4. The ureter. 5. The vas deferens crossing the direction of the ureter. 6. Vesicula seminaUs of the right side. 7, 7. The prostate gland divided longitudinaUy. 8, 8. Section of a ring of elastic tissue which encircles the prostatic portion of the urethra at its com- mencement. 9. Prostatic portion of the urethra. 10. Membranous portion embraced by the compressor urethras muscle. 11. Commencement of the corpus spongiosum penis, the bulb. 12. Anterior hgaments of the bladder. 13. The pelvic fascia reflected on the rectum. 14. An interval between the pelvic fascia and triangular hgament occupied by a plexus of veins. 15. The triangular hgament. 16. Cowper's gland of the right side. 17. Superficial perineal fascia ascending in front of the root of the penis to become con- tinuous with the dartos of the scrotum (18). 19. The fascia prolonged to the rectimi. 20. Lower part of the levator ani. 21. A layer of fascia situated between the bladder and rectiim.