477 INFERIOR LARYNGEAL NERVE, arytenoideus muscle. On the latter, and behind the cricoid car- tilage, it communicates with the recurrent laryngeal nerve. Be- hind the internal carotid it gives off the external laryngeal branch, which sends a twig to the pharyngeal plexus, and then descends to supply the inferior constrictor, crico-thyroid muscle and thyroid gland. This branch communicates inferiorly with the recurrent laryngeal and sympathetic nerve. The Cardiac branches, two or three in number, arise from the upper and lower part of the cervical portion of the nerve. Those from above communicate with cardiac branches of the sympathetic. One large branch {inferior cardiac) is given off just before the nerve enters the chest; on the right this branch descends by the side of the arteria innominata to the deep cardiac plexus; and on the left it passes in front of the arch of the aorta to the superficial cardiac plexus. One or two cardiac branches also proceed from the thoracic portion of the right pneumogastric nerve. The Inferior laryngeal, or recurrent laryngeal nerve, curves around the subclavian artery on the right, and the arch of the aorta on the left side. It ascends in the groove between the trachea and oesophagus, and piercing the lower fibres of the inferior constrictor muscle enters the larynx close to the articulation of the inferior cornu of the thyroid with the cricoid cartilage. It is distributed to all the muscles of the larynx, with the exception of the crico-thyroid, and communicates on the arytenoideus muscle with the superior laryngeal nerve. As it curves around the subclavian artery and aorta it gives branches (cardiac) to the heart and root of the lungs; and as it ascends the neck it distributes filaments to the oesophagus and trachea, and com- municates with the external laryngeal nerve and sympathetic. The Antenor pulmonary branches, two or three in number, are distributed upon the anterior aspect of the root of the lungs, form- ing, with branches from the cardiac plexuses, the anterior pul- monary plexus. The Posterior pulnnonary branches, more numerous and larger than the anterior, are distributed on the posterior aspect of the root of the lungs; they are joined by filaments from the third and fourth thoracic ganglia of the sympathetic, and form the posterior pul- monary plexus. (Esophageal branches are given off by the pneumogastric nerves above the root of the lungs: below that point, the trunks of the nerves, divided into several cords, form a plexus around the oeso- phagus, the right and left nerves communicating with each other. This plexus accompanies the oesophagus to the stomach, and is the oesophageal plexus (plexus gulae.) The Gastric branches are the terminal filaments of the pneumo- gastric nerves; they are spread out upon the anterior and posterior surface of the stomach, and are likewise distributed to the omentum, spleen, pancreas, liver, and gall-bladder. The branches of the an- terior aspect of the stomach proceed from the left nerve and commu-