t. SCAPULO-CLAVICULAR LIGAMENTS, 141 Connected witli the upper border of the stemum. It is separated by- cellular tissue from the sterno-thyroid muscles. The costo-clavicular ligament (rhomboides) is a thick fasciculus of fibres, connecting the sternal extremity of the clavicle with the carti- lage of the first rib. It is situated obliquely between the rib and under surface of the clavicle ; and is in relation, in front, with the tendon of origin of the subclavius muscle, and behind with the sub- clavian vein. It is the rupture of the rhomboid ligament in dislocation of the sternal end of the clavicle that gives rise to the deformity peculiar to this accident. The interarticular fihro-cartilage is nearly circular in form, and thicker at the edges than in the centre. It is attached above, to the clavicle ; below, to the cartilage of the first rib ; and throughout the rest of its circumference to the anterior and posterior stemo-clavicular ligaments. It divides the joint into two cavities, which are lined by distinct synovial membranes. This cartilage is sometimes pierced through its centre, and not unfrequently deficient, to a greater or less extent, at its lower part. Actions.—The movements of the sterno-clavicular articulation are, a gliding movement of the fibro-cartilage, with the clavicle, upon the articular surface of the sternum, in the directions, forwards, backwards, upwards, and downwards; and circumduction. This articulation is the centre of the movements of the shoulder. 2. Scap,ulo-clavicular A rticulation. —The ligaments of the scapular end of the clavicle are, the Superior acromio-clavicular, Inferior acromio-clavicular, ' Coraco-clavicular (trapezoid and conoid), Interarticular fibro-cartilage, Two synovial membranes. The stiperior acromio-clavic^ilar ligament is a moderately thick plane of fibres passing between the extremity of the clavicle and the acromion, upon the upper surface of the joint. The inferior acromio-clavicular ligament is a thin plane situated upon the under surface. These two ligaments are continuous with each other in front and behind, and form a complete capsule around the articxilation. The coraco-clavicidar ligament (trapezoides, conoides) is a thick fasciculus of ligamentous fibres, passing obliquely between the base of the coracoid process and under surface of the clavicle, and holding the end of the clavicle in firm connexion with the scapula. When seen from before, it has a quadrilateral form ; hence its name trapezoid: examined from behind, it is triangular, the base being upwards ; hence its other name, conoid. The interarticular fibro-cartilage is often indistinct, from having partial connexions with the fibrocartilaginous surfaces of the two