599 SOFT PALATE.—TONSILS. the muscles beneath, the floor of the mouth. On the under surface of the tongue, near its anterior part, the mucous membrane forms a considerable fold, which is called the frsenum lingu£e; and on each side of the frsenum is a large papUla (caruncula sublingualis), the termination of the duct (Wharton's duct) of the submaxillary gland. Running back from this papilla is a ridge, occasioned by the promi- nence of the sublingual gland; and opening upon the summit of this ridge, a number of small openings, the apertures of the excre- tory ducts of the gland. Posteriorly the tongue is connected with the OS hyoides by muscle, and to the epiglottis by three folds of mucous membrane, called the frcena epiglottidis. The Soft palate (palatum moUe; velum pendulum palati) is a fold of mucous membrane situated at the posterior part of the mouth. It is continuous, superiorly, with the hard palate, and is composed of mucous membrane, palatine glands, and muscles. Hanging from the middle of its inferior border is a small rounded process, the uvula; and passing outwards from the uvula on each side are two curved folds of the mucous membrane, the arches or pillars of the palate. The anterior pillar (arcus palatinus inferior; glosso-palatinus) is continued downwards to the side of the base of thje tongue, and is formed by the prominence of the palato-glossus muscle. The posterior pillar (arcus palatinus superior; pharyngo- palatinus) is prolonged downwards and backwards into the pharynx, and is formed by the convexity of the palato-pharyngeus muscle. These two pillars, closely united above, are separated below by a triangular interval or niche, in which the tonsU is lodged. The Tonsils (amygdalae) are two glandular organs, about half an inch in length, shaped like almonds, and situated between the an- terior and posterior pillar of the soft palate, on each side of the fauces. They are composed of an assemblage of mucous follicles, which open on the surface of the gland by twelve or fifteen aper- tures. Externally, they are invested by the pharyngeal fascia, which separates them from the superior constrictor muscle and in- ternal carotid artery, and prevents an abscess from opening in that direction. In relation to surrounding parts, each gland corresponds with the angle of the lower jaw. The Mucous glands of the mouth (orales) are the lahial, situated beneath mucous membrane of the lips; buccal, beneath the mem- brane of the cheeks; molar, between the masseter and buccinator muscle, and piercing the latter by their ducts opposite the molar teeth; palatine, situated in the hard and soft palate; and lingual, on the dorsum of the tongue at its root. The space included between the soft palate and the root of the tongue is the isthmus of the fauces. It is bounded above by the soft palate; on each side by the pillars of the soft palate and tonsils; and below by the root of the tongue. It is the opening between the mouth and pharynx.