SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. 328 arterial circle around the circumference of tlie iris by inosculating with each other, and from this circle branches are given off which ramify in the substance of the iris, and form a second circle around the pupil. The anterior ciliary (ciliares anteriores), six to twelve in number, are branches of the muscular arteries; they terminate in the great arterial circle of the iris. The Centralis retince artery pierces the optic nerve obliquely, and passes forwards in the centre of its cylinder to the retina, where it divides into branches, which ramify in the inner layer of that membrane. It supplies the retina, hyaloid membrane, and zonula ciliaris ; and, by means of a branch sent forwards through the centre of the vitreous humour in a tubular sheath of the hyaloid mem- brane, the capsule of the lens. The Anterior cerebral artery (cerebri anterior vel corporis callosi) passes forwards in the great longitudinal fissure between the two hemispheres of the brain; then curves backwards along the corpus callosum to its posterior extremity. It gives branches to the olfactory and optic nerves, to the under surface of the anterior lobes, the third ventricle, the corpus callosum, and the inner surface of the hemispheres. The two anterior cerebral arteries are connected soon after their origin by a short anastomosing trunk, the anterior communicating artery (communicans anterior). The Middle cerebral artery (cerebri media vel fossse Sylvii) larger than the preceding, passes outwards along the fissure of Sylvius, and divides into three principal branches, which supply the anterior and middle lobes of the brain, and the island of Reil. Near its origin it gives off the numerous small branches which enter the substantia perforata, to be distributed to the corpus striatum. The Posterior communicating artery (communicans posterior), very variable in size, sometimes double, and sometimes altogether absent, passes backwards and inosculates with the posterior cere- bral, a branch of the basilar artery. Occasionally it is so large as to take the place of the posterior cerebral artery. The Choroidea anterior is a small branch which is given off from the internal carotid, near the origin of the posterior communicating artery, and passes beneath the edge of the middle lobe of the brain to enter the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle. It is distri- buted to the choroid plexus, and to the walls of the middle cornu. SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. The Subclavian artery (subclavia) on the right side, arises from the arteria innominata, opposite the sterno-clavicular articulation, and on the left from the arch of the aorta. The right is consequently shorter than the left, and is situated nearer the anterior wall of the chest; it is also somewhat greater in diameter, from being a branch of a branch, in place of a division from the main trunk. The course of the subclavian artery is divisible, for the sake of precision and surgical observation, into three portions. The first