■ w 382 CHAPTEE VI. OF THE VEINS. The veins are the vessels wMch return the blood to the auricles of the heart, after it has been circulated by the arteries through the various tissues of the body. They are much thinner in structure than the arteries, so that when emptied of their blood they become flattened and collapsed. The veins of the systemic circulation con- vey the dark-coloured and impure or venous blood from the capillary system to the right auricle of the heart, and they are found after death to be more or less distended with that fluid. The veins of the pulmonary circulation resemble the arteries of the systemic circula- tion in containing during life the pure or arterial blood, which they transmit from the capillaries of the lungs to the left auricle. The veins commence by minute radicles in the capillaries which are everywhere distributed through the textures of the body, and converge to constitute larger and larger branches, till they terminate in the main trunks which convey the venous blood directly to the heart. In diameter they are larger than the arteries, and, like those vessels, their combined arese would constitute a hollow cone, whereof the apex is placed at the heart, and the base at the surface of the body. It follows from this arrangement, that the blood in returning to the heart is passing from a larger into a smaller channel, and therefore that it increases in rapidity during its course. Veins admit of a threefold division into superficial, deep, and sinuses. The Superficial veins return the blood from the integument and superficial structures, and take their course between the layers of the superficial fascia; they then pierce the deep fascia in the most convenient and protected situations, and terminate in the deep veins. They are unaccompanied by arteries, and are the vessels usually selected for venesection. The Deep veins are situated among the deeper structures of the body, and generally in relation with the arteries; in the limbs they are enclosed in the same sheath with those vessels, and they return the venous blood from the capillaries of the deep tissues. In company with all the smaller, and also with the secondary arteries, as the brachial, radial, and ulnar in the upper, and the tibial and peroneal in the lower extremity, there are two veins, placed one on each side