633 THE SPLEEN. capsule ; opposite the first and second lumbar vertebra. It is divided into a body, a greater, and a smaller extremity ; the great end or head is placed towards the right, and is surrounded by the curve of the duodenum ; the lesser end extends to the left as far as the spleen. The anterior surface of the body of the pancreas is co- vered by the ascending posterior layer of peritoneum, and is in rela- tion with the stomach, the first portion of the duodenum, and the com- mencement of the transverse arch of the colon. The posterior sur- face is grooved for the splenic vein, and tunnelled by a complete canal for the superior mesenteric and portal vein, and superior mesenteric artery. The upper border presents a deep groove, sometimes a canal, for the splenic artery and vein, and is in relation with the oblique portion of the duodenum, the lobus Spigelii, and coeliac axis. And the lower border is separated from the transverse por- tion of the duodenum by the superior mesenteric artery and vein. Upon the posterior part of the head of the pancreas is a lobular fold of the gland which completes the canal of the superior mesenteric vessels, and is called the lesser pancreas. In structure, the pancreas is composed of reddish-yellow polyhedral lobules; these consist of smaller lobules, and the latter are made up of the arborescent ramifications of minute ducts, terminating in cgecal P9uches. ' The pancreatic duct commences at the small extremity of the organ by two branches, which converge and unite after a course of about one-third the length of the gland. The duct is then continued onwards from left to right, gradually increasing in size, and lying nearer the anterior than the posterior surface of the organ, to the lower part of the descending duodenum, where it terminates on the papilla of mucous membrane, common to it and the ductus com- munis choledochus. The duct receives numerous branches which open into it on all sides from the lobules of the gland, and at its termination is slightly dilated and passes obliquely between the muscular and mucous coat of the intestine to reach the papilla. The duct which receives the secretion from the lesser pancreas is called the ductus pancreaticus minor; it opens into the principal duct near the duodenum, and sometimes passes separately into that intestine. As a variety, two pancreatic ducts are occasionally met with. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries of the pancreas are branches of the splenic, hepatic, and superior mesenteric; the veins open into the splenic vein; the lymphatics terminate in the lumbar glands. The nerves are filaments of the splenic plexus. THE SPLEEN. The spleen is an oblong flattened organ, of a dark bluish-red colour, situated in the left hypochondriac region. It is variable in size and weight,* spongy and vascular in texture, and exceedingly * Its ordinary length is about five inches; and its weight, six ounces.