URINARY BLADDER. 643 prostate gland, a ring of elastic tissue, or, rather, according to Lane, of muscular fibres, whicli has for its object the closure of the urethra against the involuntary passage of the urine. It is into this ring that the longitudinal fibres of the detrusor urinse are inserted, so that the muscle, taking a fixed point at the pubes, will not only compress the bladder, and thereby tend to force its contents along the urethra, but will at the same time, by means of its attachment to the ring, dilate the entrance of the urethra, and afford a free egress to the contents of the bladder. The Cellular or submucous coat is the thick layer of cellular tissue, which is interposed between the mucous and muscular coat, and forms the bond of union between them. The mucous coat is thin and smooth, of a pale rose colour, and exactly moulded on the muscular coat, to which it is connected by the cellular coat; its papillae are very minute, and there are a number of mucous follicles, especially near the neck of the organ. This mucous membrane is continuous, through the ureters, with the lining membrane of the uriniferous ducts, tubuli seminiferi, and Cowper's glands. The cells of the epithelium are of the spheroidal kind. Upon the internal surface of the base of the bladder is a trian- gular smooth plane of a paler colour than the rest of the mucous membrane, the trigonum vesicae, or trigone vesicale (fig. 227). This is the most sensitive part of the bladder, and the pressure of calculi upon it gives rise to great suffering. It is bounded on each side by the raised ridge^, corresponding with the muscles of the ureters, at each posterior angle by the openings of the ureters, and, in front, by a slight elevation of the mucous membrane at the entrance of the urethra, called uvula vesicce. The external surface of the base of the bladder corresponding with the trigonum is also triangular, and separated from the rectum by a thin layer of fibrous membrane, derived from the recto-vesical fascia. It is bounded behind by the recto-vesical fold of perito- neum ; and on each side by the vas deferens and vesicula seminalis, which converge almost to a point at the base of the prostate gland. It is through this space that the opening is made in the recto-vesical operation for puncture of the bladder. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries of the urinary bladder are the superior vesical, three or four small branches which proceed from the commencement of the hypogastric artery, previously to its com- plete obliteration; and inferior vesical, from the internal iliac. The latter is distributed to the base of the bladder, vesiculge seminales, and prostate gland. The veins are numerous and of large size, and form a plexus around the neck and at the base of the bladder; the plexus communicates with the prostatic plexus and with the hsemor* rhoidal veins. The nerves of the bladder are derived from the infe- rior hypogastric plexuses and their communications with the third and fourth sacral nerves. T T 2 -