EXTENSOR CARPI RABIALIS BREVIOR. 253 Fig. 118. condyloid ridge, below the preceding, and from the intermuscular septum. Its tendon passes through a groove in the radius immediately behind the styloid process, to be imerted into the base of the metacarpal bone of the index finger. Relations.—By its superficial sur- face with the supinator longus, ex- tensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, exten- sor primi intemodii pollicis, extensor secundi intemodii pollicis, radial nerve, fascia of the forearm, and posterior annular ligament. By its deep surface with the brachialis an- ticus, extensor carpi radialis brevior, radius, and wrist-joint. The Extensor carpi radialis BREVIOR is seen by drawing aside the former muscle. It arises from the external condyle of the humerus and intermuscular septa, and is inserted into the base of the metacarpal bone of the middle finger. Its tendon is lodged in the same groove on the radius with that of the extensor carpi radialis longior. Relations.-—By its superficial sur- face with the extensor carpi radialis longior, extensor ossis metacarpi pol- licis, extensor primi intemodii pollicis, extensor secundi intemodii pollicis, fascia of the forearm, and posterior -annular ligament. By its dee'p surface with the supinator brevis, tendon of the pronator radii teres, radius, and wrist- joint. By its tdnar border with the extensor communis digitoram. * Superficial layer of muscles of the posterior aspect of the forearm. 1. Biceps. 2. Brachialis antieus. 3. Lower part of the triceps, inserted into the olecranon, 4. Supinator longus. 5. Extensor carpi radialis longior. 6. Extensor carpi radialis brevior. 7. Tendons of insertion of these two muscles. 8. Extensor communis digitorum. 9. Extensor minimi digiti. 10. Extensor carpi ulnaris. 11. Anconeus. 12. Flexor carpi ulnaris. 13. Ex- tensor ossis metacarpi and extensor primi intemodii, lying together. 14. Extensor secundi intemodii; its tendon is seen crossing the tendons of the extensor carpi radiahs longior and brevior. 15. Posterior annular Hga- ment. The tendons of the common extensor are seen on the back of the hand, and their mode of distribution ou the dorsum of the fingers.