331 BASILAR ARTERY. cesses of the vertebrge the artery lies in front of the cervical nerves, and on the left side the artery is crossed by the thoracic duct. Dr. John Davy* has observed, that when the vertebral arteries differ in size, the left is generally the larger ; thus in ninety-eight cases he found the left vertebral the larger twenty-six times, and the right only eight. In the same number of cases he found a small band stretching across the cylinder of the basilar artery, near the junction of the two vertebral arteries, seventeen times, and in a few instances a small communicating trunk between the two ver- tebral arteries previously to their union. I have several times seen this communicating branch. The Basilar artery (basilaris, meso-cephalica), so named from its position at the base of the brain, runs forward in the groove on the midline of the pons Varolii, and at the anterior border of the pons divides into four ultimate branches, two to either side. Branches.—The branches of the vertebral and basilar arteries are the following :— The Lateral spinal branches (spinales laterales) enter the inter- vertebral foramina, and taking the course of the roots of the spinal nerves, are distributed to the spinal cord and vertebrae. Where the vertebral artery curves around the articular process of the atlas, it gives off several muscular branches (r. musculares). The Posterior meningeal (meningea posterior) are one or two small branches which enter the cranium through the foramen magnum, to be distributed to the dura mater of the cerebellar fossse, and to the falx cerebelli. One branch, described by Soemmering, passes into the cranium along the first cervical nerve. The Anterior spinal (spinalis anterior) is a small branch which unites with its fellow of the opposite side, on the front of the medulla oblongata. The artery formed by the union of these two vessels, descends along the anterior aspect of the spinal cord, to which it distributes branches. The Posterior spinal {spinalis posterior) winds around the medulla oblongata to the posterior aspect of the cord, and descends on either side to the cauda equina. It communicates very freely with the spinal branches of the intercostal and lumbar arteries, and near its origin sends a branch upwards to the fourth ventricle. The Inferior cerebellar arteries (cerebelli inferior posterior vel Vertebral. Basilar. Lateral spinal. Posterior meningeal, Anterior spinal. Posterior spinal, Inferior cerebellar. Transverse, Superior cerebellar. Posterior cerebral. * Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, 1839.