MUSCLES OP THE NECK. 192 hyoideus, and is inserted into a depression on the inner side of the lower jaw, close to the symphysis. The middle tendon is held in connexion with the body of the os hyoides by an aponeurotic loop, through which it plays as through a pulley; the loop being lubri- cated by a synovial membrane. A thin layer of aponeurosis is given off from the tendon of the digastricus at each side, which is connected with the body of the os hyoides, and forms a strong plane of fascia between the anterior portions of the two muscles. This fascia, the mpra-hyoiclean, is continuous with the deep cervical fascia. Relations.—By its superficial SMr/ace with the platysma myoides, stemo-mastoid, anterior fasciculus of the stylo-hyoid muscle, parotid gland, and submaxillary gland. By its deep surface with the styloid muscles, hyo-glossus, mylo-hyoideus, external carotid artery, lingual and facial arteries, internal carotid artery, jugular vein, and hypo- glossal nerve. The digastric muscle forms the two inferior bounda- ries of the submaxillary triangle, the superior boundary being the side of the body of the lower jaw. In the posterior half of the sub- maxillary triangle are situated the submaxillary gland and facial artery. The Stylo-hyoideus is a small and slender muscle situated in immediate relation with the posterior belly of the digastricus, by which it is pierced. It arises from the middle of the styloid process, its outer side, and is inserted into the body of the os hyoides near the middle line. Relations.—By its superficial swrface with the posterior belly of the digastricus, parotid gland and submaxillary gland; its deep rela,- tions are similar to those of the posterior belly of the digastricus. The digastricus and stylo-hyoideus must be removed from their connexion with the lower jaw and os hyoides, and turned aside in order to see the next muscle. The Mylo-hyoideus {fxvXr}, mola, i.e. attached to the molar ridge of the lower jaw) is a broad and triangular plane of muscular fibres, forming, with its fellow of the opposite side, the inferior wall or floor of the mouth. It arises fleshy from the molar ridge of the lower jaw as far back as the last molar tooth, and proceeds inwards and backwards to the middle line, where its fibres are continuous "with those of the opposite side, the posterior fibres being inserted into the lower border of the body of the os hyoides. At the middle line the imion is tendinous on the upper surface in front, on the lower behind, the rest being fleshy. Relations.—By its superficial or inferior swrface.^ with the pla- tysma myoides, digastricus, supra-hyoidean fascia, submaxillary gland, and submental artery. By its deep or superior surface -ndth the genio-hyoideus, genio-hyo-glossus, hyo-glossus, stylo-glossus, gus- tatory nerve, hypoglossal neiwe, Wharton's duct, sublingual gland, and mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth. After the mylo-hyoideus has been examined, it should be cut away from its origin and insertion, and completely removed. The view of