49 PALATE BONES. nares, the other inferior, forming the posterior part of the hard palate. The superior surface is con- cave, and rises towards the middle line, ^ff- where it unites with its fellow of the opposite side and forms part of a crest (crista nasalis), which articulates with the vomer. The inferior surface is uneven, and marked by a slight trans- verse ridge, to which is attached the tendinous expansion of the tensor palati muscle. Near its external border are two openings, one large and one small, t'h.Q posterior palatine foramina; the former transmits the anterior palatine nerve and superior palatine artery, the latter the middle palatine nerve. The posterior border is concave, and pre- sents at its inner extremity a sharp point, which with a corresponding point in the opposite bone con - stitutes the palate spine for the attachment of the azygos uvul* muscle. The perpendicular plate is also quadrilateral; and presents two surfaces, one internal or nasal, forming a part of the wall of the nares; the other external, bounding the spheno-maxillary fossa and antrum. The internal surface is marked near its middle by a hori- zontal ridge {crista turbinalis inferior), to which is united the in- ferior turbinated bone; and, at about half an inch above this, by another ridge (crista turbinalis superior), for the attachment of the middle turbinated bone. The concave surface below the inferior ridge iS the lateral boundary of the inferior meatus of the nose ; that between the two ridges corresponds with the middle meatus, and the surface above the superior ridge with the superior meatus. The external surface, extremely irregular, is rough on each side for arti- culation with neighbouring bones, and smooth in the middle to con- stitute the inner boundary of the spheno-maxillary fossa. This * A posterior view of the right palate bone in its natural position; it is slightly turned on one side, to obtain a sight of the internal surface of the perpendicular plate (2). 1. The horizontal plate of the bone; its upper or nasal surface. 2. The perpendicular plate; its internal or nasal surface. 3, 10, 11. The pterygoid process or tuberosity. 4. The thick internal border of the horizontal plate, which, articulating with the similar border of the oppo- site bone, forms the crista nasahs for the reception of the vomer. 5. The pointed process, which, with a similar process of the opposite bone, forms the palate spine. 6. The horizontal ridge which gives attachment to the inferior turbinated bone; the concavity below this ridge enters into the formation of the inferior meatus, and the concavity (2) above the ridge into that of the middle meatus. 7. The spheno-palatine notch. 8. The orbital portion. 9. The crista turbinalis superior for the middle turbinated bone. 10. The middle facet of the tuberosity, which enters into the formation of the pterygoid fossa. The facets 11 and 3 articulate with the two pterygoid plates, 11 with the in- ternal, and 3 with the external. E