392 VEIXS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. vena innominata, just at its union with tlie superior cava; the left in the left vena innominata. VEINS OP THE UPPER EXTREMITY. The veins of the upper extremity are deep and superficial. The deep veins accompany the branches and trunks of the arteries, and constitute their xence comites. The vense comites of the radial and ulnar arteries are enclosed in the same sheath with those vessels, and terminate at the bend of the elbow in the brachial veins. The brachial venge comites are situated one on each side of the artery, and open into the axillary vein; the axillary becomes the subclavian, and the subclavian imites with the internal jugular to form the vena innominata. The Superficial veins of the forearm are the— Anterior ulnar vein. Cephalic vein, Posterior ulnar vein, ]\Iedian vein, Basilic vein, Median basilic, Eadial vein, Median cephalic. The Anterior ulnar vein collects the venous blood from the inner and palmar border of the hand and ascends along the anterior aspect of the inner side of the forearm to the bend of the elbow, where it receives the median basilic, and becomes the basilic vein. The Posterior ulnar vein commences on the dorsum of the hand in the ulnar termination of the venous arch which receives the digital veins from the fingers, and after being joined by a large vein, the vena salvatella, from the little finger, ascends along the posterior aspect of the forearm to the bend of the elbow, where it turns for- ward and terminates in the anterior ulnar vein. The Basilic vein {jSaaLXiKoc, royal, or principal) ascends from the common idnar vein formed by the two preceding, along the inner side of the upper arm, and near its middle pierces the fascia; it then passes upwards to the axilla, and becomes the axillary vein. The Radial vein commences on the dorsum of the hand, in the radial termination of the venous arcli^ which receives the veins of the fingers. This origin is increased by the junction of some small veins from the thumb. The radial vein ascends the dorsal side of the forearm to a little below its middle, then lies on its anterior aspect to the bend of the elbow, where it receives the median cephalic, and becomes the cephalic vein. The Cephalic vein {Kicpakr}, the head) ascends along the outer side of the arm to its upper third; it then enters the groove between the pectoralis major and deltoid muscle, where it is in relation with the descending branch of the thoracico-acromialis artery, and ter- minates beneath the clavicle in the axillary vein. A large commu- nicating branch sometimes crosses the clavicle between the external