OS CALCIS. 107 ^ a broad articular facet upon its convex surface, and two articular facets, separated by a deep groove, on its concave surface. The bone is divisible into a superior and inferior surface, an external and internal border, and an anterior and posterior extremity. The superior surface is convex, and presents a large quadrilateral and smooth facet, somewhat broader in front than behind, to articulate with the tibia. The inferior surface is concave, and divided by a deep and rough groove (sulcus tali), which lodges a strong interos- seous ligament, into two facets, the posterior large and quadrangular, the anterior smaller and elliptic, which articulate with the os calcis. The internal border, flat and irregular, is marked by a pyriform articular surface, for the inner mal- leolus. The external presents a large triangular articular facet, for the ex- ternal malleolus, and is rough and concave in front. The anterior ex- tremity presents a rounded head, encircled by a constriction somewhat resembling a neck; and the posterior extremity is narrow, and marked by a deep groove, for the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis. Hold the astragalus with the broad articular surface upwards, and round- ed head forwards; the triangular lateral particular surface will point to the side to which the bone belongs. Articulations.-—^With/owr bones : tibia, fibula, os calcis, and scaphoid. The Os CALCIS may be known by its large size and oblong figure, by the large and irregular portion which forms the heel, and by two articular surfaces, separated by a broad groove, upon its upper side. The OS calcis is divisible into four surfaces, superior, inferior, external and internal; and two extremities, anterior and posterior. The su/perior * The dorsal surface of the left foot. 1. The astragalus; its superior quadri- lateral articular surface. 2. The anterior extremity of the astragalus, which articulates with (4) the scaphoid bone. 3, 3. The os calcis. 4. The scaphoid bone. 5. The internal cuneiform bone. 6. The middle cuneiform bone. 7. The external cuneiform bone. 8. The cuboid bone. 9. The metatarsal bones of the first and second toes. 10. The first phalanx of the great toe. 11. The second phalanx of the great toe. 12. The first phalanx of the second toe. 13. Its second phalanx. 14. Its third phalanx.