ORGAN OP TASTE. 552 in all directions, anastomosing witli each other and forming inter- lacements and loops, and they terminate upon the inner surface of the membrane in minute papillae, resembling those of the retina. The Cochlear nerve divides into numerous filaments which enter the foramina of the tractus spiralis foraminulentus in the base of the cochlea, and passing upwards in the canals of the modiolus, bend outwards at right angles, to be distributed in the tissue of the lamina spiralis. The central portion of the nerve passes through the tubulus centralis of the modiolus, and supplies the apicial portion of the lamina spiralis. In the lamina spiralis the nervous filaments lying side by side on an even plane form numerous anastomosing loops, and spread out into a nervous membrane. According to Treviranus and Grottsche, the ultimate terminations of the filaments assume the form of papillae. The A rteries of the labyrinth are derived from the internal audi- tory branch of the superior cerebellar or basilar artery, and from the stylo-mastoid. OEGAN OF TASIE. The Tongue is composed of muscular fibres, which are distributed in layers arranged in various directions: thus, some are disposed longitudinally (lingualis superEcialis); others transversely (lin- gualis transversus); others, again, ooliquely and vertically. Be- tween the miiScular fibres is a considerable quantity of adipose sub- stance, and in the middle of the organ a vertical septum of fibrous tissue. The tongue is connected, posteriorly, with the os hyoides by mus- cular attachment; and to the epiglottis by mucous membrane, which forms the three glosso-epiglottic folds called froina epiglottidis. On either side it is held in connexion with the lower jaw by mucous membrane; and in front, a fold of that membrane, which is named froenum linguce, is formed beneath its under surface. The surface of the tongue is covered by a dense layer analogous to the corium of the skin, which gives support to papillge. A raphe marks the middle line of the organ, and divides it into symmetrical halves. The Papillce of the tongue are the— Papillae circumvallat^, Papillae filiformes. Papillae conicae, Papillae fungiformes. The Papillce circumvallatce (p. lenticulares) are of large size, and from fifteen to twenty in number. They are situated on the dorsum of the tongue, near its root, and form a row on each side, which meets its fellow at the middle line, like the two branches of the letter A. E^ch papilla resembles a cone, attached by its apex to the bottom of a cup-shaped depression: hence they are also named