271 PSOAS MAGNUS.—PECTINEUS. is quite true that the former has no proper tendon, its muscular fibres being inserted into that of the psoas. He describes the combined muscle under the name oi flexor femoris. Relations.—BJ its anterior surface, within the pelvis, with the external cutaneous nerve, and iliac fascia, which latter separates the muscle from the peritoneum, on the right from the csecum, and on the left from the sigmoid flexure of the colon; externally to the pelvis, with the fascia lata, rectus, and sartorius. By its posterior surface with the iliac fossa, margin of the pelvis, and with the capsule of the hip-joint, a synovial bursa of large size being inter- posed. This bursa is sometimes continuous with the synovial mem- brane of the ilio-femoral articulation. By its inner border the iliacus is in relation with the psoas magnus and crural nerve. The Psoas magnus {xpoa, lumbus, a loin), situated by the side of the vertebral column in the loins, is a long fusiform muscle. It arises from the bodies and bases of the transverse processes of the last dorsal and all the lumbar vertebrae. It also takes its origin from the intervertebral substances, and from a series of tendinous arches attached to the vertebrae, and intended for the protection of the lumbar vessels and branches of the sympathetic nerve in their passage between the muscle and the bone. From this extensive origin the muscle passes along the margin of the brim of the pelvis, and beneath Poupart's ligament, to its insertion. The tendon of the psoas m9.gnus unites with that of the iliacus, and the conjoined tendon is' inserted into the posterior part of the trochanter minor, a bursa being interposed. Relations.—By its anterior surface with the ligamentum arcuatum internum of the diaphragm, the kidney, psoas parvus, genito-crural nerve, sympathetic nerve, psoas fascia, peritoneum and colon, and along its pelvic border with the common and external iliac artery and vein. By its posterior surface with the lumbar vertebrse, lumbar arteries, quadratus lumborum (from which latter it is sepa- rated by the anterior layer of the aponeurosis of the transversalis), and with the crural nerve, which near Poupart's ligament passes to its outer side. The lumbar plexus of nerves is situated in the substance of the posterior part of the muscle. In the thigh the muscle is in relation with the fascia lata in front; the border of the pelvis and hip-joint, from which it is separated by the synovial membrane, common to it and the preceding muscle, behind; with the crural nerve and iliacus muscle to the outer side; and with the femoral artery, by which it is slightly overlaid, to the inoier side. The Pectineus is a flat and quadrangular muscle; it arises from the pectineal line (pecten, a crest) of the os pubis, and from the surface of bone in front of that line. It is inserted into the line leading from the anterior intertrochanteric line to the linea aspera of the femur. Relations.—By its anterior surface with the pubic portion of the fascia lata, which separates it from the femoral artery and vein and