108 SCAPHOIDES. surface is convex behind and irregularly concave in front, where it presents two and sometimes three articular facets, divided by a broad and shallow groove (sulcus calcanei), for the interosseous ligament. The inferior surface is convex and rough, and bounded posteriorly by the two inferior tuberosities, of which the internal is broad and large, and the external smaller and prominent. The external surface is convex and subcutaneous, and marked towards its anterior third by two grooves, often separated by a tubercle, for the tendons of the peroneus longus and brevis. The internal surface is concave and grooved, for the tendons and vessels which pass into the sole of the foot. At the anterior extremity of this surface is a projecting pro- cess (sustentaculum tali), which supports the anterior articulating surface of the astragalus, and serves as a pulley for the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum. On the anterior extremity of the bone is a flat articular surface, surmounted by a rough projection, which aff"ords one of the guides to the surgeon in the performance of Chopart's operation. The posterior extremity is prominent and convex, and constitutes the posterior tuberosity; it is smooth for the upper half of its extent, where it corresponds with a bursa; and rough below, for the insertion of the tendo Achillis; the lower part of this surface is bounded by the twp inferior tuberosities. Articulations.-—With two bones: astragalus and cuboid. In their articulated state a large oblique canal is situated between the astra- galus and calcaneum, being formed by the apposition of the two grooves, sulcus tali and sulcus calcanei. This groove is called the sinus tarsi, and serves to lodge a strong interosseous ligament which binds the two bones together. Attachment of Muscles.—To eight: by the posterior tuberosity, to the tendo Achillis and plantaris; by the inferior tuberosities and under surface, abductor pollicis, abductor minimi digiti, flexor brevis digitorum and flexor accessorius, and plantar fascia; and by the ex- ternal surface to the extensor brevis digitorum. The Scaphoid bone may be distinguished by its boat-like figure, concave on one side, and convex with three facets upon the other. It presents for examination an anterior and posterior surface, superior and inferior border, and two extremities, one broad, the other pointed and thick. The anterior surface is convex, and divided into three facets, to articulate with the three cuneiform bones; the posterior is concave, to articulate with the rounded head of the astragalus. The superior border is convex and rough, and the inferior somewhat concave and uneven. The external extremity is broad and rough, and the internal pointed and prominent, so as to form a tuberosity. The external extremity sometimes presents a facet of articulation with the cuboid. If the bone be held so that the convex surface with three facets