347 INTEROSSEOUS ARTERY. median nerve; and at tlie tipper border of the pronator quadratus, a small branch, which descends behind that muscle to mosculate with the anterior carpal arteries. The median artery is sometimes of large size, and occasionally takes the place of the superficial palmar arch. The Posterior interosseous artery (interossea externa; perforans snprema) passes backwards through an opening between the upper part of the interosseous membrane and the oblique ligament, and descends between the superficial and deep layer of muscles of the forearm to the back of the wrist, where it inosculates with the an- terior interosseous and posterior carpal branches of the radial and ulnar. At its upper part it gives ofi" a recurrent branch, ^posterior interosseous recurrent, which returns upon the elbow between the anconeus, extensor carpi ulnaris and supinator brevis muscles, and anastomoses with the posterior terminal branches of the superior profunda. The Muscular branches of the ulnar artery are distributed to the muscles of the ulnar border of the forearm. The Carpea anterior, a branch of small size, passes outwards upon the front of the wrist-joint, and contributes to form the anterior carpal arch by inosculating with the anterior carpal branch of the radial artery. The Carpea posterior, larger than the preceding, passes beneath the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris muscle to the back of the wrist- joint, where it inosculates with the posterior carpal branch of the radial artery, and forms a posterior carpal arch. The Metacarpea, often a branch of the preceding, passes along the inner border of the metacarpal bone of the little finger, and forms the dorsal collateral branch of that finger. The Communicating or deep branch arises close to the annular ligament, and dips between the abductor minimi digiti and flexor brevis to inosculate with the termination of the deep palmar arch. It is accompanied by the deep palmar branch of the ulnar nerve. The Digital branches, four in number, are given off from the con- vexity of the superficial palmar arch. The first and smallest is distributed to the ulnar side of the little finger. The other three are short trunks, which divide between the heads of the metacarpal bones, and form the collateral branch of the radial side of the little finger, the collateral branches of the ring and middle fingers, and the collateral branch of the ulnar side of the index finger. On the last phalanx, the collateral arteries communicate and form an arch, from which numerous branches are given off to the tip of the finger. The arteries of the hand are subject to frequent variety of distri- bution.