401 POETAL SYSTEM. the heart, where it terminates in the right auricle. It receives in its course the left cardiac veins from the left auricle and ventricle, and the posterior cardiac veins from the posterior ventricular groove. The Posterior cardiac vein (vena cordis media), frequently two in number, commences also at the apex of the heart, and ascends along the posterior ventricular groove, to terminate in the great cardiac vein. It receives the veins at right angles from the pos- terior aspect of the two ventricles. The Anterior cardiac veins (vense parvse), collect the blood from the anterior surface of the right ventricle; one larger than the rest runs along the right border of the heart and joins the trunk formed by these veins, which curves around the right auriculo-ventricular groove, to terminate in the great cardiac vein near its entrance into the right auricle ; others cross the groove, and open directly into the auricle. The VencB Thehesii (venae minimse) are numerous minute venules which convey the venous blood directly from the substance of the heart into the right auricle. The cardiac veins have no valves, excepting that at the orifice of the great vein. • i PORTAL SYSTEM. The portal system is composed of four large veins which return the blood from the chylopoietic viscera ; they are the Inferior mesenteric vein. Splenic vein, Superior mesenteric vein, Gastric veins. The Inferior mesenteric vein receives its blood from the rectum by means of the hsemorrhoidal veins, and from the sigmoid flexure and descending colon, and ascends behind the transverse duodenum and pancreas, to terminate in the splenic vein. Its hsemorrhoidal branches inosculate with branches of the internal iliac vein, and thus establish a communication between the portal and general venous system. The Superior mesenteric vein is formed by branches which collect the venous blood from the capillaries of the superior mesenteric artery; they constitute by their junction a large trunk, which as- cends by the side of the corresponding artery, crosses the transverse portion of the duodenum, and unites behind the pancreas with the splenic in the formation of the portal vein. The Splenic vein commences in the structure of the spleen, and quits that organ by several large branches; it is larger than the splenic artery, and perfectly straight in its course. It passes hori- zontally inwards behind the pancreas, and terminates near its greater end by uniting with the superior mesenteric and forming the portal vein. It receives in its course the gastric and pancreatic veins, and near its termination the inferior mesenteric vein.