558 APPENDAGES OP THE SKIN, surface into small polygonal and lozenge-shaped arese. These lines correspond with the folds of the derma produced by its movements, and are most numerous where those movements are greatest, as in the flexures and on the convexities of joints. The dark colour of the skin among the natives of the South is due to the coloration of the primitive granules of which the cell is com- posed, especially the nucleus. As the cells desiccate, the colour of the granules is lost; hence the deeper hue of the rete mucosum. The 2)ores of the epiderma are the openings of the perspiratory ducts, hair follicles, and sebiparous glands. Vessels and Nerves.—The Arteries of the derma which enter its structure through the areolas of the under surface of the corium, divide into innumerable intermediate vessels, which form a rich ca- pillary plexus in the superficial strata of the skin and in its papil- lary layer. In the papillse of some parts of the derma, as in the longitudinal plications beneath the nail, the capillary vessels form simple loops, but in other papillae they are convoluted to a greater or less degree in proportion to the size and importance of the papillae. The Lymphatic vessels probably form, in the superficial strata of the derma, a plexus, the meshes of which are interwoven with those of the capillary and nervous plexus. No lymphatics have as yet been discovered in the papillae. The Nerves of the derma, after entering the areolae of the deeper part of the corium, divide into minute fasciculi, which form a termi- nal plexus in the upper strata of the corium. From this plexus the primitive fibres pass off to their distribution, as loops, in the pa- pillse. In the less sensitive parts of the skin the loops are simple and more or less acute in their bend, in conformity with the figure of the papilla. In the sensitive parts, however, and especially in the tactile papillae of the pulps of the fingers, the loop is convoluted to a greater or less extent, and acts as a multiplier of sensation. APPENDAGES OP THE SKIN. The appendages of the skin are the nails, hairs, sebiparous glands, and perspiratory glands and ducts. The Nails are horny appendages of the skin, identical in forma- tion with the epiderma, of which they are a part. A nail is convex on its external surface, concave within, and implanted by means of a thin margin or root in a fold of the derma, which is nearly two lines in depth, and acts the part of a follicle to the nail. At the bottom of the groove of the follicle are a number of filiform papillae, which produce the margin of the root, and, by the successive forma- tion of new cells, push the nail onwards in its growth. The con- caCre surface of the nail is in contact with the derma, and the latter is covered by papillae, which perform the double office of retaining the nail in its place, and giving it increased thickness by the addi-