MUSCLES OF THE SOLE OF THE FOOT. 284 The Abductor pollicis (vel hallucis) lies along the inner border of the foot; it arises by two heads, between which the tendons of the long flexors, arteries, veins, and nerves, enter the sole of the foot. One head proceeds from the inner tuberosity of the os calcis, the other from the internal annular ligament and plantar fascia; it is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the great toe, and into the internal sesamoid bone. Relations,—By its superficial sur- face with the internal portion of the plantar fascia. By its deep surface with the flexor brevis pollicis, mus- cuius accessorius, tendons of the flexor longus digitorum, flexor longus pol- licis, tibialis anticus and posticus, plantar vessels and nerves, and tarsal bones. On its outer border with the flexor brevis digitorum, from which it is separated by a vertical septum of the plantar fascia. The Abductor minimi digiti (digiti quinti) lies along the outer border of the sole of the foot. It arises from the outer tuberosity of the OS calcis, and from the plantar fascia, as far forward as the base of the fifth metatarsal bone; and is in- serted into the base of the first pha- lanx of the little toe. Relations.—By its superficial sur- face with the external portion of the plantar fascia. By its deep surface with the musculus accessorius, flexor brevis minimi digiti, tarsal bones, and metatarsal bone of the little toe. By its inner side with the flexor bre- vis digitorum, from which it is se- parated by the vertical septum of the plantar fascia. The Flexor brevis digitorum (perforatus) is placed between the two preceding muscles. It arises from the under surface of the OS calcis, from the plantar fascia, and intermuscular septa; and is inserted by four tendons into the base of the second phalanx of the four lesser toes. Each tendon divides, previously to its insertion, to * First layer of muscles of the sole of tlie foot; this layer is exposed by the removal of the plantar fascia. 1. Os calcis. 2. Posterior part of the plantar fascia divided transversely. 3. Abductor polhcis. 4. Abductor minimi digiti. 5. Flexor brevis digitorum. 6. Tendon of the flexor longus pollicis. 7, 7. Lmn- bricales. On the second and third toe, the tendons of the flexor longus digi- torum are seen passing through the bifurcation of the tendons of the flexor brevis digitorum.