POSTERIOR BRACHIAL REGION. 254 The Extensor communis digitorum arises from the external condyle by a common tendon with the preceding and two following muscles, from the intermuscular septa, and deep fascia ; and divides into four tendons, which are inserted into the second and third pha- langes of the fingers. At the metacarpo-phalangeal articulation each tendon becomes narrow and thick, and sends a thin fasciculus upon each side of the joint. It then spreads out, and receiving the tendon of the lumbricalis and some tendinous fasciculi from the interossei, forms a broad aponeurosis, which covers the whole poste- rior aspect of the finger. At the first phalangeal joint the aponeu- rosis divides into three slips. The middle slip is inserted into the base of the second phalanx, and the two lateral portions are con- tinued onwards on each side of the joint, to be inserted into the last. Little oblique tendinous slips connect the tendon of the ring with those of the middle and little finger as they cross the back of the hand. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the deep fascia of the forearm and hand, and posterior annular ligament. By its deep surface with the supinator brevis, extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, extensor primi internodii, extensor secundi internodii, extensor indicis, posterior interosseous artery and nerve, wrist-joint, meta- carpal bones, interossei muscles, and phalanges. By its radial harder with the extensor carpi radialis longior and brevier. By the ulnar harder with the extensor minimi digiti, and extensor carpi ulnaris. The Extensor minimi diuiti (auriculaiis) is an oif-set from the extensor communis, with which it is connected by means of a ten- dinous slip. Passing down to the inferior extremity of the ulna it ti'averses a distinct fibrous sheath, and at the metacarpo-phalangeal articulation unites with the tendon derived from the common extensor. The common tendon then spreads out into a broad expansion which divides into three slips to be inserted as in the other fingers into the last two phalanges. It is to this muscle that tlie little finger owes its power of separate extension; and from being called into action when the point of the finger is introduced into the meatus of the ear, for the purpose of removing unpleasant sensations or producing titillation, the muscle was called by the old writers " auricularis." The Extensor carpi ulnaris arises from the external condyle by the common tendon, from the border of the ulna, and from the deep fascia. Its tendon passes through the posterior groove in the lower extremity of the ulna, to be inserted into the base of the metacarpal bone of the little finger. Relations.—By its superficial s-mface with the deep fascia of the forearm, and posterior annular ligament. By its deep surface with the supinator brevis, extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, extensoi- secundi internodii, extensor indicis, ulna, and wrist-joint. By its radial harder it is in relation with the extensor communis digitorum and extensor minimi digiti, and by the idnar harder with the anconeus.