APPENDAGES OP THE EYE. 533 .an inch from the globe of the eye, and passing through the porus opticus, is distributed upon the inner surface of the retina, forming its vascular layer; one branch pierces the centre of the vitreous humour, and supplies the capsule of the lens. The Nerves of the eyeball are, the optic, two ciliary nerves from the nasal branch of the ophthalmic, and the ciliary nerves from the ophthalmic ganglion. Observations.—The sclerotic is a tunic of protection, and the cornea a medium for the transmission of light. The choroid supports the vessels destined for the nutrition of the eye, and by its pigmentum nigrum absorbs all loose and scattered rays that might confuse the image impressed upon the retina. The iris, by means of its powers of expansion and contraction, regulates the quantity of light admitted through the pupil. If the iris be thin, and the rays of light pass through its substance, they are immediately absorbed by the uvea ; and if that layer be insufficient, they are taken up by the black pig- ment of the ciliary processes. In Albinoes, where there is an ab- sence of pigmentum nigrum, the rays of light traverse the iris, and even the sclerotic, and so overwhelm the eye with light, that sight is destroyed, except in the dimness of evening or at night. In the manufacture of optical instruments, care is taken to colour their interior black, with the same object, the absorption of scattered rays. The transparent lamellated cornea and the humours of the eye have for their office the refraction of the rays in such proportion as to direct the image in the most favourable manner upon the retina. Where the refracting medium is too great, as in over convexity of the cornea and lens, the image falls short of the retina (myopia, near-sightedness); and where it is too little, the image is thrown beyond the nervous membrane (presbyopia, far-sightedness). These conditions are rectified by the use of spectacles, which provide a differently refracting medium externally to the eye, and thereby correct the transmission of light. APPENDAGES OF THE EYE. The Appendages of the Eye [tutamina oculi) are, the eyebrows, eyelids, eyelashes, conjunctiva, caruncula lachrymalis, and the lachrymal apparatus. The Eyebrows {supercilia) are two projecting arches of integument covered with short thick hairs, which form the upper boundary of the orbits. They are connected beneath with the orbiculares, occipito- frontales, and corrugatores superciliorum muscles ; their use is to shade the eyes from too vivid a light, or protect them from particles of dust and moisture floating over the forehead. The Eyelids (palpebrce) are two valvular layers placed in front <of the eye, serving to defend it from injury by their closure. When