MUSCLES OP THE ABDOMEN. 228 the external boundary of the sheath. The sheath contains the rectus and pyramidalis muscle. The Rectus (stemo-pubius) arises by a double tendon from the front and crest of the os pubis, and is inserted by three broad digi- tations into the cartilages of the fifth, sixth, and seventh ribs. It is traversed by several tendinous intersections, called lineae trans- versse (inscriptiones tendinese). One of these is situated at the um- bilicus, one over the ensiform cartilage, and one midway between these points; when a fourth exists, it occurs below the umbilicus. The linese transversse are vestiges of the abdominal ribs of reptiles, and very rarely extend completely through the muscle. Relations.—By its external surface with the anterior lamella of the aponeurosis of the internal olalique, below with the aponeurosis of the transversalis, and with the pyramidalis. By its internal surface with the ensiform cartilage, cartilages of the ribs from the fifth to the ninth, posterior lamella of the internal oblique, perito- neum, and epigastric artery and veins. The Pyramidalis (pubio-subumbilicalis) arises from the crest of the OS pubis in front of the rectus, and is inserted into the linea alba at about midway between the umbilicus and pubes. It is enclosed in the sheath with the rectus, and rests against the lower part of that muscle; it is sometimes absent. The rectus may now be divided across the middle, and the two ends drawn aside for the purpose of examining the mode of formation of its sheath. The sheath of the rectus is formed, in front, for the upper three- fourths of its extent, by the aponeurosis of the external oblique and anterior lamella of the internal oblique; hehind by the posterior lamella of the internal oblique and aponeurosis of the transversalis. At the commencement of the lower fourth, the posterior wall of the sheath terminates in a thin curved margin (plica semilunaris, Doug- lassii) the aponeuroses of the three muscles passing altogether in front of the rectus. The next two muscles can be examined only when the viscera of the abdomen are removed. To see the quadratus lumborum, it is also necessary to divide and draw aside the psoas muscle and the anterior lamella of the aponeurosis of the transversalis. The Quadratus lumborum (ilio-costalis) is concealed from view by the anterior lamella of the aponeui'osis of the transversalis muscle, which is inserted into the bases of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae. When this lamella is divided, the muscle will be seen to consist of two portions :—one, the external, arising from the ilio-lumbar ligament and outer lip of the crest of the ilium for two inches in extent, and inserted into the apices of the transverse pro- cesses of the four upper lumbar vertebrae (sometimes also last dorsal) and last rib ; the other, the internal and anterior portion, arises by tendinous slips from the transverse processes of the three or four lower lumbar vertebrae, and passes upwards to be inserted into the