518 ABDOMINAL PLEXUS. splanchnic nerves; the termination of the right pneumogastric nerve; some branches from the right phrenic nerve; and sometimes one or two filaments from the left. It sends forth numerous fila- ments which accompany, under the name of plexuses, all the branches given off by the abdominal aorta. Thus we have, derived from the solar plexus, the— Phrenic, or diaphragmatic Renal plexuses. Supra-renal plexuses, In connexion with the phrenic plexus of the right side, there is described a small ganglion cliaphragmaticum, which is situated near the supra-renal capsule. In this ganglion branches of the right phrenic nerve communicate with those of the sympathetic. The Supra-renal plexuses are remarkable for their large size, and for a ganglion, which has received the name of ganglion supra-renale. The Renal plexuses are also large, and receive the third splanchnic nerve. The Superior mesenteric plexus has several small ganglia at the root of the artery ; and its nerves, which are whiter than those of the other plexuses, form a kind of nervous.sheath to the artery and its branches. The Aortic plexus is a continuation of the solar plexus down- wards on the aorta, for the supply of the inferior branches of that trunk; it receives also branches from the renal plexuses and from the lumbar ganglia. It is the source or origin of the inferior mesen- teric plexus and part of the spermatic plexus, and terminates be- low in the hypogastric plexus. It likewise distributes branches on the inferior vena cava. The Spermatic p>lexus is derived from the renal plexus, but re- ceives filaments from the aortic plexus. Tlie Inferior mesenteric plexus is derived chiefly from the aortic plexus. The lumbar portion of the trunk of the sympathetic is situated on the vertebral column, close to the anterior border of the psoas mag- nus muscle. It is continuous above, under the edge of the diaphragm, with the thoracic portion of the nerve, and below it descends upon the sacrum, in front of the anterior sacral foramina, to the coccyx. It presents four small ganglia and an intermediate cord. The Lumbar ganglia, four in niimber at each side, of a pearly grey colour and fusiform shape, are situated on the anterior part of the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae. plexuses. Gastric plexus. Hepatic plexus. Splenic plexus. Superior mesenteric plexus. Aortic plexus. Spermatic plexuses. Inferior mesenteric plexus. LUMBAR PORTION OF THE SYMPATHETIC NERVE.