ANTERIOR HUMERAL REGION. 245 Fig. 114. The C jRACo-BRACHiALis, a name composed of its points of origin " and insertion, arises from tlie apex of the coracoid process in common with the short head of the biceps; and is inserted into a rough line on the inner side of the middle of the humerus. Relations.—By its anterior surface with the deltoid and pectoralis major. By its posterior surface with the shoulder-joint, humerus, subscapularis, teres major, latissi- mus dorsi, short head of the triceps, and anterior circumflex vessels. By its internal border with the axillary and brachial vessels and nerves, particularly with the me- dian and musculo-cutaneous nerve, by the latter of which it is pierced. By the external border with the short head of the biceps and bra- chialis anticus. The Biceps brachii (bis—Kt<pa- \ai, two heads; flexor radii) arises by two tendons, one, the short head, from the coracoid process in common with the coraco-brachialis; the other, the long head, from the upper part of the glenoid cavity, where it is continuous with the glenoid ligament. The muscle is inserted by a rounded tendon into the back part of the tubercle of the radius. The long head, a long slender tendon, passes through the capsular ligament of the shoulder- joint enclosed in a sheath of the synovial membrane; after leaving the cavity of the joint, it is lodged in the deep groove that separates the two tuberosities of the hume- rus, the bicipital groove. A small synovial bursa is interposed be- tween the tendon of insertion, and the tubercle of the radius. At the bend of the elbow, the tendon of the biceps gives off from its inner side a tendinous band, which * Muscles of the anterior aspect of the upper arm. 1. Coracoid process of the scapula. 2. Coraep-clavicular ligament (trapezoid), passing upwards to the scapular end of the clavicle. 3. Coraco-acromial ligament, passing out- wards to the acromion. 4. Subscapularis muscle. 5. Teres major; the tri- angular space above this muscle is that through which the dorsalis scapulae vessels pass. 6. Coraco-brachialis. 7. Biceps. 8. Upper end of the radius. 9. BrachiaHs anticus; a portion of the mviscle is seen on the outer side of the tendon of the biceps. 10. Internal head of the triceps.