407 LYMPHATICS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. GrLANDS.—The Superficial lymphatic glands of the head and face are small, few in number, and isolated ; they are, the occipital, which are situated near the origin of the occipito-frontalis muscle ; posterior auricular, behind the ear; parotid, in the parotid gland; zygomatic, in the zygomatic fossa ; buccal, upon the buccinator muscle ; and suh-maxillary, beneath the margin of the lower jaw. There are no deep lymphatic glands within the cranium. The Superficial cervical lymphatic glands are few in number and small; they are situated in the course of the external jugular vein, between the sterno-mastoid and trapezius muscle, at the root of the neck, and about the larynx. The Deep cervical glands (glandulse concatenatse) are numerous and of large size; they are situated around the internal jugular vein and sheath of the carotid artery, by the side of the pharynx, oesophagus, and trachea, and extend from the base of the skull to the root of the neck, where they are in communication with the lymphatic vessels and glands of the thorax. Vessels.—The Superficial lymphatic vessels of the head and face are disposed in three groups ; occipital, which take the course of the occipital vein to the occipital and deep cervical glands ; tem- poral, which follow the branches of the temporal vein to the parotid and deep cervical glands ; and facial, which accompany the facial vein to the submaxillary lymphatic glands. * The Deep lymphatic vessels of the head are the meningeal and cerebral; the former are situated in connexion with the meningeal veins, and escape through foramina at the base of the skull, to join the deep cervical glands. The cerebral lymphatics, according to Fohmann, are situated on the surface of the pia mater, none having as yet been discovered in the substance of the brain. They pass most probably through the foramina at the base of the skull, to terminate in the deep cervical glands. The Deep lymphatic vessels of the face proceed from the nasal fossEB, mouth, and pharynx, and terminate in the submaxillary and deep cervical glands. The Superficial and deep cervical lymphatic vessels accompany the jugular veins, passing from gland to gland ; at the root of the neck they communicate with the thoracic lymphatic vessels, and ter- minate, on the right side, in the ductus lymphaticus dexter ; on the left, in the thoracic duct, near its termination. LYMPHATICS OP THE UPPER EXTREMITY. GrLANDS.—The Superficial lymphatic glands of the arm are not more than four or five in number, and of very small size. One or two axe situated near the median basilic and median cephalic vein,