MEATUS AUDITORIUS. TYMPANUM, 541 the upper part of the convexity of the concha and the convexity immediately above it. The Dilatator conchce is a thin band of muscular fibres which crosses the fissure between the cartilage of the meatus and tragus on its anterior aspect. Mr. Tod* describes, besides, a contractor meatus, or trago-helicus muscle. The Meatus auditorius is a canal, partly cartilaginous and partly osseous, about an inch in length, which extends inwards and a little forwards from the concha to the tympanum. It is narrower in the middle than at each extremity, forms an oval cylinder, the long diameter being vertical, and is slightly curved upon itself, the con- cavity looking downwards. It is lined by an extremely thin pouch of epithelium, which, when withdrawn after maceration, preserves the form of the meatus. Some stilf short hairs are also found in its interior, which stretch across the tube, and prevent the ingress of insects and dust. In the substance of its lining membrane are a number of ceruminous glands, which secrete the wax of the ear. Vessels and Nerves.—The pinna is plentifully supplied with arteries; by the anterior auricular from the temporal, by the pos- terior auricular from the external carotid, and by a branch from the occipital artery. Its Nerves are derived from the auriculo-temporal of the fifth, the posterior auricular of the facial, and the auricularis magnus of the cervical plexus. Middle ear or tympanum.—The tympanum is an irregular bony cavity, compressed from without inwards, and situated within the petrous bone. It is bounded externally, by the meatus and mem- brana tympani; internally, by the base of the petrous bone; behind, by the mastoid cells ; and, throughout the rest of its circumference, by the thin osseous layer which connects the petrous with the squamous portion of the temporal bone. The Memhrana tympani is a thin and semi-transparent membrane of an oval shape, its long diameter being vertical. It is inserted into a groove situated around the circumference of the meatus, near its termination, and is placed obliquely across the area of that tube, the direction of the obliquity being downwards and inwards. It is concave towards the meatus, convex towards the tympanum, and composed of three layers, external, or epithelial ; middle, fibrous and muscular; and, internal, mucous, derived from the mucous lining of the tympanum. The tympanum contains three small bones, ossicula audittls, viz., the malleus, incus, and stapes. * " The Anatomy and Physiology of the Organ of Hearing," by David Tod 1832.