SUPERIOR MAXILLARY BONES. 44 continuous externally witli the rough articular surface o'f the malar process, and internally with a thick ascending plate, the nasal pro- cess. Towards the middle line of the face this surface is bounded "by the concave border of the opening of the nose, the border is pro- jected forwards at its inferior termination into a sharp process, form- ing, vdth a similar process of the opposite bone, the nasal spine. Beneath the nasal spine, and above the two superior in- cisor teeth, is a slight de- pression, the incisive, or myrtiform fossa, which gives origin to the depressor la- bii superioris alseque nasi muscle. The myrtiform fossa is divided from the canine fossa by a perpendicular ridge, corresponding with the direction of the root of the canine tooth. The in- ferior boundary of the facial surface is the alveolar pro- cess which contains the teeth of the upper jaw ; and the facial is separated from the zygomatic surface by a strong projecting eminence, the ma- lar process. The internal, or nasal sur- face, presents a large irregu- lar opening, leading into the antrum maxillare ; this opening is nearly closed in the articulated skull by the ethmoid, palate, lachrymal, and inferior turbinated bone. The cavity of the antrum is some- what triangular, corresponding in shape Avith the form of the body of the boiie. Upon its inner wall are numerous grooves, lodging orbital foramen. 6. The inferior border of the orbit. 7. The malar process. 8. The nasal process. 9. The concavity forming the lateral boundary of the anterior nares. 10. The nasal spine. 11. The incisive, or myrtiform fossa. 12. The alveolar process. 13. The internal border of the orbital surface, which articulates with the ethmoid and palate bone. 14. The concavity which articulates with the lachrymal bone, and forms the coimnencement of the nasal duct. 15. The crista nasahs of the palate process, i. The two incisor teeth, c. The canine, b. The two bicuspidati. m. The three molares. * Eight superior maxillary bone; internal surface. 1. Antrum. 2. Nasal process. 3. Crista turbinaHs superior. 4. Depression corresponding with the middle meatus. 5. Crista turbinalis inferior. 6, 6. Inferior meatus. 7. Sulcus lachrymahs, 8. Notch for articulation with the lachrymal bone. 9. Superior border of the bone, in which are seen three ethmoidal cells. 10. 10. Posterior border; the lower 10 marks the articulating surface for the palate bone. 11, 11. Groove of the posterior palatine canal. 12. Anterior border of the bone. 13, 13. Palate process. 14. Crista nasalis. 15. Nasal spine. 16. Anterior palatine canal. 17. Situation of the incisive foramen. 18, 18. Alveolar process.