553 PAPILLiE OF THE TONGUE. papillae calyciformes. This cup-sliaped cavity forms a kind of fossa around the papilla, whence their name circumvallatce. At the meeting of the two rows of these papilla upon the middle of the root of the tongue, is a deep mucous follicle called foramen ccecum. The Papillce conicce and filiformes cover the whole surface of the tongue in front of the circumvallatse, but are most abundant towards its anterior part. They are conical and filiform in shape, and many of them are pierced at the extremity by a minute aperture. Hence, they may be regarded as follicles rather than sentient organs; the true sentient papillae being ex- tremely minute and occupying Fig. 189.* their surface, as they do that of the other papillae of the tongue. The Papillce fungiformes (p. capitatse) are irregularly dispersed over the dorsum of the tongue, and are easily recognised among the other papillae by their rounded heads, larger size, and red colour. A number of these papillae will generally be observed at the tip of the tongue. Behind the papilla circumval- latae, at the root of the tongue, are ■ a number of mucous glands (lingual), which open upon the surface. There is also a small cluster beneath the tip of the tongue. Vessels and Nerves. — The tongue is abundantly supplied with blood by the lingual arteries. The Nerves are three in number, and of large size : the gustatory branch of the inferior maxillary, which is distributed to the pa- pillae, and is the nerve of common sensation and taste; the glosso- pharyngeal, which is distributed to the mucous membrane, glands, and papillae circumvallatae ; and the hypoglossal, which is the motor nerve of the tongue, and is distributed to the muscles. * The tongue with its papillae. 1. The raphe, which in some tongues bifurcates on the dorsum of the organ, as in the figure. 2, 2. The lobes of the tongue. The rounded enainences on this part of the organ, and near its tip, are the papiUse fungiformes. The smaller papiUse, among which the former are dispersed, are the papiUae conicse and filiformes. 3. Tip of the tongue. 4, 4. Its sides, on which are seen the lameUated and fringed papillse. 5, 5. The A-shaped row of papiUee circumvallatae. 6. Foramen caecum. 7. Mucous glands of the root of the tongue. 8. Epiglottis. 9, 9. Fraena epiglottidis. 10, 10. Greater cornua of the os hyoides.