GLUTEUS MAXIMUS, 263 Plantar Region. 1st Layer. Zrd Layer. Abductor pollicis, Abductor minirai digiti, Flexor brevis digitorum. Flexor brevis pollicis, Adductor pollicis, Transversus pedis. Flexor brevis minimi digiti. Ind Layer. Musculus accessorius, Lumbricales. ^th Layer. Interossei plantares. GLUTEAL EEGION. Dissection.—The subject being turned on its face, and a block placed beneath the pubes to support the pelvis, the student com- mences the dissection of this region, by carrying an incision from the apex of the coccyx along the crest of the ilium to its anterior superior spinous process; or vice versa, if he be on the left side. He then makes an incision from the posterior fifth of the crest of the ilium, to the apex of the trochanter major, this marks the upper border of the gluteus maximus; and a third incision from the apex of the, coccyx along the fleshy margin of the lower border of the gluteus maximus, to the outer side of the thigh, about four inches below the apex of the trochanter major. He then reflects the in- tegument, superficial fascia, and deep fascia, which latter is very thin over this muscle, from the gluteus maximus, following rigidly the course of its fibres; and having exposed the muscle in its entire extent, he dissects the integument and superficial fascia from off the deep fascia which binds down the gluteus medius, the other portion of this region. Grluteus maximus. Obturator internus, Grluteus medius, Glemellus inferior, Grluteus minimus, Obturator externus, Pyriformis, Quadratus femoris. Gemellus superior. The GtLuteus maximus {yXovTog, nates ; sacro-femoralis) is the thick, fleshy mass of muscle, of a quadrangular shape, which forms the convexity of the nates. In structure, it is coarse, being made up of large fibres, which are collected into fasciculi, and these again into distinct muscular masses, separated by deep cellular furrows. It arises from the posterior fifth of the crest of the ilium, from the posterior surface of the sacrum and coccyx, and from the great sacro- ischiatic ligament. It passes obliquely outwards and downwards, to be inserted into the rough line leading from the trochanter major to the linea aspera, and is continuous by means of its tendon with the fascia lata covering the outer side of the thigh. Several bursse are situated between this muscle and subjacent parts: one upon the