590 PLEURiE. Each, lung is enclosed, and its strncture maintained, by a serous membrane, the pleura, which invests it as far as the root, and is then reflected upon the parietes of the chest. That portion of the mem- brane which is in relation with the lung is csdled pleura ptdmonalis, and that in contact with the parietes, p>l€.ura costalis. The reflected portion, besides forming the internal lining to the ribs and intercostal muscles, also covers the diaphragm and the thoracic surface of the vessels at the root of the neck, extending for somewhat more than an inch above the margin of the first rib. At the lower border of the root of the lung is a fold of the pleura, which extends down by the side of the posterior mediastinum to the diaphragm, and serves to retain the lower part of the lung in position. This fold is the broad ligament of the lung, ligamentum latum pulmonis. On its external surface, where the pleura is connected with sur- rounding parts, it is rough; on its inner surface, smooth. On the right side, where the diaphragm is pressed upwards by the liver, the pleura is shorter than on the left, but extends higher into the neck; while the left pleura, in consequence of the encroachment of the heart upon the left side of the chest, is narrower than the right. MEDIASTINUM. The approximation of the two reflected pleurse in the middle line of the thorax forms a septum, which divides the chest into the two pulmonary cavities. This is the mediastinum. The two pleurae are not, however, in contact with each other at the middle line in the formation of the mediastinum, but have a space between them which contains all the viscera of the chest with the exception of the lungs. The mediastinum is divided into the anterior, middle, and ptosterior. The Anterior mediastinum is a triangular space, bounded in front by the sternum, and on each side by the pleura. It contains a quantity of loose cellular tissue, in which are found some lymphatic vessels passing upwards from the liver, the remains of the thymus gland, the origins of the sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and left trian- gularis sterni muscle, and the left internal mammary vessels. . The Middle 7nediastinum contains the heart enclosed in its peri- cardium ; the ascending aorta; the superior vena cava; the pulmo- nary arteries and veins; the bifurcation of the trachea; and the phrenic nerves. The Posterior mediastinum is bounded behind by the vertebral column, in front by the pericardium, and on each side by the pleura. It contains the aorta; the greater and lesser azygos vein the superior intercostal veins; the thoracic duct; the oesophagus and pneumogastric nerves, and the great splanchnic nerves.