568 ANATOMY OP THE HEART. sion or fossa in the right auricle results from this arrangement. There is no fossa ovalis in the left auricle. The Tuherculum LowerV' is the portion of auricle intervening be- tween the openings of the superior and inferior cava. Being thicker than the walls of the veins, it forms a projection, which was sup- posed by Lower to direct the blood from the superior cava into the auriculo-ventricular opening. The Musculipectinati are small musculax columns situated in the appendix auriculae. They are numerous, and arranged parallel with each other ; hence their cognomen "jpec^ma^i," like the teeth of a comb. The Eight or anteeior ventricle is triangular and prismoid in form. Its anterior side is convex, and forms the larger portion of the front of the heart. The posterior side, which is also inferior, is flat, and rests upon the diaphragm ; the inner side corresponds with the partition between the two ventricles, septum ventriculorum. Superiorly where the pulmonary artery arises, there is a dilatation of the ventricle, termed the infundibulum or conus arteriosus. The right ventricle is to be laid open by making an incision parallel with, and a little to the right of, the anterior longitudinal furrow, from the pulmonary artery in front, to the apex of the heart, and thence by the side of the posterior longitudinal farrow behind to the auriculo-ventricular opening. It contains, to be examined, two openings, the auriculo-ventricular and that of the pulmonary artery; two apparatus of valves, the tri- cuspid and semilunar; and a muscular and tendinous apparatus belonging to the tricuspid valves. They may be thus arranged :— Auriculo-ventricular opening. Tricuspid valves, Opening of the pulmonary artery. Semilunar valves. Chordae tendinese, Carness columns. The A miculo-ventricular opening is surrounded by a fibrous ring, covered by the lining membrane (endocardium) of the heart. It is the opening of communication between the right auricle and ventricle. The Opening of the pulmonary artery is situated at the summit of the conus arteriosus, close to the septum ventriculorum, on the left side of the right ventricle, and upon the anterior aspect of the heart. The Tricuspid valves are three triangular folds of the lining mem- brane, strengthened by a thin layer of fibrous tissue. They are con- nected by their base around the auriculo-ventricular opening ; and by their sides and apices, which are thickened, they give attachment to a number of slender tendinous cords, called chordae tendine£e. The chordce tendinece are the tendons of the thick muscular columns ^* Richard Lower, M.D. " Tractatus de Corde; item de Motu et Colore Sanguinis," 1669. His dissections were made upon quadrupeds, and his observations relate rather to animals than man.