38 SPHENOID BONE. ferior maxillary nerve, arteria meningea parva, and nervus petrosus superficialis minor. Behind the foramen ovale, near the apex of the spinous process, is the foramen spinosum for the arteria mer ningea media. Upon the antero-inferior surface of the sphenoid is a long flat- tened spine or crest, the superior part of which, crista sjihenoidalis, articulates with the central lamella of the ethmoid, while the Fig. 25* inferior part, longer and sharper, the rostrum sphenoidale, _ is in- tended to be inserted iato the sheath formed by the upper border of the vomer. On either side of the crista sphenoidalis is an irregular opening leading into the sphenoidal cells. The sphenoidal cells, which are absent in the young subject, are divided by a median septum which is continuous with the crista, and are partially closed by two thin plates of bone (frequently broken away), the sphenoidal spongy hones. On each side of the sphenoidal cells are the outlets of the optic foramina, sphenoidal fissures, and foramina rotunda, the lesser and greater wings ; and, below, the pterygoid processes. Upon the under surface of the body are two thin plates of bone {"processus vaginales) proceeding from the base of the pterygoid process at each side, and intended for articulation with the borders of the vomer. On each of these plates, close to the root of the pterygoid process, is a groove (sometimes a complete canal) converted into a canal by the palate bone, the pterygo-palatine canal for the * The antero-inferior view of the sphenoid bone. 1. The ethmoid spine. 2. The rostrum. 3. The sphenoidal spongy bone, partly closing the left open- ing of the sphenoidal cells. 4. The lesser wing. 5. The foramen opticum, piercing the base of the lesser wing. 6. The sphenoidal fissure. 7. The foramen rotundum. 8. The orbital surface of the greater wing. 9. Its tem- poral surface. 10. The pterygoid ridge. 11. The pterygo-palatine canal. 12. The foramen of entrance of the Vidian canal. 13. The internal ptery- goid plate. 14. The hamular process. 15. The external pterygoid plate. 16. The foramen spinosum. 17. The foramen ovale. 18. The extremity of the spinous process of the sphenoid.