COMPLEXUS. —SEMI-SPINALES. 213 Relations.—The same as those of the preceding muscle, excepting that it is interposed between the transversalis cervicis and complexus. The Complexus (trachelo-occipitalis) is a large muscle, and with the splenius forms the great bulk of the back of the neck. It crosses the direction of the splenius, arising from the transverse processes of the three upper dorsal and last cervical, and from the articular pro- cesses of the three next lower cervical vertebrae; and is inserted into the rough surface on the occipital bone between the two curved lines, as far as the occipital spine. The complexus is marked in the upper part of the neck by a transverse tendinous intersection. A large fasciculus of the complexus lying superficially to that muscle, and remarkable for consisting of two fleshy bellies with an intermediate tendon, is usually described under the name of biventer cervicis. Considered as a separate muscle, it arises by three or four slips from the transverse processes of the dorsal vertebrae from the fourth to the seventh; and is inserted into the inner portion of the superior curved line of the occipital bone. Its tendons of origin lie internally to the insertions of the longissimus dorsi, and are con- nected with those of the semi-spinalis colli; and its lower belly re- ceives a fasciculus from the longissimus. The outer border of the upper belly is united with the complexus; in the rest of its course it is free. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the trapezius, splenius, trachelo-mastoideus, transversalis cervicis, and longissimus dorsi. By its deep surface with the semi-spinalis dorsi and colli, recti and obliqui. It is separated from its fellow of the opposite side by the Kgamentum nuchse, and from the semi-spinalis colli by the profunda cervicis artery, princeps cervicis branch of the occipital, and pos- terior cervical plexus of nerves. Fifth Layer. ■ Dissection.—The muscles of the preceding layer are to be re- moved by dividing them transversely through the middle, and turn- ing one extremity upwards, the other downwards. In this way the whole of the muscles of the fourth layer may be dissected off, and the remaining muscles of the spine brought into a state to be ex- amined. The Semi-spinales muscles are connected with the transverse and spinous processes of the vertebrae, spanning one-half the verte- bral column; hence their name, semi-spinales. The Semi-spinalis dorsi arises from the transverse processes of the dorsal vertebrae from the sixth to the tenth; and is inserted into the spinous processes of the four upper dorsal and two lower cervical vertebrae. It is united below with the spinalis dorsi, and above with the semi-spinalis colli; it also sends several small slips to the longissimus dorsi.