CEREBELLUM. 442 above referred to. The two hemispheres are separated from each other on the upper surface of the cerebellum by a longitudinal ridge, which is termed the superior vermiform process, and which forms a commissure between them. On the anterior border of the organ there is a semilunar notch, incisura cerehelli anterior, which embraces the corpora quadrigemina. On the posterior border there is another notch incisura cerehelli posterior, which receives the upper part of the falx cerehelli: and on the under surface of the cerebellum is a deep fissure corresponding with the medulla oblongata, and termed the vallecula (valley). Each hemisphere of the cerebellum is divided by means of a fissure (sulcus horizontalis) which runs along its free border, into an upper and a lower portion, and upon each of these portions certain lobes are marked out. Thus on the upper portion there are two such lobes separated by a sulcus, somewhat more strongly marked than the rest and extending deeper into the substance of the cerebellum; they are the lobus superior anterior and lobus superior posterior. Upon the under portion of the hemisphere there are three such lobes, namely, lobusinferior anterior, medius, a,ndposterior, and two additional ones of peculiar form, the lobus inferior internus or tonsil, Siudthe flocculus. The tonsil (amygdala) is situated on the side of the vallecula, and projects into the fourth ventricle. The flocculus or pneumogastric lobule, long and slender, extends from the side of the vallecula around the corpus restiforme to the crus cerehelli, lying behind the filaments of the eighth pair of nerves. The commissure between the two hemispheres is termed the worm (vermis), that portion of the worm which occupies the upper surface of the cerebellum as far back as the horizontal fissure being the pro- cessus vermiformis superior, and that which is lodged within the vallecula being the processus vermiformis inferior. The superior vermiform process is a prominent longitudinal ridge, extending from the incisura anterior to the incisura posterior. In imitation of the hemispheres, it is divided into lobes, of which three have received names, namely, the lobulus centralis, a small lobe situated in the incisura anterior ; the monticulus cerebelli, a longer lobe, having its peak and declivity ; and a small lobe near the incisura posterior, the commissura simplex. The lobes of the inferior vermiform process are four in number, namely, the commissura brevis, situated in the incisura posterior, below the horizontal fissure; the pyramid, a small obtusely-pointed eminence ; a larger prominence, the uvula, situated between the tonsils, and connected with them by means of a commissure ; and in front of the uvula the nodulus. In front of the nodulus is a thin lamina of medullary substance con- sisting of a central and two lateral portions, the velum meduUare posterius (valvula Tarini), and between this velum and the nodulus and uvula is a deep fossa which is known as the swallow's nest (nidus hirundinis). The velum medullare anterius is the valve of