404 CHAPTEE YII. OF THE LYMPHATICS. The lymphatic vessels, or absorbents, have received their double appellation, from certain phenomena which they present; the former name being derived from the appearance of the limpid fluid (lympha, water) which they convey ; and the latter from their supposed pro- perty of absorbing foreign substances into the system. They are minute, delicate, and transparent vessels, remarkable for their general uniformity of size, for a knotted appearance which is due ta the presence of numerous valves, for the frequent dichotomous divi- sions which occur in their course, and for their division into several branches immediately before entering a gland. Their office is to collect the products of digestion and the detrita of nutrition, and convey them into the venous circulation near the heart. Lymphatic vessels commence in a delicate network which is dis- tributed on the cutaneous surface of the body, on the various sur- faces of organs and throughout their internal structure; and from this network the lymphatic vessels proceed, nearly in straight lines, in a direction towards the root of the neck. In their course they are intercepted by numerous small, spheroid or oblong or flattened bodies, lymphatic glands. The lymphatic vessels entering these glands are termed vasa inferentia or afferentia, and those which quit them, vasa efferentia. The vasa inferentia vary in number from two to six, they divide at the distance of a few lines from the gland into several smaller vessels, and enter it by one of its flattened surfaces.* The vasa efferentia escap^ from the gland on the opposite, but not unfrequently on the same surface; they con- sist, like the vasa inferentia at their junction with the gland, of several small vessels which unite after a course of a few lines to form from one to three trunks, often twice as large as the vasa inferentia. Lymphatic vessels admit of a threefold division, into superficial, deep, and lacteals. The superficial lymjjhatic vessels, on the sur- face of the body, follow the course of the veins, and pierce the deep fascia in convenient situations, to join the deep lymphatics. On the surface of organs they converge to the nearest lymphatic trunks. * See Mr. Lane's article on the " Lymphatic System," in the Cyclopaedia of Anatomy and Physiology.