PROFUNDA FEMORIS ARTERY. 369 The Superficial circum'flexa ilii artery (circumflexa ilii externa) arises from the femoral immediately below Poupart's ligament, and passes obliquely outwards towards the crest of the ilium, where it pierces the fascia lata. It supplies the integument of the groin, superficial fascia, and inguinal glands. The Superficial ep>igastric (epigastrica superficialis) arises from the femoral immediately below Poupart's ligament, pierces the fascia lata, and ascends obliquely towards the umbilicus between the two layers of superficial fascia. It distributes branches to the inguinal glands and integument, and inosculates with branches of the deep epigastric and internal mammary artery. The Superior external pudic (pudenda externa, superior) arises near the superficial epigastric artery; it pierces the fascia lata at the saphenous opening, and passes transversely inwards, crossing the spermatic cord, to be distributed to the integument of the penis and scrotum (r. scrotales anteriores) in the male, and to the labia (r. labiales anteriores) in the female. The Inferior external pudic (pudenda externa, inferior) arises from the femoral a little below, ajid sometimes in common with, the preceding; it crosses the femoral vein immediately below the termi- nation of the internal saphenous vein, and resting on the pectineus muscle reaches the inner border of the thigh, where it pierces the fascia lata, and is distributed to the integument of the external organs of generation and perineum. Both external pudics inosculate with the internal pudic artery. The Profunda femoris (femoralis profunda) arises from the outer side of the femoral artery about one inch and a half below Poupart's ligament; it passes downwards and backwards and a little outwards, behind the adductor longus muscle, pierces the adductor magnus, and is distributed to the flexor muscles on the posterior part of the thigh. Plan of the Relations of the Profunda Artery. In Front. Profunda vein. Adductor longus. Inner Side. Pectineus, Adductor brevis. Adductor magnus. Profunda Artery, Outer Side. Vastus internus, Femiir. Behind. Pectineus, Tendon of psoas and iliacus, Adductor brevis. Adductor magnus. Relations.—In its course downwards it rests successively on the B B