SPINAL NERVES, 480 the posterior root of the first cervical nerve. Its deep origia may be traced to the grey substance in the floor of the fourth ventricle. The Branches of the hypoglossal nerve are branches of commu- nication and branches of distribution. The Branches of communication of the hypoglossal nerve are, several to the pneumogastric, with which nerve it is closely united; one or two with the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic; and one or two with the loop between the first and second cervical nerves. The Branches of distribution are, Descendens noni, Thyro -hyoidean. Muscular. The Descendens noni is a long and slender nerve, which quits the hypoglossal just as it is about to form its arch around the occipital artery, and descends upon the sheath of the carotid vessels. Just below the middle of the neck it forms a loop with a long branch (communicans noni) derived from the second and third cervical nerves. From the convexity of this loop branches are sent to the stemo- hyoideus, sterno-thyroideus, and both bellies of the omo-hyoideus; sometimes also a twig is given off to the cardiac plexus, and occa- sionally one to the phrenic nerve. If the descendens noni be traced to its origin, it will be found to be formed by a branch from the hypoglossal, and one from the first and second cervical nerves; occa- sionally it receives also a filament from the pneumogastric. The Thyro-hyoidean nerve is a small branch, distributed to the thyro-hyoideus muscle. It is given off by the trunk of the hypo- glossal near the posterior border of the hyo-glossus, and descends obliquely over the great cornu of the os hyoides. The Muscular branches are given off where the nerve is covered in by the mylo-hyoideus muscle, and rests on the hyo-glossus ; several large branches take their course across the fibres of the genio- hyo-glossus to reach the substance of the tongue. Moreover, on the hyo-glossus muscle, the branches of the hypoglossal nerve communi- cate with those of the gustatory nerve. SPINAL NERVES. There are thirty-one pairs of spinal nerves, each arising by two roots, an anterior or motor root, and a posterior or sensitive root. The anterior roots proceed from a narrow white line, anterior lateral sulcus, on the antero-lateral column of the spinal cord, and gradually approach towards the anterior median fissure as they descend.