155 KNEE JOINT. pression on the head of the tibia behind the spinous process, and passes upwards and forwards to be inserted into the inner condyle of the femur. This ligament is less oblique and larger than the anterior. The transverse ligament is a small slip of fibres which extends transversely from the external semilunar fibrocartilage, near its anterior extremity, to the anterior convexity of the internal cartilage. The coronary ligaments are the short fibres by which the convex borders of the semilunar cartilages are connected to the head of the tibia and the ligaments surrounding the joint. The semilunar fibrocartilages are two falciform plates of fibro- cartilage, situated upon the margin of the head of the tibia, and serving to deepen the surface of articulation for the condyles of the femur. They are thick along their convex border ; thin and sharp along their concave edge. The internal semilunar fihrocartilage forms an oval cup for the reception of the internal condyle of the femur; it is connected by its convex border to the head of the tibia and internal and posterior ligaments, by means of its coronary liga- ment ; and by its two extremities is firmly implanted into the depressions before and behind the spinous process. The ex- ternal semilunar fihrocartilage bounds a circular fossa for the external condyle : it is connected by its convex border with the head of the tibia, and to the external and posterior ligaments by its coronary ligament; by its two extremities it is in- serted into the depression between the two projections which constitute the spinous process of the tibia. The two extremi- ties of the external cartilage being in- serted into the same fossa, form almost a complete circle, and the cartilage, being somewhat broader than the internal, nearly covers the articular surface of the tibia. The external semilunar fihrocartilage, besides giving off a fasci- culus from its anterior border to consti- tute the transverse ligament, is continuous by some of its fibres with the extremity of the anterior crucial ligament ; posteriorly it divides * The right knee joint laid open from the front, in order to show the in- ternal ligaments. 1. Cartilaginous surface of the lower extremity of the femur with its two condyles; the figure 5 rests on the external; the figure 3 on the internal condyle. 2. Anterior crucial Hgament. 3. Posterior crucial ligament. 4. Transverse ligament. 5. Attachment of the Hgamentum mu- cosum; the rest has been removed. 6. Internal semilunar fihrocartilage. 7. External fihrocartilage. 8. Part of the Hgamentum pateUie turned down. 9. The bursa situated between the Hgamentum pateUis, and the head of the tibia; it has been laid open. 10. Antero-superior tibio-fibular Hgament. 11. Interosseous membrane; the opening above this membrane is for the passage of the anterior tibial artery.