252 POSTERIOR BRACHIAL REGION. into the front of the radius. This muscle occupies about the lower fourth of the two bones, is broad at its origin, and narrower at its insertion. Relations.—By its anterior surface with the tendons of the supi- nator longus, flexor carpi radialis, flexor longus pollicis, flexor pro- fundus digitorum, and flexor carpi ulnaris, radial artery and veins, and ulnar artery, veins, and nerve. By its posterior surface with the radius, ulna, and interosseous membrane. Actions.—The pronator radii teres and pronator quadratus rotate the radius upon the ulna, and render the hand prone. The remaining muscles are flexors : two flexors of the wrist, flexor carpi radialis and ulnaris; two of the fingers, flexor sublimis and pro- fundus, the former flexing the second phalanges, the latter the last ; one flexor of the last phalanx of the thumb, flexor longus pollicis. The palmaris longus is primarily a tensor of the palmar fascia, and secondarily a flexor of the wrist and forearm. Posterior Brachial Region. Superficial layer. Supinator longus. Extensor carpi radialis longior. Extensor carpi radialis brevior. Extensor communis digitorum, Extensor minimi digiti. Extensor carpi ulnaris, Anconeus. Dissection.—The integument is to be divided and turned aside, and the fascise removed in the same manner as for the anterior brachial region. The Supinator longus (brachio-radialis) is placed along the radial border of the forearm. It arises from the external condyloid ridge of the humerus, nearly as high as the insertion of the deltoid, and from the intermuscular septum : it is inserted into the base of the styloid process of the radius. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, extensor primi internodii pollicis, and deep fascia of the forearm. By its deep surface with the brachialis anticus, extensor carpi radialis longior, tendon of the biceps, supinator brevis, pronator radii teres, flexor carpi radialis, flexor sublimis digitorum, flexor longus pollicis, pronator quadratus, radius, mus- culo-spiral nerve, radial and posterior interosseous nerve, and radial artery and veins. This muscle must be divided through the middle, and the two ends turned aside to expose the next muscle. The Extensor carpi radialis longior arises from the external