644 PROSTATE GLAND. The prostate gland {Trpo'iaTiiixi, preeponere) is situated in front of the neck of the bladder, behind the triangular ligament and pelvic fascia, and upon the rectum, through which latter it may be felt with the finger. It surrounds the commencement of the urethra for a little more than an inch of its extent, and resembles a Spanish chesnut both in size and form; the base being directed backwards towards the neck of the bladder, the apex forwards, and the convex, side towards the rectum. It is retained firmly in position by the anterior and lateral ligaments of the bladder, and by a process of the recto-vesical fascia, which forms a sheath around it. It consists of three lobes, two lateral and a middle lobe or isthmus; the lateral lobes are distinguished by an indentation on the base of the gland, and a slight furrow upon its upper and lower surface. The third lobe or isthmus is a small transverse band which passes between the two lateral lobes at the base of the organ. In structure the prostate gland is composed of ramified ducts, terminating in lobules of follicular pouches, which are so closely compressed as to give to a thin section of the gland a cellular ap- pearance. It is pale in colour and hard in texture, splits easily in the course of its ducts, and is surrounded by a proper fibrous cover- ing, and by a plexus of veins which are enclosed by the sheath derived from the recto-vesical fascia. Its secretion is poured into the prostatic portion of the urethra by fifteen or twenty excretory ducts. The ducts of the lateral lobes open into the urethra on each side of the veru montanum; those of the third lobe open upon and behind the veru. The urethra, in passing through the prostate, lies one-third nearer its upper, than its lower, surface. The arteries of the prostate gland are small and derived from the inferior vesical and middle hsemorrhoidal. The veins form a plexus around the gland, which receives from the front the veins of the penis, and terminates in the vesical plexus. On the under surface of the base of the bladder, and converging towards the base of the prostate gland, are two lobulated and some- what'pyriform bodies, about two inches in length, the vesiculse semi- nales. Their upper surface is in contact with the base of the bladder ; the under side rests on the rectum, separated only by a process derived from the recto-vesical fascia; the larger extremities are directed backwards and outwards, and the smaller ends almost meet at the base of the prostate. They enclose between them a triangular space, which is bounded posteriorly by the recto-vesical fold of peritoneum, and corresponds with the trigonum vesicse on the interior of the bladder. Each vesicula is formed by the con- VESICUL^ SEMINALES.