KEGIONS OF THE ABDOMEN. 592 liver, pancreas, and spleen; and the organs of excretion, the kidneys, "wdth the supra-renal capsules. Regions.—For convenience of description of the viscera, and of reference to the morbid affections of this cavity, the abdomen is divided into certain districts or regions. Thus, if two transverse lines be carried around the body, the one parallel with the cartilages of the eighth ribs, the other with the highest point of the crests of the ilia, the abdomen will be divided into three zones. Again, if a per- pendicular line be drawn, at each side, from the cartilage of the eighth rib to the middle of Poupart's ligament, the three primary zones will each be subdivided into three compartments or regions, middle and two lateral. The middle region of the upper zone being immediately over the small end of the stomach, is called epigastric {IttI yaoTrip, over the stomach). The tv/o lateral regions, being under the cartilages of the ribs, are called hypochondriac {vtto xovSpoi, under the cartilages). The middle region of the middle zone is the urabilical; the two lateral, the lumbar. The middle region of the inferior zone is the hypogastric {vtto yaarrjp, below the stomach); and the two lateral, the iliac. In addition to these divisions, we employ the term inguinal region, in reference to the vicinity of Poupart's ligament. Position of the Viscera.—In the iipper zone will be seen the liver, extending across from the right to the left side; the stomach and spleen on the left, and the pancreas and duodenum behind. In the middle zone is the transverse portion of the colon, with the upper part of the ascending and descending colon, omentum, small intes- tines, mesentery, and, behind, the kidneys and supra-renal capsules. In the inferior zone is the lower part of the omentum and small in- testines, the csecum, ascending and descending colon with the sigmoid flexure, and ureters. The smooth and polished surface, which the viscera and parietes of the abdomen present, is due to the peritoneum. PERITONEUM. The Peritoneum (Trepirelveiv, to extend around) is a serous mem- brane, and therefore, a shut sac; a single exception exists in the human subject to this character, viz,, in the female, where the peri- toneum is perforated by the open extremities of the Fallopian tubes, and is continuous with their mucous lining. The simplest idea that can be given of a serous membrane, which may apply equally to all, is, that it invests the viscus or viscera, and is then reflected upon the parietes of the containing cavity. If the cavity contain only a single viscus, the consideration of the serous membrane is extremely simple. But in the abdomen, where there are a number of viscera, the serous membrane passes from one to the other until it has invested the whole, before it is reflected on the parietes. Hence its reflexions are a little more complicated.