187 SUPERFICIAL GROUP. 5. Muscles of the Pharyvix. 7. Prcevertehral Group. Constrictor inferior, Constrictor medius, Constrictor superior, Stylo -pharyngeus, Palato -pharyngeus. Rectus anticus major, Rectus anticus minor, Scalenus anticus. Scalenus posticus, Longus colli. 6. Muscles of the soft Palate. 8. Muscles of the Larynx. Levator palati, Tensor palati, Azygos uvulae, Palato-glossus, Palato-pharyngeus. Crico -thyroideus, Crico-arytsenoideus posticus, Crico-arytsenoideus lateralis, Thyro-arytsenoideus, Arytsenoideus. o Dissection.—Tlie dissection of the neck should be commenced by making an incision along the middle line of its fore part from the chin to the sternum, and bounding it superiorly and inferiorly by two transverse incisions ; the superior one being carried along the margin of the lower jaw, and across the mastoid process to the tubercle on the occipital bone, the inferior one along the clavicle to the acromion process. The square flap of integument thus included should be turned back from the entire side of the neck, which brings into view the superficial fascia, and on the removal of a thin layer of superficial fascia the platysma myoides will be exposed. The Platysma myoides {irXaTyg [xvg tlSog, broad muscle-like lamella ; latissimus colli; subcutaneus colli; thoraco-facialis) is a thin plane of muscular fibres, situated beneath the integument on the side of the neck; it arises from the fascia of the pectoralis major and deltoid muscle, and passes obliquely upwards and inwards to be inserted into the side of the chin, oblique line of the lower jaw, angle of the mouth, and cellular tissue of the face. The anterior fibres are continuous beneath the chin, with the muscle of the opposite side ; the next interlace with the depressor anguli oris and depressor labii inferioris; the posterior fibres are disposed in a transverse direction across the lower part of the face, arising from the fascia of the parotid gland and masseter muscle, and inserted into the angle of the mouth. The entire muscle is analo- gous to the cutaneous muscle of brutes, the panniculus carnosus. Relations.—By its external surface with the integument, with which it is closely adherent below, but loosely above. By its internal surface, below the clavicle, with the pectoralis major and deltoid; in the neck with the trapezius, sterno -mastoid, external j ugular vein and deep cervical fascia; on the face, with the parotid gland, masseter, facial artery and vein, buccinator, depressor anguli oris, and depressor labii inferioris.