348 BRANCHES OP THE THORACIC AORTA. Pericardiac, Bronchial, CEsophageal, Posterior mediastinal. Intercostal. The Pericardiac arteries are a few small and irregular branches distributed to the pericardium. The Bronchial arteries, generally three in number, one for the right lung and two for the left, vary both in size and origin; the right often proceeding from a short trunk common to it and one of the left bronchial branches, or from the first aortic intercostal. They take their course to the back of the root of the lung, and ac- company the ramifications of the bronchial tubes through its sub- stance. They give twigs also to the bronchial glands, oesophagus, and pericardium. The Oesophageal arteries (oesophageas), five or six in number, arise from the anterior part of the aorta, and are distributed to the oesophagus, establishing a chain of anastomoses along that tube: the superior inosculate with the bronchial arteries, and with oesophageal branches of the inferior thyroid arteries; and the inferior with similar branches of the phrenic and gastric arteries. The Posterior mediastinal arteries are small twigs distributed to the lymphatic glands and cellular tissue of the posterior medias- tinum. The Intercostal, or posterior intercostal arteries (intercostales inferiores), arise from the posterior part of the aorta; they are ten in number on each side, the first intercostal space being supplied by the superior intercostal artery, a branch of the subclavian. The right intercostals are longer than the left, on account of the position of the aorta. They ascend somewhat obliquely from their origin, ajid cross the vertebral column behind the thoracic duct, vena azygos major, and sympathetic nerve, to the intercostal spaces; the left passing beneath the superior intercostal vein, the vena azygos minor and sympathetic. In the intercostal space, or rather upon the external intercostal muscle, each artery gives off a dorsal branch, which passes back between the transverse processes of the vertebrae, lying internally to the middle costo-transverse ligament, and divides into a spinal branch, which supplies the spinal cord and vertebrae, and a muscidar branch which is distributed to the muscles and in- tegument of the back. The intercostal artery then comes into relation with its vein and nerve, the former being above, the latter