545 WALLS OP THE TYMPANUM. is at about the middle of its posterior loall, and near the root of the pyramid. The opening of exit for the chorda tympani is at the fissnra Glaseri in the anterior wall of the tympanum. The opening for the laxator tympani muscle is also situated in the fissura Grlaseri, in the anterior wall of the tympanum. The opening for the tensor tympani muscle is in the inner wall, immediately above the opening of the Eustachian tube. The opening for the stapedius muscle is at the apex of a conical bony eminence, called the pyramid, which is situated on the posterior wall of the tympanum, immediately behind the fenestra ovalis. Directly above the fenestra ovalis is a rounded ridge formed by the projection of the aquoiductus Fallopii. Beneath the fenestra ovalis and separating it from the fenestra rotunda is the promontory, a rounded prominence formed by the projection of the first turn of the cochlea. It is channelled upon its surface by three small grooves, which lodge the three tympanic branches of Jacobson's nerve. The Foramina and processes of the tympanum may be arranged, according to their situation, into four groups. 1. In the External wall is the meatus auditorius, closed by the membfana tympani. 2. In the Inner wall, from above downwards, are the— Opening for the tensor tympani, Eidge of the aquseductus Fallopii, Fenestra ovalis, Promontory, with the grooves for Jacobson's nerve, Fenestra rotunda. The tympanum is lined by a vascular mucous membrane, which invests the ossicula and chorda tympani, and forms the internal layer of the membrana tympani. From the tympanum it is re- flected into the mastoid cells, which it lines throughout, and it passes through the Eustachian tube to become continuous with the mucous membrane of the pharynx. In the Eustachian tube its epithelium is furnished with vibratile cilia. Opening for Jacobson's nerve, Apertura chordae (entrance). 4, In the Anterior wall are th( Eustachian tube, Fissura Glaseri, Opening for laxator tympani, Apertura chordae (exit). N N