573 STRUCTURE OP THE HEART. The arrangement of the fibres of the heart has been made the subject of careful investigation by Mr. Searle, to whose article, *'Fibres of the Heart," in the Cyclopsedia of Anatomy and Physio- logy, I am indebted for the following summary of their distribu- tion :— For the sake of clearness of description the fibres of the ventricles have been divided into three layers, superficial, middle, and internal, all of which are disposed in a spiral direction around the cavities of the ventricles. The mode of formation of these three layers will be best understood by adopting the plan pursued by Mr. Searle in tracing the course of the fibres from the centre of the heart towards its periphery. The left surface of the septum ventriculorum is formed by a broad and thick layer of fibres, which proceed backwards in a spiral direc- tion around the posterior aspect of the left ventricle, and become augmented on the left side of that ventricle by other fibres derived from the bases of the two columnse papillares. The broad and thick band formed by the fibres from these two sources, curves around the apex and lower third of the left ventricle to the anterior border of the septum, where it divides into two bands, a short or apicialband, and a long or basial band. The Short or apicial band is increased in thickness at this point by receiving a layer of fibres (derived from the root of the aorta and carnese columnse) upon its internal surface, from the right surface of the septum ventriculorum; it is then continued onwards in a spiral direction from left to right, around the lower third of the anterior surface, and the middle third of the posterior surface of the right ventricle to the posterior border of the septum. From the latter point the short band is prolonged around the posterior and outer border of the left ventricle to the anterior surface of the base of that ventricle, and is inserted into the anterior border of the left auriculo-ventricular ring and anterior part of the root of the aorta and pulmonary artery. The Long or basial band, at the anterior border of the septum, passes directly backwards through the septum (forming its middle layer), to the posterior ventricular groove, where it becomes joined by fibres derived from the root of the pulmonary artery. It then winds spirally around the middle and upper third of the left ven- tricle to the anterior border of the septum, where it is connected by means of its internal surface with the superior fibres derived from the aorta, which form part of the right wall of the septum. From this point it is continued around the upper third of the anterior and posterior surface of the right ventricle to the posterior border of the septum, where it is connected with the fibres constituting the right surface of the septum ventriculorum. At the latter point the fibres of this band begin to be twisted upon themselves, like the strands