497 LUMBAR PLEXUS. divisions of the four upper lumbar nerves, and between the latter and the last dorsal. It is narrow above, increases in breadth in- feriorly, and is situated between the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae and quadratus lumborum behind, and the psoas magnus muscle in front. The Branches of the lumbar plexus are the— Ilio-hypogastric, External cutaneous, Ilio-inguinal, Obturator, Grenito-crural, Anterior crural. The Ilio-hypogastric nerve (superior musculo-cutaneous) pro- ceeds from the first lumbar nerve, and passes obliquely outwards between the fibres of the psoas magnus and across the quadratus lumborum to about the middle of the crest of the ilium. It then pierces the transversalis muscle, and between it and the internal oblique divides into its two terminal branches, iliac and hypogastric. The iliac hranch pierces the internal and external oblique muscles close to their attachment, and a little behind the middle of the crest of the ilium; it is distributed to the integument of the outer part of the hip. The hypogastric hranch continues its course onwards, piercing firgt the internal oblique, and just above the external abdominal rin'g the aponeurosis of the external oblique. It is distributed to the integument of the hypogastric region and mons pubis. The Ilio-inguinal nerve (inferior musculo-cuta.neous), smaller than the preceding, also arises from the first lumbar nerve. It passes obliquely downwards and outwards below the ilio-hypogastric nerve, and crosses the quadratus lumborum and iliacus muscle to the anterior part of the crest of the ilium; it then pierces the transversalis muscle, and between that muscle and the obliquus in- ternus communicates with the hypogastric nerve. It next pierces the obliquus internus, and following the course of the spermatic cord, escapes at the external abdominal ring to be distributed to the scrotum and to the integument of the upper part of the thigh, internally to the saphenous opening; and in the female to that of the pudendum. The Genito-crural nerve proceeds from the second lumbar and by a few filaments from the loop between it and the first. It traverses the psoas magnus from behind forwards, and runs down the anterior surface of that muscle, lying beneath its fascia, to near Poupart's ligament, where it divides into a genital and a crural branch. The genital hranch (n. spermaticus sen pudendus externus) crosses the external iliac artery to the internal abdominal ring, and descends along the spermatic canal, lying behind the cord, to the scrotum, where it distributes twigs to the spermatic cord and cremaster muscle. In the female it gives twigs to the round ligament and