TEMPOKAL BONE. 31 it is smooth, to give attachment to the fleshy fibres of the temporal muscle, and has projecting from it an arched and lengthened process, the zygoma. Near the commencement of the zygoma, upon its lower border, is a projection called the tubercle, to which is attached the external lateral ligament of the lower jaw, and continued horizontally inwards from the tubercle, a rounded eminence, the eminentia arti- cularis. The process of bone which is continued from the tubercle of the zygoma into the eminentia articularis is the inferior root of the zygoma. The superior root is continued upwards from the upper border of the zygoma, and forms the posterior part of the temporal ridge, serving by its projection to mark the division of the squamous from the mastoid portion of the bone; and the middle root is conti- nued directly backwards, and terminates abruptly at a narrow fissure, the fissura Glaseri. The internal surface of the squamous portion is marked by several shallow fossce, which correspond with the convolu- tions of the cerebrum, and by a furrow for the posterior branch of the arteria meningea media. The superior, or squamous border, is very thin, and bevelled at the expense of the inner surface, so as to overlap the lower and arched border of the parietal bone. The iiife- nor border is thick, and dentated to articulate with the spinous process of the sphenoid bone. The Mastoid portion forms the posterior part of the bone; it is thick, and hollowed between its tables into a loose and cellular diploe. Upon its external surface it is rough for the attachment of muscles, and contrasts strongly with the smooth and polished-like surface of the squamous portion: every part of this surface is pierced by small foramiha, which give passage to minute arteries and veins; one of these openings, oblique in its direction, of large size, and situated near the posterior border of the bone, the mastoid foramen, trans- mits a- vein to the lateral sinus. This foramen is not unfrequently situated in the occipital bone. The inferior part of this portion is round and expanded, the mastoid process, and excavated in its inte- rior into numerous cells, which form a part of the organ of hearing. In front of the mastoid process, and between the superior and middle roots of the zygoma, is the large oval opening of the meatus audito- rius externus, surrounded by a rough lip, the processus auditorius. Directly to the inner side of, and partly concealed by, the mastoid process, is a deep groove, the digastric fossa; and a little more in- ternally the occipital groove, which lodges the occipital artery. Upon its internal surface the mastoid portion presents a broad and shallow groove {fossa sigmoidea) for the lateral sinus, and terminat- ing in this groove the internal opening of the mastoid foramen. The superior border of the mastoid portion is dentated; and its posterior border, thick and less serrated, articulates with the inferior border of the occipital bone. The meatus auditoriits externus is a slightly curved canal, some- what more than half an inch in length, longer along its lower