GROWTH OP TEETH. 72 life, and for the wisdom teeth, at about the twenty-first year. The third, or eruptive stage, includes the completion of the teeth, the eruption and shedding of the temporary set, the eruption of the permanent, and the necessary changes in the alveolar processes. It extends from the seventh month to the twenty-first year. " The anterior permanent molar,''^ says Mr. Groodsir, "is the most remarkable tooth in man, as it forms a transition between the milk and the permanent set." If considered anatomically, that is, in its development from the primitive dental groove, by a papilla and follicle, "it is decidedly a milk tooth;" if physiologically, "as the most efficient grinder in the adult mouth, we must consider it a permanent tooth." "It is a curious circumstance, and one which will readily suggest itself to the surgeon, that laying out of view the wisdom teeth, which sometimes decay at an early period from other causes, the anterior molars are the permanent teeth which most frequently give way first, and in the most symmetrical manner, and at the same time, and frequently before the milk set." Growth of Teeth.—Immediately that the dental follicles have been closed by their opercula, the pulps become moulded into the form of the future teeth; and the bases of the molars are divided into two or three portions representing the future fangs. The dental sac is composed of two layers, an internal or vascular layer, which was originally a part of the mucous surface of the mouth, and a cellulo-fibrous layer, analogous to the corium of the mucous mem- brane. Upon the formation of this sac by the closure of the follicle, the mucous membrane resembles a serous membrane in being a shut sac, and may be considered as consisting of a tunica propria, which invests the pulp; and a tunica reflexa, which is adherent by its outer surface to the structures composing the jaw, and by the inner surface is free, being separated from the pulp by an interven- ing space. As soon as the moulding of the pulp has commenced, this space increases and becomes filled with a gelatinous granular substance, the enamel organ, which is adherent to the whole in- ternal surface of the tunica reflexa, but not to the tunica propria and pulp. At the same period, viz., during the fourth or fifth month, a thin lamina of ivory is formed in the pulp, and occupies its most prominent point: if the tooth be incisor or canine, the newly-formed layer has the figure of a small hollow cone ; if molar, there will be four or five small cones corresponding with the number of tubercles on its crown. These cones are united by the formation of additional layers, the pulp becomes gradually sur- rounded and diminishes in size, evolving fresh layers during its retreat into the jaws, until the entire tooth with its fangs is com- pleted, and the small cavitas pulpse of the perfect tooth alone re- mains, communicating through the opening in the apex of each fang with the dental vessels and nerves. The number of roots of a tooth appears to depend on the number of nervous filaments sent to each pulp. When the formation of the ivory has commenced, the enamel