400 CARDIAC VEINS, arch of the aorta to terminate in the left vena innominata. It receives the left bronchial vein. VERTEBRAL AND SPINAL VEINS. The numerous venous plexuses of the vertebral column and spinal cord may be arranged into three groups:—■ Dorsi-spinal, Meningo-rachidian, Medulli-spinal. The Dorsi-spinal veins form a plexus around the spinous, trans- verse, and articular processes, and arches of the vertebras. They receive the returning blood from the dorsal muscles and surrounding structures, and transmit it, in part to the meningo-rachidian, and in part to the vertebral, intercostal, lumbar, and sacral veins. The Meningo-rachidian veins are situated between the theca vertebralis and the vertebrae. They communicate freely with each other by means of a complicated plexus. In front they form two longitudinal trunks, {longitudinal spinal sinuses) extending the whole length of the column on each side of the posterior common liga- ment, and are joined on the body of each vertebra by transverse trunks, which pass beneath the ligament, and receive the large basi- vertebral veins from the interior of each vertebra. The meningo- rachidian veins communicate superiorly through the anterior condy- loid foramina with the internal jugulars; in the neck they pour their blood into the vertebral veins ; in the thorax, into the inter- costals; and in the loins and pelvis into the lumbar and sacral veins, the communications being made through the intervertebral fora- mina. The Medulli-spinal veins are situated between the pia mater and arachnoid; they communicate freely with each other to form plexuses, and send branches through the intervertebral foramina with each of the spinal nerves, to join the veins of the trunk. CARDIAC VEINS. The veins (cardiacse vel coronarise cordis) returning the blood from the substance of the heart, are the— Great cardiac vein. Anterior cardiac veins, Posterior cardiac vein, Venae Thebesii. The Great cardiac vein (vena cordis magna ; coronaria magna) commences at the apex of the heart, and ascends along the anterior ventricular groove to the base of the ventricles; it then curves around the left auriculo-ventricular groove to the posterior part of