184 MUSCLES OF THE PACE. of the muscle converge towards tlie angle of the montli, where some are continuous with the levator and depressor anguli oris, and the rest cross each other, the superior being continuous with the in- ferior segment of the orbicularis oris, the inferior with the supe- rior segment. The muscle is invested externally by a thin fascia (buccal) which extends backwards to the pharynx. Relations.—By its external surface, posteriorly, with a large and rounded mass of fat, which separates the muscle from the ramus of the lower jaw, temporalis, and masseter: anteriorly with the risorius Santorini, zygomatici, levator anguli oris, and depressor anguli oris. It is also in relation with a part of Stenon's duct, (which pierces it opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw,) with the transverse facial artery, branches of the facial and buccal nerve, and facial artery and vein. By its internal surface with the buccal glands and mucous membrane of the mouth. The Pterygoideus externus is a short and thick muscle, broader at its origin than at its insertion. It arises by two heads, one from the under surface of the great ala of the sphenoid and pterygoid ridge ; the other from the external pterygoid plate, tuberosity of the palate bone and tuberosity of the superior maxillary. The fibres pass backwards to be inserted into the neck of the lower jaw and into the interarticular fibrocartilage. The internal maxillary artery passes between the two heads of this muscle. Relations.—By its external surface with the ramus of the lower jaw, temporal muscle, and internal maxillary artery; by its internal surface with the internal pterygoid muscle, internal lateral ligament of the jaw, arteria meningea media, and inferior maxillary nerve; by its upper border with the muscular branches of the inferior maxillary nerve; the internal maxillary artery passes between the two heads of the muscle, and its lower origin is pierced by the buccal nerve. The external pterygoid muscle must now be removed, the ramus of the lower jaw sawn through its lower third, and the head of the bone dislocated from its socket and withdrawn, for the purpose of seeing the pterygoideus internus. The Pterygoideus internus is a thick quadrangular muscle. It arises from the pterygoid fossa and descends obliquely backwards, to be inserted into the ramus and angle of the lower jaw : it resembles the masseter in appearance and direction, and was named by Winslow the internal masseter. Relations.—By its external surf ace w\\h. the external pterygoid, the inferior maxillary nerve and branches, the internal maxillary artery and branches, the internal lateral ligament and'the ramus of the lower jaw. By its internal surface with the tensor palati, superior constrictor and fascia of the pharynx ; and by its posterior border with the parotid gland. Actions.—The maxillary muscles are the active agents in mastica- tion, and form an apparatus beautifully fitted for that oflice. The