LIGAMENTS OP THE VEKTEBKAL COLUMN. 127 r "the middle line, and superficially to the other. It is attached above ,' to the basilar process of the occipital bone; and below, to the an- terior tubercle of the atlas. The deeper ligament is a broad mem- branous layer, attached above to the margin of the occipital foramen, between the two condyles ; and below, to the whole length of the anterior arch of the atlas. It is in relation in front with the recti antici minores, and behind with the odontoid ligaments. The posterior ligament is thin and membranous ; attached above to the margin of the occipital foramen, between the two condyles; Fig. 69.* and below, to the posterior arch of the atlas. It is closely adherent to the dtira mater, by its inner surface ; and forms a ligamentous arch at each side, for the passage of the vertebral artery and first cervical nerve. It is in relation posteriorly with the recti postici minores and obliqui superiores. The lateral ligaments are strong fasciculi of ligamentous fibres, attached below to the base of the transverse process of the atlas at each side ; and above, to the transverse process of the occipital bone. With a ligamentous expansion derived from the vaginal process of the temporal bone, these ligaments form a strong sheath around the vessels and nerves which pass through the carotid and jugular foramina. The capsular ligaments (condylo-atloidea) are the thin and loose ligamentous capsules which surround the synovial membranes of the articulations between the condyles of the occipital bone and the superior articular processes of the atlas. The ligamentous fibres are most numerous upon the anterior and external part of the articu- lation. * The posterior ligaments of the occipito-atloid, and atlo-asoid articula- tions. 1. The atlas. 2. The axis. 3. The posterior Hgament of the occipito- atloid articulation. 4, 4. The capsular and lateral Ugameuts of this articula- tion. 5. The posterior ligament of the atlo-axoid articulation. 6, 6. Its capsular ligaments. 7. The first of the ligamenta subflaya passing between the axis and third cervical vertebra. 8, 8. The capsular ligaments of those vertebras.