646 PENIS. The Penis is divisible into a body, root, and extremity. The body is surrounded by a thin integument, which is remarkable for the looseness of its cellular connexion with the deeper parts of the organ, and for containing no adipose tissue. The root is broad, and firmly adherent to the rami of the pubes andischiumby means of two strong processes, the crura, and is connected to the symphysis pubis by a fibrous membrane, the ligamentum suspensorium. The extre- mity or glans penis resembles an obtuse cone, somewhat compressed from above downwards, and of a deeper red colour than the sur- rounding skin. At its apex is a small vertical slit, the meatus urinarius, which is bounded by two, more or less protuberant, labia; and, extending backwards from the meatus, is a depressed raphe,* to which is attached a loose fold of mucous membrane, the frsenum prseputii. The base of the glans is marked by a projecting collar, the corona glandis, upon which are seen a number of small papillary elevations, the glandulse Tysoni (odoriferse). Behind the corona is a deep fossa (fossa glandis, cervix), bounded by a circular fold of integument, the prceputium, which, in the quiescent state of the organ, may be drawn over the glans, but, in its distended state, is obliterated, and serves to facilitate its enlargement. The internal surface of the prepuce is lined by mucous membrane, covered by a thin epithelium; this membrane, on reaching the base of the glans, is reflected over the glans penis, and, at the meatus urinarius, is continuous with the mucous lining of the urethra. The sup)erficial fascia of the penis is thin, and its cellular struc- ture free from fat; it is continuous with the superficial fascia of the abdomen above, and with the dartos and superficial fascia of the perineum below. The ligamentum suspensorium penis is a strong fibrous meinbrane of triangular form, attached by its apex to the symphysis pubis ; and by its base, to the body of the penis. Near its attachment it separates into two layers, between which the dorsal vessels and nerves take their course. The penis is composed of the corpus cavernosum and corpus spon- giosum, and contains in its interior the longest portion of the urethra. The Corpus cavernosum is distinguished into two lateral portions (corpora cavernosa) by an imperfect septum and a superior and in- ferior groove; and is'divided posteriorly into two crura. It is firmly adherent, by means of its crura, to the rami of the pubes and ischium; and each crus previously to its junction with its fellow presents a slight enlargement, which has been named by Kobelt, the hulb. The corpus cavernosum forms, anteriorly, a single rounded extremity, which is received into a fossa in the base of the glans ; the superior groove lodges the dorsal vessels of the penis, and the inferior receives the corpus spongiosum. Its fibrous tunic is thick,