48 PALATE BONES. surface is smootli and convex, and pierced by several small openings, which give passage to filaments of the tempore-malar nei-ve and minute arteries. The internal surface is concave, partly smooth and partly rough; smooth where it forms part of the temporal fossa, and rough where it ar- ticulates with the superior maxillary bone. ^h.efrontal process ascends perpendicularly to form the outer border of the orbit, and articulate with the external angular process of the frontal bone. The orbital process is a thick plate, which projects inwards from the frontal pro- cess, and unites with the great ala of the. sphenoid to constitute the outer wall of the orbit. It is pierced "by several small foramina for the passage of temporo-malar filaments of the superior maxillary nerve. The maxillary pjrocess is broad, and articulates with the superior maxillary bone. The zijgo-^ matic jirocess, narrower than the rest, projects backwards to unite with the zygoma of the temporal bone. Development.—By a single centre; in rare instances by two or three. In many animals the malar bone is permanently divided into two portions, orbital and malar. Ossification commences in the malar bone soon after the vertebrae. Articulatiotis.—With/oitr bones: three of the cranium, frontal, temporal, and sphenoid; and one of the face, superior maxillary. Attachment of Muscles.—To five: levator labii superioris proprius, zygomaticus minor and major, masseter, and temporal. Palate Bones.—The palate bones are situated at the posterior part of the nares, where they enter into the formation of the palate, side of the nose, and posterior part of the floor of the orbit; hence they might be named the palato-naso-orbital bones. Each bone re- sembles in general form the letter L, and is divisible into a hori- zontal plate, a pei'pendicular plate, and a pterygoid j)rocess or tuberosity. The horizontal plate is quadrilateral; and presents two surfaces, one superior, which enters into the formation of the floor of the * The malar bone of the right side. 1. External surface. 2. An opening for an artery and nerve. 3. Frontal process. 4. Outer border of the orbit. 5. Inferior border of the orbit. 6,6. Maxillary process. 7. Zygomatic pro- cess. 8. Sweep to which the temporal fascia is attached. 9, 9. Lower border of the bone, from which the deep portion of the masseter muscle arises.