598 MOUTH.—HAED PALATE. The Mouth (cavum, sen, cavitas oris) is the irregular cavity which contains the organs of taste and the principal instrnments of mastication. It is bounded, in front, by the lips and fissura oris; on either side, by the internal surface of the cheeks; above, by the hard palate and teeth of the upper jaw; below, by the tongue, by the mucous membrane stretched between the arch of the lower jaw and the under surface of the tongue, and by the teeth of the inferior maxilla; and behind, by the soft palate and fauces. The space be- tween the teeth and fleshy walls of the face is termed vestihulum oris. The Z«j9s (labium superius et inferius) are two fleshy folds formed externally by common integument and internally by mucous mem- brane, and containing between these two layers, muscles, a quantity of fat, and numerous small labial glands. They are attached to the surface of the upper and lower jaw, and each lip is connected to the gum in the middle line by a fold of mucous membrane, the frcemim labii superioris and frwnum labii inferioris, the latter being very small. The Cheeks (buccsB) are continuous with the lips, and form the sides of the face; they are composed of integument, a large quantity of fat, muscles, mucous membrane, and buccal glands. The mucous membrane lining the cheeks is reflected above and below upon the sides of the jaws, and is attached posteriorly to the anterior margin of the ramus of the lower jaw. At about its middle, opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw, is a papilla, upon which may be observed a small opening, the aperture of the duct of the parotid gland. The Hard palate (palatum durum, sen, osteum) is a dense struc- ture, composed of mucous membrane, palatine glands, fibrous tissue, vessels, and nerves, and firmly connected to the palate processes of the superior maxillary and palate bones. It is bounded in front and on each side by the alveolar processes and gums, and is con- tinuous behind with the soft palate. Along the middle line it is marked by an elevated raphe, and presents upon each side of the raphe a number of transverse ridges and grooves. Near its anterior extremity, and immediately behind the middle incisor teeth, is a papilla which corresponds with the termination of the anterior pala- tine canal, and receives the naso-palatine nerves. The Gums (gingivae) are composed of a thick and dense mucous membrane, which is closely adherent to the periosteum of the alveolar processes, and embraces the necks of the teeth. They are remark- able for their hardness and insensibility; and for their close contact, without adhesion, to the surface of the tooth. From the neck of the tooth they are reflected into the alveolus, and become continuous with the periosteal (peridental) membrane of that cavity. The Tongue has been already described as an organ of sense; it is invested by mucous membrane, which is reflected from its under part upon the inner surface of the lower jaw, and constitutes, with