144 ELBOW JOINT. 5. Elbow Joint. The elbow is a ginglymoid articulation; its ligaments are/oztr in number,— Anterior, Posterior, Internal lateral, External lateral. Fig. 80.* The anterior ligament is a broad and thin membranous layer, descending from the anterior surface of the humerus, immediately above the joint, to the coronoid process of the ulna and orbicular ligament. On each side it is connected with the lateral ligaments. It is composed of fibres which pass in three different directions, vertical, transverse, and oblique, the latter being extended downwards and outwards to the orbicular ligament, into which they are attached inferiorly. This ligament is covered in by the brachialis anticus muscle. The posterior ligament is a broad and loose layer passing between the posterior surface of the humerus and the anterior sur- face of the base of the olecranon, and con- nected at each side with the lateral liga- ments. It is covered in by the tendon of the triceps. The internal lateral ligament (brachio- cubitale) is a thick triangular layer, attached above, by its apex, to the iaternal condyle of the humerus; and below, by its expanded border, to the margin of the greater sigmoid cavity of the ulna, extending from the coro- noid process to the olecranon. At its in- sertion it is intermingled with some trans- verse fibres. The internal lateral ligament is in relation posteriorly with the ulnar nerve. The external lateral ligament (brachio- radiale) is a strong and narrow band, which descends from the external condyle of the humerus, to be inserted into the orbicular ligament, and into the ridge on the xilna with which the posterior part of the latter ligament is connected. This ligament is closely united with the tendon of origin of the supinator brevis muscle. The synovial membrane is extensive, and is reflected from the cartilaginous surfaces of the bones upon the inner suj-face of the * Ligaments of the elbow joint; inner side. 1. Anterior ligament. 2. In- ternal lateral ligament. 3. Orbicular ligament. 4. Oblique ligament. 5. Inter- osseous ligament. 6. Internal condyle of the humerus, which conceals the pos- terior Ugament.