207 LEVATOE ANGULI SCAPULA. spinous ligament, from the spinous tubercles of the sacrum, from the posterior third of the crest of the ilium, and from the four lower ribs; the latter origin taking place by muscular slips, which indigitate with the external oblique muscle of the abdomen. The fibres from this extensive origin converge as they ascend, and cross the inferior angle of the scapula; they then curve around the lower border of the teres major muscle, and terminate in a short qua- drilateral tendon,* which lies in front of the tendon of the teres, and is inserted into the bicipital groove. A synovial bursa is inter- posed between the muscle and lower angle of the scapula, and another between the upper half of its tendon and that of the teres major; the two tendons being united inferiorly. The muscle frequently receives a small fasciculus from the scapula as it crosses its inferior angle; and its tendon gives off fibres to the deep fascia of the upper arm. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the integument and superficial fascia, the latter being very dense and fibrous in the lumbal- region, and with the trapezius. By its deep surface, from below upwards, with the erector spinse, serratus posticus inferior, inter- costal muscles and ribs, rhomboideus major, inferior angle of the scapula, and teres major. The latissimus dorsi, with the teres major, forms the posterior border of the axilla. Second Layer. Dissection.—This layer is brought into view by dividing the two preceding muscles near their insertion, and turning them to the opposite side. The Levator anquli soapul^ (trachelo-scapularis) arises by tendinous slips, from the posterior tubercles of the transverse pro- cesses of the four upper cervical vertebrae; and is inserted into'the upper angle and posterior border of the scapula, as far as the trian- gular smooth surface at the root of its spine. Being the principal elevator of the shoulder, the levator anguli scapulae has been termed musculus patienticB. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the trapezius, sterno- mastoideus, and integument. By its deep surface with the splenius colli, transversalis cervicis, cervicalis ascendens, scalenus posticus, and serratus posticus superior. The tendons of origin are interposed below the lower border of the rhomboideus major. 15. Vertebral aponeu- rosis. 16. Serratus posticus inferior. 17. Supra-spraatus. 18. Infra-spinatus. 19. Teres minor. 20. Teres major. 21. The long head of the triceps, passing between the teres minor and major to the upper arm. 22. The ser- ratus niagnus proceeding forwards from its origin at the base of the scapula. 23. Obhquus internus abdominis. * A smaU muscular fasciculus from the pectoralis major is sometimes found connected with this tendon.