534 APPENDAGES OE THE EYE. drawn open, they leave between them an elliptical space (fissura pal- pebrarum), the angles of which are called canthi. The outer canthus is formed by the meeting of the two lids at an acute angle. The inner canthus is prolonged for a short distance inwards towards the nose, and a triangular space is left between the lids in this situation, which is called the lacus lachrymalis. At the commencement of the lacus lachrymalis upon each of the two lids is a small angular projec- tion, the lachrymal papilla or tubercle; and at the apex of each papilla a small orifice (punctum lachrymale), the commencement of the lachrymal canal. The eyelids have, entering into their structure, integument^ orbi- cularis muscle, tarsal cartilages, Meibomian glands, and con- junctiva. The tegumentary cellular tissue of the eyelids is remarkable for its looseness and for the absence of adipose substance ; it is particu- larly liable to serous infil- tration. The fibres of that portion (palpebralis) of the orbicularis muscle which covers the eyelids are thin and pale. The Tarsal cartilages are two thin lamellae of fibro-cartilage, about an inch in length, which give form and support to the eyelids. The superior is of a semilunar form, about one-third of an inch in breadth at its middle, and tapering to each extremity. Its lower border is broad and flat, its upper thin, and gives attachment to the levator palpebrae and to the fibrous membrane of the lids. The Inferior fibro-cartilage is an elliptical band, narrower than the superior, and situated in the substance of the lower lid. Its upper border is flat, and corresponds with the flat edge of the upper cartilage. The lower is held in its place by the fibrous membrane. Near the inner canthus the tarsal cartilages terminate, at the com- * Appendages of the eye. 1. Superior tarsal cartilage. 2. Lower border of the cartilage on which are seen the openings of the Meibomian glands. 3. Inferior tarsal cartilage; along the upper border of this cartilage the openings of the Meibomian glands are likewise seen. 4. Lachrymal gland; its superior or orbital portion. 5. Inferior or palpebral portion. 6. Lachry- mal ducts. 7. Plica semilunaris. 8. Caruncula lachrymahs. 9. Puncta lachrymalia of the lachrymal canals. 10. Superior lachrymal canal. 11. In- ferior lachrymal canal. 12. Lachrymal sac. 14. Dilatation of the nasal duct, where it opens into the inferior meatus of the nose. 15. Nasal duct.