MUSCLES OF THE HAND, 260 the palmar fascia, and palmaris brevis. By its deep surface with the adductor ossis metacarpi and metacarpal bone. Externally with the abductor minimi digiti, from which it is separated near its origin by the deep palmar branch of the ulnar nerve and communi- cating artery. Internally with the tendons of the flexor sublimis and profundus. The Adductor ossis metacarpi (opponens), or adductor minimi digiti, arises from the unciform bone and annular ligament, and is inserted into the whole length of the metacarpal bone of the little finger. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the flexor brevis and abductor minimi digiti. By its deep surface with the interossei muscles of the last metacarpal space, metacarpal bone, and flexor tendons of the little finger. Palmar Region. Lumbricales, Interossei palmares, Interossei dorsales. The Lumbricales, four in number, are accessories to the deep flexor muscle. They arise from the tendons of the deep flexor; the first and second from the palmar side, the third from the ulnar, the fourth from the radial side; and are inserted into the aponeurotic expansion of the extensor tendons on the radial side of the fingers. The third, or that of the tendon of the ring finger, sometimes bifur- cates, at other times it is inserted wholly into the extensor tendon of the middle finger. Relations.—In the palm of the hand with the flexor tendons; at their insertion with the tendons of the interossei and the metacarpo- phalangeal articulations. The Palmar interossei, three in number, are placed upon the metacarpal bones, rather than between them. They arise from the base of the metacarpal bone of one finger, and are inserted into the base of the first phalanx and aponeurotic expansion of the extensor tendon of the same finger. The first belongs to the index finger; the second, to the ring finger; the third to the little finger; the middle finger being omitted. Relations.—By their palmar surface with the flexor tendons and deep muscles in the palm of the hand. By their dorsal surface with the dorsal interossei. On one side with the metacarpal bone, on the other with the corresponding dorsal interosseous muscle. Dorsal interossei.—On turning to the dorsum of the hand, the four dorsal interossei (bicipites) are seen in the four spaces between the metacarpal bones. They are bipenniform muscles, and arise by two heads, from adjoining sides of the bases of the metacarpal bones. They are inserted into the base of the first phalanges, and into the aponeurosis of the extensor tendons.