609 ILEO-C^CAL VALVE. around the cardiac orifice they assume a radiated arrangement. At the pylorus the mucous membrane forms a circular or spiral fold which constitutes a part of the apparatus of the pyloric valve. In the lower three-fourths of the duodenum the mucous mem- brane forms circular or crescentic folds, the valvulce conniventes, which are also found in the jejunum and upper portion of the ileum. On the posterior and inner wall of the descending portion of the duodenum is a vertical projection of the mucous membrane about an inch in length, plica longitudinalis, caused by the prominence of the ductus communis choledochus, and at the inferior extremity of the plica longitudinalis is the aperture of that duct and of the pan- creatic duct. The valvulae conniventes are several lines in breadth in the lower part of the duodenum and upper portion of the jejunum, and diminish gradually in size towards each extremity. In the ileum they are consequently narrow, and cease entirely at about its middle. They do not entirely surround the cylinder of the intes- tine, but extend for about one-half or three-fourths of its circum- ference. In the lower half of the ileum the mucous lining, being without folds, the coats of the intestine are very thin as compared with the jejunum and duodenum. At the termination of the ileum in the ccecum the mucous mem- brane forms two folds, which are strengthened by the muscular coat, and project into the csecum. These are the ileo-ccecal valve (valvula Bauhini). In the c^cum and colon the mucous membrane is raised into crescentic folds (plicae sigmoidese), which correspond with the sharp edges of the sacculi; and, in the rectum, it forms three val- vular folds,* one of which is situated near the commencement of the intestine; the second, extending from the side of the tube, is placed opposite the middle of the sacrum ; and the third, which is the largest and most constant, projects from the anterior wall of the intestine opposite the base of the bladder. Besides these folds, the membrane in the empty state of the intestine is thrown into longi- tudinal plaits, somewhat similar to those of the oesophagus ; these have been named the columns of the rectum. The mucous mem- brane of the rectum is connected to the muscular coat by a very loose cellular tissue, as in the oesophagus. Structure of Mucous Membrane.—Mucous membrane is ana- logous to the cutaneous covering of the exterior of the body, and resembles that tissue very closely in its structure. It is composed of two layers, epithelium and corium. Epithelium is analogous to the epiderma in forming a layer of protection to the structure which it invests ; it constitutes the sur- face of the mucous membrane, and indeed of all the other internal membranes of the body, namely, the serous and synovial membranes, the heart, the blood vessels, and lymphatics. Like the epiderma * Mr. Houston, "On the Mucous Membrane of the Eectum." Dublin Hospital Eeports, vol. v. R R