173 OKBITAL GROUP. included by these incisions, and the present and two following- groups of muscles will be brought into view. The Orbicularis Palpebrarum is a sphincter muscle, sur- rounding the orbit and eyelids, and consists of two portions, external and internal. The external or orbital portion arises from a short tendon, tendo palpebrarum (tendo oculi), situated at the inner angle of the eye, from the nasal process of the superior maxillary and angular process of the frontal bone ; it encircles the orbit and is inserted into the inner border of the orbit and lower border of the tendo palpebrarum, some of its fibres being continuous with the upper segment. The internal portion (palpebralis) forms a curved plane of fibres on the eyelids, thinner and paler than the orbital portion; externally these fibres are attached to the external palpebral ligament and border of the orbit, some being continuous with the orbital portion; internally they are attached to the borders of the lacus lachrymalis and tendo palpebrarum. The borders of the palpebralis nearest the edges of the lids are thicker than the rest, and have been termed ciliaris. Mr. Haynes Walton* remarks that this portion is redder than the rest of the palpebralis, and is contiuuous with the tensor tarsi; he conceives it to be the active cause in the production of entropium. The tendo palpebrarum (tendo oculi), about two lines in length and one in breadth, is attached by one end to the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone, close to the edge of the orbit; the other end bifui-cates to be inserted into the inner extremities of the tarsal cartilages ; from its inner side is given off a process which spreads out over the lachrymal sac, and is attached to the crest of the lachrymal bone; this is the reflected aponeurosis of the tendo palpe- brarum, and serves to protect the lachrymal sac. Relations.—Bj its superficial surface it is closely adherent to the integument, from which it is separated on the eyelids by a loose cellular tissue. By its deep surface it lies in contact above with the upper border of the orbit, corrugator supercilii muscle, frontal and supraorbital vessels and supraorbital nerve; below, with the la- chrymal sac, levator labii superioris alaeque nasi, levator labii snpe- rioris proprius, zygomaticus major and minor muscles, and malar bone; externally, with the temporal fascia. Upon the eyelids it is in relation with the broad tarsal ligament and tarsal cartilages, and by its upper border is connected with the occipito-frontalis. The Corrugator Supercilii is a small, narrow, and pointed muscle, situated immediately above the orbit and beneath the upper segment of the orbicularis palpebrarum. It arises from the inner extremity of the superciliary ridge, and is inserted into the under surface of the orbicularis palpebrarum. Its connexion with the orbicularis commences near the supraorbital foramen and is con- tinued outwards to the external angular process. * Medical Times and Gazette. May, 1852.