ACCEIERATORES TJEIN^.—TRANSVERSUS PERINEI. 233 the drawing of the feet upwards by means of a cord passed through a hook in the ceiling. Both of these means of preparation have for their object the full exposure of the perineum. And as this is a dissection which demands some degree of delicacy and nice manipula- tion, a strong light should be thrown upon the part. Having fixed the subject, and drawn the scrotum upwards by means of a string or hook, carry an incision from the base of the scrotum along the ramus of the pubes and ischium and tuberosity of the ischium, to a point parallel with the apex of the' coccyx; then describe a curve over the coccyx to the same point on the opposite side, and continue the incision onwards along the opposite tuberosity and ramus of the ischium and pubes, to the opposite side of the scrotum, where the two extremities may be connected by a transverse incision. This incision will completely surround the perineum, following very nearly the outline of its boundaries. Now let the student dissect off the integument carefully from the whole of the included space, and he will expose the fatty cellular structure of the common superficial fascia, which resembles the superficial fascia in other situations. The common superficial fascia is then to be removed to the same extent, exposing the superficial perineal fascia. This layer is also to be turned aside, when the muscles of the genital region of the perineum will be brought into view. The AccELERATORES URiNiE (bulbo-cavemosi) arise from a ten- dinous 'point in the centre of the perineum and from the fibrous raphe of the two muscles. From this origin the fibres diverge like the plumes of a pen; the posterior to be inserted into the trian- gular ligament and ramus of the pubes ; the middle, to encircle the corpus spongiosum and meet on its upper side ; the anterior to spread out upon the corpus cavernosum on each side, and be inserted, partly into its fibrous structure, and partly into the fascia penis. The posterior and middle insertion of these muscles are best seen, by carefully raising one muscle from the corpus spongi- osum and tracing its fibres. Relations.—By their superficial surface with the superficial perineal fascia, dartos, superficial vessels and nerves of the perineum, and on each side with the erector penis. By their deep surface with the corpus spongiosum and bulb of the urethra. The Erector penis (ischio-cavernosus) arises from the tuberosity of the ischium and from the ramus of the pubes on each side of the crus, and curves around the root of the penis ; to be inserted into the upper surface of the corpus cavernosum, where it is continuous with a strong fascia which covers the dorsum of the organ, the fascia penis. Relations.—By its sujoerficial surface with the superficial perineal fascia, dartos, and superficial perineal vessels and nerve. By its deep surface with the corpus cavernosum penis. The Transversus perinei arises from the ramus of the ischium at each side, and is inserted into the central tendinous point of the