OPHTHALMIC ARTERY. 327 the malar bone into the temporal fossa, and inosculates wdth the deep temporal arteries, while some of its branches become subcu- taneous on the cheek, and anastomose with the transversa faciei. The Siq^raorbital artery (supraorbitalis) follows the course of the frontal nerve, resting on the levator palpebrse muscle ; it passes through the supraorbital foramen, and divides into a superficial and deep branch, which are distributed to the muscles and integu- ment of the forehead, and to the pericranium. At the supraorbital foramen it sends a branch inwards to the diploe. The Ethmoidal arteries (ethmoidales) posterior and anterior, pass through the ethmoidal foramina, and are distributed to the falx cerebri and to the ethmoidal cells and nasal fossse. The latter accompanies the nasal nerve, and sends a branch to the frontal sinus. The Palpebral arteries (palpebrales), superior and inferior, are given off from the ophthalmic, near the inner angle of the orbit; they encircle the eyelids, forming a superior and an inferior arch (arcus tarseus superior et inferior) near the borders of the lids, between the orbicularis palpebirarum and tarsal cartilage. At the outer angle of the eyelids, the superior palpebral inosculates with the orbital branch of the temporal artery. The inferior palpebral artery sends a branch to the nasal duct. The Frontal artery (frontalis), one of the terminal branches of the ophthalmic, emerges from the orbit at its inner angle, and ascends along the middle of the forehead. It is distributed to the integument, muscles, and pericranium. The Nasal artery (nasalis vel dorsalis nasi), the other terminal branch of the ophthalmic, passes out of the orbit above the tendo oculi, and divides into two branches ; one of which (angularis) inos- culates with the angular artery, while the other, dorsalis nasi, runs along the ridge of the nose, and is distributed to the integu- ment of that organ. The nasal artery sends a small branch to the lachrymal sac. The Muscular branches (rami musculares), usually two in number, superior and inferior, supply the muscles of the orbit: and upon the anterior aspect of the globe of the eye give off the anterior ciliary arteries, which pierce the sclerotic near its margin of connexion with the cornea, and are distributed to the iris. It is the congestion of these vessels that gives rise to the vascular zone around the cornea in iritis. The Ciliary arteries (ciliares) are divisible into three groups, short, long, and anterior. The Short ciliary (ciliares posticee breves), from ten to fifteen in number, pierce the sclerotic around the entrance of the optic nerve, and supply the choroid coat and ciliary processes. The long ciliary (ciliares posticse longse), two in number, pierce the sclerotic on opposite sides of the globe of the eye, and pass for- ward between it and the choroid, to the iris. They form an