507 EXTERNAL POPLITEAL NERVE. • the course of the external plantar artery to the outer border of the musculus accessorius, beneath which it sends several deep branches to supply the adductor poUicis, interossei, transversus pedis and the articulations of the tarsal and metatarsal bones. It then gives branches to the integument of the outer border and sole of the foot, and sends forward two digital branches to supply the little toe and half the next. The External popliteal nerve (peroneal) one half smaller than the internal, passes downwards by the side of the tendon of the biceps, and crosses the, inner head of the gastrocnemius and the head of the soleus, to the neck of the fibula, it then pierces the peroneus longus muscle, and divides into two branches, anterior tibial and musculo-cutaneous. The Branches of the external popliteal nerve are, the communi- cans peronei, cutaneous, and articular. The Communicans peronei, proceeding from the external pop- liteal near the head of the fibula, crosses the external origin of the gastrocnemius muscle, and, piercing the deep fascia, descends to the middle of the leg, where it joins the external saphenous nerve. It gives oif one or two cutaneous filaments in its course. ;The Cutaneous branch passes down the outer side of the leg, sup- pling the integument. The Articular branches follow the external articular arteries to the knee-joint. ■ The Anterior tibial nerve (interosseous) commences at the bifurcation of the external popliteal upon the neck of the fibula, and passes beneath the upper part of the extensor longus digitorum, to reach the outer side of the anterior tibial artery, just as that vessel has emerged through the opening in the interosseous mem- brane. It descends the leg with the artery; lying at first to its outer side, then in front of it, and near the ankle becoming again placed to its outer side. Reaching the ankle it passes beneath the annular ligament; accompanies the dorsalis pedis artery, supplies the adjacent sides of the great and second toes, and communicates with the internal division of the musculo-cutaneous nerve. The Branches given ofi" by the anterior tibial nerve are, muscular to the muscles in its course ; and at the ankle a tarsal branch which may be considered as one of the terminal divisions of the nerve. This branch passes outwards upon the dorsum of the foot, becomes ganglionic like the posterior interosseous nerve at the wrist, and sup- plies the extensor brevis digitorum muscle and the articulations of the tarsus and metatarsus. The Musculo-cutaneous nerve passes downwards along the fibula, in the substance of the peroneus longus; it then gets between the peroneus longus and brevis, next between the peronei and ex- tensor longus digitorum, and at the lower third of the leg pierces