FEMALE PEKINEUM. 237 it is continuous with the sphincter ani and transversus perinei; and passes forwards on each side of the entrance of the vagina, to be inserted into the corpus cavernosum clitoridis. The Erector clitoridis arises from the ramus of the ischium, and is inserted on each side into the crus clitoridis. It is in rela- tion by its inner border with the constrictor vagina. The Transversus perinei is a small muscle arising on each side from the ramus of the ischium, and inserted into the side of the constrictor vaginse. The Compressor urethra has the same origin and insertion, and exercises the same functions in the female as in the male. The Sphincter ani and Sphincter ani internus surround the lower extremity of the rectum, as in the male. The Levator ani is inserted into the side of the vagina and rectum. Actions.—The acceleratores urinae being continuous at the middle line, and attached on each side to the triangular ligament, by means of their posterior fibres, support the bulbous portion of the urethra, and acting ^suddenly, propel the semen, or the last drops of urine from the canal. The posterior and middle fibres, according to Krause, * contribute towards the erection of the corpus spongiosum, by pro- ducing compression on the venous structure of the bulb; and the anterior fibres, according to Tyrrell, + assist in the erection of the entire organ by compressing the vena dorsalis, by means of their in- sertion into the fascia penis. The erector penis becomes entitled to its name from spreading out upon the dorsum of the organ into a membranous expansion (fascia penis), which, according to Krause, compresses the dorsal vein during the action of the muscle, and especially after the erection of the organ has commenced. The transverse muscles serve to steady the tendinous centre, that the muscles attached to it may obtain a firm point of support. According to Cruveilhier, they draw the anus backwards during the expulsion of the faeces, and antagonise the levatores ani which carry the anus for- wards. The compressor urethra, taking its fixed point from the ramus of the ischium at each side, can, says Mr. Grutlirie, '' compress the urethra so as to close it; I conceive completely, after the manner of a sphincter." The external sphincter, being a cutaneous muscle, contracts the integument around the anus, and by its attachment to the tendinous centre and point of the coccyx, assists the levator ani in giving support to the opening during expulsive efforts. The in- ternal sphincter contracts the extremity of the cylinder of the intes- tine. The use of the levator ani is expressed in its name. It is the antagonist of the diaphragm and the rest of the expulsory muscles, and serves to support the rectum and vagina during their expulsive efforts. The levator ani acts in unison with the diaphragm, and rises * Miiller Archiv fiir Anatomie, Physiologie, &c. 1S37. t Leetiu'es in the College of Surgeons. 1839.