FACIAL AKTERT. 318 in the fourth (ranine), rests upon the lingualis to the tip of the The Hyoid branch (hyoidea) runs along the upper border of the OS hyoides, and is distributed to the elevator muscles of the os hyoides near their origin, inosculating with its fellow of the opposite side. . The DorsaUs linguce ascends along the posterior border of the liyo-glossus muscle to the dorsum of the tongue, and is distributed to the tongue, the fauces, and epiglottis; anastomosing with its fellow of the opposite side. The Sublingual branch (sublingualis) runs forwards on the genio- hyo-glossus muscle, and is distributed to the sublingual gland and muscles of the tongue. It is situated between the mylo- hyoideus and genio-hyo-glossus, generally accompanies Wharton's duct for a part of its course, and sends a branch to the frsenum linguge. It is the latter branch which affords the considerable hsemorrhage sometimes following the operation of snipping the fraenum in children. Facial artery.—The facial artery (maxillaris externa; labialis) arises immediately above the lingual and a little above the great comu of the os hyoides, and passes forwards to the submaxillary gland, in which it lies embedded. It then curves around the body of the lower jaw, close to the anterior inferior angle of the masseter muscle, ascends to the angle of the mouth, and thence to the angle of the eye, where it is named the angular artery. The facial artery is tortuous in its course over the buccinator muscle, to accommodate itself to the movements of the jaws. Relations.—Below the jaw it passes beneath the digastricus and stylo-hyoid muscles; on the body of the lower jaw it is covered by the platysma myoides, and at the angle of the mouth by the de- pressor anguli oris and zygomatic muscles. It rests upon the sub- maxillary gland, lower jaw, buccinator, orbicularis oris, levator anguli oris, levator labii superioris proprius, and levator labii supe- rioris algeque nasi. Its branches miay be grouped into those which are given off below the jaw, and those on the face; they may be thus arranged:— tongue. Branches. —Hyoid, Dorsalis linguse, Sublingual. Below the Jaw. On the Face. Inferior palatine, Tonsillar, Submaxillary, Submental, Muscular. Buccal, Inferior labial. Inferior coronary, Superior coronary. Lateralis nasi.