151 HIP JOINT. part of the articular surface for the head of the phalanges. Externally it is grooved for the reception of the flexor tendons. The lateral ligaments are very strong ; they are the principal bond of connexion between the bones. The extensor tendon takes the place and performs the office of a posterior ligament. Actions.—The movements of the phalangeal joints axe flexion and extension, these movements being more extensive between the first and second phalanges than between the second and third. In connexion with the phalanges it may be proper to examine cer- tain fibrous bands termed thecce or vaginal ligaments, which serve to retain the tendons of the flexor muscles against the flat surface of the bones. These fibrous bands are attached at each side to the lateral margins of the phalanges ; they are thick in the interspaces of the joints, thin where the tendons lie upon the joints, and are lined on their inner surface by synovial membrane. LIGAMENTS OP THE LOWER EXTREMITY. The ligaments of the lower extremity, like those of the upper, may be arranged in the order of the joints to which they belong ; these are, 1. Hip joint. 2. Knee joint. 3. Articulation between the tibia and fibula. I 4. Ankle joint. ' 5. Articulation of the tarsal bones. 6. Tarso-metatarsal articulation. 7. Metatarso-phalangeal articulation. 8. Articulation of the phalanges. 1. Hip Joint.—The articulation of the head of the femur with the acetabulum constitutes an enarthrosis, or ball-and-socket joint. The articular surfaces are the cup-shaped cavity of the acetabulum and the rounded head of the femur ; the ligaments are five in num- ber, viz. Capsular, Cotyloid, Ilio-femoral, Transverse. Teres, The capsular ligament, {memhrana capsularis, fig. 76, 8) is a strong ligamentous capsule, embracing the acetabulum superiorly, the neck of the femur below, and connecting the two bones firmly toge- ther. It is much thicker on the upper part of the joint, where more resistance is required, than upon the under part, and extends farther upon the neck of the femur on the anterior and superior than on the posterior and inferior side, being attached to the intertrochanteric line in front, to the base of the great trochanter above, and to the middle of the neck of the femur behind. The ilio-femoral ligament (fig. 76, 9) is an accessory and radi-