NERVOUS SYSTEM.—DEVELOPMENT. 417 The fibres of the cerebro-spinal axis are arranged into two classes, diverging and converging. The diverging fibres proceed from the medulla oblongata, and diverge to every part of the surface of the brain; while the converging fibres commence at the surface and proceed inwards towards the centre, so as to connect the diverging fibres of opposite sides. In certain parts of their course the diverging fibres are separated by the grey substance, and increase in number so as to form a body of considerable size, which is called a ganglion. The position and mutual relations of these fibres and ganglia may be best explained by reference to the mode of develop- ment of the cerebro-spinal axis. The centre of the nervous system, in the lowest animals possessed of a lengthened axis, presents itself in the form of a double cord. A step higher in the animal scale, and knots or ganglia are developed on one extremity of this cord; such is the most rudimentary condi- tion of the brain in the lowest forms of vertebrata. In the lowest fishes the anterior extremity of the double cord displays a succession of five pairs of ganglia. The higher fishes and amphibia appear to have a different disposition of these primitive ganglia. The first or posterior two have become fused into a single ganglion, and then follow only three pairs of symmetrical ganglia. But if the larger pair be unfolded, after being hardened in alcohol, it will then be seen that the whole number of ganglia exist, but that four have become concealed by a thin covering that has spread across them. This condition of the brain carries us upwards in the animal scale even to Mammalia; e.g., in the dog or cat we find, first, a single ganglion, the cerebellum; then three pairs following each other in succession; and if we unfold the middle pair, we shall be at once convinced that it is composed of two pairs of primitive ganglia con- cealed by an additional development. Again, it will be observed, that the primitive ganglia of opposite sides, at first separate and disjoined, become connected by means of transverse fibres of commu- nication {commissures; commissura, a joining). The office of these commissures is the association in function of the two symmetrical portions. Hence we arrive at the general and important conclusion, that the brain, among the lower animals, consists of primitive cords, primitive ganglia upon those cords, and commissures which connect the substance of adjoining ganglia, and associate their functions. In the development of the cerebro-spinal axis in man, the earliest indication of the spinal cord is presented under the form of a pair of minute longitudinal filaments placed side by side. Upon these, towards the anterior extremity, five pairs of minute swellings are observed, not disposed in a straight line as in fishes, but curved upon each other so as to correspond with the direction of the future cranium. The posterior pair soon become cemented on the middle line, forming a single ganglion; the second pair also unite with each other; the third and fourth pairs, at first distinct, are speedily veiled by a lateral development, which arches backwards and conceals them; E E