543 MUSCLES OF THE TYMPANUM. anvil. It has also been likened to a bicuspid tooth, having one root longer than, and widely separated from, the other. It consists of two processes, which unite nearly at right angles, and at their junction form a flattened body, which articulates with the head of the malleus. The short process is attached to the margin of the opening of the mastoid cells by means of a ligament; the long process descends nearly parallel with the handle of the malleus, and curves inwards, near its termination. At its extremity is a small globular projection, the OS orbiculare, which in the foetus is a distinct bone, but becomes anchylosed to the long process of the incus in the adult; this process articulates with the head of the stapes. The Stapes is shaped like a stirrup, to which it bears a close re- semblance. Its head articulates with the os orbiculare, and the two branches (crura) are connected by their extremities with a flat, oval- shaped plate, representing the foot of the stirrup. The foot of the stirrup is received into the fenestra ovalis, to the margin of which it is connected by means of a ligament: it is in contact, by its surface, with the membrana vestibuli, and is covered in by the mucous lining of the tympanum. The neck of the stapes gives attachment to the stapedius muscle. The ossicula auditus are retained in position and moved upon themselves by means of ligaments and muscles. The Ligaments are three in number; the suspensory ligament of the malleus, which is attached by one extremity to the upper wall of the tympanum, and by the other to the head of the malleus; the posterior ligament of the incus, a short and thick band, which serves to attach the extremity of the short process of that bone to the margin of the opening of the mastoid cells : and the annular ligament which connects the margin of the foot of the stapes with the circumference of the fenestra ovalis. These ligaments have been described as muscles, by Mr. Tod, under the names of superior capitis mallei, obliquus incudis externus posterior, and musculus vel structura stapedii inferior. Arnold adds as a fourth a suspensory ligament of the incus. The Muscles of the tympanum are four in number, the— Tensor tympani, Laxator tympani, Laxator tympani minor, Stapedius. Tli.o Tensor tympani (musculus internus mallei) arises from the spinous process of the sphenoid, from the petrous portion of the tem- poral bone, and from the Eustachian tube, and passes forwards in a distinct canal, separated from the tube by the processus cochleari- formis, to be inserted into the handle of the malleus, immediately below the root of the processus gracilis. The Laxator tympani (musculus externus mallei) arises from the