THE KIDNEYS. 636 enclosed in a tube of delicate membrane (limitary membrane). The medullary substance and intercolumnar spaces contain cytoblasts uniformly scattered and interspersed with granules and fat-cells. Oesterlen found also, occasionally, in the medullary substance, elon- gated spaces without lining membrane, containing a thick greyish- white fluid. Vessels and Nerves.-—The supra-renal arteries are derived from the aorta, from the renal, and from the phrenic arteries; they are remarkable for the innumerable minute twigs into which they divide previously to entering the capsule. The supra-renal vein collecting the blood from the medullary venous plexus, and receiving several branches which pierce the cortical layer, opens directly into the vena cava on the right side, and into the renal vein on the left. The Lymphatics are large and very numerous; they terminate in the lumbar glands. The nerves are derived from the renal and from the phrenic plexus. THE KIDNEYS. The kidneys, the secreting organs of the urine, are situated in the lumbar regions, behind the peri- toneum, and on each side of the vertebral column, extending from the eleventh rib to near the crest of the ilium, and approaching the vertebral column by their upper ends. Each kidney is between four and five inches in length, about two inches and a half in breadth, somewhat more than one inch in thickness, and weighs between three and five ounces. The kidneys are usually surrounded by fat; they rest on the crura of the diaphragm, on the anterior lamella of the aponeurosis of the transversalis muscle, which separates them from the quadratus lumborum, and on the psoas magnus. The. right Icidney is somewhat lower than the left, from the position of the liver; it is in relation, by its anterior surface, with the liver and descend- * A section of the kidney, surmounted by the supra-renal capsule; the Swellings on the surface mark the original constitution of the organ of distinct lobes. 1. The supra-renal capsule. 2. The vascular portion of the kidney. 3, 3. Its tubular portion, consisting of cones. 4, 4. Two of the papillae pro- jecting into their corresponding calices. 5,5,5. The three infundibula; the middle 5 is situated in the mouth of a calyx. 6. The pelvis. 7. The ureter.