618 MUSCULAR COAT OP THE INTESTINE. meshes. The alveoli are polygonal, for the most part hexagonal in form, and somewhat larger than those of the large intestine, mea- suring between and 2tit ^^^h in longest diameter. Each contains a muciparous gland, which forms its floor, and the gland is furnished with a central excretory open- ing. Around the circumference of the glandular patch the reticular structure is imperceptibly lost in the lamellated villi of the mucous membrane. Muscular coat.—The muscular coat of the pharynx consists of five pairs of muscles, which have been already de- scribed. The muscular coat of the rest of the alimentary canal is composed of two planes of fibres, an external longi- tudinal and an internal circular. The CEsophagus is very muscular; its longitudinal fibres commence by three fasciculi, two lateral, which are continuous with the in- ferior constrictor, and one anterior, which is attached to the verti- cal ridge of the cricoid cartilage. The circular fibres are attached superiorly to the cricoid cartilage; they are transverse in their ar- rangement above and below, but spiral in the middle of the oeso- phagus. Below, both sets of fibres are continued on to the stomach. In addition to the proper muscular fibres of the oesophagus, Hyrtl has described two special muscles in connexion with this tube, broncho-oesophageal and pleuro-oesophageal. The Broncho-mophageal muscle arises as a broad fasciculus from the posterior surface of the left bronchus, and is lost, after a course of two or three inches in length, among the longitudinal fibres of the left side of the oesophagus. The Pleuro-oesophageal muscle arises from the left wall of the posterior mediastinum behind the commencement of the descending aorta, and curves around that vessel to mingle its fibres with the longitudinal fibres of the oeso- phagus. On the Stomach the longitudinal fibres, descending from the oeso- phagus, spread out in a radiated manner around the cardiac orifice and great end of the organ, and take their course towards the lesser end; they are most apparent along the lesser curve. The circular * A portion of the free border of one of the valvnlae eonniventes of the jejunum, magnified 19 times, and showing an alveolar and glandular structure, not hitherto described. The mode of transition of the lamellated into the alveolar structure is seen. The alveoli measured of an inch by 3^5^, being as large as those of the stomach, and somewhat larger than those of the large intestine; the septa measured between and of an inch in width; the alveoli were shallow, and contained in their base a mucous gland with an excretory opening. Fig. 216.^