219 LEVATOEES COSTAEUM. recurrence of the number/oitr in the origin and insertion of the muscles. Sometimes the four occurs at the top or bottom of a region of the spine, and frequently includes a part of two regions, tajking two from each, as in the case of the serrati. Again, he will perceive that the muscles of the upper half of the table take their origin from spinous processes, and pass outwards to transverse, whereas the lower half arise mostly from transverse processes. To the student we commit these reflections, and leave it to the peculiar tenor of his own mind to make such arrangements as will be best retained by his memory. Actions.—The upper fibres of the trapezius draw the shoulder upwards and backwards; the middle fibres, directly backwards ; and the lower downwards and backwards. The lower fibres also act in producing rotation of the scapula upon the chest. If the sho.ulder be fixed, the upper fibres will flex the spine towards the corresponding side. The latissimus dorsi is a muscle of the arm, drawing it backwards and downwards, and at the same time rotating it inwards ; if the arm be fixed, the latissimus dorsi will draw the spine to that side, and, raising the lower ribs, be an inspiratory muscle ; and if both arms be fixed, the two muscles will draw the whole trunk forwards, as in climbing or walking on crutches. The levator anguli scapulse lifts the upper angle of the scapula, and with it the en|iire shoulder, and the rhomboidei carry the scapula and shoulder upwards and backwards. The serrati are respiratory muscles acting in opposition to each other, the serratus posticus superior drawing the ribs upwards, and thereby expanding the chest; the inferior drawing the lower ribs downwards, and diminishing the cavity, of the chest. The former is an inspiratory, the latter an expiratory muscle. The splenii muscles of one side draw the vertebral column backwards and to one side, and rotate the head towards the corresponding shoulder. The muscles of opposite sides acting together, draw the head directly backwards. They are the natural antagonists of the stemo-mastoid muscles. The sacro-lumbalis with its accessory muscle, the longissiraus dorsi and the spinalis dorsi, are known by the general term of erector spince, which sufficiently expresses their action. They keep the spine supported in the vertical position by their broad origin from below, and by means of their insertion, by distinct tendons, into the ribs and spinous processes. Being made up of a number of distinct fasciculi, which alternate in their actions, the spine is kept erect without fatigue, even when they have to counter- balance a corpulent abdomen. The continuations upwards of these muscles into the neck preserve the steadiness and uprightness of that region. When the muscles of one side act alone, the neck is rotated upon its axis. The complexus, by being attached to the occipital bone, draws the head backwards, and counteracts the muscles of the anterior part of the neck. It assists also in the rotation of the head.