319 FACIAL ARTEKT. The Inferior palatine branch (palatina ascendens; pharyngo- palatina) ascends between tlie stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus muscle, to be distributed to the tonsil and soft palate, and anasto- moses with the descending palatine branch of the internal maxillary artery. The Tonsillar branch (tonsillaris) ascends upon the side of the pharynx, and pierces the superior constrictor muscle to be distributed to the tonsil. The Submaxillary (submaxillares) are four or five branches which supply the submaxillary gland. The Submental branch (submentalis) runs forwards upon the mylo-hyoid muscle, under cover of the body of the lower jaw, and anastomoses with branches of the sublingual and inferior dental artery. The Muscular branches (musculares) are distributed to the mas- seter, pterygoideus internus, digastricus and stylo-hyoideus. The Buccal branches (buccales), eight or ten in number, are given off upon the face, and are distributed to the buccinator, mas- seter, muscles of the upper lip, orbicularis palpebrarum, and in- tegument of the cheek. They anastomose with the b^iccal branch of the internal maxillary, the transverse facial, and the infraorbital. The Inferior labial branch (labialis inferior) passes forwards be- neath the depressor anguli oris muscle, and is distributed to the muscles of the lower lip, inosculating with the labial branch of the inferior dental, and with the inferior coronary. The Inferior coronary branch (coronaria labii inferioris) is given off at the angle of the mouth, and passes inwards near the edge of the lower lip, lying between the orbicularis and mucous membrane : it inosculates with its fellow of the opposite side. The Superior coronary branch (coronaria labii superioris), arising close to, or in common with the preceding, takes its course in the same manner along the upper lip, inosculating with its fellow of the opposite side. At the middle of the lip it sends a small branch up- wards to the septum of the nose (arteria septi). The Lateral nasal branch (nasalis lateralis vel externa) is given off near the ala nasi, and passes beneath the levator labii superioris alseque nasi, to be distributed to the nose. It inosculates with the nasal branch of the ophthalmic artery. The Inosculations of the facial artery are numerous, namely, with the sublingual branch of the lingual, ascending pharyngeal artery, descending palatine artery, inferior dental at its escape from the mentaJ foramen, infraorbital at the infraorbital foramen, transverse facial on the side of the face, and at the angle of the eye, the nasal and frontal branch of the ophthalmic artery. The facial artery is subject to variety in length : it not unfrequently terminates at the angle of the nose or mouth, and is rarely sym- metrical on both sides of the face.