TARSUS. —ASTRAGALUS. 106 rougli depression, for the attachment of the interosseous ligament. The anterior border is thin and sharp; the j^osterior, broad and grooved, for the tendons of the peronei muscles. To place the bone in its proper position, and ascertain to which leg it belongs, let the inferior or flattened extremity be directed downwards, and the narrow border of the malleolus forwards; the triangular subcutaneous surface will then point to the side corre- sponding with the limb of which the bone should form a part. The shaft of the fibula is prismoid, and presents three surfaces; external, internal, and posterior; and three borders. The external siwface is the broadest of the three; it commences on the anterior part of the bone above, and curves around it so as to terminate on its posterior side below. This surface is completely occupied by the two peronei muscles. The internal surface commences on the side of the superior articular surface, and terminates below, by narrow- ing to a ridge which is continuous with the anterior border of the malleolus. It is marked along its middle by the interosseous ridge, which is lost above and below in the inner border of the bone. The posterior surface is twisted like the external, it commences above on the posterior side of the bone, and terminates below on its in- ternal side; at about the middle of this surface is the nutritious foramen, which is directed downwards. The internal border commences superiorly in common with the interosseous ridge, and bifurcates inferiorly into two lines, which bound the triangular subcutaneous surface of the external, malleolus. The external border begins at the base of the styloid process of the head of the fibula, and winds around the bone, following the direc- tion of the corresponding surface. The posterior border, sharp and prominent, is lost inferiorly in the interosseous ridge. Development.—By three centres; one for the shaft, and one for each extremity. Ossification commences in the shaft soon after its appearance in the tibia; at birth the extremities are cartilaginous, an osseous deposit taking place in the inferior epiphysis during the second year, and in the superior during the fourth or fifth. The inferior epiphysis is the first to become united with the diaphysis, but the bone is not completed until nearly the twenty-fifth year. Articulations.—With the tibia and astragalus. Attachment of Muscles.—To ten; by the head, to the tendon of ' the biceps and soleus; by the shaft, its external surface, peroneus longus and brevis; internal surface, extensor longus digitorum, ex- tensor proprius pollicis, peroneus tertius, and 'tibialis posticus; by the posterior surface, popliteus and flexor longus pollicis. Tarsus.—The bones of the tarsus are seven in number: viz. astragalus, os calcis, scaphoid, internal, middle, and external cunei- form, and cuboid. The Astragalus (os tali) may be recognised by its rounded head,