COKPORA QUADRIGEMINA. 439 of the hemispheres; the middle or soft commissure consists of grey matter, which is continuous with the grey lining of the ventricle, it connects the adjacent sides of the thalami optici; the jposterior commissure^ smaller than the anterior, is a flattened white cord, connecting the two thalami optici posteriorly. The space between the anterior and middle commissure is called the foramen commune anterius, and is that to which Monro has given his name (foramen of Monro). It is the medium of communication between the two lateral and third ventricles, and transmits superiorly the choroid plexus and venae corporum striatorum. The foramen commune anterius is also termed, iter ad infundibulum, from leading downwards to the funnel-shaped cavity of the infundibulum. The crura of the fornix are embedded in the lateral walls of the foramen commune, and are concealed from view in this situation by the layer of grey substance which lines the interior of the third ventricle. If the crura be slightly separated, the anterior commissure will be seen immediately in front of them, crossing from one corpus striatum to the other. The space between the middle and posterior commissure is the foramen commune posterius; it is much shallower than the preceding, and is the origin of a canal, the aqueduct of Sylvius or iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculum, which leads backwards be- neath the posterior commissure and through the base of the corpora quadrigemina to the upper part of the fourth ventricle. Corpora quadrigemina.—The corpora quadrigemina, or optic lobes, are situated immediately behind the third ventricle and poste- rior commissure; and beneath the posterior border of the corpus callosum. They form, indeed, at this point, the inferior boundary of the transverse fissure of the hemispheres, the fissure of Bichat. The anterior pair of these bodies, grey in colour, are named nates: the posterior pair, white and much smaller than the anterior, are termed testes. From the nates on each side may be traced a rounded process (brachium anterius) which passes obliquely outwards into the thalamus opticus; and from the testis a similar but smaller process (brachium posterius) which has the same destination. The corpus geniculatum internum lies in the interval of these two processes where they enter the thalamus, and behind the brachium posterius is a prominent band (laqueus) which marks the course of the superior division of the fasciculus olivaris. The corpora quadrigemina are perforated longitudinally through their base by the aqueduct of Sylvius ; they are co veered in partly by the pia mater and partly by the velum interpositum, and the nates support the pineal gland. Pineal gland.—The pineal gland is a small reddish-grey body of a conical form (hence its synonym conarium), situated on the anterior part of the nates and invested by a duplicature of pia mater derived from the under part of the velum interpositum., The pineal gland when pressed between the fingers is found to contain a gritty matter (acervulus) composed chemically of phosphate and carbonate of lime, and phosphate of magnesia and ammonia; it is sometimes hollow in