517 THORACIC PORTION OP THE SYMPATHETIC NERVE. The thoracic portion of the sympathetic nerve is the trunk of the sympathetic in its course through the cavity of the thorax. It lies by the side of the vertebral column upon the heads of the ribs and intercostal spaces; but at its lowest part comes into relation with the sides of the bodies of the last two dorsal vertebrse. The Thoracic ganglia are twelve in number on each side. They are flattened and triangular, or irregular in form, and present the peculiar reddish grey colour and pearly lustre of the sympathetic ganglia in general; they rest against the heads of the ribs, and are covered by the pleura costalis. The first two ganglia and the last are usually the largest; the latter being situated upon the side of the body of the last dorsal vertebra. Their branches are branches of communication and branches of distribution. Some ascending filaments from the first ganglion assist in the formation of the vertebral plexus. The external or communicating branches, two or three in number for each ganglion, communicate with the intercostal nerves. The internal or visceral branches arising from the five or six upper ganglia, are of a small size, and distributed to the aorta, oesophagus, vertebral column, and lungs. The branches to the lungs proceed from the third and fourth ganglia, and go to join the poste- rior pulmonary plexus. The visceral branches of the six lower ganglia unite to form the three splanchnic nerves. The Great splanchnic nerve proceeds from the sixth dorsal gan- glion, and receiving the branches of the seventh, eighth, ninth, and tenth, passes downwards upon the front of the vertebral column, and, piercing the crus of the diaphragm, terminates in the semi- lunar ganglion. The Lesser splanchnic nerve is formed by filaments which issue from the tenth and eleventh ganglia; it pierces the crus of the dia- phragm, and joins the solar plexus near the middle line. The Third or renal splanchnic nerve proceeds from the last tho- racic ganglion, and, piercing the diaphragm, terminates in the renal plexus. When absent, the place of this nerve is supplied by the lesser splanchnic. The Semilunar ganglion is a large, irregular, gangliform body, pierced by numerous openings, and appearing like the aggregation of a number of smaller ganglia, having spaces between them. It is situated by the side of the cceliac axis and root of the superior mesenteric artery, and extends outwards to the supra-renal capsule. The ganglia communicate both above and below the coeliac axis and form a gangliform circle, from which branches pass off in all direc- tions, like rays from a centre. Hence the entire circle has been named the solar plexus. The Solar or epigastric plexus receives the great and lesser