TARSAL AKTICULATIONS, 161 their respective bones; they form the principal bond of connexion between the first and second range of bones of the foot. It is the division of this portion of these ligaments that demands the careful attention of the surgeon in performing Chopart's operation. The plantar ligaments have the same disposition on the plantar surface of the foot; three of them, however, are of large size, and have especial names, viz. the Calcaneo-scaphoid, Long calcaneo-cuboid. Short calcaneo-cuboid. Tie inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament is a broad fibrocartilagi- nous band of ligament, which passes forward from the anterior and inner border of the os calcis to the edge of the scaphoid bone. In addition to connecting the os calcis and scaphoid, it supports the astragalus, and forms part of the cavity in which the rounded head of the latter bone is re- ceived. It is lined upon its upper surface by the synovial membrane of the astra- galo-scaphoid articulation. The firm connexion of the os calcis vsdth the scaphoid bone, and the feebleness of the astragalo-scaphoid articulation, are conditions favourable to the occasional dislocation of the head of the astragalus. The long calcaneo-cuhoid, or liga- mentum longum plantce, is a long band of ligamentous fibres, which proceeds from the under surface of the os calcis to the rough surface on the under part of the cuboid bone, its fibres being continued onwards to the bases of the third and fourth metatarsal bones. This ligament forms the inferior boun- dary of a canal in the cuboid bone, through which the tendon of the peroneus longus passes to its insertion into the base of the metatarsal bone of the great toe. The short calcaneo-cuboid, or liga- * Ligaments of the sole of the foot. 1. The os calcis. 2. Astragalus. 3. Tube- rosity of the scaphoid bone. 4. Long calcaneo-cuboid ligament. 5. Pai't of the short calcaneo-cuboid ligament. 6. Calcaneo-scaphoid ligament. 7. Plantar tarsal ligaments. 8, 8. Tendon of the peroneus longus muscle. 9, 9. Plantar tarso-metatarsal hgaments. 10. Plantar Hgament of the me- ta.tarso-phalangeal articulation of the great toe ; the same hgament is seen upon the other toes. 11. Lateral hgaments of the metatarso-phalangeal ar- ticulation. 12. Transverse hgament. 13. The lateral Hgaments of the pha- langes of the great toe; the same ligaments are seen upon the other toes.