STRUCTURE OP THE KIDNEYS. 637 ing portion of the duodenum, which rest against it; and is covered in by the ascending colon. The left kidney, higher than the right, is covered, in front, by the great end of the stomach, by the spleen, and descending colon. The anterior surface of the kidney is convex, while the posterior is flat; the superior extremity is in relation with the supra-renal capsule; the convex border is turned outwards towards the parietes of the abdomen; the concave border looks inwards towards the vertebral column, and presents a deep notch" (/w^i^m renale), which leads to a cavity, or sinus, within the organ. In the sinus renalis are situated the vessels and nerves of the kidney and the expansion of the excretory duct called pelvis renalis. At the hilum these vessels are so placed that the renal vein is in front of the artery, and the pelvis and ureter behind. The kidney is dense and fragile in texture, and invested by a proper fibrous capsule, which is easUy torn from its surface. When divided by a longitudinal incision, carried from the convex to the concave border, it is found to present in its interior two structures, an external or vascular (cortical), and an internal or tubular (medul- lary) substance. The tubular portion is formed of pale reddish- coloured conical masses, corresponding by their bases with the vas- cular structure, and by their apices with the hilum of the organ; these bddies are named cones (pyramids of Malpighi), and are from eight to fifteen in number. The vascular portion, about two lines in thick- ness, is composed of blood-vessels and the plexiform convolutions of uriniferous tubuli, and not only constitutes the surface of the kidney, but dips between the cones and surrounds them nearly to their apices (septula renum). The cones or pyramids of the tubular portion of the kidney are composed of minute straight tubuli uriniferi, of about the diameter of a fine hair. The tubuli commence at the apices of the cones, and pursue a parallel course towards the periphery of the organ, bifurcating from point to point, and separated only by minute straight blood-vessels, and a small quantity of parenchymatous sub- stance. At the bases of the pyramids the tubuli collect into smaller conical fasciculi {pyramids of Ferrein), which are prolonged into the substance of the cortical portion of the kidney, and have inter- posed between them processes of the vascular structure. In the smaller pyramids the fasciculi separate into their component tubules, which, after a course marked by "tortuosities, plexuses, convolu- tions, and dilatations," terminate, according to Bowman,* in small round bodies, the corpora Malpighiana, or, according to Krause and Toynbee,f by anastomoses and csecal extremities. The average diameter of the tubuli uriniferi in the cortical portion of the kidney is the of an inch, of which about two-thirds are occupied by a * Ou the Structure and Use of the Malpighian Bodies of the Eadney. Philosophical Transactions, 184!2. t On the Intimate Structure of the Human Kidney, &c. Medico-Chirur- gical Transactions, vol. xxix. 1846.