ANTERIOR TIBIAL REGION. 276 to the outer side of tlie base another incision directed acre Fig. 124.* of the great toe, and he terminated by ss the heads of the metatarsal bones. The Tibialis anticus (flexor tarsi tibialis) arises from the outer tuberosity and upper two-thirds of the tibia, from the interosseous membrane, intermuscular fascia, and deep fascia; its tendon passes through a distinct sheath in the an- nular ligament, and is inserted into the inner and under side of the internal cuneiform bone, and base of the metatarsal bone of the great toe. Relations.—By its anterior sur- face with the deep fascia, from which many of its superior fibres arise, and with the anterior annu- lar ligament. By its posterior sur- face with the interosseous mem- brane, tibia, ankle-joint, and bones of the tarsus. By its internal sur- face with the tibia; and by its external surface with the extensor longus digitorum, extensor proprius pollicis, and anterior tibial vessels and nerve. The Extensor longus digitorum (extensor communis longus) arises from the outer tuberosity of the tibia, from the head and tipper three-fourths of the fibula, from the interosseous membrane, intennus- cular fascia and deep fascia. Near the ankle it divides into four ten- dons, which pass beneath the annular ligament thi-ough a proper tendinous pulley (the sling ligament of Betzius) to be inserted into the * Muscles of the anterior tibial region. 1. The quadriceps extensor muscle inserted into the patella; the number rests on the tendon of the rectus, the vastus taternus and externus are situated one on each side. 2. Subcutaneous surface of the tibia. 3. Tibiahs anticus. 4. Extensor longus digitorum. 5. Extensor proprius polheis. 6. Peroneus tertius. 7. Peroneus longus. 8. Peroneus brevis. 9, 9. Borders of the soleus muscle. 10. Part of the inner belly of the gastrocnemius. 11. Extensor bre\is digitonim; the tendon in fi-ont o'f this number is that of the peroneus tertius; and that behind it, the tendon of the peroneus brevis.