158 ANKLE JOINT. The interosseous membrane or superior interosseous ligament, is a broad layer of aponeurotic fibres which pass obliquely downwards and outwards, from the sharp ridge on the tibia to the inner edge of the fibula, and are crossed at an acute angle by a few fibres taking the opposite direction. The ligament is deficient above, leaving a considerable interval between the bones, through which the anterior tibial artery takes its course forward to the anterior aspect of the leg; and below, near its lower third, there is an opening for the an- terior peroneal artery and vein. The interosseous membrane is in relation, in front, with the tibialis anticus, extensor longus digitorum, extensor proprius pollicis, anterior tibial vessels and nerve, and anterior peroneal artery; behind, with the tibialis posticus, flexor longus digitorum, and posterior peroneal artery. The inferior interosseous ligament consists of short and strong fibres, which hold the bones firmly together inferiorly, where they are nearly in contact. This articulation is so firm, that the fibula is broken when an attempt is made to rupture the ligament. The anterior inferior tibio-fhular ligament is a broad band, con- sisting of two fasciculi of parallel fibres which pass obliquely across the anterior aspect of the articulation of the two bones at their in- ferior extremity, from tibia to fibula. The posterior inferior tibio-fhular ligament (fig. 90, 2) is a similar band on the posterior surface of the articulation. Both ligaments project somewhat below the margin of the bones, and serve to deepen the cavity of articulation with the astragalus. The transverse ligament (fig. 90, 3) is a narrow band of liga- mentous fibres, continuous with the preceding, and passing trans- versely across the back of the ankle joint between the two malleoli. The sjinovial membrane of the inferior tibio-fibular articulation, is a duplicature of the synovial membrane of the ankle joint, re- flected upwards for a short distance between the two bones. Actions.—Between the tibia and fibula there exists an obscure degree of movement, which is calculated to enable the latter to re- sist injury by yielding for a trifling extent to forcible pressure. 4. AnJde Joint.—The ankle is a ginglymoid articulation; the surfaces entering into its formation are the under surface of the tibia with its malleolus and the malleolus of the fibula, above; and the surface of the astragalus with its two lateral facets, below. The ligaments are three in number: Anterior, Internal lateral. External lateral. The anterior ligament is a thin membranous layer, passing from the margin of the tibia, to the astragalus in front of its articular