280 POSTERIOR TIBIAL REGION. and nerve. By its deep surface with the synovial membrane of the knee-joint, and upper part of the tibia. The Flexor longus pollicis (flexor Mg. 126.* hallucis longus) is the most superficial of the next three muscles. It arises from the lower two-thirds of the fibula, and passes through a groove in the astragalus and OS calcis, which is converted by ten- dinous fibres into a distinct sheath lined by a synovial membrane, into the sole of the foot; and is inserted into the base of the last phalanx of the great toe. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the intermuscular fascia, which separates it from the soleus and tendo- Achillis. By its deep surface with the tibialis posticus, fibula, peroneal vessels, interosseous membrane, and ankle-joint. By its outer horder with the peroneus longus and brevis. By its inner horder with the flexor longus digitorum. In the foot, the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis is connected with that of the flexor longus digitorum by a short tendinous slip. The Flexor longus digitorum (per- forans; flexor communis longus) arises from the surface of the tibia, immediately below the popliteal line. Its tendon passes through a sheath, common to it and the tibialis posticus, behind the inner mal- leolus ; it then passes through a second sheath which is connected with a groove in the astragalus and os calcis into the sole of the foot, where it divides into four tendons, which are inserted into the base of the last phalanx of the four lesser toes, perforating the tendons of the flexor brevis digitorum. * Deep layer of muscles of the posterior tibial region. 1. Lower extremity of the femur. 2. Ligamentum posticum Winslowii. 3. Tendon of the semi- membranosus muscle dividing into its three shps. 4. Internal lateral Hga- ment of the knee-jouit. 5. External lateral Hgament. 6. Pophteus muscle. 7. Flexor longus digitorum. 8. Tibiahs posticus. 9. Flexor longus poUicis. 10. Peroneus longus. 11. Peroneus brevis. 12. The tendo-Achillis divided near its insertion into the os calcis. 13. The tendons of the tibiahs posticus and flexor longus digitorum, just as they are about to pass beneath the in- ternal annular hgament of the ankle; the interval betvreen the latter tendon and the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis is occupied by the posterior tibial vessels and nerve.