15 LUMBAR VERTEBRA. pointed, and directed very slightly backwards. The superior articular 2^rocesses are concave, and look backwards and inwards; the inferior convex, look forwards and outwards. Projecting backwards and upwards from the su- ■ * perior articular process ^5'- 9- is a short and flat- tened tubercle or pos- terior transverse pro- cess, and in a strongly marked vertebra there is not unfrequently at the base of this a smaller tubercle which has a direction down- wards. The last lum- bar vertebra differs from the rest in hav- ing the body very much bevelled posteriorly, so as to be thick in front and thin behind, and the transverse process thick and large. General Considerations.—Viewed as a whole, the vertebral column represents two pyramids applied base to base, the superior being formed by all the vertebrae from the second cervical to the last lumbar, and the inferior by the sacrum and coccyx. Examined more attentively, it will be seen to be composed of four irregular pyramids, applied to each other by their smaller extremities and by their bases. The smaller extremity of the uppermost pyramid is formed by the axis, or second cervical vertebra; and its base, by the first dorsal. The second pyramid is inverted; having its base at the first dorsal, and the smaller end at the fourth. The third pyramid commences at the fourth dorsal, and gradually enlarges to the fifth lumbar. The fourth pyramid is formed by the sacrum and coccyx. The bodies of the vertebrae are broad in the cervical region; nar- rowed almost to an angle in the middle of the dorsal, and again broad in the lumbar region. The arches are broad and imbricated in the cervical and dorsal regions, the inferior border of each over- lapping the superior of the next; in the lumbar region an interval is left between them. A considerable interval exists between the cranium and atlas, and another between the last lumbar vertebra and sacrum. The sjnnous processes are horizontal in the cervical, and become gradually oblique in the upper part of the dorsal region. In the middle of the dorsal region they are nearly vertical and imbricated, * A lateral \'iew of a lumbar vertebra. 1. The body. 2. The pedicle. 3. The superior intervertebral notch. 4. The inferior intervertebral notch. 5. The spinous process. 6. The transverse process. 7. The superior arti- cular processes. 8. The inferior articular processes. 9. The posterior trans- verse process.