LATERAL VENTRICLES. 431 sulcus between this convolution and the corpus callosum has been termed, very improperly, the " ventricle of the corpus callosum," and some longitudinal fibres (stri^ longitudinales laterales), which are brought into view when the convolution is raised, were called by Eeil the "covered band." If the upper part of each hemisphere be removed to a level with the corpus callosum, a large expanse of medullary matter, surrounded by a zigzag line of grey substance cor- responding with the convolutions and sulci of the two hemispheres, will be seen ; this is the centrum ovale majus of Vieussens. The Corpus callosum (callosus, hard) is a thick layer of medullary fibres passing transversely between the two hemispheres, and consti- tuting their great commissure (trabs cerebri, beam of the brain). It is situated in the middle line of the centrum ovale majus, but nearer the anterior than the posterior part of the brain, and terminates anteriorly in a rounded border (genu), which may be traced down- wards to the base of the brain in front of the commissure of the optic nerves. Posteriorly it forms a thick rounded fold (splenium), which is continuous with the fornix. The length of the corpus callosum is about four inches. Beneath the posterior rounded border of the corpus callosum is the transverse fissure of the cerebrum, which extends between the hemi- spheres; and crura cerebri from near the fissure of Sylvius on one side, to the same point on the opposite side of the brain. It is through this fissure that the pia mater communicates with the velum inter- positum. And it was here that Bichat conceived the arachnoid to enter the ventricles; hence it is also named the fissure of Bichat. Along the middle line of the corpus callosum is the raphe, a linear depression between two slightly elevated longitudinal bands (chordae longitudinales, Lancisii) ; and, on either side of the raphe, may be seen the linece transversce, which mark the direction of the fibres of which the corpus callosum is composed. These fibres may be traced into the hemispheres on either side, and they will be seen to be crossed at about an inch from the raphe by the longitudinal fibres of the covered band of Reil. Anteriorly and posteriorly the fibres of the corpus callosum curve forwards and backwards into their cor- responding lobes. If a superficial incision be made through the corpus callosum on either side of the raphe, two irregular cavities will be opened, which extend from one extremity of the hemispheres to the other: these are the lateral ventricles. To expose them completely, their upper boundary should be removed with the scissors. In making this dissection the thin and diaphanous membrane of the ventricles may frequently be seen. Lateral ventricles.—Each lateral ventricle is divided into a central cavity and three smaller cavities called cornua. The anterior cornu curves forwards and outwards in the anterior lobe; the middle cornu descends into the middle lobe ; and the posterior cornu passes backwards in the posterior lobe, converging towards its fellow of the