LIGAMENTS OF THE PELVIS. 137 4th. Between the osm'pubis. Anterior pubic, Posterior pubic, Superior pubic. Sub-pubic, Interosseous fibro-cartilage. 1. Betioeen the Sacrum and Ilium.—The anterior sacro-iliac ligament consists of numerous short ligamentous fibres, which pass from bone to bone on the anterior surface of the joint. The posterior sacro-iliac or interosseous ligament (ileo-sacrale breve) is composed of numerous strong fasciculi of ligamentous fibres, which pass horizontally between the rough surfaces of the posterior half of the sacro-iliac articulation, and constitute the principal bond of connexion between the sacrum and ilium. One fasciculus of this ligament, longer and larger than the rest, is distinguished, from its direction, by the name of oblique sacro-iliac ligament (ileo-sacrale longum). It is attached, by one extremity, to the posterior superior spine of the ilium; and, by the other, to the third transverse tubercle on the posterior surface of the sacrum. The surfaces of the two bones forming the sacro-iliac articulation are partly covered with cartilage, and partly rough and connected by the interosseous ligament. The anterior or auricular half is coated with cartilage, which is thicker on the sacrum than on the ilium. The surface of the cartilage is uneven, and provided with a delicate synovial membrane, which, although not demonstrable in the adult, is apparent in the young subject and in the female during pregnancy. 2. Between the Sacrum and Ischium.—The anterior or lesser sacro-ischiatic ligament (sacro-ischiadicum minus) is thin, and tri- angular in form; it is attached by its apex to the spine of the ischium; and by its broad extremity to the side of the sacrum and coccyx, interlacing its fibres with the greater sacro-ischiatic ligament. The anterior sacro-ischiatic ligament is i7i relation, in front, with the coccygeus muscle; behind, with the posterior ligament, with which its fibres are intermingled. By its upper border it forms part of the lower boundary of the great sacro-ischiatic foramen, and by the lower, part of the lesser sacro-ischiatic foramen. The posterior or greater sacro-ischiatic ligament (sacro-ischia- dicum majus), larger, thicker, and more posterior than the preceding, is narrower in the middle than at each extremity. It is attached, by its smaller end, to the inner margin of the tuberosity and ramus of the ischium, where it forms a falciform process, which protects the internal pudic artery, and is continuous with the obturator fascia. By its larger extremity it is inserted into the side of the coccyx, sacrum, and posterior inferior spine of the ilium. The posterior sacro-ischiatic ligament is in relation, in front, with the anterior ligament; behind, with the gluteus maximus, to