NASAL BONES. 42 the lower border of tlie mass, the middle turbinated bone (concha media). The external surface is quadrilateral and smooth ; hence it is named os planum, and, from its thinness, lamina papyracea; it enters into the formation of the inner wall of the orbit. The superior border is irregular and cellular, the cells being completed by the edges of the ethmoidal fissure of the frontal bone. This border is crossed by two grooves, sometimes complete canals, opening into the orbit by the anterior and posterior ethmoidal fora- mina. The inferior border is formed internally by the lower border of the middle turbinated bone, and externally by a concave irre- gular fossa, the upper boundary of the middle meatus. The anterior border presents a number of incomplete cells, which are closed by the superior maxillary and lachrymal bone ; the posterior border is irregularly cellular, to articulate ydth. the sphenoid and palate bone. The lateral masses are composed of cells, which are divided by a thin partition into anterior and posterior ethmoidal cells. The an- terior, the most numerous, communicate with the frontal sinuses, and open by means of an irregular and incomplete tubular canal, the infundibulum, into the middle meatus. The posterior cells, fewer in number, open into the superior meatus. Development.—By three centres : one for each lateral mass, and one for the perpendicular lamella. Ossification commences in the lateral masses at about the beginning of the fifth month, appearing first in the os planum, and then in the spongy bones. During the latter half of the first year after birth, the central lamella and lamina cribrosa begin to ossify, and are united to the lateral masses by the beginning of the second year. The cells of the ethmoid are developed in the course of the fourth and fifth year. Articidations.—With thirteen bones : two of the cranium, frontal and sphenoid ; the rest of the face, viz. nasal, superior maxillary, lachrymal, palate, inferior turbinated, and vomer. No muscles are attached to this bone. BONES OP THE PACE. The face is composed of fourteen bones ; viz. Two nasal. Two palate, Two superior maxillary. Two inferior turbinated, Two lachrymal, Vomer, Two malar. Inferior maxillary. Nasal Bones.—The nasal are two small quadrangular bones, forming by their union the bridge and base of the nose. Upon the upper surface they are convex, and pierced by a foramen for a small artery ; on ^the under surface they are somewhat concave, and marked by a groove, which lodges the nasal branch of the ophthalmic