GKACILIS.—BICEPS PBMORIS. 273 Relations.—By its anterior siirface with the pectineus, adductor brevis, adductor longus, femoral artery and vein and profunda artery and vein, with their branches. By its 2Josierior surface with the semi'tendinosus, semi-membranosus, biceps, and gluteus maximus. By its inner border with the gracilis and sartorius. By its wpper border with the obturator externus, and quadratus femoris. The Gracilis (slender; rectus internus) is situated along the inner border of the thigh. It arises by a broad but very thin tendon, from the body of the os pubis along the edge of the symphysis, aud from the margin of the ramus of the pubes and ischium; it is inserted by a rounded tendon into the inner tuberosity of the tibia, beneath the expansion of the sartorius. Relations.—By its inner or superficial surface with the fascia lata, and below with the sartorius and internal saphenous nerve; the internal saphenous vein crosses it lying superficially to the fascia lata. By its outer or deep surface with the adductor longus, brevis, and magnus, and the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint, from which it is separated by a synovial bursa common to it and the tendons of the gracilis and semi-tendinosus. Actions.—The iliacus, psoas, pectineus, and adductor longus muscles bend the thigh upon the pelvis, and at the same time, from the obliquity of their insertion into the lesser trochanter and linea aspera, rotate the entire limb outwards; the pectineus and adductors adduct the thigh powerfully ; and from the manner of their insertion into the linea aspera, they assist in rotating the limb outwards. The gracilis is likewise an adductor of the thigh; but contributes also to the fle?:ion of the leg, by its attachment to the inner tuberosity of the tibia. Posterior Femoral Region. Biceps femoris, Semi-tendinosus, Semi-membranosus. Dissection.—Remove the integument and fascia on the posterior part of the thigh by two flaps, as on the anterior region, and turn aside the gluteus maximus from the upper part; the muscles may then be examined. ,The Biceps femoris (bis, double, Kt^aX/), head; flexor cruris externus vel fibularis) arises by two heads, one (caput longum) by a common tendon with the semi-tendinosus from the upper and back part of the tuber ischii; the other (caput breve) muscular and much shorter, from the lower two-thirds of the external border of the linea aspera. This muscle forms the outer hamstring, and is inserted by a strong tendon into the head of the fibula; a portion of the tendon being continued downwards into the fascia of the leg, and another being attached to the outer tuberosity of the tibia. T