436 FORNIX. lateral walls of tlie third ventricle, and lying directly behind the anterior commissure. At the base of the brain they make a sudden curve upon themselves and constitute the corpora albicantia, from which they may be traced upwards to their origin in the thalami optici. Opening transversely beneath these two crura, just as they are about to arch downwards, is the foramen of communication Fig. 159.* * The mesial surface of a longitudinal section of the brain. The incision has been carried along the middle Une; between the two hemispheres of the cerebrum, and through the middle of the cerebellum and medulla oblongata. 1. Inner surface of the left hemisphere. 2. Divided surface of the cere- bellum, showing the arbor fitee. 3. The medulla oblongata at its point of junction with the spinal cord. 4. The corpus callosum curving downwards in front to terminate at the base of the brain, and rounded behind to become continuous with 5, the fornix. 6. One of the crura of the fornix descending to 7, one of the corpora albicantia. 8. Septum lueidum. 9. Velum inter- positum, communicating with the pia mater of the convolutions through the fissure of Bichat. 10. Section of the middle commissure situated in the third ventricle. 11. Section of the anterior commissure. 12. Section of the posterior commissure; the commissure is somewhat above and to the left of the numeral. The interspace between 10 and 11 is the foramen commune anterius, in which the crus of the fornix (6) is situated. The interspace be- tween 10 and 12 is the foramen commune posterius. 13. Corpora quadri- gemina, upon which is seen resting the pineal gland, 14. 15. Iter a tertio ad quartum ventrictdum, or aqueduct of Sylvius. 16. Fourth ventricle. 17. iPons Varolii, through which are seen passing the diverging fibres of the corpora pyramidalia. 18. Crus cerebri of the left side, with the third nerve arising.from it. 19. Tuber cinereum, from which projects the infundibulum, having the pituitary gland appended to its extremity. 20. One of the optic nerves, 21, The left olfactory nerve terminating anteriorly in a rounded bulb.