560 STKUCTTIRE OF HAIR. derma are well calculated by their form to offer an extensive surface both for the adhesion and formation of the nail. The grannies and cells are developed on every part of their surface, both in the grooves between the plaits and on their sides, and a horny lamina is formed between each pair of plaits. When the under surface of a hail is examined, these longitudinal laminse, corresponding with the longitudinal papillse of the ungual portion of the derma, are dis- tinctly apparent, and if the nail be forcibly detached, the laminag may be seen in the act of parting from the grooves of the papillae. It is this structure that gives rise to the ribbed appearance of the nail. The papillary surface of the derma which produces the nail is continuous around the circumference of the attached part of that organ with the derma of the surrounding skin, and the horny struc- ture of the nail is consequently continuous with that of the epiderma. Hairs are horny appendages of the skin, produced by the involu- tion and subsequent evolution of the epiderma; the involution con- stituting the follicle in which the hair is inclosed, and the evolution the shaft of the hair. Hairs vary much in size and length in dif- ferent parts of the body; in some they are so short as not to appear beyond the follicle; in others, they grow to a great length, as on the scalp; while along the margins of the eyelids, and in the whiskers and beard, they are remarkable for their thickness. Hairs are generally more or less flattened in form, and when the extremity of a transverse section is examined, it is found to possess an elliptical or reniform outline. This examination also demon- strates that the centre of the hair is porous and loose in texture, while its periphery is dense; thus affording ground for its division into a cortical and a medullary portion. The free extremity of a hair is generally pointed, and sometimes split into two or three filaments. Its attached extremity is implanted deeply in the integument, ex- tending through the derma into the subcutaneous cellular tissue, where it is surrounded by adipose cells. The central extremity of a hair is larger than its shaft, and is called the root or bulb. It is rounded or conical in shape. The process of formation of a hair by its follicle is identical with that of the formation of the epiderma by the papillary layer of the derma. Plastic lymph is in the first instance exuded by the capillary plexus of the follicle, the lymph undergoes conversion, first into granules, then into cells, and the latter are elongated into fibres. The cells which are destined to form the surface of the hair go through a different process. They are converted into flat scales, which enclose the fibrous structure of the interior. These scales, as they are successively produced, overlap those which precede and give rise to the prominent and waving lines which may be seen around the cir- cumference of a hair. It is this overlapping line that is the cause of %.e roughness which we experience in drawing a hair, from its point to its bulb, between the fingers. The bulb is the newly-formed portion of the hair : its expanded form is due to the greater bulk of the fresh