471 CERVICO-FACIAL NERVES. inferior angle of tlie cavity, and escapes through a distinct opening in the fissura Glaseri, to join the gustatory nerve at an acute angle between the two pterygoid muscles. Enclosed in the sheath of the gustatory nerve, it descends to the submaxillary gland, where it unites with the submaxillary ganglion. The Posterior moricular branch ascends behind the ear, between the meatus and mastoid process, and divides into an anterior or auricular, and a posterior or occipital, branch. The auricular branch receives a filament of communication from the auricular branch of the pneumogastric nerve, and distributes filaments to the retrahens aurem muscle and pinna. The occipital branch communi- cates with the auricularis magnus and occipitalis minor, and is dis- tributed to the posterior belly of the occipito-frontalis. The Stylo-hyoid branch is distributed to the stylo-hyoid muscle, and communicates with the sympathetic plexus of the external carotid artery. The Digastric branch supplies the posterior belly of the digastricus muscle, and communicates with the glosso-pharyngeal and pneumo- gastric nerve. The Temporo-facial division, while in the parotid gland, sends a branch of communication along the carotid artery to the auriculo- temporal nerve, and divides into temporal, malar, and infra-orbital branches. The Temporal branches Sbscending over the temporal region supply the attrahens aurem, occipito-frontalis, and orbicularis palpebrarum; and communicate with the supra-orbital nerve and the temporal branch of the superior maxillary. The Malar branches cross the malar bone to the outer angle of the eye, and supply the orbicularis palpebrarum, corrugator supercilii, and eyelids. They communicate with the subcutaneus malse branch of the superior maxillary nerve, and with branches of the ophthalmic nerve in the eyelids. The Infra-orbital hramches cross the masseter muscle, and are distributed to the buccinator, elevator muscles of the upper lip and. orbicularis oris. They communicate with the terminal branches of the infra-orbital nerve, the infra-trochlear, and nasal nerve. Two or more of these branches are found by the side of Stenon's duct. The Cervico-facial division, smaller than the temporo-facial, communicates in the parotid gland with the auricularis magnus nerve, and divides into branches which admit of arrangement into three sets : buccal, supra-maxillary, and infra-maxillary. The Buccal branches pass forwards across the masseter muscle towards the mouth, and distribute branches to the orbicularis oris and buccinator. They communicate with the branches of the tem- poro-facial, and with the buccal branch of the inferior maxillary nerve. The Supra-maxillary branches are destined to the muscles of the lower lip, and take their course along the body of the lower jaw.