54 INFERIOR MAXILLARY BONE. The superior border of tlie body of the bone is the alveolar process, furnished in the adult with alveoli for sixteen teeth. The inferior border or base is rounded and smooth; thick and everted in front to form the chin, and thin behind where it merges into the angle of the bone. The ramus is a strong square-shaped process, differing in direction at various periods of life ; thus, in the foetus and infant, it is almost parallel with the body; in youth it is oblique, and gradually ap- proaches the vertical direction until manhood; in old age, after the loss of the teeth, it again declines, and assumes the oblique direc- tion. Upon its external surface it is rough, for the attachment of the masseter muscle; and at the junction of its posterior border with the body of the bone is a rough tuberosity, the angle of the lower jaw, which gives attachment by its inner margin to the stylo-maxil- lary ligament. The upper extremity of the ramus presents two processes, sepa- rated by a concave sweep, the sigmoid notch. The anterior is the coronoid process; it is sharp and pointed, and gives attachment by its inner surface to the tem- poral muscle. The ante- rior border of the coro- noid process is grooved at its lower part for the buccinator muscle. The posterior process is the condyle oithe lower jaw, which is flattened from before backwards, ob- lique in direction, and smooth upon its upper surface, to articulate with the glenoid cavity of the temporal bone. The constriction around the base of the con- dyle is its oiecJc, into which is inserted the external pterygoid muscle. The sigmoid notch is crossed by the masseteric artery and nerve. The internal surface of the ramus is marked near its centre by a large oblique foramen, the inferior dental, for the entrance of the * The lower jaw. 1. Tliebody. 2. The ramus, 3. The symphisis. 4. The fossa for the depressor labii inferioris muscle. 5. The mental foramen. 6. The external oblique ridge. 7. The groove for the facial artery ; the situation of the groove is marked by a notch in the bone a little in front of the number. 8. The angle. 9. The extremity of the mylo-hyoidean ridge. 10. The coro- noid process. 11. The condyle. 12. The sigmoid notch. 1.3. The inferior dental foramen. 14. The mylo-hyoidean groove. 15. The alveolar process. i. The middle and lateral incisor tooth of one side. c. The canine tooth. b. The two bicuspides. m. The three molares.