292 ABDOMINAL FASCIA. FASCIA OP THE TKUNK. The thoracic fascia* is a dense layer of cellulo-fibrous membrane stretched horizontally across the superior opening of the thorax. It is firmly attached to the concave margin of the first rib, and to the inner surface of the sternum. In front it leaves an opening for the connexion of the cervical with the thoracic portion of the thymus gland, and behind, forms an arch across the vertebral column, to give passage to the oesophagus. At the point where the great vessels and trachea pass through the thoracic fascia, it divides into an ascending and descending layer. The ascending layer is attached to the trachea, and becomes con- tinuous with the sheath of the carotid vessels, and with the deep cervical fascia ; the descending layer descends upon the trachea to its bifurcation, surrounds the large vessels arising from the arch of the aorta, and the upper part of the arch itself, and is continuous with the fibrous layer of the pericardium. It is connected also with the vense innominatse and superior cava, and is attached to the cellulo-fibrous capsule of the thymus gland. " The thoracic fascia," according to Sir Astley Cooper, " performs three important offices :— "1st. It forms the upper boundary of the chest, as the diaphragm does the lower. " 2nd. It steadily preserves the relative situation of the parts which enter and quit the thoracic opening. '' 3rd. It attaches and supports the heart in its situation, through the medium of its connexion with the aorta and large vessels which are placed at its curvature." ABDOMINAL FASCIA. The lower part of the parietes of the abdomen, and the cavity of the pelvis, are strengthened by a layer of fascia which lines their internal surface, and at the bottom of the latter cavity is reflected inwards upon the sides of the bladder. This fascia is continuous throughout the whole of the above-mentioned surface ; but for con- venience of description is considered under the several names of transversalis fascia, iliac fascia, and pelvic fascia ; the two former meet at the crest of the ilium and Pouf)art's ligament, the latter is confined to the cavity of the true pelvis. The fascia transversalis (Fascia Cooperi)+ is a thin fibrous mem- brane, which lines the inner surface of the transversalis muscle, and is interposed between that muscle and the peritoneum. It is thick * See Sir Astley Cooper's work on the " Anatomy of the Thymus Gland." t Sir Astley Cooper first described this fascia in its important relation to inguinal hernia.