STRUCTURE OP THE LUNGS. 589 and is continued as far as the tubes themselves, being absent in the intercellular passages and cells. The elastic fibres, arranged in longitudinal fasciculi, form a thin stratum situated next the mucous lining; this elastic coat is prolonged to the ends of the tubes, and scattered fibres are found around the intercellular passages and cells. The mucous membrane, lining the bronchial tubes, is pro- vided with a ciliated columnar, epithelium as far as their termina- tion ; but in the intercellular passages and air-cells it is altered in its characters, is thin and transparent, and coated with a squamous epithelium. The capillaries of the lungs form plexuses which occupy the walls and septa of the air-cells and the walls of the intercellular passages, but are not continued into the bronchial tubes. The septa between the cells consist of a single layer of the capillary plexus enclosed in a fold of the mucous lining membrane. The cells of the central parts of the lung are most vascular, and at the same time smallest, while those of the periphery are less vascular and larger. The pigmentary matter of the lungs is contained in the air-cells, as well as in the cellular tissue of the inter-lobular spaces and of the blood-vessels; it is composed chiefly of carbon. The Pulmonary artery, conveying the dark and impure venous blood to the lungs, terminates in capillary vessels, which form a dense network in the parietes of the intercellular passages and air- cells, and then converge to form the pulm.onary veins, by which the arterial blood, purified in its passage through the capillaries, is re- turned to the left auricle of the heart. The Bronchial arteries, branches of the thoracic aorta, ramify on the parietes of the bronchial tubes, and terminate partly in bronchial veins which convey the venous blood to the vena azygos on the right side, and the superior intercostal vein on the left; and partly in the pulmonary capillaries. The Lymphatics, commencing on the surface and in the substance of the lungs, terminate in the bronchial glands. These glands, very numerous and often of large size, are placed at the roots of the lungs, around the bronchi, and at the bifurcation of the trachea. In early life they resemble lymphatic glands in other situations; but in old age, and often in the adult, are black, and filled with carbonaceous matter, and occasionally with calcareous deposits. The Nerves are derived from the pneumogastric and sympathetic. They form two plexuses : anterior 'pulmonary plexus, situated upon the front of the root of the lungs, and composed chiefly of filaments from the deep cardiac plexus ; and posterior pulmonary plexus, on the posterior aspect of the root of the lungs, composed principally of branches from the pneumogastric. The branches from these plexuses follow the course of the bronchial tubes, and are distributed to the intercellular passages and air-cells.