251 PRONATOR QUADRATUS. Fig. 117. ulnar artery, veins, and nerve. By its posterior surface with the ulna, interosseous membrane, pronator quadratus, and wrist-joint. By its radial border with the flexor longus pollicis, the anterior interosseous artery and nerve being interposed. By its ulnar border with the flexor carpi ulnaris. In the hand : its tendons are in relation su- perficially with the tendons of the superficial flexor; and deeply with the interossei, adductor pollicis, and deep palmar arch. The Flexor longus pollicis aHses from the anterior surface of the ra- dius for two-thirds of its extent, and from one-half of the interosseous mem- brane. Its tendon passes beneath the annular ligament to be inserted into the base of the last phalanx of the thumb. Relations.—By its anterior stirface with the flexor sublimis digitorum, flexor carpi radialis, supinator longus, and radial artery and veins. By its posterior surface with the radius, interosseous membrane, pronator qua- dratus, and wrist-joint. By its ulnar border, it is separated from the flexor profundus digitorum by the anterior interosseous artery and nerve. In the hand : after passing beneath the annular ligament, it is lodged in the interspace between the two portions of the flexor brevis pollicis, and after- wards in the tendinous theca of the phalanx. If the tendons of the last two muscles be drawn aside or divided, the third muscle of this group will be brought into view, lying across the lower part of the two bones. The Pronator quadratus (cubito- radialis) arises from the anterior and inner side of the ulna; and is inserted ' 1. Internal lateral ligament of Orbicular ligament of the head * Deep layer of muscles of the fore-arm the elbow-joint. 2. Anterior ligament. 3. of the radius. 4. Flexor profundus digitorum. 5. Flexor longus poUicis. 6. Pronator quadratus. 7. Adductor poUicis. 8. The dorsal interosseous of the middle, and palmar interosseous of the ring-finger. 9. Dorsal interosseous muscle of the ring-finger, and palmar interosseous of the little finger.