550 MEMBEANOUS LABYRINTH. the hamulus laminae spiralis, by means of an opening common to both, which has been termed by Breschet helico-trema (eXtf, eXiaaio volvere—rprjixa). Inferiorly, one of the two scalse, the scala vestibuli, terminates by means of an oval aperture in the anterior ventricle of the vestibule; while the other, the scala tym- pani, becomes somewhat expanded, and opens into the tympanum through the fenestra rotunda (fenestra cochleae). Near the termi- nation of the scala tympani is the small opening of the aquaeductus cochleae. The internal surface of the osseous labyrinth is lined by a Jibro- serous membrane, which is analogous to the dura mater in perform- ing the office of a periosteum by its exterior, whilst it fulfils the purpose of a serous membrane by its internal layer, secreting a limpid fluid, the aqua labyrinthi (perilymph, liquor Cotunnii), and sending a reflection inwards upon the nerves distributed to the mem- branous labyrinth. In the cochlea, the membrane of the labyrinth invests the two surfaces of the bony lamina spiralis, and being con- tinued from its border across the diameter of the canal to its outer wall, forms the membranous lamina spiralis, and completes the sepa- ration between the scala tympani and scala vestibuli. The fenestra ovalis and fenestra rotunda are closed by an extension of this mem- brane across them, assisted by the membrane of the tympanum and a proper intermediate layer. Besides lining the interior of the osseous cavity, the membrane of the labyrinth sends two delicate processes along the aqueducts of the vestibule and cochlea to the internal surface of the dura mater, with which they are continuous. These processes are the remains of a communication originally subsisting between the dura mater and the cavity of the labyrinth.* The Membranous labyrinth is smaller in size, but a perfect counterpart with respect to form, of the vestibule and semicircular canals. It consists of a small elongated sac, sacculus communis (utriculus communis); of three semicircular membranous canals, which correspond with the osseous canals, and communicate with the sacculus communis; and of a small round sac (sacculus pro- j)rius), which occupies the anterior ventricle of the vestibule, and lies in close contact with the external surface of the sacculus com- munis. The membranous semicircular canals are two-thirds smaller in diameter than the osseous canals. The membranous labyrinth is retained in its position by means of the numerous nervous filaments which are distributed to it from the * Cotunnius regarded these processes as tubular canals, through which the superabundant aqua labyrinthi might be expelled into the cavity of the cranium. Wharton Jones, in the article " Organ of Hearing," in the Cyclopsedia of Anatomy and Physiology, also describes them as tubular canals which terminate beneath the dura mater of the petrous bone in a small dilated pouch. In the ear of a man deaf and dumb from birth, he found the ter- mination of the aqueduct of the vestibule of unusually large size in conse- quence of'^regular development.