BRACHIAL NERVES. 487 above, and tlie first rib and first serration of the serratus magnus muscle below. In the axilla, it is situated at first to the outer side of and then behind the axillary artery, resting by its outer border against the tendon of the subscapularis muscle. Lower down it completely surrounds the artery. The branches of the brachial plexus are: from the outer cord, one of the anterior thoracic nerves, the musculo-cutaneous nerve, and the outer head of the median; from the inner cord, the other anterior thoracic nerve, the inner head of the median, the internal cutaneous, the lesser internal cutaneous of Wrisberg, and the ulnar; and from the posterior cord, the subscapular nerves, the circumflex, and musculo-spiral. Besides the above branches, the brachial plexus, while in the neck, gives off several superior muscular branches: one to the sub- clavius muscle, one to the rhomboid muscles and levator anguli scapulae; one, of large size, the suprascapular; and a long and slender nerve which passes down the thoracic wall of the axilla, the posterior thoracic, or external respiratory nerve of Bell. In reference to their distribution, the branches of the brachial plexus may be arranged in three groups, thoracic, scapular, and brachial, as follows :— * Thoracic. Anterior thoracic, Posterior thoracic. Brachial Musculo -cutaneous. Internal cutaneous. Lesser internal cutaneous, Median, Ulnar, Musculo-spiral, Circumflex. The Anterior thoracic nerves, two in number, proceed, one from the external cord of the plexus, the other from the internal cord. The former, the external or superficial branch, crosses the axillary artery in the space above the pectoralis minor to the front of the chest, and is distributed to the pectoralis major muscle. The in- ternal or deeper branch issues from between the axillary artery and vein, and after forming a loop of communication with the preceding is distributed to the under surface of the pectoralis minor and major. The Posterior thoracic, or external respiratory of Bell, is formed by the junction of two offsets, one from the fifth, the other from the sixth cervical nerve; it crosses behind the brachial plexus to reach Scapular. Superior muscular, Suprascapular, Subscapular.