ARACHNOID MEMBRANE. 428 the base of tlie brain which are bounded by the optic commis- sure and fissures of Sylvius in front, and the pons Varolii behind, is termed the anterior sub-arachnoidean space. Another space formed in a similar manner, between the under part of the cere- bellum and the medulla oblongata is the posterior sub-arachnoidean space; and a third space, situated over the corpora quadrigemina, may be termed the superior sub-arachnoidean space. These spaces communicate freely with each other, the anterior and posterior across the crura cerebelli, the anterior and the superior around the crura cerebri, and the latter and the posterior across the cerebellum in the course of the vermiform processes. They communicate also with a still larger space formed by the loose disposition of the arachnoid around the spinal cord, the spinal sub-arachnoidean space. The whole of these spaces, with the lesser spaces between the convolutions of the hemispheres, constitute one large and con- tinuous cavity which is filled with a limpid, serous secretion, the sub-arachnoidean or cerebrospinal fluid, * a fluid which is neces- sary to the maintenance and protection of the cerebro-spinal mass. The quantity of the cerebro-spinal fluid is determined by the rela- tive size of the cerebro-spinal axis and that of the containing cavity, and is consequently very variable. It is smaller in youth than in old age, and in the adult has been estimated at about two ounces. The visceral layer of the arachnoid is connected to the pia mater by a delicate cellular tissue, which in the sub-arachnoidean spaces is loose and filamentous. The serous secretion of the true cavity of the arachnoid is very small in quantity as compared with the sub-arachnoidean fluid. The arachnoid does not enter into the ventricles of the brain, as imagined by Bich^t, but is reflected inwards upon the venae Galeni for a short distance only, and returns upon those vessels to the dura mater of the tentorium. It surrounds the nerves as they originate from the brain, and forms a sheath around them to their point of exit from the skull. It is then reflected back upon the inner sur- face of the dura mater. According to Mr. Ilainey,+ vessels of considerable size, but few in number, and branches of cranial nerves, are found in the arachnoid. He also describes, in this membrane, numberless plexuses and ganglia, which he considers to be analogous to those of the sympa- thetic nerve. The fibres proceeding from this source are'distributed on the arteries and nerves of the cerebro-spinal axis, but particularly on the former. * The presence of a serous fluid beneath the arachnoid has given rise to the conjecture that a sub-arachnoid serous membrane may exist in that situation. Such a supposition is quite unnecessary to explain the production of the secretion, since the pia mater is fully adequate to the function. t Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, toI. 29.