630 STRUCTURAL ANATOMY OP THE LIVER. the lobules (excepting at their bases) are invested and connected together, the vessels supported, and the whole organ enclosed, by Glisson^s capsule; and they are so arranged, that the base of every lobule in the liver is in contact with an hepatic vein (sublobular). The Portal vein distributes its numberless branches through portal canals, which are channeled through every part of the organ; it brings the returning blood from the chylopoietic viscera ; it col- lects also the venous blood from the ultimate ramifications of the hepatic artery in the liver itself. It gives off branches in the canals, which are called vaginal, and form & Tenons vaginal plexus ; these give off interlobular branches, and the latter enter the lobules and form lobular venous plexuses, from the blood circulating in which the bile is secreted. The Bile in the lobule is received by a network of minute ducts, the lobular biliary plexus; it is conveyed from the lobule into the interlobular ducts; it is thence poured into the biliary vaginal plexus of the portal canals, and thence into the excreting ducts, by which it is carried to the duodenum and gall-bladder, after being mingled in its course with the mucous secretion from numberless muciparous follicles in the walls of the ducts. The Hepatic artery distributes branches through every portal canal; gives off vaginal branches which form a vaginal hepatic plexus, from which the interlobular branches arise, and these latter terminate ultimately in the lobular venous plexuses of the portal vein. The artery ramifies abundantly in the coats of the hepatic ducts, enabling them to provide their mucous secretion ; and sup- plies the vasa vasorum of the portal and hepatic veins, and the nu- trient vessels of the entire organ. The Hepatic veins commence in the centre of each lobule by minute radicles, which collect the impure blood from the lobular venous plexus and convey it into the intralobular veins; these open into the sublobular veins, and the sublobular veins unite to form the large hepatic trunks by which the blood is conveyed into the vena cava. Physiological and pathological deductions.—The physiological deduction arising out of this anatomical arrangement is, that the bile is wholly secreted from venous blood, and not from a mixed venous and arterial blood, as stated by MiiUer ; for although the portal vein receives its blood from two sources, viz., from the chylo- poietic viscera and from the capillaries of the hepatic artery, yet the fact of the blood of the latter vessel having passed through its capillaries into the portal vein, or in extremely small quantity into the capillary network of the lobular venous plexus, is sufficient to establish its venous character. * The pathological deductions depend upon the following facts :— Each lobule is a perfect gland ; of uniform structure, of uniform colour, and possessing the same degree of vascularity throughout. It is the seat of a double venous circulation, the vessels of the one * For arguments on this contested question, see the article "Liver," in the ** Cyclopaedia of Anatomy and Physiology."