FIBULA. 105 rtorum; by the tubercle, ligamentura patellae; by the external sur- face of the shaft, tibialis anticus; and by the posterior surface, ■ popliteus, soleus, flexor longus digitorum, and tibialis posticus. Fig. 57. Fibula.—^The fibula {Trepovrj, a brooch, from its resemblance, in conjunction with the tibia, to the pin of an ancient brooch) is the outer and smaller bone of the leg; it is long and slender in figure, prismoid in shape, and, like other long bones, divisible into a shaft and two extremities. The superior extremity or head is thick and large, and depressed upon the upper part by a concave surface, which articu- lates with the external tuberosity of the tibia. Externally to this surface is a thick and rough prominence, for the attachment of the external lateral ligament of the knee-joint, terminated behind by a styloid process, for the insertion of the tendon of the biceps. The lower extremity is flattened from without inwards, and prolonged downwards beyond the articular surface of the tibia, forming the external malleolus. Its ex- ternal side presents a rough and triangular surface, \^hich is subcutaneous. On the in- ternal surface is a smooth triangular facet, to articulate with the astragalus; and a * The tibia and fibula of the right leg articu- lated and seen from behind. 1. The articular depression for the external condyle of the fe- mur. 2. The articular depression for the internal condyle; the prominence between the two num- bers is the spinous process. 3. The fossa and groove for the insertion of the tendon of the semi-membranosus muscle. 4. The pophteal plane, for the support of the popliteus muscle. 5. The pophteal hne, 6. The nutritious fora- men. 7. The surface of the shaft upon which the flexor longus digitorum muscle rests. 8. The broad groove on the back part of the inner mal- leolus, for the tendons of the flexor longus digi- torum and tibialis posticus. 9. The groove for the tendon of the flexor longus poDicis. 10. The shaft of the fibula. The flexor longus pollieis muscle lies on this surface of the bone ; its superior hmit being marked by the obhque hne immediately above the number. 11. The styloid process on the head of the fibula for the attach- ment of the tendon of the biceps muscle. 12. The subcutaneous surface of the lower part of the shaft of the fibula. 13. The external malleolus formed by the lower extremity of the fibula. 14. The groove on the posterior part of the external malleolus for the tendons of the peronei muscles.