69 DEVELOPMENT OP TEETH. connection of the cells is lost, but, after steeping in weak acid, the cellular network is rendered distinct. The enamel forms a crust over the whole exposed surface of the crown of the tooth to the commencement of its root; it is thickest over the upper part of the crown, and becomes gradually thinner as it approaches the neck. It is composed of minute hexagonal crystal- line fibres, resting by one extremity against the surface of the ivory, and constituting by the other the free surface of the crown. The fibres, examined on the face of a longitudinal section, have a waving arrangement, and consist, like those of ivory, of cells connected by their surfaces and ends, and filled with calcareous substance. When the latter is removed by weak acid, the enamel presents a delicate cellular network of animal matter. The cortical substance, or cementum (substantia ostoidea) forms a thin coating over the root of the tooth, from the termination of the enamel to the opening in the apex of the fang. In structure it is analogous to bone, and is characterized by the presence of numerous Purkinjean cells and tubuli. The cementum increases in thickness with the advance of age, and gives rise to those exostosed appear- ances occasionally seen in the teeth of very old persons, or in those who have taken much mercury. In old age the cavitas pulpfe is often found filled up and obliterated by osseous substance analogous to the cementum. Mr. Nasmyth has shown that this, like the other structures composing a tooth, is formed of cells having a reticular arrangement. Development.—^The development of the teeth in the human sub- ject has been successfully investigated by Mr. Groodsir,* whose in- quiries commenced as early as the sixth week after concej)tion, in an embryo, which measured seven lines and a half in length,- and weighed fifteen grains. At this early period each upper jaw presents two semicircular folds around its cu-cumference; the most external is the true lip; the internal, the rudiment of the palate; and be- tween these is a deep groove, lined by the common mucous membrane of the mouth. A little later, a ridge is developed from the floor of this groove in a direction from behind forwards; this is the rudiment of the external alveolus; and the arrangement of the appearances from without inwards at this period is the following: Most ex- ternally, and forming the boundary of the mouth, is the lip; next we find a deep groove, which separates the lip from the future jaw; then comes the external alveolar ridge; fourthly, another groove, in which the germs of the teeth are developed, the primitive dental groove; fifthly, a rudiment of the internal alveolar ridge; and, sixthly, the rudiment of the f uture palate bounding the whole in- ternally. At the seventh week the germ of the first deciduous molar of the upper jaw has made its appearance, in the form of a "simple, * " On the Origin and Development of the Pulps and Sacs of the Human Teeth," by John Goodsir, jun., in the Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, January, 1839.