357 SUPRA-RENAL.—SACRA MEDIA. ascends to inosculate with the colica media, while the other de- scends to communicate with the sigmoid branch. The inosculation of the colica sinistra with the colica media is the largest arterial anastomosis in the body. The Sigmoid artery (colica sinistra inferior) passes obliquely outwards behind the peritoneum and divides into branches which form arches, and are distributed to the sigmoid flexure of the colon. The superior branch inosculates with the colica sinistra, the inferior with the superior hsemorrhoidal artery. The Superior hcemorrhoidal artery is the continuation of the inferior mesenteric. It crosses the ureter and common iliac artery of the left side, and descends between the two layers of the meso- rectum as far as the middle of the rectum, to which it is distributed, anastomosing with the middle and inferior hsemorrhoidal arteries. The Supra-renal (suprarenales; capsulares) are two small vessels which arise from the aorta immediately above the renal arteries, and are distributed to the supra-renal capsules. They are sometimes branches of the phrenic or of the renal arteries. The Renal arteries (renales ; emulgentes) are two large trunks given off from the sides of the aorta immediately below the supe- rior mesenteric artery ; the right is longer than the left on account of the position of the aorta, and passes behind the vena cava to the kidney of that side. The left is somewhat higher than the right. They divide into several large branches previously to entering the kidney, and ramify very minutely in its vascular portion. The renal arteries supply several small branches to the supra-renal capsules, and one to the ureter. The Lumbar arteries (lumbales) correspond with the intercostals in the chest; they are four or five in number on each side, curve around the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae beneath the psoas muscles, and divide into two branches ; one of which passes backwards between the transverse processes, and is distributed to the vertebrae and spinal cord and muscles of the back, whilst the a^er, taking its course behind the quadratus lumborum, supplies tngk abdominal muscles, and inosculates with branches of the internal mammary and epigastric artery. The first lumbar artery runs along the lower border of the last rib, and the last along the crest of the ilium. In passing between the psoas muscle and the vertebrae, they are protected by a series of tendinous arches, which defend them and the communicating branches of the sympathetic nerve from pressure during the action of the muscle. The Sacra media arises from the posterior part of the aorta at its bifurcation, and descends along the middle of the anterior sur- face of the sacrum to the first piece of the coccyx, where it termi-