554 ORaAN OF TOUCH. The Mucous membrane which invests the tongue is continnons with the derma along the margin of the lips. On either side of the frgenum linguge it may be traced through the sublingual ducts into the sublingual glands, and along Wharton's* ducts into the sub- maxillary glands ; from the sides of the cheeks it passes through the opening of Stenon's+ ducts to the parotid glands: in the fauces, it forms the assemblage of follicles called tonsils, and may thence be traced downwards into the larynx and pharynx, where it is conti- nuous with the general gastro-pulmonary mucous membrane. Beneath the mucous membrane of the mouth are a number of small glandular granules, which pour their secretion upon the surface. A considerable number of these bodies are situated within the lips, in the palate, and in the floor of the mouth. They are named according to their position labial glands, palatal glands, and buccal glands. OEGAN OF TOUCH. The SJcin is the exterior investment of the body, which it serves to cover and protect. It is continuous at the apertures of the internal cavities with the lining membrane of those cavities, the internal skin or mucous membrane, and is composed essentially of two layers, derma and epiderma. The DERMA or cutis is chiefly composed of cellulo-fibrous tissue, besides which it has entering into its structure elastic and con- tractile fibrous tissue, together with blood-vessels, lymphatic vessels and nerves. The cellulo-fibrous tissue exists in greatest abundance in the deeper stratum of the derma, which is consequently dense, white, and coarse; the superficial stratum, on the other hand, is fine in texture, reddish in colour, soft, raised into minute papillse, and highly vascular and sensitive. These differences in structure have given rise to a division of the derma into the deep stratum, or corium, and the superficial, or papillary layer. In the Corium the cellulo-fibrous tissue is collected into fasciculi, which are small and closely interwoven in the superficial strata, large and coarse in the deep strata ; in the latter forming an areolar net-work, with large areola, which are occupied by adipose tissue. These areolge are the channels through which the branches of vessels and nerves find a safe passage to the papillary layer, in which and in the superficial strata of the corium they are principally distri- buted. The yellow elastic tissue is found chiefly in the superficial strata, the red contractile tissue in the deep. It is to the latter that * Thomas Wharton, an English physician, devoted considerable attention to the anatomy of the various glands; his work, entitled " Adenographia," &c., was published in 1656. t l^icholas Stenon, a Danish anatomist: he was made Professor in Copen- hagen in 1672.