MUSCLES OF THE THORAX. 220 The semi-spinales and multifidus spince muscles act directly on the vertebrae, and contribute to the general action of supporting the vertebral column erect. The four little muscles situated between the occiput and the first two vertebrae, effect the various movements between these bones ; the recti producing the antero-posterior actions; the obliqui the.rotatory motions of the atlas on the axis. The actions of the remaining jnuscles of the spine, the inter- ■spinales and inter-transversales, are expressed in their names. They approximate their attachments and assist the more powerful muscles in preserving the erect position of the body. The levatores costarum raise the posterior parts of the ribs, and are probably more serviceable in preserving the articulation of the ribs from displacement, than in raising them in inspiration. MUSCLES OF THE THORAX. The principal muscles situated on the front and sides of the thorax' belong in their actions to the upper extremity, with which they will be described. They are the pectoralis major and minor, sub- clavius and serratus magnus. The true thoracic muscles are few in number, and appertain exclusively to the actions of the ribs; they are, Intercostales extemi, Intercostales interni, Subcostales, Triangularis sterni. The intercostal muscles are two planes of muscular and tendinous fibres directed obliquely between the adjacent ribs and closing the intercostal spaces. They are seen partially on the removal of the pectoral muscles, or on the inner surface of the chest. The trian- gularis sterni is within the chest, and requires the removal of the anterior part of the thorax to bring it into view. The Intercostales Externi, eleven on each side, commence posteriorly at the tubercles of the ribs, and advance forwards to the costal cartilages, where they terminate in a thin aponeurosis which is continued onwards to the sternum. Their fibres are directed obliquely downwards and inwards, pursuing the same line with those of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen. They are thicker than the internal intercostals, and more tendinous in structure. The Intercostales Interni, also eleven on each side, commence anteriorly at the sternum, and extend backwards as far as the angles of the ribs, whence they are prolonged to the vertebral column by a thin aponeurosis. Their fibres are directed obliquely dowTiwards and backwards, and correspond in direction with those of the in-