ULNAR NERVE. 491 course ; fourth subdivides for the supply of the adjacent sides of the index and middle fingers, and gives a twig to the second lumbri- calis; the fifth receives a filament of communication from the ulnar nerve, and supplies the collateral branches of the middle and ring fingers. Opposite the base of the first phalanx, each nerve gives off a dorsal branch which runs along the border of the dorsum of the finger. Near its extremity the nerve divides into a -palmar and a dorsal branch ; the former supplying the sentient extremity of the finger ; the latter the structures around and beneath the nail. The digital nerves in their course along the fingers lie to the inner side of and superficially to the arteries ; and the nerve of one side of a finger has no communication with that of the opposite side. The Ulnar nerve is somewhat smaller than the median, behind which it lies, gradually divei'ging from it in its course. It arises from the inner cord of the brachial plexus in common with the internal head of the median and internal cutaneous nerve, and runs down the inner side of the arm, to the groove between the internal condyle and ole- cranon, resting on the internal head of the triceps, and accompanied by the inferior profunda artery. At the elbow it is superficial, and supported by the inner condyle, against which it is easily compressed, gi"viing rise to the thrilling sensation along the inner side of the fore- arm and little finger, ascribed to striking the "funny bone." It then passes between the two heads of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and descends along the inner side of the forearm, crosses the annular ligament, and divides into two branches, superficial and deep palmar. At the commencement of the middle third of the forearm it becomes applied against the artery, and lies to the ulnar side of that vessel, as far as the hand. The Branches of the ulnar nerve are,— The Articular branches are several filaments to the elbow-joint, given off from the nerve while lying in the groove between the inner condyle and olecranon. The Muscidar branches are distributed to the flexor carpi ulnaris and ulnar half of the flexor profundus digitorum. minal branches. Thebrancli which crosses the annular Kgament is the super- ficial palmar, 15. Ulnar nerve. 16. The point at which it passes between the two heads of the flexor carpi ulnaris. 17. Its dorsal branch. 18. Ter- mination of the nerve, dividing into a superficial and deep palmar branch. 19. Musculo-spiral nerve. 20. Muscular branches to the triceps. 21. Cu- taneous nerve. 22. Posterior interosseous nerve piercing the supinator brevis mu.scle. 23. Radial nerve. The last two nerves are the terminal branches of the musculo-spiral. 24. The point at which the radial nerve pierces the deep fascia. 25. Circumflex nerve. Articular, Muscular, Cutaneous, Dorsal branch, Superficial palmar, Deep palmar.