249 PLEXOR SUBLIMIS DIGITORUM. The Palmaris lonuus is a small muscle which arises from the condyle, deep fascia, and mner intermuscular septa. Its tendon pierces the deep fascia and crosses the annular ligament to be inserted into the palmar fascia. Relations.—By its anterior sur- face with the deep fascia of the forearm. By the posterior surface with the flexor sublimis digitorum ; to the external side with the flexor carpi radialis; and to the internal side with the flexor carpi ulnaris. Cut the flexor carpi radialis and palmaris longus from their origins, in order to obtain a good view of the whole extent of origin of the flexor sublimis digitorum. The Flexor sublimis digi- torum (perforatus) arises from the inner condyle, intermuscular septa, internal lateral ligament, coronoid process of'the ulna, and oblique line of the radius. The median nerve and ulnar artery pass between its origins. It divides into four ten- dons, which pass beneath the an- nular ligament, and are inserted into the base of the second pha- langes of the fingers, splitting at their termination to give passage to the tendons of the deep flexor; hence its designation, perforatus. tn the thecse of the fingers several small tendinous fasciculi are gene- rally found, which pass between the phalanges and the edges of the tendons; these have been termed the vincula accessoria. Fig. 116.* * Superficial layer of muscles of the forearm. 1. Biceps, with its tendon. 2. BrachiaUs anticus, seen beneath the biceps. 3. Part of the triceps. 4. Pronator radii teres. 5. Flexor carpi radialis. 6. Palmaris longus. 7. One of the fasciculi of the flexor sublimis digitorum; the rest of the muscle is seen beneath the tendons of the palmaris longus and flexor carpi radiahs. 8. Plexor carpi ulnaris. 9. Pabnar fascia. 10. Palmaris brevis muscle. 11. Abductor polHcis. 12. Flexor brevis poUicis; the leading line crosses part of the abductor poUicis. 13. Supinator longus. 14. Extensor ossis metacarpi and extensor primi internodii pollicis, curving around the lower border of the forearm.