437 THALAMI OPTICI.—THIRD VENTRICLE. between the lateral and the third ventricle, foramen of Monro ; or foramen commune anterius. The choroid plexuses communicate, and the veins of the corpora striata pass through this opening. The lateral thin edges of the fornix are continuous ]iosteriorly with the concave border of the hippocampus major at each side, and form the narrow white band called corpus fimhriatum (posterior crus of the fornix). In the middle line the fornix is continuous with the corpus callosum, and at each side with the hippocampus major and minor. On the under surface of the fornix towards its posterior part some transverse lines are seen passing between the diverging corpora fimbriata: this appearance is termed the lyra (corpus psalloides), from a fancied resemblance to the strings of a harp. The fornix may now be removed by dividing it across anteriorly, and turning it backwards, at the same time separating its lateral connexions with the hippocampi. If the student examine its under surface, he will perceive the lyra above described. Beneath the fornix is the velum interpositum (tela choroidea), a duplicature of pia mater introduced into the interior of the brain, through the transverse fissure. The velum is continuous at each side with the choroid plexus, and contains in its inferior layer two large veins (the venm Galeni) which receive the blood from the corpora striata and choroid plexuses, and terminate posteriorly, after uniting into a single trunk, in the straight sinus. On the under surface of the velum interpositum are two fringe-like bodies, which project into the third ventricle. These are the choroid plexuses of the third ventricle; posteriorly these fringes enclose the pineal gland. If the velum interpositum be raised and turned back, an operation to be conducted with care, particularly at its posterior part where it invests the pineal gland, the thalami optici and the cavity of the third ventricle will be brought into view. Thalami optici.—The thalami optici, are two oblong, square- shaped bodies, of a white colour superficially, inserted between the two diverging portions of the corpora striata. In the middle line a fissure exists between them which is called the third ventricle. Posteriorly and inferiorly, they form the superior wall of the descend- ing cornu of the lateral ventricle, and present two rounded elevations called corpus geniculatum externum and internum. The corpus geniculatum externum^ the larger of the two, and of a greyish colour, is the principal origin of the optic nerve. Anteriorly, the thalami are connected with the corpora albicantia by means of two white bands, which appear to originate in the white substance (tenia semicircularis) uniting the thalami to the corpora striata. Externally they are in relation with the corpora striata and hemispheres. In their interior the thalami are composed of white fibres mixed with grey substance. They are essentially the inferior ganglia of the cerebrum. Third ventricle.—The third ventricle is the fissure between the