BKACHIAL ARTERY. 341 The branches of the brachial artery are, the Superior profunda, Anastomotica magna. Inferior profunda, Muscular and Nutrient. The Superior profunda (brachialis profunda; profunda humeri) arises opposite the lower border of the tendon of the latissimus dorsi, and winds around the humerus, between the triceps and the bone, to the space between the brachialis anticus and supinator longus, where it inosculates with the radial recurrent artery. It accom- panies the musculo-spiral nerve. In its course it gives off the posterior articular artery, which descends to the elbow-joint, and a more superficial branch, which descends by the side of the external intermuscular septum and inosculates with the interosseous articular artery. The inferior muscular branches of the superior profunda inosculate with the inferior profunda, anastomotica magna and ulnar recurrent. The Inferior profunda (coUateralis ulnaris superior) arises from about the middle of the brachial artery, and descends to the space between the inner condyle and olecranon in company with the ulnar nerve, where it inosculates with the posterior ulnar recurrent. In its course it pierces the intermuscular septum. The Anastomotica magna (coUateralis ulnaris inferior) is given off nearly at right angles from the brachial, at about two inches above the joint. It'passes directly inwards upon the brachialis anticus muscle, pierces the intermuscular septum, and winds around the humerus to inosculate with the superior profunda. On the brachialis anticus it divides into two branches, which inosculate with the anterior and posterior ulnar recurrent arteries and with the inferior profunda. The Muscular branches are distributed to the muscles in the course of the artery, namely, to the coraco-brachialis, biceps, del- toideus, brachialis anticus and triceps. The Nutrient branch (nu- tritia humeri) is given off at about the middle of the arm, and passes into the medullary foramen situated near the insertion of the coraco-brachialis muscle. Varieties of the Brachial artery.—The most frequent peculiarity in the distribution of branches from this artery is the high division of the radial, which arises generally from about the upper third of the brachial artery, and descends to its normal position at the bend of the elbow. The ulnar artery sometimes arises from the brachial at about two inches above the elbow, and pursues either a super- ficial or deep course to the wrist; and, in more than one instance, I have seen the interosseous artery arise from the brachial a little above the bend of the elbow. The two profunda arteries occasionally arise by a common trunk, or there may be two superior profundse.