577 CARTILAGES OF THE LARYNX. At the middle line, posteriorly, is a vertical ridge which gives attachment to the ossophagii^, and on each side of the ridge are the depressions which lodge the crico-arytenoidei postici muscles. On either side of the ring is a glenoid cavity, which articulates with the inferior comu of the thyroid cartilage. The Arytenoid cartilages {dpvTaiva,^ a pitcher), two in number, are triangular and prismoid in form. , They are broad and thick below, where they articulate with the tipper border of the cricoid cartilage; pointed above, and prolonged by two small pyriform fibro- cartilages, cornicula laryngis {capitula Santorini), which are curved inwards and backwards; and they each present three surfaces, anterior, posterior, and internal. The posterior surface is concave, and lodges part of the arytenoideus muscle; the internal surface is smooth, and forms part of the lateral wall of the larynx : the anterior or external surface is rough and uneven, and gives attach- ment to the chorda vocalis, thyro-arytenoideus, crico-arytenoideus lateralis and posticus, and, above these, to the base of the cuneiform cartilage. The Cuneiform cartilages are two small cylinders of yellow fibro- cartilage, about seven lines in length, and enlarged at each extremity. By ^he lower end, or base, the cartilage is attached to the middle of the ' external surface of the arytenoid, and by its upper extremity forms a prominence in the border of the aryteno-epiglottidean fold of membrane. They are sometimes wanting. In the male, the cartilages of the larynx are more or less ossified, particularly in old age. The Epiglottis {iTTLyXiorriQ, upon the tongue) is a fibro-cartilage of a yellowish colour, studded with a number of small mucous glands, which are lodged in shallow pits upon its surface. It is shaped like a cordate leaf, and is placed immediately in front of the opening of the larynx, which it closes completely when the larynx is drawn up beneath the base of the tongue. It is attached by its point to the receding angle between the two alas of the thyroid cartilage. Ligaments.—The ligaments of the larynx are numerous, and may be arranged into four groups : 1. Those which articulate the thyroid with the OS hyoides. 2. Those which connect it with the cricoid. 3. Ligaments of the arytenoid cartilages. 4. Ligaments of the epiglottis. 1. The ligaments which connect the thyroid cartilage with the os hyoides are three in number. The two Thyro-hyoidean ligaw.ents pass between the superior cornua of the thyroid and the extremities of the greater cornua of the OS hyoides: a sesamoid bone or cartilage is found in each. * This derivation has reference to the appearance of both cartilages taken together and covered by mucous membrane. In animals, which were the principal sul^jects of dissection among the ancients, the opening of the larynx with the arytenoid cartilages bears a striking resemblance to the mouth of a pitcher having a large spout. P P