LATEEAL VENTEICLES. 432 opposite side. The central cavity is triangular in form, heing bounded above {roof) by the corpus callosum ; internally by the septum lucidum, vi^bich separates it from the opposite ventricle ; and below {floor) by the following parts, taken in their order of position from before backwards:— Corpus striatum, Choroid plexus, Tenia semicircularis. Corpus fimbriatum, Thalamus opticus. Fornix. The Corpus striatum is named from the striated lines of white and grey matter which are seen upon cutting into its substance. It is grey on the exterior, and of a pyriform shape. The broad end, directed forwards, rests against the corpus striatum of the opposite side: the small end, backwards, is separated from its fellow by the interposition of-the thalami optici. The corpora striata are the superior ganglia of the cerebrum. The Tenia semicirculans (tenia, a fillet) is a narrow band of medul- lary substance, extending along the posterior border of the corpus striatum, and serving as a bond of connexion between that body and the thalamus opticus. It is transparent and dense at the surface, and received from Tarinus* the name oi horny hand. The tenia is partly concealed by a large vein {vena corporis sfWa^i), which receives numerous small veins from the corpus striatum and thalamus opticus, and terminates in the vena Galeni of its own side. The Thalamus opticus {thalamus, a bed) is an oblong body, having a thin coating of white substance on its surface; and has received its name from giving origin to one root of the optic nerve. It is the inferior ganglion of the cerebrum. Part only of the thala- mus is seen in the floor of the lateral ventricle; we must, therefore, defer its further description until we can examine it in its entire extent. The Choroid plexus {xopiov, eWog, resembling the chorion)^ is a vascular fringe extending obliquely across the floor of the lateral ventricle, and sinking into the middle cornu. Anteriorly, it is small and tapering, and communicates with the choroid plexus of the opposite ventricle, through a large oval opening, the foramen of Monro, or foramen commune anterius. This foramen maybe seen by pulling slightly on the plexus, and pressing aside the septum lucidum with the handle of the knife. It is situated be- tween the under surface of the fornix, and the anterior extremities of the thalami optici, and forms a communication transversely be- tween the lateral ventricles, and perpendicularly with the third ventricle. The choroid plexus presents upon its surface a number of minute * Peter Tarin, a French anatomist; his work, entitled "Adversaria Anato- mica," was published in 1750. t See the note appended to the description of the choroid coat of the eyeball.